demographic and lifestyle variables, health and morbidity indicators and 
physiological makers. Major morbidities examined included dementia, cancer, 
cerebrovascular accident, heart failure and myocardial infarction. Logistic 
regression analyses demonstrated that many of the variables were independently 
predictive for survival and for morbidity-free ageing to 85 years. These 
included being female, absence of left ventricular abnormalities, stable body 
weight, unimpaired instrumental activities of daily living, lower C-RP levels 
and higher levels of femoral neck bone mineral density and albumin. Relative to 
non-survival, predictors were stronger for morbidity-free survival than for 
total survival or survival with morbidity. This suggests that lifespan and 
healthy survival to older age can be relatively well predicted. Understanding 
predictors of a long and healthy lifespan is vital for developing primary and 
secondary preventions to help improve the quality of life of older adults and 
for reducing the financial burden of the rapidly escalating ageing population.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-010-9154-8
PMCID: PMC2980598
PMID: 20514522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. J Consult Clin Psychol. 2010 Jun;78(3):312-21. doi: 10.1037/a0018915.

Cognitive behavioral guided self-help for the treatment of recurrent binge 
eating.

Striegel-Moore RH(1), Wilson GT, DeBar L, Perrin N, Lynch F, Rosselli F, Kraemer 
HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Wesleyan University, Middletown, CT 06459, USA. 
rstriegel@wesleyan.edu

OBJECTIVE: Despite proven efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for 
treating eating disorders with binge eating as the core symptom, few patients 
receive CBT in clinical practice. Our blended efficacy-effectiveness study 
sought to evaluate whether a manual-based guided self-help form of CBT 
(CBT-GSH), delivered in 8 sessions in a health maintenance organization setting 
over a 12-week period by master's-level interventionists, is more effective than 
treatment as usual (TAU).
METHOD: In all, 123 individuals (mean age = 37.2; 91.9% female, 96.7% 
non-Hispanic White) were randomized, including 10.6% with bulimia nervosa (BN), 
48% with binge eating disorder (BED), and 41.4% with recurrent binge eating in 
the absence of BN or BED. Baseline, posttreatment, and 6- and 12-month follow-up 
data were used in intent-to-treat analyses.
RESULTS: At 12-month follow-up, CBT-GSH resulted in greater abstinence from 
binge eating (64.2%) than TAU (44.6%; number needed to treat = 5), as measured 
by the Eating Disorder Examination (EDE). Secondary outcomes reflected greater 
improvements in the CBT-GSH group in dietary restraint (d = 0.30); eating, 
shape, and weight concern (ds = 0.54, 1.01, 0.49, respectively; measured by the 
EDE Questionnaire); depression (d = 0.56; Beck Depression Inventory); and social 
adjustment (d = 0.58; Work and Social Adjustment Scale), but not weight change.
CONCLUSIONS: CBT-GSH is a viable first-line treatment option for the majority of 
patients with recurrent binge eating who do not meet diagnostic criteria for BN 
or anorexia nervosa.

DOI: 10.1037/a0018915
PMCID: PMC2880824
PMID: 20515207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Consult Clin Psychol. 2010 Jun;78(3):322-33. doi: 10.1037/a0018982.

Cost-effectiveness of guided self-help treatment for recurrent binge eating.

Lynch FL(1), Striegel-Moore RH, Dickerson JF, Perrin N, Debar L, Wilson GT, 
Kraemer HC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Research, Kaiser Permanente Northwest, Portland, OR 97227, 
USA. frances.lynch@kpchr.org

OBJECTIVE: Adoption of effective treatments for recurrent binge-eating disorders 
depends on the balance of costs and benefits. Using data from a recent 
randomized controlled trial, we conducted an incremental cost-effectiveness 
analysis (CEA) of a cognitive-behavioral therapy guided self-help intervention 
(CBT-GSH) to treat recurrent binge eating compared to treatment as usual (TAU).
METHOD: Participants were 123 adult members of an HMO (mean age = 37.2 years, 
91.9% female, 96.7% non-Hispanic White) who met criteria for eating disorders 
involving binge eating as measured by the Eating Disorder Examination (C. G. 
Fairburn & Z. Cooper, 1993). Participants were randomized either to treatment as 
usual (TAU) or to TAU plus CBT-GSH. The clinical outcomes were binge-free days 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs); total societal cost was estimated using 
costs to patients and the health plan and related costs.
RESULTS: Compared to those receiving TAU only, those who received TAU plus 
CBT-GSH experienced 25.2 more binge-free days and had lower total societal costs 
of $427 over 12 months following the intervention (incremental CEA ratio of 
-$20.23 per binge-free day or -$26,847 per QALY). Lower costs in the TAU plus 
CBT-GSH group were due to reduced use of TAU services in that group, resulting 
in lower net costs for the TAU plus CBT group despite the additional cost of 
CBT-GSH.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings support CBT-GSH dissemination for recurrent binge-eating 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1037/a0018982
PMCID: PMC2880825
PMID: 20515208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Scand J Clin Lab Invest Suppl. 2010;242:90-5. doi:
10.3109/00365513.2010.493411.

When do new biomarkers make economic sense?

Scott MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Laboratory and Genomic Medicine, Department of Pathology and 
Immunology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA. 
mscott@pathology.wustl.edu

Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility studies are commonly used to make payment 
decisions for new drugs and expensive interventions. Such studies are relatively 
rare for evaluating the cost-utility of clinical laboratory tests. As medical 
costs continue to increase in the setting of decreased resources it is likely 
that new biomarkers may increasingly be examined with respect to their economic 
benefits in addition to clinical utility. This will represent an additional 
hurdle for routine use of new biomarkers. Before reaching the final economic 
hurdle new biomarkers will still need to demonstrate clinical usefulness. Thus a 
new biomarker will never make economic sense if it is not clinically useful. 
Once diagnostic accuracy and potential clinical usefulness is established there 
are several types of economic studies that new biomarkers may undergo. The most 
common of these are cost-utility studies which estimate the ratio between the 
cost of an intervention or test and the benefit it produces in the number of 
years gained in full health. The quantity used most often to describe this is 
amount of money per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The threshold for 
being considered cost-effective is generally USD 50,000 per QALY gained. 
Examples of biomarkers that have been subjected to economic analyses will be 
provided.

DOI: 10.3109/00365513.2010.493411
PMID: 20515285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. BMC Health Serv Res. 2010 Jun 1;10:147. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-10-147.

Tracking the evolution of hospice palliative care in Canada: a comparative case 
study analysis of seven provinces.

Williams AM(1), Crooks VA, Whitfield K, Kelley ML, Richards JL, DeMiglio L, 
Dykeman S.

Author information:
(1)School of Geography and Earth Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada. awill@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: An aging population, rise in chronic illnesses, increase in life 
expectancy and shift towards care being provided at the community level are 
trends that are collectively creating an urgency to advance hospice palliative 
care (HPC) planning and provision in Canada. The purpose of this study was to 
analyze the evolution of HPC in seven provinces in Canada so as to inform such 
planning and provision elsewhere. We have endeavoured to undertake this research 
out of awareness that good future planning for health and social care, such as 
HPC, typically requires us to first look backwards before moving forward.
METHODS: To identify key policy and practice events in HPC in Canada, as well as 
describe facilitators of and barriers to progress, a qualitative comparative 
case study design was used. Specifically, the evolution and development of HCP 
in 7 strategically selected provinces is compared. After choosing the case study 
provinces, the grey literature was searched to create a preliminary timeline for 
each that described the evolution of HPC beginning in 1970. Key informants (n = 
42) were then interviewed to verify the content of each provincial timeline and 
to discuss barriers and facilitators to the development of HPC. Upon completion 
of the primary data collection, a face-to-face meeting of the research team was 
then held so as to conduct a comparative study analysis that focused on 
provincial commonalities and differences.
RESULTS: Findings point to the fact that HPC continues to remain at the margins 
of the health care system. The development of HPC has encountered structural 
inheritances that have both sped up progress as well as slowed it down. These 
structural inheritances are: (1) foundational health policies (e.g., the Canada 
Health Act); (2) service structures and planning (e.g., the dominance of 
urban-focused initiatives); and (3) health system decisions (e.g., 
regionalization). As a response to these inheritances, circumventions of the 
established system of care were taken, often out of necessity. Three kinds of 
circumventions were identified from the data: (1) interventions to shift the 
system (e.g., the role of advocacy); (2) service innovations (e.g., educational 
initiatives); and (3) new alternative structures (e.g., the establishment of 
independent hospice organizations). Overall, the evolution of HPC across the 
case study provinces has been markedly slow, but steady and continuous.
CONCLUSIONS: HPC in Canada remains at the margins of the health care system. Its 
integration into the primary health care system may ensure dedicated and ongoing 
funding, enhanced access, quality and service responsiveness. Though 
demographics are expected to influence HPC demand in Canada, our study confirms 
that concerned citizens, advocacy organizations and local champions will 
continue to be the agents of change that make the necessary and lasting impacts 
on HPC in Canada.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-10-147
PMCID: PMC2898768
PMID: 20515491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14(26):1-113, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta14260.

BoTULS: a multicentre randomised controlled trial to evaluate the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of treating upper limb spasticity due to 
stroke with botulinum toxin type A.

Shaw L(1), Rodgers H, Price C, van Wijck F, Shackley P, Steen N, Barnes M, Ford 
G, Graham L; BoTULS investigators.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health (Stroke Research Group), Newcastle 
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
treating upper limb spasticity due to stroke with botulinum toxin type A plus an 
upper limb therapy programme with the upper limb therapy programme alone.
DESIGN: A multicentre open-label parallel-group randomised controlled trial and 
economic evaluation.
SETTING: Twelve stroke services in the north of England, UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Three hundred and thirty-three adults with upper limb spasticity 
at the shoulder, elbow, wrist or hand and reduced upper limb function due to 
stroke more than 1 month previously.
INTERVENTIONS: The intervention group received botulinum toxin type A 
injection(s) plus a 4-week programme of upper limb therapy. The control group 
received the upper limb therapy programme alone. Participants were clinically 
reassessed at 3, 6 and 9 months to determine the need for repeat botulinum toxin 
type A injection(s) and/or therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was upper limb function 1 month after 
study entry measured by the Action Research Arm Test (ARAT). A successful 
outcome was defined as: (1) a change of three or more points on the ARAT scale 
for a participant whose baseline ARAT score was between 0 and 3, (2) a change of 
six or more points on the ARAT scale for a participant whose baseline ARAT score 
was between 4 and 51, or (3) a final ARAT score of 57 for a participant whose 
baseline ARAT score was 52-56. Outcome assessments were undertaken at 1, 3 and 
12 months by an assessor who was blinded to the study group allocation. Upper 
limb impairment and activity limitation were assessed by: Modified Ashworth 
Scale; Motricity Index; grip strength; ARAT; Nine-Hole Peg Test; upper limb 
basic functional activity questions and the Barthel Activities of Daily Living 
(ADL) Index. Stroke-related quality of life/participation restriction was 
measured using the Stroke Impact Scale, European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions 
(EQ-5D) and the Oxford Handicap Scale. Upper limb pain was assessed using 
numerical rating scales. Participant-selected upper limb goal achievement (1 
month only) was measured using the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure. 
Adverse events were compared. Health-care and social services resource use was 
compared during the first 3 months postrandomisation. EQ-5D data were used to 
calculate the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with intervention 
and control treatments, and the incremental cost per QALY gained of botulinum 
toxin type A plus therapy compared with therapy alone was estimated. The 
sensitivity of the base-case results to alternative assumptions was 
investigated, and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves, which summarise the 
evidence of botulinum toxin type A plus therapy being cost-effective for a range 
of societal willingness to pay for a QALY values, are presented.
RESULTS: Randomisation groups were well matched at baseline. There was no 
significant difference between the groups for the primary outcome of improved 
arm function at 1 month. This was achieved by 30/154 (19.5%) in the control 
group and 42/167 (25.1%) in the intervention group (p = 0.232). The relative 
risk of having a 'successful treatment' in the intervention group compared with 
the control group was 1.3 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.9 to 2.0]. No 
significant differences in improved arm function were seen at 3 or 12 months. In 
terms of secondary outcomes, muscle tone/spasticity at the elbow was decreased 
in the intervention group compared with the control group at 1 month. The median 
change in the Modified Ashworth Scale was - 1 in the intervention group compared 
with zero in the control group (p < 0.001). No difference in spasticity was seen 
at 3 or 12 months. Participants treated with botulinum toxin type A showed 
improvement in upper limb muscle strength at 3 months. The mean change in 
strength from baseline (upper limb component of the Motricity Index) was 3.5 
(95% CI 0.1 to 6.8) points greater in the intervention group compared with the 
control group. No differences were seen at 1 or 12 months. Participants in the 
intervention group were more likely to be able to undertake specific basic 
functional activities, e.g. dress a sleeve, clean the palm and open the hand for 
cutting fingernails. At 1 month, 109/144 (75.7%) of the intervention group and 
79/125 (63.2%) of the control group had improved by at least one point on a 
five-point Likert scale for at least one of these tasks (p = 0.033). At 3 months 
the corresponding proportions were 102/142 (71.8%) of the intervention group and 
71/122 (58.2%) of the control group (p = 0.027). Improvement was sustained at 12 
months for opening the hand for cleaning the palm and opening the hand for 
cutting the nails but not for other activities. Pain rating improved by two 
points on a 10-point severity rating scale in the intervention group compared 
with zero points in the control group (p = 0.004) at 12 months, but no 
significant differences were seen at 1 or 3 months. There were a number of 
occasions when there were statistically significant differences in favour of the 
intervention group; however, these differences were small and of uncertain 
clinical relevance. These differences were: 3 months - upper limb function 
(change in ARAT score from baseline), pain (EQ-5D) and participation restriction 
(Oxford Handicap Scale); 12 months - anxiety/depression (EQ-5D) and 
participation restriction (Oxford Handicap Scale). No differences in grip 
strength, dexterity or the Barthel ADL Index were found at any time point. There 
were no differences between the groups for achievement of patient-selected 
goals. There was a higher incidence of general malaise/flu-like/cold symptoms in 
participants treated with botulinum toxin type A with a relative risk of 7.6 
(95% CI 1.8 to 32.3). Only one serious adverse event (dysphagia) was potentially 
related to botulinum toxin type A. Time since stroke and severity of initial 
upper limb function were preplanned subgroup analyses. There was no significant 
difference in either subgroup for achievement of ARAT 'success' following 
treatment with botulinum toxin type A. The base-case incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 93,500 pounds per QALY gained and estimation of the 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curve for botulinum toxin type A plus the upper 
limb therapy programme indicated that there was only a 0.36 probability of it 
being cost-effective at a threshold ceiling ratio of 20,000 pounds per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of botulinum toxin type A to an upper limb therapy 
programme to treat spasticity due to stroke did not enhance improvement in upper 
limb function when assessed by the prespecified primary outcome measure at 1 
month. However, improvements were seen in muscle tone at 1 month, upper limb 
strength at 3 months, upper limb functional activities related to undertaking 
specific basic functional tasks at 1, 3 and 12 months, and upper limb pain at 12 
months. Botulinum toxin was well tolerated and side effects were minor. The 
addition of botulinum toxin type A to an upper limb therapy programme for the 
treatment of upper limb spasticity due to stroke was not estimated to be 
cost-effective at levels of willingness to pay for a QALY set by NHS 
decision-makers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN78533119; EudraCT 2004-002427-40; CTA 17136/0230/001.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14260
PMID: 20515600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2010 Jun 1;181(11):1174-80. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201002-0183UP.

Update in environmental and occupational medicine 2009.

Van Hee VC(1), Kaufman JD, Budinger GR, Mutlu GM.

Author information:
(1)Occupational and Environmental Medicine Program, Department of Medicine and 
Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201002-0183UP
PMCID: PMC3081277
PMID: 20516491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Antivir Ther. 2010;15(3):351-61. doi: 10.3851/IMP1542.

CD4+ T-cell-guided structured treatment interruptions of antiretroviral therapy 
in HIV disease: projecting beyond clinical trials.

Yazdanpanah Y(1), Wolf LL, Anglaret X, Gabillard D, Walensky RP, Moh R, Danel C, 
Sloan CE, Losina E, Freedberg KA; CEPAC-International Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Service Universitaire des Maladies Infectieuses et du Voyageur, Centre 
Hospitalier de Tourcoing, Tourcoing, France. yyazdan@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: International trials have shown that CD4+ T-cell-guided structured 
treatment interruptions (STI) of antiretroviral therapy (ART) lead to worse 
outcomes than continuous treatment. We simulated continuous ART and STI 
strategies with higher CD4+ T-cell interruption/reintroduction thresholds than 
those assessed in actual trials.
METHODS: Using a model of HIV, we simulated cohorts of African adults with 
different baseline CD4+ T-cell counts (< or = 200; 201-350; and 351-500 
cells/microl). We varied ART initiation criteria (immediate; CD4+ T-cell count < 
350 cells/microl or > or = 350 cells/microl with severe HIV-related disease; and 
CD4+ T-cell count <200 cells/microl or > or = 200 cells/microl with severe 
HIV-related disease), and ART interruption/reintroduction thresholds (350/250; 
500/350; and 700/500 cells/microl). First-line therapy was non-nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based and second-line therapy was 
protease inhibitor (PI)-based.
RESULTS: STI generally reduced life expectancy compared with continuous ART. 
Life expectancy increased with earlier ART initiation and higher 
interruption/reintroduction thresholds. STI reduced life expectancy by 48-69 and 
11-30 months compared with continuous ART when interruption/reintroduction 
thresholds were 350/250 and 500/350 cells/microl, depending on ART initiation 
criteria. When patients interrupted/reintroduced ART at 700/500 cells/microl, 
life expectancies ranged from 2 months lower to 1 month higher than continuous 
ART. STI-related life expectancy increased with decreased risk of virological 
resistance after ART interruptions.
CONCLUSIONS: STI with NNRTI-based regimens was almost always less effective than 
continuous treatment, regardless of interruption/reintroduction thresholds. The 
risks associated with STI decrease only if patients start ART earlier, 
interrupt/reintroduce treatment at very high CD4+ T-cell thresholds (700/500 
cells/microl) and use first-line medications with higher resistance barriers, 
such as PIs.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP1542
PMCID: PMC3220615
PMID: 20516555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Medicina (Kaunas). 2010;46 Suppl 1:35-42.

[Use of technologies in maintaining autonomy of frail older persons].

[Article in Lithuanian]

Damuleviciene G(1), Lesauskaite V, Knasiene J, Macijauskiene J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Kaunas University of Medicine, A Mickeviciaus 9, 
44307 Kaunas, Lithuania. gytedamu@gmail.com

Although Lithuanian population is aging and the number of older persons is 
increasing, the expectancy of autonomous life is one of the shortest in Europe. 
An increasing number of the elderly results not only in aging society, but in 
increasing morbidity as well. Reality of life is encouraging health care systems 
to take into account the needs of older patients and to seek for comprehensive 
assessment, which is not limited by physical assessment only but includes 
evaluation of functional state, cognition, socioeconomic status, home 
environment, identification of geriatric syndromes and vulnerability factors, 
and assessment of frailty. The term "frailty" is used to describe the status of 
the elderly person who can usually perform the main practical and social daily 
tasks, but due to loss of various functions, changes, or disorders cannot 
restore quickly the strength. Concomitant diseases, disorders, disability, and 
frailty were considered as synonyms, but the researchers have recently agreed 
that these terms are not the same. The social part of supportive environment is 
composed of people (family, friends, professional caregivers) who provide help. 
The physical part includes technologies that make living easier and more 
autonomous. Gerontechnologies in vulnerable and frail elderly people can 
compensate impaired orientation and memory, widen the possibility to 
communicate, exchange information, and move. With the help of gerontechnologies, 
safe home environment and monitoring of health state can be ensured. In the 
article, algorithm for maintenance of autonomy in older persons made by the 
authors is presented.

PMID: 20516768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Liver Transpl. 2010 Jun;16(6):697-700. doi: 10.1002/lt.22090.

An economic analysis of antiviral therapy in patients with advanced hepatitis C 
virus disease: still not there!

Rubin A, Berenguer M.

Comment on
    Liver Transpl. 2010 Jun;16(6):748-59.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.22090
PMID: 20517902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Liver Transpl. 2010 Jun;16(6):748-59. doi: 10.1002/lt.22072.

Timing of hepatitis C antiviral therapy in patients with advanced liver disease: 
a decision analysis model.

Saab S(1), Hunt DR, Stone MA, McClune A, Tong MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA 90095, USA. ssaab@mednet.ucla.edu

Comment in
    Liver Transpl. 2010 Jun;16(6):697-700.

Antiviral therapy for the treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is used 
before and after liver transplantation. The objective of this study was to 
determine the most cost-effective timing for pegylated interferon/ribavirin 
therapy in patients with advanced liver disease infected with genotype 1 HCV. A 
Markov model was constructed to compare treatment strategies: (1) no treatment, 
(2) antiviral therapy in patients with compensated cirrhosis, (3) antiviral 
therapy in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, and (4) antiviral therapy in 
patients with progressive fibrosis due to recurrent HCV post-transplantation. 
Outcomes of interest included the total cost per patient, number of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) saved, cost per QALY saved, number of deaths 
and hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs), and number of transplants required. 
Compared to the no-antiviral treatment strategy, treatment during compensated 
cirrhosis increased QALYs by 0.950 and saved $55,314. Treatment during 
decompensated cirrhosis increased QALYs by 0.044 and saved $5511. Treatment 
during posttransplant advanced recurrence increased QALYs by 0.061 and saved 
$3223. Treatment of patients with compensated cirrhosis resulted in 119 fewer 
deaths, 54 fewer HCCs, and 66 fewer transplants with respect to the no-treatment 
strategy. The model was sensitive to the rate of graft failure in patients with 
and without sustained virological response. The model was otherwise robust to 
all variables tested in sensitivity analysis. In conclusion, the treatment of 
patients with compensated cirrhosis was found to be the most cost-effective 
strategy and resulted in improved survival and decreased cost in comparison with 
all other strategies. This study provides pharmacoeconomic evidence in support 
of treating HCV in patients with compensated cirrhosis before progression to 
more advanced liver disease.

(c) 2010 AASLD.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.22072
PMID: 20517909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Soins Pediatr Pueric. 2010 May-Jun;(254):17-9.

[Treating wounds in pediatrics, new practices].

[Article in French]

Grimoud A(1).

Author information:
(1)annegrimoud2009@hotmail.fr

The treatment of wounds has been the subject of a number of research works and a 
wide range of dressings is now available. However, few studies have been carried 
out into their application in and suitability for paediatrics. Protocols have 
however been put in place, as an extension to their use with adults, to meet the 
specific needs of this section of the population.

PMID: 20518236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Int J Clin Pract. 2010 May;64(6):756-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02362.x.

Glucosamine sulphate in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis: cost-effectiveness 
comparison with paracetamol.

Scholtissen S(1), Bruyère O, Neuprez A, Severens JL, Herrero-Beaumont G, Rovati 
L, Hiligsmann M, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Liege, Liege, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to explore the cost-effectiveness of 
glucosamine sulphate (GS) compared with paracetamol and placebo (PBO) in the 
treatment of knee osteoarthritis. For this purpose, a 6-month time horizon and a 
health care perspective was used.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The cost and effectiveness data were derived from Western 
Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index data of the Glucosamine 
Unum In Die (once-a-day) Efficacy trial study by Herrero-Beaumont et al. 
Clinical effectiveness was converted into utility scores to allow for the 
computation of cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) For the three 
treatment arms Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio were calculated and 
statistical uncertainty was explored using a bootstrap simulation.
RESULTS: In terms of mean utility score at baseline, 3 and 6 months, no 
statistically significant difference was observed between the three groups. When 
considering the mean utility score changes from baseline to 3 and 6 months, no 
difference was observed in the first case but there was a statistically 
significant difference from baseline to 6 months with a p-value of 0.047. When 
comparing GS with paracetamol, the mean baseline incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) was dominant and the mean ICER after bootstrapping was -1376 
euro/QALY indicating dominance (with 79% probability). When comparing GS with 
PBO, the mean baseline and after bootstrapping ICER were 3617.47 and 4285 
euro/QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The results of the present cost-effectiveness analysis suggested 
that GS is a highly cost-effective therapy alternative compared with paracetamol 
and PBO to treat patients diagnosed with primary knee OA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02362.x
PMID: 20518951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Cell Metab. 2010 Jun 9;11(6):453-65. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2010.05.001.

With TOR, less is more: a key role for the conserved nutrient-sensing TOR 
pathway in aging.

Kapahi P(1), Chen D, Rogers AN, Katewa SD, Li PW, Thomas EL, Kockel L.

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, 8001 Redwood Boulevard, Novato, CA 94945, 
USA. pkapahi@buckinstitute.org

Target of rapamycin (TOR) is an evolutionarily conserved nutrient-sensing 
protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in all eukaryotic cells. 
Studies in flies, worms, yeast, and mice support the notion that the TOR 
signaling network modulates aging. TOR is also emerging as a robust mediator of 
the protective effects of various forms of dietary restriction (DR), which can 
extend life span and slow the onset of certain age-related diseases across 
species. Here we discuss how modulating TOR signaling slows aging through 
downstream processes including mRNA translation, autophagy, endoplasmic 
reticulum (ER) stress signaling, stress responses, and metabolism. Identifying 
the mechanisms by which the TOR signaling network works as a pacemaker of aging 
is a major challenge and may help identify potential drug targets for 
age-related diseases, thereby facilitating healthful life span extension in 
humans.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2010.05.001
PMCID: PMC2885591
PMID: 20519118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. BMJ. 2010 Jun 2;340:c2509. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c2509.

Cost effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccination among Dutch infants: economic 
analysis of the seven valent pneumococcal conjugated vaccine and forecast for 
the 10 valent and 13 valent vaccines.

Rozenbaum MH(1), Sanders EA, van Hoek AJ, Jansen AG, van der Ende A, van den 
Dobbelsteen G, Rodenburg GD, Hak E, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology and PharmacoEconomics, Department of Pharmacy, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands. m.h.rozenbaum@rug.nl

OBJECTIVES: To update cost effectiveness estimates for the four dose (3+1) 
schedule of the seven valent pneumococcal conjugated vaccine (PCV-7) in the 
Netherlands and to explore the impact on cost effectiveness of reduced dose 
schedules and implementation of 10 valent and 13 valent pneumococcal vaccines 
(PCV-10 and PCV-13).
DESIGN: Economic evaluation comparing PCV-7, PCV-10, and PCV-13 with no 
vaccination using a decision tree analytic model built from data in previous 
studies.
SETTING: The Netherlands. Population A cohort of 180,000 newborns followed until 
5 years of age.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs; gains in life years and quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs); and incremental cost effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Under base case assumptions-that is, assuming a five year protective 
period of the vaccine and no assumed net indirect effects (herd protection minus 
serotype replacement) among children aged over 5 years-vaccination with PVC-7 in 
a four dose (3+1) schedule was estimated to prevent 71 and 5778 cases of 
invasive and non-invasive pneumococcal disease, respectively, in children aged 
up to 5 years. This corresponds with a total net gain of 173 life years or 277 
QALYs. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio of PCV-7 was estimated at 
euro113,891 ( pound98,300; $145,000) per QALY, well over the ratio of euro50,000 
per QALY required for PCV-7 to be regarded as potentially cost effective. A 
three dose (2+1) schedule of PCV-7 reduced the incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio to euro82,975 per QALY. For various assumptions and including 10% of the 
maximum net indirect effects among individuals aged 5 years and over, PCV-10 and 
PCV-13 had incremental cost effectiveness ratios ranging from euro31,250 to 
euro52,947 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The current Dutch infant vaccination programme of four doses of 
PCV-7 is not cost effective because of increases in invasive disease caused by 
non-vaccine serotypes, which reduces the overall direct effects of vaccination 
and offsets potential positive herd protection benefits in unvaccinated 
individuals. The 10 valent and 13 valent pneumococcal vaccines could have better 
net health benefits than PCV-7 through less replacement disease and increased 
herd protection. Both these effects could substantially reduce the incremental 
cost effectiveness ratio to possibly acceptable levels, if total programme costs 
can be lowered by reduced schedules, reductions in vaccine prices, or both.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c2509
PMID: 20519267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. QJM. 2010 Sep;103(9):715-20. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcq081. Epub 2010 Jun 2.

The cost of a QALY.

Kirkdale R(1), Krell J, Brown CO, Tuthill M, Waxman J.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, London.

Comment in
    QJM. 2011 Mar;104(3):272-3.

BACKGROUND: Current regulation of drug approvals has caused considerable 
controversy as entrusted to the National Institute of Clinical Excellence, and 
has led to a lack of availability of modern medicines on the basis of 
calculations made of 'value'.
AIM: We have examined the assessment tool used by National Institute of Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) to establish the cost of drugs in order to assess whether it 
is a reasonable and objective evaluation methodology.
DESIGN: A review of the methods of analysis.
METHODS: An objective assessment of the value of the Quality Adjusted Life Year 
(QALY).
RESULTS: We conclude that current methods used by NICE to assess drug costs are 
arbitrary, subjective and fail to reflect the true costs for patients, which are 
grossly overestimated.
CONCLUSION: NICE needs to look again at the evaluation methods for calculating 
drug costs, and change their methodology from a subjective to an objective 
measure of true cost.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcq081
PMID: 20519275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jan-Feb;31(1):53-68. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10369001.
Epub  2010 Jun 2.

Developing a tuberculosis transmission model that accounts for changes in 
population health.

Oxlade O(1)(2), Schwartzman K(1)(2), Benedetti A(1)(2), Pai M(1)(2), Heymann 
J(3), Menzies D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Epidemiology & Clinical Research Unit, Montreal Chest Institute, 
McGill University (OO, KS, AB, MP, DM) Montreal, Canada.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University (OO, KS, AB, MP, DM) Montreal, Canada.
(3)Institute of Health and Social Policy, McGill University (JH), Montreal, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Simulation models are useful in policy planning for tuberculosis 
(TB) control. To accurately assess interventions, important modifiers of the 
epidemic should be accounted for in evaluative models. Improvements in 
population health were associated with the declining TB epidemic in the 
pre-antibiotic era and may be relevant today. The objective of this study was to 
develop and validate a TB transmission model that accounted for changes in 
population health.
METHODS: We developed a deterministic TB transmission model, using reported data 
from the pre-antibiotic era in England. Change in adjusted life expectancy, used 
as a proxy for general health, was used to determine the rate of change of key 
epidemiological parameters. Predicted outcomes included risk of TB infection and 
TB mortality. The model was validated in the setting of the Netherlands and then 
applied to modern Peru.
RESULTS: The model, developed in the setting of England, predicted TB trends in 
the Netherlands very accurately. The R(2) value for correlation between observed 
and predicted data was 0.97 and 0.95 for TB infection and mortality, 
respectively. In Peru, the predicted decline in incidence prior to the expansion 
of "Directly Observed Treatment Short Course" (The DOTS strategy) was 3.7% per 
year (observed = 3.9% per year). After DOTS expansion, the predicted decline was 
very similar to the observed decline of 5.8% per year.
CONCLUSIONS: We successfully developed and validated a TB model, which uses a 
proxy for population health to estimate changes in key epidemiology parameters. 
Population health contributed significantly to improvement in TB outcomes 
observed in Peru. Changing population health should be incorporated into 
evaluative models for global TB control.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10369001
PMID: 20519452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Neurorehabil Neural Repair. 2010 Sep;24(7):674-9. doi:
10.1177/1545968310368683.  Epub 2010 Jun 2.

Combination of brain-computer interface training and goal-directed physical 
therapy in chronic stroke: a case report.

Broetz D(1), Braun C, Weber C, Soekadar SR, Caria A, Birbaumer N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, MEG Center, 
University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. doris.broetz@medizin.uni-tuebingen.de

BACKGROUND: There is no accepted and efficient rehabilitation strategy to reduce 
focal impairments for patients with chronic stroke who lack residual movements.
METHODS: A 67-year-old hemiplegic patient with no active finger extension was 
trained with a brain-computer interface (BCI) combined with a specific daily 
life-oriented physiotherapy. The BCI used electrical brain activity (EEG) and 
magnetic brain activity (MEG) to drive an orthosis and a robot affixed to the 
patient's affected upper extremity, which enabled him to move the paralyzed arm 
and hand driven by voluntary modulation of micro-rhythm activity. In addition, 
the patient practiced goal-directed physiotherapy training. Over 1 year, he 
completed 3 training blocks. Arm motor function, gait capacities (using 
Fugl-Meyer Assessment, Wolf Motor Function Test, Modified Ashworth Scale, 10-m 
walk speed, and goal attainment score), and brain reorganization (functional 
MRI, MEG) were repeatedly assessed.
RESULTS: The ability of hand and arm movements as well as speed and safety of 
gait improved significantly (mean 46.6%). Improvement of motor function was 
associated with increased micro-oscillations in the ipsilesional motor cortex.
CONCLUSION: This proof-of-principle study suggests that the combination of BCI 
training with goal-directed, active physical therapy may improve the motor 
abilities of chronic stroke patients despite apparent initial paralysis.

DOI: 10.1177/1545968310368683
PMID: 20519741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Aging (Albany NY). 2010 May;2(5):298-310. doi: 10.18632/aging.100146.

Comparative transcriptional profiling identifies takeout as a gene that 
regulates life span.

Bauer J(1), Antosh M, Chang C, Schorl C, Kolli S, Neretti N, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Brown 
University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.

Comment in
    Aging (Albany NY). 2010 Jul;2(7):387-9.

A major challenge in translating the positive effects of dietary restriction 
(DR) for the improvement of human health is the development of therapeutic 
mimics. One approach to finding DR mimics is based upon identification of the 
proximal effectors of DR life span extension. Whole genome profiling of DR in 
Drosophila shows a large number of changes in gene expression, making it 
difficult to establish which changes are involved in life span determination as 
opposed to other unrelated physiological changes. We used comparative whole 
genome expression profiling to discover genes whose change in expression is 
shared between DR and two molecular genetic life span extending interventions 
related to DR, increased dSir2 and decreased Dmp53 activity. We find twenty-one 
genes shared among the three related life span extending interventions. One of 
these genes, takeout, thought to be involved in circadian rhythms, feeding 
behavior and juvenile hormone binding is also increased in four other life span 
extending conditions: Rpd3, Indy, chico and methuselah. We demonstrate takeout 
is involved in longevity determination by specifically increasing adult takeout 
expression and extending life span. These studies demonstrate the power of 
comparative whole genome transcriptional profiling for identifying specific 
downstream elements of the DR life span extending pathway.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100146
PMCID: PMC2898020
PMID: 20519778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interests to declare.


331. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2010 Jun;130(6):805-20. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.130.805.

[Cost effectiveness of hypertension treatment based on the measurement of 
ambulatory blood pressure].

[Article in Japanese]

Tamaki Y(1), Ohkubo T, Kobayashi M, Sato K, Kikuya M, Obara T, Metoki H, Asayama 
K, Hirose T, Totsune K, Suzuki K, Imai Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Tohoku University 
Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences.

In recent years soaring medical costs have become a major social problem in 
developed countries. Ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) measurements have a 
stronger predictive power for cardiovascular events than clinic blood pressure 
(CBP) measurements. Therefore the introduction of ABP measurement for the 
diagnosis and treatment of hypertension should lead to a decrease in medical 
expenditure. This study presents calculations of the cost saving and life years 
associated with changing from CBP to ABP measurement as diagnostic tool. We 
constructed a Markov model using data from the Ohasama study and a Japanese 
national database. Study population was 7.042 million individuals aged 40 years 
and above living in Japan. The introduction of ABP for hypertension would result 
in a reduction of about 9.48 trillion yen per 10 years. We conducted a 
sensitivity analysis and found that the introduction of ABP was associated with 
at least a cost reduction of 47500 billion yen. But it did not provide 
significant extension of average life years. However the introduction of ABP for 
hypertension treatment would be a very effective method in perspective of public 
health because it reduced about 59600 individuals of stroke and about 18900 
individuals of death. Given its cost-effectiveness, extensive application of ABP 
measurement in clinical practice is expected.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.130.805
PMID: 20519859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Arq Gastroenterol. 2010 Jan-Mar;47(1):28-34. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-28032010000100006.

[Infection by hepatitis C virus in patients on hemodialysis: prevalence and risk 
factors].

[Article in Portuguese]

Leão JR(1), Pace FH, Chebli JM.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências da Saúde, Núcleo de Pesquisa em 
Gastroenterologia, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora (UFJF), Juiz de Fora, 
MG. jrleaodr@yahoo.com.br

CONTEXT: Chronic renal disease patients on hemodialysis are at increased risk of 
infection by hepatitis C virus (HCV). High prevalence rates have been reported 
from dialysis units worldwide. Recent studies have shown an inverse relation 
between HCV infection and life expectancy of patients on hemodialysis and those 
undergoing renal transplant.
OBJECTIVES: Assess the prevalence of and risk factors for HCV infection in 
patients undergoing hemodialysis.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was undertaken from January to December, 2007. 
During this period, 236 patients were tested for anti-HCV antibodies with third 
generation ELISA. Those who tested positive further underwent qualitative PCR 
testing for HCV-RNA. A subject was considered HCV-infected if both tests 
(anti-HCV and HCV-RNA) were positive. Monthly serum ALT and the mean for the 
12-month period were obtained from 195 patients. Two hundred eight (88.1%) 
patients answered a standardized questionnaire aiming to identify risk factors 
for HCV infection.
RESULTS: Of the 236 subjects studied, 14.8% (35/236) tested positive for 
anti-HCV antibodies. Of these, 71.6% (25/35) tested positive for HCV-RNA. 
Chronic HCV infection was thus prevalent in 10.6% (25/236). Bivariate analysis 
showed time on hemodialysis, number of blood transfusions, previous peritoneal 
dialysis and previous sexually transmitted diseases to be the main risk factors 
for HCV infection. Yet multivariate analysis showed that just time on 
hemodialysis and previous sexually transmitted diseases were significantly 
associated with HCV infection. Patients on hemodialysis for over 10 years were 
73.9 (CI 17.5-311.8) times as likely to have acquired HCV, compared with those 
on hemodialysis for up to 5 years. Patients with previous sexually transmitted 
diseases had a 4.8 times higher risk of HCV infection compared with those 
without previous sexually transmitted diseases. Mean serum ALT was significantly 
higher in HCV-infected patients (44.0 +/-13.5 U/L versus 33.5 +/- 8.0 U/L, 
P<0,001).
CONCLUSION: HCV infection was highly prevalent in the dialysis unit studied. 
Time on dyalitic treatment and previous sexually transmitted diseases were the 
main risk factors for HCV infection. HCV-infected patients on hemodialysis had 
higher serum ALT levels than those without chronic HCV infection.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-28032010000100006
PMID: 20520972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Breast J. 2010 Jul-Aug;16(4):404-11. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.00939.x.
Epub  2010 May 26.

Is pregnancy after breast cancer safe?

Kranick JA(1), Schaefer C, Rowell S, Desai M, Petrek JA, Hiatt RA, Senie RT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, New York, USA.

The impact of treatment on subsequent fertility and the safety of childbearing 
are major complicating factors for young women diagnosed with breast cancer. As 
national data indicate women are postponing first pregnancy to older ages; 
therefore, many young patients are seeking clinical guidance regarding the 
safety of conception and treatment options that may not prevent subsequent 
pregnancy. Newly developed chemotherapy protocols of brief duration have 
improved life expectancy enabling some women to consider childbearing. This 
study was conducted to compare prognosis among breast cancer patients with and 
without a subsequent pregnancy. Medical record review of female members of a 
Northern California prepaid health care plan enabled the identification of 107 
women with one or more subsequent pregnancies and 344 cases without a pregnancy, 
who were diagnosed between 1968 and 1995. Sets were matched on age, year and 
stage at diagnosis, months of survival and recurrence status at conception. 
Among the matched sets, neither risk of recurrence nor death differed 
significantly by subsequent pregnancy history during an average 12 years of 
follow-up (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] recurrence: 1.2 [0.8, 2.0]; adjusted HR 
death: 1.0 [0.6, 1.9]). Women interested in preserving their fertility and 
considering pregnancy are a self-selected population; therefore, to reduce 
potential bias, cases were matched on recurrence status at time of conception. 
Although the number of cases was limited, subgroup analyzes indicated a small, 
nonsignificant adverse effect among women who conceived within 12 months of 
diagnosis. This analysis of carefully matched cases provides reassurance that 
long-term prognosis was not adversely affected by subsequent pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.00939.x
PMCID: PMC5518743
PMID: 20522097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Int Psychogeriatr. 2010 Aug;22(5):761-8. doi: 10.1017/S1041610210000669.
Epub  2010 Jun 4.

A five-year community-based longitudinal survival study of dementia in Beijing, 
China: a 10/66 Dementia Research Group population-based study.

Wang Y(1), Huang Y, Liu Z, Zhuo C, Li S, Prince M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mental Health, Peking University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Despite the magnitude of dementia, little research on survival 
duration and prognosis of dementia has been reported in developing countries. 
This study was conducted to investigate survival times, identify related 
prognostic factors and construct a prognostic index (PI) for community-based 
dementia patients in Beijing, China.
METHODS: This study is part of the 10/66 Dementia Research Group study in China. 
One hundred and thirty-seven dementia patients identified by 10/66 dementia 
criteria among 2162 participants and 137 referent subjects matched by age and 
sex were followed up for five years.
RESULTS: Ninety-one (66.4%) dementia patients and 51 (37.2%) referent subjects 
died during the 5-year follow-up (p < 0.01). The median survival time of 
dementia patients was 4.2 years (95% CI: 3.8-4.6). Severity of dementia 
(severe/mild, HR: 8.765, 95% CI: 4.436-17.163), substantial disability (HR: 
5.503, 95% CI: 3.017-8.135), co-morbidity (HR: 4.149, 95% CI: 2.254-7.736) and 
age (HR: 1.079, 95% CI: 1.048-1.110) were independent predictors of survival for 
patients with dementia. Using the PI calculated for each dementia patient, all 
dementia patients were classified into three groups: low, medium and high risk 
groups. The median survival times of each group were 5.2 years, 4.4 years and 
1.5 years (p < 0.01), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival times of community-based dementia patients were 
significantly shorter than those of referent subjects. Severity of dementia, 
substantial disability, co-morbidity and age were independent predictors of 
survival. The PI derived from the four predictors can stratify the mortality 
risk and predict life expectancy for community-dwelled dementia patients, 
although further validation is needed.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610210000669
PMID: 20522280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. BMJ. 2010 Jun 3;340:c1786. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c1786.

Continuing the multiple sclerosis risk sharing scheme is unjustified.

McCabe C(1), Chilcott J, Claxton K, Tappenden P, Cooper C, Roberts J, Cooper N, 
Abrams K.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9PL. c.mccabe@leeds.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2010;341:c3590.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c1786
PMID: 20522655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. BMJ. 2010 Jun 3;340:c2707. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c2707.

Commentary: Scheme has benefited patients.

Compston A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge. 
alastair.compston@medschl.cam.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c2707
PMID: 20522660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. PLoS Genet. 2010 May 27;6(5):e1000972. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000972.

Manipulation of behavioral decline in Caenorhabditis elegans with the Rag GTPase 
raga-1.

Schreiber MA(1), Pierce-Shimomura JT, Chan S, Parry D, McIntire SL.

Author information:
(1)Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center, Department of Neurology, University 
of California San Francisco, Emeryville, California, United States of America. 
mschreiber@gallo.ucsf.edu

Normal aging leads to an inexorable decline in motor performance, contributing 
to medical morbidity and decreased quality of life. While much has been 
discovered about genetic determinants of lifespan, less is known about modifiers 
of age-related behavioral decline and whether new gene targets may be found 
which extend vigorous activity, with or without extending lifespan. Using 
Caenorhabditis elegans, we have developed a model of declining neuromuscular 
function and conducted a screen for increased behavioral activity in aged 
animals. In this model, behavioral function suffers from profound reductions in 
locomotory frequency, but coordination is strikingly preserved until very old 
age. By screening for enhancers of locomotion at advanced ages we identified the 
ras-related Rag GTPase raga-1 as a novel modifier of behavioral aging. raga-1 
loss of function mutants showed vigorous swimming late in life. Genetic 
manipulations revealed that a gain of function raga-1 curtailed behavioral 
vitality and shortened lifespan, while a dominant negative raga-1 lengthened 
