447. Cancer. 2010 Jun 15;116(12):2941-53. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25030.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment and endoscopic surveillance of precancerous 
lesions to prevent gastric cancer.

Yeh JM(1), Hur C, Kuntz KM, Ezzati M, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA 02115, USA. jyeh@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Although surveillance for Barrett esophagus and other 
gastrointestinal precancerous conditions is recommended, no analogous guidelines 
exist for gastric lesions. The objective of this study was to estimate the 
clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of treatment and endoscopic 
surveillance to prevent gastric cancer.
METHODS: The authors developed a state-transition decision model for a cohort of 
US men with a recent incidental diagnosis of gastric precancerous lesions 
(dysplasia, intestinal metaplasia, or atrophy). Strategies included 1) no 
surveillance or treatment and 2) referral for surveillance and treatment, and 
varied by surveillance frequency (none, every 10 years, every 5 years, or every 
year) and treatment modality for dysplastic and cancerous lesions (surgery or 
endoscopic mucosal resection [EMR]). The term "post-treatment surveillance" was 
restricted to surveillance of individuals after treatment. Data were based on 
published literature and databases. Outcomes included lifetime gastric cancer 
risk, quality-adjusted life expectancy, lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: For a cohort of men with dysplasia aged 50 years, the lifetime gastric 
cancer risk was 5.9%. EMR with annual surveillance reduced the lifetime cancer 
risk by 90% and cost $39,800 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Addition of 
post-treatment surveillance every 10 years provided little incremental benefit ( 
approximately 5%) but cost >$1 million per QALY. Results were most sensitive to 
surgical risks and the proportion of lesions completely removed with EMR. For 
intestinal metaplasia, surveillance every 10 years reduced lifetime cancer risk 
by 61% and cost $544,500 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: EMR with surveillance every 1 to 5 years for gastric dysplasia was 
promising for secondary cancer prevention and had a cost-effectiveness ratio 
that would be considered attractive in the United States. Endoscopic 
surveillance of less advanced lesions did not appear to be cost-effective, 
except possibly for immigrants from high-risk countries.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25030
PMCID: PMC2946062
PMID: 20564399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Cancer. 2010 Jun 15;116(12):3034-44. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25051.

Physical performance limitations among adult survivors of childhood brain 
tumors.

Ness KK(1), Morris EB, Nolan VG, Howell CR, Gilchrist LS, Stovall M, Cox CL, 
Klosky JL, Gajjar A, Neglia JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Cancer Control, St. Jude Children's Research 
Hospital, Memphis, TN 38105, USA. kiri.ness@stjude.org

BACKGROUND: Young adult survivors of childhood brain tumors (BTs) may have late 
effects that compromise physical performance and everyday task participation. 
The objective of this study was to evaluate muscle strength, fitness, physical 
performance, and task participation among adult survivors of childhood BTs.
METHODS: In-home evaluations and interviews were conducted for 156 participants 
(54% men). Results on measures of muscle strength, fitness, physical 
performance, and participation were compared between BT survivors and members of 
a population-based comparison group by using chi-square statistics and 2-sample 
t tests. Associations between late effects and physical performance and between 
physical performance and participation were evaluated in regression models.
RESULTS: : The median age of BT survivors was 22 years (range, 18-58 years) at 
the time of the current evaluation, and they had survived for a median of 14.7 
years (range, 6.5-45.9 years) postdiagnosis. Survivors had lower estimates of 
grip strength (women, 24.7 + or - 9.2 kg vs 31.5 + or - 5.8 kg; men, 39.0 + or - 
12.2 kg vs 53.0 + or - 10.1 kg), knee extension strength (women, 246.6 + or - 
95.5 Newtons [N] vs 331.5 + or - 5.8 N; men, 304.7 + or - 116.4 N vs 466.6 + or 
- 92.1 N), and peak oxygen uptake (women, 25.1 + or - 8.8 mL/kg per minute vs 
31.3 + or - 5.1 mL/kg per minute; men, 24.6 + or - 9.5 mL/kg per minute vs 33.2 
+ or - 3.4 mL/kg per minute) than members of the population-based comparison 
group. Physical performance was lower among survivors and was associated with 
not living independently (odds ratio [OR], 5.0; 95% confidence interval [CI], 
2.0-12.2) and not attending college (OR, 2.3; 95% CI 1.2-4.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Muscle strength and fitness values among BT survivors were similar 
to those among individuals aged > or = 60 years and were associated with 
physical performance limitations. Physical performance limitations were 
associated with poor outcomes in home and school environments. The current data 
indicated an opportunity for interventions targeted at improving long-term 
physical function in this survivor population.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25051
PMCID: PMC3554250
PMID: 20564409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;116(13):3119-26. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25184.

Active treatment of localized renal tumors may not impact overall survival in 
patients aged 75 years or older.

Lane BR(1), Abouassaly R, Gao T, Weight CJ, Hernandez AV, Larson BT, Kaouk JH, 
Gill IS, Campbell SC.

Author information:
(1)Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio 
44195, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;116(13):3080-3.

BACKGROUND: Although nephrectomy cures most localized renal cancers, this 
oncologic benefit may be outweighed by the renal functional costs of such an 
approach. In this study, the authors examined overall survival in 537 patients 
who had localized renal tumors < or = 7 cm detected at age > or = 75 years to 
investigate whether surgical intervention improved survival compared with active 
surveillance.
METHODS: Clinical T1 renal tumors were managed with surveillance (20%), 
nephron-sparing interventions (53%), or nephrectomy (27%). Cox regression models 
were constructed based on age, comorbidity, management type, renal function, and 
other variables.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 3.9 years, and death from any cause occurred 
in 148 patients (28%). The most common cause of death was cardiovascular (29%), 
and cancer progression was responsible in only 4% of deaths. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis revealed decreased overall survival for patients who underwent 
surveillance and nephrectomy relative to nephron-sparing intervention (P = .01); 
however, surveilled patients were older and had greater comorbidity. In 
multivariate analysis, significant predictors of overall survival included age 
(P = .0004) and comorbidity (P < .0001) but not management type (P = .3). 
Preoperative renal function (P = .006) and comorbidity (P = .005) were 
predictors of cardiovascular mortality, and nephrectomy was associated with 
greatest loss of renal function.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients aged > or =75 years, surgical management of clinically 
localized renal cortical tumors was not associated with increased survival. 
Patients died mostly of cardiovascular causes, similar to the general elderly 
population. Nephrectomy accelerated renal dysfunction, which was associated with 
cardiovascular mortality. Current paradigms suggest that there is over treatment 
of localized renal tumors, and further study will be required to evaluate the 
advisability of various options in patients with limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25184
PMID: 20564627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;116(13):3251-6. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25112.

Palliative radiotherapy tailored to life expectancy in end-stage cancer 
patients: reality or myth?

Gripp S(1), Mjartan S, Boelke E, Willers R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Dusseldorf, Dusseldorf, 
Germany. stephan.gripp@uni-duesseldorf.de

Comment in
    Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;116(13):3078-9.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the study was to investigate the adequacy of 
palliative radiation treatment in end-stage cancer patients.
METHODS: Of 216 patients referred for palliative radiotherapy, 33 died within 30 
days and constitute the population of the study. Symptoms, Karnofsky Performance 
Status (KPS), laboratory tests, and survival estimates were obtained. Treatment 
course was evaluated by medical records. Univariate analyses were performed by 
using the 2-sided chi-square test. With significant variables, multiple 
regression analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Median age was 65 years, and median survival was 15 days. Prevailing 
primary cancer types were lung (39%) and breast (18%). Metastases were present 
in 94% of patients, brain (36%), bone (24%) and lung (18%). In 91%, KPS was < 
0%. KPS, lactate dehydrogenase, dyspnea, leucocytosis, and brain metastases 
conveyed a poor prognosis. From 85 survival estimates, only 16% were correct, 
but 21% expected more than 6 months. Radiotherapy was delivered to 91% of 
patients. In 90% of radiation treatments, regimens of at least 30 Gy with 
fractions of 2-3 Gy were applied. Half of the patients spent greater than 60% of 
their remaining lifespan on therapy. In only 58% of patients was radiotherapy 
completed. Progressive complaints were noted in 52% and palliation in 26%.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiotherapy was not appropriately customized to these patients 
considering the median treatment time, which resembles the median survival time. 
About half of the patients did not benefit despite spending most of their 
remaining lives on therapy. Prolonged irradiation schedules probably reflect 
overly optimistic prognoses and unrealistic concerns about late radiation 
damage. Single-fraction radiotherapy was too seldom used.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25112
PMID: 20564632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;116(13):3078-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25118.

Myth: we can tailor palliative care to match life expectancy. Reality: no we 
can't.

Hartsell WF.

Comment on
    Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;116(13):3251-6.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25118
PMID: 20564639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Clin Respir J. 2010 Apr;4(2):104-10. doi: 10.1111/j.1752-699X.2009.00156.x.

Cost-effectiveness of clean air administered to the breathing zone in allergic 
asthma.

Brodtkorb TH(1), Zetterström O, Tinghög G.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment, Department of Medical and Health 
Sciences, Linköpings Universitet, Linköping, Sweden. 
Thor-Henrik.Brodtkorb@ihs.liu.se

INTRODUCTION: Airsonett Airshower (AA) is a novel non-pharmaceutical treatment 
for patients with perennial allergic asthma that uses a laminar airflow directed 
to the breathing zone of patients during sleep. It has been shown that AA 
treatment in addition to optimized standard therapy significantly increases 
asthma-related quality of life among adolescent asthmatics. However, the 
cost-effectiveness of AA treatment has not yet been assessed. As reimbursement 
decisions are increasingly guided by results from the cost-effectiveness 
analysis, such information is valuable for health-care policy-makers.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
adding AA treatment with allergen-free air during night sleep to optimized 
standard therapy for adolescents with perennial allergic asthma compared with 
placebo.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was developed to estimate 
costs and health outcomes over a 5-year period. Costs and effects are presented 
from a Swedish health-care perspective (QALYs). The main outcome of interest was 
cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: The Airshower strategy resulted in a mean gain of 0.25 QALYs per 
patient, thus yielding a cost per QALY gained of under euro35 000 as long as the 
cost of Airshower is below euro8200.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding AA treatment to optimized standard therapy for adolescents 
with perennial allergic asthma compared with placebo is generating additional 
QALYs at a reasonable cost. However, further studies taking more detailed 
resource use and events such as exacerbations into account would be needed to 
fully evaluate the cost-effectiveness of AA treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1752-699X.2009.00156.x
PMID: 20565484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2010 May;29(3):235-42. doi:
10.1111/j.1465-3362.2009.00148.x.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of modafinil therapy for psychostimulant 
dependence.

Shearer J(1), Shanahan M, Darke S, Rodgers C, van Beek I, McKetin R, Mattick RP.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom. 
shearerjames7@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION AND AIMS: To examine the cost-effectiveness of modafinil (200 mg 
daily) plus counselling compared with placebo for the treatment of 
psychostimulant dependence.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Cost and outcome data were collected alongside two 
randomised controlled trials of modafinil 200 mg daily over 10 weeks for 
methamphetamine (n = 74) and cocaine dependence (n = 8), respectively. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios representing the additional costs to 
achieve a given outcome were calculated for both the change in the number of 
stimulant-free days and quality-adjusted life years 12 weeks post-treatment.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio indicated that it would cost 
an additional $AUD79 to achieve an extra stimulant-free day with modafinil 
compared with placebo. This result was not statistically significant, but 
appeared to be a robust estimate after sensitivity analysis. Counselling, 
whether received within program or from other services, improved the 
cost-effectiveness of modafinil relative to placebo.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Strategies to improve the uptake of counselling are 
recommended as cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1465-3362.2009.00148.x
PMID: 20565514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2010 Jun;24(6):674-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-3083.2009.03485.x.

Quality of life and health-related utility analysis of adults with moderate and 
severe atopic dermatitis treated with tacrolimus ointment vs. topical 
corticosteroids.

Poole CD(1), Chambers C, Allsopp R, Currie CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Pharmatelligence Ltd, Cardiff, UK.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to measure change in quality of life 
(QoL) and estimate health-related utility in adults with moderate and severe 
atopic dermatitis (AD) following the use of either tacrolimus ointment or 
topical corticosteroids.
METHODS: Data were analysed from a double-blind, randomized controlled trial 
comparing the treatment of adults with moderate and severe AD with either 
tacrolimus ointment or a standard corticosteroid regimen. Following 
randomisation, patients applied their medication twice-daily for 6 months. 
Monthly assessments determined response and QoL. Health-related utility 
(EQ5Dindex) was estimated by Monte Carlo simulation from SF-12 responses via a 
published mapping algorithm.
RESULTS: At baseline, estimated utility data were available for 926 (95%) of the 
intention-to-treat patients, 57% of whom had AD of moderate severity (43% 
severe). The mean age at baseline was 32.5 years (SD +/- 11.8), 46.2% were male, 
with a mean EQ5Dindex for moderate cases of 0.770 (SD +/- 0.157), and 0.665 (SD 
+/- 0.225) for those with severe disease (P < 0.001). Patients treated with 
tacrolimus ointment showed significantly greater improvement in all but one 
domain of the SF-36. At baseline, there was no difference in estimated utility 
between the two groups; however, a difference in utility in favour of tacrolimus 
ointment emerged after 1 month's treatment (0.849 vs. 0.820; P = 0.004). Over 
the 6-month study period, the mean, marginal utility difference between the 
study arms was 0.032 U (utility) in favour of tacrolimus (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Treatment with 0.1% tacrolimus ointment rather than a standard 
topical corticosteroid ointment regimen was associated with clinically 
significant, incremental improvement in QoL, sustained over a 6-month period. A 
within-trial cost-utility estimate based on study medication cost alone suggests 
that tacrolimus ointment is highly cost-effective given existing 
willingness-to-pay thresholds.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2009.03485.x
PMID: 20565562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. BMC Gastroenterol. 2010 Jun 17;10:63. doi: 10.1186/1471-230X-10-63.

Acupuncture for irritable bowel syndrome: a protocol for a pragmatic randomised 
controlled trial.

MacPherson H(1), Bland M, Bloor K, Cox H, Geddes D, Kang'ombe A, Reynolds J, 
Stamuli E, Stuardi T, Tilbrook H, Torgerson D, Whorwell P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, UK. hm18@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There is insufficient evidence on the effectiveness of acupuncture 
for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) for conclusions to be drawn. Given the 
current interest in acupuncture by patients, it is in the public interest to 
establish more rigorous evidence. Building on the positive findings from a pilot 
study, in this paper we present the protocol for a fully-powered trial designed 
to establish whether or not acupuncture is effective and cost-effective.
METHODS/DESIGN: In this pragmatic randomised controlled trial we will randomise 
patients recruited directly from GP databases to either 10 sessions of 
acupuncture plus usual GP care or to usual GP care alone. The primary clinical 
outcome will be the IBS Symptom Severity Score (SSS) (maximum score 500) at 
three months, and at 12 month assessing whether there is an overall benefit. We 
estimate the sample size required to detect a minimum clinical difference at 90% 
power and 5% significance to be 188 patients. To allow for loss to follow up we 
will recruit 220 patients drawn from an estimated primary care population of 140 
000. Analysis will be by intention-to-treat, and multiple imputation is to be 
used for missing data.In a nested qualitative study using in-depth interviews, 
we will explore how patients, acupuncturists, and GPs explain and subsequently 
understand acupuncture to work. We will use purposive sampling to identify 
patients and flexible topic guides for the interviews. The data analysis will 
lead to a thematic description of how patients and practitioners explain how 
acupuncture works, and whether or not the explanations influence treatment 
outcome and/or referrals.We will undertake a cost-effectiveness analysis at 12 
months by comparing resource use in the two groups with any treatment benefit. 
We will use the EQ-5D to measure health-related quality of life and convert into 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs). We will generate cost effectiveness 
acceptability curves (CEACs) exploring the probability that acupuncture will 
produce an acceptable cost per QALY at different cost-effectiveness thresholds.
DISCUSSION: The trial has received NHS ethics approval and recruited 233 
patients between November 2008 and June 2009. Results are expected in 2011.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN08827905.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-230X-10-63
PMCID: PMC2909152
PMID: 20565790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Health Econ Policy Law. 2010 Oct;5(4):389-96. doi:
10.1017/S1744133110000095.  Epub 2010 Jun 22.

Rationing in the fiscal ice age.

Klein R.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133110000095
PMID: 20565993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Int Psychogeriatr. 2011 Feb;23(1):114-24. doi: 10.1017/S1041610210000797.
Epub  2010 Jun 22.

Aerobic fitness and multidomain cognitive function in advanced age.

Netz Y(1), Dwolatzky T, Zinker Y, Argov E, Agmon R.

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Education, The Zinman College of Physical Education and 
Sport Sciences, Wingate Institute, Israel. neyael@wincol.ac.il

BACKGROUND: Studies generally describe the relationship between physical fitness 
and cognitive function by measuring only one or two specific cognitive tasks. In 
addition, in spite of the significant increase in life expectancy, the age of 
participants in these studies does not extend beyond a mean age of 70 years. 
This study was thus designed to examine the relationship between physical 
fitness and function in multiple cognitive domains in subjects older than those 
previously reported.
METHODS: Thirty-eight individuals, aged 65.3 to 85.3 years, performed a graded, 
progressive, maximal exercise test. Based on a median score of peak VO2, 
participants were divided into low-fitness and moderately-fit groups. Cognitive 
function was assessed by means of a computerized neuropsychological battery.
RESULTS: The moderately-fit group achieved significantly better scores on the 
global cognitive score (U = 97, p = 0.04), and a significant correlation was 
found between peak VO2 and attention, executive function, and global cognitive 
score (rs = .37, .39, .38 respectively). The trend for superior cognitive scores 
in the moderate-fitness compared to the low-fitness groups was unequivocal, both 
in terms of accuracy and reaction time.
CONCLUSION: Maintenance of higher levels of cardiovascular fitness may help 
protect against cognitive deterioration, even at an advanced age. An adequately 
powered randomized controlled trial should be performed to further evaluate this 
hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610210000797
PMID: 20566000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2010 Jul;22(3 Suppl):117S-124S. doi: 
10.1177/1010539510372833.

From Jollibee to BeeBee: "lifestyle" and chronic illness in Southeast Asia.

Manderson L(1), Naemiratch B.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health 
Sciences, Monash University, Victoria, Australia. Lenore.Manderson@monash.edu

Throughout Southeast Asia, the number of people living with chronic conditions 
and degenerative disease has increased proportionately and absolutely. Public 
health interventions and effective medical treatment and surgeries have 
increased life expectancy. Concurrently, social and economic conditions have led 
to the rapid escalation of lifelong illnesses, characterized as "lifestyle" 
conditions. Drawing on ethnographic and survey research conducted in Southeast 
Asia, the authors illustrate the multiple factors contributing to people's 
health. Changes in food production; the organization, nature, and conditions of 
work; living conditions; and other factors affecting contemporary living 
increase vulnerability to noncommunicable diseases. These factors are largely 
beyond the control of most people. Efforts to reduce chronic illnesses 
predominantly focus on individual interventions, overlooking the lack of 
individual capacity to address the structural and institutional factors that 
compromise people's health.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539510372833
PMID: 20566543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2010 Jul;89(7):549-56. doi:
10.1097/PHM.0b013e3181ddccd2.

Postural control in elderly persons with osteoporosis: Efficacy of an 
intervention program to improve balance and muscle strength: a randomized 
controlled trial.

Burke TN(1), França FJ, Ferreira de Meneses SR, Cardoso VI, Marques AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Speech, Physical and Occupational Therapy, University of São 
Paulo, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of an exercise program aiming to improve 
balance and muscular strength, for postural control and muscular strength of 
women with osteoporosis.
DESIGN: Sample consisted of 33 women with osteoporosis, randomized into one of 
two groups: intervention group, in which exercises for balance and improvement 
of muscular strength of the inferior members were performed for 8 wks (n = 17, 
age 72.8 +/- 3.6 yrs); control group, which was women not practicing exercises 
(n = 16, age 74.4 +/- 3.7 yrs). At baseline and after 8 wks of treatment, 
postural control was assessed using a force plate (Balance Master, Neurocom), 
and muscular strength during ankle dorsiflexion, knee extension, and flexion was 
assessed by dynamometry.
RESULTS: Adherence to the program was 82%. When compared with the control group, 
individuals in the intervention group significantly improved the center of 
pressure velocity (P = 0.02) in the modified clinical test of sensory 
interaction for balance test, center of pressure velocity (P < 0.01), and 
directional control (P < 0.01) in limits of stability test, isometric force 
during ankle dorsiflexion (P = 0.01), knee extension (P < 0.01), and knee 
flexion (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Balance and strength exercises are effective in improving postural 
control and lower-limb strength in elderly women with osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0b013e3181ddccd2
PMID: 20567136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 May;24(6):530-6.

Quality-adjusted life-years, comparative effectiveness in cancer care, and 
measuring outcomes in the underserved.

Kilbridge KL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. kkilbridge@partners.org

Comment in
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 May;24(6):537.
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 May;24(6):542-3.

Recently, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) set aside $1.1 
billion for comparative effectiveness research (CER) to investigate what 
healthcare strategies and interventions offer the greatest benefits to 
individual patients and the population as a whole. The Institute of Medicine has 
identified CER in cancer care as a high priority research focus for ARRA 
funding. The ability to measure quality of life will be central to CER in 
oncology because survival and disease-free survival do not adequately capture 
outcomes important to policy makers, physicians, and patients. There are two 
ways to measure quality of life: descriptive health status and patient 
preference weights (utilities). However, only patient preference weights can be 
incorporated into the economic analysis of medical resources and be used in the 
calculation of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Some of the advantages and 
limitations inherent in measuring quality of life with descriptive health status 
and patient preference weights are discussed. Both types of measurements face 
health literacy barriers to their application in underserved populations, an 
important concern for CER in all medical fields.

PMID: 20568594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 May;24(6):537.

Comparative effectiveness and comparative costs.

Liu L(1), Rettenmaier AJ, Saving TR.

Author information:
(1)Private Enterprise Research Center, Texas A&M University, College Station, 
Texas, USA.

Comment on
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 May;24(6):530-6.

PMID: 20568595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 May;24(6):542-3.

Cost, quality, and value in healthcare: a new paradigm.

Konski A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 
Detroit, Michigan, USA.

Comment on
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 May;24(6):530-6.

PMID: 20568596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(9):711-22. doi: 10.2165/11535660-000000000-00000.

Using conjoint analysis and choice experiments to estimate QALY values: issues 
to consider.

Flynn TN(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Study of Choice (CenSoC), University of Technology, Sydney, 
Ultimo, New South Wales, Australia. terry.flynn@uts.edu.au

There is increasing interest in using ranking tasks, discrete choice experiments 
and best-worst scaling studies to estimate QALY values for use in cost-utility 
analysis. The research frontier in choice modelling is moving rapidly, with a 
number of issues being explored across several disciplines. These issues include 
the estimation of discount factors, proper modelling of the variance scale 
factor and the estimation of individual-level utility functions. Some of these 
issues are particularly acute when discrete choice tasks are used to facilitate 
extra-welfarist analyses that rely on population-based values. There are also 
potential problems in implementing such tasks that have received little interest 
in the non-health discrete choice literature because they are specific to the 
QALY framework. This article details these issues and offers recommendations on 
the conduct of 21st century QALY valuation exercises that propose to use any 
tasks that rely on discrete choices.

DOI: 10.2165/11535660-000000000-00000
PMID: 20568837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. J Orthop Surg Res. 2010 Jun 22;5:39. doi: 10.1186/1749-799X-5-39.

Acceptable outcome following resection of bilateral large popliteal space 
heterotopic ossification masses in a spinal cord injured patient: a case report.

Espandar R(1), Haghpanah B.

Author information:
(1)Department of orthopaedic surgery, Imam Khomeini Hospital Complex, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Keshavarz Blvd, Tehran 1419733141, Iran. 
respandar@yahoo.com.

Spinal cord injury is a well-known predisposing factor for development of 
heterotopic ossification around the joints especially hip and elbow. Heterotopic 
ossification about the knee is usually located medially, laterally or 
anteriorly; besides, the knee is generally fixed in flexion. There are only a 
few reports of heterotopic bone formation at the posterior aspect of the knee 
(popliteal space) and fixation of both knees in extension; so, there is little 
experience in operative management of such a problem.Here, we present a 39-years 
old paraplegic man who was referred to us five years after trauma with a request 
of above knee amputation due to sever impairment of his life style and adaptive 
capacity for daily living because of difficulties in using wheelchair. The 
principle reason for the impairment was fixed full extension of both knees as 
the result of bilateral large heterotopic ossification masses in popliteal 
fossae. The bony masses were surgically resected with acceptable outcome. The 
anatomic position of the ossified masses as well as ankylosis of both knees in 
full extension, and the acceptable functional outcome of surgery which was done 
after a long period of five years following injury makes this case unique.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-799X-5-39
PMCID: PMC2908060
PMID: 20569483


465. Bull Entomol Res. 2011 Feb;101(1):33-44. doi: 10.1017/S0007485310000155.
Epub  2010 Jun 23.

Life tables for sunn pest, Eurygaster integriceps (Heteroptera: Scutelleridae) 
in northern Iran.

Iranipour S(1), Pakdel AK, Radjabi G, Michaud JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Tabriz, 
Tabriz, 51666-14888 Iran.

Life table studies of sunn pest were carried out in Varamin, Iran, from 
1998-2001 in order to determine stage-specific mortalities and the impact of 
specific natural enemies on population dynamics. Populations were sampled 2-3 
times weekly in agricultural fields during the growing season and monthly during 
the period of dormancy at resting sites in nearby mountains some 30 km away from 
cereal fields. Adults spend a period of 9-10 months in diapause and suffered 
overcompensatory, density-dependent mortality during this period. Variation in 
adult overwintering survival was inferred to be largely a function of the 
physiological condition of bugs that is reduced in a density-dependent manner by 
intraspecific competition for food among newly molted adults prior to migration 
to resting sites. Adult mortality emerged as the primary factor in key factor 
analysis, contributing 73% of the total variance in mortality. Other important 
factors were egg parasitism by Trissolcus vassilievi Mayr and adult parasitism 
by several species of Tachinidae. Although T. vassilievi made only a minor 
contribution to overall variance in total mortality, it had a significant effect 
on the number of newly molted adults, the life stage that is most damaging to 
cereal crops. The equilibrium level of the pest population in wheat fields was 
inferred to be ca. 72.6 adults m(-2), a number that substantially exceeds the 
economic threshold that ranges from 3-5 adults m(-2).

DOI: 10.1017/S0007485310000155
PMID: 20569519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Jun;14(31):iii-iv, 1-75. doi: 10.3310/hta14310.

Systematic review and cost-effectiveness evaluation of 'pill-in-the-pocket' 
strategy for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation compared to episodic in-hospital 
treatment or continuous antiarrhythmic drug therapy.

Saborido CM(1), Hockenhull J, Bagust A, Boland A, Dickson R, Todd D.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group (LRiG), Liverpool, UK.

BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a tachyarrhythmia characterised by 
uncoordinated atrial activation with consequent deterioration of impairment of 
atrial function and a rapid, irregular heartbeat. The annual incidence rate of 
paroxysmal AF (PAF) has been estimated at 1.0 per 1000 person-years (95% 
confidence interval 0.9 to 1.1), and reported prevalence rates show wide 
variations depending on age and country. Conventional treatment strategies for 
PAF focus on the suppression of paroxysms of AF and return to normal sinus 
rhythm.
OBJECTIVES: To summarise the results of the rapid reviews of the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness literature describing the 
pill-in-the-pocket (PiP) approach for the treatment of patients with PAF; and to 
develop an economic model to assess the cost-effectiveness of PiP compared with 
in-hospital treatment (IHT) or continuous antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) for the 
treatment of patients with PAF.
DATA SOURCES: Ovid MEDLINE and Ovid OLDMEDLINE 1950 to present with Daily Update 
were searched. The following electronic databases were searched for ongoing 
trials: Health Services Research Projects in Progress, ClinicalTrials.gov, 
metaRegister of Current Controlled Trials, BioMed Central, World Health 
Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, 
ClinicalStudyResults.org and the National Library of Medicine Gateway.
REVIEW METHODS: Inclusion criteria, which included patients suffering from PAF, 
were independently applied to all identified references by two reviewers (JH and 
CMS). Electronic searches were conducted to identify clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness evidence describing the use of a PiP strategy for the 
treatment of PAF, published since the release of the Royal College of 
Physicians' national guidelines on AF in June 2006. A Markov model was 
constructed to examine differences between three PAF strategies (PiP, AAD and 
IHT) in terms of cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). A Markov model 
structure was chosen because it is assumed that PAF is a condition that causes 
patients to move between a limited number of relevant health states during their 
lives.
RESULTS: The search strategies for clinical studies identified 201 randomised 
controlled trials (RCTs). Of the 201 RCTs identified, 12 were deemed to be 
relevant to the decision problem as they included drugs used to treat PAF; 
summary data were abstracted from these studies in order to inform the 
development of the economic model only. The model results indicate that the PiP 
strategy is slightly less effective than the other two strategies, but also less 
costly (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 45,916 pounds per QALY when 
compared to AAD, and 12,424 pounds per QALY when compared to IHT). The one-way 
sensitivity analyses performed do not show substantial changes in relative 
cost-effectiveness except in relation to the age of patients, where PiP 
dominates AAD in men over 65 years and in women over 70 years. At a threshold of 
25,000 pounds per QALY, IHT has the maximum probability of being cost-effective 
at this threshold. For threshold values between 0 pounds and 9266 pounds per 
QALY, PiP is the option exhibiting the maximum probability of being 
cost-effective. The AAD strategy has a very poor probability of being 
cost-effective under any threshold. However, none of the strategies considered 
has more than a 40% probability of being cost-effective at a threshold of 25,000 
pounds per QALY at any threshold level. This demonstrates the uncertainty around 
the parameters and its effect on the decision to choose any one strategy over 
the others.
LIMITATIONS: Most of the data used to populate the model have been taken from 
studies with populations that do not match the patient population specified in 
the decision problem. Populating the model in this way was unavoidable as there 
was a paucity of published clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness data 
describing a PiP strategy for this highly specific group of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, a PiP strategy seems to be slightly less effective (i.e. 
fewer QALYs gained) than AAD and IHT, but is associated with cost savings. A PiP 
strategy seems to be more efficacious and cost-effective than an AAD strategy in 
men over 65 years and women over 70 years, but this is principally due to a very 
slight difference in QALY gained by the PiP strategy. A change in clinical 
practice that includes the introduction of PiP may save costs, but also involves 
a reduction in clinical effectiveness compared to existing approaches used to 
treat patients with PAF. Uncertainty in the available clinical data means there 
was insufficient evidence to support a recommendation for the use of PiP 
strategy in patients with PAF. Further research should identify outcomes of 
interest such as adverse events and recurrent AF episodes in an RCT setting 
because the only clinical study addressing these issues, even partially, is not 
an RCT but a descriptive analysis. Patient preferences also need to be 
considered in any future research designs.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14310
PMID: 20569652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2011 Jul-Aug;53(1):3-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2010.05.012. Epub 2010 Jun 8.

Health expectancies in the older Thai population.

Muangpaisan W(1), Assantachai P, Intalapaporn S, Richardson K, Brayne C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj 
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10700, Thailand. siwmp@mahidol.ac.th

This study aims to investigate health expectancies in five domains: cognitive 
health, psychological health, physical health, functional ability and 
self-perceived global health (SPGH) in the older Thai population. There are few 
studies reporting health expectancies in multidimensional health domains, most 
of which reported only one health dimension. The dataset used was from the 
Bangkok Longitudinal Study by Siriraj Hospital for the Older Men and Women 
(BLOSSOM), which is a community cohort study in Bangkok, Thailand. This analysis 
is based on the cross-sectional data in the year 2005-2006 and includes 5936 
participants aged 50 years and over from community settings within six suburban 
areas in Bangkok. The study found that women had a longer total life expectancy 
(LE), but had shorter cognitive impairment-free (CIFLE), physical illness-free 
(PHILE) and disability-free (DIFLE) LEs, than men. However, there was no 
difference between the life expectancies for living with good SPGH in men and in 
women. Differences in health expectations might explain this finding. Health 
promotion and disease prevention should be initiated at a younger age and should 
target all health domains.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2010.05.012
PMID: 20570376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2010 Oct;81(10):1093-8. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2009.198689. Epub 2010 Jun 22.

The estimated life expectancy in a community cohort of Parkinson's disease 
patients with and without dementia, compared with the UK population.

Hobson P(1), Meara J, Ishihara-Paul L.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit (North Wales), Cardiff University, Glan Clwyd Hospital, Rhyl, 
UK. peterhobson@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To compare survival, life expectancies (LE), and the anticipated age 
at the time of death (AAD), in a community-based cohort of Parkinson's disease 
(PD) patients with and without significant cognitive impairment, with an age sex 
matched population of England and Wales.
METHODS: The age- and sex-specific standardised mortality ratios (SMR) were 
calculated and stratified by dementia status. The LE and AAD estimations were 
calculated from the SMRs of the 2003 UK population, using a modified Gompertz 
function.
RESULTS: In total, 166 PD patients participated in the investigation, of which 
91 died by the 4-year follow-up. The overall SMR was 2.09 (95% CI 1.68 to 2.57). 
Demented patients had significantly higher SMRs than non-demented patients (SMR 
3.10, 95% CI 2.39 to 3.96 vs SMR 1.15, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.69, p<0.001). In our 
cohort, the LE in younger-onset demented patients (55-74 years) was much lower 
than in non-demented patients (7.5; SD 3 vs 12.4; SD 7). Likewise, the estimated 
AAD in younger onset patients with dementia was also much lower (demented 72.4; 
SD 4 vs not demented 77.8; SD 7). In older-onset patients with dementia (>75 
years), the differences in LE (demented 2.1; SD 1 vs not demented 4.7; SD 4) and 
AAD were less apparent (demented 89.5; SD 6 vs not demented 92.2; SD 6).
CONCLUSION: The survival, LE and AAD in patients with PD are much lower compared 
with the general population, apart from those patients who do not develop 
dementia, who appear to have near normal population mortalities. However, 
dementia and younger onset of PD appear to be important determinants of 
survival, LE and AAD.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2009.198689
PMID: 20571039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2010 Mar;13(1):27-35.

Economic outcomes of eszopiclone treatment in insomnia and comorbid major 
depressive disorder.

Snedecor SJ(1), Botteman MF, Schaefer K, Sarocco P, Barry N, Pickard AS.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit North America LLC, 4350 East-West Highway, Suite 430, Bethesda, MD 
20814, USA.

BACKGROUND: Eszopiclone is effective for the treatment of insomnia in patients 
with insomnia and comorbid major depressive disorder (MDD). Both conditions 
impose significant economic burden, with the US societal cost of depression 
estimated at USD 50 billion annually.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: The purpose of this analysis was to examine the costs and 
benefits of eszopiclone co-administered with fluoxetine (ESZ+FLX) compared to 
placebo co-administered with fluoxetine (PBO+FLX) in adults meeting the DSM-IV 
criteria for insomnia and MDD.
METHODS: Data from 434 patients enrolled in an 8-week clinical trial who met the 
economic-subanalysis criteria were examined. The costs of medical care (in 2007 
USUSD ) and lost work time were estimated from the Hamilton Depression Scale 
(HAM-D17) scores using published algorithms. Cost of lost productivity while at 
work was based on responses to the Work Limitations Questionnaire. The impact of 
therapy on quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was estimated by transforming 
HAM-D17 (base case analysis) or Short Form Health Survey (SF-12) (scenario 
analyses) responses into health utility scores using published algorithms. Drug 
costs were estimated based on average wholesale price.
RESULTS: The mean 8-week increases in QALYs from baseline were 0.0392 and 0.0334 
for the ESZ+FLX and PBO+FLX groups, respectively. Mean per-patient costs were 
USD 1,279 and USD 1,198 for the respective groups. Thus, co-treatment resulted 
in net increases of 0.0058 QALYs and USD 81, leading to an incremental cost per 
QALY gained of approximately USD 14,000.
DISCUSSION AND LIMITATIONS: Co-administration of eszopiclone and fluoxetine 
improved patients' insomnia symptoms and appeared to be a cost-effective 
treatment strategy for patients with insomnia and comorbid MDD. One limitation 
of this study is that optimal utility estimation techniques were not available. 
Utilities were instead derived indirectly using the HAM-D17 (disease-specific, 
not generic) or SF-12 (generic, but potentially insensitive to important changes 
in some conditions) instruments.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CARE PROVISION: Sleep disturbance is predictive of 
depression relapse, and is the most common residual symptom in patients who have 
been successfully treated with fluoxetine for depression. Thus, identifying 
cost-effective strategies for the treatment of insomnia symptoms is important 
for this patient population.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: Treatment guidelines and drug coverage 
decisions should be based on clinical evidence, effectiveness, and economic 
criteria (i.e., whether an effective drug therapy produces sufficient benefits 
given its costs). This information about the overall value of eszopiclone can be 
measured as the cost per QALY gained with the use of ESZ+FLX compared with FLX 
alone. In order to make decisions based on value, payers and policy makers must 
have access to reliable cost-effectiveness information.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: The residual efficacy observed in the 
clinical trial following the discontinuation of co-therapy should be explored 
further to determine whether intermittent treatment with ESZ+FLX is a 
cost-effective strategy.

PMID: 20571180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Medicina (Kaunas). 2010;46(4):286-92.

Cost-utility analysis of methadone maintenance treatment in Lithuania.

Vanagas G(1), Padaiga Z, Bagdonas E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Kaunas University of Medicine, 50009 
Kaunas, Lithuania. giedrius.vanagas@kmu.lt

BACKGROUND: Economic evaluations in health care involve the identification, 
measurement, valuation, and then comparison of the costs (inputs) and outcomes 
of treatments or preventive activities. The aim was to analyze the cost-utility 
of six-month methadone maintenance treatment program in a Lithuanian primary 
health care setting.
METHODS: A prospective study design was used. All the information was obtained 
through the validated questionnaires at the baseline and 3- and 6-month 
follow-ups. WHOQOL-BREF was used to assess the quality of life; the costs were 
assessed using the DATCAP methodology from the perspective of a patient and 
outpatient clinic during follow-up period.
RESULTS: A total of 102 opioid-dependent patients were recruited in the study; 
512 follow-up patient-months were obtained. The methadone maintenance treatment 
has significantly improved physical, psychological, and environmental components 
of quality of life during follow-up. Total program costs were 61 288.87 EUR. 
Cost paid by a patient comprised about 31% of total program costs. Cost per 
quality-adjusted life-month (QALM) for physical domain was 2227.55 EUR; for 
psychological domain, 1879.50 EUR; for social domain, 5467.64 EUR; and for 
environmental domain, 4626.47 EUR. Costs per QALM and quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) for total quality of life in the maintenance program were 2864.00 EUR and 
34 368.00 EUR, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that 6-month methadone maintenance program was 
effective in the terms of quality-of-life improvement. Methadone maintenance 
treatment program was less effective in terms of cost per QALY.

PMID: 20571298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Clin Psychopharmacol. 2010 Aug;30(4):425-30. doi: 
10.1097/JCP.0b013e3181e69042.

A post hoc analysis of negative symptoms and psychosocial function in patients 
with schizophrenia: a 40-week randomized, double-blind study of ziprasidone 
versus haloperidol followed by a 3-year double-blind extension trial.

Stahl SM(1), Malla A, Newcomer JW, Potkin SG, Weiden PJ, Harvey PD, Loebel A, 
Watsky E, Siu CO, Romano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, CA 
92093-9116-A, USA. smstahl@neiglobal.com

Erratum in
    J Clin Psychopharmacol. 2010 Oct;30(5):652.

Schizophrenia is a persistent, lifelong illness such that enduring functional 
improvements may only occur over the course of years [corrected].This post hoc 
analysis in stable outpatients with schizophrenia investigated the negative 
symptom efficacy and treatment outcomes of ziprasidone (80-160 mg/d given twice 
a day, mean modal dose of 112 mg/d; and 80-120 mg/d given every day, mean modal 
dose of 96 mg/d) versus haloperidol (5-20 mg/d, mean modal dose of 12 mg/d) in a 
randomized, 40-week, double-blind study, followed by a double-blind continuation 
trial that extended up to 156 additional weeks. Symptomatic and functional 
recovery criteria were met when subjects attained both negative symptom 
remission and adequate psychosocial functioning based on the 4 Quality-of-Life 
subscales (instrumental role, interpersonal relations, participation in 
community, and intrapsychic foundations). Negative symptom remission (P = 
0.005), as well as sustained adequate functioning (6 months) in instrumental 
role (P = 0.04) and participation in community (P = 0.02), was associated with 
significantly shorter time to remission in the ziprasidone 80 to 160 mg group 
than in the haloperidol group, as was the combination of symptomatic and 
functional recovery during the 196-week double-blind study period. A similar 
pattern was observed for the ziprasidone 80 to 120 mg group, which showed 
significant differences versus haloperidol in negative symptom remission and 
instrumental role functioning (but not other Quality-of-Life subscale measures). 
The clinically relevant outcome differences detected in this post hoc 
exploratory analysis support the potential for both enhanced remission in 
negative symptoms and psychosocial recovery during long-term treatment with an 
atypical agent and add to our understanding regarding the degree to which 
negative symptom remission can be attained in the maintenance phase.

DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0b013e3181e69042
PMID: 20571437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Cancer. 2010 Oct 1;116(19):4656-63. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25217.

Influence of patients' preferences and treatment site on cancer patients' 
end-of-life care.

Wright AA(1), Mack JW, Kritek PA, Balboni TA, Massaro AF, Matulonis UA, Block 
SD, Prigerson HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. alexi_wright@dfci.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Research suggests that patients' end-of-life (EOL) care is 
determined primarily by the medical resources available, and not by patient 
preferences. The authors examined whether patients' desire for life-extending 
therapy was associated with their EOL care.
METHODS: Coping with Cancer is a multisite, prospective, longitudinal study of 
patients with advanced cancer. Three hundred one patients were interviewed at 
baseline and followed until death, a median of 4.5 months later. Multivariate 
analyses examined the influence of patients' preferences and treatment site on 
whether patients received intensive care or hospice services in the final week 
of life.
RESULTS: Eighty-three of 301 patients (27.6%) with advanced cancer wanted 
life-extending therapy at baseline. Patients who understood that their disease 
was terminal or who reported having EOL discussions with their physicians were 
less likely to want life-extending care compared with others (23.4% vs 42.6% and 
20.7% vs 44.4%, respectively; P≤.003). Patients who were treated at Yale Cancer 
Center received more intensive care (odds ratio [OR], 3.14; 95% confidence 
interval [CI], 1.16-8.47) and less hospice services (OR, 0.52; 95% CI, 
0.29-0.92) compared with patients who were treated at Parkland Hospital. 
However, in multivariate analyses that controlled for confounding influences, 
patients who preferred life-extending care were more likely to receive intensive 
care (adjusted OR [AOR], 2.91; 95% CI, 1.09-7.72) and were less likely to 
receive hospice services (AOR, 0.45; 95% CI, 0.26-0.78). Treatment site was not 
identified as a significant predictor of EOL care.
CONCLUSIONS: The treatment preferences of patients with advanced cancer may play 
a more important role in determining the intensity of medical care received at 
the EOL than previously recognized. Future research is needed to determine the 
mechanisms by which patients' preferences for care and treatment site interact 
to influence EOL care.

Copyright © 2010 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25217
PMCID: PMC3670423
PMID: 20572030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Mol Neurodegener. 2010 Jun 24;5:27. doi: 10.1186/1750-1326-5-27.

