evidence was considered insufficient to support the conclusion that prasugrel is 
clinically more effective than clopidogrel or vice versa. Assuming that there is 
no evidence to distinguish between prasugrel and clopidogrel in terms of 
clinical effectiveness in the short term for this population, equipoise between 
prasugrel and clopidogrel at year 1 is achieved by a 20% reduction in the 
acquisition cost of prasugrel (approximately 120 pounds per patient). At the 
time of writing, the guidance/has not yet been published by NICE.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14Suppl1/05
PMID: 20507801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14 Suppl 1:39-46. doi:
10.3310/hta14Suppl1/06.

Alitretinoin for the treatment of severe chronic hand eczema.

Paulden M(1), Rodgers M, Griffin S, Slack R, Duffy S, Ingram JR, Woolacott N, 
Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of alitretinoin for the treatment 
of adults with severe chronic hand eczema refractory to topical steroid 
treatment in accordance with the licensed indication, based upon the evidence 
submission from Basilea Pharmaceuticals Ltd to the National Institute for Health 
and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal 
process. The clinical evidence came from a single placebo-controlled randomised 
controlled trial of daily treatment with alitretinoin for 12-24 weeks, with 
follow-up for a further 24 weeks, in patients with severe chronic hand eczema 
(CHE) unresponsive to topical steroids. A statistically significantly greater 
proportion of patients using alitretinoin achieved the primary end point of 
clear or almost clear hands by week 24 than did those with placebo. 
Dose-dependent headache was the most commonly reported adverse event in patients 
treated with alitretinoin. Serious adverse events were rare, but alitretinoin 
was associated with increases in both total cholesterol and triglycerides, which 
has implications for risks of future cardiovascular events. The manufacturer 
submitted a de novo decision analytic model to estimate, over a time horizon of 
3 years, the cost-effectiveness of alitretinoin versus the other relevant 
comparators identified by NICE. In response to the points of clarification put 
to it by the ERG regarding the initial submission, the manufacturer provided 
additional evidence and a revised decision analytic model with a 'placebo' arm. 
In the manufacturer's original submission to NICE, the base-case incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) reported for alitretinoin were 8614 pounds per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) versus ciclosporin, -469 pounds per QALY 
versus psoralen + UVA (with alitretinoin dominant) and 10,612 pounds per QALY 
versus azathioprine. These ICERs decreased as the time horizon was extended in 
sensitivity analyses. In patients with hyperkeratotic CHE and in women of 
child-bearing potential, the ICER remained below 20,000. pounds When the 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) values used in the model were replaced 
with those derived from an alternative study, these ICERs increased 
significantly (to 22,312 pounds per QALY for alitretinoin versus azathioprine). 
In the revised model, alitretinoin was reported to have an ICER of 12,931 pounds 
per QALY gained versus supportive care (placebo). However, the model 
underestimates the costs of treatment associated with alitretinoin. The 
manufacturer assumed that patients receiving alitretinoin visited the 
dermatologist every 4 weeks and ceased treatment as soon as they responded to 
it. If, in practice, patients would receive treatment for longer than this, then 
the manufacturer's model will have significantly underestimated the costs to the 
NHS. Additional analyses undertaken by the ERG produced ICERs close to 30,000 
pounds per QALY gained for alitretinoin versus supportive care. This was largely 
due to uncertainty surrounding the impact of alitretinoin on HRQoL. The 
placebo-controlled trials conducted to date have established that alitretinoin 
can be efficacious for the treatment of severe CHE refractory to topical 
steroids, but longer term follow-up of trials or the implementation of 
registries is required to better establish the longer term efficacy or safety of 
alitretinoin. NICE recommended the use of alitretinoin for patients with severe 
CHE and a Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) score of at least 15. Treatment 
was recommended to be stopped as soon as an adequate response was observed, or 
if CHE remained severe at 12 weeks, or if response was inadequate at 24 weeks.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14Suppl1/06
PMID: 20507802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14 Suppl 1:47-53. doi:
10.3310/hta14Suppl1/07.

Pemetrexed for the first-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer.

Fleeman N(1), Bagust A, McLeod C, Greenhalgh J, Boland A, Dundar Y, Dickson R, 
Tudur Smith C, Davis H, Green J, Pearson M.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK. nigel.fleeman@liverpool.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of pemetrexed for the first-line 
treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), 
in accordance with the licensed indication, based upon the evidence submission 
from Eli Lilly Ltd to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
(NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal process. The majority of the 
efficacy evidence described in the manufacturer's submission is derived from a 
phase III open-label randomised controlled trial (RCT) known as the JMDB trial. 
The trial achieved its primary objective to demonstrate non-inferiority of 
pemetrexed/cisplatin to gemcitabine/cisplatin for overall survival in all 
patients with NSCLC. Because no other studies were found comparing 
pemetrexed/cisplatin with any other relevant comparator, additional efficacy 
evidence was presented from two phase III RCTs comparing gemcitabine/cisplatin 
with gemcitabine/carboplatin and docetaxel/cisplatin. The manufacturer's 
submission reported from its indirect comparisons' analysis that median overall 
survival and progression-free survival and tumour response rates were more 
favourable for pemetrexed/cisplatin than for any other comparator. The 
manufacturer did not identify any published cost-effectiveness analyses of 
pemetrexed for the first-line treatment of patients with NSCLC. Therefore 
economic evidence was derived solely from a de novo economic model developed by 
the manufacturer. A Markov model was developed to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of pemetrexed/cisplatin compared to gemcitabine/cisplatin, 
docetaxel/cisplatin and gemcitabine/carboplatin. The clinical data used in the 
economic evaluation were primarily generated from the JMDB trial, with 
additional data from the two further trials used in the indirect comparisons 
analysis. The ERG identified a series of problems with this economic model. As a 
result, three different versions of the model were submitted to NICE and 
considered by the ERG. The ICERs estimated by this final version of the model 
ranged from 8056 pounds to 33,065 pounds per QALY, depending on the comparator, 
the population and the application of a continuation rule. The ERG considered 
that the model required extensive modification and redesign, and should be 
subjected to thorough validation against the JMDB trial results. A full quality 
audit was also required as it was likely that further model inconsistencies may 
be present that had not yet been identified. The manufacturer subsequently 
included evidence in the form of three cost effectiveness analyses (two models 
and an 'in-trial' analysis), stating that a thorough validation process had been 
followed according to the NICE request. The very short time available to the ERG 
to consider the new evidence precluded a comprehensive assessment. Instead, the 
ERG chose to present a simple exploratory analysis combining its own survival 
projections with key cost estimates obtained from the JMDB trial individual 
patient data. Compared to gemcitabine, this resulted in ICERs ranging from 
17,162 pounds to 30,142 pounds per QALY, depending on the patient population, 
the maximum number of cycles of chemotherapy and whether a cycle based efficacy 
adjustment was applied or not. The guidance issued by NICE in September 2009 
states that pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin is recommended as an option 
for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
NSCLC only if the histology of the tumour has been confirmed as adenocarcinoma 
or large-cell carcinoma.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14Suppl1/07
PMID: 20507803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14 Suppl 1:55-62. doi:
10.3310/hta14Suppl1/08.

Topotecan for the treatment of recurrent and stage IVB carcinoma of the cervix.

Paton F(1), Paulden M, Saramago P, Manca A, Misso K, Palmer S, Eastwood A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination and Centre for Health Economics, 
University of York, York, UK. fcwp500@york.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of topotecan in combination with 
cisplatin for the treatment of recurrent and stage IVB carcinoma of the cervix, 
in accordance with the licensed indication, based upon the evidence submission 
from the manufacturer to the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process. The 
outcomes measured were overall survival, progression-free survival, response 
rates, adverse effects of treatment, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained. The manufacturer stated that 
topotecan plus cisplatin is the only combination regimen to date to have 
demonstrated a statistically significant survival advantage compared to 
cisplatin monotherapy in the licensed population. The clinical evidence came 
from three clinical trials comparing topotecan plus cisplatin with cisplatin 
monotherapy (GOG-0179), topotecan plus cisplatin with paclitaxel plus cisplatin 
(GOG-0169), and four cisplatin-based combination therapies: topotecan plus 
cisplatin, paclitaxel plus cisplatin, gemcitabine plus cisplatin, and 
vinorelbine plus cisplatin (GOG-0204). Results from GOG-0179 showed greater 
median overall survival with topotecan plus cisplatin than with cisplatin 
monotherapy: 9.4 months versus 6.5 months. Similar results were also reported 
for median progression-free survival. Response rates also showed an advantage 
with topotecan plus cisplatin compared with cisplatin monotherapy. The response 
rates in patients receiving cisplatin monotherapy were very low, but the 
potential reasons for this were not discussed in the manufacturer's submission. 
Patients receiving topotecan plus cisplatin experienced a greater number of 
adverse events and the ERG was concerned with some of the assumptions related to 
HRQoL. In the base-case direct comparison, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of topotecan plus cisplatin versus cisplatin monotherapy was 17,974 
pounds per QALY in the main licensed population, 10,928 pounds per QALY in the 
cisplatin-naive population (including stage IVB patients) and 32,463 pounds per 
QALY in sustained cisplatin-free interval patients. In response to the point for 
clarification raised by the ERG, the manufacturer submitted a revised indirect 
comparison incorporating HRQoL and a longer time horizon. Where the hazard ratio 
derived from GOG-0169 was employed, paclitaxel plus cisplatin was dominated by 
topotecan plus cisplatin, but, where the hazard ratio from GOG-0204 was adopted, 
paclitaxel plus cisplatin was found to have an ICER of 13,260 pounds per QALY 
versus topotecan plus cisplatin. At present there is a paucity of evidence 
available on the clinical effects of topotecan plus cisplatin and the effects of 
palliative treatment in general for women with advanced and recurrent carcinoma 
of the cervix. Further trials, or the implementation of registries, are required 
to establish the efficacy and safety of topotecan plus cisplatin. The guidance 
issued by NICE on 28 October 2009 as a result of the STA states that topotecan 
in combination with cisplatin is recommended as a treatment option for women 
with recurrent or stage IVB cervical cancer, only if they have not previously 
received cisplatin. Women who have previously received cisplatin and are 
currently being treated with topotecan in combination with cisplatin for the 
treatment of cervical cancer should have the option to continue therapy until 
they and their clinicians consider it appropriate to stop.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14Suppl1/08
PMID: 20507804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14 Suppl 1:63-7. doi:
10.3310/hta14Suppl1/09.

Trabectedin for the treatment of advanced metastatic soft tissue sarcoma.

Simpson EL(1), Rafia R, Stevenson MD, Papaioannou D.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK. e.l.simpson@sheffield.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of trabectedin for the treatment 
of advanced metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, in accordance with the licensed 
indication, based on the evidence submission from the manufacturer to NICE as 
part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process. The outcomes stated in 
the manufacturer's definition of the decision problem were overall survival 
(OS), progression-free survival (PFS), response rates, adverse effects of 
treatment, health-related quality of life, and cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained. The clinical evidence was derived from one randomised 
controlled trial (RCT), in which the licensed dose of trabectedin was compared 
with a different dose of trabectedin, and three phase II studies. In the RCT, 
the median OS was 13.9 months for the licensed dose of trabectedin, which was 
not significantly different from that for the comparator dose of trabectedin, 
which was 11.8 months. From the phase II uncontrolled trials, median OS was 
reported as 9.2 or 12.8 months. The RCT reported significantly superior PFS for 
the licensed dose of trabectedin (median 3.3 months) over the comparator 
trabectedin dose (median 2.3 months). One phase II uncontrolled trial reported 
median PFS as 1.9 months in the licensed dose of trabectedin. The RCT reported 
PFS rates at 6 months were 35.5% for the licensed dose of trabectedin, and 27.5% 
for the comparator dose of trabectedin. From the phase II uncontrolled trials, 
PFS rates at 6 months were 24.4% or 29%. For the RCT, deaths attributed to 
trabectedin occurred in 3.1% of the licensed dose, and 2.3% of the comparator 
group. The most common severe adverse events were neutropenia, although with a 
low rate of febrile neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and aspartate 
aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase elevation, although these were 
reported to be non-cumulative and reversible. Following dialogue iterations with 
the ERG team, the manufacturer revised the model twice. However, despite 
revisions, errors/inconsistencies were found in the latest version of the model 
and were corrected by the ERG (only for the base case). In the latest 
manufacturer's submission, the cost per QALY gained of trabectedin compared with 
best supportive care (BSC) was estimated to be 56,985 pounds for the base case 
using effectiveness from the STS (Soft Tissue Sarcomas)-201 trial for 
trabectedin and a pool analysis of the European Organisation for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer data set for BSC. This analysis was constrained to patients 
with L-sarcomas only. When the joint uncertainty between parameters was 
considered, the cost-effectiveness acceptability curve showed that trabectedin 
has a very low probability of being cost-effective at a threshold of 30,000 
pounds per QALY gained compared with BSC for any scenario. The guidance has yet 
to be issued by NICE.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14Suppl1/09
PMID: 20507805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14 Suppl 1:69-74. doi:
10.3310/hta14Suppl1/10.

Azacitidine for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome, chronic 
myelomonocytic leukaemia and acute myeloid leukaemia.

Edlin R(1), Connock M, Tubeuf S, Round J, Fry-Smith A, Hyde C, Greenheld W.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Public Health Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of 
Birmingham Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of azacitidine (aza) compared with 
conventional care regimes (CCR) for higher risk patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome (MDS), chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) and acute myeloid 
leukaemia (AML), based on the evidence submission from the manufacturer to the 
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the 
single technology appraisal process. The patient outcomes governing relative 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness were defined as overall survival, time to 
progression (TTP) to AML, adverse events and health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL). The clinical evidence was derived from an open-label randomised 
controlled trial referred to as study AZA-001. It compared aza with CCR in 358 
patients with higher risk MDS, CMML and AML 20-30% blasts. The outcomes reported 
in AZA-001 included overall survival, TTP to AML and adverse events. No HRQoL 
results were reported; however, outcomes likely to impact on HRQoL were 
provided. The results showed that: the median overall survival was 24.5 months 
on aza, compared with 15.0 months in the CCR group (p = 0.0001); the response 
rates were low (complete remission 17% aza versus 8% CCR); the median time to 
transformation to AML was greater in the aza group (17.8 versus 11.5 months; p < 
0.0001); and of patients who were red blood cell (RBC) transfusion-dependent at 
baseline, 45% of those on aza became RBC transfusion-independent during the 
treatment period, compared with 11.8% in the CCR group (p < 0.0001). The ERG 
reran the submission's search strategies after some modifications incorporating 
minor improvements. The ERG analysed the submitted economic model (model 1) and 
identified a number of inconsistencies and errors within the model. The 
manufacturer submitted a revised model for analysis by the ERG. Using the issues 
identified in the earlier analysis, the ERG conducted those repairs to the 
revised model that were feasible within time constraints. The ERG ran this 
version in probabilistic sensitivity analyses to generate cost-effectiveness 
acceptability frontiers. The results of these exploratory analyses indicated 
that: for standard-dose chemotherapy (SDC)-treated patients, of six treatment 
options available, best supportive care (BSC) was likely the most cost-effective 
option up to a threshold of 51,000 pounds/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
[beyond 51,000 pounds/QALY, aza + low-dose chemotherapy (LDC) became 
cost-effective]; for LDC-treated patients, of four options available, BSC was 
again the most cost-effective option up to a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
51,000 pounds/QALY (aza + LDC became cost-effective after 51,000 pounds/QALY); 
for BSC-treated patients, aza + BSC became cost-effective relative to BSC at a 
threshold of about 52,000 pounds/QALY. The ERG considers these results 
exploratory and considers that they should be viewed with caution. The AZA-001 
study showed that, compared with CCR, those MDS patients receiving aza had 
prolonged median survival, had delayed progression to AML, had reduced 
dependence on transfusions and had a small improvement in response rate. Given 
the general paucity of economic modelling work in MDS and the limitations of the 
submitted industry model there is an evident need for an independent 
cost-effectiveness analysis of aza in MDS. At the time of writing, the guidance 
appraisal consultation document issued by NICE on 4 March 2010 states that 
azacitidine is not recommended as a treatment option for people not eligible for 
haemopoietic stem cell transplantation with the the following conditions: 
intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS according to the International Prognostic 
Scoring System, CMML with 10-29% marrow blasts without myeloproliferative 
disorder, or with AML with 20-30% blasts and multilineage dysplasia, according 
to World Health Organization classification.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14Suppl1/10
PMID: 20507806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Stroke. 2010 Jul;41(7):1514-20. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.582437. Epub 2010
May  27.

Cost-effectiveness of outpatient cardiac monitoring to detect atrial 
fibrillation after ischemic stroke.

Kamel H(1), Hegde M, Johnson DR, Gage BF, Johnston SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology. University of California, San Francisco, Calif, USA. 
hooman.kamel@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Stroke. 2011 Mar;42(3):e36; author reply e37.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Extending the duration of continuous electrocardiography 
after ischemic stroke detects more new cases of atrial fibrillation, which is an 
important and treatable cause of stroke, but the cost-effectiveness of this 
approach is unknown. Therefore, we performed a cost-utility analysis of 
outpatient cardiac monitoring after ischemic stroke.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, we determined the lifetime cost and utility of 
warfarin therapy in a hypothetical cohort of 70-year-old patients with atrial 
fibrillation, prior stroke, and no contraindication to warfarin therapy. 
Meta-analysis was used to determine the yield of outpatient cardiac monitoring.
RESULTS: Outpatient cardiac monitoring would detect 44 new cases of atrial 
fibrillation for every 1000 patients monitored. This would result in a gain of 
34 quality-adjusted life-years at a net cost of $440,000. Therefore, the 
cost-utility ratio of outpatient cardiac monitoring would be $13,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-years gained. Outpatient monitoring remained 
cost-effective throughout a wide range of model inputs in sensitivity analyses, 
including changes in the cost and yield of monitoring.
CONCLUSIONS: By identifying patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who 
will benefit from anticoagulation, outpatient cardiac monitoring is 
cost-effective after ischemic stroke over a wide range of model inputs. The 
optimal duration and method of monitoring is unknown.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.582437
PMID: 20508188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Ther Umsch. 2010 May;67(5):237-43. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000043.

[Clinical management of thalassemia in adults].

[Article in German]

Tichelli A(1), Rovó A.

Author information:
(1)Diagnostische Hämatologie, Universitätsspital Basel, Basel. atichelli@uhbs.ch

The clinical management of patients with thalassemia has changed in the last 40 
years. Increasing knowledge of the underlying pathophysiology of the disease, as 
well as the introduction of modern transfusion policies, together with a 
consequent iron-chelation strategy, clearly improves the life expectancy for 
patients with thalassemia. Nowadays children with correctly treated thalassemia 
major will survive to adulthood. As a consequence emerging complications are 
expected. The management of symptomatic thalassemia requires a highly 
specialized multidisciplinary healthcare provider team where the hematologist 
plays a central role. General practitioners will be more frequently involved in 
thalassemia patient handling. In this manuscript we will focus on the most 
relevant complications such are iron overload, bone complications, 
extramedullary hematopoiesis, hypercoagulability, impaired fertility and 
pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000043
PMID: 20509120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Global Health. 2010 May 29;6:11. doi: 10.1186/1744-8603-6-11.

Health and historical levels of freedom.

Biggs SL(1), Dell EM, Dixon VL, Joffres MR, Beyrer C, Wilson K, Orbinski JJ, 
Edward MJ.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Canada. emills@sfu.ca.

BACKGROUND: The link between political freedom and health is unclear. We aimed 
to determine the association by exploring the relationship of historical and 
cumulative freedom levels with important health outcomes.
METHODS: We obtained countrywide health indicators for life expectancy, infant 
mortality, maternal mortality ratio, % low birth weight babies, Gini coefficient 
(a measure of wealth inequality) and various markers of freedom based on 
political rights and civil liberties. We applied multivariable logistic 
regression to examine the association between health indicators and 
within-country years of freedom as determined by Freedom House rankings.
RESULTS: The total proportion of free years from 1972-2005, the duration of 
current freedom level, and the Gini coefficient show independent positive 
associations with health indicators, which remain after the adjustment for 
national wealth, total government expenditure, and spending on health. Countries 
identified as having high total proportion of free years demonstrated 
significantly better health outcomes than countries with low levels of freedom 
(life expectancy, Odds Ratio [OR] 7.2, 95% Confidence Interval [CI], 2.3-22.6, 
infant mortality OR 19.6, 95% CI, 5.6-67.7, maternal mortality ratio, OR 24.3, 
95% CI, 6.2-94.9, and % low birth weight babies OR 3.8, 95% CI, 1.4-10.8). This 
was also the case for infant mortality (OR 3.4, 95% CI, 1.0-8.4), maternal 
mortality ratio (OR 4.0, 95% CI, 1.2-12.8), and % low birth weight babies (OR 
2.6, 95% CI, 1.0-6.6) among countries considered as having medium levels of 
freedom.
INTERPRETATION: We found strong associations between country-level freedom and 
important health outcomes. The cumulative level of freedom over time shows 
stronger associations with all health indicators than the duration of current 
freedom level.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-8603-6-11
PMCID: PMC2890539
PMID: 20509954


298. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2010 May 29;5:15. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-5-15.

Diagnosis and mortality in 47,XYY persons: a registry study.

Stochholm K(1), Juul S, Gravholt CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Endocrinology, Aarhus Sygehus, Aarhus 
University Hospital, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Sex chromosomal abnormalities are relatively common, yet many 
aspects of these syndromes remain unexplored. For instance epidemiological data 
in 47,XYY persons are still limited.
METHODS: Using a national Danish registry, we identified 208 persons with 47,XYY 
or a compatible karyotype, whereof 36 were deceased; all were diagnosed from 
1968 to 2008. For further analyses, we identified age matched controls from the 
male background population (n = 20,078) in Statistics Denmark. We report 
nationwide prevalence data, data regarding age at diagnosis, as well as total 
and cause specific mortality data in these persons.
RESULTS: The average prevalence was 14.2 47,XYY persons per 100,000, which is 
reduced compared to the expected 98 per 100,000. Their median age at diagnosis 
was 17.1 years. We found a significantly decreased lifespan from 77.9 years 
(controls) to 67.5 years (47,XYY persons). Total mortality was significantly 
increased compared to controls, with a hazard ratio of 3.6 (2.6-5.1). Dividing 
the causes of deaths according to the International Classification of Diseases, 
we identified an increased hazard ratio in all informative chapters, with a 
significantly increased ratio in cancer, pulmonary, neurological and unspecified 
diseases, and trauma.
CONCLUSION: We here present national epidemiological data regarding 47,XYY 
syndrome, including prevalence and mortality data, showing a significantly delay 
to diagnosis, reduced life expectancy and an increased total and cause specific 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-5-15
PMCID: PMC2889887
PMID: 20509956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Zhonghua Shao Shang Za Zhi. 2010 Feb;26(1):37-40.

[Pharmacokinetics differences of propofol during different pathological stages 
of severe burn in rabbits].

[Article in Chinese]

Hu QG(1), Hao JH, Chai JK, Yang HM, Sun XF, Li P, Li MM, Liu S.

Author information:
(1)Burns Institute, the First Hospital Affiliated to the PLA General Hospital, 
Beijing 100048, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the characteristics and differences of propofol 
pharmacokinetics in shock phase and hypermetabolic phase in severe burn in 
rabbits.
METHODS: Twenty New Zealand rabbits were assigned to burn group (n = 10) and 
sham injury group (n = 10) according to the random number table. Rabbits in burn 
group were inflicted with 30%TBSA full-thickness scald (named burn below), 
resuscitated instantly, and were intravenously injected with 5.1 mg/kg propofol 
6 hours after injury. 1.5 mL blood was collected from left external jugular vein 
at 1, 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, 60, 90 minute(s) after injection respectively. 
Above procedure was performed again 1 week later. Rabbits in sham injury group 
were treated similarly as rabbits in burn group but were sham scalded. Propofol 
concentration in plasma was determined with high performance liquid 
chromatography. Data of propofol concentration-time were analyzed with 3P97 
practical pharmacokinetics calculating program, and then the most fit 
compartment model was selected to calculate pharmacokinetic parameters.
RESULTS: The blood concentration-time curve of propofol fitted in with the 
two-compartment model in burn group, and three-compartment model in sham injury 
group. During shock phase, comparing with central compartment distribution 
volume [Vc, (3.1 + or - 1.5) L/kg], area under curve [AUC, (25 + or - 7) mg x 
min x L(-1)], elimination phase half life [t1/2beta, (113 + or - 93) min], 
clearance [CLs, (110 + or - 50) mL x kg(-1) x min(-1)] of rabbits in sham injury 
group, Vc[(8.8 + or - 4.2) L x kg(-1)] and AUC [(44 + or - 10) mg x min x L(-1)] 
increased significantly (with t value respectively 3.191 and 3.668, and P values 
both below 0.01); t1/2beta [(339 + or - 258) min] prolonged (t = 2.932, P < 
0.05); CLs [(40 + or - 30) mL x kg(-1) x min(-1)] decreased (t = -3.013, P < 
0.05) in burn group. During hypermetabolic phase, CLs [(180 + or - 40) mL x 
kg(-1) x min(-1)] of rabbits in burn group was significantly higher than that in 
sham injury group [(90 + or - 30) mL x kg(-1) x min(-1), t = -3.013, P < 0.05]. 
Comparing with those of rabbits in burn group during shock phase, Vc [(4.1 + or 
- 1.3) L/g] and AUC [(24 + or - 5) mg x min x L(-1)] decreased significantly 
(with t value respectively 2.979 and 3.766, and P value both below 0.01); 
distribution phase half time [t1/2alpha, shock phase (16.1 + or - 13.1) min and 
hypermetabolic phase (8.3 + or - 2.5) min] and t1/2beta [(55 + or - 19) min] 
shortened obviously (with t value respectively 9.065 and 8.795, and P values 
both below 0.01); CLs increased significantly (t = 4.238, P < 0.01) during 
hypermetabolic phase.
CONCLUSIONS: There are great differences in propofol pharmacokinetics between 
shock phase and hypermetabolic phase in severely burned rabbits. The change is 
characterized by increase in Vc and AUC, extension of t1/2alpha and t1/2beta, 
decrease in CLs during shock phase and obvious increase of CLs during 
hypermetabolic phase.

PMID: 20510032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 2010 May;137(5 Suppl 1):5-10. doi: 
10.1016/S0151-9638(10)70016-8.

[How should one advance the current therapeutic strategies and objectives?].

[Article in French]

Jullien D(1), Boulinguez S.

Author information:
(1)Service de Dermatologie, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France. 
denis.jullien@chu-lyon.fr

DOI: 10.1016/S0151-9638(10)70016-8
PMID: 20510179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2011 May-Jun;52(3):304-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2010.04.019. Epub 2010 May 26.

A socio-demographic study of aging in the Portuguese population: the EPEPP 
study.

Mota-Pinto A(1), Rodrigues V, Botelho A, Veríssimo MT, Morais A, Alves C, Rosa 
MS, de Oliveira CR.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, Rua Larga, 3004-504 Coimbra, 
Portugal. apinto@fmed.uc.pt

The increase in life expectancy (LE) observed in Western societies, has resulted 
in a steep rise of older population. This stresses the importance of the 
research on aging, to better adequate health and social care organization and 
improve the quality of life (QoL). The aim of the EPEPP-1 (abbreviated from the 
Portuguese name: Estudo do Perfil de Envelhecimento da População Portuguesa) 
study was to characterize the socio-demographic components of the elderly 
Portuguese population in order to disclose factors that could play a role in the 
aging process and in the elderly QoL. This observational descriptive study, was 
performed in 2672 individuals older than 54 years taking into account gender and 
the residence area (rural vs. urban). A questionnaire about social network 
(marital status, living alone, the hours spent alone, confidents), and social 
status (education, occupation) was applied. Social network score revealed 
significant age and gender trends, women and older people performing worst, but 
with no difference according to residence area. Almost a third was unmarried and 
spent eight or more hours per day alone, and a fifth lived alone. Social status 
revealed that being older female and resident in a rural area quoted worst in 
the prevalence of illiteracy and undifferentiated occupation. The authors 
concluded that social isolation, illiteracy and undifferentiated occupation are 
prevalent in Portuguese older population. Identification of further determinants 
of isolation, adjustment of procedures to be included in social networks and 
development of actions directed to education are important fields of 
intervention influencing the elderly QoL.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2010.04.019
PMID: 20510469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Cancer Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;34(4):368-72. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2010.04.015.
Epub  2010 May 26.

Years of potential life lost caused by prostate cancer deaths in the United 
States-Projection from 2004 through 2050.

Li C(1), Ekwueme DU.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. 
Chunyu.Li@cdc.hhs.gov

Comment in
    J Urol. 2011 Jan;185(1):141-2.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to estimate and project the number of 
years of potential life lost (YPLL) among males who die of prostate cancer in 
the United States from 2004 through 2050 and compare the projections by 
race/ethnicity and age, accounting for demographic changes and population 
growth.
METHODS: We applied the life expectancy method to estimate YPLL caused by deaths 
of prostate cancer and all cancers in men by using 1999-2004 national mortality 
data, 2008 census population demographic projections, and 2004 U.S. life tables. 
We performed sensitivity analyses by varying death rate and population 
projections, and examined increase in YPLL from population growth, changes in 
demographics, and death rates.
RESULTS: The number of YPLL caused by prostate cancer deaths was projected to 
increase by 226.1%, from 291,853 in 2004 to 951,753 in 2050. Hispanics were 
projected to have the fastest growth in YPLL (977.1% from 2004 to 2050) caused 
by prostate cancer, followed by non-Hispanic blacks (543.1%), and non-Hispanic 
others (269.7%). People aged 75 or older was projected to account for 62.0% of 
YPLL from prostate cancer in 2050 compared with 50.8% in 2004. Of the projected 
increase in YPLL caused by prostate cancer deaths by 2050, 9.8% were due to 
changes in demographic composition, 26.8% because of mortality change, and 63.4% 
because of population growth.
CONCLUSIONS: YPLL due to prostate cancer deaths are projected to increase 
dramatically, and become a greater burden in the future. The projections 
highlight the importance of comprehensive cancer control and research on cancers 
including prostate cancer and racial/ethnic-specific estimates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2010.04.015
PMID: 20510666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Acta Physiol Hung. 2010 Jun;97(2):192-200. doi:
10.1556/APhysiol.97.2010.2.5.

Endocrine responses to upper- and lower-limb resistance exercises with blood 
flow restriction.

Madarame H(1), Sasaki K, Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. madarame-tky@umin.ac.jp

To compare endocrine responses to low-intensity resistance exercise with blood 
flow restriction (BFR) for upperlimb (UL) and lower-limb (LL) muscles, we 
measured blood lactate, plasma noradrenaline, and serum growth hormone (GH), 
testosterone, cortisol and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) before and after 
the UL (biceps curl and triceps press down) and LL (leg extension and leg curl) 
exercises with BFR in nine men (26.3 +/- 3.1 yr). The load of 30% of 
one-repetition maximum (1RM) was used in all the exercises, in which the first 
set of 30 repetitions was followed by the second and third sets to failure. In 
each exercise program, the proximal portions of their upper arms (UL) or thighs 
(LL) were compressed bilaterally by elastic belts. Both the UL and LL caused 
significant increases in lactate, noradrenaline, GH, testosterone, cortisol, and 
IGF-I concentrations when compared to the pre-exercise values. A significant 
difference between the UL and LL was observed only in the area under the curve 
(AUC) of serum GH concentration, indicating that the LL induced greater GH 
response than did the UL. The greater GH secretion following the LL may be more 
advantageous for muscle hypertrophy induced by a long-term training period.

DOI: 10.1556/APhysiol.97.2010.2.5
PMID: 20511128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Scand J Public Health. 2010 Jul;38(5):481-8. doi: 10.1177/1403494810370235.
Epub  2010 May 28.

Anticipated longevity among lay people screened for cardiovascular risk factors: 
a cross-sectional questionnaire study.

Halvorsen PA(1), Selmer RM, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit for General Practice, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. peder.halvorsen@kraftlaget.no

BACKGROUND: In terms of mental health and quality of life previous studies have 
largely failed to show long-term effects of cardiovascular risk information. 
Such information may still have an impact of a more subtle nature. We aimed to 
explore the potential impact of cardiovascular risk information on lay people's 
anticipations of their own longevity.
METHODS: In 2002 11,284 Norwegians were invited to take part in a health survey. 
Participants (n = 6,845) received comprehensive written information about their 
personal risk factors for cardiovascular disease. About six months later we 
selected 752 high risk and 996 low risk individuals for a cross-sectional 
survey. Participants were mailed a questionnaire and informed about the life 
expectancy for women and men in Norway. Subsequently they were asked whether 
they expected to live longer, shorter than or approximately as long as the mean 
figures.
RESULTS: The response rate was 75% (n = 1,314). Whereas 210 respondents (16%) 
expected to live shorter than the mean, 198 (15%) expected to live longer. In a 
multivariate regression model high risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) was 
associated with lower anticipated longevity (odds ratio 2.4, 95% confidence 
interval 1.7-3.3). Other predictors of low anticipation were use of lipid 
lowering drugs and a family history of heart attack before the age of 60. Higher 
age, male sex, better education and good self-reported health were associated 
with high anticipations.
CONCLUSIONS: A CVD risk label was only moderately associated with lay people's 
anticipated longevity. The majority expected to live as long as the mean, 
regardless of risk status.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494810370235
PMID: 20511321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Med Decis Making. 2010 Jul-Aug;30(4):E57-63. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10370488.
Epub  2010 May 28.

Theoretical foundation of patient v. population preferences in calculating 
QALYs.

Gandjour A(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisiana State University, Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana 70808, USA. afschin.gandjour@pbrc.edu

The cost-effectiveness of health care interventions is often evaluated using 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as a measure of outcome. There is a debate 
on whether QALYs should use patient preferences as opposed to community 
preferences. This article shows that patient preferences have a theoretical 
foundation in preference-utilitarian theory and welfare economics. In contrast, 
this study found no compelling theoretical basis for community preferences. 
There is a need for further development of a normative framework to inform the 
choice of preference source.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10370488
PMID: 20511562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Eur J Hum Genet. 2010 Oct;18(10):1084-9. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2010.78. Epub
2010  May 26.

Uptake of carrier testing in families after cystic fibrosis diagnosis through 
newborn screening.

McClaren BJ(1), Metcalfe SA, Aitken M, Massie RJ, Ukoumunne OC, Amor DJ.

Author information:
(1)Genetics Education and Health Research, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Newborn screening (NBS) for cystic fibrosis (CF) provides the opportunity for 
cascade carrier testing of relatives. Uptake of testing by adult non-parent 
relatives of children diagnosed with CF through NBS has not been previously 
described, and this study describes uptake by both parents and adult non-parent 
relatives in Victoria, Australia. Pedigrees were taken from parents of children 
who were born in 2000-2004 and diagnosed with CF. A total of 40 families were 
eligible for the study and 30 (75%) were recruited. In all, 716 non-parent 
relatives were identified from the pedigrees as eligible for carrier testing, 
and 82 (adjusted uptake percentage: 11.8%; 95% confidence interval 8.0-15.7) 
have had carrier testing by March 2009. On average, 2.7 non-parent relatives per 
family had CF carrier testing after diagnosis through NBS. The odds of being 
tested were greater for females than males (adjusted odds ratio 1.61; 95% 
confidence interval 1.11-2.33; P=0.01) and greater for those more closely 
related to the child with CF (adjusted odds ratio 5.17; 95% confidence interval 
2.38-11.24; P<0.001). Most relatives who undergo testing are tested immediately 
after the baby's diagnosis; however, some testing is undertaken up to 8 years 
later. These results indicate that in a clinical setting, the diagnosis of a 
baby with CF by NBS does not lead to carrier testing for the majority of the 
baby's non-parent relatives. We suggest re-contact with parents to offer cascade 
carrier testing.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2010.78
PMCID: PMC2987447
PMID: 20512163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Rev Bras Ginecol Obstet. 2010 Mar;32(3):133-8. doi: 
10.1590/s0100-72032010000300006.

[Upper limbs exercises during radiotherapy for breast cancer and quality of 
life].

[Article in Portuguese]

Oliveira MM(1), Souza GA, Miranda Mde S, Okubo MA, Amaral MT, Silva MP, Gurgel 
MS.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Fisioterapia, Centro de Atenção Integral à Saúde da Mulher, 
Universidade Estadual de Campinas - UNICAMP - Campinas, SP, Brasil. 
salete@caism.unicamp.br

PURPOSE: To assess the influence of physiotherapy performed during radiotherapy 
(RT) on the quality of life (QL) of women under treatment for breast cancer.
METHODS: This was a randomized clinical trial conducted on 55 women under RT 
treatment, 28 of whom were assigned to a group submitted to physiotherapy (PG) 
and 27 to the control group receiving no PG (CG). The physiotherapy technique 
used for PG was kinesiotherapy for the upper limbs using 19 exercises actively 
performed, with a series of ten rhythmic repetitions or stretching movements 
involving flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, internal and external 
shoulder rotation, separate or combined. QL was evaluated using the Functional 
Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B), at the beginning and at the end of 
RT and six months after the end of RT. The physiotherapy sessions were started 
concomitantly with RT, 90 days after surgery, on average.
RESULTS: There was no difference between subgroups regarding the following 
subscales: physical well-being (p=0.8), social/family well-being (p=0.3), 
functional well-being (p=0.2) and breast subscale (p=0.2) at the three time 
points assessed. A comparison of the emotional subscale applied at the three 
evaluations demonstrated a better behavior of PG as compared to CG (p=0.01), 
with both groups presenting improvement on the breast subscale between the 
beginning and the end of RT (PG p=0.0004 and CG p=0.003). There was improvement 
in FACT-B scores at the end of RT in both groups (PG p=0.0006 and CG p=0.003). 
However, at the sixth month after RT, this improvement was maintained only in PG 
(p=0,005). QL assessed along time by the FACT B (p=0.004) and the Trial Outcome 
Index (TOI) (sums of the physical and functional well-being subscales and of the 
breast subscale) was better for PG (p=0.006). There was no evidence of negative 
effects associated with the exercises.
CONCLUSIONS: The execution of exercises for the upper limbs was beneficial for 
QL during and six months after RT.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-72032010000300006
PMID: 20512260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Eur J Health Econ. 2011 Oct;12(5):397-404. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0253-3.
Epub  2010 May 30.

Largely ignored: the impact of the threshold value for a QALY on the importance 
of a transferability factor.

Vemer P(1), Rutten-van Mölken MP.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus University, PO 
Box 1738, Rotterdam, 3000 DR, The Netherlands. Vemer@bmg.eur.nl

Recently, several checklists systematically assessed factors that affect the 
transferability of cost-effectiveness (CE) studies between jurisdictions. The 
role of the threshold value for a QALY has been given little consideration in 
these checklists, even though the importance of a factor as a cause of between 
country differences in CE depends on this threshold. In this paper, we study the 
impact of the willingness-to-pay (WTP) per QALY on the importance of 
transferability factors in the case of smoking cessation support (SCS). We 
investigated, for several values of the WTP, how differences between six 
countries affect the incremental net monetary benefit (INMB) of SCS. The 
investigated factors were demography, smoking prevalence, mortality, 
epidemiology and costs of smoking-related diseases, resource use and unit costs 
of SCS, utility weights and discount rates. We found that when the WTP 
decreased, factors that mainly affect health outcomes became less important and 
factors that mainly effect costs became more important. With a WTP below 
<euro>1,000, the factors most responsible for between country differences in 
INMB were resource use and unit costs of SCS and the costs of smoking-related 
diseases. Utility values had little impact. At a threshold above <euro>10,000, 
between country differences were primarily due to different discount rates, 
utility weights and epidemiology of smoking-related diseases. Costs of 
smoking-related diseases had little impact. At all thresholds, demography had 
little impact. We concluded that, when judging the transferability of a CE 
study, we should consider the between country differences in WTP threshold 
values.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0253-3
PMCID: PMC3160548
PMID: 20512607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Laryngoscope. 2010 Jun;120(6):1129-34. doi: 10.1002/lary.20900.

Neck and shoulder disability following reconstruction with the pectoralis major 
pedicled flap.

Moukarbel RV(1), Fung K, Franklin JH, Leung A, Rastogi R, Anderson CM, Yoo JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, London, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: To conduct a comprehensive assessment of shoulder and 
neck function following the pectoralis major pedicled flap (PMPF) for head and 
neck reconstruction.
DESIGN: Case-control study.
METHODS: The study group consisted of laryngectomized patients who underwent 
PMPF and a control group of those who underwent standard laryngectomy. Bilateral 
quantitative measurements of shoulder strength and range of motion (ROM) and 
neck ROM by a blinded physiotherapist and subjective quality-of-life assessment 
using the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) and Neck Disability Index 
(NDI) questionnaires were collected. Lateral cervical radiographs in the 
neutral, flexion, and extension positions were evaluated by a blinded 
neuroradiologist. The main outcome measures were shoulder ROM, strength, and 
SPADI scores; physical and radiologic measurements of neck ROM; and NDI Score.
RESULTS: Shoulder analysis showed a significantly reduced flexion angle (P = 
.043) and combined internal/external rotation angle on the operated side (P = 
.027) and a significant strength reduction for the flexion, external rotation, 
and adduction domains (P < .05). SPADI score analysis showed a significantly 
higher disability score (P = .017) and total score (P = .009) on the PMPF side. 
Neck physical analysis showed significant differences in extension (P = .013) 
and total ROM distances (P = .002) but not flexion (P = .184). The total 
flexion/extension angular ROM was reduced in the PMPF population (P = .05) due 
to a reduced neck extension excursion angle from a neutral position (P = .04).
CONCLUSIONS: The PMPF for head and neck reconstruction is associated with a 
limitation in neck ROM attributed to a loss in extension and reduced shoulder 
strength and ROM.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.20900
PMID: 20513029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Curr Pharm Des. 2010;16(22):2443-61. doi: 10.2174/138161210791959917.

The pharmaceutical economics of child psychiatric drug treatment.

Schlander M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Innovation & Valuation in Health Care (InnoVal HC), An der 
Ringkirche 4, D-65197, Wiesbaden, Germany. michael.schlander@innoval-hc.com

The last decade, the number of health economic evaluations has increased 
substantially in the field of child psychiatry. The objective of the present 
paper is to offer an overview of economic evaluations of child psychiatric drug 
treatment. Major electronic databases, as well as abstract booklets from 
international clinical and health economics conferences with an external peer 
review process, were examined to search for comparative economic evaluations of 
child and adolescent psychiatric drug treatment. Most studies of 
pharmacotreatment were cost effectiveness analyses (CEAs) concerned with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Three evaluations were done by 
or on behalf of agencies as part of ADHD-related health technology assessments. 
A number of economic studies used patient-level data from specific randomized 
clinical trials, especially the NIMH-initiated MTA (in childhood ADHD) and TADS 
(in adolescent major depression) studies. Almost all studies relied on narrow 
scale symptom scales to assess effects of treatment, even when quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) were reported. In many cases, effectiveness data came from 
short-term studies, and extrapolation to a one-year time horizon was usually 
based on assumptions. Even those evaluations attempting to address longer time 
horizons by way of modeling did not include the impact of treatment on long-term 
sequelae of the conditions studied, mainly due to a paucity of robust clinical 
data. Nevertheless, currently available health economic evaluations broadly 
suggest an acceptable to attractive cost effectiveness of medication management 
of ADHD, whereas there is no such evidence for child psychiatric disorders other 
than ADHD.

DOI: 10.2174/138161210791959917
PMID: 20513230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2010 Jul;221(3):187-90. doi: 10.1620/tjem.221.187.

The decrease in average years of life lost due to breast cancer in Japan during 
the period from 1995 to 2006.

Le DC(1), Pham TM, Fujino Y, Kubo T, Matsuda S, Yoshimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, School of Medicine, 
University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Yahatanishi-ku, Kitakyushu, 
Japan.

Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of death among women in Japan. Its 
mortality rate has been increased in recent years. However, there has been no 
study examining the changes in premature mortality in Japanese women. In the 
present study, using two health indicators, years of life lost (YLL) and average 
of years of life lost (AYLL), we estimated the premature mortality due to breast 
cancer in Japan during the period from 1995 to 2006. YLL indicates how many 
years that life of a patient was shortened with the presence of cancer, and AYLL 
provides an average loss of expected years of life among these deceased persons. 
Results showed an increase in total YLL due to this condition from 204,840.6 
years in 1995 to 255,046.9 years in 2006. In each calendar year, YLL remained 
the highest in the group aged 50-59 years, accounting for 32%-36% of annual YLL. 
In contrast, we found a decrease in AYLL of breast cancer from 26.4 years in 
1995 to 22.8 years in 2006; namely, breast cancer patients who died in 2006 
lived an average 3.6 years longer than those who died in 1995. In conclusion, we 
show the decrease in AYLL of breast cancer deaths, despite the increase in total 
numbers of annual YLL during the study period. Thus, women with breast cancer 
have benefited from postponement of the deaths in 2006, compared to those in 
1995, which may be related to the improvements in medical health care or 
appropriate prevention.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.221.187
PMID: 20513976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Age (Dordr). 2010 Dec;32(4):521-34. doi: 10.1007/s11357-010-9154-8. Epub
2010  Jun 1.

Predicting survival and morbidity-free survival to very old age.

Newson RS(1), Witteman JC, Franco OH, Stricker BH, Breteler MM, Hofman A, 
Tiemeier H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus University Medical Centre, P.O. Box 2040, 
3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands. r.newson@erasmusmc.nl

As life expectancy continually increases, it is imperative to identify 
determinants of survival to the extreme end of the lifespan and more importantly 
to identify factors that increase the chance of survival free of major 
morbidities. As such, the current study assessed 45 common disease factors as 
predictors of survival and morbidity-free survival to age 85 years. Within the 
Rotterdam Study, a population-based cohort, we evaluated morbidity-free 
participants who were able to attain age 85 within the study duration (n = 
2,008). Risk factors were assessed at baseline (1990-1993), and mortality and 
morbidities were then collected continuously until mortality or the occurrence 
of their 85th birthday (average time of 7.9 years). Risk factors included 
