García-Bellosta S(1), Bravo M, Subirá C, Echeverría JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Comprehensive Dentistry, IDIBELL Institute, School of 
Dentistry, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. garcia.bellosta@ub.edu

PURPOSE: To assess the long-term behavior of 980 implants placed in a private 
practice and evaluate the influence of periodontitis history and smoking habit 
on implant survival rates.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of clinical records of 
consecutively treated patients with Astra Tech implants was conducted. This 
review included all patients treated between February 1994 and January 2005. 
Clinical histories were reviewed, and data were gathered on clinical and 
radiographic examinations. A record was kept on smoking habits, periodontitis 
history, length and diameter of implant(s), and whether the sinus was elevated. 
Cumulative survival proportions analysis was performed, and Cox regression 
multivariate analysis modified for correlated dependent observations was also 
used, with the implant as the unit of analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 323 patients (185 [57.3%] female; mean age, 55.4 +/- 15.2 
years) received 980 implants. Of the implants evaluated in this study, 71.1% 
were placed in patients who were undergoing periodontal maintenance care and 
38.8% were placed in smokers. The cumulative survival rate was 96.2% at 5 years; 
4.3% of implants failed; 57.1% of failures occurred before implant loading. 
Tobacco use and periodontitis did not affect the risk of failure, and their 
interaction did not show significance (P = .386). Implants from individuals with 
many implants and those placed in patients with sinus elevation showed a higher 
risk of failure (P < .05). Regression analysis showed no significant interaction 
between periodontitis history, tobacco use, and implant failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Implant placement is an effective and reliable long-term treatment, 
even in periodontal patients under maintenance care and with a smoking habit. 
Combined analysis of tobacco use and history of periodontitis showed no 
significant interaction with implant failure in this sample.

PMID: 20556263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Urban Health. 2010 Jul;87(4):670-6. doi: 10.1007/s11524-010-9470-4.

Years off your life? The effects of homicide on life expectancy by neighborhood 
and race/ethnicity in Los Angeles county.

Redelings M(1), Lieb L, Sorvillo F.

Author information:
(1)Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, Data Collection and Analysis 
Unit, Los Angeles, CA, USA. mredelings@ph.lacounty.gov

Homicide is one of the leading causes of death in Los Angeles County and is 
known to be elevated in low-income urban neighborhoods and in black males. 
However, because homicide occurs primarily among young adults, mortality rate 
statistics may underrepresent its importance. We estimated the impact of 
homicide on life expectancy by demographic group and geographic area in Los 
Angeles County, 2001-2006. Life expectancy estimates were calculated using 
mortality records and population estimates for Los Angeles County. Cause 
elimination techniques were used to estimate the impact of homicide on life 
expectancy. Homicide was estimated to reduce life expectancy by 0.4 years for 
Los Angeles County residents and by 2.1 years for black males. The impact of 
homicide on life expectancy was higher in low-income neighborhoods. In some 
low-income urban neighborhoods, homicide was estimated to decrease life 
expectancy in black males by nearly 5 years. Homicide causes substantial 
reductions in life expectancy in Los Angeles County. Its impact is magnified 
among black males and in low-income urban areas, underscoring the need for 
homicide reduction in urban centers.

DOI: 10.1007/s11524-010-9470-4
PMCID: PMC2900567
PMID: 20556528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2010 Jun;135(24):p24. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1247687.
Epub  2010 Jun 16.

[Ondine syndrome].

[Article in German]

Schenk M.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1247687
PMID: 20556722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Congest Heart Fail. 2010 May-Jun;16(3):118-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1751-7133.2010.00140.x.

The prevalence of peripheral arterial disease in patients with heart failure by 
race and ethnicity.

Hebert K(1), Lopez B, Michael C, Franco E, Dias A, Trahan P, Huang S, Tamariz L, 
Arcement L.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, 
Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami, FL 33136, USA. khebert1@gmail.com

More than 5 million people live with heart failure (HF) in the United States, 
and this number is expected to rise due to several factors including increased 
life expectancy brought about by medical therapy and the aging of the 
population. HF and peripheral arterial disease (PAD) share many risk factors. A 
review of the literature reveals several studies supporting a higher prevalence 
of HF in patients with PAD than in those without PAD. However, no study was 
found that estimates the prevalence of PAD in patients with HF. Moreover, the 
prevalence of PAD by US race/ethnic groups with HF has not been studied. The 
authors conducted a cross-sectional multicenter study of patients enrolled in an 
HF disease management program in Louisiana (n=330) and Florida (n=464). All 
patients with an ejection fraction <or=40% and a measured ankle-brachial index 
(ABI) were included in the study. PAD was defined as an ABI <0.9. The overall 
prevalence of PAD was 17.1%. The prevalence of PAD was 25.9% for white, 13.4% 
for Hispanic, and 13.7% for black patients. White patients had a higher 
prevalence of PAD than black or Hispanic patients (P<.001). Routine ABI 
measurements in these groups would enhance efforts to detect subclinical PAD.

(c) 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-7133.2010.00140.x
PMID: 20557331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Oncologist. 2010;15(7):782-9. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2009-0149. Epub
2010  Jun 17.

How accurate are physicians in the prediction of patient survival in advanced 
lung cancer?

Clément-Duchêne C(1), Carnin C, Guillemin F, Martinet Y.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital de Brabois, CHU de Nancy, 54511 
Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France. christelle.clementduchene@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Because most cases of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are 
diagnosed at an advanced stage with a poor prognosis, patient inclusion in 
clinical trials is critical. Most trials require an estimated life expectancy >3 
months, based on clinician estimates of patient survival probability, without 
providing formal guidelines. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of 
clinicians' predictions of survival in NSCLC patients (stages IIIB, and IV) and 
the possible impact of patient quality of life on survival estimation.
METHODS: At diagnosis, clinical, biological, and quality of life data (QLQ-C30 
questionnaire) were recorded, and doctors "forecast" each patient's estimated 
survival. Concordance between predicted and actual survival was assessed with 
the intraclass correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: Eighty-five patients with a mean age of 62.2 years, 81.1% male, were 
included (squamous cell carcinoma, 33; adenocarcinoma, 42; large cell carcinoma, 
8; neuroendocrine carcinoma, 2). The mean follow-up was 40 months and median 
survival time was 11.7 (range, 0.4-143.7) weeks. All clinicians (residents, 
registrars, and consultants) overestimated patient survival time, with a 
moderate concordance between predicted and actual survival time. A worse global 
health status was associated with a lower discrepancy between estimated and 
actual patient survival, and a worse role functioning was associated with a 
larger difference between estimated and actual patient survival.
CONCLUSION: The absence of specific recommendations to estimate patient survival 
may introduce major selection in clinical studies. Further research should 
investigate whether the accuracy of patient survival estimates by clinicians 
would be improved by taking into account patient quality of life.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2009-0149
PMCID: PMC3228014
PMID: 20558582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Christelle Clément-Duchêne: None; 
Charlotte Carnin: None; Francis Guillemin: None; Yves Martinet: None. The 
content of this article has been reviewed by independent peer reviewers to 
ensure that it is balanced, objective, and free from commercial bias. No 
financial relationships relevant to the content of this article have been 
disclosed by the authors or independent peer reviewers.


426. J Child Neurol. 2010 Sep;25(9):1130-44. doi: 10.1177/0883073810371509. Epub
2010  Jun 17.

Relationship between clinical outcome measures and parent proxy reports of 
health-related quality of life in ambulatory children with Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy.

McDonald CM(1), McDonald DA, Bagley A, Sienko Thomas S, Buckon CE, Henricson E, 
Nicorici A, Sussman MD.

Author information:
(1)Shriners Hospital for Children Northern California, Sacramento, California, 
USA. cmmcdonald@ucdavis.edu

In Duchenne muscular dystrophy, data directly linking changes in clinical 
outcome measures to patient-perceived well-being are lacking. This study 
evaluated the relationship between clinical outcome measures used in clinical 
trials of ambulatory Duchenne muscular dystrophy (Vignos functional grade, 
quantitative knee extension strength, timed functional performance measures, and 
gait velocity) and 2 health-related quality of life measures--the Pediatric 
Outcomes Data Collection Instrument and Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory-in 
52 ambulatory Duchenne muscular dystrophy subjects and 36 controls. Those with 
the disease showed significant decrements in parent proxy-reported 
health-related quality of life measures versus controls across all domains. The 
Pediatric Outcomes Data Collection Instrument transfers/basic mobility and 
sports/ physical function and the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory physical 
functioning domains had significant associations with age (and hence disease 
progression) and traditional clinical outcome measures employed in clinical 
trials of ambulatory boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Selected domains of 
the Pediatric Outcomes Data Collection Instrument and generic Pediatric Quality 
of Life Inventory are potential patient-reported outcome measures for clinical 
trials in ambulatory individuals with the disease.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073810371509
PMCID: PMC3695468
PMID: 20558672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose with regard to this article.


427. Am J Public Health. 2010 Aug;100(8):1417-9. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.174185.
Epub  2010 Jun 17.

Underlying causes of the emerging nonmetropolitan mortality penalty.

Cossman JS(1), James WL, Cosby AG, Cossman RE.

Author information:
(1)Mississippi State, 39762, USA. lynne.cossman@msstate.edu

The nonmetropolitan mortality penalty results in an estimated 40 201 excessive 
US deaths per year, deaths that would not occur if nonmetropolitan and 
metropolitan residents died at the same rate. We explored the underlying causes 
of the nonmetropolitan mortality penalty by examining variation in cause of 
death. Declines in heart disease and cancer death rates in metropolitan areas 
drive the nonmetropolitan mortality penalty. Future work should explore why the 
top causes of death are higher in nonmetropolitan areas than they are in 
metropolitan areas.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.174185
PMCID: PMC2901280
PMID: 20558803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Gerontology. 2011;57(4):327-34. doi: 10.1159/000316941. Epub 2010 Jun 18.

To grow old in southern Italy: a comprehensive description of the old and oldest 
old in Calabria.

De Rango F(1), Montesanto A, Berardelli M, Mazzei B, Mari V, Lattanzio F, 
Corsonello A, Passarino G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Calabria, Rende, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The unprecedented growth of the elderly population is posing 
important social and medical problems as management of this population is highly 
demanding in terms of assistance and care. Consequently, many studies are 
focusing on the elderly subjects in order to better understand their needs by 
identifying various environmental, social, psychological, and genetic factors 
determining the quality of ageing.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to carry out a survey of the elderly Calabrian 
population in order to highlight the social and medical conditions of this 
continuously growing population group.
METHODS: We have been monitoring the elderly population of Calabria for more 
than 10 years. For the present study, we collected data regarding 853 subjects 
by using two specific questionnaires, one for the subjects older than 90 years 
(400 subjects) and one for the subjects aged between 65 and 85 years (453 
subjects).
RESULTS: The survey allowed us to carry out an extensive description of the 
ageing Calabrian population regarding the sociodemographic characteristics, 
living conditions, cognitive functioning, level of independence in activities of 
daily living, former and current diseases and health disorders. We could notice 
that males were in a better condition than females. In fact, male subjects 
turned out to have better physical performance and lower comorbidity, although 
their life expectancy is lower. Ultranonagenarians had a lower incidence of 
serious diseases (such as diabetes, osteoporosis and gastric ulcer), but a 
higher incidence of non-fatal chronic, debilitating conditions (cataract and 
bronchitis among others).
CONCLUSION: The data we collected and analyzed offer a portrait of elderly 
Calabrian subjects, on who they are, how they feel, which social and 
psychological resources they have, and what their health status is. Analysis of 
the data highlighted that they are characterized by a lower physical performance 
in comparison to other European populations. Finally, the data presented here 
may also serve as a valuable source of information to characterize the ageing 
Calabrian population and improve the care of these subjects.

Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000316941
PMID: 20558979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Eur J Pediatr. 2010 Nov;169(11):1379-86. doi: 10.1007/s00431-010-1242-3.
Epub  2010 Jun 18.

Efficacy of the pentavalent rotavirus vaccine, RotaTeq®, in Finnish infants up 
to 3 years of age: the Finnish Extension Study.

Vesikari T(1), Karvonen A, Ferrante SA, Ciarlet M.

Author information:
(1)Vaccine Research Centre, University of Tampere Medical School, Biokatu 10, 
Tampere, Finland. timo.vesikari@uta.fi

Rotavirus Efficacy and Safety Trial (REST) enrolled nearly 70,000 infants, of 
whom more than 23,000 were from Finland. REST determined the efficacy of the 
pentavalent rotavirus vaccine (RV5) against rotavirus-related hospitalisations 
and emergency department (ED) visits in the first year after vaccination. 
Finnish infants initially in REST transitioned into the Finnish Extension Study 
(FES), where they were followed for rotavirus-related hospitalisations and ED 
visits through their second year of life and beyond. FES identified 150 (31%) 
additional rotavirus gastroenteritis (RVGE) cases beyond those identified in 
REST in the Finnish participants. Overall, RV5 reduced RVGE hospitalisations and 
ED visits, regardless of the rotavirus serotype, by 93.8% (95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 90.8-95.9%) for up to 3.1 years following the last vaccine dose. 
Vaccine efficacy against combined hospitalisations and ED visits between ages 
4 months to 11 months, 12 months to 23 months, and 24 months to 35 months was 
93.9% (95% CI: 89.1-96.9%), 94.4% (95% CI: 90.2-97.0%), and 85.9% (95% CI: 
51.6-97.2%), respectively. The reduction of hospitalisations and ED visits due 
to any acute gastroenteritis, rotavirus or not, was 62.4% (95% CI: 57.6-66.6%) 
over the entire follow-up period. The results from FES confirm that RV5 induces 
high and sustained protection against rotavirus-related hospitalisations and ED 
visits, and has a very substantial impact on all gastroenteritis-related 
hospitalisations and ED visits into the third year of life in Finnish children.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-010-1242-3
PMCID: PMC2943584
PMID: 20559656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Protoplasma. 2011 Apr;248(2):313-23. doi: 10.1007/s00709-010-0172-2. Epub
2010  Jun 18.

Expansin-regulated cell elongation is involved in the drought tolerance in 
wheat.

Zhao MR(1), Li F, Fang Y, Gao Q, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Biology, College of Life Science, Shandong 
Agricultural University, Tai'an, Shandong, 271018, People's Republic of China.

Water stress restrains plant growth. Expansin is a cell wall protein that is 
generally accepted to be the key regulator of cell wall extension during plant 
growth. In this study, we used two different wheat cultivars to study the 
involvement of expansin in drought tolerance. Wheat coleoptile was used as the 
material in experiment. Our results indicated that water stress induced an 
increase in acidic pH-dependant cell wall extension, which is related to 
expansin activity; however, water stress inhibited coleoptile elongation growth. 
The increased expansin activity was mainly due to increased expression of 
expansin protein that was upregulated by water stress, but water stress also 
resulted in a decrease in cell wall acidity, a negative factor for cell wall 
extension. Decreased plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase activity was involved in the 
alkalinization of the cell wall under water stress. The activity of expansin in 
HF9703 (a drought-tolerant wheat cultivar) was always higher than that in 921842 
(a drought-sensitive wheat cultivar) under both normal and water stress 
conditions, which may be correlated with the higher expansin protein expression 
and plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase activity observed in HF9703 versus 921842. 
However, water stress did not change the susceptibility of the wheat cell wall 
to expansin, and no difference in this susceptibility was observed between the 
drought-tolerant and drought-sensitive wheat cultivars. These results suggest 
the involvement of expansin in cell elongation and the drought resistance of 
wheat.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-010-0172-2
PMID: 20559851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Gesundheitswesen. 2011 Apr;73(4):217-28. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1252035. Epub
2010  Jun 17.

[Regional differences in life expectancy in Germany at county levels and their 
possible determinants].

[Article in German]

Latzitis N(1), Sundmacher L, Busse R.

Author information:
(1)Fachgebiet Management im Gesundheitswesen, Technische Universität Berlin. 
ninon.latzitis@tu-berlin.de

The aim of this study is to show health differences at a county level in Germany 
and to identify possible reasons for these differences. The study calculates 
life expectancy as being representative for the health status. The analytical 
part of the study uses a wide database with socioeconomic, environmental, 
educational and health-care data. In a first step, the set of variables is 
reduced by a factor analysis and three factors are generated (socioeconomic 
conditions, environment, health-care). Secondly, a cluster analysis is used to 
show the regional distribution of the gained factors and thirdly a regression 
analysis is used to show the influence of the three factors on life expectancy. 
The results of the regression analysis show that socioeconomic conditions have 
the greatest influence on health status. Because of this, preventive health-care 
measures should integrate an improvement of socioeconomic conditions.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1252035
PMID: 20560119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2010 Mar;21(3):743-8.

[Control efficacy of Trichogramma japonicum against Chilo suppressalis and 
Chilaraea auricilia].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen HF(1), Huang SS, Zhang YZ, Zeng X, Huang ZH.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Insect Ecology, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 
510642, China. hongfan211@sohu.com

In order to understand the relationships of the population increase capacities 
between egg parasitoid Trichogramma japonicum Ashmead (Hymenoptera: 
Trichogrammatidae) and two rice borers Chilo suppressalis Walker and Chilaraea 
auricilia Dudgeon (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), and to evaluate the control efficacy 
of T. japonicum against C. suppressalis and C. auricilia, life table method was 
adopted to establish the experimental population life tables of the two rice 
borers and the population fecundity tables of T. japonicum on the two hosts, and 
to estimate the fecundity and parasitism capacity of T. japonicum on the two 
hosts. The generation period (T) of C. suppressalis and C. auricilia was 56.40 d 
and 47.80 d, and their intrinsic rate of natural increase (r(m)) was 0.0489 and 
0.072; while the T of T. japonicum on C. suppressalis and C. auricilia was 9.75 
d and 9.78 d, and the r(m) was 0.3154 and 0.3161, respectively. These parameters 
indicated that T. japonicum could control the two rice borers effectively.

PMID: 20560333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Hokkaido Igaku Zasshi. 2010 May;85(3):157-60.

[How to elongate healthy life expectancy. Let's start anti-aging].

[Article in Japanese]

Majima T(1), Koyama T, Houkinn K, Tohyama H, Nakagawa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Joint Replacement and Tissue Engineering, Hokkaido University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan.

To elongate healthy life expectancy, anti-aging action is important. Main causes 
of disease in aged patients who need to be cared are cerebral artery disease, 
bone and joint disease, and dementia. It is important to enlighten the method to 
prevent these diseases. In the present symposium, we explained etiology and 
prevention of these diseases. We hope that the symposium would help the attendee 
to understand how to elongate the healthy life expectancy.

PMID: 20560414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. BJOG. 2010 Aug;117(9):1108-18. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2010.02621.x. Epub
2010  Jun 18.

The cost-effectiveness of targeted or universal screening for vasa praevia at 
18-20 weeks of gestation in Ontario.

Cipriano LE(1), Barth WH Jr, Zaric GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science & Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of targeted and universal 
screening for vasa praevia at 18-20 weeks of gestation in singleton and twin 
pregnancies.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis based on a decision-analytic model comparing 
relevant strategies and life-long outcomes for mother and infant(s).
SETTING: Ontario, Canada.
POPULATION: A cohort of pregnant women in 1 year.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to estimate the lifetime 
incremental costs and benefits of screening for vasa praevia. Inputs were 
estimated from the literature. Costs were collected from the London Health 
Sciences Centre, the Ontario Health Insurance Program, and other sources. We 
used one-way, scenario and probabilistic sensitivity analysis to determine the 
robustness of the results.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental costs, life expectancy, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY) and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Universal transvaginal ultrasound screening of twin pregnancies has an 
ICER of $5488 per QALY-gained. Screening all singleton pregnancies with the risk 
factors low-lying placentas, in vitro fertilisation (IVF) conception, accessory 
placental lobes, or velamentous cord insertion has an ICER of $15,764 per 
QALY-gained even though identifying some of these risk factors requires routine 
use of colour Doppler during transabdominal examinations. Screening women with a 
marginal cord insertion costs an additional $27,603 per QALY-gained. Universal 
transvaginal screening for vasa praevia in singleton pregnancies costs $579,164 
per QALY compared with targeted screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with current practice, screening all twin pregnancies for 
vasa praevia with transvaginal ultrasound is cost-effective. Among the 
alternatives considered, the use of colour Doppler at all transabdominal 
ultrasound examinations of singleton pregnancies and targeted use of 
transvaginal ultrasound for IVF pregnancies or when the placenta has been found 
to be associated with one or more risk factors is cost-effective. Universal 
screening of singleton pregnancies is not cost-effective compared with targeted 
screening.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2010.02621.x
PMID: 20560948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. HIV Med. 2011 Feb;12(2):97-108. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2010.00856.x.

Quantifying the risks and benefits of efavirenz use in HIV-infected women of 
childbearing age in the USA.

Hsu HE(1), Rydzak CE, Cotich KL, Wang B, Sax PE, Losina E, Freedberg KA, Goldie 
SJ, Lu Z, Walensky RP; CEPAC Investigators.

Collaborators: Chiosi JJ, Chung S, Ciaranello AL, Freedberg KA, Hsu HE, Losina 
E, Lu Z, Sloan C, Waldman S, Walensky RP, Wang B, Wong A, Zhang H, Sax PE, 
Goldie SJ, Kimmel AD, Cotich KL, Lipsitch M, Rydzak CE, Seage GR 3rd, Weinstein 
MC, Paltiel AD, Schackman BR.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to quantify the benefits (life expectancy 
gains) and risks (efavirenz-related teratogenicity) associated with using 
efavirenz in HIV-infected women of childbearing age in the USA.
METHODS: We used data from the Women's Interagency HIV Study in an HIV disease 
simulation model to estimate life expectancy in women who receive an 
efavirenz-based initial antiretroviral regimen compared with those who delay 
efavirenz use and receive a boosted protease inhibitor-based initial regimen. To 
estimate excess risk of teratogenic events with and without efavirenz exposure 
per 100,000 women, we incorporated literature-based rates of pregnancy, live 
births, and teratogenic events into a decision analytic model. We assumed a 
teratogenicity risk of 2.90 events/100 live births in women exposed to efavirenz 
during pregnancy and 2.68/100 live births in unexposed women.
RESULTS: Survival for HIV-infected women who received an efavirenz-based initial 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) regimen was 0.89 years greater than for women 
receiving non-efavirenz-based initial therapy (28.91 vs. 28.02 years). The rate 
of teratogenic events was 77.26/100,000 exposed women, compared with 
72.46/100,000 unexposed women. Survival estimates were sensitive to variations 
in treatment efficacy and AIDS-related mortality. Estimates of excess 
teratogenic events were most sensitive to pregnancy rates and number of 
teratogenic events/100 live births in efavirenz-exposed women.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of non-efavirenz-based initial ART in HIV-infected women of 
childbearing age may reduce life expectancy gains from antiretroviral treatment, 
but may also prevent teratogenic events. Decision-making regarding efavirenz use 
presents a trade-off between these two risks; this study can inform discussions 
between patients and health care providers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2010.00856.x
PMCID: PMC3010302
PMID: 20561082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Value Health. 2010 Sep-Oct;13(6):787-95. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00757.x.  Epub 2010 Jun 17.

Clustering Rasch results: a novel method for developing rheumatoid arthritis 
states for use in valuation studies.

McTaggart-Cowan HM(1), Brazier JE, Tsuchiya A.

Author information:
(1)School ofHealth and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 
30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. h.m.cowan@sheffield.ac.uk

PURPOSE: Health states that describe an investigated condition are a crucial 
component of valuation studies. The health states need to be distinct and 
comprehensible to those who appraise them. The objective of this study was to 
describe a novel application of Rasch and cluster analyses in the development of 
three rheumatoid arthritis health states.
METHODS: The Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) was subjected to 
Rasch analysis to select the items that best represent disability. K-means 
cluster analysis produced health states with the levels of the selected items. 
The pain and discomfort dimension from the EuroQol-5D was also incorporated.
RESULTS: The results demonstrate a methodology for reducing a dataset containing 
individual disease-specific scores to generate health states. The four selected 
HAQ items were bending down, climbing steps, lifting a cup to your mouth, and 
standing up from a chair.
CONCLUSIONS: The combined use of Rasch and k-means cluster analysis has proved 
to be an effective technique for identifying the most important items and levels 
for the construction of health states.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00757.x
PMID: 20561316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Value Health. 2010 Sep-Oct;13(6):761-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00755.x.  Epub 2010 Jun 17.

An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure: a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of incidentally detected aneurysms in functional MRI research.

Sadatsafavi M(1), Marra C, Li D, Illes J.

Author information:
(1)Collaboration for Outcome Research and Evaluation, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

PURPOSE: Despite ongoing debate about best practices for managing incidentally 
detected findings in brain research studies using magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI), this issue has not been investigated from a health economics viewpoint. 
We applied a decision-analytic approach to assess the benefit of various 
strategies for functional MRI (fMRI) studies using intracranial aneurysms (IA) 
as a model.
METHODS: A decision tree and Markov model were created to simulate the impact on 
the lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) of four different 
strategies for review of scans for the presence of IA. To populate the decision 
model, we used current evidence from the literature and results from a survey of 
experts.
RESULTS: Review of the anatomical scans by a nonspecialist is not cost-effective 
in any of the subgroups of participants. Full clinical examination of women with 
a positive family history before enrollment in a study is cost-effective. 
Cost-effectiveness of reviewing scans obtained from women without a family 
history and men with a positive family history of IA depends on the 
willingness-to-pay (λ) for a QALY: at λ of $50,000/QALY, review of scans by a 
specialist is cost-effective, whereas at λ of $100,000/QALY, a full clinical 
workup is the best option. Compared with not reviewing any scans, a customized 
strategy for each subgroup of participants results in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $12,503 for λ=$50,000/QALY and $32,767 for 
λ=$100,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Tailored strategies based on the characteristics of research 
participants and λ for one QALY are needed to address the problem of incidental 
findings in research fMRI studies.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00755.x
PMCID: PMC10517630
PMID: 20561317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Value Health. 2010 Sep-Oct;13(6):735-42. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00744.x.  Epub 2010 Jun 7.

The cost-effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation for complex regional pain 
syndrome.

Kemler MA(1), Raphael JH, Bentley A, Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Martini Hospital, Groningen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Health-care policymakers and payers require cost-effectiveness 
evidence to inform their treatment funding decisions. The aims of this study 
were to assess the cost-effectiveness of the addition of spinal cord stimulation 
(SCS) compared with conventional management alone (CMM) in patients with complex 
regional pain syndrome (CRPS), and to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
nonrechargeable versus rechargeable SCS implanted pulse generators (IPGs).
METHODS: A decision analytic model was used to synthesize data on CRPS patient 
outcomes and health-care costs over a 15-year time horizon from the perspective 
of the UK National Health Services. Data were sourced from two SCS randomized 
controlled trials. Results are expressed as an incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) in 2008 GBP.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of SCS compared with CMM was £3562 
per QALY, a finding that was robust across sensitivity analyses with an 87% 
probability that SCS is cost-effective at a willingness to pay threshold of 
£30,000. When the longevity of an IPG is 4 years or less, a rechargeable (and 
initially more expensive) IPG is more cost-effective than a nonrechargeable IPG.
CONCLUSIONS: In selected patients with CRPS, SCS is cost-effective as an adjunct 
to CMM. Despite their initial increased expense, rechargeable IPGs should be 
considered when IPG longevity is likely to be short. These findings support 
policymakers to extend the use of SCS as a good value for money treatment for 
CRPS.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00744.x
PMID: 20561326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Value Health. 2010 Sep-Oct;13(6):837-45. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00738.x.  Epub 2010 Jun 7.

How do cost-effectiveness analyses inform reimbursement decisions for oncology 
medicines in Canada? The example of sunitinib for first-line treatment of 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

Chabot I(1), Rocchi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Medical Division, 
Pfizer Canada, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. isabelle.chabot@pfizer.com

BACKGROUND: Canadian oncology decision-makers have reimbursed cancer drugs at 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) higher than those considered 
acceptable in other therapeutic areas. Sunitinib is a multitargeted receptor 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor, indicated for metastatic renal-cell carcinoma (MRCC) 
of clear cell histology. Canadian decision-makers evaluated sunitinib funding in 
the presence of important data limitations (including interim analysis of a 
surrogate outcome) and in the context of a high ICER.
METHODS: First, a description was presented of the cost-effectiveness analysis 
submitted for sunitinib reimbursement decision-making in Canada before 
conclusive survival evidence had been available. Second, sunitinib access 
decisions and the oncology drug reimbursement literature were reviewed to 
explore the interpretation of sunitinib perceived value in the context of the 
decision-making framework in Canada.
RESULTS: The economic evaluation yielded an ICER of $144K/quality-adjusted 
life-year gained for sunitinib compared with interferon-alfa. This high ratio 
was not an insurmountable barrier to access in Canada because all provinces now 
reimburse sunitinib for first-line treatment of MRCC. In this particular 
instance, payers were receptive to immature survival data but substantial 
progression-free gains, for patients with a relatively rare cancer and few 
treatment options.
CONCLUSION:   This demonstrates that the cost-effectiveness ratio is only one of 
many factors that affect an access decision in oncology.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00738.x
PMID: 20561332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Value Health. 2010 Sep-Oct;13(6):703-11. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00737.x.  Epub 2010 Jun 7.

Cost-effectiveness of the addition of rituximab to CHOP chemotherapy in 
first-line treatment for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in a population-based 
observational cohort in British Columbia, Canada.

Johnston KM(1), Marra CA, Connors JM, Najafzadeh M, Sehn L, Peacock SJ.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control (ARCC), British 
Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) has primarily been treated 
with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and predisone (CHOP) 
chemotherapy since the 1970s. Recently, the addition of rituximab to CHOP 
(CHOP-R) has been found to improve survival and trial-based results have 
suggested that it is a cost-effective alternative to CHOP.
OBJECTIVES: The objective in this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of CHOP-R relative to CHOP in first-line treatment of DLBCL in a 
population-based setting in British Columbia, Canada.
METHODS: We created a patient-level simulation model describing potential 
pathways for DLBCL patients initiating treatment with either CHOP or CHOP-R. 
Model parameters were populated with statistical analyses of individual-level 
treatment and effectiveness data and published cost estimates. All results were 
stratified by age at treatment initiation (<60 years vs. ≥60 years). The 
base-case scenario was based on a 15-year time horizon and a 3% discount rate. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed. All costs are reported as 2006 
$CDN.
RESULTS: For the base-case scenario, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) for younger individuals ranged from $11,965 per disease-free life-year 
gained to $19,144 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. For older individuals, 
estimated ICERs for all health outcomes were below $10,000 per unit outcome 
gained for a 15-year time horizon.
CONCLUSIONS: Using population-based data, CHOP-R was found to be a 
cost-effective alternative to CHOP, particularly for individuals aged 60 years 
and older. Results from this Canadian observational data source were consistent 
with international clinical trial-based studies. The use of CHOP-R as a 
first-line treatment for DLBCL is recommended, with respect to both clinical and 
cost-effectiveness.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00737.x
PMID: 20561333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):592-600. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00733.x.
 Epub 2010 Apr 30.

Cost-effectiveness of nucleoside analog therapy for hepatitis B in China: a 
Markov analysis.

Wu B(1), Li T, Chen H, Shen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Renji Hospital, Affiliated to School of Medicine, 
Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the economic consequences 
of nucleoside analog therapy for hepatitis B treatment in China.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis of treatments for HBeAg-positive and 
HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) was conducted using a Markov model, in 
which patients' yearly transitions between different health states were tracked. 
Patients were tracked as they moved between the following health states: CHB, 
HBeAg seroconversion (HBeAg-positive CHB patients can have this special health 
state), virologic resistance, virologic response, compensated cirrhosis, 
decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver transplantation, and 
death. The transition parameters were derived either from systematic reviews of 
the literature or from previous economic studies. Cost and utility data came 
from studies based on a Chinese CHB cohort. One-way sensitivity analyses as well 
as second-order Monte Carlo and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: The entecavir strategy yielded the most quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) for both HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative patients when compared with 
the "no treatment," the lamivudine, the adefovir, and the telbivudine 
strategies. The risks of complications and mortality also decreased. In the 
economic analysis, the "no treatment" strategy was the least effective, whereas 
the entecavir strategy was both the least expensive and the most cost-effective 
option, followed by telbivudine and lamivudine. The probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis showed that the entecavir strategy would result in improved 
cost-effectiveness in >90% of cases at a threshold of $20,000 per QALY. In a 
one-way sensitivity analysis, the most influential parameters impacting the 
model's robustness were the utilities of the CHB and virologic response health 
states.
CONCLUSIONS: In China, when treating both HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative CHB 
populations, entecavir is the most cost-effective option when compared with 
lamivudine, adefovir, and telbivudine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00733.x
PMID: 20561341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Hist Methods. 2010 Apr;43(2):45-79. doi: 10.1080/01615441003720449.

Decennial Life Tables for the White Population of the United States, 1790-1900.

Hacker JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Binghamton University, State University of New York, Department of History, 
PO Box 6000, Binghamton, NY 13902-6000, 607-777-4210, hacker@binghamton.edu.

This article constructs new life tables for the white population of the United 
States in each decade between 1790 and 1900. Drawing from several recent 
studies, it suggests best estimates of life expectancy at age 20 for each 
decade. These estimates are fitted to new standards derived from the 1900-02 
rural and 1900-02 overall DRA life tables using a two-parameter logit model with 
fixed slope. The resulting decennial life tables more accurately represent 
sex-and age-specific mortality rates while capturing known mortality trends.

DOI: 10.1080/01615441003720449
PMCID: PMC2885717
PMID: 20563225


443. J Clin Lipidol. 2010 May-Jun;4(3):165-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jacl.2010.01.008.

Cost-effectiveness of lower targets for blood pressure and low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol in diabetes: the Stop Atherosclerosis in Native 
Diabetics Study (SANDS).

Wilson C(1), Huang CC, Shara N, Howard BV, Fleg JL, Henderson JA, Howard WJ, 
Huentelman H, Lee ET, Mete M, Russell M, Galloway JM, Silverman A, Stylianou M, 
Umans J, Weir MR, Yeh F, Ratner RE.

Author information:
(1)Phoenix Indian Medical Center, 4212 N 16th Street, Phoenix, AZ 85016, USA. 
Charlton.wilson@ihs.gov

BACKGROUND: The Stop Atherosclerosis in Native Diabetics Study (SANDS) reported 
cardiovascular benefit of aggressive versus standard treatment targets for both 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and blood pressure (BP) in diabetic 
individuals.
OBJECTIVE: In this analysis, we examined within trial cost-effectiveness of 
aggressive targets of LDL-C ≤70 mg/dL and systolic BP ≤115 mmHg versus standard 
targets of LDL-C ≤100 mg/dL and systolic BP ≤130 mmHg.
DESIGN: Randomized, open label blinded-to-endpoint 3-year trial.
DATA SOURCES: SANDS clinical trial database, Quality of Wellbeing survey, 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Wholesale Drug Prices.
TARGET POPULATION: American Indians ≥ age 40 years with type 2 diabetes and no 
previous cardiovascular events.
TIME HORIZON: April 2003 to July 2007.
PERSPECTIVE: Health payer.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomized to aggressive versus standard groups 
with treatment algorithms defined for both.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with the standard group, the aggressive 
group had slightly lower costs of medical services (-$116) but a 54% greater 
cost for BP medication ($1,242) and a 116% greater cost for lipid-lowering 
medication ($2,863), resulting in an increased cost of $3,988 over 3 years. 
Those in the aggressively treated group gained 0.0480 quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY) over the standard group. When a 3% discount rate for costs and 
outcomes was used, the resulting cost per QALY was $82,589.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The use of a 25%, 50%, and 75% reduction in 
drug costs resulted in a cost per QALY of $61,329, $40,070, and $18,810, 
respectively.
LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by use of a single ethnic group and by its 
3-year duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Within this 3-year study, treatment to lower BP and LDL-C below 
standard targets was not cost-effective because of the cost of the additional 
medications required to meet the lower targets. With the anticipated 
availability of generic versions of the BP and lipid-lowering drugs used in 
SANDS, the cost-effectiveness of this intervention should improve. Published by 
Elsevier Inc on behalf of the National Lipid Association.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacl.2010.01.008
PMCID: PMC2885818
PMID: 20563294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2010 Jul;95(1):12-20. doi:
10.1590/s0066-782x2010005000067.  Epub 2010 Jun 11.

Analysis of the cost-effectiveness of thrombolysis with alteplase in stroke.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Araújo DV(1), Teich V, Passos RB, Martins SC.

Author information:
(1)Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro. denizar@cardiol.br

BACKGROUND: The cerebrovascular accident (CVA) or stroke is the main cause of 
death in Brazil and little information is available on the cost of treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To carry out a cost-effectiveness analysis of thrombolysis in stroke, 
up to three hours after symptom onset, comparing the treatment with alteplase 
versus the conservative treatment, under the perspective of the Brazilian Public 
Health System (SUS).
METHODS: A decision analysis model was developed to compare the two types of 
treatment. Cycles were considered, during which the patients would go through 
five stages of disability post-stroke, based on the modified Rankin scale. The 
probability to present intracranial hemorrhage in the first year was obtained 
from the NINDS trial. For the subsequent years, one-year cycles were considered 
to calculate patients' mortality. The outcome was expressed as quality-adjusted 
life years (QALY). Both direct and indirect costs were considered in the 
analysis. Costs and outcomes were discounted at 5% a year.
RESULTS: In the first year, the QALY gained was 0.06 for both sexes, with an 
incremental cost of R$ 2,558 for men and R$ 2,312 for women. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in one year was R$ 40,539 / QALY (USD 28,956) 
for men and R$ 36,640 / QALY (USD 26,171) for women. After the second year, the 
treatment with alteplase reduced the cost of treatment (Purchasing Power Parity 
index: US$ 1 = R$ 1.4).
CONCLUSION: The thrombolytic therapy with alteplase within the first three hours 
following a stroke is cost-effective in the Brazilian Public Health System 
scenario.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2010005000067
PMID: 20563521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Rofo. 2010 Jul;182(7):573-80. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1245140. Epub 2010 Jun 18.

Benefit, risks and cost-effectiveness of screening for abdominal aortic 
aneurysm.

Schmidt T(1), Mühlberger N, Chemelli-Steingruber IE, Strasak A, Kofler B, 
Chemelli A, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Public Health, UMIT.

PURPOSE: Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) cause a considerable number of deaths. 
A ruptured AAA is associated with a mortality rate of 80%. The purpose of this 
study was to summarize the current evidence from published health economic 
models for the long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening 
programs for AAA.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Medical, economic and health technology assessment (HTA) 
databases were systematically searched for cost-effectiveness models up to 
October 2007. Only models with a lifetime time horizon of evaluating AAA 
screening in men over 65 years were included in the review. Study data were 
extracted, standardized and summarized in evidence tables and cost-effectiveness 
plots.
RESULTS: We reviewed 8 cost-effectiveness models published between 1993 and 2007 
comparing AAA screening and lack of screening in men over 60. One model yielded 
a loss of life-years at additional costs. The remaining seven models yielded 
gains in life expectancy ranging from 0.02 to 0.28LYs. Gains in quality-adjusted 
life expectancy reported by six of the seven models ranged from 0.015 to 0.059 
QALYs. Incremental costs ranged from 96 to 721 Euros. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) ranged from 1443 to 13 299 Euros per LY or QALY 
gained.
CONCLUSION: Based on our analysis, the introduction of a screening program to 
identify AAA will probably gain additional life years and quality of life at 
acceptable extra costs. The target population for a screening program should be 
men 65 years and older.

Copyright (c) Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart-New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1245140
PMID: 20563953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Cancer. 2010 Aug 1;116(15):3722-31. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25068.

A prospective cohort study defining utilities using time trade-offs and the 
Euroqol-5D to assess the impact of cancer-related lymphedema.

Cheville AL(1), Almoza M, Courmier JN, Basford JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA. cheville.andrea@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: The devastating impact of lymphedema on cancer survivors' quality of 
life has prompted consideration of several changes in medical and surgical care. 
Unfortunately, our understanding of the benefits gained from these approaches 
relative to their cost remains limited. This study was designed to estimate 
utilities for lymphedema and characterize how utilities differ between subgroups 
defined by lymphedema etiology and distribution.
METHODS: A consecutive sample of 236 subjects with lymphedema seen at a 
lymphedema clinic completed both a time trade-off (TTO) exercise and the Euroqol 
5D. Responses were adjusted in multivariate regression models for demographic 
factors, comorbidities, and lymphedema severity/location.
RESULTS: Most participants (167 of 236, 71%) had lymphedema as a consequence of 
cancer treatment; 123 with breast cancer and upper extremity involvement. Mean 
TTO utility estimates were consistently higher than Euroqol 5D estimates. 
Unadjusted TTO (0.85; standard deviation [SD], 0.21) and Euroqol 5D (0.76; SD, 
0.18) scores diminished with increasing lymphedema stage and patient body mass 
index (BMI). Adjusted utility scores were lowest in patients with cancer-related 
lower extremity lymphedema (TTO=0.82; SD, 0.04 and Euroqol 5D=0.80; SD, 0.03). 
Breast cancer patients also had lower adjusted Euroqol 5D scores (0.80; SD, 
0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Lymphedema-associated utilities are in the range of 0.80. Lower 
utilities are observed for patients with higher lymphedema stages, elevated BMI, 
and cancer-related lymphedema. Greater expenditures for the prevention and 
treatment of cancer-related lymphedema are warranted.

Copyright (c) 2010 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25068
PMCID: PMC3855404
PMID: 20564063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURES


