    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):3-12.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161.2010.482642
PMID: 20582820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):26-7. doi: 10.1080/15265161.2010.485674.

Is there a moral obligation to have children of only one sex?

Kamenova K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, York University, 138 Founders College, 4700 Keele 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. kamenova@yorku.ca

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):3-12.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161.2010.485674
PMID: 20582825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Heart Valve Dis. 2010 May;19(3):326-32.

Short-term results of repeat valve replacement: a predictive factor analysis.

Beurtheret S(1), Gariboldi V, Feier H, Grisoli D, Riberi A, Mouly-Bandini A, 
Métras D, Kerbaul F, Collart F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Timone University Hospital, Marseille, France.

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: The new-generation bioprostheses are associated 
with a longer lifespan, and therefore tend to be implanted in younger patients. 
However, with the increase in life expectancy, the trend is towards a higher 
rate of repeat valve replacement. Hence, the study aim was to evaluate the 
present mortality and risk factors for repeat valvular surgery.
METHODS: A total of 183 consecutive patients (87 males, 96 females; mean age 62 
years; range: 28-88 years) who underwent repeat valve replacement at the 
authors' institution between 2001 and 2004 was reviewed. Reoperations in these 
patients were required due to structural degeneration of the bioprosthesis 
(50%), to paravalvular leak (20%), and to prosthetic endocarditis (14%), valve 
thrombosis (9%), and plasty failure (9%). In total, 105 patients (57%) had 
received at least one bioprosthesis during the previous operation, 58 (31%) had 
a mechanical valve, 15 (8%) had an isolated mitral plasty, and five (2%) hybrid 
procedures. All preoperative and operative risk factors were studied.
RESULTS: The overall operative mortality rate was 6.6% (n = 12), but only 3.9% 
(n = 4) for the bioprosthesis reoperation. The risk factors for mortality 
included pulmonary hypertension (> 60 mmHg; p = 0.03), renal insufficiency (p = 
0.02), more than one repeat valve replacement (p = 0.004), previous mechanical 
prosthesis (p = 0.02), previous mitral surgery (p = 0.019), and associated 
tricuspid surgery (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: The data acquired tended to show that repeat valve replacement of 
bioprostheses may be carried out with an acceptable operative risk, in 
connection with the majority of operations on bioprostheses being secondary to 
structural degeneration of the implant. Hence, in most cases a well-controlled, 
programmed operation would lead to very low mortality (< 4%), despite a 
significant morbidity rate.

PMID: 20583395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. AANA J. 2010 Apr;78(2):129-33.

Operative splenectomy for treatment of homozygous thalassemia major in Afghan 
children at a US military hospital.

Bolt JD(1), Schoneboom BA.

Author information:
(1)Malcolm Grow Medical Center, Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, USA. 
Jason.Bolt@afncr.af.mil

Afghanistan is a war-ravaged country surrounded by mountainous terrain. Due to 
the geography and harsh living conditions, people have intermarried among tribes 
for centuries. The right familial combinations can cause manifestations of 
genetic linked diseases. Thalassemia major is one of these genetic diseases that 
are prevalent throughout southwest Asia and Africa. This condition is so severe 
that if left untreated, many patients die before their fifth birthday. Modern 
treatments in developed countries are not available in remote regions of 
Afghanistan. Frequent blood transfusions and surgical removal of enlarged 
spleens are the only options to improve life expectancy and quality of life. US 
military surgical hospitals and teams frequently encountered these patients and 
provided surgical treatment. Overall, surgical treatment of hypersplenism due to 
thalassemia major in this austere environment was highly successful. This 
article discusses the preoperative plan, intraoperative management, and 
postoperative care provided to 45 infants and children who underwent open 
splenectomy at a US military forward operating field hospital in Afghanistan.

PMID: 20583458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Drugs Aging. 2010 Jul 1;27(7):523-31. doi: 10.2165/11315970-000000000-00000.

Late-onset ankylosing spondylitis and spondylarthritis: an update on clinical 
manifestations, differential diagnosis and pharmacological therapies.

Toussirot E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, University Hospital Jean Minjoz, Besançon, 
France. etoussirot@chu-besancon.fr

Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and spondylarthritis (SpA) are generally observed in 
young male patients but can be diagnosed in the elderly. These cases correspond 
to late-onset or late-diagnosed AS or SpA. The clinical presentation may be 
either typical axial disease with a more severe illness compared with 
young-onset disease, or peripheral oligoarthritis of the lower limbs with 
pitting oedema (late-onset peripheral spondylarthropathy). New criteria for 
axial SpA including MRI-determined modifications of the sacroiliac joints may 
help the clinician with diagnosis. The treatment options for 
late-onset/-diagnosed AS include the same drugs as those taken by patients with 
young-onset AS, i.e. NSAIDs, sulfasalazine and anti-tumour necrosis factor 
(TNF)-alpha agents. Anti-TNFalpha agents are very effective drugs in young-onset 
AS and SpA. However, the effectiveness and safety of this drug class has not 
been specifically evaluated in elderly AS/SpA patients, and caution is therefore 
required with use of these drugs in elderly patients with co-morbidities and/or 
polypharmacy. In particular, careful evaluation for the risk of infection and 
cardiovascular events is recommended before initiating anti-TNFalpha agents in 
this age category. However, safety data from elderly patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis seem reassuring. With the increasing life expectancy and the new 
diagnostic modalities for axial (and peripheral) SpA, it is likely that the 
number of patients (diagnosed) with late-onset AS/SpA will increase. Thus, the 
clinician must be familiar with the clinical characteristics and particularities 
of this group of inflammatory rheumatic diseases.

DOI: 10.2165/11315970-000000000-00000
PMID: 20583847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Plant J. 2010 Sep;63(5):836-47. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2010.04286.x.

Overexpression of yeast spermidine synthase impacts ripening, senescence and 
decay symptoms in tomato.

Nambeesan S(1), Datsenka T, Ferruzzi MG, Malladi A, Mattoo AK, Handa AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Purdue University, 
West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.

Polyamines (PAs) are ubiquitous, polycationic biogenic amines that are 
implicated in many biological processes, including plant growth and development, 
but their precise roles remain to be determined. Most of the previous studies 
have involved three biogenic amines: putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd) and 
spermine (Spm), and their derivatives. We have expressed a yeast spermidine 
synthase (ySpdSyn) gene under constitutive (CaMV35S) and fruit-ripening specific 
(E8) promoters in Solanum lycopersicum (tomato), and determined alterations in 
tomato vegetative and fruit physiology in transformed lines compared with the 
control. Constitutive expression of ySpdSyn enhanced intracellular levels of Spd 
in the leaf, and transiently during fruit development, whereas E8-ySpdSyn 
expression led to Spd accumulation early and transiently during fruit ripening. 
The ySpdSyn transgenic fruits had a longer shelf life, reduced shriveling and 
delayed decay symptom development in comparison with the wild-type (WT) fruits. 
An increase in shelf life of ySpdSyn transgenic fruits was not facilitated by 
changes in the rate of water loss or ethylene evolution. Additionally, the 
expression of several cell wall and membrane degradation-related genes in 
ySpdSyn transgenic fruits was not correlated with an extension of shelf life, 
indicating that the Spd-mediated increase in fruit shelf life is independent of 
the above factors. Crop maturity, indicated by the percentage of ripening fruits 
on the vine, was delayed in a CaMV35S-ySpdSyn genotype, with fruits accumulating 
higher levels of the antioxidant lycopene. Notably, whole-plant senescence in 
the transgenic plants was also delayed compared with WT plants. Together, these 
results provide evidence for a role of PAs, particularly Spd, in increasing 
fruit shelf life, probably by reducing post-harvest senescence and decay.

No claim to original US government works. Journal compilation © 2010 Blackwell 
Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2010.04286.x
PMID: 20584149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jul;26(3):263-71. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462310000358.

The cost-effectiveness of the SPHERE intervention for the secondary prevention 
of coronary heart disease.

Gillespie P(1), O'Shea E, Murphy AW, Byrne MC, Byrne M, Smith SM, Cupples ME.

Author information:
(1)National University of Ireland, Galway. paddy.gillespie@nuigalway.ie

OBJECTIVES: The Secondary Prevention of Heart disEase in geneRal practicE 
(SPHERE) trial has recently reported. This study examines the cost-effectiveness 
of the SPHERE intervention in both healthcare systems on the island of Ireland.
METHODS: Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis. A probabilistic model was 
developed to combine within-trial and beyond-trial impacts of treatment to 
estimate the lifetime costs and benefits of two secondary prevention strategies: 
Intervention - tailored practice and patient care plans; and Control - 
standardized usual care.
RESULTS: The intervention strategy resulted in mean cost savings per patient of 
euro512.77 (95 percent confidence interval [CI], -1086.46-91.98) and an increase 
in mean quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) per patient of 0.0051 (95 percent 
CI, -0.0101-0.0200), when compared with the control strategy. The probability of 
the intervention being cost-effective was 94 percent if decision makers are 
willing to pay euro45,000 per additional QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision makers in both settings must determine whether the level 
of evidence presented is sufficient to justify the adoption of the SPHERE 
intervention in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462310000358
PMID: 20584354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jul;26(3):280-7. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462310000437.

Quality-adjusted life expectancy benefits of laparoscopic bariatric surgery: a 
United States perspective.

Hernandez LV(1), Klyve D.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
lhernand@hsph.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: The method of choice for bariatric surgery remains controversial. 
The aim of this study was to compare the outcome of laparoscopic Roux-en-Y 
gastric bypass (L-RYGB) versus laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB) 
using quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
METHODS: We developed a Markov model of the quality of life and survival of 
L-RYGB and LAGB in obese patients. Using census data, we estimated the 
probability of dying and quality of life for each year of each cohort.
RESULTS: For all cohorts, L-RYGB offers the highest advantage in QALYs compared 
with gastric banding. The youngest cohort showed the greatest discrepancy 
between the two surgical methods, with 7.8, 6.4, and 4.7 QALYs gained with 
L-RYGB over LAGB for the age groups 35, 45, and 55, respectively. Those with the 
highest presurgical body mass index (BMI) acquired the most advantage with 
L-RYGB, with 2.8, 6.4, and 9.6 QALYs gained with L-RYGB over LAGB for the BMI 
groups 40, 50, and 60. Males had a slightly higher advantage with L-RYGB, with 
6.5 QALYs gained with L-RYGB over LAGB compared with 6.0 QALYs for females.
CONCLUSIONS: For the cohorts studied, L-RYGB is the preferred surgical treatment 
for obesity if the sole metric is QALYs. The young and extremely obese are core 
groups who will gain the most QALYs following L-RYGB.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462310000437
PMID: 20584356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Sex Transm Dis. 2010 Dec;37(12):764-6. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3181e77f8e.

Lifetime and age-conditional risk of human immunodeficiency virus diagnosis, 
Missouri, 1998-2007.

Bosh KA(1), Laffoon BT.

Author information:
(1)Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services, Jefferson City, MO 65102, 
USA. karin.bosh@dhss.mo.gov

Lifetime and age-conditional probabilities of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
diagnosis risk in Missouri were assessed using cross-sectional HIV diagnosis and 
mortality rates. An increased lifetime risk of HIV diagnosis was associated with 
males, blacks, and persons residing in metropolitan areas. The estimates 
emphasize the disparity in risk by race/ethnicity and area of residence.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3181e77f8e
PMID: 20585273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Biophys Rev. 2009 Mar;1(1):37-42. doi: 10.1007/s12551-008-0006-z. Epub 2009
Jan  17.

Phase-plate electron microscopy: a novel imaging tool to reveal close-to-life 
nano-structures.

Nagayama K(1), Danev R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Science, SOKENDAI, Okazaki Institute for 
integrative Bioscience, National Institutes of Natural Sciences, 5-1 
Higashiyama, Myodaiji cho, Okazaki, 444-8787 Japan.

After slow progress in the efforts to develop phase plates for electron 
microscopes, functional phase plate using thin carbon film has been reported 
recently. It permits collecting high-contrast images of close-to-life biological 
structures with cryo-fixation and without staining. This report reviews the 
state of the art for phase plates and what is innovated with them in biological 
electron microscopy. The extension of thin-film phase plates to the 
material-less type using electrostatic field or magnetic field is also 
addressed. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article 
(doi:10.1007/s12551-008-0006-z) contains supplementary material, which is 
available to authorized users.

DOI: 10.1007/s12551-008-0006-z
PMCID: PMC2883085
PMID: 20585379


508. Rev Saude Publica. 2010 Aug;44(4):695-702. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102010005000020.  Epub 2010 Jun 25.

Beyond the income inequality hypothesis and human health: a worldwide 
exploration.

Idrovo AJ(1), Ruiz-Rodríguez M, Manzano-Patiño AP.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Sistemas de Salud, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública, Cuernavaca, México. ajidrovo@insp.mx

OBJECTIVE: To analyze whether the relationship between income inequality and 
human health is mediated through social capital, and whether political regime 
determines differences in income inequality and social capital among countries.
METHODS: Path analysis of cross sectional ecological data from 110 countries. 
Life expectancy at birth was the outcome variable, and income inequality 
(measured by the Gini coefficient), social capital (measured by the Corruption 
Perceptions Index or generalized trust), and political regime (measured by the 
Index of Freedom) were the predictor variables. Corruption Perceptions Index (an 
indirect indicator of social capital) was used to include more developing 
countries in the analysis. The correlation between Gini coefficient and 
predictor variables was calculated using Spearman's coefficients. The path 
analysis was designed to assess the effect of income inequality, social capital 
proxies and political regime on life expectancy.
RESULTS: The path coefficients suggest that income inequality has a greater 
direct effect on life expectancy at birth than through social capital. Political 
regime acts on life expectancy at birth through income inequality.
CONCLUSIONS: Income inequality and social capital have direct effects on life 
expectancy at birth. The "class/welfare regime model" can be useful for 
understanding social and health inequalities between countries, whereas the 
"income inequality hypothesis" which is only a partial approach is especially 
useful for analyzing differences within countries.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102010005000020
PMID: 20585742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2010 Mar;18(1):16-8. doi: 10.21101/cejph.b0011.

Short life expectancy and metabolic syndrome in Romanies (gypsies) in Slovakia.

Simko V(1), Ginter E.

Author information:
(1)State University New York, Downstate Medical Center at Brooklyn, USA. 
vlado.simko@med.va.gov

The aim of this review is to explain short life expectancy in Romanies. Romanies 
represent the second largest minority in Slovakia (about 7%). Most of them exist 
on the fringes of the majority society. Their general situation worsened after 
the fall of communism in 1989. In a market oriented society the unemployment of 
Romanies further increased due to their poor education and lack of skills. 
Romany general health is substantially worse than that of the majority 
population: They have high prevalence of communicable diseases due to poor 
sanitary and living conditions. Furthermore, epidemiological and metabolic 
studies revealed in Romanies high prevalence of obesity associated with 
increased cardiovascular risk. There is no explanation for this seemingly 
paradoxical phenomenon, in a population living in poor economic conditions. It 
is possible that in the course of the many generation-long migration from India 
to Europe, pregnant Romanies and their fetuses sufferred excessive nutritional 
deficiency. This might have induced adaptive metabolic and genetic changes aimed 
at optimum utilization of scarce food supply. There is a hypothetical 
possibility that in them "thrifty gene" was formed. Arrival of Romanies to 
Europe resulted in somewhat better nutrition, along with sharply reduced 
physical expenditure. The consequence is a metabolic syndrome with type 2 
diabetes and increased cardiovascular mortality. Such unique metabolic feature 
in Romanies will undoubtedly stimulate further research in molecular biology 
that may ultimately clarify the role of "thrifty genes".

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.b0011
PMID: 20586225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Clin Drug Investig. 2010;30(8):545-57. doi:
10.2165/11536310-000000000-00000.

Cost Effectiveness of Paricalcitol versus a non-selective vitamin D receptor 
activator for secondary hyperparathyroidism in the UK: a chronic kidney disease 
markov model.

Nuijten M(1), Andress DL, Marx SE, Curry AS, Sterz R.

Author information:
(1)Ars Accessus Medica, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. marknuijten@planet.nl

BACKGROUND: secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) is a common complication of 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) and a frequent cause of clinically significant bone 
disease. Non-selective vitamin D receptor (VDR) activator treatment has been 
used to treat the condition but is ineffective for many patients with 
hypercalcaemia and hyperphosphataemia and may precipitate worsening of their 
condition. Compared with non-selective VDR activator treatment, use of the VDR 
ligand paricalcitol may increase survival and reduce the risk of morbidities in 
patients with SHPT, which may have health economic consequences.
OBJECTIVE: the objective of this study was to determine the cost effectiveness 
of paricalcitol versus a non-selective VDR activator for the treatment of SHPT 
in patients with CKD in the UK setting.
METHODS: A Markov process model was developed employing data sources from the 
published literature, paricalcitol clinical trials and observational studies, 
official UK price/tariff lists and national population statistics. The 
comparator was alfacalcidol, a non-selective VDR activator medication. The 
primary perspective of the study was that of the UK National Health Service 
(NHS). The efficacy outcomes (reductions in SHPT, proteinuria, complications and 
mortality) were extrapolated to: number of life-years gained (LYG) and number of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Clinical and economic outcomes were 
discounted at 3.5%. The year of costing for costs determined in the study was 
2006.
RESULTS: the reference case analysis was a 10-year time horizon, based on a 
comparison of paricalcitol with a non-selective VDR activator, which is started 
in CKD stage 3 (moderate reduction in glomerular filtration rate [GFR] with 
kidney damage) and continued in CKD stage 4 (severe reduction in GFR) and CKD 
stage 5 (established kidney failure). The use of paricalcitol leads to an 
additional medical cost of pound3224 ($US5970). The health benefits of 
paricalcitol lead to an increase in LYG of 0.52 and a gain in QALYs of 0.465. 
Therefore the use of paricalcitol results in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of pound6933/QALY ($US12 840/QALY) from the primary perspective of the 
NHS. One-way sensitivity analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
confirmed the robustness of the model.
CONCLUSION: this model showed that the favourable clinical benefit of 
paricalcitol results in positive short- and long-term health economic benefits. 
This study suggests that the use of paricalcitol in patients with early CKD may 
be cost effective from the UK NHS perspective versus non-selective VDR activator 
medication.

DOI: 10.2165/11536310-000000000-00000
PMID: 20586517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Haemophilia. 2010 May;16 Suppl 3:29-34. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02257.x.

Health economics in haemophilia: a review from the clinician's perspective.

Escobar MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Gulf States Hemophilia and Thrombophilia Center, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, Houston, TX, USA. miguel.escobar@uth.tmc.edu

Health economic evaluations provide valuable information for healthcare 
providers, facilitating the treatment decision-making process in a climate where 
demand for healthcare exceeds the supply. Although an uncommon disease, 
haemophilia is a life-long condition that places a considerable burden on 
patients, healthcare systems and society. This burden is particularly large for 
patients with haemophilia with inhibitors, who can develop serious bleeding 
complications unresponsive to standard factor replacement therapies. Hence, 
bleeding episodes in these patients are treated with bypassing agents such as 
recombinant activated FVII (rFVIIa) and plasma-derived activated prothrombin 
complex concentrates (pd-APCC). With the efficacy of these agents now well 
established, a number of health economic studies have been conducted to compare 
their cost-effectiveness for the on-demand treatment of bleeding episodes in 
haemophiliacs with inhibitors. In a cost-utility analysis, which assesses the 
effects of treatment on quality of life (QoL) and quantity of life, the 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained (US $44,834) 
indicated that rFVIIa was cost-effective. Similarly, eight of 11 other economic 
modelling evaluations found that rFVIIa was more cost-effective than pd-APCC in 
the on-demand treatment of bleeding episodes. These findings indicate that 
treating patients with haemophilia promptly and with the most effective therapy 
available may result in cost savings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02257.x
PMID: 20586799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Haemophilia. 2010 May;16 Suppl 3:35-40. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02258.x.

Optimizing on-demand treatment with NovoSeven room temperature stable.

Negrier C(1).

Author information:
(1)Haemophilia Comprehensive Care Centre, Edouard Herriot University Hospital, 
Lyon, France. claude.negrier@chu-lyon.fr

Patients with haemophilia can now look forward to greater life expectancy than 
ever before--a development that can be attributed to improved healthcare 
strategies and more effective treatments. In the last few decades, the treatment 
of haemophilia patients with inhibitors has also witnessed dramatic improvements 
through the development of bypassing agents, including recombinant activated 
factor VII (rFVIIa, NovoSeven; Novo Nordisk, Bagsvaerd, Denmark). Growing 
evidence suggests that early initiation of treatment with rFVIIa results in 
greater haemostatic efficacy with fewer doses, leading to improved overall 
outcome. The new NovoSeven room temperature stable formulation has been designed 
to optimize on-demand treatment by facilitating early initiation of therapy for 
haemorrhagic episodes, which brings the potential benefits of faster bleed 
resolution, reduced frequency of re-bleeding and reduced product consumption. 
This is particularly important for inhibitor patients, in whom orthopaedic 
complications are more severe than in non-inhibitor patients. Early treatment 
might help improve musculoskeletal status and therefore reduce disability, which 
improves patient quality of life and aids integration into society. These 
clinical advantages are also accompanied by both short-term and long-term 
economic benefits. NovoSeven room temperature stable might also improve patient 
compliance and treatment convenience, as patients can carry their treatment with 
them and administer it wherever they are, without being restricted by the need 
for a refrigerator and without the need to visit a hospital or to return home. 
The potential benefits of NovoSeven room temperature stable make this new 
formulation a valuable addition to our armamentarium in the ongoing effort to 
improve haemophilia care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02258.x
PMID: 20586800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Haemophilia. 2010 May;16 Suppl 3:58-66. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02262.x.

Cardiovascular disease in haemophilia patients: a contemporary issue.

Mannucci PM(1), Mauser-Bunschoten EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Medical Specialities, IRCCS Maggiore Hospital, 
Milan, Italy. pmmannucci@libero.it

Improvements in treatment options and healthcare provision mean that haemophilia 
patients now have a life expectancy approaching that of the normal male 
population. An increased life expectancy, however, also brings an increased risk 
of developing age-related disorders, the foremost of which is cardiovascular 
disease. The epitome of age-related morbidity, cardiovascular disease is also a 
leading cause of mortality in elderly individuals, and presents a particular 
challenge when it occurs in persons with haemophilia. While the exact incidence 
of cardiovascular disease in haemophilia is unknown, incidence rates from 
conditions such as ischaemic heart disease (IHD) have steadily risen over the 
last 20-30 years, suggesting that cardiac problems are increasingly relevant for 
these patients. Management of cardiovascular disease in haemophilia warrants 
close cooperation between cardiologists and haematologists, and evidence-based 
guidelines are not available. In the absence of such guidelines, antithrombotic 
treatment is currently based on local clinical experience and adaptation of the 
general guidelines used in the non-haemophilic population. In this article, we 
outline the local guidelines used by our two centres in the antithrombotic 
treatment of IHD, coronary bypass and valve surgery, and atrial fibrillation in 
patients with haemophilia. Strategies for the management of haemostasis and 
thrombosis during cardiovascular surgery in haemophilia patients are also 
briefly reviewed. Finally, we present the cases of three elderly haemophilia 
patients with cardiovascular and other age-related health problems in whom such 
treatment strategies were applied.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02262.x
PMID: 20586804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S114-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00642.x.

A catalogue of EQ-5D utility weights for chronic diseases among 
noninstitutionalized community residents in Korea.

Kang EJ(1), Ko SK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Promotion Research, Korea Institute for Health and Social 
Affairs, Seoul, Korea. marchej@kihasa.re.kr

OBJECTIVE: The main purpose of this study is to provide a national catalog of 
preference-based utility weights associated with major chronic diseases in 
Korea.
METHODS: The 2005 Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey was 
used to get EQ-5D scores for 27 major chronic diseases. The independent 
detrimental effect of each chronic disease was estimated using a censored least 
absolute deviations regression.
RESULTS: The respondents (60.5%) rated their health as perfect or 11111 on the 
EQ-5D scale showing ceiling effect. Stroke (0.5067 approximately 0.5756) was the 
condition of the lowest EQ-5D utility weight and was followed by renal failure 
(0.6637 approximately 0.7739), angina pectoris (0.7325 approximately 0.8364), 
and arthritis (0.7621 approximately 0.8644). The marginal impact of each chronic 
disease after adjusting for age, sex, education, income, marital status, and the 
number of comorbid conditions was largest in stroke, arthritis, cancer, renal 
failure, and herniated disc.
CONCLUSION: This study provided a nationally representative catalog of utility 
weights for major chronic diseases in Korea. The three most burdensome chronic 
diseases among Korean adults based on the regression analysis were stroke, 
arthritis, and cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00642.x
PMID: 20586972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S26-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00623.x.

Using economic evaluation in policy decision-making in Asian countries: mission 
impossible or mission probable?

Yothasamut J(1), Tantivess S, Teerawattananon Y.

Author information:
(1)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program, Ministry of Public 
Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand. jomkwan@ihpp.thaigov.net

OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: This article provides an extensive review of literature 
and an in-depth analysis aimed at introducing potential applications of economic 
evaluation and at addressing the barriers that could prohibit the use or 
diminish the usefulness of economic evaluation in Asian settings. It also 
proposes the probable solutions to overcome these barriers.
RESULTS: Potential uses of economic evaluation include the development of public 
reimbursement lists, price negotiation, the development of clinical practice 
guidelines, and communicating with prescribers. Two types of barriers to using 
economic evaluation, namely barriers relating to the production of economic 
evaluation data and decision context-related barriers, are identified. For the 
first sort of barrier, the development of the national guidelines, the 
development of economic evaluation database, planning and use of economic 
evaluation in a systematic manner, and prioritization of topics for assessment 
are recommended. Furthermore, educating potential users and the public, making 
the economic evaluation process transparent and participatory, and incorporating 
other health preferences into the decision-making framework have been promoted 
to conquer decision context-related barriers.
CONCLUSIONS: It seems practically impossible to adopt other countries' 
approaches using economic evaluation for priority setting because of several 
constraints specifically related to the context of each setting. Nevertheless, 
given a better understanding of its resistance, and proper policies and 
strategies to overcome the barriers applied, it is more than probable that a 
method with system/mechanisms specifically designed to fit particular settings 
will be used.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00623.x
PMID: 20586976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S49-54. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00627.x.

Modeling the cost-effectiveness of galantamine for mild to moderately severe 
Alzheimer's disease in Korea.

Suh GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Hallym University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea. suhgh@chol.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to determine the cost-effectiveness, from 
the third-party payer viewpoint, of galantamine compared with usual care in the 
treatment of mild to moderately severe Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: An existing Markov model was adapted to Korea to predict long-term 
outcomes over a 5-year time horizon and to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
galantamine for the treatment of AD. The model structure is informed by a review 
of national and international literature on the clinical and cost-effectiveness 
of galantamine and on the costs and outcomes associated with treatment for AD. 
The main outcome measure used was the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained. All costs were indexed to US$ (2007 value). Multivariate probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis and scenario analysis were undertaken to assess uncertainty 
in the results.
RESULTS: The study findings indicate that the clinical benefits on AD 
progression from galantamine treatment resulted in an incremental cost per QALY 
gained of US$4939 over 5 years (vs. usual care). Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis and cost-effectiveness acceptability curve suggest that the probability 
of galantamine treatment having an incremental cost per QALY over US$6740 is 
zero. Incremental cost per QALY gained according to scenario analyses ranged 
from US$2271 to US$8335.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the use of galantamine may be a 
cost-effective use of Korean national health-care resources, considering the 
gross domestic product per capita of US$21,695 in 2007.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00627.x
PMID: 20586982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S55-61. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00628.x.

Cost-effectiveness of switching to biphasic insulin aspart 30 from human insulin 
in patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes in South Korea.

Lee KH(1), Seo SJ, Smith-Palmer J, Palmer JL, White J, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Seoul, South Korea.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of switching patients with poorly 
controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus from human insulin (HI) to biphasic insulin 
aspart 30 (BIAsp 30) in South Korea.
METHODS: A published and validated diabetes computer simulation model (the IMS 
CORE Diabetes Model) was used to evaluate the long-term clinical and economic 
outcomes associated with switching to BIAsp 30, using treatment effects from the 
South Korean subgroup of the Physician's Routine Evaluation of Safety and 
Efficacy of NovoMix 30 Therapy study and cost data collected through primary 
research. Outcomes included life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, 
incidence of complications, direct medical costs, and cost-effectiveness. 
Analyses were performed from a third-party payer perspective over a 30-year time 
horizon. Future costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 5% per annum. 
Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Switching patients uncontrolled on HI to BIAsp 30 was projected to 
increase discounted mean life expectancy by 0.15 +/- 0.18 years per patient 
(8.62 +/- 0.13 years vs. 8.47 +/- 0.13 years) and improve discounted mean 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.30 +/- 0.12 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) per patient (5.68 +/- 0.09 QALYs vs. 5.38 +/- 0.09 QALYs). Conversion to 
BIAsp 30 was associated with a mean increase in direct costs of South Korean Won 
(KRW) 1,777,323 +/- 359,209 over patient lifetimes. BIAsp 30 was associated with 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of KRW5,916,758 per QALY gained versus 
HI.
CONCLUSION: Switching patients uncontrolled on HI to BIAsp 30 was projected to 
improve life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy. This analysis 
suggests that BIAsp 30 could be a cost-effective treatment option in type 2 
diabetes patients poorly controlled on HI in South Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00628.x
PMID: 20586983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S62-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00629.x.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of oseltamivir for influenza treatment considering 
the virus emerging resistant to the drug in Japan.

Nagase H(1), Moriwaki K, Kamae M, Yanagisawa S, Kamae I.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Statistics, Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe University, 
Kobe, Japan. nagase@med.kobe-u.ac.jp

AIM: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
oseltamivir for influenza in Japan considering the complications and the 
emergence of oseltamivir-resistant virus.
METHODS: Study design is a cost-effectiveness analysis in decision analytic 
modeling based on previously published evidence. Outcome measures included costs 
and quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: In the base-case analysis, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of oseltamivir during influenza and 
complications was JPY398,571 ($3320) per QALY without productivity loss, which 
implied oseltamivir is evidently cost-effective. Furthermore, considering the 
productivity loss, the ICER for oseltamivir turned to be negative, which means 
simply dominant. When the prevalence was in the low range of 10% to 38%, 
oseltamivir became less cost-effective than conventional treatment. Regarding 
potential emergence of the drug-resistant virus, we found the dominance of 
oseltamivir will vanish if the emerging rate becomes larger than 27%. The 
two-way sensitivity analysis also suggested that if the resistant virus rate 
becomes less and the prevalence higher, then oseltamivir becomes more 
advantageous. The analysis for uncertainty, using cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curve by Monte Carlo simulation, resulted in the estimate of about 
80% chance that oseltamivir could be cost-effective at the willingness-to-pay 
level of JPY6,000,000 ($50,000), which is commonly accepted as an affordable 
threshold.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00629.x
PMID: 20586984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S70-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00631.x.

Evaluation of cost-utility of varenicline compared with existing smoking 
cessation therapies in South Korea.

Bae JY(1), Kim CH, Lee EK.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Clinical Pharmacy, SookMyung Women's University, Seoul, 
South Korea.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of varenicline 
compared with the other smoking cessation interventions, bupropion, nicotine 
replacement therapy (NRT), and willpower.
METHODS: The Benefits of Smoking Cessation on Outcomes model was modified to 
reflect major smoking-related diseases in Korea. Transitional probabilities, 
resource utilization, and costs were obtained from Korean public data. The 
analysis was carried out from a societal perspective for the lifetime period. 
Also, series of sensitivity analyses, including probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, were performed.
RESULTS: With the exclusion of bupropion, which is subject to extended 
dominance, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for varenicline 
versus NRT was analyzed as $US4809 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) during 
the lifetime. The results of sensitivity analysis are quite stable across most 
of the included parameters. The acceptability curves showed that the probability 
of varenicline being cost-effective was 83.3% at the willingness to pay of 
$US15,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though the maximum willingness to pay for a QALY has not 
officially been defined, varenicline can be regarded as cost-effective because 
the ICER is at the 24.0% level of per capital gross domestic product, which is 
an implicit reference for decision-making in Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00631.x
PMID: 20586986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S78-81. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00633.x.

A time-cost augmented economic evaluation of oral deferasirox versus infusional 
deferoxamine [corrected] for patients with iron overload in South Korea.

Kim J(1), Kim Y.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea.

Erratum in
    Value Health. 2010 Mar;13(2):336.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to conduct an economic evaluation of oral 
deferasirox (DSX) compared with infusional deferoxamine (DFO) in patients with 
transfusional iron overload.
METHODS: Depending on the methods for measuring time-cost and convenience 
associated with the mode of administration, either cost-utility analysis or 
cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken. The difference in compliance rate 
between DSX and DFO was applied.
RESULTS: Although the drug cost of DSX was US$124,070 higher than that of DFO 
(US$96,039 vs. US$220,199), all other costs were lower in patients with DSX than 
in patients with DFO. In the cost-utility analysis, DSX resulted in US$3197 
savings with a gain of 2.63 quality-adjusted life-years per patient. The result 
of the cost-effectiveness analysis also showed that DSX dominated DFO.
CONCLUSIONS: With a considerable improvement in convenience and injection time 
rather than efficacy, DSX is considered as a dominant therapy for patients with 
iron overload.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00633.x
PMID: 20586988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S82-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00634.x.

An economic evaluation of adjuvant trastuzumab therapy in HER2-positive early 
breast cancer.

Chen W(1), Jiang Z, Shao Z, Sun Q, Shen K.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. 
wenchen@fudan.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: One-year adjuvant trastuzumab therapy increases disease-free and 
overall survival in the adjuvant treatment of early HER2-positive breast cancer. 
This study aims to assess the long-term cost-effectiveness of adjuvant 
trastuzumab treatment in Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou.
METHODS: A Markov health-state transition model was constructed to simulate the 
natural development of breast cancer based on HERceptin Adjuvant (HERA) trial, 
estimate costs and disease progression over a lifetime perspective with annual 
transition cycles, and evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 1-year adjuvant 
trastuzumab treatment group compared with the standard adjuvant chemotherapy. 
From the perspective of a China health insurance system, cost was calculated 
based on a survey from clinical expert panels.
RESULTS: On the basis of HERA data, the model results showed that the 
utilization of adjuvant trastuzumab treatment in early breast cancer can prolong 
2.87 life years, compared with the standard chemotherapy group. The incremental 
cost for an additional life-year gained (LYG) was US$7564, US$7933, and US$7929 
in Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou, respectively. If measured by 
quality-adjusted life-year, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 
US$7676, US$8049, and US$8046, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the 1-year adjuvant trastuzumab treatment 
is cost-effective. Both clinical and economic benefits were superior for the 
1-year adjuvant trastuzumab treatment group compared with the standard adjuvant 
chemotherapy group.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00634.x
PMID: 20586989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12 Suppl 3:S85-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00635.x.

Cost-effectiveness study comparing imatinib with interferon-alpha for patients 
with newly diagnosed chronic-phase (CP) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) from the 
Chinese public health-care system perspective (CPHSP).

Chen Z(1), Wang C, Xu X, Feng W.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Fudan University Affiliated Huashan Hospital, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: Imatinib, a breakthrough oral molecular-targeted therapy, has 
demonstrated durable responses and significant survival advantage compared with 
interferon-based treatment. This study compares imatinib with interferon in 
newly diagnosed chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML-CP) patients from 
the Chinese public health-care system perspective (CPHSP).
METHODS: One-year cost responder and lifetime cost-utility analyses were 
conducted, respectively. Complete cytogenetic response was used to define a 
responder. Direct medical costs were included. Response rates as well as 
survival estimates were obtained from published literature.
RESULTS: The cost per responder for interferon was close to 20 times higher than 
that for imatinib. The cost per additional responder was RMB36,545. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) comparing imatinib with interferon 
was RMB73,674 (95% confidence interval RMB67,712-RMB79,637) per quality-adjusted 
life-year.
CONCLUSION: In newly diagnosed CML-CP, the cost per responder for patients 
treated with imatinib is much lower than that for patients treated with 
interferon. In the cost-utility analysis, the ICER is below the 
cost-effectiveness threshold recommended by the World Health Organization for 
developing countries. Therefore, imatinib is more cost-effective than interferon 
from the CPHSP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00635.x
PMID: 20586990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Environ Health Perspect. 2010 Aug;118(8):1109-16. doi: 10.1289/ehp.0901747.
Epub  2010 Jun 11.

Do the health benefits of cycling outweigh the risks?

Johan de Hartog J(1), Boogaard H, Nijland H, Hoek G.

Author information:
(1)University of Utrecht, Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands. J.J.deHartog@uu.nl

Comment in
    Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Mar;119(3):a114; author reply a114-5.

BACKGROUND: Although from a societal point of view a modal shift from car to 
bicycle may have beneficial health effects due to decreased air pollution 
emissions, decreased greenhouse gas emissions, and increased levels of physical 
activity, shifts in individual adverse health effects such as higher exposure to 
air pollution and risk of a traffic accident may prevail.
OBJECTIVE: We describe whether the health benefits from the increased physical 
activity of a modal shift for urban commutes outweigh the health risks.
DATA SOURCES AND EXTRACTION: We have summarized the literature for air 
pollution, traffic accidents, and physical activity using systematic reviews 
supplemented with recent key studies.
DATA SYNTHESIS: We quantified the impact on all-cause mortality when 500,000 
people would make a transition from car to bicycle for short trips on a daily 
basis in the Netherlands. We have expressed mortality impacts in life-years 
gained or lost, using life table calculations. For individuals who shift from 
car to bicycle, we estimated that beneficial effects of increased physical 
activity are substantially larger (3-14 months gained) than the potential 
mortality effect of increased inhaled air pollution doses (0.8-40 days lost) and 
the increase in traffic accidents (5-9 days lost). Societal benefits are even 
larger because of a modest reduction in air pollution and greenhouse gas 
emissions and traffic accidents.
CONCLUSIONS: On average, the estimated health benefits of cycling were 
substantially larger than the risks relative to car driving for individuals 
shifting their mode of transport.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.0901747
PMCID: PMC2920084
PMID: 20587380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2011 Apr;6(2):195-206. doi: 10.1093/scan/nsq056.
Epub  2010 Jun 29.

Older and wiser? An affective science perspective on age-related challenges in 
financial decision making.

Weierich MR(1), Kensinger EA, Munnell AH, Sass SA, Dickerson BC, Wright CI, 
Barrett LF.

Author information:
(1)North Building Room 627B, Hunter College CUNY, 695 Park Avenue, New York, NY 
10065, USA. weierich@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu

Financial planning decisionss are fundamentally affective in nature; they are 
decisions related to money, longevity and quality of life. Over the next several 
decades people will be increasingly responsible for managing their own assets 
and investments, and they will be subject to the affective influences on active, 
personal decision-making. Many of these crucial decisions are made and revised 
across the lifespan, including when to buy or sell a home, how to save for 
childrens' education, how to manage healthcare costs, when to retire, how much 
to save for retirement and how to allocate retirement funds. As average life 
expectancy increases, many retirees will be faced with inadequate savings to 
live comfortably until the end of their lives. In the current article, we 
examine the problems of and potential solutions to inadequate financial planning 
through the lens of affective science, with an emphasis on how brain-based 
changes in affective processing with age might contribute to the challenge of 
financial planning.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nsq056
PMCID: PMC3073391
PMID: 20587596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 2010;50(6):461-5. doi: 10.2176/nmc.50.461.

Clinical analysis of spinal cord injury with or without cervical ossification of 
the posterior longitudinal ligament, spondylosis, and canal stenosis in elderly 
head injury patients.

Nakae R(1), Onda H, Yokobori S, Araki T, Fuse A, Toda S, Kushimoto S, Yokota H, 
Teramoto A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Nippon Medical School, 
Tokyo, Japan. nakae@nms.ac.jp

Patients with degenerative diseases of the cervical spine, such as ossification 
of the posterior longitudinal ligament, spondylosis, and canal stenosis, 
sometimes present with acute spinal cord injury caused by minor trauma. However, 
the relative risk of cervical cord injury with these diseases is unknown. The 
clinical and radiological features of 94 elderly patients with head injury, 57 
men and 37 women aged from 65 to 98 years (mean 76.6 years), were 
retrospectively analyzed to assess the association of spinal cord injury with 
degenerative cervical diseases. Degenerative cervical diseases were present in 
25 patients, and spinal cord injury was more common in the patients with 
degenerative diseases (11/25 patients) than in the patients without such 
diseases (3/69 patients; relative risk = 10.2). The incidence of degenerative 
cervical diseases seems to be increasing in Japan because life expectancy has 
increased and the elderly are a rapidly growing part of the population. A fall 
while walking or cycling is a common mechanism of head injury and/or cervical 
cord injury in the elderly. To decrease the occurrence of cervical myelopathy, 
prevention by increasing social awareness and avoiding traffic accidents and 
falls is important.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.50.461
PMID: 20587969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. AIDS. 2010 Jul 31;24(12):1929-35. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833af85d.

Expanding access to HAART: a cost-effective approach for treating and preventing 
HIV.

Johnston KM(1), Levy AR, Lima VD, Hogg RS, Tyndall MW, Gustafson P, Briggs A, 
Montaner JS.

Author information:
(1)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
