leukemia features renders its classification difficult. Moreover, because of the 
limited knowledge of the mechanisms involved in malignant evolution, chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia remains a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge and a 
poor prognosis disease. We aimed to verify the biological and clinical 
significance of the discrimination, based on the leukocyte count, between 
myelodysplastic chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (MD-CMML) and myeloproliferative 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (MP-CMML).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Peripheral blood samples from 22 patients classified as 
MD-CMML and 18 as MP-CMML were collected at different time points during disease 
course, and patients' clinical characteristics were examined. RAS mutational 
screening was done by sequencing and, for each substitution identified, a highly 
selective allele-specific PCR was set up to screen all specimens.
RESULTS: MP-CMML patients showed a significantly poorer survival (P = 0.003) and 
a higher frequency of RAS mutations (P = 0.033) by sequencing compared with 
MD-CMML. Overall, five MD-CMML patients progressed to myeloproliferative 
disease: in two, allele-specific PCR unveiled low levels of the RAS mutations 
predominating in the myeloproliferative phase at the time of myelodysplastic 
disease, documenting for the first time the expansion of a RAS mutated clone in 
concomitance with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia evolution. Moreover, one of 
the progressed patients harbored the FLT3-ITD and two MP-CMML patients presented 
with the JAK2 V617F substitution. All these lesions were mutually exclusive.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results strongly suggest RAS mutations to function as a 
secondary event that contributes to development of the chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia variant with the poorer prognosis (MP-CMML) and therefore advise their 
detection to be implemented in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia diagnostics and 
monitoring.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-2112
PMID: 20371679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Acta Clin Belg. 2010 Jan-Feb;65(1):13-22. doi: 10.1179/acb.2010.002.

Treatment of adult growth hormone deficiency: who, why and how? A review.

Alexopoulou O(1), Abs R, Maiter D.

Author information:
(1)Departament of Endocrinology, UCL St-Luc University Hospital, Brussels, 
Belgium.

Adult growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) is nowadays recognized as a distinct 
clinical entity and replacement therapy has become a standard practice. 
Reflecting on the accumulated evidence, questions nevertheless arise. Should all 
AGHD patients be treated? What dose of GH should be given and for how long? What 
are the real long-term benefits, in particular regarding life expectancy? if the 
diagnosis of severe GHD is firmly established and if there is no 
contra-indication (such as an active cancer or uncontrolled diabetes), it is 
worthwile initiating GH replacement therapy. Treatment can indeed correct the 
abnormal body composition, improve various adverse cardiovascular parameters and 
risk factors, increase muscle strength and bone mineral density and, although to 
a variable degree, improve the patient's quality of life and psychological 
well-being. Treatment should be started with very low doses to avoid 
side-effects related to fluid retention and should then be gradually titrated 
against IGF-I values, clinical response and individual tolerance.There is 
unfortunately no confirmed predictive factor for the overall therapeutic 
response in a given individual. Thus, the decision to whether or not pursue the 
therapy will depend on the ratio of perceived and expected benefits over cost 
and risks of treatment, as well as on the persistent motivation of the patient.

DOI: 10.1179/acb.2010.002
PMID: 20373593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2010 Mar;102(3):159-68. doi: 
10.4321/s1130-01082010000300002.

Dietary changes and colorectal cancer trends in Spain during 1951-2007.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Béjar Prado LM(1), Gili M, Ramírez G, López J, Cabanillas JL.

Author information:
(1)Preventive Medicine and Public Health Department, University of Seville, 
Seville, Spain. lmbprado@us.es

OBJECTIVES: Analysis of the evolution of colorectal cancer in Spain during the 
period 1951-2007 and its relationship with diet.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Calculation of incidence rates, standardized mortality and 
years of potential life lost (world population) and per capita consumption of 
different foods.
RESULTS: Red and processed meats, poultry, fish and fruits intake has increased 
and consumption of vegetables, cereals and legumes has decreased. The incidence 
of colorectal cancer has steadily increased in both genders, more markedly among 
men, and across all age groups, in contrast to what has been observed in other 
countries. Mortality increased during the period 1951-2000, but from that time 
until 2007 these rates have kept steady in men and fallen in women. The years of 
potential life lost (YPLL) shows a similar distribution to mortality. The 
correlation coefficients have values close to one for consumption of red meat, 
poultry, fish, vegetables and fruits and strongly negative values for the 
consumption of cereals and vegetables with the incidence and mortality in both 
genders, and the YPLL, but only among men, with weaker correlations for women.
CONCLUSIONS: In colorectal cancer, a minimal time span of ten-fifteen years is 
necessary for changes in exposure to risk factors to be able to modify the 
incidence of this tumour. Therefore, Spanish State and Regional Governments 
should implement legislative and educational measures in the field of Health 
Promotion regarding the diet urgently.

DOI: 10.4321/s1130-01082010000300002
PMID: 20373830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Disabil Rehabil. 2010;32(21):1733-41. doi: 10.3109/09638281003746049.

Disability occurrence and proximity to death.

Klijs B(1), Mackenbach JP, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
b.klijs@erasmusmc.nl

PURPOSE: This paper aims to assess whether disability occurrence is related more 
strongly to proximity to death than to age.
METHOD: Self reported disability and vital status were available from six annual 
waves and a subsequent 12-year mortality follow-up of the Dutch GLOBE 
longitudinal study. Logit and Poisson regression methods were used to study 
associations of disability occurrence with age and with proximity to death.
RESULTS: For disability in activities of daily living (ADL), regression models 
with proximity to death had better goodness of fit than models with age. With 
approaching death, the odds for ADL disability prevalence and incidence rates 
increased 20.0% and 18.9% per year, whereas severity increased 4.1% per year. 
For the ages younger than 60, 60-69 and older than 70 years, the odds for ADL 
disability prevalence increased 6.4%, 16.0% and 23.0% per year. Among subjects 
with asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart disease and diabetes 
increases were 25.1%, 19.5% and 22.7% per year. Functional impairments were more 
strongly related to age.
CONCLUSIONS: The strong association of (ADL) disability occurrence with 
proximity to death implies that a substantial part of the disability burden may 
shift to older ages with further increases in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3109/09638281003746049
PMID: 20373858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jan-Feb;31(1):174-85. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10364845.
Epub  2010 Apr 7.

Predicting the EuroQol Group's EQ-5D index from CDC's "Healthy Days" in a US 
sample.

Jia H(1), Zack MM(2), Moriarty DG(2), Fryback DG(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public 
Health, Columbia University, New York, (HJ)
(2)Division of Adult and Community Health, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia (MMZ, DGM)
(3)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
(DGF)

BACKGROUND: Obtaining reliable preference-based scores from the widely used 
Healthy Days measures would enable calculation of quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and cost-utility analyses in many US community populations and over 
time. Previous studies translating the Healthy Days to the EQ-5D, a 
preference-based measure, relied on an indirect method because of a lack of 
population-based survey data that asked both sets of questions of the same 
respondents.
METHOD: Data from the 2005-2006 National Health Measurement Study (NHMS; n = 
3844 adults 35 years old or older) were used to develop regression-based models 
to estimate EQ-5D index scores from self-reported age, self-rated general 
health, and numbers of unhealthy days.
RESULTS: The models explained up to 52% of the variance in the EQ-5D. Estimated 
EQ-5D scores matched well to the observed EQ-5D scores in mean scores overall 
and by age, gender, race/ethnicity, income, education, body mass index, smoking, 
and disease categories. The average absolute differences were 0.005 to 0.006 on 
a health utility scale. After estimating mean EQ-5D index scores overall and for 
various subgroups in a large representative US sample of Healthy Days 
respondents, the authors found that these mean scores also closely matched the 
corresponding mean scores of EQ-5D respondents obtained from another large US 
representative sample with an average absolute difference of 0.013 points.
CONCLUSIONS: This study yielded a mapping algorithm to estimate EQ-5D index 
scores from the Healthy Days measures for populations of adults 35 years old and 
older. Such analysis confirms it is feasible to estimate mean EQ-5D index scores 
with acceptable validity for use in calculating QALYs and cost-utility analyses 
based on the overall model fit and relatively small differences between the 
observed and the estimated mean scores.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10364845
PMID: 20375418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jan-Feb;31(1):43-52. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10364848.
Epub  2010 Apr 7.

The cost effectiveness of a randomized controlled trial to establish the 
relative efficacy of vitamin K1 compared with alendronate.

Stevenson MD(1), Jones ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Bayesian Statistics in Health Economics, Health Economics and 
Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

PURPOSE: The authors aimed to evaluate whether vitamin K(1) or alendronate (the 
recommended treatment in England and Wales for postmenopausal women with a 
previous fracture) appeared to be the more cost-effective treatment for fracture 
prevention. Furthermore, expected value of sample information (EVSI) analyses 
were undertaken to estimate whether a head-to-head trial of alendronate and 
vitamin K(1) would be considered cost effective.
METHOD: A published osteoporosis model structure, populated with data from 
literature reviews, was used to evaluate the costs and quality-adjusted 
life-years associated with each intervention being provided to women at high 
risk of fracture, given current information. A lifetime horizon and a national 
health service and personal social services cost perspective were used. Observed 
outcomes from head-to-head randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of predetermined 
sizes were simulated and synthesized with existing data to formulate posterior 
distributions, which were used to estimate the more cost-effective treatment 
given these additional data. The EVSI was estimated and the expected net benefit 
of sampling (ENBS) calculated by subtracting the proposed trial costs.
RESULTS: Given current information, vitamin K(1) is expected to dominate 
alendronate. However, this was subject to a considerable degree of uncertainty; 
dominance was reversed when it was assumed that vitamin K(1) had no effect on 
hip fractures. EVSI analysis indicated that an RCT of 2000 or 5000 women per arm 
produced high, and comparable, ENBS. These results were maintained in 
sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: It is concluded that an RCT recruiting between 2000 and 5000 women 
per arm to evaluate the relative efficacy of alendronate and vitamin K(1) 
appears to be cost effective for informing decision making in England and Wales.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10364848
PMID: 20375420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. J Water Health. 2010 Sep;8(3):417-30. doi: 10.2166/wh.2010.021. Epub 2010
Mar 9.

Quantitative Microbial Risk Analysis to evaluate health effects of interventions 
in the urban water system of Accra, Ghana.

Labite H(1), Lunani I, van der Steen P, Vairavamoorthy K, Drechsel P, Lens P.

Author information:
(1)Office of Hygiene and Basic Sanitation of Health Ministry, DHAB, 01BP 882 
Cotonou, Benin.

A quantitative microbial risk assessment was applied to evaluate the microbial 
risks of the Accra Urban Water System (AUWS). The exposure assessment was based 
on the count of indicator organisms in waste water from open roadside drains and 
in water and sand samples from the beach. The predicted total disease burden 
generated in a representative catchment of the AUWS (Odaw Catchment) was 36,329 
Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) per year, of which 12 and 88% are caused 
by, respectively, shortcomings in the water supply system and inappropriate 
sanitation. The DALYs per person per year were above the WHO reference value. 
The open roadside drain had the highest contribution to the disease burden. Of 
four possible interventions evaluated for health risk reduction, the highest 
efficiency in terms of DALYs averted per euro invested would be achieved by 
providing covers for the open roadside drains.

DOI: 10.2166/wh.2010.021
PMID: 20375471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2010 Apr;20(3):385-92. doi:
10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181d189b8.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of prophylactic cervical cancer vaccination in 
Japanese women.

Konno R(1), Sasagawa T, Fukuda T, Van Kriekinge G, Demarteau N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Saitama Medical Centre, Jichi 
Medical University, Saitama.

INTRODUCTION: The incidence of cervical cancer (CC) is high in Japan and is 
further increasing among women younger than 30 years. This burden could be 
reduced by the implementation of a CC vaccine, but its cost-effectiveness is 
unknown.
METHODS: We quantified the clinical impact and assessed the cost-effectiveness 
of adding CC vaccination at age 12 to the current screening in place in Japan 
with a lifetime Markov model adapted to the Japanese setting. Transition 
probabilities and utility values were obtained from public databases. Direct 
costs for treatment and screening were estimated using Japanese medical fees. 
Annual costs and benefits were discounted at 3%. Sensitivity analyses were 
conducted on the age at vaccination, the vaccine characteristics, the discount 
rates, the proportion of human papillomavirus types 16/18 in cancer, and the 
screening coverage.
RESULTS: Vaccinating a 12-year-old cohort was predicted to reduce CC incidence 
and deaths from CC by 73%. These clinical effects were associated with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of yen1.8 million per quality-adjusted life 
year gained. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of vaccinating all 10- to 
45-year-old women was yen2.8 million per quality-adjusted life year, still below 
the threshold value.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of a CC vaccination in Japan could reduce the CC 
burden in a very cost-effective manner for women up to 45 years.

DOI: 10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181d189b8
PMID: 20375802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Indian Soc Periodontol. 2009 Jan;13(1):27-9. doi: 10.4103/0972-124X.51891.

Implant success!!!.....simplified.

Luthra KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor and Head of the Department, Department of Periodontology and 
Implantology, M.M.College of Dental Sciences and Research, Mullana, Ambala, 
India.

The endeavor towards life-like restoration has helped nurture new vistas in the 
art and science of implant dentistry. The protocol of "restoration-driven 
implant placement" ensures that the implant is an apical extension of the ideal 
future restoration and not the opposite. Meticulous pre-implant evaluation of 
soft and hard tissues, diagnostic cast and use of aesthetic wax-up and 
radiographic template combined with surgical template can simplify the intricate 
roadmap for appropriate implant treatment.By applying the harmony of artistic 
skill, scientific knowledge and clinical expertise, we can simply master the 
outstanding implant success in requisites of aesthetics, phonetics and function.

DOI: 10.4103/0972-124X.51891
PMCID: PMC2846671
PMID: 20376237

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


942. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2010 Jan-Feb;84(1):13-28. doi: 
10.1590/s1135-57272010000100003.

[Geopolitical development inequalities in gender in Spain 1980-2005: a 
structural determinant of health].

[Article in Spanish]

Carrasco-Portiño M(1), Ruiz Cantero MT, Fernández Sáez J, Clemente Gómez V, Roca 
Pérez V.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación de Salud Pública, Universidad de Alicante, Alicante, 
España. mercedes.carrasco@ua.es

BACKGROUND: Gender is a structural health determinant. This study analyses the 
changes in gender development inequalities in Spain and its regions (1980-2005).
METHODS: Ecological study of the evolution of Gender Development Index and its 
components (Education, Income, Life Expectancy at Birth) by sex in Spain and its 
regions (1980-2005). Information Source: Gender Development Index (1980-2005) 
from the Human Capital Report, plus construction ad hoc of the Gender 
Development Index 2005 following the same methodology of Human Capital Report.
INFORMATION SOURCES: National Statistics Institute, Active Population Survey, 
Municipal Register, Ministry of Education, Universities Council, EUROSTAT, and 
Wage Structure Survey.
RESULTS: Spanish Gender Development Index 2005:0,903 and 1980:0,810. The range 
between regions under Spanish Gender Development Index was 3 times higher in 
1980 (DifferenceC.Valenciana-Extremadura:0,068) than in 2005 
(DifferenceAsturias-Extremadura:0,023). The regions above the Spanish Gender 
Development Index did not vary much. The three components (Education, Income, 
Life Expectancy at Birth) of the Gender Development Index improved from 1980 to 
2005. The Spanish Education Index of men was higher than this value in women 
until 1985; later this index becomes higher in women than in men. The Spanish 
Income Index of women in 2005 (0,814) is inferior to that of men 25 years before 
(1980:0,867).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the improvement of the gender development happened in Spain 
between 1980 and 2005, the inter-regional inequalities between north-south 
persist. In 2005, women have more education level than men. However, the Spanish 
income media in women in 2005 are inferior to the media of the men in 1980.

DOI: 10.1590/s1135-57272010000100003
PMID: 20376410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Ecohealth. 2010 Aug;7(1):14-7. doi: 10.1007/s10393-010-0306-1. Epub 2010 Apr
8.

Warmer waters in the Northern Territory--herald an earlier onset to the annual 
Chironex fleckeri Stinger season.

Jacups SP(1).

Author information:
(1)School for Environmental Research, Institute of Advanced Studies, Charles 
Darwin University, Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia. 
Susan.Jacups@cdu.edu.au

The discovery that Chironex fleckeri occurs annually in northern Australia 
occurred long ago, possibly before written records were available by local 
indigenous people, however, to date the precision of this yearly phenomenon is 
still not fully understood. Sea surface temperature (SST) appears to be a 
determining factor signaling the "arrival" of C. fleckeri each year. 
Anthropogenic climate change modeling predicts global rises in SST. Rises in SST 
may result in an earlier "arrival" of C. fleckeri during the dry season, 
possibly necessitating extension of the official Northern Territory stinger 
season to commence in September (currently October through to June). This short 
report presents data to support this hypothesis, facilitating policy makers with 
an environmental cue upon which changes to current stinger season can be 
based--prior to painful and potentially life-threatening presentations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10393-010-0306-1
PMID: 20376549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2009 Dec;17(4):171-4. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a3531.

Fall of the iron curtain: male life expectancy in Slovakia, in the Czech 
Republic and in Europe.

Ginter E(1), Simko V, Wsolova L.

Author information:
(1)Slovak Medical University, Bratislava, Slovakia. ginter.emil@mail.t-com.sk

Year 1989, the fall of communism, represents a dramatic watershed. Changes and 
reforms reflected also upon the quality of health care and the health of 
populations living on eastern side of the divide. Until then, Eastern Europe had 
free socialized medicine, albeit troubled by lack of up-to-date medications and 
absence of modern diagnostic equipment. Noting the admirable progress in health 
in some regions of the former Soviet empire during its transformation provides 
invaluable sociological lesson. Furthermore, focusing on health trends in two 
Central European countries, the Czech republic (CZ) and Slovakia (SK), brings 
about another quality to such evaluation. Dramatic improvement in the life 
expectancy (LE) is represented mainly in the decrease of cardiovascular 
mortality, more in the Czech Republic than in Slovakia. Favorable trend of male 
LE in the Czech Republic exceeded several established West European countries, 
while in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine the life expectancy actually deteriorated. 
When life expectancy in Slovakia is compared with the Czech Republic, its poorer 
outcome results from a higher cardiovascular mortality, as well as from liver, 
digestive and respiratory disorders. Root causes of this difference are possibly 
in a marked difference in funding of health care between SK and CZ, higher 
consumption of alcohol and cigarettes, as well as in a sizeable disadvantaged 
Roma minority in Slovakia.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a3531
PMID: 20377041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2009 Dec;17(4):232.

Millions of premature deaths can be prevented by tackling global health risks.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20377056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Insur Med. 2009;41(3):178-90.

Rating the raters: evaluating the predictions from a life expectancy rating 
service.

Shavelle R(1), Strauss D.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 - 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122, USA. 
Shavelle@LifeExpectancy.org

There is a growing market for the resale of life insurance policies to third 
party investors. A key factor in the valuation of a policy is how long the 
insured is likely to live. Various commercial rating services offer to provide 
estimates of individuals' likely longevity, but the reliability of their 
estimates has rarely been correctly evaluated. The question is how to compare 
the estimates provided for a large group of policy-holders with the observed 
"truth data"--the actual mortality experience observed during follow-up. Various 
approaches to this have been used in practice, some of them quite wrong. The 
correct method does not seem to be practiced or widely known in the life 
settlement industry. It is based on a comparison of observed and expected deaths 
computed on the basis of person-years of exposure rather than of individual 
persons. The method is explained in detail here and illustrated with the results 
from a large portfolio of policies.

PMID: 20377097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Am J Psychol. 2010 Spring;123(1):1-13. doi: 10.5406/amerjpsyc.123.1.0001.

The effect of age and sex on the perception of time in life.

Hancock PA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Central Florida, Department of Psychology, Orlando, FL 
32816-1390, USA. phancock@mail.ucf.edu

As a measure of their personal perception of time in life, 320 participants 
complete the Lines Test. Participants were asked to mark off on a line their 
perceived present life location between the endpoint anchors of birth and death. 
The percentage of the life span marked was compared with actuarial life 
expectancy to establish a quantitative degree of difference for each respondent. 
Results indicated a significant sex difference in which women across the age 
range investigated were more accurate as to their life location. Results also 
showed a significant age effect in which older participants consistently 
underestimated their location to a much greater degree than their younger peers. 
A second investigation presented an amended version of the traditional Lines 
Test and scaled the actuarial life span to each participant's specific age. The 
pattern of findings was replicated by this procedure. Reasons for this overall 
pattern of results are discussed in terms of what is currently understood about 
the perception of short intervals of time and the perception of duration across 
the life span.

DOI: 10.5406/amerjpsyc.123.1.0001
PMID: 20377122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Milbank Q. 2010 Mar;88(1):30-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2010.00588.x.

A healthy bottom line: healthy life expectancy as an outcome measure for health 
improvement efforts.

Stiefel MC(1), Perla RJ, Zell BL.

Author information:
(1)Kaiser Permanente, One Kaiser Plaza, 18th Floor, Oakland, CA 94612, USA. 
matt.stiefel@kp.org

CONTEXT: Good health is the most important outcome of health care, and healthy 
life expectancy (HLE), an intuitive and meaningful summary measure combining the 
length and quality of life, has become a standard in the world for measuring 
population health.
METHODS: This article critically reviews the literature and practices around the 
world for measuring and improving HLE and synthesizes that information as a 
basis for recommendations for the adoption and adaptation of HLE as an outcome 
measure in the United States.
FINDINGS: This article makes the case for adoption of HLE as an outcome measure 
at the national, state, community, and health care system levels in the United 
States to compare the effectiveness of alternative practices, evaluate 
disparities, and guide resource allocation.
CONCLUSIONS: HLE is a clear, consistent, and important population health outcome 
measure that can enable informed judgments about value for investments in health 
care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2010.00588.x
PMCID: PMC2888015
PMID: 20377757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Popul Trends. 2010 Spring;(139):91-114. doi: 10.1057/pt.2010.7.

2008-based national population projections for the United Kingdom and 
constituent countries.

Wright E(1).

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

The 2008-based national population projections, produced by the Office for 
National Statistics in consultation with the devolved administrations, show the 
population of the UK rising from 61.4 million in 2008 to 65.6 million in 2018 
and 71.6 million by 2033. In the longer-term, the projections suggest that the 
population will continue rising beyond 2033 for the full length of the 
projection period. The population will become older with the median age expected 
to rise from 39.3 years in 2008 to 42.2 years by 2033. Despite the forthcoming 
changes to state pension age, the number of people of working age for every 
person of state pensionable age will reduce from 3.23 in 2008 to 2.78 by 
2033.List of tables, 93.

DOI: 10.1057/pt.2010.7
PMID: 20379280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2009 Dec;11(6):970-8. doi: 
10.1590/s0124-00642009000600013.

[The economic cost of avoidable mortality in Cartagena, Colombia, 2000-2005].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvis-Guzmán N(1), Alvis-Estrada L.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Investigaciones Económicas y Sociales-DIES, Universidad de 
Cartagena, Colombia. nalvis@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: Evaluating the economic cost of loss of human capital produced by 
preventable deaths in Cartagena, 2000-2005, from estimating years of potential 
life lost (YPLL) and the percentage of years of potential productive life lost 
(YPPLL).
METHODS: This was a mixed ecological study, using 2000-2005 time series. 
Mortality data was taken from the Colombian National Administrative Department 
of Statistics (DANE) records. Cases of preventable death were classified 
according to Taucher's guidelines. YPLL and YPPLL were used as indicators. 
Deaths were adjusted by adopting WHO-recommended Bennett-Horiuchi methodology 
for accounting for underreporting. Two scenarios were assumed: a minimum or flat 
scenario and an upper or roof scenario. Once YPLL for each annual period had 
been established, they were multiplied by minimum income according to scenario. 
Epidat 3.0 software was used for analysing the database.
RESULTS: There were 20,723 preventable deaths (adjusted for underreporting). One 
out of every three preventable deaths which occurred in Cartagena could have 
been averted by early diagnosis and medical treatment, according to Taucher. 
Violent deaths are the kind of avoidable deaths which produce higher costs 
according to the information processing (IPC) model adopted in this study.
CONCLUSIONS: Reducing preventable deaths by early diagnosis and medical 
treatment would cause a significant reduction in avoidable mortality.

DOI: 10.1590/s0124-00642009000600013
PMID: 20379670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Soc Work Health Care. 2010;49(4):327-44. doi: 10.1080/00981380903520434.

Aging with hemophilia: implications for social work practice.

Allen KN(1), Kachalsky E.

Author information:
(1)Social Work Program, Oakland University, Rochester, Michigan, USA. 
neuman2@oakland.edu

Individuals with hemophilia and other congenital bleeding disorders are 
surviving beyond any life expectancy previously predicted and now face 
conditions associated with "normal" aging. Hemophilia along with co-morbid 
conditions of HIV and Hepatitis C complicate treatment for heart disease, 
cancer, kidney disease, and other age-related diseases. Lack of understanding of 
the condition, its treatment, and its costs hampers care, particularly when 
patients are treated outside of specialty clinics. This article provides an 
overview of bleeding disorders with a special focus on aging considerations. The 
role of social work in specialized hemophilia treatment centers is described and 
suggestions made to other social workers who may encounter this population in 
their practice. Finally, the need for policy and advocacy strategies is also 
addressed.

DOI: 10.1080/00981380903520434
PMID: 20379903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):W3-5. doi: 10.1080/15265161003697362.

Response to open peer commentaries on "Complete lives in the balance".

Kerstein SJ(1), Bognar G.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland, Department of Philosophy, College Park, MD 20742, 
USA. kerstein@umd.edu

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003697362
PMID: 20379911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45. doi: 10.1080/15265160903581718.

Complete lives in the balance.

Kerstein SJ(1), Bognar G.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland, Department of Philosophy, College Park, MD 20742, 
USA. kerstein@umd.edu

Comment in
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):W3-5.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):46-8.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):48-50.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):50-2.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):52-4.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):54-6.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):56-8.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):58-60.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):60-1.

The allocation of scarce health care resources such as flu treatment or organs 
for transplant presents stark problems of distributive justice. Persad, 
Wertheimer, and Emanuel have recently proposed a novel system for such 
allocation. Their "complete lives system" incorporates several principles, 
including ones that prescribe saving the most lives, preserving the most 
life-years, and giving priority to persons between 15 and 40 years old. This 
paper argues that the system lacks adequate moral foundations. Persad and 
colleagues' defense of giving priority to those between 15 and 40 leaves them 
open to the charge that they discriminate unfairly against children. Second, the 
paper contends that the complete lives system fails to provide meaningful 
practical guidance in central cases, since it contains no method for balancing 
its principles when they conflict. Finally, the paper proposes a new method for 
balancing principles of saving the most lives and maximizing life-years.

DOI: 10.1080/15265160903581718
PMID: 20379920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):48-50. doi: 10.1080/15265161003632971.

Balancing principles, QALYs, and the straw men of resource allocation.

McMillan J(1), Hope T.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia. 
john.mcmillan@flinders.edu.au

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003632971
PMID: 20379922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):50-2. doi: 10.1080/15265161003633029.

Complete lives, short lives, and the challenge of legitimacy.

Menzel PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Pacific Lutheran University, Coupeville, WA 98239-4006, USA. menzelpt@plu.edu

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003633029
PMID: 20379923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):52-4. doi: 10.1080/15265161003633060.

Assessing the modified youngest-first principle and the idea of non-persons at 
the bedside: a clinical perspective.

Sayeed SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Ethics, Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. sadath sayeed@hms.harvard.edu

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003633060
PMID: 20379924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):54-6. doi: 10.1080/15265161003632989.

Dueling ethical frameworks for allocating health resources.

Vawter DE(1), Garrett JE, Gervais KG, Prehn AW, DeBruin DA.

Author information:
(1)Minnesota Center for Health Care Ethics, St. Paul, MN 55105, USA. 
vawter@mnhealthethics.org

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003632989
PMID: 20379925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):56-8. doi: 10.1080/15265161003633045.

Balancing relevant criteria in allocating scarce life-saving interventions.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health, Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, 
1403, Norway. erik.nord@fhi.no

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003633045
PMID: 20379926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):58-60. doi: 10.1080/15265161003632997.

Complete lives, incomplete theories.

Friedman A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307, USA. alexander.w.friedman@gmail.com

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003632997
PMID: 20379927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):60-1. doi: 10.1080/15265161003697305.

Priority to the young or to those with least lifetime health?

Norheim OF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Health Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen. Ole.Norheim@isf.uib.no

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Apr;10(4):37-45.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003697305
PMID: 20379928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Disabil Rehabil. 2010;32(12):1020-7. doi: 10.3109/09638281003775535.

Value for money - recasting the problem in terms of dynamic access 
prioritisation.

Taylor WJ(1), Laking G.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Teaching and Research Unit, University of Otago Wellington, 
Wellington, New Zealand. will.taylor@otago.ac.nz

PURPOSE: To develop an approach for achieving value for money in rehabilitation 
based on dynamic prioritisation of access to services according to individual 
capacity to benefit.
METHOD: A critical review of economic evaluation and adaptation of a 
prioritisation method used in determining access to elective surgical services 
in New Zealand to a rehabilitation context.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness frontier is not straight but curved, suggesting 
that some people benefit more from a given intervention than others. An approach 
that identifies those most likely to benefit from inpatient rehabilitation 
following stroke (as an example) and enables access in order of capacity to 
benefit is presented in the context of a quality improvement programme. The 
approach is operationalised as a prioritisation tool that is dynamic in the 
sense that is can be reapplied subject to changes in the patient's clinical 
status. The steps proposed to develop such a tool include qualitative research 
with expert clinicians, pair-wise comparison of alternative scenarios (1000Minds 
survey), construction of an economic model of the tool's operation and an 
observational cohort study to help populate the model and calibrate the tool.
CONCLUSION: A dynamic prioritisation approach to guide access to scarce 
health-care resources (such as inpatient rehabilitation following stroke) offers 
a transparent and equitable way of achieving value for money in the delivery of 
rehabilitation services.

DOI: 10.3109/09638281003775535
PMID: 20380596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Dig Liver Dis. 2010 Sep;42(9):642-9. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.02.010. Epub
2010  Apr 8.

The survival benefit of liver transplantation in hepatocellular carcinoma 
patients.

Cillo U(1), Vitale A, Volk ML, Frigo AC, Grigoletto F, Brolese A, Zanus G, 
D'Amico F, Farinati F, Burra P, Russo F, Angeli P, D'Amico DF.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Chirurgia Epatobiliare e Trapianto Epatico, Azienda Ospedaliera - 
Università di Padova, Via Giustiniani 2, 35128 Padova, Italy. 
alessandro.vitale@unipd.it

Comment in
    Dig Liver Dis. 2010 Sep;42(9):608-10.

BACKGROUND: There are no studies evaluating the survival benefit of liver 
transplantation over alternative therapies for patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma.
METHODS: The short- to mid-term survival benefit (study group=135 aggressively 
treated patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 52% beyond Milan criteria at 
pathology) was calculated by comparing the mortality rates of liver 
transplantation vs alternative therapies patients. A Markov prediction model was 
then created to estimate the long-term survival benefit of liver transplantation 
(gain in life expectancy) over alternative therapies. The long-term survival 
rates in the liver transplantation group were calculated using the Metroticket 
website calculator (http://89.96.76.14/metroticket/calculator/).
RESULTS: The short- to mid-term analysis indicated that liver transplantation 
afforded no significant survival benefit in the group of patients with hepatoma 
as a whole (hazard ratio=1.229, 95% confidence interval 0.544-2.773, p=.6200). 
The benefit was concentrated in patients with a poor initial response to 
alternative therapies (hazard ratio=3.137, 95% confidence interval 1.428-6.891, 
p=.0044). In the long-term analysis, the gain in life expectancy of liver 
transplantation vs alternative therapies was 6.115 years (base-case analysis) 
and the main determinants of gain in life expectancy were the 5-year survival 
prospects after alternative therapies and the patient's age.
CONCLUSIONS: The survival benefit of liver transplantation for patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma is strongly related to the patient's age and the 
effectiveness of available alternative therapies.

Copyright (c) 2010 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.02.010
PMID: 20381438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Appetite. 2010 Oct;55(2):355-8. doi: 10.1016/j.appet.2010.03.016. Epub 2010
Apr  9.

Pre-existent expectancy effects in the relationship between caffeine and 
performance.

Elliman NA(1), Ash J, Green MW.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Behaviour Laboratory, Psychology Institute, School of Life and 
Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, UK. n.elliman@aston.ac.uk

The present study investigated the impact of pre-existent expectancy regarding 
the effects of the caffeine load of a drink and the perception of the caffeine 
content on subjective mood and vigilance performance. Caffeine deprived 
participants (N=25) were tested in four conditions (within subjects design), 
using a 2×2 design, with caffeine load and information regarding the caffeine 
content of the drink. In two sessions, they were given caffeinated coffee and in 
two were given decaffeinated coffee. Within these two conditions, on one 
occasion they were given accurate information about the drink and on the other 
they were given inaccurate information about the drink. Mood and vigilance 
performance were assessed post ingestion. Caffeine was found to enhance 
performance, but only when participants were accurately told they were receiving 
it. When decaffeinated coffee was given, performance was poorer, irrespective of 
expectancy. However, when caffeine was given, but participants were told it was 
decaffeinated coffee, performance was as poor as when no caffeine had been 
administered. There were no easily interpretable effects on mood. The 
pharmacological effects of caffeine appear to act synergistically with 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.appet.2010.03.016
PMID: 20382192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Genetics. 2010 Jun;185(2):559-71. doi: 10.1534/genetics.110.115378. Epub
2010  Apr 9.

Decreased energy metabolism extends life span in Caenorhabditis elegans without 
reducing oxidative damage.

Van Raamsdonk JM(1), Meng Y, Camp D, Yang W, Jia X, Bénard C, Hekimi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3A 1B1, Canada.

On the basis of the free radical and rate of living theories of aging, it has 
been proposed that decreased metabolism leads to increased longevity through a 
decreased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this article, we 
examine the relationship between mitochondrial energy metabolism and life span 
by using the Clk mutants in Caenorhabditis elegans. Clk mutants are 
characterized by slow physiologic rates, delayed development, and increased life 
span. This phenotype suggests that increased life span may be achieved by 
decreasing energy expenditure. To test this hypothesis, we identified six novel 
Clk mutants in a screen for worms that have slow defecation and slow development 
and that can be maternally rescued. Interestingly, all 11 Clk mutants have 
increased life span despite the fact that slow physiologic rates were used as 
the only screening criterion. Although mitochondrial function is decreased in 
the Clk mutants, ATP levels are normal or increased, suggesting decreased energy 
utilization. To determine whether the longevity of the Clk mutants results from 
decreased production of ROS, we examined sensitivity to oxidative stress and 
oxidative damage. We found no evidence for systematically increased resistance 
to oxidative stress or decreased oxidative damage in the Clk mutants despite 
normal or elevated levels of superoxide dismutases. Overall, our findings 
suggest that decreased energy metabolism can lead to increased life span without 
decreased production of ROS.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.110.115378
PMCID: PMC2881137
PMID: 20382831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Health Stat Q. 2010 Spring;(45):28-56. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.3.

Inequalities in healthy life expectancy by social class and area type: England, 
2001-03.

White C(1), Edgar G.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: Healthy life expectancy (HLE) is an important indicator which 
combines longevity with health status. This article examines inequalities in HLE 
by socio-economic position in England, and between Local Authorities (LAs) in 
the deprived 'Spearhead group' and other LAs.
METHODS: Census and vital event data available from the ONS Longitudinal Study 
were used to calculate estimates of HLE based on general health status for each 
Registrar General's Social Class (RGSC) in 2001-03, in England as a whole and 
within the 'Spearhead group' and non-Spearhead LAs.
RESULTS: A predominantly linear relationship was present with HLE increasing 
with rising social class. The differences observed in HLE at birth and at age 65 
between people assigned to the professional and unskilled manual social classes 
were statistically significant and substantial, demonstrating a clear social 
inequality in the amount of life, the quality of those years lived, the absolute 
number of healthy life years, and thus the relative proportion of life spent in 
'Good' or 'Fairly Good' health.HLEs at birth were statistically significantly 
higher for women than for men in the non-Spearhead LAs for all social classes; 
however, in the 'Spearhead group' of areas higher HLEs in women were only 
present among the skilled non-manual, skilled manual and partly skilled social 
classes. This suggests that an interaction effect between sex and area in the 
level of HLE may be operating.The magnitude of inequality in HLE between 
professionals and the unskilled manual class in the proportion of life spent in 
'Good' or 'Fairly Good' health also varied between the 'Spearhead group' and 
non-Spearhead LAs: among men, a difference of 6.6 per cent was present in 
non-Spearhead LAs, compared with 10.6 per cent in the 'Spearhead group'; among 
women, the equivalent differences were 5.3 per cent and 7.6 per cent.
CONCLUSIONS: The within-class HLEs for men and women were lower in the 
'Spearhead group' compared with the non-Spearhead LAs, and statistically 
significantly lower among the intervening social classes for men; among women 
they are significant for all social classes other than the professional class. 
The scale of inequalities shown is important for policy responses and 
understanding of differences in service needs.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.3
PMID: 20383164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Health Stat Q. 2010 Spring;(45):57-80. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.4.

Inequalities in disability-free life expectancy by social class and area type: 
England, 2001-03.

White C(1), Edgar G.

