(1)Núcleo de Ensino e Pesquisa da Santa Casa de Belo Horizonte. Hospital Eduardo 
de Menezes - FHEMIG, Belo Horizonte, MG.

Primary neurological complications of AIDS include cognitive deficits such as 
HIV-associated dementia and milder forms such as cognitive/motor disorders, 
which cause changes in daily activities and reduce the quality of life of 
patients. Infection with HIV-1 is the most common, predictable and treatable 
cause of cognitive deficits in individuals with less than 50 years of age. 
Despite advances in the understanding of clinical characteristics, pathogenesis 
and neurobiological aspects and widespread use of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART), neurological complications and cognitive deficits still persist 
with serious personal and socioeconomic consequences, thus representing a great 
therapeutic challenge. In the pre-HAART era dementia was a common complication 
of infection whose incidence declined during the HAART era. However, prevalence 
of dementia has increased, especially that of milder forms due to the increased 
number of infected individuals and increased life expectancy. Cognitive 
alterations associated with HIV are typically sub cortical and can be associated 
with behavioral and motor disorders. These syndromes are clinically diagnosed by 
neuropsychological tests, while neuroimaging and analysis of cerebrospinal fluid 
contribute to diagnosis. This review is an update on current epidemiological 
status, clinical characteristics and diagnosis of cognitive complications 
observed during the course of HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302010000200027
PMID: 20499003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2010 Jun;94(6):738-46. doi:
10.1590/s0066-782x2010005000055.  Epub 2010 May 28.

A strategy to improve the cardiovascular risk factor profile in renal transplant 
patients.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Leite D(1), Campos AH.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, SP, Brasil. leitedenise@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease represents the leading cause of morbidity, 
mortality and graft function loss in renal transplant recipients (RTR). 
Aggressive treatment of risk factors is strongly advocated. However, there is a 
gap between recommended evidence-based therapy and effective cardiovascular 
management in that population.
OBJECTIVE: To establish a cardiovascular risk factor control strategy for RTR.
METHODS: The cardiovascular risk of 300 RTR of a renal transplant unit was 
assessed using the Framingham criteria. Interventions on modifiable risk factors 
were suggested to attending physicians by letters attached to patients' charts, 
including lifestyle modifications, blood pressure control and use of 
antiplatelet and lipid-lowering therapy. Risk factor profiles were re-evaluated 
after 6 and 12 months.
RESULTS: Most patients were at high cardiovascular risk (58%). After 12 months, 
the proportion of patients on antiplatelet, antihypertensive and lipid-lowering 
therapy was significantly increased (29 to 51%, 83 to 92% and 3 to 46%, p < 
0.001, respectively). Total cholesterol and triglyceride levels decreased (237 
to 215 mg/dl, p = 0.001 and 244 to 221 mg/dl, p = 0.03). Although a 
non-significant reduction in LDL levels was observed (136 to 116 mg/dl, p = 
0.12), patients starting statins within the first 6 months of the study 
presented a significant 25% reduction in LDL (159 to 119 mg/dl, p < 0.001). The 
proportion of patients with complete plasma lipid evaluation was also increased 
(27% to 49%, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that a simple, inexpensive strategy 
significantly improves the cardiovascular risk profile of RTR, potentially 
translating into marked benefits for long-term graft function and life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2010005000055
PMID: 20499008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2010 Mar-Apr;138(3-4):170-6. doi: 10.2298/sarh1004170m.

[Recurrence of atrial fibrillation after successful radiofrequency catheter 
ablation of accessory pathway in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome].

[Article in Serbian]

Mujović N, Grujić M, Mrdja S, Kocijancić A, Vujisić-Tesić B, Petrović M, Potpara 
T, Mujović N.

INTRODUCTION: Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) occurs in 11.5-39% of the 
patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome and frequently, but not 
always, disappears after successful accessory pathway (AP) ablation.
OBJECTIVE: To determine AF recurrence rate, time to AF recurrence and predictors 
of AF recurrence after radiofrequency (RF) catheter-ablation of AP in 
WPW-patients with AF.
METHODS: Data from 245 consecutive patients with WPW-syndrome who underwent RF 
catheter-ablation of AP were analysed. A total of 52 patients (43 men, mean age: 
42.5 +/- 14.1 years) with preablation history of spontaneous AF were followed up 
after definitive AP ablation. At baseline, structural heart disease and 
comorbidities were diagnosed in 19.2% and 21.2% of the patients, respectively.
RESULTS: During the follow-up of 5.2-3.7 years, 3 patients (5.7%) died; one of 
these patients, previously known for recurrent AF, died from ischaemic stroke. 
Symptomatic recurrence of AF was detected in 9 of 52 patients (17.3%). In 66.7% 
of these patients, AF recurrence was identified in the first year following the 
procedure. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated that freedom from recurrent AF 
after 3 months was 94.2%, after 1 year 87.5% and after 4 years 84.3%. Univariate 
analysis showed that older age (p = 0.023), presence of structural heart disease 
(p = 0.05) and dilated left atrium (p = 0.013) were significantly related to AF 
recurrence. However, using multivariate Cox regression, older age was the only 
independent predictor of AF recurrence (HR = 2.44 for every life decade; p = 
0.006). Analysis of ROC curves showed that, after the age of 36, the risk of AF 
recurrence abruptly increased.
CONCLUSION: Symptomatic recurrence of AF was detected in 17% of WPW-patients 
after definite RF ablation of AP. The time-dependent occurrence of AF 
recurrences and age-dependent increase in the rate of AF recurrence were 
identified. Closer follow-up and/or extension of drug therapy in older patients, 
at least in the first year after the procedure, seem prudent.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh1004170m
PMID: 20499496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. J Health Care Finance. 2009 Winter;36(2):71-82.

Confronting the challenges of long-term health care crisis in the United States.

Hussain A(1), Rivers PA.

Author information:
(1)College of Applied Sciences & Arts, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, 
IL, USA.

This article examines the factors that comprise long-term health care and the 
impact that the aging population will have in dramatically increasing the costs 
of long-term health care in the United States if current health policies are not 
amended. It further analyzes the reasons that will cause the health care 
expenditures to expand. It also discusses the economic challenges and the impact 
that absent reform can have on state and federal budgets, ultimately affecting 
the national economy. Aside from that, this article presents numerous options 
that communities across the nation can embark on to reduce health care costs and 
it briefly glances at the proposed legislation called America's Affordable 
Health Choices Act of 2009 that was submitted by the House Committee on Ways and 
Means and in summary discusses the key features of the bill.

PMID: 20499723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Aug;64(9):1228-34. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02445.x.  Epub 2010 May 24.

The economic consequences of non-adherence to lipid-lowering therapy: results 
from the Anglo-Scandinavian-Cardiac Outcomes Trial.

Lindgren P(1), Eriksson J, Buxton M, Kahan T, Poulter NR, Dahlöf B, Sever PS, 
Wedel H, Jönsson B; ASCOT trial investigators.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. Peter.lindgren@i3innovus.com

BACKGROUND: Adherence to lipid-lowering therapy in clinical practice is less 
than ideal. Analysis of registry data has indicated that this is associated with 
poor outcomes. The objective of the present analysis was to assess the impact of 
high adherence to drug (defined as > 80% of days covered), compared with low 
adherence to drug (< 50% of days covered) in terms of risk of events and 
long-term economic consequences.
DESIGN: Open-label follow up of a randomised placebo-controlled trial in 
hypertensive patients.
METHODS: Cox proportional hazards and Poisson regression models were used to 
assess the hazard ratio of patients with high adherence compared with low 
adherence while controlling for cardiovascular risk. A Markov model was used to 
predict the long-term costs and health outcomes associated with poor adherence 
during the follow-up period.
RESULTS: Both statistical models indicated that high adherence is associated 
with improved prognosis [Cox model: 0.75; 95% confidence interval (CI): 
0.56-0.98, Poisson model hazard ratio: 0.73; 95% CI: 0.58-0.98]. Discounted at 
3.5% per year, the Markov model predicts that as a consequence of higher 
adherence during the follow-up period, costs would be higher (1689 pounds per 
patient compared with 1323 pounds per patient) because of higher drug costs, but 
the projected survival and quality-adjusted survival (QALY) would also be longer 
(10.83 compared with 10.81 life years and 8.13 compared with 8.11 QALYs).
CONCLUSION: Given the higher risk of cardiovascular events associated with low 
adherence shown here, measures to improve adherence are an important part of the 
prevention of cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02445.x
PMID: 20500533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Liver Int. 2010 Aug;30(7):948-57. doi: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2010.02274.x.
Epub  2010 May 26.

Cardiovascular risk factors following orthotopic liver transplantation: 
predisposing factors, incidence and management.

Desai S(1), Hong JC, Saab S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Liver transplantation is the standard of care for acute and chronic 
causes of end-stage liver disease. Advances in medical therapy and surgical 
techniques have led to improvement of patient and graft survival rates following 
orthotopic liver transplantation. However, the prevalence of post-transplant 
cardiovascular complications has been rising with increased life expectancy 
after liver transplantation.
AIMS: To determine the incidences, risk factors, and treatment for hypertension, 
hyperlipidaemia, diabetes, and obesity in the post-liver transplantation 
population.
METHODS: We performed a review of relevant studies available on the PubMed 
database that provided information on the incidence, risk factors and treatment 
for cardiovascular complications that develop in the post-liver transplantation 
population.
RESULTS: Current immunosuppressive agents have improved patient and graft 
survival rates. However, long-term exposure to these agents has been associated 
with development of systemic and metabolic complications including hypertension, 
hyperlipidaemia, diabetes mellitus and obesity. Cardiovascular disease remains 
one of the most common causes of death in liver transplant patients with 
functional grafts.
CONCLUSIONS: Liver transplant recipients have a higher risk of cardiovascular 
complications compared with the nontransplant population. Post-transplant 
cardiac risk stratification and aggressive treatment of cardiovascular 
complications, including modification of risk factors and tailoring of 
immunosuppressive regimen, is imperative to prevent serious complications.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2010.02274.x
PMID: 20500807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Food Prot. 2010 May;73(5):812-8. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-73.5.812.

Incorporation of preservatives in polylactic acid films for inactivating 
Escherichia coli O157:H7 and extending microbiological shelf life of strawberry 
puree.

Jin T(1), Zhang H, Boyd G.

Author information:
(1)Food Safety Intervention Technologies Research Unit, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Eastern Regional Research Center, 
600 East Mermaid Lane, Wyndmoor, Pennsylvania 19038, USA. tony.jin@ars.usda.gov

Antimicrobial films of polylactic acid polymer incorporated with nisin, EDTA, 
sodium benzoate (SB), potassium sorbate (PS), and their combinations were 
developed, and their antimicrobial effects on the inactivation of Escherichia 
coli O157:H7 and natural background microflora (total aerobic bacteria, molds, 
and yeasts) in strawberry puree at 10 and 22 degrees C were determined. Direct 
addition of SB+PS to strawberry puree was also used as a comparison with SB+PS 
film treatment. The combination treatment reduced the cell populations of E. 
coli O157:H7 from 3.5 log CFU/ml to undetectable levels (<1 CFU/ml) after 14 
days and 1 day at 10 and 22 degrees C, respectively, while the cells of E. coli 
O157:H7 in control samples survived up to 48 days at 10 degrees C and more than 
14 days at 22 degrees C. The SB+PS film treatment produced a greater reduction 
of population of E. coli O157:H7 cells than did the SB+PS direct addition 
treatment. Similar results were observed for inactivation of natural microflora. 
In general, the antimicrobial effect was in the following order: film 
combination > SB+PS film > SB+PS direct addition > EDTA film > nisin film. The 
data obtained in this study suggest two approaches toward the development of 
control interventions against E. coli O157:H7 and extension of the 
microbiological shelf life of strawberry puree: (i) using antimicrobial 
packaging and (ii) using combinations of preservatives. The film formulas 
developed here can be used to make bottles or as coatings on the surface of 
bottles for use in liquid food packaging.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-73.5.812
PMID: 20501030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Soc Cogn Affect Neurosci. 2011 Apr;6(2):207-17. doi: 10.1093/scan/nsq043.
Epub  2010 May 25.

Expected value information improves financial risk taking across the adult life 
span.

Samanez-Larkin GR(1), Wagner AD, Knutson B.

Author information:
(1)Jordan Hall, Building 420, 450 Serra Mall, Stanford, CA 94305-2130, USA. 
glarkin@stanford.edu

When making decisions, individuals must often compensate for cognitive 
limitations, particularly in the face of advanced age. Recent findings suggest 
that age-related variability in striatal activity may increase financial 
risk-taking mistakes in older adults. In two studies, we sought to further 
characterize neural contributions to optimal financial risk taking and to 
determine whether decision aids could improve financial risk taking. In Study 1, 
neuroimaging analyses revealed that individuals whose mesolimbic activation 
correlated with the expected value estimates of a rational actor made more 
optimal financial decisions. In Study 2, presentation of expected value 
information improved decision making in both younger and older adults, but the 
addition of a distracting secondary task had little impact on decision quality. 
Remarkably, provision of expected value information improved the performance of 
older adults to match that of younger adults at baseline. These findings are 
consistent with the notion that mesolimbic circuits play a critical role in 
optimal choice, and imply that providing simplified information about expected 
value may improve financial risk taking across the adult life span.

DOI: 10.1093/scan/nsq043
PMCID: PMC3073388
PMID: 20501485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Orthop Trauma. 2010 Jun;24(6):e65; author reply e65. doi: 
10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181de6974.

Is prophylactic fixation a cost-effective method to prevent a future 
contralateral fragility hip fracture?

Wiwanitkit V.

Comment on
    J Orthop Trauma. 2010 Feb;24(2):65-74.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181de6974
PMID: 20502208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. PLoS One. 2010 May 19;5(5):e10680. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010680.

Telomere lengths, pulmonary fibrosis and telomerase (TERT) mutations.

Diaz de Leon A(1), Cronkhite JT, Katzenstein AL, Godwin JD, Raghu G, Glazer CS, 
Rosenblatt RL, Girod CE, Garrity ER, Xing C, Garcia CK.

Author information:
(1)McDermott Center for Human Growth and Development, University of Texas 
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Telomerase is an enzyme that catalyzes the addition of nucleotides 
on the ends of chromosomes. Rare loss of function mutations in the gene that 
encodes the protein component of telomerase (TERT) have been described in 
patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Here we examine the telomere 
lengths and pulmonary fibrosis phenotype seen in multiple kindreds with 
heterozygous TERT mutations.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We have identified 134 individuals with heterozygous TERT 
mutations from 21 unrelated families. Available medical records, surgical lung 
biopsies and radiographs were evaluated retrospectively. Genomic DNA isolated 
from circulating leukocytes has been used to measure telomere lengths with a 
quantitative PCR assay. We find that telomere lengths of TERT mutation carriers 
decrease in an age-dependent manner and show progressive shortening with 
successive generations of mutation inheritance. Family members without TERT 
mutations have a shorter mean telomere length than normal, demonstrating 
epigenetic inheritance of shortened telomere lengths in the absence of an 
inherited TERT mutation. Pulmonary fibrosis is an age-dependent phenotype not 
seen in mutation carriers less than 40 years of age but found in 60% of men 60 
years or older; its development is associated with environmental exposures 
including cigarette smoking. A radiographic CT pattern of usual interstitial 
pneumonia (UIP), which is consistent with a diagnosis of IPF, is seen in 74% of 
cases and a pathologic pattern of UIP is seen in 86% of surgical lung biopsies. 
Pulmonary fibrosis associated with TERT mutations is progressive and lethal with 
a mean survival of 3 years after diagnosis. Overall, TERT mutation carriers 
demonstrate reduced life expectancy, with a mean age of death of 58 and 67 years 
for males and females, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A subset of pulmonary fibrosis, like dyskeratosis congenita, bone 
marrow failure, and liver disease, represents a "telomeropathy" caused by 
germline mutations in telomerase and characterized by short telomere lengths. 
Family members within kindreds who do not inherit the TERT mutation have shorter 
telomere lengths than controls, demonstrating epigenetic inheritance of a 
shortened parental telomere length set-point.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010680
PMCID: PMC2873288
PMID: 20502709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


272. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2010 Apr;122(7-8):203-18. doi:
10.1007/s00508-010-1363-8.

[Comorbidity oriented oncology - an overview].

[Article in German]

Simanek R(1), Wuensch M, Edlinger R, Hammerl-Ferrari B, Kramer L, Geissler K.

Author information:
(1)5. Medizinische Abteilung mit Onkologie und Palliativstation, Krankenhaus 
Hietzing, Wien, Austria.

Increasing life expectancy results in an increased number of elderly cancer 
patients. Comorbidities and functional impairment influence the patient's course 
of disease and the choice of antineoplastic treatment. The Comprehensive 
Geriatric Assessment (CGA) supports the appraisal of the patient's individual 
health characteristics, especially due to the fact that chronologic age does not 
always correlate with the patient's health. Next to the appraisal of 
comorbidities and functional impairment, nutritional state, cognitive 
impairment, psychological state, social support, quality of life and the 
patient's medication are recorded. The Society of Geriatric Oncology (SIOG) 
recommends the CGA in cancer patients older than seventy years. While planning a 
systemic antineoplastic therapy, renal, hepatic, cardiac and bone marrow 
insufficiencies have to be considered. Renal and hepatic impairment often cause 
in dose reduced antineoplastic treatment, whereas in patients with cardiac 
insufficiency liposomale substances and in patients with decreased bone marrow 
function growth factors are available. Additionally to the oncological 
treatment, an early involvement of palliative care specialists should be 
considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-010-1363-8
PMID: 20503019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Paediatr Nurs. 2010 May;22(4):14-9. doi: 10.7748/paed2010.05.22.4.14.c7736.

The needs of children and young people with cerebral palsy.

Parkes J(1), Hill N.

Author information:
(1)Queen's University Belfast.

Because cerebral palsy (CP) is a sufficiently common condition of childhood and 
adolescence, the number and needs of these children and young people with 
cerebral palsy are monitored by centres across the UK (Surman et al 2006) and 
Europe (Surveillance of Cerebral Palsy in Europe 2000). This article describes 
the epidemiology of CP in childhood using data derived from the Northern Ireland 
Cerebral Palsy Register, which is one of the longest running CP registers in 
Europe. The findings presented here are similar to, and representative of, the 
epidemiology of CP in the western world (Dolk et al 2006).

DOI: 10.7748/paed2010.05.22.4.14.c7736
PMID: 20503684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Med Econ. 2010;13(2):324-38. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.490481.

Modelling the economic value of cross- and sustained-protection in vaccines 
against cervical cancer.

Demarteau N(1), Standaert B.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Av. Fleming 20, Wavre, 
Belgium. nadia.x.demarteau@gskbio.com

Comment in
    J Med Econ. 2011;14(2):262-6.

OBJECTIVE: Two human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines are on the market. Based on 
expected differences in sustained- and cross-protection between the two 
vaccines, their long-term economic value is modelled and compared for France, 
Ireland and Italy.
METHODS: A Markov cohort model reproducing the natural history of HPV 
infections, screening and vaccination, is adapted to country-specific data. Two 
hypothetical HPV vaccines (VA and VB) are compared. At baseline VA provides 
lifetime protection against HPV-16 and 10-year protection against HPV-18 before 
waning. VB is the same as VA with a 10-year protection against HPV-6 and 11. 
Sustained- and cross-protection is varied over wide ranges in VA to define the 
levels that could make VA cost-effective or dominant compared with VB.
RESULTS: Under baseline conditions VB dominates VA. VA becomes cost-effective 
when the difference in cross-protection alone reaches 13-15% (undiscounted), and 
22-44% (discounted). A combination of sustained- and cross-protection is 
required for VA to dominate VB (discounted). The results are dependent upon 
country, the base-case value and the discount applied.
CONCLUSION: Realistic additional sustained- and cross-protection in one HPV 
vaccine may confer benefits that offset the economic value of protection against 
low-risk HPV in the other. The results are country specific.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.490481
PMID: 20504110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. J Med Econ. 2010;13(2):371-80. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.491347.

Cost effectiveness of memantine in Alzheimer's disease in the UK.

Rive B(1), Grishchenko M, Guilhaume-Goulant C, Katona C, Livingston G, Lamure M, 
Toumi M, François C.

Author information:
(1)Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, France.

OBJECTIVE: This analysis assesses the cost-effectiveness of memantine for the 
treatment of moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the UK.
METHODS: This cost-utility analysis was based on a Markov model. The model 
simulated 5-year progress of patients with AD until they need full-time care 
(FTC), defined as a patient becoming either dependent or institutionalised. 
Transition probabilities were based on a predictive equation, derived from the 
London and South-East Region epidemiological study. Resource use, utilities and 
mortality were obtained from the same study. Memantine efficacy was based on a 
meta-analysis of six large trials. The model compared memantine to its 
alternative in the UK, i.e. no pharmacological treatment or background therapy 
with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.
RESULTS: Memantine was found to delay the need to FTC by 6 weeks compared with 
current practice in the UK. It was associated with increased quality-adjusted 
life-years and cost savings to the healthcare system (probability of this 
outcome was 96%). The projections were made assuming that benefits from the 
6-month treatment were sustained over time, which is regarded as the main 
limitation. The model underwent extensive sensitivity analyses, which confirmed 
the base-case findings.
CONCLUSIONS: The model suggests that memantine delays the need for FTC and 
decreases cost. It can be regarded as a cost-effective choice in the management 
of moderate and severe AD.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.491347
PMID: 20504112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. J Neurotrauma. 2010 Aug;27(8):1529-40. doi: 10.1089/neu.2010.1358.

Traumatic brain injury: a disease process, not an event.

Masel BE(1), DeWitt DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Transitional Learning Center at Galveston, The Moody 
Center for Traumatic Brain & Spinal Cord Injury Research/Mission Connect, The 
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77550, USA. 
bmasel@tlc-galveston.org

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is seen by the insurance industry and many health 
care providers as an "event." Once treated and provided with a brief period of 
rehabilitation, the perception exists that patients with a TBI require little 
further treatment and face no lasting effects on the central nervous system or 
other organ systems. In fact, TBI is a chronic disease process, one that fits 
the World Health Organization definition as having one or more of the following 
characteristics: it is permanent, caused by non-reversible pathological 
alterations, requires special training of the patient for rehabilitation, and/or 
may require a long period of observation, supervision, or care. TBI increases 
long-term mortality and reduces life expectancy. It is associated with increased 
incidences of seizures, sleep disorders, neurodegenerative diseases, 
neuroendocrine dysregulation, and psychiatric diseases, as well as 
non-neurological disorders such as sexual dysfunction, bladder and bowel 
incontinence, and systemic metabolic dysregulation that may arise and/or persist 
for months to years post-injury. The purpose of this article is to encourage the 
classification of TBI as the beginning of an ongoing, perhaps lifelong process, 
that impacts multiple organ systems and may be disease causative and 
accelerative. Our intent is not to discourage patients with TBI or their 
families and caregivers, but rather to emphasize that TBI should be managed as a 
chronic disease and defined as such by health care and insurance providers. 
Furthermore, if the chronic nature of TBI is recognized by government and 
private funding agencies, research can be directed at discovering therapies that 
may interrupt the disease processes months or even years after the initiating 
event.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2010.1358
PMID: 20504161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Hum Biol. 2009 Dec;81(5-6):551-74. doi: 10.3378/027.081.0605.

Nutrition and the variation in level and age patterns of mortality. 1994.

Gage TB, O'Connor K.

Comment in
    Hum Biol. 2009 Dec;81(5-6):575-8.

DOI: 10.3378/027.081.0605
PMID: 20504181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2010 Aug;11(2):154-61. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2010.232546. Epub 2010 May 26.

Effectiveness and prognosis of initial pericardiocentesis in the primary 
management of malignant pericardial effusion.

Apodaca-Cruz A(1), Villarreal-Garza C, Torres-Avila B, Torres J, Meneses A, 
Flores-Estrada D, Lara-Medina F, Arrieta O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, Mexico 
City, Mexico.

Comment in
    Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2010 Aug;11(2):161.

We retrospectively reviewed the records of 100 patients with malignant disease 
and symptomatic pericardial effusion initially treated with pericardiocentesis 
at the National Cancer Institute of Mexico between 1985 and 2009. We analyzed 
predictive factors for recurrence of pericardial effusion by bi- and 
multivariate analyses. The group comprised 74 women and 26 men. Twenty patients 
had developed malignant pericardial effusion at the time of primary cancer 
diagnosis. Recurrence rate after pericardiocentesis was 33%. Progression-free 
survival for pericardial effusion at one year was 59% (range, 47-71%). Median 
overall survival (OS) after pericardiocentesis was 40.3+/-7.9 weeks (95% 
Confidence interval, 24.9-55.7). The sole factor that correlated with increased 
progression-free survival for pericardial effusion was the presence of bloody 
pericardial effusion. For OS, multivariate analysis yielded that female gender 
and presence of pericardial effusion at time of primary malignancy diagnosis 
were associated with higher life expectancy. Initial pericardiocentesis can 
provide successful management of patients with a control rate of 67%. In spite 
of the high effectiveness of the primary management of pericardial effusion with 
pericardiocentesis in oncologic patients, it might be considered for initial 
treatment, especially those with poor prognosis, leaving pericardial window as a 
secondary strategy for recurrence.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2010.232546
PMID: 20504889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Br J Nurs. 2010 May 13-26;19(9):563-8. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2010.19.9.48055.

The imperative of human obesity: an ethical reflection.

Meetoo D(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, University of Salford, UK.

Good health for all has become an accepted international goal. Arguably there 
have been broad gains in life expectancy over the past century. However, the 
escalating epidemic of adult obesity, estimated at more than 1 billion 
worldwide, has become a major public health concern. Obesity affects people of 
all ages and socioeconomic backgrounds. It is invariably perceived as a product 
of biological, psychological and social conditions, thereby casting aside its 
ethical imperatives. Without undermining the role of medicine in managing 
obesity, this article proposes to discuss the need for nurses to consider 
relevant ethical principles when supporting people with obesity.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2010.19.9.48055
PMID: 20505579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. J Wound Care. 2010 May;19(5):173-4, 176, 178, 180, 182, 184. doi: 
10.12968/jowc.2010.19.5.48046.

Cost of wound treatment to increase significantly in Denmark over the next 
decade.

Hjort A(1), Gottrup F.

Author information:
(1)Government of Greenland, Properties Agency INI, Sisimiut, Greenland. 
astne@astne.dk

OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate that changes in demography, life expectancy and 
incidence of background diseases (including type 2 diabetes mellitus) during the 
period 2009-2020 will significantly increase the costs of wound care in Denmark.
METHOD: A simple activity-based equation, which was applied to Danish national 
statistics on medical conditions and key financial figures from previously 
published surveys.
RESULTS: Currently, DKK 735m (99m Euro) is spent each year on municipal wound 
care. Denmark's population is 5.4 million and about 18,000 wounds can be 
expected annually in the municipal sector, requiring more than three million 
dressing changes. These figures are expected to rise significantly up until 
2020. The percentage of senior citizens will rise by 22% during this time and 
the number of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus will increase by 22-24,000 
per year. Improved treatments and longer life expectancies will increase the 
elderly population by 40,000. These changes will cause a gradual rise in wound 
care costs of up to 30%, corresponding to DKK 224m (30m Euro) in 2020. However, 
by adopting a national strategy based on best practice guidelines, it may be 
possible to intercept this increase in costs. A national strategy in Denmark 
seems to have the potential to reduce costs by a matching 30%. If Denmark fails 
to adopt a national strategy, an accumulated loss of DKK 1.5 billion (206m Euro) 
can be expected over the next decade.
CONCLUSION: Wound therapy will pose a major economic challenge to Denmark in 
future if no intervention is carried out. This study presents an empirical model 
calculating the economic consequences of future challenges such as demography, 
lifestyle and type 2 diabetes mellitus. It is suggested that a national strategy 
for wound therapy may convert a future deficit to zero-balance. Similar 
challenges are expected in other western European countries.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2010.19.5.48046
PMID: 20505590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Kidney Int. 2010 Jul;78(2):146-51. doi: 10.1038/ki.2010.113. Epub 2010 May
26.

Use of vitamin D in chronic kidney disease patients.

Gal-Moscovici A(1), Sprague SM.

Author information:
(1)Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Hadassah Hospital, Ein Keren, Jerusalem, 
Israel.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has been recognized as a significant public health 
problem, with 20 million Americans, or 11% of the adult population, currently 
living with CKD. Life expectancy in patients with CKD is limited by the 
development of disturbances of mineral metabolism, which occurs in virtually all 
patients during the progression of their disease, and is associated with bone 
loss and fractures, cardiovascular disease, immune suppression, and increased 
mortality. As kidney disease develops, there is decreased functional renal mass 
and a reduction in renal 1alpha-hydroxylase activity and thus in renal 
production of calcitriol at very early CKD stages. Recently, a potentially 
important role of vitamin D receptor activation (VDRa) in the survival of 
patients undergoing dialysis has been suggested. Beyond the effect on 
parathyroid hormone suppression, the pleiotropic effect of vitamin D has been 
associated with improvement of cardiovascular risk factors, including increased 
renin activity, hypertension, inflammation, insulin resistance, diabetes, and 
albuminuria. However, the current K/DOQI and KDIGO recommendations limit the 
administration of VDRa agents for treatment of hyperparathyroidism only. The 
role of vitamin D administration in the different CKD stages will be discussed 
in this review.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2010.113
PMID: 20505658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Rheumatol Int. 2011 Mar;31(3):283-7. doi: 10.1007/s00296-010-1534-y. Epub
2010  May 27.

Bleeding disorders and reduced bone density.

Mansouritorghabeh H(1), Rezaieyazdi Z.

Author information:
(1)Immunology Research Center, Ghaem Hospital, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, 91766-99199, Mashhad, Iran. Mansouritorghabe@mums.ac.ir

In recent decays, quality of life and life expectancy of individuals with severe 
haemophilia A and B have been improved by better quality in treatment and more 
availability of blood coagulation products. Recently, new concerns have emerged 
in current groups such as auto-antibody inhibitors to coagulation factors and 
reduced bone density (RBD). RBD in bleeding disorders is becoming an escalating 
burden worldwide due to an increased in life expectancy and also in the ageing 
population with bleeding disorders. Here, we review published papers on bone 
mineral density of individuals with haemophilia A & B, a rare bleeding disorder 
entitled combined factor V and VIII deficiency and other rare bleeding 
disorders. It seems in individuals with bleeding disorders preventive measures 
including early detection, treatment and adequate physical activity, 
encouragement to be active in sports and finally anti-osteoporotic therapy must 
be done.

DOI: 10.1007/s00296-010-1534-y
PMID: 20505939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2010 Oct;62(10):1399-406. doi:
10.1002/acr.20235.

Utility-based outcomes made easy: the number needed per quality-adjusted life 
year gained. An observational cohort study of tumor necrosis factor blockade in 
inflammatory arthritis from Southern Sweden.

Gülfe A(1), Kristensen LE, Saxne T, Jacobsson LT, Petersson IF, Geborek P.

Author information:
(1)Lund University, Sweden. anders.gulfe@med.lu.se

OBJECTIVE: To introduce a novel, simple, utility-based outcome measure, the 
number needed per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained (NNQ), and to apply 
it in clinical practice in anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF)-treated 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), and 
spondylarthritis (SpA).
METHODS: The NNQ is the number of patients one has to treat in order to gain 1 
QALY. It is calculated as the inverted value of the utility gain (area under the 
curve) over 1 year in a cohort subjected to an intervention. EuroQol Index 
utility data from the South Swedish Arthritis Treatment register were used.
RESULTS: Patients with RA (n = 1,001), PsA (n = 241), and SpA (n = 255) were 
eligible for the study. First, second, and third treatment courses were studied. 
For RA, NNQ was 4.5, 6.4, and 5.2 for first, second, and third courses, 
respectively. For PsA and SpA, NNQ was 4.2-4.5, irrespective of treatment order. 
Treatment groups with <50 patients were not analyzed. During the study period 
2002-2007, there were no secular trends of utility gains.
CONCLUSION: The NNQ is an easily derived and understandable utility-based 
outcome measure that may be useful for stakeholders and decision makers as well 
as for clinicians. It was readily applied in this study of TNF blockade across 3 
arthritis diagnoses. NNQ varied little over diagnoses and treatment course 
order, with a possible exception in second treatment course in RA.

DOI: 10.1002/acr.20235
PMID: 20506121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Int J Methods Psychiatr Res. 2010 Jun;19(2):97-109. doi: 10.1002/mpr.306.

Modelling lifetime QALYs and health care costs from different drinking patterns 
over time: a Markov model.

Barbosa C(1), Taylor B, Godfrey C, Rehm J, Parrott S, Drummond C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Department of Health Sciences, University of 
York, York, UK. cppb500@york.ac.uk

The negative health consequences of alcohol use and its treatment account for 
significant health care expenditure worldwide. Long-term modelling techniques 
are developed in this paper to establish a link between drinking patterns, 
health consequences and alcohol treatment effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. 
The overall change in health related quality and quantity of life which results 
from changes in health-related behaviour is estimated. Specifically, a 
probabilistic lifetime Markov model is presented where alcohol consumption in 
grams of alcohol per day and drinking history are used for the categorization of 
patients into four Markov states. Utility weights are assigned to each drinking 
state using EQ-5D scores. Mortality and morbidity estimates are state, gender 
and age specific, and are alcohol-related and non-alcohol-related. The 
methodology is tested in a case study. This represents a major development in 
the techniques traditionally used in alcohol economic models, in which 
short-term costs and outcomes are assessed, omitting potential longer term cost 
savings and improvements in health related quality of life. Assumptions and 
implications of the approach are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/mpr.306
PMCID: PMC6878558
PMID: 20506446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Ber Wiss. 2009 Sep;32(3):230-45. doi: 10.1002/bewi.200901351.

[Rationalities of knowledge production: on transformations of objects, 
technologies and information in biomedicine and the life sciences].

[Article in German]

Paul NW(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Geschichte, Theorie und Ethik der Medizin, Universitätsmedizin 
der Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz. npaul@uni-mainz.de

Since decades, scientific change has been interpreted in the light of paradigm 
shifts and scientific revolutions. The Kuhnian interpretation of scientific 
change however is now more and more confronted with non-disciplinary thinking in 
both, science and studies on science. This paper explores how research in 
biomedicine and the life sciences can be characterized by different 
rationalities, sometimes converging, sometimes contradictory, all present at the 
same time with varying ways of influence, impact, and visibility. In general, 
the rationality of objects is generated by fitting new objects and findings into 
a new experimental context. The rationality of hypotheses is a move towards the 
construction of novel explanatory tools and models. This is often inseparable 
meshing with the third, the technological rationality, in which a 
technology-driven, self-supporting and sometimes self-referential refinement of 
methods and technologies comes along with an extension into other fields. During 
the second and the third phase, the new and emerging fields tend to expand their 
explanatory reach not only across disciplinary boundaries but also into the 
social sphere, creating what has been characterized as "exceptionalism" (e.g. 
genetic exceptionalism or neuro-exceptionalism). Finally, recent biomedicine and 
life-sciences reach a level in which experimental work becomes more and more 
data-driven because the technologically constructed experimental systems 
generate a plethora of findings (data) which at some point start to blur the 
original hypotheses. For the rationality of information the materiality of 
research practices becomes secondary and research objects are more and more 
getting out of sight. Finally, the credibility of science as a practice becomes 
more and more dependent on consensus about the applicability and relevance of 
its results. The rationality of interest (and accountability) has become more 
and more characteristic for a research process which is no longer primarily 
determined by the desire for knowledge but by the desire for relevance. This 
paper explores in which ways object-driven and hypotheses-driven experimental 
life-sciences transformed into domains of experimental research evolving in a 
technologically constructed, data-driven environment in which they are subjected 
to constant morphing due to the forces of different rationalities.

DOI: 10.1002/bewi.200901351
PMID: 20506735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. BMC Public Health. 2010 May 28;10:287. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-287.

The Study of Environment on Aboriginal Resilience and Child Health (SEARCH): 
study protocol.

Study of Environment on Aboriginal Resilience and Child Health Investigators.

Collaborators: Williamson A, Banks E, Redman S, Craig J, Cass A, Fernando D, 
Eades S, Bailey S, Craig J, Taylor R, Bailey S, Banks E, Cass A, Clapham K, 
Daniels J, Eades S, Kippax S, McIntyre P, Baker A, Raphael B, Redman S, Vincent 
F, Williamson A, Appoo S, Cockayne N, Fernando D, Fernando P, Malamoo L, Taylor 
B, West M, Williamson A, Wutzke S, Skinner T, Kilpatrick J, Wait D, Fernando J, 
Welsh P, Brown V, Atkinson M.

BACKGROUND: Aboriginal Australians have a life expectancy more than ten years 
less than that of non-Aboriginal Australians, reflecting their disproportionate 
burden of both communicable and non-communicable disease throughout the 
lifespan. Little is known about the health and health trajectories of Aboriginal 
children and, although the majority of Aboriginal people live in urban areas, 
data are particularly sparse in relation to children living in urban areas.
METHODS/DESIGN: The Study of Environment on Aboriginal Resilience and Child 
Health (SEARCH) is a cohort study of Aboriginal children aged 0-17 years, from 
urban and large regional centers in New South Wales, Australia. SEARCH focuses 
on Aboriginal community identified health priorities of: injury; otitis media; 
vaccine-preventable conditions; mental health problems; developmental delay; 
obesity; and risk factors for chronic disease. Parents/caregivers and their 
children are invited to participate in SEARCH at the time of presentation to one 
of the four participating Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisations 
at Mount Druitt, Campbelltown, Wagga Wagga and Newcastle. Questionnaire data are 
obtained from parents/caregivers and children, along with signed permission for 
follow-up through repeat data collection and data linkage. All children have 
their height, weight, waist circumference and blood pressure measured and 
complete audiometry, otoscopy/pneumatic otoscopy and tympanometry. Children aged 
1-7 years have speech and language assessed and their parents/caregivers 
complete the Parental Evaluation of Developmental Status. The Study aims to 
recruit 1700 children by the end of 2010 and to secure resources for long term 
follow up. From November 2008 to March 2010, 1010 children had joined the study. 
From those 446 children with complete data entry, participating children ranged 
in age from 2 weeks to 17 years old, with 144 aged 0-3, 147 aged 4-7, 75 aged 
8-10 and 79 aged 11-17. 55% were male and 45% female.
DISCUSSION: SEARCH is built on strong community partnerships, under Aboriginal 
leadership, and addresses community priorities relating to a number of 
under-researched areas. SEARCH will provide a unique long-term resource to 
investigate the causes and trajectories of health and illness in urban 
Aboriginal children and to identify potential targets for interventions to 
improve health.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-287
PMCID: PMC2896939
PMID: 20507632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2010 Jul;19(3):310-20. doi:
10.1017/S0963180110000083.

Transatlantic issues: report from Scotland.

Shaw DM.

DOI: 10.1017/S0963180110000083
PMID: 20507678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14 Suppl 1:23-9. doi:
10.3310/hta14Suppl1/04.

Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B 
infection.

Jones J(1), Colquitt J, Shepherd J, Harris P, Cooper K.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Wessex Institute, 
University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, in accordance with the licensed 
indication, based upon the evidence submission from Gilead to the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single 
technology appraisal process. The submitted clinical evidence included two 
international randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing tenofovir with 
adefovir, and a mixed treatment comparison (MTC) using Bayesian methodology to 
compare tenofovir with other nucleos(t)ide analogues using direct and indirect 
RCT evidence. There were no statistically significant differences between 
tenofovir and adefovir in overall adverse events although, in hepatitis B 'e' 
antigen (HBeAg)-positive patients, there was a higher incidence of mild nausea 
in the tenofovir treatment group. The primary outcome, 'complete response', was 
a composite end point defined as histology response and hepatitis B virus DNA 
below 400 copies/ml. For both HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative patients, a 
significantly greater proportion had a complete response after 48 weeks with 
tenofovir than with adefovir. There was no statistically significant difference 
in histological response in either group of patients compared with adefovir. The 
MTC could only generate results for HBeAg positive nucleos(t)ide naive patients 
as there was insufficient evidence for other subgroups. The probability of 
achieving undetectable HBV DNA with tenofovir was found to be significantly 
higher than that for all other treatments considered in the analysis at the 0.05 
level. The analysis demonstrated that there is a 98% probability that tenofovir 
is the most potent nucleos(t)ide in terms of this outcome. The manufacturer's 
submission concluded that tenofovir is a cost-effective option as first-line 
treatment. For HBeAg-positive patients, tenofovir followed by lamivudine has an 
incremental cost-effective ratio (ICER) of 9940 pounds per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained, compared with lamivudine followed by tenofovir. A more 
appropriate treatment strategy of tenofovir followed by tenofovir plus 
lamivudine has an ICER of 13,619 pounds per QALY gained, compared with 
lamivudine followed by tenofovir. For HBeAg-negative patients, tenofovir 
followed by lamivudine has an ICER of 9811 pounds per QALY gained, compared with 
best supportive care. A more clinically appropriate treatment strategy of 
tenofovir followed by tenofovir plus lamivudine has an ICER of 13,854 pounds per 
QALY gained, compared with tenofovir followed by lamivudine. The ERG uncovered a 
number of errors in the submission and these ICERs approximately doubled when 
the analysis was corrected and reran. The guidance issued by NICE on 22 July 
2009 states that tenofovir disoproxil, within its marketing authorization is 
recommended as an option for the treatment of people with chronic 
HBe-Ag-positive or HBe-Ag-negative hepatitis B in whom antiviral treatment is 
indicated.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14Suppl1/04
PMID: 20507800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14 Suppl 1:31-8. doi:
10.3310/hta14Suppl1/05.

Prasugrel for the treatment of acute coronary artery syndromes with percutaneous 
coronary intervention.

Greenhalgh J(1), Bagust A, Boland A, Saborido CM, Fleeman N, McLeod C, Dundar Y, 
Dickson R, Proudlove C, Kolamunnage-Dona R, Fisher M.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK. janette.greenhalgh@liverpool.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of prasugrel for the treatment of 
coronary artery syndromes with percutaneous coronary intervention, based upon 
the evidence submission from Eli Lilly to the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal process. 
The submitted clinical evidence was based on a phase III double-blind, 
double-dummy randomised controlled trial which compared the use of prasugrel 
with clopidogrel. The primary clinical outcome measure was a composite end point 
of death from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) or 
non-fatal stroke at 15 months. Secondary outcomes included the primary end point 
at 30 days and 90 days; a composite end point of death from cardiovascular 
causes, non-fatal MI or urgent target vessel revascularisation; a composite end 
point of death from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal MI, non-fatal stroke or 
rehospitalisation due to a cardiac ischaemic event; and stent thrombosis. For 
the overall trial cohort during the 15 month follow-up period, the results of 
the trial demonstrated a statistically significant benefit of prasugrel compared 
with clopidogrel on the primary outcome. The efficacy difference between 
treatment groups was, in the main, due to a statistically significant lower 
incidence of non-fatal MIs in the prasugrel group than in the clopidogrel group. 
No statistically significant differences were found for death from 
cardiovascular causes or non-fatal stroke. For the fully licensed and target 
populations, there was a statistically significant lower incidence of non-fatal 
MIs in the prasugrel group than in the clopidogrel group; there was no 
statistically significant difference in bleeding rates. The ERG recalculated the 
base-case cost-effectiveness results taking changes in parameters and 
assumptions into account: for example, revised drug costs, mid-cycle correction, 
amended relative risk mortality. Subgroup and threshold analyses were also 
explored by the ERG. For the fully licensed population (i.e. excluding patients 
with prior stroke or TIA), the manufacturer reported an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 159,358 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained at 12 months and an ICER of 3,220 pounds per QALY gained at 40 
years. Considering the 15-month clinical trial data available for the fully 
licensed and target populations and current practice in England and Wales, the 
