MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present study comprised 75 patients with a total of 
300 TiUnite implants (Nobel Biocare AB, Göteborg, Sweden) of mainly the 
Brånemark System >or= Mark III design. The prosthetic procedure started and was 
completed on an average of 9.1 days (standard deviation [SD] 4.47) and 33.2 days 
(SD 16.09) after the surgical intervention, respectively. Intraoral radiographs 
were obtained at prosthesis insertion and at the 1-year follow-up visit. Failure 
rates of test and control groups were compared by means of the chi-squared test.
RESULTS: All four implants in one patient were found to be mobile at the first 
annual check-up, resulting in an implant cumulative survival rate (CSR) of 
98.5%. The corresponding CSR for the control group was 100% (p > 0.05). The mean 
marginal bone resorption during the first year of function was 0.3 mm (SD 0.74) 
as compared with 0.5 (SD 0.56) mm for the control group (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The outcome of 300 TiUnite implants placed in 75 patients with 
edentulous mandibles, of which 268 implants in 67 patients were followed for 1 
year, showed an implant CSR of 98.5%. The implant survival was not significantly 
different from that of the control study result of 100%, in which five instead 
of four supporting implants were used. The levels of marginal bone were close to 
identical for the corresponding test and control implants at the 1-year 
check-up.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2010.00284.x
PMID: 20491817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2010 Apr;36(2):454-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0756.2009.01147.x.

A case of intravenous leiomyomatosis with high levels of hyaluronan.

Yaguchi C(1), Oi H, Kobayashi H, Miura K, Kanayama N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hamamatsu University School of 
Medicine, 1-20-1 Handayama, Hamamastu, Shizuoka, 433-3192, Japan. 
chikoy@nifty.com

Intravenous leiomyomatosis (IVL) is a rare benign tumor. The clinical behavior 
can be life-threatening due to extension through the pelvic veins. A 70-year-old 
woman was referred to our hospital with IVL originating from a uterine leiomyoma 
and extending to the inferior vena cava. The patient was diagnosed on the basis 
of the results of various studies, and the tumor was resected completely through 
a single-stage approach. The intravascular tumor was 20 cm long, multinodular 
and rubbery. Microscopic findings showed benign smooth muscle that was partly 
hyalinized and fibrous. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that hyaluronan was 
expressed more prominently in IVL than in uterine leiomyomas. IVL has 
viscoelastic properties and contains a large amount of hyaluronan, which may 
promote invasion during pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0756.2009.01147.x
PMID: 20492407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Transfusion. 2010 Oct;50(10):2220-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2010.02686.x.
 Epub 2010 Oct 4.

Cost-effectiveness of screening the US blood supply for Trypanosoma cruzi.

Agapova M(1), Busch MP, Custer B.

Author information:
(1)Blood Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, California 94117, USA. 
magapova@bloodsystems.org

BACKGROUND: Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiologic agent of Chagas disease, is a 
potential threat to transfusion recipients in the United States. The 
cost-effectiveness of seven testing strategies was evaluated against no testing 
and hierarchically in incremental analysis. Donor-specific strategies included 
testing donors born in endemic countries, testing all donors a specific number 
of times, or testing all donors every time. Component-specific strategies are 
based on screening platelet-containing donations.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A decision analytic model simulated the lifetime cost 
(US dollars) and health outcomes (quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) of two 
hypothetical cohorts of blood recipients, an all-ages and a younger subset, from 
a 2007 societal perspective. Model variable values were obtained from US 
screening data, Blood Systems Laboratory, the Health Care Utilization Project, 
and published literature.
RESULTS: For the all-ages cohort, compared to no testing, the cost-effectiveness 
of testing all donors one time was $757,000 per QALY, all donors two times 
$970,000 per QALY, and universal testing $1.36 million per QALY. In the all-ages 
and the younger transfused populations, testing donors with geographical 
exposure was most cost-effective ($173,000 and $29,000/QALY, respectively). The 
most influential variables in the model were related to characteristics of the 
transfused population: survival and health state utilities. With respect to T. 
cruzi variables, results were most sensitive to seroprevalence and 
transmissibility.
CONCLUSION: Selective T. cruzi screening generates nearly the same effectiveness 
as universal screening, but at a reduced cost. Outcomes and associated costs of 
Chagas disease take longer to materialize than the average life expectancy of 
transfusion recipients.

© 2010 American Association of Blood Banks.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2010.02686.x
PMID: 20492607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14(24):1-162. doi: 10.3310/hta14240.

A systematic review and economic evaluation of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of aldosterone antagonists for postmyocardial infarction 
heart failure.

McKenna C(1), Burch J, Suekarran S, Walker S, Bakhai A, Witte K, Harden M, 
Wright K, Woolacott N, Lorgelly P, Fenwick L, Palmer S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: Two aldosterone inhibitors are currently licensed for heart failure 
(HF) in the UK: spironolactone and eplerenone. Recent clinical guidelines 
recommend eplerenone after an acute myocardial infarction (MI) for patients with 
symptoms and/or signs of HF and left ventricular dysfunction.
OBJECTIVES: The primary objective was to evaluate relative clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of spironolactone and eplerenone in 
patients with postMI HF and explore the possibility of conducting an indirect 
comparison of spironolactone and eplerenone. A second objective was to undertake 
value-of-information (VOI) analyses to determine the need for further research 
to identify research questions critical to decision-making and to help inform 
the design of future studies.
DATA SOURCES: Relevant databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE and CENTRAL were 
searched between September and December 2008. Randomised controlled trials 
(RCTs) of spironolactone, eplerenone, canrenone or potassium canrenoate were 
included if conducted in a postMI HF population. Trials of general HF patients 
with a subgroup of postMI HF patients were considered if they had at least 100 
ischaemic participants per arm and the authors provided subgroup data when 
contacted. Adverse events summary data were sought from recognised reference 
sources and RCTs or observational studies in any population that recruited more 
than 100 participants.
REVIEW METHODS: The comparative clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
spironolactone and eplerenone was derived using Bayesian meta-regression drawing 
on a wider 'network' of aldosterone trials to those considered in the main 
clinical effectiveness review. An alternative scenario was also considered 
assuming a 'class effect' for the aldosterone antagonists in terms of major 
clinical events, but allowing for potential differences in side effect profiles. 
Cost-effectiveness was assessed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) where appropriate. Uncertainty in cost-effectiveness results was also 
presented and used to inform future research priorities using VOI analyses based 
on expected value of perfect information (EVPI). A probabilistic decision 
analytic model was developed to estimate cost-effectiveness of spironolactone, 
eplerenone and standard care for management of postMI HF, provide estimates 
relevant to the NHS and explore alternative approaches to an indirect comparison 
between spironolactone and eplerenone. The model incorporated a lifetime horizon 
to estimate outcomes in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and costs 
from the NHS persepctive. In the base-case analysis, 2-year treatment duration 
was assumed, consistent with the follow-up in the main RCTs. Other scenarios 
were explored to examine the robustness of alternative assumptions including 
impact of different treatment durations.
RESULTS: Searches yielded five RCTs: two spironolactone trials of poor 
methodological quality and three trials of which only one (of eplerenone) 
specifically examined postMI HF (Eplerenone Post-Acute Myocardial Infarction 
Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study, EPHESUS). One trial of spironolactone 
(Randomised Aldactone Evaluation Study, RALES) and one of canrenone 
(Antiremodelling Effect of Aldosterone receptors blockade with canrenone In mild 
Chronic Heart Failure, AREA IN-CHF) comprised general HF, but data were 
available for an ischaemic subgroup. Structural similarity of spironolactone and 
eplerenone suggests that they may be interchangeable, but formal indirect 
comparison between the three trials was severely limited by trial differences. 
Relative safety data were limited from RCTs and observational sources. 
Hyperkalaemia rates varied, but were generally higher than for placebo; data 
were insufficient to assess discontinuation because of 
hyperkalaemia.Gynaecomastia rates were higher with spironolactone. Adverse event 
data were sparse. Systematic review of economic evidence identified three main 
published studies but none used a UK perspective or attempted to compare 
cost-effectiveness in postMI HF. The new decision model indicated that 
eplerenone was the most cost-effective strategy for postMI HF (ICER of 
eplerenone compared with standard care was 4457 pounds per QALY, increasing to 
7893 pounds per QALY if treatment continued over the patient's lifetime); in 
neither scenario did spironolactone appear cost-effective. The ICER of 
eplerenone was consistently under the 20,000-30,000 pounds per QALY threshold 
used to establish value for money in the NHS. Uncertainty resulted in EVPI 
estimates between 820M pounds (base-case) and 1265M pounds (lifetime treatment 
duration scenario). When class effect for mortality and hospitalisations was 
assumed spironolactone emerged as the most cost-effective treatment and EVPI 
estimates were negligible. If class effect is considered more plausible than the 
results of the evidence synthesis model then there would be limited value in 
additional research.
LIMITATIONS: Exchangeability between trials was poor and there was a lack of 
robust data in RCTs.
CONCLUSIONS: Only two good-quality trials of aldosterone inhibitors in the 
postMI HF population were found, but lack of exchangeability with respect to 
study populations, meant that a comparison between these drugs could not be 
done. It consistently emerged that, compared with usual care, use of an 
aldosterone antagonist appears to be a highly cost-effective strategy for the 
management of postMI HF patients in the NHS. An adequately powered, 
well-conducted RCT that directly compares spironolactone and eplerenone is 
required to provide more robust evidence on the optimal management of postMI HF 
patients.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14240
PMID: 20492762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 1998;65(4):199-201.

[Zásady operacního osetrení metastáz pátere.].

[Article in Czech]

Vlach O(1), Chaloupka R.

Author information:
(1)Ortopedická klinika FN, Brno-Bohunice.

The authors describe the principles of the treatment of spinal metastases. In 
the case of rapid progression of neural symptoms the surgery should be performed 
in the first 24 hours after the symptoms onset. In the case of slow progression 
or normal neurology the surgery follows the detailed assessment. According to 
the tumor extent is decided posterior, anterior or combined surgery. The 
decompression with or without stabilization is indicated in 12 months life 
expectancy. In longer survival an extensive surgery is indicated. The goal of 
this treatment is the spine realignment and its stabilization. Surgery improves 
the life quality and enables the patient his return to family in most cases. Key 
words: spinal metastasis, principles of surgical treatment.

PMID: 20492793


242. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2010 Jun;142(6):851-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.otohns.2010.02.006.

Role of thyroidectomy in advanced laryngeal and pharyngolaryngeal carcinoma.

Elliott MS(1), Odell EW, Tysome JR, Connor SE, Siddiqui A, Jeannon JP, Simo R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Guy's & St. Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK. mselliott01@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Total thyroidectomy (TThy) or hemithyroidectomy (HThy) in conjunction 
with a total laryngectomy (TL) or pharyngolaryngectomy (PL) for laryngeal 
carcinoma often results in hypothyroidism requiring life-long thyroid hormone 
replacement. The aims were to determine the incidence of thyroid gland (TG) 
invasion in patients undergoing TL or TPL with TThy or HThy for laryngeal or 
hypopharyngeal carcinoma and to assess predicative factors.
STUDY DESIGN: Case series with chart review.
SETTING: Guy's Hospital, London, UK.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Thirty-five patients from 2004 to 2008 were reviewed. 
Specimens were examined to determine the incidence of TG invasion and 
predicative factors. Preoperative imaging was reviewed to assess the 
radiological evidence of TG invasion.
RESULTS: TL and TThy were performed in 19 patients, TL and HThy in three 
patients, and PL and TThy in 13 patients. Surgery was performed for primary and 
recurrent carcinoma in 28 and eight patients, respectively. Histological 
evidence of invasion of the TG was found in three patients (8.5%). No 
significant relationship was found between TG invasion and patient's sex, 
subsite of primary carcinoma, stage of primary disease at surgery, degree of 
differentiation, or the presence of subglottic extension. In addition, no 
significant relationship was found between the presence of TG invasion and 
recurrent disease. Definite evidence of radiological invasion of the TG was seen 
in only one patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Invasion of the TG in patients undergoing TL or TPL is a rare event 
and limits the need for TThy in most cases.

Copyright 2010 American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery 
Foundation. Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otohns.2010.02.006
PMID: 20493357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Am J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jul;150(1):74-81. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.01.037. Epub
 2010 May 20.

The increased cost of medical services for people diagnosed with primary 
open-angle glaucoma: a decision analytic approach.

Kymes SM(1), Plotzke MR, Li JZ, Nichol MB, Wu J, Fain J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110-1093, USA. kymes@vrcc.wustl.edu

PURPOSE: Glaucoma accounts for more than 11% of all cases of blindness in the 
United States, but there have been few studies of economic impact. We examine 
incremental cost of primary open-angle glaucoma considering both visual and 
nonvisual medical costs over a lifetime of glaucoma.
DESIGN: A decision analytic approach taking the payor's perspective with 
microsimulation estimation.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov model to replicate health events over the 
remaining lifetime of someone newly diagnosed with glaucoma. Costs of this group 
were compared with those estimated for a control group without glaucoma. The 
cost of management of glaucoma (including medications) before the onset of 
visual impairment was not considered. The model was populated with probability 
data estimated from Medicare claims data (1999 through 2005). Cost of nonocular 
medications and nursing home use was estimated from California Medicare claims, 
and all other costs were estimated from Medicare claims data.
RESULTS: We found modest differences in the incidence of comorbid conditions and 
health service use between people with glaucoma and the control group. Over 
their expected lifetime, the cost of care for people with primary open-angle 
glaucoma was higher than that of people without primary open-angle glaucoma by 
$1688 or approximately $137 per year.
CONCLUSIONS: Among Medicare beneficiaries, glaucoma diagnosis not found to be 
associated with significant risk of comorbidities before development of visual 
impairment. Further study is necessary to consider the impact of glaucoma on 
quality of life, as well as aspects of physical and visual function not captured 
in this claims-based analysis.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.01.037
PMID: 20493465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2010 Sep;14(4):328-36. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2010.03.005.
Epub  2010 May 20.

Breast awareness within an intellectual disability setting.

Kirby S(1), Hegarty J.

Author information:
(1)COPE Foundation, Montenotte, Cork, Ireland. siobhanbkirby@eircom.net

PURPOSE: This study sought to examine proficiency, motivation and knowledge 
regarding breast cancer screening and awareness of nurses working within an 
Intellectual Disability setting. Additionally, the study aimed to examine and 
establish associations between nurses' personal and professional breast 
awareness practices. Breast cancer generally affects women between 50 and 65 
years and is one of the principal causes of female deaths. Many women with 
intellectual disability are placed in the "at risk" age group for developing 
breast cancer due to increased life expectancy. However, breast cancer screening 
is much lower in women with intellectual disability compared to the general 
population.
METHOD: This study adopted a quantitative descriptive design. Data was gathered 
utilising an adapted version of the Modified Toronto Breast Self-Examination 
Inventory (MTBSEI).
RESULTS: Results reflected that the majority of nurses in this study (n = 105) 
do not promote breast awareness for women with intellectual disabilities. 
Further, findings identified deficits in nurses' personal knowledge, skills and 
practices with regard to breast awareness and screening.
CONCLUSION: This study identifies the need to support nurses within Intellectual 
Disability settings with on-going education in relation to breast awareness, in 
order that breast awareness be promoted in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2010.03.005
PMID: 20493767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Ann Thorac Surg. 2010 Jun;89(6):S2142-5. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2010.02.110.

Thoracoscopic chest wall resection: what is its role?

Demmy TL(1), Nwogu CE, Yendamuri S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Roswell Park Cancer Institute and University 
at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 14263, USA. todd.demmy@roswellpark.org

BACKGROUND: Although thoracoscopic operations like pulmonary lobectomy are 
gaining popularity because of reduced complications and improved quality of 
life, the role of more complex procedures is unknown.
METHODS: From January 2007 to April 2009, 3 patients (2 women) aged 61, 71, and 
79 years, underwent thoracoscopic lobectomy with en bloc chest wall resection in 
an attempt to reduce perioperative morbidity. During the same time, 4 additional 
patients underwent thoracoscopic explorations before open en bloc resections and 
10 underwent thoracotomy to remove primary or secondary chest wall neoplasms. 
Innovations that facilitated the thoracoscopic operations were the use of an 
endoscopic rib cutter and division of other chest wall tissues with thermal 
sealing technology.
RESULTS: Tumors were stage IIb-IIIa and sized 3.2 to 5 cm. Two patients received 
neoadjuvant therapy before resection. No patients required reconstruction. The 
first patient required thoracoscopic reexploration to evacuate a hematoma 
attributed to aggressive anticoagulation required because of high-risk cardiac 
comorbidities. No other complications occurred. By 3 weeks after resection, the 
first patient had discontinued narcotics, and the other patients denied pain and 
analgesic use entirely. All patients were alive, with no evidence of disease, at 
26, 16, and 6 months after their operations.
CONCLUSIONS: Highly selected cases of lung cancer with chest wall extension are 
appropriate candidates for thoracoscopic resection. Advanced thoracoscopic 
instrumentation makes this procedure feasible while following oncologic 
principles.

2010 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2010.02.110
PMID: 20493998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2010 May 21;396(1):101-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.02.165.

Fat cell turnover in humans.

Arner P(1), Spalding KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Karolinska, University Hospital, SE-14186 Stockholm, 
Sweden. Peter.Arner@ki.se

Obesity is a condition where excess body fat accumulates to such an extent that 
one's health may be affected. Owing to the cardiovascular and metabolic 
disorders associated with obesity, and the epidemic of obesity facing most 
countries today, life expectancy in the developed world may start to decrease 
for the first time in recent history. Other conditions, such as anorexia nervosa 
and cachexia, are characterised by subnormal levels of adipose tissue and as 
with obesity lead to morbidity and mortality. Given the significant personal and 
economic costs of these conditions and their increasing prevalence in society, 
understanding the factors that determine the fat mass is therefore of prime 
interest and may lead to effective treatments and/or interventions for these 
disorders. Fat mass can be regulated in two ways. The lipid filling of 
pre-existing fat cells could be altered and the number of fat cells could be 
changed by the generation of new fat cells or the dying of old ones (i.e. 
adipocyte turnover). This review summarizes what is known about fat cell 
turnover in humans and the potential clinical implications.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.02.165
PMID: 20494119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Urology. 2010 Sep;76(3):689-92. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2009.12.075. Epub
2010  May 21.

Pathologic outcomes of candidates for active surveillance undergoing radical 
prostatectomy.

Mufarrij P(1), Sankin A, Godoy G, Lepor H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, New York University School of Medicine, New York 
10016, USA.

Comment in
    Urology. 2010 Sep;76(3):692-3; discussion 693-4.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the pathologic findings and biochemical recurrence rates 
for a consecutive cohort of candidates for active surveillance who underwent 
radical prostatectomy. The role of active surveillance for the treatment of 
low-risk prostate cancer is highly controversial.
METHODS: Between October 2000 and February 2008, a single surgeon performed 1565 
open radical retropubic prostatectomies for clinically localized prostate 
cancer. Cases were selected for extraction if they fulfilled 1 of 2 published 
criteria for active surveillance in our prospective longitudinal outcomes 
database. A retrospective review of the prospectively collected database was 
executed to elucidate the outcomes of candidates for active surveillance who 
underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy. Gleason score, pathologic stage, and 
surgical margins were prospectively captured in our database. The 5-year, 
biochemical-free survival rates were estimated using Kaplan-Meier analysis 
plots.
RESULTS: Overall, 45.9%-47.2% of cases were pathologically upgraded to a Gleason 
score ≥ 7. Moreover, 12.3%-13.1% of cases were found to have a primary Gleason 
pattern of 4 or 5. Extracapsular extension (pT3a disease) was observed in 
7.8%-10.9% of cases. A total of 28.8%-32.2% of cases had an estimated percentage 
of cancer volume in the surgical specimen exceeding 20%. The 5-year 
biochemical-free survival was estimated to be 83.2%-92.9%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our pathologic findings and risk of biochemical recurrence after 
open radical prostatectomy questions the wisdom of active surveillance in men 
with low-risk disease who have "long" life expectancies.

Copyright © 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2009.12.075
PMID: 20494409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Oncologist. 2010;15(6):566-76. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2009-0307. Epub
2010  May 23.

Understanding how out-of-pocket expenses, treatment value, and patient 
characteristics influence treatment choices.

Wong YN(1), Hamilton O, Egleston B, Salador K, Murphy C, Meropol NJ.

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, 333 Cottman Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19111, USA. yu-ning.wong@fccc.edu

PURPOSE: Cost sharing, intended to control the "overuse" of health care 
resources, may also reduce use of necessary services. The influence of cost on 
the treatment choices of patients with life-threatening illness, such as cancer, 
is unknown.
METHODS: A convenience sample of patients undergoing surveillance following 
curative treatment for localized cancer completed a paper survey that included 
three scenarios to elicit the maximum copayment they would be willing to pay for 
better treatment outcomes. Scenario A described a treatment for a curable cancer 
in terms of recurrence risk. Scenarios B and C described treatments for 
noncurable cancer in terms of the 2-year survival probability and median life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: The sample (n = 60) was 78% female, 83% aged <65 years, and 58% college 
graduates. Thirteen percent reported making financial sacrifices to pay for 
treatment. Patients were willing to pay higher copayments for more effective 
treatments (p < .05 for all three scenarios). In scenario B, patients who were 
employed demonstrated a greater willingness to pay (WTP) (odds ratio [OR], 12.6; 
95% confidence interval [CI], 2.0-80.4), when controlling for efficacy. In 
scenario C, college graduates showed greater WTP (OR, 5.0; 95% CI, 1.2-20.9) and 
patients who reported previous financial sacrifices showed lower WTP (OR, 0.2; 
95% CI, 0.04-0.6).
CONCLUSION: This pilot study suggests that patients may be less willing to pay 
high copayments for treatments with modest benefit. Even among this relatively 
young, affluent, and educated population, demographic variables were related to 
WTP. Larger studies in more diverse populations should be conducted to better 
understand how cost may influence treatment decisions and cancer treatment 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2009-0307
PMCID: PMC2892556
PMID: 20495218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Yu-Ning Wong: Consultant/advisory 
role: Bristol-Myers Squibb, AstraZeneca, Independence Blue Cross; Other: 
Research agreement: Aetna, Bristol-Myers Squibb; Olivia Hamilton: None; Brian 
Egleston: Research funding/contracted research: National Institutes of Health; 
Kevin Salador: None; Camara Murphy: None; Neal J. Meropol: Consultant/advisory 
role: AstraZeneca, Genomic Health. The content of this article has been reviewed 
by independent peer reviewers to ensure that it is balanced, objective, and free 
from commercial bias. No financial relationships relevant to the content of this 
article have been disclosed by the independent peer reviewers.


249. Plant Signal Behav. 2010 Jul;5(7):868-71. doi: 10.4161/psb.5.7.11898. Epub
2010  Jul 1.

Autophosphorylation desensitizes phytochrome signal transduction.

Han YJ(1), Kim HS, Song PS, Kim JI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Kumho Life Science Laboratory, Chonnam 
National University, Gwangju, Korea.

Comment on
    Plant Cell Physiol. 2010 Apr;51(4):596-609.

Plant red/far-red photoreceptor phytochromes are known as autophosphorylating 
serine/threonine kinases. However, the functional roles of autophosphorylation 
and kinase activity of phytochromes are largely unknown. We recently reported 
that the autophosphorylation of phytochrome A (phyA) plays an important role in 
regulating plant phytochrome signaling by controlling phyA protein stability. 
Two serine residues in the N-terminal extension (NTE) region were identified as 
autophosphorylation sites, and phyA mutant proteins with serine-to-alanine 
mutations were degraded in plants at a significantly slower rate than the 
wild-type under light conditions, resulting in transgenic plants with 
hypersensitive light responses. In addition, the autophosphorylation site phyA 
mutants had normal protein kinase activities. Collectively, our results suggest 
that phytochrome autophosphorylation provides a mechanism for signal 
desensitization in phytochrome-mediated light signaling by accelerating the 
degradation of phytochrome A.

DOI: 10.4161/psb.5.7.11898
PMCID: PMC3014540
PMID: 20495342


250. Fly (Austin). 2010 Jul-Sep;4(3):246-8. doi: 10.4161/fly.4.3.12174. Epub 2010
Jul  1.

The highly elongated Drosophila mechanosensory bristle--a new model for studying 
polarized microtubule function.

Bitan A(1), Guild G, Abdu U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and the National Institute for Biotechnology in 
the Negev, Ben-Gurion University, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

Microtubules (MTs) are polar polymers that can facilitate asymmetric 
distribution of cell components, a process important for polarized cell growth. 
The highly elongated and polarized Drosophila mechnosensory bristle cytoplasm is 
filled with short MTs that constitute a significant component of the shaft 
cytoplasm. Inhibition of MT assembly affects biased axial growth in the bristle 
and highlights the importance of MTs for this process. We demonstrate that the 
vast majority of bristle MTs are organized in a polarized manner, minus-ends 
out. We also show that genetic disruption of the MT polarity affects the polar 
distribution of cell components and leads to an alteration in the biased axial 
shape of the bristle shaft. Thus, we suggest that the asymmetric organization of 
the MT population within the bristle cell shaft is necessary for the proper 
axial elongation of this cellular extension. We would also like to emphasize the 
benefits of using the bristle cell as a model for studying MTs and MT-binding 
proteins because changes to this cytoskeletal component result in easily 
recognized at the phenotypes.

DOI: 10.4161/fly.4.3.12174
PMID: 20495357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. HPB (Oxford). 2009 Dec;11(8):656-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2009.00108.x.

Radical resection for T1b gallbladder cancer: a decision analysis.

Abramson MA, Pandharipande P, Ruan D, Gold JS, Whang EE.

BACKGROUND: Gallbladder cancer is the most common malignancy of the biliary 
tract. Radical surgery (including liver resection and regional lymphadenectomy) 
is applied for some gallbladder cancers, but the benefits of these procedures 
are unproven. For patients with T1b cancers discovered incidentally on 
cholecystectomy specimens, the utility of radical surgery remains debated.
METHODS: A decision analytic Markov model was created to estimate and compare 
life expectancy associated with management strategies for a simulated cohort of 
patients with incidentally discovered T1b gallbladder cancer after routine 
cholecystectomy. In one strategy, patients were treated with no additional 
surgery; in another, patients were treated with radical resection. The primary 
(base-case) analysis was calculated based on a cohort of 71-year-old females and 
incorporated best available input estimates of survival and surgical mortality 
from the literature. Sensitivity analysis was performed to assess the effects of 
model uncertainty on outcomes.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, radical resection was favoured over no 
further surgical resection, providing a survival benefit of 3.43 years for 
patients undergoing radical resection vs. simple cholecystectomy alone. 
Sensitivity analysis on the age at diagnosis demonstrated that the greatest 
benefit in gained life-years was achieved for the youngest ages having radical 
resection, with this benefit gradually decreasing with increasing age of the 
patient. High peri-operative mortality rates (>/=36%) led to a change in the 
preferred strategy to simple cholecystectomy alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision analysis demonstrates that radical resection is associated 
with increased survival for most patients with T1b gallbladder cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2009.00108.x
PMCID: PMC2799618
PMID: 20495633


252. Qual Life Res. 2010 Oct;19(8):1145-54. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9678-5. Epub
2010  May 23.

Preliminary findings of an investigation into the relationship between national 
culture and EQ-5D value sets.

Bailey H(1), Kind P.

Author information:
(1)The University of the West Indies, St Augustine Campus, Trinidad and Tobago. 
hhbailey@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Despite the growing importance of the EQ-5D descriptive system as a 
basis for the valuation of QALYs in cost-utility analysis, for most countries, 
there are no EQ-5D value sets. Researchers and policy makers wishing to use the 
EQ-5D descriptive system in a country for which there is no value set are 
advised to use one from a nearby or 'similar' population. Factors other than 
geographic proximity can affect the relative values of EQ-5D states.
OBJECTIVE: This study explores the links between national culture and EQ-5D 
value sets.
METHOD: Rank correlation analysis is used to explore relationships between the 
relative values of a set of EQ-5D states and dimensions of national culture. The 
latter are taken from Hofstede's framework which operationalizes national 
culture in five dimensions.
RESULTS: For the data currently available (countries for which EQ-5D value sets 
and scores on dimensions of culture both exist), moderate and strong 
correlations were found between the culture dimension of power distance and 
individualism and the EQ-5D dimensions of pain/discomfort and 
anxiety/depression. Moderate correlations were also observed between the 
cultural dimension of masculinity and the EQ-5D dimensions of self care, usual 
activities and pain/discomfort. Uncertainty avoidance correlates with the EQ-5D 
dimension of anxiety/depression.
DISCUSSION: The correlation patterns observed are generally consistent with a 
priori expectations based on the nature of the dimensions of culture and the 
EQ-5D model. This analysis demonstrates the potential of national culture in 
providing insight into the drivers of the relative values of EQ-5D dimensions 
for different countries and in informing decisions about which EQ-5D value sets 
to use in situations where one does not exist.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9678-5
PMID: 20496167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2010 Apr;14(4):259-62.

Gastrointestinal and liver tumours and public health in Europe.

Milosavljevic T(1), Kostic-Milosavljevic M, Jovanovic I, Krstic M.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology Clinic, School of Medicine, University of 
Belgrade, Serbia. tommilos@hotmail.com

STATE OF THE ART: Europe comprises only one eighth of the total world population 
but has around one quarter of the global total of cancer cases--some 3.2 million 
new patients per year. While the disproportionate cancer burden is readily 
apparent, the disease patterns in Europe cannot simply be generalized--overall 
cancer incidence and mortality rates vary at least two-fold between European 
countries and the differences are often far greater for specific cancers. With 
1.7 million deaths each year, cancer currently represents the second most 
important cause of death in Europe. The range of survival rates is similarly 
wide. For individual cancers, the variation across Europe is even greater. This 
reflects a wide range of social and epidemiological factors in different 
countries: cancer prevention programmes; screening programmes; cancer control 
plans; individual lifestyles and occupational exposures; the existence and 
accessibility of health-care facilities and technological infrastructure; and 
the availability of human, financial and material resources for health and 
economic development. Europe has some of the richest countries in the world, but 
also some of the poorest. In 2002, 168 million people were living below the 
poverty line, about 46% of the European population. The time trends in cancer 
risk also vary between European countries and some cancers show different trends 
between men and women, or young and old, or poor and rich. The public health 
profile of cancer in Europe is complex. Trends in the incidence and mortality 
rates are also influenced by successes in health promotion (e.g. tobacco 
control), efficient screening (e.g. breast, bowel, cervix) and better treatment. 
These have been reflected in lower incidence, reduced mortality, higher 
survival, improved life expectancy and a better quality of life for cancer 
survivors.
CONCLUSIONS: Cancer of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is the most common cancer 
in Europe. More than half of GI cancer cases arise from the colon. They can 
remain asymptomatic until late in the natural history of the disease, and as 
this is the stage at which they can be cured, screening has been advocated for 
well members of the population and surveillance for those with conditions 
predisposing to cancer.

PMID: 20496532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2010 Apr;14(4):407-14.

Management of bone metastases.

Cappuccio M(1), Bandiera S, Babbi L, Boriani L, Corghi A, Amendola L, Colangeli 
S, Terzi S, Gasbarrini A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncologic and Degenerative Spine Surgery, Rizzoli Institute, 
Bologna, Italy.

Bone metastases are only apparently similar lesions, considering the large 
varieties of istotypes and the spread of the primary tumour. Although these 
metastases develop early and are not terminal events, they have to be considered 
as severe complications. When possible, surgical treatment can improve the 
history of the patient in terms of life expectancy and quality of life. The 
approach to these lesions should be multidisciplinary in collaboration with 
oncologists and radiotherapists. In fact the average of survival of these 
patients has increased in recent years. The evolution of anesthesiological 
techniques permits surgical treatments that once were considered prohibitive. 
The application of new adjuvant therapies increases the effectiveness for 
surgical treatment. Controversy exists over the most appropriate treatment for 
patients with bone metastatic disease. The purpose was to determine the best 
sequential process to arrive at the most appropriate treatment considering the 
individual general conditions and the parameters of the metastases. As the 
number of treatment options for metastatic bone disease has grown, it has become 
clear that effective implementation of these treatments can only be achieved by 
a multidisciplinary approach.

PMID: 20496555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Food Nutr Bull. 2009 Dec;30(4):283-316. doi: 10.1177/156482650903000401.

A strategic approach to the unfinished fortification agenda: feasibility, costs, 
and cost-effectiveness analysis of fortification programs in 48 countries.

Fiedler JL(1), Macdonald B.

Author information:
(1)HarvestPlus, International Food Policy Research Institute, 2033 K Street NW, 
Washington DC 20006, USA. J.Fielder@cgiar.org

BACKGROUND: Food fortification is a promising strategy for combating 
micronutrient deficiencies, which plague one-third of the world's population. 
Which foods to fortify, with which micronutrients, and in which countries remain 
essential questions that to date have not been addressed at the global level.
OBJECTIVE: To provide a tool for international agencies to identify and organize 
the next phase of the unfinished global fortification agenda by prioritizing 
roughly 250 potential interventions in 48 priority countries. By explicitly 
defining the structure and operations of the fortification interventions in a 
detailed and transparent manner, and incorporating a substantial amount of 
country-specific data, the study also provides a potentially useful starting 
point for policy discussions in each of the 48 countries, which--it is 
hoped--will help to catalyze the development of public-private partnerships and 
accelerate the introduction of fortification and reduction of micronutrient 
deficiencies.
METHODS: Forty-eight high-priority countries were identified, and the 
feasibility of fortifying vegetable oil and sugar with vitamin A and fortifying 
wheat flour and maize flour with two alternative multiple micronutrient 
formulations was assessed. One hundred twenty-two country-, food-, and 
fortification formulation-specific interventions were assessed to be feasible, 
and the costs of each intervention were estimated. Assuming a 30% reduction in 
the micronutrient deficiencies of the persons consuming the food, the number of 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) saved by each of the programs was 
estimated.
RESULTS: The cost per DALY saved was calculated for each of the 122 
interventions, and the interventions were rank-ordered by cost-effectiveness. It 
is estimated that the 60 most cost-effective interventions would carry a 10-year 
price tag of US$1 billion and have costs per DALY saved ranging from US$1 to 
US$134. The single "best bet" intervention--i.e., the most cost-effective 
intervention--in each of the 48 countries was identified.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a detailed, transparent, evidence-based 
approach to defining and estimating the costs and cost-effectiveness of the 
unfinished global fortification agenda in the 48 priority countries. Other 
considerations in designing a strategic approach to the unfinished global 
fortification agenda are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/156482650903000401
PMID: 20496620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Int Psychogeriatr. 2010 Aug;22(5):727-32. doi: 10.1017/S1041610210001110.
Epub  2010 May 25.

A replication of the relationship between elderly suicide rates and the human 
development index in a cross-national study.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ageing, Ethnicity and Mental Health, International School for Communities, 
Rights and Inclusion, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK. 
ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: A recent cross-national study demonstrated a curvilinear (inverted 
U-shaped curve) between elderly male suicide rates and the Human Development 
Index (HDI) fitting the quadratic equation y = a + bx - cx2 where y is the 
elderly male suicide rate, x is the HDI and a, b and c are constants). This 
study used only one-year cross-sectional data on suicide rates, and suicide 
rates can randomly fluctuate year on year.
METHODS: A study designed to replicate this curvilinear relationship between 
elderly suicide rates and the HDI was undertaken by: (i) using one-year average 
of five years data on suicide rates; and (ii) using more recent data on both 
elderly suicide rates than used in the previous study. Data were ascertained 
from the World Health Organization and the United Nations.
RESULTS: There was a significant curvilinear (inverted U-shaped curve) 
relationship between suicide rates in males aged 65-74 years, males aged 75+ 
years, females aged 65-74 years and the HDI fitting the quadratic equation y = a 
+ bx - cx2. A similar curvilinear relationship was observed in females aged 75+ 
years, but the significance level only approached 0.05 level.
CONCLUSIONS: The replication of the curvilinear (inverted U-shaped curve) 
relationship between elderly suicide rates and the HDI by using one-year average 
of five years data on suicide rates suggests that the observed relationship is 
robust and accurate.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610210001110
PMID: 20497623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Clin Geriatr Med. 2010 May;26(2):241-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2010.02.004.

Prostate cancer in the older man: conflict between tumor biology and medical 
advancement.

Cummings JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Missouri School of Medicine, One Hospital 
Drive, M562, Columbia, MO 65212, USA. cummingsjm@health.missouri.edu

As overall life expectancy grows, clinicians will be confronted more often with 
diseases that although devastating in the young individual, will not affect 
survival and possibly even quality of life for those in the older age groups. 
Prostate cancer is an example of this. The challenge for the physician caring 
for these patients is to distinguish who is at risk and how much risk so that 
decisions can be made regarding the propriety of prostate cancer detection and 
treatment of each individual. In this article, these issues are discussed in a 
way that helps the clinician guide older men to better decisions regarding 
prostate cancer detection and therapy.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2010.02.004
PMID: 20497843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2010 Oct;22(4):477-91. doi:
10.1177/1010539510371148.  Epub 2010 May 24.

Spatial and gender scenario of literate life expectancy at birth in India.

Chattopadhyay A(1), Sinha KC.

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, India. 
apachat@rediffmail.com

Measuring human quality of life is academically challenging. The human 
development index (HDI) substantially captures the overall country level status 
on human welfare. However, this index has some drawbacks. Therefore, Lutz 
composed a simple index in 1995 combining life expectancy and literacy, called 
literate life expectancy (LLE). LLE can be calculated for subpopulations 
depending on availability of data. This article captures the LLE in major states 
in India and the gender differences in LLE at rural and urban levels. The 
authors have tried to highlight the social development scenario in India and its 
major states by using this pure social indicator that intentionally does not use 
any economic measurement. The state scenario comprehensively depicts gender 
differentials in social development, and it calls for implementing development 
measures more seriously in states like Haryana, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya 
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh to reduce the gender gap. Being highly correlated 
with the HDI, the LLE index proves to be a very clear and simple comprehensive 
measure of social development for different subpopulations.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539510371148
PMID: 20498126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Integr Cancer Ther. 2010 Jun;9(2):236-45. doi: 10.1177/1534735410371479.
Epub  2010 May 24.

Integrative tumor board: a case report and discussion from East-West Cancer 
Center.

Park HM(1), Kim SY, Jung IC, Lee YW, Cho CK, Yoo HS.

Author information:
(1)East-West Cancer Center, Dunsan Oriental Medical Hospital of Daejeon 
University, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

AIM: To introduce the application of wheel balance cancer therapy (WBCT) in 
cancer treatment through an intensive study of a representative patient.
METHOD: A 59-year-old, female patient who was a secondhand smoker and who 
carried no significant medical and family history was diagnosed with T1N0M1 
(stage 4) lung adenocarcinoma. Immunohistochemistry was positive for thyroid 
transcription factor-1, CK7, cyclin D1, p53, and Ki-67 on both lung biopsy 
specimens. An open lobectomy with mediastinal nodal dissection followed. The 
patient was transferred to East-West Cancer Center (EWCC) suffering from 
exertional dyspnea (NYHA [New York Heart Association] grade 2) with thoracic 
pain and pain in both upper limbs because of the decreased ventilatory capacity 
and reduced exercise capacity after a pulmonary resection. She also complained 
of emotional stress. EWCC provided WBCT, a multimodality alternative protocol 
based on the theory of traditional oriental medicine. Physicians regularly 
monitored whether metastasis or recurrence existed through blood and radiation 
tests. Observations and dialogues with the patient were used to record the 
changes in symptoms such as thoracic pain, dyspnea, anxiety, and fear.
RESULTS: Treatments at EWCC led to a disease-free survival of 28 months without 
adjuvant chemotherapy. Neither metastasis nor recurrence occurred during this 
period. Exertional dyspnea recovered to NYHA grade 1. Other physical and 
psychological symptoms were alleviated.
CONCLUSION: This report suggests that WBCT may have the potential for extending 
life expectancy, controlling symptoms, and improving quality of life in cancer 
patients.

DOI: 10.1177/1534735410371479
PMID: 20498130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Neurology. 2010 May 25;74(21):1671-9. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181e04297.

Optimal screening strategy for familial intracranial aneurysms: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Bor AS(1), Koffijberg H, Wermer MJ, Rinkel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. A.S.E.Bor@umcutrecht.nl

OBJECTIVE: Individuals with a family history of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), 
defined as 2 or more affected first-degree relatives, have an increased risk of 
aneurysm formation and rupture. Screening such individuals for intracranial 
aneurysms is advocated, but its effectiveness and cost-effectiveness are 
unknown, as are the optimal age ranges and interval for screening.
METHODS: With a Markov model and Monte Carlo simulations we compared screening 
with no screening in individuals with a family history of SAH. We varied age 
ranges (starting screening at 20, 30, or 40 years old, ending screening at 60, 
70, or 80 years old) and screening intervals (2-, 3-, 5-, 7-, 10-, and 15-year 
interval), and analyzed the impact in costs and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY).
RESULTS: Screening individuals with a family history of SAH is cost-effective. 
The strategy with the lowest costs per QALY was to screen only twice, at 40 and 
55 years old. Sequentially lengthening the screening period and decreasing the 
screening interval yielded additional health benefits at acceptable costs up to 
screening from age 20 to 80 every 7 years. More frequent screening within this 
age range still provided extra QALYs, with an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio more favorable than 26,308/QALY ($38,410/QALY).
CONCLUSION: This study provides evidence for recommendations to screen 
individuals with 2 or more first-degree relatives with subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
The optimal screening strategy according to our model is screening from age 20 
until 80 every 7 years given a cost-effectiveness threshold of 
20,000/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) ($29,200/QALY).

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181e04297
PMID: 20498435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2010 Jul;6(7):371-8. doi: 10.1038/nrendo.2010.85. Epub
2010  May 25.

Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes in children--gaps in the evidence?

Rana M(1), Munns CF, Selvadurai H, Donaghue KC, Craig ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, The Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, Locked Bag 4001, Westmead, 2145 NSW, Australia.

As the life span of patients with cystic fibrosis has increased, so has the 
prevalence of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes mellitus. However, screening 
practices for cystic fibrosis-related diabetes mellitus vary widely, which 
affects accurate estimates of the health burden of this comorbidity. The 
management of prediabetes and hyperglycemia is an increasingly important aspect 
of care in patients with cystic fibrosis, but few studies have specifically 
addressed the management of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes mellitus. Previous 
studies support the use of insulin for the treatment of patients with this 
disorder, but the evidence for its use in patients with cystic fibrosis and 
impaired glucose tolerance is poor. Nutritional management is currently guided 
by dietary recommendations for individuals with cystic fibrosis, with little 
evidence specific to the dietary management of patients with cystic 
fibrosis-related diabetes mellitus. Additionally, microvascular complications 
have become more frequent as a result of the rise in life expectancy of these 
patients, yet to date no intervention studies have addressed prevention or 
management of diabetic complications in patients with cystic fibrosis. A strong 
evidence base is needed to guide the management of patients with cystic 
fibrosis-related diabetes mellitus and its complications.

DOI: 10.1038/nrendo.2010.85
PMID: 20498678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2010 Mar-Apr;56(2):242-7. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302010000200027.

[Cognitive alterations associated with HIV-1 infection and AIDS].

[Article in Portuguese]

Christo PP(1).

Author information:
