DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-11-81
PMCID: PMC2874768
PMID: 20433733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Sep;45(9):679-84. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.04.006. Epub
2010  Apr 27.

Appendicular skeletal muscle mass is the strongest independent factor associated 
with femoral neck bone mineral density in adult and older men.

Blain H(1), Jaussent A, Thomas E, Micallef JP, Dupuy AM, Bernard PL, 
Mariano-Goulart D, Cristol JP, Sultan C, Rossi M, Picot MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, University Hospital of 
Montpellier, University Montpellier 1, France. h-blain@chu-montpellier.fr

The relationship between bone mass and muscle mass may be due to the 
site-specific effects of loading on bone in adults and to lifestyle, 
nutritional, and hormonal factors. Another hypothesis is that the maintenance 
with aging of both appendicular muscle and bone mass may be determined by 
factors independent of all these previous factors, including genetic factors. In 
160 healthy men aged 20 to 72years, we recorded femoral neck bone mineral 
density (FN BMD), relative appendicular skeletal muscle mass [RASM; appendicular 
skeletal muscle mass (kg)/height (cm)], age, body mass, maximum grip and knee 
extension strength, lifetime physical activities, calcium intake, tobacco 
smoking, and serum parathyroid hormone (PTH), estradiol (E2), free testosterone, 
dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS), insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I), sex 
hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), calcium, 25(OH) vitamin D, albumin, and 
creatinine clearance. The correlation between FN BMD and RASM (that includes 
upper and lower limb muscle mass) was of slightly greater magnitude than that 
between FN BMD and the relative upper limb muscle mass and between FN BMD and 
the relative leg muscle mass (r=0.39; p< or =0.001 versus r=0.36; p< or =0.001 
and r=0.34; p< or =0.001, respectively). The stepwise multiple linear regression 
model showed that FN BMD was significantly associated with RASM (15% of FN BMD 
variance, p<0.0001), age (10% of FN BMD variance, p<0.0001), physical activities 
from age 11-20years (5% of FN BMD variance, p<0.01), and blood PTH, IGF-I, and 
creatinine clearance, (2%, 2%, and 1% of FN BMD variance, respectively, p<0.05). 
These results show that RASM, with ASM measured by DXA, is the strongest factor 
associated with FN BMD in men. It remains to be determined whether assessing 
RASM by anthropometric methods would help screening adult men at risk of low FN 
BMD. Furthermore, since RASM is associated with FN BMD independently of 
appendicular skeletal loads and other lifestyle, nutritional, and hormonal 
factors, this suggests that common factors, possibly genetic factors, might also 
influence the coupled maintenance of appendicular muscle mass and FN BMD in 
adult men.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.04.006
PMID: 20433916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Mech Ageing Dev. 2010 Jul-Aug;131(7-8):487-93. doi:
10.1016/j.mad.2010.04.007.  Epub 2010 Apr 29.

The emerging role of iron dyshomeostasis in the mitochondrial decay of aging.

Xu J(1), Marzetti E, Seo AY, Kim JS, Prolla TA, Leeuwenburgh C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging and Geriatrics Research, Division of Biology of Aging, 
Genomics, Metabolism and Biomarkers Core of the Institute on Aging, University 
of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.

Recent studies show that cellular and mitochondrial iron increases with age. 
Iron overload, especially in mitochondria, increases the availability of 
redox-active iron, which may be a causal factor in the extensive age-related 
biomolecular oxidative damage observed in aged organisms. Such damage is thought 
to play a major role in the pathogenesis of iron overload diseases and 
age-related pathologies. Indeed, recent findings of the beneficial effects of 
iron manipulation in life extension in Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila and 
transgenic mice have sparked a renewed interest in the potential role of iron in 
longevity. A substantial research effort now focuses on developing and testing 
safe pharmacologic interventions to combat iron dyshomeostasis in aging, acute 
injuries and in iron overload disorders.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2010.04.007
PMCID: PMC2958063
PMID: 20434480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Vasc Surg. 2010 May;51(5 Suppl):43S-51S. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.01.076.

Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischaemia of the Leg (BASIL) trial: 
Health-related quality of life outcomes, resource utilization, and 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Forbes JF(1), Adam DJ, Bell J, Fowkes FG, Gillespie I, Raab GM, Ruckley CV, 
Bradbury AW; BASIL trial Participants.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Health Sciences, University of Edinburgh Medical 
School, Teviot Place, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. j.f.forbes@ed.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischaemia of the Leg (BASIL) 
trial showed that survival in patients with severe lower limb ischemia (rest 
pain, tissue loss) who survived postintervention for >2 years after initial 
randomization to bypass surgery (BSX) vs balloon angioplasty (BAP) was 
associated with an improvement in subsequent amputation-free and overall 
survival of about 6 and 7 months, respectively. We now compare the effect on 
hospital costs and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of the BSX-first and 
BAP-first revascularization strategies using a within-trial cost-effectiveness 
analysis.
METHODS: We measured HRQOL using the Vascular Quality of Life Questionnaire 
(VascuQol), the Short Form 36 (SF-36), and the EuroQol (EQ-5D) health outcome 
measure up to 3 years from randomization. Hospital use was measured and valued 
using United Kingdom National Health Service hospital costs over 3 years. 
Analysis was by intention-to-treat. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were 
estimated for cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Uncertainty was 
assessed using nonparametric bootstrapping of incremental costs and incremental 
effects.
RESULTS: No significant differences in HRQOL emerged when the two treatment 
strategies were compared. During the first year from randomization, the mean 
cost of inpatient hospital treatment in patients allocated to BSX ($34,378) was 
estimated to be about $8469 (95% confidence interval, $2,417-$14,522) greater 
than that of patients allocated to BAP ($25,909). Owing to increased costs 
subsequently incurred by the BAP patients, this difference decreased at the end 
of follow-up to $5521 ($45,322 for BSX vs $39,801 for BAP) and was no longer 
significant. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a BSX-first strategy 
was $184,492 per QALY gained. The probability that BSX was more cost-effective 
than BAP was relatively low given the similar distributions in HRQOL, survival, 
and hospital costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Adopting a BSX-first strategy for patients with severe limb 
ischemia does result in a modest increase in hospital costs, with a small 
positive but insignificant gain in disease-specific and generic HRQOL. However, 
the real-world choice between BSX-first and BAP-first revascularization 
strategies for severe limb ischemia due to infrainguinal disease cannot depend 
on costs alone and will require a more comprehensive consideration of individual 
patient preferences conditioned by expectations of survival and other health 
outcomes.

Copyright (c) 2010 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.01.076
PMID: 20435261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J Vasc Surg. 2010 May;51(5 Suppl):69S-75S. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.02.001.

Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischaemia of the Leg (BASIL) and the (hoped 
for) dawn of evidence-based treatment for advanced limb ischemia.

Conte MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery and the Heart and Vascular 
Center, University of California-San Francisco, 400 Parnassus Ave., San 
Francisco, CA 94143, USA. Michael.conte@ucsfmedctr.org

The Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischemia of the Leg (BASIL) trial is the 
only randomized controlled trial (RCT) to date comparing open surgical bypass 
with endovascular therapy for severe limb ischemia (SLI). In their initial 2005 
publication, the BASIL investigators reported that the main clinical outcomes 
(overall survival and amputation-free survival) were no different at 2 years 
after randomization to angioplasty-first or bypass-first revascularization 
strategies. However, beyond 2 years there appeared to be a benefit for open 
bypass surgery, providing impetus for an extension study. The final analysis of 
the long-term outcomes from BASIL is now presented in a set of articles that are 
reviewed in this commentary. The benefit of initial randomization to open 
surgery for patients surviving > or =2 years (70% of the BASIL cohort) was 
confirmed. When outcomes were analyzed by treatment received, patients who had 
received prosthetic bypass grafts (25% of the surgical arm) fared much more 
poorly than those treated with a vein bypass. Patients who underwent surgical 
bypass after an initial failed angioplasty also fared significantly worse than 
those who were treated initially with bypass surgery. Health-related quality of 
life measures and costs were not significantly different overall. There are many 
controversies surrounding the BASIL trial and its interpretation, which are 
reviewed herein. These include the choice of study population, end points 
examined, and the nature of procedures performed. The BASIL trial confirms the 
primacy of open surgical bypass with vein for most patients with SLI and raises 
questions about the sequelae of failed endovascular interventions. Further 
multicenter trials are needed to address the large gap in evidence for treatment 
selection in this patient population.

Copyright (c) 2010 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.02.001
PMID: 20435263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Chemother. 2010 Apr;22(2):75-82. doi: 10.1179/joc.2010.22.2.75.

Sunitinib, sorafenib, temsirolimus or bevacizumab in the treatment of metastatic 
renal cell carcinoma: a review of health economic evaluations.

Norum J(1), Nieder C, Kondo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Tromsø, Norway. jan.norum@helse-nord.no

Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the most prevalent kidney cancer and the 5-year 
overall survival figure in metastatic disease (mRCC) is about 10%. New targeted 
drugs (sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab, temsirolimus) have shown activity in 
the treatment of mRCC, but they are all associated with a significant burden of 
cost. To support decision makers in their allocation of resources, 
costeffectiveness models are constructed to compare the costs and outcomes of 
anticancer therapy. This survey focuses on studies since 2003 exploring health 
economics in the treatment of metastatic and/or advanced RCC employing these new 
drugs. This paper summarizes the results, focuses on the level of evidence of 
these studies, compares the calculated cost-effectiveness ratios and makes 
suggestions for future studies. This review reveals costs per life years gained 
(LYG) or quality-adjusted life years (QALY) in the range of euro 22,648 to 
euro203,692, depending on whether the setting is first-line or second-line and 
drug used. When compared to the other agents, sunitinib has the best 
cost-effectiveness figure. Second-line therapy does not offer valid incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.

DOI: 10.1179/joc.2010.22.2.75
PMID: 20435564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Br J Psychiatry. 2010 May;196(5):396-403. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.070482.

Cost-effectiveness of psychotherapy for cluster B personality disorders.

Soeteman DI(1), Verheul R, Delimon J, Meerman AM, van den Eijnden E, Rossum BV, 
Ziegler U, Thunnissen M, Busschbach JJ, Kim JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Erasmus Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Djora.Soeteman@deviersprong.nl

BACKGROUND: Recommendations on current clinical guidelines are informed by 
limited economic evidence.
AIMS: A formal economic evaluation of three modalities of psychotherapy for 
patients with cluster B personality disorders.
METHOD: A probabilistic decision-analytic model to assess the cost-effectiveness 
of out-patient, day hospital and in-patient psychotherapy over 5 years in terms 
of cost per recovered patient-year and cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY). Analyses were conducted from both societal and payer perspectives.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective, the most cost-effective choice switched 
from out-patient to day hospital psychotherapy at a threshold of 12,274 euros 
per recovered patient-year; and from day hospital to in-patient psychotherapy at 
113,298 euros. In terms of cost per QALY, the optimal strategy changed at 56,325 
euros and 286,493 euros per QALY respectively. From the payer perspective, the 
switch points were at 9895 euros and 155,797 euros per recovered patient-year, 
and 43,427 euros and 561,188 euros per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Out-patient psychotherapy and day hospital psychotherapy are the 
optimal treatments for patients with cluster B personality disorders in terms of 
cost per recovered patient-year and cost per QALY.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.070482
PMID: 20435967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Vestn Otorinolaringol. 2010;(1):19-20.

[Diagnosis and treatment of Wegener's granulomatosis].

[Article in Russian]

Markov GI.

The author emphasizes the importance of early diagnosis of Wegener's 
granulomatosis based on clinical manifestations of the disease with the 
participation of an otorhinolaringologist. An algorithm of its treatment is 
proposed that allowed life expectancy to be increased from 8 to 25 years in 10 
of the eleven patients.

PMID: 20436417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Can J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;45(3):243-51. doi: 10.3129/i10-026.

Economic impact of the advent of posterior lamellar keratoplasty in Montreal, 
Quebec.

Beauchemin C(1), Brunette I, Boisjoly H, Freeman EE, Popescu M, Lachaine J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montreal, Montreal, Que. 
catherine.beauchemin@umontreal.ca

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-utility of posterior lamellar keratoplasty (PLK) 
techniques, including deep lamellar endothelial keratoplasty, Descemet stripping 
endothelial keratoplasty, and Descemet stripping automated endothelial 
keratoplasty, in the treatment of corneal endothelial diseases.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis based on a Markov model.
PARTICIPANTS: Cohort of 100 patients waiting for corneal graft.
METHODS: This cost-utility analysis was performed from a Canadian health system 
perspective over a lifetime period. A Markov model was constructed to compare 
the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) associated with penetrating 
keratoplasty (PK) and PLK techniques. The model included all major health states 
relevant to patients scheduled for corneal transplant: waiting for transplant, 
surviving graft with or without complications, irreversible failure, 
noneligibility, and death. Transition probabilities among health states were 
obtained from published clinical trials. Costs considered were those associated 
with surgery, patients' follow-up, and postsurgical complications. Number of 
QALYs was estimated presurgery and postsurgery using the Brown and Sharma 
conversion chart.
RESULTS: PLK proved to be more effective, providing more QALYs (+13 QALYs/100 
patients), and it was less costly (-$68,792/100 patients) compared with PK. 
Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of 
the base-case results.
CONCLUSIONS: From a clinical and an economic standpoint, PLK in the management 
of patients waiting for corneal graft represents a preferred strategy compared 
with PK only.

DOI: 10.3129/i10-026
PMID: 20436543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Strahlenther Onkol. 2010 Jul;186(7):367-73. doi: 10.1007/s00066-010-2066-9.
Epub  2010 Apr 26.

Osteonecrosis of the jaws: clinicopathologic and radiologic characteristics, 
preventive and therapeutic strategies.

Vassiliou V(1), Tselis N, Kardamakis D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Bank of Cyprus Oncology Centre, Nicosia, 
Cyprus.

BACKGROUND: Bisphosphonate (BP) use has increased dramatically in recent years, 
becoming an integral part of the overall antineoplastic management of patients 
with metastatic bone disease. Even though their application has shown to be 
effective in reducing pain and minimizing the risk of skeletal-related events, 
their administration may bring also adverse events such osteonecrosis of the 
jaws (ONJ).
METHODS: After a thorough review of the literature, important aspects of the 
pathophysiology, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of ONJ are presented.
RESULTS: ONJ is evident in up to 10% of patients receiving intravenous BP 
treatment. Despite the fact that its exact pathophysiology is unknown, it is 
characterized by bone necrosis that can occur either spontaneously or after 
dental surgery or tooth extraction. Panoramic radiographs are useful for the 
diagnosis and routine assessment of patients and computed tomography can 
differentiate between ONJ and metastatic disease. Additionally, magnetic 
resonance imaging depicts local disease extension readily, and scintigraphy is 
the most sensitive imaging modality for detecting early involvement. Preventive 
measures and routine dental evaluations are essential components of the overall 
patient management. In the event of ONJ, stage I or II should be managed 
conservatively, whereas more advanced stages (III and IV) should be treated 
surgically.
CONCLUSION: ONJ is a well-defined clinical entity that all medical and dental 
doctors should be aware of, since if it is not dealt with readily and 
effectively, it may deteriorate the clinical status and quality of life of 
affected patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-010-2066-9
PMID: 20437019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Int J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2010 Aug;26(6):613-6. doi:
10.1007/s10554-010-9633-0.  Epub 2010 May 1.

Cost and benefit in cardiovascular imaging: the quest for economic 
sustainability.

Leo CG, Carpeggiani C, Picano E.

Comment on
    Int J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2010 Aug;26(6):605-12.

DOI: 10.1007/s10554-010-9633-0
PMID: 20437104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2010 Jul;10(4):299-307. doi: 
10.1007/s11910-010-0114-6.

Selecting patients for epilepsy surgery.

Unnwongse K(1), Wehner T, Foldvary-Schaefer N.

Author information:
(1)Prasat Neurological Institute, 312 Rajvitee Rajtavee, Bangkok, 10400, 
Thailand. Unnkan@yahoo.com

About one third of patients with focal epilepsy experience seizures despite 
adequate medical treatment. In this population, successful epilepsy surgery 
improves life expectancy and health-related quality of life, while reducing 
health care costs as a result of reduced hospital admissions, emergency 
department visits, and use of antiepileptic drugs. The effectiveness of epilepsy 
surgery and low incidence of surgical complications have been established by 
numerous studies over several decades. The International League Against Epilepsy 
recently issued a definition of drug-resistant epilepsy for early identification 
of patients who are unlikely to be treated successfully with medical therapy 
alone. Potential surgical candidates are identified through a detailed seizure 
and medical history, physical examination, and the use of video 
electroencephalography and neuroimaging. A presurgical evaluation should be 
considered as soon as drug resistance becomes evident.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-010-0114-6
PMID: 20437114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Gerontol Nurs. 2010 Sep;36(9):22-33; quiz 34-5. doi: 
10.3928/00989134-20100330-02. Epub 2010 Apr 22.

Feasibility of family participation in a delirium prevention program for 
hospitalized older adults.

Rosenbloom-Brunton DA(1), Henneman EA, Inouye SK.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Nursing, Massachusetts General Hospital Institute of 
Health Professions, Boston, MA 02129, USA. drosenbloom@mghihp.edu

Delirium is the leading complication of hospitalization for older adults. The 
role family caregivers could play in delirium prevention and how nurses could 
facilitate family participation has been largely unexplored. This study examined 
the feasibility of family participation in a multicomponent intervention program 
for delirium prevention in hospitalized older adults called Family-HELP, as an 
adaptation and extension of the Hospital Elder Life Program (HELP). Family-HELP 
demonstrates that active engagement of family caregivers in preventive 
interventions for delirium is feasible. Intervention completion occurred at 
least 55% of the time. Three themes emerged on barriers and facilitators for 
family participation: therapeutic relationships, partnership, and environment. 
Key to successful implementation of the program is attention to the identified 
barriers and facilitators. These findings have implications for clinicians 
committed to delivering quality inpatient care to older adults and their 
families, with the benefits of HELP being extended to include family caregivers 
with an important role in delirium prevention efforts.

Copyright 2010, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/00989134-20100330-02
PMCID: PMC3666867
PMID: 20438016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2010 May;19(5):927-33. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2009.1608.

Disability among older people in a southern European city in 2006: trends in 
gender and socioeconomic inequalities.

Espelt A(1), Font-Ribera L, Rodriguez-Sanz M, Artazcoz L, Ferrando J, Plaza A, 
Borrell C.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Agency of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. aespelt@aspb.cat

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: We wished to describe disability prevalence in people aged 
>or=65 years in Barcelona in 2006, its trends since 1992, and disability 
inequalities by gender and socioeconomic position (SEP).
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional design, including data from the 1992, 2000, 
and 2006 Barcelona Health Interview Surveys (noninstitutionalized population 
>or=65 years old). Disability was defined as having difficulty carrying out at 
least one of seven activities of daily living (ADL). The number of ADLs carried 
out with difficulty was considered a measure of disability severity. Independent 
variables were age and educational level as a measure of SEP. Prevalence and 
prevalence ratio (PR) of disability stratified by sex were obtained through 
log-binomial regression models or using zero-inflated Poisson regression models.
RESULTS: The prevalence of disability increased between 1992 and 2006 among 
women but not men because of the higher increase in older age among women. 
Disability prevalence was 30% in men and 53% in women in 2006. Disability 
inequalities by SEP were present in all the ADL analyzed and in all 3 years, 
remaining stable throughout the period. Overall, the PR of disability in lower 
SEP compared with higher SEP was 1.61 (95% CI 1.32-1.98) in men and 1.53 (95% CI 
1.33-1.76) in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Disability prevalence is increasing among older women at the turn 
of the century in this southern European city, and socioeconomic inequalities in 
disability persist. Although women have longer life expectancy, their disability 
prevalence in older age is much higher than that of men.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2009.1608
PMID: 20438304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Med Econ. 2010;13(2):221-7. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.484323.

Adult height and health-related quality of life after growth hormone therapy in 
small for gestational age subjects.

Bannink E(1), Djurhuus CB, Christensen T, Jøns K, Hokken-Koelega A.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, Sophia Children's Hospital, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in non-growth 
hormone deficient (GHD) small for gestational age (SGA) children before and 
after growth hormone (GH) treatment to adult height (AH).
METHODS: This was a multicentre, two-arm trial. Following an initial 2-year 
double-blind study period, patients entered a 2-year extension period followed 
by treatment to AH. At baseline patients were randomised to GH (0.033 or 0.067 
mg/kg/day) and continued treatment at that dose until AH. Height was assessed at 
baseline and 3-monthly intervals to AH (height velocity <2 cm/year). Height 
standard deviation score (SDS) before and after GH therapy was mapped onto 
estimated HRQoL scores up to AH.
RESULTS: Of the 79 children randomised into the study 53 were non-GHD (defined 
as peak GH >20 mU/L [peak 24-h GH value and peak arginine tolerance test]). At 
baseline these children had a mean (mean [+/-SD]) height SDS of -3.2 (0.7), 
height velocity SDS -0.6 (1.2) and age, 8.1 (1.9) years. Estimated HRQoL scores 
were significantly (p < 0.001) increased from baseline at AH (ΔHRQoL, 95% CI) 
(0.033 mg/kg/day, 0.112 [0.092, 0.132]; 0.067 mg/kg/day, 0.115 [0.094, 0.136]). 
HRQoL was not different between treatment groups. A significant gain in AH, 
relative to an SGA reference population, was reported in GH-treated patients. 
Mean (95% CI) ΔAH SDS (0.033 mg/kg/day, +1.4 [1.1, 1.6]. 0.067 mg/kg/day, 
+1.7[1.4, 2.0]).
LIMITATIONS: The analysis assumes HRQoL can be mapped onto height SDS.
CONCLUSIONS: GH treatment in short children born SGA without signs of persistent 
catch-up growth was associated with significant improvement in HRQoL and 
normalisation of AH.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.484323
PMID: 20438400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Med Ethics. 2010 May;36(5):290-2. doi: 10.1136/jme.2009.032839. Epub 2010
May  3.

Justifying terminal care by 'retrospective quality-adjusted life-years'.

Cowley C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Philosophy, University College Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland. 
Christopher.cowley@ucd.ie

A lot of medical procedures can be justified in terms of the number of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) they can be expected to generate; that is, 
the number of extra years that the procedure will provide, with the quality of 
life during those extra years factored in. QALYs are a crude tool, but good 
enough for many decisions. Notoriously, however, they cannot justify spending 
any money on terminal care (and indeed on older people in general). In this 
paper I suggest a different way of construing 'quality' (as meaningfulness 
rather than physical comfort) and 'life' (as both backward-looking and 
forward-looking), so that the terminal patient's efforts to find meaning in his 
life could in principle generate plenty of 'retrospective QALYs' to justify 
funding.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2009.032839
PMID: 20439338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2010 Aug;27(5):347-56. doi:
10.1177/1049909110369531.  Epub 2010 May 3.

Cannabis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: hypothetical and practical 
applications, and a call for clinical trials.

Carter GT(1), Abood ME, Aggarwal SK, Weiss MD.

Author information:
(1)Muscular Dystrophy Association/Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Center, 
University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA, USA. gtcarter@uw.edu

Significant advances have increased our understanding of the molecular 
mechanisms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), yet this has not translated 
into any greatly effective therapies. It appears that a number of abnormal 
physiological processes occur simultaneously in this devastating disease. 
Ideally, a multidrug regimen, including glutamate antagonists, antioxidants, a 
centrally acting anti-inflammatory agent, microglial cell modulators (including 
tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-alpha] inhibitors), an antiapoptotic agent, 1 
or more neurotrophic growth factors, and a mitochondrial function-enhancing 
agent would be required to comprehensively address the known pathophysiology of 
ALS. Remarkably, cannabis appears to have activity in all of those areas. 
Preclinical data indicate that cannabis has powerful antioxidative, 
anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective effects. In the G93A-SOD1 ALS mouse, this 
has translated to prolonged neuronal cell survival, delayed onset, and slower 
progression of the disease. Cannabis also has properties applicable to symptom 
management of ALS, including analgesia, muscle relaxation, bronchodilation, 
saliva reduction, appetite stimulation, and sleep induction. With respect to the 
treatment of ALS, from both a disease modifying and symptom management 
viewpoint, clinical trials with cannabis are the next logical step. Based on the 
currently available scientific data, it is reasonable to think that cannabis 
might significantly slow the progression of ALS, potentially extending life 
expectancy and substantially reducing the overall burden of the disease.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909110369531
PMID: 20439484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2010 Nov;468(11):2867-74. doi:
10.1007/s11999-010-1369-6.

How long do endoprosthetic reconstructions for proximal femoral tumors last?

Bernthal NM(1), Schwartz AJ, Oakes DA, Kabo JM, Eckardt JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California Los Angeles 
Medical Center, 1250 16th Street, Santa Monica, CA 90404, USA. 
nbernthal@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: As the life expectancy of patients with musculoskeletal tumors 
improves, long-term studies of endoprosthetic reconstructions are necessary to 
establish realistic expectations for the implants and compare them to other 
reconstruction approaches.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: (1) What is the long-term survival of cemented bipolar 
proximal femoral replacements? (2) How does prosthesis survival compare to 
patient survival among patients with Stage I, II, and III disease? (3) Do 
modular implants outperform custom-built prostheses? (4) Do some proximal 
femoral replacements require conversion to THA?
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed all 86 proximal femoral 
replacements used for tumor reconstruction from 1982 to 2008. Primary diagnoses 
were 43 high-grade tumors (IIA/IIB), 20 low-grade tumors (IA/IB or benign), and 
23 with metastatic disease. We reviewed prosthesis survival, patient survival, 
complication rates, functional outcomes, and rates of conversion to THA.
RESULTS: Five of 86 patients (5.8%) required revision of the femoral component. 
Five-, 10-and 20-year implant survivorships were 93%, 84%, and 56%, 
respectively. All patients with low-grade disease survived; the 5-year survival 
rate for patients with metastatic disease was 16%; the 5-, 10-, and 20-year 
survival for IIA/IIB patients was 54%, 50%, and 44%, respectively. Five of 86 
patients (5.8%) underwent conversion to THA for groin pain.
CONCLUSIONS: Cemented bipolar proximal femoral replacements after tumor 
resection proved a durable reconstruction technique. The implants outlived 
patients with metastatic disease and high-grade localized disease while patients 
with low-grade disease outlived their implants. The survival of modular 
prostheses was comparable to that of older, one-piece custom designs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-010-1369-6
PMCID: PMC2947672
PMID: 20440661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2010 Oct;29(10):957-63. doi:
10.1097/INF.0b013e3181e28e6e.

Sustained efficacy of the pentavalent rotavirus vaccine, RV5, up to 3.1 years 
following the last dose of vaccine.

Vesikari T(1), Karvonen A, Ferrante SA, Kuter BJ, Ciarlet M.

Author information:
(1)Vaccine Research Center, University of Tampere Medical School, Tampere, 
Finland. timo.vesikari@uta.fi

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus gastroenteritis (RVGE) is a common cause of childhood 
hospitalizations and emergency department (ED) visits. In the Rotavirus Efficacy 
and Safety Trial (REST), the pentavalent rotavirus vaccine (RV5) significantly 
reduced RVGE-associated hospitalizations and ED visits for up to 2 years 
following the last vaccine dose. This study evaluated whether RV5 remained 
efficacious beyond 2 years.
METHODS: A total of 20,736 infants from Finland, initially in REST, were 
followed for RVGE-associated hospitalizations and ED visits in a Finnish 
extension study (FES) for up to 3.1 years after vaccination (age, ∼3.5 years).
RESULTS: The FES added >18,500 person-years and captured 150 RVGE-associated 
hospitalizations and ED visits (11 RV5; 139 placebo). In REST + FES, RV5 reduced 
RVGE-associated hospitalizations and ED visits, regardless of rotavirus 
serotype, by 94.0% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 91.4%-95.9%) for up to 3.1 
years after vaccination. RV5 also conferred significant protection against 
hospitalizations and ED visits associated with rotavirus serotypes G1 (95.5%; 
95% CI: 92.8%-97.2%), G2 (81.9%; 95% CI: 16.1%-98.0%), G3 (89.0%; 95% CI: 
53.3%-98.7%), G4 (83.4%; 95% CI: 51.2%-95.8%), and G9 (94.2%; 95% CI: 
62.2%-99.9%). Rate reductions (95% CI) in hospitalizations and ED visits during 
the first, second, and third years of life were 94.0% (90.0%-96.5%), 94.7% 
(90.7%-97.2%), and 85.9% (51.6%-97.2%), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: RVGE-associated hospitalizations and ED visits remain common in the 
second year of life but decrease in the third year of life. RV5 showed sustained 
protective efficacy against RVGE-associated hospitalizations and ED visits, 
regardless of rotavirus serotype, for up to 3.1 years after vaccination.

DOI: 10.1097/INF.0b013e3181e28e6e
PMID: 20442684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Int Orthop. 2011 May;35(5):661-6. doi: 10.1007/s00264-010-1030-8. Epub 2010
May  5.

Total hip arthroplasty in patients with Down's syndrome.

Kosashvili Y(1), Taylor D, Backstein D, Safir O, Liberman B, Lakstein D, Gross 
A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Arthroplasty, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
yonasofi@gmail.com

Patients with Down's syndrome (DS) have an increased incidence of coxarthrosis 
which may become symptomatic with prolonged life expectancy. We present seven 
consecutive patients (nine hips) with DS who had primary total hip arthroplasty 
(THA). Average clinical and radiological follow-up was 9.9 ± 6.4 years (range 
2-22.25). Harris hip scores (HHS) improved significantly (p < 0.01) from 41.1 
(range 18.5-65) to 80.2 (range 67.5-91) at latest follow-up. Two patients 
required revision arthroplasty for stem loosening at 16 (osteolysis) and six 
years (trauma) following THA, respectively. Six of the THAs required a 
constrained liner. No dislocations or deep infections were encountered. We 
contend that THA is a reliable surgical intervention in patients with DS and may 
be performed in symptomatic patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-010-1030-8
PMCID: PMC3080492
PMID: 20442995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. MMW Fortschr Med. 2010 Apr 1;152(13):22. doi: 10.1007/BF03366306.

[Respiratory symptoms in incurable patients. Vicious circle of heavy breathing 
and anxiety ].

[Article in German]

Ameri AA.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03366306
PMID: 20443340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2009 Dec;36 Suppl 1:75-7.

[The university hospital palliative care team's approach to the transfer of 
end-stage cancer patients from hospital care to home medical care].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshino K(1), Nishiumi N, Kushino N, Tsukada M, Douzono S, Saito Y, Yagame M, 
Tokuda Y.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Surgery, Tokai University School of Medicine.

The palliative care team's roles are to provide a symptom relief to cancer 
patients, help them accept their medical conditions, and offer advice regarding 
the selection of appropriate medical treatments to suit their needs. Seeking the 
comfort of their homes, patients prefer a home care of superior medical care 
provided at hospitals. In 2008, 25 of the end-stage cancer patients at hospitals 
were expressed their desires to have a home medical care, and 10 of them were 
allowed to do so. We considered the following contributing factors that a 
patient should have for a smooth transition from hospital care to home medical 
care: (1) life expectancy of more than 2 months, (2) no progressive breathing 
difficulties experienced daily, (3) good awareness of medical condition among 
patients and families, (4) living with someone who has a good understanding of 
the condition, (5) availability of an appropriate hospital in case of a sudden 
change in medical requirements, and (6) good collaboration between emergency 
care hospitals, home physicians, and visiting nurses. To treat the end-stage 
cancer patients at home, there is a need for information sharing and a joint 
training of physicians specialized in cancer therapy, palliative care teams, 
home physicians, and visiting nurses. This would ensure a sustainable 
"face-to-face collaboration" in community health care.

PMID: 20443408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Pac Health Dialog. 2009 Nov;15(2):117-27.

Does the granting of legal privileges as an indigenous people help to reduce 
health disparities? Evidence from New Zealand and Malaysia.

Phua KL(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Monash University Sunway Campus, 
Jalan Lagoon Selatan, 46150 Bandar Sunway, Selangor, Malaysia. 
phuakl@hotmail.com

Both the Maori of New Zealand and the Orang Asli of Malaysia are indigenous 
peoples who have been subjected to prejudice, discrimination and displacement in 
its various forms by other ethnic groups in their respective countries. However, 
owing to changes in the socio-political climate, they have been granted rights 
(including legal privileges) in more recent times. Data pertaining to the health 
and socio-economic status of the Maori and the Orang Asli are analysed to see if 
the granting of legal privileges has made any difference for the two 
communities. One conclusion is that legal privileges (and the granting of 
special status) do not appear to work well in terms of reducing health and 
socio-economic gaps.

PMID: 20443525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Dermatolog Treat. 2011 Apr;22(2):65-74. doi: 10.3109/09546630903551258.
Epub  2010 May 5.

Economic evaluation of biologic therapies for the treatment of moderate to 
severe psoriasis in the United States.

Anis AH(1), Bansback N, Sizto S, Gupta SR, Willian MK, Feldman SR.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, St Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. aslam.anis@ubc.ca

BACKGROUND: New biologic therapies are available for moderate to severe 
psoriasis.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the most cost-effective sequence of biologic treatments.
METHODS: Through modeling of the clinical pathway of biologic agents, 
adalimumab, alefacept, efalizumab, etanercept, and infliximab, the costs and 
benefits (quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) were determined. A decision rule 
determined the optimal treatment sequence comparing costs and QALYs.
RESULTS: While infliximab was found to provide the most incremental QALY and 
etanercept was found to be the least costly, on balance, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of adalimumab was the most favorable (ICER = 
$544/QALY). Consequently, the optimal sequence would begin with adalimumab and 
be followed by etanercept, infliximab, efalizumab, and alefacept, respectively. 
The limitations of this study are that evidence was based on indirect 
comparisons of biologic effectiveness, and toxicities were not included in the 
model.
CONCLUSIONS: In consideration of cost-effectiveness in prescribing biologics for 
moderate to severe psoriasis, the optimal sequence would begin with adalimumab.

DOI: 10.3109/09546630903551258
PMID: 20443663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2010 Mar;21(3):296-307. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2009.01840.x.

Evaluation of 316 narrow diameter implants followed for 5-10 years: a clinical 
and radiographic retrospective study.

Arisan V(1), Bölükbaşi N, Ersanli S, Ozdemir T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Implantology, Faculty of Dentistry, Istanbul University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: Narrow diameter implants (NDIs; diameter >3.75 mm) are useful in 
replacement of missing incisor teeth and when the bucco-lingual width of the 
edentulous crest is insufficient. The present study evaluated the success and 
survival rates, peri-implant parameters, mechanical and prosthetic post-loading 
complications of NDIs followed over a 10-year period.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Three hundred and sixteen NDIs were inserted into 139 
patients and restored with 120 prostheses. Clinical and radiographic assessment 
data were collected during recall visits. Implant success (SC), cumulative 
survival rate (CSR), marginal bone loss (MBL), peri-implant conditions and 
prosthetic complications were assessed. Cox proportional hazards regression 
analysis, Kaplan-Meier survival curves with the log-rank test and life table 
analysis were used to evaluate the outcome of NDIs within comparable subgroups. 
MBL and peri-implant parameters measured annually were further analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up time was 9.1 years (range: 60-124 months). Twelve 
implants were lost in the healing phase and two during function. The mean MBL in 
the maxilla and the mandible was 1.32 +/- 0.13 and 1.28 +/- 0.3 mm, 
respectively, after 10 years. SC and CSR were 91.4% and 92.3%, respectively, 
after 124 months. Smoking and posterior localization were associated with an 
increased risk of failure. Cement loosening (16.8%) was the most common 
prosthetic complication. No implants were fractured.
CONCLUSIONS: NDIs can be used with confidence where a regular diameter implant 
is not suitable. MBL around NDIs occurred predominantly within 2 years of 
loading and was minimal thereafter. Further studies are required to clarify the 
possible risks associated with smoking and posterior placement.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2009.01840.x
PMID: 20443792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Ann Oncol. 2010 Nov;21(11):2161-2168. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdq250. Epub 2010
May  5.

Trastuzumab beyond progression: a cost-utility analysis.

Matter-Walstra KW(1), Dedes KJ(2), Schwenkglenks M(3), Brauchli P(4), Szucs 
TD(3), Pestalozzi BC(5).

Author information:
(1)European Center of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, Basel; Swiss 
Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK), Bern. Electronic address: 
klazien.matter@unibas.ch.
(2)Department of Gynecology.
(3)European Center of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, Basel.
(4)Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK), Bern.
(5)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The continuation of trastuzumab beyond progression in combination 
with capecitabine as secondary chemotherapy for HER2-positive metastatic breast 
cancer (MBC) prolongs progression-free survival without a substantial increase 
in toxicity.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A Markov cohort simulation was used to follow the clinical 
course of typical patients with MBC. Information on response rates and major 
adverse effects was derived, and transition probabilities were estimated, based 
on the results of the Breast International Group 03-05 clinical trial. Direct 
costs were assessed from the perspective of the Swiss health care system.
RESULTS: The addition of trastuzumab to capecitabine is estimated to cost on 
average an additional of €33,980 and to yield a gain of 0.35 quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
€98,329/QALYs gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the 
willingness-to-pay threshold of €60,000/QALY was reached in 12% of cases.
CONCLUSION: The addition of trastuzumab to capecitabine in MBC patients is more 
expensive than what is typically regarded as cost-effective but falls within the 
value ranges found for established regimens in the treatment of MBC.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdq250
PMID: 20444849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2010 Jul;95(7):3392-9. doi: 10.1210/jc.2009-2492.
Epub  2010 May 5.

Prader-Willi syndrome is associated with activation of the innate immune system 
independently of central adiposity and insulin resistance.

Viardot A(1), Sze L, Purtell L, Sainsbury A, Loughnan G, Smith E, Herzog H, 
Steinbeck K, Campbell LV.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes and Obesity Research Program, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, 
384 Victoria Street, Sydney-Darlinghurst NSW 2010, Australia. 
a.viardot@garvan.org.au

BACKGROUND: Subjects with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) have a reduced life 
expectancy due to cardiovascular disease. Increased systemic low-grade 
inflammation is postulated as a contributor, despite reported lower visceral fat 
mass and increased insulin sensitivity.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to compare inflammatory markers and arterial stiffness 
in PWS and adiposity-matched obese control subjects.
DESIGN: We conducted a cross-sectional cohort study comparing 12 PWS subjects, 
12 obese subjects matched for percentage body fat and central abdominal fat 
mass, and 10 healthy normal-weight subjects.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry was used to assess body 
composition, flow cytometry to quantify activation markers on immun e cells, and 
ELISA for measurement of C-reactive protein, adiponectin, and IL-6. Insulin 
resistance was estimated by homeostasis model assessment and arterial stiffness 
by applanation tonometry.
RESULTS: PWS and obese subjects had similarly increased homeostasis model 
assessment and arterial stiffness. Nevertheless, PWS subjects showed 
significantly higher IL-6 (4.9 + or - 1.0 vs. 2.5 + or - 0.4 pg/ml; P = 0.02) 
and nonsignificantly higher C-reactive protein (10.5 + or - 3.2 vs. 4.0 + or - 
1.0 ng/ml; P = 0.08). Neutrophil activation markers CD66b and CD11b were higher 
in PWS compared to obese subjects (P < 0.01), reflecting an activated innate 
immune system. These markers were positively related to central adiposity in 
lean and obese subjects (r = 0.49; P < 0.05), but not in PWS subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: PWS subjects compared to adiposity-matched obese subjects 
demonstrate similar insulin resistance but increased low-grade inflammation. The 
dissociation of inflammation and central adiposity suggests that activation of 
innate immunity may be either a specific genetic feature of PWS or linked to the 
commonly associated obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, and might offer a 
treatment target to reduce cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2009-2492
PMID: 20444923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nature. 2010 May 27;465(7297):487-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08995. Epub 2010
May 5.

Ephrin-B2 regulates VEGFR2 function in developmental and tumour angiogenesis.

Sawamiphak S(1), Seidel S, Essmann CL, Wilkinson GA, Pitulescu ME, Acker T, 
Acker-Palmer A.

Author information:
(1)Frankfurt Institute for Molecular Life Sciences and Institute of Cell Biology 
and Neuroscience, Goethe University Frankfurt, Max-von-Laue-Strasse 9, D-60438 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2010 Jun 15;17(6):533-4.

The formation and guidance of specialized endothelial tip cells is essential for 
both developmental and pathological angiogenesis. Notch-1 signalling regulates 
the generation of tip cells, which respond to gradients of vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF-A). The molecular cues and signalling pathways that control 
the guidance of tip cells are poorly understood. Bidirectional signalling by Eph 
receptors and ephrin ligands represents one of the most important guidance cues 
involved in axon path finding. Here we show that ephrin-B2 reverse signalling 
involving PDZ interactions regulates endothelial tip cell guidance to control 
angiogenic sprouting and branching in physiological and pathological 
angiogenesis. In vivo, ephrin-B2 PDZ-signalling-deficient mice (ephrin-B2DeltaV) 
exhibit a reduced number of tip cells with fewer filopodial extensions at the 
vascular front in the mouse retina. In pathological settings, impaired PDZ 
signalling decreases tumour vascularization and growth. Mechanistically, we show 
that ephrin-B2 controls VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-2 internalization and signalling. 
Importantly, internalization of VEGFR2 is necessary for activation and 
downstream signalling of the receptor and is required for VEGF-induced tip cell 
filopodial extension. Together, our results suggest that ephrin-B2 at the tip 
cell filopodia regulates the proper spatial activation of VEGFR2 endocytosis and 
signalling to direct filopodial extension. Blocking ephrin-B2 reverse signalling 
may be an attractive alternative or combinatorial anti-angiogenic therapy 
strategy to disrupt VEGFR2 function in tumour angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08995
PMID: 20445540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Int J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2010 Aug;26(6):605-12. doi:
10.1007/s10554-010-9634-z.  Epub 2010 May 6.

Cost-effective diagnostic cardiovascular imaging: when does it provide good 
value for the money?

Otero HJ(1), Rybicki FJ, Greenberg D, Mitsouras D, Mendoza JA, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tufts Medical Center and Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA 02111, USA. hotero@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

Comment in
    Int J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2010 Aug;26(6):613-6.

To summarize the results of all original cost-utility analyses (CUAs) in 
diagnostic cardiovascular imaging (CVI) and characterize those technologies by 
estimates of their cost-effectiveness. We systematically searched the literature 
for original CVI CUAs published between 2000 and 2008. Studies were classified 
according to several variables including anatomy of interest (e.g. 
cerebrovascular, aorta, peripheral) and imaging modality under study (e.g. 
angiography, ultrasound). The results of each study, expressed as cost of the 
intervention to number of quality-adjusted life years saved ratio (cost/QALY) 
were additionally classified as favorable or not using $20,000, $50,000, and 
$100,000 per QALY thresholds. The distribution of results was assessed with Chi 
Square or Fisher exact test, as indicated. Sixty-nine percent of all 
cardiovascular imaging CUAs were published between 2000 and 2008. Thirty-two 
studies reporting 82 cost/QALY ratios were included in the final sample. The 
most common vascular areas studied were cerebrovascular (n = 9) and cardiac (n = 
8). Sixty-six percent (21/32) of studies focused on sonography, followed by 
conventional angiography and CT (25%, n = 8, each). Twenty-nine (35.4%), 42 
(51.2%), and 53 (64.6%) ratios were favorable at WTP $20,000/QALY, $50,000/QALY, 
and $100,000/QALY, respectively. Thirty (36.6%) ratios compared one imaging test 
versus medical or surgical interventions; 26 (31.7%) ratios compared imaging to 
a different imaging test and another 26 (31.7%) to no intervention. Imaging 
interventions were more likely (P < 0.01) to be favorable when compared to 
observation, medical treatment or non-intervention than when compared to a 
different imaging test at WTP $100,000/QALY. The diagnostic cardiovascular 
imaging literature has growth substantially. The studies available have, in 
general, favorable cost-effectiveness profiles with major determinants relating 
to being compared against observation, medical or no intervention instead of 
