a variety of malignancies. Palliation of symptoms of obstruction rather than 
cure is the primary aim of treatment in affected patients. Thus far prognostic 
information on life expectancy is lacking in these patients although it can be 
of importance when deciding upon their optimal treatment. The purpose of this 
study was to investigate whether baseline data in patients with incurable GOO 
can independently predict survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In total, 105 consecutive patients with symptomatic GOO 
treated with duodenal stent placement were enrolled in this multicenter 
prospective observational study. Patients were followed until death or till 1 
November 2008. The Cox proportional hazard regression model was used for both 
univariate and multivariate analyses of survival.
RESULTS: Baseline data of 101 patients were completed. At the time of analysis, 
95% of patients had died; median overall survival was 82 days (75% alive at 36 
days, 25% alive at 156 days). The final prediction model revealed the 
dichotomized WHO performance status (HR: 2.63, 95% CI: 1.68-4.12, p < 0.001), 
prescription of morphines stronger than tramadol (HR: 2.42, 95% CI: 1.38-4.25, p 
= 0.002) and pain score of the EORTC QLQ-C30 (HR: 1.01, 95% CI: 1.00-1.01, p = 
0.035) as independent significant prognostic factors for short survival.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates clear predictors of poor outcome for 
patients presenting with symptomatic malignant GOO. The model may enhance the 
selection of optimal treatment for individual patients.

DOI: 10.3109/00365521.2010.487916
PMID: 20459356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2010 May 7;10:25. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-10-25.

Use of outcomes to evaluate surveillance systems for bioterrorist attacks.

McBrien KA(1), Kleinman KP, Abrams AM, Prosser LA.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
kerrymcbrien@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Syndromic surveillance systems can potentially be used to detect a 
bioterrorist attack earlier than traditional surveillance, by virtue of their 
near real-time analysis of relevant data. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) 
curve analysis using the area under the curve (AUC) as a comparison metric has 
been recommended as a practical evaluation tool for syndromic surveillance 
systems, yet traditional ROC curves do not account for timeliness of detection 
or subsequent time-dependent health outcomes.
METHODS: Using a decision-analytic approach, we predicted outcomes, measured in 
lives, quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and costs, for a series of simulated 
bioterrorist attacks. We then evaluated seven detection algorithms applied to 
syndromic surveillance data using outcomes-weighted ROC curves compared to 
simple ROC curves and timeliness-weighted ROC curves. We performed sensitivity 
analyses by varying the model inputs between best and worst case scenarios and 
by applying different methods of AUC calculation.
RESULTS: The decision analytic model results indicate that if a surveillance 
system was successful in detecting an attack, and measures were immediately 
taken to deliver treatment to the population, the lives, QALYs and dollars lost 
could be reduced considerably. The ROC curve analysis shows that the 
incorporation of outcomes into the evaluation metric has an important effect on 
the apparent performance of the surveillance systems. The relative order of 
performance is also heavily dependent on the choice of AUC calculation method.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the importance of accounting for mortality, 
morbidity and costs in the evaluation of syndromic surveillance systems. 
Incorporating these outcomes into the ROC curve analysis allows for more 
accurate identification of the optimal method for signaling a possible 
bioterrorist attack. In addition, the parameters used to construct an ROC curve 
should be given careful consideration.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-10-25
PMCID: PMC2876990
PMID: 20459679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. BMC Health Serv Res. 2010 May 10;10:117. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-10-117.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV prevention interventions in Andhra Pradesh state of 
India.

Dandona L(1), Kumar SG, Kumar GA, Dandona R.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Foundation of India, ISID Campus, 4 Institutional Area, Vasant 
Kunj, New Delhi 110070, India. lalit.dandona@phfi.org

BACKGROUND: Information on cost-effectiveness of the range of HIV prevention 
interventions is a useful contributor to decisions on the best use of resources 
to prevent HIV. We conducted this assessment for the state of Andhra Pradesh 
that has the highest HIV burden in India.
METHODS: Based on data from a representative sample of 128 public-funded HIV 
prevention programs of 14 types in Andhra Pradesh, we have recently reported the 
number of HIV infections averted by each type of HIV prevention intervention and 
their cost. Using estimates of the age of onset of HIV infection, we used 
standard methods to calculate the cost per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) 
saved as a measure of cost-effectiveness of each type of HIV prevention 
intervention.
RESULTS: The point estimates of the cost per DALY saved were less than US $50 
for blood banks, men who have sex with men programmes, voluntary counselling and 
testing centres, prevention of parent to child transmission clinics, sexually 
transmitted infection clinics, and women sex worker programmes; between US $50 
and 100 for truckers and migrant labourer programmes; more than US $100 and up 
to US $410 for composite, street children, condom promotion, prisoners and 
workplace programmes and mass media campaign for the general public. The 
uncertainty range around these estimates was very wide for several 
interventions, with the ratio of the high to the low estimates infinite for five 
interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: The point estimates for the cost per DALY saved from the averted 
HIV infections for all interventions was much lower than the per capita gross 
domestic product in this Indian state. While these indicative cost-effectiveness 
estimates can inform HIV control planning currently, the wide uncertainty range 
around estimates for several interventions suggest the need for more firm data 
for estimating cost-effectiveness of HIV prevention interventions in India.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-10-117
PMCID: PMC2874552
PMID: 20459755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Foot Ankle Int. 2010 May;31(5):377-84. doi: 10.3113/FAI.2010.0377.

Function and strength following gastrocnemius recession for isolated 
gastrocnemius contracture.

Chimera NJ(1), Castro M, Manal K.

Author information:
(1)Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, AZ 86015, USA. Nicole.Chimera@nau.edu

BACKGROUND: Isolated gastrocnemius contracture (IGC), which limits ankle 
dorsiflexion with full knee extension, can affect function and quality of life. 
Gastrocnemius recession is a treatment option for IGC when conservative 
treatment fails. The goal of this study was to assess range of motion, function, 
and plantarflexion strength pre- and 3-months post-gastrocnemius recession for 
subjects with IGC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ankle range of motion, function, and plantarflexion 
strength in seven legs (four subjects), clinically diagnosed with IGC, before 
and after surgery were compared to matched control subjects to elucidate pre- 
and post-surgical intervention differences. All subjects with IGC were also 
diagnosed with plantar fasciitis with one leg having an additional diagnosis of 
metatarsalgia.
RESULTS: Subjects with IGC had significant post surgical improvements at 3 
months after surgery in dorsiflexion range of motion (p = 0.016), function (p = 
0.016) and isokinetic plantarflexion strength (p = 0.018).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical recession enhanced range of motion and self reported 
function while not inducing any detrimental effects to plantarflexion strength 
at a 3-month followup. Post-surgically IGC subjects were more similar to healthy 
controls.

DOI: 10.3113/FAI.2010.0377
PMID: 20460063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nephron Clin Pract. 2010;116(1):c19-24. doi: 10.1159/000314545. Epub 2010
May  12.

Chronic kidney disease in older people: physiology, pathology or both?

Abdelhafiz AH(1), Brown SH, Bello A, El Nahas M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Elderly Medicine, Rotherham General Hospital, Rotherham, UK. 
ahmedhafiz@hotmail.com

The global population is aging due to a reduction in youthful deaths and an 
extension of the later stages of life. With aging comes a decline in the 
physiologic functions of various organs and systems. Vascular aging is 
associated with structural and functional changes of the arterial wall leading 
to loss of elasticity and compliance. Renal vasculature is not spared as aging 
is associated with arterial, arteriolar and capillary, glomerular changes 
(glomerulosclerosis). It is likely that age-related vascular changes are linked 
to the decline in renal function observed with aging. These changes occur at 
varying stages of aging depending on predisposing genetic factors and associated 
life course exposure to cardiovascular risk factors including hypertension and 
diabetes. The decline in renal function with 'normal' aging in the absence of 
associated progressive cardiovascular disease is slow and does not seem to be of 
major clinical significance. The current definition of chronic kidney disease 
(CKD), including microalbuminuria, and the method of estimation of glomerular 
filtration rate have inadvertently resulted in an exaggerated prevalence of CKD 
in the elderly. This is combined with the fact that most of the studies showing 
decline in renal function with aging are limited by the absence of a correction 
for associated comorbid confounding factors, resulting in difficulty separating 
the effect of physiological aging on kidney function from pathological aging due 
to comorbidities. Such a correction is difficult, if not impossible, to 
objectively construct. We suggest that only those fractions of older patients 
with underlying progressive vascular pathology likely to involve the kidneys 
will, in the future, warrant attention to reduce vascular risk and the 
associated kidney damage.

DOI: 10.1159/000314545
PMID: 20460935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Am J Gastroenterol. 2010 Aug;105(8):1861-9. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2010.185. Epub
2010  May 11.

A decision-analytic evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of family history-based 
colorectal cancer screening programs.

Ramsey SD(1), Wilschut J, Boer R, van Ballegooijen M.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA. 
sramsey@fhcrc.org

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
family history screening (FHS) for colorectal cancer (CRC) susceptibility at age 
40 with early screening of those with increased risk.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of several family history-based screening 
programs was estimated with a validated microsimulation model, using data from 
the SEER cancer registry, life tables, medicare records, and published data. 
Familial cancer syndromes were excluded. Screening programs evaluated included 
(i) colonoscopy screening every 10 years starting at age 50 (no family history 
assessment); (ii) colonoscopy every 10 years from age 40 for persons with a 
family history; (iii) colonoscopy every 5 years from age 50 for those with a 
family history; and (iv) colonoscopy every 5 years from age 40 for persons with 
a family history. In each FHS scenario, persons without a family history are 
screened with colonoscopy at age 50, then every 10 years to age 80.
RESULTS: Compared with colonoscopy screening of all persons from age 50, the 
cost-effectiveness of the family history-based screening programs varied from 
$18,000-$51,000 per life year (LY) gained. Screening family history cases every 
5 years from age 40 is more cost-effective than screening every 10 years from 
age 40. Reducing screening frequency for those without a family history lowers 
program expenditures substantially at a modest loss of LYs. The results are 
sensitive to the CRC risk difference between positive and negative family 
histories.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of CRC FHS guidelines varies widely. 
Economic issues should be considered before implementing family history-directed 
screening programs.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2010.185
PMID: 20461066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2010 Jun;12(3):214-29. doi: 
10.1007/s11936-010-0076-7. Epub 2010 Apr 14.

Critical limb ischemia.

Schanzer A, Conte MS.

Critical limb ischemia (CLI), defined as chronic ischemic rest pain, ulcers, or 
gangrene attributable to objectively proven arterial occlusive disease, is the 
most advanced form of peripheral arterial disease. Traditionally, open surgical 
bypass was the only effective treatment strategy for limb revascularization in 
this patient population. However, during the past decade, the introduction and 
evolution of endovascular procedures have significantly increased treatment 
options. In a certain subset of patients for whom either surgical or 
endovascular revascularization may not be appropriate, primary amputation 
remains a third treatment option. Definitive high-level evidence on which to 
base treatment decisions, with an emphasis on clinical and cost effectiveness, 
is still lacking. Treatment decisions in CLI are individualized, based on life 
expectancy, functional status, anatomy of the arterial occlusive disease, and 
surgical risk. For patients with aortoiliac disease, endovascular therapy has 
become first-line therapy for all but the most severe patterns of occlusion, and 
aortofemoral bypass surgery is a highly effective and durable treatment for the 
latter group. For infrainguinal disease, the available data suggest that 
surgical bypass with vein is the preferred therapy for CLI patients likely to 
survive 2 years or more, and for those with long segment occlusions or severe 
infrapopliteal disease who have an acceptable surgical risk. Endovascular 
therapy may be preferred in patients with reduced life expectancy, those who 
lack usable vein for bypass or who are at elevated risk for operation, and those 
with less severe arterial occlusions. Patients with unreconstructable disease, 
extensive necrosis involving weight-bearing areas, nonambulatory status, or 
other severe comorbidities may be considered for primary amputation or 
palliative measures.

DOI: 10.1007/s11936-010-0076-7
PMCID: PMC2860564
PMID: 20461120


168. Arch Virol. 2010 Jul;155(7):1069-76. doi: 10.1007/s00705-010-0684-2. Epub
2010  May 12.

Nuclear-export-signal-dependent protein translocation of dUTPase encoded by 
Singapore grouper iridovirus.

Gong J(1), Huang YH, Huang XH, Zhang R, Qin QW.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, School of Life Sciences, SunYat-Sen 
(Zhongshan) University, Guangzhou 510275, People's Republic of China.

The dUTPase is a ubiquitous and crucial enzyme responsible for regulating 
cellular levels of dUTP. In the present study, the expression pattern and 
translocation of a dUTPase homolog encoded by Singapore grouper iridovirus 
(SGIV) were elucidated. The SGIV ORF049R encodes a dUTPase homolog, which is a 
peptide of 155 amino acids that contains five conserved motifs. The temporal 
expression pattern during infection in vitro revealed that the SGIV dUTPase was 
an early transcript. A leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES) at the 
C-terminus was predicted using CBS Online Servers. Subcellular location analysis 
showed that SGIV dUTPase is a cytoplasmic protein. Site-direct mutagenesis by 
overlap extension-PCR indicated that the NES is crucial for the translocation of 
SGIV dUTPase from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. We have discovered for the first 
time that the NES-dependent translocation of dUTPase is different for SGIV than 
for members of other species, which depend on a nuclear localization signal. 
These results provide new insights into the pathogenesis of fish iridoviruses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-010-0684-2
PMID: 20461535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. S D Med. 2010 May;63(5):175-7.

Screening for colorectal cancer.

Waldby G(1), Ryan JJ.

Author information:
(1)Royal C. Johnson Veterans Memorial Medical Center, Sioux Falls, SD, USA.

Screening for cancer is performed in order to detect unsuspected cancers in an 
asymptomatic population. Screening is justified for the detection of precancer 
and cancer when the screening test is safe and the disease has a prevalence that 
justifies the cost and also when testing has low rates of false positive 
results. Screening can lead to the early diagnosis of specific cancers which, 
when treated, can result in a prolonged life span. Colorectal cancer is the 
third-most common form of cancer in the Western world. Many of these cancers are 
thought to arise from precancerous lesions in the colon, such as adenomatous 
polyps. The specific advantage of colorectal cancer screening include the 
earlier detection of such cancers, the detection of benign conditions such as 
polyps that can predispose to cancer and the potential for earlier and curative 
therapy in these patients. Screening for colorectal cancer is indicated where 
life expectantly is greater then five years and, in general, for people under 75 
years of age.

PMID: 20462062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Apr-Jun;13(2-3):327-8. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0966.

The implications of "advanced therapies" regulation.

Sethe SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Northeast England Stem Cell Institute, Durham, UK. legal@nesci.ac.uk

Recent policy developments in the United States and Europe have created new 
regulatory regimes for advanced and complex treatments such as cell therapies, 
tissue engineering, and gene therapies that are of particular relevance for 
regenerative medicine. Where these new legal rules operate as a mere extension 
of existing regimes, they risk stifling innovation in these areas of life 
extension technology.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0966
PMID: 20462386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Infect Agent Cancer. 2010 May 12;5:8. doi: 10.1186/1750-9378-5-8.

The impact of antiretroviral therapy on HPV and cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasia: current evidence and directions for future research.

Bratcher LF(1), Sahasrabuddhe VV.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Global Health and Department of Pediatrics, Vanderbilt 
University School of Medicine, Nashville, USA. 
vikrant.sahasrabuddhe@vanderbilt.edu.

Increasing numbers of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected women are now 
accessing life-prolonging highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in 
developing countries. There is a need for better understanding of interactions 
of human papillomavirus (HPV) and HIV, especially in the context of increasing 
life expectancy due to HAART. The data regarding the impact of HAART on reducing 
the incidence and progression and facilitating the regression of HPV infection 
and cervical abnormalities is largely inconsistent. Published studies differ in 
their study designs (prospective or retrospective cohorts or record linkage 
studies), screening and diagnostic protocols, duration and type of HAART use, 
recruitment and referral strategies, and definitions of screening test and 
disease positivity. Due to the ethical and resource limitations in conducting 
randomized trials of the impact of HAART on incidence of HPV, CIN, and cervical 
cancer among HIV-infected women, it is important to consider innovative study 
designs, including quasi-experimental trials and operations research in sentinel 
populations to answer the critical research questions in this area.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-9378-5-8
PMCID: PMC2881893
PMID: 20462441


172. Curr Biol. 2010 May 11;20(9):R406-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2010.03.016.

Evolution: aging up a tree?

Moorad JA(1), Promislow DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-7223, USA. 
jmoorad@uga.edu

Evolutionary theories of aging predict that species in low-risk habitats will 
evolve longer lifespans. A new study comparing lifespan in arboreal and 
terrestrial mammals provides further support for this prediction. But is the 
prediction valid?

(c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2010.03.016
PMID: 20462482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Diabetes Complications. 2011 May-Jun;25(3):202-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2010.03.002. Epub 2010 May 11.

The importance of glycemic control: how low should we go with HbA1c? Start 
early, go safe, go low.

Benhalima K(1), Standl E, Mathieu C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, 
Belgium.

Epidemiologic data indicate a continuous relationship between hemoglobin A1c 
(HbA1c) and risk for microvascular and macrovascular complications of diabetes. 
Intensive glycemic control reduces risk of microvascular complications in Type 1 
and Type 2 diabetes, and long-term treatment and follow-up studies have shown 
that initial intensive control is associated with reduced cardiovascular risk. 
Recent intervention trials in older, high-risk patients with Type 2 diabetes 
have not shown a benefit of intensive control in reducing cardiovascular risk 
over a rather short-term follow-up period of up to 5 years, with some data 
indicating that intensive control accompanied by hypoglycemia is detrimental in 
patients with high cardiovascular risk. Indeed, hypoglycemia with current 
antidiabetic agents--primarily insulin and sulphonylureas--is the main limiting 
factor in achieving desirable levels of glycemic control. Still, the goal in 
treating both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes should be to safely get HbA1c as close 
to normal as possible. In Type 2 diabetes, this goal should be tempered for the 
time being in patients with shorter life expectancy or co-existing 
cardiovascular disease or other co-morbidities, in whom a target of 7.0-7.5% may 
be advisable until we can demonstrate that lower targets in such patients can be 
safely achieved. Newer agents with lower risk of hypoglycemia--e.g., insulin 
analogues, incretin mimetics and incretin enhancers-may form an integral 
component of strategies for safely achieving lower HbA1c levels.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2010.03.002
PMID: 20462772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2010 Jul;299(1):F55-62. doi: 
10.1152/ajprenal.00043.2010. Epub 2010 May 12.

Nephrocystin-3 is required for ciliary function in zebrafish embryos.

Zhou W(1), Dai J, Attanasio M, Hildebrandt F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

Nephronophthisis (NPHP) is the most frequent genetic cause of end-stage renal 
failure in the first three decades of life. It is characterized primarily by 
renal cysts with extrarenal involvements of the eye and brain. Ten recessive 
genes responsible for NPHP have been identified by positional cloning. This 
discovery supported a unifying theory of renal cystic disease, which states that 
all proteins mutated in cystic kidney diseases of human, mice, or zebrafish are 
expressed in primary cilia of renal epithelial cells. Mutations in 
nephrocystin-3 (NPHP3) are the cause of human nephronophthisis type 3 and 
polycystic kidney disease (pcy) mouse mutants. To study the functional role of 
NPHP3 in normal embryonic development and in the pathogenesis of cystic kidney 
disease, we characterized the zebrafish ortholog nphp3 by morpholino oligo 
(MO)-mediated knockdown. When nphp3 function was suppressed by either of the two 
MOs blocking the translation of the protein or the splicing of mRNA, zebrafish 
embryos displayed hydrocephalus and pronephric cysts. Knockdown of nphp3 also 
led to situs inversus phenotypes due to defective cilia at Kupffer's vesicle. We 
showed that nphp3 genetically interacts with nphp2/inversin and human NPHP3 
localizes to primary cilia in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. Like 
nphp2/inversin, nphp3 knockdown affected morphogenic cell movement during 
gastrulation, suggesting nphp3 is essential to regulate convergent extension. 
Thus nphp3, cooperating with nphp2/inversin, plays an essential role related to 
ciliary function, and the knockdown provides an animal model that may be used 
for studies of the pathogenesis and therapy for this disease.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00043.2010
PMCID: PMC2904175
PMID: 20462968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Postgrad Med. 2010 May;122(3):166-80. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2010.05.2154.

Gene therapy for prostate cancer.

Tangney M(1), Ahmad S, Collins SA, O'Sullivan GC.

Author information:
(1)Cork Cancer Research Centre, Mercy University Hospital, Cork, Ireland. 
m.tangney@ucc.ie

Cancer remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Despite advances in 
understanding, detection, and treatment, it accounts for almost one-fourth of 
all deaths per year in Western countries. Prostate cancer is currently the most 
commonly diagnosed noncutaneous cancer in men in Europe and the United States, 
accounting for 15% of all cancers in men. As life expectancy of individuals 
increases, it is expected that there will also be an increase in the incidence 
and mortality of prostate cancer. Prostate cancer may be inoperable at initial 
presentation, unresponsive to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, or recur following 
appropriate treatment. At the time of presentation, patients may already have 
metastases in their tissues. Preventing tumor recurrence requires systemic 
therapy; however, current modalities are limited by toxicity or lack of 
efficacy. For patients with such metastatic cancers, the development of 
alternative therapies is essential. Gene therapy is a realistic prospect for the 
treatment of prostate and other cancers, and involves the delivery of genetic 
information to the patient to facilitate the production of therapeutic proteins. 
Therapeutics can act directly (eg, by inducing tumor cells to produce cytotoxic 
agents) or indirectly by upregulating the immune system to efficiently target 
tumor cells or by destroying the tumor's vasculature. However, technological 
difficulties must be addressed before an efficient and safe gene medicine is 
achieved (primarily by developing a means of delivering genes to the target 
cells or tissue safely and efficiently). A wealth of research has been carried 
out over the past 20 years, involving various strategies for the treatment of 
prostate cancer at preclinical and clinical trial levels. The therapeutic 
efficacy observed with many of these approaches in patients indicates that these 
treatment modalities will serve as an important component of urological 
malignancy treatment in the clinic, either in isolation or in combination with 
current approaches.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2010.05.2154
PMID: 20463426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Cad Saude Publica. 2010 Mar;26(3):615-23. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2010000300018.

Evolution of disease mortality burden in Cuba: 1990-2005.

Seuc AH(1), Domínguez E.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Higiene, Epidemiología y Microbiología, Habana, Cuba. 
metodoli@infomed.sld.cu

The objective of this study was to estimate the evolution of the burden of 
disease in Cuba for 20 major causes at five year intervals from 1990 to 2005, in 
terms of mortality and years of life lost due to premature death (YLL), using 
national mortality registries. Six summary measures were computed for each of 
the 20 major causes of death which characterized the evolution of the disease 
burden over the period studied. The 20 causes were then grouped according to 
their behaviour in these summary measures; hierarchical cluster analysis was 
used to support this grouping process. We compute YLL results with and without 
age-weighting and time discounting (3%). The 20 major causes were grouped into 
12 subgroups, each with a particular pattern. The burden of disease in Cuba 
during the period 1990-2005 has a peculiar pattern that does not reproduce the 
one characteristic of other low- and middle-income countries. The approach used 
in this study supports a better description of mortality and YLL trends for 
major causes, for identifying possible explanations, and for supporting public 
health policy making. It seems convenient to reproduce this analysis using 
shorter time intervals, e.g. annually.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2010000300018
PMID: 20464079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Osteoporos Int. 2010 Jun;21 Suppl 2:S425-9. doi: 10.1007/s00198-010-1251-0.
Epub  2010 May 13.

Osteoporosis: disease severity and consequent fracture management.

Cooper C(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Epidemiology Resource Centre, University of Southampton, Southampton, 
SO16 6YD, UK. cc@mrc.soton.ac.uk

Osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease responsible for the high incidence 
of fractures in older subjects, particularly in postmenopausal women. The 
increasing prevalence with population ageing and prolonged life expectancy 
raises the rates of associated morbidity, loss of independence, and mortality. 
BMD and previous fracture history are two main risk factors associated with 
osteoporosis such that the presence of prior fractures can predict future 
fractures. Strontium ranelate is an agent developed for the management of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis, demonstrated to reduce vertebral, nonvertebral, 
major nonvertebral, and hip fractures. It has been demonstrated to be effective 
for a broad spectrum of patients, including women with osteopenia, osteoporosis, 
and severe disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-010-1251-0
PMID: 20464376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Dig Dis Sci. 2011 Jan;56(1):35-45. doi: 10.1007/s10620-010-1241-2. Epub 2010
May  13.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and the coronary artery disease.

Treeprasertsuk S(1), Lopez-Jimenez F, Lindor KD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Fiterman Center for 
Digestive Diseases, 200 First Street, SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
treeprasertsuk.sombat@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasingly prevalent 
and is recognized as part of the metabolic syndrome (MetS). Patients with NAFLD 
have a lower life expectancy compared to the general population, with coronary 
artery disease (CAD) as the leading cause of death.
AIMS: We aim to address the epidemiological data of CAD, the possible 
pathogenesis or linkage mechanisms of NAFLD and atherosclerosis and the 
strategies to reduce the CAD risk in NAFLD patients.
METHODS: We reviewed data from a Medline and PubMed search which was performed 
to identify relevant literature using search terms "NAFLD," "metabolic syndrome" 
and "coronary artery disease."
RESULTS: Patients with steatohepatitis, a part of the spectrum of NAFLD, have 
more cardiovascular events than patients without steatohepatitis. However, the 
association between liver histological progression and the risk of CAD events is 
not linear. A multidisciplinary approach to NAFLD patients based on controlling 
related risk factors and monitoring for CAD risks and liver complications is 
necessary. The combination of lifestyle modification with pharmacological 
treatment tailored to each individual's risk factors needs to be considered. 
There is a need for more research on primary prevention for CAD in NAFLD 
patients and interventional studies for determining the nature of the 
relationship between NAFLD and CAD.
CONCLUSIONS: NAFLD is recognized as part of the MetS and increases 
cardiovascular risks. Therefore, a multidisciplinary approach to these patients 
of controlling the related risk factors and monitoring for cardiovascular and 
liver complications must be done.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-010-1241-2
PMID: 20464495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2011 Feb;34(1):61-6. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-010-9876-0. Epub 2010 May 13.

Predictors of reintervention after endovascular repair of isolated iliac artery 
aneurysm.

Zayed HA(1), Attia R, Modarai B, Clough RE, Bell RE, Carrell T, Sabharwal T, 
Reidy J, Taylor PR.

Author information:
(1)Guy's and St. Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, First floor, North wing, 
Westminster Bridge Road, SE1 7EH, London, UK. hany.zayed@gstt.nhs.uk

The objective of this study was to identify factors predicting the need for 
reintervention after endovascular repair of isolated iliac artery aneurysm 
(IIAA). We reviewed prospectively collected database records of all patients who 
underwent endovascular repair of IIAA between 1999 and 2008. Detailed assessment 
of the aneurysms was performed using computed tomography angiography (CTA). 
Follow-up protocol included CTA at 3 months. If this showed no complication, 
then annual duplex scan was arranged. Multivariate analysis and analysis of 
patient survival and freedom from reintervention were performed using 
Kaplan-Meier life tables. Forty IIAAs (median diameter 44 mm) in 38 patients 
were treated (all men; median age 75 years), and median follow-up was 27 months. 
Endovascular repair of IIAA was required in 14 of 40 aneurysms (35%). The rate 
of type I endoleak was significantly higher with proximal landing zone (PLZ) 
diameter >30 mm in the aorta or >24 mm in the common iliac artery or distal 
landing zone (DLZ) diameter >24 mm (P = 0.03, 0.03, and 0.0014, respectively). 
Reintervention rate (RR) increased significantly with increased diameter or 
decreased length of PLZ; increased DLZ diameter; and endovascular IIAA repair 
(P = 0.005, 0.005, 0.02, and 0.02 respectively); however, RR was not 
significantly affected by length of PLZ or DLZ. Freedom-from-reintervention was 
97, 93, and 86% at 12, 24, and 108 months. There was no in-hospital or 
aneurysm-related mortality. Endovascular IIAA repair is a safe treatment option. 
Proper patient selection is essential to decrease the RR.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-010-9876-0
PMID: 20464554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 May 12;(5):CD007309. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007309.pub2.

Chemotherapy and supportive care versus supportive care alone for advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer.

Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Collaborative Group(1).

Author information:
(1)London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Since our individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis of supportive 
care and chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), published in 1995, 
many trials have been completed. We have carried out an updated IPD 
meta-analysis to assess newer regimens and determine conclusively the effect of 
chemotherapy.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect on survival of supportive care and chemotherapy 
versus supportive care alone in advanced NSCLC.
SEARCH STRATEGY: All randomised controlled trials (RCTs), published or 
unpublished. We searched bibliographic databases, trials registers, conference 
proceedings and reference lists of relevant trials. Searches were completed to 
November 2009.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Trials had to have commenced accrual on or after 1 January 
1965 and should have included patients with NSCLC who had received either 
chemotherapy and supportive care or supportive care alone. Patients should have 
not received any previous chemotherapy or had any prior malignancy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: For trials included in 1995 we sought updated 
follow up. For new trials we sought survival and baseline characteristics for 
all patients. We combined results from RCTs to calculate individual and pooled 
hazard ratios (HRs).
MAIN RESULTS: We obtained data on 2714 patients from 16 RCTs. There were 1293 
deaths among 1399 patients assigned supportive care and chemotherapy and 1240 
among 1315 assigned supportive care alone. Results showed a significant benefit 
of chemotherapy (HR = 0.77; 95% CI 0.71 to 0.83, P < 0.0001), equivalent to a 
relative increase in survival of 23%, an absolute improvement in survival of 9% 
at 12 months, increasing survival from 20% to 29% or an absolute increase in 
median survival of 1.5 months (from 4.5 months to six months). There was no 
clear evidence that this effect was influenced by the drugs used (P = 0.63) or 
whether they were used as single agents or in combination (P = 0.40). Despite 
changes in patient demographics, the effect of chemotherapy in recent trials did 
not differ from those included previously (P = 0.77). There was no clear 
evidence of a difference in the relative effect of chemotherapy across patient 
subgroups. Quality of life could not be formally assessed.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: All trials were of good methodological quality with no 
risk of bias. This meta-analysis of chemotherapy in the supportive care setting 
demonstrates that chemotherapy improves overall survival in all patients with 
advanced NSCLC. Patients who are fit enough and wish to receive it should be 
offered chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007309.pub2
PMID: 20464750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Harv Mens Health Watch. 2010 Jan;14(6):1-5.

Mars vs. Venus: the gender gap in health.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20464795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Rev Prat. 2010 Apr 20;60(4):469-73.

[Epidemiological features of type 2 diabetes].

[Article in French]

Simon D(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de diabétologie, groupe hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, AP-HP, 75013 
Paris. dominique.simon@psl.aphp.fr

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) represents more than 90% of whole diabetes in the world. 
Thus T2D prevalence can be estimated as all types diabetes prevalence in a proxy 
approach. In subjects aged 20 or older, its prevalence reached 4.0% in 1995 and 
was expected to increase to 5.4% in 2025. In number of diabetic patients, it 
means they were 135 millions in 1995 and should be 300 millions in 2025. 
Moreover, these estimates by WHO, based only upon the expected demographic 
evolution, did not take into account expected changes in obesity prevalence and 
thus underevaluate what should occur. The increase in diabetic patients number 
should provide mainly from developing countries, in particular India and China, 
where more than 75% of diabetic patients will live in 2025, compared to 62% in 
1995. In France, pharmacologically treated diabetes prevalence reached 3.95% in 
2007, with 2.5 millions diabetic patients, around 92% of them having T2D. The 
overwhelming increase of obesity is the first cause of "diabetes epidemics", 
while ageing of the population, with a longer life expectancy, is the other main 
contributor Prevention of T2D needs to have lifestyle modifications implemented 
at the population level, not an easy task.

PMID: 20465117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(6):463-75. doi: 10.2165/11533000-000000000-00000.

Are cancer drugs less likely to be recommended for listing by the Pharmaceutical 
Benefits Advisory Committee in Australia?

Chim L(1), Kelly PJ, Salkeld G, Stockler MR.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia. lesley.chim@astrazeneca.com

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Feb 1;29(2):171-2.

BACKGROUND: The hurdle of cost effectiveness for the selection and reimbursement 
of drugs in Australia limits access to new medicines based on an assessment of 
cost relative to clinical benefit. Those drugs that are expensive and provide 
modest benefits will be less likely to receive a government price subsidy. There 
is concern that the cost-effectiveness hurdle will limit access to new cancer 
treatments because of their high costs and modest benefits.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that Ceteris paribus, cancer drugs are less 
likely to receive a recommendation for reimbursement on the Pharmaceutical 
Benefits Scheme (PBS) than non-cancer drugs.
METHODS: We reviewed public summary documents (PSDs) on all major submissions 
considered by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) from July 
2005 to March 2008. Each PSD includes summary information on the clinical, 
economic and utilization considerations of the PBAC in arriving at a 
recommendation. A total of 227 PSDs were reviewed, from which 243 PBAC 
recommendations were identified. Logistic regression was used to determine the 
effects of drug type (cancer vs non-cancer) and other potentially confounding 
variables on the outcome of PBS approval versus non-approval.
RESULTS: There were 243 PBAC recommendations in 227 published PSDs: 108 for 
rejection (44%), 10 deferrals (4%) and 125 (51%) recommendations for listing. 
Recommendations for listing were made somewhat more often for non-cancer drugs 
than for cancer drugs: 104/191 (54%) versus 21/52 (40%), respectively; p = 0.07. 
Based on the results for univariable analyses, there is evidence that four 
variables have some association (p < 0.25) with PBAC approval, but only type of 
application, economic modelling and estimated cost to the PBS remained 
statistically significant at p < 0.05 in the multivariable model. No interaction 
terms were statistically significant. Cancer drug submissions tend to have a 
modelled economic evaluation and have a higher cost per QALY than non-cancer 
drugs (29% vs 15% of cancer and non-cancer drugs, respectively had a reported 
modelled cost per QALY of more than Australian dollars [$A]45 000; p < 0.001). 
Submissions that include a modelled economic evaluation and have a higher cost 
per QALY get approved less often than submissions without an economic modelling 
(p = 0.04). However, after adjusting for economic modelling, there is no 
statistical difference between cancer and non-cancer drugs in terms of gaining 
recommendation for PBS listing.
CONCLUSION: The PBAC applies decision criteria equitably to cancer and 
non-cancer drugs, in that cancer drugs are neither favoured nor disadvantaged 
but they are more expensive and target a smaller population than non-cancer 
drugs. Further debate and research is needed to determine society's willingness 
to pay for a QALY and whether this differs between drugs for cancer and other 
indications or for interventions that differ on criteria other than cost 
effectiveness.

DOI: 10.2165/11533000-000000000-00000
PMID: 20465315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(6):477-87. doi: 10.2165/11533010-000000000-00000.

Understanding the relationship between the EQ-5D, SF-6D, HAQ and disease 
activity in inflammatory arthritis.

Adams R(1), Walsh C, Veale D, Bresnihan B, FitzGerald O, Barry M.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Pharmacoeconomics, St. James' Hospital, Dublin 8, 
Ireland. radams@stjames.ie

BACKGROUND: The growth of economic analyses and in particular cost-utility 
analyses (CUA), which use the QALY as a measure of outcome, has heightened the 
interest in the methodologies used to calculate the QALY. The EQ-5D has produced 
quite different utility values from that of the SF-6D. This article seeks to 
understand these differences using a cohort of patients with inflammatory 
arthritis.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the relationship between the disease-specific measure, 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) disability index (DI) and the 
preference-based measures, SF-6D, EQ-5D and European League Against Arthritis 
(EULAR) Disease Activity Score (DAS) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
and psoriatic arthritis (PsA).
METHODS: Patients with RA and PsA (n = 504) attending a tertiary rheumatology 
referral centre completed the HAQ, SF-6D and the EQ-5D before starting 
biological therapy and again 12 months later. The SF-36 was converted into a 
utility using the preference-based SF-6D. Clinical outcomes such as the DAS, 
joint counts and laboratory measures were also recorded. We calculated single 
index utility scores from the preference-based instruments using UK population 
norms. We used regression analysis to derive a mapping function and calculated 
utility scores from the HAQDI and the DAS 28.
RESULTS: The mean utility observed at baseline for RA was 0.43 for the EQ-5D and 
0.54 for the SF-6D and for PsA was 0.49 for the EQ-5D and 0.57 for the SF-6D. 
The utility gain demonstrated by the EQ-5D was over twice that of the SF-6D. The 
EQ-5D scored 17% of the RA group as less than 0 (state defined as worse than 
death); 7% of this group remained less than 0 at follow-up. The distribution of 
the utility estimates was similar for both RA and PsA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings draw attention to the impact of states worse than 
death on the overall distribution for the EQ-5D derived utilities and how these 
impact on its use in practice. EQ-5D-derived QALY changes are over twice that of 
the SF-6D. The implication of this for decision makers is that 
cost-effectiveness evaluations for treatments in this disease class are likely 
to be very sensitive to the choice of utility measure.

DOI: 10.2165/11533010-000000000-00000
PMID: 20465316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 2010 Apr;40(2):146-50. doi: 
10.1521/suli.2010.40.2.146.

The relationship between general population suicide rates and the Internet: a 
cross-national study.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

Internet Web sites and chat rooms have been reported both to promote suicides 
and have a positive beneficial effect on suicidal individuals. There is a 
paucity of studies examining the role of the Internet in general population 
suicide rates. The relationship between general population suicide rates and the 
prevalence of Internet users was examined in a cross-national study using data 
from the World Health Organization and the United Nations Web sites. The 
prevalence of Internet users was significantly and positively correlated with 
general population suicide rates in both sexes. On multiple regression analysis 
the prevalence of Internet users was independently associated with general 
population suicide rates in males, and this independent relationship in females 
approached statistical significance. Caution should be exercised in the 
attribution of a causal relationship and the direction of this relationship 
because of the cross-sectional and ecological study design whereby the findings 
are subject to ecological fallacy. However, the findings identify and support a 
need for further research.

DOI: 10.1521/suli.2010.40.2.146
PMID: 20465349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. AIDS. 2010 Jun 19;24(10):1527-35. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833a3946.

Life expectancy of recently diagnosed asymptomatic HIV-infected patients 
approaches that of uninfected individuals.

van Sighem AI(1), Gras LA, Reiss P, Brinkman K, de Wolf F; ATHENA national 
observational cohort study.

Collaborators: deWolf F, Bezemer DO, Gras L, Kesselring AM, van Sighem AI, Smit 
C, Zhang S, Zaheri S, Prin JM, Bos JC, Eeftinck-Schattenkerk JK, Geerlings SE, 
Godfried MH, Lange JM, van der Meer JT, Nellen FJ, van der Poll T, Reiss P, 
Sankatsing SU, van der Valk M, Vermeulen JN, Vrouenraets SM, van Vugt M, Wit FW, 
Schreij G, van der Geest S, Oude Lashof A, Lowe S, Verbon A, Bravenboer B, Pronk 
MJ, Kuijpers TW, Pajkrt D, Scherpbier HJ, van der Ende ME, Bax H, van der Feltz 
M, Gelinck LB, Nouwen JL, Rijnders BJ, de Ruiter ED, Slobbe L, Schurink CA, de 
Vries-Sluijs TE, Driessen G, Hartwig NG, Branger J, Hoogewerf MH, Kauffmann RH, 
Schippers EF, Groeneveld PH, Alleman MA, Klinieken I, ten Kate RW, Soetekouw R, 
Kroon FP, Arend SM, de Boer MG, van den Broek PJ, van Dissel JT, van Nieuwkoop 
C, den Hollander JG, Bronsveld W, Pogany K, Vriesendorp R, Leyten EM, van Houte 
D, Polée MB, van Vonderen MG, ten Napel CH, Kootstra GJ, Brinkman K, van den 
Berk GE, Blok WL, Frissen PH, Schouten WE, van Eeden A, Verhagen DW, Mulder JW, 
van Gorp EC, Wagenaar J, Juttmann JR, van Kasteren ME, Veenstra J, Lettinga KD, 
Koopmans PP, Brouwer AM, Dofferhoff AS, van der Flier M, de Groot R, ter 
Hofstede HJ, Keuter M, van der Ven AJ, Sprenger HG, van Assen S, Stek CJ, 
Doedens R, Scholvinck EH, Hoepelman IM, Bonten MJ, Ellerbroek PM, Hoornenborg E, 
Jaspers CA, Maarschalk-Ellerbroek LJ, Mudrikova T, Oosterheert JJ, Peters EJ, 
Schneider MM, Wassenberg MW, Weijer S, Geelen SP, Wolfs TF, Danner SA, van 
Agtmael MA, Bierman WF, Claessen FA, Hillebrand ME, de Jong EV, Kortmann W, 
Perenboom RM, bij de Vaate EA, Richter C, van der Berg J, Gisolf EH, Tanis AA, 
Duits AJ, Durand A, Muskiet F, Voigt R, Winkel K.

Author information:
(1)Stichting HIV Monitoring, Academic Medical Centre of the University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. A.I.vanSighem@amc.uva.nl

OBJECTIVE: To compare life expectancies between recently diagnosed HIV-infected 
patients and age and sex-matched uninfected individuals from the general 
population.
DESIGN: : National observational HIV cohort in the Netherlands.
METHODS: Four thousand, six hundred and twelve patients diagnosed with HIV 
between 1998 and 2007 and still antiretroviral therapy-naive as of 24 weeks 
after diagnosis were selected. Progression to death compared to the age and 
sex-matched general population was studied with a multivariate hazards model in 
4174 (90.5%) patients without AIDS events at 24 weeks. Life expectancy and 
number of life years lost were calculated using the predicted survival 
distribution.
RESULTS: During 17 580 person-years of follow-up since 24 weeks after diagnosis 
[median follow-up 3.3 years, interquartile range (IQR) 1.6-5.8], 118 deaths 
occurred, yielding a mortality rate of 6.7 [95% confidence interval (CI) 
5.5-8.0] per 1000 person-years. Median CD4 cell counts at 24 weeks were 480 
cells/microl (IQR 360-650). According to the model, the median number of years 
lived from age 25 was 52.7 (IQR 44.2-59.3; general population 53.1) for men and 
57.8 (49.2-63.7; 58.1) for women without CDC-B event. The number of life years 
lost varied between 0.4 if diagnosed with HIV at age 25 and 1.4 if diagnosed at 
age 55; for patients with a CDC-B event this range was 1.8-8.0 years.
CONCLUSION: The life expectancy of asymptomatic HIV-infected patients who are 
still treatment-naive and have not experienced a CDC-B or C event at 24 weeks 
after diagnosis approaches that of non-infected individuals. However, follow-up 
time is short compared to the expected number of years lived.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833a3946
PMID: 20467289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Drugs Today (Barc). 2010 Mar;46(3):195-230. doi:
10.1358/dot.2010.46.3.1490753.

Marching against blood diseases: a report from the 51st Annual Meeting of the 
American Society of Hematology (December 5-8, 2009 - New Orleans, Lousiana, 
USA).

Rabasseda X(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Thomson Reuters, Provença 388, Barcelona, Spain. 
xavier.rabasseda@thomsonreuters.com

Lymphoma, leukemia, myeloma and many other malignant and nonmalignant blood 
diseases can have a severe impact on the sufferer's life expectancy, quality of 
life and functional abilities, and require treatment that in many cases is 
restricted to drug therapy. Many other issues were discussed during last year's 
American Society of Hematology annual meeting, but important information was 
also reported and discussed on possibilities for modifying the life cycle of 
blood cells as a pharmacological strategy aimed at addressing the abnormalities 
that result in hematological disease for improving the resulting signs and 
symptoms. New insight into such pharmacological approaches discussed during the 
meeting in New Orleans are summarized in the following report, which complements 
full detailed information contained in the original meeting abstracts available 
on the society's website.

Copyright 2010 Prous Science, S.A.U. or its licensors. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1358/dot.2010.46.3.1490753
PMID: 20467593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Eur J Oral Implantol. 2009 Autumn;2(3):201-8.

The prognosis of root canal therapy: a 10-year retrospective cohort study on 411 
patients with 1175 endodontically treated teeth.

Fonzar F(1), Fonzar A, Buttolo P, Worthington HV, Esposito M.

Author information:
(1)Udine, Italy. federica.fonzar@studiofonzar.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate the 10-year prognosis of consecutively endodontically 
treated or retreated teeth and to investigate some of the prognostic factors 
which could predict the long-term outcome of endodontic therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective cohort study included any patient who 
had endodontically treated or retreated teeth from 1986 to 1998 by a single 
operator in a private practice. Outcome measures were clinical and radiographic 
success assessed by the operator, radiographic success assessed by an 
independent outcome assessor and complications evaluated 10 years after 
treatment. Descriptive statistics, life table, Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression 
