lifespan. Dietary restriction results indicated that a raga-1 mutant is 
relatively protected from the life-shortening effects of highly concentrated 
food, while RNAi experiments suggested that raga-1 acts in the highly conserved 
target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway in C. elegans. Rag GTPases were recently shown 
to mediate nutrient-dependent activation of TOR. This is the first demonstration 
of their dramatic effects on behavior and aging. This work indicates that novel 
modulators of behavioral function can be identified in screens, with 
implications for future study of the clinical amelioration of age-related 
decline.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000972
PMCID: PMC2877737
PMID: 20523893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


338. J Ayub Med Coll Abbottabad. 2009 Apr-Jun;21(2):60-3.

Incidence of endometrial hyperplasia in 100 cases presenting with 
polymenorrhagia/menorrhagia in perimenupausal women.

Takreem A(1), Danish N, Razaq S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Saidu Medical College, Swat, 
Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: To study the Incidence of endometrial hyperplasia in perimenupausal 
women presenting with polymenorrhagia/menorrhagia. This observational study was 
conducted at Gynae 'B' unit of Khyber Teaching Hospital Peshawar from January 
2000 to December 2001.
METHODS: One hundred consecutive patients who presented at Gynaecology OPD with 
Polymenorrhagia/ Menorrhagia were registered and incidence ofendometrial 
hyperplasia evaluated in them. All women were above 45 years of age. 
Post-menopausal bleeding cases were excluded from the study.
RESULTS: Out of 100 patients, 15 patients were found to have endometrial 
hyperplasia, 10 patients (66.6%) simple cystic hyperplasia, 3 patients (20.0%) 
had adenomotous hyperplasia, 2 patients (13.3%) had atypical hyperplasia, 8 
patients (53.3%) with menorrhagia, 1 (6.6%) with polymenorrhagia, and 6 patients 
(40.0%) with polymenorrhoea. Duration of symptoms was from 4 months to 1 year. 
Thirteen (86.6%) patients were treated medically, 5 patients (33.33%) needed 
surgical treatment following medical treatment, 2 patients (13.3%) underwent 
Total Abdominal Hysterectomy (TAH) and Bilateral Salpingooophorectomy (BSO) who 
were 51-53 years of age with atypical hyperplasia.
CONCLUSION: endometrial hyperplasia is a pre-malignant condition; if treated in 
time, incidence can be reduced and early treatment can increase life expectancy 
and quality in women over age of 45 years.

PMID: 20524471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Drugs Aging. 2010 Jun 1;27(6):435-49. doi: 10.2165/11536760-000000000-00000.

Withholding, discontinuing and withdrawing medications in dementia patients at 
the end of life: a neglected problem in the disadvantaged dying?

Parsons C(1), Hughes CM, Passmore AP, Lapane KL.

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Practice Research Group, School of Pharmacy, Queen's University 
Belfast, Belfast, Northern Ireland. c.parsons@qub.ac.uk

Recent years have seen a growing recognition that dementia is a terminal illness 
and that patients with advanced dementia nearing the end of life do not 
currently receive adequate palliative care. However, research into palliative 
care for these patients has thus far been limited. Furthermore, there has been 
little discussion in the literature regarding medication use in patients with 
advanced dementia who are nearing the end of life, and discontinuation of 
medication has not been well studied despite its potential to reduce the burden 
on the patient and to improve quality of life. There is limited, and sometimes 
contradictory, evidence available in the literature to guide evidence-based 
discontinuation of drugs such as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, antipsychotic 
agents, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), antibacterials, 
antihypertensives, antihyperglycaemic drugs and anticoagulants. Furthermore, 
end-of-life care of patients with advanced dementia may be complicated by 
difficulties in accurately estimating life expectancy, ethical considerations 
regarding withholding or withdrawing treatment, and the wishes of the patient 
and/or their family. Significant research must be undertaken in the area of 
medication discontinuation in patients with advanced dementia nearing the end of 
life to determine how physicians currently decide whether medications should be 
discontinued, and also to develop the evidence base and provide guidance on 
systematic medication discontinuation.

DOI: 10.2165/11536760-000000000-00000
PMID: 20524704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Health Technol Assess. 2010 May;14(27):1-162. doi: 10.3310/hta14270.

Weighting and valuing quality-adjusted life-years using stated preference 
methods: preliminary results from the Social Value of a QALY Project.

Baker R(1), Bateman I, Donaldson C, Jones-Lee M, Lancsar E, Loomes G, Mason H, 
Odejar M, Pinto Prades JL, Robinson A, Ryan M, Shackley P, Smith R, Sugden R, 
Wildman J; SVQ Research Team.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To identify characteristics of beneficiaries of health care over 
which relative weights should be derived and to estimate relative weights to be 
attached to health gains according to characteristics of recipients of these 
gains (relativities study); and to assess the feasibility of estimating a 
willingness-to-pay (WTP)-based value of a quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
(valuation study).
DESIGN: Two interview-based surveys were administered - one (for the 
relativities study) to a nationally representative sample of the population in 
England and the other (for the valuation study) to a smaller convenience sample.
SETTING: The two surveys were administered by the National Centre for Social 
Research (NatCen) in respondents' homes.
PARTICIPANTS: 587 members of the public were interviewed for the relativities 
study and 409 for the valuation study.
METHODS: In the relativities study, in-depth qualitative work and considerations 
of policy relevance resulted in the identification of age and severity of 
illness as relevant characteristics. Scenarios reflecting these, along with 
additional components reflecting gains in QALYs, were presented to respondents 
in a series of pairwise choices using two types of question: discrete choice and 
matching. These questions were part of a longer questionnaire (including 
attitudinal and sociodemographic questions), which was administered face to face 
using a computer-assisted personal interview. In the valuation study, 
respondents were asked about their WTP to avoid/prevent different durations of 
headache or stomach illness and to value these states on a scale (death = 0; 
full health = 1) using standard gamble (SG) questions.
RESULTS: Discrete choice results showed that age and severity variables did not 
have a strong impact on respondents' choices over and above the health (QALY) 
gains presented. In contrast, matching showed age and severity impacts to be 
strong: depending on method of aggregation, gains to some groups were weighted 
three to four times more highly than gains to others. Results from the WTP and 
SG questions were combined in different ways to arrive at values of a QALY. 
These vary from values which are in the vicinity of the current National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) threshold to extremely high 
values.
CONCLUSIONS: With respect to relative weights, more research is required to 
explore methodological differences with respect to age and severity weighting. 
On valuation, there are particular issues concerning the extent to which 'noise' 
and 'error' in people's responses might generate extreme and unreliable figures. 
Methods of aggregation and measures of central tendency were issues in both 
weighting and valuation procedures and require further exploration.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14270
PMID: 20525460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jan-Feb;31(1):195-210. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10364846.
 Epub 2010 Jun 4.

The use of rasch analysis in reducing a large condition-specific instrument for 
preference valuation: the case of moving from AQLQ to AQL-5D.

Young TA(1)(2), Yang Y(1), Brazier JE(1), Tsuchiya A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (TAY, YY, JEB, AT) The University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(2)Yorkshire and Humber Research Design Service (TAY) The University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Economics (AT) The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United 
Kingdom.

The majority of health-related quality-of-life instruments are not 
preference-based measures and so cannot be used within cost utility analysis. 
The Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) is one such instrument. The aim 
of this study was to develop a health state classification that was amenable to 
valuation from the AQLQ, this being the 1st stage in developing a 
condition-specific preference-based measure for asthma patients. Rasch models 
were applied to samples of responders to the AQLQ with the aim of selecting a 
number of items for a preference-based utility measure (AQL-5D). Selection of 
items for the evaluation survey was supported with classical psychometric 
criteria for item selection (feasibility, internal consistency, floor and 
ceiling effects, and responsiveness). Rasch analysis proved to be a useful tool 
in assisting in the initial process of selecting items from an existing 
health-related quality-of-life instrument in the construction of the AQL-5D. The 
method is recommended for use alongside classical psychometric testing to aid in 
the development of preference-based measures.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10364846
PMID: 20525959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Vocat Behav. 2010 Jun 1;76(3):507-519. doi: 10.1016/j.jvb.2010.01.004.

Intrinsic Work Value-Reward Dissonance and Work Satisfaction during Young 
Adulthood.

Porfeli EJ(1), Mortimer JT.

Author information:
(1)Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine.

Previous research suggests that discrepancies between work values and rewards 
are indicators of dissonance that induce change in both to reduce such 
dissonance over time. The present study elaborates this model to suggest 
parallels with the first phase of the extension- and-strain curve. Small 
discrepancies or small increases in extension are presumed to be almost 
unnoticeable, while increasingly large discrepancies are thought to yield 
exponentially increasing strain. Work satisfaction is a principal outcome of 
dissonance; hence, work value-reward discrepancies are predicted to diminish 
work satisfaction in an exponential fashion. Findings from the work and family 
literature, however, lead to the prediction that this curvilinear association 
will be moderated by gender and family roles. Using longitudinal data spanning 
the third decade of life, the results suggest that intrinsic work value-reward 
discrepancies, as predicted, are increasingly associated, in a negative 
curvilinear fashion, with work satisfaction. This pattern, however, differs as a 
function of gender and family roles. Females who established family roles 
exhibited the expected pattern while other gender by family status groups did 
not. The results suggest that gender and family roles moderate the association 
between intrinsic work value-reward dissonance and satisfaction. In addition, 
women who remained unmarried and childless exhibited the strongest associations 
between occupational rewards and satisfaction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvb.2010.01.004
PMCID: PMC2880543
PMID: 20526434


343. Curr Microbiol. 2011 Jan;62(1):133-8. doi: 10.1007/s00284-010-9684-4. Epub
2010  Jun 5.

Expression of divergent LSU rRNA genes in the Vibrio vulnificus CMCP6 genome 
during both infection and non-pathogenic stages.

Kim HL(1), Ryou SM, Lee M, Lee JW, Lee K, Bae J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, College of Life Science, CHA University, 
Seongnam, 463-836, Republic of Korea.

The Vibrio vulnificus CMCP6 genome harbors nine copies of divergent large 
subunit (LSU) rRNA genes that may express and constitute four kinds of LSU rRNA 
molecules in a single cell. Primer extension analyses showed that these 
heterogeneous LSU rRNA transcripts are all expressed and assembled into 
ribosomes during both infection and nonpathogenic stages. Phylogenetic analyses 
of the internal transcribed spacer between SSU and LSU genes indicated that rRNA 
operons of V. vulnificus CMCP6 can be clustered into three distinct groups in 
rRNA genes of closely related Vibrio species. These findings imply that 
divergent rRNA genes in V. vulnificus CMCP6 resulted from interspecies 
recombination events in V. species, while the consequences of expression of 
heterogeneous rRNA molecules are not clear.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-010-9684-4
PMID: 20526601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Dent Update. 2010 May;37(4):206-8, 210-2. doi: 10.12968/denu.2010.37.4.206.

Does periodontal treatment improve general health?

Seymour RA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Dental Sciences, Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle 
upon Tyne NE2 4BW, UK.

The association between periodontal disease and various systemic conditions 
raises the question of the impact of periodontal therapy on general health. 
There is increasing evidence that periodontal intervention can reduce the 
prevalence of an adverse pregnancy outcome, improve glycaemic control in 
diabetics, reduce systemic markers of inflammation, lower cholesterol levels and 
improve vascular endothelial function. The magnitude of the impact of 
periodontal therapy on these modalities needs further quantification/study. 
Despite such reservations, there are indications that any form of periodontal 
treatment may have outcomes that extend beyond improving life expectancy of the 
dentition.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This article reviews the possible impact of periodontal 
therapy on a variety of systemic conditions and evaluates potential benefits.

DOI: 10.12968/denu.2010.37.4.206
PMID: 20527495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2006 Dec;6(6):641-5. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.6.6.641.

Improving the quality of clinical care for patients with osteoporosis.

Palonen KP(1), Saag KG.

Author information:
(1)Summit Medical Center, Summit Medical Associates, PC, Hermitage, TN, USA. 
katripalonen@comcast.net.

Osteoporosis, leading to hip fractures and other fragility fractures, is 
prevalent in countries with a high life expectancy. Fractures have a high 
associated societal cost and disease burden. As a result, many countries have 
established screening guidelines for osteoporosis, especially targeting those at 
a higher risk. However, primary- and secondary-fracture prevention is currently 
suboptimal despite existence of effective medications. In addition, adherence to 
therapy is low. This special report outlines some of these challenges and 
evaluates different techniques for improving the quality of clinical care for 
patients with osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.6.6.641
PMID: 20528489


346. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2006 Aug;6(4):425-36. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.6.4.425.

The impact of increased utilization of HIV drugs on longevity and medical 
expenditure: an assessment based on aggregate US time-series data.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor, Graduate School of Business, Columbia University and Research 
Associate, National Bureau of Economic Research Mailing address: 614 Uris Hall, 
3022 Broadway, New York, NY 10027, USA. frank.lichtenberg@columbia.edu.

The objective of this Special Report is to estimate the medical cost per 
life-year gained from increased utilization of HIV drugs by estimating the 
impact of increased drug utilization on the life expectancy and drug and 
hospital expenditure of HIV/AIDS patients, using aggregate (US national-level) 
data for the period 1982-2001.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.6.4.425
PMID: 20528512


347. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2006 Jun;6(3):249-59. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.6.3.249.

Cost-effectiveness of bemiparin in the prevention and treatment of venous 
thromboembolism.

Gómez-Outes A(1), Berto P, Prandoni P.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A., Julián Camarillo 
35, Madrid 28037, Spain. agomez@rovi.es.

Venous thromboembolism is a major health problem with substantial morbidity, 
mortality and related health care costs. Low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) 
are drugs of first choice in the prophylaxis and treatment of venous 
thromboembolism. Bemiparin is a new LMWH with a higher antithrombotic activity 
than other LMWHs at equivalent dosing and a low bleeding tendency. Bemiparin was 
a dominant strategy over enoxaparin in major orthopedic surgery providing better 
outcomes and cost savings. Postoperative start of prophylaxis allowed a third of 
patients scheduled to undergo total knee or hip replacement to be admitted the 
same day of surgery, thus potentially reducing hospital stay costs. In the acute 
treatment of deep vein thrombosis, bemiparin was a dominant strategy over 
unfractionated heparin providing net cost savings and increased quality-adjusted 
life expectancy compared with unfractionated heparin plus oral anticoagulants. 
Outpatient management of venous thromboembolism with bemiparin in selected 
patients resulted in significant cost savings compared with in-patient 
treatment, while maintaining effectiveness and safety. Bemiparin may be a safer 
and cost-neutral alternative to oral anticoagulants for long-term treatment 
(secondary prophylaxis) of venous thromboembolism.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.6.3.249
PMID: 20528519


348. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2006 Jun;6(3):347-58. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.6.3.347.

A stochastic framework for estimation of summary measures in cost-effectiveness 
analyses.

Gardiner JC(1), Luo Z, Liu L, Bradley CJ.

Author information:
(1)Michigan State University, Division of Biostatistics, Department of 
Epidemiology, B629 West Fee Hall, East Lansing, MI 48823, USA. gardine3@msu.edu.

Stochastic modeling of patient health and cost outcomes is a useful tool in 
identifying and assessing the important individual characteristics that 
influence these outcomes. It is a critical step in cost-effectiveness analysis 
that aims to structure comparisons between competing healthcare interventions on 
both health outcomes and costs. The authors use a continuous-time finite-state 
nonhomogeneous Markov process to describe the occurrence of patient events as 
they unfold over time. States of the process represent health conditions or 
health states (e.g., well, ill or dead). Commonly used measures of health 
outcome, such as life expectancy and quality-adjusted survival, are defined in 
terms of expected values of functions of the process. Costs are incurred through 
medical resource use while sojourning in health states, and in transitions 
between health states. By combining these expenditure streams, the authors 
define net present values for expected total cost over a specified time period. 
Metrics used in cost-effectiveness analyses, such as net health benefit, net 
health cost and the cost-effectiveness ratio are defined as functions of 
expected values. In this longitudinal framework the authors describe regression 
models for estimation of these summary statistics and quantifying the impact 
thereupon of explanatory variables. With increasing attention being given to 
longitudinal studies for gathering economic data alongside clinical 
investigations, these models can be applied to analyze jointly both costs and 
patient outcomes and more fully exploit the dynamic mechanisms that engender 
cost and health outcome data.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.6.3.347
PMID: 20528527


349. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2010 Jun;4(3):177-85. doi: 10.1177/1753465810371107.

Emerging therapies in cystic fibrosis.

Anderson P(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA. pjanderson@uams.edu

The life expectancy of people with cystic fibrosis (CF), a lethal inherited 
disease, has been greatly extended by advances in therapy. Currently, there are 
a number of potential drugs for treatment of CF lung disease in clinical trials. 
These therapies are targeted at all points in the pathogenesis of lung disease, 
from gene transfer to drugs that treat mucus, infection and inflammation in the 
airways. An exciting development is that of modulation of the abnormal protein 
that causes CF, the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), 
where drugs are targeted at specific defects in CFTR transcription, processing 
or functioning. Inhaled therapies are being developed to augment airway surface 
liquid height, either by modulating the abnormal ion channel function in the 
airway epithelial cell or by rehydrating with osmotic agents. Anti-inflammatory 
therapy is also of great interest in CF and there are several candidate drugs in 
clinical trials. A number of antibacterial agents formulated for inhalation are 
at various stages of study or newly approved, which should improve options for 
chronic management of airway infection. Hopefully, many of these potential 
therapies will come to market and will further extend the life expectancy of 
people with CF.

DOI: 10.1177/1753465810371107
PMID: 20530065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jan-Feb;31(1):19-34. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10368999.
Epub  2010 Jun 8.

Cohort decomposition for Markov cost-effectiveness models.

Hazen G(1), Li Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, Illinois.

Cohort analysis is a widespread tool for computing expected costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in Markov models for medical 
cost-effectiveness analyses. Although not always explicitly identified, such 
models commonly have multiple simple factors, or components. In these, a health 
state consists of a multiple component vector, one component for each factor, 
and arbitrary combinations of components are possible. The authors show here 
that when the model does not assume any probabilistic dependence among these 
factors, then a standard cohort analysis may be decomposed into several 
independent cohort analyses, one for each factor, and the results may be 
combined to produce desired expected costs and QALYs. These single-factor cohort 
analyses are not only simpler but also computationally more efficient. The 
authors derive the appropriate formulas for this cohort decomposition in 
discrete time and give several examples of their use based on published 
cost-effectiveness analyses. Explicitly identifying the simple factors of which 
a model is composed allows these factors to be portrayed graphically. Graphical 
depiction of the simple factors that comprise a model reduces model complexity, 
makes model formulation easier and more transparent, and thereby facilitates 
peer inspection and critique.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10368999
PMID: 20530723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Jun 16;102(12):838-40. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djq229.
Epub  2010 Jun 8.

Who should get the HPV vaccine? Usage expands amid debate.

Peres J.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djq229
PMID: 20530765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Epidemiol. 2010;20(4):308-12. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20090190. Epub 2010 Jun
5.

Trends in disability-free life expectancy in Japan, 1995-2004.

Hashimoto S(1), Kawado M, Seko R, Murakami Y, Hayashi M, Kato M, Noda T, Ojima 
T, Nagai M, Tsuji I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Fujita Health University School of Medicine, Toyoake 
470-1192, Japan. hasimoto@fujita-hu.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: In Japan, life expectancy at birth is currently the highest in the 
world. However, recent trends in disability-free life expectancy in Japan have 
not been examined.
METHODS: We used data from Japanese national surveys for the period 1995-2004. 
These surveys included information on activity status measured by common 
self-reported instruments. The numbers of expected years with and without 
activity limitation were estimated by using the Sullivan method.
RESULTS: The numbers of expected years of life without activity limitation, at 
birth, in 1995 and 2004 were 68.5 and 69.7, respectively, in males and 72.1 and 
73.0 in females. As a proportion of total life expectancy, at birth, these 
values represent a decrease from 89.7% to 88.6% in males and from 87.1% to 85.3% 
in females. The proportion of expected years with a limitation of some 
activities except activities of daily living (ADL) increased in males and 
females. The proportion of those with an ADL limitation increased in females, 
but not in males.
CONCLUSIONS: The trends in expected years with and without activity limitation 
suggest that the duration of life with a light or moderate disability increased 
in Japanese males and females during the period 1995-2004.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20090190
PMCID: PMC3900791
PMID: 20530916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Nat Biotechnol. 2010 Jun;28(6):554-6. doi: 10.1038/nbt0610-554.

Health impact in China of folate-biofortified rice.

De Steur H, Gellynck X, Storozhenko S, Liqun G, Lambert W, Van Der Straeten D, 
Viaene J.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt0610-554
PMID: 20531329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Health Stat Q. 2010 Summer;(46):25-50. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.10.

Variations in life expectancy between rural and urban areas of England, 2001-07.

Kyte L(1), Wells C.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: This study was part of a wider project commissioned by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) to examine 
inequalities in health outcomes in rural areas. It investigated variations in 
life expectancy at birth between rural and urban areas of England, taking the 
effect of deprivation into account. The study aimed to produce results which 
provide specific evidence of the needs of rural communities, as they have often 
been overlooked in previous research.
METHODS: The Rural and Urban Area Classification (RUAC) 2004 and the Index of 
Multiple Deprivation (IMD) 2007 were used to categorise area types at the Lower 
Super Output Area (LSOA) level. Population and mortality data used were produced 
by the Office for National Statistics (ONS). Abridged life tables were 
constructed to calculate period life expectancy at birth for males and females, 
for the years 2001 to 2007 combined. Confidence intervals (95%) were also 
produced.
RESULTS: For the 2001-07 period, life expectancy at birth in England was 76.9 
years for males and 81.3 years for females. However, when deprivation was 
examined, results between the most deprived and least deprived quintiles varied 
by 7.8 years for men and 5.4 years for women.Overall, life expectancy was higher 
in rural areas than in urban areas. Deprivation had a considerable impact on the 
results and wide inequalities were evident, particularly in men and in urban 
areas. In both area types, males living in the less deprived quintiles had 
similar life expectancies to females living in the more deprived 
quintiles.Within rural area types, life expectancy was higher in village and 
dispersed settlements than in town and fringe areas. There were large 
differences between the fourth and fifth (most deprived) quintiles in village 
and dispersed settlements, which shows that there may be acute pockets of 
deprivation within this area type that need to be addressed.In terms of 
sparsity, there was little difference in life expectancy between densely and 
less densely populated localities within rural and urban areas. However, 
variations were observed when deprivation was taken into account and greater 
differences were evident in less sparse areas than in sparse areas.
CONCLUSIONS: There were clear inequalities in life expectancy between rural and 
urban areas in England. There were also intricate differences within area types, 
which can be overlooked when only examining differences between them. The 
results were consistent with the findings of previous studies and demonstrated 
that it is important to examine differences in life expectancy in both area and 
deprivation contexts.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.10
PMID: 20531365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Health Stat Q. 2010 Summer;(46):51-68. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.11.

Monitoring inequalities in health expectancies in England - small area analyses 
from the Census 2001 and General Household Survey 2001-05.

Smith MP(1), Olatunde O, White C.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: Deprivation and ill health are intimately linked. Monitoring this 
relationship in detail and with sufficient frequency is key in attempts to 
reduce health inequalities through more efficient targeting of healthcare 
resources. This study explores the potential of the General Household Survey 
(GHS) to provide an inter-censal measure of health expectancies in small areas 
experiencing differing degrees of deprivation.
METHODS: The prevalence of health status and the health expectancy of males and 
females at birth and at age 65 by quintiles of small area deprivation are 
estimated. Comparisons are made between census 2001 and GHS 2001-05 to inform 
the suitability of the latter as an inter-censal measure of health expectancy 
across small areas. Comparisons are also made between the health expectancies of 
people living in more and less deprived areas.
RESULTS: Reports of 'good' and 'fairly good' health fell and health expectancies 
declined as deprivation increased. Consistency between census and GHS data 
indicates that the latter is a suitable source for the inter-censal measurement 
of health expectancies across quintiles of deprivation. At birth, people living 
in the least deprived areas can expect more than 12 additional years of life in 
good or fairly good health than those in the most deprived areas, at age 65 the 
difference was more than four years. In terms of the proportion of life spent in 
favourable health states; at birth, those living in the least deprived areas 
could expect to spend around 91 per cent or more of their lives in good or 
fairly good health compared to 82 per cent for those in the most deprived areas. 
At age 65, people in the least deprived areas could expect to spend around 82 
per cent of their remaining life in good or fairly good health compared to 69 
per cent or less for those in the most deprived areas.
CONCLUSIONS: This study represents the first use of the Index of Multiple 
Deprivation (IMD) 2004 in the measurement of health expectancy across small 
areas. Both the census and GHS highlighted substantial differences in the health 
status and health expectancies of people experiencing differing degrees of 
ecological deprivation. These findings serve as a useful measure and benchmark 
in the targeting and assessment of interventions designed to ameliorate health 
inequalities.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.11
PMID: 20531366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Skin Therapy Lett. 2010 Jun;15(6):4-7.

Smoking and skin disease.

Thomsen SF(1), Sørensen LT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Tobacco smoking is a serious and preventable health hazard that can cause or 
exacerbate a number of diseases and shorten life expectancy, but the role of 
smoking as an etiologic factor in the development of skin disease is largely 
unknown. Although epidemiological evidence is sparse, findings suggest that 
tobacco smoking is a contributing factor in systemic lupus erythematosus, 
psoriasis, palmoplantar pustulosis, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, 
hidradenitis suppurativa, and genital warts. In contrast, smoking may confer 
some protective effects and mitigate other skin diseases, notably pemphigus 
vulgaris, pyoderma gangrenosum, aphthous ulcers, and Behçet's disease. Various 
degenerative dermatologic conditions are also impacted by smoking, such as skin 
wrinkling and dysregulated wound healing, which can result in post-surgical 
complications and delayed or even arrested healing of chronic wounds. Most 
likely, alteration of inflammatory cell function and extracellular matrix 
turnover caused by smoking-induced oxidative stress are involved in the 
pathophysiologic mechanisms.

PMID: 20532469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Osteoporos Int. 2011 Mar;22(3):955-65. doi: 10.1007/s00198-010-1291-5. Epub
2010  Jun 8.

Cost-effectiveness of bazedoxifene incorporating the FRAX® algorithm in a 
European perspective.

Borgström F(1), Ström O, Kleman M, McCloskey E, Johansson H, Odén A, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. fredrik.borgstrom@i3innovus.com

The cost-effectiveness of bazedoxifene was compared to placebo in France, 
Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden and the UK from a healthcare perspective using 
FRAX® for both fracture risks and for treatment efficacy. Cost/QALY differences 
were explained to a large extent by differences in fracture risk.
INTRODUCTION: In cost-effectiveness modelling of osteoporosis treatments, the 
fracture risk has traditionally been calculated with risk adjustments based on 
age, bone mineral density and prior fracture. However, knowledge of additional 
clinical risk factors contributes to fracture risk assessment as demonstrated by 
the FRAX® tool. Bazedoxifene, a new selective estrogen receptor modulator for 
the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis, has been shown in a phase III 
clinical trial to reduce the risk of osteoporotic fractures in women. In an 
analysis using FRAX®, the efficacy of bazedoxifene was greater in patients with 
higher fracture risk.
METHODS: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
bazedoxifene compared to placebo in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden and 
the UK from a healthcare perspective using FRAX®. A Markov cohort model was 
adapted to incorporate the FRAX® risk factors. FRAX® produces relative risks for 
hip fractures and major osteoporotic fractures. Patients were given a 5-year 
intervention, reducing the risk of fractures in a risk-dependent manner. The 
effect of treatment on fractures was assumed to decline linearly over 5 years 
after the intervention.
RESULTS: There are large cost/quality-adjusted life year variations between 
countries in the European setting studied. The base case values ranged from cost 
saving (Sweden) to EUR 105,450 (Spain) in 70-year-old women with a T-score of 
-2.5 SD and a prior fracture.
CONCLUSION: Bazedoxifene can be a cost-effective treatment for postmenopausal 
osteoporosis. The variability between countries was explained to a large extent 
by differences in fracture risk, and the estimated cost-effectiveness was highly 
dependent on the population's FRAX®-estimated probability of major osteoporotic 
fracture.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-010-1291-5
PMID: 20532482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2010 Dec;25(4):343-54. doi:
10.1007/s10823-010-9119-5.

Comorbidity among older American Indians: the native elder care study.

Goins RT(1), Pilkerton CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Center on Aging, Robert C. Byrd Health 
Sciences Center, West Virginia University, P.O. Box 9127, Morgantown, WV 26506, 
USA. rgoins@hsc.wvu.edu

Comorbidity is a growing challenge and the older adult population is most at 
risk of developing comorbid conditions. Comorbidity is associated with increased 
risk of mortality, increased hospitalizations, increased doctor visits, 
increased prescription medications, nursing home placement, poorer mental 
health, and physical disability. American Indians experience some of the highest 
rates of chronic conditions, but to date there have been only two published 
studies on the subject of comorbidity in this population. With a community-based 
sample of 505 American Indians aged 55 years or older, this study identified the 
most prevalent chronic conditions, described comorbidity, and identified 
socio-demographic, functional limitations, and psychosocial correlates of 
comorbidity. Results indicated that older American Indians experience higher 
rates of hypertension, diabetes, back pain, and vision loss compared to national 
statistics of older adults. Two-thirds of the sample experienced some degree of 
comorbidity according to the scale used. Older age, poorer physical functioning, 
more depressive symptomatology, and lower personal mastery were all correlates 
of higher comorbidity scores. Despite medical advances increasing life 
expectancy, morbidity and mortality statistics suggest that the health of older 
American Indians lags behind the majority population. These findings highlight 
the importance of supporting chronic care and management services for the older 
American Indian population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-010-9119-5
PMCID: PMC3072045
PMID: 20532973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Curr Microbiol. 2011 Jan;62(1):146-51. doi: 10.1007/s00284-010-9687-1. Epub
2010  Jun 9.

Role of Lys281 in the Dunaliella salina (6-4) photolyase reaction.

Zhang F(1), Xu H, Cao Y, Wen T, Lin J, Ma G, Qiao D, Cao Y.

Author information:
(1)Microbiology and Metabolic Engineering Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, 
College of Life Science, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610064, Sichuan, People's 
Republic of China.

His(354) and His(358), two highly conserved histidines in Xenopus laevis (6-4) 
photolyase [equivalent to His(401) and His(405), in Dunaliella salina (6-4) 
photolyase], are critical for photoreactivation. They act as a base and an acid, 
respectively. However, the remaining high repair activity when the pH value is 
higher than the pKa of histidine suggests the involvement of other basic amino 
acids in photoreactivation. According to the results of in vivo enzyme assay and 
three-dimension structural model of Dunaliella salina (6-4) photolyase we 
hypothesized that Lys(281) might be involved in the photoreactivation over the 
pH range from 10.0 to 11.0. To test this, we generated two mutant forms of the 
(6-4) photolyase, K281G and K281R mutant, by overlap extension polymerase chain 
reaction, and performed the enzyme assay with these mutants. From these results 
we conclude that the Lys(281), which is highly conserved in (6-4) photolyases, 
participates in the photoreactivation and acts as an acid to donate a proton to 
His(401) when the environmental pH is higher than the pKa value of histidine.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-010-9687-1
PMID: 20533040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Natl Med Assoc. 2010 May;102(5):423-9. doi: 10.1016/s0027-9684(15)30578-2.

Prostate cancer screening 2010: updated recommendations from the American Cancer 
Society.

Brooks DD(1), Wolf A, Smith RA, Dash C, Guessous I.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Control Science Department, American Cancer Society, 250 Williams St, 
Atlanta, GA 30303, USA.

In 2009, the American Cancer Society (ACS) initiated a series of systematic 
evidence reviews to update recommendations for early prostate cancer detection. 
The evidence reviews focused on studies of screening, the performance of 
screening tests, harms associated with testing and therapy for localized 
prostate cancer, and shared and informed decision making in prostate cancer 
screening. Based on this evidence, the ACS recommends that asymptomatic men who 
have at least a 10-year life expectancy have an opportunity to make an informed 
decision with their health care provider about screening for prostate cancer 
after receiving information about the uncertainties, risks, and potential 
benefits associated with prostate cancer screening. Prostate cancer screening 
should not occur without an informed decision-making process. Men at average 
risk should receive this information beginning at age 50. Men in higher-risk 
groups should receive this information before age 50. Men should either receive 
this information directly from their health care providers or be referred to 
reliable and culturally appropriate sources. Patient decision aids are helpful 
in preparing men to make a decision whether to be tested, and the use of such 
aids is encouraged.

DOI: 10.1016/s0027-9684(15)30578-2
PMID: 20533778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Popul Health Metr. 2010 Jun 9;8:18. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-8-18.

A set of indicators for decomposing the secular increase of life expectancy.

Rousson V(1), Paccaud F.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine (IUMSP), University Hospital and 
Faculty of Medicine, Lausanne, Switzerland. valentin.rousson@chuv.ch.

BACKGROUND: The ongoing increase in life expectancy in developed countries is 
associated with changes in the shape of the survival curve. These changes can be 
characterized by two main, distinct components: (i) the decline in premature 
mortality, i.e., the concentration of deaths around some high value of the mean 
age at death, also termed rectangularization of the survival curve; and (ii) the 
increase of this mean age at death, i.e., longevity, which directly reflects the 
reduction of mortality at advanced ages. Several recent observations suggest 
that both mechanisms are simultaneously taking place.
METHODS: We propose a set of indicators aiming to quantify, disentangle, and 
compare the respective contribution of rectangularization and longevity increase 
to the secular increase of life expectancy. These indicators, based on a 
nonparametric approach, are easy to implement.
RESULTS: We illustrate the method with the evolution of the Swiss mortality data 
between 1876 and 2006. Using our approach, we are able to say that the increase 
in longevity and rectangularization explain each about 50% of the secular 
increase of life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Our method may provide a useful tool to assess whether the 
contribution of rectangularization to the secular increase of life expectancy 
will remain around 50% or whether it will be increasing in the next few years, 
and thus whether concentration of mortality will eventually take place against 
some ultimate biological limit.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-8-18
PMCID: PMC2900237
PMID: 20534111


362. J Public Health (Oxf). 2011 Mar;33(1):117-22. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdq044.
Epub  2010 Jun 9.

Estimating the future healthcare costs of an aging population in the UK: 
expansion of morbidity and the need for preventative care.

Caley M(1), Sidhu K.

Author information:
(1)NHS Birmingham East and North,Waterlinks House, Aston, Birmingham, UK. 
michael.caley@benpct.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: The healthcare costs of an aging population have major consequences 
for healthcare organizations and have major implication for strategic planning 
of services. An impending freeze in budgets in the UK makes these consequences 
especially significant.
METHODS: We present a methodology of estimating the future healthcare costs to 
an organization due to an aging population that takes account of the excess 
costs in the years before death and the effect of morbidity compression or 
expansion. The performance of three different models is evaluated.
RESULTS: The three models all give markedly different estimated costs. Models 
failing to take into account both the cost burden towards the end of life and 
compression or expansion of morbidity can vastly under- or overestimate the most 
accurate estimates of healthcare expenditure due to an aging population with 
annual increases in costs varying from 0.48 to 1.12%.
CONCLUSION: The importance of being able to accurately predict demand and costs 
of health care within the NHS cannot be underestimated. Making over simplistic 
assumptions and not using well-established principles in these models leads to 
greatly different outcomes that have the potential to have massive 
organizational consequences in terms of short-to-medium term strategic planning.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdq044
PMID: 20534629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Oct;39(5):1324-32. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyq073. Epub 2010
Jun  9.

Trends in the gap in life expectancy between Arabs and Jews in Israel between 
1975 and 2004.

Na'amnih W(1), Muhsen K, Tarabeia J, Saabneh A, Green MS.

Author information:
(1)Israel Center for Disease Control, Ministry of Health, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: To examine trends in the Arab-Jew life expectancy gap in Israel 
during 1975-2004 and to determine the contribution of age groups and causes of 
death to changes in the gap.
METHODS: Data on life expectancy and mortality rates by cause of death, for 
Arabs and Jews, were obtained from the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics. 
Standard life table techniques were used for decomposition analysis to explore 
the contribution to changes in the life expectancy gap.
RESULTS: While life expectancy of Arabs was lower than Jews during 1975-2004, 
there was a decline in this gap during 1975-98. However, during the following 
years the gap increased and the difference in 2004 was 3.2 years for men and 4 
years for women. During 2000-04, the main causes of death contributing to the 
gap in life expectancy were chronic diseases, mainly heart disease and diabetes. 
Heart disease mortality contributed mostly to the overall life expectancy gap 
for males and females, accounting for 0.89 and 1.17 years, respectively. The age 
group >65 years contributed most to the gap (1.33 years among males, and 2.42 
years among females).
CONCLUSIONS: Following a period of reduction, the gap in life expectancy at 
birth between Arabs and Jews in Israel has started to widen. These findings 
indicate the need for increased attention to primary prevention and disease 
management in the Arab population. Reducing social and individual risk factors 
for major causes of death should be a national priority.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyq073
PMID: 20534651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Eur J Public Health. 2011 Apr;21(2):260-4. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq069. Epub
2010  Jun 9.

Cost-effectiveness research on preventive interventions: a survey of the 
publications in 2008.

van Gils PF(1), Tariq L, Verschuuren M, van den Berg M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Centre for 
Prevention and Health Services Research, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
paul.van.gils@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: In recent years the literature regarding the cost-effectiveness of 
disease prevention and health promotion has grown exponentially. Aim of this 
study is to investigate: (i) how many and what type of economic evaluations have 
been published in 2008, (ii) the diseases or health problems World Health 
Organization International Classification of Diseases 10 chapters the economic 
evaluations of preventive interventions focus on, in relation to the global 
burden of disease and (iii) the cost-effectiveness of these interventions.
METHODS: Literature study of economic evaluations on preventive interventions in 
PubMed and Scopus.
RESULTS: In 2008, 232 economic evaluations of preventive interventions have been 
published. Of these studies, 75% (n = 175) used costs per (Quality Adjusted) 
Life Year [(QA)LY] gained as outcome measure. Most economic evaluations focus on 
the prevention of infectious diseases (31.5%, n = 73) and cancers (21%, n = 49) 
Infectious diseases are responsible for the highest global burden of disease 
(19.8%), followed by mental and behavioural disorders (11.7%). Of the included 
economic evaluations, 80% remained below a threshold of €50 000 and 60% below 
€20 000 per (QA)LY.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that many economic evaluations of preventive 
interventions use a generic outcome measure. This adds to the comparability of 
different studies on the cost-effectiveness of prevention. Although the focus of 
published economic evaluations in general corresponds well with those diseases 
that cause a large share of the world's burden of disease, mental and 
behavioural diseases and diseases of the respiratory system remain 
underrepresented. Finally, it appears that the vast majority of published 
economic evaluations of preventive measures show favourable cost-effectiveness 
levels.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq069
PMID: 20534690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2010 Oct;110(3):507-14. doi: 10.1007/s00421-010-1528-1.
Epub  2010 Jun 10.

Effects of mechanical properties of muscle and tendon on performance in long 
distance runners.

Kubo K(1), Tabata T, Ikebukuro T, Igarashi K, Yata H, Tsunoda N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Komaba 3-8-1, Meguro-ku, 
Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanical properties of muscle 
and tendon in long distance runners and their relations to running performance. 
Fifteen long distance runners (LDR) and 21 untrained subjects (CON) participated 
in this study. Muscle strength and activation level of knee extensors and 
plantar flexors were measured. Tendon elongation was determined using 
ultrasonography, while subjects performed ramp isometric knee extension and 
plantar flexion up to the voluntary maximum. Relative MVC (to body mass) of LDR 
was significantly lower than that of CON for knee extensors, but not for plantar 
flexors. No significant difference in the neural activation levels was found 
between LDR and CON for both sites. Maximal tendon elongation of LDR was 
significantly lower than that of CON for knee extensors, but not for plantar 
flexors. Furthermore, faster running time in a 5,000 m race (best official 
record of LDR) was associated with lower tendon stiffness for both sites. In 
conclusion, the tendon of long distance runners is less extensible than those of 
untrained subjects for knee extensors, but not for plantar flexors. For both 
sites, however, the lower tendon stiffness may be in favor of the running 
performance in long distance runners.

DOI: 10.1007/s00421-010-1528-1
PMID: 20535616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2010 Oct;55(4):678-83. doi: 10.1002/pbc.22565.

Education and employment status of children and adults with thalassemia in North 
America.

Pakbaz Z(1), Treadwell M, Kim HY, Trachtenberg F, Parmar N, Kwiatkowski JL, 
Cunningham MJ, Martin M, Sweeters N, Neufeld EJ, Giardina PJ, Olivieri N, 
Yamashita RC, Vichinsky E.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Oncology, Children's Hospital and Research Center Oakland, 
Oakland, California 94609, USA. zpakbaz@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Advances in the management of thalassemia have resulted in increased 
life expectancy and new challenges. We conducted the first survey of education 
and employment status of people with thalassemia in North America.
PROCEDURES: A total of 633 patients (349 adults and 284 school age children) 
enrolled in the Thalassemia Clinical Research Network (TCRN) registry in Canada 
and the U.S. were included in the data analysis. Predictors considered for 
analysis were age, gender, race/ethnicity, site of treatment (Canada vs. United 
States), transfusion and chelation status, serum ferritin, and clinical 
complications.
RESULTS: Seventy percent of adults were employed of which 67% reported working 
full-time. Sixty percent had a college degree and 14% had achieved some 
