with manifest osteoporosis].

[Article in German]

Klöckner C(1).

Author information:
(1)Praxis für Wirbelsäulenerkrankungen und Wirbelsäulenchirurgie, Hohlstr. 192, 
CH-8004, Zürich, Schweiz. info@spine-in-balance.ch

A number of factors need to be borne in mind in the planning and performance of 
instrumental fixation of the spine in patients with osteoporosis. Improved 
implant anchoring using special screws and cement augmentation can help to avoid 
implant dislocations. Nevertheless, particular attention should be paid to 
spinal balance in these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-009-1575-7
PMID: 20358325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Am J Med Genet A. 2010 Apr;152A(4):1016-9. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.33356.

Germline TGF-beta receptor mutations and skeletal fragility: a report on two 
patients with Loeys-Dietz syndrome.

Kirmani S(1), Tebben PJ, Lteif AN, Gordon D, Clarke BL, Hefferan TE, Yaszemski 
MJ, McGrann PS, Lindor NM, Ellison JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. 
kirmani.salman@mayo.edu

Loeys-Dietz syndrome (LDS, OMIM # 609192) caused by heterozygous mutations in 
TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 has recently been described as an important cause of familial 
aortic aneurysms. These patients have craniofacial and skeletal features that 
overlap with the Marfan syndrome (MFS), and more importantly, have significant 
vascular fragility as is seen in MFS and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Type IV 
(EDS-IV). The skeletal phenotype with respect to low bone mineral density and 
skeletal fragility is not clear. We present two patients with LDS with 
significant skeletal fragility. The first is a 17-year-old male who had talipes 
equinovarus, diaphragmatic and inguinal and herniae, aortic root dilatation 
necessitating surgical repair, craniofacial and skeletal dysmorphism consistent 
with LDS, and a history of numerous fragility fractures leading to significant 
skeletal deformity. He was found to be heterozygous for a c.923T > C transition 
in exon 4 of TGFBR2. The second is a 26-year-old male with submucous cleft 
palate, talipes equinovarus, pectus excavatum requiring surgery, inguinal 
hernia, and aneurysms in the ascending aorta, abdominal aorta, carotid, 
subclavian, vertebral and brachial arteries requiring surgical repairs. He also 
had craniofacial and skeletal dysmorphism consistent with LDS, multiple 
fractures in childhood, low bone mineral density, and was found to be 
heterozygous for a c.1561 T > C transition in exon 7 of TGFBR2. These case 
studies highlight the importance of paying close attention to fractures and bone 
density in patients with LDS. Osteopenia or osteoporosis may become increasingly 
important issues as earlier detection and treatment of the vascular 
complications of LDS improves life expectancy in these patients.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.33356
PMID: 20358619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Am Chem Soc. 2010 Apr 28;132(16):5880-5. doi: 10.1021/ja100780p.

Effect of stalling after mismatches on the error catastrophe in nonenzymatic 
nucleic acid replication.

Rajamani S(1), Ichida JK, Antal T, Treco DA, Leu K, Nowak MA, Szostak JW, Chen 
IA.

Author information:
(1)FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138, USA.

The frequency of errors during genome replication limits the amount of 
functionally important information that can be passed on from generation to 
generation. During the origin of life, mutation rates are thought to have been 
quite high, raising a classic chicken-and-egg paradox: could nonenzymatic 
replication propagate sequences accurately enough to allow for the emergence of 
heritable function? Here we show that the theoretical limit on genomic 
information content may increase substantially as a consequence of dramatically 
slowed polymerization after mismatches. As a result of postmismatch stalling, 
accurate copies of a template tend to be completed more rapidly than mutant 
copies and the accurate copies can therefore begin a second round of replication 
more quickly. To quantify this effect, we characterized an experimental model of 
nonenzymatic, template-directed nucleic acid polymerization. We found that most 
mismatches decrease the rate of primer extension by more than 2 orders of 
magnitude relative to a matched (Watson-Crick) control. A chemical replication 
system with this property would be able to propagate sequences long enough to 
have function. Our study suggests that the emergence of functional sequences 
during the origin of life would be possible even in the face of the high 
intrinsic error rates of chemical replication.

DOI: 10.1021/ja100780p
PMCID: PMC2857888
PMID: 20359213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Drugs Aging. 2010 Apr 1;27(4):283-94. doi: 10.2165/11532120-000000000-00000.

Multiple sclerosis in the elderly patient.

Awad A(1), Stüve O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at 
Dallas, Dallas, Texas, USA.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an acquired inflammatory demyelinating disease of the 
CNS that is typically diagnosed in the second or third decade of life. It is 
generally believed that over the last few decades the life expectancy of 
patients with adult onset MS (AOMS) has approached that of the general 
population as a result of better medical and nursing care. Thus, an increasing 
number of MS patients are entering or have reached senescence. A second group of 
elderly patients with MS that may be very different in terms of disease 
pathogenesis are patients with late onset MS (LOMS). The diagnosis in LOMS 
patients can be challenging because of a large number of age-associated MS 
differential diagnoses, atypical presentations, a low index of suspicion and the 
lack of diagnostic criteria specific to this age group. Also, specific problems 
these patients encounter have only recently become a focus of attention. Changes 
in renal and hepatic function with age, in addition to the coexistence of 
medical co-morbidities, require special attention in the management of elderly 
patients with MS. In this review we outline the characteristics of senescent 
AOMS and LOMS patients. In addition, we discuss therapeutic strategies in 
elderly patients with MS based on our knowledge of immunosenescence and 
age-associated characteristics of this disorder. Given the overall aging of the 
population, focusing on these two patient groups appears highly relevant.

DOI: 10.2165/11532120-000000000-00000
PMID: 20359260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Epigenetics Chromatin. 2010 Apr 1;3(1):8. doi: 10.1186/1756-8935-3-8.

Histone variant macroH2A1 deletion in mice causes female-specific steatosis.

Boulard M(#)(1)(2), Storck S(#)(1)(2), Cong R(1)(2)(3), Pinto R(1)(2), Delage 
H(1)(2), Bouvet P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Université de Lyon, Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon, Laboratoire 
Joliot-Curie (CNRS USR 3010), 46 allée d'Italie, 69364 Lyon cedex 07, France.
(2)Université de Lyon, Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon, Laboratoire de Biologie 
Moléculaire de la Cellule, 46 allée d'Italie, 69364 Lyon cedex 07, France.
(3)The Institute of Biomedical Sciences and School of Life Sciences, East China 
Normal University, Shanghai 200241, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Vertebrate heterochromatin contains a non-allelic variant of the 
histone H2A called macroH2A1, which has the characteristic of being three times 
the size of the canonical H2A. The macroH2A1 C-terminal extension can recruit 
onto chromatin the poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP)1, which is crucial for DNA 
repair. This led to the speculation that macroH2A1 could be essential for genome 
surveillance; however, no experimental evidence supported this hypothesis. 
Because macroH2A1 has been found to be enriched on the inactive X-chromosome in 
females, it is thought to play a role in sex chromosome dosage compensation 
through its ability to regulate gene expression. However, more genetic data are 
needed to further understand the function of macroH2A1 in mammals.
RESULTS: Deletion of the murine gene H2afy, which encodes for macroH2A1, 
resulted in lipid accumulation in liver. Hepatic steatosis caused by H2afy 
disruption occurred specifically in homozygous mutant females. The metabolic 
disorder constantly affected half of the number of homozygote females. Given the 
mixed genetic background of the mutants, an unreported genetic modifier is 
likely to influence the penetrance of the phenotype. In addition, the X-linked 
thyroxine-binding globulin (Tbg) gene was specifically upregulated in steatotic 
livers. Chromatin immunoprecitation indicated that macroH2A1 is enriched at the 
Tbg promoter in wild-type female animals, indicating that increased Tbg 
expression in H2afy null mutants is likely to be a direct consequence of the 
absence of macroH2A1. Furthermore, male mice, which are not prone to the 
metabolic disorder, had a reduced level of macroH2A1 incorporated into the Tbg 
promoter.
CONCLUSIONS: Because TBG is the main carrier of the thyroid hormone T4, which 
regulates energy metabolism, we propose that overexpression of TBG is 
responsible for the fat accumulation observed in H2afy-deficient liver. 
Moreover, our results suggest that the sexual dimorphism of the steatotic 
phenotype is probably due to the different incorporation of macroH2A1 in males 
and females. In combination with previous studies, our data demonstrate a role 
for macroH2A1 in regulating homeostasis in a sex-dependent manner, subject to 
genetic background.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-8935-3-8
PMCID: PMC2857834
PMID: 20359320


910. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2010 May;34(6):877-81. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2009.03.001. Epub 2009 Mar 10.

Cognitive activation theory of stress (CATS).

Ursin H(1), Eriksen HR.

Author information:
(1)Unifob Health, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway. h.ursin@uib.no

The cognitive activation theory of stress (CATS) is based on a long series of 
experiments on animals and on humans, in the laboratory, and in real life 
situations. From the common sense coping concept formulated by Seymour Levine; 
coping is when my "tommy" does not hurt, we have advanced to a systematic theory 
for what is behind the relaxed and happy coping rat (and cat). We also cover the 
translational leap to humans, starting with the now classic parachutist study. 
The bridge is based on formal and symbolic definitions, a theoretical short cut 
that Levine actually never really accepted. The essential pathophysiological 
concept is the potential pathological effects of sustained activation, which may 
occur in the absence of coping (positive response outcome expectancy). We review 
the current status of CATS in Behavioural Medicine by discussing its potential 
explanatory power in epidemiology, prevention and treatment of "subjective 
health complaints".

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2009.03.001
PMID: 20359586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2010 Apr;24(2):459-68. doi: 
10.1016/j.hoc.2010.02.005.

Prognostic classification and risk assessment in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Cazzola M(1), Malcovati L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Medical School, University of Pavia, 
Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy. mario.cazzola@unipv.it

The clinical heterogeneity of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) is best 
illustrated by the observation that these disorders range from indolent 
conditions with a near-normal life expectancy to forms approaching acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML). A risk-adapted treatment strategy is mandatory for conditions 
showing a highly variable clinical course, and definition of the individual risk 
has been based so far on the use of prognostic scoring systems. The authors have 
developed a prognostic model that accounts for the World Health Organization 
(WHO) categories, cytogenetics, transfusion dependency, and bone marrow 
fibrosis. This WHO classification-based Prognostic Scoring System (WPSS) is able 
to classify patients into five risk groups showing different survivals and 
probabilities of leukemic evolution. WPSS predicts survival and leukemia 
progression at any time during follow-up, and may therefore be used for 
implementing risk-adapted treatment strategies.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2010.02.005
PMID: 20359637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Am J Sports Med. 2010 Jul;38(7):1389-94. doi: 10.1177/0363546509359763. Epub
 2010 Apr 1.

Two- to 4-year follow-up to a comparison of home versus physical 
therapy-supervised rehabilitation programs after anterior cruciate ligament 
reconstruction.

Grant JA(1), Mohtadi NG.

Author information:
(1)University of Calgary Sport Medicine Center, 2500 University Drive NW, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2N 1N4. grantja@ucalgary.ca.

BACKGROUND: There have been no long-term follow-up studies comparing a 
predominantly home-based rehabilitation program with a standard physical therapy 
program after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Demonstrating the 
long-term success of such a cost-effective program would be beneficial to guide 
future rehabilitation practice.
PURPOSE: To determine whether there were any differences in long-term outcome 
between recreational athletes who performed a physical therapy-supervised 
rehabilitation program and those who performed a primarily home-based 
rehabilitation program in the first 3 months after ACL reconstruction.
STUDY DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial; Level of evidence, 1.
METHODS: Patients were randomized before ACL reconstruction surgery to either 
the physical therapy-supervised (17 physical therapy sessions) or home-based (4 
physical therapy sessions) program. Eighty-eight of the original 129 patients 
returned 2 to 4 years after surgery to assess their long-term clinical outcomes. 
Primary outcome was the ACL quality of life questionnaire (ACL QOL). Secondary 
outcomes were bilateral difference in knee extension and flexion range of 
motion, sagittal plane knee laxity, relative quadriceps and hamstring strength, 
and objective International Knee Documentation Committee score. Unpaired t tests 
and a chi-square test were used for the comparisons.
RESULTS: The home-based group had a significantly higher mean ACL QOL score 
(80.0 +/- 16.2) than the physical therapy-supervised group (69.9 +/- 22.0) a 
mean of 38 months after surgery (P = .02, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.7, 
18.4). The mean change in ACL QOL score from before surgery to follow-up was not 
significantly different between the groups (physical therapy = 40.0, home = 
45.8, P = .26, 95% CI: -15.8, 4.4). There were no significant differences in the 
secondary outcome measures.
CONCLUSION: This long-term study upholds the short-term findings of the original 
randomized clinical trial by demonstrating that patients who participate in a 
predominantly home-based rehabilitation program in the first 3 months after ACL 
reconstruction have similar 2- to 4-year outcomes compared with those patients 
who participate in a more clinically supervised program.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546509359763
PMID: 20360607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Qual Life Res. 2010 Aug;19(6):919-28. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9650-4. Epub
2010  Apr 2.

Health-related quality of life in inflammatory bowel disease measured with the 
generic 15D instrument.

Haapamäki J(1), Roine RP, Sintonen H, Turunen U, Färkkilä MA, Arkkila PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Helsinki University 
Central Hospital, PO Box 340, 00029 HUS, Helsinki, Finland. 
johanna.haapamaki@hus.fi

OBJECTIVES: In many surveys, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has been shown to 
have a negative impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL), especially 
when the disease is active. The purpose of this study was to compare a 
disease-specific HRQoL tool (Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire, IBDQ) and 
a generic HRQoL tool (15D) in a large cohort of IBD patients, to assess the 
ability of the 15D to detect differences in HRQoL between disease states and to 
compare the HRQoL of IBD patients with that of the general population.
METHODS: The study population comprised 2,931 IBD patients over 18 picked from a 
national Social Insurance Institute register and from a patient organization 
register. The 15D data for the general population came from the National Health 
2000 Health Examination Survey.
RESULTS: For patients with IBD, the 15D tool was feasible and had good 
discriminatory power. The total 15D score was significantly higher among 
patients with less active disease estimated by frequency of IBD symptoms and was 
strongly correlated with total IBDQ score. The general population scored 
significantly higher than did the study subjects on most of the 15D dimensions.
CONCLUSIONS: The 15D was a fast and easy-to-apply method for the examination of 
HRQoL in IBD patients. In addition to HRQoL studies it could be used in everyday 
practice as well. Patients with IBD have worse HRQoL than do gender- and 
age-standardized controls.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9650-4
PMID: 20361263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Math Biosci. 2010 Jul;226(1):38-45. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2010.03.008. Epub
2010  Apr 1.

On invariant property in population statistics.

Suematsu K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mathematical Science, Ohkadai, 2-31-9, Yokkaichi, Mie 512-1216, 
Japan. suematsu@m3.cty-net.ne.jp

Concept of aging is developed to yield a relationship between life spans and the 
velocity of aging. The mathematical analysis shows that the mean extent of the 
advancement of aging throughout one's life is conserved, or equivalently, the 
product of the mean life span, T, and the mean rate of aging, v (A), is 
constant, T x v (A)=k. The result is in harmony with our experiences: it 
accounts for the unlimited replicability of tumor cells, and predicts the 
prolonged life spans of hibernating hamsters according to the equation, T 
congruent with [Formula in text] is a constant and chi denotes the total 
fraction of hibernation periods), in accordance with the Lyman and co-workers 
experiment. Comparing the present result and the empirical relationship between 
life spans of various mammals and basal metabolic rates, it is suggested that 
the mean rate of aging is intimately connected with the mean basal metabolic 
rate. With the help of this information, we inquire the reason of the difference 
in mean life spans between women and men, the result showing that the relative 
mean life span of women to men is T(women)/T(men) congruent with 1.08 for 
various nations, which is close to the corresponding relative value of the basal 
metabolic rate. The present analysis suggests, however, that this relationship 
between life spans and basal metabolic rates must be treated with caution.

(c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2010.03.008
PMID: 20362591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Vaccine. 2010 May 7;28(21):3627-31. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.03.035. Epub
 2010 Apr 1.

Ageing and immunity: addressing immune senescence to ensure healthy ageing.

Boraschi D(1), Del Giudice G, Dutel C, Ivanoff B, Rappuoli R, 
Grubeck-Loebenstein B.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Tecnologie Biomediche, CNR, Area della Ricerca di S. Cataldo, Via 
G. Moruzzi 1, 56124 Pisa, Italy. diana.boraschi@itb.cnr.it 
<diana.boraschi@itb.cnr.it>

Among the greatest achievements of the 20th century, prolongation of life 
expectancy has been the result of improved health conditions, decreased 
childhood mortality, lower incidence of infectious diseases. The consequence is 
the rapid ageing of the world population, with the elderly representing over 25% 
of the entire population by the year 2030, of which 75% living in less developed 
countries. Ageing thus represents one of the major public health challenges of 
the 21st century. Indeed, unhealthy ageing and frailty of the aged population 
has an important impact on the economic development and social costs of a 
country, a problem even more acute in less developed countries. A better 
knowledge of immune senescence and the design of customised vaccination 
strategies for the elderly are the immediate challenges posed to scientists and 
physicians. The conference "Ageing and immunity", recently held in Siena 
(Italy), has addressed these issues and defined the global strategic priorities 
for research and health policies aimed at ensuring healthy ageing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.03.035
PMID: 20362616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Heart Lung Circ. 2010 May-Jun;19(5-6):325-36. doi:
10.1016/j.hlc.2010.02.011.  Epub 2010 Apr 2.

Acute coronary syndromes in indigenous Australians: opportunities for improving 
outcomes across the continuum of care.

Brown A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Indigenous Vascular and Diabetes Research, BakerIDI Heart and 
Diabetes Institute, Alice Springs, NT, Australia. alex.brown@bakeridi.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Amongst a long list of health issues driving the disparity 
experienced by Indigenous Australians, cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains the 
primary target. It is the principal cause of death and of excess death among 
Indigenous people in Australia, and accounts for almost one-third of the life 
expectancy gap. Most attention has focused on the higher burden of traditional 
risk factors experienced by Indigenous people to explain CVD disparity. Far less 
attention has focused on the quality and outcomes of health system performance 
in explaining these differentials. The CASPA study was a retrospective, 
mixed-methods clinical registry and quality improvement program established in 
the NT of Australia, focused on the patterns, burdens, provision of care, 
experience of services, adverse outcomes and their determinants among 492 
patients (214 Indigenous and 278 non-Indigenous).
RESULTS: Indigenous patients were significantly younger and more likely to have 
existing CVD risk factors and co-morbid chronic disease. During hospitalisation 
they received similar rates of evidence-based care with the exception of lower 
rates of diagnostic angiography (36.2% vs. 47.6%, p=0.012), lower rates of 
in-patient cardiac rehabilitation (8.9% vs. 15.3%, p=0.03) and lower 
prescription of discharge statin (44.8% vs. 57.8%, p=0.006). Indigenous patients 
were more likely to die during two years of follow-up (30% vs. 17.8%, p=0.002). 
Both Indigenous and non-Indigenous patients were similarly under-prescribed 
evidence based therapy after discharge. Exploratory qualitative examination of 
the experience of Indigenous patients in Alice Springs identified significant 
barriers to care across the continuum.
CONCLUSION: Improvements in the delivery of known effective therapies will make 
a significant impact on adverse outcomes in Indigenous and non-Indigenous 
patients alike. Comprehensive and sustained prospective data collection to 
compliment system reform is essential to improve outcomes and reduce disparity 
in CVD outcomes experienced by Indigenous Australians.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2010.02.011
PMID: 20363187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Health Econ. 2010 May;29(3):333-46. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.02.006.
Epub  2010 Mar 1.

An economic evaluation of the war on cancer.

Lakdawalla DN(1), Sun EC, Jena AB, Reyes CM, Goldman DP, Philipson TJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California and RAND Corporation, USA.

For decades, the US public and private sectors have committed substantial 
resources towards cancer research, but the societal payoff has not been 
well-understood. We quantify the value of recent gains in cancer survival, and 
analyze the distribution of value among various stakeholders. Between 1988 and 
2000, life expectancy for cancer patients increased by roughly four years, and 
the average willingness-to-pay for these survival gains was roughly $322,000. 
Improvements in cancer survival during this period created 23 million additional 
life-years and roughly $1.9 trillion of additional social value, implying that 
the average life-year was worth approximately $82,000 to its recipient. Health 
care providers and pharmaceutical companies appropriated 5-19% of this total, 
with the rest accruing to patients. The share of value flowing to patients has 
been rising over time. In terms of economic rates of return, R&D investments 
against cancer have been a success, particularly from the patient's point of 
view.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.02.006
PMID: 20363520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2010 Jun;76(11):3503-13. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01254-09.
Epub  2010 Apr 2.

Toxicogenomic response of Rhodospirillum rubrum S1H to the micropollutant 
triclosan.

Pycke BF(1), Vanermen G, Monsieurs P, De Wever H, Mergeay M, Verstraete W, Leys 
N.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Microbial Ecology and Technology (LabMET), Ghent University, 
Coupure Links 653, Ghent, Belgium.

In the framework of the Micro-Ecological Life Support System Alternative 
(MELiSSA) project, a pilot study was performed to identify the effects of 
triclosan on the MELiSSA carbon-mineralizing microorganism Rhodospirillum rubrum 
S1H. Triclosan is a biocide that is commonly found in human excrement and is 
considered an emerging pollutant in wastewater and the environment. Chronic 
exposure to MELiSSA-relevant concentrations (> or =25 microg liter(-1)) of 
triclosan resulted in a significant extension of the lag phase of this organism 
but hardly affected the growth rate. Analytical determinations gave no 
indication of triclosan biodegradation during the growth experiment, and flow 
cytometric viability analyses revealed that triclosan is bacteriostatic and only 
slightly toxic to R. rubrum S1H. Using microarray analyses, the genetic 
mechanisms supporting the reversibility of triclosan-induced inhibition were 
scrutinized. An extremely triclosan-responsive cluster of four small adjacent 
genes was identified, for which there was up to 34-fold induction with 25 microg 
liter(-1) triclosan. These four genes, for which the designation microf 
(micropollutant-upregulated factor) is proposed, appear to be unique to R. 
rubrum and are shown here for the first time to be involved in the response to 
stress. Moreover, numerous other systems that are associated with the proton 
motive force were shown to be responsive to triclosan, but they were never as 
highly upregulated as the microf genes. In response to triclosan, R. rubrum S1H 
induced transcription of the phage shock protein operon (pspABC), numerous 
efflux systems, cell envelope consolidation mechanisms, the oxidative stress 
response, beta-oxidation, and carbonic anhydrase, while there was downregulation 
of bacterial conjugation and carboxysome synthesis genes. The microf genes and 
three efflux-related genes showed the most potential to be low-dose biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01254-09
PMCID: PMC2876461
PMID: 20363786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2010 Jul;65(7):727-33. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glq029. Epub 2010 Apr 2.

The impact of functional status on life expectancy in older persons.

Keeler E(1), Guralnik JM, Tian H, Wallace RB, Reuben DB.

Author information:
(1)Multicampus Program in Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, Division of 
Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, 
10945 Le Conte Avenue, Suite 2339, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1687.

BACKGROUND: Although life tables provide a basis for estimating remaining life 
by age, gender, and race, these tables do not consider clinical characteristics 
or functional status, which can lead to wide variations in remaining years. 
Inclusion of functional status may permit more precise prognostic estimates of 
life expectancy and proportion of time in various functional states.
METHODS: We used longitudinal data from the Established Populations for 
Epidemiologic Studies of the Elderly to determine transition probabilities 
between three functional states (independent in activities of daily living [ADL] 
and mobility, dependent in mobility but independent in ADL, and dependent in 
ADL) and death. These were used to estimate total life expectancy and life 
expectancy in each functional state.
RESULTS: In general, the largest proportion of remaining life expectancy was 
spent in the persons' baseline functional status category. Persons younger than 
80 years with dependencies, however, spend substantial proportions of their 
remaining years in a better functional status category, and mobility-disabled 
70-year-old persons spend the greatest part of their life expectancy in the 
independent functional state. Functional status has a dramatic impact on life 
expectancy. For example, 75-year-old men and women without limitations have life 
expectancies 5 years longer than those with ADL limitation and more than 1 year 
longer than those limited in mobility. The life expectancy of an ADL-disabled 
75-year-old is similar to that of an 85-year-old independent person; thus, the 
impact of the disability approximates being 10 years older with much more of the 
remaining life spent disabled.
CONCLUSIONS: Both ADL and mobility disability result in diminished survival and 
more of that survival period spent in disabled states.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glq029
PMCID: PMC2884085
PMID: 20363833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Biotechnol Lett. 2010 May;32(5):681-8. doi: 10.1007/s10529-010-0205-0. Epub
2010  Apr 3.

Rapid detection of virulence stx2 gene of Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli 
using two-step ultra-rapid real-time PCR.

Kim IW(1), Kang MH, Kwon SH, Cho SH, Yoo BS, Han SH, Yoon BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, College of Natural Science, Kyonggi University, 
Suwon, 443-760, Korea.

A rapid detection method for Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC), which 
has the virulent stx2 gene, was developed using a two-step, ultra-rapid 
real-time (URRT) PCR. URRT PCR was designed to detect the stx2 gene using a 
microchip-based, real-time PCR system, GenSpector TMC-1000, which only has a 6 
microl total reaction volume with an extremely short denaturation step and 
combined annealing/extension step (1 and 3 s, respectively) for each cycle. 
Specific primers for the stx2 gene were designed to amplify a 100 bp region 
known for genetic stability among the various EHEC strains. Using the URRT PCR 
method, stx2 gene could be detected in 7 min 8 s including melting point (Tm) 
analysis. The detection limit for the stx2 gene for URRT-PCR was estimated to be 
3 c.f.u./PCR with the amplification product having a consistent Tm of 85.2 +/- 
0.4 degrees C. This method was tested for the various applications relevant to 
the different EHEC strains and was useful for the rapid detection of 
stx2-carrying EHEC strains.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-010-0205-0
PMID: 20364295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2010 Nov;124(2):497-507. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-010-0862-7. Epub 2010 Apr 3.

Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 expression in early breast cancer 
patients: a Swiss cost-effectiveness analysis of different predictive assay 
strategies.

Blank PR(1), Schwenkglenks M, Moch H, Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, 8001, Zurich, Switzerland. patricia.blank@ifspm.uzh.ch

Trastuzumab has conferred significant clinical benefits in HER-2-positive breast 
carcinomas. HER-2 status is determined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or 
fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH), but appropriate assessment of HER2 
status remains subject to considerable debate. Data on the health economic 
impact of HER-2 test strategies are limited. A life-long Markov state transition 
model was used to assess costs and effectiveness of HER-2 assay strategies 
(based on IHC, FISH, both combined or FISH confirmation of IHC2+) for a 
hypothetical cohort of early breast cancer patients from the perspective of the 
Swiss health system. We compared clinically relevant strategies of predictive 
testing and subsequent trastuzumab treatment of HER-2-positive patients only. 
FISH testing was the most cost-effective strategy with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of €12,245 per additional quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained, compared to no trastuzumab treatment. The next best strategy was 
parallel IHC and FISH, with costs of €400,154/QALY gained compared to FISH 
alone. FISH as primary HER-2 testing modality remained the preferred option in 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Predictive testing to 
identify adjuvant breast cancer patients who benefit from trastuzumab treatment 
is a clinical and economic necessity. Our model identifies FISH as the most 
cost-effective approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-010-0862-7
PMID: 20364309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2010 Jun;54(6):516-24. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2010.01276.x. Epub 2010 Mar 26.

End-of-life decisions: an important theme in the care for people with 
intellectual disabilities.

Wagemans A(1), van Schrojenstein Lantman-de-Valk H, Tuffrey-Wijne I, 
Widdershoven G, Curfs L.

Author information:
(1)Maasveld, Koraalgroep, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
ama.wagemans@hag.unimaas.nl

BACKGROUND: While end-of-life decisions in the general population have received 
attention in several countries, not much is known about this in people with 
intellectual disabilities (IDs). Therefore, the prevalence and nature of 
end-of-life decisions were investigated in a Dutch centre providing residential 
care for 335 people with IDs.
METHOD: A retrospective study of medical files of people who died between 
January 2002 and July 2007.
RESULTS: One or more end-of-life decisions were taken in 27 out of 47 cases. A 
non-treatment decision was taken for seven residents, possibly shortening life 
expectancy in some cases. The family was involved in decision making in half of 
the 27 cases. No information was found about the process of end-of-life decision 
making. There was no evidence in the notes that any of the people with IDs was 
asked for his or her own opinion in taking an end-of-life decision.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that medical end-of-life decisions played a 
part in significant numbers of people with IDs who have died within this centre, 
but further studies are needed to establish decision-making processes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2010.01276.x
PMID: 20367746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):I17. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-152-7-201004060-00001.

Summaries for patients. Decreased life expectancy of childhood cancer survivors.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):409-17, W131-8.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-152-7-201004060-00001
PMID: 20368641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):409-17, W131-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-152-7-201004060-00005.

A model-based estimate of cumulative excess mortality in survivors of childhood 
cancer.

Yeh JM(1), Nekhlyudov L, Goldie SJ, Mertens AC, Diller L.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard Medical School/Harvard Pilgrim 
Health Care Institute and Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates, Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute and Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, and Emory 
University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. jyeh@hsph.harvard

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):I17.
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):465-6.

BACKGROUND: Although childhood cancer survival rates have dramatically 
increased, survivors face elevated risk for life-threatening late effects, 
including secondary cancer.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cumulative effect of disease- and treatment-related 
mortality risks on survivor life expectancy.
DESIGN: State-transition model to simulate the lifetime clinical course of 
childhood cancer survivors.
SETTING: Childhood Cancer Survivor Study.
PATIENTS: Five-year survivors of childhood cancer.
MEASUREMENTS: Probabilities of risk for death from the original cancer 
diagnosis, excess mortality from subsequent cancer and cardiac, pulmonary, 
external, and other complications, and background mortality (age-specific 
mortality rates for the general population) were estimated over the lifetime of 
survivors of childhood cancer.
RESULTS: For a cohort of 5-year survivors aged 15 years who received a diagnosis 
of cancer at age 10 years, the average lifetime probability was 0.10 for 
late-recurrence mortality; 0.15 for treatment-related subsequent cancer and 
death from cardiac, pulmonary, and external causes; and 0.05 for death from 
other excess risks. Life expectancy for the cohort of persons aged 15 years was 
50.6 years, a loss of 10.4 years (17.1%) compared with the general population. 
Reduction in life expectancy varied by diagnosis, ranging from 4.0 years (6.0%) 
for kidney tumor survivors to more than 17.8 years (> or =28.0%) for brain and 
bone tumor survivors, and was sensitive to late-recurrence mortality risk and 
duration of excess mortality risk.
LIMITATION: Estimates are based on data for survivors who received treatment 20 
to 40 years ago; patients who received treatment more recently may have more 
favorable outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Childhood cancer survivors face considerable mortality during 
adulthood, with excess risks reducing life expectancy by as much as 28%. 
Monitoring the health of current survivors and carefully evaluating therapies 
with known late toxicities in patients with newly diagnosed cancer are needed.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-152-7-201004060-00005
PMCID: PMC3086591
PMID: 20368646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):465-6. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-152-7-201004060-00011.

Estimating the human costs of cancer survivorship in children.

Ganz PA, Casillas JN, Coscarelli A.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):409-17, W131-8.
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 6;152(7):444-55; W144-54.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-152-7-201004060-00011
PMID: 20368652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Integr Psychol Behav Sci. 2010 Jun;44(2):162-7. doi:
10.1007/s12124-010-9123-x.

Gitai go: the art of deepening everyday life through exceeding codes.

Traversa R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Bari, Bari, Italy. r.traversa@psico.uniba.it

The present commentary is focused on exploring holistic ways to approach 
sense-making processes by following the usage of specific Japanese mimic words, 
Gitai go, and describing how its functioning cannot be disengaged from an 
embodied lens to approach language-in-use. In fact, according to Komatsu's 
(2010) discussion about the extension of meaning derived from Gitai go and its 
intrinsic flexible characteristics, it is possible--in terms of semiotics--to 
inquire into vaguely coded systems of mutual understanding, trying to make sense 
of the general functioning of signs through their peculiar ambiguity as well as 
their potential to evoke a vivid negotiation of meaning. This seems to show the 
openness of meaning highlighted by Gitai go, as it is to be referred to the 
logic of multiplicity deeply linked with the actors' feelings in the setting 
that could in general terms be labeled as the carnal knowledge. Furthermore, it 
has been arguing about the complexity of daily life experience and its close 
relation to a concept of "ordinary art", as the active involvement people show 
in imagining, changing and creating their personal experience of the world is 
always performed in their day-by-day frameworks, deeply suggesting a unique 
strive for appropriating-negotiating-contesting networks of meanings. And this 
is to be approached as an artistic mode of experiencing, since art too is just 
embedded in this ever-emerging ambivalence coming from the complex we call 
"ordinary life" and relating to our deep feelings of facing our futures. Along 
these lines I suggest that a particular role exists in communicative messages 
for what is labeled as "redundant" or "superfluous"--since the ambivalence of 
those messages explicates the dialogical frame of sense-making, in everyday life 
as a concept of art.

DOI: 10.1007/s12124-010-9123-x
PMID: 20369391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2010;8(3):141-54. doi: 
10.2165/11535650-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of CT colonography for UK NHS colorectal cancer screening of 
asymptomatic adults aged 60-69 years.

Lee D(1), Muston D, Sweet A, Cunningham C, Slater A, Lock K.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics - Americas, GE Healthcare, Waukesha, Wisconsin 53188-1615, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Screening of populations at risk for colorectal cancer (CRC) allows 
the detection and successful treatment of tumours and their precursor polyps. 
The current UK CRC screening programme is faecal occult blood testing (FOBT), 
despite evidence from modelling studies to suggest that more cost-effective 
technologies exist.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of CT colonography (CTC) for 
colorectal cancer screening from the perspective of the UK NHS.
METHODS: A state-transition Markov model was constructed to estimate lifetime 
costs and health outcomes of a cohort of individuals screened at age 60-69 years 
using four different CRC screening technologies: FOBT, flexible sigmoidoscopy, 
optical colonoscopy and CTC.
RESULTS: CTC screening offered every 10 years was cost saving compared with the 
current UK programme of biennial FOBT screening. This strategy also yielded 
greater health benefits (QALYs and life-years) than biennial FOBT screening. The 
model fit observed CRC epidemiology data well and was robust to changes in 
underlying parameter values. CTC remained cost effective under a range of 
assumptions in the univariate sensitivity analysis. However, in the 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, CTC dominated FOBT in only 5.9% of 
simulations and was cost effective at a threshold of pound30,000 per QALY gained 
in 48% of simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: CTC has the potential to provide a cost-effective option for CRC 
screening in the UK NHS and may be cost saving compared with the current 
programme of biennial FOBT. Further analysis is required to assess the impact of 
introducing CTC to the UK CRC screening programme on the NHS budget and 
capacity.

DOI: 10.2165/11535650-000000000-00000
PMID: 20369905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Apr-Jun;13(2-3):353-5. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0951.

Postponed aging in university teachers.

Kristjuhan U(1), Taidre E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Work Environment and Safety, Tallinn University of Technology, 
Tallinn, Estonia. ulo.kristjuhan@tseba.ttu.ee

In some population groups, human life expectancy is much higher compared to the 
average in the population, which can provide new hints to postpone aging and 
prolong life. Studies show that university professors have a later onset of 
age-related diseases compared with most population groups. Their productivity 
mostly increases up to their 60s and remains high for many years afterward. 
Aging processes appear later compared to the average in the population. Studies 
in Estonia have shown that university professors have 9 years longer life.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0951
PMID: 20370495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Apr-Jun;13(2-3):356-8. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0952.

Practice of postponing human aging.

Kristjuhan U(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Work Environment and Safety, Tallinn University of Technology 
19086 Tallinn, Estonia. ulo.kristjuhan@tseba.ttu.ee

People want to be wealthy, attractive, young, and healthy, and they integrate 
these wishes into most of their activities. As a result, aging processes are 
somewhat postponed in the human organism. Both average life expectancy and 
expected life in good health increase by 0.15-0.2 years every year in most 
developed countries. Studies show that using contemporary knowledge enables an 
increase in life expectancy up to 90 years in these countries, and much more in 
the future. Increases in life expectancy depend on the interest of society in 
these problems and on the amount of scientific research directed at postponing 
aging and rejuvenation.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0952
PMID: 20370496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2010 May;10(5):388-97. doi: 10.2174/138955710791330936.

Natural products: potential for developing Phellodendron amurense bark extract 
for prostate cancer management.

Kumar AP(1), Graham H, Robson C, Thompson IM, Ghosh R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, School of Medicine, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, The 
University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA. 
kumara3@uthscsa.edu

Our ability to detect and treat most primary cancers has improved dramatically 
given the advances in our understanding of cancer biology. However, with 
increased life expectancy and our inability to treat or cure advanced stages of 
cancers, the number of cancer-related deaths is expected to double in the next 
decade. Epidemiological studies suggest that dietary factors are an important 
aspect that influences cancer risk. Despite a lack of scientific evidence in 
most cases, cancer patients have whole-heartedly accepted the concept of 
"alternative medicine" using natural compounds and spent more than $1B a year on 
herbal supplements. Given the significant toxicity-associated problems with 
current long-term standard of care, scientifically validated natural supplements 
can serve as novel and effective alternative strategies for effective cancer 
management. We will discuss the utility of natural products in modulating 
critical signaling pathways for effective cancer prevention with special 
emphasis on prostate cancer and their potential translational benefit.

DOI: 10.2174/138955710791330936
PMID: 20370708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010 Mar;25(3):439-52. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2009.06207.x.

The 2008 Okuda lecture: Management of hepatocellular carcinoma: from 
surveillance to molecular targeted therapy.

Kudo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kinki University School of 
Medicine, Osaka-Sayama, Osaka, Japan. m-kudo@med.kindai.ac.jp

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is responsible for approximately 600,000-700,000 
deaths worldwide. It is highly prevalent in the Asia-Pacific region and Africa, 
and is increasing in Western countries. Alpha fetoprotein (AFP) alone is 
insufficient for HCC screening. A combination with other tumor markers, such as 
PIVKA-II and AFP-L3, and periodical ultrasound surveillance is necessary. 
Sensitivity of AFP in depicting HCC is highest, followed by PIVKA-II and AFP-L3, 
but the order of the specificity is inverse, AFP-L3, PIVKA-II, and AFP. 
Sonazoid-enhanced ultrasound (US) is extremely useful to characterize hepatic 
tumors equal to or more than multidetector row computed tomography (MDCT). 
Sonazoid-enhanced US with defect re-perfusion imaging is a breakthrough 
technique in the treatment of HCC. Defect re-perfusion imaging will markedly 
change the therapeutic strategy for liver cancer. Gd-EOB-DTPA-magnetic resonance 
imaging is a newly developed imaging technique in the detection and diagnosis of 
HCC. It is the most sensitive tool in the differentiation of early HCC from 
dysplastic nodules. Regarding the treatment strategy, there has been no 
established systemic chemotherapy for advanced HCC, except for Sorafenib. 
Empirically, intrahepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy using implanted 
reservoir port is known to be effective in response rate and overall survival 
for advanced HCC with vascular invasion. Sorafenib in combination with 
transcatheter arterial chemoembolization or adjuvant use after ablation or 
resection will significantly prolong the life expectancy if ongoing clinical 
trials provide positive results. In conclusion, it is expected that readers will 
gain deeper insight into the latest progress and updated diagnosis and treatment 
of HCC described in this review.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2009.06207.x
PMID: 20370723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. C R Biol. 2010 Apr;333(4):371-81. doi: 10.1016/j.crvi.2010.01.015. Epub 2010
Mar  19.

Plant development: a TALE story.

Hamant O(1), Pautot V.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de reproduction et développement des plantes, Institut National 
de la Recherche Agronomique, CNRS/ENS, université de Lyon, 46 Allée d'Italie, 
Lyon cedex 07, France.

Plant development depends on the activity of a group of dividing cells called 
the meristem. Extensive genetic analyses have identified the major regulators of 
the shoot apical meristem (SAM), which control the development of all aerial 
organs. Among them, the three-amino-acid-loop-extension (TALE) class of 
homeoproteins has been shown to control meristem formation and/or maintenance, 
organ morphogenesis, organ position, and several aspects of the reproductive 
phase. This family contains the KNOTTED-like homeodomain (KNOX) and BEL1-like 
Homeodomain (BELL) members, which function as heterodimers. In this review, we 
have reported the functions of the TALE members throughout the Arabidopsis life 
cycle. Genetic analyses revealed a complex network, as TALE members exhibit both 
overlapping and antagonistic activities. The characterization of a new KNOX 
member (KNATM), which lacks a homeodomain and interacts with other members to 
modulate their activities, adds another layer of complexity to this network. 
While the mode of action of these transcription factors is still largely 
unknown, they have been implicated in the regulation of several hormonal 
pathways, providing a link between gene regulatory networks and signaling in the 
SAM.

Copyright (c) 2010 Académie des sciences. Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crvi.2010.01.015
PMID: 20371112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Clin Cancer Res. 2010 Apr 15;16(8):2246-56. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-2112.  Epub 2010 Apr 6.

RAS mutations contribute to evolution of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia to the 
proliferative variant.

Ricci C(1), Fermo E, Corti S, Molteni M, Faricciotti A, Cortelezzi A, 
Lambertenghi Deliliers G, Beran M, Onida F.

Author information:
(1)Fondazione Matarelli, Dipartimento di Farmacologia, Chemioterapia e 
Tossicologia Medica e Università di Milano, Milan, Italy.

PURPOSE: The biological and clinical heterogeneity of chronic myelomonocytic 
