(1)Department of Hepatology, Box Hill Hospital, Box Hill, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia. John.Lubel@med.monash.edu.au

Nearly one third of the world's population have been infected with hepatitis B 
and the virus is endemic in many Asian countries. With increasing life 
expectancy and the expected global increase in cancer, chemotherapy induced 
reactivation of hepatitis B is likely to become an increasing problem. Patients 
with significant levels of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA in serum prior to 
chemotherapy and patients receiving intensive chemotherapy for hematological 
malignancies appear particularly at risk. Most patients who suffer reactivation 
of hepatitis B are positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) prior to 
chemotherapy and are therefore easily identifiable by routine screening. In 
addition, the very large population of patients who have been exposed to the 
virus and have apparently cleared the virus as assessed by serological testing 
(HBsAg negative/hepatitis B core antibody [HBcAb] positive) may also be at risk 
of reactivation. These patients should be monitored and in some cases receive 
prophylaxis during chemotherapy. Published experience with antiviral prophylaxis 
has largely been limited to the nucleoside analogue, lamivudine. The 
commencement of antiviral prophylaxis prior to chemotherapy and its continuation 
until restitution of normal host immunity is the cornerstone to effective 
prevention of hepatitis B reactivation. This review summarizes the important 
issues related to HBV reactivation and suggests an algorithm for managing these 
patients in the clinical setting.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06243.x
PMID: 20546439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Pain Med. 2010 May;11(5):648-57. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00836.x. Epub
 2010 Apr 13.

Maintenance of effect of duloxetine in patients with chronic low back pain: a 
41-week uncontrolled, dose-blinded study.

Skljarevski V(1), Zhang S, Chappell AS, Walker DJ, Murray I, Backonja M.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN 46285, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the maintenance of the effect of duloxetine in the 
treatment of chronic low back pain.
METHODS: Patients (N = 181) with chronic low back pain entered a 41-week 
extension phase after completing a 13-week placebo-controlled treatment phase. 
The maintenance of the effect was assessed in patients taking duloxetine 60/120 
mg/day who met the response criteria (> or = 30% reduction in Brief Pain 
Inventory average pain) at the end of the placebo-controlled phase. In addition, 
physical function was evaluated using the Roland-Morris Disability 
Questionnaire, the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness, and the 
Brief Pain Inventory Pain Severity and Interference ratings. Quality of life, 
safety, and tolerability outcomes were also assessed. Finally, placebo-treated 
patients were switched to duloxetine 60 mg/day at the beginning of the extension 
phase and their response to treatment is also reported.
RESULTS: Initial responders to duloxetine treatment demonstrated further 
significant improvement (within-group) in pain, physical function, and quality 
of life. Significant within-group improvements were also observed in the 
extension phase for placebo-treated patients who were switched to duloxetine. 
Duloxetine was well tolerated with no new safety findings reported.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, the analgesic effect of duloxetine in patients with 
chronic low back pain was not only maintained for 41 weeks, but additional 
statistically significant improvement in pain and function was observed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00836.x
PMID: 20546509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Jun;14(28):1-192. doi: 10.3310/hta14280.

The safety and effectiveness of different methods of earwax removal: a 
systematic review and economic evaluation.

Clegg AJ(1), Loveman E, Gospodarevskaya E, Harris P, Bird A, Bryant J, Scott DA, 
Davidson P, Little P, Coppin R.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, University of Southampton, 
UK.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2011 Apr;14(2):60-1.

BACKGROUND: Build-up of earwax is a common reason for attendance in primary 
care. Current practice for earwax removal generally involves the use of a 
softening agent, followed by irrigation of the ear if required. However, the 
safety and benefits of the different methods of removal are not known for 
certain.
OBJECTIVES: To conduct evidence synthesis of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of the interventions currently available for softening and/or 
removing earwax and any adverse events (AEs) associated with the interventions.
DATA SOURCES: Eleven electronic resources were searched from inception to 
November 2008, including: The Cochrane Library; MEDLINE (OVID), PREMEDLINE 
In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations (OVID), EMBASE (OVID); and CINAHL.
METHODS: Two reviewers screened titles and abstracts for eligibility. Inclusion 
criteria were applied to the full text or retrieved papers and data were 
extracted by two reviewers using data extraction forms developed a priori. Any 
differences were resolved by discussion or by a third reviewer. Study criteria 
included: interventions - all methods of earwax removal available and 
combinations of these methods; participants - adults/children presenting 
requiring earwax removal; outcomes - measures of hearing, adequacy of clearance 
of wax, quality of life, time to recurrence or further treatment, AEs and 
measures of cost-effectiveness; design - randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and 
controlled clinical trials (CCTs) for clinical effectiveness, cohort studies for 
AEs and cost-effectiveness, and costing studies for cost-effectiveness. For the 
economic evaluation, a deterministic decision tree model was developed to 
evaluate three options: (1) the use of softeners followed by irrigation in 
primary care; (2) softeners followed by self-irrigation; and (3) a 'no 
treatment' option. Outcomes were assessed in terms of benefits to patients and 
costs incurred, with costs presented by exploratory cost-utility analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-six clinical trials conducted in primary care (14 studies), 
secondary care (8 studies) or other care settings (4 studies), met the inclusion 
criteria for the review - 22 RCTs and 4 CCTs. The range of interventions 
included 16 different softeners, with or without irrigation, and in various 
different comparisons. Participants, outcomes, timing of intervention, follow-up 
and methodological quality varied between studies. On measures of wax clearance 
Cerumol, sodium bicarbonate, olive oil and water are all more effective than no 
treatment; triethanolamine polypeptide (TP) is better than olive oil; wet 
irrigation is better than dry irrigation; sodium bicarbonate drops followed by 
irrigation by nurse is more effective than sodium bicarbonate drops followed by 
self-irrigation; softening with TP and self-irrigation is more effective than 
self-irrigation only; and endoscopic de-waxing is better than microscopic 
de-waxing. AEs appeared to be minor and of limited extent. Resuts of the 
exploratory economic model found that softeners followed by self-irrigation were 
more likely to be cost-effective [24,433 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY)] than softeners followed by irrigation at primary care (32,130 pounds per 
QALY) when compared with no treatment. Comparison of the two active treatments 
showed that the additional gain associated with softeners followed by irrigation 
at primary care over softeners followed by self-irrigation was at a cost of 
340,000 pounds per QALY. When compared over a lifetime horizon to the 'no 
treatment' option, the ICERs for softeners followed by self-irrigation and of 
softeners followed by irrigation at primary care were 24,450 pounds per QALY and 
32,136 pounds per QALY, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: The systematic review found limited good-quality evidence of the 
safety, benefits and costs of the different strategies, making it difficult to 
differentiate between the various methods for removing earwax and rendering the 
economic evaluation as speculative.
CONCLUSIONS: Although softeners are effective, which specific softeners are most 
effective remains uncertain. Evidence on the effectiveness of methods of 
irrigation or mechanical removal was equivocal. Further research is required to 
improve the evidence base, such as a RCT incorporating an economic evaluation to 
assess the different ways of providing the service, the effectiveness of the 
different methods of removal and the acceptability of the different approaches 
to patients and practitioners.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14280
PMID: 20546687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2010 Oct;140(4):845-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2010.04.010. Epub 2010 May 23.

Palliative arterial switch for transposition of the great arteries, ventricular 
septal defect, and pulmonary vascular obstructive disease: midterm outcomes.

Lei BF(1), Chen JM, Cen JZ, Lui RC, Ding YQ, Xu G, Zhuang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiovascular Surgery, Guangdong Provincial 
Cardiovascular Institute, Guangdong General Hospital, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 
People's Republic of China.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2011 Mar;141(3):848; author reply 848-9.

OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate the early and midterm outcomes of 
palliative arterial switch operation in which a ventricular septal defect was 
not closed or repaired with a fenestrated patch in patients with transposition 
of the great arteries, ventricular septal defect, and severe pulmonary vascular 
obstructive disease.
METHODS: Between March 2000 and September 2009, the palliative arterial switch 
operation was performed in 21 patients with a mean age of 3.7 years (range, 
0.5-15). Mean preoperative values for systolic pulmonary arterial pressure and 
systemic arterial oxygen saturation were 91 mm Hg and 69%, respectively. 
Eighty-one percent of the patients were in New York Heart Association functional 
class III or IV preoperatively.
RESULTS: Early mortality was 14.3%. Mean follow-up was 4.0 years (maximum 9.5 
years). Regression of pulmonary arterial pressure occurred in 8 patients (44% of 
the early survivors). Three of the 8 fenestrations were closed interventionally. 
Mean postoperative systemic arterial oxygen saturation increased significantly 
to 93% (P < .001). One late death occurred 3 months after surgery. All the 
long-term survivors (n = 17) were in New York Heart Association functional class 
I or II (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: The palliative arterial switch operation significantly improved the 
quality of life and possibly life expectancy in patients with transposition of 
the great arteries, ventricular septal defect, and severe pulmonary vascular 
obstructive disease. Postoperative pulmonary vascular resistance might be 
reversible in some patients. Closing the ventricular septal defect with a 
fenestrated patch, which can be easily closed nonsurgically later on, might 
contribute to a safer postoperative recovery.

Copyright © 2010 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2010.04.010
PMID: 20546797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Neurobiol Dis. 2010 Sep;39(3):423-38. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2010.05.014. Epub
2010  May 28.

Trehalose ameliorates dopaminergic and tau pathology in parkin deleted/tau 
overexpressing mice through autophagy activation.

Rodríguez-Navarro JA(1), Rodríguez L, Casarejos MJ, Solano RM, Gómez A, Perucho 
J, Cuervo AM, García de Yébenes J, Mena MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, and CIBERned Madrid, 
Spain.

Tauopathies are neurodegenerative diseases, sporadic or familial, mainly 
characterized by dementia and parkinsonism associated to atrophy of the 
frontotemporal cortex and the basal ganglia, with deposition of abnormal tau in 
brain. Hereditary tauopathies are related with mutations of the tau gene. Up to 
the present, these diseases have not been helped by any disease-modifying 
treatment, and patients die a few years after the onset of symptoms. We have 
developed and characterized a mouse model of tauopathy with parkinsonism, 
overexpressing human mutated tau protein with deletion of parkin 
(PK(-/-)/Tau(VLW)). At 3 months of age, these mice present abnormal 
dopamine-related behavior, severe dropout of dopamine neurons in the ventral 
midbrain, reduced dopamine levels in the striatum and abundant phosphorylated 
tau-positive neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, astrogliosis, and, at 12 
months old, plaques of murine beta-amyloid in the hippocampus. Trehalose is a 
natural disaccharide that increases the removal of abnormal proteins through 
enhancement of autophagy. In this work, we tested if 1% trehalose in the 
drinking water reverts the PK(-/-)/Tau(VLW) phenotype. The treatment with 
trehalose of 3-month-old PK(-/-)/Tau(VLW) mice for 2.5 months reverted the 
dropout of dopamine neurons, which takes place in the ventral midbrain of 
vehicle treated PK(-/-)/Tau(VLW) and the reduced dopamine-related proteins 
levels in the midbrain and striatum. The number of phosphorylated tau-positive 
neuritic plaques and the levels of phosphorylated tau decreased, as well as 
astrogliosis in brain regions. The autophagy markers in the brain, the 
autophagic vacuoles isolated from the liver, and the electron microscopy data 
indicate that these effects of trehalose are mediated by autophagy. The 
treatment with trehalose for 4 months of 3-month-old PK(-/-)/Tau(VLW) mice 
maintained the amelioration of the tau pathology and astrogliosis but failed to 
revert DA-related pathology in the striatum. Furthermore, the 3-week treatment 
with trehalose of 14-month-old PK(-/-)/Tau(VLW) mice, at the limit of their life 
expectancy, improved the motor behavior and anxiety of these animals, and 
reduced their levels of phosphorylated tau and the number of murine beta-amyloid 
plaques. Trehalose is neuroprotective in this model of tauopathy. Since 
trehalose is free of toxic effects at high concentrations, this study opens the 
way for clinical studies of the effects of trehalose in human tauopathies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2010.05.014
PMID: 20546895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Dig Liver Dis. 2010 Jul;42 Suppl 3:S242-8. doi:
10.1016/S1590-8658(10)60512-9.

Treatment of early hepatocellular carcinoma: Towards personalized therapy.

Tremosini S(1), Reig M, de Lope CR, Forner A, Bruix J.

Author information:
(1)BCLC Group, Liver Unit, CIBEREHD, IDIBAPS, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain.

In recent years, the wide implementation of surveillance programs has led to 
diagnose HCC at earlier stages, when curative options can be applied. In order 
to obtain the best results, treatment indication should take into account the 
estimation of baseline life expectancy. Patients at an early stage are those 
with single HCC or up to three nodules <3 cm with preserved liver function 
(Child-Pugh A-B) and no cancer related symptoms. These patients should be 
evaluated for any of the therapies that can offer complete responses with 
potential long-term cure, as reflected by a 5 years survival superior to 50-70%. 
These include surgical resection, liver transplantation and ablation. We briefly 
reviewed therapeutic management for early HCC, taking into account that any 
recommendation should be delivered in the clinical setting and based on an 
individualised evaluation of each patient.

Copyright 2010 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1590-8658(10)60512-9
PMID: 20547310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Jun 29;107(26):11739-44. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1006772107. Epub 2010 Jun 14.

New immature hominin fossil from European Lower Pleistocene shows the earliest 
evidence of a modern human dental development pattern.

Bermúdez de Castro JM(1), Martinón-Torres M, Prado L, Gómez-Robles A, Rosell J, 
López-Polín L, Arsuaga JL, Carbonell E.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Investigación sobre Evolución Humana, 09002 Burgos, Spain. 
josemaria.bermudezdecastro@cenieh.es

Here we present data concerning the pattern of dental development derived from 
the microcomputed tomography (microCT) study of a recently discovered immature 
hominin mandible with a mixed dentition recovered from the TD6 level of the Gran 
Dolina Lower Pleistocene cave site in Sierra de Atapuerca, northern Spain. These 
data confirm our previous results that nearly 1 million years ago at least one 
European hominin species had a fully modern pattern of dental development with a 
clear slowdown in the development of the molar field regarding the anterior 
dental field. Furthermore, using available information about enamel formation 
times and root extension rates in chimpanzees, early hominins, and modern 
humans, we have estimated that the formation time of the upper and lower first 
molars of individual 5 (H5) from TD6, which had just erupted at the time of the 
death of this individual, ranges between 5.3 and 6.6 y. Therefore, the eruption 
time of the first permanent molars (M1) in the TD6 hominins was within the range 
of variation of modern human populations. Because the time of M1 eruption in 
primates is a robust marker of life history, we suggest, as a working 
hypothesis, that these hominins had a prolonged childhood in the range of the 
variation of modern humans. If this hypothesis is true, it implies that the 
appearance in Homo of this important developmental biological feature and an 
associated increase in brain size preceded the development of the neocortical 
areas leading to the cognitive capabilities that are thought to be exclusive to 
Homo sapiens.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1006772107
PMCID: PMC2900696
PMID: 20547843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


402. Minerva Chir. 2010 Apr;65(2):197-211.

Rectal cancer: current surgical management.

Zolfaghari S(1), Williams LJ, Moloo H, Boushey RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Since the description of the abdominoperineal resection by W. Ernest Miles in 
1908 and total mesorectal excision by Heald et al. in 1982, rectal cancer 
surgery continues to evolve. This evolution has not been limited to the surgical 
front. State-of-the-art imaging techniques allow us to stage more accurately the 
disease and modify our management accordingly. Advances in radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy have not only reduced local recurrence and improved survival rates 
in rectal cancer, but are also changing our surgical algorithm in approaching 
the disease. To achieve the best results, it is crucial to approach rectal 
cancer in a multidisciplinary fashion involving high volume surgeons, radiation 
and medical oncologists, radiologists, stoma therapists, and trained nurses in 
colorectal cancer care. Despite a low operative mortality, it is important to 
customize the approach to rectal cancer according to the patient's quality of 
life and life expectancy. This review will focus on current surgical management 
of rectal cancer and some of the newer advances in rectal cancer management.

PMID: 20548275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Sci China C Life Sci. 2005 Sep;48 Suppl 2:745-58. doi: 10.1007/BF03187115.

Cereal area and nitrogen use efficiency are drivers of future nitrogen 
fertilizer consumption.

Dobermann A(1), Cassman KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agronomy and Horticulture, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, P.O. 
Box 830915, Lincoln, NE 68583-0915, USA. adobermann2@unl.edu

At a global scale, cereal yields and fertilizer N consumption have increased in 
a near-linear fashion during the past 40 years and are highly correlated with 
one another. However, large differences exist in historical trends of N 
fertilizer usage and nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) among regions, countries, and 
crops. The reasons for these differences must be understood to estimate future N 
fertilizer requirements. Global nitrogen needs will depend on: (i) changes in 
cropped cereal area and the associated yield increases required to meet 
increasing cereal demand from population and income growth, and (ii) changes in 
NUE at the farm level. Our analysis indicates that the anticipated 38% increase 
in global cereal demand by 2025 can be met by a 30% increase in N use on 
cereals, provided that the steady decline in cereal harvest area is halted and 
the yield response to applied N can be increased by 20%. If losses of cereal 
cropping area continue at the rate of the past 20 years (-0.33% per year) and 
NUE cannot be increased substantially, a 60% increase in global N use on cereals 
would be required to meet cereal demand. Interventions to increase NUE and 
reduce N losses to the environment must be accomplished at the farm-or 
field-scale through a combination of improved technologies and carefully crafted 
local policies that contribute to the adoption of improved N management; uniform 
regional or national directives are unlikely to be effective at both sustaining 
yield increases and improving NUE. Examples from several countries show that 
increases in NUE at rates of 1% per year or more can be achieved if adequate 
investments are made in research and extension. Failure to arrest the decrease 
in cereal crop area and to improve NUE in the world's most important 
agricultural systems will likely cause severe damage to environmental services 
at local, regional, and global scales due to a large increase in reactive N load 
in the environment.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03187115
PMID: 20549431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(7):521-38. doi: 10.2165/11535210-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of venous thromboembolism pharmacological prophylaxis in 
total hip and knee replacement: a systematic review.

Kapoor A(1), Chuang W, Radhakrishnan N, Smith KJ, Berlowitz D, Segal JB, Katz 
JN, Losina E.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Medicine Unit, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02118, USA. alok.kapoor@bmc.org

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(9):781-2; author reply 782-4, 784-5.

Total hip and knee replacements (THR and TKR) are high-risk settings for venous 
thromboembolism (VTE). This review summarizes the cost effectiveness of VTE 
prophylaxis regimens for THR and TKR. We searched MEDLINE (January 1997 to 
October 2009), EMBASE (January 1997 to June 2009) and the UK NHS Economic 
Evaluation Database (1997 to October 2009). We analysed recent 
cost-effectiveness studies examining five categories of comparisons: (i) 
anticoagulants (warfarin, low-molecular-weight heparin [LMWH] or fondaparinux) 
versus acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin); (ii) LMWH versus warfarin; (iii) 
fondaparinux versus LMWH; (iv) comparisons with new oral anticoagulants; and (v) 
extended-duration (> or =3 weeks) versus short-duration (<3 weeks) prophylaxis. 
We abstracted information on cost and effectiveness for each prophylaxis regimen 
in order to calculate an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Because of 
variations in effectiveness units reported and horizon length analysed, we 
calculated two cost-effectiveness ratios, one for the number of symptomatic VTE 
events avoided at 90 days and the other for QALYs at the 1-year mark or beyond. 
Our search identified 33 studies with 67 comparisons. After standardization, 
comparisons between LMWH and warfarin were inconclusive, whereas fondaparinux 
dominated LMWH in nearly every comparison. The latter results were derived from 
radiographic VTE rates. Extended-duration prophylaxis after THR was generally 
cost effective. Small numbers prohibit conclusions about aspirin, new oral 
anticoagulants or extended-duration prophylaxis after TKR. Fondaparinux after 
both THR and TKR and extended-duration LMWH after THR appear to be 
cost-effective prophylaxis regimens. Small numbers for other comparisons and 
absence of trials reporting symptomatic endpoints prohibit comprehensive 
conclusions.

DOI: 10.2165/11535210-000000000-00000
PMCID: PMC3916183
PMID: 20550220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Dr. Kapoor has no 
conflicts of interest to report Dr. Chuang has no conflicts of interest to 
report Dr. Radhakrishnan has no conflicts of interest to report Dr. Smith has no 
conflicts of interest to report Dr. Berlowitz has no conflicts of interest to 
report Dr. Segal has no conflicts of interest to report Dr. Katz has no 
conflicts of interest to report Dr. Losina has no conflicts of interest to 
report


405. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(7):577-84. doi: 10.2165/11535290-000000000-00000.

Q-TWiST analysis of patients receiving temsirolimus or interferon alpha for 
treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Zbrozek AS(1), Hudes G, Levy D, Strahs A, Berkenblit A, DeMarinis R, Parasuraman 
S.

Author information:
(1)Wyeth Research, Collegeville, Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: For patients with advanced cancers, it is important 
that treatment improves the quality as well as the quantity of survival. This 
quality-adjusted time without symptoms of progression or toxicity (Q-TWiST) 
analysis provides a combined measure of both the overall survival interval and 
the quality of survival for patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
receiving temsirolimus, interferon (IFN)-alpha or the combination of these 
agents, using data from a phase III clinical trial.
METHODS: Overall survival was partitioned into three distinct health states: 
time with serious toxicity (TOX), time after progression (REL) and time without 
symptoms of progression or toxicity (TWiST). Health states were quality weighted 
by patient-reported EQ-5D measures collected while receiving treatment.
RESULTS: All 626 patients from the trial were included in computation of 
health-state durations. EQ-5D questionnaires were obtained from 260 patients 
upon progression and from 230 after a grade 3 or 4 adverse event, and from 278 
patients in the TWiST state. Patients receiving temsirolimus had 38% longer 
TWiST than those receiving IFNalpha (6.5 vs 4.7 months, respectively; p = 
0.0005). Patients receiving temsirolimus had 25% longer quality-adjusted 
survival in terms of Q-TWiST than those receiving IFNalpha (7.0 vs 5.6 months, 
respectively; p = 0.0015). Differences between the combination (temsirolimus + 
IFNalpha) and IFNalpha groups were not statistically significant. Threshold 
utility analysis indicated that temsirolimus was the preferred alternative for 
all possible utility weights for REL and TOX health states.
CONCLUSION: Temsirolimus resulted in significantly longer Q-TWiST 
(quality-adjusted survival) in patients with advanced RCC than IFNalpha therapy.

DOI: 10.2165/11535290-000000000-00000
PMID: 20550223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(7):585-95. doi: 10.2165/11537550-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of leukotriene receptor antagonists versus inhaled 
corticosteroids for initial asthma controller therapy: a pragmatic trial.

Wilson EC(1), Sims EJ, Musgrave SD, Shepstone L, Blyth A, Murdoch J, Mugford HM, 
Juniper EF, Ayres JG, Wolfe S, Freeman D, Gilbert RF, Harvey I, Hillyer EV, 
Price D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. 
ed.wilson@uea.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Information is lacking on the relative effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness--in a primary-care setting--of leukotriene receptor antagonists 
(LTRAs) as an alternative to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for initial asthma 
controller therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of LTRAs versus ICS for patients 
initiating asthma controller therapy.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a 2-year, pragmatic, 
randomized controlled trial set in 53 primary-care practices in the UK. Patients 
aged 12-80 years with asthma and symptoms requiring regular anti-inflammatory 
therapy (n = 326) were randomly assigned to LTRAs (n = 162) or ICS (n = 164). 
The main outcome measures were the incremental costs per point improvement in 
the Mini Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire, per point improvement in the 
Asthma Control Questionnaire and per QALY gained from the UK NHS and societal 
perspectives.
RESULTS: Over 2 years, resource use was similar between the two treatment 
groups, but the cost to society per patient was significantly higher for the 
LTRA group, at pounds sterling 711 versus pounds sterling 433 for the ICS group 
(adjusted difference pounds sterling 204; 95% CI 74, 308) [year 2005 values]. 
Cost differences were driven primarily by differences in prescription drug 
costs, particularly study drug costs. There was a nonsignificant (imputed, 
adjusted) difference between treatment groups, favouring ICS, in QALYs gained at 
2 years of -0.073 (95% CI -0.143, 0.010). Therapy with LTRAs was, on average, a 
dominated strategy, and, at a threshold for willingness to pay of pounds 
sterling 30,000 per QALY gained, the probability of LTRAs being cost effective 
compared with ICS was approximately 3% from both societal and NHS perspectives.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a very low probability of LTRAs being cost effective in 
the UK, at 2005 values, compared with ICS for initial asthma controller therapy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: UK National Research Register N0547145240; Controlled 
Clinical Trials ISRCTN99132811.

DOI: 10.2165/11537550-000000000-00000
PMID: 20550224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Prev Chronic Dis. 2010 Jul;7(4):A71. Epub 2010 Jun 15.

Measuring population health outcomes.

Parrish RG(1).

Author information:
(1)gib.parrish@gmail.com

An ideal population health outcome metric should reflect a population's dynamic 
state of physical, mental, and social well-being. Positive health outcomes 
include being alive; functioning well mentally, physically, and socially; and 
having a sense of well-being. Negative outcomes include death, loss of function, 
and lack of well-being. In contrast to these health outcomes, diseases and 
injuries are intermediate factors that influence the likelihood of achieving a 
state of health. On the basis of a review of outcomes metrics currently in use 
and the availability of data for at least some US counties, I recommend the 
following metrics for population health outcomes: 1) life expectancy from birth, 
or age-adjusted mortality rate; 2) condition-specific changes in life 
expectancy, or condition-specific or age-specific mortality rates; and 3) 
self-reported level of health, functional status, and experiential status. When 
reported, outcome metrics should present both the overall level of health of a 
population and the distribution of health among different geographic, economic, 
and demographic groups in the population.

PMCID: PMC2901569
PMID: 20550829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Chirurg. 2010 Nov;81(11):1005-12. doi: 10.1007/s00104-010-1927-1.

[Hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy in the German DRG system. Analysis of 
case cost calculations of a maximum care university].

[Article in German]

Kilian M(1), Hammerich R, Langelotz C, Raue W, Tsilimparis N, Rau B, Hartmann J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Allgemein-, Visceral-, Gefäss- und Thoraxchirurgie, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Deutschland. maik.kilian@charite.de

BACKGROUND: Cytoreductive surgery with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy 
(HIPEC) offers patients with peritoneal cancer of various origins the chance of 
a relevant increase in life expectancy. These cases are very complex from a 
medical viewpoint and very expensive from an economical aspect. An analysis of 
case cost calculations was performed to find out whether this procedure can on 
average be carried out cost-effectively by a maximum care university.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All cases from 2008 in which HIPEC was carried out were 
analyzed. The types of main diagnosis, secondary diagnoses, procedures, times 
from incision to suture and hospital stay were analyzed. On the basis of the 
case costs the proceeds and marginal returns were calculated from the 
diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) and additional remuneration when applicable. The 
causes of positive and negative marginal returns were explained using the InEK 
cost matrix.
RESULTS: In 18 patients there were 9 different main diagnoses and 7 different 
"main procedures" (from a surgical perspective the most resource intensive 
procedures) and a total of 10 different DRGs were identified in the grouping 
algorithm. With an average of 2 operations (range 1-7) per patient the summed 
incision-to-suture time was 423 min (170-962 min). The patients stayed on 
average 6.4 days (1.3-17.6 days) in intensive care. The average case cost was 
21,072€ (range 8,657-55,904€) and the proceeds 20,474€ (6,333-37,497€). Each 
case had on average a debit balance of 598€ (range from 11,843€ profit balance 
to 18,407€ debit balance) with an assumed base rate of 2,786€. The causes for 
positive or negative marginal profits were mostly operating times, 
incision-to-suture times and duration of intensive care.
CONCLUSIONS: The proceeds showed on average a deficit of only 3% compared to the 
costs. The operating times must be decreased by optimization particularly of the 
preoperative approach. Interventions should be carried out in one stage only and 
the intraoperative connecting and waiting times should be reduced in order to 
reduce the incision-to-suture times.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-010-1927-1
PMID: 20552152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Ecotoxicology. 2010 Oct;19(7):1224-37. doi: 10.1007/s10646-010-0507-y. Epub
2010  Jun 16.

Population-level effects of spinosad and Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis in 
Daphnia pulex and Daphnia magna: comparison of laboratory and field microcosm 
exposure conditions.

Duchet C(1), Coutellec MA, Franquet E, Lagneau C, Lagadic L.

Author information:
(1)Entente Interdépartementale de Démoustication du Littoral Méditerranéen, 165 
Avenue Paul-Rimbaud, 34184, Montpellier, France.

Because exposure to toxicants not only results in mortality but also in multiple 
sublethal effects, the use of life-table data appears particularly suitable to 
assess global effects on exposed populations. The present study uses a life 
table response approach to assess population-level effects of two insecticides 
used against mosquito larvae, spinosad (8 μg/l) and Bacillus thuringiensis var. 
israelensis (Bti, 0.5 μl/l), on two non target species, Daphnia pulex and 
Daphnia magna (Crustacea: Cladocera), under laboratory versus field microcosms 
conditions. Population growth rates were inferred from life table data and 
Leslie matrices under a model with resource limitation (ceiling). These were 
further used to estimate population risks of extinction under each tested 
condition, using stochastic simulations. In laboratory conditions, analyses 
performed for each species confirmed the significant negative effect of spinosad 
on survival, mean time at death, and fecundity as compared to controls and 
Bti-treated groups; for both species, population growth rate λ was lower under 
exposure to spinosad. In field microcosms, 2 days after larvicide application, 
differences in population growth rates were observed between spinosad exposure 
conditions, and control and Bti exposure conditions. Simulations performed on 
spinosad-exposed organisms led to population extinction (minimum abundance = 0, 
extinction risk = 1), and this was extremely rapid (time to quasi-extinction = 
4.1 one-week long steps, i.e. one month). Finally, D. magna was shown to be more 
sensitive than D. pulex to spinosad in the laboratory, and the effects were also 
detectable through field population demographic simulations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10646-010-0507-y
PMID: 20552396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. MMW Fortschr Med. 2010 May 20;152(20):14-7. doi: 10.1007/BF03366586.

[Geriatric medicine in Germany. The 4th age group fills the waiting rooms].

[Article in German]

Aumiller J.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03366586
PMID: 20552870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Environ Sci Technol. 2010 Jul 15;44(14):5587-93. doi: 10.1021/es9037879.

Life cycle assessment of overhead and underground primary power distribution.

Bumby S(1), Druzhinina E, Feraldi R, Werthmann D, Geyer R, Sahl J.

Author information:
(1)Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, University of 
California, Santa Barbara, California 93106-5131, USA.

Electrical power can be distributed in overhead or underground systems, both of 
which generate a variety of environmental impacts at all stages of their life 
cycles. While there is considerable literature discussing the trade-offs between 
both systems in terms of aesthetics, safety, cost, and reliability, 
environmental assessments are relatively rare and limited to power cable 
production and end-of-life management. This paper assesses environmental impacts 
from overhead and underground medium voltage power distribution systems as they 
are currently built and managed by Southern California Edison (SCE). It uses 
process-based life cycle assessment (LCA) according to ISO 14044 (2006) and 
SCE-specific primary data to the extent possible. Potential environmental 
impacts have been calculated using a wide range of midpoint indicators, and 
robustness of the results has been investigated through sensitivity analysis of 
the most uncertain and potentially significant parameters. The studied 
underground system has higher environmental impacts in all indicators and for 
all parameter values, mostly due to its higher material intensity. For both 
systems and all indicators the majority of impact occurs during cable 
production. Promising strategies for impact reduction are thus cable failure 
rate reduction for overhead and cable lifetime extension for underground 
systems.

DOI: 10.1021/es9037879
PMID: 20553042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Oral Implantol. 2011 Apr;37(2):259-65. doi: 10.1563/AAID-JOI-D-10-00049.1.
 Epub 2010 Jun 16.

Four-year treatment and radiographic outcomes of 1-piece implants used in 
immediate function: a prospective study in a single private practice.

Hahn JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Cosmetic and Implant Dental Center of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. 
replace7@mac.com

The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate treatment outcomes of 
1-piece implants (NobelDirect and NobelPerfect, Nobel Biocare AB, Gothenberg, 
Sweden) in routine private clinical practice. Forty-seven implants placed in 30 
subjects demonstrated a cumulative survival rate of 97.9% with stable marginal 
bone levels after 4 years of loading.

DOI: 10.1563/AAID-JOI-D-10-00049.1
PMID: 20553157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Med Food. 2010 Aug;13(4):757-70. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2009.1279.

Marine collagen peptides prepared from chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) skin 
extend the life span and inhibit spontaneous tumor incidence in Sprague-Dawley 
Rats.

Liang J(1), Pei XR, Wang N, Zhang ZF, Wang JB, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.

To observe the effects of marine collagen peptides (MCPs) prepared from chum 
salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) skin on life span and spontaneous tumor incidence, 
Sprague-Dawley rats were fed diets supplemented with MCP at concentrations of 
0%, 2.25%, 4.5%, and 9% (wt/wt) from the age of 4 weeks until natural death. 
There were 40 rats in each group (male:female ratio = 1:1). The results showed 
that the MCP did not significantly influence body weight or food consumption of 
rats of either sex throughout the life span; it did dose-dependently inhibit the 
age-related decrease in the activities of antioxidant enzymes and the 
age-related increase in the levels of lipid peroxidation product in both sexes. 
MCP notably increased the mean life span, the life span of the last 30% of the 
survivors, and the maximal life span; it decreased overall spontaneous tumor 
incidence of both sexes with significance in the 4.5% and 9% MCP-treated male 
groups and 9% MCP-treated female group. Compared to the control group, the 
incidence of death from tumors was decreased in MCP groups in comparison with 
the control group of both sexes. Therefore, we concluded that MCPs 
dose-dependently increase life span and decrease spontaneous tumor incidence in 
Sprague-Dawley rats. Moreover, the antioxidative property of MCPs may be 
responsible for the increased life span and protection against tumor 
development.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2009.1279
PMID: 20553190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Cardiovasc Ther. 2011 Aug;29(4):231-42. doi:
10.1111/j.1755-5922.2010.00159.x.  Epub 2010 Jun 14.

Targeting inflammation as a therapeutic strategy in accelerated atherosclerosis 
in rheumatoid arthritis.

Full LE(1), Monaco C.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Imperial College, 
London, UK.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease affecting approximately 1% of 
the population. Patients have reduced life expectancy and the leading cause of 
death is cardiovascular disease (CVD), with patients experiencing at least a 
2-fold increased risk of myocardial infarction. RA is recognized as an 
independent risk factor for CVD. Inflammation is a key contributor to the 
pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events. As a common catalyst 
of both diseases, inflammation is the likely cause of increased prevalence of 
CVD in the RA population. Abating disease-related inflammation in RA may be an 
effective strategy in reducing CVD risk. Several other therapies used to modify 
cardiovascular risk factors in the general population such as statins and 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are under investigation in patients 
with RA. This review discusses the parallels in the pathology of RA and 
atherosclerosis and discusses current therapies for RA and how they affect 
cardiovascular risk.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-5922.2010.00159.x
PMID: 20553292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Ageing Res Rev. 2010 Oct;9(4):437-46. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2010.05.004. Epub
2010  May 27.

A proposal in relation to a genetic control of lifespan in mammals.

Neill D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Newcastle University, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RU, 
United Kingdom. david.neill@ntw.nhs.uk

This article proposes that behavioural advancement during mammalian evolution 
had been in part mediated through extension of total developmental time. Such 
time extensions would have resulted in increased numbers of neuronal precursor 
cells, hence larger brains and a disproportionate increase in the neocortex. 
Larger neocortical areas enabled new connections to be formed during development 
and hence expansion of existing behavioural circuits. To have been positively 
selected such behavioural advances would have required enough postdevelopmental 
time to enable the behaviour to be fully manifest. It is therefore proposed that 
the success of mammalian evolution depended on initiating a genetic control of 
total postdevelopmental time. This could have been mediated through the 
redeployment of gene regulatory networks controlling total developmental time to 
additionally control total postdevelopmental time. The result would be that any 
extension of developmental time, leading to a behavioural advancement, would be 
accompanied by a proportional extension to postdevelopmental time. In effect it 
is proposed that mammalian lifespan as a whole is genetically controlled.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2010.05.004
PMID: 20553971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis. 2010 Jul;20(6):379-85. doi: 
10.1016/j.numecd.2010.02.004. Epub 2010 May 31.

Epidemiology of cardiovascular diseases in women in Europe.

Panico S(1), Mattiello A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Federico II University, 
Naples, Italy. spanico@unina.it

Cardiovascular diseases, defined as diseases of the heart and circulatory system 
are the main cause of mortality, morbidity and hospitalisation in women all over 
Europe. Evaluation of descriptive epidemiology of cardiovascular disease and its 
risk factors in the European women cannot ignore the extraordinary changes in 
the economic and political profile of the continent that occurred in the past 20 
years. A keynote is requested by the knowledge that the Eastern female 
populations currently appear to be the less protected from cardiovascular 
disease (CVD; both coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke) and its risk factors 
and require major efforts in public health for both primary prevention and risk 
factors and events treatment. Another important piece of information is that the 
traditional geographical differences in CHD indicating an advantage of Southern 
European women in comparison with other European ones is less evident than in 
the past, owing to the levelling off regarding the differences in risk factors 
associated lifestyles. The figures for prevalence of epidemic risk factors, such 
as smoking, physical inactivity, overweight and obesity, high blood pressure and 
cholesterol levels indicate an urgent need to implement public health interest 
as well as investments on the whole spectrum of CVD manifestations in terms of 
risk factors and events.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.numecd.2010.02.004
PMID: 20554174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Health Policy. 2010 Oct;97(2-3):259-66. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2010.05.009.  Epub 2010 Jun 16.

Self-rated health status transition and long-term care need, of the oldest 
Chinese.

Peng R(1), Ling L, He Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Statistics and Epidemiology, School of Public Health, 
Sun Yat-sen University, #74 Zhongshan Road II, Guangzhou, China.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this paper are: (1) to estimate the transition 
probabilities among self-rated health status for the oldest Chinese aged 80 and 
above; (2) to project the future need of long-term care due to changes in 
demography and health status among the oldest Chinese.
METHODS: Self-rated health data collected in Chinese Longitudinal Healthy 
Longevity Survey conducted in 1998, 2000 and 2002 were used to estimate the 
self-rated health status transition probabilities, and to project future 
long-term care need by calculating the number of unhealthy person-years.
RESULTS: The majority of the oldest Chinese's health status remains unchanged or 
worsens within 2 years. The number of unhealthy person-years rises regardless of 
gender, and the absolute number and increase rate of females are higher than 
those of males. Under the assumption that average care expenditure is 15 US 
dollars per hour in 2010, the long-term care expenditure will increase from 8352 
million dollars in 2010 to 42,530 million dollars in 2050, a growth of more than 
400% over the next 40 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term care need for the oldest Chinese will rise rapidly in the 
next decades, which should stimulate increased governmental and public awareness 
of their need.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2010.05.009
PMID: 20554342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Jul 6;107(27):12074-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0914872107. Epub 2010 Jun 16.

Templating efficiency of naked DNA.

Kervio E(1), Hochgesand A, Steiner UE, Richert C.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie, Universität Stuttgart, 70569 Stuttgart, 
Germany.

Template-directed synthesis of complementary strands is pivotal for life. Nature 
employs polymerases for this reaction, leaving the ability of DNA itself to 
direct the incorporation of individual nucleotides at the end of a growing 
primer difficult to assess. Using 64 sequences, we now find that any of the four 
nucleobases, in combination with any neighboring residue, support enzyme-free 
primer extension when primer and mononucleotide are sufficiently reactive, with 
>or=93% primer extension for all sequences. Between the 64 possible base 
triplets, the rate of extension for the poorest template, CAG, with A as 
templating base, and the most efficient template, TCT, with C as templating 
base, differs by less than two orders of magnitude. Further, primer extension 
with a balanced mixture of monomers shows >or=72% of the correct extension 
product in all cases, and >or=90% incorporation of the correct base for 46 out 
of 64 triplets in the presence of a downstream-binding strand. A mechanism is 
proposed with a binding equilibrium for the monomer, deprotonation of the 
primer, and two chemical steps, the first of which is most strongly modulated by 
the sequence. Overall, rates show a surprisingly smooth reactivity landscape, 
with similar incorporation on strongly and weakly templating sequences. These 
results help to clarify the substrate contribution to copying, as found in 
polymerase-catalyzed replication, and show an important feature of DNA as 
genetic material.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0914872107
PMCID: PMC2901432
PMID: 20554916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


419. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2011 Mar;28(2):135-40. doi:
10.1177/1049909110373508.  Epub 2010 Jun 16.

Morphine to methadone conversion: an interpretation of published data.

Pollock AB(1), Tegeler ML, Morgan V, Baumrucker SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Internal Medicine, ETSU College of Medicine and Holston Valley 
Medical Center, Kingsport, TN, USA.

For the past 20 years, methadone has been experiencing resurgence in the 
palliative care community as a second-line opioid for the treatment of cancer 
pain. The advantages of using methadone for refractory pain in patients with 
cancer or in those who could not tolerate the side effects of other opioids such 
as morphine are well cited in recent literature. Advantages of methadone over 
other opioids include dual elimination without active metabolites, allowing safe 
use with renal and liver failure, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and delta receptor 
activity in addition to mu receptor agonism, multiple routes of administration, 
rapid onset of action, long half-life, low cost, and fewer adverse effects. 
Despite the abundance of recent case reports and literature reviews 
demonstrating the effective use of methadone in patients with cancer, there is a 
lack of consensus for an appropriate method for converting morphine (and by 
extension, other opioids) to methadone. This article will review methadone 
pharmacology and multiple proposed conversion methods; a case report 
illustrating a popular method for high-dose conversion is also included.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909110373508
PMID: 20555039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2010 May-Jun;25(3):598-606.

One-step approach for implant placement and subantral bone regeneration using 
bovine hydroxyapatite: a 2- to 6-year follow-up study.

Lambert F(1), Lecloux G, Rompen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Oral Surgery, University of Liege, Liege, 
Belgium. France.lambert@chu.ulg.ac.be

PURPOSE: Pneumatized sinuses in the posterior maxilla often make implant 
placement difficult or impossible. A sinus lifting procedure can reliably 
augment the bone height, with the highest success rates reported when two-stage 
implants are placed 6 to 9 months later. The aim of this study was to evaluate 
the clinical reliability of a shortened approach in which nonsubmerged implants 
were placed at the time of sinus augmentation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All patients treated with sinus floor elevation and 
simultaneous implant placement at the authors' institution from 1999 to 2004 
were retrospectively selected for a long-term follow-up study. Sinus elevation 
was considered when the remaining subantral bone height did not reach 6 mm in 
one or more implant sites. The lateral window technique was performed using 
bovine hydroxyapatite as a filler, and nonsubmerged implants were placed 
immediately. Implant and prosthodontic survival rates, as well as biologic and 
prosthodontic complications, were evaluated 2 to 6 years after loading.
RESULTS: In a sample of 40 patients, 50 subantral bone augmentations were 
performed and 102 implants were placed using the one-stage approach. One implant 
remained submerged because of a lack of primary stability. No sinusitis was 
noted. Only two implants were lost before loading. No implants failed after the 
definitive restorations were placed, leading to a 98% implant survival rate and 
100% prosthodontic survival rate after 2 to 6 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Subantral bone regeneration with bovine hydroxyapatite as a space 
filler is an effective and safe procedure allowing high survival rates of 
implants placed in the posterior maxilla. If the remaining bone is sufficient to 
ensure primary stability, implant placement can be performed simultaneously with 
sinus lifting, and even in a nonsubmerged fashion.

PMID: 20556261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2010 May-Jun;25(3):613-9.

Retrospective study of the long-term survival of 980 implants placed in a 
periodontal practice.

