analyses for success were fitted.
RESULTS: A total of 411 patients with 1175 endodontically treated teeth were 
identified. Ten years after treatment 102 patients (24.8%) with 223 (19.0%) 
teeth were lost at the follow-up. The number of teeth that were originally 
treated and retreated were 704 and 471, respectively. Thirty-two teeth (2.7%) 
had one complication, which was successfully treated. A total of 988 (84.1%) 
teeth were considered a complete success, 46 (3.9%) a partial success, 52 (4.4%) 
a partial failure and 68 (5.8%) had to be extracted according to the treating 
clinician. For 21 teeth (1.8%) there was no follow-up information. The 
radiographic healing of 1086 teeth was evaluated by an independent assessor: 980 
(90.2%) showed complete healing, 52 (4.8%) improvement, and 54 (5.0%) no change 
or worsening. The life-table analysis showed 93% of teeth surviving at 10 years 
after endodontic treatment. There were no differences for survival rates between 
teeth treated for the first time and those that were retreated (Kaplan-Meier). 
Teeth retreated because of symptoms or for a periapical/lateral radiolucency 
were more likely to fail.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 7% of endodontically treated teeth were extracted 10 
years after treatment. Symptoms and radiolucency of teeth needing retreatment 
may be important predictors for failure.

PMID: 20467630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 May 14;8:49. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-49.

The health loss from ischemic stroke and intracerebral hemorrhage: evidence from 
the North East Melbourne Stroke Incidence Study (NEMESIS).

Cadilhac DA(1), Dewey HM, Vos T, Carter R, Thrift AG.

Author information:
(1)National Stroke Research Institute, Heidelberg Heights 3081, Vic, Australia. 
dcadilhac@nsri.org.au

BACKGROUND: People suffering different types of stroke have differing 
demographic characteristics and survival. However, current estimates of disease 
burden are based on the same underlying assumptions irrespective of stroke type. 
We hypothesized that average Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) lost from 
stroke would be different for ischemic stroke and intracerebral hemorrhage 
(ICH).
METHODS: We used 1 and 5-year data collected from patients with first-ever 
stroke participating in the North East Melbourne Stroke Incidence Study 
(NEMESIS). We calculated case fatality rates, health-adjusted life expectancy, 
and quality-of-life (QoL) weights specific to each age and gender category. 
Lifetime 'health loss' for first-ever ischemic stroke and ICH surviving 28-days 
for the 2004 Australian population cohort was then estimated. Multivariable 
uncertainty analyses and sensitivity analyses (SA) were used to assess the 
impact of varying input parameters e.g. case fatality and QoL weights.
RESULTS: Paired QoL data at 1 and 5 years were available for 237 NEMESIS 
participants. Extrapolating NEMESIS rates, 31,539 first-ever strokes were 
expected for Australia in 2004. Average discounted (3%) QALYs lost per 
first-ever stroke were estimated to be 5.09 (SD 0.20; SA 5.49) for ischemic 
stroke (n = 27,660) and 6.17 (SD 0.26; SA 6.45) for ICH (n = 4,291; p < 0.001). 
QALYs lost also differed according to gender for both subtypes (ischemic stroke: 
males 4.69 SD 0.38, females 5.51 SD 0.46; ICH: males 5.82 SD 0.67, females 6.50 
SD 0.40).
DISCUSSION: People with ICH incurred greater loss of health over a lifetime than 
people with ischemic stroke. This is explained by greater stroke related case 
fatality at a younger age, but longer life expectancy with disability after the 
first 12 months for people with ICH. Thus, studies of disease burden in stroke 
should account for these differences between subtype and gender. Otherwise, in 
countries where ICH is more common, health loss for stroke may be 
underestimated. Similar to other studies of this type, the generalisability of 
the results may be limited. Sensitivity and uncertainty analyses were used to 
provide a plausible range of variation for Australia. In countries with 
demographic and life expectancy characteristics comparable to Australia, our QoL 
weights may be reasonably applicable.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-49
PMCID: PMC2882357
PMID: 20470370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. BMC Public Health. 2010 May 14;10:253. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-253.

Health and economic impact of rotavirus vaccination in GAVI-eligible countries.

Kim SY(1), Sweet S, Slichter D, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA. 
sykim@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus infection is responsible for about 500,000 deaths 
annually, and the disease burden is disproportionately borne by children in 
low-income countries. Recently the World Health Organization (WHO) has released 
a global recommendation that all countries include infant rotavirus vaccination 
in their national immunization programs. Our objective was to provide 
information on the expected health, economic and financial consequences of 
rotavirus vaccines in the 72 GAVI support-eligible countries.
METHODS: We synthesized population-level data from various sources (primarily 
from global-level databases) for the 72 countries eligible for the support by 
the GAVI Alliance (GAVI-eligible countries) in order to estimate the health and 
economic impact associated with rotavirus vaccination programs. The primary 
outcome measure was incremental cost (in 2005 international dollars [I$]) per 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted. We also projected the expected 
reduction in rotavirus disease burden and financial resources required 
associated with a variety of scale-up scenarios.
RESULTS: Under the base-case assumptions (70% coverage), vaccinating one single 
birth cohort would prevent about 55% of rotavirus associated deaths in the 72 
GAVI-eligible countries. Assuming I$25 per vaccinated child (approximately $5 
per dose), the number of countries with the incremental cost per DALY averted 
less than I$200 was 47. Using the WHO's cost-effectiveness threshold based on 
per capita GDP, the vaccines were considered cost-effective in 68 of the 72 
countries (approximately 94%). A 10-year routine rotavirus vaccination would 
prevent 0.9-2.8 million rotavirus associated deaths among children under age 5 
in the poorest parts of the world, depending on vaccine scale-up scenarios. Over 
the same intervention period, rotavirus vaccination programs would also prevent 
4.5-13.3 million estimated cases of hospitalization and 41-107 million cases of 
outpatient clinic visits in the same population.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that rotavirus vaccination would be considered 
a worthwhile investment for improving general development as well as childhood 
health level in most low-income countries, with a favorable cost-effectiveness 
profile even under a vaccine price ($1.5-$5.0 per dose) higher than those of 
traditional childhood vaccines.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-253
PMCID: PMC2893091
PMID: 20470426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Acta Med Port. 2010 Mar-Apr;23(2):227-36. Epub 2010 Apr 14.

[Management of menopause in primary health care].

[Article in Portuguese]

Cavadas LF(1), Nunes A, Pinheiro M, Silva PT.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Medicina Geral e Familiar, Unidade Local de Saúde de Matosinhos, 
Matosinhos.

INTRODUCTION: Menopause is a biological process that occurs as part of aging in 
women. The increase in average life expectancy and the decline in mortality have 
caused the aging of global population and, currently, women live about a third 
of their life in postmenopausal. The General Physician (GP) is usually the first 
health professional whom women rely on to relieve their menopause symptoms. It 
is essential for the GP to know how to properly approach women at this stage of 
their life and how to provide them the best support.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate women in perimenopause and postmenopausal, to recognize 
its signs and symptoms, and to use properly the Hormone Replacement Therapy 
(HRT) in Primary Health Care (PHC).
METHODS: We performed a literature search in the PubMed database using the MeSH 
terms: Menopause, Hormone Replacement Therapy, Primary Health Care. The search 
was limited to articles published between January 2000 and March 2009 in 
English, Portuguese and Spanish. Recommendations from Scientific Societies were 
also searched.
RESULTS: During menopause women are more predisposed to change their habits and 
to adopt healthy lifestyles. The GP plays a key role in health promotion among 
these women. The most common complaints that lead women to the PHC during 
perimenopause are vasomotor symptoms, sleep disorders, weight gain, uterine 
bleeding, urogenital and sexual changes and disturbances of mood and memory. The 
use of HRT is only recommended for the control of severe vasomotor symptoms that 
affect women's quality of life, as well as for vaginal atrophy and urinary 
symptoms. It should be used for a short period of time and in the lowest dose. 
It is important for the GP to know the existing formulations, the way of 
administration and the correct monitoring of this therapy.
CONCLUSION: Women experience physical and psychological changes during 
perimenopause and postmenopausal, resulting from aging and hypoestrogenism. It 
is essential that the GP recognizes the symptoms and their impact on quality of 
life of women, offering treatment when necessary. The HRT and its follow-up can 
be performed in PHC, if the GP know how to use this type of treatment.

PMID: 20470470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 1996;63(2):68-82.

[Clinical Wear Behaviour of UHMW Polyethylene Cups Paired with Metal and Ceramic 
Ball Heads in Comparison to Metal-on-Metal Pairings of Hip Joint Replacements.].

[Article in German]

Semlitsch M(1), Willert HG.

Author information:
(1)Sulzer Medizinaltechnik, Winterthur, Schweiz.

In the course of 30 years' hip endoprosthetics, a number of material 
combinations for the cups and balls of total hip prostheses have proven 
successful under clinical conditions. Favourably priced hip prostheses with 
polyethylene cups and metal balls are available for very old patients with a 
moderate range of activity. Polyethylene wear of 100-300 microm per year is to 
be expected with these models. Ceramic balls (aluminium oxide for diameters 32 
and 28 mm and zirconium oxide for 22 mm) paired with polyethylene cups are 
recommended for patients with a life expectancy of 10 to 20 years, because the 
expected polyethylene wear rate with this material combination is only 50-150 
microm per annum. In other words, the life cycle of the polyethylene cup is 
doubled, when it is paired with a ceramic ball. A similar polyethylene wear rate 
is also to be expected with oxygen-deephardened TiAlNb metal balls, which are 
currently the subject of a clinical field study. Last but not least, CoCrMoC 
metal/metal and AI2O3 ceramic/ceramic pairings, which have the lowest wear rate 
of 2 to 20 microm/year. are available for highly active patients with a life 
expectancy of more than 20 years. As far as the cup/ball pairing is concerned 
and under the current pressure of costs, the surgeon should be able to select 
the optimum hip prosthesis model for every patient from these three categories.

PMID: 20470544


193. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Jul;71(2):266-273. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.04.002.
Epub  2010 Apr 24.

Is wealthier always healthier? The impact of national income level, inequality, 
and poverty on public health in Latin America.

Biggs B(1), King L(2), Basu S(3), Stuckler D(4).

Author information:
(1)Cambridge University, St. John's College, Cambridge CB2 1TP, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: bbiggs4@gmail.com.
(2)Cambridge University, United Kingdom.
(3)University of California, San Francisco, USA.
(4)University of Oxford, United Kingdom.

Despite findings indicating that both national income level and income 
inequality are each determinants of public health, few have studied how national 
income level, poverty and inequality interact with each other to influence 
public health outcomes. We analyzed the relationship between gross domestic 
product (GDP) per capita in purchasing power parity, extreme poverty rates, the 
gini coefficient for personal income and three common measures of public health: 
life expectancy, infant mortality rates, and tuberculosis (TB) mortality rates. 
Introducing poverty and inequality as modifying factors, we then assessed 
whether the relationship between GDP and health differed during times of 
increasing, decreasing, and decreasing or constant poverty and inequality. Data 
were taken from twenty-two Latin American countries from 1960 to 2007 from the 
December 2008 World Bank World Development Indicators, World Health Organization 
Global Tuberculosis Database 2008, and the Socio-Economic Database for Latin 
America and the Caribbean. Consistent with previous studies, we found increases 
in GDP have a sizable positive impact on population health. However, the 
strength of the relationship is powerfully influenced by changing levels of 
poverty and inequality. When poverty was increasing, greater GDP had no 
significant effect on life expectancy or TB mortality, and only led to a small 
reduction in infant mortality rates. When inequality was rising, greater GDP had 
only a modest effect on life expectancy and infant mortality rates, and no 
effect on TB mortality rates. In sharp contrast, during times of decreasing or 
constant poverty and inequality, there was a very strong relationship between 
increasing GDP and higher life expectancy and lower TB and infant mortality 
rates. Finally, inequality and poverty were found to exert independent, 
substantial effects on the relationship between national income level and 
health. Wealthier is indeed healthier, but how much healthier depends on how 
increases in wealth are distributed.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.04.002
PMID: 20471147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Ann Vasc Surg. 2010 Oct;24(7):908-11. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2010.02.035. Epub
2010  May 13.

The ectatic aorta: no benefit in surveillance.

Gibbs DM(1), Bown MJ, Hussey G, Naylor AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Leicester Royal Infirmary, Leicester, United 
Kingdom. dmrgibbs@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: To determine if patients presenting with an infrarenal aorta of 
25-30 mm in diameter benefit from continued ultrasound surveillance, and if so 
to identify the frequency required.
METHODS: All patients in the Leicestershire abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) 
screening program with an initial AAA diameter of 25-30 mm and who had undergone 
two or more surveillance scans were identified (345 patients). The primary 
endpoint was death from AAA rupture, referral for elective repair, or 
presentation with rupture. This information together with the duration of 
surveillance was recorded.
RESULTS: A total of 345 patients were followed up for mean of 4.25 years (1-11). 
At 5 years surveillance, there was a 97% freedom from referral for repair or 
death from rupture.
CONCLUSION: Patients presenting with an AAA diameter 25-30 mm may be safely 
deferred any further surveillance for a period of 5 years.

Copyright © 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2010.02.035
PMID: 20471205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Mol Biol. 2010 Jul 16;400(3):463-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.05.014. Epub
2010  May 13.

TM0486 from the hyperthermophilic anaerobe Thermotoga maritima is a 
thiamin-binding protein involved in response of the cell to oxidative 
conditions.

Dermoun Z(1), Foulon A, Miller MD, Harrington DJ, Deacon AM, Sebban-Kreuzer C, 
Roche P, Lafitte D, Bornet O, Wilson IA, Dolla A.

Author information:
(1)IMR-CNRS, IFR88, 31 Chemin Joseph Aiguier, 13402 Marseille Cedex 20, France. 
dermoun@ibsm.cnrs-mrs.fr

The COG database was used for a comparative genome analysis with genomes from 
anaerobic and aerobic microorganisms with the aim of identifying proteins 
specific to the anaerobic way of life. A total of 33 COGs were identified, five 
of which correspond to proteins of unknown function. We focused our study on 
TM0486 from Thermotoga maritima, which belongs to one of these COGs of unknown 
function, namely COG0011. The crystal structure of the protein was determined at 
2 A resolution. The structure adopts a beta alpha beta beta alpha beta 
ferredoxin-like fold and assembles as a homotetramer. The structure also 
revealed the presence of a pocket in each monomer that bound an unidentified 
ligand. NMR and calorimetry revealed that TM0486 specifically bound thiamin with 
a K(d) of 1.58 microM, but not hydroxymethyl pyrimidine (HMP), which has been 
implicated as a potential ligand. We demonstrated that the TM0486 gene belongs 
to the same multicistronic unit as TM0483, TM0484 and TM0485. Although these 
three genes have been assigned to the transport of HMP, with TM0484 being the 
periplasmic thiamin/HMP-binding protein and TM0485 and TM0483 the transmembrane 
and the ATPase components, respectively, our results led us to conclude that 
this operon encodes an ABC transporter dedicated to thiamin, with TM0486 
transporting charged thiamin in the cytoplasm. Given that this transcriptional 
unit was up-regulated when T. maritima was exposed to oxidative conditions, we 
propose that, by chelating cytoplasmic thiamin, TM0486 and, by extension, 
proteins belonging to COG0011 are involved in the response mechanism to stress 
that could arise during aerobic conditions.

2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.05.014
PMCID: PMC2980899
PMID: 20471400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Dig Liver Dis. 2010 Nov;42(11):777-84. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.03.023. Epub
2010  May 15.

Inflammatory bowel disease-patients are insufficiently educated about the basic 
characteristics of their disease and the associated risk of colorectal cancer.

Baars JE(1), Siegel CA, van't Spijker A, Markus T, Kuipers EJ, van der Woude CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, Postbus 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.baars@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND/AIM: Limited data are available about inflammatory bowel 
disease-patients' knowledge of disease and associated risks. We assessed 
patients' knowledge of disease and its associated risks/complications, and their 
perspectives on current recommendations for colectomy when low-grade dysplasia 
is found.
METHODS: Inflammatory bowel disease-patients at a regional 
patient-information-day were asked to anonymously complete a survey (group-A). A 
2nd group was recruited online through the Dutch inflammatory bowel 
disease-patients' association (group-B).
RESULTS: In group-A, 109 inflammatory bowel disease-patients completed the 
survey (76% Crohn's disease, 24% ulcerative colitis, 78% female). Thirty-three 
patients (30%) were unaware of their disease-localization; 30% thought 
inflammatory bowel disease shortened their life-expectancy; 26% thought it was 
likely for a severe complication to occur during colonoscopy. Patients estimated 
their 10-year colorectal carcinoma-risk at 25%. Mean perceived colorectal 
carcinoma-associated mortality-risk was 13%. Patients would agree to colectomy 
if their current colorectal carcinoma-risk was at least 53% and 70% would refuse 
physicians' recommendation for colectomy if dysplasia were detected with a 20% 
risk of concomitant colorectal carcinoma. Group-B (n=393 inflammatory bowel 
disease-patients) verified the results above. However, fewer patients (52%) 
would refuse physicians' recommendation for colectomy, p=0.01.
CONCLUSION: Inflammatory bowel disease-patients are ill-informed about their 
disease and its associated risks. Improvement of patient-education is necessary 
to appropriately involve patients in the decision-making process.

Copyright © 2010 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.03.023
PMID: 20472518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Fly (Austin). 2010 Jul-Sep;4(3):253-7. doi: 10.4161/fly.4.3.11997. Epub 2010
Jul  1.

Drosophila melanogaster as a model system for the evaluation of anti-aging 
compounds.

Jafari M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California at Irvine, 
Irvine, CA, USA. mjafari@uci.edu

Understanding the causes of aging is a complex problem due to the multiple 
factors that influence aging, which include genetics, environment, metabolism 
and reproduction, among others. These multiple factors create logistical 
difficulties in the evaluation of anti-aging agents. There is a need for good 
model systems to evaluate potential anti-aging compounds. The model systems used 
should represent the complexities of aging in humans, so that the findings may 
be extrapolated to human studies, but they should also present an opportunity to 
minimize the variables so that the experimental results can be accurately 
interpreted. In addition to positively affecting lifespan, the impact of the 
compound on the physiologic confounders of aging, including fecundity and the 
health span--the period of life where an organism is generally healthy and free 
from serious or chronic illness--of the model organism needs to be evaluated. 
Fecundity is considered a major confounder of aging in fruit flies. It is well 
established that female flies that are exposed to toxic substances typically 
reduce their dietary intake and their reproductive output and display an 
artifactual lifespan extension. As a result, drugs that achieve longevity 
benefits by reducing fecundity as a result of diminished food intake are 
probably not useful candidates for eventual treatment of aging in humans and 
should be eliminated during the screening process. Drosophila melanogaster 
provides a suitable model system for the screening of anti-aging compounds as D. 
melanogaster and humans have many conserved physiological and biological 
pathways. In this paper, I propose an algorithm to screen anti-aging compounds 
using Drosophila melanogaster as a model system.

DOI: 10.4161/fly.4.3.11997
PMID: 20473034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Ear Hear. 2010 Oct;31(5):611-24. doi: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e3181de40cd.

Estimates of the cost-effectiveness of pediatric bilateral cochlear 
implantation.

Summerfield AQ(1), Lovett RE, Bellenger H, Batten G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of York, York, United Kingdom. 
aqs1@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Objectives were, first, to estimate the additional number of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained by deaf children from bilateral 
compared with unilateral implantation (DeltaQ); second, to estimate the 
additional cost to the healthcare system in the United Kingdom for providing 
bilateral compared with unilateral implantation (DeltaC); and, third, to compare 
the values of incremental net benefit (INB), rDeltaQ - DeltaC, with criteria 
used by policy makers in deciding whether to adopt health technologies. In 
England and Wales, the healthcare policy-making body must be satisfied that the 
INB is positive for a maximum value of r of pound30,000 (the "net-benefit" 
criterion). Policy makers may also require the likelihood that the technology is 
cost-effective to exceed 0.8 (the "likelihood" criterion).
DESIGN: An opportunity sample of 180 informants, composed of 
clinicians/researchers, students, and parents, valued the quality of life of a 
hypothetical child born profoundly deaf. The child was described in written 
vignettes as achieving typical outcomes with no implant, a unilateral implant, a 
unilateral implant with benefit from a contralateral acoustic hearing aid, or 
bilateral implants. Valuations were made using the time trade-off (TTO) and a 
visual analog scale (VAS). A decision model was constructed to describe events 
related to implantation that could occur over a child's lifetime after the 
decision to implant. A cost and a probability were associated with each event. 
Monte Carlo simulations modeled the management of cohorts of 3000 children and 
estimated a value of DeltaC for each child. An increment in quality of life was 
sampled with replacement from the appropriate distribution of informants' 
valuations to estimate a value of DeltaQ for each child. The minimum value of r 
for which the average INB was positive was calculated to test the net-benefit 
criterion. The proportion of simulations for which the INB was positive when r 
was pound30,000 was calculated to test the likelihood criterion.
RESULTS: Estimates of the cost-effectiveness of unilateral implantation aligned 
closely with published estimates, giving credibility to analyses of bilateral 
implantation. Based on TTO data (VAS data in parentheses), bilateral 
implantation was associated with an increment in quality of life of +0.063 
(+0.076), yielding 1.57 (1.87) additional QALYs at a cost of pound34,000. Net 
benefit was positive, provided that pound21,768 ( pound18,173) could be spent to 
gain a QALY. If pound30,000 could be spent, the probability that bilateral 
implantation is cost-effective was 0.480 (0.539). Thus, the net-benefit 
criterion, but not the likelihood criterion, was met in both analyses. The 
net-benefit criterion was also met in analyses based on data from the three 
groups of informants individually.
CONCLUSIONS: Groups of adults varying widely in age and life experience 
perceived sufficient additional quality of life from giving children two 
implants rather than one to mean that bilateral cochlear implantation is 
possibly a cost-effective use of healthcare resources in the UK. Wide variation 
in valuations within the groups of informants means that considerable 
uncertainty surrounds that conclusion. Further data on the costs and benefits of 
bilateral implantation are needed to resolve the uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e3181de40cd
PMID: 20473177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Med Care. 2010 Jun;48(6 Suppl):S90-5. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181e2b744.

Using mechanistic models to simulate comparative effectiveness trials of therapy 
and to estimate long-term outcomes in HIV care.

Roberts MS(1), Nucifora KA, Braithwaite RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Graduate School of Public Health, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA. mroberts@pitt.edu

BACKGROUND: In HIV care, it is difficult to decide when to initiate therapy, 
which drugs to use for initial treatment, and which drugs to use if drug 
resistance develops. With hundreds of possible drug regimens available and 
variable patterns of drug resistance, randomized controlled trials cannot answer 
all HIV treatment decisions. Mechanistic models of HIV infection can be used to 
conduct virtual therapeutic trials with the goal of predicting outcomes, some of 
which are long-term and may not fall within the time frame of a typical 
therapeutic trial.
METHODS: We used a previously developed and validated model of HIV infection to 
replicate 2 arms of an HIV initial treatment trial (ACTG A5142) and predict 
long-term outcomes. The model incorporated data about biologic processes 
involved in the development of drug resistance.
RESULTS: The model reproduced the proportion that developed AIDS (0.04 and 0.05 
for the efavirenz arm and lopinavir arms, respectively, vs. 0.04 and 0.06 for 
the trial), the development of virologic failure (0.27 and 0.33 for the 
Efavirenz arm and lopinavir arms, respectively, vs. 0.24 and 0.37 for the 
trial), and drug resistance. The hazard ratio for the time to treatment failure, 
a combination of resistance and other causes (0.96 for the model vs. 0.75 for 
the trial; 95% confidence interval, 0.57-0.98), and changes in CD4 cell count, 
were less accurate. The model estimated longer-term life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and HIV-related deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Mechanistic models of HIV infections have the potential to be 
useful in comparative effectiveness research.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181e2b744
PMCID: PMC5618710
PMID: 20473184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Med Care. 2010 Jun;48(6):510-7. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181dbdb20.

The predicted effects of chronic obesity in middle age on medicare costs and 
mortality.

Cai L(1), Lubitz J, Flegal KM, Pamuk ER.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Eastsound, WA, USA. lcai@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of adult obesity has increased in recent decades. It 
is important to predict the long-term effect of body weight, and changes in body 
weight, in middle age on longevity and Medicare costs in older ages.
METHODS: The relationships between individuals' characteristics in middle age 
and subsequent Medicare costs and mortality were estimated from the linkage of 
the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey I Epidemiologic Follow-up 
Study to Medicare administrative records (1991-2000) and mortality information 
(1971-2000). We predicted longevity and lifetime Medicare costs via simulation 
for 45-year-old persons by body weight in 1973 and changes in body weight 
between 1973 and 1983.
RESULTS: Obese 45-year-olds had a smaller chance of surviving to age 65 and, if 
they did, incurred significantly higher average lifetime Medicare costs than 
normal-weight 45-year-olds ($163,000 compared with $117,000). Those who remained 
obese between ages 45 and 55 in 1973 to 1983 incurred significantly higher 
lifetime Medicare costs than those who maintained normal weight. Other weight 
change categories did not differ significantly from those who maintained normal 
weight in terms of life expectancy at age 65, but overweight and obese people 
who lost weight had less chance of surviving to age 65 and the lowest estimated 
life expectancies thereafter.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic obesity in middle age increases lifetime Medicare costs 
relative to those who remained normal weight. As the survival of obese persons 
improves, it is possible that Medicare costs may rise substantially in the 
future to meet the health care needs of today's obese middle-aged population. 
Thus, active engagement by both the private and public sectors to prevent and to 
reduce obesity are critically needed.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181dbdb20
PMID: 20473195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Rheumatol Int. 2011 Nov;31(11):1465-9. doi: 10.1007/s00296-010-1502-6. Epub
2010  May 16.

Cost-effectiveness treatment with Rituximab in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis in real life.

Benucci M(1), Saviola G, Baiardi P, Manfredi M.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Ospedale di S. Giovanni 
di Dio, Azienda Sanitaria di Firenze, Via Torregalli 3, 50143 Florence, Italy. 
maubenucci@tiscali.it

The cost-effectiveness of treatments that have the potential to change the 
"natural history" of a chronic progressive disease has to be evaluated over the 
long term. Cost-effectiveness estimates have been based on the concept that, 
with treatment, patients will not progress to the next level(s) of disease 
severity or will take a longer time to progress, thus avoiding or delaying the 
high costs and low utility associated with more severe disease. This analysis 
focused on the use of Rituximab in treating patients with moderate to severe RA 
for whom at least one anti-TNFα blocking agent had failed. The aim of our study 
was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness in 32 patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
in therapy with a single infusion of Rituximab 1,000 mg given on days 1 and 15 
of each month for 1 year. After 6 months of treatment, we observed for all 32 
patients a total quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of 11,840 with an 
average of 0.37 QALY for a single patient, a treatment cost of euro 5,610 and a 
QALY/cost ICER (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio) of euro 15,114. After 1 
year of treatment, we observed data for 28 patients with a total QALY gained of 
11,480 with an average of 0.41 QALY for a single patient, a treatment cost of 
euro 9,690 and a QALY/cost ICER (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio) of euro 
23,696. The benefit of using Rituximab is cost-effectiveness with a QALY/gained 
under the acceptable threshold of euro 50,000 in our observational study. These 
are important data for discussion from the economic point of view when we choose 
a biologic therapy for rheumatoid arthritis in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00296-010-1502-6
PMID: 20473760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Br J Surg. 2010 Jun;97(6):826-34. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7001.

Long-term benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis of screening for abdominal 
aortic aneurysms from a randomized controlled trial.

Lindholt JS(1), Sørensen J, Søgaard R, Henneberg EW.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Research Unit, Viborg Hospital, DK-8800 Viborg, Denmark. 
jes.s.lindholt@viborg.rm.dk

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2016 Sep;52(3):317-21.

BACKGROUND: The aim was to estimate long-term mortality benefits and 
cost-effectiveness of screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in men aged 
64-73 years.
METHODS: All men aged 64-73 years living in Viborg County were randomized to be 
controls (n = 6306) or invited for abdominal ultrasonography at a regional 
hospital (n = 6333). Mortality and AAA-related interventions were recorded in 
national databases. The cost of initial screening was based on actual costs of 
the programme. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated on 
gains in life years and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY). Discounting (3 per 
cent) was applied to both costs and effects, and all costs were adjusted to 
euros at 2007 prices.
RESULTS: The relative risk reduction of the screening programme in AAA-related 
mortality was 66 per cent (hazard ratio 0.34, 95 per cent confidence interval 
(c.i.) 0.20 to 0.57). The corresponding risk reduction in all-cause mortality 
was 2 per cent (hazard ratio 0.98, 95 per cent c.i. 0.93 to 1.03). The ICER was 
estimated at euro157 (-3292 to 4401) per life year gained and euro179 (-4083 to 
4682) per QALY gained. Screening was found to be cost effective at a probability 
above 0.97 for a willingness-to-pay threshold of only euro5000. One-way 
sensitivity analysis demonstrated that this result was robust to various 
alternative assumptions, as the probability did not drop below 0.90 for any 
scenario.
CONCLUSION: The mortality benefit of screening for AAA in men aged 64-73 years 
was maintained in the longer term and screening was cost effective.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7001
PMID: 20473995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Sci Food Agric. 2010 Jun;90(8):1323-6. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.3943.

Effect of ethanol treatment on physiological and quality attributes of fresh-cut 
eggplant.

Hu W(1), Jiang A, Tian M, Liu C, Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Engineering, College of Life Science, Dalian Nationalities 
University, 18 Liaohe Road West, Dalian Economic and Technological Development 
Zone, Dalian, China. hwz@dlnu.edu.cn

BACKGROUND: Fresh-cut eggplants, as other vegetables, have relatively short 
shelf life because of the large amount of tissue disruption and increased 
metabolism. There is a very rapid onset of enzymatic browning and tissue 
softening with consequent decrease in sensorial and nutritional quality. To 
reduce respiration and maintain the quality, various treatments have been 
applied to find the optimum conditions that provide more fresh and natural 
fresh-cut produce after minimal processing. The objective of this study was to 
investigate the effects of ethanol vapour treatment on physiological and quality 
attributes of fresh-cut eggplant during the extension of shelf life.
RESULTS: The fresh-cut eggplant treated with ethanol vapour showed that 
respiration rate and occurrence of enzymatic browning were reduced, and higher 
total phenol content was maintained during 8 days of storage at 10 degrees C. 
The polyphenol oxidase and peroxidase in fresh-cut eggplant were also inhibited 
significantly by ethanol treatment. The ethanol treatment reduced the weight 
loss and maintained the integrity of cell membranes, as confirmed by the low 
value of electrolyte leakage.
CONCLUSION: The ethanol treatment applied for fresh-cut eggplant was a practical 
approach to reduce the activity of physiological metabolism and maintain the 
fresh quality of fresh-cut eggplant. The experimental results revealed that 
ethanol treatment was effective for extending the shelf life of fresh-cut 
eggplant as a cheap, environmentally acceptable method.

Copyright (c) 2010 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.3943
PMID: 20474050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2009 Jan;5(1):45-53. doi: 10.1586/1744666X.5.1.45.

Chronic granulomatous disease: complications and management.

Rosenzweig SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Inmunología, Hospital Nacional de Pediatría J. P. Garrahan, 
Combate de los Pozos 1881 (1245), Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
srosenzweig@garrahan.gov.ar

Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a genetically heterogenous primary 
immunodeficiency caused by defects in the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 
phosphate oxidase system. This metabolic pathway is responsible for the 
generation of reactive oxygen species during the respiratory burst, and is 
associated with germ killing and inflammatory reactions. CGD patients typically 
suffer from two types of clinical manifestation: recurrent bacterial and fungal 
infections, and dysregulated granulomata formation. Early diagnosis, 
antimicrobial prophylaxis and aggressive management of infectious complications 
are the cornerstones of CGD management. These three measures have strikingly 
improved the life expectancy and quality of life of CGD patients in the last 50 
years. Very encouraging and promising results have been recently achieved, with 
definitive and curative options for this disease now available.

DOI: 10.1586/1744666X.5.1.45
PMID: 20476899


205. Expert Rev Respir Med. 2009 Dec;3(6):597-605. doi: 10.1586/ers.09.47.

Improving quality of life for patients with terminal respiratory disease.

Isaac M(1), Curtis JR.

Author information:
(1)Harborview Medical Center, 325 Ninth Avenue, Campus Box 359762, Seattle, WA 
98104, USA. misaac@u.washington.edu

Chronic respiratory disease is an increasingly prevalent cause of life-limiting 
illness. Care for patients with terminal respiratory diseases has historically 
focused on disease-modifying therapies, many of which have little impact on life 
expectancy. This exclusive focus can detract from attention to patient-physician 
communication, advance care planning and palliative treatment strategies. Such 
shortcomings are exacerbated by the prognostic uncertainty inherent in many 
noncancer diagnoses. With relatively indeterminate prognosis, many clinicians 
are reluctant to address goals of care and to consider palliative strategies. 
Unfortunately, the symptom burden caused by terminal respiratory diseases is 
high, particularly with regard to dyspnea, pain and psychiatric symptoms such as 
depressed mood and anxiety. In being willing to address goals of care with 
seriously ill patients, and to include a focus on symptom management in 
patients' care plans, regardless of concomitant disease-modifying strategies, 
providers can better address the needs of patients with serious, life-limiting 
respiratory illnesses.

DOI: 10.1586/ers.09.47
PMID: 20477350


206. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2011 Jan;20(1):33-43. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2010.01184.x.

Needs for everyday life support for brain tumour patients' relatives: systematic 
literature review.

Madsen K(1), Poulsen HS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, The University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
karina.madsen@psy.ku.dk

The purpose of this paper is to undertake a review of the everyday lives and the 
need for support felt by relatives of adults with malignant cerebral glioma. 
Through electronic literature searches we identified studies with qualitative, 
quantitative or mixed method designs. Fourteen studies were identified. They 
indicated that a relative often assumes the caregiver's role, taking over 
responsibility for the patient's illness and survival, and that the relative is 
often overwhelmingly exhausted by this task. The ever-changing circumstances 
left the relatives fearful, anxious and apprehensive. The relatives lacked 
information about how to provide day-to-day care and how to manage psychoses and 
neuropsychiatric problems at home. Likewise, they needed help from the 
professionals to talk with each other about potentially reduced life expectancy. 
Most relatives appeared to value specialist nurse support highly, and they found 
support groups helpful. Relatively few studies were identified, and extant 
research was found to be diverse in purpose, study design and study population. 
The majority of the studies focused only on the parts of the relatives' everyday 
lives in which they were taking care of and supporting the patient. Further 
research focusing on the impact of the illness on different part of relative's 
everyday life is needed.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2010.01184.x
PMID: 20477857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Child Adolesc Psychiatr Clin N Am. 2010 Apr;19(2):285-300, viii-ix. doi: 
10.1016/j.chc.2010.02.002.

Psychiatric issues in pediatric organ transplantation.

Stuber ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, Semel Institute, David 
Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90024-1759, USA. 
mstuber@mednet.ucla.edu

Republished in
    Pediatr Clin North Am. 2011 Aug;58(4):887-901, x.

Solid organ transplantation has become the first line of treatment for a growing 
number of life-threatening pediatric illnesses. With improved survival, research 
into the long-term outcome of transplant recipients has become important to 
clinicians. Adherence to medical instructions remains a challenge, particularly 
in the adolescent population. New immunosuppressant approaches promise to expand 
organ transplantation in additional directions. Extension of transplantation 
into replacement of organs such as faces and hands raises complex ethical 
issues.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chc.2010.02.002
PMCID: PMC2873967
PMID: 20478500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2010 Sep;203(3):224.e1-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2010.03.046.  Epub 2010 May 15.

Pregnancy with Friedreich ataxia: a retrospective review of medical risks and 
psychosocial implications.

Friedman LS(1), Paulsen EK, Schadt KA, Brigatti KW, Driscoll DA, Farmer JM, 
Lynch DR.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology and Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania School of 
Medicine, and Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is an autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative 
disease. Recent medical advances have improved the average life expectancy, and 
as such, many female patients are contemplating pregnancy. However, little 
research exists exploring the medical or psychosocial complications that arise 
from pregnancy with this disease.
STUDY DESIGN: In this study, we retrospectively examined 31 women with FRDA who 
had 65 pregnancies, resulting in 56 live offspring.
RESULTS: FRDA did not appear to increase the risk of spontaneous abortion, 
preeclampsia, or preterm birth. Despite the sensory and proprioceptive loss that 
occurs in FRDA, nearly four fifths of births were vaginal. Of babies, 94.4% were 
discharged home with their mothers. Equal numbers of women reported that 
pregnancy made their disease symptoms worse, better, or unchanged.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that women with FRDA can have uncomplicated 
pregnancies that do not uniformly complicate disease symptomatology.

Copyright 2010 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2010.03.046
PMID: 20478553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Plant Physiol. 2010 Sep 15;167(14):1204-10. doi:
10.1016/j.jplph.2010.03.017.  Epub 2010 May 15.

Synergism between cucumber alpha-expansin, fungal endoglucanase and pectin 
lyase.

Wei W(1), Yang C, Luo J, Lu C, Wu Y, Yuan S.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Engineering and Technology Research Center for Industrialization of 
Microbial Resources, Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Biodiversity and Biotechnology, 
College of Life Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing, PR China.

Several recombinant fungal enzymes (endoglucanase and pectinase) were studied 
for their interactions with alpha-expansin in cell wall extension and 
polysaccharide degradation. Both Cel12A and Cel5A were able to hydrolyze 
cellulose CMC-Na and mixed-linkage beta-glucan. In contrast to Cel5A, Cel12A 
could also hydrolyze xyloglucan and induce wall extension of cucumber hypocotyls 
in an in vitro assay. Combining alpha-expansin, even at high concentrations, 
with Cel12A did not enhance the maximum/final wall extension rate induced by 
Cel12A alone. These results strongly suggest that modification/degradation of 
the xyloglucan molecule/network is the key for cell wall extension, and 
alpha-expansin and Cel12A may share the same acting site in the substrate. 
Pectinase (Pel1, a pectin lyase) enhanced alpha-expansin-induced wall extension 
in a concentration-dependent manner, suggesting that the pectin network may 
normally regulate accessibility of expansin to the xyloglucan-cellulose complex. 
alpha-Expansin enhanced Cel12A's hydrolytic activity on cellulose CMC-Na but not 
on xyloglucan and beta-glucan. Expansin did not affect Cel5A's hydrolytic 
activity. Interestingly, expansin also enhanced Pel1's activity on degrading 
high esterified pectin. A potential explanation for why expansin could 
synergistically interact with only certain enzymes on specific polysaccharides 
is discussed. Additional results also suggested that cell wall swelling may not 
be a significant event during the action of expansin and hydrolases.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jplph.2010.03.017
PMID: 20478643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Europace. 2010 Jul;12(7):1044-6; author reply 1046-7. doi: 
10.1093/europace/euq105. Epub 2010 May 17.

Response to editorial: Pitfalls in economic analysis.

Cowie MR.

Comment on
    Europace. 2009 Dec;11(12):1571-3.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/euq105
PMID: 20478929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Ann Intern Med. 2010 May 18;152(10):621-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-152-10-201005180-00002.

Cost-effectiveness of fracture prevention in men who receive androgen 
deprivation therapy for localized prostate cancer.

Ito K(1), Elkin EB, Girotra M, Morris MJ.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Urol. 2010 Jul;7(7):363.
    J Urol. 2010 Nov;184(5):1991-4.

BACKGROUND: Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) increases the risk for fractures 
in patients with prostate cancer.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of measuring bone mineral density 
(BMD) before initiating ADT followed by alendronate therapy in men with 
localized prostate cancer.
DESIGN: Markov state-transition model simulating the progression of prostate 
cancer and the incidence of hip fracture.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature.
TARGET POPULATION: A hypothetical cohort of men aged 70 years with locally 
advanced or high-risk localized prostate cancer starting a 2-year course of ADT 
after radiation therapy.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: No BMD test or alendronate therapy, a BMD test followed by 
selective alendronate therapy for patients with osteoporosis, or universal 
alendronate therapy without a BMD test.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), measured by cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: The ICERs for the strategy of a BMD test and 
selective alendronate therapy for patients with osteoporosis and universal 
alendronate therapy without a BMD test were $66,800 per QALY gained and $178,700 
per QALY gained, respectively.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSES: The ICER for universal alendronate therapy 
without a BMD test decreased to $100,000 per QALY gained, assuming older age, a 
history of fractures, lower mean BMD before ADT, or a lower cost of alendronate.
LIMITATIONS: No evidence shows that alendronate reduces actual fracture rates in 
patients with prostate cancer who receive ADT. The model predicted fracture 
rates by using data on the surrogate BMD end point.
CONCLUSION: In patients starting adjuvant ADT for locally advanced or high-risk 
localized prostate cancer, a BMD test followed by selective alendronate for 
those with osteoporosis is a cost-effective use of resources. Routine use of 
alendronate without a BMD test is justifiable in patients at higher risk for hip 
fractures.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-152-10-201005180-00002
PMCID: PMC5468170
PMID: 20479027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflicts of Interest: None disclosed. 
Forms can be viewed at 
www.acponline.org/authors/icmje/ConflictOfInterestForms.do?msNum=M09-1089.


212. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2010 May;136(5):440-4. doi: 
10.1001/archoto.2010.55.

Thyroid cancer survival in the United States: observational data from 1973 to 
2005.

Davies L(1), Welch HG.

Author information:
(1)VA Outcomes Group, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River 
Junction, Vermont 05009, USA. Louise.Davies@dartmouth.edu

Comment in
    Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2010 May;136(5):444-6.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the survival rate of people with papillary thyroid cancer 
limited to the thyroid gland who have not had immediate, definitive treatment 
for their thyroid cancer with the survival rate of those who have had such 
treatment.
DESIGN: Cohort study of incident cancer cases and initial treatment data from 
the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
(SEER) program. Data on cause of death was taken from the National Vital 
Statistics System.
PATIENTS: Patients with papillary thyroid cancer limited to the thyroid gland.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cancer-specific survival.
RESULTS: Of all eligible people in the data (n = 35,663), 1.2% did not undergo 
immediate, definitive treatment (n = 440). The life table estimate of their 
20-year cancer-specific survival rate was 97% (95% confidence interval [CI], 
96%-100%). The corresponding estimate for the patients who did receive treatment 
was 99% (95% CI, 93%-100%). Among those who did not receive immediate, 
definitive treatment, 6 died from their cancer. This number is not statistically 
different from the number of thyroid cancer deaths in the treated group over the 
same period (n = 161) (P = .09).
CONCLUSION: Papillary thyroid cancers of any size that are limited to the 
thyroid gland (no extraglandular extension or lymph node metastases at 
presentation) have favorable outcomes whether or not they are treated in the 
first year after diagnosis and whether they are treated by hemithyroidectomy or 
total thyroidectomy.

DOI: 10.1001/archoto.2010.55
PMID: 20479371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. AIDS. 2010 Jun 19;24(10):1583-4. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833ac7d4.

A normal life expectancy, despite HIV infection?

Hill A, Pozniak A.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833ac7d4
PMID: 20479635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


