Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: Disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) is an important indicator 
which combines longevity with functional health status. This article examines 
inequalities in DFLE by socio-economic position in England, and between Local 
Authorities (LAs) in the deprived 'Spearhead group' and other LAs.
METHODS: Census and vital event data available from the ONS Longitudinal Study 
were used to calculate estimates of DFLE based on limiting long-term illness or 
disability status for each Registrar General's Social Class (RGSC) in 2001-03, 
in England as a whole and within the 'Spearhead group' and non-Spearhead LAs.
RESULTS: A predominantly linear relationship was present with DFLE increasing 
with rising social class. The differences observed in DFLE at birth and at age 
65 between people assigned to the professional and unskilled manual social 
classes were statistically significant and substantial, demonstrating a clear 
social inequality in the amount of life, the functional health status during 
those years lived, their absolute number, and thus the relative proportion of 
life spent free from a limiting long-term illness or disability.Among 
professional men, no statistically significant differences in DFLE at birth were 
found between the 'Spearhead group' and the non-Spearhead LAs. However, men 
assigned to the other social classes in the 'Spearhead group' were disadvantaged 
in terms of lower DFLE than their counterparts in the non-Spearhead LAs. Manual 
women living in non-spearhead LAs had comparable DFLE to women assigned to the 
managerial and technical and skilled non-manual social classes living in the 
'Spearhead group'.The magnitude of inequality in DFLE at birth between 
professionals and the unskilled manual class in the proportion of life spent 
free of a limiting long-term illness or disability also varied between the 
'Spearhead group' and non-Spearhead LAs: among men, a difference of 7.7 per cent 
was present in non-Spearhead LAs, compared with 13.1 per cent in the 'Spearhead 
group'; among women, the equivalent differences were 5.2 per cent and 9.4 per 
cent.
CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm that the assumptions made with regard to sex 
differences in DFLE need to be set in the context of socio-economic position, 
and assumptions made regarding sex and social differences need to set in the 
context of geography. The scale of the inequalities shown is important for 
policy responses and understanding of differences in service needs.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.4
PMID: 20383165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Health Stat Q. 2010 Spring;(45):81-99. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.5.

Update to the methodology used to calculate health expectancies for the UK and 
constituent countries.

Smith MP(1), Olatunde O, White C.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: Changes to the design of the General Household Survey (GHS) risk a 
discontinuity in the ONS Health Expectancy (HE) series. This report compares 
methodological approaches to ensure consistency of this important National 
Statistic and reports improvements to the methodology surrounding standard error 
(SE) estimation.
METHODS: A comparison of the use of cross-sectional and longitudinal GHS data in 
estimating health state prevalence and HE in the UK, GB and constituent 
countries for the period 2005-07. Incorporation of the GHS sampling design 
effect into the calculation of standard errors surrounding estimates of HE 
backdated to 2000-02.
RESULTS: The prevalence of favourable health states was significantly higher in 
the longitudinal compared to the cross-sectional sample of the GHS. Compared to 
established trends, the inclusion of longitudinal data in estimates of healthy 
life expectancy (HLE) led to implausible increases in this metric. However, the 
prevalence of limiting long-standing illness and estimates of disability-free 
life expectancy (DFLE) using longitudinal data were broadly comparable and in 
line with recent trends.Inclusion of the design effect had only a minor impact 
on the estimation of current and historic HE standard errors. On three 
occasions, increases in HLE over time were no longer significant using this 
enhanced method of SE estimation and in a single instance differences in DFLE 
between countries were no longer significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Attrition in the GHS longitudinal dataset introduces significant 
bias into estimates of health state prevalence and a discontinuity in the 
established trend of HLE. Utilising the cross-sectional GHS sample alone in 
2005-07 represents the most reliable approach to maintain the consistency of 
this important series. Incorporation of the design effect enhances the precision 
of estimates of HE.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.5
PMID: 20383166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Health Stat Q. 2010 Spring;(45):100-27. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.6.

Quantifying the contribution of leading causes of death to mortality decline 
among older people in England, 1991-2005.

Ashton C(1), Bajekal M, Raine R.

Author information:
(1)University College London.

BACKGROUND: This paper quantifies the contribution of leading causes of death to 
mortality change between 1991 and 2005 for people aged 50 years and over in 
England. Between 1971 and 2005 the life expectancy of men aged 50 years 
increased by more than in the whole of the rest of the 20(th) century. The 
ageing population has not only had an important impact on health and social 
services, but was responsible for sparking the pensions crisis affecting both 
the public and commercial sector.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis was used to quantify trends in 
cause-specific mortality in terms of absolute and relative change between 1991 
and 2005 in the population aged 50 and over. Absolute change is quantified in 
terms of the numbers of deaths prevented or postponed (or conversely, increased 
or brought-forward) in a year compared to deaths in the baseline year. The 
percentage change in age-standardised rates was used to identify relative change 
in causes of death.
RESULTS: Between 1991 and 2005 there was a continuous decline in overall 
all-cause death rates for people aged 50 and over. Age-standardised mortality 
declined by 30 per cent for men, from 3,216 per 100,000 men to 2,267 per 
100,000. This resulted in 86,477 fewer male deaths in 2005 than would have 
occurred had 1991 rates persisted. For women the age-standardised mortality rate 
declined by 20 per cent from 2,032 per 100,000 to 1,626 per 100,000, resulting 
in 48,406 deaths postponed (or fewer deaths) in 2005.Of the total numbers of 
deaths postponed in 2005, ischaemic heart disease contributed the largest share 
for both men (45,244 deaths - 52.3 per cent) and women (33,601 - 69.4 per 
cent).The greatest decline in the mortality rate was observed for influenza, for 
which age-standardised rates fell by 89 per cent for men and 93 per cent for 
women. However the proportion of deaths in which influenza was the underlying 
cause was extremely small and so did not contribute a large proportion in terms 
of the total fall in numbers of deaths.Mortality rates from some conditions 
increased. Liver disease rates demonstrated some of the largest increases for 
both men and women aged 50 and over. For men the age-standardised mortality rate 
from liver disease increased by 104 per cent, resulting in 1,434 more deaths in 
2005 than in 1991.
CONCLUSIONS: The trends of decreasing mortality rates from ischaemic heart 
disease and stroke have continued into the 21(st) century, however both causes 
continue to be the biggest killers in England. They are projected to remain so, 
and consequently, to contribute significantly to the burden of disease in the 
population.The steady increase in liver disease mortality identified highlights 
the importance of tackling alcohol misuse as a public health priority.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.6
PMID: 20383167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2010 Apr;35(2):172-9. doi: 10.1139/H10-002.

Nutrition inequities in Canada.

Tarasuk V(1), Fitzpatrick S, Ward H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, 150 College Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
valerie.tarasuk@utoronto.ca

In Canada, increased morbidity and shorter life expectancy have been found among 
those with lower incomes and lower levels of education, but there has been 
little examination of socioeconomic variation in food and nutrient intake. Using 
data from the 2004 Canadian Community Health Survey, we examined the 
relationship between household income and education level and adults' and 
children's intakes of energy, fibre, micronutrients, and number of servings 
consumed of food groups from Canada's Food Guide. To explore the public health 
significance of observed associations, we estimated the prevalence of inadequacy 
for selected nutrients for adults, stratifying by household income, education 
level, and sex. We found that a higher household income adequacy and (or) higher 
levels of education were associated with increased consumption of milk and 
alternatives, and vegetables and fruit, and significantly higher vitamin, 
mineral, and fibre intakes among both adults and children. The prevalence of 
inadequate nutrient intakes among adults was higher among adults with the lowest 
level of income adequacy or educational attainment, compared with others. Our 
results suggest that the nutritional quality of Canadians' food intakes is, in 
part, a function of their social position. The impact of policy and program 
interventions needs to be examined across socioeconomic strata to ensure that 
actions reduce rather than exacerbate nutrition inequities.

DOI: 10.1139/H10-002
PMID: 20383227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Ann Hematol. 2010 Sep;89(9):919-26. doi: 10.1007/s00277-010-0939-8. Epub
2010  Apr 10.

Economic evaluation of posaconazole versus fluconazole prophylaxis in patients 
with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in the Netherlands.

Jansen JP(1), O'Sullivan AK, Lugtenburg E, Span LF, Janssen JJ, Stam WB.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, 133 Portland Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
Jeroen.jansen@mapivalues.com

The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
posaconazole versus fluconazole for the prevention of invasive fungal infections 
(IFI) in graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) patients in the Netherlands. A 
decision analytic model was developed based on a double-blind randomized trial 
that compared posaconazole with fluconazole antifungal prophylaxis in recipients 
of allogeneic HSCT with GVHD who were receiving immunosuppressive therapy 
(Ullmann et al., N Engl J Med 356:335-347, 2007). Clinical events were modeled 
with chance nodes reflecting probabilities of IFIs, IFI-related death, and death 
from other causes. Data on life expectancy, quality-of-life, medical resource 
consumption, and costs were obtained from the literature. The total cost with 
posaconazole amounted to <euro>9,428 (95% uncertainty interval 
<euro>7,743-11,388), which is <euro>4,566 (<euro>2,460-6,854) more than those 
with fluconazole. Posaconazole prophylaxis resulted in 0.17 (0.02-0.36) quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) gained compared to fluconazole prophylaxis, 
corresponding to an incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of <euro>26,225 
per QALY gained. A scenario analysis demonstrated that at an increased 
background IFI risk (from 9% to 15%) the ICER was <euro>13,462 per QALY. Given 
the underlying data and assumptions, posaconazole prophylaxis is expected to be 
cost-effective relative to fluconazole in recipients of allogeneic HSCT 
developing GVHD in the Netherlands. The cost-effectiveness of posaconazole 
depends on the IFI risk, which can vary by hospital.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-010-0939-8
PMCID: PMC2908442
PMID: 20383504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Pain Pract. 2010 Sep-Oct;10(5):404-15. doi:
10.1111/j.1533-2500.2009.00342.x.

A randomized study to demonstrate noninferiority of once-daily OROS(®) 
hydromorphone with twice-daily sustained-release oxycodone for moderate to 
severe chronic noncancer pain.

Binsfeld H(1), Szczepanski L, Waechter S, Richarz U, Sabatowski R.

Author information:
(1)Schmerz-Zentrum am St.Franziskus Hospital Ahlen, Ahlen, Germany.

This was a randomized, open-label, comparative, parallel group study designed to 
demonstrate the noninferiority of once-daily OROS(®) hydromorphone compared with 
twice-daily sustained-release (SR) oxycodone in subjects with chronic noncancer 
pain severe enough to require continuous opioid therapy. The core phase (24 
weeks) consisted of titration and maintenance periods. This was followed by an 
optional extension phase (28 weeks), which collected data used to assess 
long-term safety and efficacy outcomes. Five hundred four subjects were 
randomized between the 2 treatment groups. The primary efficacy analysis showed 
that OROS hydromorphone was noninferior to SR oxycodone (P = 0.011) as measured 
by change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) pain severity subscore "pain right now." 
The treatment difference with respect to change in BPI pain severity subscore 
"pain right now" was 0.29 (95% confidence interval: -0.27 to 0.84). The 
equianalgesic doses were 16 mg OROS hydromorphone and 40 mg SR oxycodone (median 
values). Secondary outcomes included other BPI scale items, the Medical Outcomes 
Study (MOS) Sleep Indices, and quality of life measured by the Short Form 36 
(SF-36) questionnaire. Both treatment groups showed improvements in the main 
secondary efficacy endpoints. No statistically significant differences were 
shown between the treatment groups, except for the scores for somnolence (MOS 
sleep subscale) and physical functioning (SF-36), which both had a statistically 
significant difference between treatments groups in favor of OROS hydromorphone. 
Both study medications had equivalent and acceptable safety profiles. The 
results of this open-label study showed that once-daily OROS hydromorphone is a 
safe and well-tolerated treatment for chronic pain and as efficacious as 
twice-daily SR oxycodone.

© 2010 Janssen-Cilag EMEA (Johnson & Johnson).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1533-2500.2009.00342.x
PMID: 20384968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):580-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00720.x.
Epub  2010 Mar 31.

The cost-effectiveness of group cognitive behavioral therapy compared with 
routine primary care for women with postnatal depression in the UK.

Stevenson MD(1), Scope A, Sutcliffe PA.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK. m.d.stevenson@shef.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of group cognitive behavior therapy 
(gCBT) in comparison with routine primary care for women with postnatal 
depression in the UK.
METHODS: Our analysis was based on a systematic literature review of the 
relative clinical effectiveness of gCBT compared with routine primary care and 
further reviews, supplemented with expert opinion of the likely cost of 
providing gCBT and the duration of comparative advantage for gCBT. Raw data were 
used to estimate a statistical relationship between changes in the Edinburgh 
Postnatal Depression Score (EPDS) values and changes in short-form six 
dimensions' (SF-6D) values. A mathematical model was constructed, and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were undertaken to estimate the mean cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and to evaluate the expected value of perfect 
information (EVPI).
RESULTS: The mean cost per QALY from the stochastic analysis was estimated to be 
pound36,062; however, there was considerable uncertainty around this value. The 
EVPI was estimated to be greater than pound64 million; the key uncertainties 
were in the cost per woman of providing treatment and in the statistical 
relationship between changes in EPDS values and changes in SF-6D values. The 
expected value of perfect partial information for both of these parameters was 
in excess of pound25 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the current information, the use of gCBT does not appear to 
be cost-effective; however, this decision is uncertain. The value of information 
analyses conducted indicates that further research to provide robust information 
on key parameters is needed and appears justified in cost-effective terms.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00720.x
PMID: 20384978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):573-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00718.x.
Epub  2010 Mar 31.

Incorporating equity-efficiency interactions in cost-effectiveness 
analysis-three approaches applied to breast cancer control.

Baeten SA(1), Baltussen RM, Uyl-de Groot CA, Bridges J, Niessen LW.

Author information:
(1)Institutes of Health Policy & Management and of Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The past decade, medical technology assessment focused on 
cost-effectiveness analysis, yet there is an increasing need to consider equity 
implications of health interventions as well. This article addresses three 
equity-efficiency trade-off methods proposed in the literature. Moreover, it 
demonstrates their impact on cost-effectiveness analyses in current breast 
cancer control options for women of different age groups.
METHODS: We adapted an existing breast cancer model to estimate 
cost-effectiveness and equity effects of breast cancer interventions. We applied 
three methods to quantify the equity-efficiency trade-offs: 1) targeting 
specific groups, comparing disparities at baseline and in different intervention 
scenarios; 2) equity weighting, valuing low and high health gains differently; 
and 3) multicriteria decision analysis, weighing multiple equity and efficiency 
criteria. We compared the resulting composite league tables of all approaches.
RESULTS: The approaches show that a comprehensive breast cancer program, 
including screening, for women below 75 years of age was most attractive in both 
the group targeting approach and the equity weighting approach. Such control 
programs would reduce disparities with 56% and at euro1908 per equity 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. In the multicriteria approach, a 
comprehensive treatment program for women below 75 years of age and treatment in 
stage III breast cancer were most attractive, with both an 82% selection 
probability, followed by screening programs for the two age groups.
CONCLUSION: In the three equity weighing approaches, targeting women below 75 
years of age was more cost-effective and led to more equitable distributions of 
health. This likely is similar in other fatal diseases with similar age 
distributions. The approaches may lead to different outcomes in nonfatal 
disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00718.x
PMID: 20384980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Crit Care. 2010;14(2):R60. doi: 10.1186/cc8957. Epub 2010 Apr 12.

One-year mortality, quality of life and predicted life-time cost-utility in 
critically ill patients with acute respiratory failure.

Linko R(1), Suojaranta-Ylinen R, Karlsson S, Ruokonen E, Varpula T, Pettilä V; 
FINNALI study investigators.

Collaborators: Lund V, Tuominen P, Perkola P, Suvela M, Kauppinen S, Turkulainen 
AM, Laru-Sompa R, Kirkhope T, Nykänen S, Laine H, Reponen K, Kettunen P, 
Reinikainen M, Eiserbeck T, Jyrkönen H, Saarinen K, Viitanen M, Siirilä N, Soini 
J, Hovilehto S, Kirsi A, Tiainen P, Asikainen S, Loisa P, Kairi P, Puolakka R, 
Laitinen P, Heikkilä T, Kiviniemi O, Laurila T, Pikkuhookana T, Forsström S, 
Kaminski T, Kuusela T, Pentti J, Alila S, Koskinen R, Varpula T, Rahkonen M, 
Kuitunen A, Korhonen AM, Linko R, Okkonen M, Myller J, Pekkola J, Pettilä L, 
Sutinen S, Suojaranta-Ylinen R, Kukkonen S, Nurmi-Toivonen E, Bäcklund T, 
Rossinen J, Mäkelä R, Reitala J, Vuola J, Niemi R, Pihlajamaa ML, 
Uusipaavalniemi A, Koivusalo AM, Kyllönen P, Perttilä J, Kentala E, Arola O, 
Inkinen O, Kotamäki J, Karlsson S, Tenhunen J, Peltola ML, Mäkinen S, Korkala 
AL, Kortelainen S, Ruokonen E, Parviainen I, Rahikainen S, Halonen E, Ala-Kokko 
T, Laurila J, Sälkiö S, Lamberg T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Medicine, Helsinki University 
Hospital, Sairaalakatu 1, Helsinki, Finland. rita.linko@hus.fi

INTRODUCTION: High daily intensive care unit (ICU) costs are associated with the 
use of mechanical ventilation (MV) to treat acute respiratory failure (ARF), and 
assessment of quality of life (QOL) after critical illness and 
cost-effectiveness analyses are warranted.
METHODS: Nationwide, prospective multicentre observational study in 25 Finnish 
ICUs. During an eight-week study period 958 consecutive adult ICU patients were 
treated with ventilatory support over 6 hours. Of those 958, 619 (64.6%) 
survived one year, of whom 288 (46.5%) answered the quality of life 
questionnaire (EQ-5D). We calculated EQ-5D index and predicted lifetime 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained using the age- and sex-matched life 
expectancy for survivors after one year. For expired patients the exact lifetime 
was used. We divided all hospital costs for all ARF patients by the number of 
hospital survivors, and by all predicted lifetime QALYs. We also adjusted for 
those who died before one year and for those with missing QOL to be able to 
estimate the total QALYs.
RESULTS: One-year mortality was 35% (95% CI 32 to 38%). For the 288 respondents 
median [IQR] EQ-5D index after one year was lower than that of the age- and 
sex-matched general population 0.70 [0.45 to 0.89] vs. 0.84 [0.81 to 0.88]. For 
these 288, the mean (SD) predicted lifetime QALYs was 15.4 (13.3). After 
adjustment for missing QOL the mean predicted lifetime (SD) QALYs was 11.3 
(13.0) for all the 958 ARF patients. The mean estimated costs were 20.739 euro 
per hospital survivor, and mean predicted lifetime cost-utility for all ARF 
patients was 1391 euro per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite lower health-related QOL compared to reference values, our 
result suggests that cost per hospital survivor and lifetime cost-utility remain 
reasonable regardless of age, disease severity, and type or duration of 
ventilation support in patients with ARF.

DOI: 10.1186/cc8957
PMCID: PMC2887181
PMID: 20384998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. J Mol Biol. 2010 May 28;399(1):9-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.04.008. Epub
2010  Apr 10.

Growth of collagen fibril seeds from embryonic tendon: fractured fibril ends 
nucleate new tip growth.

Holmes DF(1), Tait A, Hodson NW, Sherratt MJ, Kadler KE.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell-Matrix Research, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Manchester, Michael Smith Building, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 
9PT, UK. david.f.holmes@manchester.ac.uk

Collagen fibrils are the principal tensile element of vertebrate tissues where 
they occur in the extracellular matrix as spatially organised arrays. A major 
challenge is to understand how the mechanisms of nucleation, growth and 
remodelling yield fibrils of tissue-specific diameter and length. Here we have 
developed a seeding system whereby collagen fibrils were isolated from avian 
embryonic tendon and added to purified collagen solution, in order to 
characterise fibril surface nucleation and growth mechanisms. Fragmentation of 
tendon in liquid nitrogen followed by Dounce homogenisation generated fibril 
length fragments. Most (>94%) of the fractured ends of fibrils, which show an 
abrupt square profile, were found to act as nucleation sites for further growth 
by molecular accretion. The mechanism of this nucleation and growth process was 
investigated by transmission electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy and 
scanning transmission electron microscopy mass mapping. Typically, a single 
growth spur occurred on the N-terminal end of seed fibrils whilst twin spurs 
frequently formed on the C-terminal end before merging into a single tip 
projection. The surface nucleation and growth process generated a smoothly 
tapered tip that achieved maximum diameter when the axial extension reached 
approximately 13 mum. Lateral growth also occurred along the entire length of 
all seed fibrils that contained tip projections. The data support a model of 
collagen fibril growth in which the broken ends of fibrils are nucleation sites 
for propagation in opposite axial directions. The observed fibril growth 
behaviour has direct relevance to tendon matrix remodelling and repair processes 
that might involve rupture of collagen fibrils.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.04.008
PMCID: PMC2887488
PMID: 20385142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Jun 10;28(17):2902-13. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.26.1693.
Epub  2010 Apr 12.

Prognostic factors in follicular lymphoma.

Relander T(1), Johnson NA, Farinha P, Connors JM, Sehn LH, Gascoyne RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, British Columbia Cancer Agency and University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Erratum in
    J Clin Oncol. 2010 Oct 20;28(30):4664.

Follicular lymphoma (FL) is one of the most common types of non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma. It is usually diagnosed at an advanced stage, for which many treatment 
options exist, however, no curative standard therapy has been identified. The 
outcome is highly variable with a median survival of approximately 10 years. The 
life expectancy of patients with FL has been extended with the use of rituximab, 
a monoclonal antibody targeting the CD20 antigen on FL cells, but there remains 
a group of patients who fail to respond to chemoimmunotherapy and die early of 
their disease. Transformation of FL to an aggressive histology is an important 
event with high morbidity and mortality. The Follicular Lymphoma International 
Prognostic Index has become the clinically useful prognostic tool, but gives 
only a rough estimate of expected outcome. There is a need for useful biomarkers 
for prediction of the disease course of single patients to individualize 
therapy, especially in the new era of chemoimmunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2009.26.1693
PMID: 20385990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Arch Intern Med. 2010 Apr 12;170(7):587-95. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2010.18.

Cautionary tales in the interpretation of clinical studies involving older 
persons.

Scott IA(1), Guyatt GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Princess Alexandra 
Hospital, Level 5A, Ipswich Road, Brisbane, Queensland 4102, Australia. 
ian_scott@health.qld.gov.au

Erratum in
    Arch Intern Med. 2010 Jun 14;170(11):927.

The care of patients 65 years or older presents a challenge for evidence-based 
medicine. Such patients are underrepresented in clinical trials, are more 
vulnerable to treatment-induced harm, and often are unable to fully participate 
in treatment decisions. We outline several cautionary themes in the 
interpretation of clinical studies of therapeutic interventions involving older 
persons as they apply to processes of everyday clinical decision making. In 
particular, we focus on issues of study design and quality of evidence, choice 
of outcome measures, missing outcome data, assessment of potential harm, 
quantifying treatment effects in individual patients (and adjusting these for 
effect modifiers and reduced life expectancy), eliciting patient values and 
preferences, prioritizing therapeutic goals and selection of treatments, and 
assisting patients in adhering to agreed therapeutic regimens.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2010.18
PMID: 20386001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Expert Rev Respir Med. 2010 Feb;4(1):13-9. doi: 10.1586/ers.09.71.

Clinical use of sildenafil in pulmonary artery hypertension.

Singh TP(1).

Author information:
(1)Prime Heart and Vascular Institute, Shivalik Hospital, Sector-69, Mohali, 
Punjab, India. tpsinghtp@yahoo.co.in

Severe pulmonary hypertension is a debilitating disease with short life 
expectancy that often affects young people. It is usually idiopathic pulmonary 
artery hypertension and is characterized by progressive elevation of pulmonary 
artery pressure and vascular resistance, right ventricular failure and death 
with a limited median survival time. There is an imbalance in vasoconstrictive 
and vasodilatory substances. The phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor sildenafil, a 
pulmonary and penile vasodilator initially approved for erectile dysfunction, is 
found to be efficacious in severe pulmonary artery hypertension. There are 
limited treatment options for the management of pulmonary artery hypertension in 
developing countries and sildenafil is a reasonable treatment option. This 
article reviews the relevant clinical data in pulmonary hypertension and the 
role of sildenafil in its management.

DOI: 10.1586/ers.09.71
PMID: 20387288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. JNMA J Nepal Med Assoc. 2009 Apr-Jun;48(174):191-5.

Health federalism: the role of health care professionals in Nepal.

Dulal RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community of Health Sciences, Patan Academy of Health Sciences, 
Lagankhel, Lalitpur, Nepal. dr.rkdulal@gmail.com

Nepal has entered from its unitary system into a new "Federal Democratic 
Republic State". The current constitution presents basic health care services as 
a fundamental right. The Ministry for Health and Population has been providing 
resources to meet health demands, but managers are wrestling to meet these 
demands. Persistent disparities between rural and urban and across regions 
resulted inferior health outcomes, e.g., life expectancy in an urban district 
like Bhaktapur is 71 years, whereas in the rural district of Mugu it is 44 
years. The poor health and poor access to health care in the past systems 
prompted people to seek a different model. Ultimately, all political parties 
except one have agreed on federalism. The exact number of federal states that 
are going to be created is unknown. In federalism, all federated states have to 
assume certain relationships between the locality, the region, and the nation 
that apply not only in politics but in health care too. Managing changes in 
health care organization during the transitional period and after restructuring 
the unitary Nepal into federal states should be carefully planned. In case, if 
new system also fails to deliver necessary health care services, the possibility 
of igniting of dissatisfaction, public unrest and even disintegration cannot be 
ignored. In order to outline a structure and give life to a health care system 
under federalism, health care professionals need to engage themselves seriously.

PMID: 20387368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Jun;26(6):1399-412. doi: 10.1185/03007991003689381.

Systematic review of the cost-effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart 30 in 
type 2 diabetes.

Valentine WJ(1), Pollock RF, Plun-Favreau J, White J.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland. 
valentine@ossianconsulting.com

OBJECTIVES: To review the cost-effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart (BIAsp 
30) compared to other insulin regimens in the treatment of type 2 diabetes based 
on published literature.
METHODS: The electronic databases MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library and 
EconLit and a selection of congress/meeting databases were systematically 
searched using combinations of search terms designed to identify publications 
describing cost-effectiveness analyses of BIAsp 30 in patients with type 2 
diabetes. Searches were limited to studies in humans, and published in the 
English language between January 1999 and July 2009. All records were screened 
for inclusion in the review.
RESULTS: Seven published cost-effectiveness analyses and ten abstracts were 
identified. One was a health technology assessment from the UK, which evaluated 
cost-effectiveness using the UKPDS Outcomes Model and meta-analysis of published 
clinical trials and concluded that premixed insulin analogs were unlikely to be 
cost-effective versus insulin glargine or biphasic human insulin. In all other 
studies the cost-effectiveness of BIAsp 30 versus other insulin regimens was 
assessed using the validated CORE Diabetes Model and outcomes from either the 
INITIATE randomized controlled trial, or the PRESENT or IMPROVE observational 
studies. However, notable limitations include the fact that all 
cost-effectiveness analyses to date have been performed using a single model and 
that a number of these are based on data from observational studies rather than 
randomized controlled trials. Nevertheless, long-term clinical and economic 
outcomes were reported for several countries: UK, US, Sweden, Saudi Arabia, 
Poland, South Africa, South Korea and China. BIAsp 30 was associated with 
improvements in quality-adjusted life expectancy in all countries. Estimates of 
direct costs varied according to country and comparator, but incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for the US and UK were USD 46 533 and GBP 6951 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained for BIAsp 30 versus insulin glargine.
CONCLUSIONS: Although cost-effectiveness data on BIAsp 30 are scarce the 
majority of the analyses identified in this review suggest that BIAsp 30 is 
likely to be cost-effective compared to insulin glargine and biphasic human 
insulin across a wide range of settings, and under certain circumstances would 
be a dominant treatment option.

DOI: 10.1185/03007991003689381
PMID: 20387997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Curr Pharm Des. 2010;16(6):604-8. doi: 10.2174/138161210790883750.

B cells compartment in centenarian offspring and old people.

Colonna-Romano G(1), Buffa S, Bulati M, Candore G, Lio D, Pellicanò M, Vasto S, 
Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biopatologia e Metodologie Biomediche, Università di Palermo, 
Corso Tukory, 211, 90134, Palermo, Italy. gcolonna@unipa.it

Immunosenescence is considered a major contributory factor to the increased 
frequency of morbidity and mortality among elderly. On the other hand 
centenarians are considered the best example of successful ageing. To gain 
insight into mechanisms of immunosenescence and its clinical relevance, a 
possible model is represented by centenarians and/or their offspring. Nowadays 
centenarians are not more a curiosity, but in Europe are 1/8000 inhabitants and 
it has been demonstrated that the centenarian offspring, who are typically in 
their 70s and 80s, have a survival advantage when compared with age-matched 
controls whose parents died at an average life expectancy. Then again, studies 
on immunosenescence focus mainly on T cell impairment, although B cells are also 
affected. So, in the present preliminary report, we have studied B cell 
compartment in two classes of individuals, old people and centenarian offspring. 
B cell compartment was analysed using IgD and CD27 antibodies which characterize 
naïve B cells (IgD(+) CD27(-)), memory unswitched B cells (IgD(+)CD27(+)), 
memory switched B cells(IgD(-)CD27(+)) and double negative B cells (DN) 
(IgD(-)CD27(-)), i.e. exhausted memory cells. As expected, in both cohorts we 
observed a decreased B cell count. However, in centenarian offspring, naïve B 
cells are more abundant whereas exhausted memory cells (DN B cells, 
IgD(-)CD27(-)) do not show the increase that we have previously demonstrated in 
healthy elderly donors. These data are similar to that found in previously 
experiments on young subjects. So, our preliminary results show that centenarian 
offspring do not have the typical trend of memory/naive B cell subsets observed 
in elderly people and this is in agreement with the higher levels of IgM in the 
serum of centenarian offspring in comparison with data obtained in age-matched 
controls. This reservoir of naive B cell might be one of the causes that make 
centenarian offspring able to keep fighting off new infections, hence prolonging 
their life. So, B cell subset changes could represent a hallmark of successful 
or unsuccessful ageing and could be used as a biomarker of human life span, 
potentially useful for the evaluation of anti-ageing treatment.

DOI: 10.2174/138161210790883750
PMID: 20388070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Curr Pharm Des. 2010;16(6):619-30. doi: 10.2174/138161210790883813.

Aging and oral health: effects in hard and soft tissues.

Guiglia R(1), Musciotto A, Compilato D, Procaccini M, Lo Russo L, Ciavarella D, 
Lo Muzio L, Cannone V, Pepe I, D'Angelo M, Campisi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Sciences, University of Palermo, Italy.

Changing demographics, including an increase in life expectancy and the growing 
numbers of elderly has recently focused attention on the need for geriatric 
dental care. Ageing affects oral tissues in addition to other parts of the human 
body, and oral health (including oral mucosa, lips, teeth and associated 
structures, and their functional activity) is an integral component of general 
health; indeed, oral disease can cause pain, difficulty in speaking, 
mastication, swallowing, maintaining a balanced diet, not to mention aesthetical 
considerations and facial alterations leading to anxiety and depression. The 
World Health Organization recommends the adoption of certain strategies for 
improving the oral health of the elderly, including the management and 
maintenance of oral conditions which are necessary for re-establishing effective 
masticatory function. Oral health is often neglected in the elderly, and oral 
diseases associated with aging are complex, adversely affecting the quality of 
life. Although oral health problems are not usually associated with death, oral 
cancers result in nearly 8,000 deaths each year, and more than half of these 
occur at an age of 65 years plus. This report, which is dedicated to geriatric 
physicians, geriatric dentistry and specialists in oral medicine reviews 
age-related oral changes in elderly patients and efforts to summarize the 
effects of aging in hard and soft oral tissues.

DOI: 10.2174/138161210790883813
PMID: 20388072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Curr Pharm Des. 2010;16(7):775-82. doi: 10.2174/138161210790883552.

Non smoking for successful aging: therapeutic perspectives.

Nicita-Mauro V(1), Maltese G, Nicita-Mauro C, Lasco A, Basile G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, University of Messina, University Hospital, 
Messina, Italy. nicitav@unime.it

The smoke of cigarettes represents an important accelerator of the aging 
process, and there is no doubt that smoke is an important risk factor for many 
diseases, in particular for cardiovascular, neoplastic and respiratory diseases. 
Smoking plays an important role also in the development of other pathological 
conditions being particularly frequent in geriatric ages, such as dementia, 
osteoporosis, diabetes, erectile dysfunction, senile macular degeneration, 
nuclear cataract and alterations of skin. This means that smoke compromises not 
only life expectancy, but also the quality of the life, favoring the occurrence 
of non-autonomy. Non-smokers have a much higher life expectancy than smokers, 
and the suspension of smoking is accompanied, even in the elderly, by an 
increase in the survival time due to the reduction of smoke-induced biological 
damage. The first requirement of stopping smoking certainly is the motivation of 
the smoker himself to do this, since without this motivation any attempt is 
futile. Today numerous quitting strategies exist, either of pharmacological or 
non-pharmacological type, which are also advantageous for the elderly person. 
Approved pharmacological treatments include nicotine replacement therapies, 
bupropion, drugs targeting cannabinoid receptors and newer pharmacological 
approaches including the selective nicotinic partial agonists. Varenicline, an 
alpha4 beta2 nicotinic acetylcoline receptor partial agonist, is the most 
recently agent approved for smoking cessation. This drug works by reducing the 
strength of the smoker's urge to smoke and by relieving withdrawal symptoms. The 
most effective smoking cessation programs involve a combination of 
pharmacotherapy and behavioural and/or cognitive counselling to improve 
abstinence rates.

DOI: 10.2174/138161210790883552
PMID: 20388087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Feb;44(2):140-3.

[Application of disability adjusted life years in evaluating health effects due 
to particulate air pollution in Chinese cities].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen RJ(1), Chen BH, Kan HD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, School of Public Health, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200032, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the loss of disability adjusted life years (DALYs) due to 
particulate air pollution in Chinese urban residents.
METHODS: DALYs was applied to evaluate the health effects due to particulate air 
pollution in the residents of 656 Chinese cities, and the data of annual average 
concentrations of inhalable particle (PM(10)) in 2006 were collected from the 
state-owned air quality monitoring network.
RESULTS: Particulate air pollution in Chinese urban areas in 2006, could cause 
(506.6 +/- 95.2) thousand premature deaths, (156.6 +/- 41.2) thousand new cases 
of chronic bronchitis, (12.6 +/- 5.2) million outpatient visits for internal 
medicine, (99.9 +/- 50.4) thousand and (72.0 +/- 8.2) thousand hospital 
admissions for cardiovascular diseases and respiratory diseases respectively. 
The attributable DALYs loss in urban residents amounted up to (5.26 +/- 0.99) 
million person years in 2006, of which, 96.26% (506.55/526.22) were caused by 
premature deaths. The attributable loss of DALYs increased with more seriously 
PM-polluted atmosphere and larger urban population.
CONCLUSION: Substantial adverse health effects due to outdoor particulate air 
pollution were observed in China urban areas, thus strengthening air pollution 
control still remains an imperative and urgent matter in public health 
perspective.

PMID: 20388335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Dent Educ. 2010 Apr;74(4):392-6.

The nature and frequency of medical emergencies among patients in a dental 
school setting.

Anders PL(1), Comeau RL, Hatton M, Neiders ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Diagnostic Sciences, University at Buffalo School of 
Dental Medicine, Buffalo, NY 14214, USA. planders@buffalo.edu

As health care improves and life expectancy increases, dentists and dental 
students are treating a growing number of elderly and medically compromised 
patients, increasing the likelihood of a medical emergency during treatment. 
Previous studies examining emergencies in a dental setting have relied upon 
self-reports and are therefore subject to biases in reporting. The purpose of 
this study was to examine data generated from documentation of CODE-5 medical 
emergency events at the University at Buffalo School of Dental Medicine over an 
eight-and-a-half-year period. The incidence of emergencies was found to be 164 
events per million patient visits, which is lower than reported in previous 
studies. Most emergencies involved suspected cardiovascular events, syncope, 
complications related to local anesthesia, and hypoglycemia. Twenty percent of 
emergencies involved people who were in the building for reasons other than to 
receive dental care, underscoring the need for an operational CODE-5 system 
whenever a building is occupied. We suggest strategies to reduce the incidence 
of medical emergencies and increase ability to manage those that do occur.

PMID: 20388811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Front Horm Res. 2010;39:154-167. doi: 10.1159/000312701. Epub 2010 Apr 8.

Rarer syndromes characterized by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.

Aminzadeh M, Kim HG, Layman LC, Cheetham TD.

Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) secondary to hypothalamic 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone deficiency is a notable feature of a number of 
rare syndromes, where unlike idiopathic (isolated) HH, other endocrinopathies 
may also be apparent. The presence of a particular spectrum of clinical features 
in addition to HH may suggest a particular underlying diagnosis. Placing the 
diagnosis of HH into that context will then have important implications in terms 
of management and predicting long-term functional outcome. In some instances, 
establishing the genetic basis of a particular syndrome or disorder has advanced 
the understanding of normal hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal function (e.g. LEP 
deficiency, DAX-1 and CHARGE syndrome) whilst in other disorders much has still 
to be learnt (e.g. Bardet-Biedl and Prader-Willi syndrome). In this chapter the 
above syndromes, where HH is a feature in most or all affected individuals, will 
be discussed. Recent advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology of the 
HH will be highlighted and management options presented. Longer term therapy 
with sex steroid replacement is becoming even more important if improvements in 
life expectancy are to be matched by improvements in quality of life.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000312701
PMID: 20389093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Br J Cancer. 2010 Apr 27;102(9):1355-60. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6605650. Epub
2010  Apr 13.

A Phase Ib trial of CA4P (combretastatin A-4 phosphate), carboplatin, and 
paclitaxel in patients with advanced cancer.

Rustin GJ(1), Shreeves G, Nathan PD, Gaya A, Ganesan TS, Wang D, Boxall J, 
Poupard L, Chaplin DJ, Stratford MR, Balkissoon J, Zweifel M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Northwood, 
Middlesex, UK. grustin@nhs.net

BACKGROUND: The vascular disrupting agent combretastatin A4 phosphate (CA4P) 
causes major regression of animal tumours when given as combination therapy.
METHODS: Patients with advanced cancer refractory to standard therapy were 
treated with CA4P as a 10-min infusion, 20 h before carboplatin, paclitaxel, or 
paclitaxel, followed by carboplatin.
RESULTS: Combretastatin A4 phosphate was escalated from 36 to 54 mg m(-2) with 
the carboplatin area under the concentration curve (AUC) 4-5, from 27 to 54 mg 
m(-2) with paclitaxel 135-175 mg m(-2), and from 54 to 72 mg m(-2) with 
carboplatin AUC 5 and paclitaxel 175 mg m(-2). Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was seen 
in 17%, and thrombocytopenia only in 4% of 46 patients. Grade 1-3 hypertension 
(26% of patients) and grade 1-3 tumour pain (65% of patients) were the most 
typical non-haematological toxicities. Dose-limiting toxicity of grade 3 
hypertension or grade 3 ataxia was seen in two patients at 72 mg m(-2). 
Responses were seen in 10 of 46 (22%) patients with ovarian, oesophageal, 
small-cell lung cancer, and melanoma.
CONCLUSION: The combination of CA4P with carboplatin and paclitaxel was well 
tolerated in the majority of patients with adequate premedication and had 
antitumour activity in patients who were heavily pretreated.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6605650
PMCID: PMC2865759
PMID: 20389300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. AIDS Behav. 2011 Jan;15(1):243-51. doi: 10.1007/s10461-010-9682-3.

Cigarette smoking and mortality among HIV-infected individuals in Seattle, 
Washington (1996-2008).

Pines H(1), Koutsky L, Buskin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington,P.O. Box 357236, 
Seattle, WA 98195, USA. hpines@ucla.edu

HIV-infected individuals with access to highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART) are living longer and the causes of excess morbidity and mortality among 
people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) are becoming comparable to individuals 
without HIV infection. However, many PLWHA smoke cigarettes-a well known 
contributor to excess morbidity and mortality. To investigate the association 
between smoking and mortality among PLWHA during the HAART era (1996+), we 
conducted a retrospective cohort study of 2,108 PLWHA enrolled in Seattle and 
King County's Adult and Adolescent Spectrum of HIV Disease Study. Adjusted 
hazard ratios (aHRs) for all-cause and cause-specific mortality were obtained 
using Cox proportional hazards regression. Compared to never smokers, current 
smokers (aHR = 1.8, 95% CI: 1.3, 2.3) and individuals with an increased dose 
and/or duration of smoking were at greater risk of all-cause mortality. Although 
additional research is needed to evaluate the full effect of smoking on 
cause-specific mortality, smoking cessation programs should target PLWHA to 
further increase their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-010-9682-3
PMID: 20390335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. J Women Aging. 2010;22(1):15-21. doi: 10.1080/08952840903488872.

Vital satisfaction as a health indicator in elderly women.

Requena C(1), Martínez AM, Ortiz T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Sociology, and Philosphy, University of León, León, 
Spain.

The long life expentancy of the elderly motivates interest in their quality of 
life. Our study analyzes vital satisfaction as a global indicator of the three 
dimensions (physical, mental, and social) of the quality of life in relation to 
health. The subjects were 310 women, with an average age of 71.22 years old (SD 
6.72), with minimum education, and active aging. The reliability was examined 
with the COOP-WONCA Charts and the Nottingham Health Profile. The results show 
that vital satisfaction significantly correlates with the three dimensions of 
health, in particular with the mental domain.

DOI: 10.1080/08952840903488872
PMID: 20391145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Psychol Health. 2010 Feb;25(2):131-47. doi: 10.1080/08870440802207975.

Judgment of riskiness: impact of personality, naive theories and heuristic 
thinking among female students.

Gana K(1), Lourel M, Trouillet R, Fort I, Mezred D, Blaison C, Boudjemadi V, 
K'Delant P, Ledrich J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Nancy University, Nancy, France. 
kamel.gana@univ-nancy2.fr

Three different studies were conducted to examine the impact of heuristic 
reasoning in the perception of health-related events: lifetime risk of breast 
cancer (Study 1, n = 468), subjective life expectancy (Study 2, n = 449), and 
subjective age of onset of menopause (Study 3, n = 448). In each study, three 
experimental conditions were set up: control, anchoring heuristic and 
availability heuristic. Analyses of Covariance controlling for optimism, 
depressive mood, Locus of Control, hypochondriac tendencies and subjective 
health, indicated significant effect of experimental conditions on perceived 
breast-cancer risk (p = 0.000), subjective life expectancy (p = 0.000) and 
subjective onset of menopause (p = 0.000). Indeed, all findings revealed that 
availability and anchoring heuristics were being used to estimate personal 
health-related events. The results revealed that some covariates, hypochondriac 
tendencies in Study 1, optimism, depressive mood and subjective health in Study 
2 and internal locus of control in Study 3 had significant impact on judgment of 
riskiness.

DOI: 10.1080/08870440802207975
PMID: 20391211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Soc Work Public Health. 2010 Jan;25(1):42-58. doi:
10.1080/19371910902877217.

Efficiency of health care system at the sub-state level in Madhya Pradesh, 
India.

Purohit BC(1).

Author information:
(1)Madras School of Economics, Behind Government Data Centre, Kottur, Chennai, 
India. brijeshpurohit@gmail.com

This paper attempts a sub-state-level analysis of health system for a low-income 
Indian state, namely, Madhya Pradesh. The objective of our study is to establish 
efficiency parameters that may help health policy makers to improve 
district-level and thus state-level health system performance. It provides an 
idealized yardstick to evaluate the performance of the health sector by using 
stochastic frontier technique. The study was carried out in two stages of 
estimation, and our results suggest that life expectancy in the Indian state 
could be enhanced considerably by correcting the factors that are adversely 
influencing sub-state-level health system efficiency. Our results indicate that 
main factors within the health system for discrepancy in interdistrict 
performance are inequitable distribution of supplies, availability of skilled 
attention at birth, and inadequate staffing relative to patient load of rural 
population at primary health centers. Overcoming these factors through 
additional resources in the deficient districts, mobilized partly from grants in 
aid and partly from patient welfare societies, may help the state to improve 
life expectancy speedily and more equitably. Besides the direct inputs from the 
health sector, a more conducive environment for gender development, reducing 
inequality in opportunities for women in health, education and other rights may 
provide the necessary impetus towards reducing maternal morbidity and mortality 
and add to overall life expectancy in the state.

DOI: 10.1080/19371910902877217
PMID: 20391252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2010 Feb;36(1):91-102. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1248728.
Epub  2010 Apr 13.

The management of cardiovascular diseases in patients with hemophilia.

Coppola A(1), Tagliaferri A, Franchini M.

Author information:
(1)Regional Reference Centre for Coagulation Disorders, Federico II University 
Hospital, Naples, Italy.

Morbidity and mortality for cardiovascular disease are likely to be lower in 
patients with hemophilia than in the general male population. However, their 
