other imaging tests.

DOI: 10.1007/s10554-010-9634-z
PMCID: PMC2927101
PMID: 20446040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Obes Surg. 2010 Jul;20(7):919-28. doi: 10.1007/s11695-010-0169-0.

The cost, quality of life impact, and cost-utility of bariatric surgery in a 
managed care population.

McEwen LN(1), Coelho RB, Baumann LM, Bilik D, Nota-Kirby B, Herman WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Metabolism, Endocrinology and Diabetes, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of Michigan Health System, 1500 E. Medical Center Dr. 3920 
Taubman Center, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-5354, USA.

Our purpose was to assess the cost, quality of life impact, and the cost-utility 
of bariatric surgery in a managed care population. We studied 221 patients who 
underwent bariatric surgery between 2001 and 2005. We analyzed medical claims 
data for all patients and survey data for 122 survey respondents (55% response 
rate). Patients were generally middle-aged, female, and white. Sixty-four 
percent underwent open and 33% underwent laparoscopic Roux-en-Y procedures. One 
year after surgery, mean body mass index fell from 51 to 31 kg/m(2) in women and 
from 59 to 35 kg/m(2) in men with substantial improvements in comorbidities. 
Postsurgical mortality and morbidity were low. Total per member per month costs 
increased in the 6 months before bariatric surgery, were lower in the 12 months 
after bariatric surgery, but increased somewhat over the next 12 months. When 
presurgical quality of life was assessed prospectively, average health utility 
scores improved by 0.14 one year after surgery. In analyses that took a lifetime 
time horizon, projected future costs based on age and obesity and discounted 
costs and health utilities at 3% per year, the cost-utility ratio for bariatric 
surgery versus no surgery was approximately $1,400 per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained. In sensitivity analyses, bariatric surgery was more 
cost-effective in women, non-whites, more obese patients, and when performed 
laparoscopically. Although not cost-saving, bariatric surgery represents a very 
good value for money. Its long-term cost effectiveness appears to depend on the 
natural history and cost of late postsurgical complications and the natural 
history and cost of untreated morbid obesity.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-010-0169-0
PMID: 20446053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nihon Rinsho. 2010 May;68(5):953-68.

[Significance and limitation of changing the lifestyle among the 
elderly--strategies on the prevention of lifestyle-related diseases and 
long-term care state].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki T(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Longevity Sciences, National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology.

In Japan, the average life expectancy exceeds 80 years (79 years in men, 86 
years in women in 2009), and elderly persons aged 65 years and older occupy more 
than 22% of the population. According to the increase of the elderly population, 
the number of persons requiring care has inevitably increased. Under these 
circumstances, the long-term care insurance system started in 2000 in order to 
share nursing care costs for the elderly among the general public. There is a 
misconception that thorough implementation of lifestyle-related disease 
prevention will lead to care prevention. While prevention of lifestyle-related 
disease is undeniably important, prevention of long-term care dependence or care 
prevention requires a different approach. For example, the major causes of death 
in those over 65 are neoplasm (cancer), heart disease and stoke. Although stroke 
remains a cause of long-term care dependence, the other major causes are 
frailty, fall and fracture, and dementia (these are called the "geriatric 
syndromes"). The prevention of these geriatric syndromes is the feature of care 
prevention. Therefore, prevention of long-term care dependence includes not only 
the prevention of lifestyle-related diseases but also extends widely to the 
geriatric syndromes.

PMID: 20446598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(7):597-608. doi:
10.2165/11537560-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of leukotriene receptor antagonists versus long-acting beta-2 
agonists as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids for asthma: a pragmatic 
trial.

Wilson EC(1), Price D, Musgrave SD, Sims EJ, Shepstone L, Murdoch J, Mugford HM, 
Blyth A, Juniper EF, Ayres JG, Wolfe S, Freeman D, Gilbert RF, Hillyer EV, 
Harvey I.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. 
ed.wilson@uea.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Information is lacking on the relative effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness--in a real-life primary-care setting--of leukotriene receptor 
antagonists (LTRAs) and long-acting beta2 adrenergic receptor agonists (beta2 
agonists) as add-on therapy for patients whose asthma symptoms are not 
controlled on low-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of LTRAs compared with long-acting 
beta2 agonists as add-on therapy for patients whose asthma symptoms are not 
controlled on low-dose ICS.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a 2-year, pragmatic, 
randomized controlled trial set in 53 primary-care practices in the UK. Patients 
aged 12-80 years with asthma insufficiently controlled with ICS (n = 361) were 
randomly assigned to add-on LTRAs (n = 176) or long-acting beta2 agonists (n = 
185). The main outcome measures were the incremental cost per point improvement 
in the Mini Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (MiniAQLQ), per point 
improvement in the Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ) and per QALY gained from 
perspectives of the UK NHS and society.
RESULTS: Over 2 years, the societal cost per patient receiving LTRAs was pounds 
sterling 1157 versus pounds sterling 952 for long-acting beta2 agonists, a 
(significant, adjusted) increase of pounds sterling 214 (95% CI 2, 411) [year 
2005 values]. Patients receiving LTRAs experienced a non-significant incremental 
gain of 0.009 QALYs (95% CI -0.077, 0.103). The incremental cost per QALY gained 
from the societal (NHS) perspective was pounds sterling 22,589 (pounds sterling 
11,919). Uncertainty around this point estimate suggested that, given a maximum 
willingness to pay of pounds sterling 30,000 per QALY gained, the probability 
that LTRAs are a cost-effective alternative to long-acting beta2 agonists as 
add-on therapy was approximately 52% from both societal and NHS perspectives.
CONCLUSIONS: On balance, these results marginally favour the repositioning of 
LTRAs as a cost-effective alternative to long-acting beta2 agonists as add-on 
therapy to ICS for asthma. However, there is much uncertainty surrounding the 
incremental cost effectiveness because of similarity of clinical benefit and 
broad confidence intervals for differences in healthcare costs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: UK National Research Register N0547145240; Controlled 
Clinical Trials ISRCTN99132811.

DOI: 10.2165/11537560-000000000-00000
PMID: 20446755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Gerodontology. 2010 Mar;27(1):1-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00364.x.

Credit crunch, swine flu, the winter freeze - life pressures on the older adult.

Newton J.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00364.x
PMID: 20446935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2011 Jun;78(3):260-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2010.04.006. Epub 2010 May 5.

A randomised trial of mastectomy only versus tamoxifen for treating elderly 
patients with operable primary breast cancer-final results at 20-year follow-up.

Chakrabarti J(1), Kenny FS, Syed BM, Robertson JF, Blamey RW, Cheung KL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Breast Surgery, University of Nottingham, UK.

A recent Cochrane review of trials involving elderly women with operable primary 
breast cancer showed no significant difference in overall survival between 
surgery (±adjuvant tamoxifen) and primary endocrine therapy using tamoxifen. We 
report the final results of a randomised pilot trial comparing primary tamoxifen 
and wedge mastectomy as initial treatment in this population. One hundred and 
thirty-one women >70 years with early operable primary breast cancer (<5 cm), 
unselected for oestrogen receptor (ER), entered the trial in 1982-1987. 
Sixty-eight patients were allocated to tamoxifen only and 67 to wedge mastectomy 
only, as primary treatment. At 20 years of follow-up, the median time to local 
failure was significantly shorter in the tamoxifen arm though approximately 
one-fifth of patients in this group did not develop local failure requiring 
mastectomy. There was no difference in regional recurrence, distant metastases 
or overall survival between the mastectomy and tamoxifen arms. In this small 
study, primary endocrine therapy achieved local control in 30% of those 
surviving at 5 years and 20% at 10 years, unselected for ER. The primary therapy 
used did not significantly affect regional recurrence, incidence of distant 
metastases or overall survival. Primary endocrine therapy should certainly be 
considered in those patients with ER positive tumours and who are unfit (based 
on life expectancy) for or refuse surgery.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2010.04.006
PMID: 20447833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Med Decis Making. 2010 Nov-Dec;30(6):685-93. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10369004.
Epub  2010 May 6.

A review and meta-analysis of utility values for lung cancer.

Sturza J(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Policy, Economics and Innovation, US Environmental Protection 
Agency, Washington, DC, USA. sturza.julie@epa.gov

BACKGROUND: Published utility estimates for lung cancer are plentiful and vary 
greatly. The reason for this variability is unclear, but may result from 
differences in the methods used to elicit each utility.
PURPOSE: To identify a set of pooled lung cancer utility estimates reflective of 
the available literature and determine which methodological factors 
significantly influence the value of lung cancer utility.
DATA SOURCES: Searches of PubMed, the NHS Economic Evaluation Database, and the 
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Registry from the Center for the Evaluation of Value 
and Risk in Health.
STUDY SELECTION: English-language studies were included if they presented at 
least one previously unpublished lung cancer utility value, noted the 
elicitation technique and utility value provider.
DATA EXTRACTION AND ANALYSIS: Two trained readers independently reviewed each 
article and extracted information for analysis. A hierarchical linear model 
(HLM) was used to perform a meta-regression with cancer stage, lower bound of 
scale, upper bound of scale, respondent, elicitation method, and lung cancer 
subtype as explanatory variables.
DATA SYNTHESIS: . Twenty-three articles containing 223 unique utility values 
were included. Lung cancer stage and subtype, the upper bound label of the 
utility scale, and respondent identity were significant predictors of utility (P 
< 0.05), while the lower bound label of utility scale was not. The HLM provided 
a set of pooled utility values for metastatic (0.57), mixed or nonspecified 
stage (0.77), and nonmetastatic lung cancer (0.87)-for the case of standard 
gamble as method, patients as respondents, non-small-cell lung cancer and scale 
labeled death to perfect health.
CONCLUSION: Methodological factors significantly affect lung cancer utilities; 
therefore, analysts should avoid direct comparisons of lung cancer utility 
values elicited with dissimilar methods.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10369004
PMID: 20448248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2010 Apr;69(4):396-404. doi: 
10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d6c436.

Partial depletion of CREB-binding protein reduces life expectancy in a mouse 
model of Huntington disease.

Klevytska AM(1), Tebbenkamp AT, Savonenko AV, Borchelt DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Previous studies have reported that mutant huntingtin (htt) interferes with 
cyclic AMP response element binding protein binding protein (CBP)-mediated 
transcription, possibly by inhibiting the acetylation of histones. In Drosophila 
models that express fragments of mutant htt, histone deacetylase inhibitors 
reverse deficits in histone acetylation, rescue photoreceptor degeneration, and 
prolong their survival. These compounds also improve motor deficits in a 
transgenic mouse model of Huntington disease (HD). To determine whether 
endogenous CBP depletion contributes to HD pathogenesis, we crossed HD-N171-82Q 
transgenic mice with mice harboring a disrupted CBP gene and produced mice with 
partial (50%) depletion of CBP. This reduction of CBP levels decreased the life 
expectancy of the HD-N171-82Q Line 6 mouse model. The loss of CBP had no obvious 
impact on the severity of motor impairment, degeneration of the striatum, mutant 
htt inclusion formation, or global levels of acetylated histones H3 or H4 in 
brain. In cell models, we confirmed that mutant htt inclusions recruit human CBP 
but found no evidence for interactions between soluble forms of mutant htt and 
CBP. Although we identified no neurological explanation for the decreased life 
expectancy of HD-N171-82Q mice with partial depletion of CBP, the data are 
consistent with the notion that CBP function mitigates mutant htt toxicity by a 
currently unidentified mechanism.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d6c436
PMID: 20448484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Isr Med Assoc J. 2010 Jan;12(1):10-5.

Nonagenarians in internal medicine: characteristics, outcomes and predictors for 
in-hospital and post-discharge mortality.

Zafrir B(1), Laor A, Bitterman H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Carmel Medical Center, Haifa, Israel. 
barakz@bezeqint.net

BACKGROUND: Parallel to increased life expectancy, the number of very elderly 
patients hospitalized in internal medicine departments is growing rapidly, 
although clinical data on hospital care are lacking.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the sociodemographic data, hospitalization 
characteristics and outcomes of nonagenarian patients, as these measures are 
necessary for evaluating prognostic information and predictors of mortality.
METHODS: We reviewed the medical records of all patients aged > or = 90 
hospitalized in our institute's Department of Internal Medicine. The data 
comprised 482 admissions of 333 patients hospitalized over a one year period.
RESULTS: Half of the study patients were residents of nursing institutions. A 
high rate of atrial fibrillation was documented (106 patients, 32%). Acute 
infectious diseases constituted the leading diagnosis (276/482 admissions, 57%), 
followed by acute coronary syndrome (17% of admissions). In-hospital mortality 
occurred in 74 patients (22%). Chronic therapy with statins or acetylsalicylic 
acid was inversely related to mortality (P<0.05). The main predictors for 
in-hospital death of nonagenarians were pressure sores, older age, atrial 
fibrillation, malignant disease, and admission due to an acute infection, 
especially Clostridium difficile-associated diseases in addition, mental 
decline, permanent urinary catheter, leukocytosis, renal failure and 
hypoalbuminemia predicted post-discharge mortality. Admission due to an 
infectious disease but not acute coronary syndrome was significantly correlated 
to in-hospital and post-discharge mortality (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Hospitalized nonagenarians comprise a growing group with distinct 
characteristics and increasing significance in the daily practice of internal 
medicine departments. Comprehensive assessment of the elderly at admission 
together with identification of the above clinical and laboratory risk factors 
for mortality will help determine in-hospital management, discharge planning and 
rehabilitation programs.

PMID: 20450122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Isr Med Assoc J. 2010 Jan;12(1):47-8.

Obesity shortens life in children and adults.

Rosner F.

PMID: 20450131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. J Periodontol. 2010 Jun;81(6):819-26. doi: 10.1902/jop.2010.090637.

Short implants in maxillae and mandibles: a retrospective study with 1 to 8 
years of follow-up.

Anitua E, Orive G.

BACKGROUND: The aims of this study are to evaluate the long-term survival rates 
of short dental implants in posterior areas in both jaws and analyze the 
influence of different factors on implant survival.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study design was used. Six hundred and sixty-one 
patients received 1,287 short implants (<8.5 mm) between 2001 to 2008 in 
Vitoria, Spain. All implant installations were performed by two experienced 
surgeons and rehabilitations were done by three prosthodontists. Each implant 
failure was carefully analyzed. The potential influence of demographic factors, 
clinical factors, surgery-depending factors, and prosthetic variables on implant 
survival was studied. Implant survival was analyzed using a life table analysis 
(Wilcoxon [Gehan] test).
RESULTS: The overall survival rates of short implants were 99.3% and 98.8% for 
the implant and subject-based analysis, respectively. The mean follow-up period 
for the implants was 47.9 +/- 24.46 months. A total of 9 out of 1,287 implants 
were lost during the observation period. None of the variables studied resulted 
in statistical association with implant failure because of the low number of 
failures.
CONCLUSION: Results of the present retrospective study show that treatment with 
short implants can be considered safe and predictable if used under strict 
clinical protocols.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2010.090637
PMID: 20450361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Periodontol. 2010 Sep;81(9):1242-9. doi: 10.1902/jop.2010.100064.

Evaluation of single-tooth implants in the second molar region: a 5-year 
life-table analysis of a retrospective study.

Koo KT(1), Wikesjö UM, Park JY, Kim TI, Seol YJ, Ku Y, Rhyu IC, Chung CP, Lee 
YM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, School of Dentistry, and Dental Research 
Institute, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: To our knowledge, no study has evaluated the success or survival 
rate of single-tooth implants that replaced missing maxillary and mandibular 
second molars. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the 1- to 5-year 
cumulative survival rate (CSR) for single-tooth implants placed in the second 
molar region and the effects of associated factors.
METHODS: Four hundred eighty-nine patients (298 males and 191 females; age 
range: 23 to 91 years; mean age: 47 years) who were admitted to the Seoul 
National University Dental Hospital between March 2003 and July 2008 and treated 
with single-tooth implants in the second molar region (227 maxillary implants 
and 294 mandibular implants; total: 521 implants) were included in the study. 
Thirty-two subjects received two implants each. A 1- to 5-year CSR was 
calculated using a life-table analysis. A comparison of CSRs between maxillary 
versus mandibular implants, one-stage versus two-stage implants, short (<or=8.5 
mm) versus long (>10 mm) implants, and standard-diameter (<or=4.0 mm) versus 
wide-diameter (>or=5.0 mm) implants was performed using Wilcoxon (Gehan) 
statistics. P <0.05 was considered significant.
RESULTS: Fifteen of the 521 implants were lost between insertion and the 
follow-up examinations. The 1- to 5-year CSR was 95.1%. There were no 
statistically significant differences in CSRs between implants placed in 
maxillas and mandibles (96.3% versus 94.9%, respectively; P = 0.084), one- and 
two-stage implants (95.6% versus 94.7%, respectively; P = 0.267), short and long 
implants (100% versus 95.1%, respectively; P = 0.582), and standard- and 
wide-diameter implants (93.8% versus 96.8%, respectively; P = 0.065).
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limitations of the study, the placement of single-tooth 
implants in the second molar region was an effective and reliable treatment 
modality. Also, associated factors such as implant diameter, length, and 
location (the maxilla versus the mandible) may not have an impact on the 
long-term success of implants.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2010.100064
PMID: 20450374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Thorac Surg Clin. 2010 May;20(2):245-52. doi:
10.1016/j.thorsurg.2010.02.005.

Extended transsternal thymectomy.

Daniel VC(1), Wright CD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Blake 1570, 55 
Fruit Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

The two primary indications for thymectomy are the treatments of patients with 
thymoma and patients with myasthenia gravis. Several different methods have been 
described to remove the thymus gland, including transcervical-transsternal 
"maximal" thymectomy, extended transsternal thymectomy, classic transsternal 
thymectomy, (extended) transcervical thymectomy, and video-assisted 
thoracoscopic thymectomy. The purpose of this article is to focus on the 
technical aspects of performing an extended transsternal thymectomy and the 
published results of extended transsternal thymectomy as compared with other 
techniques available.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2010.02.005
PMID: 20451135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Sep;45(9):685-90. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.04.009. Epub
2010  May 6.

The impact of larval and adult dietary restriction on lifespan, reproduction and 
growth in the mosquito Aedes aegypti.

Joy TK(1), Arik AJ, Corby-Harris V, Johnson AA, Riehle MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, United 
States.

Dietary restriction extends lifespan in many organisms, but little is known 
about how it affects hematophagous arthropods. We demonstrated that diet 
restriction during either larval or adult stages extends Aedes aegypti lifespan. 
A. aegypti females fed either single or no blood meals survived 30-40% longer 
than those given weekly blood meals. However, mosquitoes given weekly blood 
meals produced far more eggs. To minimize reproduction's impact on lifespan, 
adult mosquitoes were fed artificial blood meals containing <10% of the protein 
in normal human blood, minimizing egg production. A. aegypti fed artificial 
blood meals containing 25mg/ml of BSA had significantly shorter lifespans than 
those fed either 10 or 5mg/ml. To assess the impact of larval dietary 
restriction on adult lifespan, we maintained larval A. aegypti on 2X, 1X (normal 
diet), 0.5X or 0.25X diets. Adult mosquitoes fed 0.5X and 0.25X larval diets 
survived significantly longer than those fed the 2X larval diet regardless of 
adult diet. In summary, dietary restriction during both larval and adult stages 
extends lifespan. This diet-mediated lifespan extension has important 
consequences for understanding how dietary restriction regulates lifespan and 
disease transmission.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.04.009
PMCID: PMC4181608
PMID: 20451597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Med Hypotheses. 2010 Jul;75(1):17-25. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.01.015. Epub
2010  May 7.

The effect of solar cycles on human lifespan in the 50 United states: variation 
in light affects the human genome.

Lowell WE(1), Davis GE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Psybernetics, Inc. (Research Group), 28 Eastern Ave., Augusta, ME 04330, USA. 
welowell@gmail.com

This paper describes the Sun's effect on the human genome as it relates to 
lifespan and expands our previous study from the State of Maine to the entire 
United States and the District of Columbia. In the current study we report that 
those persons conceived and likely born during the peaks (MAX approximately 
3years) of approximately 11-year solar cycles lived an average 1.7years less 
than those conceived and likely born during non-peaks (MIN approximately 
8years). Increased energy at solar MAX, albeit relatively a small 0.1% increase 
from MIN, apparently modifies the human genome/epigenome and engenders changes 
that predispose to various diseases, thereby shortening lifespan. It is likely 
that same energy increases beneficial variety in the genome which may enhance 
adaptability in a changing environment. This study also reports that living at 
higher elevations increases exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) and 
increases the difference between MAX and MIN in the six states at the highest 
elevations of their population centroids by approximately 13%, further 
shortening average lifespan about 3 months. How solar energy affects the genome 
is still not clear. The mechanism could be quantum mechanical (direct effects at 
a distance) similar to photosynthesis, or mediated by maternal hormones, 
chemokines or cytokines. The hypothesis is that specific wavelengths of UVR, 
experienced at critical times in development as at conception or early 
gestation, and with specific intensity or rate of change, modulates the 
expression of human diseases. This hypothesis could be readily testable in mice 
bred to manifest specific diseases.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.01.015
PMID: 20452128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Sep;45(9):691-701. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.04.008. Epub
 2010 May 7.

Genetic dissection of dietary restriction in mice supports the metabolic 
efficiency model of life extension.

Rikke BA(1), Liao CY, McQueen MB, Nelson JF, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, 
Boulder, CO 80309, USA. rikke@colorado.edu

Dietary restriction (DR) has been used for decades to retard aging in rodents, 
but its mechanism of action remains an enigma. A principal roadblock has been 
that DR affects many different processes, making it difficult to distinguish 
cause and effect. To address this problem, we applied a quantitative genetics 
approach utilizing the ILSXISS series of mouse recombinant inbred strains. 
Across 42 strains, mean female lifespan ranged from 380 to 1070days on DR (fed 
60% of ad libitum [AL]) and from 490 to 1020days on an AL diet. Longevity under 
DR and AL is under genetic control, showing 34% and 36% heritability, 
respectively. There was no correlation between lifespans on DR and AL; thus 
different genes modulate longevity under the two regimens. DR lifespans are 
significantly correlated with female fertility after return to an AL diet after 
various periods of DR (R=0.44, P=0.006). We assessed fuel efficiency (FE, 
ability to maintain growth and body weight independent of absolute food intake) 
using a multivariate approach and found it to be correlated with longevity and 
female fertility, suggesting possible causality. We found several quantitative 
trait loci responsible for these traits, mapping to chromosomes 7, 9, and 15. We 
present a metabolic model in which the anti-aging effects of DR are consistent 
with the ability to efficiently utilize dietary resources.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.04.008
PMCID: PMC2926251
PMID: 20452416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Cardiovasc Res. 2010 Sep 1;87(4):636-46. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvq133. Epub 2010
May  7.

Up-regulation of type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase in dilated cardiomyopathy.

Wang YY(1), Morimoto S, Du CK, Lu QW, Zhan DY, Tsutsumi T, Ide T, Miwa Y, 
Takahashi-Yanaga F, Sasaguri T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.

AIMS: Thyroid hormone (TH) has prominent effects on the heart, and 
hyperthyroidism is occasionally found to be a cause of dilated cardiomyopathy 
(DCM). We aim to explore the potential role of TH in the pathogenesis of DCM.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The pathophysiological role of TH in the heart was 
investigated using a knock-in mouse model of inherited DCM with a deletion 
mutation DeltaK210 in the cardiac troponin T gene. Serum tri-iodothyronine 
(T(3)) levels showed no significant difference between wild-type (WT) and DCM 
mice, whereas cardiac T(3) levels in DCM mice were significantly higher than 
those in WT mice. Type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (Dio2), which produces T(3) 
from thyroxin, was up-regulated in the DCM mice hearts. The cAMP levels were 
increased in DCM mice hearts, suggesting that transcriptional up-regulation of 
Dio2 gene is mediated through the evolutionarily conserved cAMP-response element 
site in its promoter. Propylthiouracil (PTU), an anti-thyroid drug, prevented 
the hypertrophic remodelling of the heart in DCM mice and improved their cardiac 
function and life expectancy. Akt and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 
MAPK) phosphorylation increased in the DCM mice hearts and PTU treatment 
significantly reduced the phosphorylation levels, strongly suggesting that Dio2 
up-regulation is involved in cardiac remodelling in DCM through activating the 
TH-signalling pathways involving Akt and p38 MAPK. Dio2 gene expression was also 
markedly up-regulated in the mice hearts developing similar eccentric 
hypertrophy after myocardial infarction.
CONCLUSION: Local hyperthyroidism via transcriptional up-regulation of the Dio2 
gene may be an important underlying mechanism for the hypertrophic cardiac 
remodelling in DCM.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvq133
PMID: 20453157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J R Stat Soc Ser A Stat Soc. 2010 Apr;173(2):331-349. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-985X.2009.00610.x.

Estimating stroke-free and total life expectancy in the presence of 
non-ignorable missing values.

van den Hout A(1), Matthews FE.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Biostatistics Unit Cambridge, UK.

A continuous time three-state model with time-dependent transition intensities 
is formulated to describe transitions between healthy and unhealthy states 
before death. By using time continuously, known death times can be taken into 
account. To deal with possible non-ignorable missing states, a selection model 
is proposed for the joint distribution of both the state and whether or not the 
state is observed. To estimate total life expectancy and its subdivision into 
life expectancy in health and ill health, the three-state model is extrapolated 
beyond the follow-up of the study. Estimation of life expectancies is 
illustrated by analysing data from a longitudinal study of aging where 
individuals are in a state of ill health if they have ever experienced a stroke. 
Results for the selection model are compared with results for a model where 
states are assumed to be missing at random and with results for a model that 
ignores missing states.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-985X.2009.00610.x
PMCID: PMC2859253
PMID: 20454440


151. Med Anthropol. 2010 Apr;29(2):194-215. doi: 10.1080/01459741003715391.

Extreme life extension: investing in cryonics for the long, long term.

Romain T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 
tromain@stanford.edu

This article explores American conceptualizations of finance, the future, the 
limits of biological time, and the possibilities of biotechnoscience through an 
investigation of the social world of cryonics-the freezing of the dead with the 
hope of future revival. I describe some of the cosmologies of life, death, time, 
and the management of the future that circulate within cryonics communities, and 
I draw out relationships between cryonics practices and discourses and more 
common forms of personal future management prevalent within American neoliberal 
capitalism. I also illustrate similarities and differences between cryonics and 
more mainstream biomedical technologies. In doing so, I argue that cryonics is 
one American manifestation of anxieties about aging, time, and the future. I 
investigate the impact of biotechnologies on self-making and biosociality, and 
argue that crafting of selves can be deeply entwined with practices of 
investment or hope in the future of biomedicine and technology.

DOI: 10.1080/01459741003715391
PMID: 20455144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Agric Food Chem. 2010 Jun 9;58(11):6884-94. doi: 10.1021/jf1007659.

Nanobiocomposites of carrageenan, zein, and mica of interest in food packaging 
and coating applications.

Sanchez-Garcia MD(1), Hilliou L, Lagaron JM.

Author information:
(1)Novel Materials and Nanotechnology Group, Instituto de Agroquímica y 
Tecnología de Alimentos, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Av 
Agustin Escardino 7, 46980 Paterna, Spain.

The present study presents the development and characterization of biocomposites 
of a red-algae-derived carrageenan, mica, and their blends with zein prolamine 
obtained by solvent casting. The morphology of the blends was characterized by 
scanning and transmission electron microscopy (SEM and TEM), optical microscopy, 
and atomic force microscopy (AFM). Mechanical behavior, water barrier, water 
uptake, and UV-vis protection of the cast films were also investigated. The 
results indicated that the addition of 10 wt % glycerol to the blends resulted 
in a better dispersion of the additive and, for that reason, a better 
improvement for the studied properties. The composites were seen colored but 
transparent and exhibited the ability to block the UV-vis radiation because of 
the characteristic absorbing properties of the filler. Nevertheless, the main 
conclusion from the work is that the nanocomposites were seen to act as a 
reinforcing plasticizer and also led to significantly reduced water permeability 
and uptake. The clay was found to be more efficient in the latter aspect than 
the zein prolamine as an additive. As a result, these novel carragenan-based 
biocomposites can have significant potential to develop packaging films and 
coatings for shelf-life extension of food products.

DOI: 10.1021/jf1007659
PMID: 20455568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2010 May;12 Suppl 1:e104-13. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2010.00236.x. Epub 2010 Apr 23.

Guided surgery and presurgical prosthesis: preliminary results of 33 fully 
edentulous maxillae treated in accordance with the NobelGuide protocol.

Gillot L(1), Noharet R, Cannas B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Anatomy, Odontological Faculty, University Paris Descartes, 
Paris, France. Lucgillot@aol.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to present the preliminary results of 33 
edentulous maxillary patients treated using the Nobelguide (Nobel Biocare AB, 
Göteborg, Sweden) technique.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-three patients were treated according to the 
conventional protocol of the Nobelguide technique in two clinical centers. This 
group of patients received 211 implants. Monitoring was carried out for over 
12-51 months, depending on the patient. The Nobelguide protocol was used for all 
patients.
RESULTS: Of the 211 implants loaded, four were lost (1.9%). The implant survival 
rate was therefore 98.1%. The prosthetic survival rate was 100%. There were some 
per-operative complications (four) and some postoperative complications (10 
fractures of resin).
CONCLUSION: These preliminary results seemed rather promising. These were the 
first cases of experienced surgeons who needed to learn a new implant placement 
protocol. It was clear that analysis and understanding of the system were 
essential in order to obtain such a success. Only one implant was replaced 
without there being any impact on the prosthesis survival rate which is 100%.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2010.00236.x
PMID: 20455905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Mar;64(4):465-74. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02289.x.

Are men shortchanged on health? Perspective on life expectancy, morbidity, and 
mortality in men and women in the United States.

Pinkhasov RM(1), Shteynshlyuger A, Hakimian P, Lindsay GK, Samadi DB, Shabsigh 
R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA. 
wuxingjiang@gmail.com

Comment in
    Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Sep;64(10):1458.

BACKGROUND: Significant gender disparities exist in life expectancy and major 
disease morbidity. There is an urgent need to understand the major issues 
related to men's health that contributes to these significant disparities. It is 
hypothesized that men have higher and earlier morbidities, in addition to 
behavioral factors that contribute to their lower life expectancy.
METHODS: Data was collected from CDC: Health United States, 2007; American Heart 
Association, American Obesity Association, and American Cancer Society.
RESULTS: Men have lower life expectancy than women in most countries around the 
world including United States. This gender disparity is consistent regardless of 
geography, race and ethnicity. More men die of 12 out of the 15 leading causes 
of death than women. In addition, men have higher morbidity and mortality in 
coronary heart disease (CHD), hypertension, diabetes, and cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Men's lower life expectancy may be explained by biological and 
clinical factors such as the higher incidence of cardiovascular metabolic 
disease and cancer. In the context of public health, raising awareness of 
cardiovascular and metabolic health is needed to reduce the gender disparity. In 
addition, consideration of preventive and early detection/intervention programs 
may improve men's health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02289.x
PMID: 20456193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Mar;64(4):475-87. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02290.x.

Are men shortchanged on health? Perspective on health care utilization and 
health risk behavior in men and women in the United States.

Pinkhasov RM(1), Wong J, Kashanian J, Lee M, Samadi DB, Pinkhasov MM, Shabsigh 
R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Significant gender disparities exist in life expectancy and major 
disease morbidity. There is a need to understand the major issues related to 
men's health that contributes to these significant disparities. It is 
hypothesized that, high-risk behaviors and low utilization of all and preventive 
health services contribute to the higher mortality and the higher and earlier 
morbidity in men.
METHODS: Data was collected from CDC: Health United States, 2007; Health 
Behavior of Adults: United States 2002-04; and National Ambulatory Medical Care 
Survey: 2005 Summary.
RESULTS: In United States, men are more likely to be regular and heavy alcohol 
drinkers, heavier smokers who are less likely to quit, non-medical illicit drug 
users, and are more overweight compared to women. Men are less likely to utilize 
health care visits to doctor's offices, emergency departments (ED), and 
physician home visits than women. They are also less likely to make preventive 
care, hospice care, dental care visits, and have fewer hospital discharges and 
shorter hospital stays than women.
CONCLUSIONS: High-risk behaviors and low utilization of health services may 
contribute to the lower life expectancy in men. In the context of public health, 
behavioral and preventive interventions are needed to reduce the gender 
disparity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02290.x
PMID: 20456194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):565-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00729.x.
Epub  2010 Apr 23.

Cost-effectiveness of duloxetine: the Stress Urinary Incontinence Treatment 
(SUIT) study.

Mihaylova B(1), Pitman R, Tincello D, van der Vaart H, Tunn R, Timlin L, Quail 
D, Johns A, Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. 
boby.mihaylova@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of duloxetine compared with 
conservative therapy in women with stress urinary incontinence (SUI).
METHODS: Cost and outcome data were taken from the Stress Urinary Incontinence 
Treatment (SUIT) study, a 12-month, prospective, observational, naturalistic, 
multicenter, multicountry study. Costs were assessed in UK pound and outcomes in 
quality adjusted life years using responses to the EuroQol (EQ-5D); numbers of 
urine leaks were also estimated. Potential selection bias was countered using 
multivariate regression and propensity score analysis.
RESULTS: Duloxetine alone, duloxetine in combination with conservative 
treatment, and conservative treatment alone were associated with roughly two 
fewer leaks per week compared with no treatment. Duloxetine alone and with 
conservative treatment for SUI were associated with incremental quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) of about 0.03 over a year compared with no treatment or with 
conservative treatment alone. Conservative treatment alone did not show an 
effect on QALYs. None of the interventions appeared to have marked impacts on 
costs over a year. Depending on the form of matching, duloxetine either 
dominated or had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) below pound900 
per QALY gained compared with no treatment and with conservative treatment 
alone. Duloxetine plus conservative therapy had an ICER below pound5500 compared 
with no treatment or conservative treatment alone. Duloxetine compared with 
duloxetine plus conservative therapy showed similar outcomes but an additional 
cost for the combined intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the limitations of the use of SUIT's observational data 
for this purpose need to be acknowledged, the study suggests that initiating 
duloxetine therapy in SUI is a cost-effective treatment alternative.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00729.x
PMID: 20456715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Arch Ophthalmol. 2010 May;128(5):613-8. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2010.83.

Effect of patient's life expectancy on the cost-effectiveness of treatment for 
ocular hypertension.

Kymes SM(1), Plotzke MR, Kass MA, Boland MV, Gordon MO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, Campus Box 8096, 660 S Euclid Ave, St Louis, MO 63110-1093, USA. 
kymes@vrcc.wustl.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the influence of expected life span on the 
cost-effectiveness of treating ocular hypertension to prevent primary open-angle 
glaucoma.
METHODS: We used a Markov simulation model to estimate the cost and benefit of 
ocular hypertension treatment over a person's remaining life. We examined the 
influence of age on the cost-effectiveness decision in 2 ways: (1) by evaluating 
specific age cohorts to assess the influence of age at the initiation of 
treatment; and (2) by evaluating the influence of a specific life span.
RESULTS: At a willingness to pay $50,000/quality-adjusted life year to 
$100,000/quality-adjusted life year, treatment of people with a 2% or greater 
annual risk of developing glaucoma was cost-effective for people aged 45 years 
with a life expectancy of at least 18 remaining years. However, to be 
cost-effective, a person aged 55 years must have a life expectancy of 21 
remaining years and someone aged 65 years must have a life expectancy of 23 
remaining years.
CONCLUSIONS: A person with ocular hypertension must have a life expectancy of at 
least 18 remaining years to justify treatment at a threshold of a 2% or greater 
annual risk of developing glaucoma. Persons at higher levels of risk require a 
life expectancy of 7 to 10 additional years to justify treatment.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2010.83
PMCID: PMC4010144
PMID: 20457984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Circulation. 2010 Jun 1;121(21):2331-78. doi: 10.1161/CIR.0b013e3181dbece1.
Epub  2010 May 10.

Particulate matter air pollution and cardiovascular disease: An update to the 
scientific statement from the American Heart Association.

Brook RD, Rajagopalan S, Pope CA 3rd, Brook JR, Bhatnagar A, Diez-Roux AV, 
Holguin F, Hong Y, Luepker RV, Mittleman MA, Peters A, Siscovick D, Smith SC Jr, 
Whitsel L, Kaufman JD; American Heart Association Council on Epidemiology and 
Prevention, Council on the Kidney in Cardiovascular Disease, and Council on 
Nutrition, Physical Activity and Metabolism.

In 2004, the first American Heart Association scientific statement on "Air 
Pollution and Cardiovascular Disease" concluded that exposure to particulate 
matter (PM) air pollution contributes to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. 
In the interim, numerous studies have expanded our understanding of this 
association and further elucidated the physiological and molecular mechanisms 
involved. The main objective of this updated American Heart Association 
scientific statement is to provide a comprehensive review of the new evidence 
linking PM exposure with cardiovascular disease, with a specific focus on 
highlighting the clinical implications for researchers and healthcare providers. 
The writing group also sought to provide expert consensus opinions on many 
aspects of the current state of science and updated suggestions for areas of 
future research. On the basis of the findings of this review, several new 
conclusions were reached, including the following: Exposure to PM <2.5 microm in 
diameter (PM(2.5)) over a few hours to weeks can trigger cardiovascular 
disease-related mortality and nonfatal events; longer-term exposure (eg, a few 
years) increases the risk for cardiovascular mortality to an even greater extent 
than exposures over a few days and reduces life expectancy within more highly 
exposed segments of the population by several months to a few years; reductions 
in PM levels are associated with decreases in cardiovascular mortality within a 
time frame as short as a few years; and many credible pathological mechanisms 
have been elucidated that lend biological plausibility to these findings. It is 
the opinion of the writing group that the overall evidence is consistent with a 
causal relationship between PM(2.5) exposure and cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality. This body of evidence has grown and been strengthened substantially 
since the first American Heart Association scientific statement was published. 
Finally, PM(2.5) exposure is deemed a modifiable factor that contributes to 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0b013e3181dbece1
PMID: 20458016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Cancer Causes Control. 2010 Sep;21(9):1427-35. doi:
10.1007/s10552-010-9570-1.  Epub 2010 May 11.

Cancer risks from betel quid chewing beyond oral cancer: a multiple-site 
carcinogen when acting with smoking.

Wen CP(1), Tsai MK, Chung WS, Hsu HL, Chang YC, Chan HT, Chiang PH, Cheng TY, 
Tsai SP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy Research and Development, Institute of Population 
Health Sciences, National Health Research Institutes, Zhunan, Miaoli County, 
Taiwan. cwengood@nhri.org.tw

OBJECTIVES: This cohort study is to assess the extent of cancer risks of betel 
quid chewing (without tobacco added) beyond oral cancer, as such information was 
limited from case-control studies.
METHODS: The cohort, selected from participants in a medical screening program 
since 1994, consisted of 177,271 adult men with 19.2% chewers of betel quid. As 
of 2006, out of 4,840 deaths, 1,901 cancer deaths were identified. Mortality 
hazard ratios (HR) were estimated by Cox proportional hazard model. Life 
expectancy was calculated by life table method.
RESULTS: One-third of smokers chewed (33%) but most of chewers smoked (90%). 
Risk for all cancer doubled among chewers (HR = 2.00). Risks of at least six 
cancer sites were increased among chewers: oral cavity (HR = 12.52), esophagus 
(HR = 5.64), liver (HR = 2.27), pancreas (HR = 2.67), larynx (HR = 6.24), and 
lung (HR = 2.43) with risks increased with increasing betel quid amount 
consumed. All-cancer age-adjusted mortality rates in Taiwan increased 25%, 
including 223% increase in oral cancer, during the last 20 years when chewing 
rate increased five- to tenfolds. Chewing on top of smoking increased the risks 
synergistically, and these two were responsible for at least half (50%) of all 
cancer deaths among 2 million chewers in Taiwan. Life expectancy of chewers was 
shorter than non-chewers by 5.93 years at age 20 and 5.55 years at age 40.
CONCLUSION: In addition to oral cancer, significant increases were seen among 
chewers for cancer of the esophagus, liver, pancreas, larynx, lung, and all 
cancer. Chewing and smoking, as combined by most chewers, interacted 
synergistically and was responsible for half of all cancer deaths in this group. 
They were responsible for the recent increases in oral, esophageal, pancreatic, 
and liver cancer in Taiwan. Chewing and smoking shortened their life span by 
nearly 6 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s10552-010-9570-1
PMID: 20458529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. World J Gastroenterol. 2010 May 14;16(18):2227-34. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v16.i18.2227.

Cost-utility of molecular adsorbent recirculating system treatment in acute 
liver failure.

Kantola T(1), Mäklin S, Koivusalo AM, Räsänen P, Rissanen A, Roine R, Sintonen 
H, Höckerstedt K, Isoniemi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, Surgical Hospital 
of Helsinki, Helsinki University Hospital, Kasarminkatu 11-13, PO Box 263, 
FIN-0029 HUCH, Helsinki, Finland. taru.kantola@hus.fi

AIM: To determine the short-term cost-utility of molecular adsorbent 
recirculating system (MARS) treatment in acute liver failure (ALF).
METHODS: A controlled retrospective study was conducted with 90 ALF patients 
treated with MARS from 2001 to 2005. Comparisons were made with a historical 
control group of 17 ALF patients treated from 2000 to 2001 in the same intensive 
care unit (ICU) specializing in liver diseases. The 3-year outcomes and number 
of liver transplantations were recorded. All direct liver disease-related 
medical expenses from 6 mo before to 3 years after ICU treatment were determined 
for 31 MARS patients and 16 control patients. The health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) before MARS treatment was estimated by a panel of ICU doctors and after 
MARS using a mailed 15D (15-dimensional generic health-related quality of life 
instrument) questionnaire. The HRQoL, cost, and survival data were combined and 
the incremental cost/quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was calculated.
RESULTS: In surviving ALF patients, the health-related quality of life after 
treatment was generally high and comparable to the age- and gender-matched 
general Finnish population. Compared to the controls, the average cost per QALY 
was considerably lower in the MARS group (64,732 euros vs 133,858 euros) within 
a timeframe of 3.5 years. The incremental cost of standard medical treatment 
alone compared to MARS was 10,928 euros, and the incremental number of QALYs 
gained by MARS was 0.66.
CONCLUSION: MARS treatment combined with standard medical treatment for ALF in 
an ICU setting is more cost-effective than standard medical treatment alone.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v16.i18.2227
PMCID: PMC2868215
PMID: 20458759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2010 Oct;45(10):1217-22. doi: 
10.3109/00365521.2010.487916.

Independent predictors of survival in patients with incurable malignant gastric 
outlet obstruction: a multicenter prospective observational study.

van Hooft JE(1), Dijkgraaf MG, Timmer R, Siersema PD, Fockens P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. J.E.vanhooft@amc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) is one of the late complications of 
