post-college education. Eighty-two percent of school age children were at 
expected grade level. In a multivariate analysis for adults, Whites (OR = 2.76, 
95% CI: 1.50-5.06) were more likely to be employed compared to Asians. Higher 
education in adults was associated with older age (OR = 1.67, 95% CI: 
1.29-2.15), female gender (OR = 2.08, 95% CI: 1.32-3.23) and absence of lung 
disease (OR = 14.3, 95% CI: 2.04-100). Younger children (OR = 5.7 for 10-year 
increments, 95% CI: 2.0-16.7) and Canadian patients (OR = 5.6, 95% CI: 1.5-20) 
were more likely to be at the expected education level. Neither transfusion nor 
chelation was associated with lower employment or educational achievement.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals with thalassemia in North America can achieve higher 
education; however, full-time employment remains a problem. Transfusion and 
chelation do not affect employment or education status of this patient 
population.

Copyright 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.22565
PMCID: PMC2932798
PMID: 20535817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Cell Biochem Funct. 2010 Jul;28(5):343-51. doi: 10.1002/cbf.1666.

Glioblastoma cancer stem cells: heterogeneity, microenvironment and related 
therapeutic strategies.

Denysenko T(1), Gennero L, Roos MA, Melcarne A, Juenemann C, Faccani G, Morra I, 
Cavallo G, Reguzzi S, Pescarmona G, Ponzetto A.

Author information:
(1)CeRMS, Center for Experimental Research and Medical Studies, Turin, Italy. 
de_tanya@yahoo.com

Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) is an incurable malignancy. GBM patients have a 
short life expectancy despite aggressive therapeutic approaches based on 
surgical resection followed by adjuvant radiotherapy and concomitant 
chemotherapy. Glioblastoma growth is characterized by a high motility of tumour 
cells, their resistance to both chemo/radio-therapy, apoptosis inhibition 
leading to failure of conventional therapy. Cancer Stem Cells (CSCs), identified 
in GBM as well as in many other cancer types, express the membrane antigen 
prominin-1 (namely CD133). These cells and normal Neural Stem Cells (NSC) share 
surface markers and properties, i.e. are able to self-renew and differentiate 
into multiple cell types. Stem cell self-renewal depends on microenvironmental 
cues, including Extracellular Matrix (ECM) composition and cell types. 
Therefore, the role of microenvironment needs to be evaluated to clarify its 
importance in tumour initiation and progression through CSCs. The specific 
microenvironment of CSCs was found to mimic in part the vascular niche of normal 
stem cells. The targeting of GMB CSCs may represent a powerful treatment 
approach. Lastly, in GBM patients cancer-initiating cells contribute to the 
profound immune suppression that in turn correlated with CSCs STAT3 (CD133 + ). 
Further studies of microenvironment are needed to better understand the origin 
of GMB/GBM CSCs and its immunosuppressive properties.

Copyright 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cbf.1666
PMID: 20535838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2010 Jun;1197:28-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05193.x.

Targeting the age-related occurrence, removal, and accumulation of molecular 
damage by hormesis.

Rattan SI(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Ageing, Department of Molecular Biology, Aarhus 
University, Aarhus, Denmark.

Strategies for testing and developing effective means of intervention, 
prevention, and modulation of aging incorporate means to minimize the occurrence 
and accumulation of molecular damage, to reduce molecular heterogeneity, and to 
evaluate the relevance of the type and extent of damage with respect to its role 
in aging and age-related diseases. One such approach is that of mild 
stress-induced hormesis, which stimulates maintenance and repair systems and 
strengthens the homeodynamic space of cells and organisms. Hormesis through mild 
heat shock, natural and synthetic hormetins, and other stressors brings about 
several antiaging effects in human fibroblasts, keratinocytes, and 
telomerase-immortalized bone marrow stem cells. Depending on the cell type, 
these antiaging hormetic effects include extension of replicative life span, 
enhanced proteasomal activities, increased chaperone levels, and improved wound 
healing, angiogenesis, and differentiation. The main molecular pathways for 
achieving such hormetic effects are through targeting the processes for the 
repair and removal of molecular damage, which can slow aging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05193.x
PMID: 20536829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2010 Jun;1197:33-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.05374.x.

Biological significance of protein modifications in aging and calorie 
restriction.

Nakamura A(1), Kawakami K, Kametani F, Nakamoto H, Goto S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University, Tsuruoka, Yamagata, 
Japan.

By virtue of the progress in proteomics, the involvement of posttranslational 
modifications in aging has been more clearly demonstrated in recent years. We 
describe here that (1) carbonylation, a hallmark of protein oxidation in 
general, is paradoxically decreased in histone with aging and increased by 
calorie restriction (CR), (2) acetylation of lysine 9 and phosphorylation of 
serine 10 in histone H3 are decreased and increased, respectively, with aging, 
and (3) the acetylation level of multiple extranuclear proteins decreases 
significantly with aging, and the change was not only retarded but increased 
remarkably by CR in rat liver. Based on these findings, we discuss possible 
implications of the posttranslational protein modifications in biochemical 
processes underlying aging and CR-induced extension of life span.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.05374.x
PMID: 20536830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Diabet Med. 2010 May;27(5):603-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2010.02977.x.

Comparison of the prognostic importance of diagnosed diabetes, co-morbidity and 
frailty in older people.

Hubbard RE(1), Andrew MK, Fallah N, Rockwood K.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Medicine Research Unit, Dalhousie University and Queen Elizabeth II 
Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, Canada. ruth.hubbard@cdha.nshealth.ca

AIMS: To compare the relative prognostic importance in older people of diagnosed 
diabetes, the number and severity of co-morbidities and frailty.
METHODS: Two thousand three hundred and five people aged > or = 70 years 
comprised the clinical examination cohort of the Canadian Study of Health and 
Aging. Frailty was defined as a score of > or = 5 on a 7-point Clinical Frailty 
Scale. The cohort was followed for 5 years.
RESULTS: Diabetes was more likely to be associated with medium-term mortality 
(adjusted hazard ratio (HR) 1.42; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.20-1.69) than 
co-morbidity (HR 1.03; 95% CI 1.01-1.05). Frailty most strongly predicted death 
(HR 2.72; 95% CI 2.34-3.16). Frail older adults were 2.62 times (95% CI 
1.36-5.06) more likely to have a complication of diabetes, independent of age, 
sex and number of years living with diabetes. People with diabetes were younger 
than those without (81.3 vs. 83.3 years) but a similar proportion were frail 
(42.2 vs.43.4%). The median life expectancy for frail older adults with diabetes 
was 23 months (95% CI 18-28 months).
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort, the risk of mortality in older people was defined 
more precisely by a clinical measure of frailty than by diabetes or burden of 
co-morbidity. Those with diagnosed diabetes were younger than those without but 
had the same frailty status; diabetes can therefore be considered to increase 
'biological age' by 2 years in those aged over 70 years. The limited life 
expectancy of frail older people with diabetes highlights the importance of 
recognizing frailty and supports the individualization of care in older people 
with diabetes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2010.02977.x
PMID: 20536960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Pediatr Dermatol. 2010 Mar-Apr;27(2):166-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1525-1470.2010.01103.x.

Perianal Bowen disease in a child with human immunodeficiency virus.

Carroll KA(1), Pierce J, Kovarik CL.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York Upstate Medical Center, Syracuse, New York 
13202, USA. carrollk@upstate.edu

Individuals infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are at 
increased risk for human papillomavirus (HPV)-related cancers of the anogenital 
region. A majority of these cancers have been reported in adult patients; few 
reports are available regarding anogenital HPV-associated carcinomas developing 
in children. We report a case of perianal Bowen disease in an HIV-positive 
child. An 8-year-old HIV-positive boy with a history of perianal verrucous 
lesions presented to a clinic in Lesotho because his caregiver noted his lesions 
were changing in color, texture, and extent. Histologic sections revealed 
squamous cell carcinoma in situ. Several cases of anogenital condyloma in 
HIV-positive children have been reported, but very few cases of HPV-associated 
cancer. Children with vertically transmitted HIV may be uniquely susceptible to 
persistent infection with strains of HPV acquired perinatally. While the 
introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy has resulted in immune 
restoration, decreased opportunistic infection, and increased life expectancy 
for children and adults with HIV, it has not affected the incidence of 
HPV-related cancers in these patients. The increased life expectancy of children 
with HIV may actually put them at risk for developing an HPV-related anogenital 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1470.2010.01103.x
PMID: 20537068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Mol Cancer. 2010 Jun 10;9:142. doi: 10.1186/1476-4598-9-142.

The chemopreventive retinoid 4HPR impairs prostate cancer cell migration and 
invasion by interfering with FAK/AKT/GSK3beta pathway and beta-catenin 
stability.

Benelli R(1), Monteghirfo S, Ven√® R, Tosetti F, Ferrari N.

Author information:
(1)Oncologia Molecolare e Angiogenesi, Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul 
Cancro, 16132 Genova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer shows an extremely slow progression, appearing in 
its metastatic, hormone refractory phenotype mostly in elderly men. The 
chemopreventive targeting of this tumor could accordingly delay its malignancy 
over life expectancy. The cancer chemopreventive retinoid N-(4 
hydroxyphenyl)retinamide (4HPR) has already been shown to restrain prostate 
cancer growth in vitro and in vivo, though its mechanisms of action are only 
partially explained.
RESULTS: We found that 4HPR impairs DU145 and PC3 prostate cancer cells 
migration and invasion by down-regulating FAK and AKT activation and by 
enhancing beta-catenin degradation, causing the downregulation of target genes 
like cyclin D1, survivin and VEGF. This non-migratory phenotype was similarly 
produced in both cell lines by stable silencing of beta-catenin. 4HPR was able 
to decrease AKT phosphorylation also when powerfully upregulated by IGF-1 and, 
consequently, to impair IGF-1-stimulated cell motility. Conversely, the 
expression of constitutively active AKT (myr-AKT) overcame the effects of 4HPR 
and beta-catenin-silencing on cell migration. In addition, we found that BMP-2, 
a 4HPR target with antiangiogenic activity, decreased prostate cancer cell 
proliferation, migration and invasion by down-regulating the pathway described 
involving AKT phosphorylation, beta-catenin stability and cyclin D1 expression.
CONCLUSION: These data point to 4HPR as a negative regulator of AKT 
phosphorylation, effectively targeting the beta-catenin pathway and inducing a 
relatively benign phenotype in prostate cancer cells, limiting neoangiogenesis 
and cell invasion.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-4598-9-142
PMCID: PMC2898704
PMID: 20537156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Biomech. 2010 Aug 10;43(11):2164-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2010.03.046.

Loading of the knee joint during activities of daily living measured in vivo in 
five subjects.

Kutzner I(1), Heinlein B, Graichen F, Bender A, Rohlmann A, Halder A, Beier A, 
Bergmann G.

Author information:
(1)Julius Wolff Institute, Charit√© - Universit√§tsmedizin Berlin, 13353 Berlin, 
Germany. ines.kutzner@charite.de

Detailed knowledge about loading of the knee joint is essential for preclinical 
testing of implants, validation of musculoskeletal models and biomechanical 
understanding of the knee joint. The contact forces and moments acting on the 
tibial component were therefore measured in 5 subjects in vivo by an 
instrumented knee implant during various activities of daily living. Average 
peak resultant forces, in percent of body weight, were highest during stair 
descending (346% BW), followed by stair ascending (316% BW), level walking (261% 
BW), one legged stance (259% BW), knee bending (253% BW), standing up (246% BW), 
sitting down (225% BW) and two legged stance (107% BW). Peak shear forces were 
about 10-20 times smaller than the axial force. Resultant forces acted almost 
vertically on the tibial plateau even during high flexion. Highest moments acted 
in the frontal plane with a typical peak to peak range -2.91% BWm (adduction 
moment) to 1.61% BWm (abduction moment) throughout all activities. Peak 
flexion/extension moments ranged between -0.44% BWm (extension moment) and 3.16% 
BWm (flexion moment). Peak external/internal torques lay between -1.1% BWm 
(internal torque) and 0.53% BWm (external torque). The knee joint is highly 
loaded during daily life. In general, resultant contact forces during dynamic 
activities were lower than the ones predicted by many mathematical models, but 
lay in a similar range as measured in vivo by others. Some of the observed load 
components were much higher than those currently applied when testing knee 
implants.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2010.03.046
PMID: 20537336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Respir Med. 2010 Nov;104(11):1668-74. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2010.04.025.

Predicting end-of-life in patients with an exacerbation of COPD by routine 
clinical assessment.

Murphy SA(1), Haja Mydin H, Fatah S, Antunes G.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of Hartlepool, Hartlepool, UK. 
murphsa@clevelandchestclinic.com

The purpose of this study was to determine if routine clinical assessment could 
reliably predict in-hospital death in patients admitted with acute exacerbation 
of COPD (AECOPD).
METHODS: In a case-crossover study the case records of AECOPD related deaths 
were reviewed. Clinical and laboratory variables including performance status 
(WHO-PS) and a composite physiological score (early warning score, EWS) at 
initial clinical assessment on final admission (FA) and penultimate admission 
(PA) for AECOPD were compared.
RESULTS: Sixty patients included in study, female 60%, mean age (SD) 75 (8.7) 
years. 98% had ‚â•2 admissions for AECOPD. On univariate analysis variables 
associated with death were: Charlson score, WHO-PS, EWS, pH<7.35, Urea and CRP. 
On multivariate analysis predictors of mortality were: WHO-PS (OR 95% CI: 4.9 
(1.06-22.61); p=0.04) and EWS (OR 95% CI: 3.39 (1.56-7.41); p=0.002). ROC 
analysis of relationship between combined WHO-PS/EWS score and death gave AUC 
0.86; a total score‚â•6 had sensitivity 78% and specificity 86.2% and on 
multivariate analysis OR (95% CI) for death was 19.3 (4.3-86.2); p<0.0005.
CONCLUSION: In-hospital deaths from AECOPD may be predicted by assessment of 
WHO-PS and EWS on admission to hospital.

Copyright ¬© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2010.04.025
PMID: 20537518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Gastrointest Endosc. 2010 Aug;72(2):249-54. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2010.01.070.
Epub  2010 May 26.

Esophageal stents for the palliation of malignant dysphagia and fistula 
recurrence after esophagectomy.

Van Heel NC(1), Haringsma J, Spaander MC, Didden P, Bruno MJ, Kuipers EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus MC-University Medical 
Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2011 Apr;73(4):849-50; author reply 850.

BACKGROUND: Despite advances in staging methods, surgical techniques, and 
adjuvant treatment, recurrent cancer after esophagectomy is a major cause of 
morbidity and mortality.
OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to investigate the safety and efficacy of a 
self-expandable metal stent (SEMS) in patients with dysphagia or fistula caused 
by recurrent cancer after esophagectomy.
DESIGN: Prospective, observational study with standardized treatment and 
follow-up.
SETTING: Single university center.
PATIENTS: In 81 patients with recurrent cancer after previous surgical 
esophagectomy, 100 esophageal SEMSs were inserted for dysphagia (n = 66) or 
fistula formation (n = 15).
INTERVENTIONS: Stent placement.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Technical and functional outcome, complications, and 
survival.
RESULTS: The SEMSs restored luminal patency in 65 (98%) of 66 patients and 
sealed malignant fistulae in 14 (93%) of 15 patients. Stent dysfunction occurred 
in 24 (30%) of 81 patients. They all were successfully managed by subsequent 
endoscopic intervention. After stent placement, a total of 16 complications were 
observed. Major complications occurred in 9 (11%) of 81 patients, mild 
complications occurred in 7 (9%) of 81 patients. The overall 30-day mortality 
rate after stent insertion was 25%. Progression of the disease resulted in death 
after a median interval of 70 days (range 1 day to 91 months).
LIMITATIONS: Nonrandomized design.
CONCLUSIONS: SEMS placement in recurrent esophageal cancer after surgical 
resection offers adequate palliation by relieving dysphagia and sealing off 
esophageal respiratory fistulae. Therefore, in these patients who have a 
relatively short life expectancy, SEMS placement should be considered the 
treatment of choice.

Copyright 2010 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2010.01.070
PMID: 20537639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Sci Transl Med. 2010 Jun 9;2(35):35ra42. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3000830.

Systemic delivery of scAAV9 expressing SMN prolongs survival in a model of 
spinal muscular atrophy.

Valori CF(1), Ning K, Wyles M, Mead RJ, Grierson AJ, Shaw PJ, Azzouz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Sheffield, UK.

Spinal muscular atrophy is one of the most common genetic causes of death in 
childhood, and there is currently no effective treatment. The disease is caused 
by mutations in the survival motor neuron gene. Gene therapy aimed at restoring 
the protein encoded by this gene is a rational therapeutic approach to 
ameliorate the disease phenotype. We previously reported that intramuscular 
delivery of a lentiviral vector expressing survival motor neuron increased the 
life expectancy of transgenic mice with spinal muscular atrophy. The marginal 
efficacy of this therapeutic approach, however, prompted us to explore different 
strategies for gene therapy delivery to motor neurons to achieve a more 
clinically relevant effect. Here, we report that a single injection of 
self-complementary adeno-associated virus serotype 9 expressing green 
fluorescent protein or of a codon-optimized version of the survival motor neuron 
protein into the facial vein 1 day after birth in mice carrying a defective 
survival motor neuron gene led to widespread gene transfer. Furthermore, this 
gene therapy resulted in a substantial extension of life span in these animals. 
These data demonstrate a significant increase in survival in a mouse model of 
spinal muscular atrophy and provide evidence for effective therapy.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3000830
PMID: 20538619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Hum Mol Genet. 2010 Aug 15;19(16):3179-89. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddq228. Epub
2010  Jun 10.

Lactic acidemia in the pathogenesis of mice carrying mitochondrial DNA with a 
deletion.

Ogasawara E(1), Nakada K, Hayashi J.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
1-1-1 Tennoudai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan.

Lactic acidemia is one manifestation of the mitochondrial diseases caused by 
pathogenic mutant mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). However, little is known about its 
chronic effects in the progression of mitochondrial disease phenotypes. To 
obtain experimental evidence on this point, we used trans-mitochondrial model 
mice (mito-mice) heteroplasmic for wild-type and deleted mtDNA (DeltamtDNA). 
Mito-mice carrying predominantly DeltamtDNA showed mitochondrial respiration 
defects and the resultant disease phenotypes, including lactic acidemia; they 
also showed a decrease in mitochondrial biogenesis regulated by the peroxisome 
proliferative activated receptor gamma, coactivator 1 alpha (PGC1alpha)-mediated 
pathway, such as the expression of mitochondrial transcription factor A and 
mtDNA-encoded gene products and the control of mtDNA content. When the 
accelerated lactate production of these mito-mice was pharmacologically 
inhibited by sodium dichloroacetate (DCA), the decrease in mitochondrial 
biogenesis improved, thus leading to the relaxation of mitochondrial respiration 
defects and extension of life span. These results showed that chronic 
overproduction of lactate caused by metabolic adaptation in mitochondrial 
diseases further deconditioned mitochondrial function. Mitochondrial respiration 
defects in mitochondrial diseases are therefore induced not only directly by the 
presence of mutant mtDNA, but also by the chronic lactic acidemia. Our in vivo 
study also suggested that inhibition of chronic lactic acidemia is a potential 
strategy for treating some mitochondrial diseases.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddq228
PMID: 20538883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Nephrol. 2010 Nov-Dec;23(6):677-82.

Life expectancy, expected years of life lost and survival of hemodialysis and 
peritoneal dialysis patients.

Kao TW(1), Huang JW, Hung KY, Chang YY, Chen PC, Yen CJ, Chen YM, Chu TS, Wu MS, 
Tsai TJ, Wu KD, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital and 
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Expected years of life lost (EYLL) in dialysis patients are rarely 
discussed. This study compared life expectancy, EYLL and survival between 
hemodialysis (HD) and peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients.
METHODS: Adults who underwent maintenance dialysis at National Taiwan University 
Hospital from 1995 to 2006 were followed up until December 2007. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis and a constant excess hazard model were used to estimate and project 
long-term survival. EYLL was calculated by subtracting the life expectancy of 
patients from that of age- and sex-matched referents. HD patients were then 
matched with PD patients on age, sex and diabetes mellitus (DM). Life 
expectancy, EYLL and survival between the 2 groups were compared. Mortality 
risks were determined by the Cox model.
RESULTS: Before matching, the 305 HD patients were older than the 428 PD 
patients (62.4 ¬± 13.7 vs. 53.1 ¬± 16.7 years; p<0.0001). More HD patients had DM 
(HD vs. PD, 29.2% vs. 20.6%; p=0.0072). Life expectancy and EYLL of HD patients 
were 8.8 and 11.5 years, compared with those of PD patients (19.9 and 7.4 
years). After matching, life expectancy (p=0.790) and EYLL (p=0.793) of both 
groups (236 patients each) were similar. Age (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR] = 
1.07; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.05-1.09) and DM (AHR=3.81; 95% CI, 
2.28-6.36) were independent mortality predictors. For diabetic patients who 
underwent HD, a better survival rate was observed (AHR=0.24; 95% CI, 0.11-0.53).
CONCLUSIONS: After matching, HD and PD patients had similar life expectancy and 
EYLL. Survival was better for diabetic patients if they received HD.

PMID: 20540032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2010 Mar-Apr;105(2):171-6.

Problems concerning diagnosis and treatment of compartment syndromes after lower 
limb trauma.

Popescu GI(1), Lupescu O, Nagea M, Patru C, Stoian I, Vasilache C.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic and Trauma Clinic, Emergency Hospital, University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy Carol Davila, Bucharest, Romania.

Compartment Syndrome (CS) is characterised by an imbalance produced by increased 
pressure in an inextensible space (called "the Compartment"). Without being 
specific for orthopaedics, CS has increasing frequency in modern traumatology. 
Microcirculation disturbances generate the syndrome's self-augmenting 
physiopathological character. The pathognomonic feature of the clinical panel in 
CS of the lower limbs is increased consistency of the muscular groups, while 
peripheral pulse maintainance does not exclude CS. Although positive diagnosis 
is based on measuring the intra-compartmental pressure, (ICP) clinical suspicion 
is crucial. The correct treatment is surgical, consisting in early and large 
decompressive fasciotomy. Without proper treatment, CS endangers not only the 
vitality of the limb (due to Acute Peripheral Ischemia with onset in 
microcirculation and centripetal extension), but also the patient's life, thus 
becoming a life-threatening disorder. The authors underline the importance of 
correct clinical evaluation and early treatment in order to prevent the serious 
local and general complications of the CS.

PMID: 20540228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Cardiovasc Comput Tomogr. 2010 May-Jun;4(3):225-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcct.2010.04.006. Epub 2010 May 6.

President's page: risk, benefit, and Las Vegas.

Ziffer JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Baptist Hospital of Miami, Miami, FL 33176, USA. jziffer@baptisthealth.net

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcct.2010.04.006
PMID: 20541708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Autoimmun Rev. 2010 Aug;9(10):701-7. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2010.06.001. Epub
 2010 Jun 11.

How early is the atherosclerotic risk in rheumatoid arthritis?

Bartoloni E(1), Alunno A, Bistoni O, Gerli R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, Italy.

Rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic disease characterized by a reduced life 
expectancy mainly due to cardiovascular disease. In long-standing disease, it 
has been widely demonstrated that both traditional cardiovascular risk factors 
than chronic inflammation and immune-mediated mechanisms play a relevant role in 
atherosclerosis. Recently, it has been shown that the increased cardiovascular 
risk appears to precede rheumatoid arthritis onset and that particular immune 
and inflammatory factors, predating disease presentation, in association with a 
well-defined genetic background, may be associated with increased risk of 
accelerated atherosclerosis in patients with early disease. However, the effect 
of early immunosuppressive treatment on cardiovascular disease outcome remains 
uncertain. A multidisciplinary cardiovascular risk management is required to 
provide the better care of patients with RA at disease onset.

2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2010.06.001
PMID: 20542146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. HIV Clin Trials. 2010 Mar-Apr;11(2):80-99. doi: 10.1310/hct1102-80.

A microsimulation of the cost-effectiveness of maraviroc for antiretroviral 
treatment-experienced HIV-infected individuals.

K√ºhne FC(1), Chancellor J, Mollon P, Myers DE, Louie M, Powderly WG.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, i3 Innovus, Uxbridge, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Maraviroc (MVC) is the first approved CCR5 antagonist. The aim of this 
study was to explore the cost-effectiveness of MVC in treatment-experienced or 
treatment-resistant HIV-infected adults.
METHODS: The validated HIV microsimulation model ARAMIS was used to predict 
clinical and economic outcomes of treating patients with optimized background 
therapy (OBT) alone, as compared to a strategy of testing for the patient's 
viral tropism and treating with OBT with or without (+/-) MVC in a cohort 
corresponding to the MOTIVATE screening cohort.
RESULTS: Compared to treatment with OBT alone, a treatment strategy of OBT +/- 
MVC (twice daily) according to tropism test result was predicted to increase 
CD4+ cell count after 5 years (from mean 249 to 360 cells/microL), undiscounted 
life expectancy (7.6 to 8.9 years), and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs; from 
4.99 to 5.71) for an additional $40,500, giving an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $56,400 per QALY gained. The result was relatively 
insensitive to alternative clinical and cost assumptions within reasonable 
ranges, but for individuals with HIV susceptible to only two or fewer components 
of OBT, the ICER decreased to $52,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: MVC is cost-effective, especially among individuals with few 
remaining options for active antiretroviral therapy.

DOI: 10.1310/hct1102-80
PMID: 20542845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. BMJ. 2010 Jun 11;340:c3145. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c3145.

NICE rejects drug for metastatic breast cancer because of cost and poor 
efficacy.

Pownall M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c3145
PMID: 20543014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Autophagy. 2010 Aug;6(6):679-85. doi: 10.4161/auto.6.6.12396. Epub 2010 Aug
19.

"Autophagy suite": Atg9 cycling in the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting pathway.

Munakata N(1), Klionsky DJ.

Author information:
(1)Rikkyo University, Faculty of Science, Biophysics Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan. 
edogiku@t.toshima.ne.jp

Macroautophagy continues to gather increasing attention because it is connected 
with a wide range of human pathophysiologies, developmental processes and life 
span extension. It is also an interesting process from a basic cellular biology 
standpoint, as it involves dynamic membrane rearrangements and multiple 
protein-protein interactions. Although macroautophagy can be nonspecific, there 
are many examples of selective sequestration including pexophagy, mitophagy and 
the cytoplasm to vacuole targeting (Cvt) pathway. At present, the Cvt pathway is 
unique in that it is the only example of a biosynthetic use of macroautophagy. 
Most of the autophagy-related (Atg) proteins are involved in the Cvt pathway, 
and various types of analyses have placed these proteins at particular stages of 
the process. For example, Atg9 is the only characterized transmembrane protein 
that is absolutely required for Cvt vesicle formation, and it is proposed to 
carry membrane from peripheral donor sites to the phagophore assembly site where 
the vesicle forms. Additional proteins, including Atg11, Atg23 and Atg27 are 
involved in this anterograde movement, whereas Atg1-Atg13 and Atg2-Atg18 are 
required for the retrograde return to the peripheral sites. Even when we 
illustrate our understanding of these events in a schematic model, however, they 
are by necessity flat two-dimensional representations, lacking movement and 
sound. Yet the cell is a living entity that is not well served by this sole 
method of information display. Accordingly, we decided to present the Cvt 
pathway as a vibrant, dynamic process by combining science, music and 
illustration.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.6.6.12396
PMID: 20543572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2010 Mar;5(2):189-93. doi: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32833647d9.

Th17, gut, and HIV: therapeutic implications.

Hunt PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Positive Health Program, San Francisco General Hospital, University of 
California-San Francisco, 995 Potrero Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94110, USA. 
phunt@php.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to discuss the apparent impact 
of persistent-immune activation and inflammation on morbidity and mortality 
among treated HIV-infected individuals, to explore the potential role of Th17 
T-cell depletion in this process, and to discuss potential-therapeutic 
implications.
RECENT FINDINGS: Although the vast majority of HIV-infected individuals can now 
achieve and maintain viral suppression with modern-antiretroviral therapy (ART), 
their life expectancy remains much shorter than the general population and they 
continue to be at much higher risk for non-AIDS-associated diseases commonly 
associated with aging (non-AIDS-associated cancer, cardiovascular disease, etc). 
Abnormal levels of immune activation and inflammation persist despite sustained 
viral suppression and may drive these clinical events. Although the causes of 
persistent-immune activation remain incompletely characterized, persistent 
low-level HIV replication and/or release from latently infected cells in 
gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) and microbial translocation probably play 
a major role. Failure to restore Th17 cells in GALT during ART might impair both 
the recovery of the gut mucosal barrier and the clearance of microbial products.
SUMMARY: Insights from recent-pathogenesis studies might suggest 
novel-therapeutic approaches designed to restore Th17 cells in GALT, thereby 
decreasing microbial translocation, immune activation, and ultimately morbidity 
and mortality during treated HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32833647d9
PMCID: PMC2917631
PMID: 20543599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None


386. AIDS. 2010 Jul 31;24(12):1887-95. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833b25ed.

Cost-effectiveness of routine and low-cost CD4 T-cell count compared with WHO 
clinical staging of HIV to guide initiation of antiretroviral therapy in 
resource-limited settings.

Athan E(1), O'Brien DP, Legood R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Barwon Health, Geelong, Australia. 
Eugene@barwonhealth.org.au

BACKGROUND: HIV is a major cause of disease and death in sub-Saharan Africa. 
Provision and scale-up of antiretroviral therapy (ART) in resource-limited 
settings is feasible and cost-effective. Initiation of ART is guided by WHO 
stage or CD4 cell count; the latter may not be available and up to 70% of 
eligible individuals are not identified. Low-cost CD4 cell count tests are 
comparable to conventional methods. We compared the direct healthcare costs and 
benefits using routine and low-cost CD4 cell count versus WHO staging to 
initiate ART.
METHODS: Using a Markov state transition model, we incorporated costs, survival 
and quality of life. We compared the direct healthcare costs and benefits in 
quality-adjusted life years gained using routine and low-cost CD4 cell count 
versus WHO staging to initiate ART. We estimated an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio in US$ per quality-adjusted life year gained and 
compared with threshold of gross domestic product per capita. Uncertainty was 
assessed by sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Routine and low-cost CD4 cell counts compared to WHO staging to guide 
initiation of ART improved quantity and quality of life and appears to be very 
cost-effective. The base case estimated an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of US$939 and US$85 per quality-adjusted life years gained, respectively, and 
well below the cost effectiveness thresholds of gross domestic product per 
capita.
CONCLUSION: Routine or low-cost CD4 cell count compared to WHO staging, to guide 
initiation of ART, is a very cost-effective intervention for sub-Saharan Africa 
and should be an integral part of the scale-up of ART programs.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833b25ed
PMID: 20543661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2010 Jun;10(3):293-308. doi: 
10.1586/erp.10.24.

QALY weights for neurosensory impairments in pediatric economic evaluations: 
case studies and a critique.

Grosse SD(1), Prosser LA, Asakawa K, Feeny D.

Author information:
(1)National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd NE, MS E64, Atlanta, GA 30333, 
USA. sgrosse@cdc.gov

The use of utility weights for the calculation of quality-adjusted life years is 
particularly problematic for pediatric health states. This article reviews 
variability in utility weights for intellectual disability and permanent hearing 
loss in economic evaluations of newborn screening and childhood immunizations. 
Utility weights for severe intellectual disability ranged from 0.06 to 0.74. 
Most studies either did not vary these utility weights in sensitivity analyses 
or assumed low variability; consequently, the robustness of cost-effectiveness 
estimates was not fully assessed. Two recently published catalogs of utility 
weights for pediatric health states also show wide divergences in estimates. 
More work is needed to establish measures of health utilities for childhood 
health states in order to allow for comparable assessments of pediatric 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.10.24
PMID: 20545594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Eval Clin Pract. 2011 Jun;17(3):420-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01442.x.  Epub 2010 Jun 10.

How do prescribing doctors anticipate the effect of statins?

Lytsy P(1), Burell G, Westerling R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden. per.lytsy@pubcare.uu.se

OBJECTIVES: Statins are a lipid-lowering treatment, prescribed frequently to 
prevent cardiovascular events. The objective of this study was to explore how 
doctors anticipate the effect of statins and what factors are associated with 
their willingness to initiate treatment.
METHODS: A total of 330 Swedish cardiologists, internists and general 
practitioners were asked to consider two hypothetical patient cases, one with 
and one without previous coronary heart disease. Based on these cases, the 
respondents answered questions about their willingness to initiate treatment and 
what effects they might expect. The expectation of effect was assessed in two 
ways: (1) the absolute risk reduction of myocardial infarction in 1000 patients 
treated with statins for 5 years; and (2) statins' average effect on increased 
life expectancy. The doctors' beliefs about absolute risk reduction were 
compared with results from clinical trials.
RESULTS: Most doctors had a suboptimal expectation about absolute risk 
reduction; only about one-third had expectations in the range supported by 
evidence-based data. There were different views about statins' ability to 
prolong life: that is, average gain in life expectancy due to treatment was 
believed to be 2 years in the primary patient case, and 3 years in the second 
patient case. The doctors' beliefs about statins' ability to prolong life were 
associated significantly with their willingness to initiate treatment.
CONCLUSION: The overall results imply that doctors have varying and suboptimal 
understanding of the effect of statins. This may inhibit the goal of integrating 
clinical research into clinical practice.

¬© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01442.x
PMID: 20545813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Trop Med Int Health. 2010 Aug;15(8):870-1. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-3156.2010.02572.x. Epub 2010 Jun 9.

Tunnel vision in Tropical Medicine research?

Ehrhardt S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3156.2010.02572.x
PMID: 20545925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Dis Esophagus. 2010 Nov;23(8):666-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2010.01081.x.

Esophagectomy for cancer in octogenarians.

Zehetner J(1), Lipham JC, Ayazi S, Banki F, Oezcelik A, DeMeester SR, Hagen JA, 
DeMeester TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California, USA.

Because of changes in life expectancy, there is an increasing number of elderly 
patients with esophageal cancer. The aim of this study was to assess the outcome 
of esophagectomy for cancer in patients 80 years or older. A retrospective 
review was performed of the records of all patients who underwent esophagectomy 
for cancer from 1992 to 2007. A cardiac and pulmonary evaluation was obtained on 
an individual basis in the younger patients and in all octogenarians. Among 560 
patients with esophagectomy for cancer, 47 patients (8%) were octogenarians. The 
median age of the younger group (n= 513) was 63 years (interquartile range 
56-71). Octogenarians had significantly more stage III disease (49% vs 31%, P= 
0.02) but received less neoadjuvant therapy than younger patients (2% vs 21%, P= 
0.0004). In octogenarians, the transhiatal resection was more common than in the 
younger group (79% vs 36%, P < 0.0001). Weight loss prior to surgery was similar 
in both groups, but body mass index was significantly lower in octogenarians (25 
vs 28 kg/m(2) , P= 0.0002). Major complications occurred in 26% in octogenarians 
and 31% in the younger group (P= 0.51). Hospital mortality was similar (9% for 
octogenarians vs 4% in the younger group, P= 0.13). The median postoperative 
hospital stay was similar at 16 days (P= 0.69). There was no difference in 
cancer-related survival (median survival 48.9 vs 59.3 months, P= 0.31 log-rank 
test). Esophagectomy can be performed safely in carefully selected octogenarians 
with good cardiac and pulmonary function. Patients should not be denied an 
esophagectomy based only on their age.

¬© 2010 Copyright the Authors. Journal compilation ¬© 2010, Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc. and the International Society for Diseases of the Esophagus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2010.01081.x
PMID: 20545967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Intern Med J. 2011 May;41(5):381-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2010.02281.x.
Epub  2010 Jun 7.

Survival in scleroderma: results from the population-based South Australian 
Register.

Hissaria P(1), Lester S, Hakendorf P, Woodman R, Patterson K, Hill C, Ahern MJ, 
Smith MD, Walker JG, Roberts-Thomson PJ.

Author information:
(1)Immunology Directorate, SA Pathology, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. 
pravin.hissaria@health.sa.gov.au

AIM: To ascertain the mortality risk and investigate clinical and serological 
factors influencing survival of patients listed on the South Australian 
Scleroderma Register (SASR).
METHODS: The SASR is a population-based register, which was commenced in 1993 
and has actively sought to recruit all scleroderma patients diagnosed in SA over 
a 15-year period. Clinical and serological details have been accessed from 
questionnaires or from clinical and laboratory files. Standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) was calculated and survival analyses performed on all living and 
deceased patients listed on this SASR (n = 786).
RESULTS: Patients with scleroderma had increased mortality compared with the 
general SA population (SMR 1.46 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.28-1.69)). 
Factors that adversely altered survival included older age at onset, male 
gender, diffuse skin involvement, presence of scleroderma renal crisis, 
pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary arterial hypertension, cancer and 
anti-topoisomerase (Scl-70) and anti-U1 RNP antibodies, while a trend was 
observed with increased nailfold capillary dropout. Mean age of death for 
patients with limited scleroderma was 74.1 years (95% CI 72.5-75.7), diffuse 
scleroderma 62.9 years (95% CI 59.4-66.4) and overlap disease 57.8 years (95% CI 
48.7-66.9). Survival improved over the 15-year study period.
CONCLUSIONS: Scleroderma substantially reduces life expectancy. Survival is 
influenced by age at onset, gender, diffuse involvement of skin fibrosis, 
visceral involvement, development of cancer, extent of microvascular capillary 
damage and by the presence of scleroderma-associated antibodies, Scl-70 and RNP. 
Scleroderma renal crisis continues to carry high mortality. Survival improved 
over the 15-year study period.

¬© 2011 The Authors. Internal Medicine Journal ¬© 2011 Royal Australasian College 
of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2010.02281.x
PMID: 20546058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Diabet Med. 2010 Feb;27(2):189-96. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2009.02902.x.

Anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody treatment in newly diagnosed Type 1 diabetes 
patients: a hypothetical modelling analysis.

Smith-Palmer J(1), Curtis BH, Boye KS, Goodall G, Pillemer SR.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Allschwil, Switzerland. jsmith-palmer@ch.imshealth.com

AIMS: Although limited clinical data exist for anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody 
therapies, it is believed that they may influence glycaemic control, endogenous 
insulin secretion and hypoglycaemic event rates in individuals newly diagnosed 
with Type 1 diabetes. In the absence of suitable empirical evidence, the 
objective of this study was to estimate the potential long-term clinical 
outcomes associated with treatment via a hypothetical modelling analysis.
METHODS: Analyses were performed using a published and validated computer 
simulation model of diabetes in a hypothetical US cohort based on published 
literature and expert opinion. The efficacy of anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody 
treatment was estimated from clinical data and expert opinion and simulations 
were performed over a 60-year time horizon. The impact on quality of life 
associated with treatment was also captured via published utility values.
RESULTS: Assuming that a treatment course of an anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody 
produced an initial reduction in glycated haemoglobin of -0.8%, and that the 
effects persisted for up to 5 years, treatment was projected to lead to an 
increase in undiscounted life expectancy of 0.43 years and an increase in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.36 quality-adjusted life years compared 
with conventional exogenous insulin.
CONCLUSIONS: A course of a hypothetical anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody treatment 
associated with improved glycaemic control and, potentially, the preservation of 
pancreatic beta-cell function was estimated to lead to improved life expectancy 
and quality-adjusted life expectancy compared with conventional treatment in 
patients with newly diagnosed Type 1 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2009.02902.x
PMID: 20546263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Food Sci. 2010 May;75(4):E225-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01602.x.

Shelf-life extension of fresh Tuber aestivum and Tuber melanosporum truffles by 
modified atmosphere packaging with microperforated films.

Rivera CS(1), Blanco D, Salvador ML, Venturini ME.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Food Technology, Univ. of Zaragoza, Miguel Servet 177. 50013 
Zaragoza, Spain.

The aim of this study was to design a modified atmosphere packaging suitable for 
Tuber melanosporum and Tuber aestivum truffles that extend their shelf life and 
their availability as a fresh product. Their respiration rates were determined 
by O(2) depletion and CO(2) formation in closed systems performed at different 
temperatures: 4, 10, and 23 degrees C. The results were fitted by exponential 
equations and derivatives of these equations were used to obtain the 
experimental respiration rates. Our results revealed high respiration rates in 
both species of truffles and respiratory quotients (RQ) higher than 1 in all the 
cases studied. A linear dependence of respiration rate, both R(O2) and R(CO2), 
on O(2) concentration was revealed. A mathematical model was used to predict the 
evolution of the gaseous composition at 4 degrees C in the interior of 
polypropylene trays (250 mL) heat sealed with 4 microperforated films of 
different transmission rates. A microperforated film with 2 holes (90 x 50 
microm) was selected to produce an internal atmosphere of 15%CO(2)/7%O(2) at 4 
degrees C. The predicted atmosphere composition was confirmed by the 
experimental results. The quality and microbiological characteristics of fresh 
truffles, packaged in these conditions, revealed that the microbial counts of 
pseudomonads and Enterobacteriaceae were decreased, the weight loss was reduced, 
the typical hard texture was maintained, and the development of mycelium growth 
was delayed, enabling good scores for aroma and flavor, and therefore prolonging 
the shelf life of T. melanosporum and T. aestivum truffles to 28 and 21 d, 
respectively. Practical Application: This study describes the benefits of using 
MAP with microperforated films in the postharvest storage of Tuber melanosporum 
and Tuber aestivum fresh truffles. The shelf life of T. aestivum is prolonged to 
21 d and of T. melanosporum to beyond 28 d increasing the possibilities for a 
foreign market.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01602.x
PMID: 20546403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. J Food Sci. 2010 May;75(4):M243-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01574.x.

Modeling microbial spoilage and quality of gilthead seabream fillets: combined 
effect of osmotic pretreatment, modified atmosphere packaging, and nisin on 
shelf life.

Tsironi TN(1), Taoukis PS.

Author information:
(1)Natl. Technical Univ. of Athens, School of Chemical Engineering, Laboratory 
of Food Chemistry and Technology, 5, Iroon Polytechniou, Zografou 15780, Athens, 
Greece.

The objective of the study was the kinetic modeling of the effect of storage 
temperature on the quality and shelf life of chilled fish, modified 
atmosphere-packed (MAP), and osmotically pretreated with the addition of nisin 
as antimicrobial agent. Fresh gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata) fillets were 
osmotically treated with 50% high dextrose equivalent maltodextrin (DE 47) plus 
5% NaCl. Water loss, solid gain, salt content, and water activity were monitored 
throughout treatment and treatment conditions were selected for the shelf life 
study. Untreated and osmotically pretreated slices with and without nisin (2 x 
10(4) IU/100 g osmotic solution), packed in air or modified atmosphere (50% 
CO(2)-50% air), and stored at controlled isothermal conditions (0, 5, 10, and 15 
degrees C) were studied. Quality assessment and modeling were based on growth of 
several microbial indices, total volatile nitrogen, trimethylamine nitrogen, 
lipid oxidation (TBARS), and sensory scoring. Temperature dependence of quality 
loss rates was modeled by the Arrhenius equation, validated under dynamic 
conditions. Pretreated samples showed improved quality stability during 
subsequent refrigerated storage, in terms of microbial growth, chemical changes, 
and organoleptic degradation. Osmotic pretreatment with the addition of nisin in 
combination with MAP was the most effective treatment resulting in significant 
shelf life extension of gilthead seabream fillets (48 days compared to 10 days 
for the control at 0 degrees C).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01574.x
PMID: 20546417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010 May;25(5):864-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06243.x.

Hepatitis B reactivation in patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy: diagnosis 
and management.

Lubel JS(1), Angus PW.

Author information:
