access to surgical care.
FUNDING: WHO.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60392-3
PMID: 20598365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Seizure. 2010 Sep;19(7):383-9. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2010.04.008. Epub 2010
Jul  3.

Senile myoclonic epilepsy: delineation of a common condition associated with 
Alzheimer's disease in Down syndrome.

De Simone R(1), Puig XS, Gélisse P, Crespel A, Genton P.

Author information:
(1)Centre Saint Paul-Hôpital Henri Gastaut, 300 Boulevard Sainte Marguerite, 
13258 Marseille 09, France.

Comment in
    Seizure. 2011 Jul;20(6):512.

In Down syndrome (DS), epilepsy is frequent in all age classes and is recognized 
as a significant cause of additional handicap and morbidity. Longer life 
expectancy has led to the recognition of the high incidence of both Alzheimer's 
disease and seizures in elderly persons with DS. Neuropathological markers of AD 
are found in all DS brains and clinical symptoms of AD become apparent by the 
age of 60 years and above in over 50% of DS subjects. Following preliminary 
description of myoclonic seizures and/or myoclonic epilepsy in isolated cases or 
small series, we wish to report the diagnostic criteria, treatment and prognosis 
of a specific and recognizable form of epilepsy associated with AD in a larger 
group of middle-aged to elderly DS patients. This markedly under-recognized 
entity may indeed concern an already large and steadily increasing number of 
patients. We reviewed all medical records of patients with DS referred to our 
centers (Centre Saint Paul-Gastaut, Marseille; Epilepsy Unit, Montpellier 
University Hospital; Department of Neurology, Hospital General de Asturias, 
Oviedo) since 1995. DS had been diagnosed in all at birth, and all presented 
with the typical morphological changes associated with DS. We selected all cases 
(18) referred as adults with new onset of myoclonic jerks (MJ) and/or behavioral 
or cognitive deterioration (CD).

2010 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.seizure.2010.04.008
PMID: 20598585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Am Heart J. 2010 Jul;160(1):122-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2010.04.021.

Cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter defibrillators in patients >or=65 
years of age.

Sanders GD(1), Kong MH, Al-Khatib SM, Peterson ED.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA. 
gillian.sanders@duke.edu

BACKGROUND: More than 80% of sudden cardiac deaths (SCDs) occur in patients 
>or=65 years old; the cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator (ICD) therapy in older patients remains unclear. We sought to 
examine the cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy in at-risk patients >or=65 years 
old.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to evaluate lifetime costs and benefits of 
ICD therapy compared with optimal medical therapy in patients >or=65 years of 
age with left ventricular dysfunction. Data were derived from the literature and 
existing clinical trials of primary prevention of SCD. Outcome measures included 
life years, quality-adjusted life years, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Benefits and costs of ICD therapy in older individuals varied widely by 
clinical-trial population. In the 5 trials considered, for patients >or=65 years 
of age, ICDs demonstrated a life expectancy benefit compared with control 
therapy (incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranging from $37,031-$138,458 per 
quality-adjusted life year). For 75-year-old patients, the findings were 
qualitatively similar, although cost-effectiveness was reduced in all trial 
populations. In sensitivity analyses, cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy in older 
individuals depended upon the trial population, quality of life, device cost, 
and frequency of generator replacement. Sensitivity analyses on other variables 
did not change the results substantially.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy for primary prevention in 
older patients varies widely among trials. Given an aging US population and the 
high risk of SCD in these individuals, further studies of ICD therapy and their 
cost-effectiveness-specifically in older patients-are needed.

Copyright (c) 2010 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2010.04.021
PMID: 20598982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2010 Nov 1;503(1):153-9. doi:
10.1016/j.abb.2010.06.023.  Epub 2010 Jun 25.

The complex mutual connection between stroke and bone health.

Moayyeri A(1), Alrawi YA, Myint PK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK. am700@cam.ac.uk

Both stroke and osteoporosis are prevalent conditions among the elderly. With 
increasing life expectancy across the world, despite better preventative 
measures, the incidence of both conditions is set to rise in the ageing 
populations. Alongside with sharing several common risk factors, the current 
evidence suggests that these conditions are risk factors for each other albeit 
more clear support for the effects of stroke on bone health. In this article, we 
present aetiopathophysiology of these two conditions and the current evidence of 
impact on each other particularly the impact of stroke on bone health. We also 
provide suggestions for improving bone health in people living with stroke based 
on the currently available evidence.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2010.06.023
PMID: 20599661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2010 May;27(5):338-44. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892010000500003.

[Fraction of the global burden of diabetes mellitus attributable to overweight 
and obesity in Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Oliveira AF(1), Valente JG, Leite Ida C.

Author information:
(1)Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública (ENSP/FIOCRUZ), 
Departamento de Epidemiologia e Métodos Quantitativos, Escola Nacional de Saúde 
Pública, Manguinhos, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil. andreiaf@ensp.fiocruz.br

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the global burden of diabetes mellitus (DM) in 2002-2003 
and to calculate the fraction of diabetes attributable to excess weight and 
obesity for Brazil and its regions.
METHODS: The prevalence of excess weight and obesity according to sex and age (> 
20 years) and the relative risks for the development of DM (derived from 
international studies) attributable to excess weight and obesity were used to 
calculate the global burden of DM. The prevalence of excess weight and obesity 
for Brazil and its regions was obtained from the Family Budget Survey (Pesquisa 
de Orçamento Familiar). Disability-adjusted life years (DALY) were calculated 
for DM based on the sum of two components: years of life lost (YLL) and years 
lived with disability (YLD).
RESULTS: Of the total DALY estimated for DM in Brazil, YLD accounted for 70%. 
For Brazil as a whole, 61.8% and 45.4% of DM in females was attributable to 
excess weight and obesity, respectively. Among males, the proportions were 52.8% 
and 32.7%. The largest excess weight/obesity-attributable fractions were 
observed in the South, Southeast, and Midwest regions and in the 35-44-year-old 
age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: A large fraction of the burden of DM is attributable to preventable 
individual risk factors. Measures targeting prevention and control of risk 
factors such as excess weight and obesity must be included in the Brazilian 
public health agenda.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892010000500003
PMID: 20602067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2010 May;27(5):352-9. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892010000500005.

[Economic impact of introducing the injectable inactivated polio vaccine in 
Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvis N(1), De la Hoz F, Narváez J.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación en Economía de la Salud, Facultad de Ciencias 
Económicas, Universidad de Cartagena, Campus de la Piedra de Bolívar, Cartagena, 
Colombia. nalvis@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2011 May;29(5):383-4; author reply 384-6.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the cost-effectiveness of introducing the injectable 
inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) in Colombia versus the current system based on 
the use of the oral vaccine (OPV).
METHODS: A Markov model was designed, based on a hypothetical cohort of newborns 
that would receive the IPV or the OPV vaccine, with a two-year follow-up and 
monthly estimates of the number of cases of vaccine-associated paralytic 
poliomyelitis (VAPP) that would emerge. The cost was analyzed from the 
perspective of the insurer (costs throughout life) and society (cases of VAPP 
and disability-adjusted life years [DALYs] prevented).
RESULTS: From 1988 to 1998, some 22.5 million doses of OVP were administered in 
Colombia and nine cases of VAPP were detected, for a rate of 4.0 yen 10-7 dose. 
According to the model, 2 to 4 cases of VAPP could be anticipated in the 
following two years. The cost of treating the VAPP cases would total US$302,008, 
with the cost of vaccination with OPV coming to US$737,037 and with IPV, 
US$5,527,777. Vaccination with IPV would prevent 64 DALYs, at a cost of 
US$71,062 per DALY prevented; preventing one case of VAPP by substituting OPV 
with IPV would cost between US$1.8 and US$2.2 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Substituting OPV with IPV is not a cost-effective measure in 
Colombia, even if the cellular vaccine against whooping cough currently in use 
were replaced with an acellular vaccine combined with an IPV.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892010000500005
PMID: 20602069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2010 Nov;19(11):1172-80. doi: 10.1002/pds.1994.

A quantitative evaluation of the regulatory assessment of the benefits and risks 
of rofecoxib relative to naproxen: an application of the incremental net-benefit 
framework.

Lynd LD(1), Marra CA, Najafzadeh M, Sadatsafavi M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada. larry.lynd@ubc.ca

PURPOSE: To undertake a quantitative benefit-risk analysis of rofecoxib relative 
to naproxen using an incremental net-benefit (INB) analysis from the societal 
perspective, using the same data evaluated by the Health Canada and US FDA 
expert advisory panels.
METHODS: We developed a discrete event simulation model to calculate the INB of 
rofecoxib relative to naproxen in arthritis patients over a 1-year time horizon. 
All outcomes were weighted using societal utilities for each health state which 
facilitated the use of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as the outcome. 
Probability distributions were incorporated for each model parameter to 
facilitate a probabilistic analysis using second-order Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the mean INB (SD) of rofecoxib relative to 
naproxen was 0.0002 (0.415) QALYs per patient over 12 months of treatment, or 
0.2 QALYs per 1000 patients treated. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
resulted in a mean INB of 0.0022 QALYs (95%CI -0.0005, 0.0051). Overall, the INB 
associated with rofecoxib relative to naproxen was ≥0 in 94% of the iterations 
of the model.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis illustrates the application of the incremental 
net-benefit framework to quantitative benefit-risk evaluation, and suggests that 
the potential benefits of rofecoxib outweigh the potential harms relative to 
naproxen over 1 year from the societal perspective under the assumptions of this 
model.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pds.1994
PMID: 20602338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. J Med Econ. 2010;13(3):381-92. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.499072.

Cost effectiveness of teriparatide and PTH(1-84) in the treatment of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Borgström F(1), Ström O, Marin F, Kutahov A, Ljunggren O.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden, and LIME/MMC, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, 
Sweden. fredrik.b@healtheconomics.se

OBJECTIVES: The purpose was to assess the cost effectiveness from a societal 
perspective of the recombinant human parathyroid hormones: PTH(1-34) 
(teriparatide) and PTH(1-84) for patients with osteoporosis with similar 
characteristics to patients treated in normal clinical practice in Sweden.
METHODS: A Markov model of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women was developed 
using 6-month cycles and a lifetime horizon. The model was populated with 
patients similar to the Swedish cohort of the European Forsteo Observational 
Study (postmenopausal women; mean age: 70 years, total hip T-score: -2.7 and 3.3 
previous fractures). The cost effectiveness of both teriparatide and PTH(1-84) 
was estimated compared to no treatment and each other. Relative effectiveness 
assumptions were based on efficacy estimates from two phase III clinical trials.
RESULTS: The cost per QALY gained of teriparatide vs. no treatment was estimated 
at €43,473 and PTH(1-84) was estimated at €104,396. Teriparatide was indicated 
to be less costly and associated with more life-years and QALYs than PTH(1-84). 
When assuming no treatment effect on hip fractures the cost per QALY gained was 
€88,379. In the sensitivity analysis the cost effectiveness did not alter 
substantially with changes in the majority of the model parameters except for 
the residual effect of the treatment after stopping therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the efficacy estimates from pivotal clinical trials and 
characteristics of patients treated in clinical practice in Sweden, teriparatide 
seems to be a more cost-effective option than PTH(1-84) when compared to no 
treatment. The relative efficacy between the two PTH compounds was based on an 
indirect comparison from two separate clinical trials which has to be considered 
when interpreting the results.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.499072
PMID: 20604678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Lipids Health Dis. 2010 Jul 6;9:67. doi: 10.1186/1476-511X-9-67.

Gene activation regresses atherosclerosis, promotes health, and enhances 
longevity.

Luoma PV(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedicine, Pharmacology, University of Helsinki, Finland. 
pauli.luoma@fimnet.fi

BACKGROUND: Lifestyle factors and pharmacological compounds activate genetic 
mechanisms that influence the development of atherosclerotic and other diseases. 
This article reviews studies on natural and pharmacological gene activation that 
promotes health and enhances longevity.
RESULTS: Living habits including healthy diet and regular physical activity, and 
pharmacotherapy, upregulate genes encoding enzymes and apolipoprotein and 
ATP-binding cassette transporters, acting in metabolic processes that promote 
health and increase survival. Cytochrome P450-enzymes, physiological factors in 
maintaining cholesterol homeostasis, generate oxysterols for the elimination of 
surplus cholesterol. Hepatic CTP:phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase-alpha is an 
important regulator of plasma HDL-C level. Gene-activators produce plasma 
lipoprotein profile, high HDL-C, HDL2-C and HDL-C/cholesterol ratio, which is 
typical of low risk of atherosclerotic disease, and also of exceptional 
longevity together with reduced prevalence of cardiovascular, metabolic and 
other diseases. High HDL contributes to protection against inflammation, 
oxidation and thrombosis, and associates with good cognitive function in very 
old people. Avoiding unhealthy stress and managing it properly promotes health 
and increases life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Healthy living habits and gene-activating xenobiotics upregulate 
mechanisms that produce lipoprotein pattern typical of very old people and 
enhance longevity. Lipoprotein metabolism and large HDL2 associate with the 
process of living a very long life. Major future goals for health promotion are 
the improving of commitment to both wise lifestyle choices and drug therapy, and 
further the developing of new and more effective and well tolerated drugs and 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-511X-9-67
PMCID: PMC2909992
PMID: 20604930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. JAMA. 2010 Jul 7;304(1):91-2. doi: 10.1001/jama.2010.906.

Aging adults with intellectual disabilities.

Perkins EA(1), Moran JA.

Author information:
(1)Florida Center for Inclusive Communities/UCEDD, Department of Child and 
Family Studies, College of Behavioral and Community Sciences, University of 
South Florida, 13301 Bruce B. Downs Blvd, MHC 2113A, Tampa, FL 33612, USA. 
eperkins@mail.usf.edu

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2010.906
PMID: 20606156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2010 Jul;20(5):834-40. doi:
10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181dcadd1.

Prognostic factors for survival in patients with recurrent cervical cancer 
previously treated with radiotherapy.

Mabuchi S(1), Isohashi F, Yoshioka Y, Temma K, Takeda T, Yamamoto T, Enomoto T, 
Morishige K, Inoue T, Kimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Osaka, Japan. smabuchi@gyne.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to identify the prognostic factors and 
to establish a model for the prediction of life expectancy in patients with 
recurrent cervical cancer that had previously been treated with radiotherapy.
METHODS: The records of consecutive women with recurrent cervical cancer after 
radiotherapy were retrospectively reviewed. Primary disease, follow-up, and 
recurrence data were collected. Univariate and multivariate analyses of 
prognostic factors of survival were performed.
RESULTS: A total of 162 patients were included in our database. The median 
survival after recurrence was 15 months. Multivariate analysis revealed that 
symptom status, the site of relapse, prior chemoradiotherapy, and treatment 
modality were significant prognostic factors in terms of survival after 
recurrence. Patient survival was inversely correlated with the number of these 
prognostic factors. When the patients were divided into 3 prognostic groups, 
(low risk: patients with no poor prognostic factors; intermediate: patients with 
one poor prognostic factor; and high-risk: patients with more than 2 poor 
prognostic factors), the patients in the high-risk group had a significantly 
shorter survival (median, 10 months) than those with one risk factor (median, 20 
months) or no risk factors (median, 36 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Symptom status, the site of relapse, prior chemoradiotherapy, and 
treatment modality are significant prognostic factors in patients with recurrent 
cervical cancer that had previously been treated with radiotherapy. Our 
prognostic model, composed of 4 clinical variables, may enable physicians to 
predict survival more accurately.

DOI: 10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181dcadd1
PMID: 20606531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Indian J Palliat Care. 2009 Jan;15(1):61-6. doi: 10.4103/0973-1075.53533.

Breaking bad news issues: a survey among radiation oncologists.

Kumar M(1), Goyal S, Singh K, Pandit S, Sharma D, Verma AK, Rath G, Bhatnagar S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Dr. BR Ambedkar Institute Rotary Cancer Hospital, 
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi - 110 029, India.

INTRODUCTION: Discussion of bad news and resuscitation in terminal cancer is an 
important but difficult and often neglected issue in day-to-day oncology 
practice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We interviewed 35 radiation oncologists using an 
indigenous 15-item questionnaire on their beliefs about breaking bad news and 
resuscitation to terminal cancer patients.
RESULTS: Most responders had an oncology experience of three to seven years 
(20/35). Thirty-two were comfortable discussing cancer diagnosis, prognosis and 
life expectancy-related issues. A similar number believed all cancer-related 
information should be disclosed, while only four believed in imparting all 
information in one visit. All agreed that disclosing sensitive information did 
not affect survival. When requested by relatives to withhold truth from 
patients, 11 said they would not comply, 22 agreed to tell the truth only if 
asked and two agreed to avoid difficult questions. Twenty responders denied 
having been adequately trained in breaking bad news and were keen on dedicated 
classes or sessions in this area of practice. Most (33/35) believed that Indian 
patients were keen on knowing their diagnosis and prognosis. Although all agreed 
to the importance of discussing resuscitation, only 17 believed patients should 
be involved. Majority (20/35) agreed that the issue needs to be discussed while 
the patient was conscious. Patients with unsalvageable disease were deemed 
unsuitable for aggressive resuscitation by 30 responders while the rest believed 
it should be offered to all. Most (21/35) admitted to feeling depressed after 
breaking bad news though only seven felt disclosure was more stressful than 
untruthful statements. Only four knew of a law regarding resuscitation in 
cancer.
CONCLUSION: Observing the widely varied beliefs and practices for disclosing bad 
news, it is recommended that such training be a regular part of medicine 
curriculum, especially in the Oncology setting.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1075.53533
PMCID: PMC2886220
PMID: 20606858

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


564. Age (Dordr). 2011 Sep;33(3):451-60. doi: 10.1007/s11357-010-9158-4. Epub
2010  Jul 6.

Age-related cataract in dogs: a biomarker for life span and its relation to body 
size.

Urfer SR(1), Greer K, Wolf NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7470, 
USA.. urfers@u.washington.edu

Clinical data from 72 dog breeds of varying size and life expectancy were 
grouped according to breed body mass and tested for prevalence at ages 4 to 5, 
ages 7 to 10, and lifetime incidence of non-hereditary, age-related cataract 
(ARC). The incidence of ARC was found to be directly related to the relative 
life expectancies in the breed groups: The smallest dog breeds had a lower ARC 
prevalence between ages 4 and 5 than mid-size breeds and these, in turn, a lower 
prevalence than the giant breeds. A similar sequence was evident for ages 7 to 
10 and for overall lifetime incidence of ARC. These differences became more 
significant when comparing small and giant breeds only. We could also confirm 
the inverse relationship between body size and life expectancy in these same 
sets of dog breeds. Our results show that body size, life expectancy, and ARC 
incidence are interrelated in dogs. Given that ARC has been shown to be at least 
partially caused by oxidative damage to lens epithelial cells and the internal 
lens, we suggest that it can be considered not only as a general biomarker for 
life expectancy in the canine and possibly other species, but also for the 
systemic damages produced by reactive oxygen species. This suggests new 
approaches to examine the gene expression pathways affecting the above-noted 
linkages.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-010-9158-4
PMCID: PMC3168595
PMID: 20607428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Am J Ind Med. 2010 Nov;53(11):1109-18. doi: 10.1002/ajim.20874.

Surveillance of fatal occupational injuries in France: 2002-2004.

Brière J(1), Chevalier A, Imbernon E.

Author information:
(1)Occupational Health Department, French Institute for Public Health 
Surveillance, Saint-Maurice, France. j.briere@invs.sante.fr

BACKGROUND: Insufficient use is made of available information about workplace 
and commuting accidents covered by social insurance workers compensation funds 
in France. We sought to determine whether these data could be used to calculate 
national indicators for surveillance of fatal occupational injuries for 
2002-2004.
METHODS: We calculated the number of deaths, mortality rate, and years of 
potential life lost from workplace and commuting accidents (by sex, age, 
economic activity, and cause of accident) for employees by collecting data from 
eight social insurance funds in France. The number of deaths, the mortality 
rates, and the attributable fraction of accidental deaths due to work were 
estimated for both employees and self-employed workers.
RESULTS: The mean annual number of employee deaths from workplace and commuting 
accidents reached 1,330 in 2002-2004. The mortality rate from workplace 
accidents (6.0 per 100,000) increased with age among men and was especially high 
in three sectors: agriculture-forestry-fishing, transportation, and 
construction.Overall, for employees and the self-employed combined, the mean 
annual number of deaths from workplace and commuting accidents was estimated at 
1,557 (95% CI: 1,478-1,640). The attributable fraction of accidental deaths due 
to work for those aged 15-59 years was estimated at almost 20% among men.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite data limitations, it was possible to calculate previously 
unknown national indicators of fatal workplace and commuting accidents and to 
compare them with other work-related health problems. These results are 
consistent with those observed in comparable industrialized countries.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.20874
PMID: 20607732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Demography. 2010 May;47(2):299-312. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0098.

Three measures of longevity: time trends and record values.

Canudas-Romo V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population, Family and Reproductive Health, Johns Hopkins 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, 615 N. Wolfe Street, Room E4634, Baltimore, 
MD 21205, USA. vcanudas@jhsph.edu

This article examines the trend over time in the measures of "typical" longevity 
experienced by members of a population: life expectancy at birth, and the median 
and modal ages at death. The article also analyzes trends in record values 
observed for all three measures. The record life expectancy at birth increased 
from a level of 44 years in Sweden in 1840 to 82 years in Japan in 2005. The 
record median age at death shows increasing patterns similar to those observed 
in life expectancy at birth. However, the record modal age at death changes very 
little until the second half of the twentieth century: it moved from a plateau 
level, around age 80, to having a similar pace of increase as that observed for 
the mean and the median in most recent years. These findings explain the 
previously observed uninterrupted increase in the record life expectancy. The 
cause of this increase has changed over time from a dominance of child mortality 
reductions to a dominance of adult mortality reductions, which became evident by 
studying trends in the record modal age at death.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0098
PMCID: PMC3000019
PMID: 20608098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Demography. 2010 May;47(2):415-37. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0102.

Family structure and the transition to early parenthood.

Hofferth SL(1), Goldscheider F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Science, School of Public Health, University of 
Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USA. hofferth@umd.edu

With the rise in out-of-wedlock childbearing and divorce in the last quarter of 
the twentieth century, an increasing proportion of children have been exposed to 
a variety of new family forms. Little research has focused on the consequences 
of childhood family structure for men's transition to fatherhood or on the 
family processes that account for the effects of family structure on the 
likelihood that young women and men become first-time unmarried parents, what we 
now call "fragile families." The data come from the linked Children and Young 
Adult samples of the 1979 National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY79), which 
provide information on the children of the women of the NLSY79 from birth until 
they enter young adulthood. Females growing up with a single parent and males 
experiencing an unstable family transition to parenthood early, particularly to 
nonresidential fatherhood for males. For males, the effects are strongly 
mediated by parenting processes and adolescent behaviors and are shaped by 
economic circumstances. Having experienced multiple transitions as a child is 
associated with a reduced likelihood that males father their first child within 
marriage and an increased likelihood that they become fathers within 
cohabitation, demonstrating how changes in family structure alter family 
structure patterns over time and generations.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0102
PMCID: PMC3000024
PMID: 20608104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2010;104(3):209-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2010.03.004.

[On the necessity of benefit assessments across all indications].

[Article in German]

Breyer F(1).

Author information:
(1)Universität Konstanz und DIW Berlin. Friedrich.Breyer@uni-konstanz.de

IQWiG's General Methods catalogue has raised a controversial debate among 
experts, and one of the major issues is the catalogue's authors' decision to 
exclusively use indication-specific output measures for benefit assessments. In 
contrast, numerous critics of this approach demand that benefit be measured 
using a uniform scale which is valid and interpretable for all indications, such 
as the "quality-adjusted life-year" (QALY). The present article will take a 
critical look at the arguments put forward by IQWiG and point out the 
disadvantages of purely indication-specific benefit assessments. We will then 
explore the legal possibilities of benefit assessments independent of the type 
of disease, and make some suggestions for the future approach to healthcare 
evaluation in Germany.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2010.03.004
PMID: 20608249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2010;104(3):214-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2010.03.012.

Measures of efficiency in healthcare: QALMs about QALYs?

Schlander M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Innovation & Valuation in Health Care. 
michael.schlander@innoval-hc.com

Comparative economic evaluations are concerned with the relative efficiency of 
alternative uses for scarce resources. Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) is grounded 
in economic welfare theory and attempts to identify alternatives with a net 
social benefit, measuring the created value in terms of individual willingness 
to pay (WTP). In applied health economics, cost-effectiveness evaluation (CEA) 
is more widely used than CBA, adopting a modified efficiency criterion, 
minimization of incremental costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained 
("cost-utility analysis," CUA). CBA has been greeted with skepticism in the 
health policy field, primarily owing to resistance to a monetary measure of 
benefit and owing to concerns that WTP may be unduly influenced by ability to 
pay. The move to CUA, however, has not been without problems. The framework 
deviates from economic theory in important aspects and rests on a set of highly 
restrictive assumptions, some of which must be considered as empirically 
falsified. Results of CUAs do not seem to be aligned with well-documented social 
preferences and the needs of healthcare policy makers acting on behalf of 
society. By implication, there is reason to assume that a context-independent 
value of a QALY does not exist, with potentially fatal consequences for any 
attempt to interpret CUAs in a normative way. Policy makers seem well advised to 
retain a pragmatic attitude towards the results of CUAs, while health economists 
should pay more attention to the further development of promising alternative 
evaluation paradigms as opposed to the application of algorithms grounded in 
poor theory.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2010.03.012
PMID: 20608250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. AAOHN J. 2010 Jul;58(7):285-96. doi: 10.3928/08910162-20100625-01.

Worksite-induced morbidities among truck drivers in the United States.

Apostolopoulos Y(1), Sönmez S, Shattell MM, Belzer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Education, University of North Carolina at 
Greensboro, Greensboro, NC 27402-6170, USA. Y_APOSTO@uncg.edu

A critical review was conducted of social, psychological, and health science 
literature on the array of health risks and morbidities of truckers. Multilevel 
worksite-induced strains (e.g., long work hours and fatigue, shift work and 
sleep deprivation, postural fatigue and exposure to noise and vibration, 
sedentary lifestyle and unhealthy diet, exposure to diesel exhaust fumes, and 
other occupational stressors) were categorized into six primary morbidities for 
truckers: (1) psychological and psychiatric disorders; (2) detriments resulting 
from disrupted biological cycles; (3) musculoskeletal disorders; (4) cancer and 
respiratory morbidities; (5) cardiovascular disease; and (6) risk-laden 
substance use and sexual practices. Elevated morbidity risks suggest the need 
for the design and implementation of systematic epidemiological research and 
environmental interventions in the transport sector.

Copyright 2010, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/08910162-20100625-01
PMID: 20608567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. J Med Econ. 2010;13(3):403-17. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.499813.

Cost effectiveness of tiotropium for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a 
systematic review of the evidence.

Mauskopf JA(1), Baker CL, Monz BU, Juniper MD.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA. 
jmauskopf@rti.org

BACKGROUND: Tiotropium has been shown to reduce exacerbations and improve 
quality of life for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), 
a lung disease characterized by a persistent and progressive airflow limitation.
OBJECTIVES: To present a systematic literature review of the cost effectiveness 
of treatment with tiotropium compared with other currently used treatments for 
COPD.
METHODS: A systematic search was performed via PubMed, the Cochrane database, 
and EMBASE from 2002 to 2009. Methods and results by study design and by country 
were compared.
RESULTS: Seventeen studies were included in the review. Study designs were 
characterized as follows: modeling based on clinical trial data, and empirical 
analysis based on either clinical trial or observational data. Comparing 
monotherapy regimens (12 studies), all study designs found that treatment with 
tiotropium was associated with lower costs for hospitalisation and other 
non-drug services. Total costs, including the costs of maintenance drugs, were 
lower with tiotropium in some, but not all, of the studies. Tiotropium was shown 
to be cost effective based on commonly accepted benchmark values. Limitations of 
the review included the wide variety of outcome measures used in different 
studies, the limited number of observational database studies for monotherapy, 
and limited data for combination therapy regimens.
CONCLUSIONS: The main conclusions of the economic evaluations derived from 
clinical trial data at the time of product approval and from later observational 
data reflecting clinical use are similar: use of tiotropium monotherapy is 
associated with lower hospital and other non-drug costs and better health 
outcomes and is either cost saving or cost effective compared with other 
maintenance monotherapies.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.499813
PMID: 20608887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Am J Surg. 2010 Jun;199(6):856-61. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2010.02.002.

Some aspects of health care reform never mentioned.

Fischer JE.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2010.02.002
PMID: 20609729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Lancet. 2010 Jul 3;376(9734):1. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61038-0.

Who still has the worst health system of them all?

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 2010 Oct 2;376(9747):1146.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61038-0
PMID: 20609974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2010 Oct;95(10):4616-24. doi: 10.1210/jc.2010-0940.
 Epub 2010 Jul 7.

The association of serum insulin-like growth factor-I with mortality, 
cardiovascular disease, and cancer in the elderly: a population-based study.

van Bunderen CC(1), van Nieuwpoort IC, van Schoor NM, Deeg DJ, Lips P, Drent ML.

Author information:
(1)VU University Medical Center, Department of Internal Medicine, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. c.vanbunderen@vumc.nl

Comment in
    J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2010 Oct;95(10):4549-51.

CONTEXT: Numerous studies have investigated the effect of serum IGF-I 
concentration on aging and different aging-related diseases, e.g. cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) and cancer. Decreased as well as increased levels have been 
reported to be associated with reduced life expectancy in humans.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the association of serum IGF-I concentration 
with all-cause and cause-specific mortality of community-dwelling older persons 
and the development of CVD and cancer.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Data were used from the Longitudinal Aging 
Study Amsterdam (LASA), an ongoing multidisciplinary cohort study in the general 
Dutch population of older persons (≥65 yr old) where serum IGF-I was measured (n 
= 1273). The mortality information was ascertained using the International 
Classification of Diseases, 10th revision, and the presence or absence of CVD 
and cancer by self-reports with a follow-up of 11.6 yr.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: We measured all-cause, CVD, and cancer mortality and 
nonfatal CVD and cancer.
RESULTS: Fully adjusted Cox proportional hazards models demonstrated an 
increased risk of all-cause mortality for older persons with IGF-I values in the 
lowest quintile as compared to the middle quintile [hazard ratio (HR), 1.28; 95% 
confidence interval (CI), 1.01-1.63]. A more than 2-fold increased risk of CVD 
mortality was revealed for both low-normal (HR, 2.39; 95% CI, 1.22-4.66) and 
high-normal (HR, 2.03; 95% CI, 1.02-4.06) IGF-I values. Significant associations 
of serum IGF-I with nonfatal CVD and fatal and nonfatal cancer were not 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest a U-shaped relationship between IGF-I level and 
mortality, with fatal CVD as the most critical outcome in community-dwelling 
older persons.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2010-0940
PMID: 20610588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Craniofac Surg. 2010 Jul;21(4):1126-9. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3181e57228.

Large intracranial intradural mucocele as a complication of frontal sinus 
osteoma.

Jurlina M(1), Janjanin S, Melada A, Prstacić R, Veselić AS.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Head & Neck Surgery, Zagreb University Hospital 
Center, HR-10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

Paranasal sinus osteomas are mostly asymptomatic; however, secondary mucocele 
can develop if they impede the natural sinus drainage. Such a mucocele can 
destroy the bone and extend into the adjacent structures. We report on an 
unusual case of frontal sinus osteoma in a 27-year-old patient, complicated by 
large secondary mucocele that eroded the bone and extended into the frontal lobe 
of the brain. Unexpectedly, the patient did not report any visual or other 
symptoms attributable to central nervous system deficit. The mucocele was 
completely resected through bifrontobasal osteoplastic craniotomy, whereas 
osteoma was evacuated in its entirety by both drilling and mobilizing. Open 
surgical approach remains the main treatment for complicated paranasal sinus 
osteoma, and radical removal of intracranial mucocele is mandatory to prevent 
the development of life-threatening infections. Although intradural extension of 
a secondary mucocele is extremely unusual, head and neck surgery specialists 
should take this severe complication in consideration.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3181e57228
PMID: 20613584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Gastroenterol. 2010 Nov;45(11):1129-37. doi: 10.1007/s00535-010-0273-x.
Epub  2010 Jul 8.

Rapid endoscopic improvement is important for 1-year avoidance of colectomy but 
not for the long-term prognosis in cyclosporine A treatment for ulcerative 
colitis.

Kobayashi T(1), Naganuma M, Okamoto S, Hisamatsu T, Inoue N, Ichikawa H, 
Takayama T, Saito R, Sujino T, Ogata H, Iwao Y, Hibi T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Intravenous (IV) cyclosporine A (CSA) is one of the treatments of 
choice for patients with steroid-refractory severe ulcerative colitis (UC). In 
this study, we evaluated the overall experience with CSA treatment in UC 
patients, from their initial response to long-term prognosis.
METHODS: The medical records of 72 patients admitted to our hospital with a 
severe UC flare-up and treated with IV CSA between November 1996 and October 
2008 were reviewed retrospectively. The initial response to CSA was assessed 
using a clinical activity index, and colectomy was assigned as the endpoint for 
the long-term prognosis.
RESULTS: Overall, 53 of 72 (73.6%) patients responded initially to CSA. We could 
not determine any specific parameters that predicted an initial response. A 
life-table analysis for all patients revealed that 54.4% of patients required a 
colectomy within 11 years. The long-term risk of surgery was associated with a 
shorter disease duration, history of adverse reactions against medications and 
lack of immunomodulator use. In addition, endoscopic improvement at day 14 was 
associated with colectomy at 1 year, but not with the long-term prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although CSA can exert high initial efficacy for severe attacks of 
UC, >50% of patients who relapse require a colectomy. Specifically, mucosal 
healing evaluated by endoscopy was associated with the 1-year colectomy rate. In 
contrast, a history of adverse drug reactions was correlated with the long-term 
colectomy rate. Therefore, we propose that treatment of severe UC with CSA 
requires consideration of both initial remission and long-term maintenance as 
management goals.

DOI: 10.1007/s00535-010-0273-x
PMID: 20614157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Jul 7;2010(7):CD007792. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007792.pub2.

Palliative surgery versus medical management for bowel obstruction in ovarian 
cancer.

Kucukmetin A(1), Naik R, Galaal K, Bryant A, Dickinson HO.

Author information:
(1)Gynaecological Oncology, Northern Gynaecological Oncology Centre, Queen 
Elizabeth Hospital, Sheriff Hill, Gateshead, Tyne & Wear, UK, NE9 6SX.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD007792.

BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer is the sixth most common cancer among women and is 
usually diagnosed at an advanced stage. Bowel obstruction is a common feature of 
advanced or recurrent ovarian cancer. Patients with bowel obstruction are 
generally in poor physical condition with a limited life expectancy. Therefore, 
maintaining their QoL with effective symptom control is the main purpose of the 
management of bowel obstruction.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the effectiveness and safety of palliative surgery 
(surgery performed to control the cancer, reduce symptoms and improve quality of 
life for those whose cancer is not able to be entirely removed) and medical 
management for bowel obstruction in women with ovarian cancer.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Group Trials 
Register, The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled trials (CENTRAL), Issue 1 
2009, MEDLINE and EMBASE up to February 2009. We also searched registers of 
clinical trials, abstracts of scientific meetings, reference lists of included 
studies and contacted experts in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Studies that compared palliative surgery and medical 
interventions, in adult women diagnosed with ovarian cancer who had either full 
or partial obstruction of the bowel. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and 
non-RCTs that used multivariable statistical adjustment for baseline case mix 
were eligible.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed whether 
potentially relevant studies met the inclusion criteria, abstracted data and 
assessed risk of bias. One non-randomised study was identified so no 
meta-analyses were performed.
MAIN RESULTS: The search strategy identified 183 unique references of which 22 
were identified as being potentially eligible on the basis of title and 
abstract. Only one study met our inclusion criteria and was included in the 
review. It analysed retrospective data for 47 women who received either 
palliative surgery (n = 27) or medical management with Octreotide (n = 20) and 
reported overall survival and perioperative mortality and morbidity. Women with 
poor performance status were excluded from surgery. Although six (22%) women who 
received surgery had serious complications of the operation and three (11%) died 
of complications, multivariable analysis found that women who received surgery 
had significantly (p < 0.001) better survival than women who received 
Octreotide, after adjustment for important prognostic factors. However, the 
magnitude of this effect was not reported. Quality of life (QoL) was not 
reported and adverse events were incompletely documented.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found only low quality evidence comparing palliative 
surgery and medical management for bowel obstruction in ovarian cancer. 
Therefore we are unable to reach definite conclusions about the relative 
benefits and harms of the two forms of treatment, or to identify sub-groups of 
women who are likely to benefit from one treatment or the other. However, there 
is weak evidence in support of surgical management to prolong survival.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007792.pub2
PMCID: PMC4170995
PMID: 20614464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None known


578. Issue Brief (Commonw Fund). 2010 Jun;90:1-10.

Measuring the U.S. health care system: a cross-national comparison.

Anderson GF(1), Squires DA.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, USA. 
ganderson@jhsph.edu

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) tracks and 
reports annually on more than 1,200 health system measures across 30 
industrialized countries, ranging from population health status and nonmedical 
determinants of health to health care resources and utilization. Based on 
analysis of OECD health data from 2008, the United States continues to differ 
markedly from other countries on a number of health system measures. The U.S. 
has a comparatively low number of hospital beds and physicians per capita, and 
patients in the U.S. have fewer hospital and physician visits than most other 
countries. At the same time, spending per hospital visit is highest in the U.S., 
and American patients are among the most likely to receive procedures requiring 
complex technology. The nation now ranks in the bottom quartile in life 
expectancy among OECD countries and has seen the smallest improvement in this 
metric over the past 20 years.

PMID: 20614654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Issue Brief (Commonw Fund). 2010 Jul;91:1-14.

Use of comparative effectiveness research in drug coverage and pricing 
decisions: a six-country comparison.

Sorenson C(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health, London School of Economics and Political Science, England. 
c.sorenson@lse.ac.uk

Comparative effectiveness research (CER) has assumed an increasing role in drug 
coverage and, in some cases, pricing decisions in Europe, as decision-makers 
seek to obtain better value for money. This issue brief comparatively examines 
the use of CER across six countries--Denmark, England, France, Germany, the 
Netherlands, and Sweden. With CER gaining traction in the United States, these 
international experiences offer insights and potential lessons. Investing in CER 
can help address the current gap in publicly available, credible, up-to-date, 
and scientifically based comparative information on the effectiveness of drugs 
and other health interventions. This information can be used to base coverage 
and pricing decisions on evidence of value, thereby facilitating access to and 
public and private investment in the most beneficial new drugs and technologies. 
In turn, use of CER creates incentives for more efficient, high-quality health 
care and encourages development of innovative products that offer measurable 
value to patients.

PMID: 20614655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Acta Oncol. 2010 Aug;49(6):851-8. doi: 10.3109/0284186X.2010.495132.

Cost-effectiveness of dasatinib versus high-dose imatinib in patients with 
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML), resistant to standard dose imatinib--a Swedish 
model application.

Ghatnekar O(1), Hjalte F, Taylor M.

Author information:
(1)IHE, The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a progressive disease, consisting 
of three phases, chronic, accelerated and blast phase. Treatment with imatinib 
has demonstrated high response rates and improved prognosis for patients with 
CML. The emergence of imatinib resistance is a major concern. Dasatinib is an 
oral kinase inhibitor of BCR-ABL that has been developed for treating CML 
patients across all phases of disease who are resistant or intolerant to 
imatinib.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
dasatinib versus high-dose imatinib treatment in chronic phase CML patients, 
resistant to lower doses of imatinib (< or =600 mg) in Sweden.
METHODS AND DATA: A Markov simulation model was adapted to Swedish treatment 
practice. The model was populated with efficacy data from clinical trials, 
resource utilisation by expert opinion, published quality of life data and unit 
prices from official price lists. A life-long, societal perspective was used and 
sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: The results showed that chronic phase CML patients resistant to 
standard dose imatinib gain on average 0.67 life-years, or 0.62 quality adjusted 
life-years, when treated with dasatinib 140 mg/day compared with high-dose 
