First evidence of overlaps between HIV-Associated Dementia (HAD) and non-viral 
neurodegenerative diseases: proteomic analysis of the frontal cortex from HIV+ 
patients with and without dementia.

Zhou L(1), Diefenbach E, Crossett B, Tran SL, Ng T, Rizos H, Rua R, Wang B, 
Kapur A, Gandhi K, Brew BJ, Saksena NK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Virus Research, Westmead Millennium Institute, Westmead Hospital, 
The University of Sydney, Westmead, NSW 2145, Sydney, Australia. 
nitin_saksena@wmi.usyd.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The pathogenesis of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) is poorly 
understood. To date, detailed proteomic fingerprinting directly from autopsied 
brain tissues of HAD and HIV non-dementia patients has not been performed.
RESULT: Here, we have analyzed total proteins from the frontal cortex of 9 HAD 
and 5 HIV non-dementia patients. Using 2-Dimensional differential in-gel 
electrophoresis (2-DIGE) to analyze the brain tissue proteome, 76 differentially 
expressed proteins (p < 0.05; fold change>1.25) were identified between HAD and 
HIV non-dementia patients, of which 36 protein spots (based on 3D appearance of 
spots on the images) were chosen for the mass spectrometry analysis. The large 
majority of identified proteins were represented in the energy metabolic 
(mitochondria) and signal transduction pathways. Furthermore, over 90% of the 
protein candidates are common to both HAD and other non-viral neurodegenerative 
disease, such as Alzheimer's disease. The data was further validated using 
specific antibodies to 4 proteins (CA2, GS, CKMT and CRMP2) by western blot (WB) 
in the same samples used for 2D-DIGE, with additional confirmation by 
immunohistochemitsry (IHC) using frontal lobe tissue from different HAD and HIV+ 
non-dementia patients. The validation for all 4 antibodies by WB and IHC was in 
concordance with the DIGE results, lending further credence to the current 
findings.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest not only convergent pathogenetic pathways for 
the two diseases but also the possibility of increased Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
susceptibility in HAD patients whose life expectancy has been significantly 
increased by highly active antiretroviral therapy.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1326-5-27
PMCID: PMC2904315
PMID: 20573273


474. Urology. 2010 Sep;76(3):528-35. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2010.04.030. Epub
2010  Jun 22.

Years of potential life lost and productivity losses from male urogenital cancer 
deaths--United States, 2004.

Li C(1), Ekwueme DU, Rim SH, Tangka FK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. hsf6@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVES: To estimate years of potential life lost (YPLL) and productivity 
losses due to deaths from male urogenital cancers in the United States in 2004.
METHODS: To estimate YPLL, we applied a life expectancy method using 2004 
national mortality data and life tables. To estimate lifetime productivity 
losses, we used human capital approach accounting for both the market value and 
the imputed value of housekeeping services. We calculated results for age and 
racial/ethnic groups and for 8 categories of male urogenital cancers.
RESULTS: In 2004, deaths from urological cancers accounted for 244,080 YPLL, 
with an average of 14.4 YPLL per death, and deaths from genital cancers 
accounted for 309,921 YPLL, with an average of 10.5 YPLL per death. Kidney 
cancer accounted for 42.7% YPLL from male urological cancers, and prostate 
cancer accounted for 94.2% of the YPLL from male genital cancers. Testicular 
cancer had the highest average number of YPLL per death (37.9). Non-Hispanic 
whites accounted for 77.9% of the YPLL from male urogenital cancer deaths. 
Overall, urogenital cancers had the largest relative contribution to YPLL among 
men aged ≥50 years. In 2004, the estimated lifetime productivity loss because of 
deaths from male urogenital cancer was $10.4 billion USD, 10.6% of the estimated 
$97.9 billion USD loss because of deaths from all cancers among US men.
CONCLUSIONS: Urogenital cancers impose a considerable health and economic burden 
in terms of premature deaths and productivity losses in men in the United 
States, particularly among the elderly and non-Hispanic whites and blacks.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2010.04.030
PMID: 20573389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Arch Dis Child. 2011 Oct;96(10):948-53. doi: 10.1136/adc.2009.182139. Epub
2010  Jun 23.

Attitudes and practices of physicians regarding physician-assisted dying in 
minors.

Pousset G(1), Mortier F, Bilsen J, Cohen J, Deliens L.

Author information:
(1)Bioethics Institute Ghent, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. 
geert.pousset@ugent.be

OBJECTIVE: To investigate attitudes towards physician-assisted death in minors 
among all physicians involved in the treatment of children dying in Flanders, 
Belgium over an 18-month period, and how these are related to actual medical 
end-of-life practices.
DESIGN: Anonymous population-based postmortem physician survey.
SETTING: Flanders, Belgium.
PARTICIPANTS: Physicians signing death certificates of all patients aged 1-17 
years who died between June 2007 and November 2008.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Attitudes towards physician-assisted death in minors and 
actual end-of-life practices in the deaths concerned.
RESULTS: 124 physicians for 70.5% of eligible cases (N=149) responded. 69% 
favour an extension of the Belgian law on euthanasia to include minors, 26.6% 
think this should be done by establishing clear age limits and 61% think 
parental consent is required before taking life-shortening decisions. Cluster 
analysis yielded a cluster (67.7% of physicians) accepting of, and a cluster 
(32.2% of physicians) reluctant towards physician-assisted death in minors. 
Controlling for physician specialty and patient characteristics, acceptant 
physicians were more likely to engage in practices with the intention of 
shortening a patient's life than were reluctant physicians.
CONCLUSION: A majority of surveyed Flemish physicians appear to accept 
physician-assisted dying in children under certain circumstances and favour an 
amendment to the euthanasia law to include minors. The approach favoured is one 
of assessing decision-making capacity rather than setting arbitrary age limits. 
These stances, and their connection with actual end-of-life practices, may 
encourage policy-makers to develop guidelines for medical end-of-life practices 
in minors that address specific challenges arising in this patient group.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.2009.182139
PMID: 20573739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. BMJ. 2010 Jun 23;340:c3294. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c3294.

Would action on health inequalities have saved New Labour?

McCartney G(1), Collins C, Dorling D.

Author information:
(1)MRC Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, Glasgow. gmccartney@nhs.net

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c3294
PMID: 20573766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Eur J Health Econ. 2011 Oct;12(5):469-78. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0260-4.
Epub  2010 Jun 24.

Ageing and health care expenditure in EU-15.

Bech M(1), Christiansen T, Khoman E, Lauridsen J, Weale M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Health Economics, University of Southern Denmark, 
J.B.Winsløwsvej 9B, 5000, Odense C, Denmark. mbe@sam.sdu.dk

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between ageing and 
the evolution of health care expenditure per capita in the EU-15 countries. A 
secondary purpose is to produce estimates that can be used in projections of 
future health care costs. Explanatory variables include economic, social, 
demographic and institutional variables as well as variables related to capacity 
and production technology in the health care sector. The study applies a 
co-integrated panel data regression approach to derive short-run relationships 
and furthermore reports long-run relationships between health care expenditure 
and the explanatory variables. Our findings suggest that there is a positive 
short-run effect of ageing on health care expenditure, but that the long-run 
effect of ageing is approximately zero. We find life expectancy to be a more 
important driver. Although the short-run effect of life expectancy on 
expenditure is approximately zero, we find that the long-run effect is positive, 
so that increasing life expectancy leads to a more than proportional, i.e. 
exponential, increase in health care expenditure.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0260-4
PMID: 20574765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Diabetes Self Manag. 2010 May-Jun;27(3):48-51.

What your doctor is reading.

Roberts SS.

PMID: 20575328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(11):1025-39. doi:
10.2165/11535540-000000000-00000.

Economic efficiency of genetic screening to inform the use of abacavir sulfate 
in the treatment of HIV.

Kauf TL(1), Farkouh RA, Earnshaw SR, Watson ME, Maroudas P, Chambers MG.

Author information:
(1)University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA. tkauf@ufl.edu

BACKGROUND: Abacavir sulfate (abacavir) is associated with a hypersensitivity 
reaction (HSR) that affects 5-8% of patients. While serious complications are 
rare, failure to identify it, or abacavir re-challenge following HSR, can be 
fatal. Genetic screening for HLA-B*5701 can identify patients who are likely to 
experience an HSR and reduces the incidence of the reaction.
OBJECTIVE: We assessed the intrinsic and practical value, from the US healthcare 
system perspective, of prospective HLA-B*5701 screening among a population of 
antiretroviral-naive patients without elevated risk factors for cardiovascular 
disease, plasma HIV RNA >100,000 copies/mL, or pre-existing renal insufficiency.
METHODS: Two approaches were used to evaluate the costs and benefits of 
prospective screening. First, the efficiency of HLA-B*5701 screening compared 
with no screening prior to abacavir initiation (intrinsic value of screening) 
was evaluated using a 60-day decision-tree model. Next, the practical value of 
screening was assessed using a lifetime discrete-event simulation model that 
compared HLA-B*5701 screening prior to abacavir use versus initiation with a 
tenofovir-containing regimen. Screening-effectiveness parameters were taken from 
an open-label trial that incorporated screening prior to abacavir initiation and 
other published studies. Treatment efficacy was derived from clinical trials. 
Modelling assumptions, costs ($US, year 2007 values) and other parameters were 
derived from published sources, primary data analysis and expert opinion. 
Multiple one-way sensitivity and scenario analyses were performed to assess 
parameter uncertainty. The primary outcome measure for the short-term screening 
versus no screening analysis was cost per patient. For the long-term analysis, 
outcomes were presented as QALYs. Costs and effects were discounted at 3% per 
year.
RESULTS: Over the first 60 days of treatment, prospective screening prior to 
abacavir initiation cost an additional $US17 per patient and avoided 537 HSRs 
per 10,000 patients. The per-patient cost of screening was sensitive to the cost 
of the genetic test, HSR costs and screening performance. In the lifetime model, 
screening-informed abacavir use was more effective and less costly than 
initiation with a tenofovir-containing regimen in the base case and in 
sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that prospective HLA-B*5701 screening prior to 
abacavir initiation produces cost savings and should become a standard component 
of HIV care.

DOI: 10.2165/11535540-000000000-00000
PMID: 20575592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Magy Onkol. 2010 Jun;54(2):101-15. doi: 10.1556/MOnkol.54.2010.2.3.

[Surgical treatment of cancer at the beginning of the third millenium--based on 
the 2004 Krompecher Memorial Lecture of the Society of Hungarian Oncologists].

[Article in Hungarian]

Balogh A(1).

Author information:
(1)Szegedi Tudományegyetem, Altalános Orvosi Kar, Szent-Györgyi Albert Klinikai 
Központ Sebészeti Klinika 6720 Szeged Pécsi u. 6. 
dr.balogh.adam.sandor@gmail.com

The author presents a historical overview of cancer surgery of the last century. 
At the last quarter of the century the main characteristic of this process has 
been the significant extension of surgical radicality. Three new surgical 
methods appeared and have been routinely used at the Surgical Clinic of the 
Szeged University School, to increase surgical radicality, to improve survival 
rate without impairing the postoperative quality of life. 1.) Subtotal colectomy 
(STC) involves an extended resection of the colon over the splenic flexure. In a 
period of 8 years a total of 72 STCs were performed for the treatment of large 
bowel obstructions or symptomatic stenosis caused by cancer of the left colon. 
STC offers: a) one stage treatment for colonic obstruction in emergency surgery, 
b.) removal of the tumor with sufficient oncological radicality, c.) primary 
reconstruction of the digestive tract, with a safe ileocolic anastomosis even in 
emergency cases. Based on a study about postoperative quality of life of STC 
operated patients, it proved to be normal. 2.) The author reports a total of 108 
middle and low third rectal cancer cases operated on by total mesorectal 
excision (TME) by the method of Heald. The oncological basis of this procedure 
is the horizontal regional metastatization of rectal cancer. The author 
succeeded in 60% of cases to perform an anterior resection with preservation of 
the anal sphincter, and to decrease the early (within two years after surgery) 
local recurrence rate from 14.5% to 6.4%, compared to the group of patients 
operated on by traditional technic. 3.) A total of 154 patients with locally 
advanced - stage IV - colorectal cancer underwent extended surgery of 
multivisceral resections as a treatment of cancer process involving adjacent 
abdominal organs. Surgery was performed to treat advanced cancer of the colon in 
112 cases and the one of the rectum in 42 cases. The mortality rate was 7% in 
the colon cancer group, and 12% in the group of rectal cancer patients. In their 
tumor-free postoperative period 90% of colon cancer patients and 95% of rectal 
cancer patients had an improved quality of life. The 5 years survival rate was 
40% in the colon group and 22% in the rectal cancer group. In the group of 
patients having more than 3 simultaneously tumorous organs, in spite of the 
multiple organ resections, no 5 years survival has been recorded.

DOI: 10.1556/MOnkol.54.2010.2.3
PMID: 20576585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Orthop Trauma. 2010 Jul;24(7):426-33. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181c3e505.

Is surgery for displaced, midshaft clavicle fractures in adults cost-effective? 
Results based on a multicenter randomized, controlled trial.

Pearson AM(1), Tosteson AN, Koval KJ, McKee MD, Cantu RV, Bell JE, Vicente M.

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 03755, USA. 
adam.pearson@hitchcock.org

OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of open reduction internal 
fixation (ORIF) of displaced, midshaft clavicle fractures in adults.
DESIGN: Formal cost-effectiveness analysis based on a prospective, randomized, 
controlled trial.
SETTING: Eight hospitals in Canada (seven university-affiliated and one 
community hospital).
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: One hundred thirty-two adults with acute, completely 
displaced, midshaft clavicle fractures.
INTERVENTION: Clavicle ORIF versus nonoperative treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Utilities derived from SF-6D.
RESULTS: The base case cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained for 
ORIF was $65,000. Cost-effectiveness improved to $28,150/QALY gained when the 
functional benefit from ORIF was assumed to be permanent with cost per QALY 
gained falling below $50,000 when the functional advantage persisted for 9.3 
years or more. In other sensitivity analyses, the cost per QALY gained for ORIF 
fell below $50,000 when ORIF cost less than $10,465 (base case cost $13,668) or 
the long-term utility difference between nonoperative treatment and ORIF was 
greater than 0.034 (base case difference 0.014). Short-term disutility 
associated with fracture healing also affected cost-effectiveness with the cost 
per QALY gained for ORIF falling below $50,000 when the utility of a fracture 
treated nonoperatively before union was less than 0.617 (base case utility 
0.706) or when nonoperative treatment increased the time to union by 20 weeks 
(base case difference 12 weeks).
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of ORIF after acute clavicle fracture 
depended on the durability of functional advantage for ORIF compared with 
nonoperative treatment. When functional benefits persisted for more than 9 
years, ORIF had a favorable value compared with many accepted health 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181c3e505
PMCID: PMC2892810
PMID: 20577073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2010 Mar 3;58(10):1-132.

United States life tables, 2005.

Arias E(1), Rostron BL, Tejada-Vera B.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Vital Statistics, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health 
Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents period life tables by age, race, and sex for 
the United States based on age-specific death rates in 2005. The tables 
presented are based on a newly revised methodology. For comparability, all life 
tables from the year 2000 forward have been re-estimated using the revised 
methodology and are presented in the "Technical Notes" section.
METHODS: Data used to prepare the 2005 life tables are 2005 final mortality 
statistics, July 1, 2005 population estimates based on the 2000 decennial 
census, and 2005 Medicare data for ages 66-100. The methods used to estimate 
mortality for ages 0-65 were the same as those used in annual life tables from 
1997 through 2004 (1). The methodology to estimate mortality for the population 
aged 66 and over was revised in three ways: Medicare data were used to 
supplement vital statistics and census data starting at age 66 rather than 85, 
as was done from 1997 through 2004; probabilities of death based on current 
Medicare data rather than rates of change of probabilities of death based on 
noncurrent Medicare data were used; and the smoothing and extrapolation of the 
probabilities of death for ages 66 and over were performed using a nonlinear 
least squares model rather than a linear model of the rate of change of the 
probabilities of death for ages 85 and over (1-3).
RESULTS: In 2005, the overall expectation of life at birth was 77.4 years, 
representing a decline of 0.1 years from life expectancy in 2004. From 2004 to 
2005, life expectancy at birth remained the same for males (74.9), females 
(79.9), the white population (77.9), white males (75.4), white females (80.4), 
the black population (72.8), and black males (69.3). Life expectancy at birth 
increased for black females (from 76.0 to 76.1). Life expectancy estimates based 
on the revised methodology are slightly lower than those based on the previous 
methodology. For 2005, life expectancy at birth based on the revised methodology 
was lower by 0.4 years for the total population.

PMID: 20578408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Acta Biomed. 2009;80(3):177-86.

Atherogenesis in rheumatoid arthritis: the "rheumatoid vasculopathy"?

Fietta P(1), Delsante G.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Medicine and Rheumatology, University Hospital of Parma, Parma, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) is associated with accelerated 
atherogenesis. RA patients have a reduced life expectancy compared to the 
general population, and cardiovascular (CV) disease (CVD) is recognized as a 
strong contributor to the excess of morbidity and mortality. Our aim was to 
review and discuss the recent advances in the knowledge of the RA-associated 
atherogenesis.
METHODS: A detailed search of the available literature was performed in the 
PubMed (U.S. National Library of Medicine) database.
RESULTS: Atherosclerosis is an early and common finding in RA patients, 
positively correlating to the disease duration and severity. Both traditional CV 
risk factors and disease-related mechanisms may contribute to the RA 
atherogenesis, however, clinical and epidemiological studies suggest that the 
systemic inflammation is the major determinant of the RA vascular comorbidity. 
Patients with RA show an increased risk for CV events compared with the general 
population, and CVD accounts for nearly 50% of death causes. CV morbidity and 
mortality strongly correlate with disease activity, whereas the successful 
pharmacological control of the chronic inflammation decreases the risk of CV 
complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Atherogenesis is a precocious feature in RA, as extraarticular 
manifestation of the syndrome, and might be defined the "rheumatoid 
vasculopathy". The better understanding of molecular mechanisms leading to the 
RA accelerated atherogenesis, the development of effective screening methods, 
and the identification of successful strategies to control both systemic 
inflammation and concomitant CV risk factors will allow to minimize the 
rheumatoid vasculopathy impact on the patients' morbidity and mortality.

PMID: 20578409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 2010 Jan;41(1):114-25.

Cost-effectiveness of rotavirus vaccination as part of the national immunization 
program for Thai children.

Chotivitayatarakorn P(1), Chotivitayatarakorn P, Poovorawan Y.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.

Rotavirus infection is a common cause of gastroenteritis in infants and thus, 
presents an economic burden. Currently, there are effective vaccines against 
rotavirus licensed for use in Thailand. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
rotavirus vaccination as part of the national immunization program for Thai 
children based on information derived from studies of disease burden of 
rotavirus infection, vaccine effectiveness, expenditure for care according to 
the WHO CHOICE; average GNP per capita provided by the Bank of Thailand and 
statistics from the Ministry of Health. The hypothesis of economic 
cost-effectiveness administering the vaccine along with DPT and OPV at ages 2 
and 4 months was derived from a 5-year cohort study of 96% vaccinated children. 
Evaluation of vaccine cost-effectiveness included reduction of disease burden, 
cost averted, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) to disability adjusted 
life year (DALY) averted and cost per life saved. Routine rotavirus immunization 
would prevent 109,918 visits to outpatient departments, 46,542 hospitalizations 
and 419 deaths in children under 5 years of age. It could reduce cost of care by 
USD12,066,484 or USD13 per child. As part of the national immunization program, 
the vaccine would be cost-effective at the direct medical break-even price of 
USD6.2 per dose. At a maximum vaccine price of USD6.2-10.5 per dose, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio is approximately USD185-759 per DALY averted. Vaccine 
price is greatly influenced by vaccine efficacy, mortality and G genotypes of 
rotavirus. Rotavirus vaccination could reduce gastroenteritis in children but 
the price, if used as part of the national immunization program should be below 
USD10 per dose.

PMID: 20578490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2010;8(4):251-65. doi: 
10.2165/11535520-000000000-00000.

Costs and consequences of clopidogrel versus aspirin for secondary prevention of 
ischaemic events in (high-risk) atherosclerotic patients in Sweden: a lifetime 
model based on the CAPRIE trial and high-risk CAPRIE subpopulations.

Logman JF(1), Heeg BM, Herlitz J, van Hout BA.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit Europe BV, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. info@pharmerit.com

BACKGROUND: Antiplatelet therapy plays a central role in the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events. Both acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) and clopidogrel 
have been shown to reduce the risk of recurrent cardiovascular events in various 
subgroups of patients with vascular disease.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of clopidogrel versus aspirin in 
Sweden for the prevention of atherothrombotic events based on CAPRIE trial data. 
The focus of this study is on two high-risk subpopulations: (i) patients with 
pre-existing symptomatic atherosclerotic disease; and (ii) patients with 
polyvascular disease.
METHODS: A Markov model combining clinical, epidemiological and cost data was 
used to assess the economic value of clopidogrel compared with aspirin during a 
patient's lifetime. A societal perspective was used, with costs stated in 
Swedish kronor (SEK), year 2007 values. For the first 2 years, the clinical 
input for the model was based on the relevant subpopulations in the CAPRIE 
trial. Thereafter, transition probabilities were extrapolated, taking account of 
increased risks related to age and to a history of events. Cost effectiveness of 
2 years of therapy is presented as cost per life-year gained (LYG) and as cost 
per QALY. Univariate and multivariate sensitivity analyses were performed to 
investigate robustness of results.
RESULTS: For patients resembling the total CAPRIE population, who were treated 
with clopidogrel, the expected cost per LYG was SEK217,806 and the cost per QALY 
was estimated at SEK169,154. For the high-risk CAPRIE subpopulations, costs per 
QALY were lowest for patients with pre-existing symptomatic atherosclerotic 
disease (SEK38,153). Using a 'willingness-to-pay' perspective indicated that 
treatment with clopidogrel instead of aspirin in high-risk patients is 
associated with a high probability for cost effectiveness; 81% using a threshold 
of SEK100,000 per QALY and 98% using a threshold of SEK500,000 per QALY. 
Overall, the results appeared to be robust over the sensitivity analyses 
performed.
CONCLUSION: When considering the cost-effectiveness categorization as proposed 
by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, clopidogrel appears to be 
associated with costs per QALY that range from intermediate in the total CAPRIE 
population to low in high-risk atherosclerotic patients.

DOI: 10.2165/11535520-000000000-00000
PMID: 20578780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2010;8(4):267-80. doi: 
10.2165/11535380-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of insulin glargine plus oral antidiabetes drugs compared 
with premixed insulin alone in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in Canada.

Tunis SL(1), Sauriol L, Minshall ME.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health Inc., Falls Church, Virginia, USA.

BACKGROUND: Several treatment options are available for patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus who are making the transition from oral antidiabetes drugs 
(OADs) to insulin. Two options currently recommended by the Canadian Diabetes 
Association for initiating insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes who 
are no longer responsive to OADs alone are insulin glargine plus OADs, and 
premixed insulin therapy only. Because of differences in efficacy, adverse 
events (such as hypoglycaemia) and acquisition costs, these two treatment 
options may lead to different long-term clinical and economic outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness of insulin glargine plus OADs 
compared with premixed insulin without OADs in insulin-naive patients with type 
2 diabetes in Canada.
METHODS: Using treatment effects taken from a published clinical trial, the 
validated IMS-CORE Diabetes Model was used to simulate the long-term cost 
effectiveness of insulin glargine with OADs, versus premixed insulin. Input 
treatment effects for the two therapeutic approaches were based on changes in 
glycosylated haemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)) at clinical trial endpoint, and 
hypoglycaemia rates. The analysis was conducted from the perspective of the 
Canadian Provincial payer. Direct treatment and complication costs were obtained 
from published sources (primarily from Ontario) and reported in $Can, year 2008 
values. All base-case costs and outcomes were discounted at 5% per year. 
Sensitivity analyses were conducted around key parameters and assumptions used 
in the study. Outcomes included direct medical costs associated with both 
treatment and diabetes-related complications. Cost-effectiveness outcomes 
included total average lifetime (35 years) costs, life expectancy (LE), QALYs 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Base-case analyses showed that, compared with premixed insulin only, 
insulin glargine in combination with OADs was associated with a 0.051-year 
increase in LE and a 0.043 increase in QALYs. Insulin glargine plus OADs showed 
a very slight increase in total direct costs ($Can 343 +/- 2572), resulting in 
ICERs of $Can 6750 per life-year gained (LYG) and $Can 7923 per QALY gained. 
However, considerable uncertainty around the ICERs was demonstrated by insulin 
glargine having a 50% probability of being cost effective at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $Can 10,000 per QALY, and a 54% probability at a 
$Can 20,000 threshold. Base-case results were most sensitive to assumed 
disutilities for hypoglycaemic events, to the assumed effect of insulin glargine 
plus OADs on HbA(1c), and to its assumed acquisition costs.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings should be interpreted within the context of a large 
degree of uncertainty and of several study limitations that include a single 
clinical trial as the source for primary treatment assumptions and a single 
province as the source for most cost inputs. Under current study assumptions and 
limitations, insulin glargine plus OADs was projected to be a cost-effective 
option, compared with premixed insulin only, for the treatment of insulin-naive 
patients with type 2 diabetes unresponsive to OADs. Additional work is needed to 
examine the generalizability of the findings to individual jurisdictions of the 
Canadian healthcare system.

DOI: 10.2165/11535380-000000000-00000
PMID: 20578781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Laparoendosc Adv Surg Tech A. 2010 Jul-Aug;20(6):527-31. doi: 
10.1089/lap.2010.0045.

Laparoscopic surgery in the elderly: personal experience in 141 cases.

Vecchio R(1), Gelardi V, Persi A, Intagliata E.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University of Catania, Catania, Italy. 
rvecchio@unict.it

INTRODUCTION: As life expectancy increases, the number of elderly patients 
presenting with surgically correctable diseases will rise as well. For 
advantages, which are well recognized in young patients, laparoscopic surgery 
has been proposed also for older patients. Because of underlying chronic 
diseases, however, elderly patients have been considered at high risk for the 
laparoscopic approach. Several studies have pointed out the risks related to 
cardiac, respiratory, or general comorbidities when elderly patients are 
proposed for laparoscopic treatment of their surgical disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this study, we reported our experience in 141 patients 
older than 65 years who were submitted to laparoscopic procedures for several 
indications. According to American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) score, 
patients were classified as ASA I in 70.9% of cases, ASA II in 27.6%, and ASA 
III in 1%.
RESULTS: No mortality has been reported. Conversion rate was 5.3% for bleeding 
in 4 cases or intraoperative hypotension in 2 cases. Mean hospital stay was 5 
days. Postoperative complication was reported in 1 case and consisted of a 
hearth attack.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic surgery in the elderly is a safe procedure, if 
preoperative selection of the patients is accomplished. An experienced surgical 
team and multidisciplinary approach are mandatory.

DOI: 10.1089/lap.2010.0045
PMID: 20578921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Milbank Q. 2010 Jun;88(2):211-39. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2010.00596.x.

The evolution of health care advance planning law and policy.

Sabatino CP(1).

Author information:
(1)American Bar Association, Washington, DC, USA. SabatinoC@staff.abanet.org

CONTEXT: The legal tools of health care advance planning have substantially 
changed since their emergence in the mid-1970s. Thirty years of policy 
development, primarily at the state legislative level addressing surrogate 
decision making and advance directives, have resulted in a disjointed policy 
landscape, yet with important points of convergence evolving over time. An 
understanding of the evolution of advance care planning policy has important 
implications for policy at both the state and federal levels.
METHODS: This article is a longitudinal statutory and literature review of 
health care advance planning from its origins to the present.
FINDINGS: While considerable variability across the states still remains, 
changes in law and policy over time suggest a gradual paradigm shift from what 
is described as a "legal transactional approach" to a "communications approach," 
the most recent extension of which is the emergence of Physician Orders for 
Life-Sustaining Treatment, or POLST. The communications approach helps translate 
patients' goals into visible and portable medical orders.
CONCLUSIONS: States are likely to continue gradually moving away from a legal 
transactional mode of advance planning toward a communications model, albeit 
with challenges to authentic and reliable communication that accurately 
translates patients' wishes into the care they receive. In the meantime, the 
states and their health care institutions will continue to serve as the primary 
laboratory for advance care planning policy and practice.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2010.00596.x
PMCID: PMC2980344
PMID: 20579283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. BMC Dermatol. 2010 Jun 25;10:4. doi: 10.1186/1471-5945-10-4.

Cost-effectiveness of oral alitretinoin in patients with severe chronic hand 
eczema--a long-term analysis from a Swiss perspective.

Blank PR(1), Blank AA, Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)ECPM Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, 
Klingelbergstrasse 61, 4056 Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The impact on patients suffering from chronic hand eczema (CHE) is 
enormous, as no licensed systemic treatment option with proven efficacy for CHE 
is available. Alitretinoin is a novel agent which showed high clinical efficacy 
in patients with severe, refractory CHE. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of 
alitretinoin for CHE patient treatment from a Swiss third party payer 
perspective. A further objective of this study was to determine the burden of 
disease in Switzerland.
METHODS: A long-term Markov cohort simulation model was used to estimate direct 
medical costs (euro) and clinical effectiveness (quality adjusted life years, 
QALYs) of treating severe CHE patients with alitretinoin. Comparison was against 
the standard treatment of supportive care (optimised emollient therapy). 
Information on response rates were derived from a randomized controlled clinical 
trial. Costs were considered from the perspective of the Swiss health system. 
Swiss epidemiological data was derived from official Swiss Statistic 
institutions.
RESULTS: Annual costs of alitretinoin treatment accounted for 2'212 euro. After 
a time horizon of 22.4 years, average remaining long-term costs accounted for 
42'208 euro or 38'795 euro in the alitretinoin and the standard treatment arm, 
respectively. Compared with the standard therapy, the addition of alitretinoin 
yielded an average gain of 0.230 QALYs at the end of the simulation. 
Accordingly, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio resulted in 14'816 
euro/QALY gained. These results were robust to changes in key model assumptions.
CONCLUSION: The therapy for CHE patients is currently insufficient. In our 
long-term model we identified the treatment with alitretinoin as a 
cost-effective alternative for the therapy of CHE patients in Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-5945-10-4
PMCID: PMC2908557
PMID: 20579358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Compr Psychiatry. 2010 Jul-Aug;51(4):373-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.comppsych.2009.10.001. Epub 2009 Dec 21.

Extended-release fluvoxamine and improvements in quality of life in patients 
with obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Koran LM(1), Bromberg D, Hornfeldt CS, Shepski JC, Wang S, Hollander E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, CA 94305, USA. lkoran@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that subjects with obsessive-compulsive disorder 
(OCD) who received extended-release fluvoxamine (fluvoxamine ER) in a 12-week 
placebo-controlled trial would exhibit improvements in psychosocial domains of 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and that additional improvements would 
occur after a 40-week open-label extension trial. We also hypothesized that 
greater OCD symptom improvement in the first 12 weeks of treatment would be 
associated with greater HRQOL improvement after 52 weeks of treatment.
METHODS: In the 12-week placebo-controlled trial, subjects were randomized to 
receive placebo or 100 mg/d of fluvoxamine ER and then titrated in weekly 50 mg 
increments to a final dose of 100 to 300 mg/d. All subjects enrolled in the 
40-week extension trial followed a similar titration, during which they were 
maintained on their highest well-tolerated dose.
RESULTS: After 12 weeks of treatment, fluvoxamine ER subjects experienced 
significantly greater decreases than placebo subjects in Yale-Brown 
Obsessive-Compulsive Scale scores (P = .001). Both the active drug and placebo 
groups exhibited significant improvements in psychosocial domains of HRQOL; 
further improvement occurred after 40 weeks of open-label treatment with active 
drug. The greater the improvement in OCD severity at 12 weeks, the greater the 
improvement at 52 weeks in the psychosocial domains (Social Functioning r = 
-0.39, P = .027; Emotional Problems r = -0.37, P = .037; Mental Health r = 
-0.49, P = .004).
CONCLUSION: Improvement in Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale severity scores 
during treatment with fluvoxamine ER was associated with improvements in 
psychosocial aspects of HRQOL that increased over an extended period of 
treatment.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2009.10.001
PMID: 20579510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2010 Jun 22;55(25):2789-800. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2009.12.068.

Bicuspid aortic valve disease.

Siu SC(1), Silversides CK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada. Samuel.Siu@lhsc.on.ca

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2011 Jan 25;57(4):518; author reply 519.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2011 Jan 25;57(4):518-9; author reply 519.

Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) disease is the most common congenital cardiac 
defect. While the BAV can be found in isolation, it is often associated with 
other congenital cardiac lesions. The most frequent associated finding is 
dilation of the proximal ascending aorta secondary to abnormalities of the 
aortic media. Changes in the aortic media are present independent of whether the 
valve is functionally normal, stenotic, or incompetent. Although symptoms often 
manifest in adulthood, there is a wide spectrum of presentations ranging from 
severe disease detected in utero to asymptomatic disease in old age. 
Complications can include aortic valve stenosis or incompetence, endocarditis, 
aortic aneurysm formation, and aortic dissection. Despite the potential 
complications, 2 large contemporary series have demonstrated that life 
expectancy in adults with BAV disease is not shortened when compared with the 
general population. Because BAV is a disease of both the valve and the aorta, 
surgical decision making is more complicated, and many undergoing aortic valve 
replacement will also need aortic root surgery. With or without surgery, 
patients with BAV require continued surveillance. Recent studies have improved 
our understanding of the genetics, the pathobiology, and the clinical course of 
the disease, but questions are still unanswered. In the future, medical 
treatment strategies and timing of interventions will likely be refined. This 
review summarizes our current understanding of the pathology, genetics, and 
clinical aspects of BAV disease with a focus on BAV disease in adulthood.

Copyright (c) 2010 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2009.12.068
PMID: 20579534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Urology. 2010 Aug;76(2):373-9. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2010.03.017. Epub 2010
Jun  26.

A multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to assess the efficacy of 
sildenafil citrate in men with unrecognized erectile dysfunction.

Shabsigh R(1), Kaufman J, Magee M, Creanga D, Russell D, Budhwani M.

Author information:
(1)Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, New York 11219, USA. 
rshabsigh@maimonidesmed.org

OBJECTIVE: Erectile dysfunction (ED) may be present but unrecognized in men with 
other comorbidities, such as cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes, or lower 
urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). The efficacy of sildenafil citrate treatment for 
ED in men who did not self-identify with or were unsure about whether they had 
ED, but had ED based on International Index of Erectile Function Erectile 
Function domain (IIEF-EF) scores, was evaluated.
METHODS: Men with an ED-associated comorbidity were asked, "Do you have ED?" 
Those who answered "no" or "unsure" and were diagnosed with ED (score of <or=25 
IIEF-EF) were invited to participate in a parallel-group, multicenter, 
flexible-dose, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial, followed by 
an open-label extension. Erectile function and emotional/psychosocial benefits 
of sildenafil treatment were assessed.
RESULTS: Men with ED at baseline were randomized to sildenafil (n = 150) or 
placebo (n = 155). The mean +/- SD number of ED risk factors in the sildenafil 
and placebo groups was 3.5 +/- 1.8 and 3.3 +/- 1.7, respectively. Hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, smoking, obesity (body mass index >or=30 kg/m(2)), and 
waist circumference >or=40 inches were the most frequently reported risk 
factors. Sildenafil-treated men had improved scores on both functional and 
psychosocial measures. Most adverse events were mild to moderate.
CONCLUSIONS: Many men do not recognize that they have ED; sildenafil treatment 
improved sexual function and satisfaction in these men. Because ED affects 
quality of life, it should be suspected and assessed in men with risk factors 
for ED.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2010.03.017
PMID: 20579708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2010 Jun 22;4(6):e722. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0000722.

The global burden of alveolar echinococcosis.

Torgerson PR(1), Keller K, Magnotta M, Ragland N.

Author information:
(1)Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine, St. Kitts, West Indies. 
ptorgerson@vetclinics.uzh.ch

BACKGROUND: Human alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is known to be common in certain 
rural communities in China whilst it is generally rare and sporadic elsewhere. 
The objective of this study was to provide a first estimate of the global 
incidence of this disease by country. The second objective was to estimate the 
global disease burden using age and gender stratified incidences and estimated 
life expectancy with the disease from previous results of survival analysis. 
Disability weights were suggested from previous burden studies on 
echinococcosis.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We undertook a detailed review of published 
literature and data from other sources. We were unable to make a standardised 
systematic review as the quality of the data was highly variable from different 
countries and hence if we had used uniform inclusion criteria many endemic areas 
lacking data would not have been included. Therefore we used evidence based 
stochastic techniques to model uncertainty and other modelling and estimating 
techniques, particularly in regions where data quality was poor. We were able to 
make an estimate of the annual global incidence of disease and annual disease 
burden using standard techniques for calculation of DALYs. Our studies suggest 
that there are approximately 18,235 (CIs 11,900-28,200) new cases of AE per 
annum globally with 16,629 (91%) occurring in China and 1,606 outside China. 
Most of these cases are in regions where there is little treatment available and 
therefore will be fatal cases. Based on using disability weights for hepatic 
carcinoma and estimated age and gender specific incidence we were able to 
calculate that AE results in a median of 666,434 DALYs per annum (CIs 
331,000-1.3 million).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The global burden of AE is comparable to several 
diseases in the neglected tropical disease cluster and is likely to be one of 
the most important diseases in certain communities in rural China on the Tibetan 
plateau.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000722
PMCID: PMC2889826
PMID: 20582310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


494. Ann Hematol. 2010 Dec;89(12):1207-13. doi: 10.1007/s00277-010-1007-0. Epub
2010  Jun 26.

Endocrine and bone disease in appropriately treated adult patients with 
beta-thalassemia major.

Baldini M(1), Forti S, Marcon A, Ulivieri FM, Orsatti A, Tampieri B, Airaghi L, 
Zanaboni L, Cappellini MD.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine 1 A, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Milan, 
Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, via F. Sforza 35, 
20122, Milan, Italy. marina.baldini@policlinico.mi.it

With the optimization of transfusional and chelation regimens, beta-thalassemia 
has changed from a pediatric disease with poor life expectancy into a chronic 
disease. Bone demineralization is an important cause of morbidity in older 
patients; the etiology is multifactorial and partially unknown. We examined, 
cross-sectionally, 111 adult patients with beta-thalassemia major (66 females 
and 45 males, 32.6 ± 6 years) who were regularly transfused, sufficiently 
chelated and replaced for endocrine defects. Bone demineralization was detected 
in 92.7% of patients with different severity according to gender and site: 
osteopenia was the prominent finding at the femur, osteoporosis at the lumbar 
spine (p < 0.001), more evident in males. The femoral site was more influenced 
by biochemical and clinical factors; despite adequate replacement, the femoral 
T-score was lower in the hypogonadic group than in the eugonadic group 
(p = 0.047). A significant correlation was found between the bone mass and body 
mass index (BMI), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and pre-transfusional Hb levels. 
The multivariate analysis indicated as significant regressors ALP, BMI and 
hypoparathyroidism (T-score, p = 0.005, 0.035, and 0.002; Z-score, 0.002, 0.009, 
and 0.003, respectively) at the femoral site; whereas, only ALP at the lumbar 
spine (p = 0.008 and 0.045 for T-and Z-scores, respectively). The statistical 
significance was reached more frequently by the T-score, while the Z-score 
seemed to be a less sensitive parameter. Despite best care facilities, bone 
demineralization in thalassemic patients remains a challenge. Further 
exploration of the relationships between bone loss and endocrine, biochemical 
and hematologic parameters is warranted to find effective measures to reduce the 
risk of fracture in this disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-010-1007-0
PMID: 20582415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Biogerontology. 2010 Dec;11(6):643-69. doi: 10.1007/s10522-010-9291-6. Epub
2010  Jun 27.

Suitability of the clonal marbled crayfish for biogerontological research: a 
review and perspective, with remarks on some further crustaceans.

Vogt G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Heidelberg, Germany. 
vogt@zoo.uni-heidelberg.de

This article examines the suitability of the parthenogenetic marbled crayfish 
for research on ageing and longevity. The marbled crayfish is an emerging 
laboratory model for development, epigenetics and toxicology that produces up to 
400 genetically identical siblings per batch. It is easily cultured, has an 
adult size of 4-9 cm, a generation time of 6-7 months and a life span of 2-3 
years. Experimental data and biological peculiarities like isogenicity, direct 
development, indeterminate growth, high regeneration capacity and negligible 
senescence suggest that the marbled crayfish is particularly suitable to 
investigate the dependency of ageing and longevity from non-genetic factors such 
as stochastic developmental variation, allocation of metabolic resources, damage 
and repair, caloric restriction and social stress. It is also well applicable to 
examine alterations of the epigenetic code with increasing age and to identify 
mechanisms that keep stem cells active until old age. As a representative of the 
sparsely investigated crustaceans and of animals with indeterminate growth and 
extended brood care the marbled crayfish may even contribute to evolutionary 
theories of ageing and longevity. Some relatives are recommended as substitutes 
for investigation of topics, for which the marbled crayfish is less suitable 
like genetics of ageing and achievement of life spans of decades under 
conditions of low food and low temperature. Research on ageing in the marbled 
crayfish and its relatives is of practical relevance for crustacean fisheries 
and aquaculture and may offer starting points for the development of novel 
anti-ageing interventions in humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-010-9291-6
PMID: 20582627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):W1-3. doi: 10.1080/15265161.2010.489410.

Why bioethicists still need to think more about sex ..

Sparrow R(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Bioethics, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800 
Australia. robert.sparrow@arts.monash.edu.au

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):3-12.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161.2010.489410
PMID: 20582814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):3-12. doi: 10.1080/15265161.2010.489409.

Should human beings have sex? Sexual dimorphism and human enhancement.

Sparrow R(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Bioethics, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, 
Australia. robert.sparrow@arts.monash.edu.au

Comment in
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):W1-3.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):13-4.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):15.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):16-8.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):18-20.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):20-2.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):22-4.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):24-5.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):26-7.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):27-9.

Since the first sex reassignment operations were performed, individual sex has 
come to be, to some extent at least, a technological artifact. The existence of 
sperm sorting technology, and of prenatal determination of fetal sex via 
ultrasound along with the option of termination, means that we now have the 
power to choose the sex of our children. An influential contemporary line of 
thought about medical ethics suggests that we should use technology to serve the 
welfare of individuals and to remove limitations on the opportunities available 
to them. I argue that, if these are our goals, we may do well to move towards a 
"post sex" humanity. Until we have the technology to produce genuine 
hermaphrodites, the most efficient way to do this is to use sex selection 
technology to ensure that only girl children are born. There are significant 
restrictions on the opportunities available to men, around gestation, 
childbirth, and breast-feeding, which will be extremely difficult to overcome 
via social or technological mechanisms for the foreseeable future. Women also 
have longer life expectancies than men. Girl babies therefore have a 
significantly more "open" future than boy babies. Resisting the conclusion that 
we should ensure that all children are born the same sex will require insisting 
that sexual difference is natural to human beings and that we should not use 
technology to reshape humanity beyond certain natural limits. The real concern 
of my paper, then, is the moral significance of the idea of a normal human body 
in modern medicine.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161.2010.489409
PMID: 20582815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Jul;10(7):16-8. doi: 10.1080/15265161.2010.482642.

Resisting Sparrow's sexy reductio: selection principles and the social good.

Douglas T(1), Powell R, Devolder K, Stafforini P, Rippon S.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics & Faculty of Philosophy, University 
of Oxford, Oxford, UK. russell.powell@philosophy.ox.ac.uk

Comment on
