emphasized to athletes and active individuals with the same importance as for 
the general population. Medication treatment can be complicated because of 
restrictions by athletic organizations and possible limitations on maximal 
exercise performance. In addition, the choice of an antihypertensive drug should 
be made with consideration for salt and water losses that routinely occur in 
athletes, as well as preservation of exercise performance and endothelial 
function. First-line therapies for athletes and physically active individuals 
may be different from the general population. Some authorities believe that 
blocking the renin-angiotensin system with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is more beneficial compared 
with diuretics because of ACE inhibitors and ARBs being able to avoid salt and 
water losses. Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are another 
reasonable choice. Despite effects on heart rate, nondihydropyridine CCBs do not 
appear to impair exercise performance. beta-Blockers are not used as a 
first-line therapy in athletes because of effects on exercise and prohibition by 
the National Collegiate Athletic Association and World Anti-Doping Agency in 
certain sports. In this article, we address the evidence on hypertension and its 
related treatments in active individuals to provide recommendations that allow 
the best competitive sports results and reduce cardiovascular risk.

DOI: 10.3810/psm.2010.04.1757
PMID: 20424397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov;248(11):1675; author reply 1677.
doi:  10.1007/s00417-010-1390-1. Epub 2010 Apr 28.

Ranibizumab vs. pegaptanib: a cost-effectiveness study?

Wiwanitkit V.

Comment on
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Apr;248(4):467-76.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-010-1390-1
PMID: 20424851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Curr Atheroscler Rep. 2010 Mar;12(2):119-24. doi: 10.1007/s11883-010-0089-4.

The spectrum of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease in HIV patients.

Hakeem A(1), Bhatti S, Cilingiroglu M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Cincinnati, OH 45206, USA. 
ahakeem@gmail.com

The incidence of HIV is on the rise. With the advent of antiretroviral therapy, 
the average life expectancy of HIV patients has increased by several decades, 
but the increasing life expectancy has shifted the spectrum of HIV-associated 
morbidity and mortality away from opportunistic infections and toward chronic 
medical conditions. In fact, coronary artery disease has become the leading 
cause of mortality in patients with HIV. The pathophysiology of atherosclerosis 
in patients with HIV is very complex, including direct endothelial damage from 
viremia, a heightened overall state of inflammation from immune activation, 
higher prevalence and contribution from traditional atherosclerotic risk 
factors, and direct effects from antiretroviral therapy itself. This review 
focuses on the patterns, predictors, and pathophysiology of atherosclerotic 
disease in patients with HIV. In addition, the risks and benefits of 
evidence-based highly active antiretroviral therapy are critically evaluated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11883-010-0089-4
PMID: 20425247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2008 Jan;3(1):31-6. doi: 10.1007/s11899-008-0006-x.

Diagnosis and management of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.

Onida F(1), Beran M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Milan, Fondazione IRCCS 
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico e Regina Elena, Milano, Italy. 
francesco.onida@unimi.it

Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia is a heterogeneous hematologic malignancy 
classified among the mixed myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases by the 
World Health Organization because of its myelodysplastic and myeloproliferative 
characteristics. In the proliferative form, diagnosis should include screening 
for known molecular abnormalities associated with constitutively active tyrosine 
kinases, which may be candidates for targeted therapies. Because patient life 
expectancy is highly variable and there is no consensus on optimal therapy, 
clinicians are advised to rely on a specific risk-oriented scoring system for 
clinical decision-making for individual patients. Although supportive care 
represents the milestone for disease management, novel active agents such as 
hypomethylating drugs recently have become available, so that the current 
therapeutic armamentarium now includes different treatment alternatives. 
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation may represent a curative option in highly 
selected patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11899-008-0006-x
PMID: 20425444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2010 Jun;12(3):163-9. doi: 10.1007/s11926-010-0099-9.

Bone changes and fracture risk in individuals infected with HIV.

Warriner AH(1), Mugavero MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, and Diabetes, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, FOT 702, 2000 6th Avenue South, Birmingham, AL 35233-0271, USA. 
warriner@uab.edu

The life expectancy of individuals infected with HIV has improved greatly since 
the institution of combination antiretroviral therapy. However, many metabolic 
derangements have been discovered with long-term combination antiretroviral 
treatment, including lipodystrophy; insulin resistance; and, more recently, 
abnormal bone metabolism. It is well-documented that bone mineral density (BMD) 
in HIV-positive patients is lower compared with the expected BMD in 
non-HIV-positive patients. The underlying cause of lower BMD is unknown but is 
thought to be a multifactorial process. Conflicting evidence exists regarding 
the effect of antiretroviral exposure and duration of treatment, antiretroviral 
type, and cumulative HIV viral exposure on bone health. Here we review the bone 
changes that occur with HIV infection and treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s11926-010-0099-9
PMID: 20425517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Curr HIV/AIDS Rep. 2010 May;7(2):69-76. doi: 10.1007/s11904-010-0041-9.

HIV and aging: time for a new paradigm.

Justice AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale University Schools of Medicine and Public Health, New Haven, USA. 
Amy.Justice2@va.gov

The population of patients with HIV infection achieving viral suppression on 
combination antiretroviral therapy is growing, aging, and experiencing a 
widening spectrum of non-AIDS diseases. Concurrently, AIDS-defining conditions 
are becoming less common and are variably associated with outcome. Nonetheless, 
the spectrum of disease experienced by those aging with HIV remains strongly 
influenced by HIV, its treatment, and the behaviors, conditions, and 
demographics associated with HIV infection. Our focus must shift from a narrow 
interest in CD4 counts, HIV-RNA, and AIDS-defining illnesses to determining the 
optimal management of HIV infection as a complex chronic disease in which the 
causes of morbidity and mortality are multiple and overlapping. We need a new 
paradigm of care with which to maximize functional status, minimize frailty, and 
prolong life expectancy. A composite index that summarizes a patient's risk of 
morbidity and mortality could facilitate this work and help chart its progress.

DOI: 10.1007/s11904-010-0041-9
PMID: 20425560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Curr Urol Rep. 2010 May;11(3):139-46. doi: 10.1007/s11934-010-0103-y.

The quality-of-life impact of prostate cancer treatments.

Singh J(1), Trabulsi EJ, Gomella LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas Jefferson University, 
1025 Walnut Street, Suite 1112, Philadelphia, PA, 19107, USA.

Many options exist for the treatment of localized prostate cancer. In the 
decision to choose a therapeutic option for localized disease, many variables 
need to be considered such as tumor characteristics, clinical stage, the 
patient's overall health and life expectancy, and preferences of both the 
physician and patient. Another important consideration is the health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL) implications of a given treatment option. The importance 
of HRQOL relative to the potential side effects of prostate cancer treatments 
has grown over the past few years. Although our collective awareness has 
increased, objective data on HRQOL for prostate cancer treatment are lacking due 
to a paucity of prospective clinical trial data. This review defines the concept 
of HRQOL, discusses what is currently known about the impact of various 
treatments on HRQOL, and summarizes the recent literature in this area relating 
to the management of localized prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s11934-010-0103-y
PMID: 20425619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Apr-Jun;13(2-3):359-61. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0961.

Orion: a glimpse of hope in life span extension?

Muradian K(1), Bondar V, Bezrukov V, Zhukovsky O, Polyakov V, Utko N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology of Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Kiev, 
Ukraine. kkm@geront.kiev.ua

Orion is a multicomponent drug based on derivatives of taurocholic acid and 
several other compounds. Application of Orion into the feeding medium of 
Drosophila melanogaster resulted in increased life span and survival at 
stressful conditions. Two paradoxical features of the drug should be stressed: 
The "age-threshold" (life span extension was observed only when the drug was 
applied starting from the second half of life) and induction of "centenarian" 
flies (older 100 days). Orion enhanced survival at heat shock (38 degrees C) and 
acidic (pH = 1.6) or alkaline (pH = 11.8) feeding mediums, but not at oxidative 
stresses modeled by 100% oxygen or application of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)).

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0961
PMID: 20426615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Apr-Jun;13(2-3):329-34. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0977.

Demographic consequences of defeating aging.

Gavrilov LA(1), Gavrilova NS.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging, NORC and The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA. gavrilov@longevity-science.org

A common objection against starting a large-scale biomedical war on aging is the 
fear of catastrophic population consequences (overpopulation). This fear is only 
exacerbated by the fact that no detailed demographic projections for radical 
life extension scenario have been conducted so far. This study explores 
different demographic scenarios and population projections, in order to clarify 
what could be the demographic consequences of a successful biomedical war on 
aging. A general conclusion of this study is that population changes are 
surprisingly slow in their response to a dramatic life extension. For example, 
we applied the cohort-component method of population projections to 2005 Swedish 
population for several scenarios of life extension and a fertility schedule 
observed in 2005. Even for very long 100-year projection horizon, with the most 
radical life extension scenario (assuming no aging at all after age 60), the 
total population increases by 22% only (from 9.1 to 11.0 million). Moreover, if 
some members of society reject to use new anti-aging technologies for some 
religious or any other reasons (inconvenience, non-compliance, fear of side 
effects, costs, etc.), then the total population size may even decrease over 
time. Thus, even in the case of the most radical life extension scenario, 
population growth could be relatively slow and may not necessarily lead to 
overpopulation. Therefore, the real concerns should be placed not on the threat 
of catastrophic population consequences (overpopulation), but rather on such 
potential obstacles to a success of biomedical war on aging, as scientific, 
organizational, and financial limitations.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0977
PMCID: PMC3192186
PMID: 20426616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Endovasc Ther. 2010 Apr;17(2):174-82. doi: 10.1583/09-2941.1.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of endovascular versus open surgical repair of acute 
abdominal aortic aneurysms based on worldwide experience.

Hayes PD(1), Sadat U, Walsh SR, Noorani A, Tang TY, Bowden DJ, Gillard JH, Boyle 
JR.

Author information:
(1)1 Cambridge Vascular Unit, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Cambridge, UK.

PURPOSE: To present an economic evaluation of endovascular versus open surgical 
repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA).
METHODS: Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) is currently being appraised by the 
National Institute for Clinical Excellence. To aid in this appraisal, a health 
economic model developed to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of EVAR for 
elective treatment of non-ruptured AAAs versus OSR was used for an analysis in 
the emergency setting. The base case data on 730 patients undergoing EVAR was 
extracted from our recently published 22-study meta-analysis of 7040 patients 
presenting with acute AAA (ruptured or symptomatic) treated with either 
emergency EVAR or OSR. These data reflected a patient population with an average 
age of 70 years. The base case model, which assumed a time horizon of 30 years 
and applied all-cause mortality rates, was subjected to a number of 1-way 
sensitivity analyses. A multivariate analysis was undertaken using 10,000 
Monte-Carlo simulations.
RESULTS: EVAR dominated OSR in the base case analysis, with a mean cumulative 
cost/patient of pound17,422 ($26,133) for EVAR and pound18,930 ($28,395) for OSR 
[- pound1508 ($2262) difference]. The mean quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs)/patient was 3.09 for EVAR versus 2.49 for OSR (0.64 difference). EVAR 
was cost-effective compared with OSR at a threshold value of pound20,000 to 
pound30,000 ($30,000-$45,000)/QALY. In no single combination tested did open 
surgical repair provide the patient with more QALYs than EVAR. Sensitivity 
analyses demonstrated that the results were most sensitive to length of hospital 
and intensive care stays, use of blood products, and the cost of the evar 
device, which were the main cost drivers.
CONCLUSION: While the UK's National Institute for Clinical Excellence does not 
set an absolute limit at which treatments would not be funded, pound30,000 
($45,000) is generally regarded as the upper limit of acceptability. At this 
level, there is almost a 100% probability that EVAR is a cost-effective 
treatment for ruptured AAA.

DOI: 10.1583/09-2941.1
PMID: 20426633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Curr HIV Res. 2010 Jul;8(5):386-95. doi: 10.2174/157016210791330383.

An economic evaluation of treatments for HIV-associated facial lipoatrophy: a 
cost-utility analysis.

Peyasantiwong S(1), Loutfy MR, Laporte A, Coyte PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, Faculty of Medicine, 
155 College Street 4th Floor, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5T 3M6, 
Canada.

INTRODUCTION: HIV-associated facial lipoatrophy (FLA) is a stigmatizing hallmark 
for persons living with HIV [PLWH], and can lead to poor social functioning, 
social isolation, and reduced labour force participation. Treatments for this 
condition are prohibitively expensive and are not publicly insured in the 
Province of Ontario, Canada. Information gleaned from an economic evaluation of 
treatments for FLA could inform policy decision making concerning coverage.
METHOD: Decision-analytic techniques were used to estimate the lifetime 
incremental costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained from use of 
either Poly-l-lactic acid or Polyalkylimide gel from the perspectives of society 
and the Ontario Ministry of Health. Disease progression probabilities and 
utilities were derived from the literature. Costs were obtained through 
interviews with product distributors and physicians who perform these 
treatments. Costs were valued in 2009 Canadian Dollars. Costs and outcomes were 
discounted annually at 3%.
FINDINGS: Treatments using Polyalkylimide gel exhibit such a cost advantage over 
those using Poly-l-lactic acid that they more than compensate for the 
health-related quality of life advantages of Poly-l-lactic acid. From a Ministry 
of Health perspective, the incremental cost-utility ratios for Polyalkylimide 
gel or Poly-l-lactic acid compared to no treatment were $45,457 CAD or $57,352 
CAD per QALY, respectively, $1.00 CAD = $0.876 USD). From a societal perspective 
the equivalent ratios were $48,583 CAD and $66,608 CAD respectively. These 
findings were not altered in the sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: FLA treatments for PLWH enhance QALYs and meet conventional 
cost-utility thresholds. The incremental cost per QALY for Polyalkylimide gel 
was lower than that for Poly-l-lactic acid.

DOI: 10.2174/157016210791330383
PMID: 20426758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Qual Saf Health Care. 2010 Dec;19(6):e12. doi: 10.1136/qshc.2008.030056. Epub
 2010 Apr 27.

Acute care practices relevant to quality end-of-life care: a survey of 
Pennsylvania hospitals.

Lin CY(1), Arnold RM, Lave JR, Angus DC, Barnato AE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research on Health Care and the Institute for Clinical Research 
Education, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 200 Meyran Avenue, Suite 
200, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

BACKGROUND: Improving end-of-life care in the hospital is a national priority.
PURPOSE: To explore the prevalence and reasons for implementation of 
hospital-wide and intensive care unit (ICU) practices relevant to quality care 
in key end-of-life care domains and to discern major structural determinants of 
practice implementation.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional mixed-mode survey of chief nursing officers of 
Pennsylvania acute care hospitals.
RESULTS: The response rate was 74% (129 of 174). The prevalence of hospital and 
ICU practices ranged from 95% for a hospital-wide formal code policy to 6% for 
regularly scheduled family meetings with an attending physician in the ICU. Most 
practices had less than 50% implementation; most were implemented primarily for 
quality improvement or to keep up with the standard of care. In a multivariable 
model including hospital structural characteristics, only hospital size 
independently predicted the presence of one or more hospital initiatives (ethics 
consult service, OR 6.13, adjusted p = 0.02; private conference room in the ICU 
for family meetings, OR 4.54, adjusted p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: There is low penetration of hospital practices relevant to quality 
end-of-life care in Pennsylvania acute care hospitals. Our results may serve to 
inform the development of future benchmark goals. It is critical to establish a 
strong evidence base for the practices most associated with improved end-of-life 
care outcomes and to develop quality measures for end-of-life care to complement 
existing hospital quality measures that primarily focus on life extension.

DOI: 10.1136/qshc.2008.030056
PMCID: PMC4070305
PMID: 20427307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. J Orthop Surg (Hong Kong). 2010 Apr;18(1):31-4. doi:
10.1177/230949901001800107.

Quality of life, knee function, and physical activity in Japanese elderly women 
with early-stage knee osteoarthritis.

Watanabe H(1), Urabe K, Takahira N, Ikeda N, Fujita M, Obara S, Hendona T, 
Aikawa J, Itoman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Kitasato University School of Allied Health 
Science, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To compare quality of life, knee function, and physical activity in 33 
elderly women with or without early-stage knee osteoarthritis (OA).
METHODS: 33 Japanese elderly women (mean age, 66 years) with (n=18) or without 
(n=15) early-stage knee OA symptoms (knee pain and decreased range of motion 
[ROM]) were recruited. The height, weight, and body mass index, disease 
severity, quality of life (according to the Japanese Knee Osteoarthritis Measure 
[JKOM]), knee function (knee extension strength, ROM, 10-m gait time), and the 
amount of physical activity (net energy expenditure and step count) of the 2 
groups were compared.
RESULTS: The 2 patient groups did not differ significantly with respect to mean 
patient age, height, and body mass index, except for weight. Regarding knee 
function, mean knee extension strength, ROM (extension but not flexion), and 
10-m gait speed (comfortable and maximum) were significantly inferior in 
patients with knee OA than in controls. Regarding the mean amount of physical 
activity undertaken, patients with knee OA did not differ significantly from 
controls with respect to net energy expenditure (179 vs. 212 Kcal/day) and step 
count (8016 vs. 9729 steps/day). Net energy expenditure (r= -0.65, p=0.04) and 
step count (r= -0.62, p=0.02) correlated negatively with JKOM scores in patients 
with knee OA but not in the controls.
CONCLUSION: In Japanese elderly women with knee OA, quality of life (JKOM 
scores) correlated negatively with physical activity (net energy expenditure and 
step count). The 2 groups undertook similar amounts of physical activity, 
although those with knee OA exhibited less knee extension strength. Decreased 
knee extension strength coupled with high levels of physical activity may 
exacerbate the development of knee OA.

DOI: 10.1177/230949901001800107
PMID: 20427830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Orthop Surg (Hong Kong). 2010 Apr;18(1):98-103. doi: 
10.1177/230949901001800122.

Review article: Mycobacterium marinum infection of the hand and wrist.

Cheung JP(1), Fung B, Wong SS, Ip WY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, University of Hong Kong Medical 
Centre, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong. jcheung98@hotmail.com

Misdiagnosis and delayed treatment of Mycobacterium marinum infection is common 
because of its diverse manifestations. This leads to inappropriate use of 
antimicrobials, extension of the infection from the skin to the tenosynovium, 
and a poor prognosis (loss of tendons and prolonged immobilisation, secondary to 
multiple debridements and joint contractures). Clinicians should be aware of 
this type of infection, especially in subjects at risk (fishermen and aquarium 
enthusiasts), and those with a history of trauma coupled with exposure to water 
or marine life. A proactive approach to obtain a biopsy for histopathological 
and microbiological diagnosis is advised. Anti-mycobacterial treatment should be 
started promptly. The combined use of rifampicin, ethambutol, and clarithromycin 
appears to be effective, and debridement is indicated in patients with 
deep-seated infections.

DOI: 10.1177/230949901001800122
PMID: 20427845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Invest Dermatol. 2010 Sep;130(9):2173-8. doi: 10.1038/jid.2010.100. Epub
2010  Apr 29.

NF-1Score: a prediction score for internal neurofibromas in neurofibromatosis-1.

Sbidian E(1), Wolkenstein P, Valeyrie-Allanore L, Rodriguez D, Hadj-Rabia S, 
Ferkal S, Lacour JP, Leonard JC, Taillandier L, Sportich S, Berbis P, 
Bastuji-Garin S; Members of NF France Network.

Author information:
(1)Universite Paris 12, LIC EA4393 (Laboratoire d'Investigation Clinique), 
Créteil, France. sylvie.bastuji-garin@hmn.aphp.fr

Comment in
    J Invest Dermatol. 2010 Sep;130(9):2160.
    J Invest Dermatol. 2010 Sep;130(9):2167-9.

NF-1 is associated with a 15-year decrease in life expectancy. Internal 
neurofibromas are associated with increased morbidity and mortality through 
malignant transformation and compression of neighboring organs. Our purpose was 
to develop and to validate a clinical score for predicting internal 
neurofibromas in adults. The development sample comprised 208 patients and the 
validation sample 191 patients. The score was developed using logistic 
regression. Discrimination and calibration of the model were evaluated. Four 
variables were independently associated with internal neurofibromas: at least 
two subcutaneous neurofibromas (odds ratio (OR)=4.7, [2.1-10.5]), age < or =30 
years (OR=3.1, [1.4-6.8]), absence of cutaneous neurofibromas (OR=2.6, 
[0.9-7.5]), and fewer than six café-au-lait spots (OR=2.0 [0.9-4.6]). The score 
computed by linear combination of the rounded coefficients of these four 
variables ranged from 0 to 40 (mean, 12.8+/-10.8). The probability of internal 
neurofibromas was computed as exp (-2.93+0.11Score)/exp (1+(-2.93+0.11Score)). 
Probabilities agreed well with the observed frequencies indicating good 
calibration, and discrimination was adequate (AUC-ROC, 0.75) in both data sets. 
The presence of internal neurofibromas can be accurately predicted using a 
simple clinical score. Further work will establish the score threshold that 
identifies patients at high risk for complications.

DOI: 10.1038/jid.2010.100
PMID: 20428190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Sociol Health Illn. 2010 Feb 1;32(2TECHNOGENARIANS):225-237. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9566.2009.01200.x. Epub 2010 Feb 4.

Time, Clinic Technologies, and the Making of Reflexive Longevity: The cultural 
work of 'time left' in an aging society.

Kaufman SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences and Department of Anthropology, 
History and Social Medicine, University of California San Francisco, office 
phone: 415-476-3005, office fax: 415-502-5208.

Developments in clinical intervention are having a profound impact on health and 
health behaviors in late life and on ideas about longevity and the appropriate 
time for death. The fact that the timing of death is even considered to be a 
controllable event is a relatively new cultural phenomenon. The activities that 
make up life extension, like other medical practices scrutinized by social 
scientists, constitute a site for the emergence of new forms of subjectivity. 
For older adults the clinical encounter forces a calculation about how much 
'time left' is wanted in relation to age. The twin dimensions of the 
transformation of time highlighted in this essay -- the control over the timing 
of death and the creation of 'time left' -- both contribute to and are a 
widespread effect of biomedicalization in affluent sectors of society. Through 
three stories this essay begins to map the cultural work that the concept, 'time 
left,' does, the socio-medical ways in which that notion is talked about, 
organized and calculated in the American clinic today. It asks, what kind of 
subject emerges when longevity, imbued with the technological, becomes a 
reflexive practice and an object of intervention and apparent choice?

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9566.2009.01200.x
PMID: 20428456


91. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2010 Oct;33(5):507-11. doi: 10.1007/s10545-010-9080-z.
Epub  2010 Apr 29.

Clinical aspects of short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.

van Maldegem BT(1), Wanders RJ, Wijburg FA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. b.van.maldegem@gelre.nl

Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SCADD) is an autosomal recessive 
inborn error of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. SCADD is biochemically 
characterized by increased C4-carnitine in plasma and ethylmalonic acid in 
urine. The diagnosis of SCADD is confirmed by DNA analysis showing SCAD gene 
mutations and/or variants. SCAD gene variants are present in homozygous form in 
approximately 6% of the general population and considered to confer 
susceptibility to development of clinical disease. Clinically, SCADD generally 
appears to present early in life and to be most frequently associated with 
developmental delay, hypotonia, epilepsy, behavioral disorders, and 
hypoglycemia. However, these symptoms often ameliorate and even disappear 
spontaneously during follow-up and were found to be unrelated to the SCAD 
genotype. In addition, in some cases, symptoms initially attributed to SCADD 
could later be explained by other causes. Finally, SCADD relatives of SCADD 
patients as well as almost all SCADD individuals diagnosed by neonatal screening 
remained asymptomatic during follow-up. This potential lack of clinical 
consequences of SCADD has several implications. First, the diagnosis of SCADD 
should never preclude extension of the diagnostic workup for other potential 
causes of the observed symptoms. Second, patients and parents should be clearly 
informed about the potential lack of relevance of the disorder to avoid 
unfounded anxiety. Furthermore, to date, SCADD is not an optimal candidate for 
inclusion in newborn screening programs. More studies are needed to fully 
establish the relevance of SCADD and solve the question as to whether SCADD is 
involved in a multifactorial disease or represents a nondisease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-010-9080-z
PMCID: PMC2946545
PMID: 20429031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Cas Lek Cesk. 2010;149(3):115-9.

[Urologic complications of HIV infection].

[Article in Czech]

Hrbácek J(1), Konopásek P, Eis V, Hamsíková E, Tachezy R, Pokorný J, El-Balouly 
K, Urban M, Herácek J.

Author information:
(1)Univerzita Karlova v Praze, 3. lékarská fakulta, Urologická klinika FNKV, 
Praha. honzahrbacek@seznam.cz

As life expectancy of patients infected by Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) 
has prolonged, they are treated by physicians of different specialities. This 
article focuses on urologic complications of HIV infection. Urinary tract 
infections in HIV positive patients are more frequent than in otherwise healthy 
individuals and less common microorganisms can be involved. Sexually transmitted 
diseases are a commonplace. Certain malignancies of the genitourinary tract are 
more often diagnosed in HIV positive than in HIV negative population. Impairment 
of kidney function is usually caused by HIV-associated nephropathy. Acute renal 
failure can also occur. Indinavir causes urinary stones formation. Male 
circumcision is an effective method of HIV transmission prevention.

PMID: 20429346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Zh Vopr Neirokhir Im N N Burdenko. 2010 Jan-Mar;(1):35-42: discussion 42.

[Application of "Gamma-knife" radiosurgery in treatment of intracranial 
metastases of extracranial malignant tumors].

[Article in Russian]

Il'ialov SR, Golanov AV, Pronin IN, Dolgushin MB, Kostiuchenko VV, Zotova MV, 
Shishkina LV, Loshakov VA, Kobiakov GL, Zaĭtseva AIu, Chmutin EG.

Treatment of intracerebral metastases is one of the key problems in 
neurooncology. Modern methods of combined treatment do not significantly affect 
terms of survival. Quality of life during the whole period of treatment depends 
on selected tactics. We summarized our experience of treatment of 119 patients 
with cerebral metastases of extracranial tumors with "Gamma-knife" stereotactic 
radiosurgery (GKSRS) during 2005 and 2006 years. "Leksell Gamma-knife C" was 
used for treatment procedures. Primary tumor was located in lung in 35 cases, in 
breast in 32 cases. Renal cancer metastases were less common (15 cases) as well 
as skin melanoma (14), colon cancer (8) and other localizations (6 cases). Total 
amount of treated metastases was 628. Marginal doses ranged between 15 and 24 
Gy. During followup 77 patients were examined 153 times by contrast-enhanced MRI 
every 3 months. Mean follow-up period was 194.6 days (6.5 months). In 68 cases 
(88.3%) GKSRS provided total tumor control of 446 irradiated lesions (92%). 
Median survival after GKSRS was 8.2 months. All patients were assessed using RPA 
prognostic criteria. The best prognosis for life ( > 1 year) was observed in RPA 
I class patients. Median survival in patients with initial Karnofsky performance 
level < 70% (RPA III class) did not exceed 3.5 months. Presence of circumscribed 
brain involvement (less than 10 foci) is associated with more favorable 
prognosis (median survival is increased to 9.4 months). In patients with 
disseminated brain involvement (more that 10 metastases) survival median was 3.8 
months (p < 0.05). GKSRS is minimally invasive, safe and effective method for 
treatment of intracerebral metastases of all main histological types of 
extracranial tumors. Local tumor control is observed in 88% of patients. Life 
expectancy prognosis depends on activity of extracranial process, initial 
condition of patient by the moment of treatment and initial spread of metastatic 
brain involvement.

PMID: 20429362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Australas Psychiatry. 2010 Jun;18(3):221-5. doi: 10.3109/10398561003686789.

How the philosophy of Merleau-Ponty can help us understand the gulf between 
clinical experience and the doctrine of evidence-based psychotherapy.

Morstyn R(1).

Author information:
(1)Consultant Psychiatrist and Psychotherapist, Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
ronmorstyn@bigpond.com

Comment in
    Australas Psychiatry. 2011 Feb;19(1):86.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this paper is to examine the gulf between clinical 
experience and the doctrine of evidence-based psychotherapy from the perspective 
of the philosophy of Maurice Merleau-Ponty.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence-based psychotherapy, which requires that psychotherapists 
ignore their thoughts and feelings with individual patients in favour of 
following standardized manuals and guidelines, is being increasingly promoted as 
part of evidence-based medicine (EBM). However, this represents an inappropriate 
extension of logical empiricist philosophy and significance testing methodology, 
on which evidence-based medicine is founded, to psychotherapy. It sacrifices a 
search for truth in psychotherapy, for an illusory search for certainty. The 
inevitable consequence of this is that psychotherapy becomes a commoditised 
pseudorelationship. Merleau-Ponty provides an alternative ontology, based on the 
primacy of perception, that gives an epistemological foundation for the search 
for truth and integration as a basis for psychotherapy. The practice of 
evidence-based psychotherapy raises serious ethical concerns about 
pseudorelationships being passed off as authentic, which could lead to missed 
opportunities to engage mentally ill patients in treatment and to reinforcement 
of their damaging sense of alienation.

DOI: 10.3109/10398561003686789
PMID: 20429681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Jun;26(6):1485-96. doi: 10.1185/03007991003779380.

Assessment of safety, tolerability and effectiveness of adjunctive aripiprazole 
to lithium/valproate in bipolar mania: a 46-week, open-label extension following 
a 6-week double-blind study.

Vieta E(1), Owen R, Baudelet C, McQuade RD, Sanchez R, Marcus RN.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Institute of Neuroscience, Hospital Clinic, University of Barcelona, 
IDIBAPS, CIBERSAM, Barcelona, Spain. evieta@clinic.ub.es

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the long-term tolerability and effectiveness of 
aripiprazole adjunctive to lithium or valproate in partial responders with 
bipolar mania.
METHODS: Completers of a 6-week double-blind comparison of adjunctive 
aripiprazole versus placebo in bipolar mania partially responsive to lithium or 
valproate monotherapy could enter a 46-week extension treatment with open-label 
adjunctive aripiprazole plus lithium (ARI + LI) or valproate (ARI + VAL). 
Safety, efficacy and functioning were assessed.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: CN138-134LT: Study of Aripiprazole in Patients With 
Bipolar I Disorder; ID number: NCT00257972; registry: www.clinicaltrials.gov.
RESULTS: In total, 283 (ARI + LI n = 108; ARI + VAL n = 175) patients entered 
and 146 (ARI + LI n = 55; ARI + VAL n = 91) completed the 46-week, open-label 
extension. Frequently reported adverse events (AEs) that occurred with ARI + LI 
vs. ARI + VAL were: tremor (17.0% vs. 12.1%), akathisia (6.6% vs. 8.6%), 
headache (6.6% vs. 4.0%), insomnia (9.4% vs. 10.3%), depression (7.5% vs. 9.2%) 
and weight increase (11.3% vs. 8.6%). Extrapyramidal symptom-related AEs 
occurred in 24 (22.6%) ARI + LI- and 38 (21.8%) ARI + VAL-treated patients, with 
eight discontinuations. The majority of new-onset events of akathisia and 
insomnia occurred early. Mean (SE) weight change from double-blind endpoint to 
Week 46 (LOCF) was 2.3 (0.6) kg with ARI + LI and 2.0 (0.4) kg with ARI + VAL. 
Significant improvements from baseline over the 52 weeks (LOCF) occurred with 
ARI + LI and ARI + VAL on mean (95%CI) YMRS total score (-16.5 [-18.1; -14.8] 
and -17.6 [-18.9; -16.3], both p < 0.001 vs. baseline) and MADRS total score 
(-1.7 [-3.3; -0.1], p < 0.05 vs. baseline vs. -2.7 [-4.0; -1.4], p < 0.001 vs. 
baseline). Over the 46-week extension, continued aripiprazole provided continued 
YMRS improvement with ARI + LI (-2.9) and ARI + VAL (-3.3), while mean MADRS 
total changes were +1.1 and +1.0, respectively, and LIFE-RIFT changes were 0.2 
and -0.5, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term aripiprazole adjunctive to lithium/valproate in bipolar 
mania was safe and well tolerated. Improvements in manic symptoms and 
functioning were maintained. Aripiprazole, adjunctive to either lithium or 
valproate, appeared to be equally safe and effective combinations for the 
treatment of bipolar disorder.
LIMITATIONS: As an open-label extension study with a low completion rate, a 
conservative interpretation of the findings is warranted. Additionally, the 
study population was not randomly selected but chosen at the discretion of the 
investigator, and patients did not maintain therapeutic levels of their mood 
stabiliser consistently.

DOI: 10.1185/03007991003779380
PMID: 20429835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Popul Health Metr. 2010 Apr 29;8:8. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-8-8.

Comparing population health in the United States and Canada.

Feeny D(1), Kaplan MS, Huguet N, McFarland BH.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Health Research, Kaiser Permanente Northwest, 3800 N 
Interstate Avenue, Portland, OR, 97227, USA. david.feeny@kpchr.org.

BACKGROUND: The objective of the paper is to compare population health in the 
United States (US) and Canada. Although the two countries are very similar in 
many ways, there are potentially important differences in the levels of social 
and economic inequality and the organization and financing of and access to 
health care in the two countries.
METHODS: Data are from the Joint Canada/United States Survey of Health 2002/03. 
The Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) was used to measure overall 
health-related quality of life (HRQL). Mean HUI3 scores were compared, adjusting 
for major determinants of health, including body mass index, smoking, education, 
gender, race, and income. In addition, estimates of life expectancy were 
compared. Finally, mean HUI3 scores by age and gender and Canadian and US life 
tables were used to estimate health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE).
RESULTS: Life expectancy in Canada is higher than in the US. For those < 40 
years, there were no differences in HRQL between the US and Canada. For the 40+ 
group, HRQL appears to be higher in Canada. The results comparing the white-only 
population in both countries were very similar. For a 19-year-old, HALE was 52.0 
years in Canada and 49.3 in the US.
CONCLUSIONS: The population of Canada appears to be substantially healthier than 
the US population with respect to life expectancy, HRQL, and HALE. Factors that 
account for the difference may include access to health care over the full life 
span (universal health insurance) and lower levels of social and economic 
inequality, especially among the elderly.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-8-8
PMCID: PMC2873793
PMID: 20429875


97. Gastrointest Endosc. 2010 Jul;72(1):33-43. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2010.01.047.
Epub  2010 Apr 28.

Cost-effectiveness of endoscopic surveillance of gastric ulcers to improve 
survival.

Yeh JM(1), Ho W, Hur C.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic surveillance of presumed-benign gastric ulcers may detect 
missed malignancy, but its impact on long-term outcomes is uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of follow-up 
surveillance.
DESIGN: State-transition model.
SETTING: To simulate the clinical course of presumed-benign gastric ulcers, we 
estimated prevalence and incidence of undetected gastric cancer, surveillance 
effectiveness, stage-specific disease mortality rates, and costs from clinical 
studies and databases.
PATIENTS: This study involved 60-year-old men diagnosed with presumed-benign 
gastric ulcers.
INTERVENTION: Follow-up endoscopic surveillance.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Lifetime gastric cancer risk, life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: For a cohort of 60-year-old men with presumed-benign gastric ulcers and 
a 2.6% prevalence of undetected malignancy, the lifetime gastric cancer risk was 
4.4%. Surveillance improved (undiscounted) life expectancy by 10.0 days and 
increased discounted quality-adjusted life expectancy by 3.4 days at a cost of 
$146,700 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Surveillance cost less than 
$50,000 per QALY if the undetected gastric cancer prevalence was 6.5%, and it 
cost less than $100,000 per QALY if the prevalence was greater than 3.5%, 
endoscopy costs were 40% lower, or the disutility associated with gastric cancer 
was 30% lower. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggested that at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000 per QALY, the probability that 
surveillance was cost effective was 25.2%.
LIMITATIONS: Data from multiple sources with varied study designs were used.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic surveillance of presumed-benign gastric ulcers may 
improve overall survival. However, unless the prevalence of having undetected 
malignancy exceeds 6%, surveillance is unlikely to be cost-effective.

Copyright 2010 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2010.01.047
PMCID: PMC2902548
PMID: 20430384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Authors have no potential conflicts 
to disclose.


98. J Health Econ. 2010 Jul;29(4):541-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.03.010.
Epub  2010 Apr 9.

Increasing marginal utility of small increases in life-expectancy? Results from 
a population survey.

Kvamme MK(1), Gyrd-Hansen D, Olsen JA, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway. m.k.kvamme@medisin.uio.no

The standard practice in cost-effectiveness analyses of health care is to assign 
a linear value to increasing lifetime gains. The aim of the current study was to 
examine the possible existence of non-linear utility for short life extensions. 
A representative sample of the Norwegian population, aged 40-59 years (n=2402), 
was asked to imagine that they had a limited remaining lifetime (1 year or 10 
years) and were offered a treatment that would increase lifetime by a specified 
amount of time from 1 week to 1 year. In all scenarios, the price per week of 
life extension was held constant. The proportion of respondents that accepted 
the treatment increased with increasing extensions, indicating a convex utility 
function. The result suggests increasing marginal utility for life extensions up 
to 1 year.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.03.010
PMID: 20430456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Science. 2010 Apr 30;328(5978):572-3. doi: 10.1126/science.1189680.

Global health. Fifty years of U.S. embargo: Cuba's health outcomes and lessons.

Drain PK(1), Barry M.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA 94305, USA. 
pkdrain@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Science. 2010 Aug 6;329(5992):627-8; author reply 628.
    Science. 2010 Aug 6;329(5992):628; author reply 628.

Despite sanctions’ impacts on medicine and medical supplies, Cuban health 
outcomes are comparable to those of developed countries.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1189680
PMCID: PMC3990013
PMID: 20430999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Vet Med Sci. 2010 Sep;72(9):1229-32. doi: 10.1292/jvms.09-0548. Epub 2010
Apr  21.

Neuroblastoma of the adrenal gland in a ferret.

Miwa Y(1), Uchida K, Nakayama H, Asaki N.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Surgery, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. 
miwayasutsugu@hotmail.com

A 5-year-old castrated male ferret was referred for hind limb paresis and 
subcutaneous mass at the lumber area. Based on clinical examination including 
computed tomography, extension of the mass to the abdominal cavity was 
confirmed. An exploratory laparotomy revealed that the mass at the cranial area 
of the left kidney extended dorsally to the vertebra and to the subcutis. The 
excised mass was histologically diagnosed as a medullary tumor of the adrenal 
gland, and some neoplastic cells were beta III-tubulin-, doublecortin- and 
neurofilament-positive. Based on these findings, the tumor was considered to be 
a neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.09-0548
PMID: 20431253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Pa Dent J (Harrisb). 2010 Mar-Apr;77(2):29-30.

OK, so I'm old...Does that mean that dental care is a waste of time?

Waldman HB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Dentistry, Stony Brook University, New York, USA. 
hwaldman@notes.cc.sunysb.edu

PMID: 20432632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nurs Manag (Harrow). 2010 Apr;17(1):26-31. doi:
10.7748/nm2010.04.17.1.26.c7645.

Using discovery interviews to understand the patient experience.

Dawood M(1), Gallini A.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College NHS Trust, London.

Ensuring and maintaining patients' dignity have been defining attributes of good 
nursing for the past 150 years and should be quality indicators by which nurses 
can measure their performance. In recent years, however, the demands for health 
care, rising life expectancy, and the speed of medical advances may have 
hindered nurses from ensuring privacy and dignity. In some cases, this has led 
to poor experiences for patients and there have been calls for a renewed focus 
on these attributes. This article reports the results of a study in which 
'discovery interviews' were undertaken to examine patients' experiences of 
dignity in care. It also describes some changes in practice that were made in 
response to the findings.

DOI: 10.7748/nm2010.04.17.1.26.c7645
PMID: 20432643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Rev Med Suisse. 2010 Apr 7;6(243):738-9.

[Cystic fibrosis and life expectancy in Europe].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 20432997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Recenti Prog Med. 2010 Feb;101(2):57-60.

[Obesity and chronic kidney disease].

[Article in Italian]

Parlongo G(1), Zoccali C.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Nefrologia, Dialisi e Trapianto di Rene, Ospedali Riuniti, 
Reggio Calabria.

In the last century, life expectancy in the economically developed countries has 
significantly increased. In parallel there has been an increase in the 
prevalence of obesity and of chronic kidney disease. Abdominal obesity is a 
relevant risk factor for death and cardiovascular complications in chronic 
kidney disease and in dialysis patients as well.

PMID: 20433001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2010 Apr 30;11:81. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-11-81.

A randomized clinical trial of the effectiveness of mechanical traction for 
sub-groups of patients with low back pain: study methods and rationale.

Fritz JM(1), Thackeray A, Childs JD, Brennan GP.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Agency, Intermountain Healthcare, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA. 
julie.fritz@hsc.utah.edu

BACKGROUND: Patients with signs of nerve root irritation represent a sub-group 
of those with low back pain who are at increased risk of persistent symptoms and 
progression to costly and invasive management strategies including surgery. A 
period of non-surgical management is recommended for most patients, but there is 
little evidence to guide non-surgical decision-making. We conducted a 
preliminary study examining the effectiveness of a treatment protocol of 
mechanical traction with extension-oriented activities for patients with low 
back pain and signs of nerve root irritation. The results suggested this 
approach may be effective, particularly in a more specific sub-group of 
patients. The aim of this study will be to examine the effectiveness of 
treatment that includes traction for patients with low back pain and signs of 
nerve root irritation, and within the pre-defined sub-group.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study will recruit 120 patients with low back pain and signs 
of nerve root irritation. Patients will be randomized to receive an 
extension-oriented treatment approach, with or without the addition of 
mechanical traction. Randomization will be stratified based on the presence of 
the pre-defined sub-grouping criteria. All patients will receive 12 physical 
therapy treatment sessions over 6 weeks. Follow-up assessments will occur after 
6 weeks, 6 months, and 1 year. The primary outcome will be disability measured 
with a modified Oswestry questionnaire. Secondary outcomes will include 
self-reports of low back and leg pain intensity, quality of life, global rating 
of improvement, additional healthcare utilization, and work absence. Statistical 
analysis will be based on intention to treat principles and will use linear 
mixed model analysis to compare treatment groups, and examine the interaction 
between treatment and sub-grouping status.
DISCUSSION: This trial will provide a methodologically rigorous evaluation of 
the effectiveness of using traction for patients with low back pain and signs of 
nerve root irritation, and will examine the validity of a pre-defined 
sub-grouping hypothesis. The results will provide evidence to inform 
non-surgical decision-making for these patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial has been registered with 
http://ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00942227.

