survival.
RESULTS: The median duration of follow up was 40 months (range 4-61 months). All 
patients demonstrated notable improvement in dyspnea. Intraoperative mortality 
was zero. The procedure was well tolerated and no significant adverse effects 
were observed. In hospital mortality was 2% and the pleurodesis success rate was 
85%. A poor Karnofsky Performance Status and delay between diagnosis of pleural 
effusion and pleurodesis were statistically significant factors for in-hospital 
mortality. The best survival was seen in breast cancer, followed by ovarian 
cancer, lymphoma and pleural mesothelioma.
CONCLUSIONS: Video-assisted thoracoscopic talc poudrage is an effective and safe 
procedure that yields a high rate of successful pleurodesis and achieves 
long-term control with marked dyspnea decrease.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-8090-5-27
PMCID: PMC2873359
PMID: 20403196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. BMC Geriatr. 2010 Apr 20;10:18. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-10-18.

The choice of self-rated health measures matter when predicting mortality: 
evidence from 10 years follow-up of the Australian longitudinal study of ageing.

Sargent-Cox KA(1), Anstey KJ, Luszcz MA.

Author information:
(1)Ageing Research Unit, Centre for Mental Health Research, Australian National 
University, Canberra, Australia. Kerry.Sargent-Cox@anu.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Self-rated health (SRH) measures with different wording and 
reference points are often used as equivalent health indicators in public health 
surveys estimating health outcomes such as healthy life expectancies and 
mortality for older adults. Whilst the robust relationship between SRH and 
mortality is well established, it is not known how comparable different SRH 
items are in their relationship to mortality over time. We used a dynamic 
evaluation model to investigate the sensitivity of time-varying SRH measures 
with different reference points to predict mortality in older adults over time.
METHODS: We used seven waves of data from the Australian Longitudinal Study of 
Ageing (1992 to 2004; N = 1733, 52.6% males). Cox regression analysis was used 
to evaluate the relationship between three time-varying SRH measures (global, 
age-comparative and self-comparative reference point) with mortality in older 
adults (65+ years).
RESULTS: After accounting for other mortality risk factors, poor global SRH 
ratings increased mortality risk by 2.83 times compared to excellent ratings. In 
contrast, the mortality relationship with age-comparative and self-comparative 
SRH was moderated by age, revealing that these comparative SRH measures did not 
independently predict mortality for adults over 75 years of age in adjusted 
models.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that a global measure of SRH not referenced to age or self 
is the best predictor of mortality, and is the most reliable measure of 
self-perceived health for longitudinal research and population health estimates 
of healthy life expectancy in older adults. Findings emphasize that the SRH 
measures are not equivalent measures of health status.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-10-18
PMCID: PMC2868852
PMID: 20403203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Health Econ Policy Law. 2011 Jan;6(1):23-42. doi: 10.1017/S1744133110000101. 
Epub 2010 Apr 20.

Changes in the inequality of mental health: suicide in Australia, 1907-2003.

Doessel DP(1), Williams RF, Robertson JR.

Author information:
(1)Australian Institute for Suicide Research and Prevention, Griffith 
University, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

Rising suicide rates have been identified as a social problem in several Western 
countries. The application of a Welfare Economics argument justifies a role for 
policy that reduces the welfare impact of suicide, whereas the measurement of 
that impact can inform policy making. Two dimensions of the concept can be 
measured: the social loss from suicide, and the inequality in the distribution 
of that loss. In this study, an alternative measure of suicide to the 
conventional suicide headcount, viz. the potential years of life lost (PYLL), is 
employed. The PYLL measure is a proxy measure of the social impact of suicide, 
and involves the concept of 'premature' loss of life. The PYLL also lends itself 
to inequality measurement. We apply the approach to inequality measurement of 
health phenomena that was pioneered in the 1980s by Jacques Silber and Julian Le 
Grand, in a literature now described as measuring health inequality per se. The 
empirical part of the paper statistically estimates equations on Australian 
suicide data for the period 1907-2003 and determines the trends in the social 
loss from suicide and the inequality of its age distribution. Some illustrative 
examples assist in interpreting the welfare impact of suicide measured both 
ways, by the headcount rate and the PYLL rate.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133110000101
PMID: 20403233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Cancer J. 2010 Mar-Apr;16(2):103-10. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181d7e8e5.

Surgical treatment of hepatic colorectal metastasis: evolving role in the 
setting of improving systemic therapies and ablative treatments in the 21st 
century.

Ito K(1), Govindarajan A, Ito H, Fong Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

Liver resection has clearly been established as the standard treatment for 
resectable colorectal liver metastases. This article will review the expanding 
role for hepatectomy in this disease. Faster and safer hepatectomies are 
allowing combined resections of the primary cancer and synchronous hepatic 
metastases. Effective neoadjuvant chemotherapy, as well as increasing data 
demonstrating effectiveness and safety of combined hepatectomy and ablative 
therapies, have further expanded the pool of patients now selected for 
resection. The end result is that increasing numbers of patients are undergoing 
acceptably aggressive surgical therapies with extension of life and possible 
cure. Successful multimodality therapies are also now allowing for long-term 
survival even in patients not cured of cancer. The prolonged survival of most 
patients treated by hepatectomy has allowed a long-term analysis of the patterns 
of recurrence, which emphasize the importance of controlling liver disease for 
prolongation of life. These improvements in treatments for hepatic metastases 
have come with a precipitous escalation of the costs of care. This will likely 
require that future clinical trials and algorithms of care not only be based on 
cancer outcome data but also on value analysis of treatment and follow-up 
regimens.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181d7e8e5
PMID: 20404606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2010 Jul;54(3):258-68. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181d0db97.

Laboratory monitoring to guide switching antiretroviral therapy in 
resource-limited settings: clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness.

Kimmel AD(1), Weinstein MC, Anglaret X, Goldie SJ, Losina E, Yazdanpanah Y, 
Messou E, Cotich KL, Walensky RP, Freedberg KA; CEPAC-International 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY 
10065, USA. adk2010@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: As second-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) availability increases 
in resource-limited settings, questions about the value of laboratory monitoring 
remain. We assessed the outcomes and cost-effectiveness (CE) of laboratory 
monitoring to guide switching ART.
METHODS: We used a computer model to project life expectancy and costs of 
different strategies to guide ART switching in patients in Côte d'Ivoire. 
Strategies included clinical assessment, CD4 count, and HIV RNA testing. Data 
were from clinical trials and cohort studies from Côte d'Ivoire and the 
literature. Outcomes were compared using the incremental CE ratio. We conducted 
multiple sensitivity analyses to assess uncertainty in model parameters.
RESULTS: Compared with first-line ART only, second-line ART increased life 
expectancy by 24% with clinical monitoring only, 46% with CD4 monitoring, and 
61% with HIV RNA monitoring. The incremental CE ratio of switching based on 
clinical monitoring was $1670 per year of life gained (YLS) compared with 
first-line ART only; biannual CD4 monitoring was $2120 per YLS. The CE ratio of 
biannual HIV RNA testing ranged from $2920 ($87/test) to $1990 per YLS 
($25/test). If second-line ART costs were reduced, the CE of HIV RNA monitoring 
improved.
CONCLUSIONS: In resource-limited settings, CD4 count and HIV RNA monitoring to 
guide switching to second-line ART improve survival and, under most conditions, 
are cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181d0db97
PMCID: PMC3174771
PMID: 20404739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2010 Dec;42(12):2149-55. doi: 
10.1249/MSS.0b013e3181e304c3.

Skeletal muscle properties in rheumatoid arthritis patients.

Matschke V(1), Murphy P, Lemmey AB, Maddison P, Thom JM.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences, Bangor University, Wales, 
United Kingdom. v.matschke@bangor.ac.uk

PURPOSE: Disability in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a 
multifactorial process involving various unaccounted factors. Loss of lean body 
mass plays an important role in impaired physical function, and exercise studies 
in RA have shown promising results in restoring muscle mass, strength, and 
function. However, no comprehensive assessment of the muscle characteristics has 
been undertaken to determine whether qualitative changes in muscle also 
contribute to RA disability. This study explores the physiological muscle 
properties of a community-based population with stable RA.
METHODS: Vastus lateralis (VL) force and physiological cross-sectional area 
(PCSA), voluntary muscle activation capacity, and contractile properties were 
assessed in 23 patients with stable RA (age = 60 ± 2 yr (mean ± SEM); 16 women) 
and age- and sex-matched healthy controls (age = 60 ± 3 yr). Measurements with 
EMG were obtained during maximal isometric knee extension contractions, with 
resting and superimposed electrical stimulations. Concentric knee extension 
contractions were also assessed. Pennation angle and VL volume were measured 
with ultrasound to determine fiber fascicle length and PCSA. Muscle-specific 
force was calculated (VL force/VL PCSA). Body composition using dual-energy 
x-ray absorptiometry and objective physical function were also measured.
RESULTS: The patients displayed typical features of RA with reduced physical 
function (P = 0.001-0.09), a trend toward lower appendicular lean mass (P = 
0.09) and increased total body fat (P < 0.05) relative to controls. However, 
there were no differences in specific force, contractile properties, voluntary 
activation capacity, and contraction velocity (P = 0.41-0.99). VL PCSA was 
reduced (P < 0.05) with minor architectural changes in patients with RA.
CONCLUSIONS: Physiological properties of muscle that determine specific force 
are not compromised in patients with stable RA despite deficits in physical 
function.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0b013e3181e304c3
PMID: 20404765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. PLoS One. 2010 Apr 13;5(4):e10154. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010154.

The cost-effectiveness of directly observed highly-active antiretroviral therapy 
in the third trimester in HIV-infected pregnant women.

McCabe CJ(1), Goldie SJ, Fisman DN.

Author information:
(1)Child Health Evaluative Sciences, Research Institute of the Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: In HIV-infected pregnant women, viral suppression prevents 
mother-to-child HIV transmission. Directly observed highly-active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART) enhances virological suppression, and could prevent 
transmission. Our objective was to project the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of directly observed administration of antiretroviral drugs 
in pregnancy.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: A mathematical model was created to simulate cohorts of 
one million asymptomatic HIV-infected pregnant women on HAART, with women 
randomly assigned self-administered or directly observed antiretroviral therapy 
(DOT), or no HAART, in a series of Monte Carlo simulations. Our primary outcome 
was the quality-adjusted life expectancy in years (QALY) of infants born to 
HIV-infected women, with the rates of Caesarean section and HIV-transmission 
after DOT use as intermediate outcomes. Both self-administered HAART and DOT 
were associated with decreased costs and increased life-expectancy relative to 
no HAART. The use of DOT was associated with a relative risk of HIV transmission 
of 0.39 relative to conventional HAART; was highly cost-effective in the cohort 
as a whole (cost-utility ratio $14,233 per QALY); and was cost-saving in women 
whose viral loads on self-administered HAART would have exceeded 1000 copies/ml. 
Results were stable in wide-ranging sensitivity analyses, with directly observed 
therapy cost-saving or highly cost-effective in almost all cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the best available data, programs that optimize adherence 
to HAART through direct observation in pregnancy have the potential to diminish 
mother-to-child HIV transmission in a highly cost-effective manner. Targeted use 
of DOT in pregnant women with high viral loads, who could otherwise receive 
self-administered HAART would be a cost-saving intervention. These projections 
should be tested with randomized clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010154
PMCID: PMC2854147
PMID: 20405011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


28. Orthopade. 2010 May;39(5):519-35. doi: 10.1007/s00132-010-1612-6.

[Periprosthetic fractures after total hip arthroplasty : classification, 
diagnosis and therapy strategies].

[Article in German]

Holzapfel BM(1), Prodinger PM, Hoberg M, Meffert R, Rudert M, Gradinger R.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik König-Ludwig-Haus, Julius-Maximilians-Universität 
Würzburg, Brettreichstrasse 11, 97074, Würzburg, Deutschland. 
holzapfel_b@chirurgie.uni-wuerzburg.de

The number of periprosthetic fractures following hip replacement is increasing 
due to longer life expectancy and the rising number of joint replacements. The 
main causes of periprosthetic fractures include trauma, implant specific factors 
or loosening of the endoprosthesis. When planning therapy, surgeons should 
consider specific and general implant- and patient-related risk factors to 
ensure the best possible treatment. Established classification systems can 
facilitate preoperative planning. At present, the Vancouver classification 
system probably comes closest to the ideal, as it considers fracture 
configuration, stability of the implant and quality of the bone stock. Depending 
on these factors, therapeutic options include conservative treatment, fracture 
stabilisation or replacement of the endoprosthesis. The problems associated with 
periprosthetic fractures of varying etiology and the available treatment options 
are discussed against the background of the established classification systems.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-010-1612-6
PMID: 20405105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Oct;11(5):513-20. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0244-4.
Epub  2010 Apr 20.

Spanish recommendations on economic evaluation of health technologies.

López-Bastida J(1), Oliva J, Antoñanzas F, García-Altés A, Gisbert R, Mar J, 
Puig-Junoy J.

Author information:
(1)Evaluation and Planning Unit, Canary Islands Health Services, CIBER 
Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Spain, C/Pérez de Rozas 5, 4th Floor, 
38004 Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Spain. jlopbas@gobiernodecanarias.org

The economic evaluation of health technologies has become a major tool in health 
policy in Europe for prioritizing the allocation of health resources and the 
approval of new technologies. The objective of this proposal was to develop 
guidelines for the economic evaluation of health technologies in Spain. A group 
of researchers specialized in economic evaluation of health technologies 
developed the document reported here, following the initiative of other 
countries in this framework, to provide recommendations for the standardization 
of methodology applicable to economic evaluation of health technologies in 
Spain. Recommendations appear under 17 headings or sections. In each case, the 
recommended requirements to be satisfied by economic evaluation of health 
technologies are provided. Each recommendation is followed by a commentary 
providing justification and compares and contrasts the proposals with other 
available alternatives. The economic evaluation of health technologies should 
have a role in assessing health technologies, providing useful information for 
decision making regarding their adoption, and they should be transparent and 
based on scientific evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0244-4
PMID: 20405159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Adv Gerontol. 2009;22(4):553-7.

Aging in Serbia.

Sevo G(1), Despotovic N, Erceg P, Jankelic S, Milosevic DP, Davidovic M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Gerontology, Belgrade, 11000 Belgrade, Kralja Milutina 52, 
Serbia. ightc@beotel.yu

Serbia has one of the largest elderly population segments in the World, with 
17.2% of its citizens estimated to be 65 years and older in 2007. In the period 
of last 50 years, important demographic changes had occurred in Serbia. In 2002, 
Serbian demographic situation for the first time reached the point where the 
number of the older exceeded the number of the youngest. In 2007 this tendency 
continues to persist, with 22.1% of Serbians estimated to be 60 years or older, 
and 21.7% to be 20 years or younger. For the same year, life expectancy at birth 
was estimated to 70.7 years for the male, and 76.2 years for the female Serbian 
newborns. Elderly represent major consumers of health services, and yet, not 
always do they receive the quality of care they are entitled to. Family still 
holds a predominant role in providing social support and care for their elderly 
members. During the last 30 years, number of long term care facilities 
(primarily aimed at old people not competent of independent living) has gone up 
in Serbia from 35 to 43. Yet, they provide accommodation and care to only a 
small number of residents, ranging from 5996 in 1976 to 12,160 in 2005. Such 
institutions are named "Homes for the elderly" or "Geronto centers". The aims of 
aged care reform in Serbia include not only better education for the medical and 
other affiliated stuff, but, also, improvements in intersectoral collaboration, 
structural reforms of the social and health care systems, innovative capacity 
building, and the promotion of concepts that would replace, or at least ease the 
burden off the traditional family.

PMID: 20405722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2010 Jul;9(3):268-78. doi: 
10.2174/187152710791292594.

The role of autophagy: what can be learned from the genetic forms of amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis.

Pasquali L(1), Ruffoli R, Fulceri F, Pietracupa S, Siciliano G, Paparelli A, 
Fornai F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Clinical Neurology, University of Pisa, Pisa, 
Italy.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by 
loss of motor neurons both in the brain and spinal cord, which dramatically 
reduces life expectancy. ALS occurs either in familial ALS or, more frequently, 
in sporadic ALS forms. Several mechanisms have been postulated to underlie motor 
neuron death. In the present paper, starting from some of the genes related to 
familial ALS, we overview and discuss their potential role in modifying of the 
physiological clearance of altered proteins and organelles in motor neurons. 
Special emphasis is placed on the role of autophagy, which seems to prevail as a 
protein clearing system over other multienzymatic pathways such as the 
proteasome within motor neurons. The evidence which links an altered autophagy 
to the onset of motor neuron death proposes that this biochemical pathway might 
represent a final common mechanism underlying both inherited and sporadic forms 
of ALS. In light of these findings we also analyze the potential significance of 
a novel association between ALS, altered autophagy, and mutations of nuclear 
proteins such as TAR-DNA-Binding Protein 43 and fused in sarcoma/translated in 
liposarcoma. Such an association appears to be critical since it is now well 
demonstrated that all sporadic and most familiar forms of ALS are characterized 
by altered deposition and mislocalization of TAR-DNA-Binding Protein 43. These 
novel insights into the pathogenesis of ALS may lead to the identification of 
novel strategies to promote motor neuron survival.

DOI: 10.2174/187152710791292594
PMID: 20406184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Curr Drug Metab. 2010 Mar;11(3):228-33. doi: 10.2174/138920010791196300.

Allergic contact dermatitis: novel mechanisms and therapeutic perspectives.

Cavani A(1), De Luca A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Immunology, Istituto Dermopatico dell'Immacolata, 
IDI-IRCCS, Rome, Italy. cavani@idi.it

Allergic contact dermatitis is a common eczematous skin disease that occurs in 
sensitized individuals at the site of contact with small chemicals penetrating 
the skin barrier. The onset of the disease is mostly due to the rapid 
recruitment of chemical-specific CD8+ T cells, which induce apoptosis of 
keratinocytes. Additionally, CD4+ Th1 and Th17 contribute to the extension of 
the inflammatory reaction by releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines that activate 
keratinocytes and other skin resident cells. The immune reaction is tightly 
regulated through multiple mechanisms. In particular, T cell population with 
regulatory function, such as T regulatory cells 1 and CD4+CD25+ T regulatory 
cells have a critical role in preventing the development of allergic reactions 
to innocuous chemicals contacting the skin, and in limiting the magnitude of the 
inflammatory process in already sensitized individuals. Allergic contact 
dermatitis is a chronic disease, which lasts, in most cases, for the entire life 
of the affected individual. Thus, prevention and avoidance of contact with the 
sensitizer are critical factors in the management of affected patients. The gold 
standard therapeutic approach for the disease remains the local and/or systemic 
immunosuppression, aimed to block T cell functions and keratinocyte 
responsiveness to pro-inflammatory stimuli. However, alternative approaches that 
aim at preventing T cell accumulation in peripheral tissues are under 
investigation. Most recently, disclosure of mechanisms regulating allergic 
contact dermatitis have provided new therapeutic perspectives for the disease, 
mostly based on immunomodulatory interventions, as in the case of induction of 
specific oral tolerance to the causative allergen.

DOI: 10.2174/138920010791196300
PMID: 20406191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Mol Ecol. 2010 May;19(10):2011-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04627.x.
Epub  2010 Apr 8.

Genetic structure of a recent climate change-driven range extension.

Banks SC(1), Ling SD, Johnson CR, Piggott MP, Williamson JE, Beheregaray LB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, 2109 NSW, 
Australia. sam.banks@anu.edu.au

The life-history strategies of some species make them strong candidates for 
rapid exploitation of novel habitat under new climate regimes. Some 
early-responding species may be considered invasive, and negatively impact on 
'naïve' ecosystems. The barrens-forming sea urchin Centrostephanus rodgersii is 
one such species, having a high dispersal capability and a high-latitude range 
margin limited only by a developmental temperature threshold. Within this 
species' range in eastern Australian waters, sea temperatures have increased at 
greater than double the global average rate. The coinciding poleward range 
extension of C. rodgersii has caused major ecological changes, threatening reef 
biodiversity and fisheries productivity. We investigated microsatellite 
diversity and population structure associated with range expansion by this 
species. Generalized linear model analyses revealed no reduction in genetic 
diversity in the newly colonized region. A 'seascape genetics' analysis of 
genetic distances found no spatial genetic structure associated with the range 
extension. The distinctive genetic characteristic of the extension zone 
populations was reduced population-specific F(ST), consistent with very rapid 
population expansion. Demographic and genetic simulations support our inference 
of high connectivity between pre- and post-extension zones. Thus, the range 
shift appears to be a poleward extension of the highly-connected rangewide 
population of C. rodgersii. This is consistent with advection of larvae by the 
intensified warm water East Australian current, which has also increased 
Tasmanian Sea temperatures above the species' lower developmental threshold. 
Thus, ocean circulation changes have improved the climatic suitability of novel 
habitat for C. rodgersii and provided the supply of recruits necessary for 
colonization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04627.x
PMID: 20406383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. BMJ. 2010 Apr 20;340:c1490. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c1490.

Cost effectiveness of home ultraviolet B phototherapy for psoriasis: economic 
evaluation of a randomised controlled trial (PLUTO study).

Koek MB(1), Sigurdsson V, van Weelden H, Steegmans PH, Bruijnzeel-Koomen CA, 
Buskens E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology/Allergology (G02.124), University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX Utrecht, Netherlands. author@koek.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the costs and cost effectiveness of phototherapy with 
ultraviolet B light provided at home compared with outpatient ultraviolet B 
phototherapy for psoriasis.
DESIGN: Cost utility, cost effectiveness, and cost minimisation analyses 
performed alongside a pragmatic randomised clinical trial (the PLUTO study) at 
the end of phototherapy (mean 17.6 weeks) and at one year after the end of 
phototherapy (mean 68.4 weeks).
SETTING: Secondary care, provided by a dermatologist in the Netherlands.
PARTICIPANTS: 196 adults with psoriasis who were clinically eligible for 
narrowband (TL-01) ultraviolet B phototherapy were recruited from the 
dermatology departments of 14 hospitals and were followed until the end of 
phototherapy. From the end of phototherapy onwards, follow-up was continued for 
an unselected, consecutive group of 105 patients for one year after end of 
phototherapy.
INTERVENTIONS: Ultraviolet B phototherapy provided at home (intervention) and 
conventional outpatient ultraviolet B phototherapy (control) in a setting 
reflecting routine practice in the Netherlands. Both treatments used narrowband 
ultraviolet B lamps (TL-01).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total costs to society, quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) as calculated using utilities measured by the EQ-5D questionnaire, and 
the number of days with a relevant treatment effect (>/=50% improvement of the 
baseline self administered psoriasis area and severity index (SAPASI)).
RESULTS: Home phototherapy is at least as effective and safe as outpatient 
phototherapy, therefore allowing cost minimisation analyses (simply comparing 
costs). The average total costs by the end of phototherapy were euro800 for home 
treatment and euro752 for outpatient treatment, showing an incremental cost per 
patient of euro48 (95% CI euro-77 to euro174). The average total costs by one 
year after the end of phototherapy were euro1272 and euro1148 respectively 
(difference euro124, 95% CI euro-155 to euro403). Cost utility analyses revealed 
that patients experienced equal health benefits-that is, a gain of 0.296 versus 
0.291 QALY (home v outpatient) by the end of phototherapy (difference 0.0052, 
-0.0244 to 0.0348) and 1.153 versus 1.126 QALY by one year after the end of 
phototherapy (difference 0.0267, -0.024 to 0.078). Incremental costs per QALY 
gained were euro9276 and euro4646 respectively, both amounts well below the 
normally accepted standard of euro20 000 per QALY. Cost effectiveness analyses 
indicated that the mean number of days with a relevant treatment effect was 42.4 
versus 55.3 by the end of phototherapy (difference -12.9, -23.4 to -2.4). By one 
year after the end of phototherapy the number of days with a relevant treatment 
effect were 216.5 and 210.4 respectively (6.1, -41.1 to 53.2), yielding an 
incremental cost of euro20 per additional day with a relevant treatment effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Home ultraviolet B phototherapy for psoriasis is not more expensive 
than phototherapy in an outpatient setting and proved to be cost effective. As 
both treatments are at least equally effective and patients express a preference 
for home treatment, the authors conclude that home phototherapy should be the 
primary treatment option for patients who are eligible for phototherapy with 
ultraviolet B light.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN83025173 and 
Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00150930.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c1490
PMCID: PMC2857750
PMID: 20406865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


35. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Jun 1;28(16):2802-4. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.27.3326. Epub
2010  Apr 20.

Certain death in uncertain time: informing hope by quantifying a best case 
scenario.

Kiely BE(1), Tattersall MH, Stockler MR.

Author information:
(1)National Health and Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Centre, 
Camperdown, New South Wales 1450, Australia. belinda.kiely@ctc.usyd.edu.au

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2009.27.3326
PMID: 20406926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Public Health Genomics. 2011;14(2):59-67. doi: 10.1159/000290452. Epub 2010
Apr  20.

Stakeholder perspectives on a risk-benefit framework for genetic testing.

Roth JA(1), Garrison LP Jr, Burke W, Ramsey SD, Carlson R, Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

A key to accelerating the appropriate integration of genomic applications into 
healthcare in the coming decades will be the ability to assess the tradeoffs 
between clinical benefits and clinical risks of genetic tests in a timely 
manner. Several factors limit the ability of stakeholders to achieve this 
objective, including the lack of direct evidence, the lack of a framework to 
quantitatively assess risk and benefit, and the lack of a formal analytic 
approach to assess uncertainty. We propose that a formal, quantitative 
risk-benefit framework may be particularly useful for assessing genetic tests 
intended to influence health outcomes, and communicating the potential clinical 
benefits, harms, and uncertainty to stakeholders. As part of the development 
process for such a framework, a stakeholder meeting was held in Seattle (Wash., 
USA) in December of 2008, with the objective of discussing a risk-benefit 
framework, using warfarin pharmacogenomics as a case study. Participants engaged 
in focused discussion to elucidate the potential role of genetic test 
risk-benefit analysis in informing decision-making, categorizing genetic tests 
and directing research prioritization. This research investigation focuses on 
qualitative analysis of responses elicited from workshop participants during the 
proceedings of the workshop session. The major findings of the workshop were: 
(1) stakeholder support for risk-benefit modeling as a tool to structure 
discussion of the clinical utility of genetic tests; (2) desire for the modeling 
process to be iterative, transparent, and parsimonious in its presentation to 
stakeholders, and (3) some concern with the use of quality-adjusted life-years 
in the evaluation process. The meeting's findings emphasize the potential 
utility of risk-benefit analysis in genetic test evaluation, and highlight key 
areas for future research and stakeholder consensus-building.

Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000290452
PMCID: PMC3214932
PMID: 20407215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Rev Med Suisse. 2010 Mar 17;6(240):569-70, 572-4.

[Fracture risk, new treatments: how does the management of the osteoporosis of 
elderly change?].

[Article in French]

Aubry-Rozier B(1), Lamy O.

Author information:
(1)Service de rhumatologie, médecine physique et rééducation et Centre des 
maladies osseuses, Département de l'appareil locomoteur, CHUV, 1011 Lausanne. 
Berengere.Aubry@chuv.ch

Osteoporosis of elderly is a growing medical, economic and health-care problem. 
It is due to the increase of the life expectancy and the number of osteoporotic 
fractures. With the new Swiss-specific tool FRAX and the development of 
inpatients fracture trajectory, we can better identify patients with high risk 
of fracture. An appropriate treatment can be proposed more quickly. The 
follow-up of bone markers increases the treatment efficiency. With a better 
identification, treatment and follow-up of osteoporosis of elderly patients, we 
can ameliorate the patient's quality of life and decrease the number of 
osteoporotic fractures with a good cost-effectiveness ratio.

PMID: 20408462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2010;8(3):191-202. doi: 
10.2165/11532880-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of preventive screening programmes for type 2 diabetes 
mellitus in Germany.

Schaufler TM(1), Wolff M.

Author information:
(1)University of Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany. 
thilo.schaufler@absolventum.uni-mannheim.de

BACKGROUND: As in several other industrialized countries, Germany's statutory 
health insurance (SHI) is facing rising healthcare costs as well as the 
challenges caused by a double-aging society. The early detection and prevention 
of chronic diseases is considered a possible way to reduce the impact of these 
developments. However, controversy surrounds the costs and effects in terms of 
medical and financial outcomes of such programmes.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost effectiveness of screening for type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM) from the perspective of the German SHI. The screening programme 
was compared with the current status quo (i.e. diagnosis of T2DM in routine 
clinical care or after the occurrence of the first clinical symptoms). 
Prevention strategies after diagnosis of pre-diabetes encompassed lifestyle and 
metformin interventions.
METHODS: Effects of introducing screening for T2DM were assessed based on a 
Markov Monte Carlo microsimulation model. In contrast to a cohort model, this 
approach easily allows for detailed subgroup analysis accounting for the 
different characteristics of the general German population that would be 
targeted by the screening programme. Assessed endpoints included quality of 
life, lifetime costs, age at diabetes diagnosis, and incidence and age at 
occurrence of diabetes-related complications such as myocardial infarction, 
stroke, renal failure and blindness.
RESULTS: Screening for T2DM was cost effective in the general population by all 
commonly applied standards (euro562.54 per QALY for lifestyle intervention, 
euro325.44 per QALY for prevention with metformin [year 2006 values]) and even 
cost saving in the subgroup diagnosed with pre-diabetes and treated 
preventively. Occurrence of diabetes-related adverse events was reduced 
significantly and life expectancy was increased compared with no screening.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that early detection and disease prevention 
may be cost effective in the long term. However, additional political measures 
are necessary to support implementation, as the German SHI is currently lacking 
the necessary long-term incentives to support preventive screening programmes.

DOI: 10.2165/11532880-000000000-00000
PMID: 20408603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Pediatr Transplant. 2010 Jun;14(4):441-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1399-3046.2010.01324.x.  Epub 2010 Apr 8.

Steatosis and fibrosis in paediatric liver transplant: insidious graft's 
enemies--a call for clinical studies and research.

Nobili V, Candusso M, Torre G, de Ville de Goyet J.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3046.2010.01324.x
PMID: 20408993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Stud Alcohol Drugs. 2010 May;71(3):384-94. doi: 10.15288/jsad.2010.71.384.

Cost-effectiveness of a motivational intervention for alcohol-involved youth in 
a hospital emergency department.

Neighbors CJ(1), Barnett NP, Rohsenow DJ, Colby SM, Monti PM.

Author information:
(1)The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia 
University, 19th Floor, New York, New York 10017, USA. 
cneighbors@casacolumbia.org

OBJECTIVE: Brief interventions in the emergency department targeting risk-taking 
youth show promise to reduce alcohol-related injury. This study models the 
cost-effectiveness of a motivational interviewing-based intervention relative to 
brief advice to stop alcohol-related risk behaviors (standard care). Average 
cost-effectiveness ratios were compared between conditions. In addition, a 
cost-utility analysis examined the incremental cost of motivational interviewing 
per quality-adjusted life year gained.
METHOD: Microcosting methods were used to estimate marginal costs of 
motivational interviewing and standard care as well as two methods of patient 
screening: standard emergency-department staff questioning and proactive 
outreach by counseling staff. Average cost-effectiveness ratios were computed 
for drinking and driving, injuries, vehicular citations, and negative social 
consequences. Using estimates of the marginal effect of motivational 
interviewing in reducing drinking and driving, estimates of traffic fatality 
risk from drinking-and-driving youth, and national life tables, the societal 
costs per quality-adjusted life year saved by motivational interviewing relative 
to standard care were also estimated. Alcohol-attributable traffic fatality 
risks were estimated using national databases.
RESULTS: Intervention costs per participant were $81 for standard care, $170 for 
motivational interviewing with standard screening, and $173 for motivational 
interviewing with proactive screening. The cost-effectiveness ratios for 
motivational interviewing were more favorable than standard care across all 
study outcomes and better for men than women. The societal cost per 
quality-adjusted life year of motivational interviewing was $8,795. Sensitivity 
analyses indicated that results were robust in terms of variability in parameter 
estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: This brief intervention represents a good societal investment 
compared with other commonly adopted medical interventions.

DOI: 10.15288/jsad.2010.71.384
PMCID: PMC2859787
PMID: 20409432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. N Engl J Med. 2010 Apr 22;362(16):1546-7; author reply 1547. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc1001849.

Health care system rankings.

Musgrove P.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2010 Jan 14;362(2):98-9.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc1001849
PMID: 20410524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Integr Bioinform. 2010 Apr 20;7(1). doi: 10.2390/biecoll-jib-2010-140.

A flexible statistics web processing service--added value for information 
systems for experiment data.

Heimann D(1), Nieschulze J, König-Ries B.

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Biogeochemistry, Hans-Knoell-Str. 10, D-07745 Jena, 
Germany. dheimann@bgc-jena.mpg.de

Data management in the life sciences has evolved from simple storage of data to 
complex information systems providing additional functionalities like analysis 
and visualization capabilities, demanding the integration of statistical tools. 
In many cases the used statistical tools are hard-coded within the system. That 
leads to an expensive integration, substitution, or extension of tools because 
all changes have to be done in program code. Other systems are using generic 
solutions for tool integration but adapting them to another system is mostly 
rather extensive work. This paper shows a way to provide statistical 
functionality over a statistics web service, which can be easily integrated in 
any information system and set up using XML configuration files. The statistical 
functionality is extendable by simply adding the description of a new 
application to a configuration file. The service architecture as well as the 
data exchange process between client and service and the adding of analysis 
applications to the underlying service provider are described. Furthermore a 
practical example demonstrates the functionality of the service.

DOI: 10.2390/biecoll-jib-2010-140
PMID: 20410555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2010 Jul;152(7):1215-21. doi:
10.1007/s00701-010-0645-2.  Epub 2010 Apr 22.

Magnetic resonance angiography, digital subtraction angiography and Doppler 
ultrasonography in detection of carotid artery stenosis: a comparison with 
findings from histological specimens.

Netuka D(1), Ostrý S, Belsán T, Rucka D, Mandys V, Charvát F, Bradác O, Benes V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, First Faculty of Medicine, Central Military 
Hospital, U Vojenské Nemocnice 1200, 169 02, Prague 6, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: Patients' life expectancy, clinical symptomatology and the extent of 
carotid stenosis are the most important factors when deciding whether to perform 
carotid endarterectomy (CEA) in patients with carotid stenosis. Therefore, the 
accuracy of measuring carotid stenosis is of utmost importance.
METHODS: Patients with internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis were investigated 
by digital subtraction angiography (DSA), Doppler ultrasonography (DUS) and 
magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Atherosclerotic plaque specimens were 
transversally cut into smaller segments and histologically processed. The slides 
were scanned and specimens showing maximal stenosis were determined; the minimal 
diameter and the diameter of the whole plaque were measured. DSA, DUS and MRA 
measurements were obtained in 103 patients. A comparison between preoperative 
and histological findings was performed. In addition, correlation coefficients 
were computed and tested.
RESULTS: Results show a significant correlation for each of the diagnostic 
procedures. Mean differences in the whole cohort between preoperative 
measurements and the histological measurements are as follows: angiographic 
measurement of carotid stenosis underestimated histological measurement by 14.5% 
and MRA by 0.7%, but DUS overestimated by 6.6%. The results in severe stenosis 
(> or =70%) are as follows: angiographic measurement underestimated the 
histological measurements by 2.3%, but MRA overestimated by 12.1% and DUS by 
11.3%. The results in moderate stenosis (50-69%): angiographic measurement 
underestimated the histological measurements by 12.3%, but MRA overestimated by 
0.2% and DUS by 7.2%. The results in mild stenosis (30-49%): angiographic 
measurement underestimated the histological measurements by 24.7% and MRA by 
7.6%, but DUS overestimated by 3.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirms that DSA underestimates moderate and mild ICA 
stenosis. DUS slightly overestimated moderate ICA stenosis and highly 
overestimated high-grade ICA stenosis. MRA proved to be accurate in detecting 
moderate ICA stenosis, but slightly underestimated mild stenosis and 
overestimated high-grade stenosis. The surgeon should be aware of these 
discrepancies when deciding whether to perform CEA in patients with ICA 
stenosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-010-0645-2
PMID: 20411283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. SADJ. 2010 Feb;65(1):20-2.

HIV-associated Kaposi sarcoma in African children.

Feller L(1), Khammissa RA, Gugushe TS, Chikte UM, Wood NH, Meyerov R, Lemmer J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Oral Medicine, School of Oral Health 
Sciences, University of Limpopo, Medunsa Campus, South Africa. Ifeller@ul.ac.za

HIV-associated Kaposi sarcoma (HIV-KS) is common in African countries where HIV 
infection is pandemic and anti-retroviral medication is not readily available. 
Human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8), which is the essential, but not the sole 
aetiological factor in KS, is endemic in sub-Saharan Africa and is substantially 
more prevalent in HIV-seropositive than in HIV-seronegative subjects. In 
children in sub-Saharan Africa, KS, whether it be HIV-KS or African endemic KS 
is much more prevalent than any other epidemiological forms of KS. In addition, 
in sub-Saharan children oral KS is common, and the life-expectancy of 
HIV-seropositive children with KS is short. Since generalized systemic KS is 
frequently associated with oral HIV-KS, it is advisable to introduce systemic 
cytotoxic chemotherapy early in the course of oral HIV-KS. Although the 
introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) brought about a 
decline in the incidence of HIV-KS worldwide, HIV-KS remains a significant 
problem in sub-Saharan Africa where the prevalence of HHV-8 infection is high 
and access to HAART is limited.

PMID: 20411798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2011 Apr;25(2):139-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-8206.2010.00829.x.

Telomere-dependent senescent phenotype of lens epithelial cells as a biological 
marker of aging and cataractogenesis: the role of oxidative stress intensity and 
specific mechanism of phospholipid hydroperoxide toxicity in lens and aqueous.

Babizhayev MA(1), Vishnyakova KS, Yegorov YE.

Author information:
(1)Innovation Vision Products, Inc., 3511 Silverside Road, Suite 105, County of 
New Castle, DE 19810, USA. markbabizhayev@mail.ru

Cataract formation represents a serious problem in the elderly and has a large 
impact on healthcare budget. Aging and cataract formation are relatively complex 
phenomena, both in vivo and in vitro. Telomeres are special structures at the 
end of chromosomes. They shorten during each round of replication, and this has 
been characterized as a mitotic counting mechanism. Our review analysis in this 
work shows that the rate of telomere shortening in human lens epithelial cells 
during aging and cataract formation is modulated by oxidative stress as well as 
by differences in antioxidative defense capacity of the normal and cataractous 
crystalline lenses. Presented in this review studies suggest that telomere 
shortening in human lens cells and increased oxidative stress are the result of 
the peroxidative damage to the lens cell membranes and biomolecules induced in 
the lack of reductive detoxification of phospholipid hydroperoxides as the 
triggering mechanism of cataractogenesis. Lipid peroxidation (LPO) is a 
causative factor of cataract. The increased concentrations of primary molecular 
LPO products (diene conjugates, lipid hydroperoxides) and end fluorescent LPO 
products were detected in the lipid moieties of the aqueous humor samples 
obtained from patients with senile and complicated cataracts when compared to 
normal donors. The progressive accumulation of oxidative damage may act as an 
important mechanism for organism aging and cataractogenesis. The oxidative 
stress form and intensity might determine the lens senescence rate and cataract 
type, making efforts in the cataract prevention challenge more complex. The 
analyzed challenge in this work is that the reduction in telomere shortening 
rate and damages in telomeric DNA make an important contribution to the 
anticataract and life-extension effect of carnosine administered systemically in 
the formulations stabilizing a dipeptide from the enzymatic hydrolysis with 
carnosinase, or topically administered to the eye with carnosine ophthalmic 
prodrug N-acetylcarnosine and lubricant formulations thereof including corneal 
absorption promoters. Telomere length in the human crystalline lens cells is a 
reflection of aging, cataractogenesis, and lifespan in biogerontological 
studies.

© 2010 The Authors Fundamental and Clinical Pharmacology © 2010 Société 
Française de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.2010.00829.x
PMID: 20412312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Sex Med. 2010 Jun;7(6):2174-2183. doi: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.01812.x.
Epub  2010 Apr 19.

Psychobiological correlates of women's sexual interest as perceived by patients 
with erectile dysfunction.

Corona G(1), Bandini E(2), Fisher A(2), Elisa M(2), Boddi V(2), Balercia G(3), 
Sforza A(4), Forti G(2), Mannucci E(5), Maggi M(6).

Author information:
(1)Andrology Unit, Department of Clinical Physiopathology, University of 
Florence, Florence Italy; Endocrinology Unit, Medical Department, Azienda Usl, 
Maggiore-Bellaria Hospital, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Andrology Unit, Department of Clinical Physiopathology, University of 
Florence, Florence Italy.
(3)Endocrinology Unit, Polytechnic University of Marche, Ancona, Italy.
(4)Endocrinology Unit, Medical Department, Azienda Usl, Maggiore-Bellaria 
Hospital, Bologna, Italy.
(5)Diabetes Section Geriatric Unit, Department of Critical Care, University of 
Florence, Florence, Italy.
(6)Andrology Unit, Department of Clinical Physiopathology, University of 
Florence, Florence Italy. Electronic address: m.maggi@DFC.UNIFI.IT.

INTRODUCTION: We have recently reported that the perceived loss of a partner's 
sexual desire is independently associated with an increased incidence of major 
cardiovascular events in patients with erectile dysfunction (ED). No study has 
ever evaluated the specific impact of men's perception of women's sexual desire 
on male sexual function and lifestyle attitudes in ED subjects.
AIM: To evaluate the clinical correlates of the perception of a partner's sexual 
desire [hypoactive sexual desire (HSD)] in a consecutive series of subjects 
seeking medical care for ED.
METHODS: A consecutive series of 2,303 heterosexual male patients (mean age 58.1 
± 10.5) was studied.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients were interviewed with the Structured Interview 
on Erectile Dysfunction (SIEDY) structured interview. They also completed the 
Middlesex Hospital Questionnaire, a brief questionnaire for the screening of the 
symptoms of mental disorders.
RESULTS: Among the patients studied, 458 (19.9%) reported a mild loss of their 
partner's desire, 302 (13.1%) a moderate reduction of libido, while 118 (5.1%) 
complained of a complete absence of sexual interest on the part of their 
partner. After adjustment for confounding factors, the perceived women's HSD was 
associated with different sexual, lifestyle, and relational factors. In 
particular, more extra-marital affairs, a longer and more hostile couple 
relationship, as well as a stressful job and both alcohol and smoking abuse were 
all significantly associated with perceived women's HSD. In addition, the 
perceived women's moderate to severe HSD was significantly associated with 
severe ED and less frequent sexual intercourse. Finally, partner HSD was 
significantly associated with a stepwise increase of free-floating anxiety and 
depressive symptoms (adj. r = 0.081, P < 0.05 and 0.158, P < 0.0001, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Perceived sexual interest (éros) on the part of the woman can be 
seen for men not only as a fun and enjoyable behavior, but also a safe strategy 
for improving a man's overall health and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2010.01812.x
PMID: 20412430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):657-66. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00725.x.
Epub  2010 Apr 15.

A review of quantitative risk-benefit methodologies for assessing drug safety 
and efficacy-report of the ISPOR risk-benefit management working group.

Guo JJ(1), Pandey S, Doyle J, Bian B, Lis Y, Raisch DW.

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati Health Academic Center, College of Pharmacy, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA. jeff.guo@uc.edu

OBJECTIVE: Although regulatory authorities evaluate the risks and benefits of 
any new drug therapy during the new drug-approval process, quantitative 
risk-benefit assessment (RBA) is not typically performed, nor is it presented in 
a consistent and integrated framework when it is used. Our purpose is to 
identify and describe published quantitative RBA methods for pharmaceuticals.
METHODS: Using MEDLINE and other Internet-based search engines, a systematic 
literature review was performed to identify quantitative methodologies for RBA. 
These distinct RBA approaches were summarized to highlight the implications of 
their differences for the pharmaceutical industry and regulatory agencies.
RESULTS: Theoretical models, parameters, and key features were reviewed and 
compared for the 12 quantitative RBA methods identified in the literature, 
including the Quantitative Framework for Risk and Benefit Assessment, 
benefit-less-risk analysis, the quality-adjusted time without symptoms and 
toxicity, number needed to treat (NNT), and number needed to harm and their 
relative-value-adjusted versions, minimum clinical efficacy, incremental net 
health benefit, the risk-benefit plane (RBP), the probabilistic simulation 
method, multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA), the risk-benefit contour (RBC), 
and the stated preference method (SPM). Whereas some approaches (e.g., NNT) rely 
on subjective weighting schemes or nonstatistical assessments, other methods 
(e.g., RBP, MCDA, RBC, and SPM) assess joint distributions of benefit and risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Several quantitative RBA methods are available that could be used 
to help lessen concern over subjective drug assessments and to help guide 
