
Comment in
    AIDS. 2010 Nov 27;24(18):2891-2; author reply 2892-3.

OBJECTIVE: HIV continues to present a substantial global health burden. Given 
the high direct medical costs associated with the disease, prevention of new 
transmission is an important element in limiting economic burden. In addition to 
providing therapeutic benefit, treatment with HAART has potential to prevent 
transmission of HIV. The objective in this study was to perform an economic 
evaluation of the incremental net benefit associated with an intervention to 
expand treatment with HAART in British Columbia, Canada.
DESIGN: A mathematical model describing transmission of HIV, integrated with a 
microsimulation model describing the clinical and economic course of HIV.
METHODS: The primary outcome was the incremental net benefit of expanding 
treatment with HAART from 50 to 75% of clinically eligible individuals in 
British Columbia, assuming a willingness-to-pay threshold of US$ 50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year. Direct medical costs included were antiretroviral 
and nonantiretroviral medications, hospitalizations, physician visits, and 
laboratory tests. The mathematical and microsimulation models were based on 
patient characteristics observed in British Columbia. Longitudinal data 
described health services utilization, clinical progression, and survival for 
all individuals receiving treatment for HIV in British Columbia.
RESULTS: Over 30 years, the HAART expansion scenario was associated with a net 
benefit of US$ 900 million (95% confidence interval US$ 493 million to 1.45 
billion).
CONCLUSION: Increasing the HAART treatment rate from 50 to 75% of clinically 
eligible individuals in British Columbia appears to be a cost-effective strategy 
based on this model. These cost-effectiveness results are consistent with public 
health objectives: all individuals who are eligible for an established 
life-saving treatment should receive it.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32833af85d
PMID: 20588171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Br J Cancer. 2010 Jul 27;103(3):416-22. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6605756. Epub
2010  Jun 29.

Changing patterns of cancer incidence in the early- and late-HAART periods: the 
Swiss HIV Cohort Study.

Franceschi S(1), Lise M, Clifford GM, Rickenbach M, Levi F, Maspoli M, Bouchardy 
C, Dehler S, Jundt G, Ess S, Bordoni A, Konzelmann I, Frick H, Dal Maso L, Elzi 
L, Furrer H, Calmy A, Cavassini M, Ledergerber B, Keiser O; Swiss HIV Cohort 
Study.

Collaborators: Battegay M, Bernasconi E, Böni J, Bucher HC, Bürgisser P, Calmy 
A, Cavassini M, Dubs R, Egger M, Elzi L, Fischer M, Flepp M, Fontana A, 
Francioli P, Furrer H, Fux CA, Gorgievski M, Günthard HF, Hirsch HH, Hirschel B, 
Hösli I, Kahlert C, Kaiser L, Karrer U, Kind C, Klimkait T, Ledergerber B, 
Martinetti G, Martinez de Tejada B, Müller N, Nadal D, Paccaud F, Pantaleo G, 
Rauch A, Regenass S, Rickenbach M, Rudin C, Schmid P, Schultze D, 
Schöni-Affolter F, Schüpbach J, Speck R, Taffé P, Telenti A, Trkola A, Vernazza 
P, Weber R, Yerly S.

Author information:
(1)International Agency for Research on Cancer, 150 cours Albert Thomas, 69372 
Lyon cedex 08, France. franceschi@iarc.fr

BACKGROUND: The advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in 1996 
led to a decrease in the incidence of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (NHL), but not of other cancers, among people with HIV or AIDS (PWHA). 
It also led to marked increases in their life expectancy.
METHODS: We conducted a record-linkage study between the Swiss HIV Cohort Study 
and nine Swiss cantonal cancer registries. In total, 9429 PWHA provided 20,615, 
17,690, and 15,410 person-years in the pre-, early-, and late-HAART periods, 
respectively. Standardised incidence ratios in PWHA vs the general population, 
as well as age-standardised, and age-specific incidence rates were computed for 
different periods.
RESULTS: Incidence of KS and NHL decreased by several fold between the pre- and 
early-HAART periods, and additionally declined from the early- to the late-HAART 
period. Incidence of cancers of the anus, liver, non-melanomatous skin, and 
Hodgkin's lymphoma increased in the early- compared with the pre-HAART period, 
but not during the late-HAART period. The incidence of all non-AIDS-defining 
cancers (NADCs) combined was similar in all periods, and approximately double 
that in the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: Increases in the incidence of selected NADCs after the introduction 
of HAART were largely accounted for by the ageing of PWHA.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6605756
PMCID: PMC2920013
PMID: 20588274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


528. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2010 Dec 1;55(6):1167-71. doi: 10.1002/pbc.22644.

A palliative prognostic score for terminally ill children and adolescents with 
cancer.

Kurashima AY(1), Latorre Mdo R, Camargo Bd.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Department, Hospital A. C. Camargo, Rua Prof. Antônio Prudente, Sao 
Paulo, SP, Brazil. aykurash@yahoo.com.br

BACKGROUND: The loss of a child is considered the hardest moment in a parent's 
life. Studies addressing length of survival under pediatric palliative care are 
rare. The aim of this study was to improve a survival prediction model for 
children in palliative care, as accurate information positively impacts parent 
and child preparation for palliative care.
PROCEDURE: Sixty-five children referred to a pediatric palliative care team were 
followed from August 2003 until December 2006. Variables investigated (also 
included in previous studies) were: diagnosis, home care provider, presence of 
anemia, and performance status score given by the home care provider. Clinical 
variables such as symptom number were also used to test the score's ability to 
predict survival.
RESULTS: The length of survival prognostic score was validated using the above 
variables. The number of symptoms at transition to palliative care does not 
improve the score's predictive ability. The sum of the single scores gives an 
overall score for each patient, dividing the population into three groups by 
probability of 60-day survival: Group A 80.0%, Group B 38.0%, and Group C 28.5% 
(P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: A pediatric palliative care score based on easily accessible 
variables is statistically significant in multivariate analysis. Factors that 
increase accuracy of life expectancy prediction enable adequate information to 
be given to patients and families, contributing to therapeutic decision-making 
issues.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.22644
PMID: 20589637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Muscle Nerve. 2010 Nov;42(5):709-14. doi: 10.1002/mus.21802.

Good nutritional control may prevent polyneuropathy after bariatric surgery.

Thaisetthawatkul P(1), Collazo-Clavell ML, Sarr MG, Norell JE, Dyck PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, 
Nebraska, USA.

Previously we showed that peripheral neuropathy occurs after bariatric surgery 
and was associated with malnutrition (mainly sensory polyneuropathy). This study 
asks whether a multidisciplinary approach to bariatric surgery lowers risk for 
developing peripheral neuropathy. We performed a retrospective cohort study of 
all patients with bariatric surgery at the Mayo Clinic between 1985 and 2002. 
Patients underwent intensive nutritional management before and after surgery. 
Potential risk factors were analyzed using life-table methods (Cox regression). 
Univariate analysis showed the following risk factors: increased serum 
glycosylated hemoglobin and triglycerides, prolonged hospitalization, 
postoperative gastrointestinal symptoms, and nausea and vomiting. Peripheral 
neuropathy occurred less frequently (7% vs. 13%, P < 0.01) and specifically the 
sensory polyneuropathy subtype (1% vs. 7%, P < 0.0001) than in our prior cohort. 
A systematic, multidisciplinary approach of intensive nutritional management 
before and after surgery with frequent follow-up greatly decreased development 
of peripheral neuropathy (especially sensory polyneuropathy) in patients 
receiving bariatric surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.21802
PMCID: PMC2964374
PMID: 20589897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2010;11 Suppl 1:23-5.

Advanced care planning--empowering patients for a peaceful death.

Karver SB(1), Berger J.

Author information:
(1)Psychosocial and Palliative Care Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and 
Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.

In the early 1900's, Americans had a life expectancy of about 50 years. 
Childhood mortality was very high and an adult who lived into their sixties was 
considered to be doing pretty well. Prior to the advent of different types of 
antibiotics, people would die quickly of infectious disease or accidents and 
medicine only really focused on caring and comfort. Since then, there has been a 
shift in medicines focus. New science, technology and communications have 
shifted the way Americans treat incurable diseases and have promoted the idea of 
aggressive fighting as well as to keep patients alive at any costs. The internet 
has allowed easy access for patients to do on-line research and to know the 
treatments for diseases and the availability of trials. This has promoted the 
idea that every disease or cancer is curable if the patient does exactly as the 
internet says. It has hindered the idea of compassionate care and dying with 
dignity so that a patient can stay alive at all costs, even in a vegetative 
state. In the last two decades, there has been a significant expansion of 
palliative and supportive care services in the United States. This has including 
the development of a specialty for palliative care medicine with a board 
certification in hospice and palliative medicine. A challenge to the field has 
been the reluctance of physicians to request palliative care consults in a very 
timely manner as well as relinquish care of their patients. A common occurrence 
in the United States, at many cancer centers, is the treatment of chemotherapy 
and radiation up until the day before a patient dies. At this point, the 
physician ends up throwing up his or her hands with nothing left to offer the 
patient or its family. However, what we have been finding is that presently 
there are now many oncologists who are willing to refer patients to palliative 
care for specific management of difficult pain control issues. At the Moffitt 
Cancer Center, we have a Palliative Care consulting service along with a 
Palliative Care Fellowship program where we work with cancer teams to provide 
resources to them when they are running into difficulties with their patients. 
Typically, we step in when first line treatments have failed, symptoms have 
shown no signs of decrease, or when the primary teams have exhausted their 
standard management options. Our hope is for the primary care teams to be able 
to manage basic symptoms themselves and only call on the Palliative Care team 
when they have surpassed their comfort zone. For example, the Palliative Care 
team would step in if a patients dosage of medication was out of a primary teams 
spectrum. Other uses of the Palliative Care team include having the end of life 
discussion with the patients to find out what their expectations are of their 
treatment, what their concerns are and what their requests are. Normally 
treating primary teams are very uncomfortable in having this discussion with 
their patients due to the feeling that they are giving up hope or the fact that 
they are letting patients know that the end of the road is near. The Palliative 
Care team can then be called upon to come in and transfer the care from the 
primary team to the "death team". At Moffitt we have instituted a number of 
strategies to make this transition acceptable and more beneficial for the 
patients. One of the strategies that we used is an Advanced Care Plan. By having 
a consultation at the time when the patient is diagnosed, we are able to speak 
with them about what it is that they see in terms of what would be acceptable to 
them. We use the Project Grace Advance Care Plan which was developed by a 
physician and is very simple to understand. With this tool, we are able to bring 
up the discussion while trying to focus in on the patients spirituality and the 
coping mechanism as the cancer patient. This allows the conversation of end of 
life treatment preferences and what the patients typical desire is for life 
sustaining measures.

PMID: 20590344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Eur J Neurol. 2010 Jul;17 Suppl 1:46-51. doi:
10.1111/j.1468-1331.2010.03050.x.

Dystonia. The paediatric perspective.

Fernández-Alvarez E(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuropaediatric Department, Hospital Universitario San Juan de Dios, Avda 
Sant Joan de Déu, Esplugues, Spain. efernandez@hsjdbcn.org

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: This review focuses on some paediatric dystonias such as 
transient dystonias, new primary paediatric-onset dystonias, dopamine 
biosynthesis defects and new paroxysmal disorders. It is designed to provide 
practical help for neurologists and neuropediatricians to make appropriate 
diagnoses and plan the management of these disorders.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Literature searches were performed and original papers, 
meta-analyses and review papers were reviewed.
CONCLUSION: Paediatric onset dystonia is an increasingly interesting group of 
conditions that provides an expanding area of neuroscientific knowledge. Given 
the long life expectancy of children, appropriate treatment at the correct 
moment will have an important, lasting effect on the personal, social and 
healthcare domains.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2010.03050.x
PMID: 20590808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Haemophilia. 2010 Jul;16 Suppl 5:11-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02287.x.

The challenge of an ageing haemophilic population.

Dolan G(1).

Author information:
(1)Nottingham University Hospitals, Nottingham, UK. gerry.dolan@nottingham.ac.uk

Life expectancy for haemophilia has increased significantly in many countries. 
This represents a major success of the improved safety of therapeutic materials 
to treat haemophilia and of improved quality of care. This improved longevity 
will generate a population of older individuals with haemophilia with complex 
medical problems associated with age and managing such clinical issues is likely 
to be challenging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02287.x
PMID: 20590850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Haemophilia. 2010 Jul;16 Suppl 5:100-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02306.x.

Mild haemophilia: a disease with many faces and many unexpected pitfalls.

Peerlinck K(1), Jacquemin M.

Author information:
(1)Hemophilia Center, Universitaire Ziekenhuizen Leuven and Center for Molecular 
and Vascular Biology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. 
kathelijne.peerlinck@uzleuven.be

Despite major advances in diagnosis and treatment, the management of patients 
with mild haemophilia (MH) remains a major challenge. Mild haemophilia is 
defined by factor levels between 0.05 and 0.40 IU mL(-1). The bleeding 
associated with mild haemophilia is most frequently episodic, occurring during 
surgery or following trauma. Spontaneous bleeding is rare. Diagnosis is 
sometimes delayed because of insensitivity of screening clotting assays or 
discrepancies in factor VIII activity as measured by different assays. The 
treatment of choice in mild haemophilia A is desmopressin, which typically 
induces a 2-6-fold increase of factor VIII over baseline. However, desmopressin 
has its limitations in this setting such as the occurrence of tachyphylaxis and 
failure to respond in an undetermined proportion of patients. Factors underlying 
poor biological response or magnitude of response to desmopressin are 
incompletely understood. Inhibitor development in mild haemophilia is 
particularly distressing. This complication arises at an older age in this 
patient group because of infrequent need for factor VIII replacement. Inhibitors 
in mild haemophilia patients often cross-react with endogenous factor VIII 
resulting in severe spontaneous bleeding frequently in a postoperative setting. 
Intensive perioperative use of factor VIII and some specific mutations induce a 
particularly high risk for inhibitor development, but risk factors are 
incompletely understood. For reasons of the older age of the patients, treatment 
of bleeding with bypassing agents may cause major thrombotic complications. Data 
on therapeutic options for inhibitor eradication in patients with mild 
haemophilia are particularly scarce. With increased life-expectancy for all 
haemophilia patients, the group of elderly patients with mild haemophilia 
requiring major surgery will further increase. Prevention of inhibitors, 
particularly in this patient group, should be a major topic of interest in both 
clinic and research.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02306.x
PMID: 20590864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Low Genit Tract Dis. 2010 Jul;14(3):185-95. doi:
10.1097/LGT.0b013e3181cd6d36.

Accuracy and cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening by high-risk human 
papillomavirus DNA testing of self-collected vaginal samples.

Balasubramanian A(1), Kulasingam SL, Baer A, Hughes JP, Myers ER, Mao C, Kiviat 
NB, Koutsky LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. 
akhilab@amgen.com

OBJECTIVE: Estimate the accuracy and cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer 
screening strategies based on high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing 
of self-collected vaginal samples.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A subset of 1,665 women (age range, 18-50 y) 
participating in a cervical cancer screening study were screened by liquid-based 
cytology and by high-risk HPV DNA testing of both self-collected vaginal swab 
samples and clinician-collected cervical samples. Women with positive/abnormal 
screening test results and a subset of women with negative screening test 
results were triaged to colposcopy. On the basis of individual and combined test 
results, 5 screening strategies were defined. Estimates of sensitivity and 
specificity for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or worse were 
calculated, and a Markov model was used to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for each strategy.
RESULTS: Compared with cytology-based screening, high-risk HPV DNA testing of 
self-collected vaginal samples was more sensitive (68%, 95% CI = 58%-78% vs 85%, 
95% CI = 76%-94%) but less specific (89%, 95% CI = 86%-91% vs 73%, 95% CI = 
67%-79%). A strategy of high-risk HPV DNA testing of self-collected vaginal 
samples followed by cytology triage of HPV-positive women was comparably 
sensitive (75%, 95% CI = 64%-86%) and specific (88%, 95% CI = 85%-92%) to 
cytology-based screening. In-home self-collection for high-risk HPV DNA 
detection followed by in-clinic cytology triage had a slightly lower lifetime 
cost and a slightly higher quality-adjusted life year (QALY) expectancy than did 
cytology-based screening (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of triennial 
screening compared with no screening was $9,871/QALY and $12,878/QALY, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Triennial screening by high-risk HPV DNA testing of in-home, 
self-collected vaginal samples followed by in-clinic cytology triage was 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/LGT.0b013e3181cd6d36
PMCID: PMC2898894
PMID: 20592553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Case Rep Med. 2010;2010:725173. doi: 10.1155/2010/725173. Epub 2010 Jun 14.

Coronary bypass surgery in a 105-year-old patient with cardiopulmonary bypass.

Ogus TN(1), Erdim F, Selimoglu O, Tekiner F, Ugurlucan M.

Author information:
(1)Bahcelievler Medical Park Hospital, Cardiovascular Surgery Clinic, Istanbul, 
Turkey.

Coronary artery bypass grafting is one of the routine daily surgical procedures 
in the current era. Parallel to the increasing life expectancy, cardiac surgery 
is commonly performed in octogenarians. However, literature consists of only 
seldom reports of coronary artery bypass grafting in patients above 90 years of 
age. In this report, we present our management strategy in a 105-year-old 
patient who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting at our institution.

DOI: 10.1155/2010/725173
PMCID: PMC2892694
PMID: 20592988


536. Med Sci Law. 2010 Apr;50(2):84-94. doi: 10.1258/msl.2010.009016.

Do we need to change the legislation to a system of presumed consent to address 
organ shortage?

Simillis C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Law, MA Health Care Ethics and Law by Distance Learning, University 
of Manchester, UK. csimillis@googlemail.com

Organ transplantation significantly improves the health, quality of life and 
life-expectancy of people whose organs have failed. Most patients in the UK 
cannot enjoy the benefits of a transplant because of an extreme shortage of 
organs. This paper demonstrates the magnitude of the problem of organ shortage 
and identifies possible causes. The current UK legislation regarding consent to 
organ transplantation is analysed and compared with other jurisdictions. The 
hypothesis of changing the legislation to a system of presumed consent in order 
to address the organ shortage is explored. The main issues surrounding a change 
in the legislation are considered, and the effects on society and the individual 
are discussed. This paper argues that there is not enough convincing evidence to 
support a change in the legislation to a system of presumed consent at this 
time. Instead, an increase in organ donations could be achieved by improving the 
effectiveness of the current system of organ donation, and by improving the 
public's awareness and understanding of organ transplantation issues.

DOI: 10.1258/msl.2010.009016
PMID: 20593600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2010;11(1):79-90.

Cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccination in the prevention of cervical cancer in 
Malaysia.

Ezat WP(1), Aljunid S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, UKM Medical Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
sh_ezat@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: Cervical cancers (CC) demonstrate the second highest incidence of 
female cancers in Malaysia. The costs of chronic management have a high impact 
on nation's health cost and patient's quality of life that can be avoided by 
better screening and HPV vaccination.
METHODOLOGY: Respondents were interviewed from six public Gynecology-Oncology 
hospitals. Methods include experts' panel discussions to estimate treatment 
costs by severity and direct interviews with respondents using costing and SF-36 
quality of life (QOL) questionnaires. Three options were compared i.e. screening 
via Pap smear; quadrivalent HPV Vaccination and combined strategy (screening 
plus vaccination). Scenario based sensitivity analysis using screening 
population coverage (40-80%) and costs of vaccine (RM 300-400/dose) were 
calculated.
RESULTS: 502 cervical pre invasive and invasive cervical cancer (ICC) patients 
participated in the study. Mean age was 53.3 +/- 11.2 years, educated till 
secondary level (39.4%), Malays (44.2%) and married for 27.73 +/- 12.1 years. 
Life expectancy gained from vaccination is 13.04 years and average Quality 
Adjusted Life Years saved (QALYs) is 24.4 in vaccinated vs 6.29 in unvaccinated. 
Cost/QALYs for Pap smear at base case is RM 1,214.96/QALYs and RM 1,100.01 at 
increased screening coverage; for HPV Vaccination base case is at RM 35,346.79 
and RM 46,530.08 when vaccination price is higher. In combined strategy, base 
case is RM 11,289.58; RM 7,712.74 at best case and RM 14,590.37 at worst case 
scenario. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) showed that screening at 
70% coverage or higher is highly cost effective at RM 946.74 per QALYs saved and 
this is followed by combined strategy at RM 35,346.67 per QALYs saved.
CONCLUSION: Vaccination increase life expectancy with better QOL of women when 
cancer can be avoided. Cost effective strategies will include increasing the Pap 
smear coverage to 70% or higher. Since feasibility and long term screening 
adherence is doubtful among Malaysian women, vaccination of young women is a 
more cost effective strategy against cervical cancers.

PMID: 20593935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Neurosurg Spine. 2010 Jul;13(1):36-8; author reply 38. doi: 
10.3171/2009.11.SPINE09853.

Treatment options for lumbar spinal stenosis.

Fehlings MG, Chua SY.

Comment on
    J Neurosurg Spine. 2010 Jul;13(1):39-46.

DOI: 10.3171/2009.11.SPINE09853
PMID: 20594015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Neurosurg Spine. 2010 Jul;13(1):39-46. doi: 10.3171/2010.3.SPINE09552.

Cost-effectiveness of current treatment strategies for lumbar spinal stenosis: 
nonsurgical care, laminectomy, and X-STOP.

Burnett MG(1), Stein SC, Bartels RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, NeuroTexas Institute, Austin, Texas, USA. 
burnettmg@hotmail.com

Comment in
    J Neurosurg Spine. 2010 Jul;13(1):36-8; author reply 38.
    J Neurosurg Spine. 2011 Jul;15(1):125-6.

OBJECT Standard treatment options for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis 
include nonoperative therapies as well as decompressive laminectomy. The 
introduction of interspinous decompression devices such as the X-STOP has 
broadened treatment options, but data comparing these treatment strategies are 
lacking. The object of this study was to provide a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of laminectomy, interspinous decompression, and nonoperative treatment for 
patients with lumbar stenosis. METHODS The authors performed a structured 
literature review of lumbar stenosis and constructed a cost-effectiveness model. 
Using conservative treatment, decompressive laminectomy, and placement of X-STOP 
as the treatment arms, their primary analysis evaluated the optimal treatment 
strategy for a patient with lumbar stenosis at a 2-year time horizon. Secondary 
analyses were done to compare cases in which patients required single-level 
procedures with those in which multilevel procedures were required as well as to 
examine the outcomes for a 4-year time horizon. Outcomes were calculated using 
quality-adjusted life years and costs were considered from the perspective of 
society. RESULTS Laminectomy was found to be the most effective treatment 
strategy, followed by X-STOP and then conservative treatment at a 2-year time 
horizon. Both surgical procedures were more costly than conservative treatment. 
Because laminectomy was both more effective and less costly than X-STOP, it is 
said to dominate overall. When single level procedures were considered alone, 
laminectomy was more effective but also more costly than X-STOP. CONCLUSIONS 
Lumbar laminectomy appears to be the most cost-effective treatment strategy for 
patients with symptomatic lumbar spinal stenosis.

DOI: 10.3171/2010.3.SPINE09552
PMID: 20594016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. BMC Health Serv Res. 2010 Jul 2;10 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S3. doi: 
10.1186/1472-6963-10-S1-S3.

Improving the evidence base of Markov models used to estimate the costs of 
scaling up antiretroviral programmes in resource-limited settings.

Leisegang R(1), Maartens G, Hislop M, Regensberg L, Cleary S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical of Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa. rory.leisegang@uct.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Despite concerns about affordability and sustainability, many models 
of the lifetime costs of antiretroviral therapy (ART) used in resource limited 
settings are based on data from small research cohorts, together with pragmatic 
assumptions about life-expectancy. This paper revisits these modelling 
assumptions in order to provide input to future attempts to model the lifetime 
costs and the costs of scaling up ART.
METHODS: We analysed the determinants of costs and outcomes in patients 
receiving ART in line with standard World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines 
for resource poor settings in a private sector managed ART programme in South 
Africa. The cohort included over 5,000 patients with up to 4 years (median 19 
months) on ART. Generalized linear and Cox proportional hazards regression 
models were used to establish cost and outcome determinants respectively.
RESULTS: The key variables associated with changes in mean monthly costs were: 
being on the second line regimen; receiving ART from 4 months prior to 4 months 
post treatment initiation; having a recent or current CD4 count <50 cells/microL 
or 50-199 cells/microl; having mean ART adherence <75% as determined by monthly 
pharmacy refill data; and having a current or recent viral load >100,000 
copies/mL. In terms of the likelihood of dying, the key variables were: baseline 
CD4 count<50 cells/microl (particularly during the first 4 months on treatment); 
current CD4 count <50 cells/microl and 50-199 cells/microl (particularly during 
later periods on treatment); and being on the second line regimen. Being poorly 
adherent and having an unsuppressed viral load was also associated with a higher 
likelihood of dying.
CONCLUSIONS: While there are many unknowns associated with modelling the 
resources needed to scale-up ART, our analysis has suggested a number of key 
variables which can be used to improve the state of the art of modelling ART. 
While the magnitude of the effects associated with these variables would be 
likely to differ in other settings, the variables influencing costs and survival 
are likely to be generalizable. This is of direct relevance to those concerned 
about assessing the long-term costs and sustainability of expanded access to 
ART.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-10-S1-S3
PMCID: PMC2895747
PMID: 20594369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Ugeskr Laeger. 2010 Jul 5;172(27):2020-5.

[Cost-effectiveness of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion therapy for type 
1 diabetes].

[Article in Danish]

Nørgaard K(1), Sohlberg A, Goodall G.

Author information:
(1)Hvidovre Hospital, Endokrinologisk Afdeling, Medtronic AB, Järfälla, Sverige. 
kirsten.noergaard@hvh.regionh.dk

Comment in
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2010 Aug 30;172(35):2404; author reply 2404.

INTRODUCTION: This study's aim was to project the long-term clinical and 
economic outcomes of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) treatment 
compared to multiple daily injections (MDI) in type 1 diabetes patients in 
Denmark.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The CORE diabetes model was used to project life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, cumulative incidence of 
diabetes-related complications and costs over patient lifetimes. The simulated 
cohort was based upon a recent meta-analysis of CSII treatment from over 50 
studies. Direct and indirect costs (human capital approach) from a healthcare 
payer perspective were accounted in year 2005 local currency. Outcomes were 
discounted according to recommendations and simulations performed over a 60 year 
time horizon.
RESULTS: CSII treatment was associated with improved life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy and reduced incidence of most diabetes-related 
complications compared to MDI. In the base case analysis, lifetime costs were 
higher for CSII than for MDI with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in terms 
of cost per quality-adjusted life year gained within the range generally 
considered good value for money. Sensitivity analyses revealed that the findings 
were most sensitive to variation in assumptions regarding time horizon and 
hypoglycaemic event rate.
CONCLUSION: CSII led to improved long-term clinical outcomes due to improved 
glycaemic control versus MDI. Evaluation of the economic impact of CSII 
treatment versus MDI demonstrated that it would be likely to represent good 
value for money by currently accepted standards.

PMID: 20594535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Reprod Biomed Online. 2010 Aug;21(2):186-95. doi:
10.1016/j.rbmo.2010.04.031.  Epub 2010 Jun 4.

PGD for all cystic fibrosis carrier couples: novel strategy for preventive 
medicine and cost analysis.

Tur-Kaspa I(1), Aljadeff G, Rechitsky S, Grotjan HE, Verlinsky Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Human Reproduction (IHR), 2825 N Halsted St., Chicago, IL 
60657, USA. DrTK@infertilityIHR.com

Comment in
    Reprod Biomed Online. 2010 Sep;21(3):280-2.
    Nature. 2017 Aug 16;548(7667):272-274.

Over 1000 children affected with cystic fibrosis (CF) are born annually in the 
USA. Since IVF with preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) is an alternative to 
raising a sick child or to aborting an affected fetus, a cost-benefit analysis 
was performed for a national IVF-PGD program for preventing CF. The amount spent 
to deliver healthy children for all CF carrier-couples by IVF-PGD was compared 
with the average annual and lifetime direct medical costs per CF patient 
avoided. Treating annually about 4000 CF carrier-couples with IVF-PGD would 
result in 3715 deliveries of non-affected children at a cost of $57,467 per 
baby. Because the average annual direct medical cost per CF patient was $63,127 
and life expectancy is 37 years, savings would be $2.3 million per patient and 
$2.2 billion for all new CF patients annually in lifetime treatment costs. 
Cumulated net saving of an IVF-PGD program for all carrier-couples for 37 years 
would be $33.3 billion. A total of 618,714 cumulative years of patients 
suffering because of CF and thousands of abortions could be prevented. A 
national IVF-PGD program is a highly cost-effective novel modality of preventive 
medicine and would avoid most births of individuals affected with debilitating 
genetic disease.

2010 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2010.04.031
PMID: 20594975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J R Soc Med. 2010 Jul;103(7):283-7. doi: 10.1258/jrsm.2010.100126.

Two countries divided by a common language: health systems in the UK and USA.

Desai M(1), Rachet B, Coleman MP, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine Keppel Street, London WC1E 
7HT, UK. monica.desai@lshtm.ac.uk

Despite the historic significance of the healthcare reform bill that was passed 
into law by President Obama in March 2010, the debate still rages. The UK 
National Health Service (NHS) has featured prominently in the current American 
debate on healthcare reform, with critics calling attention to its perceived 
shortcomings. Some of these, such as the existence of 'death panels', can easily 
be dismissed, but others, such as the cancer survival deficit, cannot. This 
paper reviews the evidence on outcomes from cancer and other chronic 
non-communicable diseases, the two leading causes of death in both countries. 
The headline figures showing better cancer survival in the USA are exaggerated 
by methodological issues, but a gap remains, due in large part to better 
outcomes among older people. Outcomes among younger people with chronic disease 
are, however, much worse in the USA. Paradoxically, given the nature of the 
debate in the USA so far, those parts of the US health system that get the best 
results, such as the Veterans' Administration, or the elderly on Medicare, are 
those that most closely resemble the British NHS - but which are funded somewhat 
more generously.

DOI: 10.1258/jrsm.2010.100126
PMCID: PMC2895526
PMID: 20595532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Stroke. 2010 Aug;41(8):1736-42. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.585083. Epub 2010
Jul  1.

Cost-effectiveness of magnetic resonance angiography versus intra-arterial 
digital subtraction angiography to follow-up patients with coiled intracranial 
aneurysms.

Schaafsma JD(1), Koffijberg H, Buskens E, Velthuis BK, van der Graaf Y, Rinkel 
GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, University 
Medical Center, Utrecht, the Netherlands. j.d.schaafsma@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To follow up patients with coiled intracranial 
aneurysms, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is a promising noninvasive 
alternative to current standard intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography 
(IA-DSA). MRA test results do not always concord with those of IA-DSA, and the 
impact of discrepancies on health benefits and costs is unknown. We evaluated 
the cost-effectiveness of follow-up with MRA vs IA-DSA to assess whether in this 
setting MRA may replace IA-DSA.
METHODS: We studied aneurysm occlusion on MRA in addition to follow-up IA-DSA in 
310 patients with 341 coiled intracranial aneurysms. The observed sensitivity 
(82%) and specificity (89%) of MRA for detection of reopening with IA-DSA as a 
reference were used as input for a Markov decision-analytic model. Other 
determinants were derived from the literature. We compared life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), costs, and expected number of events for the 
two strategies.
RESULTS: Follow-up with MRA yielded similar life expectancy (MRA, 26.66 years; 
IA-DSA, 26.63 years; difference, 0.03 years; 95% CI, -0.17-0.23) and QALY (MRA, 
10.96; IA-DSA, 10.95; difference, 0.01 QALY; 95% CI, -0.05-0.08) at lower costs 
(MRA, $7003; IA-DSA, $8241 per patient; difference, -$1238; 95% CI, -2617--36). 
The expected number of events was comparable except for complications from 
IA-DSA.
CONCLUSIONS: MRA provided equivalent health benefits as IA-DSA and was 
cost-saving. MRA dominates and should replace routine IA-DSA to follow-up 
patients with coiled aneurysms.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.585083
PMID: 20595661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Stroke. 2010 Aug;41(8):1758-65. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.576066. Epub 2010
Jul  1.

Years of optimum health lost due to complications after acute ischemic stroke: 
disability-adjusted life-years analysis.

Hong KS(1), Saver JL, Kang DW, Bae HJ, Yu KH, Koo J, Han MK, Cho YJ, Park JM, 
Lee BC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Clinical Research Center, Ilsan Paik Hospital, Inje 
University, Goyang, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Complications after stroke increase disability or death. 
The disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) metric, developed by the World Health 
Organization to measure the global burden of disease, integrates both mortality 
and disability. Widely used in population-level data analyses, it has not been 
applied to individual patient-level data captured in outcome registries.
METHODS: We analyzed patient-level data from the outcome registry of 1254 
consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke enrolled between September 1, 
2004, and August 31, 2005, in South Korea. For each subject, we calculated DALY 
lost due to the qualifying stroke and then analyzed additional DALY lost due to 
complications after stroke.
RESULTS: For 1233 patients with available 3-month outcomes, the average DALY 
lost due to the index stroke was 3.82 (95% CI, 3.68 to 3.96). Any complications, 
neurological complications, and medical complications occurred in 34.0%, 20.8%, 
and 24.0%, respectively. The additional DALYs lost associated with any, 
neurological, and medical complications were 2.11 (95% CI, 1.78 to 2.44), 2.15 
(95% CI, 1.72 to 2.59), and 1.99 (95% CI, 1.59 to 2.40), respectively. Patients 
with 1 complication had 1.52 (95% CI, 1.15 to 1.89) additional DALY lost, and 
those with >or=2 complications had 2.69 (95% CI, 2.18 to 3.20) additional DALY 
lost.
CONCLUSIONS: Early poststroke complications deprive patients of approximately 2 
years of optimum health. Greater numbers of complications are associated with 
greater loss of healthy life-years. DALY analysis quantifies the burden of 
poststroke complications with a uniform metric potentially useful for health 
system planners.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.576066
PMCID: PMC2937160
PMID: 20595674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors have no 
conflicts of interest.


546. Minerva Ginecol. 2010 Jun;62(3):237-52.

Preservation of ovarian function.

Fabbri R(1), Pasquinelli G, Magnani V, Tamburini F, Battaglia C, Paradisi R, 
Keane D, Venturoli S.

Author information:
(1)Human Reproductive Medicine Unit, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, S.Orsola 
Hospital, Bologna, Italy. raffaella.fabbri@unibo.it

In the last years, advances in diagnosis and new treatments of cancer patient 
have increased the life expectancy of children, adolescent and women with 
cancer. Unfortunately, the ovaries are very sensitive to chemio-radiotherapy 
that may induce the loss of ovarian function and fertility with consequent 
premature ovarian failure. The different cryopreservation options available for 
fertility preservation in cancer patients are embryo cryopreservation, oocyte 
cryopreservation and ovarian tissue cryopreservation. The choice depends on 
different parameters: the type and timing of cancer treatment, the type of 
disease, the patient's age. The advances in reproductive technology have made 
fertility preservation a real possibility for patients whether they are girls or 
young women whose gonadal function is threatened by natural premature menopause, 
or by cancer therapy or surgical sterilisation.

PMID: 20595948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Psychiatr Prax. 2010 Jul;37(5):213-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1248510. Epub 2010
Jul  1.

[The costs of depression and the cost-effectiveness of treatment].

[Article in German]

König HH, Luppa M, Riedel-Heller S.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1248510
PMID: 20597034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Parasite. 2010 Jun;17(2):155-9. doi: 10.1051/parasite/2010172155.

[Influence of the temperature on the development of the African cat flea 
Ctenocephalides felis strongylus (Jordan, 1925) (Siphonaptera : Pulicidae)].

[Article in French]

Yao KP(1), N'Goran KE, Franc M.

Author information:
(1)UFR Biosciences, Université de Cocody-Abidjan, 22 BP 582, Abidjan 22, Côte 
d'Ivoire. patrick.yao@univ-cocody.ci

Ctenocephalides felis (Bouché, 1835) commonly called "cat's flea" presents two 
recognized subspecies: Ctenocephalides felis strongylus (Jordan, 1925), observed 
in the African continent, and Ctenocephalides felis felis (Bouché, 1835) in the 
other regions (North Africa, Europe and America) (Ménier and Beaucournu, 19991. 
In sub-Saharan Africa, the principal flea found in the pets and certain 
livestock (ovine, caprine and bovine), belongs to the subspecies C. f. 
strongylus. Some bio-ecologic parameters of C. f. strongylus were studied in 
various conditions of breeding and the results compared with those currently 
available for C. f. felis. At 75% +/- 5 of relative humidity, the development 
cycle of C. f. strongylus lasts 20-21 days at 27 degrees C and 16 to 17 days at 
29 degrees C. In comparison with C. f. felis, it is shown that for identical 
breeding temperatures, the African subspecies of the cat flea develops itself 
slowly. This difference could be explained by the influence of the climate of 
their respective areas of distribution on their development cycle. With 75% +/- 
5 of relative humidity, C. f. strongylus cannot survive more than 14 days in 
temperatures ranging between 27 and 29 degrees C, and this without any blood 
meal. Under the same conditions, this duration of survival does not exceed 16 
days at 19 degrees C. But when C. f. strongylus has taken a first blood meal, 
its lifespan is much shorter when it is out of its host. Indeed, no individual 
is found living three days passed out of the fur of its host at 29 degrees C, 
five days at 27 degrees C and eight days at 19 degrees C. It is the same for C. 
f. felis. These data on bio-ecology of C. f. strongylus enable to understand the 
influence of temperature on its development cycle and consider more efficient 
strategies of control.

DOI: 10.1051/parasite/2010172155
PMID: 20597443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Public Health Rep. 2010 Jul-Aug;125(4):548-55. doi:
10.1177/003335491012500410.

A comparative analysis of health-related quality of life for residents of U.S. 
counties with and without coal mining.

Zullig KJ(1), Hendryx M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, School of Medicine, West Virginia 
University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA. kzullig@hsc.wvu.edu

OBJECTIVES: We compared health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in mining and 
non-mining counties in and out of Appalachia using the 2006 Behavioral Risk 
Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) survey.
METHODS: Dependent variables included self-rated health, the number of poor 
physical and mental health days, the number of activity limitation days (in the 
last 30 days), and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Healthy Days 
Index. Independent variables included the presence of coal mining, Appalachian 
region residence, metropolitan status, primary care physician supply, and BRFSS 
behavioral (e.g., smoking, body mass index, and alcohol consumption) and 
demographic (e.g., age, gender, race, and income) variables. We compared 
dependent variables across a four-category variable: Appalachia (yes/ no) and 
coal mining (yes/no). We used SUDAAN Multilog and multiple linear regression 
models with post-hoc least-squares means to test for Appalachian coal-mining 
effects after adjusting for covariates.
RESULTS: Residents of coal-mining counties inside and outside of Appalachia 
reported significantly fewer healthy days for both physical and mental health, 
and poorer self-rated health (p < 0.0005) when compared with referent U.S. 
non-coal-mining counties, but disparities were greatest for people residing in 
Appalachian coal-mining areas. Furthermore, results remained consistent in 
separate analyses by gender and age.
CONCLUSIONS: Coal-mining areas are characterized by greater socioeconomic 
disadvantage, riskier health behaviors, and environmental degradation that are 
associated with reduced HRQOL.

DOI: 10.1177/003335491012500410
PMCID: PMC2882606
PMID: 20597455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Arch Iran Med. 2010 Jul;13(4):333-9.

The Iranian population is graying: are we ready?

Kiani S(1), Bayanzadeh M, Tavallaee M, Hogg RS.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Iran has gone through sharp demographic changes in the past three 
decades. Presently, in Iran, there is a lack of health promotional activities 
targeting the elderly which can lead to a decrease in their quality of life and 
an increase in their disability rates. Those most vulnerable amongst the elderly 
are females, who have low education and low socioeconomic status. For them and 
others, few social services, accessible housing options and long-term care 
facilities exist.
METHODS: Data was gathered using population projections over an 80-year period 
(1975 - 2055), facilitated by spectrum software prepared by the USAID/Health 
Policy Initiative with data source derived from projections of the United 
Nations, World Population Prospects. Projections derived were on the expected 
population, the median age of the population, population pyramids, total 
fertility rates, life expectancy, and dependency ratio.
RESULTS: Projections showed that by the middle of this century approximately one 
fifth of the population will be over 60, with the median age of the population 
almost doubling from what it is today and the dependency ratio increasing 
steadily. Currently, the resources are not sufficient to address the special 
needs of an elderly population and are at risk for becoming even more strained 
over the 80 year span.
CONCLUSION: Iran must begin to prepare itself for the impact that a massive 
ageing population will have in the ensuing years. Recommendations suggest 
developing policies supportive of accessible and affordable housing and care 
facilities, establishing community health programs that aid the elderly in 
continuing to live at home, and strengthening the availability of pension plans.

PMID: 20597568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2011 Jan;20(1):50-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2009.01144.x.

Doctor, how long?

Da Costa Miranda V(1), De Souza Fede AB, Martins FD, De Magalhães NP, De Lazzari 
Schaffhausser H, Riechelmann RP, Giglio AD.

Author information:
(1)ABC Foundation School of Medicine, Santo Andre, Brazil.

This study aimed to quantify the average survival time of cancer patients once 
terminal sedation was started until death and identify potential variables that 
may influence their survival time on sedation. This is a retrospective cohort 
analysis of all consecutive terminal cancer patients who died after starting 
terminal sedation at public tertiary Brazilian Hospital. A total of 532 cancer 
patients died in Hospital Estadual Mário Covas during this period and 181 out of 
them who received terminal sedation were included in this analysis. The median 
survival was 27 h. By multivariate analysis, increase in the dose of sedative 
drug during sedation (odds ratio 1.576, 95% CI 1.113-2.232), use of opioids 
alone for sedation (odds ratio 1.438, 95% CI 1.046-1.977) and dyspnoea as cause 
of sedation (odds ratio 1.564 95% CI 1.045-2.341) were independent risk factors 
for a shorter survival time after starting terminal sedation. Sedated, terminal 
cancer patients usually live about 1 day. We identified risk factors for a 
shorter sedation period. This study is limited by its retrospective design and 
by the frequent use of opioids as the main sedative medications. Prospective 
studies must be carried out in order to validate these data.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2009.01144.x
PMID: 20597959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Lancet. 2010 Sep 25;376(9746):1055-61. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60392-3.
Epub  2010 Jul 2.

Global operating theatre distribution and pulse oximetry supply: an estimation 
from reported data.

Funk LM(1), Weiser TG, Berry WR, Lipsitz SR, Merry AF, Enright AC, Wilson IH, 
Dziekan G, Gawande AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. lfunk@partners.org

Comment in
    Lancet. 2010 Sep 25;376(9746):1027-8.
    Lancet. 2010 Nov 27;376(9755):1826-7.

BACKGROUND: Surgery is an essential part of health care, but resources to ensure 
the availability of surgical services are often inadequate. We estimated the 
global distribution of operating theatres and quantified the availability of 
pulse oximetry, which is an essential monitoring device during surgery and a 
potential measure of operating theatre resources.
METHODS: We calculated ratios of the number of operating theatres to hospital 
beds in seven geographical regions worldwide on the basis of profiles from 769 
hospitals in 92 countries that participated in WHO's safe surgery saves lives 
initiative. We used hospital bed figures from 190 WHO member states to estimate 
the number of operating theatres per 100,000 people in 21 subregions throughout 
the world. To estimate availability of pulse oximetry, we sent surveys to 
anaesthesia providers in 72 countries selected to ensure a geographically and 
demographically diverse sample. A predictive regression model was used to 
estimate the pulse oximetry need for countries that did not provide data.
FINDINGS: The estimated number of operating theatres ranged from 1·0 (95% CI 
0·9-1·2) per 100,000 people in west sub-Saharan Africa to 25·1 (20·9-30·1) per 
100,000 in eastern Europe. High-income subregions all averaged more than 14 per 
100,000 people, whereas all low-income subregions, representing 2·2 billion 
people, had fewer than two theatres per 100,000. Pulse oximetry data from 54 
countries suggested that around 77,700 (63,195-95,533) theatres worldwide (19·2% 
[15·2-23·9]) were not equipped with pulse oximeters.
INTERPRETATION: Improvements in public-health strategies and monitoring are 
needed to reduce disparities for more than 2 billion people without adequate 
