functional; becoming an integral part or all of their body and, finally, the 
concept of autonomy on four wheels by adjusting to their new ability to walk 
emerges. The wheelchair as an extension of the modified body for spinal cord 
injury, returns them the right of locomotion, presents them not only with 
autonomy for various acts of life, but also restores their dignity, so essential 
to human life.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-11692010000400014
PMID: 20922323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Gen Intern Med. 2011 Mar;26(3):340-2. doi: 10.1007/s11606-010-1521-8. Epub
 2010 Oct 5.

Control of health care-associated infections (HAI): winning both the battles and 
the war.

Ehrenkranz NJ(1), MacIntyre AT, Hebert PR, Schneider WR, Hennekens CH.

Author information:
(1)Florida Consortium for Infection Control, Plantation, FL, USA.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2011 Mar;26(3):237; author reply 238.

At present, the United States (US) experiences its greatest life expectancy due 
mainly to improvements in mortality from cardiovascular diseases, which include 
coronary heart disease and stroke. These, in turn, are due largely to decreases 
in cigarette smoking as well as earlier and more aggressive diagnoses and 
treatments. These advances in health care delivery are, not surprisingly, 
accompanied by increasing numbers of complicating health care-associated 
infections (HAI). HAIs are a major and increasing cause of morbidity and 
mortality in the US as well as around the world. To win both the battles and the 
war against HAI requires a multidisciplinary approach to the vigorous 
implementation and maintenance of proper infection control procedures. This 
should include continuous surveillance and reinforcement of guidelines to 
enhance evidence-based practices to prevent and control HAI. It will also be 
necessary to implement a new paradigm of early and formal education of future 
health care providers into the biology of infection as well as the principles of 
infection control in the classroom and subsequently, with translation into their 
clinical training. Finally, there must also be the incorporation and expansion 
of continuing medical education for established health care providers about 
prevention and control of HAI.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-010-1521-8
PMCID: PMC3043176
PMID: 20922495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Br J Surg. 2010 Dec;97(12):1815-23. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7256. Epub 2010 Oct 4.

Cost-effectiveness of traditional and endovenous treatments for varicose veins.

Gohel MS(1), Epstein DM, Davies AH.

Author information:
(1)Imperial Vascular Unit, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2010 Dec;97(12):1823-4.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
traditional and endovenous treatments for patients with primary great saphenous 
varicose veins.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to compare costs and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) for great saphenous vein (GSV) reflux. Eight popular 
treatment strategies were compared up to 5 years. Estimates for the 
effectiveness of treatments were obtained from published randomized studies and 
cost values were obtained from published National Health Service (NHS) 
healthcare resource group tariffs and device manufacturers. Parameter 
uncertainty was tested using sensitivity analysis and Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy (UGFS) had the lowest initial 
cost, but a higher requirement for further interventions. Day-case surgery (with 
concomitant treatment of varicosities), endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) and 
radiofrequency ablation (RFA) performed in an outpatient or office setting (with 
staged treatment of varicosities) were likely to be cost-effective treatment 
strategies. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for UGFS (versus 
conservative care), EVLA (versus UGFS) and RFA (versus EVLA) were £1366, £5799 
and £17 350 per QALY respectively. The ICER for traditional surgery (performed 
on a day-case basis) was £19 012 compared with RFA. Other strategies were not 
cost-effective using the NHS threshold of £20 000 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Day-case surgery or endovenous ablation using EVLA or RFA performed 
as an outpatient are likely to be cost-effective treatment strategies for 
patients with primary unilateral GSV reflux requiring treatment.

Copyright © 2010 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7256
PMID: 20922783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2010 Nov;31(11):1130-8. doi: 10.1086/656591.

The economic effect of screening orthopedic surgery patients preoperatively for 
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

Lee BY(1), Wiringa AE, Bailey RR, Goyal V, Tsui B, Lewis GJ, Muder RR, Harrison 
LH.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Computational and Operations Research (PHICOR) Group, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA. byl1@pitt.edu

Erratum in
    Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2011 Jan;32(1):99. Harrison, Lee M [corrected 
to Harrison, Lee H].

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Patients undergoing orthopedic surgery are susceptible 
to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections, which can 
result in increased morbidity, hospital lengths of stay, and medical costs. We 
sought to estimate the economic value of routine preoperative MRSA screening and 
decolonization of orthopedic surgery patients.
METHODS: A stochastic decision-analytic computer simulation model was used to 
evaluate the economic value of implementing this strategy (compared with no 
preoperative screening or decolonization) among orthopedic surgery patients from 
both the third-party payer and hospital perspectives. Sensitivity analyses 
explored the effects of varying MRSA colonization prevalence, the cost of 
screening and decolonization, and the probability of decolonization success.
RESULTS: Preoperative MRSA screening and decolonization was strongly 
cost-effective (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio less than $6,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year) from the third-party payer perspective even when 
MRSA prevalence was as low as 1%, decolonization success was as low as 25%, and 
decolonization costs were as high as $300 per patient. In most scenarios this 
strategy was economically dominant (ie, less costly and more effective than no 
screening). From the hospital perspective, preoperative MRSA screening and 
decolonization was the economically dominant strategy for all scenarios 
explored.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine preoperative screening and decolonization of orthopedic 
surgery patients may under many circumstances save hospitals and third-party 
payers money while providing health benefits.

DOI: 10.1086/656591
PMCID: PMC3482432
PMID: 20923285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. All authors 
report no conflicts of interest relevant to this article.


153. J Diabetes. 2010 Jun;2(2):112-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-0407.2010.00069.x. Epub
 2010 Mar 15.

Lifestyle factors and mortality among adults with diabetes: findings from the 
European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition-Potsdam study*.

Nöthlings U(1), Ford ES, Kröger J, Boeing H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, German Institute for Human Nutrition (DIfE), 
Potsdam-Rehbrücke, Nuthetal, Germany.

Comment in
    J Diabetes. 2011 Dec;3(4):317.

BACKGROUND: Healthy lifestyle behaviors are among the cornerstones of diabetes 
self-management, but the extent to which healthy lifestyle factors could 
potentially prevent premature mortality among people with diabetes remains 
unknown. The aim of the present study was to estimate the reduction in mortality 
that could be achieved if people with diabetes did not smoke, had a body mass 
index <30 kg/m(2) , performed physical activity for ≥3.5 h/week, reported better 
dietary habits, and consumed alcohol moderately.
METHODS: A prospective cohort study of 1263 German men and women with diabetes 
aged 35-65 years who were followed for an average of 7.8 years was used and 
multivariate Cox regression models for all-cause and cause-specific mortality 
were calculated.
RESULTS: Approximately 7% of study participants had no favorable factors, 24% 
had one, 35% had two, and 34% had three or more. Compared with participants who 
had no favorable factors, the reduction in risk was 34% [95% confidence interval 
(CI) 19%, 63%] for those with one favorable factor, 49% (95% CI 9%, 71%) for 
those with two, and 63% (95% CI 31%, 80%) for those with three or more. 
Furthermore, a competing risk analysis did not show any difference in the 
inverse associations with mortality due to cardiovascular disease, cancer, or 
other causes.
CONCLUSIONS: Favorable lifestyle factors can potentially achieve substantial 
reductions in premature mortality among people with diabetes. Our results 
emphasize the importance of helping people with diabetes optimize their 
lifestyle behaviors.

© 2010 Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine and 
Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-0407.2010.00069.x
PMID: 20923493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Psychopharmacol. 2010 Nov;24(4 Suppl):9-15. doi: 10.1177/1359786810382149.

The paradox of premature mortality in schizophrenia: new research questions.

Wildgust HJ, Hodgson R, Beary M.

The life expectancy of patients with schizophrenia is reduced by between 15 and 
25 years. Those patients dying of natural causes die of the same diseases as in 
the general population. In 2009 the World Health Organization (WHO) identified 
underlying global risk factors for mortality in the general population. However, 
there is little evidence in the literature assessing their validity in those 
with schizophrenia. The WHO report on global health risks (2009) identifies 
hypertension, smoking, raised glucose, physical inactivity, overweight and 
obesity, and high cholesterol as the six leading global mortality risk factors. 
Currently, there are minimal data on the contribution to mortality that these 
risk factors make in schizophrenia, and their optimum management. Both short and 
long-term studies are needed to address these gaps. New research has raised 
important questions about risk balance with regards to ideal body mass, with 
some studies showing that being overweight is associated with lower all-cause 
mortality and lower suicide rates. Cardiorespiratory fitness is being recognized 
as a more powerful predictor of mortality than smoking, hypertension or diabetes 
in men. However, there are virtually no published data on assessment of fitness 
levels in schizophrenia. New studies have raised concerns about the quality of 
physical care for patients with schizophrenia, which is another important avenue 
of future research. A greater biological understanding of the relationship 
between these disorders and schizophrenia would inform clinical practice. Low 
birth weight has been associated with increased risk for schizophrenia, and it 
will be important to explore this risk factor for both physical and mental 
health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/1359786810382149
PMCID: PMC2951588
PMID: 20923916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. J Psychopharmacol. 2010 Nov;24(4 Suppl):51-60. doi:
10.1177/1359786810385489.

Cancer and schizophrenia: is there a paradox?

Hodgson R(1), Wildgust HJ, Bushe CJ.

Author information:
(1)Lyme Brook Centre, Stoke on Trent, UK. richarde.hodgson@northstaffs.nhs.uk

People with schizophrenia are more likely to die prematurely than the general 
population from both suicide and physical ill health. Published studies 
examining the incidence of cancer in schizophrenia patients report increased, 
reduced or similar incidence compared with the general population. Older studies 
tended to report lower incidence rates which fuelled speculation as to the 
biological and other mechanisms for this protective effect. Furthermore, 
mortality rates in patients with schizophrenia appear higher than expected. We 
undertook a non-systematic review of published data to give an overview for 
these variable findings and illustrate methodological confounders by 
highlighting a systematic review of breast cancer studies.

DOI: 10.1177/1359786810385489
PMCID: PMC2951592
PMID: 20923920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Med Decis Making. 2011 May-Jun;31(3):458-68. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10381280.
Epub  2010 Oct 5.

Estimation of a preference-based carer experience scale.

Al-Janabi H(1), Flynn TN(2), Coast J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom 
(HA-J, JC)
(2)Centre for the Study of Choice (CenSoC), University of Technology Sydney, 
Sydney, Australia (TNF)

BACKGROUND: There is growing interest in incorporating the effects of 
interventions on unpaid carers in economic evaluation. Current methods focus on 
using health measures (which neglect important aspects of care-related quality 
of life) or using carer-specific sum score measures (which are not preference 
based).
OBJECTIVE: To estimate preference-based index values for a profile measure of 
the caring experience (the Carer Experience Scale).
METHODS: Eighteen profiles from the Carer Experience Scale were included in a 
best-worst scaling experiment. In each profile, respondents were asked to pick 
the best and worst attribute level from the profiles. The choice task was 
completed in a postal questionnaire by 162 unpaid carers of older people from 5 
geographical locations in the United Kingdom. Logistic regression was used to 
estimate utility weights for the attribute levels of the Carer Experience Scale. 
Alternative modeling assumptions were employed to determine the stability of the 
parameter estimates. These parameter estimates were rescaled so that the profile 
index values for the Carer Experience Scale lay on a 0-to-100 scale.
RESULTS: The results indicate that low levels of "activities" and "getting on" 
result in larger decrements to utility than other attributes of the caring 
experience. In general, greater value is placed on differences between the 
bottom and middle levels of attributes than between the middle and top levels. 
Alternative modeling approaches had a negligible effect on the index values.
CONCLUSION: The index values reported in this study offer a new preference-based 
approach to incorporating the effects on carers in economic evaluation, focusing 
on care (rather than health)-related quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10381280
PMID: 20924044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2010 Oct;51(5):693-9.

Marfan Syndrome: when to operate TAA(A)s?

Greiner A(1), Grommes J, Lancer S, Autschbach R, Jacobs MJ.

Author information:
(1)European Vascular Center Aachen-Maastricht, University Hospitals Aachen, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands. agreiner@ukaachen.de

Marfan Syndrome is a heritable disorder of connective tissue leading to aortic 
aneurysms and other cardiovascular complications associated with reduced life 
expectancy. Marfan patients with thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAAs) or with 
thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAAs) should be treated by means of open 
surgery, requiring an extensive protocol, including extracorporeal circulation, 
neuromonitoring and adjunctive modalities to provide organ protection. Then, 
open surgical repair of TAA(A)s are associated with excellent results. However, 
in the last time a gradual change to endovascular treatment in Marfan patients 
is observable. Particularly in patients with an increased surgical risk due to 
redo sternotomy or thoracotomy, endovascular treatment might be an alternative 
due to its less invasive approach. Consequently, thoracic endovascular aortic 
repair comprises a therapeutic alternative in individual situations even in 
Marfan patients, when the landing zones are safe and appropriate. In cases of 
failed endovascular therapy, however, conversion to open surgery remains still 
an option with acceptable results, although the distal and proximal clamping 
positions change inappropriate with larger extensions due to the aortic stent.

PMID: 20924330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Curr Heart Fail Rep. 2010 Dec;7(4):156-8. doi: 10.1007/s11897-010-0029-1.

Benefit of heart rate reduction in heart failure.

Hasenfuss G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology and Pneumology, University Medical Center, Heart 
Research Center Göttingen, Robert-Koch-Strasse 40, 37075, Göttingen, Germany. 
hasenfus@med.uni-goettingen.de

DOI: 10.1007/s11897-010-0029-1
PMCID: PMC2970815
PMID: 20924801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Horm Metab Res. 2010 Nov;42(12):837-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1265225. Epub
2010  Oct 5.

Differential effects of resveratrol and SRT1720 on lifespan of adult 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Zarse K(1), Schmeisser S, Birringer M, Falk E, Schmoll D, Ristow M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Institute of Nutrition, University of Jena, 
Jena, Germany.

Resveratrol and SRT1720 have been shown to act as sirtuin activators that may 
ameliorate type 2 diabetes and metabolic diseases in mice. Moreover, resveratrol 
extends lifespan in model organisms like C. elegans, N. FURZERI, and possibly D. 
melanogaster. The aim of the study was to test whether pharmacological 
concentrations of resveratrol and SRT1720 are capable of extending lifespan in a 
nematodal model organism for aging processes, the roundworm Caenorhabditis 
elegans. Several hundreds of adult C. ELEGANS roundworms were maintained on agar 
plates and fed E. COLI strain OP50 bacteria. Resveratrol (5 micromolar, 500 
nanomolar) or SRT1720 (1 micromolar, 100 nanomolar) was applied to the agar to 
test whether they may promote longevity by quantifying survival in the presence 
and absence of the respective compounds. At a dose of 5 micromolar, which is 
pharmacologically relevant and 20 times lower than previously published 
concentrations, resveratrol significantly extends C. elegans lifespan by 3.6% 
(mean lifespan) and 3.4% (maximum lifespan). By unexpected contrast, SRT1720, 
which was previously proposed to be several hundred times more active than 
resveratrol, did not extend lifespan at none of the concentrations tested. Thus, 
in the model organisms C. elegans, resveratrol is capable of promoting longevity 
at a concentration that pharmacologically relevant and 20 times lower than 
previously published doses. The sirtuin activator SRT1720 did not extend 
lifespan, suggesting that in C. elegans, some relevant effects of resveratrol 
cannot be mimicked by SRT1720.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1265225
PMID: 20925017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2010 Dec;143(4):499-500. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21405.

The 1918 influenza pandemic affected sex differentials in mortality: Comment on 
Sawchuk.

Noymer A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-5100, 
USA. noymer@uci.edu

Comment on
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Aug;139(4):584-90.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21405
PMID: 20925077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2010 Mar;74(1):36-9. doi: 10.4081/monaldi.2010.278.

An uncommon clinical condition: chronic thrombosis of the inferior vena cava. A 
case report and review of literature.

Donati F(1), Misuraca L, Grigoratos C, Violo C, Vannucci S, Balbarini A.

Author information:
(1)Scuola di Specializzazione in Malattie dell'Apparato Cardiovascolare, 
Cardiothoracic and Vascular Department, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. 
francedonati@hotmail.com

The lifetime incidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is approximately 0.1% in 
general population and even more uncommon in subjects below 40 years of age. 
Thrombosis of the inferior vena cava (IVC) is an exceptionally rare clinical 
condition, with etiological factors similar to lower limb DVT. We present a case 
of post-traumatic chronic obstruction of the IVC in 41 years-old man, caused by 
a prolonged squatted position, while he was working as a bricklayer. We visited 
the patient fifteen years after the onset of the first clinical setting showing 
a severe post thrombotic syndrome, as a consequence of the already 
diagnosticated thrombosis, involving predominantly the right inferior leg. 
Thrombophilia screening tests showed patient to be a heterozygous carrier of 
methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene mutation. Computed tomography 
(CT) scan confirmed the thrombotic obstruction of the infrahepatic IVC, both 
common iliac veins, right external and internal iliac veins, with multiple 
collateral pathways. Because of thrombosis extension, inherited prothrombotic 
condition and the young age of the patient, we decided to continue life-long 
oral anticoagulant therapy.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2010.278
PMID: 20925177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Environ Health. 2010 Oct 6;9:58. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-9-58.

Estimation of incidence and social cost of colon cancer due to nitrate in 
drinking water in the EU: a tentative cost-benefit assessment.

van Grinsven HJ(1), Rabl A, de Kok TM.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Water, Agriculture and Food, Netherlands Environmental Assessment 
Agency, The Netherlands. hans.vangrinsven@pbl.nl

BACKGROUND: Presently, health costs associated with nitrate in drinking water 
are uncertain and not quantified. This limits proper evaluation of current 
policies and measures for solving or preventing nitrate pollution of drinking 
water resources. The cost for society associated with nitrate is also relevant 
for integrated assessment of EU nitrogen policies taking a perspective of 
welfare optimization. The overarching question is at which nitrogen mitigation 
level the social cost of measures, including their consequence for availability 
of food and energy, matches the social benefit of these measures for human 
health and biodiversity.
METHODS: Epidemiological studies suggest colon cancer to be possibly associated 
with nitrate in drinking water. In this study risk increase for colon cancer is 
based on a case-control study for Iowa, which is extrapolated to assess the 
social cost for 11 EU member states by using data on cancer incidence, nitrogen 
leaching and drinking water supply in the EU. Health costs are provisionally 
compared with nitrate mitigation costs and social benefits of fertilizer use.
RESULTS: For above median meat consumption the risk of colon cancer doubles when 
exposed to drinking water exceeding 25 mg/L of nitrate (NO3) for more than ten 
years. We estimate the associated increase of incidence of colon cancer from 
nitrate contamination of groundwater based drinking water in EU11 at 3%. This 
corresponds to a population-averaged health loss of 2.9 euro per capita or 0.7 
euro per kg of nitrate-N leaching from fertilizer.
CONCLUSIONS: Our cost estimates indicate that current measures to prevent 
exceedance of 50 mg/L NO3 are probably beneficial for society and that a 
stricter nitrate limit and additional measures may be justified. The present 
assessment of social cost is uncertain because it considers only one type of 
cancer, it is based on one epidemiological study in Iowa, and involves various 
assumptions regarding exposure. Our results highlight the need for improved 
epidemiological studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-9-58
PMCID: PMC2973935
PMID: 20925911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Ann Vasc Surg. 2011 Feb;25(2):169-76. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2010.07.016. Epub
2010  Oct 6.

Peripheral arterial disease in octogenarians and nonagenarians: factors 
predicting survival.

Koskela VK(1), Salenius J, Suominen V.

Author information:
(1)Tampere University, Faculty of Medicine Tampere, Finland.

BACKGROUND: To describe the prevalence and character of complications associated 
with revascularization procedures as a result of peripheral arterial disease in 
octogenarians and nonagenarians and to assess their overall survival depending 
on baseline characteristics, type of treatment modality, and possible 
procedure-related complications. A retrospective clinical study was carried out.
METHODS: A total of 383 patients aged >80 years, referred with suspected 
peripheral arterial disease, were categorized into octogenarians and 
nonagenarians. Data regarding cardiovascular risk factors, comorbidities, type 
of treatment, and possible procedure-related complications were collected from 
patients' files. The cohort was followed up for total mortality until December 
31, 2007, by means of record linkage with the National Causes of Death Register.
RESULTS: A total of 57 (14.9%) patients were treated surgically, whereas 71 
(18.5%) underwent an endovascular procedure. Conservative treatment was chosen 
significantly more often for nonagenarians (p = 0.032). Postoperative 
complications (nonfatal, 13.2%; fatal, 3.1%) were equally distributed between 
the age groups and genders (p = 0.840 and p = 0.820, respectively) but were 
significantly more common after surgical procedures (p < 0.001 for both fatal 
and nonfatal complications). As expected, the overall survival was significantly 
poorer among nonagenarians as compared with octogenarians (33 vs. 45 months, 
respectively; p < 0.001). Older age, critical limb ischemia (CLI), and males 
were independently associated with mortality (odds ratio [OR]: 1.89, 95% 
confidence levels [CI]: 1.18-3.04; OR: 3.72, 95% CI: 2.34-5.91; and OR: 1.77, 
95% CI: 1.10-2.80, respectively). The survival for nonagenarian men with CLI was 
24 months and for women 28, regardless of the treatment modality.
CONCLUSIONS: Octo- and nonagenarians seem to tolerate arterial reconstruction 
relatively well. Endovascular interventions should be favored over surgical 
procedures as they are associated with fewer complications. At the same time, 
the life expectancy of nonagenarians with CLI is limited to approximately 2 
years, irrespective of the method of treatment. Further studies should be 
conducted to clarify the actual effect of vascular reconstructions among the 
elderly population with regard to benefits of both costs and quality of life.

Copyright © 2011 Annals of Vascular Surgery Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2010.07.016
PMID: 20926240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Eur J Phys Rehabil Med. 2010 Sep;46(3):325-36. Epub 2010 Jul 16.

Does short-wave diathermy increase the effectiveness of isokinetic exercise on 
pain, function, knee muscle strength, quality of life, and depression in the 
patients with knee osteoarthritis? A randomized controlled clinical study.

Akyol Y(1), Durmus D, Alayli G, Tander B, Bek Y, Canturk F, Tastan Sakarya S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical Faculty, Ondokuz 
Mayis University, Samsun, Turkey. yesimakyol@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful condition causing disability 
and muscle weakness. Shortwave diathermy (SWD) is one of several physical 
therapy modalities and used predominantly as a pain reduction modality in the 
clinical practice. However, the efficacy of SWD in knee OA is still 
inconclusive.
AIM: The aim of this study was to determine if SWD increase the effectiveness of 
isokinetic exercise on pain, function, muscle strength, quality of life and 
depression in patients with OA.
DESIGN: This was a randomised, controlled clinical trial.
SETTING: Inpatient Physiotherapy Department.
POPULATION: Forty women aged between 42 and 74 years, with a diagnosis of 
bilateral primary knee OA.
METHODS: Patients were sequentially randomized into two groups. Group 1 (N.=20) 
received SWD and isokinetic muscular strengthening exercises. Group 2 (N.=20) 
served as control group and they received isokinetic exercises only. Both of the 
programs were performed three days a week, for a duration of four weeks, and a 
total of 12 sessions. Patients were assessed before treatment (BT), after 
treatment (AT), and at a three-month follow-up (F). Outcome measures included 
visual analogue scale, Western Ontario and McMaster University Osteoarthritis 
Index, six minute walking distance, isokinetic muscle testing, Short Form 36 and 
Beck depression index.
RESULTS: The patients with OA in each group had significant improvements in 
pain, disability, depression, walking distance, muscle strength, and quality of 
life AT and F when compared with their initial status (P<0.05). There was no 
statistically significant difference between the groups according to all the 
parameters regarding the change scores between AT-BT test and F-BT test (P>0.05) 
except some isokinetic peak torque measurements (F-BT scores of extension right 
60°, 120° and flexion right 60°).
CONCLUSION: Use of SWD in addition to isokinetic exercise program seems to have 
no further significant effect in terms of pain, disability, walking distance, 
muscle strength, quality of life and depression in patients with knee OA.
CLINICAL REHABILITATION IMPACT: Considering the time and cost of combination 
therapy is now, the isokinetic exercise program, as it is efficient, may be 
preferable for the treatment of knee OA, alone.

PMID: 20926998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Popul Trends. 2010 Autumn;(141):51-73. doi: 10.1057/pt.2010.21.

The demographic characteristics and economic activity patterns of carers over 
50: evidence from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing.

Vlachantoni A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southampton, UK.

Studies on informal care provision have often focused on the provision of care 
for persons with a long term physical or mental ill-health or disability, or 
problems related to old age. However, the provision of care and support more 
broadly, for example in the form of childcare for grandchildren, can also impact 
on various aspects of a carer's life, such as their employment (if under the 
state retirement age), lifetime earnings and, by extension, pension income in 
later life. This article uses data from Wave 3 of the English Longitudinal Study 
of Ageing (ELSA) to explore the demographic characteristics, caring patterns, 
health status and economic activity patterns of carers aged over 50 in England. 
The results suggest that the nature of care provision differs across age groups, 
and that caring can be quite a different experience for older men and women. 
This article also sheds light on the characteristics of 'round-the-clock' 
carers, a relatively under-researched group which makes up just over one fifth 
of all carers aged 50 and over.

DOI: 10.1057/pt.2010.21
PMID: 20927029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 27;123(1321):9-12.

Adult cochlear implants in New Zealand--a chronic funding issue.

Gunn RG.

Comment on
    N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 27;123(1321):34-44.

PMID: 20927152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 27;123(1321):13-23.

Societal costs of obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome.

Gander P(1), Scott G, Mihaere K, Scott H.

Author information:
(1)Sleep/Wake Research Centre, Research School of Public Health, Massey 
University, Private Box 756 Wellington, New Zealand. swrc@massey.ac.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 27;123(1321):6-8.

AIM: To estimate the societal costs of obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) 
in New Zealand and develop a simulation tool to evaluate treatment options.
METHOD: Treatment profiles, availability, uptake, and costs were based on 
services in the Wellington Region, and were used to develop a decision analytic 
model with micro costing of each potential outcome. Sensitivity analyses were 
conducted with 10,000 Monte Carlo simulations randomly varying each model 
parameter between high and low estimates.
RESULTS: Total annual societal costs of OSAS for New Zealanders aged 30-60 years 
were estimated at $40 million (range $33-$90 million) or $419 per case, with 
accidents being the major contributor. This included 58% direct medical, 13% 
direct non-medical, 25% indirect, and 3% intangible costs. The estimated 
incremental net cost of treating OSAS was $389 per case treated (range 
$338-$427). The estimated incremental net direct medical cost per quality of 
life year (QALY) gained was $94 (range $56-$310).
CONCLUSION: The estimated incremental direct medical cost per QALY gained by 
OSAS treatment is well below the average QALY cost ($6865) for drugs selected by 
PHARMAC to receive government subsidy for use in the healthcare system. Thus, 
the analysis strongly supports the cost effectiveness of OSAS treatment.

PMID: 20927153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Saudi J Anaesth. 2010 May;4(2):105-7. doi: 10.4103/1658-354X.65121.

Difficult intubation management in a child with I-cell disease.

M Mahfouz AK(1), George G, Al-Bahlani SS, Al Nabhani MZ.

Author information:
(1)Al Nahdha Hospital, Muscat, Sultanate of Oman.

I-cell disease (mucolipidosis II) is a rare metabolic disorder resulting from 
the deficiency of a specific lysosomal enzyme, 
N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferease. Developmental delay and growth 
failure are common presentations of I-cell disease. Psychomotor deterioration is 
rapid and progressive. Some physical signs such as hip dislocations, inguinal 
hernia, hepatomegaly, joint limitation, and skin changes may be present at 
birth. Coarse facial features and skeletal abnormalities become more conspicuous 
with time. The life expectancy of children with this condition is poor, with 
death usually occurring around the fifth year. A case report of the anesthetic 
management of gingivectomy with multiple dental extractions in a 5-year-old 
Omani female with I-cell disease is presented. The problems faced and their 
management during anesthesia are described.

DOI: 10.4103/1658-354X.65121
PMCID: PMC2945506
PMID: 20927271

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


169. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Oct 6;(10):CD004448. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004448.pub3.

Phytomedicines (medicines derived from plants) for sickle cell disease.

Oniyangi O(1), Cohall DH.

Author information:
(1)Paediatrics Department, National Hospital, Plot 132 Central District (Phase 
II), PMB 425 Garki, Abuja, Nigeria.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;1:CD004448.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2004;(3):CD004448.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease (SCD), a common recessively inherited 
haemoglobin disorder, affects people from sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, 
Mediterranean basin, Indian subcontinent, Caribbeans and South America. It is 
associated with complications and a reduced life expectancy. Phytomedicines 
(medicine derived from plants in their original state) encompass many of the 
plant remedies from traditional healers which the populations most affected 
would encounter. There has been little systematic appraisal of their benefits.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and risks of phytomedicines in people with 
SCD of all types, of any age, in any setting.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register and the ISRCTN Register for all 
publication years; AMED was searched by the previous authors for an earlier 
version of this review for the period 1985 to August 2003.Dates of most recent 
searches:Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 07 July 2010;ISRCTN: 28 December 
2009;AMED: August 2003.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised or quasi-randomised trials with participants of 
all ages with SCD, in all settings, comparing the administration of 
phytomedicines, by any mode to placebo or conventional treatment, including 
blood transfusion and hydroxyurea.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Both authors independently assessed trial quality 
and extracted data.
MAIN RESULTS: Two trials (182 participants) and two phytomedicines Niprisan(®) 
(also known as Nicosan(®)) and Ciklavit(®)) were included. The Phase IIB 
(pivotal) trial suggests that Niprisan(®) was effective in reducing episodes of 
severe painful SCD crisis over a six-month period. It did not affect the risk of 
severe complications or the level of anaemia. No serious adverse effects were 
reported. The single trial of Cajanus cajan (Ciklavit(®)) reported a possible 
benefit to individuals with painful crises, and a possible adverse effect 
(non-significant) on the level of anaemia.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: While Niprisan(®) appeared to be safe and effective in 
reducing severe painful crises over a six-month follow-up period, further trials 
are required to assess its role in the management of people with SCD and the 
results of its multicentre trials are awaited. Currently no conclusions can be 
made regarding the efficacy of Ciklavit(®). Based on the published results for 
Niprisan(®) and in view of the limitations in data collection and analysis of 
both trials, phytomedicines may have a potential beneficial effect in reducing 
painful crises in SCD. This needs to be further validated in future trials. More 
trials are required on the safety and efficacy of phytomedicines in managing 
SCD.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004448.pub3
PMID: 20927735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Oct 6;2010(10):CD007717. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007717.pub2.

Telehealthcare for asthma.

McLean S(1), Chandler D, Nurmatov U, Liu J, Pagliari C, Car J, Sheikh A.

Author information:
(1)Allergy & Respiratory Research Group, Centre for Population Health Sciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Doorway 1, Teviot Place, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK, EH8 
9AG.

Comment in
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2011 Mar;136(12):570.

BACKGROUND: Healthcare systems internationally need to consider new models of 
care to cater for the increasing numbers of people with asthma. Telehealthcare 
interventions are increasingly being seen by policymakers as a potential means 
of delivering asthma care. We defined telehealthcare as being healthcare 
delivered from a distance, facilitated electronically and involving the exchange 
of information through the personalised interaction between a healthcare 
professional using their skills and judgement and the patient providing 
information.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of telehealthcare interventions in 
people with asthma.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched in the following databases: Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, AMED, and 
PsycINFO; this was supplemented by handsearching of respiratory journals. We 
also searched registers of ongoing and unpublished trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We selected completed randomised controlled trials of 
telehealthcare initiatives aiming to improve asthma care.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently appraised studies 
for inclusion and extracted data and performed meta-analyses. We analysed 
dichotomous variables to produce an odds ratio (OR) and continuous variables to 
produce a mean difference.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 21 trials in this review. The 21 included studies 
investigated a range of technologies aiming to support the provision of care 
from a distance. These included: telephone (n = 9); video-conferencing (n = 2); 
Internet (n = 2); other networked communications (n = 6); text Short Messaging 
Service (n = 1); or a combination of text and Internet (n = 1). Meta-analysis 
showed that these interventions did not result in clinically important 
improvements in asthma quality of life (minimum clinically important difference 
= 0.5): mean difference in Juniper's Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) 
0.08 (95% CI 0.01 to 0.16). Telehealthcare for asthma resulted in a 
non-significant increase in the odds of emergency department visits over a 
12-month period: OR 1.16 (95% CI 0.52 to 2.58). There was, however, a 
significant reduction in hospitalisations over a 12-month period: OR 0.21 (95% 
CI 0.07 to 0.61), the effect being most marked in people with more severe asthma 
managed predominantly in secondary care settings.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Telehealthcare interventions are unlikely to result in 
clinically relevant improvements in health outcomes in those with relatively 
mild asthma, but they may have a role in those with more severe disease who are 
at high risk of hospital admission. Further trials evaluating the effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of a range of telehealthcare interventions are needed.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007717.pub2
PMCID: PMC8936049
PMID: 20927763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All of the authors are working on other projects 
in telehealth and e‐health funded by the NHS Connecting for Health Evaluation 
Programme 001 Extension and JL is in addition working on a Medicaid funded 
project. SM is funded by the Chief Scientist's Office. AS worked with Pinnock et 
al and is a co‐author on the 2003, 2005 and 2007 papers included in this review. 
This report is independent research supported by the National Institute of 
Health Research. The views expressed in this publication are those of the 
author(s) and not necessarily those of the NHS, the National Institute of Health 
Research or the Department of Health.


171. J Endourol. 2010 Dec;24(12):1947-52. doi: 10.1089/end.2010.0116. Epub 2010
Oct  7.

Right-sided transperitoneal hand-assisted laparoscopic donor nephrectomy: is 
there an issue with the renal vessels?

Hoda MR(1), Greco F, Reichelt O, Heynemann H, Fornara P.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Urology and Kidney Transplantation Center, University Medical 
School of Martin-Luther-University Halle/Wittenberg, Halle, Germany. 
rhoda@ucsd.edu

OBJECTIVE: Short right renal vessels might complicate kidney transplantation, 
thus causing traction and difficulties during anastomosis. Single-center 
prospective comparison of right- and left-sided transperitoneal hand-assisted 
laparoscopic donor nephrectomy (HALDN) is presented.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighty-two living kidney donors underwent HALDN between 
2003 and 2008. Right-sided HALDN was performed in 46 living kidney donors. The 
operative technique of right-sided HALDN was modified to obtain the maximum 
length of right renal vessels. Outcome data in donors including quality of life 
as well as graft outcome in recipients were prospectively collected.
RESULTS: All procedures were laparoscopically completed with no conversion. Mean 
operative time was 127 minutes (vs. 138 minutes in left HALDN, p = 0.08). The 
mean warm ischemia time was 41 seconds (vs. 39 seconds in left HALDN, p = 0.23). 
There was no renal artery or vein thrombosis in any of the grafts. Mean blood 
loss was 81 mL (vs. 92 mL in left HALDN, p = 0.09). Hospital discharge was on an 
average of 3.6 days postoperative. Delayed graft function occurred in two 
recipients: one in the left group and the other in the right group. One-year 
graft survival rate was 95% in the left group versus 96.9% in the right group (p 
= 0.08). Further, no statistically significant difference in serum levels of 
creatinine was seen between the groups 1 year after the transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: Right HALDN is technically safe and feasible and results in 
convenient extension of right renal vessels to full length with no increased 
incidence of vascular thrombosis.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2010.0116
PMID: 20929411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2010 Oct;58(10):2016-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2010.03070.x. Epub 2010 Oct 1.

Screening in frail older people: an ounce of prevention or a pound of trouble?

Clarfield AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics Soroka Hospital, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beer-Sheva, Israel. markclar@bgu.ac.il

Screening for subclinical disease has provided benefit to many asymptomatic 
patients, especially those who are relatively young and otherwise healthy. 
However, frail older people do not always profit from such maneuvers, for 
several reasons. First, older individuals usually have less physiological 
reserve and greater comorbidity and resultant polypharmacy than their younger 
counterparts. As such, they may tolerate the invasive interventions called for 
after a positive screening test less easily. In addition, shorter natural life 
expectancy shifts the focus to quality of life improvement after screening tests 
rather than simply offering a promise of "more years." Lack of education and 
cognitive decline may also interfere with the older person's ability to give 
truly informed consent to these maneuvers. Thus, on the whole, in this rapidly 
growing subpopulation, screening programs may tilt the balance toward the 
likelihood of causing more harm than good. For many frail older patients, an 
individualized approach to screening is recommended, adjusted to comorbidity, 
life expectancy, and patient preference. One size does not fit all.

© 2010, Copyright the Authors. Journal compilation © 2010, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2010.03070.x
PMID: 20929471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. HIV Med. 2010 Sep;11 Suppl 2:1-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2010.00859.x.

HIV and the body: a review of multidisciplinary management.

Rockstroh J(1), Guaraldi G, Deray G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

The increase in the life expectancy achieved following the introduction of more 
effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) in recent years now means that the 
HIV-infected population are for the first time being exposed to the age-related 
diseases that affect the general population. Nevertheless, the prevalence of 
these diseases (which include cardiovascular disease, dyslipidaemia, glucose 
intolerance and diabetes) is higher, and their onset earlier in the HIV 
population, probably due to the complex interplay between HIV infection, 
coinfection with hepatitis B and C, and ART. As a result, HIV physicians are now 
required to adopt a new approach to the management of HIV, which involves 
screening and regular monitoring of all HIV-infected individuals for the 
presence of comorbidities and prompt referral to other clinical specialties when 
required. If this challenge to patient management is to be overcome, it is clear 
that educating physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of age-associated 
comorbidities is essential, either through ongoing programmes such as the HIV 
and the Body initiative, an overarching independent medical education programme 
established in 2007 and overseen by an independent Steering Committee, organized 
and funded by Gilead, and/or through internal training. To assist in this 
process, this article provides an overview of common comorbidities affecting 
HIV-infected persons and provides practical guidance on their management.

© 2010 The Authors. HIV Medicine © 2010 British HIV Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2010.00859.x
PMID: 20929492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Allergy Asthma Proc. 2010 Sep-Oct;31(5):375-80. doi:
10.2500/aap.2010.31.3329.

Allergic rhinitis: Direct and indirect costs.

Blaiss MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Medicine, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, Memphis, 38120, USA. mblaiss@allergymemphis.com

Allergic rhinitis is one of the most common conditions affecting both children 
and adults. Along with the burden of the disease and decrease in quality of life 
associated with allergic rhinitis, there are high costs related to the disorder. 
Costs due to allergic rhinitis can be divided into two categories: direct costs 
that are related to monies spent on the course of managing the disease and 
indirect costs that are due to missing work and decreased productivity due to 
the illness. There are also the costs associated with the comorbidities of 
allergic rhinitis, such as sinusitis and asthma, which are classified as 
"hidden" direct costs. Management of allergic rhinitis involves allergen 
avoidance, proper pharmacologic therapies, and allergen immunotherapy. These 
treatments add to the direct cost of the condition and need to be evaluated to 
determine their cost-effectiveness in the control of the patient's nasal 
allergies. This article reviews the latest data on cost issues in allergic 
rhinitis and information of cost-effectiveness of treatments for this condition.

DOI: 10.2500/aap.2010.31.3329
PMID: 20929603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Eur J Public Health. 2011 Jun;21(3):316-22. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq142. Epub
 2010 Oct 6.

Direct health costs of environmental tobacco smoke exposure and indirect health 
benefits due to smoking ban introduction.

Hauri DD(1), Lieb CM, Rajkumar S, Kooijman C, Sommer HL, Röösli M.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Introducing comprehensive smoke-free policies to public places is 
expected to reduce health costs. This includes prevented health damages by 
avoiding environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) exposure as well as indirect health 
benefits from reduced tobacco consumption.
METHODS: The aim of this study was to estimate direct health costs of ETS 
exposure in public places and indirect health benefits from reduced tobacco 
consumption. We calculated attributable hospital days and years of life lost 
(YLL), based on the observed passive smoking and disease rates in Switzerland. 
The exposure-response associations of all relevant health outcomes were derived 
by meta-analysis from prospective cohort studies in order to calculate the 
direct health costs. To assess the indirect health benefits, a meta-analysis of 
smoking ban studies on hospital admissions for acute myocardial infarction was 
conducted.
RESULTS: ETS exposure in public places in Switzerland causes 32,000 preventable 
hospital days (95% CI: 10,000-61,000), 3000 YLL (95% CI: 1000-5000), 
corresponding to health costs of 330 Mio CHF. The number of hospital days for 
ischaemic heart disease attributable to passive smoking is much larger if 
derived from smoking ban studies (41,000) than from prospective cohort studies 
(3200), resulting in additional health costs of 89 Mio CHF, which are attributed 
to the indirect health benefits of a smoking ban introduction.
CONCLUSION: The example of smoking ban studies on ischaemic heart disease 
hospitalization rates suggests that total health costs that can be prevented 
with smoking bans are considerably larger than the costs arising from the direct 
health impact of ETS exposure in public places.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq142
PMID: 20929904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Ann Oncol. 2011 Apr;22(4):821-826. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdq448. Epub 2010 Oct
7.

Chemotherapy in elderly small-cell lung cancer patients: yes we can, but should 
we do it?

Janssen-Heijnen MLG(1), Maas HAAM(2), van de Schans SAM(3), Coebergh JWW(4), 
Groen HJM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research, Eindhoven Cancer Registry, Comprehensive Cancer 
Centre South, Eindhoven; Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical 
School, Rotterdam. Electronic address: research@ikz.nl.
(2)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Tweesteden Hospital, Tilburg.
