(1)sih15@aol.com

PMID: 20689147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nephron Clin Pract. 2011;117(1):c28-32. doi: 10.1159/000319644. Epub 2010
Aug 3.

Factors associated with recovery of renal function in patients with multiple 
myeloma who were treated with hemodialysis.

Katagiri D(1), Hagiwara S, Minami E, Katsuma A, Masumoto S, Hoshino T, Inoue T, 
Shibata M, Tada M, Nakamura T, Shimbo T, Hinoshita F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, National Center for Global Health and Medicine, 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The presence of renal failure in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) 
has been considered an ominous prognostic factor associated with a significantly 
decreased life expectancy. The prognostic factors have seldom been analyzed to 
predict discontinuation of hemodialysis (HD) therapy in MM patients with renal 
failure after HD initiation. It is clinically very important to predict whether 
HD can be discontinued after introducing HD in such patients.
METHODS: All medical and HD records were reviewed in MM patients who underwent 
HD in the National Center for Global Health and Medicine Hospital between 
January 1995 and May 2009. Thirty-two patients with MM had undergone HD. The 
clinical features and the factors that might be associated with recovery of 
renal function leading to discontinuation of HD in MM patients with severe renal 
failure were examined.
RESULTS: The factors associated with recovery of renal function and 
discontinuation of HD were: low International Staging System (ISS) score (p = 
0.0034); high response to chemotherapy (p = 0.036); low serum Ca (p = 0.006); 
low Cr (p = 0.019), and low serum β₂-microglobulin (sβ₂M) (p = 0.002). On 
multivariate analysis, low serum Ca and sβ₂M were significantly associated with 
HD discontinuation. Moreover, discontinuing HD was the significant factor 
associated with improved overall survival in MM patients who required HD at 
least once.
CONCLUSION: sβ₂M and Ca were the laboratory parameters that were significant, 
independent prognostic factors for predicting the probability of recovery from 
severe renal failure and discontinuation of HD in MM patients who needed HD at 
least once.

Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000319644
PMID: 20689322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Prev Med Public Health. 2010 Jul;43(4):352-61. doi: 
10.3961/jpmph.2010.43.4.352.

[Socioeconomic costs of food-borne disease using the cost-of-illness model: 
applying the QALY method].

[Article in Korean]

Shin H(1), Lee S, Kim JS, Kim J, Han KH.

Author information:
(1)Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs, Korea. shin_hs@kihasa.re.kr

OBJECTIVES: This study estimated the annual socioeconomic costs of food-borne 
disease in 2008 from a societal perspective and using a cost-of-illness method.
METHODS: Our model employed a comprehensive set of diagnostic disease codes to 
define food-borne diseases with using the Korea National Health Insurance (KNHI) 
reimbursement data. This study classified the food borne illness as three types 
of symptoms according to the severity of the illness: mild, moderate, severe. In 
addition to the traditional method of assessing the cost-of-illness, the study 
included measures to account for the lost quality of life. We estimated the cost 
of the lost quality of life using quality-adjusted life years and a visual 
analog scale. The direct cost included medical and medication costs, and the 
non-medical costs included transportation costs, caregiver's cost and 
administration costs. The lost productivity costs included lost workdays due to 
illness and lost earnings due to premature death.
RESULTS: The study found the estimated annual socioeconomic costs of food-borne 
disease in 2008 were 954.9 billion won (735.3 billion won-996.9 billion won). 
The medical cost was 73.4 - 76.8% of the cost, the lost productivity cost was 
22.6% and the cost of the lost quality of life was 26.0%.
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the cost-of-illness studies are known to have 
underestimated the actual socioeconomic costs of the subjects, and these studies 
excluded many important social costs, such as the value of pain, suffering and 
functional disability. The study addressed the uncertainty related to estimating 
the socioeconomic costs of food-borne disease as well as the updated cost 
estimates. Our estimates could contribute to develop and evaluate policies for 
food-borne disease.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.2010.43.4.352
PMID: 20689361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. PLoS One. 2010 Jul 30;5(7):e11895. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011895.

Differences in efficacy and safety of pharmaceutical treatments between men and 
women: an umbrella review.

Gartlehner G(1), Chapman A, Strobelberger M, Thaler K.

Author information:
(1)Department for Evidence-Based Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Danube 
University Krems, Krems, Austria. gerald.gartlehner@donau-uni.ac.at

Being male or female is an important determinant of risks for certain diseases, 
patterns of illness and life expectancy. Although differences in risks for and 
prognoses of several diseases have been well documented, sex-based differences 
in responses to pharmaceutical treatments and accompanying risks of adverse 
events are less clear. The objective of this umbrella review was to determine 
whether clinically relevant differences in efficacy and safety of commonly 
prescribed medications exist between men and women. We retrieved all available 
systematic reviews of the Oregon Drug Effectiveness Review Project published 
before January 2010. Two persons independently reviewed each report to identify 
relevant studies. We dually abstracted data from the original publications into 
standardized forms. We synthesized the available evidence for each drug class 
and rated its quality applying the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, 
Development and Evaluation) approach. Findings, based on 59 studies and data of 
more than 250,000 patients suggested that for the majority of drugs no 
substantial differences in efficacy and safety exist between men and women. Some 
clinically important exceptions, however, were apparent: women experienced 
substantially lower response rates with newer antiemetics than men (45% vs. 58%; 
relative risk 1.49, 95% confidence interval 1.35-1.64); men had higher rates of 
sexual dysfunction than women while on paroxetine for major depressive disorder; 
women discontinued lovastatin more frequently than men because of adverse 
events. Overall, for the majority of drugs sex does not appear to be a factor 
that has to be taken into consideration when choosing a drug treatment. The 
available body of evidence, however, was limited in quality and quantity, 
confining the range and certainty of our conclusions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011895
PMCID: PMC2912767
PMID: 20689584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


776. PLoS One. 2010 Aug 3;5(8):e11958. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011958.

Gender separation increases somatic growth in females but does not affect 
lifespan in Nothobranchius furzeri.

Graf M(1), Cellerino A, Englert C.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Genetics, Leibniz Institute for Age Research, Fritz Lipmann 
Institute, Jena, Germany.

According to life history theory, physiological and ecological traits and 
parameters influence an individual's life history and thus, ultimately, its 
lifespan. Mating and reproduction are costly activities, and in a variety of 
model organisms, a negative correlation of longevity and reproductive effort has 
been demonstrated. We are employing the annual killifish Nothobranchius furzeri 
as a vertebrate model for ageing. N. furzeri is the vertebrate displaying the 
shortest known lifespan in captivity with particular strains living only three 
to four months under optimal laboratory conditions. The animals show explosive 
growth, early sexual maturation and age-dependent physiological and behavioural 
decline. Here, we have used N. furzeri to investigate a potential 
reproduction-longevity trade-off in both sexes by means of gender separation. 
Though female reproductive effort and offspring investment were significantly 
reduced after separation, as investigated by analysis of clutch size, eggs in 
the ovaries and ovary mass, the energetic surplus was not reallocated towards 
somatic maintenance. In fact, a significant extension of lifespan could not be 
observed in either sex. This is despite the fact that separated females, but not 
males, grew significantly larger and heavier than the respective controls. 
Therefore, it remains elusive whether lifespan of an annual species evolved in 
periodically vanishing habitats can be prolonged on the cost of reproduction at 
all.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011958
PMCID: PMC2914755
PMID: 20689818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


777. J Prim Health Care. 2010 Jun;2(2):105-10.

Causes of excess hospitalizations among Pacific peoples in New Zealand: 
implications for primary care.

Sopoaga F(1), Buckingham K, Paul C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, University of Otago, New 
Zealand. tai.ventura@otago.ac.nz

INTRODUCTION: Pacific people suffer disproportionately poorer health and reduced 
life expectancy at birth compared to the total New Zealand population.
AIM: To assess causes of excess morbidity in the Pacific population, and 
identify lesser known or previously unknown causes which require further 
investigation.
METHODS: We obtained public hospital discharge data from July 2000 to December 
2002. The population data were from the 2001 Census. Standardised discharge 
ratios were calculated to compare Pacific peoples with the total New Zealand 
population.
RESULTS: Pacific peoples were six times more likely to have a diagnosis of 
cardiomyopathy and gout, and four to five times of rheumatic fever, gastric 
ulcer, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and diabetes. Respiratory diseases, 
skin abscesses, heart failure, cataracts, cerebral infarction and chronic renal 
failure were also significant causes of excess morbidity. Unexpected causes of 
excess morbidity included candidiasis, excess vomiting in pregnancy (hyperemesis 
gravidarum) and pterygium.
DISCUSSION: The magnitude of established causes of excess morbidity among 
Pacific peoples were similar to our findings. Other causes of excess morbidity 
are less widely known, or are identified here for the first time. These are 
systemic lupus erythematosus, hyperemesis gravidarum, cardiomyopathy, gastric 
ulcer, candidiasis and pterygium. The findings draw attention to specific causes 
of excess morbidity in Pacific communities where effective interventions are 
available in primary care, and where further research may identify preventive or 
curative interventions.

PMID: 20690299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. J Prim Health Care. 2009 Dec;1(4):258-60.

Developing men's awareness of health issues.

Johnson L.

PMID: 20690333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. J Prim Health Care. 2009 Dec;1(4):270-7.

Getting back the missing men of Aotearoa: declining gender inequality in NZ life 
expectancy.

Sandiford P(1).

Author information:
(1)Funding and Planning, Waitemata District Health Board, PB 93503 Takapuna, New 
Zealand. peter.sandiford@waitematadhb.govt.nz

INTRODUCTION: Men's health is of increasing concern to policy makers worldwide. 
Although women generally live significantly longer than men, the difference in 
life expectancy in many countries is now narrowing.
AIM: To document the trend in sex differences in New Zealand (NZ) life 
expectancy at birth (LEB) over the last decades and to determine disease 
patterns which account for it.
METHODS: Decomposition of sex differences in LEB by age and cause for the 
periods 1980-82, 1985-87, 1990-92,1995-97, 2000-02, and 2005-06, using 
registered deaths and model life tables.
RESULTS: Sex differences in LEB increased from 1951 to peak in 1976 before 
narrowing again. In 2006 they reached almost exactly the level they were at 55 
years earlier. Changes in relative mortality from ischaemic heart disease (IHD) 
and to a lesser extent accidents, respiratory disease and other circulatory 
causes, brought about the recent decline in gender survival disparities. IHD 
continues to be a significant cause of gender inequality, but cancers have now 
become a major component of the sex difference in LEB.
DISCUSSION: NZ's experience mirrors closely that of other developed countries in 
pattern, timingand the age-cause composition of the trend in gender survival 
disparities. Thus differences in the timing of taking up smoking, found to 
explain a substantial portion of the trend elsewhere, were probably also 
important in NZ, but improvements in medical outcomes for smokers also must have 
played a significant role. Primary care practitioners will continue to reduce 
gender survival disparities by workingto ensure a high uptake of services such 
as screening for colorectal cancer, one of many diseases responsible for lower 
male life expectancy.

PMID: 20690335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. J Prim Health Care. 2009 Sep;1(3):232-4.

A polypill is the solution to the pharmacological management of cardiovascular 
risk: yes.

Elley CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice and Primary Health Care, Faculty of Medical 
and Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, PB 92019 Auckland, New Zealand. 
c.elley@auckland.ac.nz

Comment in
    J Prim Health Care. 2009 Sep;1(3):234-6.

PMID: 20690388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Am Heart J. 2010 Aug;160(2):257-63. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2010.05.024.

Economic analysis of a tailored behavioral intervention to improve blood 
pressure control for primary care patients.

Datta SK(1), Oddone EZ, Olsen MK, Orr M, McCant F, Gentry P, Bosworth HB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services Research in Primary Care, Durham Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, Durham, NC 27705, USA. santanu.datta@duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Few telemedicine programs have undergone cost analyses, impeding 
their implementation into practice. We report on the economic analysis of a 
nurse-administered intervention designed to improve blood pressure control among 
hypertensive veterans.
METHODS: We randomized hypertensive patients at the Durham Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center primary care clinic to behavioral (n = 294) or nonbehavioral (n = 
294) interventions. Behavioral intervention patients received tailored 
information bimonthly for 2 years via telephone. To calculate intervention cost, 
we microcosted the nurse's labor cost and computer hardware and software costs, 
applied a direct-to-indirect cost ratio, and distributed the costs over an 
estimated cohort of patients. We analyzed data from the Veterans Affairs 
Decision Support System to assess whether the intervention impacted overall 
health care utilization and costs. We used life expectancy estimates from the 
literature to develop decision models to calculate cost per life-year saved.
RESULTS: The mean annual intervention cost was $112 (range $61-$259). During 2 
years of follow-up, patients in the intervention group incurred $7,800 in 
inpatient costs and $9,741 in outpatient costs; the nonintervention group 
incurred $6,866 in inpatient costs and $9,599 in outpatient costs. The total 
cost difference was not statistically significant (P = .56). Cost-effectiveness 
of the behavioral intervention ranged from $42,457 per life-year saved for 
normal-weight women to $87,300 per life-year saved for normal-weight men.
CONCLUSIONS: The study results suggest that a nurse-administered, tailored 
behavioral intervention can be implemented at nominal cost and be 
cost-effective; however, there was no apparent lowering of health care 
utilization and costs during the 2 years of follow-up.

Published by Mosby, Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2010.05.024
PMID: 20691830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Transplant Proc. 2010 Jul-Aug;42(6):2205-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.05.036.

Calcineurin inhibitors in renal transplantation still needed but in reduced 
doses: a review.

Ponticelli C(1), Scolari MP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Scientific Institute Humanitas, Milano, Italy. 
claudio.ponticelli@fastwebnet.it

Despite their contribution in the success of organ transplantation, calcineurin 
inhibitors (CNIs) may be responsible for frequent and severe side effects that 
can affect graft survival and life expectancy. In this article, we have reviewed 
registry studies and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that seek to avoid, 
withdraw, or minimize CNIs in renal transplant recipients. Attempts to 
completely avoid CNIs by administering mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and/or 
sirolimus (SRL) have resulted in increased risks of rejection and side effects, 
with small advantage to improve renal graft function. Early withdrawal of CNIs 
after transplantation using administration of MMF can improve graft function but 
may be associated with a greater risk of acute or chronic rejection and graft 
failure. RCTs in which CNIs were replaced a few months after transplantation by 
SRL reported improved graft function among SRL-treated patients, but such a 
treatment was complicated by iatrogenic toxicity. Late replacement of CNIs with 
SRL did not produce a particular advantage and again was complicated by more 
frequent side effects. On the basis of these trials, it seems that CNI 
elimination can trigger rejection or side effects. Recent RCTs showed that 
minimization of CNI doses in association with everolimus does not increase the 
risk of rejection, allows one to obtain good graft function, and is well 
tolerated. Such an approach seems therefore preferable to complete elimination 
of CNIs with substitution of the current immunosuppressive drugs.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.05.036
PMID: 20692445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Biol Bull. 1978 Jun;154(3):485-96. doi: 10.2307/1541074.

The life cycle of corymorpha (=euphysora) bigelowi (maas, 1905) and its 
significance in the systematics of corymorphid hydromedusae.

Sassaman C(1), Rees JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305.

1. Five individuals of the corymorphid jellyfish, Euphysora bigelowi Maas, were 
collected in 1973 in Monterey Bay, California, for a range extension of more 
than 8,000 km across the northeastern Pacific Ocean. 2. Larvae released by these 
medusae were cultured and the resulting polyps, the first known from this medusa 
genus, are described. 3. The polyps are a Corymorpha, but share some minor 
characteristics with polyps of the corymorphid genus Euphysa. 4. The polyp and 
medusa are assigned the name Corymorpha bigelowi (Maas); the systematic 
implications of this revision are discussed.

DOI: 10.2307/1541074
PMID: 20693373


784. Cancer J. 2010 Jul-Aug;16(4):289-93. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181eea208.

Recent advances: adjuvant therapy for older women with breast cancer.

Taylor WC(1), Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University 
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.

The U.S. population is now healthier and more long-lived than ever, and the 
average life expectancy for a woman born today is about 80 years. An elderly 
woman's life expectancy, which is related to comorbidity and functional status, 
is particularly important when determining the appropriate choice of adjuvant 
chemotherapy and endocrine therapy. In addition, the disease stage and the 
tumor's biologic characteristics (grade and hormone/human epidermal growth 
factor [HER]-2 receptor status) must be considered when formulating a treatment 
plan for 3 clinically distinctive breast cancer subgroups: (1) hormone receptor 
negative (HR-) and HER-2 negative ("triple-negative" tumors, about 15% of older 
patients); (2) hormone receptor positive (HR+) and HER-2 negative (the largest 
group comprising about 70% of older patients); and (3) HER-2 positive 
irrespective of HR status (about 15% of older patients). The functional status 
of an older woman can be estimated by a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment 
(CGA). A traditional CGA is time consuming, but testing of shorter, validated 
CGA instruments is ongoing. Monitoring toxicity in the elderly is especially 
important because even low-grade toxicity can have a significant effect on 
function. Eligible older women should be considered for state-of-the-art 
treatment, including clinical trials to determine the optimal adjuvant regimens 
for this patient population and how the therapies affect the woman's functioning 
and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181eea208
PMID: 20693837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. PLoS One. 2010 Aug 4;5(8):e11788. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011788.

Methyl sulfone induces loss of metastatic properties and reemergence of normal 
phenotypes in a metastatic cloudman S-91 (M3) murine melanoma cell line.

Caron JM(1), Bannon M, Rosshirt L, Luis J, Monteagudo L, Caron JM, Sternstein 
GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, School of Medicine, University of Connecticut 
Health Center, Farmington, Connecticut, USA. caron@nso1.uchc.edu

BACKGROUND: The most deadly form of cancer is not lung or colon, breast or 
prostate; it is any cancer that has become metastatic. Mortality due to 
metastatic melanoma, one of the most aggressive and deadly cancers, has 
increased steadily over the last several decades. Unfortunately, the arsenal of 
chemotherapeutic agents available today is most often unsuccessful at extending 
and improving the life expectancy of afflicted individuals. We sought to 
identify an effective and nontoxic agent against metastatic melanoma.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We chose to study Cloudman S-91 mouse melanoma 
cells (sub-clone M3, CCL53.1) because these cells are highly aggressive and 
metastatic, representing one of the deadliest types of cancer. Melanoma cells 
also had an experimental advantage because their morphology, which is easily 
monitored, relates to the physiology of metastatic cells and normal melanocytes. 
We chose to test methyl sulfone as a chemotherapeutic agent for two reasons. 
Because of its chemical structure, we speculated a potential anti-cancer 
activity by targeting microtubules. Equally important, methyl sulfone has a 
well-established safety profile in humans. Surprisingly, we found that malignant 
melanoma cells exposed to methyl sulfone demonstrated the loss of phenotypes 
characteristic of malignant cells, and the reemergence of phenotypes 
characteristic of healthy melanocytes. Briefly, over time methyl sulfone induced 
contact inhibition, loss of ability to migrate through an extracellular matrix, 
loss of anchorage-independent growth, proper wound healing followed by contact 
inhibition, irreversible senescence followed by arborization with melanosomes in 
arbors as seen in normal melanocytes.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Methyl sulfone may have clinical potential as a 
non-toxic agent effective against metastatic melanoma. Additionally, methyl 
sulfone has promise as a tool to explore molecular mechanisms of metastatic 
transformation as well as fundamental processes such as cell migration, contact 
inhibition, wound healing and cellular senescence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011788
PMCID: PMC2915910
PMID: 20694196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


786. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2010 Aug;50(7):644-53. doi:
10.1080/10408390802606691.

Meat shelf-life and extension using collagen/gelatin coatings: a review.

Antoniewski MN(1), Barringer SA.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Food Science & Technology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 
43210, USA.

Different factors lead to the end of shelf-life for fresh meat products. The 
factors depend upon the animal including breed difference and muscle fiber type, 
external influences such as diet and stress, and post-harvest storage conditions 
including time, temperature, and packaging atmosphere. The characteristics that 
indicate the end of shelf-life for fresh meat products include water loss/purge 
accumulation, color deterioration due to myoglobin oxidation, rancidity due to 
lipid oxidation, and microbial spoilage. The characteristics can be measured and 
studied in the laboratory. Meat shelf-life is extended with the application of a 
surface coating because it provides a water and oxygen barrier. Collagen and 
gelatin coatings are used as a barrier on meat products to reduce purge, color 
deterioration, aroma deterioration, and spoilage, improve sensory scores, and 
act as an antioxidant.

DOI: 10.1080/10408390802606691
PMID: 20694926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. J Clin Psychol. 2010 Sep;66(9):907-26. doi: 10.1002/jclp.20705.

Generation of life events in bipolar spectrum disorders: a re-examination and 
extension of the stress generation theory.

Bender RE(1), Alloy LB, Sylvia LG, Urosevic S, Abramson LY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Temple University, 1701 N. 13th Street, 
Philadelphia, PA 19122, USA. rachel.bender@temple.edu

The extent to which stress generation occurs in bipolar spectrum disorders (BSD) 
is not well understood. The present study examined whether 75 BSD participants 
experienced elevated rates of behavior-dependent life events, as compared with 
38 normal control participants. Within the BSD group, we also examined whether 
depressive or hypomanic symptoms prospectively predicted increases in various 
types of negative and positive life events. Results indicated that BSD 
participants experienced overall increases in behavior-dependent events over the 
follow-up, as compared with normal controls. At the symptom level, the event 
generation process occurred in more specific event domains. Results suggest that 
the stress generation theory of unipolar depression can be extended to BSD and 
that the type of generated events may be polarity-specific.

(c) 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jclp.20705
PMCID: PMC2925511
PMID: 20694958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. BMJ. 2010 Aug 9;341:c4337. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c4337.

Life expectancy in Scotland remains lower than in many EU countries.

Kmietowicz Z.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c4337
PMID: 20696749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Arch Intern Med. 2010 Aug 9;170(15):1347-54. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2010.249.

Comparative effectiveness of HIV testing and treatment in highly endemic 
regions.

Bendavid E(1), Brandeau ML, Wood R, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Center for Health Policy, Department 
of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 117 Encina Commons, 
Stanford, CA 94305-8526, USA. ebd@stanford.edu

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2010 Aug 9;170(15):1354-6.

BACKGROUND: Universal testing and treatment holds promise for reducing the 
burden of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in sub-Saharan Africa, but linkage 
from testing to treatment sites and retention in care are inadequate.
METHODS: We developed a simulation of the HIV epidemic and HIV disease 
progression in South Africa to compare the outcomes of the present HIV treatment 
campaign (status quo) with 4 HIV testing and treating strategies that increase 
access to antiretroviral therapy: (1) universal testing and treatment without 
changes in linkage to care and loss to follow-up; (2) universal testing and 
treatment with improved linkage to care; (3) universal testing and treatment 
with reduced loss to follow-up; and (4) comprehensive HIV care with universal 
testing and treatment, improved linkage to care, and reduced loss to follow-up. 
The main outcome measures were survival benefits, new HIV infections, and HIV 
prevalence.
RESULTS: Compared with the status quo strategy, universal testing and treatment 
(1) was associated with a mean (95% uncertainty bounds) life expectancy gain of 
12.0 months (11.3-12.2 months), and 35.3% (32.7%-37.5%) fewer HIV infections 
over a 10-year time horizon. Improved linkage to care (2), prevention of loss to 
follow-up (3), and comprehensive HIV care (4) provided substantial additional 
benefits: life expectancy gains compared with the status quo strategy were 16.1, 
18.6, and 22.2 months, and new infections were 55.5%, 51.4%, and 73.2% lower, 
respectively. In sensitivity analysis, comprehensive HIV care reduced new 
infections by 69.7% to 76.7% under a broad set of assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal testing and treatment with current levels of linkage to 
care and loss to follow-up could substantially reduce the HIV death toll and new 
HIV infections. However, increasing linkage to care and preventing loss to 
follow-up provides nearly twice the benefits of universal testing and treatment 
alone.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2010.249
PMCID: PMC2921232
PMID: 20696960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Contribution and Conflicts of Interest 
(Author Form Submitted Separately) Eran Bendavid: I participated in originating 
the concept, in conducting the data collection, construction of the model, and 
data analysis. I did most of the writing of the paper, including the final 
revision. I had full access to all of the data in the study and I take 
responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data 
analysis. I have no conflicts of interest. Margaret L. Brandeau: I participated 
in elucidating the project’s concept, in conceptualizing the model structure, 
and revising the manuscript. I have seen and approved the final version and I 
have no conflicts of interest. Robin Wood: I participated in defining the 
project’s concept, in clarifying issues relating to HIV testing and treatment in 
South Africa, and in revising the manuscript. I have seen and approved the final 
version and I have no conflicts of interest. Douglas K. Owens: I participated in 
defining the original concept, in conceptualizing the model, in advising on 
issues related to outcomes analysis, and in writing and revising the manuscript. 
I have seen and approved the final version, and I have no conflicts of interest.


790. Curr Oncol. 2010 Aug;17(4):127-32. doi: 10.3747/co.v17i4.515.

Malignant melanoma metastatic to the larynx: treatment and functional outcome.

Lanson BG(1), Sanfilippo N, Wang B, Grew D, DeLacure MD.

Author information:
(1)Ear Nose and Throat Center, llp , Stamford, CT, U.S.A. Biana.Lanson@gmail.com

The review considers management strategies for malignant melanoma metastatic to 
the larynx. This rare clinical entity lacks clear treatment recommendations 
because extirpative surgery can often result in severe functional debilitation 
in patients with limited life expectancy. Here, we report a case of melanoma 
metastatic to the larynx in a patient with a prior history of Hodgkin lymphoma. 
The patient was treated with partial laryngectomy and local radiation therapy. 
The rationale for treatment decisions and for surgical and radiotherapeutic 
techniques and the associated literature are discussed.

DOI: 10.3747/co.v17i4.515
PMCID: PMC2913823
PMID: 20697525


791. Trans Am Clin Climatol Assoc. 2010;121:94-103.

Colon cancer screening in the elderly: when do we stop?

Wilson JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Duke South, Trent Drive, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA. doanne.wilson@duke.edu

Colon cancer is a major cause of cancer death in the US. Screening studies can 
prevent colon cancer and are recommended for average risk persons beginning at 
50 years of age. Compliance with these recommendations has increased, 
particularly among those over 65 years old who have an increased prevalence of 
cancer and for whom screening is covered by Medicare. However, the efficacy of 
screening (and surveillance) in this population has not been well studied. The 
effect of co-morbidities and potentially increased risk of procedures performed 
on older adults are important concerns. This review addresses the benefits and 
harms of screening in the elderly. Physician emphasis on health status, life 
expectancy and patient preferences is critical in decision-making regarding 
colon cancer screening in this patient population. The recent update in the 
recommendations of the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) are reviewed.

PMCID: PMC2917147
PMID: 20697552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflicts of Interest: None.


792. Sci China Life Sci. 2010 Jul;53(7):858-67. doi: 10.1007/s11427-010-4028-y.
Epub  2010 Aug 10.

Changes in cropland topsoil organic carbon with different fertilizations under 
long-term agro-ecosystem experiments across mainland China.

Wang C(1), Pan G, Tian Y, Li L, Zhang X, Han X.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Resources, Ecosystem and Environment of Agriculture, Nanjing 
Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China.

Topsoil soil organic carbon (SOC) data were collected from long-term Chinese 
agro-ecosystem experiments presented in 76 reports with measurements over 1977 
and 2006. The data set comprised 481 observations (135 rice paddies and 346 dry 
croplands) of SOC under different fertilization schemes at 70 experimental sites 
(28 rice paddies and 42 dry croplands). The data set covered 16 dominant soil 
types found in croplands across 23 provinces of mainland China. The 
fertilization schemes were grouped into six categories: N (inorganic nitrogen 
fertilizer only), NP (compound inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers), 
NPK (compound inorganic nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilizers), O 
(organic fertilizers only), OF (combined inorganic/organic fertilization) and 
Others (other unbalanced fertilizations such as P only, K only, P plus K and N 
plus K). Relative change in SOC content was analyzed, and rice paddies and dry 
croplands soils were compared. There was an overall temporal increase in topsoil 
SOC content, and relative annual change (RAC, g kg(-1) yr(-1)) ranged -0.14-0.60 
(0.13 on average) for dry cropland soils and -0.12-0.70 (0.19 on average) for 
rice paddies. SOC content increase was higher in rice paddies than in dry 
croplands. SOC increased across experimental sites, but was higher under organic 
fertilization and combined organic/inorganic fertilizations than chemical 
fertilizations. SOC increase was higher under balanced chemical fertilizations 
with compound N, P and K fertilizers than unbalanced fertilizations such as N 
only, N plus P, and N plus K. The effects of specific rational fertilizations on 
SOC increase persisted for 15 years in dry croplands and 20 years in rice 
paddies, although RAC values decreased generally as the experiment duration 
increased. Therefore, the extension of rational fertilization in China's 
croplands may offer a technical option to enhance C sequestration potential and 
to sustain long-term crop productivity.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-010-4028-y
PMID: 20697875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. J Med Econ. 2010;13(3):516-26. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.506371.

Cost effectiveness of escitalopram versus SNRIs in second-step treatment of 
major depressive disorder in Sweden.

Nordström G(1), Despiegel N, Marteau F, Danchenko N, Maman K.

Author information:
(1)Psykiatriska kliniken, Lasarettet I Trelleborg, Hedvägen Trelleborg, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: Escitalopram is the S-enantiomer of citalopram and is the most 
discriminating of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI). The aim of 
the current analysis was to assess the cost effectiveness of escitalopram versus 
the serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI) duloxetine and generic 
venlafaxine as second-step treatment of major depressive disorder.
METHODS: The analysis was based on a decision analytic model. Effectiveness 
outcomes were quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and remission rates; cost 
outcomes were direct medical costs, including impact of treating adverse events, 
and indirect costs associated with lost productivity. The analysis was performed 
from the societal perspective in Sweden over a 6-month timeframe.
RESULTS: Estimated remission rates showed an incremental effectiveness in favour 
of escitalopram of 16.4 percentage points compared with both SNRI comparators. 
The escitalopram strategy was associated with a 0.025 increase in QALYs. 
Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the model is robust and that escitalopram 
remains a cost-effective option when considering future predicted price 
reductions of generic venlafaxine.
LIMITATIONS: The main limitation in this study was the lack of data available 
for second-step treatment. The remission rates, which are a key input to the 
model, were obtained from a relatively small sample of patients on second-step 
treatment and there are no published relapse rates for second-step treatment. 
The model also assumed that there was no difference in the adverse event (AE) 
rates between treatments after the first 8 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: This cost-effectiveness analysis indicates that, at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of £30,000, escitalopram is the most cost-effective 
second-step treatment option for MDD in Sweden in over 85% cases compared with 
both venlafaxine and with duloxetine. Benefits for escitalopram included both 
increased effectiveness and reduced overall costs. The major contributing costs 
were those associated with productivity loss. The model was shown to have 
internal validity and robustness through the use of stochastic simulations and 
sensitivity analyses, which were conducted around the key efficacy parameters.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.506371
PMID: 20698748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Curr Pharm Des. 2010;16(25):2766-78. doi: 10.2174/138161210793176572.

Neuroinflammation, oxidative stress and the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.

Agostinho P(1), Cunha RA, Oliveira C.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neurosciences of Coimbra, Faculty of Medicine - Pólo I (1st 
floor), Rua Larga, University of Coimbra, 3004-504 Coimbra, Portugal. 
pagost@cnc.cj.uc.pt

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder that 
affects the elderly. The increase of life-expectancy is transforming AD into a 
major health-care problem. AD is characterized by a progressive impairment of 
memory and other cognitive skills leading to dementia. The major pathogenic 
factor associated to AD seems to be amyloid-beta peptide (Aβ) oligomers that 
tend to accumulate extracellularly as amyloid deposits and are associated with 
reactive microglia and astrocytes as well as with degeneration of neuronal 
processes. The involvement of microglia and astrocytes in the onset and progress 
of neurodegenerative process in AD is becoming increasingly recognized, albeit 
it is commonly accepted that neuroinflammation and oxidative stress can have 
both detrimental and beneficial influences on the neural tissue. However, little 
is known about the interplay of microglia, astrocytes and neurons in response to 
Aβ, especially in the early phases of AD. This review discusses current 
knowledge about the involvement of neuroinflammation in AD pathogenesis, 
focusing on phenotypic and functional responses of microglia, astrocytes and 
neurons in this process. The abnormal production by glia cells of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and the complement system, as well as 
reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, can disrupt nerve terminals activity 
causing dysfunction and loss of synapses, which correlates with memory decline; 
these are phenomena preceding the neuronal death associated with late stages of 
AD. Thus, therapeutic strategies directed at controlling the activation of 
microglia and astrocytes and the excessive production of pro-inflammatory and 
pro-oxidant factors may be valuable to control neurodegeneration in dementia.

DOI: 10.2174/138161210793176572
PMID: 20698820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Cell Cycle. 2010 Aug 1;9(15):3063-71. doi: 10.4161/cc.9.15.12458. Epub 2010
Aug  20.

Partial ablation of adult Drosophila insulin-producing neurons modulates glucose 
homeostasis and extends life span without insulin resistance.

Haselton A(1), Sharmin E, Schrader J, Sah M, Poon P, Fridell YW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, State University of New York at New Paltz, New Paltz, 
NY, USA.

In Drosophila melanogaster (D. melanogaster), neurosecretory insulin-like 
peptide-producing cells (IPCs), analogous to mammalian pancreatic beta cells are 
involved in glucose homeostasis. Extending those findings, we have developed in 
the adult fly an oral glucose tolerance test and demonstrated that IPCs indeed 
are responsible for executing an acute glucose clearance response. To further 
develop D. melanogaster as a relevant system for studying age-associated 
metabolic disorders, we set out to determine the impact of adult-specific 
partial ablation of IPCs (IPC knockdown) on insulin-like peptide (ILP) action, 
metabolic outcomes and longevity. Interestingly, while IPC knockdown flies are 
hyperglycemic and glucose intolerant, these flies remain insulin sensitive as 
measured by peripheral glucose disposal upon insulin injection and serine 
phosphorylation of a key insulin-signaling molecule, Akt. Significant increases 
in stored glycogen and triglyceride levels as well as an elevated level of 
circulating lipid measured in adult IPC knockdown flies suggest profound 
modulation in energy metabolism. Additional physiological outcomes measured in 
those flies include increased resistance to starvation and impaired female 
fecundity. Finally, increased life span and decreased mortality rates measured 
in IPC knockdown flies demonstrate that it is possible to modulate ILP action in 
adult flies to achieve life span extension without insulin resistance. Taken 
together, we have established and validated an invertebrate genetic system to 
further investigate insulin action, metabolic homeostasis and regulation of 
aging regulated by adult IPCs.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.9.15.12458
PMCID: PMC3230477
PMID: 20699643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Health Phys. 2010 Sep;99(3):286-91. doi: 10.1097/HP.0b013e3181cb857f.

Life-span study on late effects of 224Ra in children and adults.

Spiess H(1).

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital Munich, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, 
Pettenkoferst. 8a, 80336 Munich, Germany. prof.spiess@lrz.uni-muenchen.de

Between 1945 and 1955, several thousand patients were injected with Peteosthor, 
a preparation containing Radium-224 (Ra), as treatment for bone tuberculosis or 
ankylosing spondylitis. Ra, like Pu, is a bone seeking nuclide. During the 
course of early experimental work it became clear in 1948 that the short lived 
alpha-emitter Ra concentrates predominantly in the growing zones of the bones. 
Consequently, I released strong official warnings, at the 1950 German Congress 
of Orthopedics, against Peteosthor, and especially against its administration to 
juvenile patients-still in their period of growth. Epidemiological 
investigations were then initiated on a study population that comprises 899 
persons (including 217 children or juveniles) who received injections of Ra. The 
study has now been conducted for a follow-up period of over 60 y. The most 
striking detrimental health effect following Ra injections are a large number of 
malignant bone tumors that occurred predominantly in childhood. This finding was 
the reason for my invitation to the first conference on "Delayed Effects of Bone 
seeking Radionuclides" in Sun Valley, ID, in September 1967, a meeting that was 
organized by Charles Mays. I reported on 50 Ra-induced bone tumors in children 
and adults, growth disturbances, osteochondroma, and cataracts, concluding that 
the younger the age at Ra injection, the more severe the late effects. Up to now 
57 malignant bone tumors have been observed while less than one case would have 
been expected. The peak occurred 8 y after the first Ra injection and the last 
bone sarcoma arose 46 y after injection. A total of 270 non-skeletal malignant 
diseases were observed against a statistical expectation of 192 cases, the 
excess risk of mammary cancers in those treated in childhood being particularly 
striking. In the past two years increases of non-cancer diseases have become 
apparent in the exposed group compared to a control group of 166 living members 
with no exposure to Ra. Although 124 study group members are still alive, only 
the 81 members with ages at or below the maximum age in the control group were 
included in this comparison in order to attain approximate age matching. The 
breakdown of these diseases is kidney insufficiency, 12 (15%) study group 
members vs. 3 (2%) controls, where 5 (6%) study group members required dialysis 
vs. 2 (1%) controls; thyroid disease (struma nodosa), 28 (35%) study group 
members vs. 29 (17%) controls; heart attack, 8 (10%) study group members vs. 4 
(2%) controls; coronary heart disease, 9 (11%) study group members vs. 8 (5%) 
controls.

DOI: 10.1097/HP.0b013e3181cb857f
PMID: 20699688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Lancet. 2010 Sep 25;376(9746):1085-92. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60954-3.
Epub  2010 Aug 9.

Vertebroplasty versus conservative treatment in acute osteoporotic vertebral 
compression fractures (Vertos II): an open-label randomised trial.

Klazen CA(1), Lohle PN, de Vries J, Jansen FH, Tielbeek AV, Blonk MC, Venmans A, 
van Rooij WJ, Schoemaker MC, Juttmann JR, Lo TH, Verhaar HJ, van der Graaf Y, 
van Everdingen KJ, Muller AF, Elgersma OE, Halkema DR, Fransen H, Janssens X, 
Buskens E, Mali WP.

Author information:
(1)Radiology, St Elisabeth Ziekenhuis, Tilburg, Netherlands. 
cahklazen@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Lancet. 2010 Sep 25;376(9746):1031-3.
    J R Coll Physicians Edinb. 2010 Dec;40(4):317-8.
    Lancet. 2010 Dec 18;376(9758):2070-1; author reply 2071-2.
    Lancet. 2010 Dec 18;376(9758):2071; author reply 2071-2.
    Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Jun 15;36(14):E897-903.
    Orthopade. 2011 Oct;40(10):929-30.

BACKGROUND: Percutaneous vertebroplasty is increasingly used for treatment of 
pain in patients with osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures, but the 
efficacy, cost-effectiveness, and safety of the procedure remain uncertain. We 
aimed to clarify whether vertebroplasty has additional value compared with 
optimum pain treatment in patients with acute vertebral fractures.
METHODS: Patients were recruited to this open-label prospective randomised trial 
from the radiology departments of six hospitals in the Netherlands and Belgium. 
Patients were aged 50 years or older, had vertebral compression fractures on 
spine radiograph (minimum 15% height loss; level of fracture at Th5 or lower; 
bone oedema on MRI), with back pain for 6 weeks or less, and a visual analogue 
scale (VAS) score of 5 or more. Patients were randomly allocated to percutaneous 
vertebroplasty or conservative treatment by computer-generated randomisation 
codes with a block size of six. Masking was not possible for participants, 
physicians, and outcome assessors. The primary outcome was pain relief at 1 
month and 1 year as measured by VAS score. Analysis was by intention to treat. 
This study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00232466.
FINDINGS: Between Oct 1, 2005, and June 30, 2008, we identified 431 patients who 
were eligible for randomisation. 229 (53%) patients had spontaneous pain relief 
during assessment, and 202 patients with persistent pain were randomly allocated 
to treatment (101 vertebroplasty, 101 conservative treatment). Vertebroplasty 
resulted in greater pain relief than did conservative treatment; difference in 
mean VAS score between baseline and 1 month was -5·2 (95% CI -5·88 to -4·72) 
after vertebroplasty and -2·7 (-3·22 to -1·98) after conservative treatment, and 
between baseline and 1 year was -5·7 (-6·22 to -4·98) after vertebroplasty and 
-3·7 (-4·35 to -3·05) after conservative treatment. The difference between 
groups in reduction of mean VAS score from baseline was 2·6 (95% CI 1·74-3·37, 
p<0·0001) at 1 month and 2·0 (1·13-2·80, p<0·0001) at 1 year. No serious 
complications or adverse events were reported.
INTERPRETATION: In a subgroup of patients with acute osteoporotic vertebral 
compression fractures and persistent pain, percutaneous vertebroplasty is 
effective and safe. Pain relief after vertebroplasty is immediate, is sustained 
for at least a year, and is significantly greater than that achieved with 
conservative treatment, at an acceptable cost.
FUNDING: ZonMw; COOK Medical.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60954-3
PMID: 20701962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Aquat Toxicol. 2010 Oct 1;100(1):101-11. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2010.07.015.
 Epub 2010 Jul 17.

Subacute developmental exposure of zebrafish to the organophosphate pesticide 
metabolite, chlorpyrifos-oxon, results in defects in Rohon-Beard sensory neuron 
development.

Jacobson SM(1), Birkholz DA, McNamara ML, Bharate SB, George KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Montana, 
Missoula, MT 59812, USA. saskia1.jacobson@umontana.edu

Organophosphate pesticides (OPs) are environmental toxicants known to inhibit 
the catalytic activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) resulting in 
hypercholinergic toxicity symptoms. In developing embryos, OPs have been 
hypothesized to affect both cholinergic and non-cholinergic pathways. In order 
to understand the neurological pathways affected by OP exposure during 
embryogenesis, we developed a subacute model of OP developmental exposure in 
zebrafish by exposing embryos to a dose of the OP metabolite chlorpyrifos-oxon 
(CPO) that is non-lethal and significantly inhibited AChE enzymatic activity 
compared to control embryos (43% at 1 day post-fertilization (dpf) and 11% at 
2dpf). Phenotypic analysis of CPO-exposed embryos demonstrated that embryonic 
growth, as analyzed by gross morphology, was normal in 85% of treated embryos. 
Muscle fiber formation was similar to control embryos as analyzed by 
birefringence, and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) cluster formation 
was quantitatively similar to control embryos as analyzed by α-bungarotoxin 
staining. These results indicate that partial AChE activity during the early 
days of zebrafish development is sufficient for general development, muscle 
fiber, and nAChR development. Rohon-Beard (RB) sensory neurons exhibited 
aberrant peripheral axon extension and gene expression profiling suggests that 
several genes responsible for RB neurogenesis are down-regulated. Stability of 
CPO in egg water at 28.5 °C was determined by HPLC-UV-MS analysis which revealed 
that the CPO concentration used in our studies hydrolyzes in egg water with a 
half-life of 1 day. The result that developmental CPO exposure affected RB 
neurogenesis without affecting muscle fiber or nAChR cluster formation 
demonstrates that zebrafish are a strong model system for characterizing subtle 
neurological pathologies resulting from environmental toxicants.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2010.07.015
PMCID: PMC2940976
PMID: 20701988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Seizure. 2010 Nov;19(9):531-5. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2010.07.011. Epub 2010
Aug  11.

Evolution in VNS therapy for refractory epilepsy, experience with Demipulse 
devices at Ghent University Hospital.

El Tahry R(1), De Herdt V, Raedt R, Van Dycke A, Meurs A, Dewaele F, Boon P, Van 
Roost D, Vonck K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Ghent University Hospital, Reference Center for 
Refractory Epilepsy, Gent, Belgium. Riem.Eltahry@ugent.be

RATIONALE: Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a frequently used treatment for 
patients with refractory epilepsy who are unsuitable candidates for epilepsy 
surgery. There has been a steady evolution in VNS technology, as generators' 
volumes have become smaller and battery life expectancy longer. This pilot study 
is an open-label retrospective study that describes our experience with the 
latest commercially available generator, i.e. the VNS Therapy Demipulse Model 
103. Treatment efficacy and side effects, as well as technical and practical 
