and also significantly improved his quality of life. Ustekinumab is a welcome 
extension of biologicals for the treatment of psoriasis because it represents an 
alternative to anti- TNFAlpha preparations.

PMID: 20664917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Ir Med J. 2010 Feb;103(2):43-6.

Cumulative radiation exposure in children with cystic fibrosis.

O'Reilly R(1), Ryan S, Donoghue V, Saidlear C, Twomey E, Slattery DM.

Author information:
(1)Children's University Hospital, Temple St, Dublin 1. roreilly@imperial.ac.uk

This retrospective study calculated the cumulative radiation dose for children 
with cystic fibrosis (CF) attending a tertiary CF centre. Information on 77 
children with a mean age of 9.5 years, a follow up time of 658 person years and 
1757 studies including 1485 chest radiographs, 215 abdominal radiographs and 57 
computed tomography (CT) scans, of which 51 were thoracic CT scans, were 
analysed. The average cumulative radiation dose was 6.2 (0.04-25) mSv per CF 
patient. Cumulative radiation dose increased with increasing age and number of 
CT scans and was greater in children who presented with meconium ileus. No 
correlation was identified between cumulative radiation dose and either lung 
function or patient microbiology cultures. Radiation carries a risk of 
malignancy and children are particularly susceptible. Every effort must be made 
to avoid unnecessary radiation exposure in these patients whose life expectancy 
is increasing.

PMID: 20666054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Surg Infect (Larchmt). 2010 Oct;11(5):409-17. doi: 10.1089/sur.2009.076.

Cost-effectiveness model of empiric doripenem compared with imipenem-cilastatin 
in ventilator-associated pneumonia.

Zilberberg MD(1), Mody SH, Chen J, Shorr AF.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Health Sciences, University of Massachusetts, 
Amherst, MA, USA. Marya@evimedgroup.org

BACKGROUND: Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is a common complication of 
critical illness among surgical and trauma patients. Inappropriate empiric 
treatment of VAP increases the mortality rate. The rates of Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa (PA) VAP susceptibility to doripenem (DOR) are higher than those to 
imipenem-cilastatin (IMI). We developed a model to quantify outcome differences 
between strategies of empiric treatment of VAP with DOR vs. IMI.
METHODS: We designed a cost-effectiveness model comparing empiric treatment of 
VAP with DOR vs. IMI from both the hospital and societal perspectives. We 
examined the differences in the number of deaths, hospital length of stay (LOS), 
total costs, and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) under each scenario and 
conducted Monte Carlo simulations and sensitivity analyses to determine the 
stability of our estimates. Drug costs were taken as 80% of wholesale 
acquisition costs, with other inputs derived from the literature.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, assuming a PA-VAP attributable mortality 
rate of 38.4% and a 49% relative risk reduction in deaths in PA-sensitive (PA-S) 
infections to empiric drug compared with a resistant PA (PA-R) organism, DOR use 
resulted in three additional deaths avoided, 117.4 days of hospitalization 
averted, and hospital savings of $422,524 per 1,000 patients treated at a cost 
of $5,748/QALY. All estimates were most sensitive to the costs of treating PA-S 
and PA-R infections. In a multivariable analysis, hospital cost savings 
persisted across >80% of the simulations (95% confidence interval 
$432,615-$2,148,540).
CONCLUSIONS: Given the current microbiologic sensitivity profile of PA to DOR 
and IMI, and depending on the local susceptibility patterns and in institutions 
where DOR in vitro susceptibilities are superior to those of other carbapenems 
for PA clinical isolates, empiric treatment of VAP with DOR may dominate that 
with IMI by being both life- and cost-saving.

DOI: 10.1089/sur.2009.076
PMID: 20666580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2010 Sep;10(9):1395-404. doi: 
10.1517/14712598.2010.510509.

Collagenase clostridium histolyticum for Dupuytren's contracture.

Desai SS(1), Hentz VR.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University Hospitals and Clinics, Robert A. Chase Hand & Upper Limb 
Center, 770 Welch Road, Suite #400, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA.

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Dupuytren's disease is a non-malignant, progressive 
disorder of the hands that can severely limit hand function and diminish overall 
quality of life. With global life expectancy increasing, the prevalence of this 
disease appears to be increasing amongst all ethnic groups. Treatment has 
traditionally remained surgical with few effective, nonsurgical options. 
However, with the introduction of collagenase clostridium histolyticum to treat 
Dupuytren's contractures, physicians and surgeons may be provided with a new, 
office-based, non-surgical option to treat this disease.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: The literature behind the use of collagenase to 
treat Dupuytren's disease; including its mechanism of action, safety, efficacy 
and clinical evidence behind its recent FDA approval.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: The latest information available on collagenase 
through a comprehensive review of PubMed and the websites of licensing 
organizations for medicinal products.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: Phase III, clinical trials on collagenase for treatment of 
Dupuytren's contractures have recently been completed. Meeting primary and 
secondary objectives, collagenase has obtained FDA approval for clinical use. 
Collagenase now provides a non-operative option for Dupuytren's disease. 
Although short-term results show that collagenase is safe and efficacious, 
long-term effects of repeat injections and contracture recurrence rates have yet 
to be examined.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2010.510509
PMID: 20666587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):873-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00770.x.

Use of a disease-specific instrument in economic evaluations: mapping WOMAC onto 
the EQ-5D utility index.

Xie F(1), Pullenayegum EM, Li SC, Hopkins R, Thumboo J, Lo NN.

Author information:
(1)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health, St. Joseph's Healthcare 
Hamilton, Hamilton, ON, Canada. fengxie@mcmaster.ca

Erratum in
    Value Health. 2011 Jun;14(4):620.

OBJECTIVE: To map the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis 
Index (WOMAC) onto the EuroQol 5 Dimension (EQ-5D) utility index in patients 
with knee osteoarthritis (OA).
METHODS: A consecutive sample of patients (n=258) diagnosed with knee OA 
completed both the WOMAC and the EQ-5D. Regression models with the ordinary 
least squares (OLS) or the censored least absolute deviations as the estimator 
were used to establish the mapping function. The WOMAC was represented as 
explanatory variables in four ways: 1) total score; 2) domain scores (i.e., 
pain, stiffness, and physical function); 3) domain scores plus pair-wise 
interaction terms to account for possible nonlinearities; and 4) individual item 
scores. Goodness-of-fit criteria included the mean absolute error (the primary 
criterion) and the root mean squared error, and were obtained using an iterative 
random sampling procedure. Prediction precision was evaluated at individual 
patient level and at the group level.
RESULTS: The model using the OLS estimator and the WOMAC domain scores as 
explanatory variables had the best fit and was chosen as the preferred mapping 
model. The prediction error at the individual level exceeded the maximal 
tolerance value (i.e., the minimally important difference of the EQ-5D) in about 
16% of the patients. At the group level, the width of the 95% confidence 
interval of prediction errors varied from 0.0176 at a sample size of 400 to 
0.0359 at a sample size of 100.
CONCLUSIONS: EQ-5D scores can be predicted using WOMAC domain scores with an 
acceptable precision at both individual and group levels in patients with mild 
to moderate knee OA.

Â© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00770.x
PMID: 20667055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):234-44. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00439.x.

Cost-effectiveness evaluation of ertapenem versus piperacillin/tazobactam in the 
treatment of complicated intraabdominal infections accounting for antibiotic 
resistance.

Jansen JP(1), Kumar R, Carmeli Y.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, Boston, MA 02108, USA. jeroen.jansen@mapivalues.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of ertapenem versus 
piperacillin/tazobactam in the treatment of community-acquired complicated 
intraabdominal infections accounting for development of antibiotic resistance in 
the Dutch setting.
METHODS: A decision tree was developed to estimate cost-effectiveness of 
ertapenem versus piperacillin/tazobactam at different time points after 
introduction of treatment. Development of resistance was incorporated using a 
compartment model. Resistance was a function of the eradication rate of 
pathogens and antibiotic prescription. Model outcomes included quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), direct costs and cost per QALY saved. Microbiological 
eradication rate, clinical success, and costs were derived from literature. The 
analyses included pathogens with intrinsic or acquired resistance.
RESULTS: The model suggested overall savings of euro355 (95% uncertainty 
interval euro480; euro1205) per patient when abdominal infections are treated 
with ertapenem instead of piperacillin/tazobactam. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis found a 94% probability of the incremental cost per QALY saved being 
within the generally accepted threshold for cost-effectiveness (euro20,000). 
After 5 years, it is expected that antibiotic resistance with 
piperacillin/tazobactam has increased with a greater rate compared to ertapenem, 
and cost-savings with ertapenem are expected to increase to euro672 (euro-232; 
euro1617). Ertapenem will, in addition, result in greater success rates and in 
QALY savings (0.17; 0.07-0.30). Alternative scenarios, with lower levels of 
initial resistance confirm the cost savings with ertapenem.
CONCLUSION: Given the underlying assumptions and data used, this evaluation 
demonstrated that ertapenem is a cost saving and possibly an economically 
dominant therapy over piperacillin/tazobactam for the treatment of 
community-acquired intraabdominal infections in The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00439.x
PMID: 20667059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):253-61. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00444.x.

The health and economic consequences of moderate alcohol consumption in Germany 
2002.

Konnopka A(1), KÃ¶nig HH.

Author information:
(1)University of Leipzig, Health Economics Research Unit, Department of 
Psychiatry, Leipzig, Germany. alexander.konnopka@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

OBJECTIVE: Moderate alcohol consumption is associated with both positive and 
negative health effects. This study aims to estimate the positive and negative 
consequences on mortality, years of potential life (YPL), quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), resource utilization, and societal costs attributable to 
moderate alcohol consumption in Germany in 2002.
METHODS: The concept of attributable risks and a prevalence-based approach was 
used to calculate age- and sex-specific alcohol attributable mortality and 
resource utilization for a wide range of disorders, and avoided mortality and 
resource utilization for diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, stroke, and 
cholelithiasis. The literature provided prevalence of moderate alcohol 
consumption in Germany by age and sex and relative risks. Direct costs were 
calculated using routine utilization and expenditure statistics. Indirect costs 
were calculated using the human capital approach.
RESULTS: Due to moderate alcohol consumption, 14,457 lives, 205,691 YPL, and 
179,964 QALYs were lost, whereas 29,918 lives, 300,382 YPL, and 258,284 QALYs 
were gained. Up to an age of 55 to 60 (62.5-67.5) years, more lives were lost 
than gained among men (women), whereas in older age groups more lives were 
gained than lost. Moderate alcohol consumption caused euro3049 million of direct 
and euro2630 million of indirect costs, whereas euro2094 million of direct and 
euro2604 million of indirect costs were avoided.
CONCLUSION: Despite considerable uncertainty, moderate alcohol consumption seems 
to result in an overall net effect of gained lives, YPL, and QALYs, realized 
among the elderly, but overall increased societal costs. Thus, moderate alcohol 
consumption should still be seen critical, especially among youths.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00444.x
PMID: 20667060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):364-70. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00442.x.

Mapping utility scores from a disease-specific quality-of-life measure in 
bariatric surgery patients.

Sauerland S(1), Weiner S, Dolezalova K, Angrisani L, Noguera CM, 
GarcÃ­a-Caballero M, Rupprecht F, Immenroth M.

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r Forschung in der Operativen Medizin, University of 
Witten/Herdecke, Cologne, Germany. stefan.sauerland@ifom-uniwh.de

OBJECTIVES: To develop algorithms for a conversion of disease-specific 
quality-of-life into health state values for morbidly obese patients before or 
after bariatric surgery.
METHODS: A total of 893 patients were enrolled in a prospective cross-sectional 
multicenter study. In addition to demographic and clinical data, health-related 
quality-of-life (HRQoL) data were collected using the disease-specific 
Moorehead-Ardelt II questionnaire (MA-II) and two generic questionnaires, the 
EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) and the Short Form-6D (SF-6D). Multiple regression models 
were constructed to predict EQ-5D- and SF-6D-based utility values from MA-II 
scores and additional demographic variables.
RESULTS: The mean body mass index was 39.4, and 591 patients (66%) had already 
undergone surgery. The average EQ-5D and SF-6D scores were 0.830 and 0.699. The 
MA-IIwas correlated to both utility measures (Spearman's r = 0.677 and 0.741). 
Goodness-of-fit was highest (R(2) = 0.55 in the validation sample) for the 
following item-based transformation algorithm: utility (MA-II-based) = 0.4293 + 
(0.0336 x MA1) + (0.0071 x MA2) + (0.0053 x MA3) + (0.0107 x MA4) + (0.0001 x 
MA5). This EQ-5D-based mapping algorithm outperformed a similar SF-6D-based 
algorithm in terms of mean absolute percentage error (P = 0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: Because the mapping algorithm estimated utilities with only minor 
errors, it appears to be a valid method for calculating health state values in 
cost-utility analyses. The algorithm will help to define the role of bariatric 
surgery in morbid obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00442.x
PMID: 20667063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Cancer Treat Rev. 2011 Apr;37(2):89-96. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2010.07.001.
Epub  2010 Jul 27.

Adjuvant radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy: evidence and analysis.

Raldow A(1), Hamstra DA, Kim SN, Yu JB.

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States.

Although surgery provides excellent control for localized prostate cancer, 
pathologic examination of more than one-third of specimens will reveal positive 
surgical margins, seminal vesicle invasion, and/or extracapsular extension, thus 
putting these patients at increased risk of cancer recurrence. "Adjuvant" 
radiotherapy (ART) refers to treatment of patients with an undetectable PSA that 
is delivered after surgery (usually less than 12-16 weeks from the time of 
surgery). Currently, there are no standardized guidelines for the use of ART and 
the bulk of patients are solely monitored for signs of recurrence after 
prostatectomy. In this article, we review the evidence for ART from three 
randomized clinical trials. Although radiation therapy in the adjuvant setting 
has generally been well tolerated, we also examine the complication data 
associated with treatment. In addition, we discuss the technical aspects of 
treatment, including dose escalation and treatment target volume. The ability to 
increase dose and limit target volume would likely result in higher cure rates 
and decreased side effects, thus ensuring a better clinical outcome and 
increasing quality of life. Finally, we discuss the cost-effectiveness of ART, 
in the context of other medical interventions.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2010.07.001
PMID: 20667660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2010 Nov;81(11):1229-32. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2009.202150. Epub 2010 Jul 28.

Spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 (SCA11) is an uncommon cause of dominant ataxia 
among French and German kindreds.

Bauer P(1), Stevanin G, Beetz C, Synofzik M, Schmitz-HÃ¼bsch T, WÃ¼llner U, 
Berthier E, Ollagnon-Roman E, Riess O, Forlani S, Mundwiller E, Durr A, SchÃ¶ls 
L, Brice A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of TÃ¼bingen, TÃ¼bingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: At least 28 loci have been linked to autosomal dominant 
spinocerebellar ataxia (ADCA). Causative genes have been cloned for 10 
nucleotide repeat expansions (SCA1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 17 and 31) and six 
genes with classical mutations (SCA5, 13, 14, 15/16, 27 and 28). Recently, a 
large British pedigree linked to SCA11 has been reported to carry a mutation in 
the TTBK2 gene. In order to assess the prevalence and phenotypic spectrum of 
SCA11, the authors screened 148 index patients of predominantly German (n=69) 
and French (n=79) descent with ADCA tested negative for a panel of SCA mutations 
(SCA1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 17), for mutations in TTBK2.
METHODS: In the German ADCA cohort, the complete coding sequence of the TTBK2 
gene was PCR-amplified and screened for mutations by high-resolution-melting 
(HRM) analysis. In the French cohort, exons known to carry mutations were 
directly sequenced. For both cohorts, the gene-dosage alterations were assessed 
using a customised multiplex ligation probe amplification (MLPA) assay.
RESULTS: In two of 148 ADCA families--one German and one French--the authors 
identified a potentially disease-causing SCA11 mutation. Interestingly, both 
carried an identical two-basepair deletion (c.1306_1307delGA, p.D435fs448X in 
exon 12) leading to a premature stop codon. Gene-dosage alterations were not 
detected in the TTBK2 gene. Clinically, the SCA11 patients had phenotypic 
characteristics as described before presenting with slowly progressive almost 
pure cerebellar ataxia with normal life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: SCA11 presented as ADCA III according to Harding's classification 
and is a rare cause of spinocerebellar ataxia in Caucasians accounting for less 
than 1% of dominant ataxias in central Europe.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2009.202150
PMID: 20667868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Diabetes Care. 2010 Aug;33(8):1872-94. doi: 10.2337/dc10-0843.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions to prevent and control diabetes mellitus: a 
systematic review.

Li R(1), Zhang P, Barker LE, Chowdhury FM, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia, USA. eok8@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVE: To synthesize the cost-effectiveness (CE) of interventions to prevent 
and control diabetes, its complications, and comorbidities.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of literature on 
the CE of diabetes interventions recommended by the American Diabetes 
Association (ADA) and published between January 1985 and May 2008. We 
categorized the strength of evidence about the CE of an intervention as strong, 
supportive, or uncertain. CEs were classified as cost saving (more health 
benefit at a lower cost), very cost-effective (<or=$25,000 per life year gained 
[LYG] or quality-adjusted life year [QALY]), cost-effective ($25,001 to $50,000 
per LYG or QALY), marginally cost-effective ($50,001 to $100,000 per LYG or 
QALY), or not cost-effective (>$100,000 per LYG or QALY). The CE classification 
of an intervention was reported separately by country setting (U.S. or other 
developed countries) if CE varied by where the intervention was implemented. 
Costs were measured in 2007 U.S. dollars.
RESULTS: Fifty-six studies from 20 countries met the inclusion criteria. A large 
majority of the ADA recommended interventions are cost-effective. We found 
strong evidence to classify the following interventions as cost saving or very 
cost-effective: (I) Cost saving- 1) ACE inhibitor (ACEI) therapy for intensive 
hypertension control compared with standard hypertension control; 2) ACEI or 
angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) therapy to prevent end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) compared with no ACEI or ARB treatment; 3) early irbesartan therapy (at 
the microalbuminuria stage) to prevent ESRD compared with later treatment (at 
the macroalbuminuria stage); 4) comprehensive foot care to prevent ulcers 
compared with usual care; 5) multi-component interventions for diabetic risk 
factor control and early detection of complications compared with conventional 
insulin therapy for persons with type 1 diabetes; and 6) multi-component 
interventions for diabetic risk factor control and early detection of 
complications compared with standard glycemic control for persons with type 2 
diabetes. (II) Very cost-effective- 1) intensive lifestyle interventions to 
prevent type 2 diabetes among persons with impaired glucose tolerance compared 
with standard lifestyle recommendations; 2) universal opportunistic screening 
for undiagnosed type 2 diabetes in African Americans between 45 and 54 years 
old; 3) intensive glycemic control as implemented in the UK Prospective Diabetes 
Study in persons with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes compared with conventional 
glycemic control; 4) statin therapy for secondary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease compared with no statin therapy; 5) counseling and treatment for smoking 
cessation compared with no counseling and treatment; 6) annual screening for 
diabetic retinopathy and ensuing treatment in persons with type 1 diabetes 
compared with no screening; 7) annual screening for diabetic retinopathy and 
ensuing treatment in persons with type 2 diabetes compared with no screening; 
and 8) immediate vitrectomy to treat diabetic retinopathy compared with deferred 
vitrectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Many interventions intended to prevent/control diabetes are cost 
saving or very cost-effective and supported by strong evidence. Policy makers 
should consider giving these interventions a higher priority.

DOI: 10.2337/dc10-0843
PMCID: PMC2909081
PMID: 20668156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2010 Jun;154(2):117-22.
 doi: 10.5507/bp.2010.018.

Intramedullary spinal cord metastases: review of the literature.

Hrabalek L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Palacky University and University Hospital 
Olomouc. lumir.hrabalek@seznam.cz

AIMS: To review the epidemiology, dissemination, clinical presentation, 
diagnosis, treatment, survival and functional outcome of intramedullary spinal 
cord metastases (ISCM).
METHODS: Literature review of all surgically treated cases of ISCM and all 
described cases of ISCM of breast carcinoma.
RESULTS: 42 references to 87 surgically treated cases of ISCM were found, 13 
references to 27 cases with diagnosed and treated ISCM of breast carcinoma. In 
only 9 cases of spinal cord metastases of breast cancer was surgical resection 
of ISCM done (10% of all surgically treated ISCM).
CONCLUSIONS: Three treatment modalities are available for ISCM: radiotherapy, 
chemotherapy, and surgery. The gold standard remains radiotherapy. Microsurgical 
resection of a focal intramedullary mass appears to be feasible and should be 
considered in selected cases. Patients who have no evidence of widespread organ 
metastases or multiple intramedullary lesions and who have a life expectancy of 
at least a few months with tumours of non-lymphoma histology should be 
considered for tumor resection. In conclusion, ISCM are difficult to treat 
lesions, but early diagnosis, careful surgical management and maintenance 
therapy may substantially contribute to a satisfactory functional outcome and 
prolonged survival.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2010.018
PMID: 20668492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Indian J Med Paediatr Oncol. 2009 Jan;30(1):14-9. doi:
10.4103/0971-5851.56330.

Cognitive assessment of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia: Preliminary 
findings.

Abraham A(1), Appaji L.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Psychology Unit, Kidwai Memorial, Institute of Oncology (KMIO), 
Bangalore, Karnataka, India.

AIM: The objective of this study was to assess the cognitive functions of Indian 
children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), periodically after initiation 
of treatment since prospective longitudinal research in this area on the Indian 
population has not been adequately documented. Unlike many western studies that 
have targeted survivors of ALL, we aimed to bring out the cognitive outcome 
after initiation of treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cognitive functions of 19 patients diagnosed to have 
ALL were assessed using standardized tests after induction chemotherapy, and 
periodically thereafter following the second course of treatment comprising 
central nervous system-directed radiotherapy, and chemotherapy using intrathecal 
methotrexate.
RESULTS: The study found a statistically significant decline in the intelligence 
quotient and a deficit in the cognitive function of analytical reasoning.
CONCLUSION: This preliminary study supports findings of an earlier Indian study 
and many studies conducted in the west. Since the life expectancy of these 
children has increased and most of them have long-term survival, and even cure, 
we suggest that identifying and managing children with cognitive difficulties 
are important in the rehabilitation of these children.

DOI: 10.4103/0971-5851.56330
PMCID: PMC2902209
PMID: 20668601

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


730. Rev Med Chil. 2010 May;138(5):645-51. Epub 2010 Jul 12.

[Official position of the Chilean Society of Climacteric on the management of 
climacteric women].

[Article in Spanish]

BlÃ¼mel JE(1), Aravena H, Brantes S, Cruzat L, LavÃ­n P, MontaÃ±o R, Navarrete I, 
Osorio E.

Author information:
(1)Sociedad Chilena de Climaterio, Santiago, Chile. juan.blumel@redsalud.gov.cl

The health of many women is affected in the climacteric period, either by 
symptoms that deteriorate their life quality (QL) or by chronic diseases that 
affect their life expectancy. Therefore, it is mandatory to evaluate these two 
aspects, having as core objectives for any eventual therapeutic intervention, 
the improvement of QL and the reduction of cardiovascular risk and fractures. To 
evaluate QL it is mandatory to follow structured interviews that weigh 
systematically climacteric symptoms such as the Menopause Rating Scale (MRS). 
The paradigm of the metabolic syndrome constitutes a suitable frame to evaluate 
cardiovascular risk. Age, a low body weight, a history of fractures and steroid 
use are risk factors for fractures. A proper evaluation will allow the detection 
of patients with a low QL or a high risk for chronic disease, therefore 
identifying those women who require therapy. The clinical management should 
include recommendations to improve lifestyles, increase physical activity, 
avoidance of smoking and to follow a low calorie diet rich in vegetables and 
fruits. Hormonal therapy is the most efficient treatment to improve the QL and 
its risk is minimized when it is used in low doses or by the transdermal route. 
Tibolone is an alternative, especially useful in patients with mood disorders 
and sexual dysfunction. Vaginal estrogens are also a good option, when 
urogenital symptoms are the main complaint. Some antidepressants can be an 
effective therapy in patients with vasomotor symptoms who are not willing or 
cannot use estrogens. The effectiveness of any alternative therapy for 
menopausal symptoms has not been demonstrated. Dyslipidemia, hypertension, 
obesity and insulin resistance should be managed according to guidelines. 
Calcium and vitamin D have positive effects on bone density and certain tendency 
to reduce vertebral fractures. Bisphosphonates decrease the risk of vertebral 
fractures.

PMID: 20668822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Curr Microbiol. 2011 Feb;62(2):358-65. doi: 10.1007/s00284-010-9714-2. Epub
2010  Jul 29.

A Cry1Ac toxin variant generated by directed evolution has enhanced toxicity 
against Lepidopteran insects.

Shan S(1), Zhang Y, Ding X, Hu S, Sun Y, Yu Z, Liu S, Zhu Z, Xia L.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Microbial Molecular Biology of Hunan Province, College of 
Life Science, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410081, People's Republic of 
China.

Cry1Ac insecticidal crystal proteins produced by Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) 
have become an important natural biological agent for the control of 
lepidopteran insects. In this study, a cry1Ac toxin gene from Bacillus 
thuringiensis 4.0718 was modified by using error-prone PCR, staggered extension 
process (StEP) shuffling combined with Red/ET homologous recombination to 
investigate the insecticidal activity of delta-endotoxin Cry1Ac. A Cry1Ac toxin 
variant (designated as T524N) screened by insect bioassay showed increased 
insecticidal activity against Spodoptera exigua larvae while its original 
insecticidal activity against Helicoverpa armigera larvae was still retained. 
The mutant toxin T524N had one amino acid substitution at position 524 relative 
to the original Cry1Ac toxin, and it can accumulate within the acrystalliferous 
strain Cry-B and form more but a little smaller bipyramidal crystals than the 
original Cry1Ac toxin. Analysis of theoretical molecular models of mutant and 
original Cry1Ac proteins indicated that the mutation T524N located in the loop 
linking Î²16-Î²17 of domain III in Cry1Ac toxin happens in the fourth conserved 
block which is an arginine-rich region to form a highly hydrophobic surface 
involving interaction with receptor molecules. This study showed for the first 
time that single mutation T524N played an essential role in the insecticidal 
activity. This finding provides the biological evidence of the structural 
function of domain III in insecticidal activity of the Cry1Ac toxin, which 
probably leads to a deep understanding between the interaction of toxic proteins 
and receptor macromolecules.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-010-9714-2
PMID: 20669019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Int J Artif Organs. 2010 Jun;33(6):329-38.

Therapy with nucleos(t)ide analogues: current role in dialysis patients.

Fabrizi F(1), Messa P, Dixit V, Martin P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Maggiore Hospital, IRCCS Foundation, Milan, Italy. 
fabrizi@policlinico.mi.it

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection persists among patients undergoing maintenance 
dialysis in the industrialized world. Knowledge of the epidemiology and the 
natural history of HBV infection in dialysis patients has markedly improved but 
antiviral therapy for hepatitis B remains a significant challenge in this 
population. A variety of therapeutic options are now available for the treatment 
of chronic hepatitis B, including potent new nucleos(t)ide analogues, along with 
standard and pegylated interferon. The most extensive experience in the dialysis 
population has been with lamivudine. Although several questions about lamivudine 
use in dialysis patients remain unanswered, it has shown potent antiviral 
activity: the range of clearance of HBV viremia (HBV DNA) from serum is between 
56% and 100% in dialysis patients with chronic hepatitis B. Its major limitation 
is emergence of resistance. Tolerance to conventional or pegylated interferon 
monotherapy is poor in the dialysis population. There is limited data regarding 
adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) therapy in the dialysis population, while very little 
information is available about the use of the newer agents, tenofovir and 
entecavir, in patients with renal failure. It is recommended that dialysis 
patients with persistent HBsAg seropositive status be evaluated for antiviral 
treatment and that the decision to treat be based on the potential benefits and 
risks of therapy including life expectancy, candidacy for kidney 
transplantation, and comorbidities. Hepatitis B is relatively uncommon among 
patients undergoing dialysis in developed countries and this clearly hampers 
prospective clinical trials aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of therapy 
with nucleos(t)ide analogues for chronic hepatitis B in this population.

PMID: 20669138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2010 Jan;194(1):25-36; discussion 36-8.

[From bariatric to metabolic surgery: 15 years experience in a French university 
hospital].

[Article in French]

Chevallier JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Chirurgie gÃ©nÃ©rale, digestive et oncologique, HÃ´pital EuropÃ©en Georges 
Pompidou, 20, rue Leblanc, 75908 Paris cedex 15. 
jean-marc.chevallier@egp.aphp.fr

Morbid obesity has a major impact on both the duration and quality of life. It 
can be accompanied by vascular, respiratory, joint and metabolic complications 
(such as type 2 diabetes) which can shorten life expectancy, and some cancers 
are also more frequent in obese individuals. Recent demographic data show an 
increase in the prevalence of obesity in France, as in most western countries, 
particularly in young subjects. Morbid obesity (BMI > 40 kg/m2) now affects more 
than 1.1% of the population. Medical and dietary management has shown only 
modest and transient efficacy, and surgical procedures have thus been developed, 
notably using the laparoscopic approach. Four procedures are generally used: two 
are restrictive (gastric banding, LAGB; and sleeve gastrectomy, SG), one is 
mixed (gastric bypass, GBP) and one is malabsorptive (biliopancreatic diversion, 
BPD). Unfortunately, the more effective the procedure, the higher the risk. With 
LAGB, SG, GBP and BPD, excess weight loss at two years is respectively 49%, 56%, 
63.3% and 73.3%, and the mortality rates are 0.1%, 0.15%, 0.5% and 0.8%. 
Bariatric surgery appears to reduce overall mortality by 40% at ten years (56% 
for myocardial infarction, 92% for diabetes, and 60% for cancer). It has 
recently emerged that bariatric surgery can also improve metabolic diseases like 
type 2 diabetes, independently of excess weight loss. Bariatric surgery is 
cost-effective after 3.5 years. This may not be the ideal treatment for obesity, 
but it is likely to remain the most effective treatment for another 10 to 20 
years. Cooperation between physicians and surgeons, based on official guidelines 
like those published by the French authorities, should allow more morbidly obese 
patients to benefit from the excellent results of this surgery, which improves 
both quality and duration of life and lessens the economic and social costs of 
obesity.

PMID: 20669557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2009 Oct;193(7):1601-14; discussion 1614-7.

[A population health metric for France].

[Article in French]

Spira A(1), Lapostolle A.

Author information:
(1)SantÃ© Publique, Hopital du Kremlin BicÃªtre, 82 rue du GÃ©nÃ©ral Leclerc, 94276 
Le Kremlin BicÃªtre cedex. alfred.spira@iresp.net

Population health metrics have been developed to help to determine public health 
priorities. Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) is an index used to express 
the number of years of good health lost due to a given disorder, based not only 
on mortality but also on the duration and sequelae. Based on the DALYs index, 
the leading health disorders in France, regardless of gender, are 
neuropsychiatric disorders (7.8%) and depression (11.8%).

PMID: 20669639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 Jun;24(7):608-13.

Adjuvant chemotherapy of breast cancer in the older patient.

Taylor WC(1), Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)UNC Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 
27599, USA.

Comment in
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 Jun;24(7):621, 624.
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 Jun;24(7):624-5.

Although increasing age is the major risk factor for breast cancer incidence and 
mortality, when adjusted for disease stage, breast cancer mortality is similar 
among younger vs older patients. Importantly, about 90% of older women with 
breast cancer present with early-stage disease. The biologic characteristics of 
breast tumors in older patients suggest they would derive benefit from adjuvant 
therapy, particularly endocrine therapy, but older women are still frequently 
undertreated, resulting in poorer survival. Studies suggest that focusing on 
comorbidity rather than "chronologic age" as a surrogate for life-expectancy is 
a key aspect of adjuvant decision-making for older patients. Morbidity and 
mortality from cancer in vulnerable patients with poorer health can be 
accurately predicted by the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA), which 
evaluates comorbidities, functional status, cognition, social support, 
psychological state, nutritional status, and polypharmacy. Use of the CGA and 
newer versions of this tool can lead to interventions that maintain function and 
improve quality of life in older patients with breast cancer. This article will 
discuss considerations regarding adjuvant therapy for older breast cancer 
patients with a variety of tumor types.

PMID: 20669797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 Jun;24(7):621, 624.

The challenge of selecting adjuvant breast cancer chemotherapy for older 
patients.

Downey L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona, College of Medicine, Arizona Cancer Center, Tucson, 
Arizona, USA.

Comment on
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 Jun;24(7):608-13.

PMID: 20669798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 Jun;24(7):624-5.

Optimizing treatment benefit in older breast cancer patients.

Lichtman SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York, USA.

Comment on
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2010 Jun;24(7):608-13.

PMID: 20669799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Mol Ecol. 2010 Aug;19(16):3444-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04750.x.
Epub  2010 Jul 28.

MHC-dependent survival in a wild population: evidence for hidden genetic 
benefits gained through extra-pair fertilizations.

Brouwer L(1), Barr I, van de Pol M, Burke T, Komdeur J, Richardson DS.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Conservation, School of Biological 
Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.

Females should prefer to be fertilized by males that increase the genetic 
quality of their offspring. In vertebrates, genes of the major 
histocompatibility complex (MHC) play a key role in the acquired immune response 
and have been shown to affect mating preferences. They are therefore important 
candidates for the link between mate choice and indirect genetic benefits. 
Higher MHC diversity may be advantageous because this allows a wider range of 
pathogens to be detected and combated. Furthermore, individuals harbouring rare 
MHC alleles might better resist pathogen variants that have evolved to evade 
common MHC alleles. In the Seychelles warbler, females paired with low 
MHC-diversity males elevate the MHC diversity of their offspring to levels 
comparable to the population mean by gaining extra-pair fertilizations. Here, we 
investigate whether increased MHC diversity results in higher life expectancy 
and whether there are any additional benefits of extra-pair fertilizations. Our 
10-year study found a positive association between MHC diversity and juvenile 
survival, but no additional survival advantage of extra-pair fertilizations. In 
addition, offspring with a specific allele (Ase-ua4) had a fivefold longer life 
expectancy than offspring without this allele. Consequently, the interacting 
effects of sexual selection and pathogen-mediated viability selection appear to 
be important for maintaining MHC variation in the Seychelles warbler. Our study 
supports the prediction that MHC-dependent extra-pair fertilizations result in 
genetic benefits for offspring in natural populations. However, such genetic 
benefits might be hidden and not necessarily apparent in the widely used fitness 
comparison of extra- and within-pair offspring.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04750.x
PMID: 20670363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. BMC Public Health. 2010 Jul 29;10:446. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-446.

Regional variations in and correlates of disability-free life expectancy among 
older adults in China.

Liu J(1), Chen G, Chi I, Wu J, Pei L, Song X, Zhang L, Pang L, Han Y, Zheng X.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Research, Peking University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Considerable socioeconomic and health inequalities have been 
reported in China. However, because of a lack of appropriate data, limited 
research has been conducted on variations in disability-free life expectancy 
(DFLE) among older adults. This study aimed to use the most up-to-date 
disability survey data to explore geographical variations in DFLE at age 60 in 
China and to identify the socioeconomic and health care factors that partially 
account for these variations.
METHODS: This study used 2006 mortality data extrapolated from the 1990 and 2000 
Census and disability data from a national disability survey conducted in 2006. 
Disability was performance based and was diagnosed by trained physicians. DFLE 
was calculated by region using the Sullivan method. Multiple linear regression 
models by gender were conducted to explore correlates of DFLE.
RESULTS: DFLE at age 60 varied widely by region, from 11.2 to 20.8 years in 
2006. Per capita gross domestic product, proportion of urban residents, and 
access to health care were the primary factors associated with geographical 
variations in DFLE.
CONCLUSION: The pattern of differences in DFLE by region mirrors the pattern of 
regional economic development in China. Countermeasures to decrease regional 
differences in DFLE include accelerating regional economic development and 
improving health care distribution.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-446
PMCID: PMC2920279
PMID: 20670431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Med Decis Making. 2011 Mar-Apr;31(2):338-53. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10373146.
Epub  2010 Jul 29.

Are medical outcomes fungible? A survey of voters, medical administrators, and 
physicians.

DeKay ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. 
dekay.3@osu.edu

PURPOSE: Many analyses of medical treatments entail the aggregation of health 
outcomes over patients and over time. This study assessed the extent to which 
voters, medical administrators, and physicians consider such aggregation to be 
appropriate. In addition, the study assessed whether this perceived fungibility 
of outcomes moderates the difference between treatment recommendations in 
single-play decisions (for 1 patient on 1 occasion) and those in repeated-play 
decisions (for several patients or for 1 patient on several occasions).
METHODS: In a 5-contact mail survey of registered voters (n = 182, response rate 
= 52%), medical administrators (n = 123, 35%), and physicians (n = 95, 26%), 
respondents rated the fungibility of outcomes and indicated their preferred 
action in 1 of 3 scenarios involving changes in life expectancy or the duration 
of pain. They evaluated a risky, positive-expected-value treatment in a 
single-play decision, then in a repeated-play decision, and again in a 
repeated-play decision after they viewed the distribution of possible net 
outcomes.
RESULTS: Perceived fungibility varied substantially across respondents in all 
groups, with voters giving higher fungibility ratings than administrators or 
physicians. Respondents' strength-of-preference ratings for treatment increased 
from single-play to repeated-play decisions, but these increases were moderated 
by perceived fungibility, as expected. When outcomes were considered fungible, 
treatments were much more attractive in repeated-play decisions than in 
single-play decisions. When outcomes were considered nonfungible, there was 
essentially no difference between single- and repeated-play decisions.
CONCLUSIONS: Recommendations regarding risky medical treatments with positive 
expectations appear to depend, in part, on opinions about whether it is 
reasonable to aggregate medical outcomes over patients or over time. Such 
opinions vary widely among physicians and others.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10373146
PMID: 20671208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Adv Mind Body Med. 2005 Fall-Winter;21(3-4):50-4.

A new approach to testing the effects of group psychological therapy on length 
of life in patients with metastatic cancers.

Cunningham AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute and the Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario.

PMID: 20671348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2010 Aug;51(4):467-74.

Ring-stents supported infrarenal aortic endograft fits well in abdominal aortic 
aneurysms with tortuous anatomy.

Freyrie A(1), Testi G, Faggioli GL, Gargiulo M, Giovanetti F, Serra C, Stella A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Bologna, Policlinico S 
Orsola-Malpighi, Bologna, Italy. antonio.freyrie@unibo.it

AIM: Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) with severe angulation of the neck or of 
the iliac arteries are often unsuitable for endovascular repair with 
conventional endografts. We evaluated the performance of a ring-stent abdominal 
endograft (AnacondaTM Vascutek, Terumo, Scotland) in a consecutive series of 
infrarenal AAA.
METHODS: Preoperative, procedural and follow-up data of patients treated with 
AnacondaTM endograft between September 2005 and September 2009 were 
prospectively enrolled. Patients were divided in Group A (proximal neck angle > 
or =60 degrees or iliac arteries angle > or =90 degrees ) and Group B (all 
others). Main endpoints were technical and clinical success (primary and 
assisted) and late outcome in the two groups. Results were compared by 
Kaplan-Meier life table analysis with log-rank test (Mantel-Cox).
RESULTS: One hundred twenty-seven patients, with a mean age of 73.5+/-6.9 years, 
have been included in this series. Mean aneurysm size was 56.7+/-10.4 mm. A 
severe angulation of the proximal aortic neck or/and of the iliac arteries was 
present in 44 cases (Group A), absent in 83 cases (Group B). The mean follow-up 
was 18.2+/-16.3 months. Overall primary technical success was achieved in 100% 
of the patients. At twenty-four months survival, primary and assisted clinical 
success were 94.2%, 88.2% and 91.3% in Group A and 80.3%, 83.7% and 95.2% in 
Group B respectively. No significant differences were found between the two 
groups. The only factor significantly associated with decreased survival was 
preoperative renal insufficiency. Iliac limb patency 24 months after EVAR in 
severely and non-severely angulated iliac axis was 96.7% and 98.1% respectively, 
with no significant difference between the groups. Only one proximal type I 
endoleak was detected in a patient with severe angulation of proximal aortic 
neck. No significant correlation between proximal type I endoleak and severe 
neck angulation was found.
CONCLUSION: Aneurysms with severe neck or iliac arteries angulation can be 
treated by a ring-stent endograft with results similar to those of AAA with more 
favourable anatomy.

PMID: 20671630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2010 Dec 1;55(6):1153-9. doi: 10.1002/pbc.22708.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of coagulation testing prior to tonsillectomy and 
adenoidectomy in children.

Cooper JD(1), Smith KJ, Ritchey AK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology/BMT, Department of Pediatrics, Children's 
Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15224, USA. 
james.cooper@chp.edu

Comment in
    Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2010 Dec 1;55(6):1045-6.

BACKGROUND: The American Society of Pediatric Otolaryngology recommends 
pre-operative coagulation testing only when indicated by history or physical 
exam. Nevertheless, many surgeons test all children scheduled for tonsillectomy 
and/or adenoidectomy (T&A). Studies of pre-operative screening have had 
conflicting results. A decision analysis model was constructed to address the 
costs and health outcome states of pre-operative screening strategies in 
children.
PROCEDURE: A 14-day Markov model evaluated three strategies: (1) test all 
children for coagulation disorders; (2) test only those children with a 
pertinent history; and (3) perform no pre-operative testing. A literature search 
and a review of national databases estimated probabilities, costs, and utility 
data. Parameters then were varied widely in sensitivity analyses. Using a 
societal perspective and a cycle length of 1 day, we compared the strategies 
based on total costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Total costs for the strategies were $3,200 for testing all children, 
$3,083 for testing only those with a history finding, and $3,077 for not 
testing. Total utilities were 0.02579, 0.02654, and 0.02659 QALYs, respectively. 
Cost-effectiveness ratios were most sensitive to variation in the cost of 
post-operative care and the probability of post-operative bleeding. The strategy 
of not testing was dominant in all sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that not performing preoperative testing is 
the most cost-effective strategy. This was persistent in sensitivity analyses, 
indicating that the model was robust. These data may be helpful to institutions 
and organizations to formulate policies regarding pre-operative coagulation for 
children without previous diagnoses of bleeding disorders.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.22708
PMID: 20672369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Rural Remote Health. 2010 Jul-Sep;10(3):1314. Epub 2010 Jul 23.

Mental health collaborative care: a synopsis of the Rural and Isolated Toolkit.

Haggarty JM(1), Ryan-Nicholls KD, Jarva JA.

Author information:
(1)St Joseph's Health Centre, E Thunder Bay, Ontoario, Canada . 
haggartyj@tbh.net

CONTEXT: For those residing in rural and isolated parts of Canada, obtaining 
quality mental health services is often an unfulfilled wish. Rural and isolated 
communities share the problems of health status and access to care. Health 
deteriorates the greater the distance from urban areas in the following 
dimensions: lower life expectancy than the national average; higher rates of 
disability, violence, poisoning, suicide and accidental death; and more mental 
and physical health issues than those who live in urban areas. The Canadian 
Collaborative Mental Health Initiative (CCMHI) was formed to provide, in part, a 
practical means to encouraging collaborations between primary care and mental 
health providers.
ISSUE: This article provides a synopsis of the Rural and Isolated (R&I) toolkit 
developed through the CCMHI, which was intended to develop primary care and 
mental health collaboration in such areas. This toolkit was developed using 
focus group discussions with mental health providers, and surveys completed by 
providers and consumers.
LESSONS LEARNED: Key messages from the consultative process included: access to 
services; interprofessional education; consumer involvement; research and 
evaluation; models of collaboration; ethics; funding; and policy and 
legislation. A flow diagram was devised to detail the synthesis and practical 
application of the toolkit, as well as the challenges, key questions and 
principles of implementation associated with collaborative care initiatives in 
