stratégies initiales de prise en charge des patients canadiens présentant des 
symptômes digestifs hauts non investigués.
OBJECTIF : Évaluer le rapport coût:efficacité de six approches thérapeutiques 
aux symptômes gastro-intestinaux hauts non investigués, dans le contexte 
canadien.
MÉTHODE : La présente étude a analysé les données de quatre essais randomisés 
visant à évaluer des populations homogènes et complémentaires de patients 
canadiens présentant des symptômes gastro-intestinaux hauts non investigués et 
des pronostics comparables. Le nombre de mois sans symptômes, les années de vie 
ajustées par la qualité (AVAQ) et les coûts directs en dollars canadiens de deux 
approches thérapeutiques établies à partir de l’outil de prise en charge 
clinique CanDys (pour Canadian Dyspepsia Working Group) et de quatre autres 
stratégies (deux agents antisécréteurs empiriques et deux endoscopies promptes) 
ont été analysés et comparés. Les auteurs ont inclus dans un modèle de Markov 
les données de prévalence, les probabilités, l’utilisation des services et les 
coûts, tandis que l’analyse de sensibilité a reposé sur des simulations de Monte 
Carlo. Les rapports coût:efficacité incrémentiels et les courbes d’acceptabilité 
coût:efficacité ont ainsi été déterminés.
RÉSULTATS : L’oméprazole en traitement empirique coûte 226 $ par AVAQ (49 $ par 
mois sans symptômes) par patient. L’oméprazole et les approches endoscopiques 
selon l’indice CanDys ont été plus efficaces mais plus coûteux que l’oméprazole 
en traitement empirique. Les options à base d’anti-H2 ont été moins efficaces 
que les approches par inhibiteurs de la pompe à protons (IPP). Aucune différence 
significative n’a été observée pour les rapports coût:efficacité incrémentiels. 
À mesure que les seuils de volonté de payer (VDP) croissaient de 226 $ à 24 000 
$ par AVAQ, les approches antisécrétrices empiriques étaient moins susceptibles 
d’être le choix le plus économique, l’oméprazole selon l’indice CanDys devenant 
progressivement une option plus probable. Pour les valeurs de VDP allant de 24 
000 $ à 70 000 $ par AVAQ, l’éventail le plus cliniquement pertinent, 
l’oméprazole selon l’indice CanDys a été la stratégie la plus rentable (dans 32 
% à 46 % des cas), la stratégie endoscopie prompte-IPP étant préférée avec les 
valeurs de VDP plus élevées.
CONCLUSIONS : Bien qu’aucune stratégie ne se soit démarquée comme la plus 
rentable, l’oméprazole selon l’indice CanDys pourrait être la stratégie de choix 
pour un éventail cliniquement pertinent d’hypothèses de VDP dans la prise en 
charge initiale des patients canadiens souffrant de dyspepsie non investiguée.

DOI: 10.1155/2010/379583
PMCID: PMC2947002
PMID: 20711528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2010 Jul-Aug;86(4):261-70. doi: 10.2223/JPED.1988.

Spinal muscular atrophy: diagnosis, treatment and future prospects.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Baioni MT(1), Ambiel CR.

Author information:
(1)Fisiologia Humana, Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Maringá, PR, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To report on recent genetic and molecular discoveries and on future 
prospects for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), thereby helping 
healthcare professionals to make a quick diagnosis and provide appropriate and 
timely therapeutic support.
SOURCES: Information was collected from scientific articles published in the 
last 2 decades, retrieved from the databases SciELO, PubMed, and MEDLINE.
SUMMARY OF THE FINDINGS: SMA is a neurodegenerative disorder with autosomal 
recessive genetic heredity. It is caused by a homozygous deletion of the 
survival motor neuron (SMN1) gene. This genetic alteration results in reduced 
levels of the SMN protein, leading to degeneration of alpha motor neurons of the 
spinal cord and resulting in muscle weakness and progressive symmetrical 
proximal paralysis. It is known that basic nutritional and respiratory care and 
physiotherapy can be important to delaying disease progression and prolonging 
patients' lives. Several drugs are being tested, some new, others, such as 
valproic acid, already known; paralysis can be halted, but not reversed.
CONCLUSIONS: SMA is a difficult to diagnose disorder, because it is little 
known, and treatment is uncertain. Pharmacological treatments and supportive 
therapies are not yet able to recover motor neurons or muscle cells that have 
already been lost, but are aimed at delaying disease progression and improving 
patients' residual muscle function, as well as offering better quality of life 
and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2223/JPED.1988
PMID: 20711542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Biogerontology. 2011 Apr;12(2):109-17. doi: 10.1007/s10522-010-9298-z. Epub
2010  Aug 15.

Life extension and the position of the hormetic zone depends on sex and genetic 
background in Drosophila melanogaster.

Sarup P(1), Loeschcke V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Ecology and Genetics, Aarhus Centre for 
Environmental Stress Research, Aarhus University, Denmark. 
pernille.sarup@biology.au.dk

Hormesis, the beneficial effect of a mild stress, has been proposed as a means 
to prolong the period of healthy ageing as it can increase the average lifespan 
of a cohort. However, if we want to use hormesis therapeutically it is important 
that the treatment is beneficial on the individual level and not just on average 
at the population level. Long lived lines have been shown not to benefit from a, 
in other lines, hormesis inducing heat treatment in Drosophila melanogaster, D. 
buzzatii and mice. Also in many experiments hormesis has been reported to occur 
in one sex only, usually males but not in females. Here we investigated the 
interaction between the hormetic response and genetic background, sex and 
duration of a mild heat stress in D. melanogaster, using three replicate lines 
that have been selected for increased longevity and their respective control 
lines. We found that genetic background influences the position of the hormetic 
zone. The implication of this result could be that in a genetically diverse 
populations a treatment that is life prolonging in one individual could be life 
shortening in other individuals. However, we did find a hormetic response in all 
combinations of line and sex in at least one of the experiments which suggests 
that if it is possible to identify the optimal hormetic dose individually 
hormesis might become a therapeutic treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-010-9298-z
PMID: 20711813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Psychol Rep. 2010 Jun;106(3):949-63. doi: 10.2466/pr0.106.3.949-963.

Economic and cultural correlates of subjective wellbeing in countries using data 
from the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD).

Gaygisiz E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Middle East Technical University, 06531 Ankara, 
Turkey. esma@metu.edu.tr

The correlations among indicators of objective well-being, cultural dimensions, 
and subjective well-being were investigated using Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) data from 35 countries. The subjective 
well-being measures included life satisfaction as well as six positive and six 
negative indexes of experience. Positive and negative experience scores were 
subjected to principal component analysis, and two positive experience 
components (labeled as "positive experiences" and "time management") and two 
negative experience components (labeled as "pain, worry, and sadness" and "anger 
and boredom") were extracted. Objective well-being included economic indicators, 
education, and health. The cultural variables included Hofstede's and Schwartz's 
cultural dimensions, national Big Five personality scores, and national IQs. 
High life satisfaction was positively related to Gross Domestic Product, life 
expectancy, education, individualism, affective and intellectual autonomy, 
egalitarianism, and conscientiousness, whereas low life satisfaction was related 
to unemployment, unequal income distribution, power distance, masculinity 
uncertainty avoidance, embeddedness, hierarchy, and neuroticism.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.106.3.949-963
PMID: 20712184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2011 Jan 15;14(2):203-5. doi: 10.1089/ars.2010.3227.
Epub  2010 Oct 12.

Prospects and perspectives in primate aging research.

Anderson RM(1), Colman RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA. rmanderson5@wisc.edu

As improvements in standard of living and advances in medicine have resulted in 
greater life expectancy, the relative proportion of elderly has continued to 
increase in human populations across the globe. The primary goal of aging 
research is to gain a better understanding of the series of events that lead to 
increased frailty and disease vulnerability with age. The direct study of human 
aging is an active area of research; however, the opportunity to conduct 
mechanistic studies and gain insights into the underlying biology is limited. In 
this special forum issue of Antioxidant & Redox Signaling, we present a 
selection of articles and reviews that illustrate some of the recent advances in 
primate aging research. The overarching goal of this work is to underscore the 
potential for mechanistic discovery that is presented by nonhuman primate 
models, and to promote studies that validate novel approaches and techniques in 
nonhuman primates before their adaptation for human health care.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2010.3227
PMCID: PMC3000241
PMID: 20712396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Orbit. 2010 Dec;29(6):341-2. doi: 10.3109/01676830.2010.485718. Epub 2010
Aug  16.

Globe preservation surgery for a paranasal tumor with orbital extension.

Kumar A(1), Hsuan JD.

Author information:
(1)Aintree University Hospital, NHS Foundation Trust, Department of 
Ophthalmology, Walton Hospital, Liverpool, UK. anupmakumar@hotmail.com

Orbital exenteration is a rare radical procedure used for the treatment of 
locally invasive or potentially life threatening orbital tumors. The procedure 
results in significant visual and psychosocial disability. Recently there has 
been a shift toward a subtotal extenteration with maximum preservation of 
orbital tissue and globe in appropriate cases. We describe the management 
dilemma of a patient with orbital extension of a frontal sinus squamous cell 
carcinoma. The patient underwent combined craniofacial and transnasal 
macroscopic excision with globe preservation. Traditional approach for a sinus 
tumor that has invaded the orbit would be an exenteration. The favorable outcome 
of the case reported here raises the possibility of considering this approach 
more frequently.

DOI: 10.3109/01676830.2010.485718
PMID: 20712512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2010 Sep;6(9):1139-50. doi: 
10.1517/17425255.2010.510833.

Vicriviroc, a new CC-chemokine receptor 5 inhibitor for treatment of HIV: 
properties, promises and challenges.

Lenz JC(1), Rockstroh JK.

Author information:
(1)University of Bonn, Medicine I, Sigmund-Freudstr. 25, Bonn 53105, Germany.

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Although HIV has become a treatable disease with near 
to normal life expectancy, the quest for the development of better tolerated 
drugs with simple dosing schedules and a high barrier to the emergence of drug 
resistance remains. Vicriviroc is a small-molecule chemokine receptor antagonist 
that inhibits the binding of R5-tropic HIV-1 to host cells at the CC-chemokine 
receptor 5 (CCR5) co-receptor, thus, preventing viral entry. CCR5 inhibitors are 
believed to possibly decrease inflammation from the immune system and thereby 
offer additional properties further to their antiretroviral efficacy.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: This review is based on a PubMed search covering 
the years 2005 - 2010 for pharmacokinetic, pharmacological and clinical data of 
vicriviroc.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: In this review, the pharmacokinetic, pharmacological 
and clinical data of vicriviroc are presented. Moreover, the potential role of 
vicriviroc in the growing HIV armamentarium is discussed.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: Vicriviroc is being developed to be administered in 
combination with a ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor for patients with 
R5-tropic virus. Early clinical trials have established the safety of vicriviroc 
in both treatment-naive and -experienced R5-tropic HIV-1 infected individuals. 
Recently, two Phase III clinical trials in treatment-experienced patients failed 
to prove its superiority over available HIV medications. Phase III trials for 
treatment-naive patients are still under planning. Clearly, more favorable study 
results are needed to move vicriviroc into drug registration and approval.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2010.510833
PMID: 20712521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):519-27. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00699.x.

The transferability of valuing lost productivity across jurisdictions. 
differences between national pharmacoeconomic guidelines.

Knies S(1), Severens JL, Ament AJ, Evers SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Organization, Policy and Economics (HOPE), School for 
Public Health and Primary Care (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. s.knies@beoz.unimaas.nl

For at least two decades, there has been an intense debate on whether and how to 
include the value of lost productivity in economic evaluations. This debate is 
often reflected in pharmacoeconomic guidelines, which have been developed to 
indicate the methods and requirements for the design, execution, and reporting 
of economic evaluations in a particular country.
OBJECTIVE: To examine what various national pharmacoeconomic guidelines 
recommend regarding the identification, measurement, and valuation of lost 
productivity.
METHODS: First, the theoretical framework on how lost productivity can be 
identified, measured, and valued is described. Second, a summary sheet has been 
used to identify various pharmacoeconomic guidelines recommendations regarding 
the value of lost productivity.
RESULTS: Twenty-two of the 30 guidelines identified recommend performing 
economic evaluations using the societal perspective. Nevertheless, even if the 
societal perspective is recommended, it is not always clear how the value of 
lost productivity should be taken into account. Most guidelines recommend 
including the costs of absenteeism from paid and/or unpaid work. In addition, 
although no agreement exists on how lost productivity should be valued, none of 
the guidelines recommended using the US panel approach for the valuation of lost 
productivity.
DISCUSSION: The different recommendations hinder international transferability 
of the value of lost productivity. This difficulty is mainly caused by different 
recommendations regarding identification and valuation. These differences result 
from the debate and lack of consensus on including the value of lost 
productivity losses in economic evaluations. It will become easier to transfer 
data across jurisdictions if all data are reported transparently.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00699.x
PMID: 20712601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):528-34. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00704.x.

A cost-utility analysis of microwave endometrial ablation versus thermal balloon 
endometrial ablation.

Kilonzo MM(1), Sambrook AM, Cook JA, Campbell MK, Cooper KG.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK. 
m.kilonzo@abdn.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of microwave endometrial ablation 
(MEA) and thermal balloon endometrial ablation (TBALL) for heavy menstrual 
bleeding.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis performed alongside a pragmatic RCT in a single 
hospital within Scotland on women undergoing MEA and TBALL. Resource use data 
collected from all 314 trial participants were combined with study specific and 
published unit cost data to estimate a cost per patient. Quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were based on EQ-5D responses at baseline, 2 weeks, 6 and 12 
months. The incremental cost per QALY of TBALL versus MEA was calculated and 
bootstrapping was performed to determine the likelihood that a treatment would 
be cost-effective at different threshold values for society's willingness to pay 
for a QALY.
RESULTS: The mean cost of TBALL (10 years equipment life, 100 uses annually) of 
reusable equipment was pound181 (95% confidence interval [CI] pound70-434) 
greater than MEA. There were no statistically significant differences between 
the total nonhealth costs and health benefits of the two arms. On average, MEA 
provided more QALYs after adjusting for baseline EQ-5D score (0.017; 95% CI 
0.017-0.051). In terms of mean incremental cost per QALY, MEA was, on average, 
dominant (less costly and at least as effective) and there was over a 90% chance 
that MEA would be considered cost-effective at a pound20,000 threshold of a cost 
per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: MEA is likely to be more cost-effective than TBALL at 1 year. 
Further longer-term follow-up is, however, needed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00704.x
PMID: 20712602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):636-42. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00705.x.

A valuation of infusion therapy to preserve islet function in type 1 diabetes.

Lloyd A(1), Swinburn P, Boye KS, Curtis B, Sarpong E, Goldsmith K, Bode B, 
Aronoff S.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Ltd, Oxford, UK. andrew.lloyd@oxfordoutcomes.com

OBJECTIVES: Recent advances in monoclonal antibody therapies offer the prospect 
of the prevention or amelioration of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). The 
present study was designed to capture UK (English and Scottish) preference 
weights for the process of undergoing infusion therapy and the likely outcomes 
of treatment for children (8-12 years), adolescents (13-17 years), and adults.
METHODS: Vignette descriptions of T1DM health states (describing infusion 
therapy and reduced insulin need) were constructed based on qualitative 
interviews with people with type 1 diabetes, clinicians and findings from a 
literature review. Utilities were elicited for each health state using the 
standard gamble interview from the general public, adults with diabetes, and 
parents of children with diabetes. Participants also completed other outcome 
measures-EQ-5D, Pediatric Quality-of-Life Inventory, and Hyperglycemic Fear 
Survey. Mixed model analyses were used to estimate the influence on utility of 
different participant characteristics.
RESULTS: Self-report questionnaires indicated the nature and degree of impact of 
T1DM on adults', adolescents', and children's quality of life, with adolescents 
reporting the lowest health-related quality-of-life profile of all groups. The 
mixed model analysis indicated that each health state was a significant 
predictor of utility and the T1DM participants gave significantly higher 
utilities compared with the general public (P = 0.02).
CONCLUSION: The general public and people with diabetes (or parents of children 
with diabetes) all place significant value on reducing the need for insulin 
injections; also, all recognize the disutility of undergoing infusion cycles. 
These values are suitable for supporting estimates of cost-effectiveness of 
infusion therapies in T1DM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00705.x
PMID: 20712603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2010 Aug;1202:231-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05548.x.

Redefining thalassemia as a hypercoagulable state.

Cappellini MD(1), Motta I, Musallam KM, Taher AT.

Author information:
(1)Universitá di Milano, Policlinico Foundation IRCCS, Milan, Italy. 
maria.cappellini@unimi.it

As the life expectancy of beta-thalassemia patients has markedly improved over 
the last decade, several new complications are being recognized. The presence of 
a high incidence of thromboembolic events, mainly in thalassemia intermedia 
patients, has led to the identification of a hypercoagulable state in 
thalassemia. In this review, the molecular and cellular mechanisms leading to 
hypercoagulability in thalassemia are highlighted, and the current clinical 
experience is summarized. Recommendations for thrombosis prophylaxis are also 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05548.x
PMID: 20712798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Biosoc Sci. 2010 Nov;42(6):815-26. doi: 10.1017/S0021932010000404. Epub
2010  Aug 16.

A state-level analysis of life expectancy in Mexico (1990-2006).

Peláez O(1), Guijarro M, Arias M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economía, Universidad de Cantabria, Spain.

Using a methodology similar to that proposed by Barro & Sala-i-Martin (1995), it 
is found that, in the period 1990-2006, there was strong convergence among 
state-level life expectancy series, but a distancing in life expectancy in the 
Mexican Republic compared with more developed countries, especially during the 
new millennium. The interior convergence had taken place at the expense of the 
exterior; that is, not so much as a result of an improvement in living 
conditions in the poorer states, but more due to the low performance of the 
richer states. The causes of this situation are explained using the concept of 
'epidemiological transition'.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932010000404
PMID: 20712916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Prev Chronic Dis. 2010 Sep;7(5):A109. Epub 2010 Aug 15.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of efforts to reduce risk of type 2 diabetes and 
cardiovascular disease in southwestern Pennsylvania, 2005-2007.

Smith KJ(1), Hsu HE, Roberts MS, Kramer MK, Orchard TJ, Piatt GA, Seidel MC, 
Zgibor JC, Bryce CL.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.

INTRODUCTION: We assessed the cost-effectiveness of a community-based, modified 
Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) designed to reduce risk factors for type 2 
diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: We developed a Markov decision model to compare costs and effectiveness 
of a modified DPP intervention with usual care during a 3-year period. Input 
parameters included costs and outcomes from 2 projects that implemented a 
community-based modified DPP for participants with metabolic syndrome, and from 
other sources. The model discounted future costs and benefits by 3% annually.
RESULTS: At 12 months, usual care reduced relative risk of metabolic syndrome by 
12.1%. A modified DPP intervention reduced relative risk by 16.2% and yielded 
life expectancy gains of 0.01 quality-adjusted life-years (3.67 days) at an 
incremental cost of $34.50 ($3,420 per quality-adjusted life-year gained). In 
1-way sensitivity analyses, results were sensitive to probabilities that risk 
factors would be reduced with or without a modified DPP and that patients would 
enroll in an intervention, undergo testing, and acquire diabetes with or without 
an intervention if they were risk-factor-positive. Results were also sensitive 
to utilities for risk-factor-positive patients. In probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, the intervention cost less than $20,000 per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained in approximately 78% of model iterations.
CONCLUSION: We consider the modified DPP delivered in community and primary care 
settings a sound investment.

PMCID: PMC2938403
PMID: 20712936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Vaccine. 2010 Oct 4;28(42):6858-67. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.08.030. Epub
 2010 Aug 14.

Impact of vaccinating boys and men against HPV in the United States.

Elbasha EH(1), Dasbach EJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economic Statistics, Biostatistics and Research Decision Sciences, 
Merck Research Laboratories, Merck & Co., Inc., UG1C-60, PO Box 1000, North 
Wales, PA 19454-1099, USA. elamin elbasha@merck.com

We assessed the public health impact and value of vaccinating boys and men with 
the quadrivalent HPV vaccine in the United States. We used mathematical 
population models, accounting for both the direct and indirect protective 
effects of vaccination. Inputs for the models were obtained from public data 
sources, published literature, and analyses of clinical trial data. Compared 
with a program of vaccinating girls and women only, including boys and men 9-26 
years of age would further decrease the cumulative mean number of genital wart 
cases, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 2/3 cases, cancer cases, and cancer 
deaths by 5,146,000, 708,000, 116,000, and 40,000, respectively, within 100 
years. The mean cost-effectiveness ratio (2008 US $) of this strategy was 
$25,700 (range: 13,600-48,800) per QALY gained if vaccination protects against 
all HPV 6/11/16/18-associated diseases, and $69,000 (range: 37,700-152,300)/QALY 
if it only protects against diseases currently in the vaccine indication. 
Vaccinating boys and men age 9-26 against all HPV 6/11/16/18-associated diseases 
provides substantial public health benefits and is cost-effective at commonly 
cited thresholds.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.08.030
PMID: 20713101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Otolaryngol Clin North Am. 2010 Oct;43(5):1113-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.otc.2010.05.006.

Early vestibular physical therapy rehabilitation for Meniere's disease.

Gottshall KR(1), Topp SG, Hoffer ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Naval Medical Center San Diego, Spatial 
Orientation Center, 34520 Bob Wilson Drive, Suite 200, San Diego, CA 92134, USA.

Meniere disease includes symptoms of fluctuating hearing loss, tinnitus, and 
subjective ear fullness accompanied by episodic vertigo. Along with these 
symptoms, patients with chronic Meniere often develop symptoms of disequilibrium 
and unsteadiness that extend beyond the episodic attacks and contribute to the 
total disability and reduced quality of life attributed to the disease. 
Vestibular rehabilitation physical therapy has been used only after vestibular 
ablation has stabilized the vestibular loss, and for patients stably managed on 
medical therapy who exhibit no fluctuation in symptoms. This article reviews the 
data substantiating current applications of vestibular therapy, including 
improvements in subjective and objective balance outcome measures, and explores 
the possible extension of vestibular rehabilitation to treatment of patients 
exhibiting continued fluctuating vestibular loss.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otc.2010.05.006
PMID: 20713248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2010 Nov;9(11):2508-16. doi: 10.1074/mcp.M110.001826.
Epub  2010 Aug 16.

Proteome-wide alterations in Escherichia coli translation rates upon 
anaerobiosis.

Kramer G(1), Sprenger RR, Nessen MA, Roseboom W, Speijer D, de Jong L, de Mattos 
MJ, Back J, de Koster CG.

Author information:
(1)Mass Spectrometry of Biomacromoleculesm, Swammerdam Institute for Life 
Sciences, Universiteit van Amsterdam, Kruislaan 904, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Enzyme reprofiling in bacteria during adaptation from one environmental 
condition to another may be regulated by both transcription and translation. 
However, little is known about the contribution of translational regulation. 
Recently, we have developed a pulse labeling method using the methionine analog 
azidohomoalanine to determine the relative amounts of proteins synthesized by 
Escherichia coli in a brief time frame upon a change in environmental 
conditions. Here we present an extension of our analytical strategy, which 
entails measuring changes in total protein levels on the same time scale as new 
protein synthesis. This allows identification of stable and labile proteins and 
demonstrates that altered levels of most newly synthesized proteins are the 
result of a change in translation rate rather than degradation rate. With this 
extended strategy, average relative translation rates for 10 min immediately 
after a switch from aerobiosis to anaerobiosis were determined. The majority of 
proteins with increased synthesis rates upon an anaerobic switch are involved in 
glycolysis and pathways aimed at preventing glycolysis grinding to a halt by a 
cellular redox imbalance. Our method can be used to compare relative translation 
rates with relative mRNA levels at the same time. Discrepancies between these 
parameters may reveal genes whose expression is regulated by translation rather 
than by transcription. This may help unravel molecular mechanism underlying 
changes in translation rates, e.g. mediated by small regulatory RNAs.

DOI: 10.1074/mcp.M110.001826
PMCID: PMC2984242
PMID: 20713451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Clin Cancer Res. 2010 Oct 1;16(19):4688-94. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1811.  Epub 2010 Aug 16.

New strategies in hepatocellular carcinoma: genomic prognostic markers.

Villanueva A(1), Hoshida Y, Toffanin S, Lachenmayer A, Alsinet C, Savic R, 
Cornella H, Llovet JM.

Author information:
(1)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques Agusto Pi i Sunyer, Hospital Clinic, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Accurate prognosis prediction in oncology is critical. In patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), unlike most solid tumors, the coexistence of two 
life-threatening conditions, cancer and cirrhosis, makes prognostic assessments 
difficult. Despite the usefulness of clinical staging systems for HCC in routine 
clinical decision making (e.g., Barcelona-Clinic Liver Cancer algorithm), there 
is still a need to refine and complement outcome predictions. Recent data 
suggest the ability of gene signatures from the tumor (e.g., EpCAM signature) 
and adjacent tissue (e.g., poor-survival signature) to predict outcome in HCC 
(either recurrence or overall survival), although independent external 
validation is still required. In addition, novel information is being produced 
by alternative genomic sources such as microRNA (miRNA; e.g., miR-26a) or 
epigenomics, areas in which promising preliminary data are thoroughly explored. 
Prognostic models need to contemplate the impact of liver dysfunction and risk 
of subsequent de novo tumors in a patient's life expectancy. The challenge for 
the future is to precisely depict genomic predictors (e.g., gene signatures, 
miRNA, or epigenetic biomarkers) at each stage of the disease and their specific 
influence to determine patient prognosis.

©2010 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1811
PMCID: PMC3395071
PMID: 20713493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2010 Nov;65(11):1145-56. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glq147. Epub 2010 Aug 16.

Vasoprotective effects of life span-extending peripubertal GH replacement in 
Lewis dwarf rats.

Ungvari Z(1), Gautam T, Koncz P, Henthorn JC, Pinto JT, Ballabh P, Yan H, 
Mitschelen M, Farley J, Sonntag WE, Csiszar A.

Author information:
(1)Reynolds Oklahoma Center on Aging, Donald W. Reynolds Department of Geriatric 
Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK 
73104, USA.

In humans, growth hormone deficiency (GHD) and low circulating levels of 
insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) significantly increase the risk for 
cerebrovascular disease. Genetic growth hormone (GH)/IGF-1 deficiency in Lewis 
dwarf rats significantly increases the incidence of late-life strokes, similar 
to the effects of GHD in elderly humans. Peripubertal treatment of Lewis dwarf 
rats with GH delays the occurrence of late-life stroke, which results in a 
significant extension of life span. The present study was designed to 
characterize the vascular effects of life span-extending peripubertal GH 
replacement in Lewis dwarf rats. Here, we report, based on measurements of 
dihydroethidium fluorescence, tissue isoprostane, GSH, and ascorbate content, 
that peripubertal GH/IGF-1 deficiency in Lewis dwarf rats increases vascular 
oxidative stress, which is prevented by GH replacement. Peripubertal GHD did not 
alter superoxide dismutase or catalase activities in the aorta nor the 
expression of Cu-Zn-SOD, Mn-SOD, and catalase in the cerebral arteries of dwarf 
rats. In contrast, cerebrovascular expression of glutathione peroxidase 1 was 
significantly decreased in dwarf vessels, and this effect was reversed by GH 
treatment. Peripubertal GHD significantly decreases expression of the Nrf2 
target genes NQO1 and GCLC in the cerebral arteries, whereas it does not affect 
expression and activity of endothelial nitric oxide synthase and vascular 
expression of IGF-1, IGF-binding proteins, and inflammatory markers (tumor 
necrosis factor alpha, interluekin-6, interluekin-1β, inducible nitric oxide 
synthase, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, and monocyte chemotactic 
protein-1). In conclusion, peripubertal GH/IGF-1 deficiency confers 
pro-oxidative cellular effects, which likely promote an adverse functional and 
structural phenotype in the vasculature, and results in accelerated vascular 
impairments later in life.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glq147
PMCID: PMC2954243
PMID: 20713653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2010 Sep-Oct;25(5):420-7. doi:
10.1097/JCN.0b013e3181d25458.

Human responses to pulmonary arterial hypertension: review of the literature.

Matura LA(1), Carroll DL.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA. l.matura@neu.edu

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a devastating disease characterized by 
elevation in pulmonary artery pressures causing progressive symptoms that lead 
to functional decline and poor quality of life. There are multiple causes of PAH 
including familial disease, connective tissue disease, and HIV. The estimated 
life expectancy is 4 years after onset of symptoms and approximately 6 to 7 
years with PAH treatment. Much of the current research has focused on 
pharmacological treatments to improve functional status and decrease mortality. 
A comprehensive literature review was conducted using the CINAHL, PubMed, and 
MEDLINE to identify and synthesize current studies on human responses to PAH 
organized by emotional responses and physical functioning. Eight studies 
fulfilled the search criteria. Patients with PAH were learning to cope and live 
with uncertainty and treatment. Pulmonary arterial hypertension produced the 
emotional responses of anxiety, depression, and panic attacks along with 
impairments in cognition and memory as well as reductions in physical 
functioning.

DOI: 10.1097/JCN.0b013e3181d25458
PMID: 20714240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Molecules. 2010 Aug 16;15(8):5658-70. doi: 10.3390/molecules15085658.

Antioxidant tannins from stem bark and fine root of Casuarina equisetifolia.

Zhang SJ(1), Lin YM, Zhou HC, Wei SD, Lin GH, Ye GF.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Coastal and Wetland 
Ecosystems, School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.

Structures of condensed tannins from the stem bark and fine root of Casuarina 
equisetifolia were identified using MALDI-TOF MS and HPLC analyses. The 
condensed tannins from stem bark and fine root consist predominantly of 
procyanidin combined with prodelphinidin and propelargonidin, and epicatechin is 
the main extension unit. The condensed tannins had different polymer chain 
lengths, varying from trimers to tridecamer for stem bark and to pentadecamer 
for fine root. The antioxidant activities were measured by two models: 
1,1-diphenyl-2- picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity and ferric 
reducing/ antioxidant power (FRAP). The condensed tannins extracted from C. 
equisetifolia showed very good DPPH radical scavenging activity and ferric 
reducing/ antioxidant power, suggesting that these extracts may be considered as 
new sources of natural antioxidants for food and nutraceutical products.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules15085658
PMCID: PMC6257733
PMID: 20714319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Dev Neurobiol. 2010 Dec;70(14):929-42. doi: 10.1002/dneu.20833.

JNK phosphorylates Ser332 of doublecortin and regulates its function in neurite 
extension and neuronal migration.

Jin J(1), Suzuki H, Hirai S, Mikoshiba K, Ohshima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science and Medical Bio-Science, Waseda University, Tokyo 
162-8480, Japan.

Doublecortin (DCX) is expressed in young neurons and functions as a 
microtubule-associated protein. DCX is essential for neuronal migration because 
humans with mutations in the DCX gene exhibit cortical lamination defects known 
as lissencephaly in males and subcortical laminar heterotopia (or double cortex 
syndrome) in females. Phosphorylation of DCX alters its affinity for tubulin and 
may modulate neurite extension and neuronal migration. Previous in vitro 
phosphorylation experiments revealed that cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) 
phosphorylates multiple sites of DCX, including Ser332, (S332). However, 
phosphorylation at only Ser297 has been shown in vivo. In the present study, we 
examined phosphorylation of S332 of DCX in the Cdk5-/- mouse brain and results 
found, unexpectedly, indicate an increased DCX phosphorylation at S332. We found 
that JNK, not Cdk5, phosphorylates DCX at S332 in vivo. To examine the 
physiological significance of S332 phosphorylation of DCX in neuronal cells, we 
transfected cells with either GFP, GFP-DCX-WT, or GFP-DCX-S332A and analyzed 
neurite extension and migration. Introduction of GFP-DCX-WT enhanced neurite 
extension and migration. These effects of DCX introduction were suppressed when 
we used GFP-DCX-S332A. Treatment of neurons with JNK inhibitor increased the 
amount of DCX that bound to tubulin. Interestingly, amount of DCX that bound to 
tubulin decreased in Cdk5-/- brain homogenates, which indicates that 
phosphorylation of DCX by JNK is critical for the regulation of DCX binding to 
tubulin. These results suggest the physiological importance of phosphorylation 
of DCX for its function.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.20833
PMID: 20715151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Paediatr Anaesth. 2010 Sep;20(9):812-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1460-9592.2010.03352.x.

Anesthetic management of children with in situ Berlin Heart EXCOR.

Pratap JN(1), Wilmshurst S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, UK. 
jnpratap@doctors.org.uk

Comment in
    Paediatr Anaesth. 2010 Dec;20(12):1137-8.

Modern mechanical devices can support children with severely impaired cardiac 
function until a donor heart is found for transplantation or native function 
recovers. Pediatric heart transplantation offers a good chance of survival with 
a high quality of life to individuals with limited life expectancy and/or severe 
limitation to daily activities, but many die on the transplant list or are not 
listed because of a shortage of donor organs. In recent cohorts, there is better 
outcome when ventricular assist devices (VADs) rather than extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation are used as a 'bridge' to transplantation. 
Anesthesiologists working in centers where VADs are available may increasingly 
be asked to provide anesthesia to children with such devices in situ, including 
procedures outside the cardiac surgical operating room. The Berlin Heart EXCOR 
device is a VAD system with increasing popularity in pediatric practice and has 
system components available in sizes suitable even for neonates. 
Postimplantation considerations include hemodynamics, thromboembolic 
complications and their prevention by anticoagulation, antimicrobial therapy, 
and the rehabilitation and mobilization of recipients. VAD-specific emergencies 
must be recognized and managed appropriately by anesthesiologists looking after 
Berlin Heart recipients. These include malignant dysrhythmias, sudden loss of 
VAD output, air or clot embolism, and sudden cyanosis. Provision of anesthesia 
for patients with an in situ Berlin Heart requires attention to particular 
considerations in preoperative assessment, induction, maintenance, and 
postoperative care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9592.2010.03352.x
PMID: 20716073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Sep;64(10):1458. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02411.x.

Iron and sex difference in longevity.

Mascitelli L, Pezzetta F, Goldstein MR.

Comment on
    Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Mar;64(4):465-74.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02411.x
PMID: 20716153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Biol Chem. 2010 Oct 15;285(42):32522-8. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.155432. Epub
 2010 Aug 17.

Metabolic depression and increased reactive oxygen species production by 
isolated mitochondria at moderately lower temperatures.

Ali SS(1), Marcondes MC, Bajova H, Dugan LL, Conti B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, 
California 92093, USA. ssali@ucsd.edu

Temperature (T) reduction increases lifespan, but the mechanisms are not 
understood. Because reactive oxygen species (ROS) contribute to aging, we 
hypothesized that lowering T might decrease mitochondrial ROS production. We 
measured respiratory response and ROS production in isolated mitochondria at 32, 
35, and 37 °C. Lowering T decreased the rates of resting (state 4) and 
phosphorylating (state 3) respiration phases. Surprisingly, this respiratory 
slowdown was associated with an increase of ROS production and hydrogen peroxide 
release and with elevation of the mitochondrial membrane potential, ΔΨ(m). We 
also found that at lower T mitochondria produced more carbon-centered lipid 
radicals, a species known to activate uncoupling proteins. These data indicate 
that reduced mitochondrial ROS production is not one of the mechanisms mediating 
lifespan extension at lower T. They suggest instead that increased ROS leakage 
may mediate mitochondrial responses to hypothermia.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.155432
PMCID: PMC2952254
PMID: 20716522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Europace. 2010 Nov;12(11):1550-7. doi: 10.1093/europace/euq306. Epub 2010
Aug  16.

Impact of routine transoesophageal echocardiography on safety, outcomes, and 
cost of pulmonary vein ablation: inferences drawn from a decision analysis 
model.

Gula LJ(1), Massel D, Redfearn DP, Krahn AD, Yee R, Klein GJ, Skanes AC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada. lgula@uwo.ca

Comment in
    Europace. 2010 Nov;12(11):1514-5.

AIMS: The practice of routine vs. selective transoesophageal echocardiography 
(TEE) surveillance for left atrial appendage or intracavitary thrombus prior to 
pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) varies widely as evidence to guide this decision 
in terms of important clinical outcomes is lacking.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We constructed a decision analysis model to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of routine TEE for detection of left atrial thrombus vs. no 
TEE. The model incorporated health outcomes and costs. Markov methodology was 
used to follow patients as they transition through varying health states. We 
examined a hypothetical cohort of patients with symptomatic atrial fibrillation 
suitable for PVI, and expected outcomes were modelled over a period of 2 years. 
Simulated patients (SPs) undergoing a strategy of a routine TEE experienced 
significantly fewer transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) [OR 0.28 (0.22-0.37)], and 
debilitating strokes [OR 0.23 (0.15-0.33)]. Routine TEE led to an absolute risk 
reduction for stroke of 1.2% [number needed to treat (NNT) 84 (79-100)] and 1.9% 
for TIA [NNT 53 (48-59)]. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for 
TEE was $226,608 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The ICER for TEE among 
high-risk SPs, with pre-existing clot in the left atrium, was $2232 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Decision analysis and microsimulation suggest that routine use of 
TEE in an unselected population prior to PVI lowers the incidence of cerebral 
thrombo-embolic events but with considerable cost per QALY.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/euq306
PMID: 20716548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Ann Pharmacother. 2010 Sep;44(9):1422-9. doi: 10.1345/aph.1P218. Epub 2010
Aug  17.

Milnacipran for treatment of fibromyalgia.

Kyle JA(1), Dugan BD, Testerman KK.

Author information:
(1)Samford University, Birmingham, AL, USA. jakyle@samford.edu

OBJECTIVE: To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of 
milnacipran and evaluate relevant clinical trial data.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, and Google 
Scholar searches (1966-June 2010) were conducted using the key words 
fibromyalgia, milnacipran, and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. 
Searches were limited to articles published in English.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All available English-language articles of 
human studies were evaluated. One pharmacokinetic study reviewed included animal 
data. References cited in identified articles were used for additional 
evaluation.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Milnacipran is a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor 
with a 3-fold increased selectivity for norepinephrine compared to serotonin. It 
is well absorbed with 85-90% bioavailability. Maximum concentrations are 
achieved 2-4 hours after administration. Milnacipran does not undergo cytochrome 
P450 metabolism and has a half-life of 6-8 hours. Fifty-five percent of each 
dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. Dose adjustment is needed in patients 
with an estimated creatinine clearance of <30 mL/min. Clinical trials indicated 
that twice-daily dosing at 100 mg/day or 200 mg/day was superior to single-daily 
dosing. Studies further established the effectiveness of both doses in the 
treatment of fibromyalgia pain utilizing patient self-reported pain scores, as 
well as on a visual analog scale, Patient Global Impression of Change scale, and 
the Short-Form 36 Physical Component Summary. A 6-month extension trial, which 
evaluated patients continued on milnacipran for up to 1 year, demonstrated 
continued pain relief. The most common adverse drug reaction associated with 
milnacipran was nausea, which was reduced with slow-dose titration and 
administration with food.
CONCLUSIONS: Milnacipran is an effective treatment option for patients with 
fibromyalgia. More head-to-head clinical trials are necessary to assess its 
ultimate place in therapy.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1P218
PMID: 20716692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2010 Oct;17(5):478-85. doi: 
10.1097/MED.0b013e32833dde87.

HIV protease inhibitors and obesity.

Anuurad E(1), Bremer A, Berglund L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA 
95817, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review the current scientific literature and recent 
clinical trials on HIV protease inhibitors and their potential role in the 
pathogenesis of lipodystrophy and metabolic disorders.
RECENT FINDINGS: HIV protease inhibitor treatment may affect the normal 
stimulatory effect of insulin on glucose and fat storage. Further, chronic 
inflammation from HIV infection and protease inhibitor treatment trigger 
cellular homeostatic stress responses with adverse effects on intermediary 
metabolism. The physiologic outcome is such that total adipocyte storage 
capacity is decreased, and the remaining adipocytes resist further fat storage. 
This process leads to a pathologic cycle of lipodystrophy and lipotoxicity, a 
proatherogenic lipid profile, and a clinical phenotype of increased central body 
fat distribution similar to the metabolic syndrome.
SUMMARY: Protease inhibitors are a key component of antiretroviral therapy and 
have dramatically improved the life expectancy of HIV-infected individuals. 
However, they are also associated with abnormalities in glucose/lipid metabolism 
and body fat distribution. Further studies are needed to better define the 
pathogenesis of protease inhibitor-associated metabolic and body fat changes and 
their potential treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/MED.0b013e32833dde87
PMCID: PMC3076638
PMID: 20717021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Immunol Invest. 2010;39(8):820-32. doi: 10.3109/08820139.2010.498492. Epub
2010  Aug 18.

The clinical significance of OPG/sRANKL ratio in thalassemia patients suffering 
from osteopenia or osteoporosis in Egyptian patients.

Salah H(1), Atfy M, Fathy A, Atfy M, Mansor H, Saeed J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Zagazig Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig, 
Egypt.

Osteopenia and osteoporosis are considered major health problems in patients 
suffering from thalassemia due to increased life expectancy of those patients. 
Osteoprotegerin (OPG) and receptor activator of NF-kappa-B ligand (RANKL) have 
been recently implicated in the pathogenesis of various types of osteoporosis. 
The aim of this study is to evaluate the role of serum OPG/RANKL ratio in 
patients suffering from thalassemia complicated with osteoporosis. Serum OPG and 
RANKL were measured in thalassemia patients and 20 healthy control subjects, 
using ELISA methods. Stastistically, the results demonstrate lower OPG and 
OPG/RANKL ratio in patients suffering from thalassemia with documented 
osteopenia or osteoporosis in comparison with control group and patients 
suffering from thalassemia without osteopenia or osteoporosis. OPG/RANKL ratio 
could become a promising rapid and cheap screening marker for osteopenia or 
osteoporosis in patients suffering from thalassemia. Furthermore, OPG may become 
a therapeutic option in treatment of osteoporosis of various etiologies 
including thalassemia.

DOI: 10.3109/08820139.2010.498492
PMID: 20718662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Sex Health. 2010 Sep;7(3):352-8. doi: 10.1071/SH10018.

A brief history of economic evaluation for human papillomavirus vaccination 
policy.

Beutels P(1), Jit M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modeling Infectious Diseases, 
University of Antwerp, Antwerp 2610, Belgium. philippe.beutels@ua.ac.be

BACKGROUND: This commentary discusses key issues for health economic evaluation 
and modelling, applied to human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine programs.
METHODS: We outline some of the specific features of HPV disease and 
vaccination, and associated policy questions in light of a literature search for 
economic evaluations on HPV vaccination.
RESULTS: We observe that some policy questions could not be reliably addressed 
by many of the 43 published economic evaluations we found. Despite this, policy 
making on universal HPV vaccination followed shortly after vaccine licensure in 
many developed countries, so the role economic evaluation played in informing 
these decisions (pre-dating 2008) seems to have been fairly limited. For more 
recent decisions, however, economic evaluation is likely to have been used more 
widely and more intensively.
CONCLUSIONS: We expect future cost-effectiveness analyses to be more 
instrumental in policy making regarding vaccines covering more HPV types, 
therapeutic HPV vaccines, and novel diagnostic tests for biomarkers of HPV 
infection and disease integrated with cervical screening programs.

DOI: 10.1071/SH10018
PMID: 20719227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

