respectively. The survival advantage for weaned patients in the middle age group 
was less evident when the 1-year survivors were compared. The mean survival time 
of younger patients with diaphragm pacing was 1.8 years longer than those on 
mechanical ventilation (P=0.142). The variables with significant hazard ratios 
were any comorbidity (3.07); mechanical ventilation on discharge (2.26); and 
older age at injury, (3.1).
CONCLUSIONS: The survival time for patients with high tetraplegia on long-term 
ventilation compares with other datasets and older patients have a 
proportionately greater loss in life expectancy. Self-ventilating patients with 
tetraplegia remain at considerable risk from respiratory death and consideration 
needs to be given to more effective preventative measures.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2010.131
PMID: 20938446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Ann Hematol. 2011 Jan;90(1):1-10. doi: 10.1007/s00277-010-1091-1. Epub 2010
Oct  12.

Iron overload in MDS-pathophysiology, diagnosis, and complications.

Gattermann N(1), Rachmilewitz EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Clinical Immunology, 
Heinrich-Heine-University, Mooren Str. 5, 40225, Düsseldorf, Germany. 
gattermann@med.uni-duesseldorf.de

Many patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) become dependent on blood 
transfusions and develop transfusional iron overload, which is exacerbated by 
increased absorption of dietary iron in response to ineffective erythropoiesis. 
However, it is uncertain whether there is an association among iron 
accumulation, clinical complications, and decreased likelihood of survival in 
MDS patients. Here, we discuss our current understanding of the effects of 
transfusion dependency and iron overload in MDS, indicate our knowledge gaps, 
and suggest that particular emphasis should be placed on further characterizing 
the role of redox-active forms of labile iron, which may be as important as the 
total iron burden.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-010-1091-1
PMID: 20938663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2011 Jul-Sep;26(3):246-63. doi: 10.1002/hpm.1068.
 Epub 2010 Oct 10.

Projecting health-care expenditure for Switzerland: further evidence against the 
'red-herring' hypothesis.

Colombier C(1), Weber W.

Author information:
(1)Economic Analysis and Policy Advice, Federal Finance Administration, 
Bundesgasse 3, Bern, Switzerland. carsten.colombier@efv.admin.ch

This paper contributes to the debate about the impact of population ageing on 
health-care (HC) expenditure. Some health economists claim that the commonly 
presumed impact of population ageing is a 'red herring'. Based on empirical 
studies, these authors conclude that proximity to death and not age per se 
matters. In projecting HC expenditure for Switzerland, the present study 
provides evidence that proximity to death is of marginal importance. These 
projections suggest that population ageing is still the most important 
age-related cost-driver. Moreover, morbidity outweighs mortality as a factor of 
HC expenditure. But most vital are non-demographic drivers such as medical 
progress. Thus, from the point of view of cost-benefit analysis one should even 
ignore costs of dying when projecting HC expenditure. Moreover, regressions 
might overestimate proximity to death due to systematic biases. Finally, 
ever-increasing HC expenditure can be slowed down by appropriate policy 
measures.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.1068
PMID: 20939027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Ginecol Obstet Mex. 2010 Aug;78(8):423-40.

[Study and treatment of women in the climacteric and postmenopause. Point of 
view of the Mexican Association for the Study of Climacteric 2010].

[Article in Spanish]

Asociación Mexicana para el Estudio del Climaterio en el año 2010.

The life expectancy of Mexican women has increased to 80 years and thus the 
possibility of disease. This requires health professionals to remain current in 
the skills needed to provide optimal service. He has spent more than a century 
since released the first report of effective treatment to reduce or eliminate 
the symptoms of restorative therapy hypoestrogenism since then, much progress 
has been made in the study of the physiology and pathophysiology, there have 
been many observational studies and randomized controlled have shown that 
treatment have prolonged the life expectancy of women. The prescription of 
hormone replacement therapy should be based on knowledge of the clinical history 
of each patient, the mechanism of action of each drug, the risk-benefit of this 
and the real need to indicate them. The purpose of publicizing this "point 
view", derived from the opinions of a group of scholars in this area of medical 
knowledge, is put at the disposal of the Mexican medical community an update on 
all aspects of care of women in the climacteric stage.

PMID: 20939251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Prescrire Int. 2010 Aug;19(108):162-3.

Cancer risk in diabetic patients treated with insulin glargine?

[No authors listed]

Insulin glargine was the first long-acting human insulin analogue to be 
authorised in the European Union, in the early 2000s, for the treatment of 
diabetes mellitus. It has about a 6-fold increase in affinity for the 
insulinlike growth factor 1 (EGF-1) receptor compared with natural human 
insulin, which may stimulate tumour development. Four European epidemiological 
studies published in 2009 examined the risk of cancer in diabetic patients 
treated with insulin glargine. One of these studies, conducted in Germany, 
showed a statistically significant dose-dependent increase in the risk of 
cancer. Two other studies, one in Scotland and the other in Sweden, showed an 
increase in the risk of breast cancer. The fourth study, conducted in the UK, 
showed a lower risk of cancer in patients on metformin. This evidence is 
inconclusive, notably because these studies did not take confounding factors 
into account. Nevertheless, the results tend to be similar and consistent with 
certain pharmacological mechanisms. In practice, pending more solid evidence, 
these epidemiological results should be taken into account when weighing the 
risk-benefit balance of insulin therapy for diabetic patients, on a case by case 
basis, depending on the type of diabetes, patient history, life expectancy, and 
the possible practical advantages of insulin glargine.

PMID: 20939447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. JAMA. 2010 Oct 13;304(14):1584-91. doi: 10.1001/jama.2010.1449.

Cancer screening among patients with advanced cancer.

Sima CS(1), Panageas KS, Schrag D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, 307 E 63rd St, Second Floor, New York, NY 10065, USA. simac@mskcc.org

CONTEXT: Cancer screening has been integrated into routine primary care but does 
not benefit patients with limited life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the extent to which patients with advanced cancer 
continue to be screened for new cancers.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Utilization of cancer screening procedures 
(mammography, Papanicolaou test, prostate-specific antigen [PSA], and lower 
gastrointestinal [GI] endoscopy) was assessed in 87,736 fee-for-service Medicare 
enrollees aged 65 years or older diagnosed with advanced lung, colorectal, 
pancreatic, gastroesophageal, or breast cancer between 1998 and 2005, and 
reported to one of the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) tumor 
registries. Participants were followed up until death or December 31, 2007, 
whichever came first. A group of 87,307 Medicare enrollees without cancer were 
individually matched by age, sex, race, and SEER registry to patients with 
cancer and observed over the same period to evaluate screening rates in context. 
Demographic and clinical characteristics associated with screening were also 
investigated.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: For each cancer screening test, utilization rates were 
defined as the percentage of patients who were screened following the diagnosis 
of an incurable cancer.
RESULTS: Among women following advanced cancer diagnosis compared with controls, 
at least 1 screening mammogram was received by 8.9% (95% confidence interval 
[CI], 8.6%-9.1%) vs 22.0% (95% CI, 21.7%-22.5%); Papanicolaou test screening was 
received by 5.8% (95% CI, 5.6%-6.1%) vs 12.5% (95% CI, 12.2%-12.8%). Among men 
following advanced cancer diagnosis compared with controls, PSA test was 
received by 15.0% (95% CI, 14.7%-15.3%) vs 27.2% (95% CI, 26.8%-27.6%). For all 
patients following advanced diagnosis compared with controls, lower GI endoscopy 
was received by 1.7% (95% CI, 1.6%-1.8%) vs 4.7% (95% CI, 4.6%-4.9%). Screening 
was more frequent among patients with a recent history of screening (16.2% [95% 
CI, 15.4%-16.9%] of these patients had mammography, 14.7% [95% CI, 13.7%-15.6%] 
had a Papanicolaou test, 23.3% [95% CI, 22.6%-24.0%] had a PSA test, and 6.1% 
[95% CI, 5.2%-7.0%] had lower GI endoscopy).
CONCLUSION: A sizeable proportion of patients with advanced cancer continue to 
undergo cancer screening tests that do not have a meaningful likelihood of 
providing benefit.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2010.1449
PMCID: PMC3728828
PMID: 20940384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2010 Oct;31(5):519-20. doi:
10.1055/s-0030-1265892.  Epub 2010 Oct 12.

Impact of aging on the lung.

Meyer KC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Allergy, Pulmonary, and Critical Care 
Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, 600 
Highland Ave., Madison, WI 53792, USA. kcm@medicine.wisc.edu

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1265892
PMID: 20941652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Int J Neurosci. 2010 Nov;120(11):731-4. doi: 10.3109/00207454.2010.513461.

Vocal cord paresis and probable X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease with novel 
GJB1 mutation.

Li Q(1), Chen M, Liu K, Lin X, Chui D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical University, 
Guilin, China. qhli1999@yahoo.com.cn

We describe a Chinese family with a probable X-linked dominant inherited 
disorder characterized by early adult onset of distal muscle weakness and 
amyotrophy of four limbs, followed by severe disability of feet. The life 
expectancy of some patients is decreased due to severe respiratory failure 
associated with bilateral vocal cord involvement. The electrophysiological data 
showed predominantly the evidence of demyelization. Genetic analysis revealed 
that all tested patients from the family carried a novel c.186C>G mutation in 
the GJB1 gene, resulting in substitution of Serine for Arginine in the first 
extracellular loop domain of Cx32 protein. To our knowledge, this is the first 
time to describe this GJB1 mutation, which is associated with the rather severe 
phenotype of the X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. The present report also 
provides further evidence for heterogeneity among the X-linked 
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.

DOI: 10.3109/00207454.2010.513461
PMID: 20942588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. N Engl J Med. 2010 Oct 14;363(16):1495-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1007168.

Legislating against use of cost-effectiveness information.

Neumann PJ(1), Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, USA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp1007168
PMID: 20942664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2010 Aug;58(8):1607-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2010.02992.x.

Does Helicobacter pylori affect life expectancy?

Salles N, Letenneur L, Buissonnière A, Jehanno A, Dartigues JF, Mégraud F.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2010.02992.x
PMID: 20942884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2010;74(10):2011-5. doi: 10.1271/bbb.100250. Epub
 2010 Oct 7.

Extension of the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans by the use of electrolyzed 
reduced water.

Yan H(1), Tian H, Kinjo T, Hamasaki T, Tomimatsu K, Nakamichi N, Teruya K, 
Kabayama S, Shirahata S.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Systems Life Sciences, Kyushu University, Higashi-ku, 
Fukuoka, Japan.

Electrolyzed reduced water (ERW) has attracted much attention because of its 
therapeutic effects. In the present study, a new culture medium, which we 
designated Water medium, was developed to elucidate the effects of ERW on the 
lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans. Wild-type C. elegans had a significantly 
shorter lifespan in Water medium than in conventional S medium. However, worms 
cultured in ERW-Water medium exhibited a significantly extended lifespan (from 
11% to 41%) compared with worms cultured in ultrapure water-Water medium. There 
was no difference between the lifespans of worms cultured in ERW-S medium and 
ultrapure water-S medium. Nematodes cultured in ultrapure water-Water medium 
showed significantly higher levels of reactive oxygen species than those 
cultured in ultrapure water-S medium. Moreover, ERW-Water medium significantly 
reduced the ROS accumulation induced in the worms by paraquat, suggesting that 
ERW-Water medium extends the longevity of nematodes at least partly by 
scavenging ROS.

DOI: 10.1271/bbb.100250
PMID: 20944427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2011 Mar;469(3):708-14. doi:
10.1007/s11999-010-1617-9.

Patients with cervical metastasis and neoplastic pachymeningitis are less likely 
to improve neurologically after surgery.

Denaro V(1), Di Martino A, Papalia R, Denaro L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Campus Bio-Medico 
of Rome, Via Alvaro del Portillo, 200-00128, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Although many patients with cervical spine metastases are treated 
surgically, it is unknown whether certain subsets achieve better pain relief and 
improvement of neurologic function.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: (1) Does tumor removal with reconstruction improve the 
neurologic status? (2) Is any subset of patients more likely to have 
neurological recovery from palliative surgery? (3) What is the rate of 
surgery-related complications?
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 46 patients who had palliative 
surgery for metastatic solid tumor metastases of the subaxial cervical spine. 
Indications were neurologic deficits, life expectancy longer than 6 months, and 
a Karnofsky Performance Score of 50 to 70. Surgery consisted of anterior tumor 
removal and reconstruction with titanium mesh cages and/or tricortical iliac 
crest allograft plus plate fixation or of a combined procedure with adjunctive 
posterior decompression and stabilization with lateral mass screw fixation. 
Postoperatively, neurologic Frankel score grade, Karnofsky Performance Score, 
and complications were recorded.
RESULTS: Five of 18 nonambulatory patients (Frankel B/C) became ambulatory again 
(Frankel D). No patients were Frankel Grade E preoperatively, whereas 19 of 46 
gained Frankel Grade E after surgery. One patient worsened neurologically and 
died 4 months after surgery. Patients with neoplastic pachymeningitis had less 
neurologic recovery than those without. Complications included dural tears 
(three), wound infection (three), and tumor relapse at the same or an adjacent 
level (four). Two of these four patients had instrumentation-related 
complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery improved clinical and neurologic status according to 
Frankel score; patients with neoplastic pachymeningitis are likely to experience 
less neurologic recovery.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a 
complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-010-1617-9
PMCID: PMC3032852
PMID: 20945121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Conn Med. 2010 Sep;74(8):493-500.

Broken necks: a study of their present-day mortality and other pertinent data. 
1960.

Munro D.

PMID: 20945712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Health Law Can. 2010 Aug;31(1):1-36.

Immortal beloved and beleaguered: towards the integration of the law on assisted 
death and the scientific pursuit of life extension.

Shariff MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Law, University of Manitoba.

PMID: 20945731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Med Life. 2010 Jul-Sep;3(3):314-9.

Locally aggressive colonic and rectal cancer--clinical trial.

Radu V(1), Ion D, Serban MB, Ciurea M.

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Clinic, Memorial Hospital, Bucharest, Romania. 
victoradu@gmail.com

This clinical trial studies local invasions from primary colonic and rectal 
cancers (urinary bladder, abdominal wall, small bowls, uterus, vagina, stomach, 
bile tract, spleen, duodenum, pancreas, ureters, kidneys), with or without 
undiscovered metastasis. Primary locally aggressive colonic and rectal cancers 
include tumors that are staged T4N1-2Mx on diagnosis, and are often associated 
with a lower prognosis than earlier cancers. Diagnosis is based on thorough 
clinical evaluation, imagistic support: abdominal XR with contrast (barium 
enema), colonoscopy, abdominal and pelvic ultrasound exam, endoscopic 
endolumenal ultrasound exam, abdominal and pelvic CT/IRM with contrast 
(administrated both orally and intravenously), PET Scan, and intra-operatory 
confirmation. The primary symptom was pain. Locally aggressive colonic and 
rectal cancers, primary or secondary, can extend to any visceral or parietal 
structure. The ability to perform a total resection is based upon anatomical 
localization and on the fixation of other organs to the lesion. Identifying the 
anatomical extension provides a better appreciation of the purpose of the 
tumoral resection. Radical nuanced surgery is the base of treatment of the 
locally aggressive colon-rectal cancer. The studies have shown that in certain 
localizations of the colon-rectal cancer, the locally aggressive forms can be 
better controlled by using multimodal therapy, including radiotherapy, either 
external or guided intraoperatory radiotherapy and chemotherapy with much better 
results.

PMCID: PMC3019005
PMID: 20945823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):958-64. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00760.x.
Epub  2010 Oct 12.

Recent trends and geographic patterns of the burden of disease attributable to 
smoking.

Jia H(1), Lubetkin EI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. hj2198@columbia.edu

PURPOSE: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) use a single number to provide an 
assessment of the overall health burden of diseases associated both with 
mortality and morbidity. This study examined the trend and geographic variation 
of the burden of smoking by calculating smoking-related QALYs lost from 1993 to 
2008 for the US adults and individual states.
METHODS: Population health-related quality of life scores were estimated from 
the 1993 to 2008 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. The smoking-related 
QALYs lost are the sum of QALYs lost due to morbidity and future QALYs lost in 
expected life years due to premature deaths (mortality).
RESULTS: From 1993 to 2008, the percent of US adults who smoked declined from 
22.7% to 18.5%, but the smoking-related QALYs lost were relatively stable at 
0.0438 QALYs lost per population. Although smoking contributed more QALYs lost 
for men (0.0535) than for women (0.0339), smoking-related QALYs lost decreased 
by 2.5% for men but increased by 12.6% for women. Kentucky, Oklahoma, 
Mississippi, West Virginia, and Tennessee had the most smoking-related QALYs 
lost wheras Utah, California, Connecticut, Minnesota, and Hawaii had the least 
QALYs lost. The state tobacco tax rate was strongly and negatively associated 
with both the percent smoked (r = -0.60) and QALYs lost (r = -0.54), as well as 
the percentage change in both.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis quantified the overall burden of smoking for the 
nation and individual states from 1993 to 2008. Such data might assist in 
providing specified quantitative targets for the Healthy People 2020 
smoking-related health objectives and for tracking changes on a yearly basis.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00760.x
PMID: 20946184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Int J Food Microbiol. 2010 Nov 15;144(1):152-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2010.09.014. Epub 2010 Sep 22.

Inhibitory effects of lactic acid and lauricidin on spoilage organisms of 
chicken breast during storage at chilled temperature.

Anang DM(1), Rusul G, Ling FH, Bhat R.

Author information:
(1)Doncaster College, The HUB, Chappell Drive, Doncaster, UK.

Different concentrations of lauricidin (LU, containing 1% lactic acid) and 
lactic acid alone (LA) were evaluated for their effectiveness in reducing 
naturally occurring microflora of raw chicken breasts. Chicken breasts were 
dipped in 0 (control), 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0% solutions of LU (w/v) or LA (v/v) 
for 10, 20, and 30 min and stored at 4°C for 14 d. Total Plate Counts (TPC) and 
populations of Pseudomonas spp. and Enterobacteriaceae were determined before 
and after dipping and after storing for 1, 3, 7, 10, and 14 d. Additionally, 
Hunter L, a, and b values and pH of the chicken breast were also determined. 
From the obtained results, TPC on chicken breast treated with LU was found to be 
decreased by 0.92 to 1.2 log CFU/g from a mean initial log 5.69 CFU/g, while 
those dipped in LA decreased by 0.53 to 2.36 log CFU/g. Pseudomonas population 
on chicken breast dipped in LU decreased by 0.79 to 1.77 log CFU/g from an 
initial 3.90 log CFU/g, while in LA treated it decreased by 0.39 to 1.82 log 
CFU/g. Enterobacteriaceae counts were also found to be reduced by 0.14 to 1.14 
log CFU/g on chicken breast dipped in LU, while the reduction was from 0.59 to 
2.18 log CFU/g in chicken breast dipped in LA. The major bacterial types 
isolated from LU treated chicken breast belonged to the Enterobacteriaceae 
group, which included: Enterobacter, E. coli and Citrobacter. Whereas, in the LA 
treated breast it belonged to: Pseudomonas, E. coli, and Kocuria rhizophila 
(formerly Micrococcus luteus). Dipping chicken breast in LU and LA caused a 
significant decrease (p ≤ 0.05) in their pH values. Also, treatment with LU and 
LA caused a slight darkening in color (decreased Hunter L value), increase in 
redness (increased Hunter a value), and increase in yellowness (increased Hunter 
b value). Based on the results obtained in the present study, Lactic acid and 
Lauricidin showed high potential to be used as a sanitizer in reducing the 
population of spoilage microorganisms naturally occurring on raw chicken, and 
can be explored commercially for extension of their shelf life.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2010.09.014
PMID: 20947197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Clin Transl Oncol. 2010 Oct;12(10):692-700. doi: 10.1007/s12094-010-0579-4.

Cost-effectiveness analyses of docetaxel versus paclitaxel once weekly in 
patients with metastatic breast cancer in progression following anthracycline 
chemotherapy, in Spain.

Frías C(1), Cortés J, Seguí MÁ, Oyagüez I, Casado MÁ.

Author information:
(1)Corporació Sanitària Parc Taulí, Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of docetaxel versus 
weekly paclitaxel regimen in patients with metastatic breast cancer previously 
treated with anthracycline from the Spanish National Health Service (NHS) 
perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model with a 21-day cycle duration was developed to estimate 
total treatment-related costs and clinical benefits over 5 years of docetaxel 
(100 mg/m²) and weekly paclitaxel (80 mg/m²). Patient data were obtained from 
the Randomized Phase III Study of Docetaxel Compared with Paclitaxel in 
Metastatic Breast Cancer (TAX- 311) and Anglo-Celtic IV trials. Utilities were 
obtained from literature, and unitary costs (€2009) from a Spanish health-cost 
database and the Catalogue of Medicines. Cost and benefits [life-years gained 
(LYG) and quality-adjusted life years (QALY)] were discounted at 3%. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Docetaxel yields higher health benefits (1.83 LYG; 1.08 QALY) than 
paclitaxel (1.46 LYG; 0.84 QALY). Global costs (treatment, concomitant 
medication, adverse events management, progression, best supportive care, and 
end of life phase) per patient were €20,052 and €9,982 with docetaxel and 
paclitaxel, respectively. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
docetaxel versus paclitaxel was €190/LYG and €295/QALY. Based on a €30,000/QALY 
threshold, docetaxel has 99% probability of being cost-effective. ICER was 
mostly sensitive to hazard ratio (HR) (when varied from 1.46 to 1.09; €3,517/ 
QALY), discount over the ex-lab price of Taxol® (75%; €6,396/QALY) and 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) prophylactic treatment (when 
administered in 60% of cycles instead of 100%; cost saving). Variations in other 
inputs, such as time horizon (3-10 years), discount rate (0-5%), or adverse 
event cost (± 25%) were shown not to have relevant influence on the results.
CONCLUSION: Compared to weekly paclitaxel, docetaxel therapy is cost effective 
for treating metastatic breast cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-010-0579-4
PMID: 20947484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. BMJ. 2010 Oct 14;341:c5618. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c5618.

An open letter to the health secretary: how to really save money on the NHS.

Lachmann P(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge. pjl1000@cam.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c5618
PMID: 20947579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Neurosurgery. 2010 Nov;67(5):1243-51; discussion 1252. doi: 
10.1227/NEU.0b013e3181ef25de.

Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage with ventricular extension and the grading 
of obstructive hydrocephalus: the prediction of outcome of a special 
life-threatening entity.

Stein M(1), Luecke M, Preuss M, Boeker DK, Joedicke A, Oertel MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital Giessen-Marburg, Giessen, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Primary spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH) with secondary 
intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) accounts for the highest in-hospital mortality 
after stroke.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze predictors and the role of acute hydrocephalus in outcome, 
especially 30-day mortality or an unfavorable outcome at 6 months. In addition, 
a new risk stratification tool for SICH- IVH was developed.
METHODS: Hospital charts of 104 of 110 SICH-IVH patients were retrospectively 
analyzed. All patients underwent at least 1 external ventricular drainage. 
Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to identify independent 
prognostic predictors for 30-day mortality and outcome. Outcome was determined 
by the modified Rankin Scale. On the basis of the independent predictors, we 
developed an IVH scoring system. The IVH score was tested with prospective data 
from 51 patients and was compared with established intracerebral hemorrhage 
scoring systems.
RESULTS: An initial SICH volume of 60 cm³ or greater, severe hydrocephalus, 
Glasgow Coma Scale score of 8 or less, and age 70 years and older were 
independent outcome predictors. Different cutoff values for the prediction of 
30-day mortality and functional outcome were defined. The IVH score was best for 
the prediction of 30-day mortality.
CONCLUSION: Severe hydrocephalus is an independent predictor of 30-day mortality 
in SICH with ventricular extension. The IVH score is a simple and reliable tool 
for predicting 30-day mortality.

DOI: 10.1227/NEU.0b013e3181ef25de
PMID: 20948399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. F1000 Med Rep. 2009 Nov 26;1:88. doi: 10.3410/M1-88.

Cartilage repair in osteoarthritic patients: utopia or real opportunity?

Henrotin Y(1), Dubuc JE.

Author information:
(1)Bone and Cartilage Research Unit, University of Liège CHU Sart-Tilman, 4000 
Liège Belgium.

As medical advances lengthen average life expectancy, osteoarthritis (OA) will 
become a larger public health problem - not only because it is a manifestation 
of aging but also because it usually takes many years to reach clinical 
relevance. OA is already one of the ten most disabling diseases in 
industrialized countries. The huge financial burden emphasizes the acute need 
for new and more effective treatments for articular cartilage defects, 
especially since there are few disease modifying drugs or treatments for OA. 
There is no cure for OA and the management of OA is largely palliative, focusing 
on the alleviation of symptoms. Recent longitudinal non-controlled trials 
suggest that autologous chondrocyte transplantation techniques, which are 
indicated for young people with traumatic cartilage defects, could also be used 
in degenerative defects of elderly people with OA. This report discusses this 
therapeutic opportunity in view of some recently published data.

DOI: 10.3410/M1-88
PMCID: PMC2948300
PMID: 20948690


222. F1000 Med Rep. 2010 Jan 27;2:6. doi: 10.3410/M2-6.

Intravesical botulinum toxin for lower urinary tract dysfunction.

John Drake M(1).

Author information:
(1)Bristol Urological Institute Southmead Hospital, Bristol, BS10 5NB UK.

Botulinum neurotoxin has achieved substantial clinical benefits in neurogenic 
detrusor overactivity. More contentious has been its extension to management of 
refractory idiopathic detrusor overactivity, in which risk of impaired voiding 
function and consequent need for intermittent catheterisation may counteract the 
quality-of-life benefits of improved storage function. Several issues remain 
uncertain for this unlicensed treatment, and clear insights into long-term 
consequences are needed before it can be regarded as an established mainstream 
treatment.

DOI: 10.3410/M2-6
PMCID: PMC2948404
PMID: 20948833


223. Eur J Ageing. 2010 Sep;7(3):157-165. doi: 10.1007/s10433-010-0157-1. Epub
2010  Aug 14.

Cohort differences in 3-year adaptation to health problems among Dutch 
middle-aged, 1992-1995 and 2002-2005.

Deeg DJ, Huisman M.

Midlife is a period during which ageing-related health problems first emerge. In 
view of increasing life expectancy, it is of great importance that people in 
midlife adapt to possible health problems, to be able to lead productive and 
engaged lives as long as possible. It may be expected that given the better 
circumstances in which more recent cohorts grew up, they are better equipped to 
adapt to health problems than earlier cohorts. This study addresses the question 
if the way people in midlife adapt to health problems is or is not improving in 
the Netherlands. The study is based on the nationally representative 1992-1993 
and 2002-2003 cohorts of the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam (ages 
55-64 years), with follow-up cycles in 1995-1996 (n = 811) and 2005-2006 
(n = 829), respectively. Mastery is considered as a measure of adaptation, and 
3-year change in mastery is compared in subjects without and with health 
problems at baseline. A rise was observed in the prevalence of diabetes, chronic 
lung disease, arthritis, subthreshold depression, and disability. Subjects 
without health problems in the recent cohort had better mastery than their 
counterparts in the early cohort. Regardless of cohort membership, mastery 
declined over 3 years for those with subthreshold depression, mild disability, 
chronic lung disease, and stroke. In the recent cohort only, mastery declined 
for those with cognitive impairment, but improved for those with heart disease. 
These findings do not support the expectation that recent cohorts are better 
equipped to deal with health problems for conditions other than heart disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-010-0157-1
PMCID: PMC2950078
PMID: 20949129


224. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Dec;11(6):595-6; discussion 597-8. doi: 
10.1007/s10198-010-0282-y. Epub 2010 Oct 15.

On the welfare theoretic foundation of CEA: comment.

Breyer F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Konstanz, Fach 135, 78457, Constance, 
Germany, Friedrich.Breyer@uni-konstanz.de.

Comment on
    Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Feb;11(1):5-13.

This is a comment on a recent paper by Bengt Liljas (Eur J Health Econ 11:5-13, 
2010) in this Journal. The author's analysis is flawed because he fails to take 
the envelope theorem into account. As a bottom line, we conclude that from a 
welfare theoretic point of view, future consumption and future labor hours 
should not be considered in a valid CEA.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0282-y
PMID: 20949303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Biomed Mater Res A. 2011 Jan;96(1):46-57. doi: 10.1002/jbm.a.32939. Epub
2010  Oct 14.

Single-walled carbon nanotubes alter Schwann cell behavior differentially within 
2D and 3D environments.

Behan BL(1), DeWitt DG, Bogdanowicz DR, Koppes AN, Bale SS, Thompson DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, 
New York, USA.

Both spinal cord injury (SCI) and large-gap peripheral nerve defects can be 
debilitating affecting a patient's long-term quality of life and presently, 
there is no suitable treatment for functional regeneration of these injured 
tissues. A number of works have suggested the benefits of electrical stimulation 
to promote both glial migration and neuronal extension. In this work, an 
electrically conductive hydrogel containing single-walled carbon nanotubes 
(SWCNT) for neural engineering applications is presented and the Schwann cell 
(SC) response to SWCNT is examined in both 2D and 3D microenvironments. Results 
from clonogenic and alamarBlue® assays in 2D indicate that SWCNT (10-50 μg 
mL(-1)) inhibit SC proliferation but do not affect cell viability. Following 
SWCNT exposure in 2D, changes in SC morphology can be observed with the 
nanomaterial attached to the cell membrane at concentrations as low as 10 μg 
mL(-1). In contrast to the results gathered in 2D, SC embedded within the 3D 
hydrogel loaded with 10-50 μg mL(-1) of SWCNT exhibited little or no measurable 
change in cell proliferation, viability, or morphology as assessed using a 
digestion assay, alamarBlue, and confocal microscopy. Collectively, this 
highlights that an electrically-conductive SWCNT collagen I-Matrigel™ 
biomaterial may be suitable for neural tissue engineering and is able to sustain 
populations of SC. Findings suggest that 2D nanoparticle toxicity assays may not 
be accurate predictors of the 3D response, further motivating the examination of 
these materials in a more physiologically relevant environment.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.a.32939
PMID: 20949573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Acta Chir Iugosl. 2010;57(2):99-102. doi: 10.2298/aci1002099l.

Thalassemia major. A report of two cases with severe skeletal involvement.

Lesić A(1), Bogdanović A, Sudjić V, Suvajdzić-Vuković N, Atkinson HD, 
Bumbasirevi M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology, CCS, School of Medicine, 
Belgrade.

Beta thalassemia major is rare in Serbia. Previously incurable, affected 
patients now live to adulthood with regular blood transfusions. The improvement 
in supportive treatment over recent decades has given rise to many more patients 
suffering from the associated metabolic complications of anaemia and iron 
overload, such as osteopenia and other skeletal changes. We present two patients 
with severe beta thalassemia major from early childhood, who encountered 
pathological long-bone fractures during the clinical course of their disease. 
One suffered a distal femoral diaphyseal fracture, and the second a distal tibia 
fracture. Both fractures occurred in osteopenic bone and were managed 
non-operatively due to the patients' general medical condition. Despite intense 
medical intervention, both patients died from disease progression within one 
year of their fractures, aged 23 and 24 years. As life expectancy rises it is 
anticipated that an increased number of beta thalassemia major patients will 
suffer pathological long-bone and other osteoporotic fractures. These fractures 
appear to both herald and contribute to a general clinical deterioration of this 
disease. Advances in stem-cell technology may hold the key for a definitive 
cure.

DOI: 10.2298/aci1002099l
PMID: 20949709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2010 Oct;10(5):485-95. doi: 
10.1586/erp.10.55.

Pharmacoeconomics of etravirine.

Fullerton DS(1), Watson MJ, Anderson D, Witek J, Martin SC, Mrus JM.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. 
peteful@msn.com

HIV infection, particularly multidrug-resistant HIV, continues to be a major 
societal and economic challenge worldwide. Etravirine, a new (US FDA approved in 
2008) non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, has been shown to be very 
effective in treating patients who have failed prior antiretroviral therapy. 
Clinical studies demonstrated that etravirine in combination with other 
antiretrovirals achieved superior levels of undetectable plasma HIV RNA and CD4 
cell count increases that led to reductions in risk of death and development of 
AIDS-defining illnesses when compared with placebo. Etravirine was also shown to 
be generally well tolerated, with favorable CNS and psychiatric tolerability 
profiles. In addition, etravirine in combination with other antiretrovirals has 
been shown to improve quality of life and quality-adjusted life expectancy. 
Economic evaluations showed that the addition of etravirine to a regimen was 
associated with lower costs per person with an undetectable viral load and lower 
hospital-related costs compared with placebo.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.10.55
PMID: 20950062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2010 Oct;10(5):567-82. doi: 
10.1586/erp.10.51.

Cost-effectiveness studies in radiation therapy.

Sher DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology & Center for Outcomes and Policy Research, 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115, USA. dsher@lroc.harvard.edu

The field of radiation therapy has made dramatic technical advances over the 
past 20 years. 3D conformal radiotherapy, intensity-modulated radiation therapy 
and proton beam therapy have all been developed in an attempt to improve the 
therapeutic ratio: higher cure rates with lower toxicity. Unfortunately, 
although the costs of radiation therapy are certainly increasing, it is unclear 
whether its clinical benefit has also improved. Cost-effectiveness analyses are 
designed to formally evaluate the cost of a treatment relative to an associated 
change in quality-adjusted survival. As the cost of oncologic care is 
increasing, it is critically important to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
radiation therapy. This article will describe the issues surrounding the 
delivery and cost of radiation therapy, and it will summarize the work that has 
been done to evaluate the use of cost-effectiveness in radiation oncology.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.10.51
PMID: 20950072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2010 Oct;10(5):605-12. doi: 
10.1586/erp.10.54.

Cost-effectiveness of community-based treatment of severe acute malnutrition in 
children.

Bachmann MO(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK. 
m.bachmann@uea.ac.uk

Severe acute malnutrition affects 20 million children aged under 5 years old 
worldwide. Medical complications and death are common, but nutritional and 
medical treatment can result in good outcomes. Randomized trials of treatment 
after in-patient stabilization have shown community-based treatment to have 
similar outcomes to hospital-based treatment, at lower cost. Community-based 
ambulatory treatment, with in-patient care reserved for the most severe cases, 
is increasingly being implemented in Africa but has not been evaluated in 
randomized trials. Community-based treatment programs have shown favorable 
outcomes. Economic evaluations of community-based treatment have included cost 
analyses, cost and consequence analyses and decision analyses. Treatment costs 
have been consistently lower than for institution-based treatment. Costs of 
ambulatory community-based treatment of severe acute malnutrition have ranged 
between US$46 to $453 per child, depending on the type of care provided and the 
costing methods used. Recent studies have reported on costs and outcomes of 
similar large-scale African programs covering geographically defined 
populations, with ambulatory care for most children, and initial in-patient 
stabilization for the minority with most severe disease. In these studies the 
costs ranged from US$129 to $201 per child, and mortality rates ranged from 1.2 
to 9.2%, depending on length of follow-up. A decision tree model based on such a 
program in Zambia estimated that community-based treatment of severe acute 
malnutrition in primary-care centers, with hospital access, cost US$203 per case 
treated, US$1760 per life saved, and US$53 per disability-adjusted life year 
gained, compared with no treatment. This latter cost per disability-adjusted 
life year gained suggests that community-based treatment of severe acute 
malnutrition is cost effective compared with other priority health interventions 
in low-income countries, and compared with such countries' national incomes.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.10.54
PMID: 20950075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. J Med Econ. 2010;13(4):626-32. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.525989. Epub 2010
Oct  18.

Contribution of intangible costs to the economic burden of multiple sclerosis.

Wundes A(1), Brown T, Bienen EJ, Coleman CI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, WA 
98195, USA. awundes@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is associated with a substantial economic 
burden resulting from direct medical costs associated with health and 
disability-related resource utilization and indirect costs relating to reduced 
productivity. However, reduced health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) may be 
associated with additional costs, often termed 'intangible costs,' that should 
be considered as part of the economic burden from the societal or patient 
perspectives.
OBJECTIVES: To review the contribution of intangible costs to the overall 
economic burden of MS.
METHODS: Medline was searched through March 2010 for relevant articles that 
included the terms 'multiple sclerosis' in combination with 'intangible costs,' 
'QALY,' 'quality-adjusted life year,' 'willingness-to-pay,' and 'WTP.' Other 
than the restriction that the articles were published in English, there were no 
other exclusionary criteria for the search. Identified references were 
hand-searched to determine if intangible costs were estimated.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies across ten countries were identified that estimated 
intangible costs based on the number of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) lost 
due to a reduction in HR-QOL multiplied by accepted willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
thresholds. Although absolute costs varied depending on thresholds used and year 
of evaluation, the intangible costs accounted for 17.5-47.8% of total costs of 
MS. Furthermore, evidence suggested intangible costs are positively correlated 
with worsening disability. The largest increase in intangible costs occurred at 
the transition between mild and moderate disability. However, since no value has 
been established as being acceptable to pay for a QALY, a limitation of these 
studies was their dependence on the definition of the WTP threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: Intangible costs substantially add to the economic burden of MS. 
There is not only a need to further characterize these costs and incorporate 
them into economic studies, but also to determine how these costs can be reduced 
through appropriate management strategies.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.525989
PMID: 20950249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Biol Aujourdhui. 2010;204(3):243-50. doi: 10.1051/jbio/2010019. Epub 2010
Oct  13.

[IGF and insulin signaling pathways in longevity].

[Article in French]

Gontier G(1), Holzenberger M.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche Inserm, UMR 938, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris 
6, France.

The role of the somatotropic hormone axis in mammalian longevity has been 
studied in diverse experimental models in vivo. This endocrine axis allows 
regulation of lifespan via metabolism modifications and oxidative stress defense 
mechanisms. Signaling can be altered at ligand, receptor or signal transduction 
molecule level through mutagenesis. Mutant mouse models affecting pituitary 
differentiation factors Prop-1 or Pit1, cognate receptors of GH, IGF or insulin, 
or receptor substrates IRS-1 or IRS-2 showed that regulation of the somatotropic 
endocrine axis is pivotal for maintaining an equilibrium between growth, 
metabolism, oxidative stress defense and longevity. Brain-specific gene 
inactivation of IGF-1R and IRS-2 resulted in similarly long-lived phenotypes 
indicating that control of longevity is possible by selectively targeting the 
brain. In addition to genetic modification, lifespan can be efficiently 
manipulated in mice by altering the environment, for instance by modifying 
caloric intake, or pharmacologically, as has been shown in a recent study about 
the effects of rapamycin on lifespan. Moreover, recent studies of the human 
genetics of aging revealed that mutations of IGF-1R and variants of FoxO3a are 
more frequent in certain centenarian cohorts. This suggested that these results 
are in principle transposable to humans.

© Société de Biologie, 2010.

DOI: 10.1051/jbio/2010019
PMID: 20950568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Dec;71(11):1951-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.09.015.
Epub  2010 Sep 29.

Scottish mortality rates 2000-2002 by deprivation and small area population 
mobility.

Brown D(1), Leyland AH.

Author information:
(1)MRC, Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, 4 Lilybank Gardens, Glasgow, 
United Kingdom. denise@sphsu.mrc.ac.uk

Despite recent increases in life expectancy, inequalities in mortality in 
Scotland have been widening. Previous research has suggested that one of the 
potential drivers of geographical inequalities in health is the process of 
selective migration. Although support for the effect of selective migration on 
widening geographic inequalities in health has been mixed, several studies have 
shown that people in good health move away from deprived areas while people in 
poor health move towards more deprived areas. In this paper, we examine 
mortality rates in Scotland by area deprivation and population mobility. 
Previous research in Scotland has shown that the relationship between population 
mobility and migration disappears once deprivation is accounted for. However, 
the authors measure population mobility over a longer time period than we do 
here and at a different geographical level. We consider small area population 
mobility on the basis of moves made in the year prior to the 2001 Scottish 
census. Areas were classified as one of four types: decreasing, increasing or 
stable (with high or low turnover). Mortality rates, calculated for the period 
2000-2002, were found to be highest in deprived areas that had declined in 
population over the previous year. In the most deprived quintile, the causes of 
death contributing disproportionately to the excess mortality in decreasing 
areas were causes linked to alcohol and drug use, suicides and assault. 
Focussing on those individuals in the most deprived areas who live in areas that 
are declining in population could help to reduce widening inequalities for these 
causes of death. This work shows the extent to which population migration can 
influence small areas over a relatively short time period and gives some insight 
into potential factors, not measured by traditional indices of area level 
deprivation, which may lead to differences in the health status of areas.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.09.015
PMCID: PMC3070801
PMID: 20950907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Am J Kidney Dis. 2010 Dec;56(6):1108-16. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2010.07.012.
Epub  2010 Oct 15.

Economic analysis of cinacalcet in combination with low-dose vitamin D versus 
flexible-dose vitamin D in treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in 
hemodialysis patients.

Shireman TI(1), Almehmi A, Wetmore JB, Lu J, Pregenzer M, Quarles LD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health and the Landon Center on 
Aging, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA. 
tshireman@kumc.edu
