
Akter S(1), Rahman MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Science and Human Resource Development, University 
of Rajshahi, Rajshahi-6205, Bangladesh.

Early cessation of breastfeeding is a cause of significant concern in many 
developing countries. Premature discontinuation of breastfeeding is known to be 
associated with avoidable childhood morbidity and mortality as well as high 
levels of parity and avoidable pregnancies. Using a publicly available 
demographic dataset from Bangladesh, we applied a life table and Cox's 
proportional hazard model to investigate the duration and predictors of 
breastfeeding. The observed mean duration of breastfeeding was 27.5 months 
regardless of the level of parity. The results showed that age, age at the time 
of marriage, religion, the level of education of the mother, the geographic 
region of residence, employment status, parity and the use of contraceptives are 
important predictors of early cessation of breastfeeding.

DOI: 10.12927/whp.2010.21722
PMID: 20739835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2011 Apr;131(4):503-8. doi:
10.1007/s00402-010-1172-6.  Epub 2010 Aug 26.

Treatment of pathological humerus shaft fractures with intramedullary nails with 
or without cement fixation.

Laitinen M(1), Nieminen J, Pakarinen TK.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Musculoskeletal Surgery, Department of Orthopaedics, University 
Hospital of Tampere, PO Box 2000, 33521 Tampere, Finland. 
minna.laitinen@fimnet.fi

INTRODUCTION: Bone metastasis is a severe complication for patients with cancer. 
Not only does it cause intractable pain and other clinical problems such as 
fracture after trivial injury, it also signifies that the malignant process is 
incurable. Since life expectancy of metastasised cancer patients has improved 
due to advanced oncological treatment but is still limited, appropriate surgical 
intervention has increased.
METHOD: This is a retrospective control study of 21 patients who underwent 
cemented intramedullary nailing for pathological fractures in the humeral shaft 
between 2005 and 2009 as compared to a historical control group of 19 patients 
that underwent locked intramedullary nailing for pathological fractures in the 
humeral shaft between 1999 and 2004. Four major outcomes were assessed, namely, 
pain relief, use of analgesics, recovery of function and rate of complication.
RESULTS: Patients treated with cemented intramedullary nailing had better pain 
relief, less use of analgesics and better functional restoration immediately 
after surgical procedure when compared to the patients without cement fixing. 
The rate of complication did not differ between these two groups.
CONCLUSION: Since surgery for metastases does not prolong life but improves the 
quality of life, the aim towards a short postoperative rehabilitation time is 
recommended. Cement fixation gives immediate stabilisation to the fracture site 
and thus allows less pain but full range of motion from the first postoperative 
day.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-010-1172-6
PMID: 20740287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2010;684:189-97. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6451-9_15.

Memory T-cell homeostasis and senescence during aging.

Henson SM(1), Akbar AN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infection and Immunity, Department of Immunology, University 
College London, 46 Cleveland Street, London, W1T 4JF, UK. s.henson@ucl.ac.uk

Evidence is accumulating that old individuals are more susceptible to infection 
with organisms to which they were previously immune, indicating that there might 
be a limit to the persistence of immune memory. The prevailing concept is that 
defects in memory T-cell populations result from inexorable end-stage 
differentiation as a result of repeated lifelong antigenic challenge. We discuss 
here mechanisms that might constrain the persistence of memory T cells and 
consider whether humans will suffer from memory T-cell exhaustion as life 
expectancy increases.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6451-9_15
PMID: 20795550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. J Evol Biol. 2010 Oct;23(10):2151-2162. doi:
10.1111/j.1420-9101.2010.02078.x.  Epub 2010 Aug 26.

Alternative parasite development in transmission strategies: how time flies!

Badets M(1), Morrison C(2)(3), Verneau O(1).

Author information:
(1)UMR 5244 CNRS-UPVD, Biologie et Ecologie Tropicale et Méditerranéenne, 
Parasitologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive, Université de Perpignan Via Domitia, 
Perpignan Cedex, France.
(2)Environment Futures Centre, School of Environment, Griffith University Gold 
Coast, QLD, Australia.
(3)School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Wollongong, 
Wollongong NSW, Australia.

Among parasitic platyhelminths with complex life cycles, it has been well 
documented that transmission opportunities are the main forces shaping the 
diversity of life-history traits and parasite developmental strategies. While 
deviations in the development pathway usually involve shortening of life cycles, 
their extension may also occur following perception of remaining time by 
parasites. Polystoma gallieni, the monogenean parasite of Hyla meridionalis, is 
able to trigger two alternative developmental strategies depending on the 
physiological stage of the tadpoles upon which larvae attach. The distribution 
and reproductive outputs of both resulting phenotypes were surveyed to address 
questions about the dynamics of transmission in natural environments. Because 
modifications in the completion of life cycles can have drawbacks which may 
perturb the dynamic equilibrium of the resulting host-parasite systems, 
experimental infestations were also performed to assess parasite-parasite 
interactions. Our results suggest that the bladder adult phenotype, which 
involves transmission between frogs and tadpoles, is supplied secondarily by the 
branchial phenotype which involves transmission between tadpoles and metamorphs. 
They also support the occurrence of finely tuned trade-offs between hosts and 
parasites and highlight positive trends behind the extension of direct life 
cycles, in which host-derived signals account for the remaining time to achieve 
parasitic transmission.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal Compilation © 2010 European Society For Evolutionary 
Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2010.02078.x
PMID: 20796135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. J Paediatr Child Health. 2010 Nov;46(11):653-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1754.2010.01822.x. Epub 2010 Aug 25.

Assisted exercise improves bone strength in very low birthweight infants by bone 
quantitative ultrasound.

Chen HL(1), Lee CL, Tseng HI, Yang SN, Yang RC, Jao HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.

AIM: To evaluate whether assisted exercise could prevent the development of 
osteopenia of prematurity, we performed assisted exercise in the study group of 
very low birthweight (VLBW) premature infants.
METHODS: Sixteen premature infants with birthweight below 1500 g were enrolled 
in this study and randomly assigned into the exercise (n = 8) and control (n = 
8) groups. Assisted exercise involved full extension and flexion range of motion 
of the upper and lower extremities by a trained nurse with a schedule of 5 days 
a week for a total of 4 weeks. Bone strength was determined by quantitative 
ultrasound measurement of tibial bone speed of sound every 2 weeks during the 
study period.
RESULTS: No difference in gender, birthweight, and gestation age between the 
exercise and control groups was noted. There was statistically significant less 
tibial bone speed of sound decrease in the exercise group on the sixth and 
eighth week of life. During the study period, there were no statistically 
significant differences in blood biochemistry data, including calcium, 
phosphorus, magnesium, alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin and osteoprotegerin, 
between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed that early assisted exercise could improve bone 
strength in very low birthweight infants. The biochemical markers of bone 
metabolism, osteocalcin and osteoprotegerin, could not be the indicators for 
early diagnosis of osteopenia of prematurity.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health © 2010 Paediatrics 
and Child Health Division (Royal Australasian College of Physicians).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1754.2010.01822.x
PMID: 20796178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2010 Aug;21(3):645-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.pmr.2010.06.001.

A physiatrist's perspective on musculoskeletal ultrasound.

Primack SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Colorado Rehabilitation and Occupational Medicine, 1390 South Potomac, Suite 
100, Aurora, CO 80012, USA. sprimack@coloradorehab.com

Physiatrists are sensitive to the importance of using a diagnostic test as an 
extension of the clinical examination. Training in electrodiagnostic testing 
provides an excellent base to learn about integrating ultrasound into one's 
practice. Given their education in the diagnosis and treatment of 
neuromusculoskeletal disorders and injuries, with an emphasis on quality of life 
and functional gains, ultrasound can help physiatrists design the most 
efficacious and accurate treatment plan. This ultimately provides for adequate 
patient access and improved outcomes.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmr.2010.06.001
PMID: 20797554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. J Card Fail. 2010 Sep;16(9):734-41. doi: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2010.04.009.
Epub  2010 Jun 8.

Cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators in children with 
dilated cardiomyopathy.

Feingold B(1), Arora G, Webber SA, Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. brian.feingold@chp.edu

BACKGROUND: Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) improve survival and 
are cost-effective in adults with poor left ventricular function. Because of 
differences in heart failure etiology, sudden death rates, and ICD complication 
rates, these findings may not be applicable to children.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a Markov model to compare typical management 
of childhood dilated cardiomyopathy with symptomatic heart failure to 
prophylactic ICD implantation plus typical management. Model costs included 
costs of outpatient care, medications, complications, and transplantation. Time 
horizon was up to 20 years from model entry. Total costs were $433,000 (ICD 
strategy) and $355,000 (typical management). Although quality adjusted survival 
was greater in the ICD group (6.78 versus 6.43 quality adjusted life-years 
[QALY]), the incremental cost-utility ratio was $281,622/QALY saved with the ICD 
strategy. In sensitivity analyses, the ICD strategy cost less than the 
$100,000/QALY benchmark for cost-effectiveness only when the annual probability 
of sudden death exceeded 13% or when strong, sustained benefits in quality of 
life from the ICD were assumed.
CONCLUSIONS: Prophylactic ICD use in children with dilated cardiomyopathy, poor 
ventricular function, and symptomatic heart failure does not appear to be 
cost-effective. This is likely due to lower sudden death rates in this 
population.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2010.04.009
PMCID: PMC2929392
PMID: 20797597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Occup Environ Med. 2010 Sep;67(9):603-10. doi: 10.1136/oem.2009.051979.

Economic evaluation of a workplace intervention for sick-listed employees with 
distress.

van Oostrom SH(1), Heymans MW, de Vet HC, van Tulder MW, van Mechelen W, Anema 
JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health and the EMGO Institute for 
Health and Care Research, Van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081 BT Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost effectiveness, cost utility and cost benefit of 
a workplace intervention compared with usual care for sick-listed employees with 
distress.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a randomised controlled 
trial. Employees with distress and who were sick-listed for 2-8 weeks were 
randomised to a workplace intervention (n=73) or to usual care (n=72). The 
workplace intervention is a stepwise process involving the sick-listed employee 
and their supervisor, aimed at formulating a consensus-based plan for return to 
work (RTW). The effect outcomes were lasting RTW and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). Healthcare utilisation was measured over 12 months. Cost effectiveness 
analyses (CEA) and cost utility analyses (CUA) were conducted from the societal 
perspective and cost benefit analyses (CBA) from the employer perspective. 
Bootstrapping techniques were used to estimate cost and effect differences, 
related CIs, and cost effectiveness and cost utility ratios. Cost effectiveness 
planes were presented and subgroup analyses were performed.
RESULTS: CEA and CUA revealed no statistically significant differences in 
lasting RTW, QALYs or costs. The CBA indicated a statistically significant 
higher cost of occupational health services in the workplace intervention group. 
The workplace intervention was not cost effective according to the CEA, CUA and 
CBA.
CONCLUSIONS: Widespread implementation of the workplace intervention for 
sick-listed employees with distress is not recommended because there was no 
economic benefit compared with usual care. Future trials should confirm if the 
workplace intervention is cost effective for the subgroup employees who intended 
to return to work despite symptoms. This trial has been registered at the Dutch 
National Trial Register ISRCTN92307123.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.2009.051979
PMID: 20798027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Am J Med Genet A. 2010 Dec;152A(12):2943-6. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.33614.

Introductory comments on special section-new developments in craniofacial 
biology: putting on a happy face.

Shanske AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Craniofacial Disorders, Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York 10467, USA. ashanske@aol.com

Approximately three quarters of children with birth defects have anomalies that 
affect the craniofacial structures. Defects in this area of the body result in 
lifelong disability, major challenges to families and society and often a 
serious effect on life expectancy. Surgery has been the primary intervention for 
these disorders, with frequently less than optimal outcomes and risk for 
additional morbidity and mortality. The challenge for clinicians caring for 
these children is to develop new methods for the treatment and prevention of 
these disorders. An understanding of the evolution of the head and the finely 
tuned temporospatial signaling pathways involved is critical to understanding 
the origins of the vertebrates as well as of human craniofacial malformations. 
In the future, these new approaches will be based upon our enhanced 
understanding of the developmental tool kit fashioned by evolution and the 
application of this knowledge toward the development of new diagnostic, 
pharmacologic, and genetic interventions for these disorders.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.33614
PMID: 20799325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Health Econ. 2011 Jul;20(7):842-52. doi: 10.1002/hec.1648. Epub 2010 Aug 26.

Estimation of life-years gained and cost effectiveness based on cause-specific 
mortality.

Kim LG(1), Thompson SG.

Author information:
(1)Medical Statistics Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London, UK. lois.kim@lshtm.ac.uk

Cost-effectiveness analysis is usually based on life-years gained estimated from 
all-cause mortality. When an intervention affects only a few causes of death 
accounting for a small fraction of all deaths, this approach may lack precision. 
We develop a novel technique for cost-effectiveness analysis when life-years 
gained are estimated from cause-specific mortality, allowing for competing 
causes of death. In the context of randomised trial data, we adjust for 
other-cause mortality combined across randomised groups. This method yields a 
greater precision than analysis based on total mortality, and we show 
application to life-years gained, quality-adjusted life-years gained, 
incremental costs, and cost effectiveness. In multi-state health economic 
models, however, mortality from competing causes is commonly derived from 
national statistics and is assumed to be known and equal across intervention 
groups. In such models, our method based on cause-specific mortality and 
standard methods using total mortality give essentially identical estimates and 
precision. The methods are applied to a randomised trial and a health economic 
model, both of screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm. A gain in precision for 
cost-effectiveness estimates is clearly helpful for decision making, but it is 
important to ensure that 'cause-specific mortality' is defined to include all 
causes of death potentially affected by the intervention.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1648
PMID: 20799342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Int J Health Serv. 2010;40(3):543-67. doi: 10.2190/HS.40.3.i.

Women's health in developing countries: beyond an investment?

Mohindra KS(1), Nikiéma B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Health/Institut de Recherche sur la Santé des 
Population, University of Ottawa/Université d'Ottawa, Canada. 
katia.mohindra@gmail.com

Most international programs and policies devised to improve women's health in 
developing countries have been shaped by powerful agencies and development 
ideologies, including the tendency to view women solely through the lens of 
instrumentalism (i.e., as a means to an end). In a literature review, the 
authors followed the trail of instrumentalism by reviewing the different 
approaches and paradigms that have guided international development initiatives 
over the past 50 years. The analysis focuses on three key approaches to 
international development: the economic development, public health, and 
women-gender approaches. The findings indicate that progressive changes have 
adopted a more inclusive development perspective that is potentially beneficial 
to women's health. On the other hand, most paradigms have largely viewed 
improving women's lives in general, and their health in particular, as an 
investment or a means to development rather than an end in itself. Public health 
strategies did not escape the instrumentalism entrenched in the broader 
development paradigms. Although there was an opportunity for progress in the 
1990s with the emergence of the human development and human rights paradigms and 
critical advances in Cairo and Beijing promoting women's agency, the current 
Millennium Development Goals project seems to have relapsed into 
instrumentalism.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.40.3.i
PMID: 20799675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Altern Complement Med. 2010 Sep;16(9):1007-10. doi: 10.1089/acm.2010.0107.

Reestablishment of hope as an intervention for a patient with cystic fibrosis 
awaiting lung transplantation.

Anbar RD(1), Murthy VV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, State University of New York Upstate Medical 
University, Syracuse, NY, USA. Anbarr@upstate.edu

Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) experience a progressive deterioration in 
health leading to a shortened life expectancy with concomitant psychologic 
challenges that also may require intervention. Approaches to address psychologic 
dysfunction include insight-oriented therapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy, 
biofeedback, hypnosis, massage, music therapy, relaxation, and family therapy. 
Patients who learn to use coping strategies are more likely to adhere to 
treatment, which helps improve both their physical and psychologic well-being. 
Unique stressors arise for patients awaiting lung transplant as a result of 
their advanced state of disease along with their fear of death before donor 
lungs become available. This case report demonstrates some of the psychologic 
struggles faced by a 10-year-old with CF as he awaited lung transplantation, 
which led to a loss of hope and his request for withdrawal of care. Encouraging 
of the patient to express how his life might be improved yielded changes in his 
management that restored his hopefulness, and allowed him to survive long enough 
to undergo successful lung transplantation. Thus, reestablishment of hope might 
be studied as an additional intervention to help improve the well-being of 
patients who are seriously ill.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2010.0107
PMID: 20799891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Am Coll Surg. 2010 Sep;211(3):338-46. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2010.04.010.  Epub 2010 Jul 13.

Effect of pre-existing medical conditions on in-hospital mortality: analysis of 
20,257 trauma patients in Japan.

Shoko T(1), Shiraishi A, Kaji M, Otomo Y.

Author information:
(1)Shock Trauma and Emergency Medical Center, Tokyo Medical and Dental 
University Hospital of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The average life expectancy of Japanese individuals is the longest 
in the world. The mortality rate from injury is increasing among older people. 
There have been no detailed reports on the relationship between pre-existing 
medical conditions (PMCs) and mortality from trauma among elderly people in 
Japan.
STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a retrospective analysis using 20,257 cases recorded 
in the Japan Trauma Data Bank from 2004 to 2007. The subjects were 11,590 
hospital inpatients (57.2%) 16 years of age or older. A logistic regression 
analysis was conducted for the relation between 23 PMCs and in-hospital 
mortality.
RESULTS: Overall in-hospital mortality was 10.8%, and for people 75 years of age 
and older, was 17.7%. The incidence of PMC was 4,752 (41.0%). Patients with PMCs 
of cirrhosis, active cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hematologic 
disorders, anticoagulation drugs, dementia or mental retardation, or other 
conditions had higher in-hospital mortality. The existence of a single PMC did 
not increase mortality, but with 2 or more PMCs, mortality significantly 
increased. The existence of 2 or more PMCs in the 50- to 74-year-old age group 
and in the minor injury group strongly affected the odds ratio for mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The existence of certain PMCs or of 2 or more PMCs increases 
in-hospital mortality from injury. This effect is particularly conspicuous in 
middle-aged patients and people with minor injuries, but was not found to be a 
problem among elderly people. The increased mortality from injury in elderly 
people in Japan is therefore not affected by the existence of PMCs.

Copyright 2010 American College of Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2010.04.010
PMID: 20800190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Clin Epidemiol. 2011 Apr;64(4):436-43. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2010.04.018.  Epub 2010 Aug 30.

Future disability projections could be improved by connecting to the theory of a 
dynamic equilibrium.

Klijs B(1), Mackenbach JP, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. b.klijs@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Projections of future trends in the burden of disability could be 
guided by models linking disability to life expectancy, such as the dynamic 
equilibrium theory. This article tests the key assumption of this theory that 
severe disability is associated with proximity to death, whereas mild disability 
is not.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Using data from the GLOBE study (Gezondheid en 
Levensomstandigheden Bevolking Eindhoven en omstreken), the association of three 
levels of self-reported disabilities in activities of daily living with age and 
proximity to death was studied using logistic regression models. Regression 
estimates were used to estimate the number of life years with disability for 
life spans of 75 and 85 years.
RESULTS: Odds ratios of 0.976 (not significant) for mild disability, 1.137 for 
moderate disability, and 1.231 for severe disability showed a stronger effect of 
proximity to death for more severe levels of disability. A 10-year increase of 
life span was estimated to result in a substantial expansion of mild disability 
(4.6 years) compared with a small expansion of moderate (0.7 years) and severe 
(0.9 years) disability.
CONCLUSION: These findings support the theory of a dynamic equilibrium. 
Projections of the future burden of disability could be substantially improved 
by connecting to this theory and incorporating information on proximity to 
death.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2010.04.018
PMID: 20800441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Vasc Surg. 2010 Dec;52(6):1478-85. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.06.157.

Outcomes before and after initiation of an acute aortic treatment center.

Davies MG(1), Younes HK, Harris PW, Masud F, Croft BA, Reardon MJ, Lumsden AB.

Author information:
(1)Methodist DeBakey Heart and Vascular Center, Department of Cardiovascular 
Surgery, The Methodist Hospital, 6550 Fannin-Smith Tower, Ste. 1401, Houston, 
Texas 77030, USA. MDavies@tmhs.org

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2010 Dec;52(6):1485.

BACKGROUND: Acute aortic syndromes remain life-threatening. Time is of the 
essence, as mortality rises with increasing time after the acute episode. The 
aim of this report is to show changes in practice and outcomes after the 
establishment of an acute aortic treatment center (AATC) to expedite the care of 
acute aortic syndromes in a major metropolitan area with the belief that "door 
to intervention time under 90 minutes" reduces mortality and morbidity from 
acute aortic disease.
METHODS: A database of patients admitted with acute aortic disease (Type A and B 
aortic dissections, acute thoraco-abdominal aortic aneurysms, acute and ruptured 
abdominal aortic aneurysms) for 1 year prior to initiation (2007) and 1 year 
after initiation of the pathway (AATC) in 2008 was developed. Comorbidities were 
scored according to Society of Vascular Surgery criteria. Anatomic and 
functional outcomes were determined and categorized by Society of Vascular 
Surgery reporting criteria. Multivariate analysis was performed for categorical 
outcomes and Cox proportional hazard analyses for time-dependent outcomes.
RESULTS: Six hundred twenty-one patients reported with aortic disease to the 
cardiovascular services; 306 patients were considered to have acute disease. 
When compared with the year before the AATC was instituted, there was a 30% 
increase in the total number of admissions and a 25% increase in acute pathology 
after setting up the AATC (P = .02). There was a two-fold increase in thoracic 
aortic dissections admitted to the service. Initiation of the treatment pathway 
resulted in a highly significant 64% reduction in time to definitive therapy 
(526 ± 557 vs 187 ± 258 minutes, mean ± SD pre-AATC vs AATC; P = .0001). 
Comorbidity scores were equivalent between the two cohorts. Despite the increase 
in acuity, mortality (4% vs 6%) and morbidity (41% vs 45%) rates were unchanged, 
and there was a significant decrease in intensive care unit length of stay (5 vs 
4 days, pre-AATC cohort vs the AATC cohort), but total hospital length of stay 
(11 vs 10 days) was unchanged. There was no correlation between deaths within 30 
days and length of stay in the intensive care unit.
CONCLUSION: Establishment of a multidisciplinary AATC pathway was associated 
with a 30% increase in volume, 64% reduction in time to definitive treatment, 
improved throughput with reduced intensive care unit time, and maintained 
clinical efficacy despite an increase in acute admissions. These results suggest 
the concept be further evaluated.

Copyright © 2010 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.06.157
PMID: 20801610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Crisis. 2010;31(4):217-23. doi: 10.1027/0027-5910/a000023.

Assessing the impact of suicide exclusion periods on life insurance.

Yip P(1), Pitt D, Wang Y, Wu X, Watson R, Huggins R, Xu Y.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention and Social Work and Social 
Administration Department, The University of Hong Kong, P. R. C. sfpyip@hku.hk

BACKGROUND: We study the impact of suicide-exclusion periods, common in life 
insurance policies in Australia, on suicide and accidental death rates for 
life-insured individuals. If a life-insured individual dies by suicide during 
the period of suicide exclusion, commonly 13 months, the sum insured is not 
paid.
AIMS: We examine whether a suicide-exclusion period affects the timing of 
suicides. We also analyze whether accidental deaths are more prevalent during 
the suicide-exclusion period as life-insured individuals disguise their death by 
suicide. We assess the relationship between the insured sum and suicidal death 
rates.
METHODS: Crude and age-standardized rates of suicide, accidental death, and 
overall death, split by duration since the insured first bought their insurance 
policy, were computed.
RESULTS: There were significantly fewer suicides and no significant spike in the 
number of accidental deaths in the exclusion period for Australian life 
insurance data. More suicides, however, were detected for the first 2 years 
after the exclusion period. Higher insured sums are associated with higher rates 
of suicide.
CONCLUSIONS: Adverse selection in Australian life insurance is exacerbated by 
including a suicide-exclusion period. Extension of the suicide-exclusion period 
to 3 years may prevent some "insurance-induced" suicides - a rationale for this 
conclusion is given.

DOI: 10.1027/0027-5910/a000023
PMID: 20801752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Med Sci Monit. 2010 Sep;16(9):CS107-9.

Successful endoscopic clipping for bleeding from colonic angiodysplasia in a 
case of Heyde syndrome.

Takahashi N(1), Tanabe K, Yoshitomi H, Sato M, Kitamura J, Sato H, Ishibashi Y, 
Shimada T, Oda T.

Author information:
(1)4th Department of Internal Medicine, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, 
Izumo City, Shimane, Japan. yukihiro@med.shimane-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Aortic valve sclerosis, calcification, and stenosis are common in 
the elderly. Increased life expectancy has resulted in a growing population of 
elderly people, with a corresponding increase in the number of patients with 
these degenerative aortic valve diseases.
CASE REPORT: We report a case of severe aortic stenosis in an 82-year-old woman 
with bleeding due to colonic angiodysplasia. The patient presented with anemia 
unexpectedly before her aortic valve replacement. Colon fiberscopy revealed that 
colonic angiodysplasia was responsible for the bleeding. The lesion was treated 
with endoscopic clipping before the successful aortic valve replacement. 
Additionally, her immunoblot analysis detected a decrease of large molecular 
weight multimers of von Willebrand factor.
CONCLUSIONS: The relationship between aortic valve stenosis, acquired von 
Willebrand disease and gastrointestinal bleeding in elderly patients is known as 
Heyde syndrome. Clinicians should be aware of the possibilities of acquired von 
Willebrand disease and gastrointestinal bleeding from angiodysplasia in patients 
with aortic valve stenosis.

PMID: 20802419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Minerva Chir. 2010 Aug;65(4):489-93.

Intravenous leiomyomatosis: report of two cases and strategy for surgical 
resection.

Tielliu IF(1), Otterman ML, Meuzelaar JJ, Zeebregts CJ, Peeters PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands - i.tielliu@chir.umcg.nl

Intravenous leiomyomatosis is a rare smooth muscle tumour that arises from the 
myometrium and grows into the extrauterine venous system. It typically can 
extend into the vena cava inferior and even the cardiac chambers. This can lead 
to life threatening obstruction of cardiac valves. The only effective treatment 
is surgical resection. However, no clear guidelines with respect to surgical 
approach and further strategy are available in the literature. Especially the 
indications for a simultaneous thoracic approach and for either one-stage or 
two-stage approach are unclear. On the basis of two cases of intravenous 
leiomyomatosis with different levels of intracaval extension of the tumour, this 
article discusses a useful strategy for planning surgical resection, taking into 
account tumour characteristics and different levels of intracaval extension.

PMID: 20802437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Indian J Gastroenterol. 2010 Jun;29(3):112-5.

How sustained is sustained viral response in patients with hepatitis C virus 
infection?

Sood A(1), Midha V, Mehta V, Sharma S, Mittal R, Thara A, Sood N, Kaur A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, 
Ludhiana, India. ajitsood10@sify.com

BACKGROUND: Sustained virological response (SVR) is achieved in a high 
proportion of patients with chronic hepatitis C infection, particularly those 
with genotype 2 or 3 HCV infection. However, data on long-term durability of 
virological response in patients who achieve SVR are limited.
AIM: To evaluate the long-term durability of virological response in patients 
who have achieved SVR with interferon-based combination therapy.
METHODS: One hundred patients with chronic HCV infection who had obtained SVR 
after IFN and ribavirin combination therapy were followed up for up to 8 years 
with annual HCV RNA testing.
RESULTS: During a followed up of 6 months to 8 years, 8 of 100 patients with 
initial SVR developed late relapse of HCV infection. Relapse was more common in 
patients who had cirrhosis (5/28 [18%] vs. (3/72 [4%] with no cirrhosis; 
p=0.037).
CONCLUSION: SVR is durable in most patients, but some patients do have late 
relapse; long term follow up may be particularly important in a subset of 
patients with HCV infection who have liver cirrhosis.

PMID: 20803820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Aviakosm Ekolog Med. 2010 Jan-Feb;44(1):5-14.

[Dose loads on and radiation risk values for cosmonauts on a mission to Mars 
estimated from actual Martian vehicle engineering development].

[Article in Russian]

Shafirkin AV, Kolomenskiĭ AV, Mitrikas VG, Petrov VM.

The current design philosophy of a Mars orbiting vehicle, takeoff and landing 
systems and the transport return vehicle was taken into consideration for 
calculating the equivalent doses imparted to cosmonaut's organs and tissues by 
galactic cosmic rays, solar rays and the Earth's radiation belts, values of the 
total radiation risk over the lifespan following the mission and over the whole 
career period, and possible shortening of life expectancy. There are a number of 
uncertainties that should be evaluated, and radiation limits specified before 
setting off to Mars.

PMID: 20803991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2010;8(5):327-41. doi: 
10.2165/11536180-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of long-acting risperidone in Sweden.

Hensen M(1), Heeg B, Löthgren M, van Hout B.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit BV, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. mhensen@pharmerit.com

BACKGROUND: In Sweden, risperidone long-acting injectable (RLAI) is generally 
used in a population of schizophrenia patients who are at a high risk of being 
non-compliant. However, RLAI might also be suitable for use in the general 
schizophrenia population.
OBJECTIVES: To analyse the clinical and economic effects of RLAI in the Swedish 
treatment practice using a discrete-event simulation (DES) model. Treatment 
outcomes and direct costs were analysed for both the high-risk non-compliant 
patient population and the general schizophrenia population.
METHODS: An existing DES model was adapted to simulate the treatment of 
schizophrenia in Sweden. Model inputs were based on literature research and 
supplemented with expert opinion. In the high-risk non-compliant schizophrenia 
population, RLAI was compared with haloperidol LAI. The analysis was built upon 
differences in symptom reduction, time between relapses, compliance and adverse 
effect profile between the two drugs. Main outcomes were the predicted 
incremental (discounted) costs (€) and effects (QALYs). In the general 
schizophrenia population, RLAI was compared with oral olanzapine. This analysis 
was built upon differences in compliance and adverse effects between the drugs. 
Multivariate probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA) were carried out to assess 
the sensitivity of the results of the two analyses.
RESULTS: In the high-risk non-compliant patient population, RLAI was predicted 
to generate 0.103 QALYs per patient over 3 years while realizing cost savings of 
€5013 (year 2007 values) compared with haloperidol LAI. The main driver of the 
cost effectiveness of RLAI was the difference in Positive and Negative Syndrome 
Scale (PANSS) reduction between the two drugs, followed by the difference in 
adverse effects. The PSA showed that, in this setting, RLAI had a probability of 
100% of being cost effective at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of €43,300 
per QALY gained, compared with haloperidol LAI. The probability that RLAI 
combines additional effectiveness with cost savings compared with haloperidol 
LAI was estimated at 94%. When analysing RLAI in the general schizophrenia 
population, it was predicted to generate 0.043 QALYs and save €239 per patient 
over 5 years compared with olanzapine. Compliance was the main driver of the 
cost effectiveness of RLAI in this scenario. In the PSA it was shown that RLAI 
had a probability of 78% of being cost effective at a WTP threshold of €43,300 
per QALY gained, compared with olanzapine. The estimated probability that RLAI 
combines additional effectiveness with cost savings was 50% and the probability 
that RLAI is less effective and more costly than olanzapine was negligible 
(0.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with RLAI is suggested to result in improved QALYs 
combined with cost savings compared with haloperidol LAI among the Swedish, 
high-risk non-compliant schizophrenia patient population. In the general 
schizophrenia population, RLAI also resulted in positive incremental QALYs and 
cost savings, when compared with olanzapine. However, the estimates used in the 
model for compliance and symptom reduction need further validation through 
naturalistic-based studies with reasonable follow-up to more definitely 
establish the real-life differences between RLAI and the comparators in the 
considered patient populations and to further reduce the uncertainty of these 
parameters.

DOI: 10.2165/11536180-000000000-00000
PMID: 20804225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Psychoanal Rev. 2010 Aug;97(4):579-605. doi: 10.1521/prev.2010.97.4.579.

Infinite adolescence: a psychoanalytic exploration of tantalizing promises 
inherent to the singularity.

Dauphin VB(1), Abell S.

Author information:
(1)University of Detroit Mercy, Department of Psychology, Detroit, MI 48221, 
USA. daupinvb@udmercy.edu

DOI: 10.1521/prev.2010.97.4.579
PMID: 20804326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Hum Gene Ther. 2011 Feb;22(2):135-44. doi: 10.1089/hum.2010.114. Epub 2010
Dec  19.

Combination of SMN trans-splicing and a neurotrophic factor increases the life 
span and body mass in a severe model of spinal muscular atrophy.

Shababi M(1), Glascock J, Lorson CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Bond Life Sciences Center, University 
of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. ShababiM@missouri.edu

Comment in
    Hum Gene Ther. 2011 Feb;22(2):121-5.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a neurodegenerative disease, is the second most 
common genetic disorder and the leading genetic cause of infantile death. SMA 
arises from the loss of Survival Motor Neuron-1 (SMN1), leading to degeneration 
of lower motor neurons and, consequently, the atrophy of voluntary muscles. A 
duplicated copy gene called SMN2 exists in humans. SMN2 is unable to fully 
compensate for the loss of SMN1 because it produces very low levels of 
functional SMN protein due to an alternative splicing event. A C/T transition in 
SMN2 exon 7 results in a transcript lacking exon 7 and, therefore, creates a 
truncated SMN protein that cannot fully compensate for the loss of SMN1. 
However, SMN2 is an ideal target for therapeutic strategies that redirect this 
critical splicing event. Previously, we developed the first trans-splicing 
strategy to increase the full-length mRNA and functional SMN protein from the 
SMN2 gene. To improve the trans-splicing efficacy, we then developed a 
single-vector system that expressed a trans-splicing RNA (tsRNA) and an 
antisense blocking the downstream splice site. This single vector greatly 
enhanced trans-splicing of SMN2 transcripts in vitro and in vivo. In this 
report, we have added a neurotrophic factor [insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1] 
to this single vector to determine whether neuroprotection and SMN induction 
provide greater protection in an SMA animal model. Intracerebroventricular 
injection of the trans-splicing/IGF vector significantly increased SMN protein 
in brain and spinal cord of SMAΔ7 mice and lessened the severity of disease in a 
more severe mouse model as evidenced by an extension of life span and increased 
body mass.

DOI: 10.1089/hum.2010.114
PMID: 20804424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. J Biomed Sci. 2010 Aug 24;17 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S26. doi: 
10.1186/1423-0127-17-S1-S26.

Taurine reduces ER stress in C. elegans.

Kim HM(1), Do CH, Lee DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Seoul, Dongdaemun-Gu, Seoul, 
130-743, Korea. gpals819@naver.com

BACKGROUND: ER stress is a strong indicator of whether or not a cell is 
undergoing physiological stress. C. elegans is a practical system of 
characterizing the effect of ER stress at the in vivo or organismal level.
METHODS: This study characterized taurine's anti-ER stress potential employing 
western blotting on ER stress markers and assays of motility, lifespan 
comparison, and fecundity measurement.
RESULTS: When treated with tunicamycin, C. elegans showed the typical ER stress 
symptoms. It showed a higher expression of hsp-70 and skn-1 than the non-treated 
control. Survivorship significantly decreased under tunicamycin treatment, and 
the offspring number also decreased. During the synchronized culture under ER 
stress conditions, the C. elegans showed early signs of aging especially between 
L3 and L4 within their life span, along with lowered motility. The worms, 
however, showed a positive response to the taurine treatment under ER stress 
conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: When C. elegans were treated with taurine before or after the 
tunicamycin treatment, they showed a less severe level of ER stress, including 
an enhanced survivorship, increased motility, and augmented fecundity. Taken 
together, these results strongly indicate that taurine works positively to cope 
with ER stress from the organismal perspective.

DOI: 10.1186/1423-0127-17-S1-S26
PMCID: PMC2994371
PMID: 20804601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Diabetes Care. 2010 Sep;33(9):1933-9. doi: 10.2337/dc10-0554.

Cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery for severely obese adults with diabetes.

Hoerger TJ(1), Zhang P, Segel JE, Kahn HS, Barker LE, Couper S.

Author information:
(1)RTI-UNC Center of Excellence in Health Promotion Economics, RTI 
International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA. tjh@rti.org

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 2010 Sep;33(9):2126-8.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery in severely 
obese (BMI >or=35 kg/m(2)) adults who have diabetes, using a validated diabetes 
cost-effectiveness model.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We expanded the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention-RTI Diabetes Cost-Effectiveness Model to incorporate bariatric 
surgery. In this simulation model, bariatric surgery may lead to diabetes 
remission and reductions in other risk factors, which then lead to fewer 
diabetes complications and increased quality of life (QoL). Surgery is also 
associated with perioperative mortality and subsequent complications, and 
patients in remission may relapse to diabetes. We separately estimate the costs, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and cost-effectiveness of gastric bypass 
surgery relative to usual diabetes care and of gastric banding surgery relative 
to usual diabetes care. We examine the cost-effectiveness of each type of 
surgery for severely obese individuals who are newly diagnosed with diabetes and 
for severely obese individuals with established diabetes.
RESULTS: In all analyses, bariatric surgery increased QALYs and increased costs. 
Bypass surgery had cost-effectiveness ratios of $7,000/QALY and $12,000/QALY for 
severely obese patients with newly diagnosed and established diabetes, 
respectively. Banding surgery had cost-effectiveness ratios of $11,000/QALY and 
$13,000/QALY for the respective groups. In sensitivity analyses, the 
cost-effectiveness ratios were most affected by assumptions about the direct 
gain in QoL from BMI loss following surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis indicates that gastric bypass and gastric banding are 
cost-effective methods of reducing mortality and diabetes complications in 
severely obese adults with diabetes.

DOI: 10.2337/dc10-0554
PMCID: PMC2928336
PMID: 20805271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Diabetes Care. 2010 Sep;33(9):2126-8. doi: 10.2337/dc10-1255.

The public health implications of the cost-effectiveness of bariatric surgery 
for diabetes.

Laiteerapong N, Huang ES.

Comment on
    Diabetes Care. 2010 Sep;33(9):1933-9.

DOI: 10.2337/dc10-1255
PMCID: PMC2928378
PMID: 20805285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 2010 Aug;110(8):427-36.

Cost-effectiveness of rosuvastatin for primary prevention of cardiovascular 
events according to Framingham Risk Score in patients with elevated C-reactive 
protein.

MacDonald GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Rapid City Regional Hospital, Family Medicine Residency Program, 502 E Monroe 
St, Rapid City, SD 57701-1400, USA. gary.p.macdonald@gmail.com

Erratum in
    J Am Osteopath Assoc. 2010 Sep;110(9):508.

CONTEXT: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently approved rosuvastatin 
calcium for prevention of cardiovascular events in patients who have elevated 
levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) but not overt 
hyperlipidemia. The FDA's decision was based primarily on research reported by 
the JUPITER (Justification for the Use of Statins in Prevention: An Intervention 
Trial Evaluating Rosuvastatin) Study Group. The cost-effectiveness of such 
treatment is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of treatment with rosuvastatin vs 
standard management, according to Framingham Risk Score (FRS), for the primary 
prevention of cardiovascular events in patients who have hs-CRP levels of 2.0 
mg/L or higher and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels of less 
than 130 mg/dL.
METHODS: A Markov-type model was used to calculate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of rosuvastatin (20 mg daily) vs standard management 
for the primary prevention of cardiovascular events in patients over a 10-year 
period. Cost data were obtained from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services and the Red Book drug reference. Health utility measures were obtained 
from the literature. Cardiovascular event data were obtained directly from the 
JUPITER Study Group. One-way sensitivity analysis and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis were conducted.
RESULTS: Treating patients with rosuvastatin to prevent cardiovascular events 
based on a hs-CRP level greater than 2.0 mg/L and an LDL-C level of 130 mg/dL or 
lower would result in estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of $35,455 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) in patients with an FRS greater than 10% 
and $90,714 per QALY in patients with an FRS less than or equal to 10%. Results 
of probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggested that in patients with an FRS 
greater than 10%, the probability that rosuvastatin is considered cost-effective 
at $50,000 per QALY is approximately 98%. In patients with an FRS less than or 
equal to 10%, the probability that rosuvastatin is considered cost-effective at 
$50,000 per QALY is 0%.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with standard management, treatment with rosuvastatin is a 
cost-effective strategy over a 10-year period for preventing cardiovascular 
events in patients with FRS greater than 10%, elevated hs-CRP levels, and normal 
LDL-C levels.

PMID: 20805548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Thromb Haemost. 2010 Oct;104(4):760-70. doi: 10.1160/TH10-01-0071. Epub 2010
Aug  30.

Cost-effectiveness of rivaroxaban versus enoxaparin for the prevention of 
postsurgical venous thromboembolism in Canada.

Diamantopoulos A(1), Lees M, Wells PS, Forster F, Ananthapavan J, McDonald H.

Author information:
(1)Symmetron Limited, London, UK.

This study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis with 
rivaroxaban vs. enoxaparin in the prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
after total hip replacement (THR) and total knee replacement (TKR) from the 
perspective of the Canadian healthcare system. A model was developed that 
included both acute VTE (represented as a decision tree) and long-term 
complications (represented as a Markov process with one-year cycles). Transition 
probabilities were derived from phase III clinical trials comparing rivaroxaban 
with enoxaparin and published literature. Costs were derived from the Ontario 
Case Costing Initiative and publicly available sources. Utilities were derived 
from published literature. The model reported VTE event rates, quality-adjusted 
life expectancy and direct medical costs over a five-year horizon. Costs are 
reported in 2007 Canadian Dollars (C$). When rivaroxaban and enoxaparin are 
compared in patients undergoing THR, rivaroxaban dominates enoxaparin. That is, 
rivaroxaban is associated with improved health outcomes as measured by increased 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs; 0.0006) and fewer symptomatic VTE events 
(0.0061), and also with lower cost (savings of C$300) per patient. Similarly, 
rivaroxaban dominates enoxaparin in patients undergoing TKR, achieving a gain of 
0.0018 QALYs, a reduction of 0.0192 symptomatic venous thromboembolic events and 
