rural and isolated regions.

PMID: 20672870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Insect Sci. 2010;10:92. doi: 10.1673/031.010.9201.

The biology and some population parameters of the grasshopper, Ronderosia bergi, 
under laboratory conditions.

Mariottini Y(1), de Wysiecki ML, Lange C.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Estudios Parasitológicos y de Vectores (CEPAVE - CCT La Plata 
CONICET-UNLP), La Plata, Argentina. ymariottini@cepave.edu.ar

Some biological and population parameters of Ronderosia bergi (Stål) 
(Orthoptera: Acrididae: Melanoplinae) were estimated by monitoring five cohorts 
of the first generation (F1) of individuals born in captivity from grasshoppers 
collected in the South of Misiones province, northeastern Argentina, and held 
under controlled conditions (30 degrees C, 14:10 L:D, 40% RH). The mean 
embryonic development time was 40.6 +/- 1.7 days. Five nymphal instars were 
recorded. Total duration of nymphal development was 30.8 +/- 0.54 days. The mean 
lifespan of cohorts was 22.6 +/- 0.7 weeks. The number of egg-pods per female 
was 7.6 +/- 1.44, and the amount of eggs per egg-pod was 16.45 +/- 0.85. Mean 
fecundity was 125 +/- 5.83 eggs per female with an oviposition rate of 1.55 +/- 
0.57 eggs/female/day. Survivorship curves showed that mortality was concentrated 
in the final weeks of adulthood, and the life expectancy curve decreased 
accordingly. The population parameters estimated gave the following values: the 
net rate of reproduction (R(0)) was 46.75 +/- 11.2, generation time (T) was 
18.87 +/- 1.67 weeks, duplication time (D) was 3.31 +/- 0.34, the intrinsic rate 
of population growth (r(m)) was 0.21 +/- 0.021 and the finite rate of population 
increase (lambda) was 1.24 +/- 0.026. The reproductive values (V(x)) indicated 
that the largest contribution of females to the subsequent generation was 
between weeks 15 and 25.

DOI: 10.1673/031.010.9201
PMCID: PMC3383409
PMID: 20673116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2010 Dec;16(12):1736-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-0691.2010.03330.x.

Balancing the benefits and costs of antibiotic drugs: the TREAT model.

Leibovici L(1), Paul M, Andreassen S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine E, Beilinson Hospital, Rabin Medical Center, 
Petah-Tiqva, Israel. leibovic@post.tau.ac.il

TREAT is a computerized decision support system aimed at improving empirical 
antibiotic treatment of inpatients with suspected bacterial infections. It 
contains a model that balances, for each antibiotic choice (including 'no 
antibiotics'), expected benefit and expected costs. The main benefit afforded by 
appropriate, empirical, early antibiotic treatment in moderate to severe 
infections is a better chance of survival. Each antibiotic drug was consigned 
three cost components: cost of the drug and administration; cost of side 
effects; and costs of future resistance. 'No treatment' incurs no costs. The 
model worked well for decision support. Its analysis showed, yet again, that for 
moderate to severe infections, a model that does not include costs of resistance 
to future patients will always return maximum antibiotic treatment. Two major 
moral decisions are hidden in the model: how to take into account the limited 
life-expectancy and limited quality of life of old or very sick patients; and 
how to assign a value for a life-year of a future, unnamed patient vs. the 
present, individual patient.

© 2010 The Authors. Clinical Microbiology and Infection © 2010 European Society 
of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-0691.2010.03330.x
PMID: 20673259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Theor Biol Med Model. 2010 Jul 30;7:30. doi: 10.1186/1742-4682-7-30.

Tracking tumor evolution via prostate-specific antigen: an individual 
post-operative study.

Erbudak M(1), Erzan A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Solid State Physics, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland. 
erbudak@phys.ethz.ch

BACKGROUND: The progress of the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level after 
radical prostatectomy is observed for a patient in order to extract information 
about the mode of tumor cell growth. Although PSA values are determined 
routinely to find the doubling time of the prostate marker, to our knowledge, 
this analysis is the first in the literature.
RESULTS: The prostate tumor marker values were determined regularly after the 
surgery and plotted on a logarithmic scale against time. An initial rapid-growth 
mode changed to a slower power-law regime within two years of surgery. Our 
analysis associates this observation with a transition in the growth mode from 
unrestricted growth of dispersed cells to their clumping into macroscopic 
structures.
CONCLUSIONS: Such studies may help determine the appropriate time window for 
postoperative therapies in order to increase the life expectancy of the patient.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4682-7-30
PMCID: PMC2920266
PMID: 20673345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Physiotherapy. 2010 Sep;96(3):213-21. doi: 10.1016/j.physio.2009.11.013.
Epub  2010 Mar 25.

The influence of psychological factors on pre-operative levels of pain 
intensity, disability and health-related quality of life in lumbar spinal fusion 
surgery patients.

Abbott AD(1), Tyni-Lenné R, Hedlund R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden. allan.abbott@karolinska.se

OBJECTIVES: To assess the extent to which perceived pain and psychological 
factors explain levels of disability and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) 
in patients scheduled for lumbar fusion surgery, and to test the hypothesis that 
relationships between pain intensity, mental health, fear of 
movement/(re)injury, disability and HRQOL are mediated by cognitive beliefs and 
appraisals.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, correlation study.
SETTING: Orthopaedic outpatient setting in a tertiary hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and seven chronic back pain patients scheduled for 
lumbar fusion surgery.
MEASURES: Visual analogue scale for pain intensity, Short Form 36 mental health 
subscale, Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia, Back Beliefs Questionnaire, 
Self-efficacy Scale, Coping Strategy Questionnaire, Oswestry Disability Index 
and European Quality of Life Questionnaire.
RESULTS: The group effect of multiple mediators significantly influenced the 
relationships between pain intensity and mental health, fear of 
movement/(re)injury, functional disability and HRQOL. Pain catastrophising 
significantly mediated the relationship between pain intensity and mental 
health, control over pain significantly mediated the relationship between mental 
health and functional disability, self-efficacy and pain outcome expectancy 
significantly mediated the relationship between mental health and HRQOL, and 
self-efficacy also significantly mediated the relationship between pain 
intensity, fear of movement/(re)jury and functional disability. The model 
explained 28, 30, 52 and 42% of the variation in mental health, fear of 
movement/(re)injury, functional disability and HRQOL, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the strong influence and mediation roles of 
psychological factors on pain, mental health, fear of movement/(re)injury, 
disability and HRQOL in patients scheduled for lumber fusion. Future research 
should focus on screening as well as pre- and post-operative interventions based 
on these psychological factors for the potential improvement of lumber fusion 
surgery outcomes.

Copyright 2010 Chartered Society of Physiotherapy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physio.2009.11.013
PMID: 20674653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. J Korean Med Sci. 2010 Aug;25(8):1140-5. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2010.25.8.1140.
Epub  2010 Jul 21.

Heart rate variability and length of survival in hospice cancer patients.

Kim DH(1), Kim JA, Choi YS, Kim SH, Lee JY, Kim YE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.

We examined the association between heart rate variability (HRV) and survival 
duration to evaluate the usefulness of HRV as a prognostic factor for hospice 
cancer patients. In terminally ill cancer patients who visited the Hospice 
clinic, we checked demographic data, Karnofsky performance scale (KPS), HRV, 
dyspnea, anorexia, as well as fasting blood glucose and total cholesterol. After 
following up their duration of survival, we examined meaningful prognostic 
factors for predicting life expectancy through the survival analysis. A total of 
68 patients were included in final analysis. As KPS was lower, or when combined 
with dyspnea or anorexia, the survival duration was much shorter. HRV parameters 
except heart rate were all impaired in most patients. In particular, the group 
with mean heart rate of 100 or more beats per minute and the group with standard 
deviations of normal-to-normal R-R intervals (SDNN) of 21.3 ms (75 percentile) 
or less showed significantly shorter survival duration. The final multivariate 
analysis adjusting for age, gender, fasting blood glucose, and total cholesterol 
showed that KPS, dyspnea, anorexia, and SDNN were significant prognostic factors 
in survival duration. For the first time, we report that SDNN is a prognostic 
factor in terminal cancer patients.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2010.25.8.1140
PMCID: PMC2908781
PMID: 20676323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Health Econ. 2011 Jul;20(7):864-75. doi: 10.1002/hec.1650.

Toward a more universal approach in health valuation.

Craig BM(1), Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Moffitt Cancer Center, Health Outcomes and Behavior, Tampa, FL, USA. 
benjamin.craig@moffitt.org

By polling individual responses to hypothetical scenarios, valuation studies 
estimate population preferences toward health on a quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) scale. The scenarios typically involve trade-offs in time (time trade-off 
(TTO)), risk (standard gamble (SG)), or number of persons affected (person 
trade-off (PTO)). This paper revisits the QALY assumptions and provides a 
coherent health econometric approach that unites TTO, SG, and PTO techniques 
under a common estimator. The proposed approach avoids the use of ratio 
statistics in QALY estimation and the common convention of arbitrarily changing 
trade-off responses. As an example, 34% of the TTO responses from the seminal 
Measurement and Valuation of Health study were changed in the original UK 
analysis, which led to substantially lower QALY estimates. As a general rule, if 
the original estimate is less than 0.5 QALYs, add 0.25 QALYs to get the new 
estimates.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1650
PMCID: PMC3819815
PMID: 20677328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Reprod Med. 2009 Oct;54(10):609-16.

Why the twinning rate is higher in Africa than elsewhere: an analysis of 
selected factors.

Steinman G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, International American University School of 
Medicine, St. Lucia, West Indies. dav4601@aol.com

OBJECTIVE: To examine the rate of spontaneous twinning in selected countries in 
order to evaluate the impact of environmental stress and related socioeconomic 
factors on balancing reproductive activity and longevity.
STUDY DESIGN: Four countries with similar ancestry were considered, 2 in Africa 
and 2 in the Caribbean. Data on gross domestic product per capita, as a measure 
of indigenous conditions, access to proper diet, health care, sanitation and 
shelter were compared with the relative rate of twinning.
RESULTS: The data show an inverse relationship between wealth and environmental 
conditions, and the incidence of multiple gestations.
CONCLUSION: Through goods and services, improved living conditions reduce 
environmental stress and its adverse effect on the balance of biologic 
reproduction vs. longevity. In addition, breast-feeding, as a social expression 
and an economic easement, correlates with the chance of conceiving twins in a 
subsequent pregnancy. It would thus appear that the twinning rate can be taken 
as a barometer of the population's biologic attempt to perpetuate its gene pool 
expeditiously when an existential threat occurs.

PMID: 20677479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Clin Ther. 2010 Jul;32(7):1343-56. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.07.010.

Cost-effectiveness of ranibizumab for the treatment of neovascular age-related 
macular degeneration in Germany: Model analysis from the perspective of 
Germany's statutory health insurance system.

Neubauer AS(1), Holz FG, Sauer S, Wasmuth T, Hirneiss C, Kampik A, Schrader W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ludwig-Maximilians University, Munich, Germany. 
aljoscha.neubauer@med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: In clinical trials, ranibizumab has been associated with 
stabilization and even improvement of visual acuity among patients with 
neovascular age related macular degeneration (AMD), but its use is also 
associated with considerable costs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to compare ranibizumab with best supportive 
care or photodynamic therapy (PDT) for AMD by means of economic cost-utility and 
cost-effectiveness analysis from the perspective of Germany's Statutory Health 
Insurance System.
METHODS: Visual acuity data from the Anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth 
factor) Antibody for the Treatment of Predominantly Classic Choroidal 
Neovascularization in AMD (ANCHOR) and Minimally Classic/Occult Trial of the 
Anti-VEGF Antibody Ranibizumab in the Treatment of Neovascular AMD (MARINA) 
studies were applied, based on a ranibizumab dose of 0.5 mg. A Markov model 
simulated visual acuity and costs over 10 years (discounted at 3%). The 
base-case analysis assumed 5 injections per year over 2 years. Treatment costs 
were based on year-2008 euros (using German prices) and recommendations for 
procedure reimbursement from a public health insurance perspective. To assess 
cost-effectiveness, costs per year of legal blindness avoided (ie, vision-year 
gained [VYG]) and per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) were calculated. The 
model assumed each patient's affected eye had better sight than the other eye, 
and the 2 comparators against which ranibizumab treatment was assessed were best 
supportive care and PDT. The robustness of the results was investigated in a 
univariate sensitivity analysis of all relevant parameters and a multivariate 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis. The multivariate 95% CIs for incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were obtained by conducting 1000 Monte Carlo 
simulations.
RESULTS: Compared with best supportive care, costs per VYG for ranibizumab were 
euro6767 in occult choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and euro6020 in minimally 
classic CNV. In classic CNV, costs were euro5734/VYG for ranibizumab compared 
with supportive care and euro778/VYG for ranibizumab compared with PDT. Costs 
per QALY for ranibizumab treatment for occult, minimally classic CNV, and 
classic CNV were euro22,320, euro22,538, and euro25,036, respectively, and 
euro3294 for classic CNV compared with PDT. Results were sensitive to the cost 
of blindness, injection frequency, and duration. The multivariate 95% CIs for 
the incremental cost effectiveness ratios were euro14,438 to euro41,110/QALY for 
occult CNV, euro13,463 to euro43,614/QALY for minimally classic CNV, and 
euro15,634 to euro51,106/QALY for classic CNV.
CONCLUSION: In this model analysis using costs and clinical trial data from 
Germany, ranibizumab appeared to be a cost-effective treatment option for all 
angiographic subtypes of neovascular AMD, from the perspective of Germany's 
Statutory Health Insurance System.

2010 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.07.010
PMID: 20678682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Dig Liver Dis. 2010 Sep;42(9):608-10. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.07.001.

"Survival benefit": the final destination, with still a long way to go.

Piscaglia F(1), Cucchetti A, Bolondi L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Internal Medicine, Department of Digestive Disease and Internal 
Medicine, Bologna, Italy. Fabio.piscaglia@unibo.it

Comment on
    Dig Liver Dis. 2010 Sep;42(9):642-9.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.07.001
PMID: 20678743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Aug;197(2):88-90. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.076307.

Ethical dilemmas: should antipsychotics ever be prescribed for people with 
dementia?

Treloar A, Crugel M, Prasanna A, Solomons L, Fox C, Paton C, Katona C.

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Dec;197(6):501-2; author reply 502.
    Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Dec;197(6):501; author reply 502.

The use of antipsychotics for the treatment of behavioural and psychological 
symptoms of dementia (BPSD) is controversial. Antipsychotics cause harm and 
evidence-based guidelines advise against their use. We argue that antipsychotics 
may be justified using a palliative model: by reducing severe distress in those 
whose life expectancy is short.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.076307
PMID: 20679257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2010 Aug;67(8):812-21. doi: 
10.1001/archgenpsychiatry.2010.82.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a rural telemedicine collaborative care 
intervention for depression.

Pyne JM(1), Fortney JC, Tripathi SP, Maciejewski ML, Edlund MJ, Williams DK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Mental Healthcare and Outcomes Research, Central Arkansas Veterans 
Healthcare System, North Little Rock, AR 72114, USA. jmpyne@uams.edu

CONTEXT: Collaborative care interventions for depression in primary care 
settings are clinically beneficial and cost-effective. Most prior studies were 
conducted in urban settings.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of a rural telemedicine-based 
collaborative care depression intervention.
DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial of intervention vs usual care.
SETTING: Seven small (serving 1000 to 5000 veterans) Veterans Health 
Administration community-based outpatient clinics serving rural catchment areas 
in 3 mid-South states. Each site had interactive televideo dedicated to mental 
health but no psychiatrist or psychologist on site. Patients Among 18 306 
primary care patients who were screened, 1260 (6.9%) screened positive for 
depression; 395 met eligibility criteria and were enrolled from April 2003 to 
September 2004. Of those enrolled, 360 (91.1%) completed a 6-month follow-up and 
335 (84.8%) completed a 12-month follow-up. Intervention A stepped-care model 
for depression treatment was used by an off-site depression care team to make 
treatment recommendations via electronic medical record. The team included a 
nurse depression care manager, clinical pharmacist, and psychiatrist. The 
depression care manager communicated with patients via telephone and was 
supported by computerized decision support software.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The base case cost analysis included outpatient, 
pharmacy, and intervention expenditures. The effectiveness outcomes were 
depression-free days and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) calculated using 
the 12-Item Short Form Health Survey standard gamble conversion formula.
RESULTS: The incremental depression-free days outcome was not significant (P = 
.10); therefore, further cost-effectiveness analyses were not done. The 
incremental QALY outcome was significant (P = .04) and the mean base case 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $85 634/QALY. Results adding inpatient 
costs were $111 999/QALY to $132 175/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In rural settings, a telemedicine-based collaborative care 
intervention for depression is effective and expensive. The mean base case 
result was $85 634/QALY, which is greater than cost per QALY ratios reported for 
other, mostly urban, depression collaborative care interventions.

DOI: 10.1001/archgenpsychiatry.2010.82
PMID: 20679589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Health Aff (Millwood). 2010 Aug;29(8):1432-41. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0023.

Renewing primary care: lessons learned from the Spanish health care system.

Borkan J(1), Eaton CB, Novillo-Ortiz D, Rivero Corte P, Jadad AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine at the Alpert Medical School, Brown University, 
in Providence, Rhode Island, USA. jeffrey_borkan@mhri.org

From 1978 on, Spain rapidly expanded and strengthened its primary health care 
system, offering a lesson in how to improve health outcomes in a cost-effective 
manner. The nation moved to a tax-based system of universal access for the 
entire population and, at the local level, instituted primary care teams 
coordinating prevention, health promotion, treatment, and community care. Gains 
included increases in life expectancy and reductions in infant mortality, with 
outcomes superior to those in the United States. In 2007 Spain spent $2,671 per 
person, or 8.5 percent of its gross domestic product on health care, versus 16 
percent in the United States. Despite concerns familiar to Americans--about 
future shortages of primary care physicians and relatively low status and pay 
for these physicians--the principles underlying the Spanish reforms offer 
lessons for the United States.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0023
PMID: 20679646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev. 2010 Jun;7(4):339-46.

Deficiency of the insulin-like growth factor-binding protein acid-labile subunit 
(ALS) of the circulating ternary complex in children with short stature.

Domené HM(1), Scaglia PA, Jasper HG.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Endocrinológicas (CEDIE-CONICET), Hospital de Niños 
R. Gutiérrez, Buenos Aires, Argentina. hdomene@cedie.org.ar

The acid-labile subunit (ALS) protein is a key component of the circulating 
150-kDa IGF ternary complex. The main role of ALS is the extension of IGF-I half 
life by protecting it from degradation and preventing the passage of IGF-I to 
the extravascular compartment. In humans, complete ALS deficiency is 
characterized by severe reduction of IGF-I and IGFBP-3 that remain low after GH 
treatment, associated with mild growth retardation, much less pronounced than 
the IGF-I deficit. Pubertal delay in boys and insulin insensitivity are common 
findings. At least 21 patients with ALS deficiency have been described 
presenting 16 different homozygous or compound heterozygous inactivating 
mutations of the IGFALS gene. Although the effect of ALS deficiency on prenatal 
growth is still uncertain, postnatal growth is clearly affected, with the 
majority of the patients presenting a height between -2 to -3 SDS before and 
during puberty. In the assessment of a child with short stature ALS deficiency 
should be considered in those patients presenting: 1) a normal response to GH 
stimulation test, 2) low IGF-I levels associated with more profoundly reduced 
IGFBP-3 levels, 3) a mild growth retardation, apparently out of proportion to 
the degree of IGF-I and IGFBP-3 deficits, 4) lack of response to an IGF 
generation test and 5) insulin insensitivity. The relatively mild growth 
retardation in relation to the severe IGF-I deficit might be related to the 
preserved autocrine/paracrine action of locally produced IGF-I. The observation 
that in families of ALS deficient patients, heterozygous carriers for IGFALS 
gene mutations are shorter than their wild type relatives and the relatively 
high frequency of heterozygosity for this gene in children with idiopathic short 
stature suggests a requirement of normal levels of ALS for the attainment of 
maximal growth potential.

PMID: 20679994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Neurogastroenterol Motil. 2010 Jul;16(3):319-22. doi: 
10.5056/jnm.2010.16.3.319. Epub 2010 Jul 26.

A case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis presented as oropharyngeal Dysphagia.

Noh EJ(1), Park MI, Park SJ, Moon W, Jung HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kosin University College of Medicine, Busan, 
Korea.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a rare disease. It is a fatal neurodegenerative 
disease characterized by progressive muscular paralysis reflecting degeneration 
of motor neurons which leads to muscle weakness and muscle wasting. Respiratory 
failure limits survival to 2-5 years after disease onset. Several clinical 
manifestations including dysphagia can result in reductions in both the quality 
of life and life expectancy. Dysphagia occurs at onset in about one third of 
case, although generally it occurs in later stage of the disease. Evaluation of 
dysphagia includes video-fluoroscopic swallow study, radiological esophagogram, 
flexible endoscopic examination, ultrasound examination, conventional manometry 
and electromyography. We report a case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a 
54-year-old man presenting oropharyngeal dysphagia which was diagnosed by high 
resolution esophageal manometry presenting abnormality of the upper esophageal 
sphincter.

DOI: 10.5056/jnm.2010.16.3.319
PMCID: PMC2912126
PMID: 20680172

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None


759. Eur Spine J. 2010 Nov;19(11):1883-91. doi: 10.1007/s00586-010-1535-2. Epub
2010  Jul 31.

Five-year outcome of surgical decompression of the lumbar spine without fusion.

Mannion AF(1), Denzler R, Dvorak J, Grob D.

Author information:
(1)Spine Center Division, Schulthess Klinik, Lengghalde 2, 8008 Zurich, 
Switzerland. anne.mannion@kws.ch

Comment in
    Eur Spine J. 2010 Nov;19(11):1892-3.

As the average life expectancy of the population increases, surgical 
decompression of the lumbar spine is being performed with increasing frequency. 
It now constitutes the most common type of lumbar spinal surgery in older 
patients. The present prospective study examined the 5-year outcome of lumbar 
decompression surgery without fusion. The group comprised 159 patients 
undergoing decompression for degenerative spinal disorders who had been 
participants in a randomised controlled trial of post-operative rehabilitation 
that had shown no between-group differences at 2 years. Leg pain and back pain 
intensity (0-10 graphic rating scale), self-rated disability (Roland Morris), 
global outcome of surgery (5-point Likert scale) and re-operation rates were 
assessed 5 years post-operatively. Ten patients had died before the 5-year 
follow-up. Of the remaining 149 patients, 143 returned a 5-year follow-up (FU) 
questionnaire (effective return rate excluding deaths, 96%). Their mean age was 
64 (SD 11) years and 92/143 (64%) were men. In the 5-year follow-up period, 
34/143 patients (24%) underwent re-operation (17 further decompressions, 17 
fusions and 1 intradural drainage/debridement). In patients who were not 
re-operated, leg pain decreased significantly (p < 0.05) from before surgery to 
2 months FU, after which there was no significant change up to 5 years. Low back 
pain also decreased significantly by 2 months FU, but then showed a slight, but 
significant (p < 0.05), gradual increase of <1 point by 5-year FU. Disability 
decreased significantly from pre-operative to 2 months FU and showed a further 
significant decrease at 5 months FU. Thereafter, it remained stable up to the 
5-year FU. Pain and disability scores recorded after 5 years showed a 
significant correlation with those at earlier follow-ups (r = 0.53-0.82; p < 
0.05). Patients who were re-operated at some stage over the 5-year period showed 
significantly worse final outcomes for leg pain and disability (p < 0.05). In 
conclusion, pain and disability showed minimal change in the 5-year period after 
surgery, but the re-operation rate was relatively high. Re-operation resulted in 
worse final outcomes in terms of leg pain and disability. At the 5-year 
follow-up, the "average" patient experienced frequent, but relatively low levels 
of, pain and moderate disability. This knowledge on the long-term outcome should 
be incorporated into the pre-operative patient information process.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-010-1535-2
PMCID: PMC2989258
PMID: 20680372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(11):981-6. doi: 10.2165/11537590-000000000-00000.

Evaluation of benefit-risk.

Garattini S(1).

Author information:
(1)Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research, Milan, Italy. 
silvio.garattini@marionegri.it

Drug authorization, prescription and utilization are all based on benefit-risk 
assessment. This is made difficult by the apparent lack of objective means to 
measure the balance and by limitations regarding each of the two items. Benefit 
is sometimes measured by surrogate indicators of a real clinical advantage. It 
is assumed to be applicable to individuals even though it is measured in 
populations, and is represented in different ways that may convey different 
messages to physicians and patients. Risks are also hard to predict on an 
individual level. They may also be overlooked or revealed later than benefit, 
thus biasing the balance for a long time. Their causal relationship with the 
treatment is often not fully established. The benefit-risk balance itself has no 
generally recognized measure. This is why benefits and risks are hard to 
compare; either one or both may occur in single patients, and a risk-benefit 
profile that is acceptable in severe diseases may not be acceptable in diseases 
with a favourable prognosis. Pharmacoeconomics offers promising methods of 
health outcomes modelling using QALYs that take into consideration quality of 
life as well as survival. Primarily conceived as a guide for establishing the 
value of a treatment, they may prove useful as a means of trading efficacy and 
safety. However, quality of life is not always - or adequately - assessed in 
clinical studies. It is also not clear which is the most appropriate model to 
calculate QALYs for clinical purposes and how it can be used as a predictive 
tool at the individual level.

DOI: 10.2165/11537590-000000000-00000
PMID: 20681742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Osteoporos Int. 2011 May;22(5):1355-66. doi: 10.1007/s00198-010-1356-5. Epub
 2010 Aug 4.

Economic evaluation of dose-response resistance training in older women: a 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis.

Davis JC(1), Marra CA, Robertson MC, Khan KM, Najafzadeh M, Ashe MC, Liu-Ambrose 
T.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Hip Health and Mobility, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada.

SUMMARY: We estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of a once-weekly or 
twice-weekly resistance training intervention compared with balance and tone 
classes in terms of falls prevented and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained. Both resistance training interventions were more likely to save health 
care resource money and offer better health outcomes for falls prevention than 
balance and tone classes.
INTRODUCTION: This study aims to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility of a once-weekly or twice-weekly resistance training intervention 
compared with twice-weekly balance and tone classes in terms of falls prevented 
and QALYs gained.
METHODS: Economic evaluation was conducted concurrently with a three-arm 
randomized controlled trial including 155 community-dwelling women aged 65 to 75 
years, Mini Mental State Examination ≥24, and visual acuity 20/40 or better. 
Participants received the once-weekly resistance training (n = 54), the 
twice-weekly resistance training (n = 51) or the twice-weekly balance and tone 
(the comparator) classes (n = 50) for 1 year. Measurements included the number 
of falls for each participant, healthcare resource utilization, and associated 
costs over 9 months; health status was assessed using the EQ-5D and SF-6D to 
calculate QALYs.
RESULTS: Based on the point estimates from our base case analysis, we found that 
both once- and twice-weekly resistance training groups were less costly 
(p < 0.05) and more effective than twice-weekly balance and tone classes. The 
incremental QALYs assessed using the SF-6D were 0.003 for both the once- and 
twice-weekly resistance training groups, compared with the twice-weekly balance 
and tone classes. The incremental QALYs assessed using the EQ-5D were 0.084 for 
the once-weekly and 0.179 for the twice-weekly resistance training groups, 
respectively, compared with the twice-weekly balance and tone classes.
CONCLUSIONS: An individually tailored resistance training intervention delivered 
once or twice weekly provided better value for money for falls prevention than 
balance and tone classes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-010-1356-5
PMCID: PMC4508130
PMID: 20683707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


762. Semin Reprod Med. 2010 Jul;28(4):303-14. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1255178. Epub
2010  Aug 3.

The ethical challenges of providing fertility care to patients with chronic 
illness or terminal disease.

Chilvers RA(1), Hossain A, Phelps JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The University of Texas Medical 
Branch at Galveston, Galveston, Texas 77555-0587, USA. rachilve@utmb.edu

The field of fertility is rapidly evolving, bringing opportunities for 
improvement in our patients' quality of life as well as bringing new ethical 
dilemmas. As medical science continues to advance, significant numbers of the 
reproductive-aged population are living with chronic and/or terminal conditions 
but have reasonable odds of lengthy survival and wish to have children. 
Likewise, there are adolescents diagnosed with cancer who are increasingly 
expected to achieve an improved, if not normal, life expectancy after treatment. 
Oftentimes these children are told they must sacrifice their ability to later 
have genetically related offspring; however, technologies to preserve fertility 
are changing this prognosis. Patients with chronic infection are living longer, 
more normal lives and are increasingly seeking reproductive assistance. 
Moreover, there is an increasing number of patients' families desiring 
posthumous use of gametes, which also raises ethical and legal issues. This 
article discusses ethical principles of bioethics and then highlights specific 
ethical issues through four plausible cases that may be seen in a fertility 
practice providing medical care to patients with chronic illness or terminal 
disease. It concludes that prompt referral of patients to the reproductive 
endocrinologist, along with a multidisciplinary approach to care, provides 
increased chances of successful treatment of this group of patients.

Thieme Medical Publishers.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1255178
PMID: 20683794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Am Indian Alsk Native Ment Health Res. 2010;17(1):25-48. doi: 
10.5820/aian.1701.2010.25.

Assessing health-related quality of life in Northern Plains American Indians: 
prominence of physical activity as a health behavior.

Poltavski D(1), Holm J, Vogeltanz-Holm N, McDonald L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of North DakotaGrand Forks, ND 
58202-8380, USA. dpoltavski@medicine.nodak.edu

Associations of behavioral health risks and healthy behaviors with self-reported 
health-related quality of life measures were investigated in a Northern Plains 
American Indian sample. Participants were surveyed in person using the 
Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey. The results showed that regular 
physical activity was significantly associated with better self-reported overall 
health, fewer mentally unhealthy and activity limitation days in the past 30 
days, and with a greater number of good health days.

DOI: 10.5820/aian.1701.2010.25
PMID: 20683822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Rev Med Liege. 2010 May-Jun;65(5-6):232-8.

[Inertia in clinical practice: causes, consequences, solutions].

[Article in French]

Scheen AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Université de Liège, Service de Diabétologie, Nutrition et Maladies 
métaboliques et Unité de Pharmacologie clinique, CHU, Belgique.

Therapeutic inertia is one of the components of clinical inertia. It mainly 
concerns the management of chronic diseases. It may be defined as the attitude 
of health care providers who do not initiate or intensify therapy appropriately 
despite recognition of the problem. Multiple causes may be identified, related 
to the physician but also to the patient and to the health care system. The 
consequences may be dramatic, both for the patient, in terms of quality of life 
and/or life expectancy, and for the society, because of the huge cost resulting 
from complications due to therapeutic inertia. Thus, various solutions should be 
proposed to help solving this important public health problem, focusing the 
actions on the physician, the patient and/or the health care system.

PMID: 20684399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Clin Epidemiol. 2011 May;64(5):497-506. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2010.04.010.  Epub 2010 Aug 4.

Five preference-based indexes in cataract and heart failure patients were not 
equally responsive to change.

Kaplan RM(1), Tally S, Hays RD, Feeny D, Ganiats TG, Palta M, Fryback DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, School of Public Health, University of 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. rmkaplan@ucla.edu

OBJECTIVE: To compare the responsiveness to clinical change of five widely used 
preference-based health-related quality-of-life indexes in two longitudinal 
cohorts.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Five generic instruments were simultaneously 
administered to 376 adults undergoing cataract surgery and 160 adults in heart 
failure management programs. Patients were assessed at baseline and reevaluated 
after 1 and 6 months. The measures were the Short Form (SF)-6D (based on 
responses scored from SF-36v2), Self-Administered Quality of Well-being Scale 
(QWB-SA), the EuroQol-5D developed by the EuroQol Group, the Health Utilities 
Indexes Mark 2 (HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3). Cataract patients completed the 
National Eye Institute Visual Functioning Questionnaire-25, and heart failure 
patients completed the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire. 
Responsiveness was estimated by the standardized response mean.
RESULTS: For cataract patients, mean changes between baseline and 1-month 
follow-up for the generic indices ranged from 0.00 (SF-6D) to 0.052 (HUI3) and 
were statistically significant for all indexes except the SF-6D. For heart 
failure patients, only the SF-6D showed significant change from baseline to 1 
month, whereas only the QWB-SA change was significant between 1 and 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Preference-based methods for measuring health outcomes are not 
equally responsive to change.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2010.04.010
PMCID: PMC3973151
PMID: 20685077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2012 Jan;24(1):195-207. doi:
10.1177/1010539510376663.  Epub 2010 Aug 3.

Healthy life expectancy in the context of population health and ageing in India.

Lau RS(1), Johnson S, Kamalanabhan TJ.

Author information:
(1)Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute Intern, University of Regina, Saskatchewan, 
Canada.

This study examines life expectancy (LE) and healthy life expectancy (HLE) in 
India longitudinally over the period 2007 to 2020, providing projections into 
the future. Specifically, the Indian Healthy Life Expectancy Projection model 
was developed based on epidemiological data (mortality, disability rates) 
obtained from the World Health Organization and the Government of India. The 
current model contributed to 4 key findings: decreases in mortality but not in 
all age and gender groups; increasing disability in the Indian population over 
time; increase in LE and HLE into the future in all age and gender groups; and 
the largest gains in LE and HLE are in the older age bands starting from the 70+ 
age band in women and 65+ age band in men. This study sheds some light on the 
population health measures needed to improve the understanding of the 
determinants of health for the efficient allocation of resources and to inform 
policy in the planning of health and social services.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539510376663
PMID: 20685664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Thorax. 2010 Aug;65(8):711-8. doi: 10.1136/thx.2009.131631.

Long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation 
interventions in patients with COPD.

Hoogendoorn M(1), Feenstra TL, Hoogenveen RT, Rutten-van Mölken MP.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. hoogendoorn@bmg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to estimate the long-term (cost-) 
effectiveness of smoking cessation interventions for patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
METHODS: A systematic review was performed of randomised controlled trials on 
smoking cessation interventions in patients with COPD reporting 12-month 
biochemical validated abstinence rates. The different interventions were grouped 
into four categories: usual care, minimal counselling, intensive counselling and 
intensive counselling + pharmacotherapy ('pharmacotherapy'). For each category 
the average 12-month continuous abstinence rate and intervention costs were 
estimated. A dynamic population model for COPD was used to project the long-term 
(cost-) effectiveness (25 years) of 1-year implementation of the interventions 
for 50% of the patients with COPD who smoked compared with usual care. 
Uncertainty and one-way sensitivity analyses were performed for variations in 
the calculation of the abstinence rates, the type of projection, intervention 
costs and discount rates.
RESULTS: Nine studies were selected. The average 12-month continuous abstinence 
rates were estimated to be 1.4% for usual care, 2.6% for minimal counselling, 
6.0% for intensive counselling and 12.3% for pharmacotherapy. Compared with 
usual care, the costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for minimal 
counselling, intensive counselling and pharmacotherapy were euro 16 900, euro 
8200 and euro 2400, respectively. The results were most sensitive to variations 
in the estimation of the abstinence rates and discount rates.
CONCLUSION: Compared with usual care, intensive counselling and pharmacotherapy 
resulted in low costs per QALY gained with ratios comparable to results for 
smoking cessation in the general population. Compared with intensive 
counselling, pharmacotherapy was cost saving and dominated the other 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.2009.131631
PMID: 20685746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Ther Umsch. 2010 Aug;67(8):403-7. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000071.

[The management of patients with nicotine dependence - the role of the general 
practitioners].

[Article in German]

Ruff P(1).

Author information:
(1)Praxis Dr. med. P. Ruff, Oberwil, Schweiz. ruff@ruffbox.ch

The gatekeeper needs a disease management of his patients who smoke. 
Questionnaires will help to define the diagnosis and grade of nicotine 
dependence as well as the fingerprint of the patients smoking career. The ICD-10 
Code and the Fagerström Nicotine Dependence Test are used. There is no therapy 
indicated without the optimal motivation of the patient. The transtheoretical 
model of Prochaska and DiClemente ist widely accepted to separate the stadium of 
motivation into precontemplation, contemplation, preparation and action. Many 
other factors like earlier experiences, catastrophe scenaries, self-efficacy and 
selection of therapeutic modality are important for the best outcome. 90 % of 
the work of a gatekeeper is minimal intervention. This means individually 
tailored argumentations to shift the motivation of the patient to smoking 
cessation. The concept is defined in the rules of the five R's with relevance, 
risks, rewards, roadblocks and repetition. Following these criterias, the 
gatekeeper gets a positive shift of his motivation in up to 60 % with only one 
minimal intervention. The smoking cessation guidelines through the world are 
very similar and show a level A grade for a synergy of behavioural therapy and 
medication by either nicotine replacement, bupropion or vareniclin. The 
selection of any other regimen is either less efficient or anecdotally and leads 
to a further loss of life expectancy of the smoker. The gatekeeper has the 
infrastructure, the know how and the confidence of his patient to act as disease 
manager. A successful therapy is possible over six months with about seven 
consultations, the success rate is expected to be even higher than the values in 
the medication studies. Smokers should be informed by the health organizations 
to avoid self therapies and look for specialists help. The gatekeeper is an 
ideal candidate.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000071
PMID: 20687042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2010 Aug 10;56(7):570-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2010.02.059.

Impact of left atrial volume on clinical outcome in organic mitral 
regurgitation.

Le Tourneau T(1), Messika-Zeitoun D, Russo A, Detaint D, Topilsky Y, Mahoney DW, 
Suri R, Enriquez-Sarano M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Section of Biostatistics, and 
Cardiovascular Surgery Division, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2010 Aug 10;56(7):579-81.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this paper was to assess the link between left atrial 
(LA) volume at diagnosis and outcome of patients with mitral regurgitation (MR).
BACKGROUND: Left atrial enlargement is a consequence of organic MR, but its 
association with clinical outcome independently of MR severity is uncertain.
METHODS: We prospectively enrolled 492 patients (age 63 +/- 15 years, 60% men) 
in sinus rhythm with organic MR (regurgitant volume 68 +/- 42 ml/beat) and 
performed at baseline triple echocardiographic quantitation (MR severity, LA 
volume, and left ventricular characteristics). Outcome with medical and surgical 
management was analyzed.
RESULTS: Left atrial volume indexed to body surface area (LA index) was 55 +/- 
26 ml/m(2) (<40 ml/m(2) in 158 patients, 40 to 59 ml/m(2) in 160 patients, and > 
or =60 ml/m(2) in 174 patients). Under medical management, 5-year survival was 
80 +/- 2.9% and cardiac events 28 +/- 3%. Adjusting for established predictors 
of outcome, LA index was independently associated with survival after diagnosis 
(hazard ratio [HR]: 1.3 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1 to 1.5] per 10 
ml/m(2) increment, p = 0.001). Patients with LA index > or =60 ml/m(2) had lower 
5-year survival than those with no or mild LA enlargement (p < 0.0001) and than 
the rates of survival expected in the U.S. population (53 +/- 8.6% vs. 76%, p = 
0.017). Compared with patients with LA index <40 ml/m(2), those with LA index > 
or =60 ml/m(2) had increased mortality (HR: 2.8 [95% CI: 1.2 to 6.5], p = 0.016) 
and cardiac events (HR: 5.2 [95% CI: 2.6 to 10.9], p < 0.0001) with medical 
management. Mitral surgery was associated with decreased mortality (HR: 0.46 
[95% CI: 0.26 to 0.84], p = 0.01) and cardiac events (HR: 0.38 [95% CI: 0.23 to 
0.62], p = 0.0001) and after surgery patients with LA index > or =60 ml/m(2) 
versus <60 ml/m(2) did not incur excess mortality or cardiac events (both p > 
0.30).
CONCLUSIONS: In organic MR, LA index at diagnosis predicts long-term outcome, 
incrementally to known predictors of outcome. This marker of risk is 
particularly important because mitral surgery in these patients markedly 
improves outcome and restores life expectancy. LA index should be measured in 
routine clinical practice for risk-stratification and for clinical decision 
making in patients with organic MR.

Copyright (c) 2010 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2010.02.059
PMID: 20688212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Scand J Public Health. 2011 Feb;39(1):79-87. doi: 10.1177/1403494810379290.
Epub  2010 Aug 5.

Evaluation of the long-term cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir compared with 
neutral protamine hagedorn insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes using a 
basal-bolus regimen in Sweden.

Valentine WJ(1), Aagren M, Haglund M, Ericsson A, Gschwend MH.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communication, Basel, Switzerland.

AIMS: To evaluate the long-term clinical and economic outcomes associated with 
insulin detemir and neutral protamine hagedorn (NPH) insulin in combination with 
mealtime insulin aspart in patients with type 1 diabetes in Sweden, based on 
data from a two-year, multi-national, open-label, randomized, controlled trial.
METHODS: Insulin detemir was associated with significant improvements in 
glycaemic control after 24 months (HbA1c 7.36% versus 7.58%, mean difference 
-0.22%, p = 0.022) and major hypoglycaemic events (69% risk reduction, p = 
0.001) versus NPH. Patients treated with detemir gained less weight (1.7 versus 
2.7 kg, P = 0.024). Based on these findings, a published and validated computer 
model (IMS CORE Diabetes Model) was used to estimate life-expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy and both direct medical costs and indirect 
costs.
RESULTS: Basal-bolus therapy with insulin detemir was projected to improve life 
expectancy by 0.14 years (15.02 ± 0.19 versus 14.88 ± 0.18 years) and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.53 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
versus NPH (8.35 ± 0.11 versus 7.82 ± 0.10 QALYs). Improvements in QALYs were 
driven by avoided or delayed diabetes-related complications and fewer 
hypoglycaemic events. Direct medical costs over patient lifetimes were SEK 
26,144 higher in the insulin detemir arm (SEK 995,025 ± 19,580 versus 968,881 ± 
19,769), leading to an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of SEK 49,757 per 
QALY gained. Capturing indirect costs led to insulin detemir being cost saving 
over patient lifetimes, by SEK 80,113, compared to NPH (SEK 2,959,909 ± 64,727 
versus 3,040,022 ± 62,317).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with NPH, insulin detemir is likely to be cost-effective 
from a healthcare payer perspective and dominant from a societal perspective in 
patients with type 1 diabetes in Sweden.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494810379290
PMID: 20688795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. BMJ. 2010 Aug 5;341:c3530. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c3530.

Survival after diagnosis of dementia in primary care.

England E.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2010;341:c3584.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c3530
PMID: 20688839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Ann Clin Lab Sci. 2010 Summer;40(3):304-8.

Noted pathologists and laboratory scientists who attained advanced age.

Hajdu SI(1), He G.

Author information:
