
The pathogenesis of cystinosis: mechanisms beyond cystine accumulation.

Wilmer MJ(1), Emma F, Levtchenko EN.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pediatric Nephrology, Univ. Hospitals Leuven, Herestraat 49, 3000 
Leuven, Belgium.

Renal proximal tubules are highly sensitive to ischemic and toxic insults and 
are affected in diverse genetic disorders, of which nephropathic cystinosis is 
the most common. The disease is caused by mutations in the CTNS gene, encoding 
the lysosomal cystine transporter cystinosin, and is characterized by 
accumulation of cystine in the lysosomes throughout the body. In the majority of 
the patients, this leads to generalized proximal tubular dysfunction (also 
called DeToni-Debré-Fanconi syndrome) in the first year and progressive renal 
failure during the first decade. Extrarenal organs are affected by cystinosis as 
well, with clinical symptoms manifesting mostly after 10 yr of age. The 
cystine-depleting agent cysteamine significantly improves life expectancy of 
patients with cystinosis, but offers no cure, pointing to the complexity of the 
disease mechanism. In this review, current knowledge on the pathogenesis of 
cystinosis is described and placed in perspective of future research.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00318.2010
PMID: 20826575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Medicine (Baltimore). 2010 Sep;89(5):300-307. doi:
10.1097/MD.0b013e3181f27e8f.

Outcomes in biopsy-proven lupus nephritis: evaluation of 190 white patients from 
a single center.

Sisó A(1), Ramos-Casals M, Bové A, Brito-Zerón P, Soria N, Nardi N, Testi A, 
Perez-de-Lis M, Díaz-Lagares C, Darnell A, Sentís J, Coca A.

Author information:
(1)From Laboratory of Autoimmune Diseases "Josep Font," Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Department of 
Autoimmune Diseases (AS, MRC, AB, PBZ, NS, NN, AT, MPL, CDL, AD), and 
Hypertension Unit, Department of Internal Medicine (AC), Institut Clínic de 
Medicina i Dermatologia, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona; Nephrology Service (AD), 
Hospital Clínic, Department of Medicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona; 
Statistical Unit, Department of Public Health, School of Medicine, University of 
Barcelona (JS), Barcelona; and Centre de Salut Les Corts, Primary Care Research 
Group (IDIBAPS), Department of Medicine, University of Barcelona, GesClinic 
(AS), Barcelona, Spain.

We describe the natural history of lupus nephritis (LN) in a historical cohort 
of 190 white patients with the diagnosis of biopsy-proven LN followed in a 
single reference center.We evaluated 670 patients with systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE) consecutively followed in our department from 1970 until 
2006. All patients fulfilled the 1997 revised criteria for the classification of 
SLE. White patients (Spanish-born) with biopsy-proven LN were selected as the 
study population.The cohort included 190 patients (170 female patients and 20 
male) with a mean age at LN diagnosis of 31 years. Renal biopsy revealed type I 
LN in 8 (4%) patients, type II in 33 (17%), type III in 46 (24%), type IV in 72 
(38%), type V in 28 (15%), and type VI in 3 (2%) patients. Induction remission 
was achieved in 85% of patients with types I and II, 78% with type III, 70% with 
type IV, and 32% of patients with type V. After a mean follow-up of 2391 
patient-years, 62 (33%) patients developed chronic renal failure and 18 (9%) 
evolved to end-stage renal disease. Adjusted multivariate Cox regression 
analysis identified male sex (hazard ratio [HR], 4.33) and elevated creatinine 
at LN diagnosis (HR, 5.18) as independent variables for renal failure. Survival 
was 92% at 10 years of follow-up, 80% after 20 years, and 72% after 30 years.Our 
results suggest that biopsy-proven LN in white patients has an excellent 
prognosis. Ethnicity should be considered a key factor when evaluating the 
prognosis and therapeutic response to different agents in patients with LN.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0b013e3181f27e8f
PMID: 20827107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Pneumologie. 2010 Sep;64(9):535-40. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1255637. Epub 2010
Sep  8.

[Disease numbers in pneumology - a projection to 2060].

[Article in German]

Pritzkuleit R(1), Beske F, Katalinic A.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Krebsepidemiologie an der Universität zu Lübeck. 
Ron.Pritzkuleit@uk-sh.de

BACKGROUND: The demographic change leads to a change in the age-composition of 
the population. We have calculated a status quo projection of the absolute 
numbers for five diagnoses of the lung (COPD, CAP, lung cancer, bronchial asthma 
and tuberculosis) for Germany up to 2060.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Based on the 12 (th) coordinated population prediction of 
the Federal Statistics Office, we transferred age- and sex-specific incidence 
and prevalence rates, respectively, to the expected population. All described 
developments are based solely on demographic changes.
RESULTS: The absolute numbers of bronchial asthma and tuberculosis will 
experience a minor decrease. We expect at first increasing and later decreasing 
case numbers for COPD and lung cancer. A major increase of the case numbers for 
CAP will be probable. By reason of a decreasing population, the rates (burden of 
disease for the population) will increase considerably.
DISCUSSION: The demographic change is mainly caused by increasing life 
expectancy, constantly low birth rates, and the entry of the baby-boom 
generation into the age of higher disease risks. A discussion about 
prioritisation of health care is needed because of the rising burdens for the 
health system, including diseases of the lung.

Copyright Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart . New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1255637
PMID: 20827635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Pneumologie. 2010 Sep;64(9):555-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1255636. Epub 2010
Sep 8.

[Lung cancer - historical development, current status, future prospects].

[Article in German]

Goeckenjan G(1).

Author information:
(1)GGoeckenjan@t-online.de

One hundred years ago lung cancer was a rare disease. In the meantime, as a 
result of the sharp increase of tobacco smoking, in Germany and worldwide it is 
the most common cause of cancer death. Since lung cancer is largely asymptomatic 
in its early stages, the diagnosis is usually first made in the advanced stages 
IIIB or IV. The development of diagnostic imaging and minimally invasive 
procedures as well as the refinement of the staging classification allow a 
better allocation to the tumor stages. The surgical mortality has declined 
significantly since the 1950s, yet the 5-year survival rates are low. For 
locally advanced, unresectable non-small cell lung carcinoma a moderate 
improvement of the prognosis could be achieved by newer methods of radiotherapy 
and the combination of radiotherapy with chemotherapy. As a result of 
chemotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer a moderate life 
extension has been reached, while the new agents are better tolerated and allow 
for an improved quality of life. The survival of small cell lung cancer has been 
significantly prolonged by chemotherapy since the 1970s, however, little 
progress was made in the last 15 - 20 years. The most important and effective 
preventive measure against lung cancer is to avoid tobacco smoke. Screening 
tests using annual chest X-ray images and sputum cytology have shown no 
improvement in overall mortality compared with the control groups in extensive 
studies. Whether or not an improvement of prognosis is possible by a screening 
using low-dose CT is being tested by the ongoing studies. For patients with lung 
cancer more effective agents and therapies are still needed.

Copyright Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart . New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1255636
PMID: 20827638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Minn Med. 2010 Jun;93(6):38-41.

Minnesota 10 by 10. Reducing morbidity and mortality in people with serious 
mental illnesses.

Trangle M(1), Gary M, Paul G, Christensen R.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Medical Group and Regions Hospital.

Persons with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, and bipolar affective 
disorder in Minnesota are dying much younger than their age- and sex-matched 
cohorts. A new initiative, MN 10 By 10, is designed to engage key constituencies 
in addressing modifiable risk factors in order to lengthen these individuals' 
lives.

PMID: 20827954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2010 Sep;8(9):1309-16. doi: 10.1586/erc.10.123.

Atherosclerotic vascular damage and rheumatoid arthritis: a complex but 
intriguing link.

Bartoloni E(1), Alunno A, Luccioli F, Moscatelli S, Biscontini D, Santoboni G, 
Gerli R.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Clinical & Experimental Medicine, University 
of Perugia, Perugia 06100, Italy.

Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by a 
reduced life expectancy mainly due to cardiovascular disease. In long-standing 
disease, it has been widely demonstrated that both traditional cardiovascular 
risk and disease-related factors, including chronic inflammation and 
immune-mediated mechanisms, play a key role in accelerating atherosclerotic 
damage of the arterial wall. The short- and long-term effects of 
immunosuppressive treatment on cardiovascular disease outcome is, however, 
uncertain and a multidisciplinary approach appears to represent the best 
management of cardiovascular risk in these patients.

DOI: 10.1586/erc.10.123
PMID: 20828353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Am J Sports Med. 2010 Dec;38(12):2417-25. doi: 10.1177/0363546510375545.
Epub  2010 Sep 9.

Cost-effectiveness of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: a preliminary 
comparison of single-bundle and double-bundle techniques.

Paxton ES(1), Kymes SM, Brophy RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St Louis, Missouri, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Sports Med. 2011 Jan;39(1):NP6-7; author reply NP7.

BACKGROUND: There has been growing interest in anatomical reconstruction of the 
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), including the use of double-bundle (DB) 
reconstruction techniques.
HYPOTHESIS: The DB technique will not be cost-effective when compared with 
single-bundle (SB) reconstruction.
STUDY DESIGN: Economic and decision analysis; Level of evidence, 1.
METHODS: A decision-analysis model with input values derived from the literature 
was used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of DB ACL reconstruction compared 
with SB ACL reconstruction. Effectiveness was based on the revision rate and the 
postoperative International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) score.
RESULTS: Sixty-four percent of DB knees result in an IKDC score of A, compared 
with 54% of SB knees. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a DB 
reconstruction compared with an SB reconstruction was $6416 per quality adjusted 
life year in the baseline scenario and $64 371 per quality adjusted life year in 
the alternate scenario. The model is very sensitive to the proportions of IKDC A 
outcomes. The model is also sensitive to the utility values assigned to IKDC A 
and B outcomes and is less sensitive to the marginal cost of a DB 
reconstruction.
CONCLUSION: This preliminary analysis based on published clinical results to 
date shows DB ACL reconstruction may be cost-effective, despite increased 
upfront cost. More research is needed to confirm whether there is any difference 
in the distribution of IKDC outcomes between the 2 techniques. Perhaps more 
importantly, the lack of any other demonstrated clinical benefit from the DB 
technique questions the clinical relevance of this difference in IKDC scores.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Revision data and longer term outcomes after DB 
reconstruction and more reliable clinical utility data are needed to 
definitively compare the cost-effectiveness of DB and SB ACL reconstruction. 
Studies of ACL reconstruction and other sports medicine procedures should report 
the distribution of outcomes data to facilitate future analyses of clinical 
effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546510375545
PMID: 20829416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Science. 2010 Sep 10;329(5997):1287-8. doi: 10.1126/science.1193647.

Demography. Remeasuring aging.

Sanderson WC(1), Scherbov S.

Author information:
(1)Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York 11794, USA. 
warren.sanderson@stonybrook.edu

Erratum in
    Science. 2010 Nov 12;330(6006):913.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1193647
PMID: 20829469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Forsch Komplementmed. 2010;17(4):181-7. doi: 10.1159/000319143. Epub 2010
Aug 3.

The potential influence of plant polyphenols on the aging process.

Cherniack EP(1).

Author information:
(1)The Geriatrics Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, and the Geriatrics and Extended Care 
Service and Geriatric Research Education, and Clinical Center (GRECC) of the 
Miami Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Miami, FL, USA. evan.cherniack@va.gov

Cellular senescence is characterized by cellular hypertrophy: cell growth in the 
absence of cell division. The genes that regulate this process can be activated 
or inactivated by numerous plant polyphenols such as resveratrol, quercetin, 
butein, fistein, piceatannol, curcumin. Many of these substances have been shown 
to lengthen the lifespan of invertebrates. Many of these compounds have other 
potential beneficial effects on lifespan as antiatherogenic or antineoplastic 
agents. Challenges to human testing of such substances on lifespan include 
determination of dosage, low bioavailability, time and resources necessary to 
conduct tests, and understanding which formulation of substances to use.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000319143
PMID: 20829595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. EMBO Rep. 2010 Oct;11(10):735-7. doi: 10.1038/embor.2010.137. Epub 2010 Sep
10.

Listening to public concerns about human life extension. The public view of 
life-extension technologies is more nuanced than expected and researchers must 
engage in discussions if they hope to promote awareness and acceptance.

Partridge B(1), Lucke J, Hall W.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Program in Professionalism and Bioethics, Rochester, MN, USA. 
partridge.bradley@mayo.edu

Technologies to extend the human life span have gained media, scientific and 
commercial attention, but the public remains cautious. This wariness may in part 
be caused by the failure of scientists to communicate what is known and unknown 
about ageing.

The public view of life-extension technologies is more nuanced than expected and 
researchers must engage in discussions if they hope to promote awareness and 
acceptance

DOI: 10.1038/embor.2010.137
PMCID: PMC2948190
PMID: 20829882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


999. Vet Comp Orthop Traumatol. 2010;23(6):468-71. doi: 10.3415/VCOT-10-01-0014.
Epub  2010 Sep 9.

Deformity secondary to bilateral incomplete ossification of the humeral condyle 
in a German Shorthaired Pointer dog. A case report with ten-year follow-up.

von Pfeil DJ(1), DeCamp CE, Agnello C, Steficek BA.

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Specialists of Alaska, 3330 Fairbanks Street, Anchorage, Alaska 
99503, USA. drvonpfeil.vsoa@ak.net

A five-month-old male, German Shorthaired Pointer dog was presented for severe, 
bilateral, thoracic-limb-lameness, with elbow swelling, pain, and crepitus. 
Radiography and computed tomography confirmed bilateral incomplete ossification 
of the humeral condyles (IOHC), with a non-displaced incomplete fracture of the 
left medial epicondylar crest and condylar deformity, characterised by 
enlargement of the trochleas with extension of the disto-medial aspect of the 
bone below the normal elbow joint level, and a deformed proximo-medial aspect of 
the ulna and radius. Transcondylar lag screws were placed bilaterally in an 
attempt to prevent fracture. Microscopic examination of biopsies, harvested from 
both humeral condyles, was supportive of IOHC. Six years after surgery, 
radiographs showed severe osteoarthritis and it appeared that fusion of the 
humeral condyles had not occurred. The dog followed an active life style until 
10 years after surgery when the elbows showed almost no observable 
range-of-motion. However, discomfort was evident only after heavy exercise. 
Incomplete ossification of the humeral condyles may be associated with 
osteoarthritis, risk for non-union, implant failure, or secondary condylar 
fracture. This dog maintained good limb function despite these concerns, and 
despite bilateral humeral condylar deformity as well as development of severe 
osteoarthritis. This is the first report of a German Shorthaired Pointer dog 
with IOHC and the first histological description supportive of this condition in 
a five-month-old dog.

DOI: 10.3415/VCOT-10-01-0014
PMID: 20830448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2010 Aug;35(4):429-38. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2710.2009.01135.x.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of sunitinib in patients with metastatic renal 
cell carcinoma intolerant to or experiencing disease progression on 
immunotherapy: perspective of the Spanish National Health System.

Paz-Ares L(1), del Muro JG, Grande E, Díaz S.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Department, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.

AIM: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of sunitinib (50 mg/day, schedule 
4/2) vs. best supportive care (BSC) in patients with cytokine-refractory 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), from the perspective of the Spanish 
National Health Service.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A Markov model compared the cost-effectiveness (taking 
into account drugs; medical visits; laboratory tests; X-rays; terminal care; 
adverse event management) of sunitinib and BSC across three disease states: no 
progression, survival with progression and death from mRCC or other causes.
RESULTS: The monthly incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) values for 
sunitinib treatment were €6073/progression-free survival month, €25,199/life 
years and €34,196/quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained. In 95% of cases, 
the ICER/QALY values were below the accepted €45,000/QALY threshold. Efficacy 
and cost of sunitinib had the greatest impact on cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Sunitinib has a good cost-effectiveness profile in mRCC. The cost 
per life year and QALY gained is affordable according to current effectiveness 
thresholds in developed countries.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2009.01135.x
PMID: 20831545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. J Eval Clin Pract. 2010 Dec;16(6):1282-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2009.01329.x.  Epub 2010 Sep 12.

Decision modelling of economic evaluation of intervention programme of breast 
cancer.

Chang JC(1), Chen TH, Duffy SW, Yen AM, Chen SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Health Promotion, College of Healthcare Management, 
Kainan University, Taoyuan County, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: Economic appraisal of an intervention is a complex and multivariable 
problem, with probabilistic issues related not only to clinical outcomes but 
also to costs and willingness to pay.
METHODS: We provide a comprehensive framework for economic appraisal of a health 
intervention to prevent beast cancer mortality, involving probabilistic model of 
costs as well as of aspects of the disease process. The economic appraisal can 
give a range of probabilities of cost-effectiveness depending on willingness or 
ability to pay.
RESULTS: We apply the method to the example of polychemotherapy for early breast 
cancer. Results indicate a 30% probability of cost-effectiveness for a 
willingness to pay of $ 60,000 per quality-adjusted life-year and around 50% for 
a threshold of $ 100,000.
CONCLUSION: The comprehensive economic appraisal model is a powerful tool for 
decision making over a range of economic environments.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2009.01329.x
PMID: 20831661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Hum Mov Sci. 2010 Oct;29(5):615-7. doi: 10.1016/j.humov.2010.08.009.

Human movement across the lifespan: learning, synergies and disease, 9th Motor 
Control and Human Skill Conference.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/j.humov.2010.08.009
PMID: 20831977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Ann Vasc Surg. 2010 Oct;24(7):863-70. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2010.04.005.

The posterior approach in the treatment of popliteal artery aneurysm: 
feasibility and analysis of outcome.

Zaraca F(1), Ponzoni A, Stringari C, Ebner JA, Giovannetti R, Ebner H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular and Thoracic Surgery, Regional Hospital Bozen, Bozen, 
Italy. francesco.zaraca@asbz.it

BACKGROUND: This review evaluates the results of our 18-year experience with 
surgical treatment of popliteal artery aneurysms (PAAs), examining the effects 
of the variables of clinical presentations, surgical technique, graft material, 
and runoff on operative results in the management of popliteal aneurysms.
METHODS: We reviewed 49 PAAs consecutively repaired in 35 patients. We 
preferentially use, if possible, the posterior approach for repair of popliteal 
aneurysms. We repaired aneurysms passing above the Hunter canal using a medial 
approach to allow for adequate exposure of the proximal neck of the aneurysm. We 
separately analyzed the results of patients who underwent the posterior approach 
(group A) and those that underwent the medial approach (group B). Primary, 
primary assisted, and secondary patency were established using life-tables 
analysis.
RESULTS: In our experience, the posterior approach was used in 38 repairs 
(77.6%), followed by graft interposition (group A). PAAs were asymptomatic in 29 
(59.2%) of 49 cases. Among 20 symptomatic PAAs, nine (18.4%) caused intermittent 
claudication, one (2.0%) caused rest pain and trophic wound, and the remaining 
10 limbs (20.4%) presented with acute ischemia and limb threat. A total of 11 
popliteal aneurysms (22.4%) required repair with a medial approach (group B) 
because the extension of the aneurysm was proximal to the adductor hiatus. The 
primary patency rates at 6 and 8 years were 94.3 and 83.8%, respectively, for 
group A and 100% (p = .43) and 19.1% (p = .001) for group B, the respective 
assisted primary patency rates were 97.3 and 86.3%, in group A and 100% (p = 
.43) and 19.1% (p = .001) for group B. The secondary patency rates at 6 months 
and 8 years were 97.3 and 97.3%, respectively, in group A and 90.9% (p = .34) 
and 77.9% (p = .05) in group B. Amputation occurred in two (4.1%) of 49 limbs 
and 30-day postoperative mortality was 2.0% (1/49 patients). There was no 
statistical difference in amputation rate in symptomatic and asymptomatic limbs, 
and in group A and B.
CONCLUSION: We believe that the posterior approach is the gold standard surgical 
therapy to treat PPAs not extending above the Hunter canal. In our experience, 
the posterior approach was possible in 77.6% of cases. It has excellent patency 
and prevents further aneurysm expansion by completely interrupting the 
collateral circulation to the aneurysm sac. In contrast, the posterior approach 
had a slightly higher tibial nerve injury (p = .43), especially during the 
learning curve. The preoperative symptoms and the use of venous material for 
reconstruction affect significantly long-term patency.

Copyright © 2010 Annals of Vascular Surgery Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2010.04.005
PMID: 20831987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Exp Gerontol. 2011 May;46(5):331-4. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.08.010. Epub
2010  Sep 8.

The role of mitochondria in Drosophila aging.

Cho J(1), Hur JH, Walker DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Understanding how alterations in mitochondrial function in different cells and 
tissues impacts the aging process remains one of the greatest challenges facing 
biogerontologists. Here, we discuss the recent upsurge in research in this area 
using the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster as a model system. Topics that are 
discussed include age-related changes in mitochondrial function, mitochondrial 
oxidative stress and lifespan, life extension mediated by moderate knock-down of 
genes important for mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) function, and 
the relationship between dietary restriction and ETC activity. Finally, we 
review recent approaches to supplement the endogenous fly ETC with a 
single-subunit mitochondrial respiratory enzyme from yeast.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.08.010
PMCID: PMC3044216
PMID: 20832466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Food Microbiol. 2010 Dec;27(8):1009-15. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2010.06.009. Epub
2010  Jul 3.

Use of high-concentration-short-time chlorine dioxide gas treatments for the 
inactivation of Salmonella enterica spp. inoculated onto Roma tomatoes.

Trinetta V(1), Morgan MT, Linton RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA. 
vtrinett@purdue.edu

Salmonella outbreaks have been recently linked to the consumption of fresh 
tomatoes. Thus, there is a need to develop systems that reduce the risk of 
microbial contamination to increase product shelf-life and keep fresh fruit 
attributes. The objectives of this study were to evaluate 
high-concentration-short-time chlorine dioxide gas treatments effects on 
Salmonella-inoculated Roma tomatoes and determine the optimal treatment 
conditions for microbial inactivation and shelf-life extension. Effects of 
ClO(2) concentration (2, 5, 8 and 10mg/l) and exposure time (10, 30, 60, 120 and 
180 s) on inoculated Roma tomatoes were studied. Salmonella enterica strains, 
serotype Montevideo, Javiana and Baildon, were used to experimentally inoculate 
the food product. After ClO(2) treatments, tomatoes were stored at room 
temperature for 28 days. Inherent microbial population, change in tomato color, 
and chlorine dioxide gas residuals were evaluated. ANOVA analysis showed that 
both ClO(2) concentration and treatment time were significant (p<0.01) for 
Salmonella inactivation. Surviving Salmonella populations of 3.09, 2.17 and 1.16 
logCFU/cm(2) were obtained treating tomatoes with 8 mg/l ClO(2) for 60 s, 10 
mg/l ClO(2) for 120 s, and 10 mg/l for 180 s, respectively (initial Salmonella 
population: 6.03±0.11 log CFU/cm(2)). The selected treatments significantly 
reduced background microflora (p<0.05), while fruit color and residual contents 
were not significantly different (p>0.05), as compared to the control. Results 
suggest the potential for high-concentration-short-time treatments ClO(2) gas as 
an effective pathogen inactivation technology for large-scale produce packing 
operations.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2010.06.009
PMID: 20832678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Mol Cell. 2010 Sep 10;39(5):724-35. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2010.08.015.

Elevated histone expression promotes life span extension.

Feser J(1), Truong D, Das C, Carson JJ, Kieft J, Harkness T, Tyler JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado 
School of Medicine, Aurora, CO 80010, USA.

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2010 Sep 10;39(5):659-61.

Changes to the chromatin structure accompany aging, but the molecular mechanisms 
underlying aging and the accompanying changes to the chromatin are unclear. 
Here, we report a mechanism whereby altering chromatin structure regulates life 
span. We show that normal aging is accompanied by a profound loss of histone 
proteins from the genome. Indeed, yeast lacking the histone chaperone Asf1 or 
acetylation of histone H3 on lysine 56 are short lived, and this appears to be 
at least partly due to their having decreased histone levels. Conversely, 
increasing the histone supply by inactivation of the histone information 
regulator (Hir) complex or overexpression of histones dramatically extends life 
span via a pathway that is distinct from previously known pathways of life span 
extension. This study indicates that maintenance of the fundamental chromatin 
structure is critical for slowing down the aging process and reveals that 
increasing the histone supply extends life span.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2010.08.015
PMCID: PMC3966075
PMID: 20832724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2011 Jan;41(1):14-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2010.04.019. Epub 2010 Sep 15.

Palliative sedation, not slow euthanasia: a prospective, longitudinal study of 
sedation in Flemish palliative care units.

Claessens P(1), Menten J(2), Schotsmans P(3), Broeckaert B(4); Palsed 
Consortium.

Collaborators: Van Imschoot L, Schrauwen A, Van Belle P, Sercu K, Schrijvers D, 
Dekkers L, Pieters P, Maja C, Desmet M, Nelde A, Vannuffelen R, van den Eynden 
B, Pauwels E.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Biomedical Ethics and Law, Catholic University Leuven, Drongen, 
Belgium.
(2)Palliative Care Unit, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Catholic University Leuven, Drongen, Belgium.
(4)Interdisciplinary Centre for the Study of Religion and Worldview, Catholic 
University Leuven, Drongen, Belgium.

CONTEXT: Palliative sedation remains a much debated and controversial issue. The 
limited literature on the topic often fails to answer ethical questions 
concerning this practice.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to describe the characteristics of 
patients who are being sedated for refractory symptoms in palliative care units 
(PCUs) from the time of admission until the day of death.
METHODS: A prospective, longitudinal, descriptive design was used to assess data 
in eight PCUs. The total sample consisted of 266 patients. Information on 
demographics, medication, food and fluid intake, decision making, level of 
consciousness, and symptom experience were gathered by nurses and researchers 
three times a week. If patients received palliative sedation, extra information 
was gathered.
RESULTS: Of all included patients (n=266), 7.5% received palliative sedation. 
Sedation started, on average, 2.5 days before death and for half of these 
patients, the form of sedation changed over time. At the start of sedation, 
patients were in the end stage of their illness and needed total care. Patients 
were fully conscious and had very limited oral food or fluid intake. Only three 
patients received artificial fluids at the start of sedation. Patients reported, 
on average, two refractory symptoms, the most important ones being pain, 
fatigue, depression, drowsiness, and loss of feeling of well-being. In all 
cases, the patient gave consent to start palliative sedation because of 
increased suffering.
CONCLUSION: This study revealed that palliative sedation is only administered in 
exceptional cases where refractory suffering is evident and for those patients 
who are close to the ends of their lives. Moreover, this study supports the 
argument that palliative sedation has no life-shortening effect.

Copyright © 2011 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2010.04.019
PMID: 20832985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2010 Aug;24(4):381-96. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2010.06.004.

The dimensions of the CRC problem.

Karsa LV(1), Lignini TA, Patnick J, Lambert R, Sauvaget C.

Author information:
(1)Group Head, Quality Assurance Group, Early Detection and Prevention Section, 
IARC, Lyon, France. karsal@iarc.fr

Colorectal cancer is a significant health problem, the importance of which will 
increase substantially in the coming years, both in more, as well as in less 
developed regions of the world. The present paper describes the dimensions of 
the problem from an epidemiologic viewpoint as well as from the perspective of 
policy makers and professionals seeking to control the disease. Currently, 
colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer and the fourth most common 
cause of cancer deaths worldwide, with 1.2 million estimated cases and 609,000 
estimated deaths in 2008. Based on demographic trends, the annual incidence is 
expected to increase by nearly 80% to 2.2 million cases over the next two 
decades and most of this increase will occur in the less developed regions of 
the world (62%). These regions are ill equipped to deal with the rapidly 
increasing demand for cancer treatment resulting from population growth and 
higher life expectancy. Concerted efforts to control colorectal cancer are 
therefore of great importance worldwide. They will require allocation of 
additional resources and should be based on an appropriate balance between 
prevention, diagnosis and treatment.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2010.06.004
PMID: 20833343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2010 Aug;24(4):439-49. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2010.04.004.

Cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening - an overview.

Lansdorp-Vogelaar I(1), Knudsen AB, Brenner H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, PO Box 
2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. i.vogelaar@erasmusmc.nl

There are several modalities available for a colorectal cancer (CRC) screening 
program. When determining which CRC screening program to implement, the costs of 
such programs should be considered in comparison to the health benefits they are 
expected to provide. Cost-effectiveness analysis provides a tool to do this. In 
this paper we review the evidence on the cost-effectiveness of CRC screening. 
Published studies universally indicate that when compared with no CRC screening, 
all screening modalities provide additional years of life at a cost that is 
deemed acceptable by most industrialized nations. Many recent studies even find 
CRC screening to be cost-saving. However, when the alternative CRC screening 
strategies are compared against each other in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
analysis, no single optimal strategy emerges across the studies. There is 
consensus that the new technologies of stool DNA testing, computed tomographic 
colonography and capsule endoscopy are not yet cost-effective compared with the 
established CRC screening tests.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2010.04.004
PMCID: PMC2939039
PMID: 20833348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: none


10. Knee. 2011 Dec;18(6):412-6. doi: 10.1016/j.knee.2010.08.006. Epub 2010 Sep
15.

Three-dimensional kinematics during deep-flexion kneeling in mobile-bearing 
total knee arthroplasty.

Tanaka A(1), Nakamura E, Okamoto N, Banks SA, Mizuta H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic and Neuro-Musculoskeletal Surgery, Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Kumamoto University, 1-1-1 Honjo, Kumamoto 860-8556, Japan.

We performed an in vivo radiographic analysis of tibiofemoral and polyethylene 
(PE) insert motions during weight-bearing kneeling beyond 120° of flexion in one 
high-flexion knee arthroplasty design to determine if kinematics changed over 
time and if axial rotation occur between the PE insert and the tibial baseplate. 
Twenty knees implanted with a posterior-stabilized rotating-platform (RP) knee 
arthroplasty were postoperatively evaluated at 3, 6, and 12 months. The averaged 
flexion angles were 122°, 129°, and 131° at 3, 6, and 12 months, respectively, 
showing that the improvement of flexion was achieved up to 6 months. The femoral 
condyles translated posteriorly from extension to maximum flexion. There was a 
significant increase in AP translation of femoral lateral condyle in the maximum 
flexion kneeling between 12 months and the two other intervals (p=0.0003 at 3 
months and p=0.016 at 6 months), while no differences in those of medial condyle 
between all intervals. Almost all rotation occurred at the surface between the 
tibial baseplate and the PE insert (p=0.0479 at 3 months, p=0.0008 at 6 months, 
and p=0.0479 at 12 months), almost no rotation occurred at the surface between 
the PE insert and the femoral component. There were significant increases in the 
amount of internal rotation angle during full flexion between the tibial 
component and the PE insert up to 12 months. Knees implanted with this RP knee 
arthroplasty design show deep-flexion knee kinematics that are consistent with 
the implant design intent.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.knee.2010.08.006
PMID: 20833548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. IEEE Trans Image Process. 2011 Mar;20(3):735-43. doi:
10.1109/TIP.2010.2073475.  Epub 2010 Sep 7.

On the selection of optimal feature region set for robust digital image 
watermarking.

Tsai JS(1), Huang WB, Kuo YH.

Author information:
(1)Center for Researches of E-life DIgital Technologies, Department of Computer 
Science and Information Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, 
Taiwan.

A novel feature region selection method for robust digital image watermarking is 
proposed in this paper. This method aims to select a nonoverlapping feature 
region set, which has the greatest robustness against various attacks and can 
preserve image quality as much as possible after watermarked. It first performs 
a simulated attacking procedure using some predefined attacks to evaluate the 
robustness of every candidate feature region. According to the evaluation 
results, it then adopts a track-with-pruning procedure to search a minimal 
primary feature set which can resist the most predefined attacks. In order to 
enhance its resistance to undefined attacks under the constraint of preserving 
image quality, the primary feature set is then extended by adding into some 
auxiliary feature regions. This work is formulated as a multidimensional 
knapsack problem and solved by a genetic algorithm based approach. The 
experimental results for StirMark attacks on some benchmark images support our 
expectation that the primary feature set can resist all the predefined attacks 
and its extension can enhance the robustness against undefined attacks. 
Comparing with some well-known feature-based methods, the proposed method 
exhibits better performance in robust digital watermarking.

DOI: 10.1109/TIP.2010.2073475
PMID: 20833602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. EMBO J. 2010 Oct 20;29(20):3459-69. doi: 10.1038/emboj.2010.225. Epub 2010
Sep  10.

Heat shock factor 1 ameliorates proteotoxicity in cooperation with the 
transcription factor NFAT.

Hayashida N(1), Fujimoto M, Tan K, Prakasam R, Shinkawa T, Li L, Ichikawa H, 
Takii R, Nakai A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Yamaguchi University School 
of Medicine, Ube, Japan.

Heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1) is an important regulator of protein 
homeostasis (proteostasis) by controlling the expression of major heat shock 
proteins (Hsps) that facilitate protein folding. However, it is unclear whether 
other proteostasis pathways are mediated by HSF1. Here, we identified novel 
targets of HSF1 in mammalian cells, which suppress the aggregation of 
polyglutamine (polyQ) protein. Among them, we show that one of the nuclear 
factor of activated T cells (NFAT) proteins, NFATc2, significantly inhibits 
polyQ aggregation in cells and is required for HSF1-mediated suppression of 
polyQ aggregation. NFAT deficiency accelerated disease progression including 
aggregation of a mutant polyQ-huntingtin protein and shortening of lifespan in 
R6/2 Huntington's disease mice. Furthermore, we found that HSF1 and NFAT 
cooperatively induce the expression of the scaffold protein PDZK3 and 
αB-crystallin, which facilitate the degradation of polyQ protein. These results 
show the first mechanistic basis for the observation that HSF1 has a much more 
profound effect on proteostasis than individual Hsp or combination of different 
Hsps, and suggest a new pathway for ameliorating protein-misfolding diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/emboj.2010.225
PMCID: PMC2964172
PMID: 20834230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


13. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2010 Sep 9;130(17):1726-8. doi:
10.4045/tidsskr.10.0071.

[Discontinuation of prophylactic drugs to the elderly].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kristjansson SR(1), Wyller TB.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrisk avdeling, Oslo universitetssykehus, Ullevål 0407, Oslo, Norway. 
sirikristjansson@gmail.com

Polypharmacy is common among the elderly and consequences may be adverse drug 
reactions, interactions and toxicity. At the same time it is well documented 
that elderly patients are suboptimally treated for conditions such as atrial 
fibrillation and osteoporosis. When assessing medical treatment one must take 
into account the remaining life expectancy, time to effect, complication risk 
related to not treating, risks related to adverse drug effects and interactions, 
patient preferences and treatment goals.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.10.0071
PMID: 20835284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nig Q J Hosp Med. 2009 Sep-Dec;19(4):190-4.

An assessment of the competence and experience of dentists with the management 
of medical emergencies in a Nigerian teaching hospital.

Adewole RA(1), Sote EO, Oke DA, Agbelusi AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, College of Medicine, University 
of Lagos, Idi-Araba, Lagos. deji4220002000@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Previous reports show that medical emergency events have ocurred in 
Teaching Hospital Dental centres, with attendant mortality and morbidity.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To study the pattern of medical emergencies encountered by 
clinical dental staff of Lagos University Teaching Hospital (2) To evaluate 
their training, perception of their training and competence as undergraduates 
and postgraduates to manage such events.
METHODS: All the clinical staff viz: Dental surgeons of different 
cadres--consultants, registrars, house surgeons and dental nurses of Lagos 
University Teaching Hospital. A structured questionnaire requesting to know 
demographic data, respondents attendance of life support training viz: Basic 
life support (BLS), advanced trauma life support (ATLS), intensive care support 
(ICS). A self rating in the competence of management of medical emergencies and 
previous personal encounter with medical emergencies with success/failure in the 
management with/or without medical colleage assistance were sought. In addition 
adequacy of their dental clinic/centres for drugs, equipments and their 
perceived readiness to deal with emergencies were enquired.
RESULTS: Among the dental surgeons, 20 (26.6%) were consultants, 40 (53.3%) were 
registrars and 35 (46.6%) were house-officers. Thirty five (43.7%) had previous 
knowledge of basic life support (BLS) training, while 45 (56.2%) denied such 
knowledge. The figures for other trainings such as advanced trauma life Support 
(ATLS) was 8 (10%) and intensive care support (ICS) 2 (2.5% 73.3% of the 
respondents felt inadequate in the management of cardiovascular emergencies, 
while only 15.4% felt adequately prepared. Similar ratings for respiratory 
emergencies are 63.1% inadequacy, 16.9% adequacy, and only 3.3% felt very 
adequate. The availability of oxygen extension tubing and ambu bag was nil in 
all departments. Emergency drugs were claimed to be present by 28.5% oral 
surgery respondents and, 34.7% Child Dental Health respondents. Most of the 
respondents felt their clinics are not adequately prepared to deal with medical 
emergencies.
CONCLUSION: The study showed that syncope is the commonest medical emergency 
event in dental surgery practice in our teaching hospital, others are bleeding, 
seizure disorders and asthmatic attacks. The constitution of hospital emergency 
team (consisting of cardiologists, anaesthetists) as done in advanced countries 
is advocated and dentists should ensure that the departmental staff are 
adequately trained to provide basic life support.

PMID: 20836329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Psychol Med. 2011 May;41(5):1019-28. doi: 10.1017/S0033291710001777. Epub
2010  Sep 14.

The association of personality disorders with the prospective 7-year course of 
anxiety disorders.

Ansell EB(1), Pinto A, Edelen MO, Markowitz JC, Sanislow CA, Yen S, Zanarini M, 
Skodol AE, Shea MT, Morey LC, Gunderson JG, McGlashan TH, Grilo CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, 2 Church Street 
South, New Haven, CT 06519, USA. emily.ansell@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: This study prospectively examined the natural clinical course of six 
anxiety disorders over 7 years of follow-up in individuals with personality 
disorders (PDs) and/or major depressive disorder. Rates of remission, relapse, 
new episode onset and chronicity of anxiety disorders were examined for specific 
associations with PDs.
METHOD: Participants were 499 patients with anxiety disorders in the 
Collaborative Longitudinal Personality Disorders Study, who were assessed with 
structured interviews for psychiatric disorders at yearly intervals throughout 7 
years of follow-up. These data were used to determine probabilities of changes 
in disorder status for social phobia (SP), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), 
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), 
panic disorder and panic disorder with agoraphobia.
RESULTS: Estimated remission rates for anxiety disorders in this study group 
ranged from 73% to 94%. For those patients who remitted from an anxiety 
disorder, relapse rates ranged from 34% to 67%. Rates for new episode onsets of 
anxiety disorders ranged from 3% to 17%. Specific PDs demonstrated associations 
with remission, relapse, new episode onsets and chronicity of anxiety disorders. 
Associations were identified between schizotypal PD with course of SP, PTSD and 
GAD; avoidant PD with course of SP and OCD; obsessive-compulsive PD with course 
of GAD, OCD, and agoraphobia; and borderline PD with course of OCD, GAD and 
panic with agoraphobia.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest that specific PD diagnoses have negative 
prognostic significance for the course of anxiety disorders underscoring the 
importance of assessing and considering PD diagnoses in patients with anxiety 
disorders.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291710001777
PMCID: PMC3606880
PMID: 20836909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Sep 28;107(39):16904-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1012050107. Epub 2010 Sep 13.

Spontaneous Irs1 passenger mutation linked to a gene-targeted SerpinB2 allele.

Westrick RJ(1), Mohlke KL, Korepta LM, Yang AY, Zhu G, Manning SL, Winn ME, 
Dougherty KM, Ginsburg D.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

In characterizing mice with targeted disruption of the SerpinB2 gene, we 
observed animals that were small at birth with delayed growth and decreased life 
expectancy. Although this phenotype cosegregated with homozygosity for the 
inactive SerpinB2 allele, analysis of homozygous SerpinB2-deficient mice derived 
from two additional independent embryonic stem (ES) cell clones exhibited no 
growth abnormalities. Examination of additional progeny from the original 
SerpinB2-deficient line revealed recombination between the small phenotype 
(smla) and the SerpinB2 locus. The locus responsible for smla was mapped to a 
2.78-Mb interval approximately 30 Mb proximal to SerpinB2, bounded by markers 
D1Mit382 and D1Mit216. Sequencing of Irs1 identified a nonsense mutation at 
serine 57 (S57X), resulting in complete loss of IRS1 protein expression. 
Analysis of ES cell DNA suggests that the S57X Irs1 mutation arose spontaneously 
in an ES cell subclone during cell culture. Although the smla phenotype is 
similar to previously reported Irs1 alleles, mice exhibited decreased survival, 
in contrast to the enhanced longevity reported for IRS1 deficiency generated by 
gene targeting. This discrepancy could result from differences in strain 
background, unintended indirect effects of the gene targeting, or the minimal 
genetic interference of the S57X mutation compared with the conventionally 
targeted Irs1-KO allele. Spontaneous mutations arising during ES cell culture 
may be a frequent but underappreciated occurrence. When linked to a targeted 
allele, such mutations could lead to incorrect assignment of phenotype and may 
account for a subset of markedly discordant results from experiments 
independently targeting the same gene.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1012050107
PMCID: PMC2947888
PMID: 20837540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


17. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 2011 Jan;50(1):21-8. doi: 10.1177/0009922810379041.
Epub  2010 Sep 13.

Early death perception in adolescence: identifying factors associated with 
change from pessimism to optimism about life expectancy.

Duke NN(1), Skay CL, Pettingell SL, Borowsky IW.
