to calculate the costs per QWY in primary and revision THA. Preoperative QWB for 
primary THA was 0.52 ± 0.06 SD; revision was 0.53 ± 0.07 SD. The QWB change at 1 
year for primary THA was 0.08 ± 0.13 SD; revision THA was 0.06 ± 0.14 SD. 
Calculated costs per QWY were $5572 for primary procedures and $10,775 for 
revision procedures. Cost-effectiveness of THA compares favorably with other 
surgical and medical interventions such as epilepsy ablation surgery and gastric 
bypass surgery.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2010.07.026
PMID: 20870386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Surg Oncol. 2011 Mar;20(1):e32-7. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2010.09.001. Epub
2010  Sep 26.

Minimally invasive surgery of humeral metastasis using flexible nails and cement 
in high-risk patients with advanced cancer.

Kim JH(1), Kang HG, Kim JR, Lin PP, Kim HS.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Oncology Clinic, National Cancer Center, Gyeonggi-do 410-769, 
Republic of Korea.

This study was conducted to evaluate the preliminary outcome of palliative 
minimally invasive surgery for humeral metastasis in patients who have multiple 
advanced cancers with short life expectancy. Percutaneous Ender nailing and 
direct transcortical intramedullary cementing were performed on a total of 15 
patients with metastatic disease of the humerus. The origins of the cancers were 
the lung (n=9), breast (n=3), colon (n=2) and liver (n=1). Each patient had 
multiple unresectable organic metastases and proved to be at high risk for 
anesthesia and bloody surgery. All procedures were performed under regional 
anesthesia and fluoroscopic guidance. The mean amount of intramedullary cement 
injection after Ender nailing was 13.4ml. The mean of the numeric rating scale 
(NRS) score for pain decreased from 9.6 points before surgery to 3.6 points 
after surgery (P<0.001). The mean of the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) 
functional score increased from 10.6 points before surgery to 19.9 points after 
surgery (P<0.001). Seven patients died within 7 months. There were no 
complications associated with cement leakage, fixation failure and surgical 
wound even in cases of early postoperative radiation or chemotherapy. 
Percutaneous flexible nailing along with intramedullary cementing could be a 
useful minimally invasive surgical method for the palliation of humeral 
metastasis in selective terminal cancer patients by providing immediate reliable 
fixation and effective pain relief.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2010.09.001
PMID: 20870403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Anim Sci. 2011 Jan;89(1):267-76. doi: 10.2527/jas.2009-2776. Epub 2010 Sep
24.

Influence of parity at time of detection of serologic antibodies to 
Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis on reduction in daily and 
lifetime milk production in Holstein cows.

Villarino MA(1), Scott HM, Jordan ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Texas AgriLife Extension Service, Dallas 75252, 
USA.

Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) is the causative agent of bovine 
paratuberculosis, also known as Johne's disease. Two production variables (daily 
and lifetime milk) were compared in this longitudinal study of cows classified 
based upon serum ELISA results for MAP. The sample included adult Holstein cows 
that had completed their productive life (n = 2,808 animals) since testing began 
and that had been raised by and were located on 2 commercial dairies in Texas. 
These animals were tested at the conclusion of each of their lactations using a 
commercial ELISA. The serological response was interpreted based on the 
calculated sample-to-positive value, a quantifiable measure of antibodies, and 
categorized on both a dichotomous scale [positive (≥0.25) vs. negative] and into 
5 classes (negative: 0 to 0.09, suspect: 0.10 to 0.24, low positive: 0.25 to 
0.39, positive: 0.40 to 0.99, or strong positive: ≥1.00). All models developed 
were adjusted for herd, birth (year) cohort, and parity at first MAP test. Based 
on adjusted comparisons using the dichotomous scale: 1) cows detected as 
positive during their first parity produced less (P < 0.0001) milk per day of 
life since first parturition (-1.64 kg/d) and during their lifetime in the herd 
(-8,704 kg); 2) cows testing positive for the first time during second parity 
did not produce less per day of life (P > 0.05); however, cows did produce less 
(P = 0.024) milk overall during their lifetime in the herd, but only when tested 
for the first time during their second lactation (-4,058 kg); 3) cows testing 
positive for the first time during third parity did not differ (P > 0.05); and 
4) cows testing positive for the first time during their fourth or later parity 
produced more milk during their lifetime, but only when tested for the first 
time at third or greater lactation (e.g., 10,602 kg for fourth parity; P = 
0.005) compared with their always-negative herd mates tested for the first time 
in their first lactation. In the adjusted model developed to evaluate milk 
production losses throughout the lifetime of the animal, when categorizing 
animals into 5 MAP classes at their first test, suspect animals numerically have 
reduced production (-1,419 kg; P = 0.162), whereas significant losses occurred 
in the low positive class (-4,397 kg; P = 0.034) and highly significant losses 
in the positive (-7,724 kg; P < 0.0001) and strong positive classes (-10,972 kg; 
P < 0.0001) compared with herd mates testing negative.

DOI: 10.2527/jas.2009-2776
PMID: 20870950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. NeuroRehabilitation. 2010;27(2):201-9. doi: 10.3233/NRE-2010-0597.

Life expectancy for people with disabilities.

Thomas R(1), Barnes M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Christian Medical 
College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India. rajithomas@cmcvellore.ac.in

Comment in
    NeuroRehabilitation. 2011;28(2):161.

This article reviews the literature on life expectancy in the disabled 
population. The literature is surveyed with regard to the main elements that 
reduce life expectancy for people with disabilities. These are immobility, 
cognitive and intellectual impairment, swallowing problems and tube feeding, 
epilepsy and incontinence. The article discusses various improvements in 
survival in the last few years and discusses the possibility of further 
improvements in the future. The difficulties are discussed with regard to early 
prediction of life expectancy both in childhood and after an acute neurological 
event in adulthood. The literature is then reviewed with regard to the cohort 
studies on quantification of life expectancy in disabled people. The literature 
is discussed and pragmatic clinical conclusions are drawn.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-2010-0597
PMID: 20871150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Oncol Pract. 2006 Mar;2(2):57-66. doi: 10.1200/JOP.2006.2.2.57.

Individualized strategy for dosing luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone 
agonists for androgen-independent prostate cancer: identification of outcomes 
and costs.

Wagmiller JA(1), Griggs JJ, Dick AW, Sahasrabudhe DM.

Author information:
(1)Community and Preventive Medicine; The James P. Wilmot Cancer Center; and the 
Department of Medicine, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY.

PURPOSE: Continuing androgen suppression is the current standard in men with 
androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC). An individualized strategy, wherein 
luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonists (LH-RHas) are redosed when serum 
testosterone approaches a non-castrate level, may decrease costs without 
worsening outcomes. To understand possible outcomes, we performed a cost-utility 
analysis comparing individualized and fixed LH-RHa dosing strategies in men with 
AIPC.
METHODS: The model used a societal perspective, a 5-year time horizon, and 3% 
annual cost discounting. The model accounted for direct costs of androgen 
suppression. Utilities were varied in accordance with published preference data.
RESULTS: Under base-case assumptions, individualized LH-RHa dosing yielded 1.089 
expected quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), compared with 1.094 expected QALYs 
for fixed LH-RHa dosing. In cost analysis, lifetime per-patient costs for 
androgen suppression were estimated to be $5,694 for individualized LH-RHa 
dosing and $9,157 for fixed LH-RHa dosing. Applied to the total population, a 
strategy of individualized LH-RHa dosing would cost $170 million for androgen 
suppression, compared with $274 million for fixed LH-RHa dosing. Under these 
assumptions, adopting the individualized strategy resulted in $692,600 gained 
from a societal perspective for each QALY lost (the decremental cost utility).
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that an individualized LH-RHa dosing strategy 
would be associated with moderate savings on an individual basis but substantial 
savings on a population basis, and would not adversely affect quality of life or 
life expectancy. Further research is needed to establish the effects of this 
strategy on symptoms and survival, as well as patient satisfaction and true 
costs.

DOI: 10.1200/JOP.2006.2.2.57
PMCID: PMC2794621
PMID: 20871718


98. Cancer. 2010 Oct 1;116(19):4435. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25628.

Childhood cancer survivors may face a shorter lifespan.

Printz C.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25628
PMID: 20872594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Time. 2010 Sep 20;176(12):77.

Health. Bottom up.

Cloud J.

PMID: 20873301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2010 May;11(5 Suppl 2):8S-16S.

[Role of clinical evaluation and functional testing in the tailored follow-up of 
chronic heart failure patients].

[Article in Italian]

Gavazzi A(1), Cicoira MA, Piepoli M, Pulignano G, Scardovi AB, Volterrani M, 
Senni M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Cardiovascolare Clinico e di Ricerca, Ospedali Riuniti, Bergamo. 
agavazzi@ospedaliriuniti.bergamo.it

Clinical assessment is crucial to monitor chronic heart failure (HF) patients. 
It allows to tailor follow-up based on clinical severity, symptoms, quality of 
life and life expectancy. Risk scores, a useful tool for synthetic assessment of 
patients and intercenter standardization, should be easy to calculate and 
consider both cardiac conditions and comorbidities. In the elderly, clinical 
assessment should include indexes of disability and frailty, mandatory to tailor 
follow-up appropriately. Clinical data should be complemented by objective 
measures of functional capacity using exercise testing. Exercise tolerance, a 
comprehensive index of body function, is a pivotal prognostic predictor. The 
6-min walking test is simple, well accepted by patients, and provides an 
objective documentation of exercise tolerance in subjects who cannot perform a 
maximal stress test. However, there is no evidence to support its role for risk 
stratification. While the cardiopulmonary exercise test has a definite role in 
the selection of heart transplant candidates, it also provides important 
information for risk stratification of the general HF population, the main 
prognostic predictors being maximal oxygen consumption, periodic breathing, and 
an enhanced ventilatory response to exercise.

PMID: 20873463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2010 Jun;21(6):1614-20.

[Effects of Cd2+ concentration on life table demography of Brachionus 
calyciflorus under different Scenedesmus obliquus density].

[Article in Chinese]

Shi J(1), Xi YL, Yang LL, Wang SG, Chen FH, Su TJ.

Author information:
(1)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Biotic Environment and Ecological Safety, 
College of Life Sciences, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241000, Anhui, China. 
stone1984@126.com

In order to understand the chronic toxicity of a pollutant to an organism in an 
aquatic environment with different food density, and screen out sensitive 
endpoints for monitoring Cd2+ pollution with rotifers as test animals, this 
paper studied the effects of different concentration (2.5, 5.0, 10.0, 20.0 and 
40.0 microg x L(-1)) Cd2+ on the life table demography of Bracionus calyciflorus 
at the Scenedesmus obliquus density being 1.0 x 10(6), 3.0 x 10(6), and 5.0 x 
10(6) cells x ml(-1). The results showed that at 25 +/- 1 degrees C, the 24 h 
LC50 of Cd2+ to B. calyciflorus was 37.7 microg x L(-1). Compared with the 
controls at the same food density, when the S. obliquus density was 1.0 x 10(6) 
cells x ml(-1), 20.0 and 40.0 microg x L(-1) of Cd2+ prolonged the generation 
time of B. calyciflorus significantly, and 5.0 microg x L(-1) of Cd2+ increased 
the percentage of B. calyciflorus mictic offspring. When the S. obliquus density 
was 3.0 x 10(6) cells x ml(-1), the Cd2+ at all test concentrations except 5.0 
microg x L(-1) decreased the percentage of mictic offspring; when the S. 
obliquus density was 5.0 x 10(6) cells x ml(-1), all test concentration Cd2+ had 
no effects on the life table demography (P > 0.05). S. obliquus density had 
significant effects on the generation time, life expectancy at birth, net 
reproduction rate, percentage of mictic offspring of B. calyciflorus (P < 0.05), 
Cd2+ concentration had significant effects on the generation time and the 
percentage of mictic offspring (P < 0.05), and the interaction of S. obliquus 
density and Cd2+ concentration had significant effects on the percentage of 
mictic offspring (P < 0.01). Among all the studied parameters, the generation 
time and the percentage of mictic offspring were more sensitive to Cd2+ 
pollution under the algal densities of 1.0 x 10(6) and 3.0 x 10(6) cells x 
ml(-1), with the latter being the most sensitive.

PMID: 20873643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2011 Mar;10(2):239-50. doi: 
10.2174/187152711794480483.

The role of natural products in the discovery of new drug candidates for the 
treatment of neurodegenerative disorders I: Parkinson's disease.

Campos HC(1), da Rocha MD, Viegas FP, Nicastro PC, Fossaluzza PC, Fraga CA, 
Barreiro EJ, Viegas C Jr.

Author information:
(1)LFQM - Laboratório de Fitoquímica e Química Medicinal, Instituto de Ciências 
Exatas, Universidade Federal de Alfenas (UNIFAL-MG), 37130-000, Alfenas, MG, 
Brazil.

Neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), Huntington's disease (HD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) 
are currently incurable pathologies with huge social and economic impacts 
closely related to the increasing of life expectancy in modern times. Although 
the clinical and neuropathological aspects of these debilitating disorders are 
distinct, they share a pattern of neurodegeneration in anatomically or 
functionally related regions. For each disease, presently available treatments 
only address symptoms and do not alter the course or progression of the 
underlying diseases. In this context, the search for new effective chemical 
entities, capable of acting on diverse biochemical targets, with new mechanisms 
of action and low toxicity are genuine challenges to research groups and the 
pharmaceutical industry. This medical need has led to the reemerging of modern 
natural products chemistry that has yielded sophisticated and complex new lead 
molecules for drug discovery and development. In this review we discuss some of 
the main contributions of the natural products chemistry that covers multiple 
and varied plant species. Advances in the discovery of active constituents of 
plants, herbs, and extracts prescribed by traditional medicine practices for the 
treatment of senile neurodegenerative disorders, especially for PD, in the 
period after the 2000s is reviewed. The most important contributions from the 
1990s are also discussed. The review also focuses on the pharmacological 
mechanisms of action that might underlie the purported beneficial improvements 
in memory and cognition, neurovascular function, and in neuroprotection. It is 
concluded that natural product chemistry brings tremendous diversity and 
historical precedent to a huge area of unmet medical need.

DOI: 10.2174/187152711794480483
PMID: 20874702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2010 Dec;16(6):374-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1755-5949.2010.00196.x.  Epub 2010 Sep 28.

Peculiarities of geriatric psychiatry: a focus on aging and depression.

Laks J(1), Engelhardt E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. jlaks@centroin.com.br

There is a debate on whether Geriatric Psychiatry stands for itself as a 
discrete specialty or whether it is an extension of clinical Geriatrics, 
Neurology, and Psychiatry. This review aims to outline some recent data and 
possible approaches to define peculiarities of Geriatric Psychiatry, focusing on 
certain characteristics that define the aging brain. Geriatric depression is 
discussed taking into consideration some data from translational research. The 
brain aging process is not uniform. Frontal areas show marked impairment in 
inhibiting irrelevant information in working memory as they age, and the 
recruitment of these areas occur differently than in young subjects. Executive 
functions also change in normal elderly. Geriatric depression is a general 
definition of a multidimensional disorder with multiple risk factors. 
Dysexecutive syndrome is considered as a key to the neuropsychology of geriatric 
depression, correlated with functional impairment in late life. Late-onset 
depression has a higher load of comordibity, of cerebrovascular disease, and of 
some genetic factors that may be different from early onset depression. Also, 
there are at least four clusters of treatment outcomes that are common in 
geriatric depression, which mirror the neuropsychological and clinical profiles. 
Research and practice in Geriatric Psychiatry should focus on the interaction of 
various dimensions and risk factors rather than on attempting to find a single 
cause to the disorders. Some answers may be found in comorbidity issues, in 
white matter lesions, which are more common in the elderly, and in genetic 
factors that impact on the aging process.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-5949.2010.00196.x
PMCID: PMC6493790
PMID: 20875046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jerson Laks has been a lecturer, worked as a 
consultant, and in clinical trials with Apsen, Eli Lilly, Glaxo SmithKline, 
Janssen‐Cilag, Lundbeck, Novartis, and Wyeth‐Whitehall. Eliasz Engelhardt has 
been a lecturer and a consultant for Janssen‐Cilag, Novartis, and 
Wyeth‐Whitehall.


104. J Neurol Sci. 2011 Jan 15;300(1-2):191-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2010.08.044.
Epub  2010 Sep 28.

Primary diagnosis of Wolfram syndrome in an adult patient--case report and 
description of a novel pathogenic mutation.

Waschbisch A(1), Volbers B, Struffert T, Hoyer J, Schwab S, Bardutzky J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen, Germany. 
anne.waschbisch@uk-erlangen.de

Wolfram syndrome is a rare, autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorder 
presenting with the main clinical symptoms of childhood-onset diabetes mellitus, 
optic atrophy, diabetes insipidus and deafness (DIDMOAD). Later stages of the 
disease are dominated by neurological complications and death occurs early in 
life with a median life expectancy of 30 years. Here we present a 44 year old 
patient who presented to our hospital with central respiratory failure, 
cognitive impairment, ataxia and parkinsonism and was first diagnosed with 
Wolfram syndrome. DNA sequence analysis revealed a novel pathogenic mutation 
within the WFS1 gene. Advanced clinical and imaging studies performed in this 
patient highlight the neurodegenerative process in Wolfram syndrome and expand 
our knowledge on the mutational spectrum of the disease.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2010.08.044
PMID: 20875904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Arch Intern Med. 2011 Jan 24;171(2):110-8. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2010.352.  Epub 2010 Sep 27.

Similar outcomes with hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis in patients with 
end-stage renal disease.

Mehrotra R(1), Chiu YW, Kalantar-Zadeh K, Bargman J, Vonesh E.

Author information:
(1)Los Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, 
Torrance, CA 90502, USA. rmehrotra@labiomed.org

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2011 Jan 24;171(2):107-9.

BACKGROUND: The annual payer costs for patients treated with peritoneal dialysis 
(PD) are lower than with hemodialysis (HD), but in 2007, only 7% of dialysis 
patients in the United States were treated with PD. Since 1996, there has been 
no change in the first-year mortality of HD patients, but both short- and 
long-term outcomes of PD patients have improved.
METHODS: Data from the US Renal Data System were examined for secular trends in 
survival among patients treated with HD and PD on day 90 of end-stage renal 
disease (HD, 620 020 patients; PD, 64 406 patients) in three 3-year cohorts 
(1996-1998, 1999-2001, and 2002-2004) for up to 5 years of follow-up using a 
nonproportional hazards marginal structural model with inverse probability of 
treatment and censoring weighting.
RESULTS: There was a progressive attenuation in the higher risk for death seen 
in patients treated with PD in earlier cohorts; for the 2002-2004 cohort, there 
was no significant difference in the risk of death for HD and PD patients 
through 5 years of follow-up. The median life expectancy of HD and PD patients 
was 38.4 and 36.6 months, respectively. Analyses in 8 subgroups based on age 
(<65 and ≥65 years), diabetic status, and baseline comorbidity (none and ≥1) 
showed greater improvement in survival among patients treated with PD relative 
to HD at all follow-up periods.
CONCLUSION: In the most recent cohorts, patients who began treatment with HD or 
PD have similar outcomes.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2010.352
PMID: 20876398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Circulation. 2010 Oct 12;122(15):1478-87. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.947960. Epub 2010 Sep 27.

Cost-effectiveness of using high-sensitivity C-reactive protein to identify 
intermediate- and low-cardiovascular-risk individuals for statin therapy.

Lee KK(1), Cipriano LE, Owens DK, Go AS, Hlatky MA.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University Schools of Medicine, CA, USA. Keane.K.Lee@kp.org

Comment in
    Circulation. 2010 Oct 12;122(15):1446-8.

BACKGROUND: Many myocardial infarctions and strokes occur in individuals with 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels below recommended treatment 
thresholds. High sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) testing has been 
advocated to identify low- and intermediate-risk individuals who may benefit 
from statin therapy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A decision analytic Markov model was used to follow 
hypothetical cohorts of individuals with normal lipid levels but without 
coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, or diabetes mellitus. The 
model compared current Adult Treatment Panel III practice guidelines, a strategy 
of hs-CRP screening in those without an indication for statin treatment by 
current practice guidelines followed by treatment only in those with elevated 
hs-CRP levels, and a strategy of statin therapy at specified predicted risk 
thresholds without hs-CRP testing. Risk-based treatment without hs-CRP testing 
was the most cost-effective strategy, assuming that statins were equally 
effective regardless of hs-CRP status. However, if normal hs-CRP levels 
identified a subgroup with little or no benefit from statin therapy (<20% 
relative risk reduction), then hs-CRP screening would be the optimal strategy. 
If harms from statin use were greater than generally recognized, then use of 
current clinical guidelines would be the optimal strategy.
CONCLUSION: Risk-based statin treatment without hs-CRP testing is more 
cost-effective than hs-CRP screening, assuming that statins have good long-term 
safety and provide benefits among low-risk people with normal hs-CRP.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.947960
PMID: 20876434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Stroke. 2010 Oct;41(10 Suppl):S59-62. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.597351.

The economic case for new stroke thrombolytics.

Johnston SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, CA 
94143-0114, USA. clay.johnston@ucsfmedctr.org

BACKGROUND: The societal costs and health benefits of tissue plasminogen 
activator (tPA) for ischemic stroke can be modeled and extended to the US 
population. Similarly, the societal impact of new thrombolytics with improved 
efficacy or safety or extending eligibility can also be modeled.
METHODS: We previously modeled the impact of tPA on societal costs and health in 
the United States. Pertinent publications on utilization, societal cost, and 
health impact were identified by systematic review, updated to include studies 
describing the impact of extending the tPA time window. Information on 
utilization of tPA was integrated with published per-use data on costs and 
health impact (converted to 2004 dollars) to generate annual projections for the 
US population. Model inputs were modified to reflect various characteristics of 
new thrombolytics.
RESULTS: At its current price, tPA saves $6074 and adds 0.75 quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) per use. If tPA were priced at $50,000/QALY, a standard 
benchmark for cost-effectiveness, it would cost $45,800 per dose and would be 
expected to generate $458 million in revenue annually for its manufacturer. 
Thrombolytics for stroke that extended the time window or improved efficacy 
could generate greater revenue if priced at an accepted level of 
cost-effectiveness. Given current clinical development costs, development of 
candidate drugs with 2.8% to 5.7% probability of ultimate FDA approval would be 
justified.
CONCLUSIONS: tPA produces substantial health and economic benefits in the United 
States. Better thrombolytics for stroke could have substantial impact on 
society, and potential returns to developers would appear to justify greater 
investment in new candidates.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.597351
PMCID: PMC2955402
PMID: 20876507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Br J Sports Med. 2011 Mar;45(3):159-61. doi: 10.1136/bjsm.2010.075085. Epub
2010  Sep 27.

Strenuous endurance exercise improves life expectancy: it's in our genes.

Ruiz JR, Morán M, Arenas J, Lucia A.

Comment in
    Br J Sports Med. 2011 Mar;45(3):162-4.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsm.2010.075085
PMID: 20876590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Hum Mol Genet. 2010 Dec 15;19(24):4871-85. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddq420. Epub
2010  Sep 27.

Correction of CNS defects in the MPSII mouse model via systemic enzyme 
replacement therapy.

Polito VA(1), Abbondante S, Polishchuk RS, Nusco E, Salvia R, Cosma MP.

Author information:
(1)Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine (TIGEM), CNR, via P. Castellino 
111, Naples 80131, Italy.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPSII), or Hunter syndrome, is a devastating 
disorder associated with a shortened life expectancy. Patients affected by MPSII 
have a variety of symptoms that affect all organs of the body and may include 
progressive cognitive impairment. MPSII is due to inactivity of the enzyme 
iduronate-2-sulfatase (IDS), which results in the accumulation of storage 
material in the lysosomes, such as dermatan and heparan sulfates, with 
consequent cell degeneration in all tissues including, in the severe phenotype, 
neurodegeneration in the central nervous system (CNS). To date, the only 
treatment available is systemic infusion of IDS, which ameliorates exclusively 
certain visceral defects. Therefore, it is important to simultaneously treat the 
visceral and CNS defects of the MPSII patients. Here, we have developed enzyme 
replacement therapy (ERT) protocols in a mouse model that allow the IDS to reach 
the brain, with the substantial correction of the CNS phenotype and of the 
neurobehavioral features. Treatments were beneficial even in adult and old MPSII 
mice, using relatively low doses of infused IDS over long intervals. This study 
demonstrates that CNS defects of MPSII mice can be treated by systemic ERT, 
providing the potential for development of an effective treatment for MPSII 
patients.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddq420
PMCID: PMC2989894
PMID: 20876612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Rehabil Med. 2010 Oct;42(9):846-52. doi: 10.2340/16501977-0610.

Cost-utility analysis of a three-month exercise programme vs usual care 
following multidisciplinary rehabilitation for chronic low back pain.

Henchoz Y(1), Pinget C, Wasserfallen JB, Paillex R, de Goumoëns P, Norberg M, 
Kai-Lik So A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Sport Sciences of the University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland. yves.henchoz@unil.ch

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-utility of an exercise programme vs usual care 
after functional multidisciplinary rehabilitation in patients with chronic low 
back pain.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis alongside a randomized controlled trial.
SUBJECTS/PATIENTS: A total of 105 patients with chronic low back pain.
METHODS: Chronic low back pain patients completing a 3-week functional 
multidisciplinary rehabilitation were randomized to either a 3-month exercise 
programme (n = 56) or usual care (n = 49). The exercise programme consisted of 
24 training sessions during 12 weeks. At the end of functional multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation and at 1-year follow-up quality of life was measured with the 
SF-36 questionnaire, converted into utilities and transformed into 
quality--adjusted life years. Direct and indirect monthly costs were measured 
using cost diaries. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated as 
the incremental cost of the exercise programme divided by the difference in 
quality-adjusted life years between both groups.
RESULTS: Quality of life improved significantly at 1-year follow-up in both 
groups. Similarly, both groups significantly reduced total monthly costs over 
time. No significant difference was observed between groups. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 79,270 euros.
CONCLUSION: Adding an exercise programme after functional multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation compared with usual care does not offer significant long-term 
benefits in quality of life and direct and indirect costs.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-0610
PMID: 20878045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Feb;13(1):63-70. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0280-0.
Epub  2010 Sep 28.

Future costs in cost-effectiveness analysis: an empirical assessment.

Kruse M(1), Sørensen J, Gyrd-Hansen D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Services Research and Technology Assessment, 
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. mkru@cast.sdu.dk

AIM: The aim of this study was to assess the impact on the cost-effectiveness 
ratio of including measures of production and consumption following a health 
care or health promotion intervention that improves survival.
DATA AND METHODS: We defined the net incremental consumption, or future costs, 
as the change in consumption minus change in production, while differentiating 
between health care and non-health care consumption. Based on 2005 
register-based data for the entire Danish population, we estimated the average 
value of annual production and consumption for 1-year age groups. We computed 
the net consumption in the remaining expected lifetime and the net consumption 
per life year gained for different age groups.
RESULTS: Age has a profound effect on the magnitude of net consumption. When 
including net incremental consumption in the cost-effectiveness ratio of a 
health care or health promotion intervention, the relative cost-effectiveness 
changed up to <euro>21,000 across age groups. The largest difference in the 
cost-effectiveness ratio was observed among the 30-year-olds where costs were 
reduced significantly due to significant future net contributions to society.
CONCLUSION: This paper contains cost figures for use in cost-effectiveness 
analyses, when the societal perspective is adopted and future consumption and 
production effects are taken into account. The net consumption varies 
considerably with age. Inclusion of net incremental consumption in the 
cost-effectiveness analysis will markedly affect the relative cost-effectiveness 
of interventions targeted at different age groups. Omitting future cost from 
cost-effectiveness analysis may bias the ranking of health care interventions 
and favour interventions aimed at older age groups. We used Danish data for this 
assessment, and our results will therefore not represent true figures for other 
countries. We do, however, believe that the overall impact of including net 
production value in CEA will be similar in other countries that have similar 
transfers of income from the younger age groups to older age groups as well as 
publicly financed social and health care services.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0280-0
PMCID: PMC3249583
PMID: 20878202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Osteoporos Int. 2011 Jun;22(6):1799-808. doi: 10.1007/s00198-010-1412-1.
Epub  2010 Sep 29.

Cost-effectiveness of a multifaceted intervention to improve quality of 
osteoporosis care after wrist fracture.

Majumdar SR(1), Lier DA, Rowe BH, Russell AS, McAlister FA, Maksymowych WP, 
Hanley DA, Morrish DW, Johnson JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada. 
me2.majumdar@ualberta.ca

In a randomized trial, a multifaceted intervention tripled rates of osteoporosis 
treatment in older patients with wrist fracture. An economic analysis of the 
trial now demonstrates that the intervention tested "dominates" usual care: over 
a lifetime horizon, it reduces fracture, increases quality-adjusted life years, 
and saves the healthcare system money.
INTRODUCTION: In a randomized trial (N = 272), we reported a multifaceted 
quality improvement intervention directed at older patients and their physicians 
could triple rates of osteoporosis treatment within 6 months of a wrist fracture 
when compared with usual care (22% vs 7%). Alongside the trial, we conducted an 
economic evaluation.
METHODS: Using 1-year outcome data from our trial and micro-costing time-motion 
studies, we constructed a Markov decision-analytic model to determine 
cost-effectiveness of the intervention compared with usual care over the 
patients' remaining lifetime. We took the perspective of third-party healthcare 
payers. In the base case, costs and benefits were discounted at 3% and expressed 
in 2006 Canadian dollars. One-way deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Median age of patients was 60 years, 77% were women, and 72% had low 
bone mineral density (BMD). The intervention cost $12 per patient. Compared with 
usual care, the intervention strategy was dominant: for every 100 patients 
receiving the intervention, three fractures (one hip fracture) would be 
prevented, 1.1 quality-adjusted life year gained, and $26,800 saved by the 
healthcare system over their remaining lifetime. The intervention dominated 
usual care across numerous one-way sensitivity analyses: with respect to cost, 
the most influential parameter was drug price; in terms of effectiveness, the 
most influential parameter was rate of BMD testing. The intervention was cost 
saving in 80% of probabilistic model simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: For outpatients with wrist fractures, our multifaceted osteoporosis 
intervention was cost-effective. Healthcare systems implementing similar 
interventions should expect to save money, reduce fractures, and gain 
quality-adjusted life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-010-1412-1
PMID: 20878389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Protein Sci. 2010 Dec;19(12):2279-90. doi: 10.1002/pro.508. Epub 2010 Nov 3.

Crystal structure analysis of Bacillus subtilis ferredoxin-NADP(+) 
oxidoreductase and the structural basis for its substrate selectivity.

Komori H(1), Seo D, Sakurai T, Higuchi Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Graduate School of Life Science, University of 
Hyogo, Ako-gun, Hyogo 678-1297, Japan.

Bacillus subtilis yumC encodes a novel type of ferredoxin-NADP+ oxidoreductase 
(FNR) with a primary sequence and oligomeric conformation distinct from those of 
previously known FNRs. In this study, the crystal structure of B. subtilis FNR 
(BsFNR) complexed with NADP+ has been determined. BsFNR features two distinct 
binding domains for FAD and NADPH in accordance with its structural similarity 
to Escherichia coli NADPH-thioredoxin reductase (TdR) and TdR-like protein from 
Thermus thermophilus HB8 (PDB code: 2ZBW). The deduced mode of NADP+ binding to 
the BsFNR molecule is nonproductive in that the nicotinamide and isoalloxazine 
rings are over 15 Å apart. A unique C-terminal extension, not found in E. coli 
TdR but in TdR-like protein from T. thermophilus HB8, covers the re-face of the 
isoalloxazine moiety of FAD. In particular, Tyr50 in the FAD-binding region and 
His324 in the C-terminal extension stack on the si- and re-faces of the 
isoalloxazine ring of FAD, respectively. Aromatic residues corresponding to 
Tyr50 and His324 are also found in the plastid-type FNR superfamily of enzymes, 
and the residue corresponding to His324 has been reported to be responsible for 
nucleotide specificity. In contrast to the plastid-type FNRs, replacement of 
His324 with Phe or Ser had little effect on the specificity or reactivity of 
BsFNR with NAD(P)H, whereas replacement of Arg190, which interacts with the 
2'-phosphate of NADP+, drastically decreased its affinity toward NADPH. This 
implies that BsFNR adopts the same nucleotide binding mode as the TdR enzyme 
family and that aromatic residue on the re-face of FAD is hardly relevant to the 
nucleotide selectivity.

Copyright © 2010 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.508
PMCID: PMC3009396
PMID: 20878669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Psychooncology. 2011 Feb;20(2):213-8. doi: 10.1002/pon.1727.

Patient and oncologist estimates of survival in advanced cancer patients.

Kao SC(1), Butow P, Bray V, Clarke SJ, Vardy J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Sydney Cancer Centre, Concord Hospital, 
Concord, New South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: There is little information about the accuracy of patient perceptions 
of their life expectancy. Here, we compare patient perceptions of their outlook 
and their oncologist's estimates of life expectancy to actual survival.
METHODS: The Unmet Needs Study recruited patients with metastatic cancer. 
Oncologists were asked to estimate patient survival as: (1) weeks; (2) months; 
(3) <1 year; (4)<2 years; and (5) >2 years. Patients were asked to estimate 
their outlook on a numerical scale from 1-7. Patient and oncologist estimates 
were compared with actual survival.
RESULTS: Complete survival data were available for 50 patients: median age 63.5 
years; 48% male; tumor types: 32% colorectal, 24% lung, 10% upper 
gastrointestinal cancer, 12% unknown primary; and median survival 6.8 months. 
The oncologists were 32% accurate in predicting survival and overestimated 
survival 42% of the time (weighted kappa=0.34). The correlation between 
self-reported patient outlook and survival was modest (Spearman's rho=0.36, 
p=0.01). The median survival for categories of outlook of 1-3, 4-5, and 6-7 were 
4.4, 5.4, and 14.8 months, respectively (p=0.01). Overseas-born patient was the 
only independent predictor for the oncologists' accurate estimates (p=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Oncologists were relatively poor at predicting survival and tended 
to be optimistic in their prognostication. The probability of survival 
significantly decreased with worse self-reported patient outlook.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.1727
PMID: 20878829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Demography. 2010 Aug;47(3):587-607. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0123.

Incarcerating death: mortality in U.S. state correctional facilities, 1985-1998.

Patterson EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Vanderbilt University, VU Station B351811, 
Nashville, TN 37235-1811, USA. evelyn.patterson@vanderbilt.edu

Using data from the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics and Census Bureau, I 
estimate death rates of working-age prisoners and nonprisoners by sex and race. 
Incarceration was more detrimental to females in comparison to their male 
counterparts in the period covered by this study. White male prisoners had 
higher death rates than white males who were not in prison. Black male 
prisoners, however consistently exhibited lower death rates than black male 
nonprisoners did. Additionally, the findings indicate that while the relative 
difference in mortality levels of white and black males was quite high outside 
ofprison, it essentially disappeared in prison. Notably, removing deaths caused 
by firearms and motor vehicles in the nonprison population accounted for some of 
the mortality differential between black prisoners and nonprisoners. The death 
rates of the other groups analyzed suggest that prison is an unhealthy 
environment; yet, prison appears to be a healthier place than the typical 
environment of the nonincarcerated black male population. These findings suggest 
that firearms and motor vehicle accidents do not sufficiently explain the higher 
death rates of black males, and they indicate that a lack of basic healthcare 
may be implicated in the death rates of black males not incarcerated.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0123
PMCID: PMC3000056
PMID: 20879679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Demography. 2010 Aug;47(3):609-28. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0111.

Measuring years of inactivity, years in retirement, time to retirement, and age 
at retirement within the Markov model.

Skoog GR(1), Ciecka JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, DePaul University; and Legal Econometrics, Glenview, 
IL, USA. jciecka@depaul.edu

Retirement-related concepts are treated as random variables within Markov 
process models that capture multiple labor force entries and exits. The expected 
number of years spent outside of the labor force, expected years in retirement, 
and expected age at retirement are computed-all of which are of immense policy 
interest but have been heretofore reported with less precisely measured proxies. 
Expected age at retirement varies directly with a person s age; but even younger 
people can expect to retire at ages substantially older than those commonly 
associated with retirement, such as age 60, 62, or 65. Between 1970 and 2003, 
men allocated most of their increase in life expectancy to increased time in 
retirement, but women allocated most of their increased life expectancy to labor 
force activity. Although people can exit and reenter the labor force at older 
ages, most 65-year-old men who are active in the labor force will not reenter 
after they eventually exit. At age 65, the probability that those who are 
inactive will reenter the labor force at some future time is .38for men and .27 
for women. Life expectancy at exact ages is decomposed into the sum of the 
expected time spent active and inactive in the labor force, and also as the sum 
of the expected time to labor force separation and time in retirement.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0111
PMCID: PMC3000062
PMID: 20879680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Risk Anal. 2011 Mar;31(3):429-39. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2010.01505.x.
Epub  2010 Sep 29.

Consumer responses to integrated risk-benefit information associated with the 
consumption of food.

van Dijk H(1), Fischer AR, Frewer LJ.

Author information:
(1)Wageningen University, 6706 KN Wageningen, The Netherlands. 
Heleen.vanDijk@wur.nl

The risk analysis of the health impact of foods is increasingly focused on 
integrated risk-benefit assessment, which will also need to be communicated to 
consumers. It therefore becomes important to understand how consumers respond to 
integrated risk-benefit information. Quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) is one 
measure that can be used to assess the balance between risks and benefits 
associated with a particular food. The effectiveness of QALYs for communicating 
both positive and negative health effects associated with food consumption to 
consumers was examined, using a 3 × 2 experiment varying information about 
health changes in terms of QALYs associated with the consumption of fish (n = 
325). The effect of this information on consumer perceptions of 
the usefulness of QALYs for describing health effects, on risk and benefit 
perceptions, attitudes, and intentions to consume fish was examined. Results 
demonstrated that consumers perceived QALYs as useful for communicating health 
effects associated with food consumption. QALYs communicated as a net effect 
were preferred for food products associated with negative net effects on health, 
while separate communication of both risks and benefits may be preferred for 
food products associated with positive or zero net health effects. Information 
about health changes in terms of QALYs facilitated informed decision making by 
consumers, as indicated by the impact on risk and benefit perceptions as 
intended by the information. The impact of this information on actual food 
consumption choices merits further investigation.

© 2010 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2010.01505.x
PMID: 20880220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2010 Oct;6(10):557-8. doi: 10.1038/nrrheum.2010.152.

Bone: Risk of death persists for years after hip fracture.

Akesson K, Woolf AD.

DOI: 10.1038/nrrheum.2010.152
PMID: 20882022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Curr Oncol. 2010 Sep;17 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S25-32. doi: 10.3747/co.v17i0.705.

Role of surgery in high-risk localized prostate cancer.

Lawrentschuk N(1), Trottier G, Kuk C, Zlotta AR.

Author information:
(1)University Health Network, University of Toronto, Department of Urology. 
Toronto, ON. lawrentschuk@gmail.com

Men with high-risk localized prostate cancer (PCa) remain a challenge for 
clinicians. Until recently, surgery was not the preferred approach, in part 
because risk of subclinical metastatic disease, elevated rates of positive 
surgical margins, absence of randomized studies, and suboptimal cancer control 
did not justify the morbidity of surgery. No randomized data comparing surgery 
with radiation therapy are yet available. Data for and comparisons between 
treatment options should therefore be analyzed with extreme caution.When 
selecting the best treatment for patients with clinically localized high-risk 
PCa, considerations should include the life expectancy of the patient, the 
natural history of PCa, the curability of the disease, and the morbidity of 
treatment. High-grade PCa managed with noncurative intent greatly reduces life 
expectancy, but overall, it must also be remembered that radical prostatectomy 
(RP) and radiotherapy (RT) appear to have similar effects on quality of life. In 
this population, RP necessitates an extended pelvic lymph node dissection 
(PLND), but in selected cases, nerve-sparing is a therapeutic possibility and 
may offer a significant advantage over rt in terms of local control and-although 
absolutely not yet proved-maybe even in survival. One clear advantage is the 
ease of administering adjuvant or salvage external-beam rt (EBRT) after rp; 
conversely, salvage rp after failed EBRT is an exceedingly difficult surgery, 
with major complications. Surgery therefore has its place, but must be 
considered in the context of multimodality treatment and the risk of 
micrometastatic disease. Awaited trial results will help to further refine 
management in this group of patients.

DOI: 10.3747/co.v17i0.705
PMCID: PMC2935705
PMID: 20882128


120. Popul Dev Rev. 2010;36(3):511-39. doi: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2010.00344.x.

The implications of increased survivorship for mortality variation in aging 
populations.

Engelman M(1), Canudas-Romo V, Agree EM.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD.

The remarkable growth in life expectancy during the twentieth century inspired 
predictions of a future in which all people, not just a fortunate few, will live 
long lives ending at or near the maximum human life span. We show that increased 
longevity has been accompanied by less variation in ages at death, but survivors 
to the oldest ages have grown increasingly heterogeneous in their mortality 
risks. These trends are consistent across countries, and apply even to 
populations with record-low variability in the length of life. We argue that as 
a result of continuing improvements in survival, delayed mortality selection has 
shifted health disparities from early to later life, where they manifest in the 
growing inequalities in late-life mortality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2010.00344.x
PMID: 20882704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Nephrology (Carlton). 2010 Sep;15(6):632-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1797.2010.01273.x.

Stringent glycaemic control prolongs survival in diabetic patients with 
end-stage renal disease on haemodialysis.

Shima K(1), Komatsu M, Kawahara K, Minaguchi J, Kawashima S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Kawashima Hospital, Tokushima, Japan. 
skenji@mb.pikara.ne.jp

AIM: No suitable index or optimal target for diabetic control has been 
established for diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) undergoing 
haemodialysis. To address these issues, the single-centre observational study 
was conducted.
METHODS: Two hundred and forty-five diabetic ESRD patients (23.3% female; age at 
initiation of haemodialysis 61.7 ± 10.7 years) at start of haemodialysis between 
1 January 1995 and 31 December 2004 were enrolled. Subjects were grouped 
according to glycaemic control level throughout the observational period as 
follows: mean postprandial plasma glucose (PPG) <8.9 mmol/L, 8.9 mmol/L ≤ PPG < 
10.0 mmol/L, 10.0 mmol/L ≤ PPG < 11.1 mmol/L, 11.1 mmol/L ≤ PPG < 12.2 mmol/L 
and PPG ≥ 12.2 mmol/L; and HbA1c < 6.0%, 6.0-6.4%, 6.5-6.9% and ≥ 7.0%. Survival 
was then followed until 31 December 2005.
RESULTS: Cumulative survival of groups of 10.0 mmol/L ≤ PPG < 11.1 mmol/L, 11.1 
≤ PPG < 12.2 and PPG ≥ 12.2 mmol/L was significantly lower than that for PPG < 
8.9 mmol/L as determined by Kaplan-Meier estimation (P = 0.016, 0.009 and 0.031, 
respectively; log-rank test). In both uni- and multivariate Cox proportional 
hazard models, mortality hazard ratios were significantly higher for PPG ≥ 10.0 
mmol/L than for PPG < 8.9 mmol/L (P = 0.002-0.021). Kaplan-Meier survival curves 
grouped by HbA1c levels showed no correlation between HbA1c and survival during 
the observational period. No significant difference in mortality hazard ratios 
was seen for any HbA1c groups evaluated by Cox proportional hazard model.
CONCLUSION: Intensive management of diabetic control at a stringent mean 
on-study PPG < 10.0 mmol/L will improve the life expectancy in diabetic dialysis 
patients. However, no range of HbA1c values obtained in this study showed any 
clear difference in clinical outcomes.

© 2010 The Authors. Nephrology © 2010 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1797.2010.01273.x
PMID: 20883284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Neuromuscul Disord. 2010 Dec;20(12):847-51. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2010.08.006.
