alberto.espay@uc.edu

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2011 Jun;26(7):1370; author reply 1371.

The long-term benefits of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN DBS) 
applied earlier in the disease course, before significant disability 
accumulates, remain to be determined. We developed a Markov state transition 
decision analytic model to compare effectiveness in quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) of STN DBS applied to patients with PD at an "early" ("off time" 10-20%) 
versus "delayed" stage ("off time" >40%). A lifelong time horizon and societal 
perspective were assumed. Probabilities and rates were obtained from literature 
review; utilities were derived using the time trade-off technique and a 
computer-assisted utility assessment software tool applied to a cohort of 22 
STN-DBS and 21 non-STN-DBS PD patients. Uncertainty was assessed through one- 
and two-way sensitivity analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analysis using 
second-order Monte Carlo simulations. Early STN DBS was preferred with a 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 22.3 QALYs, a gain of 2.5 QALYs over those 
with delayed surgery (19.8 QALYs). Early STN DBS was preferred in 69% of 5,000 
Monte Carlo simulations. Early surgery was robustly favored through most 
sensitivity analyses. Delayed STN DBS afforded greater QALYs when using utility 
estimates exclusively from non-STN-DBS patients and, for the entire group, if 
the rate of motor progression were to exceed 25% per year. Although decision 
modeling requires assumptions and simplifications, our exploratory analysis 
suggests that STN DBS performed in early PD may convey greater quality-adjusted 
life expectancy when compared to a delayed procedure. These findings support 
further evaluation of early STN DBS in a controlled clinical trial.

(c) 2010 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.23111
PMID: 20629150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Endocrinol Nutr. 2009 Dec;56 Suppl 4:30-3.

[Main causes of early mortality and excess mortality in the Spanish diabetic 
population. The DRECE III study].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez de la Cámaraa A(1), Rubio Herrera MA, Gutiérrez Fuentes JA, Gómez Gerique 
JA, Jurado Valenzuela C, Cancelas Navia P; Grupo DRECE.

Collaborators: Juncadella i García E, Melús Palazón E, Morales Gregorio MJ, 
Pitarque Cargallo P, Mayayo Castillejo E, González Gómez de Segura I, Sancho 
Giner MI, Aznárez García AM, Ibáñez García F, Marco Gayarre ME, Sebastían Villán 
P, Muñoz Novella E, Montañés Gracia MA, Murciano González S, Peg Rodríguez V, 
Saénz Guallar R, Abos Zueco A, Pasto Espinosa J, Berlanga Rubio JJ, García 
García A, Estopiñán Estupiñán ME, Altaba Sanz B, Castellano Juste I, Burgues 
Valero C, Aguiar Bautista A, del Rosario Sánchez V, Gómez Medina MC, Martel 
López M, Ruano López D, García Barrientos A, Hernández Hernández E, Badia Savidó 
M, Puerto Balete S, Boned Izued J, Codes Gómez J, Ortega Calleja MC, Sancho 
Durán F, Provencio Hernando R, Peiró Cifuentes FJ, Díez García MA, Cáceres 
Hernández M, Gómez Castaño JB, Fernández F, Peréz Calzada E, Aloso Pérez de 
Agreda MV, del Campo Ciruelos MY, Díaz Benito MT, González Ramos MA, González 
Ramos C, Sánchez Arce C, Casaseca Calvo T, Pascual Gil O, Lasa Unzúe C, García 
Díaz JD, Almagro Múgica F, Yetano Larrazabal E, Henández I, Socias Buades IM, 
Campo Vázquez M, Garau Miquel M, Ramón Roselló F, Barea Mestre MJ, Barceló Morey 
M, López Simarro F, Miravet Jiménez S, López Fortea J, Verges Macario I, del 
Cura González MI, Reverte Asuero C, Sedano García JI, Angulo Vallejo E, Martínez 
Solórzano MA, Santos Lago M, Isasia Ballestero J, Martín Martín MJ, Monasterio 
Bazán M, Alonso Canosa C, Zorraquino Muñoz Y, Gómez Rodríguez LE, San Juan 
García F, Cruz Macías A, Vilariño Román S, Serrano Cumplido A, Ortega JA, del 
Río Fernández J, Uribe-Etxebarría García L, López Miguel N, Borobio del Campo E, 
Marín Vieites J, García García A, Castellanos Alonso MJ, Pellitero Espina M, 
Cardona Castellano H, Carrascosa Ferrera MD, Marrero Brito J, Fontenla Devesa 
LM, Luna Barrós MC, Paz Silva MC, Rubianes Soto R, Durán Pereira MD, Martínez 
Meijide RD, Silva García N, Velicia Peña MC, Domínguez Sardiña M, Mosquera 
Nogueira J, Rodríquez Ríos M, Diéguez Pereira VJ, Gabián Pereira C, Velhas 
Pereira M, Parente Mojón XM, Río Orgueria JA, Cruces Artero C, Rionegro López 
MA, González Aído P, Baleato González S, Alvarez Caride A, Lamas C, Ferrando P, 
Lora D, de la Cruz J, Cancelas P, Magán P.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Epidemiología Clinica, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, 
Unidad de Investigación, CIBER de Epidemiologia y Salud Pública, Madrid, España. 
acamara@h12o.es

PMID: 20629228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Sep;26(9):2047-55. doi:
10.1185/03007995.2010.487661.

Efficacy and long-term safety of mometasone furoate nasal spray in children with 
perennial allergic rhinitis.

Baena-Cagnani CE(1), Patel P.

Author information:
(1)Center of Respiratory and Allergy, Chutro Clinic, Cordoba, Argentina. 
cebaenac@arnet.com.ar

BACKGROUND: Allergic rhinitis (AR) affects up to 40% of children by age 6 years. 
Perennial AR (PAR) causes sleep disturbance, diminishes concentration in school, 
impairs psychosocial functioning, and reduces quality of life. This study 
evaluated efficacy and long-term safety of the intranasal corticosteroid 
mometasone furoate nasal spray (MFNS) in children with PAR.
METHODS: This study comprised a double-blind, 4-week efficacy and safety period 
followed by a 6-month, open-label safety period. Primary efficacy variable 
during the double-blind period was mean change in physician-evaluated total 
nasal symptom score (TNSS) from baseline to day 15. Other efficacy variables 
during this phase included subject-evaluated TNSS, individual nasal symptoms, 
and total symptom score (TSS, nasal and non-nasal symptoms, summed). 
Physician-evaluated improvement in overall condition of PAR was assessed during 
the open-label period. Adverse events (AEs) were monitored throughout.
RESULTS: Subjects aged 3-11 years with PAR (n = 381) were randomized to MFNS 100 
microg (n = 190) or placebo (n = 191) daily for 4 weeks; 357 subjects continued 
into the open-label period, receiving MFNS only. Between baseline and day 15, 
significantly greater mean changes were seen with MFNS-treated patients than 
placebo in physician-evaluated TNSS (-2.8, -39%, vs. -2.2, -32%; p = 0.02). 
Statistically significant improvements in MFNS versus placebo were reported for 
subject-evaluated TNSS, TSS, and individual nasal symptom scores (p < or = 0.03 
for all). Improvement continued through the open-label period. Subjects treated 
with MFNS in both periods experienced a 45% further reduction in TSS in this 
study phase, while those who switched from placebo to MFNS saw a further 49% 
decrease. MFNS was well-tolerated in both periods. The most frequently reported 
treatment-related AEs during the double-blind period for MFNS and placebo, 
respectively, were epistaxis, seven (4%) and nine (5%); sneezing, five (3%) and 
seven (4%); headache, six (3%) and five (3%). During the open-label period, the 
AEs reported most often were epistaxis 37 (10%), headache nine (3%), and 
rhinitis 12 (3%).
LIMITATIONS: Studies in children present unique challenges because subjects are 
too young to grasp subjective concepts such as symptom severity, especially as 
rated on a numbered scale. In addition, the 6-month extension of the 
placebo-controlled phase used a single agent. It is also possible that subjects' 
symptoms could have abated independent of mometasone furoate treatment.
CONCLUSION: MFNS 100 microg/day effectively reduces TNSS, TSS (including ocular 
symptoms), and individual symptoms associated with PAR and is well-tolerated for 
up to 6 months in children aged 3-11 years with a safety profile similar to 
placebo.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2010.487661
PMID: 20629597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Euro Surveill. 2010 Jul 8;15(27):7-16. doi: 10.2807/ese.15.27.19609-en.

Human listeriosis in England, 2001-2007: association with neighbourhood 
deprivation.

Gillespie IA(1), Mook P, Little CL, Grant KA, McLauchlin J.

Author information:
(1)Health Protection Agency, Centre for Infections, London, United Kingdom. 
iain.gillespie@hpa.org.uk

Listeriosis is a rare but severe food-borne disease that predominantly affects 
pregnant women, the unborn, newborns, the elderly and immunocompromised people. 
Despite the high mortality rate of the disease, its socio-economic determinants 
have not been studied in detail, meaning that health inequalities that might 
exist in relation to this disease are not apparent. Laboratory surveillance data 
on listeriosis cases reported in England between 2001 and 2007 were linked to 
indices of deprivation and denominator data using patients' postcodes. Incidence 
relative to increasing quintiles of deprivation was calculated by fitting 
generalised linear models while controlling for population size. Patient food 
purchasing and consumption data were scrutinised and compared with commercial 
food purchasing denominator data to further quantify the observed differences in 
disease incidence. For all patient groups, listeriosis incidence was highest in 
the most deprived areas of England when compared with the most affluent, and 
cases were more likely to purchase foods from convenience stores or from local 
services (bakers, butchers, fishmongers and greengrocers) than the general 
population were. Patients' risk profile also changed with increasing 
neighbourhood deprivation. With increased life expectancy and rising food 
prices, food poverty could become an increasingly important driver for foodborne 
disease in the future. While United Kingdom Government policy should continue to 
focus on small food businesses to ensure sufficient levels of food hygiene 
expertise, tailored and targeted food safety advice on the avoidance of 
listeriosis is required for all vulnerable groups. Failure to do so may enhance 
health inequality across socio-economic groups.

DOI: 10.2807/ese.15.27.19609-en
PMID: 20630146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2010 Dec;39(12):1193-203. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijom.2010.06.018. Epub 2010 Jul 13.

Clinical study on prognostic factors for autotransplantation of teeth with 
complete root formation.

Sugai T(1), Yoshizawa M, Kobayashi T, Ono K, Takagi R, Kitamura N, Okiji T, 
Saito C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Reconstructive Surgery for Oral and Maxillofacial Region, 
Department of Tissue Regeneration and Reconstruction, Course for Oral Life 
Science, Niigata University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, 
Niigata, Japan.

Autotransplantation is often performed to replace a missing tooth, but tooth 
autotransplantation has been reported in fewer teeth with complete root 
formation than those with incomplete root formation. The aim of this prospective 
study was to evaluate the factors that affect the prognosis of 
autotransplantation of teeth with complete root formation. 109 patients with 117 
transplants were studied. Of the 117 transplants investigated, 14 (12%) failed 
during the observation period. The overall 1-year survival rate was 96%; the 
5-year survival rate was 84%. The major causes of failure were unsuccessful 
initial healing and replacement root resorption with periodontal inflammation. 
Factors significantly associated with unsuccessful transplantation, in single 
factor analysis, were age 40 years or more, molar tooth as donor, probing pocket 
depth to 4mm or more, history of root canal treatment, multi-rooted teeth and 
fixation with sutures. Pocket depth of 4mm or more and history of root canal 
treatment appeared to increase the risk of unsuccessful transplantation in 
multivariate analysis. It is suggested that the pocket depth of the donor tooth 
and history of root canal treatment are related to the healing of 
paratransplantal tissue and root resorption.

Copyright © 2010 International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijom.2010.06.018
PMID: 20630706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Epidemiol. 2010;20(5):370-6. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20100017. Epub 2010 Jul
10.

Impact of smoking and other lifestyle factors on life expectancy among japanese: 
findings from the Japan Collaborative Cohort (JACC) Study.

Tamakoshi A(1), Kawado M, Ozasa K, Tamakoshi K, Lin Y, Yagyu K, Kikuchi S, 
Hashimoto S; JACC Study Group.

Collaborators: Tamakoshi A, Mori M, Sakauchi F, Motohashi Y, Tsuji I, Nakamura 
Y, Iso H, Mikami H, Kurosawa M, Hoshiyama Y, Tanabe N, Tamakoshi K, Wakai K, 
Tokudome S, Suzuki K, Hashimoto S, Kikuchi S, Wada Y, Kawamura T, Watanabe Y, 
Ozasa K, Miki T, Date C, Sakata K, Kurozawa Y, Yoshimura T, Fujino Y, Shibata A, 
Okamoto N, Shio H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Aichi Medical University School of Medicine, 
Yazako, Nagakute-cho, Aichi-gun, Japan. tamaa@aichi-med-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: A number of lifestyle factors, including smoking and drinking, are 
known to be independently associated with all-cause mortality. However, it might 
be more effective in motivating the public to adopt a healthier lifestyle if the 
combined effect of several lifestyle factors on all-cause mortality could be 
demonstrated in a straightforward manner.
METHODS: We examined the combined effects of 6 healthy lifestyle behaviors on 
all-cause mortality by estimating life expectancies at 40 and 60 years of age 
among 62 106 participants in a prospective cohort study with a 14.5-year 
follow-up. The healthy behaviors selected were current nonsmoking, not heavily 
drinking, walking 1 hour or more per day, sleeping 6.5 to 7.4 hours per day, 
eating green leafy vegetables almost daily, and having a BMI between 18.5 to 
24.9.
RESULTS: At age 40, we found a 10.3-year increase in life expectancy for men and 
a 8.3-year increase for women who had all 6 healthy behaviors, as compared with 
those who had only 0 to 2 healthy behaviors. Increases of 9.6 and 8.2 years were 
observed for men and women, respectively, at age 60 with all 6 healthy 
behaviors. When comparing currently nonsmoking individuals with 0 to 1 healthy 
behaviors, the life expectancy of smokers was shorter in both men and women, 
even if they maintained all 5 other healthy behaviors.
CONCLUSIONS: Among individuals aged 40 and 60 years, maintaining all 6 healthy 
lifestyle factors was associated with longer life expectancy. Smokers should be 
encouraged to quit smoking first and then to maintain or adopt the other 5 
lifestyle factors.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20100017
PMCID: PMC3900831
PMID: 20631456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Onkologie. 2010;33(7):360-8. doi: 10.1159/000315699. Epub 2010 Jun 22.

Results of the Zometa cost-utility model for the german healthcare system based 
on the results of the ABCSG-12 study.

Lux MP(1), Reichelt C, Wallwiener D, Kreienberg R, Jonat W, Gnant M, Beckmann 
MW, Thiel FC.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Brustzentrum Franken, Frauenklinik, Universitätsklinikum 
Erlangen, Nürnberg, Germany. michael.lux@uk-erlangen.de

BACKGROUND: The ABCSG-12 trial investigated the efficacy of 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)analogs in combination with tamoxifen or 
anastrozole + or - zoledronic acid (4 mg, q6m for 3 years) in 1,803 
premenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive (HR+) breast cancer. After 48 
months of follow-up, there was a 36% improvement in the disease-free survival 
(DFS) (recurrence-free survival 35%) using zoledronic acid. Based on these data, 
the costutility of zoledronic acid was calculated for the German healthcare 
system.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Costs of surveillance, adverse effects, recurrence, 
contralateral breast cancer, metastasis, and end-of-life care were determined 
based on the Einheitlicher Bewertungsmabetastab (EBM 2009) and the 
diagnosis-related groups (DRG) system. Utilities were surveyed with a 
questionnaire (n = 95). Estimation of the cost-utility was made by calculating 
the incremental costeffectiveness ratio (ICER) per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY), using a Markov model.
RESULTS: Including zoledronic acid as adjuvant therapy for 3 years resulted in 
total costs of euro 2,262. The use of zoledronic acid is dominant when clinical 
efficacy and quality of life are taken into consideration (- euro 45.83/QALY) 
(95% confidence interval (CI) - euro 1,838 to E 2,375; 0.02-0.41 QALY). The 
sensitivity analyses present with a probability of 90% that the cost per QALY 
gained are <euro 22,000.
CONCLUSION: In the German healthcare system, zoledronic acid is a cost-effective 
option for premenopausal patients with HR+ breast cancer.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000315699
PMID: 20631482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2010 May;160(9-10):211-4. doi:
10.1007/s10354-010-0793-2.

Ankylosing spondylitis.

Wolf J(1), Fasching P.

Author information:
(1)5th Department of Internal Medicine (Endocrinology and Rheumatology), 
Wilhelminen-Hospital, Vienna, Austria. jeanette.wolf@wienkav.at

Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) is an autoimmune disease of unknown cause belonging 
to the group of spondyloarthritides associated with HLA B27. This disease 
affects the spine and sacroiliac joints, but may also concern peripheral joints 
and different organs. Symptoms include morning stiffness and dull low back pain, 
both improving by exercise. AS causes reduction in life expectancy due to 
subsequent manifestation in different organs, so early diagnosis and treatment 
are of great importance.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-010-0793-2
PMID: 20632147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Eur J Pediatr. 2010 Dec;169(12):1445-52. doi: 10.1007/s00431-010-1253-0.
Epub  2010 Jul 15.

Clinical practice. The care of children with Down syndrome.

Weijerman ME(1), de Winter JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, VU University Medical Center, P.O. Box 7057, 1007 
MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands. weijerman@vumc.nl

Down syndrome (DS) is one of the most common chromosomal abnormalities. Because 
of medical advances and improvements in overall medical care, the median 
survival of individuals with DS has increased considerably. This longer life 
expectancy requires giving the necessary care to the individual with DS over 
their total longer lifespan. DS medical guidelines are designed for the optimal 
care of the child in whom a diagnosis of DS has been confirmed. We present an 
overview of the most important issues related to children with DS based on the 
most relevant literature currently available.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-010-1253-0
PMCID: PMC2962780
PMID: 20632187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2010 Aug;17(6):473-86. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2850.2009.01543.x.

The development and evaluation of a complex health education intervention for 
adults with a diagnosis of schizophrenia.

Bradshaw T(1), Lovell K, Bee P, Campbell M.

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. timothy.j.bradshaw@manchester.ac.uk

Life expectancy in adults with schizophrenia is reduced by approximately 15 
years compared with others in the population. Two thirds of premature deaths 
result from natural causes triggered by unhealthy lifestyles and the 
side-effects of antipsychotic medication. There is a need to develop and 
evaluate health education interventions for people with this diagnosis. In this 
paper we describe how with reference to the UK Medical Research Council's 
complex interventions framework we developed and evaluated a health education 
intervention designed specifically for adults with schizophrenia. The study was 
completed in three separate but interrelated phases: (1) theoretical work was 
undertaken to identify the components of effective health education 
interventions; (2) this information was synthesized to develop the intervention; 
and (3) the intervention was tested in an open exploratory trial which used 
mixed methods to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and potential effect of 
the intervention. 45 service users were referred, 39 attended the groups and 65% 
attended at least half of the sessions. Participants reported significant 
increases in their consumption of fruit and vegetables and levels of physical 
activity. Results suggest that this model of health education is feasible and 
acceptable for this population and that it shows promise in supporting 
health-related behaviour changes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2850.2009.01543.x
PMID: 20633074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. BMC Public Health. 2010 Jul 15;10:422. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-422.

Continued improvement of cardiovascular mortality in Hungary--impact of 
increased cardio-metabolic prescriptions.

Balogh S(1), Papp R, Jozan P, Csaszar A.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Primary Health Care, 84-88 Jasz Str., Budapest 1135, 
Hungary.

BACKGROUND: During the last 35 years the poor ranking of Hungary on the list of 
life expectancy at birth among European countries, has not changed. In 1970 our 
lag behind the leading European countries was the smallest. The gap was growing 
between 1970 and 1993 but from 1994 onwards the life expectancy at birth in 
Hungary has increased continuously and somewhat faster than in other European 
countries. The aim of this study was to analyze the association between 
decreasing cardiovascular mortality rates, as a main cause of death and the 
increase in cardio-metabolic prescriptions and possible changes in lifestyle 
behavior.
METHODS: Analyses were conducted on national data concerning cardiovascular 
mortality and the number of cardio-metabolic drug prescription per capita. The 
association between yearly rates of cardiovascular events and changes in 
antihypertensive, antilipidemic and antidiabetic prescription rates was 
analyzed. The changes in other cardiovascular risk factors, like lifestyle were 
also considered.
RESULTS: We observed a remarkable decline of mortality due to stroke and acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI). The fall was significantly associated with all 
prescription rates. The proportion of each treatment type responsible for 
suppression of specific mortality rates is different. All treatment types 
comparably improved stroke mortality, while antilipidemic therapy improved AMI 
outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: These results emphasize the importance of a comprehensive strategy 
that maximizes the population coverage of effective treatments. Hungary appears 
to be at the beginning of the fourth stage of epidemiologic transition, i.e. it 
has entered the stage of delayed chronic noninfectious diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-422
PMCID: PMC2919475
PMID: 20633257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. BMC Health Serv Res. 2010 Jul 16;10:209. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-10-209.

A cost-utility and budget impact analysis of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation for severe thalassemic patients in Thailand.

Leelahavarong P(1), Chaikledkaew U, Hongeng S, Kasemsup V, Lubell Y, 
Teerawattananon Y.

Author information:
(1)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program (HITAP), Department of 
Health, Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand. pyuck@mahidol.ac.th

BACKGROUND: Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative 
treatment available to severe thalassemic patients. The treatment, however, is 
very costly, particularly in the context of low and middle income countries, and 
no studies have been carried out to explore its economic justifiability. This 
study aimed to estimate the cost-utility of HSCT compared with blood 
transfusions combined with iron chelating therapy (BT-ICT) for severe 
thalassemia in Thailand, and to investigate the affordability of HSCT using a 
budget impact analysis.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the relevant costs and health 
outcomes over the patients' lifetimes taking a societal perspective as 
recommended by Thailand's health technology assessment guidelines. All future 
costs and outcomes were discounted at a rate of 3% per annum. Primary outcomes 
of interest were lifetime costs, quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, and 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in Thai baht (THB) per QALY 
gained.
RESULTS: Compared to BT-ICT, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio increased 
with patient age from 80,700 to 183,000 THB per QALY gained for related HSCT and 
209,000 to 953,000 THB per QALY gained for unrelated HSCT among patients aged 1 
to 15 years (US$1= 34 THB). The governmental budget impact analysis showed that 
providing 200 related HSCT to patients aged 1 to 10 years, in accordance with 
the current infrastructure limitations, would initially require approximately 90 
million additional THB per year.
CONCLUSIONS: At a societal willingness to pay of 100,000 THB per QALY gained, 
related HSCT was likely to be a cost-effective and affordable treatment for 
young children with severe thalassemia in Thailand.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-10-209
PMCID: PMC2914036
PMID: 20633303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Health Econ. 2010 Jul;29(4):536-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.05.005.
Epub  2010 May 26.

Implications of an economic model of health states worse than dead.

Sharma R(1), Stano M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Portland State University, Portland, OR 97207, USA. 
sharmar@pdx.edu

We introduce a formal definition of health equivalent to dead into a standard 
model to develop previously unrecognized insights. We find that the health state 
viewed as equivalent to dead will depend on an individual's health prognosis, 
probability of survival, and rate of time preference. Our work on maximum 
endurable time shows that using QALY scores based on long-run preferences to 
value health states that last for shorter periods can alter cardinal and ordinal 
valuations. Simulations show that errors of substantial magnitude in QALY scores 
can consequently result. We describe situations where biases are likely and 
identify possible corrections.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2010.05.005
PMID: 20633775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Med Clin (Barc). 2010 Oct 16;135(12):568-72. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2010.06.003.  Epub 2010 Jul 14.

[Cancer cachexia].

[Article in Spanish]

Tuca Rodríguez A(1), Calsina-Berna A, González-Barboteo J, Gómez-Batiste 
Alentorn X.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cuidados Paliativos, Instituto Catalán de Oncología, 
L'Hospitalet, Barcelona, Spain. atuca@iconcologia.net

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2010.06.003
PMID: 20633907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2010 Oct;5(10):1755-62. doi: 10.2215/CJN.00770110.
Epub  2010 Jul 15.

Outcome of acute kidney injury with different treatment options: long-term 
follow-up.

Van Berendoncks AM(1), Elseviers MM, Lins RL; SHARF Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The multicenter Stuivenberg Hospital Acute Renal 
Failure 4 study investigated outcome in patients with acute kidney injury (AKI) 
stratified according to disease severity by the Stuivenberg Hospital Acute Renal 
Failure score. Patients in need of renal replacement therapy (RRT) received 
intermittent RRT or continuous RRT. This study investigated long-term mortality, 
renal function, comorbidity, and quality of life.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: All AKI hospital survivors were 
included. Mortality at 1 and 2 years of follow-up was traced for all patients. 
Between 1 and 2 years after hospital discharge, survivors were visited at home 
to determine morbidity (renal function), comorbidity (Charlson comorbidity index 
[CCI]), and quality of life (Medical Outcome Survey SF-36).
RESULTS: The baseline population consisted of 595 AKI patients. Mortality rates 
were 23.0 and 7.6%, respectively, during the first and second year after 
discharge. Total mortality increased from 50.7% at discharge to 65.7% 2 years 
after AKI and was not related to disease severity or treatment modality offered 
during hospitalization. Two hundred four survivors could be visited at home. 
Mean serum creatinine did not differ between discharge and follow-up. CCI was 
only related with age. SF-36 scores were negatively correlated with CCI, age, 
and body mass index, but not with disease severity, renal function, or dialysis 
modality.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term outcome of AKI consists of a high additional mortality 
unrelated to treatment modality offered during hospitalization, varying 
evolution of renal recovery, and many comorbidities, but a mental health at the 
same level as the general population.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.00770110
PMCID: PMC2974373
PMID: 20634328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Gastrointest Cancer. 2011 Dec;42(4):212-6. doi: 10.1007/s12029-010-9190-8.

Colonoscopy for colorectal cancer screening above age 75: outcomes in 
symptomatic african american and Hispanic adults.

Singhal S(1), Verma A, Anand K.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Chicago Medical School at Rosalind Franklin University, 
North Chicago, IL, USA. sdsinghal@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: US Preventive Services Task Force recommends against routine 
screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) in adults above 75 years of age. 
Considerations to support screening in an individual patient are not clearly 
described. There is limited data to support recommendations in African American 
(AA) and Hispanics population.
METHODS: We reviewed records of 568 inpatient colonoscopies carried out at our 
Mt. Sinai Hospital Medical Center, Chicago during 2006-2008 for symptomatic 
adults ≥75 years of age. Subjects with previous normal screening colonoscopies 
and presence of one or more "generally indicated" indications as per American 
Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy guidelines were included in the study.
RESULTS: A total of 155 adults (mean age, 81.8 years; 29% males and 71% females; 
83.8% AAs and 16.1% Hispanics) met the inclusion criteria. Seventy-nine percent 
had one previous colonoscopy, whereas 21% of the patients had two or more 
previous colonoscopies. Common indications for a repeat colonoscopy were anemia 
69.7%, hematochezia 39.4%, and fecal occult blood 19.4%. Colonoscopy was 
completed to the cecum in 65.2% of the subjects. Advanced adenomas/cancers were 
found in 15/155 (9.7%) colonoscopies. CRC detection rate was 14/155 (9%), of 
which 9/14 (75%) were staged III/IV. Two (1.3%) patients had complications which 
resolved conservatively.
CONCLUSION: Symptomatic AAs and Hispanics ≥75 have a high incidence of CRC 
despite a previous normal colonoscopy. Presence of male sex, new onset anemia 
and hematochezia, and longer colonoscopy intervals are associated with CRC 
detection on colonoscopy. The detection of advanced cancer and high 
comorbidity/low life expectancy limit the benefit of CRC detection.

DOI: 10.1007/s12029-010-9190-8
PMID: 20635165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Annu Rev Anal Chem (Palo Alto Calif). 2008;1:549-78. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.anchem.1.031207.113108.

Terrestrial analysis of the organic component of comet dust.

Sandford SA(1).

Author information:
(1)NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035-1000, USA. 
Scott.A.Sandford@nasa.gov

The nature of cometary organics is of great interest, both because these 
materials are thought to represent a reservoir of the original carbon-containing 
materials from which everything else in our solar system was made and because 
these materials may have played key roles in the origin of life on Earth. 
Because these organic materials are the products of a series of universal 
chemical processes expected to operate in the interstellar media and 
star-formation regions of all galaxies, the nature of cometary organics also 
provides information on the composition of organics in other planetary systems 
and, by extension, provides insights into the possible abundance of life 
elsewhere in the universe. Our current understanding of cometary organics 
represents a synthesis of information from telescopic and spacecraft 
observations of individual comets, the study of meteoritic materials, laboratory 
simulations, and, now, the study of samples collected directly from a comet, 
Comet P81/Wild 2.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.anchem.1.031207.113108
PMID: 20636089


652. J Palliat Med. 2010 Jul;13(7):794-5. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2010.0028.

Is "routine" cranial irradiation in hemiplegic lung cancer patients with brain 
metastases justified?

Ampil FL, Baluna R.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2010.0028
PMID: 20636143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Palliat Med. 2010 Jul;13(7):841-6. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2010.0065.

Analysis of factors related to the use of opioid analgesics in regional cancer 
centers in Japan.

Sugiura M(1), Miyashita M, Sato K, Tsuneto S, Matoba M, Sano M, Shima Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Safety Management, School of Pharmacy, Tokyo University of 
Pharmacy and Life Science, Tokyo, Japan. sugi-tky@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: The use of opioid analgesics and nonopioid medicines for the treatment 
of various symptoms in regional cancer centers is considered to be an index of 
the effectiveness of the structural plan for palliative care in such 
institutions. The present study aimed to establish an accurate representation of 
the actual use of opioid analgesics for palliative care in regional cancer 
centers.
METHODS: In November 2007, a questionnaire regarding the use of medications for 
palliative care was conducted in 288 regional cancer centers in Japan. Valid 
responses were received from 264 institutions (response rate, 91.4%).
RESULTS: All regional cancer centers reported using both opioid analgesics and 
nonopioid medicines. However, regarding opioid analgesics, the use of each 
standard strength ranged from 7% to 100%. The total amount of opioid analgesics 
used was 1739.6 +/- 1216.5 g (mean +/- SD). Factors found to be significantly 
related to the total amount of opioid analgesics used in an institution were the 
number of opioid analgesic medicines in use (p = 0.008), the number of 
inpatients with cancer (p < 0.001), the number of deaths among patients with 
cancer (p < 0.001), and the number of beds (p < 0.001).
DISCUSSION: Increase in the amount of opioid analgesics might improve the 
quality of palliative care at regional cancer centers.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2010.0065
PMID: 20636155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Palliat Med. 2010 Jul;13(7):847-54. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2009.0375.

Increasing hospice services for elderly patients maintained with hemodialysis.

Cohen LM(1), Ruthazer R, Germain MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Tufts University School of Medicine, Psychiatric 
Consult Service, Baystate Medical Center, Springfield, Massachusetts, USA.

Few dying patients undergoing dialysis receive hospice care. An intervention to 
facilitate hospice referral was evaluated in a longitudinal prospective cohort 
study. Five hemodialysis units in Massachusetts were divided into intervention 
sites (N = 3 clinics) and control sites (N = 2 clinics). Five hundred twelve 
patients were screened to identify those with indicators of poor prognoses; 133 
met the eligibility criteria and consented to participate. Eighty-two 
intervention subjects and 51 control subjects were followed for a median of 17 
months. During that time, 45 died and 16 received hospice services. Directors 
from the community hospices were approached by the researchers and agreed to 
provide an educational outreach to the intervention clinics. Renal supportive 
care teams (RSCTs) consisting mainly of volunteer health-care providers 
recruited from the dialysis clinics and local hospices were notified about the 
high-mortality patients. Staff met periodically to discuss their contacts with 
subjects and/or family members from the intervention clinics, The subjects were 
encouraged to participate in advance care planning, and they were provided 
information about hospice resources. The control clinics did not have RSCTs, and 
their subjects received standard treatment. At the conclusion of the study, 
hospice services had increased at the intervention sites (p = 0.09), and the 
subgroup of > or = 65-year-old subjects had undergone a significant increase (p 
= 0.05) in obtaining hospice care. Greater familiarity between hospice and 
dialysis staff along with outreach to patients with poor prognoses holds the 
promise of expanding hospice use--especially for the elderly.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2009.0375
PMCID: PMC2938892
PMID: 20636156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Contemp Nurse. 2010 Apr-May;35(1):88-94. doi: 10.5172/conu.2010.35.1.088.

Nurses' role in the early defibrillation of cardiac patients: implications for 
nursing in Hong Kong.

Lee IS(1), Low LP.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Diagnostic Laboratory, Ruttonjee and Tang Siu Kin Hospitals, Queen's 
Road East Central, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.

The time taken to initiate early defibrillation is crucial to improve survival, 
prevent neurological deficit and improve the quality of life of patients 
suffering from sudden cardiac arrest. Despite the extension of training and the 
authorization of nurses to perform early defibrillation (advocated by the 
American Heart Association), such practice has not been widely adopted in 
hospitals. Inadequate knowledge, lack of skill retention, insufficient 
organizational support and the passive culture of nurses are barriers preventing 
the move towards nurse-led defibrillation. This paper discusses the need to 
extend the registered nurses' role in the early defibrillation of cardiac 
patients in Hong Kong. Current nursing practice in emergency resuscitation care 
and the hurdles constraining early defibrillation will be discussed. 
Recommendations to facilitate the future development of nurse-led defibrillation 
will also be provided. The successful extension of the registered nurses' role 
in early defibrillation will enable them to possess broader knowledge to be 
clinically competent in providing efficient patient care.

DOI: 10.5172/conu.2010.35.1.088
PMID: 20636181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Eur J Neurol. 2011 Mar;18(3):402-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2010.03162.x.

Cost-effectiveness of decompressive craniectomy in non-traumatic neurological 
emergencies.

Malmivaara K(1), Ohman J, Kivisaari R, Hernesniemi J, Siironen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Päijät-Häme Central Hospital, Lahti, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Decompressive craniectomy is used regularly in traumatic brain 
injury (TBI) and malignant middle cerebral artery infarction. Its benefits for 
other causes of non-traumatic brain swelling, if any, are unclear, especially 
after a devastating primary event.
METHODS: We evaluated the outcomes as well as treatment costs of all emergency 
decompressive craniectomies performed between the 2000 and 2006 in a single 
institution to lower intractable intracranial pressure, excluding the standard 
indications TBI and malignant middle cerebral infarction. The health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) was evaluated on the Euroqol (EQ-5D) scale, and cost of 
a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) calculated.
RESULTS: The overall 3-year mortality rate was 62% for subarachnoid haemorrhage 
(SAH, 29 patients) and 31% for other neurological emergencies (13 patients). 
Patients with SAH were on average 13 years older than the other indications 
mean. Of the non-survivors, 45% died within a month and 95% within 1 year. 
Median EQ-5D index values were poor (0.15 for SAH and 0.62 for the other 
emergencies, versus 0.85 for the normal population), but of the survivors, 73% 
and 89% were able to live at home. The cost of neurosurgical treatment for one 
QALY was 11,000 € for SAH and 2000 € for other emergencies.
CONCLUSION: Mortality after non-traumatic neurological emergencies leading to 
decompressive craniectomy was high, and the HRQoL index of the survivors was 
poor. Most survivors were, however, able to live at home, and the cost of 
neurosurgical treatment for a QALY gained was acceptable.

© 2010 The Author(s). European Journal of Neurology © 2010 EFNS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2010.03162.x
PMID: 20636370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Xenotransplantation. 2010 May-Jun;17(3):233-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-3089.2010.00586.x.

A health-economic analysis of porcine islet xenotransplantation.

Beckwith J(1), Nyman JA, Flanagan B, Schrover R, Schuurman HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Islet cell transplantation is a promising treatment for type 1 
diabetes. To overcome the shortage of deceased human pancreas donors, porcine 
islet cell xenotransplantation is being developed as an alternative to 
allotransplantation. The objective of this study was to perform a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of porcine islet transplantation in comparison with 
standard insulin therapy. The patient population for this study was young 
adults, ages 20 to 40, for whom standard medical care is inadequate in 
controlling blood glucose levels (hypoglycemia unawareness). Since trial data 
were lacking, estimates used extrapolations from data found in the literature 
and ongoing trials in clinical allotransplantation. Cost estimates were based on 
the data available in the USA.
METHODS: Markov modeling and Monte Carlo simulations using software specifically 
developed for health-economic evaluations were used. Outcomes data for ongoing 
clinical islet allotransplantation from the University of Minnesota were used, 
along with probabilities of complications from the Diabetes Control and 
Complications Trial. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were the effectiveness 
measure. The upper limit of being cost-effective is $100,000 per QALY. Cost data 
from the literature were used and adjusted to 2007 US dollars using the medical 
care portion of the Consumer Price Index.
RESULTS: In both Markov modeling and Monte Carlo simulations, porcine islet 
xenotransplantation was both more effective and less costly over the course of 
the 20-yr model. For standard insulin therapy, cumulative cost per patient was 
$661,000, while cumulative effectiveness was 9.4 QALYs, for a cost of $71,100 
per QALY. Transplantation had a cumulative cost of $659 000 per patient, a 
cumulative effectiveness of 10.9 QALYs, and a cost per QALY of $60,700. Islet 
transplantation became cost-effective at 4 yr after transplantation, and was 
more cost-effective than standard insulin treatment at 14 yr. These findings are 
related to relative high costs in the transplantation arm of the evaluation 
during the first years while those in the insulin arm became higher later in 
follow-up. Throughout the follow-up period, effectiveness of transplantation was 
higher than that of insulin treatment. In sensitivity analysis, duplication or 
triplication of one-time initial costs such as costs of donor animal, islet 
manufacturing and transplantation had no effect on long-term outcome in terms of 
cost-saving or cost-effectiveness, but the outcome of transplantation in terms 
of diabetes complications in cases with partial graft function could affect 
cost-saving and cost-effectiveness conclusions.
CONCLUSION: Despite limitations in the model and lack of trial data, and under 
the assumption that islet transplantation outcomes for young adult type 1 
diabetes patients are not dependent on the source of islet cells, this 
health-economic evaluation suggests that porcine islet cell xenotransplantation 
may prove to be a cost-effective and possibly cost-saving procedure for type 1 
diabetes compared to standard management.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3089.2010.00586.x
PMID: 20636544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Mol Ecol. 2010 Jul;19(13):2602-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04714.x.

Cryptic diversity and patterns of host specificity in trematode flatworms.

Hayward A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 
3PS, UK. alexander.hayward@zoo.ox.ac.uk

Comment on
    Mol Ecol. 2010 Jul;19(13):2813-27.

The widespread utilization of molecular markers has revealed that a broad 
spectrum of taxa contain sets of morphologically cryptic, but genetically 
distinct lineages (Bickford et al. 2007). The identification of cryptic taxa is 
important as an accurate appreciation of diversity is crucial for a proper 
understanding of evolutionary and ecological processes. An example is the study 
of host specificity in parasitic taxa, where an apparent generalist may be found 
to contain a complex of several more specific species (Smith et al. 2006). Host 
specificity is a key life history trait that varies greatly among parasites 
(Poulin & Keeney 2007). While some can exploit a wide range of hosts, others are 
confined to just a single species. Access to additional hosts increases the 
resources available to a parasite. However, physiological or ecological 
constraints can restrict the extension of host range. Furthermore, there may be 
a trade-off between relaxed specificity and performance: generalism can decrease 
a parasites ability to adapt to each individual host species, and increase 
exposure to competition from other parasites (Poulin 1998). Despite the central 
role that host specificity plays in parasite life history, relatively little is 
known about how host range is determined in natural systems, and data from field 
studies are required to evaluate among competing ideas. In this issue, an 
exciting paper by Locke et al. (2010) makes a valuable contribution toward the 
understanding of host specificity in an important group of trematode flatworms. 
Using molecular methods, Locke et al. reveal an almost four-fold increase in the 
appreciated diversity of their focal group. In combination with a large and 
elegant sampling design this allows them to accurately assess host specificity 
for each taxon, and thus draw key insights into the factors that control host 
range in a dominant parasite group.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04714.x
PMID: 20636894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Ann Clin Microbiol Antimicrob. 2010 Jul 16;9:18. doi:
10.1186/1476-0711-9-18.

A diagnostic PCR assay for the detection of an Australian epidemic strain of 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Williams HL(1), Turnbull L, Thomas SJ, Murphy A, Stinear T, Armstrong DS, 
Whitchurch CB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Monash University, VIC 3800, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Chronic lung infection with the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa is 
one of the hallmarks of cystic fibrosis (CF) and is associated with worsening 
lung function, increased hospitalisation and reduced life expectancy. A virulent 
clonal strain of P. aeruginosa (Australian epidemic strain I; AES-I) has been 
found to be widespread in CF patients in eastern Australia.
METHODS: Suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) was employed to identify 
genetic sequences that are present in the AES-I strain but absent from the 
sequenced reference strain PAO1. We used PCR to evaluate the distribution of 
several of the AES-I loci amongst a collection of 188 P. aeruginosa isolates 
which was comprised of 35 AES-I isolates (as determined by PFGE), 78 non-AES-I 
CF isolates including other epidemic CF strains as well as 69 P. aeruginosa 
isolates from other clinical and environmental sources.
RESULTS: We have identified a unique AES-I genetic locus that is present in all 
35 AES-I isolates tested and not present in any of the other 153 P. aeruginosa 
strains examined. We have used this unique AES-I locus to develop a diagnostic 
PCR and a real-time PCR assay to detect the presence of P. aeruginosa and AES-I 
in patient sputum samples.
CONCLUSIONS: We have developed diagnostic PCR assays that are 100% sensitive and 
100% specific for the P. aeruginosa strain AES-I. We have also shown that 
Whatman FTA Elute cards may be used with PCR-based assays to rapidly detect the 
presence of P. aeruginosa strains in CF sputum.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-0711-9-18
PMCID: PMC2912777
PMID: 20637114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Clin Ther. 2010 Jun;32(6):1068-82. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.05.012.

Cost-effectiveness of somatropin for the treatment of short children born small 
for gestational age.

Christensen T(1), Buckland A, Bentley A, Djurhuus C, Baker-Searle R.

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Short children born small for gestational age (SGA) may be at 
increased risk for long-term morbidity and reduced health-related quality of 
life (HRQoL) due to their short stature. Normalization of height in childhood 
and adolescence is possible in such children via the use of the recombinant 
human growth hormone somatropin.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine whether somatropin was a 
cost-effective treatment option in short children born SGA.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was constructed to calculate the 
cost-effectiveness of somatropin treatment versus no treatment over the lifetime 
of a short individual born SGA, from the perspective of the UK National Health 
Service (NHS). The model was based on patient-level data from a multicenter, 
double-blind, randomized controlled trial that reported the effects of 
somatropin on final (adult) height in short children born SGA. Health care 
resource and drug costs associated with each of the treatment arms were 
considered, and published utility scores were used to calculate improvement in 
HRQoL. The model calculated incremental costs and incremental quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) associated with somatropin treatment compared with no 
treatment. Cost-effectiveness was expressed as incremental cost per QALY and 
cost per centimeter of height gained.
RESULTS: Over a patient's lifetime, somatropin (0.033 mg/kg/d) treatment was 
associated with a height gain of 16.12 cm and a cost per centimeter of height 
gained of pound4359 compared with no treatment. The incremental cost of 
somatropin treatment was pound70,263, with a QALY gain of 2.95, resulting in an 
incremental cost per QALY of pound23,807-below the widely accepted 
cost-effectiveness threshold in the United Kingdom of pound30,000.
CONCLUSION: In this model, somatropin was a cost-effective treatment option for 
short children born SGA from the perspective of the UK NHS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.05.012
PMID: 20637961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Clin Ther. 2010 Jun;32(6):1091-2. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.06.009.

Lack of support for cost-utility analysis in the health care reform law: a case 
of ignorance or political posturing?

Shaw JW.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.06.009
PMID: 20637963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Clin Lab Med. 2010 Sep;30(3):533-43. doi: 10.1016/j.cll.2010.04.005.

An update on cystic fibrosis screening.

Goetzinger KR(1), Cahill AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, 660 South Euclid, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. 
goetzingerk@wudosis.wustl.edu

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a monogenic, autosomal recessive disorder, which 
ultimately leads to multisystem organ dysfunction and a subsequent decrease in 
life expectancy. Because of the sizeable number of disease causing mutations 
(>1000) and expansive ethnic and racial distribution, CF has presented a 
challenge for prenatal diagnosis. This article aims to review the genetics of 
CF, its spectrum of genotypic-phenotypic variations, current prenatal carrier 
screening and diagnostic recommendations, ultrasonographic markers of CF, and 
available reproductive options for carrier couples.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cll.2010.04.005
PMID: 20638569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Eur J Cancer. 2010 Nov;46(16):2973-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.06.016. Epub
 2010 Jul 16.
