
854. Radiology. 2010 Sep;256(3):836-46. doi: 10.1148/radiol.10092013.

Renal mass biopsy to guide treatment decisions for small incidental renal 
tumors: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Pandharipande PV(1), Gervais DA, Hartman RI, Harisinghani MG, Feldman AS, 
Mueller PR, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Abdominal Imaging and Interventional Radiology, Institute for 
Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
pari@mgh-ita.org

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness, cost, and cost-effectiveness of using 
renal mass biopsy to guide treatment decisions for small incidentally detected 
renal tumors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov model was developed to 
estimate life expectancy and lifetime costs for patients with small (< or = 
4-cm) renal tumors. Two strategies were compared: renal mass biopsy to triage 
patients to surgery or imaging surveillance and empiric nephron-sparing surgery. 
The model incorporated biopsy performance, the probability of track seeding with 
malignant cells, the prevalence and growth of benign and malignant tumors, 
treatment effectiveness and costs, and patient outcomes. An incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to identify strategy preference under 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of $75,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). 
Effects of changes in key parameters on strategy preference were evaluated in 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Under base-case assumptions, the biopsy strategy yielded a minimally 
greater quality-adjusted life expectancy (4 days) than did empiric surgery at a 
lower lifetime cost ($3466), dominating surgery from a cost-effectiveness 
perspective. Over the majority of parameter ranges tested in one-way sensitivity 
analysis, the biopsy strategy dominated surgery or was cost-effective relative 
to surgery based on a $75,000-per-QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. In two-way 
sensitivity analysis, surgery yielded greater life expectancy when the 
prevalence of malignancy and propensity for biopsy-negative cancers to 
metastasize were both higher than expected or when the sensitivity and 
specificity of biopsy were both lower than expected.
CONCLUSION: The use of biopsy to guide treatment decisions for small 
incidentally detected renal tumors is cost-effective and can prevent unnecessary 
surgery in many cases.

(c) RSNA 2010.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.10092013
PMCID: PMC2923731
PMID: 20720070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: See Materials and Methods for pertinent 
disclosures.


855. FASEB J. 2010 Dec;24(12):5073-9. doi: 10.1096/fj.10-163253. Epub 2010 Aug
18.

Early life growth hormone treatment shortens longevity and decreases cellular 
stress resistance in long-lived mutant mice.

Panici JA(1), Harper JM, Miller RA, Bartke A, Spong A, Masternak MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Geriatrics Research, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, Illinois, USA.

Hypopituitary Ames dwarf mice were injected either with growth hormone (GH) or 
thyroxine for a 6-wk period to see whether this intervention would reverse their 
long life span or the resistance of their cells to lethal stresses. Ames dwarf 
mice survived 987 ± 24 d (median), longer than nonmutant control mice (664 ± 
48), but GH-injected dwarf mice did not differ from controls (707 ± 9). 
Fibroblast cells from Ames dwarf mice were more resistant to cadmium than cells 
from nonmutant controls (LD(50) values of 9.98 ± 1.7 and 3.9 ± 0.8, 
respectively), but GH injections into Ames dwarf mice restored the normal level 
of cadmium resistance (LD(50)=5.8 ± 0.9). Similar restoration of normal 
resistance was observed for fibroblasts exposed to paraquat, methyl 
methanesulfonate, and rotenone (P<0.05 in each case for contrast of GH-treated 
vs. untreated dwarf mice; P<0.05 for dwarf vs. nonmutant control mice.) T4 
injections into Ames dwarf mice, in contrast, did not restore normal life span. 
We conclude that the remarkable life-span extension of Ames dwarf mice, and the 
stress resistance of cells from these mice, depends on low levels of GH exposure 
in juvenile and very young adult mice.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.10-163253
PMCID: PMC2992365
PMID: 20720157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Pancreatology. 2010;10(4):499-502. doi: 10.1159/000288705. Epub 2010 Aug 19.

Radical surgery for pancreatic malignancy in the elderly.

Oliverius M(1), Kala Z, Varga M, Gürlich R, Lanska V, Kubesova H.

Author information:
(1)Transplant Surgery Department, Institute for Clinical and Experimental 
Medicine, Prague, Czech Republic. maol@medicon.cz

BACKGROUND: Improving life expectancy is associated with increasing incidence of 
pancreatic cancer. We reviewed morbidity and mortality in patients aged 65 years 
and older undergoing curative intent surgery in two centers in the Czech 
Republic.
METHODS: Data were retrieved by retrospective analysis of the medical records 
over the period 2000-2007. In total, 60 patients were included. The mean age was 
71 years (median 70 years; range 65-85 years). Most patients (43, 72%) underwent 
hemipancreatoduodenectomy, combined in 4 with portomesenterial vessel resection. 
Twelve patients (20%) had distal pancreatectomy and 5 patients (8%) total 
pancreatectomy.
RESULTS: Overall morbidity was 28%. Only 10 patients (18%) developed serious 
surgical complications in terms of pancreatic leak (5, 8%), biliary leak (2, 
3%), and intra-abdominal inflammatory collection (4, 7%). Four patients (6.6%) 
died within 30 days. The 1-year survival was 62.8%.
CONCLUSION: We can conclude that age per se is not a contraindication to 
surgery. Patient's overall general condition, co-existing co-morbidities, and 
ability to get over with any potential complications are more important. and 
IAP.

Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000288705
PMID: 20720452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):6-8.

Life chances going up in smoke.

Howden-Chapman P, Robson B, Fougere G.

Comment on
    N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):13-24.
    N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):26-36.

PMID: 20720597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):13-24.

Trends in survival and life expectancy by ethnicity, income and smoking in New 
Zealand: 1980s to 2000s.

Carter KN(1), Blakely T, Soeberg M.

Author information:
(1)Health Inequalities Research Program, School of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
University of Otago, Wellington, PO Box 7343, Wellington South, Wellington 6242, 
New Zealand. kristie.carter@otago.ac.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):6-8.

BACKGROUND: Survival and life expectancy are commonly used metrics to describe 
population health. There are two objectives to this paper: (1) to provide an 
explanation of methods and data used to develop New Zealand life-tables by 
ethnic, income and smoking groups; and (2) to compare cumulative survival and 
life expectancy trends in these subpopulations.
METHOD: We generated sex-specific life-tables for seven subpopulations: 
ethnicity (Maori and non-Maori); income tertiles; smoking (never and current); 
and two-way combinations (ethnicity by income; ethnicity by smoking; and smoking 
by income). This was repeated for five census-mortality cohorts (1981-84, 
1986-89, 1991-94, 1996-99, and 2001-04). The method used to create the 
life-tables brings together three pieces of information: (1) the official 
Statistics New Zealand (SNZ) life-tables by year and sex; (2) the proportionate 
distribution of the total population by subpopulation (e.g. smoking prevalence); 
and (3) estimates of the differences in subpopulation mortality rates (from the 
New Zealand Census-Mortality Study [NZCMS]).
RESULTS: Survival and life expectancy improved in all subpopulations across the 
five census cohorts. However, improvements were greater in non-Maori compared to 
Maori and high income compared to low income subpopulations. This led to 
widening of the gap in life expectancy between 1981 and 2001 between Maori and 
non-Maori (males), which increased from 5.4 years in 1981 to 9.0 in 2001 and 
between low income and high income which increased from 4.4 in 1981 to 6.5 in 
2001 for males. The gap in life expectancy between current and never smokers in 
1996 was 7.6 in males and 6.7 in females. However, the size of this gap varied 
by ethnicity: 7.3 and 6.2 for non-Maori males and females, and 4.3 and 3.9 for 
Maori male and females. Correspondingly, the gap in life expectancy between 
Maori and non-Maori is greater among never smokers (9.7 and 8.4 for males and 
females) than among current smokers (4.3 and 6.6 for males and females).
CONCLUSION: Life-tables have been successfully developed for subpopulations in 
New Zealand, and provide an alternative understanding of health and life in New 
Zealand over the past 20 years. Ethnic and income gaps in life expectancy have 
widened, and perhaps surprising results were found for smoking by ethnicity. 
These life-tables provide an important basis for subpopulation modelling and 
projections, and are freely available to researchers.

PMID: 20720599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):26-36.

If nobody smoked tobacco in New Zealand from 2020 onwards, what effect would 
this have on ethnic inequalities in life expectancy?

Blakely T(1), Carter K, Wilson N, Edwards R, Woodward A, Thomson G, Sarfati D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, PO Box 7343, 
Wellington, New Zealand. tony.blakely@otago.ac.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):6-8.

BACKGROUND: Smoking contributes to the 7 to 8 year gap between Maori and 
non-Maori life expectancy (2006 Census). To inform current discussions by 
policy-makers on tobacco control, we estimate life-expectancy in 2040 for Maori 
and non-Maori, never-smokers and current-smokers. If nobody smoked tobacco from 
2020 onwards, then life expectancy in 2040 will be approximated by projected 
never-smoker life expectancy.
METHOD: Life-tables by sex/ethnicity/smoking status for 1996-99 were estimated 
by merging official Statistics New Zealand life-tables, census data and linked 
census-mortality rate estimates. We specified six modelling scenarios, formed by 
combining two options for future per annum declines in mortality rates among 
never-smokers (1.5%/2.5% and 2.0%/3.5% for non-Maori/Maori; i.e. assuming a 
return to long-run trends of closing ethnic gaps as in pre-1980s decades), and 
three options for future per annum reductions in the mortality rate difference 
comparing current to never-smokers (0%, 1% and 2%).
RESULTS: In 1996-1999, current smokers had an estimated 3.9 to 7.4 years less of 
life expectancy relative to never-smokers. This smoking difference in life 
expectancy was less among Maori than among non-Maori. If the 2006 census smoking 
prevalence remains unchanged into the future, we estimate the difference in 2040 
between Maori and non-Maori life expectancy will range from 1.8 to 6.1 years 
across the six scenarios and two sexes (average 3.8). If nobody smokes tobacco 
from 2020 onwards, we estimate additional gains in life expectancy for Maori 
ranging from 2.5 to 7.9 years (average 4.7) and for non-Maori ranging from 1.2 
to 5.4 years (average 2.9). Going smokefree as a nation by 2020, compared to no 
change from the 2006 Census population smoking prevalence, will close ethnic 
inequalities in life expectancy by 0.3 to 4.6 years (average 1.8 years; 
consistently greater for females).
DISCUSSION: If smoking persists at current rates it will become an even greater 
constraint on life expectancy improvements for New Zealanders in the future. 
Continued increases in life expectancy, and closing of the Maori:non-Maori gaps 
in life expectancy, would be greatly assisted by the end of tobacco smoking in 
Aotearoa-New Zealand by 2020.

PMID: 20720600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. N Z Med J. 2010 Aug 13;123(1320):67-75.

Health, inequality and the politics of genes.

Whittle PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New 
Zealand. patrick.whittle@pg.canterbury.ac.nz

Research into the possible genetic basis of health inequalities between 
different ethnic or racial groups raises many scientific, ethical and political 
concerns. Proponents of such research point to the possible benefits for 
marginalised groups of understanding genetic influences on health outcomes; 
opponents indicate the potential social costs, citing historical use of 
Darwinian concepts to explain and justify inequalities between different 
peoples. Many health researchers may avoid the subject due to its potential for 
controversy--e.g. the recent media furore over the so-called 'warrior gene', and 
its apparent genetic explanations for negative health and social statistics 
among Maori. This article argues for a more nuanced account of the evolutionary 
history of marginalised groups such as Maori, one that accepts the possibility 
of relevant genetic differences between sub-populations, but which also 
acknowledges genuine ethical and political concerns. Such an account may assist 
health researchers in addressing the politically sensitive subject of 'race' and 
social inequality.

PMID: 20720605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Anthropol Med. 2010 Aug;17(2):187-200. doi: 10.1080/13648470.2010.493602.

Patient and practitioner noncompliance: rationing, therapeutic uncertainty, and 
the missing conversation.

Rouse C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA. 
crouse@princeton.edu

Currently, the life expectancy of black Americans is about five years shorter 
than that of white Americans when factoring for gender. Poor patient compliance 
is often used as an explanation for why black people have worse health outcomes. 
The proof, however, is anecdotal and relies primarily on discourses about black 
people's general dysfunction. Black patients often respond in kind to problems 
they experience with health care access. They often conclude that the medical 
professionals they work with are racist. In most cases, neither of these 
explanations is correct. This paper argues that behavioral explanations for 
health care disparities shift attention away from structural issues, namely 
health care rationing and the limits of therapeutic medicine. The lack of an 
open discussion about the structural issues is part of the reason the goal 
initiated by the Clinton administration to end racial disparities by 2010, 
Healthy People 2010, largely failed.

DOI: 10.1080/13648470.2010.493602
PMID: 20721756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Biopharm Stat. 2010 Sep;20(5):941-53. doi: 10.1080/10543401003618967.

An extension of Bayesian expected power and its application in decision making.

Liu F(1).

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Labs, Rahway, New Jersey 07065, USA. fang_liu@merck.com

Whether and how to conduct a clinical study is one of the critical decisions to 
be made every day in the pharmaceutical industry. Robust measurements on the 
probability of success (POS) of a study are crucial in the decision-making 
process. Among many factors that can affect the POS, establishment of the 
statistical alternative hypothesis (H(1)) is arguably the most important 
consideration. The classical power is universally used for assessing the 
probability of H(1) being accepted, given a certain value of the parameter of 
interest. If H(1) is composite, power is often provided for a range of plausible 
values of the parameter to reflect our uncertainty about the parameter. This 
could become inconvenient for decision makers and potentially introduce biases 
into the decision-making process. This paper proposes an extension of Bayesian 
expected power (eBEP) as a single metric for assessing POS defined as the 
probability that H(1) is accepted in a study as a tool for decision-making. eBEP 
is convenient, driven by scientific evidence, and systematically integrates the 
uncertainty, thus facilitates robust decision-making. The computation procedure 
of eBEP via Monte Carlo methods is provided. The application of eBEP is 
illustrated using a real-life bioequivalence study.

DOI: 10.1080/10543401003618967
PMID: 20721783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Am J Hum Biol. 2010 Nov-Dec;22(6):731-40. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.21074.

Blood lipids, infection, and inflammatory markers in the Tsimane of Bolivia.

Vasunilashorn S(1), Crimmins EM, Kim JK, Winking J, Gurven M, Kaplan H, Finch 
CE.

Author information:
(1)Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California 90089, USA. vasunila@usc.edu

OBJECTIVES: Little is known about blood cholesterol (blood-C) levels under 
conditions of infection and limited diet. This study examines blood-C and 
markers of infection and inflammation in the Tsimane of the Bolivian Amazon, 
indigenous forager farmers living in conditions that model preindustrial 
European populations by their short life expectancy, high load of infections and 
inflammation, and limited diets.
METHODS: We use multivariate models to determine the relationships between lipid 
levels and markers of infection and inflammation. Adult Tsimane (N = 418, age 
20-84) were characterized for blood lipids, cells, and inflammatory markers in 
relation to individual loads of parasites and village region.
RESULTS: Most of the Tsimane (60%) carried at least one parasite species, 
averaging 1.3 species per person. Serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(HDL-C), total cholesterol (total-C), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(LDL-C) were below the U.S. norms and varied inversely with markers of infection 
and inflammation: C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR), immunoglobulin (Ig) E and eosinophil count. Although 
no relationship of parasite load to blood-C was found, there was an association 
between anemia and parasite prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the highly infected environment of the Tsimane is 
related to low levels of blood total-C, HDL-C, and LDL-C. This may suggest a 
potential reason why arterial disease is largely absent in the Tsimane.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.21074
PMCID: PMC3537506
PMID: 20721985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Screening for Prostate Cancer [Internet].

Harris R(1), Lohr KN(1), Beck R(1), Fink K(1), Godley P(1), Bunton AJ(1).

Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2002 Oct.
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic 
Evidence Reviews.

Author information:
(1)Research Triangle Institute/University of North Carolina

CONTEXT: More than 31,000 men were expected to die from prostate cancer in 2001. 
Researchers and the public have given most attention for controlling prostate 
cancer to screening. No well-conducted randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 
screening has been completed. We are thus left with examining indirect evidence 
to determine the efficacy of screening for reducing prostate cancer mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the evidence of the benefits and harms of screening and 
earlier treatment in reducing prostate cancer mortality and to assist the US 
Preventive Services Task Force in making recommendations on this topic.
DATA SOURCES: We first developed an analytic framework and 9 key questions that 
represent the logical chain between screening and reduced mortality. We then 
systematically searched MEDLINE from January 1994 to September 15, 2002, using 
the Medical Subject Heading prostate neoplasms and combining this term with 
predefined strategies to identify English language studies concerning the 9 key 
questions. We also searched the Cochrane Library, contacted experts, and scanned 
review bibliographies.
STUDY SELECTION: We examined abstracts and full articles of all identified 
studies to determine whether they met preset inclusion and exclusion criteria 
for each key question. We selected studies that met the following inclusion 
criteria: (1) randomized controlled trials (RCTs), case-control studies, and 
ecologic studies that examined links between screening and reduced mortality, 
(2) studies that addressed the accuracy, reliability, and yield of screening 
tests by applying the test and a reference standard uniformly to a defined 
population; (3) RCTs with clinical outcomes for treatment questions; (4) studies 
of patient reports about their experience with screening or various treatments; 
and (5) studies that examined or modeled the costs and benefits of screening. 
For key questions about treatment, we required RCTs with clinical outcomes. We 
graded the quality of all included articles according to criteria established by 
the USPSTF.
DATA EXTRACTION: Members of the study team abstracted relevant information from 
included studies and entered it into established abstraction forms. The first 
author checked all abstractions against the original papers.
DATA SYNTHESIS: No conclusive direct evidence shows that screening reduces 
mortality from prostate cancer. Although we could not precisely determine the 
sensitivity and specificity of screening with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
and digital rectal examination (DRE), research is clear that these tests can 
detect prostate cancer at an earlier stage than clinical detection. Because of 
the heterogeneity in the natural history of prostate cancer, we could not 
determine how many screen-detected cancers would eventually become clinically 
important. The efficacy of treatment for clinically localized prostate cancer 
detected by screening with any of the currently used approaches is unknown. Each 
treatment is associated with several well-documented potential harms. The cost 
of a national screening program is potentially large. Modeling studies show that 
men ages 50 to 69 years could receive benefit at reasonable cost from screening 
under favorable assumptions about the efficacy of earlier treatment. These 
studies do not adjust for the potential harms of screening. Given the current 
strategy for screening, men with a life expectancy of less than 10 years are 
unlikely to benefit even under favorable assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: We are unable to determine the net benefit of screening because we 
cannot establish the presence and, if present, the magnitude of benefit from 
screening. We can establish the presence of potential harms.

PMID: 20722111


865. Mod Healthc. 2010 Aug 2;40(31):19.

Healthy, wealthy and why. A strong job market help prolong life spans--just look 
at Japan.

McLaughlin N.

PMID: 20722240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Haemophilia. 2011 Jan;17(1):55-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02364.x.
Epub  2010 Aug 16.

Does haemophilia influence cancer-related mortality in HIV-negative patients?

Miesbach W(1), Seifried E.

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic III, Institute of Transfusion Medicine, Goethe University, 
Frankfurt, Germany. wolfgang.miesbach@kgu.de

Clinical investigations and animal studies suggest haemophilia specific effects 
on cancer-related mortality aside from virus induced malignancies. Analysis of 
results in the literature proposes that coagulation factor deficiency might 
inhibit cancer metastasis through decreased activation of thrombin. On the other 
hand, substitution of coagulation factor might increase cancer rates. A review 
of epidemiological studies was conducted to survey the clinical data on cancer 
rates. Clinical investigations concerning cancer-related mortality in 
haemophilia always deal with virus-related malignancies caused by HIV and/or 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections. Therefore, analysis of cancer rates and 
standardized mortality ratios (SMR) of cancer in the literature was conducted 
under exclusion of HIV infection and concomitant malignancies like 
non-Hodgkin-lymphomas and under exclusion of HCV-related deaths caused by liver 
disease and hepatocellular carcinoma. The survey covers epidemiological studies 
which report causes of deaths of more than 8000 haemophilia patients, including 
more than 2700 HIV-negative patients. Results show virus independent cancer 
rates of 8-16% of deaths. Analysis of corresponding SMRs supports the hypothesis 
that cancer rates, unaffected through HIV or hepatoma, are decreased in 
haemophilia when compared with the general population. Prospective data 
collection regarding factor consumption as well as severity of haemophilia in 
virus negative cancer patients is needed to investigate the interaction between 
haemophilia and cancer.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02364.x
PMID: 20722743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Am J Public Health. 2010 Oct;100(10):1912-6. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.184192.
Epub  2010 Aug 19.

Racial disparities in stage-specific colorectal cancer mortality: 1960-2005.

Soneji S(1), Iyer SS, Armstrong K, Asch DA.

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Health & Society Scholars Program, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. soneji@wharton.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVES: We examined whether racial disparities in stage-specific colorectal 
cancer survival changed between 1960 and 2005.
METHODS: We used US Mortality Multiple-Cause-of-Death Data Files and intercensal 
estimates to calculate standardized mortality rates by gender and race from 1960 
to 2005. We used Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data to 
estimate stage-specific colorectal cancer survival. To account for SEER sampling 
uncertainty, we used a bootstrap resampling procedure and fit a Cox proportional 
hazards model.
RESULTS: Between 1960-2005, patterns of decline in mortality rate as a result of 
colorectal cancer differed greatly by gender and race: 54% reduction for White 
women, 14% reduction for Black women, 39% reduction for White men, and 28% 
increase for Black men. Blacks consistently experienced worse rates of 
stage-specific survival and life expectancy than did Whites for both genders, 
across all age groups, and for localized, regional, and distant stages of the 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The rates of stage-specific colorectal cancer survival differed 
among Blacks when compared with Whites during the 4-decade study period. 
Differences in stage-specific life expectancy were the result of differences in 
access to care or quality of care. More attention should be given to racial 
disparities in colorectal cancer management.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.184192
PMCID: PMC2936993
PMID: 20724684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Chest. 2011 Jan;139(1):151-8. doi: 10.1378/chest.10-1292. Epub 2010 Aug 19.

Resistance arm training in patients with COPD: A Randomized Controlled Trial.

Janaudis-Ferreira T(1), Hill K, Goldstein RS, Robles-Ribeiro P, Beauchamp MK, 
Dolmage TE, Wadell K, Brooks D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, West Park Healthcare Centre, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: The study aimed to evaluate the effect of upper extremity resistance 
training for patients with COPD on dyspnea during activity of daily living 
(ADL), arm function, arm exercise capacity, muscle strength, and health-related 
quality of life (HRQL).
METHODS: Patients were randomly assigned to an intervention or control group. 
The intervention group underwent arm resistance training. The control group 
performed a sham. Both groups exercised three times a week for 6 weeks. Dyspnea 
during ADL and HRQL were measured using the Chronic Respiratory Disease 
Questionnaire (CRDQ). Arm function and exercise capacity were measured using the 
6-min pegboard and ring test (6PBRT) and the unsupported upper limb exercise 
test (UULEX), respectively. Muscle strength for the biceps, triceps, and 
anterior and middle deltoids was obtained using an isometric dynamometer.
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients with COPD (66 ± 9 years) participated in the study. 
Compared with the control group, the magnitude of change in the intervention 
group was greater for the 6PBRT (P = .03), UULEX (P = .01), elbow flexion force 
(P = .01), elbow extension force (P = .02), shoulder flexion force (P = .029), 
and shoulder abduction force (P = .01). There was no between-group difference in 
dyspnea during ADL, HRQL, or symptoms during the 6PBRT or UULEX (all P values > 
.08).
CONCLUSIONS: Resistance-based arm training improved arm function, arm exercise 
capacity, and muscle strength in patients with COPD. No improvement in dyspnea 
during ADL, HRQL, or symptoms was demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.10-1292
PMID: 20724740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Radiat Res. 2010 Sep;174(3):341-6. doi: 10.1667/RR1946.1.

Life span and thymic lymphoma incidence in high- and low-dose-rate irradiated 
AKR/J mice and commonly expressed genes.

Shin SC(1), Kang YM, Kim HS.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Health Research Institute, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co, Ltd, 
388-1, SSangmun-dong, Dobong-gu, Seoul 132-703, Korea.

To evaluate the effect of low-dose-rate radiation on cancer incidence, we housed 
AKR/J mice in a long-term low-dose-rate irradiation facility ((137)Cs, 0.07 
cGy/h). We compared the thymic lymphoma incidence and life span with those of 
mice irradiated at a high dose rate ((137)Cs, 0.8 Gy/min, total dose of 4.5 Gy) 
and nonirradiated mice. The average life span of the low-dose-rate irradiated 
mice (243 days) was longer than those of the high-dose-rate irradiated mice (208 
days) and nonirradiated mice (230 days) (P = 0.02). The incidence of thymic 
lymphoma in low-dose-rate irradiated mice was lower than that in nonirradiated 
mice and high-dose-rate irradiated mice by 10 and 20%, respectively (P < 0.01). 
Normal-sized thymuses were collected 130 days after irradiation, and whole 
genome microarray analysis was performed. A total of 17,625 genes were assessed. 
Up- and down-regulated genes in low-dose-rate irradiated mice were 1.7 and 9 
times less frequent than in high-dose-rate irradiated mice. We profiled 
expressed genes associated with carcinogenesis pathways (DNA repair, DNA damage 
signaling pathway, cell cycle, cancer pathway finder, p53 signaling pathway, 
apoptosis and T-cell and B-cell activation). Apoptosis- (Cd5l, Fcgr3 and Pycard) 
and immune- (Pycard, Lilrb3, Igh-6, Fcgr2b and MGC60843) related genes were 
commonly activated in both high- and low-dose-rate irradiated mice. The results 
suggest that carcinogenic cells have been removed by activated apoptosis and 
immune mechanisms, contributing to decreased thymic lymphoma and elongated life 
span. Functional studies for expressed genes associated with thymic lymphoma 
incidence in low-dose-rate exposed mice are currently under way.

DOI: 10.1667/RR1946.1
PMID: 20726732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Drug Deliv. 2010 Nov;17(8):617-23. doi: 10.3109/10717544.2010.509360.

Extension of nasal anti-Staphylococcus aureus efficacy of lysostaphin by its 
incorporation into a chitosan-o/w cream.

Cui F(1), Li G, Huang J, Zhang J, Lu M, Lu W, Huang Q.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200433, PR China.

Nasal colonization of Staphylococcus aureus (S.aureus) is known as a significant 
risk factor for nosocomial infections, and clearance of its nasal colonization 
greatly reduces the risk. In the present study the preparation and 
characterizations of the chitosan-o/w cream incorporated with lysostaphin (CCL) 
were described. It showed that the concentration of incorporated lysostaphin had 
a direct relationship with its release behavior from the cream. It was rapid at 
2 and 3.5 mg lysostaphin/g cream and of a more sustained pattern at 5 mg 
lysostaphin/g cream. Efficacy of lysostaphin released from the CCL cream to 
inhibit S.aureus growth was higher than that of lysostaphin delivery routinely 
treated, as demonstrated by the reduction of the mucociliary transport rate 
(MTR) in contrast to the control graphite particles (p < 0.05). Therefore, it is 
concluded that drug delivery by the CCL holds its potential as a local nasal 
anti-S.aureus infection.

DOI: 10.3109/10717544.2010.509360
PMID: 20726810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Vox Sang. 2011 Feb;100(2):196-203. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2010.01378.x.
Epub  2010 Aug 18.

Survival after transfusion in the Netherlands.

Borkent-Raven BA(1), Janssen MP, van der Poel CL, Schaasberg WP, Bonsel GJ, van 
Hout BA.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analyses of blood safety interventions require 
estimates of the life expectancy after blood product transfusion. These are best 
derived from survival after blood transfusion, per age group and blood component 
type.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: In the PROTON (PROfiles of TransfusiON recipients) 
study transfusion recipient data was collected from a hospital sample covering 
28% of the total blood use between 1996 and 2006 in the Netherlands. The dataset 
includes date of transfusion, blood component type transfused and recipient 
identification details. PROTON data were individually matched to mortality data 
of the Netherlands. Survival after first transfusion and after any transfusion 
was calculated, per blood component type and age group. PROTON mortality rates 
were compared to mortality rates in the general population. The results were 
used to estimate survival beyond the study period and to estimate life 
expectancy after transfusion.
RESULTS: Of all 2,405,012 blood product transfusions in the PROTON dataset, 92% 
was matched to the national Dutch Municipal Population Register, which registers 
all deaths. After 1 year, survival after any transfusion was 65·4%, 70·4% and 
53·9% for RBC, FFP and PLT respectively. After 5 years, this was 46·6%, 58·8% 
and 39·3% for RBC, FFP and PLT, respectively. Ten years after transfusion, 
mortality rates of recipients are still elevated in comparison with the general 
population.
CONCLUSION: Mortality rates of transfusion recipients are higher than those of 
the general population, but the increase diminishes over time. The mortality 
rates found for the Netherlands are lower than those found in comparable studies 
for other countries.

© 2010 The Author(s). Vox Sanguinis © 2010 International Society of Blood 
Transfusion.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2010.01378.x
PMID: 20726957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Lung Cancer. 2011 Apr;72(1):108-13. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2010.07.001. Epub
 2010 Aug 19.

Prognostic impact of comorbidity in elderly lung cancer patients: use and 
comparison of two scores.

Gironés R(1), Torregrosa D, Gómez-Codina J, Maestu I, Tenias JM, Rosell R.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, Hospital Lluís Alcanyís, Xàtiva, Spain. girones 
reg@gva.es

BACKGROUND: Mean age of patients with lung cancer rises as a result of 
increasing life expectancy. So, the proportion of patients with serious 
comorbidity also increases [1,2]. Lung cancer treatment is characterized by a 
narrow therapeutic index. When life expectancy is short and therapeutic benefit 
is limited, it is of paramount importance to know the specific cause of death. 
Comorbidity is understood as a competing cause of death, and is the main 
exclusion criterion for lung cancer clinical trials. The aim of this study was 
to determine the prevalence of comorbidity in elderly lung cancer patients seen 
in an outpatient oncology department and to determine its correlation with 
survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January 2006 and February 2008, 83 untreated lung 
cancer patients over the age of 70 years were enrolled in the study. Comorbidity 
was evaluated according to the Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) [3] and the 
simplified comorbidity score (SCS) [4].
RESULTS: 83 patients (97.6% men, mean age 77 years) were studied. Comorbidities: 
tobacco consumption (94.6%), cardiovascular diseases (65%), and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (59%). Mean CCI was 3 (range 0-9). Mean SCS 
was 9 (range 4-19), and 47% of patients had an SCS>9. Comorbidity was fairly 
well correlated with age, ADL, IADL, and stage. Neither the CCI nor the SCS was 
related to survival (p: 0.47 and p: 0.24, log rank, respectively). Median 
survival was 326 days (95% CI, 259-393 days; or 10.8 months, 95% CI 8.6-13.1 
months). Main cause of death was lung cancer disease progression (69.5%, 57 
patients), with 20 patients (25%) dying of other non-neoplastic causes. Stage 
was significantly associated with survival (log rank: p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Although there was a high prevalence of comorbidity in our 
population, comorbidity was not related to survival. Comorbidity is one of the 
main reasons for undertreatment of elderly lung cancer patients, but this study 
indicates that this undertreatment may not be warranted given that those 
comorbidities may not cause a patient's death. Our data generated more of a 
hypothesis than a conclusion. Comorbidity should be an impetus for treatment 
design instead of an exclusion criterion for oncologic treatment.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2010.07.001
PMID: 20727613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Cancer Radiother. 2010 Oct;14(6-7):493-9. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2010.06.006.
 Epub 2010 Aug 19.

[Place of surgery in high-risk tumours of the prostate].

[Article in French]

Soulié M(1), Rozet F, Hennequin C, Salomon L; Membres du Sous-Comité Prostate du 
CCAFU.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, d'Andrologie et de Transplantation Rénale, Hôpital de 
Rangueil, CHU de Toulouse, 1 avenue Jean-Poulhès, 31403 Toulouse cedex 04, 
France. soulie.m@chu-toulouse.fr

Among the different options recommended for high-risk prostate cancer, radical 
prostatectomy is admitted as radiotherapy, but its role is still controversial 
in monotherapy and difficult to evaluate in combined treatments. The results of 
clinical trials combining an external radiotherapy to a long-term androgen 
deprivation in locally advanced tumours sustain the principle of a 
multidisciplinary management in high-risk prostate cancer. The impact of surgery 
on the risk of progression and local recurrence is important in selected 
patients with low grade and small tumoral volume. Clinical and histological data 
associated to the MRI assessment remain essential and enhance the preoperative 
multidisciplinary decision, especially regarding nodal and distant metastases. 
Radical prostatectomy with an extended pelvic lymphadenectomy can be considered 
as a viable alternative to radiotherapy and hormonal therapy in these patients 
with a long life expectancy but presenting a high risk of local progression and 
a low risk of metastatic disease. Morbidity of the procedure is similar to 
radical prostatectomy for organ-confined tumours despite more erectile 
dysfunction due to non-sparing radical prostatectomy in most of cases. 
Oncological results from recent compiled series show 10- and 15-year specific 
survival rates around 85 and 75%, respectively, including adjuvant or salvage 
treatments with radiotherapy, androgen deprivation or chemotherapy.

Copyright © 2010 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2010.06.006
PMID: 20727805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2010 Nov;22(9):733-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2010.07.004. Epub 2010 Aug 21.

Percutaneous urinary drainage and ureteric stenting in malignant disease.

Allen DJ(1), Longhorn SE, Philp T, Smith RD, Choong S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University College Hospital London, UK. 
Darrell.allen@uclh.nhs.uk

Patients with malignant ureteric obstruction often have a poor life expectancy, 
even if relief of urinary obstruction is achieved. Careful discussion between 
the patient, their family and all health care professionals involved in the case 
must be undertaken before any intervention. The goal of treatment in the 
palliative setting may be to offer symptom relief, avoid complications from 
renal insufficiency or allow further oncological systemic therapy. The 
obstruction can be relieved by placement of a percutaneous nephrostomy tube, a 
ureteric stent or, more rarely, due to the palliative nature of the patients, a 
more complex open surgical procedure. Nephrostomy tubes offer excellent drainage 
and can be placed under a local anaesthetic, although they do require and a bag, 
which can reduce a patient's quality of life. Bleeding, sepsis, bowel 
transgression and pleural complications can all be encountered when inserting a 
nephrostomy. JJ stents in comparison have a higher failure rate due to extrinsic 
compression and usually require a general anaesthetic for placement, although 
significant bleeding and other complications are reduced. Quality of life is 
still affected by irritative lower urinary tract symptoms. Metallic ureteric 
stents have recently been developed to try and offer better relief of 
obstruction than polymeric stents with fewer side-effects and increased 
intervals between changes. Initial data appear encouraging, although further 
trials are needed. No blueprint for treatment of malignant ureteric obstruction 
exists and each case must be decided on an individual basis with a fully 
informed patient.

Copyright © 2010 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2010.07.004
PMID: 20728326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Exp Gerontol. 2011 May;46(5):391-6. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.08.007. Epub
2010  Aug 20.

dSir2 and longevity in Drosophila.

Frankel S(1), Ziafazeli T, Rogina B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Hartford, West Hartford, CT, 06117, USA.

The silent information regulator 2 (Sir2 or Sirtuin) family of proteins is 
highly conserved and has been implicated in the extension of longevity for 
several species. Mammalian Sirtuins have been shown to affect various aspects of 
physiology including metabolism, the stress response, cell survival, replicative 
senescence, inflammation, the circadian rhythm, neurodegeneration, and even 
cancer. Evidence in Drosophila implicates Sir2 in at least some of the 
beneficial effects of caloric restriction (CR). CR delays age-related pathology 
and extends life span in a wide variety of species. Here we will review the 
evidence linking Drosophila Sir2 (dSir2) to longevity regulation and the pathway 
associated with CR in Drosophila, as well as the effects of the Sir2 activator 
resveratrol and potential interactions between dSir2 and p53.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.08.007
PMCID: PMC2997167
PMID: 20728527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Clin Ther. 2010 Aug;32(8):1479-95. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.07.017.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of various pertussis vaccination strategies 
primarily aimed at protecting infants in the Netherlands.

Westra TA(1), de Vries R, Tamminga JJ, Sauboin CJ, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, the Netherlands. 
t.a.westra@med.umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: Pertussis is a highly contagious respiratory disease. Despite a high 
rate of vaccine coverage through the Dutch national immunization program, the 
incidence of pertussis remains high in the Netherlands and the risk of infection 
continues. Because pertussis is most severe in unimmunized infants and infants 
who have only received some of the recommended doses, new pertussis immunization 
strategies should be considered to protect this vulnerable population.
OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 3 new 
immunization strategies for possible addition to the current Dutch national 
immunization program: immunization of the infant at birth, immunization of the 
parents immediately after birth of the child (cocooning), and maternal 
immunization during the third trimester of pregnancy.
METHODS: A literature search was performed in the PubMed database for articles 
published in English, German, and Dutch using the following terms: pertussis, 
whooping cough, vaccination strategies, maternal immunization, cocooning, at 
birth, vaccine efficacy, mortality, underreporting, prevalence, incidence, and 
cost-effectiveness. A decision-tree model was developed for this analysis, and 
data on pertussis morbidity and costs were collected consistently for different 
age groups (infants <1 year of age and adults 25 to 34 years of age). The size 
of the infant cohort was set at 200,000 to approximate previous Dutch birth 
cohorts. The size of the adult cohort was set at 401,380 parents for the 
cocooning strategy and 201,380 mothers for the maternal immunization strategy. 
Health benefits (quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) and costs were estimated 
in both cohorts for each of the 3 immunization strate- gies. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated from both a payer's and a societal 
perspective. The robustness of the results was determined through sensitivity 
analysis.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, cocooning and maternal immunization were 
found to be effective in reducing the incidence of pertussis among infants (123 
and 174 infant cases were expected to be prevented, respectively). Furthermore, 
cocooning and maternal immunization were estimated to be cost-effective from a 
payer's perspective (euro4600 [US $6400]/QALY and euro3500 [$4900]/QALY, 
respectively) and even cost-saving from a societal perspective (savings of up to 
euro7200 [$10,100] and euro5000 [$7000], respectively). Sensitivity analyses 
revealed that favorable cost-effectiveness was generally robust. In the 
sensitivity analysis, the cost-effectiveness of cocooning and maternal 
immunization was mostly sensitive for changes in assumptions on underreporting 
(200-fold increase in reported number of symptomatic cases) of pertussis disease 
and infection. With no underreporting, the ICER was estimated at euro211,900 
($296,700)/QALY for cocooning and euro81,600 ($114,200)/QALY for maternal 
immunization from a payer's perspective. However, even at much lower levels of 
underreporting (20- to 30-fold increase in incidence), cost-effectiveness 
remained favorable. The cost-effectiveness of the third strategy, at-birth 
immunization, was highly unfavorable (euro329,900 [$461,900]/QALY from a payer's 
perspective and euro330,100 [$462,100]/ QALY from a societal perspective).
CONCLUSIONS: This study estimated that the addition of cocooning or maternal 
immunization to the current Dutch national immunization program likely would be 
cost-effective or even cost-saving. These estimates were mainly due to reduction 
in the number of cases among parents, which are likely to be mild and therefore 
would largely remain unreported. Immunization at birth was not a cost-effective 
strategy. Cocooning was the most expensive intervention to implement; however, 
it resulted in the highest number of QALYs gained (mainly in adults). Maternal 
immunization would offer better protection of infants, due to maternally 
acquired antibodies.

2010 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.07.017
PMID: 20728761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Clin Ther. 2010 Aug;32(8):1501-16. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.07.019.

Cost-effectiveness of stockpiling 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 
to prevent secondary pneumococcal infections among a high-risk population in the 
United States during an influenza pandemic.

Dhankhar P(1), Grabenstein JD, O'Brien MA, Dasbach EJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economic Statistics, Merck & Co., Inc., North Wales, Pennsylvania 
19454, USA. praveen_dhankhar@merck.com

BACKGROUND: Secondary bacterial infections (especially pneumococcal infections) 
were a major cause of death during prior influenza pandemics. One strategy to 
prevent pneumococcal infections in adults during a future pandemic is to 
stockpile 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23). Stockpiling a 
pneumococcal vaccine can ensure that it is available when needed most-that is, 
at the onset of a pandemic.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article was to project the health and economic 
impact of stockpiling PPSV23 to prevent secondary pneumococcal infections among 
high-risk adults aged 18 to 64 years during an influenza pandemic within the 
United States.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model was developed to evaluate the health and 
economic effects of stockpiling PPSV23 versus not stockpiling this vaccine for 
preventing secondary pneumococcal infections among 20 million high-risk US 
adults aged 18 to 64 years during an influenza pandemic. The model was used to 
project the number of pneumococcal cases, hospitalizations, deaths, and days of 
work loss averted. Three health outcomes (deaths, hospitalizations, and 
outpatient care) were estimated from secondary pneumococcal infections. To 
assess the overall effectiveness of the different strategies, the 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was used as a measure of these 3 health 
outcomes. The results are presented for 3 scenarios based on the pandemic 
severity and anticipated prepandemic influenza vaccine availability: base case, 
more-severe case, and less-severe case.
RESULTS: In the base-case scenario, vaccinating 20 million high-risk adults with 
PPSV23 avoided 2858 deaths, 878 hospitalizations, 41,881 pneumococcal pneumonia 
cases, and 232,891 days of work loss during a pandemic. Under the more-severe 
case scenario, vaccination avoided 21,921 deaths, 10,280 hospitalizations, 
70,345 pneumococcal cases, and approximately 1.12 million days of work loss. 
Under the less-severe case scenario, pneumococcal vaccination avoided 715 
deaths, 219 hospitalizations, 10,470 pneumococcal cases, and 58,235 days of work 
loss. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for stockpiling PPSV23 versus no 
stockpiling for the base-case and less-severe case scenarios was $39,946 and 
$198,653 per QALY, respectively. For the more-severe case scenario, stockpiling 
PPSV23 was cost saving. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses found that the range 
of incremental cost-effectiveness ratio values was broad due to the large 
uncertainty regarding the timing and impact of the next pandemic. In addition, 
the shelf life of PPSV23 and stockpile management substantially influenced the 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
CONCLUSIONS: For severe pandemics or pandemics in which prepandemic influenza 
vaccine is unavailable, stockpiling of PPSV23 can be a cost-effective strategy 
for reducing the health and economic burden associated with secondary 
pneumococcal infections in a high-risk US population. However, for a mildly 
severe pandemic in which prepandemic influenza vaccine is available, stockpiling 
of PPSV23 may not be cost-effective.

2010 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.07.019
PMID: 20728763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Clin Ther. 2010 Aug;32(8):1517-32. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.06.016.

Results of a cohort model analysis of the cost-effectiveness of routine 
immunization with 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine of those aged > or 
=65 years in the Netherlands.

Rozenbaum MH(1), Hak E, van der Werf TS, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, the Netherlands. 
m.h.rozenbaum@rug.nl

BACKGROUND: Community-acquired pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal disease are 
common among older people (ie, those aged > or =65 years). A new 13-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV-13) is under study in the Netherlands.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to model the cost-effectiveness of PCV-13 
vaccination among those aged > or =65 years in the Netherlands, both in the 
total population and in those at increased risk for pneumonia, for various 
levels of efficacy (30%-90%) assumed.
METHODS: Our previously published cost-effectiveness model was updated to 
include age-specific epidemiologic data and health-care utilization and costs 
for a hypothetical cohort of adults aged > or =65 years in the Netherlands. This 
cohort was followed twice-once as unvaccinated and once as vaccinated-over a 
time period of 5 years, with differences between both analyses reported. Outcome 
measures included costs, life-years gained (LYGs), quality-adjusted life-years, 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). All analyses were performed 
from a societal perspective.
RESULTS: In the model, the ICER for vaccination remained below euro80,000/LYG, 
except when the vaccine was assumed to protect only against bacteremic 
pneumonia, with a relatively low effectiveness (40%) in combination with a high 
vaccine price (euro65), and indirect effects of serotype replacement would 
largely offset the direct effect of vaccination. For various assumptions, 
introduction of widespread PCV-13 vaccination (assuming a 60% efficacy against 
invasive and noninvasive disease because of vaccine serotypes, and a cost of 
euro50 per vaccinated person) was associated with the ICERs varying from 
cost-saving to euro50,676/LYG.
CONCLUSIONS: In this model analysis of a hypothetical cohort in the Netherlands, 
vaccination with PCV-13 might be considered cost-effective, both for the total 
population and for the high-risk population aged > or =65 years, from a societal 
perspective, over a 5-year time horizon. The main limitation of this study was 
