
Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2010 Dec;56(6):1023-5.

BACKGROUND: The ACHIEVE (Optimizing the Treatment of Secondary 
Hyperparathyroidism: A Comparison of Sensipar and Low Dose Vitamin D vs 
Escalating Doses of Vitamin D Alone) trial evaluated the efficacy of treatment 
with cinacalcet plus low-dose activated vitamin D analogues (Cinacalcet-D) 
compared with vitamin D analogues alone (Flex-D) in attaining KDOQI (Kidney 
Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative) targets for secondary hyperparathyroidism 
(SHPT). The economic implications of these treatment regimens have not been 
explored.
STUDY DESIGN: Economic analysis of SHPT treatment in hemodialysis patients.
SETTING & POPULATION: This analysis used data from the ACHIEVE trial, in which 
patients received either Cinacalcet-D or Flex-D.
MODEL, PERSPECTIVE, & TIME FRAME: We assessed the relative cost-effectiveness of 
these regimens in treating SHPT during the 27-week ACHIEVE trial, using a US 
payer perspective, with medication costs valued in 2006 US dollars. INTERVENTION 
& OUTCOMES: Relative cost-effectiveness was assessed using cost-minimization 
analysis or incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Effectiveness was measured 
using biochemical markers.
RESULTS: Mean medication costs per patient were $5,852 and $4,332 for the 
Cinacalcet-D and Flex-D treatment arms, respectively. There were no significant 
differences for the primary end point (parathyroid hormone level of 150-300 
pg/mL and calcium-phosphorus product < 55 mg²/dL²) and several of the secondary 
end points, rendering Cinacalcet-D more costly than Flex-D. For secondary end 
points, for which Cinacalcet-D was more effective, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from $2,957 (calcium < 9.5 mg/dL) to $22,028 
(all KDOQI targets) per patient reaching target. Switching to generic calcitriol 
would have increased the cost difference between treatment arms ($2,079), 
whereas switching sevelamer to lanthanum decreased the difference ($1,426).
LIMITATIONS: Costs and outcomes were derived from a short-term randomized 
controlled trial and were protocol driven. Clinical outcomes, such as mortality, 
were not available. Long-term economic conclusions cannot be drawn from these 
data.
CONCLUSIONS: Cinacalcet combined with vitamin D analogues was no more effective 
than vitamin D analogues in achieving the primary ACHIEVE end point and incurred 
greater costs. This conclusion was not tempered substantially by the cost of 
vitamin D analogues or oral phosphate binders. Whether the additional costs of 
cinacalcet are warranted will require longer term models to determine whether 
changes in serum levels of mineral metabolic markers translate into lower 
morbidity, mortality, and downstream costs.

Copyright © 2010 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2010.07.012
PMID: 20951487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2010 Sep;39(3):433-64. doi: 
10.1016/j.gtc.2010.08.010.

Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-related injury to the gastrointestinal tract: 
clinical picture, pathogenesis, and prevention.

Scarpignato C(1), Hunt RH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Clinical Sciences, University of 
Parma, Italy. scarpi@tin.it

Increasing life expectancy in developed countries has led to a growing 
prevalence of arthritic disorders, which has been accompanied by increasing 
prescriptions for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These are the 
most widely used agents for musculoskeletal and arthritic conditions. Although 
NSAIDs are effective, their use is associated with a broad spectrum of adverse 
reactions in the liver, kidney, cardiovascular system, skin, and gut. 
Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects are the most common. The dilemma for the 
physician prescribing NSAIDs is, therefore, to maintain the antiinflammatory and 
analgesic benefits, while reducing or preventing GI side effects. The challenge 
is to develop safer NSAIDs by shifting from a focus on GI toxicity to the 
increasingly more appreciated cardiovascular toxicity.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gtc.2010.08.010
PMID: 20951911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Autophagy. 2010 Nov;6(8):1227-8. doi: 10.4161/auto.6.8.13850. Epub 2010 Nov
16.

Endosomal protein sorting and autophagy genes contribute to the regulation of 
yeast life span.

Longo VD(1), Nislow C, Fabrizio P.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center and Department of Biological Sciences, University 
of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Accumulating evidence from various organisms points to a role for autophagy in 
the regulation of life span. By performing a genome-wide screen to identify 
novel life span determinants in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we have obtained 
further insights into the autophagy-related and -unrelated degradation processes 
that may be important for preventing cellular senescence. The generation of 
multivesicular bodies and their fusion with the vacuole in the endosomal pathway 
emerged as novel cell functions involved in yeast chronological survival and 
longevity extension.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.6.8.13850
PMID: 20953148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2011 Jan;399(1):441-7. doi: 10.1007/s00216-010-4274-7.
Epub  2010 Oct 15.

Comparison of the duplex-destabilizing effects of nucleobase-caged 
oligonucleotides.

Rodrigues-Correia A(1), Koeppel MB, Schäfer F, Joshi KB, Mack T, Heckel A.

Author information:
(1)Cluster of Excellence Macromolecular Complexes, Frankfurt Institute for 
Molecular Life Sciences, University of Frankfurt, Max-von-Laue-Str. 9, 60438 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Nucleobase-caged oligonucleotide residues have photolabile "caging groups" that 
prevent the formation of Watson-Crick base pairs until the unmodified nucleobase 
is restored in a photolysis event. This principle can be used to put a growing 
variety of powerful nucleic acid-based applications under the precise 
spatiotemporal control using light as an addressing mechanism. Examples for 
applications include light control of transcription, RNAi, nucleic acid folding, 
primer extension, and restriction endonuclease as well as DNAzyme, aptamer, and 
antisense activity. However, a comparison of the duplex-destabilization 
properties of the various caged residues that have been used up to date and 
rules for achieving a maximal duplex destabilization with a minimum amount of 
modified residues are still missing. We present both a comparison of the 
duplex-destabilizing capabilities of various nucleobase-caged residues and 
address the question of influence on neighboring base pairs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-010-4274-7
PMID: 20953770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Sci China Life Sci. 2010 Oct;53(10):1189-95. doi: 10.1007/s11427-010-4070-9.
 Epub 2010 Oct 17.

Detecting CD20-rituximab specific interactions on lymphoma cells using atomic 
force microscopy.

Li M(1), Liu L, Xi N, Wang Y, Dong Z, Li G, Xiao X, Zhang W.

Author information:
(1)Shenyang Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, 
110016, China.

Elucidating the underlying mechanisms of cell physiology is currently an 
important research topic in life sciences. Atomic force microscopy methods can 
be used to investigate these molecular mechanisms. In this study, 
single-molecule force spectroscopy was used to explore the specific recognition 
between the CD20 antigen and anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab on B lymphoma cells 
under near-physiological conditions. The CD20-Rituximab specific binding force 
was measured through tip functionalization. Distribution of CD20 on the B 
lymphoma cells was visualized three-dimensionally. In addition, the relationship 
between the intramolecular force and the molecular extension of the 
CD20-Rituximab complex was analyzed under an external force. These results 
facilitate further investigation of the mechanism of Rituximab's anti-cancer 
effect.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-010-4070-9
PMID: 20953941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Ir J Med Sci. 2011 Dec;180(4):921-2. doi: 10.1007/s11845-010-0608-x. Epub
2010  Oct 17.

Malignant priapism: a case report.

Ellanti P(1), Connolly SS, McDermott R, Crotty PL, Grainger R.

Author information:
(1)c/o Marjorie White-Flynn, Department of Urology, Adelaide and Meath 
Incorporating National Children's Hospital, Tallaght, Dublin 24, Ireland. 
prasad.ellanti@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Metastatic involvement of the penis is most commonly from a primary 
malignant genitourinary tumour. It is a rare phenomenon usually reflecting 
disseminated malignancy associated with a poor prognosis. Metastasis to the 
penis mimicking priapism is extremely rare, particularly in the absence of 
disseminated disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We describe a case of painful priapism caused by a 
high-grade urothelial malignancy without disseminated disease.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy is estimated at less than 1 year in these patients. 
Our patient remains in clinical and radiologic remission over 36 months from his 
original radical surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s11845-010-0608-x
PMID: 20953979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Anthropol Anz. 2010;68(1):85-99. doi: 10.1127/0003-5548/2010/0086.

The variation in age at menarche: an indicator of historic developmental tempo.

Lehmann A(1), Scheffler C, Hermanussen M.

Author information:
(1)Universität Potsdam, Humanbiologie, Potsdam, Germany. 
christiane.scheffler@uni-potsdam.de

Ample literature describes the history of the association between the advances 
in the health and wealth of people, and mortality rates, life expectancy and 
adult height. Twenty-nine German studies with n > 200 subjects published since 
1848 on menarcheal age, were reanalyzed, and 101 studies from various other 
European and non-European countries. On average, mean age at menarche declined 
since the mid-19th century. Historic urban samples tended to decline earlier 
than rural groups, upper class women earlier than working class women. In 
Germany, minimum values for the age at menarche were seen already between the 
two World Wars (Leipzig 12.6 years in 1934, Halle 13.3 years in 1939). Values 
for mean age and SD for age at menarche were strongly associated. With improving 
historic circumstances, the two parameters declined in parallel. The standard 
deviation for menarcheal age dropped from over 2.5 years in mid-19" century 
France to little more or even less than 1 year in most modern countries. In the 
German studies the correlation between menarcheal age and SD was almost complete 
with r = 0.96 (y = 0.35x - 3.53). Similar associations between mean age at 
menarche and SD for age were found in other European countries. The obvious and 
immediate effects of historic events on menarcheal age, and particularly on the 
age distribution, indicate that menarche is a sensitive indicator of public 
health and wealth, and may be an appropriate estimator for the socio-economic 
background of historic populations.

DOI: 10.1127/0003-5548/2010/0086
PMID: 20954458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Orthopedics. 2010 Oct 11;33(10):715. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20100826-03.

Mortality following revision joint arthroplasty: is age a factor?

Fehring TK(1), Odum SM, Fehring K, Springer BD, Griffin WL, Dennos AC.

Author information:
(1)OrthoCarolina Hip and Knee Center, Charlotte, North Carolina 28207, USA. 
thomas.fehring@ orthocarolina.com

With the demand for total joint arthroplasty and overall life expectancy 
increasing, there will be an increase in the need for revision arthroplasty 
surgeries. Given that revision joint surgeries are more demanding for both 
surgeon and patient with longer operative times, increased blood loss, and 
multiple patient comorbidities, the current mindset is that older patients who 
undergo a total hip revision or total knee revision have higher mortality rates 
than younger patients. We identified 1737 revision total joint patients who were 
at least 2 years postoperative for inclusion in the study. The overall 
perioperative mortality rate (defined as deaths occurring between 0 and 3 months 
following revision joint surgery) was calculated and then stratified by revision 
knee surgery, revision hip surgery, and age. In addition, mortality rates were 
compared for patients younger than 70 years, between 70 and 80 years and older 
than 80 years. The overall perioperative mortality rate after revision total hip 
or knee surgery was 0.7%. After stratifying by age, the perioperative mortality 
rate was 0.2% in patients younger than 70 years, 0.8% in patients 70 to 79 
years, and 2.63% in patients older than 80 years. Of the 1737 patients, 541 died 
>1 year following their revision surgery at an average time to death of 6.9 
years. The observed perioperative mortality rates following revision total joint 
surgery at a single center were extremely low among all age groups. Therefore, 
the age of patients undergoing revision surgery should not be the sole 
determinant of perioperative survival. Additionally, it appears that the mean 
postoperative survival noted here seems to justify the additional resources used 
in revision surgery regardless of age. As limited resources exert pressure on an 
already overburdened healthcare system, rationing of care for certain procedures 
may ensue using age as a specific criteria. This study should add clarity to 
this issue.

Copyright 2010, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20100826-03
PMID: 20954672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. OMICS. 2010 Oct;14(5):563-74. doi: 10.1089/omi.2010.0016.

Dynamic lipidomic insights into the adaptive responses of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae to the repeated vacuum fermentation.

Zhou X(1), Zhou J, Tian H, Yuan Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Bioengineering, Ministry of Education, School of 
Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, 
People's Republic of China.

Vacuum fermentation is utilized in a wide range of life science industries and 
biomedical R&D. Little is known, however, on the effects of the vacuum on the 
yeast, and in particular, on the yeast lipidome that plays a central role in 
maintaining cell membrane and other vital (yeast) cell functions. The present 
study evaluated the adaptive responses of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to repeated 
vacuum fermentation by lipidomic analysis. We employed gas chromatography 
coupled to time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOF-MS) and liquid 
chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI/MS(n)) 
to quantify a total of 13 intermediate sterols and 139 phospholipid species of 
yeast cells. Principal components analysis found that the PI 
(phosphatidylinositol) 26:0, PI 28:0, PE (phosphatidylethanolamine) 32:1, and PE 
34:1 were potential biomarkers to distinguish the vacuum fermentation process. 
Quantitative analysis showed that vacuum fermentation increased the synthesis of 
PI and the PC (phosphatidylcholine) species with short saturated acyl chains. 
The synthesis of PC via CDP-choline and turnover of PC were enhanced, instead of 
formation via methylation of PE. Additionally, increased PI at the expense of PE 
and PG (phosphatidylglycerol) was associated with enhancement of ethanol 
productivity. Vacuum fermentation caused eburicol accumulation, suggesting that 
vacuum can activate the branch of the ergosterol biosynthesis pathway. Eburicol 
decrease and PI increase contributed to recovery of cellular activities with 
oxygenating treatment. Ethanol productivity was increased by sixfold in 
vacuum-treated cells. These observations may allow the development of future 
mechanistic approaches to optimization of yeast fermentation under vacuum for 
bioindustry and life science applications. In particular, our findings on 
changes in lipid molecular species and the ergosterol biosynthesis pathway 
elucidate the defense responses of yeast cell membranes during the repeated 
vacuum fermentation, which by extension, provided an important lead insight on 
how best to protect the cell membranes from the extreme long-term stress 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1089/omi.2010.0016
PMID: 20955009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2010 Oct;24(5):585-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2010.08.003.

Cystic fibrosis-associated liver disease.

Herrmann U(1), Dockter G, Lammert F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine II, Saarland University Hospital, Saarland University, 
Kirrberger Str. 1, 66421 Homburg, Germany.

Liver disease is increasingly common in cystic fibrosis (CF). As new therapeutic 
options emerge, life expectancy increases and common hepatobiliary 
manifestations impact on quality of life and survival of CF patients. 
Hepatobiliary abnormalities in CF vary in nature and range from defects 
attributable to the underlying CFTR gene defect to those related to systemic 
disease and malnutrition. Today complications of liver disease represent the 
third most frequent cause of disease-related death in patients with CF. Here we 
review molecular and clinical genetics of CF, including genetic modifiers of 
CF-associated liver disease, and provide practical recommendations for genetic 
testing, diagnosis and treatment of hepatobiliary manifestations in CF.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2010.08.003
PMID: 20955961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2010 Oct;24(5):619-28. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2010.09.001.

Lysosomal storage diseases as differential diagnosis of hepatosplenomegaly.

vom Dahl S(1), Mengel E.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine/Gastroenterology, St. Franziskus-Hospital, 
Academic Teaching Hospital, University of Cologne, Schoensteinstrasse 63, 50825 
Cologne, Germany. stephan.vomdahl@st-franziskus-koeln.de

In adults, elevated transaminases and hepatomegaly, often mild, with moderate to 
massive idiopathic splenomegaly might hint to a lysosomal storage disease (LSD). 
In most of these cases, hepatosplenomegaly does not eventually lead to 
cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma or cholestasis. Nevertheless, the hepatic 
clinical findings might be the incentive for the patient to present at the 
physician's office. Many of the currently known >50 lysosomal storage diseases 
might manifest in liver: out of these, the most important ones in adults are: 
Gaucher disease, cholesterol ester storage disease (CESD) and the Niemann-Pick 
diseases. An increase of plasma chitotriosidase should alert the physician for 
the presence of an LSD. For Gaucher's disease, enzyme supplementation and 
substrate deprivation constitute effective therapeutic options. Fabry's disease, 
the most prevalent lysosomal storage disease, does usually not affect the liver, 
but causes painful episodes of hands' or feet pain (acroparesthesias), left 
ventricular hypertrophy, renal failure, early stroke and decreased life 
expectancy. The emerging advent of effective therapeutic options and the 
cumulative prevalence of lysosomal storage diseases urge the hepatologist to add 
these diagnostic pathways to the clinical repertoire.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2010.09.001
PMID: 20955964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Resuscitation. 2010 Oct;81(10):1445-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.resuscitation.2010.08.013.

European Resuscitation Council Guidelines for Resuscitation 2010 Section 10. The 
ethics of resuscitation and end-of-life decisions.

Lippert FK(1), Raffay V, Georgiou M, Steen PA, Bossaert L.

Author information:
(1)The Capital Region of Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark. lippert@regionh.dk

DOI: 10.1016/j.resuscitation.2010.08.013
PMID: 20956043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Heart. 2010 Nov;96(21):1730-6. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2010.201939.

Microsimulation and clinical outcomes analysis support a lower age threshold for 
use of biological valves.

Stoica S(1), Goldsmith K, Demiris N, Punjabi P, Berg G, Sharples L, Large S.

Author information:
(1)Bristol Royal Children's Hospital, Bristol, UK.

Comment in
    Heart. 2010 Nov;96(21):1691-2.

OBJECTIVE: To characterise contemporary results of aortic valve replacement in 
relation to type of prosthesis and subsequent competing hazards.
METHODS: 5470 procedures in 5433 consecutive patients with aortic valve 
replacement ± coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) were studied. 
Microsimulation of survival and valve-related outcomes was performed based on 
meta-analysis and patient data inputs, with separate models for age, gender and 
CABG. Survival was validated against the UK Heart Valve Registry.
RESULTS: Patient survival at 1, 5 and 10 years was 90%, 78% and 57%, 
respectively. The crossover points at which bioprostheses and mechanical 
prostheses conferred similar life expectancy (LE) was 59 years for men and women 
(no significant difference between prosthesis types between the ages of 56 and 
69 for men, and 58 an 63 for women). The improvement in event-free LE for 
mechanical valves was greater at younger ages with a crossover point of 66 years 
for men and 67 years for women. Long-term survival was independently influenced 
by age, male gender and concomitant CABG, but not by type of prosthesis. In 
bioprostheses the most common long-term occurrence was structural deterioration. 
For men aged 55, 65 and 75 at initial operation it had a lifetime incidence of 
50%, 30% and 13%, respectively. The simulation output showed excellent agreement 
with registry data.
CONCLUSION: Bioprostheses can be implanted selectively in patients as young as 
56 without significant adverse effects on life expectancy, although event-free 
life expectancy remains significantly lower with bioprostheses up to age of 
implant of 63.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2010.201939
PMID: 20956488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Menopause Int. 2010 Sep;16(3):130-1. doi: 10.1258/mi.2010.010030.

Post-reproductive health and lifestyle consultations.

Mander T(1).

Author information:
(1)Manor Hospital, Beech Road, Headington, Oxford, UK. manderanthony@hotmail.com

DOI: 10.1258/mi.2010.010030
PMID: 20956690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2010;2010(41):218-22. doi: 
10.1093/jncimonographs/lgq029.

Quality-of-life issues in patients with ductal carcinoma in situ.

Ganz PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control Research, Jonsson Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, 650 Charles Young Dr South, Rm A2-125 CHS, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-6900, USA. pganz@ucla.edu

Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) as we know it today is a clinical entity that is 
primarily discovered through the finding of microscopic calcifications on a 
screening mammogram. Asymptomatic women who are found to have DCIS receive 
treatments that are similar to women with invasive breast cancer and experience 
substantial psychological distress in spite of having an excellent prognosis and 
normal life expectancy. More research is needed to determine the best way to 
communicate with women about this condition and to match the extent of treatment 
with the risk of serious future disease. Clinical and research efforts should 
focus on reducing the anxiety and psychological distress associated with the 
diagnosis of DCIS.

DOI: 10.1093/jncimonographs/lgq029
PMCID: PMC5161073
PMID: 20956834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. PLoS One. 2010 Oct 1;5(10):e13104. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013104.

Increased ROS production: a component of the longevity equation in the male 
mygalomorph, Brachypelma albopilosa.

Criscuolo F(1), Font-Sala C, Bouillaud F, Poulin N, Trabalon M.

Author information:
(1)Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien, Département Ecologie, Physiologie 
et Ethologie, CNRS-UDS, UMR 7178, Strasbourg, France. 
francois.criscuolo@c-strasbourg.fr

BACKGROUND: The diversity of longevities encountered in wildlife is one of the 
most intriguing problems in biology. Evolutionary biologists have proposed 
different theories to explain how longevity variability may be driven by bad 
genes expression in late life or by gene pleiotropic effects. This reflexion has 
stimulated, in the last ten years, an active research on the proximal mechanisms 
that can shape lifespan. Reactive oxygen species (ROS), i.e., the by-products of 
oxidative metabolism, have emerged as the main proximate cause of ageing. 
Because ROS are mainly produced by the mitochondria, their production is linked 
to metabolic rate, and this may explain the differences in longevity between 
large and small species. However, their implication in the sex difference in 
longevity within a species has never been tested, despite the fact that these 
differences are widespread in the animal kingdom.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Mitochondrial superoxide production of hemolymph 
immune cells and antioxidant and oxidative damages plasma levels were measured 
in adult male and female B. albopilosa at different ages. We found that female 
spiders are producing less mitochondrial superoxide, are better protected 
against oxidative attack and are then suffering less oxidative damages than 
males at adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: In tarantulas, once reaching sexual maturity, males 
have a life expectancy reduced to 1 to 2 years, while females can still live for 
20 years, in spite of the fact that females continue to grow and moult. This 
study evidences an increased exposure of males to oxidative stress due to an 
increase in mitochondrial superoxide production and a decrease in hemolymph 
antioxidant defences. Such a phenomenon is likely to be part of the explanation 
for the sharp reduction of longevity accompanying male tarantula maturity. This 
opens several fundamental research roads in the future to better understand how 
reproduction and longevity are linked in an original ageing model.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013104
PMCID: PMC2948510
PMID: 20957044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


249. Schweiz Arch Tierheilkd. 2010 Sep;152(9):401. doi:
10.1024/0036-7281/a000090.

[Eager learning and living long].

[Article in French, German]

Härdi-Landerer C.

DOI: 10.1024/0036-7281/a000090
PMID: 20957836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. BMC Public Health. 2010 Oct 19;10:625. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-625.

Within-trial economic evaluation of diabetes-specific cognitive behaviour 
therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes and subthreshold depression.

Chernyak N(1), Kulzer B, Hermanns N, Schmitt A, Gahr A, Haak T, Kruse J, Ohmann 
C, Scheer M, Giani G, Icks A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Center of Health and Society, Heinrich-Heine 
University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. 
nadja.chernyak@ddz.uni-duesseldorf.de

BACKGROUND: Despite the high prevalence of subthreshold depression in patients 
with type 2 diabetes, evidence on cost-effectiveness of different therapy 
options for these patients is currently lacking.
METHODS/DESIGN: Within-trial economic evaluation of the diabetes-specific 
cognitive behaviour therapy for subthreshold depression. Patients with diabetes 
and subthreshold depression are randomly assigned to either 2 weeks of 
diabetes-specific cognitive behaviour group therapy (n = 104) or to standard 
diabetes education programme only (n = 104). Patients are followed for 12 
months. During this period data on total health sector costs, patient costs and 
societal productivity costs are collected in addition to clinical data. Health 
related quality of life (the SF-36 and the EQ-5D) is measured at baseline, 
immediately after the intervention, at 6 and at 12 months after the 
intervention. Quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and cumulative costs will be 
estimated for each arm of the trial. Cost-effectiveness of the diabetes-specific 
cognitive behaviour group therapy will be analysed from the perspective of the 
German statutory health insurance and from the societal perspective. To this 
end, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in terms of cost per QALY 
gained will be calculated.
DISCUSSION: Some methodological issues of the described economic evaluation are 
discussed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial has been registered at the Clinical Trials 
Register (NCT01009138).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-625
PMCID: PMC2987397
PMID: 20959009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 2010;75(3):261-6.

[Acute abdominal pain in elderly patients evaluated in the emergency department 
at a tertiary level].

[Article in Spanish]

Pérez-Hernández JL(1), Teuffer-Carrion LT, Díaz-Aldana EV, Hernández-Guerrero S, 
Morón-Ventura P, Nieves-Durán M, Rubio-Landa L.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urgencias, Hospital Central Sur de Alta Especialidad, Petróleos 
Mexicanos, México, D. F., Mexico. josluiperez@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 2011 Apr-Jun;76(2):79-80; author reply 80.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy in México has increased in the last decades with a 
remarkable increase in geriatric population. Acute abdominal pain (AAP) in 
elderly people compared with young people has different clinical presentation 
because of the concomitant chronic diseases, the use of medications, history of 
abdominal surgeries and decrease in perception of pain and immunity.
OBJECTIVE: To know the cause and associated mortality of acute abdominal pain in 
geriatric patients who attend the emergency room.
METHODS: Geriatric patients' files with acute abdominal pain admitted from 
January 2004 to December 2008 were retrospectively reviewed. Age, gender, 
presence of chronic diseases, use of medications, history of surgical 
procedures, definitive diagnosis causative of the symptoms and the associated 
mortality were recorded.
RESULTS: 17 524 patients were admitted, of whom 324 (1.8%) were geriatric 
patients with AAP: 110 were men (36.9) and 214 were women (66%), with a mean age 
of 78 years (range 60 to 102 years). The most common causes of AAP were acute 
cholecystitis in 49 patients (15.1%), irritable bowel syndrome in 42 (12.9%), 
ulcerative syndrome in 40 (12.3%), intestinal obstruction in 35 (10.8%) and 
diverticulitis in 23 (10.8%). Nine patients died (2.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: In our hospital the most common cause of AAP in geriatric patients 
is related to biliary disease followed by functional gastrointestinal disorder 
and ulcerative syndrome. Mortality is low.

PMID: 20959174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 2010;75(3):267-72.

[Endoscopic cholangiopancreatography in the elderly: a prospective comparative 
study in northern Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Güitrón-Cantú A(1), Adalid-Martínez R, Gutiérrez-Bermúdez JA, Segura-López FK, 
García-Vázquez A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Endoscopía Digestiva, Hospital de Especialidades UMAE N° 71, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Torreón, Coahuila, Mexico. 
aguitron@prodigy.net.mx

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is a widely 
used technique for the diagnosis and treatment of bilio-pancreatic diseases. 
According to Mexican Statistics, there is increasing life expectancy in Mexican 
population. The incidence of biliary tract pathologies is also increasing, 
leading to an increased demand of ERCP.
AIM: Compare the utility and safety of ERCP in elderly and younger patients.
METHODS: Prospective and comparative study including 450 patients who underwent 
ERCP during 2007. Patients were divided into two groups: 65 years age and older 
(group A) and less than 65 years old (group B). We registered gender, age, 
indication and length of the endoscopic procedure, morbidity and mortality.
RESULTS: Mean patient age was 74.5 ± 6.9 and 43.0 ± 13.5 years old in groups A 
and B respectively. Choledocholithiasis was the more frequent diagnosis in both 
groups (48.62 %), followed by benign biliary stenosis (22.02 %) and malignant 
biliary obstruction (16.28 %). In 428 patients (98.16%) therapeutic procedures 
were performed. Endoscopic complications occurred in 1.37 % and there were not 
significant differences between groups (p = 0.218). There was no mortality.
CONCLUSION: ERCP is a safe procedure in elderly patients with a very low rate of 
complications and excellent therapeutic efficacy.

PMID: 20959175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. BMJ. 2010 Oct 19;341:c5818. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c5818.

Self management of diabetes. Fallacy in intervention model.

Yudkin JS.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2008 Mar 1;336(7642):491-5.
    BMJ. 2010;341:c4093.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c5818
PMID: 20959301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Glob Health Action. 2010 Sep 27;3. doi: 10.3402/gha.v3i0.2125.

Health and quality of life among older rural people in Purworejo District, 
Indonesia.

Ng N(1), Hakimi M, Byass P, Wilopo S, Wall S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Centre for Global Health 
Research, Epidemiology and Global Health, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: Increasing life expectancy and longevity for people in many highly 
populated low- and middle-income countries has led to an increase in the number 
of older people. The population aged 60 years and over in Indonesia is projected 
to increase from 8.4% in 2005 to 25% in 2050. Understanding the determinants of 
healthy ageing is essential in targeting health-promotion programmes for older 
people in Indonesia.
OBJECTIVE: To describe patterns of socio-economic and demographic factors 
associated with health status, and to identify any spatial clustering of poor 
health among older people in Indonesia.
METHODS: In 2007, the WHO Study on global AGEing and adult health (SAGE) was 
conducted among 14,958 people aged 50 years and over in Purworejo District, 
Central Java, Indonesia. Three outcome measures were used in this analysis: 
self-reported quality of life (QoL), self-reported functioning and disability, 
and overall health score calculated from self-reported health over eight health 
domains. The factors associated with each health outcome were identified using 
multivariable logistic regression. Purely spatial analysis using Poisson 
regression was conducted to identify clusters of households with poor health 
outcomes.
RESULTS: Women, older age groups, people not in any marital relationship and low 
educational and socio-economic levels were associated with poor health outcomes, 
regardless of the health indices used. Older people with low educational and 
socio-economic status (SES) had 3.4 times higher odds of being in the worst QoL 
quintile (OR = 3.35; 95% CI = 2.73-4.11) as compared to people with high 
education and high SES. This disadvantaged group also had higher odds of being 
in the worst functioning and most disabled quintile (OR = 1.67; 95% CI = 
1.35-2.06) and the lowest overall health score quintile (OR = 1.66; 95% CI = 
1.36-2.03). Poor health and QoL are not randomly distributed among the 
population over 50 years old in Purworejo District, Indonesia. Spatial analysis 
showed that clusters of households with at least one member being in the worst 
quintiles of QoL, functioning and health score intersected in the central part 
of Purworejo District, which is a semi-urban area with more developed economic 
activities compared with other areas in the district.
CONCLUSION: Being female, old, unmarried and having low educational and 
socio-economic levels were significantly associated with poor self-reported QoL, 
health status and disability among older people in Purworejo District. This 
study showed the existence of geographical pockets of vulnerable older people in 
Purworejo District, and emphasized the need to take immediate action to address 
issues of older people's health and QoL.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v3i0.2125
PMCID: PMC2957148
PMID: 20959875


255. Cancer. 2011 Mar 15;117(6):1123-35. doi: 10.1002/cncr.25477. Epub 2010 Oct
19.

Screening, risk assessment, and the approach to therapy in patients with 
prostate cancer.

Freedland SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Durham VA Medical Center, Duke Prostate Center, 
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. steve.freedland@duke.edu

The major challenge in prostate cancer is to identify patients at higher risk of 
death and to distinguish them from those more likely to die from other causes. 
Stratification of patients into risk groups can be used to guide management 
decisions at each disease stage. This review discusses the measures, tools, and 
nomograms available for risk assessment in prostate cancer. For patients with 
localized hormone-sensitive disease, the choice is between active surveillance 
and radical treatment, with focal therapy an emerging option. Current guidelines 
recommend treatment of patients with a life expectancy ≥10 years, although 
active surveillance is being used with increasing frequency for low-risk 
patients, even with a long life expectancy. A number of risk stratification 
methods have been devised to assess the risk of biochemical recurrence (BCR) 
after treatment, with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level, Gleason score, 
clinical stage, and tumor mass/volume all shown to be predictive of BCR. Among 
men with BCR after treatment, PSA doubling time (PSADT) was the best predictor 
of further progression. Although studies in patients with castration-resistant 
prostate cancer have shown that PSA level and PSADT are associated with a risk 
of developing metastatic disease, there is currently no clear surrogate for 
disease progression or overall survival for this patient group and no standard 
second- or third-line therapy after progression on first-line chemotherapy. The 
use of newly developed risk-stratification models and markers of disease 
progression should assist in the earlier identification of disease progression, 
allowing the optimal treatment of such patients.

Copyright © 2010 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.25477
PMID: 20960523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Pflege Z. 2010 Oct;63(10):616-21.

[About the turning point in a nurse's life when giving up the profession. A 
qualitative-empirical study on the willingness to continue to work and on the 
conditions for continuing to work in the post-professional phase of life].

[Article in German]

Schöbel J(1), Rester D, Them C, Seeberger B.

Author information:
(1)Department für Pflegewissenschaften un Gerontologie der Privaten Universität 
für Gesundheitswissenschaften, Medizinische Informatik und Technik, Hall in 
Tirol, Osterreich. jacqueline.schoebel@gmx.de

Due to the increasing life expectancy and population ageing, the 
post-professional phase of life is becoming more and more important to the 
individual and to society as a whole. The perception of the potentials of 
elderly people and, hence, the call for self-directed and independent activities 
in the post-professional phase are becoming more intense. The relation between 
retirement and work in nurses has not been of scientific importance so far. This 
is primarily due to the assumption that nurses cannot or do not stay in their 
profession until retirement. However, nurses do manage to pursue their 
profession continuously and permanently until they reach the age of retirement. 
The aim of this qualitative research study is to investigate the 
post-professional phase of life of former nurses within the context of the 
profession pursued. The guiding research questions in this regard were: How do 
former nurses spend their retirement period? How do nurses use their 
nursing-related abilities and experiences in their postprofessional phase of 
life? What do nurses associate with their former profession in the 
post-professional phase of life? In one-to-one interviews, these questions were 
posed to eight retired nurses who had pursued their profession for many years. 
The assessment instruments used were a socio-demographic questionnaire, a 
guideline and a record from memory. All data were summarized and evaluated 
analytically with regard to their content according to Mayring (2008). The 
present article shows the partial results of the study on retirement and work in 
the post-professional life of nurses. The results indicate that the transition 
to retirement is often accompanied by problems, that retired nurses do not 
fundamentally refuse to continue to work and that the willingness to continue to 
work is subject to certain conditions. Reasons and conditions for and against 
profession-based post-professional activities were revealed. Consequentially, 
concepts for the systematic identification of potentials of nurses in their 
post-professional phase of life should be developed.

PMID: 20960735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Patient Saf Surg. 2010 Oct 20;4(1):16. doi: 10.1186/1754-9493-4-16.

Treatment of femoral neck fractures in elderly patients over 60 years of age - 
which is the ideal modality of primary joint replacement?

Ossendorf C(1), Scheyerer MJ, Wanner GA, Simmen HP, Werner CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Trauma Surgery, University of Zurich, 
Raemistrasse 100, 8091 Zurich, Switzerland. Christian.Ossendorf@usz.ch.

BACKGROUND: Femoral neck fractures in the elderly are frequent, represent a 
great health care problem, and have a significant impact on health insurance 
costs. Reconstruction options using hip arthroplasty include unipolar or bipolar 
hemiarthroplasty (HA), and total hip arthroplasty (THA). The purpose of this 
review is to discuss the indications, limitations, and pitfalls of each of these 
techniques.
METHODS: The Pubmed database was searched for all articles on femoral neck 
fracture and for the reconstruction options presented in this review using the 
search terms "femoral neck fracture", "unipolar hemiarthroplasty", "bipolar 
hemiarthroplasty", and "total hip arthroplasty". In addition, cross-referencing 
was used to cover articles eventually undetected by the respective search 
strategies. The resulting articles were then reviewed with regard to the 
different techniques, outcome and complications of the distinct reconstruction 
options.
RESULTS: THA yields the best functional results in patients with displaced 
femoral neck fractures with complication rates comparable to HA. THA is 
beneficially implanted using an anterior approach exploiting the internervous 
plane between the tensor fasciae latae and the sartorius muscles allowing for 
immediate full weight-bearing. Based on our findings, bipolar hemiarthroplasty, 
similar to unipolar hemiarthroplasty, cannot restorate neither anatomical nor 
biomechanical features of the hip joint. Therefore, it can only be recommended 
as a second line of defense-procedure for patients with low functional demands 
and limited live expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: THA is the treatment of choice for femoral neck fractures in 
patients older than 60 years. HA should only be implanted in patients with 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/1754-9493-4-16
PMCID: PMC2972258
PMID: 20961437


258. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2010 Dec;21(12):1825-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jvir.2010.09.011.  Epub 2010 Oct 18.

Drug-eluting tibial stents: objective patency determination.

McMillan WD(1), Leville CD, Long TD, Gomes M, Groffsky JL, Schultz SR.

Author information:
(1)Minneapolis Vascular Physicians and MinneapolisVascular Research Foundation, 
Plymouth MN 55441, USA. wmcmillan2003@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: Endovascular management of limb-threatening ischemia often requires 
treatment of tibial occlusive disease. This study was preformed to examine the 
patency of drug-eluting tibial stents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The medical records of all patients undergoing 
drug-eluting tibial stent placement for limb-threatening ischemia from June 2004 
to June 2008 were retrospectively reviewed. Postprocedural antiplatelet therapy 
included clopidogrel and aspirin. Patients were followed with serial arterial 
duplex ultrasonography and had selective subsequent angiographic evaluation 
based on noninvasive findings. Primary patency of the target lesion, limb 
salvage, and survival rates were reported.
RESULTS: A total of 240 patients underwent 283 tibial angioplasty procedures to 
treat limb-threatening ischemia during the 4-year period. Fifty-two patients 
(22%) had a suboptimal balloon result and were treated with a drug-eluting 
tibial stent. Balloon-expandable paclitaxel-eluting stents were used in all 
patients (1.2 stents per patient; range, 1-3; median diameter, 2.75 mm; range, 
2.5-3.5 mm; median length, 24 mm; range, 20-32 mm). Forty-eight of those 52 
patients (92%) had simultaneous endovascular treatment of proximal lesions. Mean 
follow-up was 14.3 months (range, 1-48 months). Target lesion patency of the 
drug-eluting tibial stent was 73% at 24 months (SE < 10%). Limb salvage rate in 
patients treated with drug-eluting tibial stents was 86% at 26 months (SE < 
10%), and the survival rate was 65% at 24 months (SE < 10%).
CONCLUSIONS: Drug-eluting tibial stents are a viable option for the endovascular 
management of limb-threatening ischemia and have acceptable patency rates. The 
majority of patients require multilevel endovascular treatment, and close 
surveillance is required for limb salvage.

Copyright © 2010 SIR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2010.09.011
PMID: 20961774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Curr Opin Neurol. 2010 Dec;23(6):597-602. doi: 10.1097/WCO.0b013e32833e5a5d.

Steroids in neurooncology: actions, indications, side-effects.

Roth P(1), Wick W, Weller M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. 
patrick.roth@usz.ch

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Glucocorticoids are frequently used in the treatment of 
patients with neurooncological disorders. This review addresses different 
clinical indications and provides information on beneficial and undesired 
effects exerted by these drugs. The most important cellular mechanisms of action 
of glucocorticoids under different conditions are highlighted.
RECENT FINDINGS: Glucocorticoids have been used for the treatment of lymphoid 
neoplasms for decades. In addition to proapoptotic effects, recent studies have 
delineated the induction of autophagy in lymphoma cells as an important 
alternative mode of cell death. In contrast, glucocorticoids may reduce the 
sensitivity of tumor cells, including glioma cells, other than lymphoma cells to 
chemotherapeutic agents. Corticosteroids also provide transient relief from 
neurological symptoms caused by increased intracranial pressure and edema 
associated with primary and secondary brain tumors. However, treatment with 
glucocorticoids is also commonly associated with considerable side-effects 
including hyperglycemia, myopathy, osteoporosis, lymphopenia and others.
SUMMARY: Although in clinical use for more than 40 years in the field of 
neurooncology, steroids remain a central and essential part in the treatment of 
brain tumor patients. Along with improved therapeutic options and prolonged life 
expectancy of many of these patients, careful administration is required and 
long-term side-effects must be considered.

DOI: 10.1097/WCO.0b013e32833e5a5d
PMID: 20962642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2010 Aug;28(2):92-9. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892010000800004.

[Cost-effectiveness of universal pneumococcal vaccination in Uruguay].

[Article in Spanish]

Giachetto Larraz G(1), Telechea Ortiz H, Speranza Mourine N, Giglio N, Cané A, 
Pírez García MC, Lucas Paiva L, Pallares Barrios C, Gesuele Ruggiero J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Pediatría, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay. ggiachet@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the cost-effectiveness ratio of the program for universal 
vaccination with heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) in children 
under 5 years of age in Uruguay.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed that simulated a cohort of 48 000 children 
born in 2007 and their progress to age 76. The baseline case used a regimen of 
three doses with estimated protection for five years. The presumption of vaccine 
efficacy and effectiveness was based on studies conducted in the United States 
with adjustment for serotype prevalence-incidence in Uruguay. The results were 
expressed as the incremental cost per life year gained (LYG) and 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) [gained].
RESULTS: For the baseline case, the incremental cost was US $7334.60 for each 
LYG and US $4655.80 for each QALY. Eight deaths and 4 882 cases of otitis, 56 
cases of bacteremia-sepsis, 429 cases of pneumonia, and 7 cases of meningitis 
were prevented. The model shows sensitivity to variations in vaccine cost, 
efficacy, and pneumonia-related mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The universal vaccination program with PCV7 in Uruguay is highly 
cost-effective. Therefore, it is recommended for other countries with burden of 
pneumococcal disease and serotype coverage similar to those of Uruguay.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892010000800004
PMID: 20963275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. HNO. 2010 Dec;58(12):1156, 1158, 1160-2. doi: 10.1007/s00106-010-2201-z.

[The current value of induction chemotherapy. ASCO Congress 2010].

[Article in German]

Mumme AM(1), Reitmeier F, Knecht R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Hals-, Nasen- und Ohrenheilkunde, 
Universitätsklinik Hamburg-Eppendorf. a.mumme@uke.de

The aim of systemic induction chemotherapy is organ preservation and tumor 
downstaging to improve resectability and reduce surgical risk. Not only the 
prolongation of overall survival but also the entitlement to a better quality of 
life during the treatment of patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer 
(HNSCC) have made changes to current treatment regimes necessary. Disappointing 
results prevented the breakthrough of PF therapy (cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil, 
5-FU). New approaches using docetaxel, cisplatin and 5-FU (TPF) as a triple 
combination as well as the additional extension of novel biological targets 
within study designs are cause for fresh hope. Thus, the TPF combination has 
been established as the standard induction chemotherapy regime.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-010-2201-z
PMID: 20963388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Ann Med. 2011 Nov;43(7):562-9. doi: 10.3109/07853890.2010.526136. Epub 2010
Oct  22.

