11 years) and years without impairment in activities of daily living (over 6 
years) associated with quintiles of physical activity (PA) in older adults from 
different age groups. They estimated PA from the Minnesota Leisure Time 
Activities Questionnaire. Multivariable linear regression adjusted for 
health-related covariates. The relative gains in survival and years of healthy 
life (YHL) generally were proportionate to the amount of PA, greater among those 
75+, and higher in men. Compared with being sedentary, the most active men 75+ 
had 1.49 more YHL (95% CI: 0.79, 2.19), and the most active women 75+ had 1.06 
more YHL (95% CI: 0.44, 1.68). Seniors over age 74 experience the largest 
relative gains in survival and healthy life from physical activity.

DOI: 10.1123/japa.18.3.313
PMCID: PMC3978479
PMID: 20651417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Eur Spine J. 2010 Nov;19(11):1865-73. doi: 10.1007/s00586-010-1516-5. Epub
2010  Jul 21.

Degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis and lumbar spine configuration.

Abbas J(1), Hamoud K, May H, Hay O, Medlej B, Masharawi Y, Peled N, Hershkovitz 
I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Anthropology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv 
University, Ramat Aviv, 69978 Tel Aviv, Israel. jananabb@yahoo.com

As life expectancy increases, degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (DLSS) becomes 
a common health problem among the elderly. DLSS is usually caused by 
degenerative changes in bony and/or soft tissue elements. The poor correlation 
between radiological manifestations and the clinical picture emphasizes the fact 
that more studies are required to determine the natural course of this syndrome. 
Our aim was to reveal the association between lower lumbar spine configuration 
and DLSS. Two groups were studied: the first included 67 individuals with DLSS 
(mean age 66 ± 10) and the second 100 individuals (mean age 63.4 ± 13) without 
DLSS-related symptoms. Both groups underwent CT images (Philips Brilliance 64) 
and the following measurements were performed: a cross-section area of the dural 
sac, vertebral body dimensions (height, length and width), AP diameter of the 
bony spinal canal, lumbar lordosis and sacral slope angles. All measurements 
were taken at L3 to S1. Vertebral body lengths were significantly greater in the 
DLSS group at all levels compared to the control, whereas anterior vertebral 
body heights (L3, L4, L5) and middle vertebral heights (L3, L5) were 
significantly smaller in the LSS group. Lumbar lordosis, sacral slope and bony 
spinal canal were significantly smaller in the DLSS compared to the control. We 
conclude that the size and shape of vertebral bodies and canals significantly 
differed between the study groups. A tentative model is suggested to explain the 
association between these characteristics and the development of degenerative 
spinal stenosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-010-1516-5
PMCID: PMC2989266
PMID: 20652366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Med Health Care Philos. 2011 May;14(2):111-21. doi:
10.1007/s11019-010-9256-1.

Evidence, ethics and inclusion: a broader base for NICE.

Wilmot S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia, 407-2263 Redbud Lane, Vancouver, BC V6K 4V7, 
Canada. Stephen.Wilmot@nursing.ubc.ca

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (hereafter NICE) was 
created in 1998 to give guidance on which treatments should be provided by the 
British National Health Service, and to whom. So it has a crucial role as an 
agent of distributive justice. In this paper I argue that it is failing to 
adequately explain and justify its decisions in the public arena, particularly 
in terms of distributive justice; and that this weakens its legitimacy, to the 
detriment of the National Health Service as a whole. I argue that this failure 
arises from the fact that NICE works within the frameworks of positivist science 
and liberal ethics, largely to the exclusion of other perspectives. This 
narrowness of view prevents NICE from properly connecting with the range of 
moral concerns represented in the population. I argue for NICE's deliberations 
to become more inclusive, both in terms of epistemology, and also in terms of 
ethical perspectives. And I suggest a range of perspectives that could usefully 
be included. Finally I offer a framework of structures, philosophies and 
discussion process that will enable competing perspectives to be debated fairly 
and productively in this process.

DOI: 10.1007/s11019-010-9256-1
PMID: 20652417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Rev Environ Contam Toxicol. 2010;207:95-157. doi:
10.1007/978-1-4419-6406-9_2.

The elderly as a sensitive population in environmental exposures: making the 
case.

Risher JF(1), Todd GD, Meyer D, Zunker CL.

Author information:
(1)Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, Division of Toxicology 
(F-32), Toxicology Information Branch, 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA 30333, 
USA. jrisher@cdc.gov

The US population is aging. CDC has estimated that 20% of all Americans will be 
65 or older by the year 2030. As a part of the aging process, the body gradually 
deteriorates and physiologic and metabolic limitations arise. Changes that occur 
in organ anatomy and function present challenges for dealing with environmental 
stressors of all kinds, ranging from temperature regulation to drug metabolism 
and excretion. The elderly are not just older adults, but rather are individuals 
with unique challenges and different medical needs than younger adults. The 
ability of the body to respond to physiological challenge presented by 
environmental chemicals is dependent upon the health of the organ systems that 
eliminate those substances from the body. Any compromise in the function of 
those organ systems may result in a decrease in the body's ability to protect 
itself from the adverse effects of xenobiotics. To investigate this issue, we 
performed an organ system-by-organ system review of the effects of human aging 
and the implications for such aging on susceptibility to drugs and xenobiotics. 
Birnbaum (1991) reported almost 20 years ago that it was clear that the 
pharmacokinetic behavior of environmental chemicals is, in many cases, altered 
during aging. Yet, to date, there is a paucity of data regarding recorded 
effects of environmental chemicals on elderly individuals. As a result, we have 
to rely on what is known about the effects of aging and the existing data 
regarding the metabolism, excretion, and adverse effects of prescription 
medications in that population to determine whether the elderly might be at 
greater risk when exposed to environmental substances. With increasing life 
expectancy, more and more people will confront the problems associated with 
advancing years. Moreover, although proper diet and exercise may lessen the 
immediate severity of some aspects of aging, the process will continue to 
gradually degrade the ability to cope with a variety of injuries and diseases. 
Thus, the adverse effects of long-term, low-level exposure to environmental 
substances will have a longer time to be manifested in a physiologically 
weakened elderly population. When such exposures are coupled with concurrent 
exposure to prescription medications, the effects could be devastating. Public 
health officials must be knowledgeable about the sensitivity of the growing 
elderly population, and ensure that the use of health guidance values (HGVs) for 
environmental contaminants and other substances give consideration to this 
physiologically compromised segment of the population.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6406-9_2
PMID: 20652665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Odontology. 2010 Jul;98(2):144-52. doi: 10.1007/s10266-010-0133-4. Epub 2010
Jul  23.

Determinants of oral cancer at the national level: just a question of smoking 
and alcohol drinking prevalence?

Petti S(1), Scully C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Infectious Diseases, Sanarelli Hygiene 
building, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, Rome 00185, Italy. 
stefano.petti@uniroma1.it

In addition to individual-based prevention strategies, the burden of oral cancer 
could be decreased by controlling its national level determinants. 
Population-based studies have found smoking, drinking, and wealth to be 
associated with oral cancer incidence and mortality rates. However, these 
studies merely reported trends, or did not account for confounders or for 
intercorrelation between predictor variables. This ecologic study sought to 
investigate oral cancer determinants at the country level. The male, 
age-standardized mortality rate was the dependent variable. The explanatory 
variables, obtained from reliable international agencies, were life expectancy, 
frequency of physicians, gross national product (GNP), expenditure on health, 
literacy rate, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevalence, smoking 
prevalence, alcohol drinking prevalence, drinking modality, average daily 
calorie consumption, and average calorie intake from fruit and vegetables. 
Common factor analysis was used to generate a new dimension that incorporated 
all of the strongly intercorrelated variables. These were life expectancy, 
physician frequency, GNP, expenditure on health, literacy rate, calorie 
consumption, smoking prevalence, and drinking modality. According to this 
dimension, arbitrarily called the country development level (CDL), countries 
were split into quartiles. The ecologic risk for high mortality from oral 
cancer, estimated using logistic regression analysis, was three to five times 
higher among the second, third, and fourth CDL quartiles than among the first 
CDL quartile, which included the highest-income countries. HIV, drinking 
prevalence, and fruit and vegetable intake did not affect significantly 
mortality. These results suggest that it might be possible to improve oral 
cancer mortality by modifying country-based determinants related to aberrant 
lifestyles (not only smoking and drinking prevalence) and improving healthcare 
system efficiency, approximately estimated by CDL, as well as general 
socioeconomic and cultural conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10266-010-0133-4
PMID: 20652793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Recent Pat Food Nutr Agric. 2010 Jun;2(2):129-39. doi: 
10.2174/2212798411002020129.

Polysaccharides as biopolymers for food shelf-life extention: recent patents.

Volpe MG(1), Malinconico M, Varricchio E, Paolucci M.

Author information:
(1)ISA-CNR Via Roma, Avellino, Italy.

Biopolymers have properties that make them suitable for use in increasing food 
shelf-life. At present, conventional polymers could be substituted with biobased 
food packaging materials in several areas such as meat products, fruits and 
vegetables, dairy products, frozen food, dry food, snacks, ready to eat food and 
drinks. In spite of the enormous amount of published scientific articles and 
reviews on polysaccharide employment in food shelf-life extension, there is a 
comparatively limited number of patents issued from industry. Several 
polysaccharides alone or in combination with other substances are proposed in 
the patents aimed to extend the food shelf-life of fresh food, reducing 
modifications in color, flavor and taste. In this review, we will focus on 
polysaccharides extracted from biomass and their applications in the food 
industry, in particular on food shelf-life extension. The patents issued in the 
last twenty years for polysaccharides and their applications in food shelf-life 
extension will be reviewed.

DOI: 10.2174/2212798411002020129
PMID: 20653558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Acta Med Port. 2010 May-Jun;23(3):475-82. Epub 2010 Jun 14.

[Cost-effectiveness of trastuzumab in the treatment of early stages breast 
cancer patients, in Portugal].

[Article in Portuguese]

Macedo A(1), Monteiro I, Andrade S, Cirrincione A, Ray J.

Author information:
(1)KeyPoint, consultoria Científica Lda, Miraflores, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Despite the important advances observed in the last 25 years in 
the comprehension of the clinical and biological nature of breast cancer and its 
treatment, this disease remains a significant cause of cancer morbidity and 
mortality worldwide. The clinical trial Hera has demonstrated the safety and 
efficacy of trastuzumab in the treatment of HER2 positive (HER2+) breast cancer 
patients, in early stages, subsequent to surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvante or 
adjuvant) and radiotherapy, if applied.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 1-year trastuzumab treatment 
versus standard care (observation following standard adjuvant chemotherapy), in 
patients with HER2+ breast cancer in early stages from the societal and the 
Portuguese National Health Service (NHS) perspectives.
METHODS: A 5-state Markov model with annual transition cycles was developed to 
estimate the long term health and economic outcomes of HER2+ early breast cáncer 
patients based on HERA clinical trial results. Portuguese NHS resource use and 
costs were estimated from a consensus expert panel and published unit costs, 
respectively. Clinical and economic outcomes were discounted at 3% per annum. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios per life year gained (LYG) and per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained were estimated. One-way sensitivity 
analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Considering a 45 year time horizon, treatment with trastuzumab was 
estimated to increase discounted life expectancy by 2,114 life years and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 2,009 QALYs compared to standard care. 
Direct and indirect costs were projected to be 61.839 euro and 19.759 euro with 
trastuzumab and 40.559 euro and 25.392 euro with standard of care. These results 
corresponded to incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 10.067 euro and 10.595 
euro assuming direct costs only, and of 7.400 euro and 7.789 euro including 
indirect costs, per life year gained and per QALY gained, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The 1-year trastuzumab use as adjuvant therapy in HER-2+ early 
breast cancer patients improves survival and can be considered a cost effective 
therapy with a high degree of certainty in the Portuguese setting.

PMID: 20654267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Toxicol In Vitro. 1998 Dec;12(6):725-37. doi: 10.1016/s0887-2333(98)00055-1.

Optimizing preincubation conditions for precision-cut rat kidney and liver 
tissue slices: effect of culture media and antioxidants.

Obatomi DK(1), Brant S, Anthonypillai V, Early DA, Bach PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Science and Health, University of 
East London, Romford Road, London E15 4LZ, UK.

Tissue slices are commonly 'preincubated' before use, but optimal conditions to 
ensure their maximal viability have not been systematically investigated. The 
effects of serum-free Dulbecco's minimum Eagle's medium and Ham's nutrient 
mixture (DMEM/F12) (1:1) culture media with and without phenol red (+/-PR), or 
RPMI-1640 and six different antioxidants on the viability of precision-cut rat 
kidney and liver slices (200+/-5mum) were investigated. Slice viability was 
assessed every 30 minutes over a 2-hour preincubation period and after 24 hours 
of incubation in a multiwell plate culture system maintained at 37 degrees C. In 
all cases, preincubation produced a time-dependent significant reduction of 
ethidium bromide positive nuclei stained in each medium and in both kidney and 
liver slices. Based on lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage, there are viability 
differences between the media. In contrast, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) leakage 
and MTT reduction were less sensitive and did not differentiate between slice 
viability in each incubation medium. Preincubation of kidney and liver slices in 
DMEM/F12 medium containing antioxidants, indicated an enhanced viability which 
was specific for each tissue. Extension of the culture period to 24 hours after 
1 hour of preincubation showed up to a further 4-13% leakage of ALP or LDH in 
DMEM/F12 (+/-PR) media for both kidney and liver slices and with a further 5-15% 
decline in MTT viability assay. RPMI-1640 medium on its own was not a suitable 
medium for maintaining the viability of either kidney or liver slices. However, 
kidney or liver slices preincubated with DMEM/F12 medium in the presence of some 
of the antioxidants were satisfactorily maintained for 24 hours. Exposure of 
slices to atractyloside (ATR) at concentrations of 0.2-2.0mm in the different 
media for 24 hours showed a significant increase in enzyme leakage, decline of 
MTT reductive capacity and increased oxidative damage, with toxicity more 
elaborate in RPMI-1640 medium. Preincubation of kidney slices with either 
reduced glutathione (GSH) or alpha-tocopherol (TOC) and liver slices with either 
GSH or deferoxamine (DEF) followed by 24 hours of exposure to ATR showed a 
similar decline in toxicity profile. The antioxidants provided partial 
protection of slices from ATR toxicity. The results demonstrate the importance 
of slice preincubation and indicate that slices could be maintained in culture 
using an appropriate medium, thus providing slices that could serve as a useful 
alternative in vitro system for assessing novel compounds for toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-2333(98)00055-1
PMID: 20654462


698. Ophthalmology. 2010 Dec;117(12):2430-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.03.030.
Epub  2010 Jul 24.

Developmental anatomy of the nasolacrimal duct: implications for congenital 
obstruction.

Moscato EE(1), Kelly JP, Weiss A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA. Avery.weiss@seattlechildrens.org

OBJECTIVE: To measure the height, anteroposterior, and transverse diameters of 
the nasolacrimal duct (NLD) in normal children between 2 weeks and 34 months of 
age and to compare the development of the NLD with the maxilla.
DESIGN: Retrospective case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-eight children with no history of NLD abnormalities who 
underwent prior axial computed tomography (CT) facial scans of 0.50 to 0.625 mm 
resolution.
METHODS: Consecutive cases of CT facial series over a 16-month period at a 
single institution were studied.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Height, anteroposterior and transverse diameters, and 
volume of the NLD; height of the maxillary sinus.
RESULTS: The height of the bony NLD increases 1.8-fold, the average diameter 
increases 1.4-fold, and the volume increases 4.6-fold between 2 weeks and 34 
months of age. The dimensional increases of the NLD are nonlinear, with most of 
the increase occurring in the first 6 months of life. The increase in height of 
the NLD is highly correlated with postnatal growth of the maxilla.
CONCLUSIONS: Spontaneous resolution of NLD obstruction in normal infants is 
coincident with elongation, limited radial extension, and the resulting volume 
expansion of the NLD. We propose that increases in hydrostatic pressure within 
the fluid column of the NLD combined with central cavitation of the epithelial 
core can account for the patency of the NLD in normal infants.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial 
interest in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2010 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.03.030
PMID: 20656354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2010 Nov;22(6):696-703. doi:
10.1097/BOR.0b013e32833dfbd8.

Cardiac complications of systemic sclerosis: recent progress in diagnosis.

Boueiz A(1), Mathai SC, Hummers LK, Hassoun PM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Systemic sclerosis (SSc), a collagen vascular disease 
characterized by diverse organ system involvement, is associated with serious 
cardiac complications. Cardiac symptoms are much less frequent than 
autopsy-demonstrated cardiac involvement. Although frequent calls for early 
diagnosis have been made, validated strategies for assessment of scleroderma 
cardiac disease are not yet well established, mainly because the right 
ventricle, a common target of the disease, presents considerable obstacles to 
simple and reliable appraisal of its structure and function. This article 
reviews the current information about cardiac dysfunction in scleroderma, with 
special emphasis on its detection and prognostic implications.
RECENT FINDINGS: Cardiac involvement is a harbinger of poor prognosis in 
patients with SSc. Recent progress in its diagnosis has been made with the 
availability of more sophisticated diagnostic tools.
SUMMARY: Early detection of scleroderma heart disease will allow exploration of 
novel therapies with potential positive impact on the quality of life and life 
expectancy of this patient population.

DOI: 10.1097/BOR.0b013e32833dfbd8
PMID: 20657283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. PLoS Genet. 2010 Jul 15;6(7):e1001024. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1001024.

Genome-wide screen in Saccharomyces cerevisiae identifies vacuolar protein 
sorting, autophagy, biosynthetic, and tRNA methylation genes involved in life 
span regulation.

Fabrizio P(1), Hoon S, Shamalnasab M, Galbani A, Wei M, Giaever G, Nislow C, 
Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center and Department of Biological Sciences, University 
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United States of America.

The study of the chronological life span of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which 
measures the survival of populations of non-dividing yeast, has resulted in the 
identification of homologous genes and pathways that promote aging in organisms 
ranging from yeast to mammals. Using a competitive genome-wide approach, we 
performed a screen of a complete set of approximately 4,800 viable deletion 
mutants to identify genes that either increase or decrease chronological life 
span. Half of the putative short-/long-lived mutants retested from the primary 
screen were confirmed, demonstrating the utility of our approach. Deletion of 
genes involved in vacuolar protein sorting, autophagy, and mitochondrial 
function shortened life span, confirming that respiration and degradation 
processes are essential for long-term survival. Among the genes whose deletion 
significantly extended life span are ACB1, CKA2, and TRM9, implicated in fatty 
acid transport and biosynthesis, cell signaling, and tRNA methylation, 
respectively. Deletion of these genes conferred heat-shock resistance, 
supporting the link between life span extension and cellular protection observed 
in several model organisms. The high degree of conservation of these novel yeast 
longevity determinants in other species raises the possibility that their role 
in senescence might be conserved.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1001024
PMCID: PMC2904796
PMID: 20657825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


701. Reumatismo. 2010 Apr-Jun;62(2):119-26. doi: 10.4081/reumatismo.2010.119.

[Anabolic therapy of induced osteoporosis in beta-thalassaemia major: case 
report and literature review].

[Article in Italian]

Trotta A(1), Corrado A, Cantatore FP.

Author information:
(1)Presidio Ospedaliero Col. D'Avanzo, Foggia, Italia. 
atrotta@ospedaliriunitifoggia.it

Transfusion program and chelating therapy treatment has extended the life 
expectancy of thalassaemic patient; osteoporosis is considered an important 
cause of morbidity in adult patients who display increased fracture risk. This 
is a case report is about a thalassaemic young female with multiple spine 
fractures (D11, D12 e L2) and lumbar spine DEXA - T score = -3,1 and femoral = 
-3,4. This was in spite of therapy with alendronate 70 mg/week from January 2006 
to September 2007. The patient was subsequentently treated for 18 months with 
1-34 recombinant human parathyroid hormone and colecalciferol (100.000 
U/monthly). After 4 months of therapy, the patient showed a decrease in spinal 
pain (Roland and Morris Disability Questionnaire) and an improvement of quality 
of life (Qualeffo) with normalization of osteocalcin and 25-OHcolecalciferol 
haematic levels after 6 months. Lumbar spine and femoral DEXA - Tscore, at 18 
months, rose respectively to -2,5 and -2,4. Thalassaemia-induced osteoporosis is 
multifactorial and its management is very difficult. Bone marrow expansion, 
endocrine dysfunction, iron overload and genetic factors all seem to play 
important roles in the development of low bone mass in these patients. 
Bisphosfonates have been used in the management of thalassemia induced 
osteoporosis but there is no data about fracture risk. Anabolic therapy for 
thalassemic patients requests additional study on a large scale.

DOI: 10.4081/reumatismo.2010.119
PMID: 20657889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Arch Suicide Res. 2010;14(3):284-90. doi: 10.1080/13811118.2010.494148.

Assessing the quantitative impact of suicide on life expectancy in Hong Kong: 
1986-2006.

Law CK(1), Yip PS, Huo Y.

Author information:
(1)Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong. lawckin1@gmail.co

It is important to have a more complete understanding of the social and economic 
burden associated with suicide mortality. Apart from the usual year of life lost 
(YLL), we propose an alternative method, a life table approach to assess the 
impact of suicide and compare with the YLL approach from 1986 to 2006 in Hong 
Kong. The life-table approach is to assess the impact at a population level. It 
shows that the impact of suicides increased from 0.52% (0.30 years) to 0.62% 
(0.38 years) of life span for males aged 18 while the same figure for females 
kept at 0.4% (0.30 years) of lifespan over the period. A comparison with the YLL 
and some discussion are also given.

DOI: 10.1080/13811118.2010.494148
PMID: 20658382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Addiction. 2010 Jun;105(6):1088-97. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2010.02901.x.

If you try to stop smoking, should we pay for it? The cost-utility of 
reimbursing smoking cessation support in the Netherlands.

Vemer P(1), Rutten-van Mölken MP, Kaper J, Hoogenveen RT, van Schayck CP, 
Feenstra TL.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands. vemer@bmg.eur.nl

Comment in
    Addiction. 2010 Jun;105(6):1098-9.

BACKGROUND: Smoking cessation can be encouraged by reimbursing the costs of 
smoking cessation support (SCS). The short-term efficiency of reimbursement has 
been evaluated previously. However, a thorough estimate of the long-term 
cost-utility is lacking.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate long-term effects of reimbursement of SCS.
METHODS: Results from a randomized controlled trial were extrapolated to 
long-term outcomes in terms of health care costs and (quality adjusted) life 
years (QALY) gained, using the Chronic Disease Model. Our first scenario was no 
reimbursement. In a second scenario, the short-term cessation rates from the 
trial were extrapolated directly. Sensitivity analyses were based on the trial's 
confidence intervals. In the third scenario the additional use of SCS as found 
in the trial was combined with cessation rates from international meta-analyses.
RESULTS: Intervention costs per QALY gained compared to the reference scenario 
were approximately euro1200 extrapolating the trial effects directly, and 
euro4200 when combining the trial's use of SCS with the cessation rates from the 
literature. Taking all health care effects into account, even costs in life 
years gained, resulted in an estimated incremental cost-utility of euro4500 and 
euro7400, respectively. In both scenarios costs per QALY remained below euro16 
000 in sensitivity analyses using a life-time horizon.
CONCLUSIONS: Extrapolating the higher use of SCS due to reimbursement led to 
more successful quitters and a gain in life years and QALYs. Accounting for 
overheads, administration costs and the costs of SCS, these health gains could 
be obtained at relatively low cost, even when including costs in life years 
gained. Hence, reimbursement of SCS seems to be cost-effective from a health 
care perspective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2010.02901.x
PMID: 20659063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010 Aug;25(8):1358-65. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06391.x.

Bariatric surgery: mechanisms, indications and outcomes.

O'Brien PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Obesity Research and Education, Monash University, The Alfred 
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. paul.obrien@monash.edu

The rising problem of obesity is causing major health problems, reduced quality 
of life and reduced life expectancy. It now generates approximately 10% of all 
health costs. The progression of the problem indicates preventive measures have 
been unsuccessful so far. Only bariatric surgical treatments have been able to 
achieve substantial and durable weight loss. Gastric banding and gastric bypass 
are used in more than 90% of bariatric operations. The proportion of each varies 
from greater than 95% bands in Australia, about 50/50 in Europe and USA and 
nearly 100% bypass in South America. The availability of follow up is a prime 
determinant of choice. Understanding the mechanisms of effect for the bariatric 
procedures is central to optimizing their effect. The traditional narrow 
concepts of restrictive (blocking the transit of food) and malabsorptive 
(preventing the absorption of food) should be discarded and the importance of 
induction of satiety, change of taste, diversion of chyme, neural and hormonal 
mediation and the effects of aversion need to be included. The primary mechanism 
of effect for gastric banding is the generation of a background of satiety and 
early post-prandial satiation via specifically structured vagal afferents at the 
level of the band. At five years after banding or bypass, there is typically a 
loss of 30-35 kg representing 50-60% of excess weight. This weight loss has been 
shown to be associated with major improvement or complete resolution of multiple 
common and serious health problems plus improvement in quality of life and in 
survival. Level 1 evidence supports the use of the gastric band over optimal 
lifestyle therapy. Randomized controlled trials has shown gastric banding to 
achieve better weight loss, health and quality of life than optimal lifestyle 
therapies for adults above a BMI of 30 and adolescents above a BMI of 35. In 
adults with mild to severe obesity and type 2 diabetes gastric banding leads to 
remission in three out of four individuals. Perioperative risk is significant 
with gastric bypass and late revisional procedures can be required after both 
procedures. Gastric banding is indicated in any adult who has a BMI over 30, has 
problems with their obesity and has made substantial effort to reduce their 
weight by lifestyle methods. Gastric bypass or biliopancreatic diversion should 
be considered in those with BMI greater than 35 if banding is contraindicated or 
has been unsuccessful.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06391.x
PMID: 20659224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):879-84. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00773.x.

The value of correcting values: influence and importance of correcting TTO 
scores for time preference.

Attema AE(1), Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. attema@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: Quality-adjusted life year (QALY) values measured by means of the 
time tradeoff (TTO) method are often used in economic evaluations. However, 
these values are mostly not corrected for time preference, i.e., a lower 
valuation being attached to later life years than to earlier life years, and 
therefore may underestimate the true QALY weights. Moreover, the magnitude of 
the underestimation depends on the severity of the health state and the horizon 
chosen in the TTO method. Hence, we cannot just add a constant component to all 
existing QALY tariffs. In this study, we estimated the value of correcting TTO 
scores. We showed the possible consequences for health policymaking when we 
correct TTO scores for time preference, thereby taking into account severity and 
horizon.
METHODS: We employed the results obtained using a nonparametric time preference 
elicitation method. We made use of experimental time preference data, in order 
to better represent individuals' time preferences.
RESULTS: Our results demonstrate that correcting for time preference does not 
result in one clear influence on the QALY gains from health changes. When 
considering these changes in the context of cost-utility ratios, the 
proportional change in the QALY gain is crucial.
CONCLUSIONS: Correcting TTO scores has a moderate, yet nonnegligible influence 
on outcomes. We conclude that correcting TTO scores for time preference is 
feasible and influential, so that there can be a substantial value of correcting 
values for time preference.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00773.x
PMID: 20659269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Value Health. 2010 Jun-Jul;13(4):358-67. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00678.x.

Modeling complex treatment strategies: construction and validation of a discrete 
event simulation model for glaucoma.

van Gestel A(1), Severens JL, Webers CA, Beckers HJ, Jansonius NM, Schouten JS.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Clinic, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. a.van.gestel@mumc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Discrete event simulation (DES) modeling has several advantages over 
simpler modeling techniques in health economics, such as increased flexibility 
and the ability to model complex systems. Nevertheless, these benefits may come 
at the cost of reduced transparency, which may compromise the model's face 
validity and credibility. We aimed to produce a transparent report on the 
construction and validation of a DES model using a recently developed model of 
ocular hypertension and glaucoma.
METHODS: Current evidence of associations between prognostic factors and disease 
progression in ocular hypertension and glaucoma was translated into DES model 
elements. The model was extended to simulate treatment decisions and effects. 
Utility and costs were linked to disease status and treatment, and clinical and 
health economic outcomes were defined. The model was validated at several 
levels. The soundness of design and the plausibility of input estimates were 
evaluated in interdisciplinary meetings (face validity). Individual patients 
were traced throughout the simulation under a multitude of model settings to 
debug the model, and the model was run with a variety of extreme scenarios to 
compare the outcomes with prior expectations (internal validity). Finally, 
several intermediate (clinical) outcomes of the model were compared with those 
observed in experimental or observational studies (external validity) and the 
feasibility of evaluating hypothetical treatment strategies was tested.
RESULTS: The model performed well in all validity tests. Analyses of 
hypothetical treatment strategies took about 30 minutes per cohort and lead to 
plausible health-economic outcomes.
CONCLUSION: There is added value of DES models in complex treatment strategies 
such as glaucoma. Achieving transparency in model structure and outcomes may 
require some effort in reporting and validating the model, but it is feasible.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00678.x
PMID: 20659272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. QJM. 2010 Sep;103(9):641-59. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcq117. Epub 2010 Jul 21.

Fabry disease: a review of current management strategies.

Mehta A(1), Beck M, Eyskens F, Feliciani C, Kantola I, Ramaswami U, Rolfs A, 
Rivera A, Waldek S, Germain DP.

Author information:
(1)Lysosomal Storage Disorders Unit, Department of Academic Haematology, Royal 
Free and University College Medical School, Rowland Hill Street, London NW3 2PF, 
UK. Atul.Mehta@royalfree.nhs.uk

Fabry disease is an X-linked inherited condition due to the absence or reduction 
of alpha-galactosidase activity in lysosomes, that results in accumulation of 
globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) and related neutral glycosphingolipids. 
Manifestations of Fabry disease include serious and progressive impairment of 
renal and cardiac function. In addition, patients experience pain, 
gastrointestinal disturbance, transient ischaemic attacks and strokes. 
Additional effects on the skin, eyes, ears, lungs and bones are often seen. The 
first symptoms of classic Fabry disease usually appear in childhood. Despite 
being X-linked, females can suffer the same severity of symptoms as males, and 
life expectancy is reduced in both females and males. Enzyme replacement therapy 
(ERT) can stabilize the progression of the disease. The rarity of the classic 
form of Fabry disease, however, means that there is a need to improve the 
knowledge and understanding that the majority of physicians have concerning 
Fabry disease, in order to avoid misdiagnosis and/or delayed diagnosis. This 
review aims to raise awareness of the signs and symptoms of Fabry disease; to 
provide a general diagnostic algorithm and to give an overview of the effects of 
ERT and concomitant treatments. We highlight a need to develop comprehensive 
international guidelines to optimize ERT and adjunctive therapy in patients with 
Fabry disease, including females and children.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcq117
PMID: 20660166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):951-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyq090. Epub 2010
Jul  21.

The influence of overweight and underweight on vitality. 1908.

Symonds B.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):957-9.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):959-63.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):963-7.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):941-7.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyq090
PMID: 20660168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):957-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyq088. Epub 2010
Jul  21.

Commentary: Symonds' curious fat fact.

Czerniawski AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, USA. 
aczernia@temple.edu

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):951-7.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyq088
PMID: 20660169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):959-63. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyq089. Epub 2010
Jul  21.

Commentary: body weight and mortality in the late 19th century.

Whitlock G(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit & Epidemiological Studies Unit, Richard Doll 
Building, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LF, UK. gary.whitlock@ctsu.ox.ac.uk

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;39(4):951-7.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyq089
PMID: 20660170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Neurophysiol. 2010 Oct;104(4):2020-3. doi: 10.1152/jn.00513.2010. Epub
2010  Jul 21.

Postmovement changes in the frequency and amplitude of physiological tremor 
despite unchanged neural output.

Reynolds R(1), Lakie M.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birimingham B15 2TT, UK. 
r.f.reynolds@bham.ac.uk

Active or passive movement causes a temporary reduction in muscle stiffness that 
gradually returns to baseline levels when the muscle remains still. This effect, 
termed muscle thixotropy, alters the mechanical properties of the joint around 
which the muscle acts, reducing its resonant frequency. Because physiological 
tremor is affected by joint mechanics, this suggests that prior movement may 
alter tremor independently of neural output. To address this possibility, 
vertical acceleration of the outstretched prone hand was recorded in eight 
healthy subjects, along with EMG activity of the extensor digitorum communis 
muscle. A series of voluntary wrist flexion/extension movements was performed 
every 20 s, interspersed by periods during which hand position was maintained. 
Time-dependent changes in the amplitude and frequency of acceleration and EMG 
were analyzed using a continuous wavelet transform. Immediately following 
movement, acceleration displayed a significant increase in wavelet power 
accompanied by a reduction in peak frequency. During the postmovement period, 
power declined by 63%, and frequency increased from 7.2 to 8.0 Hz. These changes 
occurred with an exponential time constant of 2-4 s, consistent with a 
thixotropic mechanism. In contrast to acceleration, EMG activity showed no 
significant changes despite being strongly related to acceleration during the 
movement itself. These results show that prior movement transiently increases 
the amplitude and reduces the frequency of physiological tremor, despite 
unchanging neural output. This effect is best explained by a reduction in joint 
stiffness caused by muscle thixotropy, highlighting the importance of mechanical 
factors in the genesis of physiological tremor.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00513.2010
PMID: 20660421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. BMJ. 2010 Jul 22;341:c3987. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c3987.

Reports show improvements in the health of US older people and children.

Tanne JH.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c3987
PMID: 20660512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Med Econ. 2010;13(3):428-37. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.499758.

Cost effectiveness of rosuvastatin in patients at risk of cardiovascular disease 
based on findings from the JUPITER trial.

Ohsfeldt RL(1), Gandhi SK, Smolen LJ, Jensen MM, Fox KM, Gold A, Hsia J.

Author information:
(1)Texas A&M Health Science Center, College Station, TX, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study assessed the long-term cost effectiveness of rosuvastatin 
therapy compared with placebo in reducing the incidence of major cardiovascular 
(CVD) events and mortality.
METHODS: A probabilistic Monte Carlo simulation model estimated long-term cost 
effectiveness of rosuvastatin therapy (20 mg daily) for the prevention of CVD 
mortality and morbidity. The model included three stages: (1) CVD prevention 
simulating the 4 years of the JUPITER trial, (2) initial CVD prevention beyond 
the trial, and (3) subsequent CVD event prevention. A US payer perspective was 
assessed reflecting direct medical costs, and up to a lifetime horizon. 
Sensitivity analyses tested the robustness of the model estimates.
RESULTS: For a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 patients at moderate and high risk 
of CVD events based on Framingham risk of ≥10%, estimated quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained with rosuvastatin therapy compared with placebo was 
33,480 over a lifetime horizon, and 25,380 and 9916 over 20-year and 10-year 
horizons, respectively. Approximately 12,073 events were avoided over the 
lifetime; 6,146 non-fatal MIs, 2905 non-fatal strokes, and 4030 CVD deaths 
avoided. Estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for cost per QALY 
was $7062 (lifetime), $10,743 (20-year horizon), and $44,466 (10-year horizon). 
For a hypothetical cohort similar to the overall JUPITER population, the cost 
per QALY ICER was $11,025 for the lifetime and $60,112 for a 10-year horizon.
LIMITATIONS: The cost-effectiveness comparison of rosuvastatin 20 mg was against 
no active treatment (as opposed to an alternative statin) due to lack of 
comparative cardiovascular morbidity and mortality risk reduction data for other 
statins in a population similar to the JUPITER trial population. The analysis 
was conducted from the payer perspective and lack of inclusion of indirect costs 
limit interpretability of results from a societal perspective.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with rosuvastatin 20 mg daily, is a cost-effective 
treatment alternative to no treatment in patients at a higher risk (Framingham 
risk≥10%) of CVD.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.499758
PMID: 20662625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Epilepsia. 2010 Oct;51(10):1963-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2010.02660.x.

Long-term efficacy and safety of eslicarbazepine acetate: results of a 1-year 
open-label extension study in partial-onset seizures in adults with epilepsy.

Halász P(1), Cramer JA, Hodoba D, Członkowska A, Guekht A, Maia J, Elger C, 
Almeida L, Soares-da-Silva P; BIA-2093-301 Study Group.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, Budapest, Hungary.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of once daily 
eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) as adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures 
in adults with epilepsy.
METHODS: One-year open-label treatment extension with ESL in patients who 
completed a placebo-controlled pivotal study (Epilepsia 2009; 50: 454-463). 
Starting dose was 800 mg once daily, for 4 weeks; thereafter, dose could be 
titrated up or down. Doses of concomitant antiepileptic drugs were to be kept 
stable.
RESULTS: Overall, 314 patients were enrolled. The intent-to-treat population 
consisted of 312 patients, and 239 (76.6%) completed 1 year of treatment. ESL 
median dose was 800 mg once daily. Compared to baseline, median seizure 
frequency decreased by 39% during the first 4 weeks and between 48% and 56% 
thereafter. The responder rate (≥50% seizure reduction) was 41% during weeks 1-4 
and, thereafter ranged between 48% and 53%. The proportion of seizure-free 
patients per 12-week interval ranged between 8.7% and 12.5%. Quality of life, as 
measured by the Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory-31 (QOLIE-31), and 
depressive symptoms, as measured by the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating 
Scale (MADRS), improved significantly compared to baseline. Treatment-emergent 
adverse events (TEAEs) were reported by 51% of patients. The most frequent TEAEs 
were headache (10%), dizziness (10%), diplopia (5%), and nasopharyngitis (5%). 
TEAEs were mostly (97%) of mild to moderate intensity. Eleven patients (3.5%) 
discontinued due to TEAEs. There were no results of laboratory tests raising 
safety concerns.
DISCUSSION: Sustained therapeutic effect, favorable tolerability and safety, and 
an improvement in quality of life and depressive symptoms were observed during 
long-term add-on treatment of partial-onset seizures in adults with once daily 
ESL.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2010 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2010.02660.x
PMID: 20662896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. J Diabetes Sci Technol. 2010 Jul 1;4(4):882-92. doi:
10.1177/193229681000400417.

Toward an injectable continuous osmotic glucose sensor.

Johannessen E(1), Krushinitskaya O, Sokolov A, Philipp H, Hoogerwerf A, 
Hinderling C, Kautio K, Lenkkeri J, Strömmer E, Kondratyev V, Tønnessen TI, 
Mollnes TE, Jakobsen H, Zimmer E, Akselsen B.

Author information:
(1)Vestfold University College, Tønsberg, Norway. eaj@hive.no

BACKGROUND: The growing pandemic of diabetes mellitus places a stringent social 
and economic burden on the society. A tight glycemic control circumvents the 
detrimental effects, but the prerogative is the development of new more 
effective tools capable of longterm tracking of blood glucose (BG) in vivo. Such 
discontinuous sensor technologies will benefit from an unprecedented marked 
potential as well as reducing the current life expectancy gap of eight years as 
part of a therapeutic regime.
METHOD: A sensor technology based on osmotic pressure incorporates a reversible 
competitive affinity assay performing glucose-specific recognition. An absolute 
change in particles generates a pressure that is proportional to the glucose 
concentration. An integrated pressure transducer and components developed from 
the silicon micro- and nanofabrication industry translate this pressure into BG 
data.
RESULTS: An in vitro model based on a 3.6 x 8.7 mm large pill-shaped implant is 
equipped with a nanoporous membrane holding 4-6 nm large pores. The affinity 
assay offers a dynamic range of 36-720 mg/dl with a resolution of +/-16 mg/dl. 
An integrated 1 x 1 mm(2) large control chip samples the sensor signals for data 
processing and transmission back to the reader at a total power consumption of 
76 microW.
CONCLUSIONS: Current studies have demonstrated the design, layout, and 
performance of a prototype osmotic sensor in vitro using an affinity assay 
solution for up to four weeks. The small physical size conforms to an injectable 
device, forming the basis of a conceptual monitor that offers a tight glycemic 
control of BG.

2010 Diabetes Technology Society.

DOI: 10.1177/193229681000400417
PMCID: PMC2909520
PMID: 20663452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2010 Sep;3(5):506-13. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.109.908541. Epub 2010 Jul 27.

Comparative effectiveness of ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction 
regionalization strategies.

Concannon TW(1), Kent DM, Normand SL, Newhouse JP, Griffith JL, Cohen J, 
Beshansky JR, Wong JB, Aversano T, Selker HP.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, 800 Washington Street, Boston, MA 02111, USA. 
tconcannon@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2010 Sep;3(5):441-3.

BACKGROUND: Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is more effective 
on average than fibrinolytic therapy in the treatment of ST-segment-elevation 
myocardial infarction. Yet, most US hospitals are not equipped for PCI, and 
fibrinolytic therapy is still widely used. This study evaluated the comparative 
effectiveness of ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction regionalization 
strategies to increase the use of PCI against standard emergency transport and 
care.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We estimated incremental treatment costs and 
quality-adjusted life expectancies of 2000 patients with ST-segment-elevation 
myocardial infarction who received PCI or fibrinolytic therapy in simulations of 
emergency care in a regional hospital system. To increase access to PCI across 
the system, we compared a base case strategy with 12 hospital-based strategies 
of building new PCI laboratories or extending the hours of existing laboratories 
and 1 emergency medical services-based strategy of transporting all patients 
with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction to existing PCI-capable 
hospitals. The base case resulted in 609 (95% CI, 569-647) patients getting PCI. 
Hospital-based strategies increased the number of patients receiving PCI, the 
costs of care, and quality-adjusted life years saved and were cost-effective 
under a variety of conditions. An emergency medical services-based strategy of 
transporting every patient to an existing PCI facility was less costly and more 
effective than all hospital expansion options.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that new construction and staffing of PCI 
laboratories may not be warranted if an emergency medical services strategy is 
both available and feasible.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.109.908541
PMCID: PMC2967250
PMID: 20664025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Acta Dermatovenerol Alp Pannonica Adriat. 2010;19(2):23-7.

Ustekinumab in the treatment of severe rupioid psoriasis: A case report.

Necas M(1), Vasků V.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Dermatovenereology, Masaryk University and St. Anne 
Faculty Hospital, 656 91 Brno. miroslav.necas@fnusa.cz

This paper describes a case of a patient with widespread rupioid psoriasis in 
whom ustekinumab was introduced because of a relative contraindication to 
conventional systemic treatment and insufficient effect of phototherapy. 
Improvement of his psoriasis was very rapid, with a decrease in the PASI of 
63.4% (from 30.9 to 11.3) during the first 4 weeks of treatment and an 
additional 31.4% (from 11.3 to 1.6) within another 12 weeks. However, the 
patient's psoriatic arthritis has not shown much improvement so far. Treatment 
with ustekinumab was tolerated well by the patient without any adverse events 
