without surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: In the patients with non-curative resection for ECG endoscopically, 
additional surgery is still necessary even in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.47.281
PMID: 20847481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Cancer Gene Ther. 2011 Jan;18(1):34-41. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2010.50. Epub 2010
Sep  17.

Preclinical evaluation of a gene therapy treatment for transitional cell 
carcinoma.

Zhang X(1), Godbey WT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering, Tulane University, New 
Orleans, LA 70118, USA.

Three drugs were compared for their efficacy in treating murine transitional 
cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder. Intravesical gene therapy treatments 
utilizing expression-targeted plasmids, where the murine cyclooxygenase-2 
(Cox-2) promoter was used to drive the expression of exogenously inducible forms 
of caspases 3 and 9, were compared with treatment modalities employing Bacille 
Calmette-Guérin (BCG) and celecoxib. When administered via lavage, only the gene 
therapy regimen was found to be effective at restricting tumor progression 
following a 7-day incubation of tumor tissues. Celecoxib was also administered 
via the diet to allow for systemic delivery of the drug. The most efficacious 
celecoxib use tested yielded tumors with masses of (18.3±8.4 mg) versus the gene 
delivery method, which yielded tumors with masses of (3.6±7.7 mg). The 
difference was significant (t-test, n≥4, P<0.025). The results showed that the 
Cox-2 expression-targeted gene therapy system could efficiently bypass the 
bladder permeability barrier and more effectively inhibit tumor growth and 
development than either BCG or celecoxib treatments. Long-term data further 
demonstrated that the gene therapy system could effectively inhibit tumor growth 
and elongate life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/cgt.2010.50
PMID: 20847752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Can J Cardiol. 2010 Aug-Sep;26 Suppl C(Suppl C):8C-13C. doi: 
10.1016/s0828-282x(10)71075-8.

The impact of social determinants on cardiovascular disease.

Kreatsoulas C(1), Anand SS.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among high-income countries 
and is projected to be the leading cause of death worldwide by 2030. Much of the 
current research efforts have been aimed toward the identification, modification 
and treatment of individual-level risk factors. Despite significant 
advancements, gross inequalities continue to persist over space and time. 
Although increasing at different rates worldwide, the magnitude of increase in 
the prevalence of various cardiovascular risk factors has shifted research 
efforts to study the causes of the risk factors (ie, the 'causes of the 
causes'), which include the social determinants of health. The social 
determinants of health reflect the impact of the social environment on health 
among people sharing a particular community. Imbalances in the social 
determinants of health have been attributed to the inequities in health observed 
between and within countries. The present article reviews the role of the social 
determinants of health on a global level, describing the epidemiological 
transition and the persistent trend known as the 'inverse social gradient'. The 
impact of social determinants in Canada will also be examined, including data 
from ethnic and Aboriginal communities. Possible solutions and future directions 
to reduce the impact of social factors on cardiovascular health are proposed.

La maladie cardiovasculaire est la principale cause de mortalité dans les pays à 
revenus élevés et on s’attend à ce qu’elle devienne la principale cause de 
mortalité dans le monde d’ici 2030. Une bonne part de la recherche actuelle 
s’est attardée à la reconnaissance, à la modification et au traitement des 
facteurs de risque à l’échelon individuel. Or, malgré des progrès significatifs, 
d’importantes disparités persistent dans l’espace et le temps. Même si elle 
croît à un rythme différent selon les régions du monde, la prévalence de divers 
facteurs de risque cardiovasculaires force maintenant les chercheurs à étudier 
désormais l’origine des facteurs de risque eux-mêmes (c.à-d., « la cause des 
causes »), ce qui inclut les déterminants sociaux de la santé. Les déterminants 
sociaux de la santé témoignent de l’impact de l’environnement social sur la 
santé des personnes d’une communauté donnée. Les disparités quant aux 
déterminants sociaux de la santé ont été attribuées aux inégalités en matière de 
santé observées à l’intérieur des pays et entre eux. Le présent article fait le 
point sur le rôle des déterminants sociaux de la santé d’un point de vue mondial 
en décrivant l’évolution de l’épidémiologie et la tendance persistante connue 
sous le nom de « gradient social inverse ». L’impact des déterminants sociaux au 
Canada fera l’objet d’une analyse qui portera entre autres sur les données 
provenant des communautés ethniques et autochtones. On propose des solutions et 
des orientations qui pourraient éventuellement réduire l’impact des déterminants 
sociaux sur la santé cardiovasculaire.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(10)71075-8
PMCID: PMC2949987
PMID: 20847985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2010 Nov;124(2):393-402. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-010-1166-7. Epub 2010 Sep 17.

Incorporating margin status information in treatment decisions for women with 
ductal carcinoma in situ: a decision analysis.

Wang SY(1), Kuntz K, Tuttle T, Kane R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, University of Minnesota School of 
Public Health, 420 Delaware Street S.E. MMC 729, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. 
wang1018@umn.edu

To integrate margin status information into the decision to undergo radiation 
therapy (RT) following breast-conserving surgery (BCS) for women with ductal 
carcinoma in situ (DCIS). We developed a decision-analytic Markov model to 
project quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for a hypothetical cohort of 
55-year-old women with DCIS over a lifetime horizon treated with or without RT 
following BCS. We estimated the transition probabilities of local DCIS and 
invasive recurrences based on the margin status (free, close, or positive) from 
a systematic literature review. Other probability estimates and utilities were 
collected from the published literature. Using the conditions defined in this 
model, expected QALYs after BCS alone were better than those after BCS with RT 
under the free-margin scenario (15.72 vs. 15.58) and worse in the close-margin 
(15.44 vs. 15.50) and positive-margin scenarios (15.20 vs. 15.33). The 
probability of receiving a salvage mastectomy varied from 10 to 28%, depending 
on margin status and treatment. One-way sensitivity analyses showed that the 
optimal treatment was sensitive to patients' preferences and RT side effects. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analyses revealed that BCS alone would be the best 
strategy in 54% of the cases under the free-margin scenario, 48% under the 
close-margin scenario, and 44% under the positive-margin scenario. This study 
illustrates that margin status is able to provide supplementary information on 
the decision of DCIS treatment. Our analyses also highlight the importance of 
patients' preferences in decision making. Our findings suggest that RT is not 
necessary for all patients with DCIS undergoing BCS.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-010-1166-7
PMID: 20848183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2010 Dec;16(12):2137-47. doi: 10.1002/ibd.21285.

Fatigue and health-related quality of life in inflammatory bowel disease: 
results from a population-based study in the Netherlands: the IBD-South Limburg 
cohort.

Romberg-Camps MJ(1), Bol Y, Dagnelie PC, Hesselink-van de Kruijs MA, Kester AD, 
Engels LG, van Deursen C, Hameeteman WH, Pierik M, Wolters F, Russel MG, 
Stockbrügger RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Maastricht University Medical 
Center, the Netherlands. m.camps@orbisconcern.nl

BACKGROUND: The importance of fatigue in chronic disease has been increasingly 
recognized; however, little is known about fatigue in inflammatory bowel disease 
(IBD). The aim of the present study was to investigate the prevalence and 
severity of fatigue and the impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in 
patients included in a population-based IBD cohort in the Netherlands.
METHODS: IBD patients, diagnosed between January 1st, 1991, and January 1st, 
2003, were followed up for a median of 7.1 years. They completed a 
questionnaire, which included a disease activity score, the Multidimensional 
Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20), the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ), 
and the Short Form health survey (SF-36). Hemoglobin levels were recorded.
RESULTS: Data were available in 304 Crohn's disease (CD), 368 ulcerative colitis 
(UC), and 35 indeterminate colitis (IC) patients. During quiescent disease, the 
prevalence of fatigue was nearly 40%. MFI-20 and HRQoL scores were significantly 
worse in IBD patients having active disease. In a multivariate analysis, disease 
activity was positively related with the level of fatigue in both CD and UC. In 
UC, anemia influenced the general fatigue score independently of disease 
activity. Disease activity as well as fatigue were independently associated with 
an impaired IBDQ.
CONCLUSIONS: In IBD, even in remission, fatigue is an important feature. Both in 
CD and in UC, fatigue determined HRQoL independently of disease activity or 
anemia. This implies that in IBD patients physicians need to be aware of fatigue 
in order to better understand its impact and to improve the HRQoL.

Copyright © 2010 Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ibd.21285
PMID: 20848468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Biofactors. 2010 Sep-Oct;36(5):377-82. doi: 10.1002/biof.127.

Life span extension by resveratrol, rapamycin, and metformin: The promise of 
dietary restriction mimetics for an healthy aging.

Mouchiroud L(1), Molin L, Dallière N, Solari F.

Author information:
(1)UMR, CNRS Université Lyon, Centre Léon Bérard, France.

Life expectancy at the turn of the 20th century was 46 years on average 
worldwide and it is around 65 years today. The correlative increase in 
age-associated diseases incidence has a profound public health impact and is an 
important matter of concern for our societies. Aging is a complex, 
heterogeneous, and multifactorial phenomenon, which is the consequence of 
multiple interactions between genes and environment. In this review, we survey 
animals models that have been of great help for both investigating mechanism of 
aging and identifying molecules, which slow down the onset of age-related 
diseases. Resveratrol (RSV) is one of those. We will report evidences supporting 
RSV as a molecule that acts by mimicking the beneficial effects of dietary 
restriction, and may share common downstream targets with rapamycin and 
metformin. Although those molecules do not reveal all the secrets of the 
fountain of youth, they may help us maintaining the quality of life in the old 
age.

© 2010 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/biof.127
PMID: 20848587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Amyotroph Lateral Scler. 2010 Dec;11(6):565-7. doi: 
10.3109/17482968.2010.513054. Epub 2010 Sep 19.

The internet for self-diagnosis and prognostication in ALS.

Chen Z(1), Turner MR.

Author information:
(1)Oxford University Medical School, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.

Persons with ALS, and those close to them, may use the internet to explore 
symptoms prior to formal diagnosis, and as a source of information about 
prognosis and treatment thereafter. We used an internet search engine to rank 
the sensitivity of a variety of symptom search terms a patient might use for the 
diagnosis of ALS/MND. We also studied search engine responses to questions about 
life expectancy and possible 'cure'. An internet search engine in relation to 
ALS currently lacks sensitivity, and results varied greatly with only minor 
differences in the search terms used. The prognostic information did not reflect 
the inherent heterogeneity. Results in relation to 'cure' were misleading and 
may promulgate false hopes. There is a need to guide those with ALS (and 
particularly their children) to sources of reliable web-based information in 
addition to open discussion.

DOI: 10.3109/17482968.2010.513054
PMCID: PMC3182537
PMID: 20849322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Transfusion. 2011 Feb;51(2):421-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2010.02877.x.
Epub  2010 Sep 16.

The cost-effectiveness of introducing nucleic acid testing to test for hepatitis 
B, hepatitis C, and human immunodeficiency virus among blood donors in Sweden.

Davidson T(1), Ekermo B, Gaines H, Lesko B, Åkerlind B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, Linköping University, Sweden. Thomas.Davidson@liu.se

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
using individual-donor nucleic acid testing (ID-NAT) in addition to serologic 
tests compared with the sole use of serologic tests for the identification of 
hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) among blood donors in Sweden.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: The two strategies analyzed were serologic tests and 
ID-NAT plus serologic tests. A health-economic model was used to estimate the 
lifetime costs and effects. The effects were measured as infections avoided and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained. A societal perspective was used.
RESULTS: The largest number of viral transmissions occurred with serologic 
testing only. However, the risks for viral transmissions were very low with both 
strategies. The total cost was mainly influenced by the cost of the test carried 
out. The cost of using ID-NAT plus serologic tests compared to serologic tests 
alone was estimated at Swedish Krona (SEK) 101 million (USD 12.7 million) per 
avoided viral transmission. The cost per QALY gained was SEK 22 million (USD 2.7 
million).
CONCLUSION: Using ID-NAT for testing against HBV, HCV, and HIV among blood 
donors leads to cost-effectiveness ratios that are far beyond what is usually 
considered cost-effective. The main reason for this is that with current 
methods, the risks for virus transmission are very low in Sweden.

© 2010 American Association of Blood Banks.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2010.02877.x
PMID: 20849409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Ann Gen Psychiatry. 2010 Sep 17;9:35. doi: 10.1186/1744-859X-9-35.

A 64-week, multicenter, open-label study of aripiprazole effectiveness in the 
management of patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder in a 
general psychiatric outpatient setting.

Hsieh MH(1), Lin WW, Chen ST, Chen KC, Chen KP, Chiu NY, Huang C, Chang CJ, Lin 
CH, Lai TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense 
Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan. wwlin.tw@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the overall long-term effectiveness of aripiprazole in 
patients with schizophrenia in a general psychiatric practice setting in Taiwan.
METHODS: This was a prospective, open-label, multicenter, post-market 
surveillance study in Taiwanese patients with a Diagnostic and Statistical 
Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) diagnosis of schizophrenia 
or schizoaffective disorder requiring a switch in antipsychotic medication 
because current medication was not well tolerated and/or clinical symptoms were 
not well controlled. Eligible patients were titrated to aripiprazole (5-30 
mg/day) over a 12-week switching phase, during which their previous medication 
was discontinued. Patients could then enter a 52-week, long-term treatment 
phase. Aripiprazole was flexibly dosed (5-30 mg/day) at the discretion of the 
treating physicians. Efficacy was assessed using the Clinical Global Impression 
scale Improvement (CGI-I) score, the Clinical Global Impression scale Severity 
(CGI-S) score, The Brief Psychiatry Rating Scale (BPRS), and the Quality of Life 
(QOL) scale, as well as Preference of Medicine (POM) ratings by patients and 
caregivers. Safety and tolerability were also assessed.
RESULTS: A total of 245 patients were enrolled and switched from their prior 
antipsychotic medications, and 153 patients entered the 52-week extension phase. 
In all, 79 patients (32.2%) completed the study. At week 64, the mean CGI-I 
score was 3.10 and 64.6% of patients who showed response. Compared to baseline, 
scores of CGI-S, QOL, and BPRS after 64 weeks of treatment also showed 
significant improvements. At week 12, 65.4% of subjects and 58.9% of caregivers 
rated aripiprazole as better than the prestudy medication on the POM. The most 
frequently reported adverse events (AEs) were headache, auditory hallucinations 
and insomnia. A total of 13 patients (5.3%) discontinued treatment due to AEs. 
No statistically significant changes were noted with respect to fasting plasma 
glucose, lipid profile, body weight, and body mass index after long-term 
treatment with aripiprazole.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the discontinuation rate was high, aripiprazole was found 
to be effective, safe and well tolerated in the long-term treatment of Taiwanese 
patients with schizophrenia who continued to receive treatment for 64 weeks.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-859X-9-35
PMCID: PMC2949853
PMID: 20849577


52. Br J Gen Pract. 2010 Sep;60(578):e345-52. doi: 10.3399/bjgp10X515359.

The UK pay-for-performance programme in primary care: estimation of population 
mortality reduction.

Fleetcroft R(1), Parekh-Bhurke S, Howe A, Cookson R, Swift L, Steel N.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine Health Policy and Practice, University of East Anglia, 
Norwich, UK. r.fleetcroft@uea.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Gen Pract. 2010 Sep;60(578):637-8.

BACKGROUND: General practices in the UK contract with the government to receive 
additional payments for high-quality primary care. Little is known about the 
resulting impact on population health.
AIM: To estimate the potential reduction in population mortality from 
implementation of the pay-for-performance contract in England.
DESIGN OF STUDY: Cross-sectional and modelling study.
SETTING: Primary care in England.
METHOD: Twenty-five clinical quality indicators in the contract had controlled 
trial evidence of mortality benefit. This was combined with condition 
prevalence, and the differences in performance before and after contract 
implementation, to estimate the potential mortality reduction per indicator. 
Improvement was adjusted for pre-existing trends where data were available.
RESULTS: The 2004 contract potentially reduced mortality by 11 lives per 100 000 
people (lower-upper estimates 7-16) over 1 year, as performance improved from 
baseline to the target for full incentive payment. If all eligible patients were 
treated, over and above the target, 56 (29-81) lives per 100 000 might have been 
saved. For the 2006 contract, mortality reduction was effectively zero, because 
new baseline performance for a typical practice had already exceeded the target 
performance for full payment.
CONCLUSION: The contract may have delivered substantial health gain, but 
potential health gain was limited by performance targets for full payment being 
set lower than typical baseline performance. Information on both baseline 
performance and population health gain should inform decisions about future 
selection of indicators for pay-for-performance schemes, and the level of 
performance at which full payment is triggered.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp10X515359
PMCID: PMC2930244
PMID: 20849684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Sep;14(42):1-209, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta14420.

Recombinant human growth hormone for the treatment of growth disorders in 
children: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Takeda A(1), Cooper K, Bird A, Baxter L, Frampton GK, Gospodarevskaya E, Welch 
K, Bryant J.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) is licensed for short 
stature associated with growth hormone deficiency (GHD), Turner syndrome (TS), 
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), chronic renal insufficiency (CRI), short stature 
homeobox-containing gene deficiency (SHOX-D) and being born small for 
gestational age (SGA).
OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of rhGH 
compared with treatment strategies without rhGH for children with GHD, TS, PWS, 
CRI, SHOX-D and those born SGA.
DATA SOURCES: The systematic review used a priori methods. Key databases were 
searched (e.g. MEDLINE, EMBASE, NHS Economic Evaluation Database and eight 
others) for relevant studies from their inception to June 2009. A 
decision-analytical model was developed to determine cost-effectiveness in the 
UK.
STUDY SELECTION: Two reviewers assessed titles and abstracts of studies 
identified by the search strategy, obtained the full text of relevant papers, 
and screened them against inclusion criteria.
STUDY APPRAISAL: Data from included studies were extracted by one reviewer and 
checked by a second. Quality of included studies was assessed using standard 
criteria, applied by one reviewer and checked by a second. Clinical 
effectiveness studies were synthesised through a narrative review.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in 34 publications 
were included in the systematic review. GHD: Children in the rhGH group grew 2.7 
cm/year faster than untreated children and had a statistically significantly 
higher height standard deviation score (HtSDS) after 1 year: -2.3 ± 0.45 versus 
-2.8 ± 0.45. TS: In one study, treated girls grew 9.3 cm more than untreated 
girls. In a study of younger children, the difference was 7.6 cm after 2 years. 
HtSDS values were statistically significantly higher in treated girls. PWS: 
Infants receiving rhGH for 1 year grew significantly taller (6.2 cm more) than 
those untreated. Two studies reported a statistically significant difference in 
HtSDS in favour of rhGH. CRI: rhGH-treated children in a 1-year study grew an 
average of 3.6 cm more than untreated children. HtSDS was statistically 
significantly higher in treated children in two studies. SGA: Criteria were 
amended to include children of 3+ years with no catch-up growth, with no 
reference to mid-parental height. Only one of the RCTs used the licensed dose; 
the others used higher doses. Adult height (AH) was approximately 4 cm higher in 
rhGH-treated patients in the one study to report this outcome, and AH-gain SDS 
was also statistically significantly higher in this group. Mean HtSDS was higher 
in treated than untreated patients in four other studies (significant in two). 
SHOX-D: After 2 years' treatment, children were approximately 6 cm taller than 
the control group and HtSDS was statistically significantly higher in treated 
children. The incremental cost per quality adjusted life-year (QALY) estimates 
of rhGH compared with no treatment were: 23,196 pounds for GHD, 39,460 pounds 
for TS, 135,311 pounds for PWS, 39,273 pounds for CRI, 33,079 pounds for SGA and 
40,531 pounds for SHOX-D. The probability of treatment of each of the conditions 
being cost-effective at 30,000 pounds was: 95% for GHD, 19% for TS, 1% for PWS, 
16% for CRI, 38% for SGA and 15% for SHOX-D.
LIMITATIONS: Generally poorly reported studies, some of short duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Statistically significantly larger HtSDS values were reported for 
rhGH-treated children with GHD, TS, PWS, CRI, SGA and SHOX-D. rhGH-treated 
children with PWS also showed statistically significant improvements in body 
composition measures. Only treatment of GHD would be considered cost-effective 
at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 20,000 to 30,000 pounds per QALY gained. 
This analysis suggests future research should include studies of longer than 2 
years reporting near-final height or final adult height.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14420
PMID: 20849734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Dev Biol. 2010 Dec 1;348(1):130-41. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2010.09.003. Epub
2010  Sep 16.

A network of Wnt, hedgehog and BMP signaling pathways regulates tooth 
replacement in snakes.

Handrigan GR(1), Richman JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Health Sciences, Faculty of Dentistry, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Most dentate vertebrates, from fish to humans, replace their teeth and yet the 
molecular basis of tooth replacement is poorly understood. Canonical Wnt 
signaling regulates tooth number in mice and humans, but it is unclear what role 
it plays in tooth replacement as it naturally occurs. To clarify this, we 
characterized Wnt signaling activity in the dental tissues of the ball python 
Python regius. This species replaces teeth throughout life (polyphyodonty) and 
in the same manner as in humans, i.e., sequential budding of teeth from the tip 
of the dental lamina. From initiation stage onwards, canonical Wnt read-out 
genes (Lef1 and Axin2) are persistently expressed by cells in the dental lamina 
tip and surrounding mesenchyme. This implies that molecular signaling at work 
during dental initiation carries over to tooth replacement. We show that 
canonical Wnt signaling promotes cell proliferation in python dental tissues and 
that by confining Wnt activity in the dental lamina the structure extends 
instead of thickens. Presumably, lamina extension creates space between 
successive tooth buds, ensuring that tooth replacement occurs in an ordered 
manner. We suggest that hedgehog signaling confines Wnt activity in the dental 
epithelium by direct planar repression and, during tooth replacement stages, by 
negatively regulating BMP levels in the dental mesenchyme. Finally, we propose 
that Wnt-active cells at the extending tip of the python dental lamina represent 
the immediate descendents of putative stem cells housed in the lingual face of 
the lamina, similar to what we have recently described for another polyphyodont 
squamate species.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2010.09.003
PMID: 20849841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Exp Gerontol. 2011 Feb-Mar;46(2-3):155-63. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.08.030. 
Epub 2010 Sep 16.

TOR on the brain.

Garelick MG(1), Kennedy BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

Signaling by target of rapamycin (mTOR in mammals) has been shown to modulate 
lifespan in several model organisms ranging from yeast to mice. In mice, reduced 
mTOR signaling by chronic rapamycin treatment leads to life span extension, 
raising the possibility that rapamycin and its analogs may benefit the aging 
brain and serve as effective treatments of age-related neurodegenerative 
diseases. Here, we review mTOR signaling and how neurons utilize mTOR to 
regulate brain function, including regulation of feeding, synaptic plasticity 
and memory formation. Additionally, we discuss recent findings that evaluate the 
mechanisms by which reduced mTOR activity might benefit the aging brain in 
normal and pathological states. We will focus on recent studies investigating 
mTOR and Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and polyglutamine expansion 
syndromes such as Huntington's disease.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.08.030
PMCID: PMC3432286
PMID: 20849946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Arch Bronconeumol. 2010;46 Suppl 4:2-8. doi: 10.1016/S0300-2896(10)70026-0.

[COPD and alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency].

[Article in Spanish]

Lara B(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Universitario Arnau de Vilanova, Lleida, 
España. beat1135@separ.es

Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is the main genetic factor related to the 
development of emphysema. This protein has numerous variants, some of which are 
clinically relevant because their anomalous conformation implies that they fail 
to reach the target organs as they are polymerized in the hepatocyte. The main 
abnormal variant is PiZ. In a small percentage of individuals, the accumulation 
of Z polymers in the liver leads to the development of liver disease. The lack 
of AATD in the lung favors the development of emphysema, since the proteolytic 
effect of elastases - the main biological function of AATD - is not 
counteracted. In Spain, approximately 400 persons are diagnosed with severe AATD 
deficiency, representing less than 10 % of those expected by epidemiological 
studies. The principal prognostic factor in these patients is forced expiratory 
volume in one second (FEV(1)), which is affected mainly by exposure to tobacco 
smoke. Thus, life expectancy in nonsmokers is similar to that in the general 
population while lung function decreases faster in smokers than in other 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The treatment of the 
lung disease is the same, although exogenous AATD augmentation is indicated when 
lung function deteriorates.

Copyright © 2010 Sociedad Española de Neumología y Cirugía Torácica. Published 
by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0300-2896(10)70026-0
PMID: 20850020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Pediatr. 2011 Feb;158(2):257-64.e1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2010.07.058.
Epub  2010 Sep 17.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of blood pressure screening in adolescents 
in the United States.

Wang YC(1), Cheung AM, Bibbins-Domingo K, Prosser LA, Cook NR, Goldman L, 
Gillman MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Columbia Mailman School of Public 
Health, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2011 Feb;158(2):181-4.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 3 
approaches to managing elevated blood pressure (BP) in adolescents in the United 
States: no intervention, "screen-and-treat," and population-wide strategies to 
lower the entire BP distribution.
STUDY DESIGN: We used a simulation model to combine several data sources to 
project the lifetime costs and cardiovascular outcomes for a cohort of 
15-year-old U.S. adolescents under different BP approaches and conducted 
cost-effectiveness analysis. We obtained BP distributions from the National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2004 and used childhood-to-adult 
longitudinal correlation analyses to simulate the tracking of BP. We then used 
the coronary heart disease policy model to estimate lifetime coronary heart 
disease events, costs, and quality-adjusted life years (QALY).
RESULTS: Among screen-and-treat strategies, finding and treating the adolescents 
at highest risk (eg, left ventricular hypertrophy) was most cost-effective 
($18000/QALY [boys] and $47000/QALY [girls]). However, all screen-and-treat 
strategies were dominated by population-wide strategies such as salt reduction 
(cost-saving [boys] and $650/QALY [girls]) and increasing physical education 
($11000/QALY [boys] and $35000/QALY [girls]).
CONCLUSIONS: Routine adolescents BP screening is moderately effective, but 
population-based BP interventions with broader reach could potentially be less 
costly and more effective for early cardiovascular disease prevention and should 
be implemented in parallel.

Copyright © 2011 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2010.07.058
PMCID: PMC4007283
PMID: 20850759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


58. Lancet. 2010 Sep 18;376(9745):933-4. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61417-1.

The benefits of educating women.

Cleland J(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1B 3DP, UK. 
john.cleland@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment on
    Lancet. 2010 Sep 18;376(9745):959-74.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61417-1
PMID: 20851245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Forensic Leg Med. 2010 Oct;17(7):383-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jflm.2010.05.010.
Epub  2010 Jun 20.

Elder homicide in the north of Portugal.

Coelho L(1), Ribeiro T, Dias R, Santos A, Magalhães T.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Legal Medicine-North Branch, Jardim Carrilho Videira, 
4035-167 Porto, Portugal. lfncoelho@iol.pt

INTRODUCTION: The increasing average life expectancy leads to population aging, 
and growing numbers in the elder population, a population that suffers from 
great vulnerability. Therefore, a rise in elder homicide is expected. This 
phenomenon has not been thoroughly described in Portugal. This study aims to 
analyse and characterize elder homicide, in order to achieve a better 
understanding of this form of violence.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective study, reviewing autopsy 
reports along with data regarding circumstances of death of suspected homicides 
occurring between 1992 and 2007 (n = 78), whose victims were 65 years old or 
above, autopsied in the medical-legal services of the north of Portugal.
RESULTS: During this period, an overall of 615 suspected homicides occurred, 13% 
being perpetrated against elders. The age range of the victims was 65-96 years, 
with an average of 74 years; 58% of them were males and 45% were married. In 61% 
of the documented cases, the perpetrator was known to the victim, and a family 
member in 36%. A considerable number of deaths occurred at the victim's 
residence and in a rural scenario, the motive being robbery in 51% of the 
documented cases. The supposed perpetrator ran away from the scene in 64% of the 
cases. The most frequent mechanisms of death were blunt force trauma (31%), 
followed by stabbing (22%) and gunshot wounds (21%). Fatal wounds were observed 
mainly in the head (55%) and thorax (35%).
CONCLUSIONS: In the north of Portugal, elder homicide seems to be uncommon. This 
study suggests an association between elder homicide and robbery, in which 
elders, due to their vulnerability, are a preferential target. Contrary to other 
reports worldwide, there were no cases of death in nursing homes, possibly due 
to underreport or misidentification. In a large number of the cases, it wasn't 
possible to collect all the necessary data, due to lack of information regarding 
circumstances of the events.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd and Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jflm.2010.05.010
PMID: 20851358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 Jan;39(2):464-74. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq809. Epub 2010
Sep  17.

The linker domain of basal transcription factor TFIIB controls distinct 
recruitment and transcription stimulation functions.

Wiesler SC(1), Weinzierl RO.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College London, Department of Life Sciences, London, UK.

RNA polymerases (RNAPs) require basal transcription factors to assist them 
during transcription initiation. One of these factors, TFIIB, combines promoter 
recognition, recruitment of RNAP, promoter melting, start site selection and 
various post-initiation functions. The ability of 381 site-directed mutants in 
the TFIIB 'linker domain' to stimulate abortive transcription was systematically 
quantitated using promoter-independent dinucleotide extension assays. The 
results revealed two distinct clusters (mjTFIIB E78-R80 and mjTFIIB R90-G94, 
respectively) that were particularly sensitive to substitutions. In contrast, a 
short sequence (mjTFIIB A81-K89) between these two clusters tolerated radical 
single amino acid substitutions; short deletions in that region even caused a 
marked increase in the ability of TFIIB to stimulate abortive transcription 
('superstimulation'). The superstimulating activity did, however, not correlate 
with increased recruitment of the TFIIB/RNAP complex because substitutions in a 
particular residue (mjTFIIB K87) increased recruitment by more than 5-fold 
without affecting the rate of abortive transcript stimulation. Our work 
demonstrates that highly localized changes within the TFIIB linker have 
profound, yet surprisingly disconnected, effects on RNAP recruitment, TFIIB/RNAP 
complex stability and the rate of transcription initiation. The identification 
of superstimulating TFIIB variants reveals the existence of a previously unknown 
rate-limiting step acting on the earliest stages of gene expression.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq809
PMCID: PMC3025549
PMID: 20851833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. ScientificWorldJournal. 2010 Sep 14;10:1814-7. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2010.163.

Reinduction of hormone sensitivity to goserelin following chemotherapy with 
vinorelbine in castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Grenader T(1), Goldberg A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Sha'are Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. 
talgrenader65@hotmail.com

Primary androgen ablation leads to symptomatic improvement and a reduction in 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) serum levels in patients with advanced prostate 
cancer, but all patients eventually become refractory to hormone therapy with 
progression of the disease and a life expectancy of about a year. We describe a 
patient who developed castration resistance, was treated with vinorelbine, and 
continues to be progression free on therapy with luteinizing hormone releasing 
hormone agonists alone, more than 2.5 years following cessation of treatment 
with vinorelbine.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2010.163
PMCID: PMC5763943
PMID: 20852824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2010 
Sep;53(9):890-5. doi: 10.1007/s00103-010-1118-8.

[Aspects of health economic evaluations as a contribution to the 
priority-setting debate in Germany].

[Article in German]

Brüggenjürgen B(1).

Author information:
(1)Steinbeis-Hochschule-Berlin, Gürtelstr. 29A/30, 10247 Berlin. 
bernd.brueggenjuergen@stw.de

Decision-making in healthcare is a priority-setting process. Tools used in 
health economic evaluation support decision-making by outlining complex 
interdependences, simulating short- and long-term consequences, and quantifying 
formal comparisons of health technologies. Key elements in health economic 
evaluations are patient-relevant outcomes and cost parameters. Costing of 
healthcare services is demanding and reflects only an approximation to reality, 
particularly in Germany, as the reimbursement schemes neither fully provide all 
details nor the different costing perspectives. Hence, in order to obtain 
uniform and cross-indication applicable cost parameters, a German standard cost 
dataset is necessary. In addition, patient-relevant and indication-specific sets 
of outcomes parameters should be agreed upon in order to also enable a reliable 
clinical product development. Economic aspects could be applied in a two-step 
decision-making approach, where initially the anticipated indication-specific 
technical efficiency level in terms of cost per adjusted life years would be 
assessed from a health system perspective. The second step would employ 
prioritization based on indication-relevant outcomes and ranking criteria in the 
individual patient decision situation. Health economic evaluations are relevant 
tools to support prioritization of health technologies, both on an individual as 
well as public health level.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-010-1118-8
PMID: 20853085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Bol Asoc Med P R. 2009 Oct-Dec;101(4):9-14.

Cardiovascular services and human resources in Puerto Rico - 2008.

García-Palmieri MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiology, Department of Medicine UPR School of Medicine, Puerto 
Rico Health Science Center, Rio Piedras, Puerto ico. mario.garcia2@upr.edu

Available information (2004-2008) concerning population statistics, the 
occurrence of cardiovascular disease, cardiovascular services and human 
resources in Puerto Rico is presented. Relevant information concerning life 
expectancy at birth, death by specific causes in a recent four years period, the 
commonest causes of death, and the related cardiovascular risk factors 
prevalence data available is included. The surgical and medical interventional 
services rendered to cardiovascular patients in different institutions and their 
locations in Puerto Rico in the year 2008 is presented. Some remarks concerning 
the productivity of physicians by our Schools of Medicine is included. 
Information about ACGME accredited postgraduate cardiovascular training programs 
conducted in Puerto Rico is presented. Data concerning the prevalence of 
hypertension, diabetes mellitus, overweight and obesity obtained by BRFSS in 
presented.

PMID: 20853554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Pathology. 2010;42(6):507-11. doi: 10.3109/00313025.2010.508791.

The senescence pathway in prostatic carcinogenesis.

Sharma S(1), Shin JS, Grimshaw M, Clarke RA, Lee CS.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Pathology and Cancer Biology Research Laboratory, Molecular 
Medicine Research Group, School of Medicine, University of Western Sydney, 
Australia. 16910078@student.uws.edu.au

Prostate cancer is a disease of the old and with increasing life expectancy, its 
incidence will continue to increase in the future. Control of prostate cancer 
has involved androgen ablation as a routine form of therapy. However, after an 
initial response, therapy-resistant clones can appear and result in cancer 
progression and metastasis with high mortality. The precise mechanisms for the 
development of androgen resistance are yet uncertain. It appears to be 
multi-factorial and relates not only to newly acquired genomic capabilities of 
the cancer cells but also to their interaction with their microenvironment. 
Overcoming cellular senescence is essential for oncogenesis. Although it seems 
to be a protective response for normal cells to avoid malignant transformation, 
senescence can on the other hand promote tumour progression. Interaction of 
senescent cancer cells with their microenvironment may be the key link to 
survival or regression of neoplastic cells. Hence, there is speculation that 
senescence may be a useful new target for therapy in the future. We review the 
role of senescence in prostate cancer and the effect of tumour microenvironment 
on androgen resistance.

DOI: 10.3109/00313025.2010.508791
PMID: 20854067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Med J Aust. 2010 Sep 20;193(6):320-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2010.tb03941.x.

Cost-effectiveness of lowering blood pressure with a fixed combination of 
perindopril and indapamide in type 2 diabetes mellitus: an ADVANCE trial-based 
analysis.

Glasziou PP(1), Clarke P, Alexander J, Rajmokan M, Beller E, Woodward M, 
Chalmers J, Poulter N, Patel A.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Bond University, Gold Coast, QLD, 
Australia. pglaszio@bond.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of routine administration, 
irrespective of blood pressure (BP), of a fixed-dose combination of perindopril 
and indapamide to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective cost-effectiveness analysis within 
the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron-MR 
Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial, an international, multicentre, randomised 
controlled trial of 11,140 participants with type 2 diabetes randomly allocated 
to receive perindopril plus indapamide (4 mg-1.25 mg/day) or placebo.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Health-related quality-of-life measured by the 
EuroQol-5D, resource utilisation, and cost-effectiveness (cost per death averted 
at 4.3 years' average follow-up, and estimated cost per life-year gained, by 
extrapolation).
RESULTS: The mean health-related quality-of-life score of survivors was 0.80 (on 
a 0-1 scale [death to full health]), with no difference between treatment 
groups. Active treatment reduced hospital admissions for coronary heart disease 
and coronary revascularisation by 5%. For the Australian participants, 
perindopril-indapamide cost A$1368 per patient during the trial period, but 
reduced total hospitalisation costs by A$410 and other medication costs (mainly 
other BP-lowering drugs) by A$332. The absolute reduction in all-cause mortality 
for the active treatment group was 1.1%, giving a cost per life saved of 
A$49,200. Lifetime extrapolation gave an estimated cost per life-year saved of 
A$10,040 (discounted at 5% per year).
CONCLUSION: The combination of perindopril and indapamide in patients with type 
2 diabetes appears to be cost-effective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: United States National Library of Medicine NCT00145925.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2010.tb03941.x
PMID: 20854235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2010 Oct;24(5):653-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-8206.2010.00868.x. Epub 2010 Sep 3.

Optimizing ICD programming for shock reduction.

Schwab JO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine-Cardiology, University of Bonn, Sigmund-Freud, Str. 
25, 53105 Bonn, Germany. joerg.schwab@ukb.uni-bonn.de

With the increasing numbers of patients with implantable 
cardioverter/defibrillators for primary prevention (PP), the topic of 
inappropriate therapy becomes more and more important. If a shock intervention, 
e.g. for rapidly conducted atrial fibrillation or fast VT (FVT), represents the 
first reminder of the implantable cardioverter/defibrillator (ICD), the 
adherence to the therapy will decrease. Moreover, anxiety to receive the next 
inappropriate ICD Rx is able to initiate a bad quality of life or depression. 
Starting with the PainFREE Rx II Trial results, the programming of 
antitachycardia pacing was able to terminate even fast ventricular arrhythmia, 
i.e. ≥ 188 bpm, in three of four episodes. Thereafter, several studies evaluated 
whether a prolongation in ventricular tachyarrhythmia (VT) detection is able to 
reduce unnecessary ICD Rx owing to nonsustained VT. The PREPARE trial evaluated 
this concept in a cohort of PP patients. This nonrandomized study compared a 
historical control group to patients with a prolonged detection interval. The 
results underline the idea that an extension in detection time leads to a 
significant decrease in ICD Rx for supra- as well as VT. The RELEVANT study 
investigated in a randomized fashion the outcome of an increase in detection 
time in nonischemic patients under CRT including an ICD. The findings clearly 
demonstrated a reduction in ICD Rx as well as hospital admissions, 
significantly. Currently, the ADVANCE III trial investigates a 30/40 interval 
detection compared to 18/24 for FVT in prospective randomized fashion in 
patients for primary or secondary prevention including all ICD devices.

© 2010 The Author Fundamental and Clinical Pharmacology © 2010 Société Française 
de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.2010.00868.x
PMID: 20854304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Aust Occup Ther J. 2010 Feb;57(1):17-23. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1630.2009.00841.x.

Happy and healthy only if occupied? Perceptions of health sciences students on 
occupation in later life.

Zecevic A(1), Magalhaes L, Madady M, Halligan M, Reeves A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, The University of Western Ontario, London, 
Ontario, Canada. azecevi2@uwo.ca

BACKGROUND/AIM:   In this study, we bring attention to the university education 
of health science students with respect to occupation in later life. Our goal 
was to provide descriptive data from narratives of a group of undergraduate 
students and initiate discussion about the place of occupation in the context of 
ageing to answer the following questions: (i) How young people perceive 
successful ageing in relation to occupation? and (ii) can spirituality-related 
activities be considered occupations in later life?
METHODS: Based on a thematic selection, the quality of photographs and 
reflective narratives, 60 Photovoice assignments created by health sciences 
students were analysed using content analysis.
RESULTS: The findings of this study indicate that students seem to neglect the 
benefits of 'being' through spiritual engagement, and instead emphasise the 
importance of 'doing', and perpetuate pervasive successful ageing discourses in 
Western societies.
CONCLUSIONS: Occupational therapists have potential to take an active role in 
undergraduate health science education and to inform the development of holistic 
models that would include spirituality as an avenue to live late life to its 
fullest potential. Photovoice emerged as a powerful teaching method to increase 
awareness, empathy and compassion of young adults towards ageing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1630.2009.00841.x
PMID: 20854561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Mol Aspects Med. 2010 Dec;31(6):546-57. doi: 10.1016/j.mam.2010.09.008. Epub 
2010 Sep 18.

Recommending flavanols and procyanidins for cardiovascular health: current 
knowledge and future needs.

Schroeter H(1), Heiss C, Spencer JP, Keen CL, Lupton JR, Schmitz HH.

Author information:
(1)Mars Inc., McLean, VA, USA. Hagen.Schroeter@effem.com

Data on the potential health benefits of dietary flavanols and procyanidins, 
especially in the context of cardiovascular health, are considerable and 
continue to accumulate. Significant progress has been made in flavanol analytics 
and the creation of phytonutrient-content food databases, and novel data 
emanated from epidemiological investigations as well as dietary intervention 
studies. However, a comprehensive understanding of the pharmacological 
properties of flavanols and procyanidins, including their precise mechanisms of 
action in vivo, and a conclusive, consensus-based accreditation of a causal 
relationship between intake and health benefits in the context of primary and 
secondary cardiovascular disease prevention is still outstanding. Thus, the 
objective of this review is to identify and discuss key questions and gaps that 
will need to be addressed in order to conclusively demonstrate whether or not 
dietary flavanols and procyanidins have a role in preventing, delaying the onset 
of, or treating cardiovascular diseases, and thus improving human life 
expectancy and quality of life.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mam.2010.09.008
PMID: 20854838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Meat Sci. 2011 Jan;87(1):33-9. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2010.06.026. Epub 2010
Sep  19.

The use of natural herbal extracts for improving the lipid stability and sensory 
characteristics of irradiated ground beef.

Mohamed HM(1), Mansour HA, Farag MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Hygiene and Control, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Cairo 
University, Giza, Egypt. mohamed.34@osu.edu

Ground Longissimus dorsi of beef were treated with herbal extracts of marjoram, 
rosemary and sage at concentration of 0.04% (v/w), radiation (2 or 4.5 kGy) or 
their combination. Treated samples were stored at 5°C and analyzed periodically 
for thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), sensory characteristics and 
psychrotrophic bacterial counts during storage for 41 and 48 days for samples 
treated at 2 and 4.5 kGy respectively. Results demonstrated a significant 
benefit of the addition of herbal extracts to the ground beef prior to 
irradiation. All three extracts significantly (P<0.05) lowered the TBARS values 
and off-odor scores and significantly (P<0.05) increased color and acceptability 
scores in all samples with marjoram being the most effective. The combination 
treatment with herbal extracts plus irradiation resulted in extension of the 
shelf life of samples treated with 2 kGy by one week and samples treated with 
4.5 kGy by two weeks, over that treated with irradiation alone. In conclusion, 
the addition of herbal extracts can minimize lipid oxidation, improve color and 
decrease off-odor production in irradiated ground beef.
