uncertainty regarding how great a proportion of pneumonia could be attributed to 
pneumococcal disease.

2010 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.06.016
PMID: 20728764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Clin Ther. 2010 Aug;32(8):1546-64. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.06.017.

Proceedings of the Modeling Evidence in HPV Pre-Conference Workshop in Malmö, 
Sweden, May 9-10, 2009.

Craig BM(1), Brisson M, Chesson H, Giuliano AR, Jit M.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, Tampa, Florida 33612-9416, 
USA. Benjamin.Craig@moffitt.org

BACKGROUND: Prominent published and active human papillomavirus (HPV) modelers 
from around the world were invited to participate in the inaugural Modeling 
Evidence in HPV (MEHPV) Pre-Conference Workshop on May 9-10, 2009, in Malmö, 
Sweden. The workshop took place directly before the 25th International 
Papillomavirus Conference.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the workshop was to develop an international network of 
investigators engaged in HPV modeling and to facilitate open discussion about 
the structure and parameterization of models, as well as other methodologic 
concerns.
METHODS: Thirty-four participants from more than a dozen countries and a variety 
of settings, representing the authors or coauthors of 82% of the HPV modeling 
literature, exchanged ideas on fundamental questions in the field. These 
proceedings, based on the 217-page transcript, were assembled by the Scientific 
Committee to summarize the ideas of workshop participants in a deidentified, 
readable fashion. They represent the work and recorded opinions of session 
participants and do not constitute the official positions of participants as a 
whole or individually, the Scientific Committee, or any sponsoring organization 
or entity.
RESULTS: In charting a path forward, 3 topics emerged as most pressing: best 
practices for HPV modeling, comparative modeling, and modeling in developing 
countries.
CONCLUSION: This summary of the proceedings of the preconference workshop on HPV 
modeling characterizes many of the prominent contemporary issues in the field.

2010 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.06.017
PMCID: PMC4095755
PMID: 20728767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. BMJ. 2010 Aug 20;341:c4093. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c4093.

Delivering the diabetes education and self management for ongoing and newly 
diagnosed (DESMOND) programme for people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes: 
cost effectiveness analysis.

Gillett M(1), Dallosso HM, Dixon S, Brennan A, Carey ME, Campbell MJ, Heller S, 
Khunti K, Skinner TC, Davies MJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield. m.gillett@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2010;341:c5818.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the long term clinical and cost effectiveness of the 
diabetes education and self management for ongoing and newly diagnosed (DESMOND) 
intervention compared with usual care in people with newly diagnosed type 2 
diabetes.
DESIGN: We undertook a cost-utility analysis that used data from a 12 month, 
multicentre, cluster randomised controlled trial and, using the Sheffield type 2 
diabetes model, modelled long term outcomes in terms of use of therapies, 
incidence of complications, mortality, and associated effect on costs and health 
related quality of life. A further cost-utility analysis was also conducted 
using current "real world" costs of delivering the intervention estimated for a 
hypothetical primary care trust.
SETTING: Primary care trusts in the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes.
INTERVENTION: A six hour structured group education programme delivered in the 
community by two professional healthcare educators.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained.
RESULTS: On the basis of the data in the trial, the estimated mean incremental 
lifetime cost per person receiving the DESMOND intervention is pound209 (95% 
confidence interval - pound704 to pound1137; euro251, -euro844 to euro1363; 
$326, -$1098 to $1773), the incremental gain in QALYs per person is 0.0392 
(-0.0813 to 0.1786), and the mean incremental cost per QALY is pound5387. Using 
"real world" intervention costs, the lifetime incremental cost of the DESMOND 
intervention is pound82 (- pound831 to pound1010) and the mean incremental cost 
per QALY gained is pound2092. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated 
that the likelihood that the DESMOND programme is cost effective at a threshold 
of pound20 000 per QALY is 66% using trial based intervention costs and 70% 
using "real world" costs. Results from a one way sensitivity analysis suggest 
that the DESMOND intervention is cost effective even under more modest 
assumptions that include the effects of the intervention being lost after one 
year.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the DESMOND intervention is likely to be 
cost effective compared with usual care, especially with respect to the real 
world cost of the intervention to primary care trusts, with reductions in weight 
and smoking being the main benefits delivered.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c4093
PMCID: PMC2924963
PMID: 20729270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the Unified Competing Interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support 
from any company for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any 
companies that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 3 
years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced 
the submitted work.


881. Alcohol Alcohol. 2010 Nov-Dec;45(6):548-51. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agq050. Epub
 2010 Aug 20.

Dramatic increase in alcoholic liver cirrhosis mortality in Estonia in 
1992-2008.

Pärna K(1), Rahu K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Tartu, Ravila 19, Tartu, Estonia. 
kersti.parna@ut.ee

AIMS: The aim of the study was to describe trends in alcoholic liver cirrhosis 
mortality rates in 1992-2008 and to examine socio-demographic differences in 
alcoholic liver cirrhosis mortality.
METHODS: Individual records of deaths from alcoholic liver cirrhosis among 
25-64-year olds in 1992-2008 in Estonia were analysed. Age-standardized 
mortality rates for men and women aged 25-44 and 45-64 were calculated. 
Association between alcoholic liver cirrhosis mortality and socio-demographic 
variables (age, education and ethnicity) for the data of the years around the 
census in 2000 was measured by mortality rate ratios using Poisson regression 
models.
RESULTS: In 1992-2008, alcoholic liver cirrhosis mortality rates were higher 
among men than that in women and that in the older than in the younger age 
group. Over the whole study period, mortality from alcoholic liver cirrhosis 
increased steeply. The increase was sharper among men and women in the older age 
group. In 1998-2001, higher alcoholic liver cirrhosis mortality rates occurred 
in non-Estonians and those with lower levels of education.
CONCLUSION: Alcoholic liver cirrhosis mortality has increased steadily in 
Estonia, and is reflected in an increase in heavy drinking. National alcohol 
policies should address all strata of society. However, in order to reduce 
alcohol-related damage in the population most effectively, special attention 
should be paid to non-Estonians and people with low levels of education.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agq050
PMID: 20729528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Health Econ. 2011 Jul;20(7):853-63. doi: 10.1002/hec.1651. Epub 2010 Aug 20.

What happens to value of information measures as the number of decision options 
increases?

Barton P(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. 
p.m.barton@bham.ac.uk

AIM: To explore what happens to the expected value of perfect information (EVPI) 
as an increasingly large number of decision options is considered.
METHODS: A stylised model of screening for a hypothetical cancer. The model was 
used to test different possible ages for 'once in a lifetime' screening under a 
variety of assumptions about model parameter uncertainty. Initial model runs 
only considered screening at ages which are multiples of 16 years, then 
multiples of 8 years were allowed, then 4 years, etc.
RESULTS: Effects of more refined choice sets on the cost-effectiveness 
acceptability frontier (CEAF) and EVPI are shown. The CEAF collapses to zero for 
threshold incremental cost-effectiveness ratios at which screening at some age 
is preferred to no screening, while the EVPI stabilises at a non-zero figure.
CONCLUSIONS: The CEAF is likely to be highly dependent on the choice of options 
when these are a selection from a very large set of possible options. In 
contrast, the EVPI can be reasonably approximated by a model with a slightly 
limited choice set.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1651
PMID: 20730782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Pol J Vet Sci. 2010;13(2):319-24.

Prevalence of gastrointestinal parasites in working horses.

Tavassoli M(1), Dalir-Naghadeh B, Esmaeili-Sani S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathobiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Urmia University, 
Sero Road, Nazloo, Postal Code: 57153-1177, Urmia, Iran. 
mtavassoli2000@yahoo.com

Fecal samples for detection of gastrointestinal parasites were collected from 
221 working horses from September 2002 to May 2003 from 14 villages in Urmia, 
North West of Iran. Fecal samples of 46 horses (20.8%) were negative for 
parasite eggs or oocysts. One hundred and seventy five positive horses (48.9%) 
were infected with a single parasite type and 49 (22.2%) and 18 (8.1%) of horses 
had multiple infections with two and three parasites, respectively. The highest 
prevalence and intensity rate belonged to small strongyles. The overall 
prevalence of intestinal parasites eggs and oocyst in the positive horses were: 
strongyles 72.9%, Oxyuris equi 22.6%, Parascaris equorum 12.2%, Anoplocephalidae 
6.3%, Fasciola spp. 3.2% and Eimeria leuckarti 0.5%. Larval identification 
showed that small strongyle larvae were most frequent (97.6%) followed by 
Strongylus edentatus (22.6%), S. equinus (18.5%) and S. vulgaris (6.5%). This 
study suggests that the high rate of infection with gastrointestinal parasites 
could contribute to low performance and life expectancy of working horses in the 
region.

PMID: 20731187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Przegl Epidemiol. 2010;64(2):287-92.

HIV/AIDS and aging.

Simon K(1), Simon R, Serafińska S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Hepatology and Acquired Immune 
Deficiencies, Wrocław University of Medicine, Poland. krzysimon@poczta.onet.pl

Average life expectancy in developed countries has rapidly increased in the 
middle of the 20th century and the geriatric problems have become an 
increasingly important issue. Many diseases in the elderly are more frequent and 
more severe in comparison to the younger population. This is certainly true for 
the infectious diseases which are in the elderly associated with poor outcome, 
moreover they have often the distinct features with respect to clinical 
presentation, laboratory and imaging test results, microbial epidemiology, and 
methods of treatment. The most important reasons why the diseases in the elderly 
are more frequent and more severe these are: typical for advanced age 
immunosenescence, malnutrition, large number of age-associated social, 
psychological, economical, moreover physiological and anatomical alterations. 
The older HIV positive adults, have lower CD4 counts at moment of diagnosis, 
faster progression to AIDS, more opportunistic infections, shorter survival rate 
than younger adults--regardless of when they were first diagnosed with HIV.

PMID: 20731239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2010 Sep;19(9):1683-703. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2009.1809.

Work-life policies for Canadian medical faculty.

Gropper A(1), Gartke K, MacLaren M.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Medical Association, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: This study aims to catalogue and examine the following work-life 
flexibility policies at all 17 Canadian medical schools: maternity leave, 
paternity leave, adoption leave, extension of the probationary period for family 
responsibilities, part-time faculty appointments, job sharing, and child care.
METHODS: The seven work-life policies of Canadian medical schools were 
researched using a consistent and systematic method. This method involved an 
initial web search for policy information, followed by e-mail and telephone 
contact. The flexibility of the policies was scored 0 (least flexible) to 3 
(most flexible).
RESULTS: The majority of policies were easily accessible online. Work-life 
policies were scored out of 3, and average policy scores ranged from 0.47 for 
job sharing to 2.47 for part-time/work reduction. Across schools, total scores 
ranged from 7 to 16 out of 21. Variation in scores was noted for parenting leave 
and child care, whereas minimal variation was noted for other policies.
CONCLUSIONS: Canadian medical schools are committed to helping medical faculty 
achieve work-life balance, but improvements can be made in the policies offered 
at all schools. Improving the quality of work flexibility policies will enhance 
working conditions and job satisfaction for faculty. This could potentially 
reduce Canada's loss of talented young academicians.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2009.1809
PMID: 20731613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Can J Aging. 2010 Sep;29(3):369-82. doi: 10.1017/S0714980810000309.

Aging and health: an examination of differences between older Aboriginal and 
non-Aboriginal people.

Wilson K(1), Rosenberg MW, Abonyi S, Lovelace R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Toronto Mississauga, ON. 
kathi.wilson@utoronto.ca

The Aboriginal population in Canada, much younger than the general population, 
has experienced a trend towards aging over the past decade. Using data from the 
2001 Aboriginal Peoples Survey (APS) and the 2000/2001 Canadian Community Health 
Survey (CCHS), this article examines differences in health status and the 
determinants of health and health care use between the 55-and-older Aboriginal 
population and non-Aboriginal population. The results show that the older 
Aboriginal population is unhealthier than the non-Aboriginal population across 
all age groups; differences in health status, however, appear to converge as age 
increases. Among those aged 55 to 64, 7 per cent of the Aboriginal population 
report three or more chronic conditions compared with 2 per cent of the 
non-Aboriginal population. Yet, among those aged 75 and older, 51 per cent of 
the Aboriginal population report three or more chronic conditions in comparison 
with 23 per cent of the non-Aboriginal population.

DOI: 10.1017/S0714980810000309
PMID: 20731890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Sep 20;28(27):4214-20. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.28.0719.
Epub  2010 Aug 23.

Expanding the criteria for BRCA mutation testing in breast cancer survivors.

Kwon JS(1), Gutierrez-Barrera AM, Young D, Sun CC, Daniels MS, Lu KH, Arun B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of British Columbia and British 
Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
jkwon@post.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2010 Nov;7(11):611.

PURPOSE: Every year approximately 25% of women diagnosed with breast cancer are 
younger than 50 years of age, and almost 10% of them have a BRCA mutation. Not 
all potential carriers are identified by existing criteria for BRCA testing. We 
estimated the costs and benefits of different BRCA testing criteria for women 
with breast cancer younger than 50 years.
METHODS: We developed a Markov Monte Carlo simulation to compare six criteria 
for BRCA mutation testing: (1) no testing (reference); (2) medullary breast 
cancer in patients younger than 50 years; (3) any breast cancer in patients 
younger than 40 years; (4) triple negative (TN) breast cancer in patients 
younger than 40 years; (5) TN breast cancer in patients younger than 50 years; 
(6) any breast cancer in patients younger than 50 years. Net health benefits 
were life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy, and primary outcome 
was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). The model estimated the 
number of new breast and ovarian cancer cases.
RESULTS: BRCA mutation testing for all women with breast cancer who were younger 
than 50 years could prevent the highest number of breast and ovarian cancer 
cases, but with unfavorable ICERs. Testing women with TN breast cancers who were 
younger than 50 years was cost-effective with an ICER of $8,027 per year of life 
gained ($9,084 per quality-adjusted life-year), and could reduce subsequent 
breast and ovarian cancer risks by 23% and 41%, respectively, compared with the 
reference strategy.
CONCLUSION: Testing women with TN breast cancers who were younger than 50 years 
for BRCA mutations is a cost-effective strategy and should be adopted into 
current guidelines for genetic testing.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.28.0719
PMID: 20733129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Neurology. 2010 Aug 24;75(8):732-41. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181eee4d5.

MYH7 gene tail mutation causing myopathic profiles beyond Laing distal myopathy.

Muelas N(1), Hackman P, Luque H, Garcés-Sánchez M, Azorín I, Suominen T, Sevilla 
T, Mayordomo F, Gómez L, Martí P, María Millán J, Udd B, Vílchez JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitario La Fe, Avda. Campanar 21, 
46009 Valencia, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To describe a wide range of clinical and pathologic myopathic 
profiles associated with the p.K1729del mutation in the MYH7 gene, known to 
cause Laing distal myopathy.
METHODS: A study conducted in the Safor region (Spain), setting of a large 
cluster of patients. Clinical, neurophysiologic, muscle imaging, and muscle 
biopsy studies and MYH7 gene sequencing were investigated in 32 patients from 4 
kindreds. Data from 36 deceased or nonexamined patients were collected from 
hospital records or relatives.
RESULTS: Onset ranged from congenital to the 6th decade. All patients presented 
weakness of great toe/ankle dorsiflexors and many had associated neck flexor, 
finger extensor, and mild facial weakness. In most cases, involvement of 
proximal and axial muscles was observed either clinically or by muscle imaging, 
sometimes giving rise to scapuloperoneal and limb-girdle syndromes. Disabling 
myalgias, skeletal deformities, and dilated cardiomyopathy in one patient were 
associated features. Life expectancy was not reduced but the spectrum of 
disability ranged from asymptomatic to wheelchair confined. Electromyographic 
neurogenic features were frequently recorded. Muscle fiber type disproportion, 
core/minicore lesions, and mitochondrial abnormalities were the most relevant 
pathologic alterations. All patients carried the p.K1729del mutation in MYH7.
CONCLUSIONS: The p.K1729del mutation in the MYH7 gene expresses notable clinical 
variability and electromyographic and pathologic features that can lead to the 
misdiagnosis of neurogenic atrophies, congenital myopathies, or mitochondrial 
myopathies. Mutations in genes encoding other sarcomeric and 
reticulo-sarcoplasmic proteins involved in calcium regulation share pathologic 
characteristics with our patients, suggesting a possible pathogenetic 
connection.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181eee4d5
PMID: 20733148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2011 Mar;19(3):412-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-010-1242-x. Epub 2010 Aug 24.

Surgery for ACL deficiency in patients over 50.

Osti L(1), Papalia R, Del Buono A, Leonardi F, Denaro V, Maffulli N.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Arthroscopy and Sports Trauma Surgery, Hesperia Hospital, Via Arquà 
80/b, Modena, Italy.

Comment in
    Z Orthop Unfall. 2011 Oct;149(5):504-5.

PURPOSE: To compare the outcomes of arthroscopic ACL reconstruction procedure in 
20 middle-aged patients (12 men and 8 women) and 20 subjects younger than 
30 years (control group) at a minimum post-operative follow-up of 24 months.
METHODS: Pre- and post-operative anterior-posterior laxity was assessed by 
Lachman test, pivot shift test and KT1000 arthrometer at manual maximum stress. 
Clinical functional evaluation was assessed according to IKDC Committee (IKDC) 
subjective knee form, IKDC ligament standard evaluation and Lysholm score.
RESULTS: At 2 years, all variables significantly improved in both groups 
compared to pre-operative values (P < 0.05), with non-significant intergroup 
difference.
CONCLUSIONS: When faced with ACL deficiency, physiological age, condition of the 
knee at the time of examination, life expectancy and activity level are probably 
more important than chronologic age. In the present study, arthroscopic surgery 
for the management of ACL tear and secondary lesions provides comparable 
clinical outcomes in middle-aged patients and in patients aged below 30.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-010-1242-x
PMID: 20734026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2010 Nov;124(1):163-75. doi:
10.1007/s10549-010-1126-2.  Epub 2010 Aug 24.

Multimodal exercise improves quality of life of women being treated for breast 
cancer, but at what cost? Randomized trial with economic evaluation.

Haines TP(1), Sinnamon P, Wetzig NG, Lehman M, Walpole E, Pratt T, Smith A.

Author information:
(1)Allied Health Clinical Research Unit, Kingston Centre, Southern Health, 
Cheltenham, Victoria 3192, Australia. terrence.haines@med.monash.edu.au

To evaluate the efficacy and economic efficiency of a multimedia, multimodal 
physical activity program for women undergoing adjuvant therapy following 
surgery for breast cancer. We conducted a randomized trial with concurrent 
incremental cost-effectiveness analysis and blinded baseline, 3, 6 and 12-month 
follow-up assessments amongst women undergoing adjuvant therapy following 
surgery for breast cancer (n = 89). The intervention was a multimedia, 
multimodal exercise program comprising strength, balance and endurance training 
elements. The control was sham flexibility and relaxation program delivered 
using similar materials. The primary outcome was health-related quality of life 
(EQ-5D & VAS, EORTC C30, BR23). Economic outcomes included direct health care 
costs and productivity gains and losses. Participants in the intervention group 
demonstrated greater improvement in health-related quality of life between 
baseline and the 3-month assessment [mean (sd) EQ-5D VAS (0-100) baseline: 72.6 
(15.6), 3 month: 80.6 (11.6)] when compared to control group participants 
[baseline: 77.5 (13.5), 3 month: 74.1 (20.6), P = 0.006] and also improved more 
in terms of physical function [mean (sd) EORTC C30 physical function scale 
intervention (0-100) baseline: 84.9 (14.8), 3 month: 86.9 (10.7), control 
baseline: 91.3 (9.6), 3 month: 86.7 (14.9), P = 0.02]. These improvements were 
not sustained beyond this point. Upper limb volumes were also lower amongst 
intervention group participants. However, there was low probability that the 
intervention would be both less costly and more effective than the control 
condition (range probability = 0.05-50.02% depending on approach). Provision of 
multimodal exercise programs will improve the short-term health of women 
undergoing adjuvant therapy for breast cancer but are of questionable economic 
efficiency.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-010-1126-2
PMID: 20734132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Swiss Med Wkly. 2010 Aug 24;140:w13077. doi: 10.4414/smw.2010.13077.
eCollection  2010.

Premature deaths in Switzerland from 1995-2006: causes and trends.

Savidan A(1), Junker C, Cerny T, Ess S.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Registry, Krebsliga St. Gallen-Appenzell, Flurhofstr. 7, 9000 St. 
Gallen, Switzerland. anitasavidan@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: Mortality expressed as potential years of life lost (PYLL) underscores 
premature and preventable mortality. We analysed causes of and trends in 
premature death in Switzerland to highlight the areas which provide the greatest 
potential outcome for preventive measures.
METHODS: Premature mortality rates and trends from 1995-2006 were examined by 
reviewing potential years of life lost between age 1 and 70, as the upper age 
limit, considering 4 main categories: circulatory diseases, cancer, external 
causes of mortality and other causes, and 19 specific causes of death. Trends 
were assessed using join point analysis with PYLL expressed as age-standardised 
rate. The analysis was based on the official death certification files provided 
by the Swiss Federal Statistical Office.
RESULTS: Age adjusted PYLL rates decreased for all categories of causes, but the 
decline in cancers was modest compared to circulatory diseases and external 
causes. The strongest downward trends were observed for AIDS, traffic accidents 
and ischaemic heart disease. In women breast cancer contributed most to the 
decline of premature mortality but remains the first cause of early death. Lung 
cancer in women is the only cause of premature mortality with rising trends.
CONCLUSIONS: Past efforts in prevention, early detection and treatment, but also 
a healthier lifestyle and other factors, have very probably contributed to the 
considerable reduction in the rate of potential years of life lost, but the 
rising rate of premature mortality caused by lung cancer in women is of concern. 
Persistent efforts in prevention and early detection are required to further 
reduce premature death and its burden on society.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2010.13077
PMID: 20734281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. J Oral Implantol. 2010;36(4):305-14. doi: 10.1563/AAID-JOI-D-09-00069.

A noninterventional study documenting use and success of implants with a new 
chemically modified titanium surface in daily dental practice.

Luongo G(1), Oteri G.

Author information:
(1)giuseppeluongo@studioluongo.it

A new chemically modified titanium surface, SLActive, has recently been 
developed. The results obtained in controlled clinical trials indicate that this 
implant can be safely used and that it offers predictable results. The goal of 
this noninterventional study was to verify that the success rates of implants 
used in daily dental practice are comparable to those reported in controlled 
clinical trials. This study was a prospective, noninterventional study using 
implants with a chemically modified surface according to the daily dental 
practice procedures applied by private practitioners. The choice of the 
implantation procedure and the loading protocol were the responsibility of the 
investigator and were chosen according to the patient's needs. Thirty clinical 
centers actively participated in this study, and 226 patients were treated, of 
which, 8 patients were lost to follow-up. Because of the noninterventional 
design of the study, the patients were not selected according to strictly 
defined inclusion/exclusion criteria. Thus, the study included individuals with 
risk factors such as smoking (24%), untreated gingivitis or periodontitis (9%), 
and bruxism (6%). The implants were equally distributed between mandible (46%) 
and maxilla (54%). A bone augmentation procedure was done in 31% of the cases. 
Early loading (functional loading between 48 hours and 3 months after implant 
insertion) was applied most frequently (48%), followed by the conventional 
loading protocol (3 to 6 months after implant placement, 34%). Immediate 
restoration and immediate loading were rare (7% and 2%, respectively). Of 276 
implants inserted and documented, 5 implants failures were reported, all of 
which were associated with a sinus floor augmentation procedure. The survival 
rate was 98.2% at the 1-year follow-up visit. The results showed that implants 
with a chemically modified surface can be successfully restored with success 
rates similar to those reported in formal clinical trials under more controlled 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1563/AAID-JOI-D-09-00069
PMID: 20735267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Gerodontology. 2010 Sep;27(3):165-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00424.x.

Retire or not to retire - but will there be a pension?

Newton JP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00424.x
PMID: 20735491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Can J Urol. 2010 Aug;17(4):5245-6.

Expectant management--what is "limited life expectancy".

Jarrett TW.

PMID: 20735900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Oct;71(7):1249-1253. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.07.014.
 Epub 2010 Aug 3.

Has the English strategy to reduce health inequalities failed?

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands. Electronic address: j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.07.014
PMID: 20736133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Transfus Med Hemother. 2010 Jun;37(3):131-139. doi: 10.1159/000314281. Epub
2010  May 20.

Demographic Changes in Germany up to 2060 - Consequences for Blood Donation.

Ehling M(1), Pötzsch O.

Author information:
(1)Statistisches Bundesamt, Wiesbaden, Germany.

This paper outlines the results of a most recent model calculation regarding the 
structure and development of Germany's population by 2060 with the aim to 
provide basic demographic data for the future provision of blood components to 
the population. Firstly, the paper describes the assumptions on fertility, life 
expectancy and Germany's balance of immigration and emigration which formed the 
basis for the projection. The following part discusses the results, quantifies 
future changes in the size and age structure of Germany's population, and 
illustrates the effects of demographic trends which can be identified from 
today's point of view. The number of potential blood donors will decline in 
absolute and relative terms (related to the total population and the age group 
of 'non-donors') in the future. This holds true for both the age bracket of 18 
to 68 years and the alternatively chosen age group of 17 to 70 years. Depending 
on the variant, the population of blood donation age will decrease by one 
quarter to one third until 2060.

In dem Aufsatz wird eine aktuelle Modellrechnung über die Struktur und 
Entwicklung der Bevölkerung in Deutschland bis 2060 vorgelegt, um demographische 
Basisdaten für die künftige Versorgung der Bevölkerung mit Blutkomponenten zu 
liefern. Zuerst werden die Annahmen zur Geburtenhäufigkeit, zur Lebenserwartung 
und zum Saldo der Zuzüge nach und der Fortzüge aus Deutschland, auf denen die 
Vorausberechnung beruht, erläutert. Im Ergebnisteil werden die künftigen 
Veränderungen in der Größe und im Altersaufbau der Bevölkerung Deutschlands 
quantifiziert und die Auswirkungen der aus heutiger Sicht absehbaren 
demografischen Entwicklungen aufgezeigt. Die Altergruppe der potenziellen 
Blutspender wird künftig sowohl bei der Abgrenzung von 18 bis 68 Jahren als auch 
bei der alternativ gerechneten Abgrenzung von 17 bis 70 Jahren absolut und 
relativ – in Bezug auf die Gesamtbevölkerung und auf die Altersgruppe der 
«Nichtspender» – abnehmen. Je nach Variante wird die Bevölkerung in 
blutspendefähigem Alter bis zum Jahr 2060 um ein Viertel bis zu einem Drittel 
schrumpfen.

DOI: 10.1159/000314281
PMCID: PMC2914425
PMID: 20737016


897. Adv Ther. 2010 Oct;27(10):691-703. doi: 10.1007/s12325-010-0061-2. Epub 2010
Aug  19.

Self-expandable metallic stents for malignant gastric outlet obstruction.

Boškoski I(1), Tringali A, Familiari P, Mutignani M, Costamagna G.

Author information:
(1)Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

Duodenal self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) are designed for palliation and 
prompt relief of malignant gastric outlet obstruction (GOO). This mini-invasive 
endoscopic treatment is preferable to surgery due to its lower morbidity and 
mortality, shorter hospitalization, and earlier symptoms relief; furthermore 
endoscopic enteral stenting can be performed under conscious sedation, reducing 
the risk of general anesthesia in these already fragile patients. The stent 
placement technique is well established and should be performed in referral 
centers with adequate materials and equipment. Duodenal stents can be covered 
and uncovered. Nitinol stents have almost replaced other materials, being more 
flexible with a satisfactory axial and radial force. Common duodenal 
SEMS-related complications are recurrence of GOO symptoms due to stent clogging 
(tissue ingrowth/overgrowth and food impaction) and stent migration. These 
complications can be usually managed endoscopically. Perforation and bleeding 
are the most severe, but rare, complications. After stent placement, malignant 
GOO patients usually have improvement of the GOO symptoms with good resumption 
of fluids and solids. Choosing the most appropriate type of stent is arduous and 
should be done mainly in relation to the morphological aspects of the stricture. 
Endoscopic duodenal SEMS placement is indicated in symptomatic GOO patients 
suffering from unresectable malignancy or those inoperable due to advanced age 
or comorbidities. The absence of peritoneal carcinomatosis and multiple small 
bowel strictures is a key point for the clinical success of duodenal SEMS. 
Almost all symptomatic malignant GOO patients are candidates for the duodenal 
SEMS procedure; resolution of GOO, avoiding the need for a permanent 
naso-gastric or percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube, significantly improves 
the patients' quality of life and dignity, even if life expectancy is short. 
Endoscopic duodenal SEMS insertion, after an adequate training, is a 
reproducible, simple, safe, and cost-effective procedure.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-010-0061-2
PMID: 20737260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Hum Psychopharmacol. 2010 Aug;25(6):439-47. doi: 10.1002/hup.1143.

Relative association of treatment-emergent adverse events with quality of life 
of patients with schizophrenia: post hoc analysis from a 3-year observational 
study.

Adrianzén C(1), Arango-Dávila C, Araujo DM, Ruíz I, Walton RJ, Dossenbach M, 
Karagianis J.

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly Perú, Lima, Perú. cadrianzen@lilly.com

OBJECTIVE: To explore the relative association of adverse events with 
health-related quality of life (HRQL) in patients (N = 16 091) with 
schizophrenia, treated with antipsychotic medication.
METHODS: In this post hoc analysis of data from two 3-year observational 
studies, a mixed effects model with repeated measures was used to evaluate the 
association between HRQL (EuroQoL visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS)) and 
pre-specified covariates including: severity of illness, extrapyramidal 
symptoms, tardive dyskinesia, sexual dysfunction, and clinically significant 
weight gain (> 7% increase from baseline after > or = 3 months of treatment).
RESULTS: Mean EQ-VAS increased from 47.8 +/- 21.7 at baseline to 72.4 +/- 18.4 
after 36 months. The rank order of the negative association of adverse events 
with HRQL was: sexual dysfunction (effect estimate -4.04; 95% CI -4.30 to 
-3.79), extrapyramidal symptoms (effect estimate -2.09; 95% CI -2.43 to -1.75), 
and tardive dyskinesia (effect estimate -0.89; 95% CI -1.46 to -0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: Differences were observed in the direction and magnitude of the 
association between each adverse event and HRQL. Recognition of the relative 
association of adverse events with HRQL may contribute to improved adherence of 
patients with schizophrenia to antipsychotic therapy.

Copyright 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hup.1143
PMID: 20737517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Acta Med Indones. 2010 Jan;42(1):45-50.

Biomolecular markers as determinants of patients selection for adjuvant 
chemotherapy of sporadic colorectal cancers.

Sudoyo AW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Indonesia 
- dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jakarta Pusat 10430, Indonesia. 
arusudoyo@gmail.com

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a disease classified and based on genetic alteration 
resulting from interaction of environmental factors, individual cancer 
susceptibility and accumulated somatic changes of the colorectal epithelium. 
Advanced knowledge in genetics and epigenetics of colorectal cancer develops a 
hypothesis that various clinical manifestations of colorectal cancer are caused 
by different carcinogenesis pathways. Different carcinogenesis pathways and 
types of colorectal cancer appear to bring effects on different response against 
chemotherapy and prognosis. Chemotherapy is mainly provided for patients with 
stage III CRC which are also the largest proportion of CRC patients in 
Indonesia. However, it is also provided for some patients with high risk stage 
II CRC. Classically, clinical factors have been generally accepted as prognostic 
factors including depth of tumor invasion, regional nodal metastasis, vascular 
invasion, poor differentiation, and serologic tumor marker such as 
carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). However, clinical and histopathological factors 
themselves do not provide accurate prediction for colorectal cancer prognosis 
and treatment. A biomolecular marker is necessary to provide such prediction. 
Numerous studies have been conducted to evaluate the molecular biological 
markers in order to determine either the possibility of successful treatment for 
colorectal cancer (predictive factor) or life-expectancy (prognostic factor). 
Results of several studies demonstrate different status of some molecular 
markers to determine successful treatment between stage II and stage III 
colorectal cancer. Certainly, such finding should be followed up but it shall be 
accepted that there will be a shift of paradigm of CRC treatment. Therefore, the 
success of colorectal cancer, excluding the patient's socioeconomic factors and 
the surgeon's skill, will depend extremely on molecular parameter and not only 
the stage.

PMID: 20737746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Soc Secur Bull. 2010;70(3):111-37.

The future financial status of the Social Security program.

Goss SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Security Administration, USA.

The concepts of solvency, sustainability, and budget impact are common in 
discussions of Social Security, but are not well understood. Currently, the 
Social Security Board of Trustees projects program cost to rise by 2035 so that 
taxes will be enough to pay for only 75 percent of scheduled benefits. This 
increase in cost results from population aging, not because we are living 
longer, but because birth rates dropped from three to two children per woman. 
Importantly, this shortfall is basically stable after 2035; adjustments to taxes 
or benefits that offset the effects of the lower birth rate may restore solvency 
for the Social Security program on a sustainable basis for the foreseeable 
future. Finally, as Treasury debt securities (trust fund assets) are redeemed in 
the future, they will just be replaced with public debt. If trust fund assets 
are exhausted without reform, benefits will necessarily be lowered with no 
effect on budget deficits.

PMID: 20737861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2010;678:21-5. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6306-2_5.

The impact of chemo brain on the patient with a high-grade glioma.

Lucas MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Stephen E. and Catherine Pappas Center for Neuro-Oncology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, 55 Fruit Street--YAW 9E, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. 
mrlucas@partners.org

Health-related quality of life for patients with high-grade gliomas has always 
been poor. The multiple insults to the brain-tumor existence and surgical 
procedures, irradiation, the level of stress and anxiety suffered and the 
adjuvant medications--steroids and anti-convulsants, all combine to diminish 
their health-related quality of life. Prior to the development of chemotherapy 
agents capable of penetrating the blood brain barrier, prognosis was 6 to 18 
months. Life expectancy was short and there was little time to address the 
health-related quality of life. The newer agents have served to extend life, but 
have added another condition to the existing poor health-related quality of 
life, i.e., chemo brain. Chemo brain affects all cognitive function. The 
patients have great difficulty processing information. They have reduced 
attentional and concentration capability and cannot learn new information. The 
overall impact on their lives renders them unemployable and places a great 
burden on their families and on society. This chapter provides an overview of 
the patient experience and the burden placed on their families and on society.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6306-2_5
PMID: 20738003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2010 Aug;1204:11-20. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05611.x.

Life historical perspectives on human reproductive aging.

Ellison PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Evolutionary Anthropology, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02138, USA. pellison@fas.harvard.edu

A commentary is offered on the chapters that comprise the section on Theoretical 
Foundations, emphasizing novel contributions of each. Three additional points 
are then made. First, while the biology of reproductive aging may be common to 
all human populations, its actual course can be expected to vary between 
individuals and between populations depending on ecological conditions and 
developmental histories. Second, increasing fertility (such as that typical of 
humans compared with hominoid relatives and imputed ancestral species) decreases 
the opportunity and impact of contributions from ascendant relatives and 
increases the opportunity and impact of contributions from collateral and 
descendent relatives in promoting the fitness of a focal individual. Finally, an 
argument is made that the major change in human life history physiology in the 
Pleistocene has been the extension of adult lifespan, not any change in ovarian 
physiology or rate of reproductive senescence, and that extended lifespan 
created a selection pressure for the emergence of indirect reproductive effort 
among postreproductive individuals, not the reverse.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05611.x
PMID: 20738271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Vet Intern Med. 2010 Nov-Dec;24(6):1421-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1939-1676.2010.0583.x. Epub 2010 Aug 24.

Perceptions of quality of life and priorities of owners of cats with heart 
disease.

Reynolds CA(1), Oyama MA, Rush JE, Rozanski EA, Singletary GE, Brown DC, 
Cunningham SM, Fox PR, Bond B, Adin DB, Williams RM, MacDonald KA, Malakoff R, 
Sleeper MM, Schober KE, Petrie JP, Hogan DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Studies-Philadelphia, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND: Owners' perceptions and priorities regarding quality of life (QoL) 
are important considerations given the unknown efficacy of many commonly 
administered medications, stress of hospital visits, difficulties providing home 
care, and personal choices including euthanasia.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the relative importance of quality versus quantity of 
life to owners of cats with heart disease.
ANIMALS: Two hundred and thirty-nine cats with heart disease.
METHODS: Prospective questionnaire-based clinical study. Cat owners completed a 
questionnaire to identify important parameters when assessing their cat's QoL, 
the relative importance of quality versus quantity of life, and willingness to 
trade survival time for QoL. Variables associated with these parameters were 
evaluated with multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: Appetite, owner interaction, sleep patterns, and litterbox habits were 
deemed important to QoL. Concern over pet suffering was significantly greater 
than concern over life expectancy. Ninety-three percent of owners were willing 
to trade survival time for good QoL; 57% of these were willing to trade up to 6 
months. On multivariate analysis, the only factor significantly (P=.002) 
associated with willingness to trade 6 months was study site. Owner concern 
regarding stress of administering medications at home increased with number and 
frequency of medications.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These results indicated that QoL is more 
important to owners of cats with heart disease than longevity. The various 
priorities and concerns of cat owners should be taken into account in order to 
provide optimal care.

Copyright © 2010 by the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1939-1676.2010.0583.x
PMID: 20738770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Aug;14(40):1-188, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta14400.

Systematic review and economic modelling of the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of non-surgical treatments for women with stress urinary 
incontinence.

Imamura M(1), Abrams P, Bain C, Buckley B, Cardozo L, Cody J, Cook J, Eustice S, 
Glazener C, Grant A, Hay-Smith J, Hislop J, Jenkinson D, Kilonzo M, Nabi G, 
N'Dow J, Pickard R, Ternent L, Wallace S, Wardle J, Zhu S, Vale L.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
non-surgical treatments for women with stress urinary incontinence (SUI) through 
systematic review and economic modelling.
DATA SOURCES: The Cochrane Incontinence Group Specialised Register, electronic 
databases and the websites of relevant professional organisations and 
manufacturers, and the following databases: CINAHL, EMBASE, BIOSIS, Science 
Citation Index and Social Science Citation Index, Current Controlled Trials, 
ClinicalTrials.gov and the UKCRN Portfolio Database.
STUDY SELECTION: The study comprised three distinct elements. (1) A survey of 
188 women with SUI to identify outcomes of importance to them (activities of 
daily living; sex, hygiene and lifestyle issues; emotional health; and the 
availability of services). (2) A systematic review and meta-analysis of 
non-surgical treatments for SUI to find out which are most effective by 
comparing results of trials (direct pairwise comparisons) and by modelling 
results (mixed-treatment comparisons - MTCs). A total of 88 randomised 
controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs reporting data from 9721 women were 
identified, considering five generic interventions [pelvic floor muscle training 
(PFMT), electrical stimulation (ES), vaginal cones (VCs), bladder training (BT) 
and serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) medications], in many 
variations and combinations. Data were available for 37 interventions and 68 
treatment comparisons by direct pairwise assessment. Mixed-treatment comparison 
models compared 14 interventions, using data from 55 trials (6608 women). (3) 
Economic modelling, using a Markov model, to find out which combinations of 
treatments (treatment pathways) are most cost-effective for SUI.
DATA EXTRACTION: Titles and abstracts identified were assessed by one reviewer 
and full-text copies of all potentially relevant reports independently assessed 
by two reviewers. Any disagreements were resolved by consensus or arbitration by 
a third person.
RESULTS: Direct pairwise comparison and MTC analysis showed that the treatments 
were more effective than no treatment. Delivering PFMT in a more intense 
fashion, either through extra sessions or with biofeedback (BF), appeared to be 
the most effective treatment [PFMT extra sessions vs no treatment (NT) odds 
ratio (OR) 10.7, 95% credible interval (CrI) 5.03 to 26.2; PFMT + BF vs NT OR 
12.3, 95% CrI 5.35 to 32.7]. Only when success was measured in terms of 
improvement was there evidence that basic PFMT was better than no treatment 
(PFMT basic vs NT OR 4.47, 95% CrI 2.03 to 11.9). Analysis of cost-effectiveness 
showed that for cure rates, the strategy using lifestyle changes and PFMT with 
extra sessions followed by tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) (lifestyle 
advice-PFMT extra sessions-TVT) had a probability of greater than 70% of being 
considered cost-effective for all threshold values for willingness to pay for a 
QALY up to 50,000 pounds. For improvement rates, lifestyle advice-PFMT extra 
sessions-TVT had a probability of greater than 50% of being considered 
cost-effective when society's willingness to pay for an additional QALY was more 
than 10,000 pounds. The results were most sensitive to changes in the long-term 
performance of PFMT and also in the relative effectiveness of basic PFMT and 
PFMT with extra sessions.
LIMITATIONS: Although a large number of studies were identified, few data were 
available for most comparisons and long-term data were sparse. Challenges for 
evidence synthesis were the lack of consensus on the most appropriate method for 
assessing incontinence and intervention protocols that were complex and varied 
considerably across studies.
CONCLUSIONS: More intensive forms of PFMT appear worthwhile, but further 
research is required to define an optimal form of more intensive therapy that is 
feasible and efficient for the NHS to provide, along with further definitive 
evidence from large, well-designed studies.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14400
PMID: 20738930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Orv Hetil. 2010 Sep 5;151(36):1455-60. doi: 10.1556/OH.2010.28865.

[Biological significance of naturally occurring deuterium: the antitumor effect 
of deuterium depletion].

[Article in Hungarian]

Somlyai G(1), Molnár M, Laskay G, Szabó M, Berkényi T, Guller I, Kovács A.

Author information:
(1)HYD Rákkutató és Gyógyszerfejleszto Kft. Budapest Pf. 695 1539. 
gsomlyai@hyd.hu

The concentration of deuterium is about 150 ppm (over 16 mmol/L) in surface 
water and more than 10 mmol/L in living organisms. Experiments with deuterium 
depleted water (30+/-5 ppm) revealed that due to D-depletion various tumorous 
cell lines (PC-3, human prostate, MDA, human breast, HT-29, human colon, M14, 
human melanoma) required longer time to multiply in vitro. DDW caused tumor 
regression in xenotransplanted mice (MDA and MCF-7, human breast, PC-3) and 
induced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Deuterium depleted water (25+/-5 ppm) 
induced complete or partial tumor regression in dogs and cats with spontaneous 
malignancies, it was registered as anticancer for veterinary use in 1999 
(Vetera-DDW-25 A.U.V., 13/99 FVM). The hypodermic preparation of the registered 
veterinary drug was successfully tested in clinical investigations. Under the 
permission of the Hungarian Institute of Pharmacology (No. 5621/40/95) a 
randomized, double blind controlled, human Phase II clinical trial with prostate 
cancer was performed, in compliance with GCP principles, which exhibited a 
significant difference between the control and treated groups with respect to 
the examined parameters, median survival time and the extension of life-span. We 
suggest that cells are able to regulate the D/H ratio and the changes in the D/H 
ratio can trigger certain molecular mechanisms having a key role in cell cycle 
regulation. We suppose that not the shift in the intracellular pH, but the 
concomitant increase in the D/H ratio is the real trigger for the cells to enter 
into S phase. The decrease of D concentration can intervene in the signal 
transduction pathways thus leading to tumor regression. Deuterium depletion may 
open new perspectives in cancer treatment and prevention helping to increase the 
effectiveness of current oncotherapies.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2010.28865
PMID: 20739263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. World Health Popul. 2010;11(4):5-12. doi: 10.12927/whp.2010.21722.

The determinants of early cessation of breastfeeding in Bangladesh.
