
Cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus vaccination and screening in Spain.

Diaz M(1), de Sanjose S, Ortendahl J, O'Shea M, Goldie SJ, Bosch FX, Kim JJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Infections and Cancer, Cancer Epidemiology Research Program, Catalan 
Institute of Oncology, IDIBELL, Av. Gran Via 199-203, 08907 L'Hospitalet de 
Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. mireia@iconcologia.net

BACKGROUND: In Spain, prophylactic vaccination against human papillomavirus 
(HPV) types 16 and 18 is being offered free-of-charge to one birth cohort of 
girls aged 11-14. Screening is opportunistic (annual/biannual) contributing to 
social and geographical disparities.
METHODS: A multi-HPV-type microsimulation model was calibrated to epidemiologic 
data from Spain utilising likelihood-based methods to assess the health and 
economic impact of adding HPV vaccination to cervical cancer screening. 
Strategies included (1) screening alone of women over age 25, varying frequency 
(every 1-5 years) and test (cytology, HPV DNA testing); (2) HPV vaccination of 
11-year-old girls combined with screening. Outcomes included lifetime cancer 
risk, life expectancy, lifetime costs, number of clinical procedures and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: After the introduction of HPV vaccination, screening will need to 
continue, and strategies that incorporated HPV testing are more effective and 
cost-effective than those with cytology alone. For vaccinated girls, 5-year 
organised cytology with HPV testing as triage from ages 30 to 65 costs 24,350€ 
per year of life saved (YLS), assuming life-long vaccine immunity against 
HPV-16/18 by 3 doses with 90% coverage. Unvaccinated girls would benefit from 
organised cytology screening with HPV testing as triage; 5-year screening from 
ages 30 to 65 costs 16,060€/YLS and 4-year screening from ages 30 to 85 costs 
38,250€/YLS. Interventions would be cost-effective depending on the 
cost-effectiveness threshold and the vaccine price.
CONCLUSIONS: In Spain, inequitable coverage and overuse of cytology make 
screening programmes inefficient. If high vaccination coverage among 
pre-adolescent girls is achieved, organised cytology screening with HPV triage 
starting at ages 30 to at least 65 every 4-5 years represents the best balance 
between costs and benefits.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.06.016
PMID: 20638840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Nov 30;107(48):20672-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1003350107. Epub 2010 Jul 16.

Organocatalytic asymmetric assembly reactions for the syntheses of carbohydrate 
derivatives by intermolecular Michael-Henry reactions.

Uehara H(1), Imashiro R, Hernández-Torres G, Barbas CF 3rd.

Author information:
(1)The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology and the Departments of Chemistry 
and Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines 
Road, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

Given the significance of carbohydrates in life, medicine, and industry, the 
development of simple and efficient de novo methods to synthesize carbohydrates 
are highly desirable. Organocatalytic asymmetric assembly reactions are powerful 
tools to rapidly construct molecules with stereochemical complexity from simple 
precursors. Here, we present a simple and robust methodology for the asymmetric 
synthesis of pyranose derivatives with talo- and manno- configurations from 
simple achiral precursors through organocatalytic asymmetric intermolecular 
Michael-Henry reaction sequences. In this process, 
(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)acetaldehyde 1 was successfully utilized in two 
ways: as a donor in a highly selective anti-Michael reaction and as an acceptor 
in a consecutive Henry reaction. Varied nitroolefins served as Michael acceptors 
and varied aldehydes substituted for 1 as Henry acceptors providing for the 
construction of a wide range of carbohydrates with up to 5 stereocenters. In 
these reactions, a catalyst-controlled Michael reaction followed by a 
substrate-controlled Henry reaction provided 3,4-dideoxytalose derivatives 6 in 
a highly stereoselective manner. The Henry reaction was affected by addition of 
a simple base such as triethylamine: A complex chiral base was not necessary. 
3,4-Dideoxymannose derivatives 7 were produced by simply changing the base from 
triethylamine to 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene. Extension of this 
methodology to a syn-Michael initiated sequence was also successful. A 
mechanistic discussion is provided to explain the unusual substrate-induced 
stereoselectivity of the Henry reaction.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1003350107
PMCID: PMC2996423
PMID: 20639468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


665. JAMA. 2010 Jul 21;304(3):340-1. doi: 10.1001/jama.2010.870.

Gaps in knowledge in caring for HIV survivors long-term.

Buscher AL(1), Giordano TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, and Michael E. DeBakey VA 
Medical Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2010.870
PMID: 20639568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Perspect Biol Med. 2010 Summer;53(3):407-24. doi: 10.1353/pbm.0.0164.

Making longevity in an aging society: linking Medicare policy and the new 
ethical field.

Kaufman SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, History and Social Medicine and Institute for 
Health and Aging, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0646, USA. 
sharon.kaufman@ucsf.edu

Life-extending interventions for older persons are changing medical knowledge 
and societal expectations about longevity. Today's consciousness about growing 
older is partly shaped by a new form of ethics, constituted by and enabled 
through the routines and institutions that comprise ordinary clinical care. 
Unlike bioethics, whose emphasis is on clinical decision-making in individual 
situations, this new form of ethics is exceptionally diffuse and can be 
characterized as an ethical field. It is located in and shaped by health-care 
policies, standard technologies, and clinical evidence, and it emerges in what 
patients and families come to need and want. Three developments illustrate this 
ethical field at work: the changing nature of disease, especially the ascent of 
risk awareness and risk-based strategies for life extension; the role of 
technology in reshaping the ends of medicine; and the role of Medicare policy in 
creating need and ethical necessity. Medicare's expanding criteria for payment 
coverage of liver transplantation and implantable cardiac devices illustrate the 
pervasive logic of this new form of ethics. The powerful connection between the 
technological imperative and its ethical necessity is rarely mentioned in 
Medicare reform debates.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.0.0164
PMCID: PMC3032593
PMID: 20639608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nat Rev Neurol. 2010 Jul;6(7):361-2. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2010.79.

Stroke: Measuring disease-free life after thrombolysis.

Fagan SC.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2010.79
PMID: 20639913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Indian J Anaesth. 2009 Oct;53(5):618-27.

Tobacco interventions and anaesthesia- a review.

Saha U(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor, Dept of Anaesthesiology, Lady Hardinge Medical College, Smt. 
Sucheta Kriplani & Kalawati Saran Childrens Hospital, New Delhi, 110001.

Tobacco use is the leading preventable agent of death in the world. It is 
manufactured on a large scale in India and has a huge international market also. 
Death toll from tobacco use is on the rise. Use of tobacco is also increasing 
esp. in developing countries, in teenagers & in women, despite government, WHO 
and intervention by other statutory bodies. Prolonged use of tobacco or its 
products, as smoke or chew, endows significant risk of developing various 
diseases. With advances in surgical and anaethesia techniques & prolonged life 
expectancy, anaesthetist will be faced with management of these patients. 
Tobacco consumption affects every major organ system of the body; esp. lung, 
heart and blood vessels. Perioperative smoking cessation can significantly 
reduce the risk of postoperative complications & duration of hospital stay. 
Anaesthetist can play an important role in motivating these patients to quit 
smoking preoperatively by providing brief counselling and nicotine replacement 
therapy in reluctant quitters. More of concern is the effect of passive smoking 
(second & third hand smoke) on non smokers. This is a review of tobacco & its 
products, their health consequences, diseases caused, anaesthetic considerations 
& their role in helping these patients quit smoking Preventing nicotine 
addiction and improving smoking cessation strategies should be the priority and 
despite these being only partially successful, strong measures at all levels 
should be continued & enforced.

PMCID: PMC2900094
PMID: 20640112


669. Age (Dordr). 2011 Jun;33(2):143-54. doi: 10.1007/s11357-010-9169-1. Epub
2010  Jul 17.

Mitochondria-mediated hormetic response in life span extension of 
calorie-restricted Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Sharma PK(1), Agrawal V, Roy N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research, Punjab, India.

Calorie restriction (CR) is the only proven regimen, which confers lifespan 
extension benefits across the various phyla right from unicellular organisms 
like yeast to primates. In a bid to elucidate the mechanism of 
calorie-restriction-mediated life span extension, the role of mitochondria in 
the process was investigated. In this study, we found that the mitochondrial 
content in CR cells remains unaltered as compared to cells grown on 
nonrestricted media. However, mitochondria isolated from CR cells showed 
increased respiration and elevated reactive oxygen species levels without 
augmenting adenosine triphosphate (ATP) generation. The antioxidant defense 
system was amplified in CR mitochondria, and in CR cells a cross protection to 
hydrogen-peroxide-induced stress was also observed. Moreover, we also documented 
that a functional electron transport chain was vital for the life span extension 
benefits of calorie restriction. Altogether, our results indicate that calorie 
restriction elicits mitohormetic effect, which ultimately leads to longevity 
benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-010-9169-1
PMCID: PMC3127463
PMID: 20640543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Health Econ. 2010 Oct;19(10):1128-31. doi: 10.1002/hec.1644.

The efficiency frontier approach to economic evaluation: will it help German 
policy making?

Brouwer WB(1), Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. brouwer@bmg.eur.nl

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2010 Oct;19(10):1137-8.
    Health Econ. 2010 Oct;19(10):1139-41.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2010 Oct;19(10):1117-27.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1644
PMID: 20641141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Jul;14(35):1-46. doi: 10.3310/hta14350.

Randomised controlled trial and parallel economic evaluation of conventional 
ventilatory support versus extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for severe adult 
respiratory failure (CESAR).

Peek GJ(1), Elbourne D, Mugford M, Tiruvoipati R, Wilson A, Allen E, Clemens F, 
Firmin R, Hardy P, Hibbert C, Jones N, Killer H, Thalanany M, Truesdale A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
conventional ventilatory support versus extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
(ECMO) for severe adult respiratory failure.
DESIGN: A multicentre, randomised controlled trial with two arms.
SETTING: The ECMO centre at Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, and approved 
conventional treatment centres and referring hospitals throughout the UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients aged 18-65 years with severe, but potentially reversible, 
respiratory failure, defined as a Murray lung injury score > or = 3.0, or 
uncompensated hypercapnoea with a pH < 7.20 despite optimal conventional 
treatment.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomised to conventional management (CM) or 
to consideration of ECMO.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measure was death or severe 
disability at 6 months. Secondary outcomes included a range of hospital indices: 
duration of ventilation, use of high frequency/oscillation/jet ventilation, use 
of nitric oxide, prone positioning, use of steroids, length of intensive care 
unit stay, and length of hospital stay - and (for ECMO patients only) mode 
(venovenous/veno-arterial), duration of ECMO, blood flow and sweep flow.
RESULTS: A total of 180 patients (90 in each arm) were randomised from 68 
centres. Three patients in the conventional arm did not give permission to be 
followed up. Of the 90 patients randomised to the ECMO arm, 68 received that 
treatment. ECMO was not given to three patients who died prior to transfer, two 
who died in transit, 16 who improved with conventional treatment given by the 
ECMO team and one who required amputation and could not therefore be 
heparinised. Ninety patients entered the CM (control) arm, three patients later 
withdrew and refused follow-up (meaning that they were alive), leaving 87 
patients for whom primary outcome measures were available. CM consisted of any 
treatment deemed appropriate by the patient's intensivist with the exception of 
extracorporeal gas exchange. No CM patients received ECMO, although one received 
a form of experimental extracorporeal arteriovenous carbon dioxide removal 
support (a clear protocol violation). Fewer patients in the ECMO arm than in the 
CM arm had died or were severely disabled 6 months after randomisation, [33/90 
(36.7%) versus 46/87 (52.9%) respectively]. This equated to one extra survivor 
for every six patients treated. Only one patient (in the CM arm) was known to be 
severely disabled at 6 months. Patients allocated to ECMO incurred average total 
costs of 73,979 pounds compared with 33,435 pounds for those undergoing CM (UK 
prices, 2005). A lifetime model predicted the cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) of ECMO to be 19,252 pounds (95% confidence interval 7622 
pounds to 59,200 pounds) at a discount rate of 3.5%. Lifetime QALYs gained were 
10.75 for the ECMO group compared with 7.31 for the conventional group. Costs to 
patients and their relatives, including out of pocket and time costs, were 
higher for patients allocated to ECMO.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with CM, transferring adult patients with severe but 
potentially reversible respiratory failure to a single centre specialising in 
the treatment of severe respiratory failure for consideration of ECMO 
significantly increased survival without severe disability. Use of ECMO in this 
way is likely to be cost-effective when compared with other technologies 
currently competing for health resources.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN47279827.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14350
PMID: 20642916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Med Decis Making. 2010 Sep-Oct;30(5):E29-39. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10374508.
Epub  2010 Jul 19.

Predicting utility for joint health states: a general framework and a new 
nonparametric estimator.

Bo Hu(1), Fu AZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.

Measuring utility is important in clinical decision making and 
cost-effectiveness analysis because utilities are often used to compute 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, a metric used in measuring the effectiveness 
of health care programs and medical interventions. Predicting utility for joint 
health states has become an increasingly valuable research topic because of the 
aging of the population and the increasing prevalence of comorbidities. Although 
multiplicative, minimum, and additive estimators are commonly used in practice, 
research has shown that they are all biased. In this study, the authors propose 
a general framework for predicting utility for joint health states. This 
framework includes these 3 nonparametric estimators as special cases. A new 
simple nonparametric estimator, the adjusted decrement estimator, [U(ij) = 
U(min) - U(min) (1 - U(i) )(1 - U(j) )], is introduced under the proposed 
framework. When applied to 2 independent data sources, the new nonparametric 
estimator not only generated unbiased prediction of utilities for joint health 
states but also had the least root mean squared error and highest concordance 
when compared with other nonparametric and parametric estimators. Further 
research and validation of this new estimator are needed.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10374508
PMID: 20643911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Nov 16;107(46):19639-44. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0912014107. Epub 2010 Jul 19.

Policies for reduced deforestation and their impact on agricultural production.

Angelsen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Resource Management, Norwegian University of Life 
Sciences, N-1432 Ås, Norway. arild.angelsen@umb.no

Policies to effectively reduce deforestation are discussed within a land rent 
(von Thünen) framework. The first set of policies attempts to reduce the rent of 
extensive agriculture, either by neglecting extension, marketing, and 
infrastructure, generating alternative income opportunities, stimulating 
intensive agricultural production or by reforming land tenure. The second set 
aims to increase either extractive or protective forest rent and--more 
importantly--create institutions (community forest management) or markets 
(payment for environmental services) that enable land users to capture a larger 
share of the protective forest rent. The third set aims to limit forest 
conversion directly by establishing protected areas. Many of these policy 
options present local win-lose scenarios between forest conservation and 
agricultural production. Local yield increases tend to stimulate agricultural 
encroachment, contrary to the logic of the global food equation that suggests 
yield increases take pressure off forests. At national and global scales, 
however, policy makers are presented with a more pleasant scenario. Agricultural 
production in developing countries has increased by 3.3-3.4% annually over the 
last 2 decades, whereas gross deforestation has increased agricultural area by 
only 0.3%, suggesting a minor role of forest conversion in overall agricultural 
production. A spatial delinking of remaining forests and intensive production 
areas should also help reconcile conservation and production goals in the 
future.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0912014107
PMCID: PMC2993393
PMID: 20643935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


674. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2010 Nov;19(6):556-60. doi: 
10.1097/MNH.0b013e32833d67bc.

Should there be an expanded role for palliative care in end-stage renal disease?

Kurella Tamura M(1), Cohen LM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Stanford University School of Medicine and Geriatric 
Research and Education Clinical Center, Palo Alto Veterans Affairs Healthcare 
System, Palo Alto, California, USA. mktamura@stanford.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In this review, we outline the rationale for expanding the 
role of palliative care in end-stage renal disease (ESRD), describe the 
components of a palliative care model, and identify potential barriers in 
implementation.
RECENT FINDINGS: Patients receiving chronic dialysis have reduced life 
expectancy and high rates of chronic pain, depression, cognitive impairment, and 
physical disability. Delivery of prognostic information and advance care 
planning are desired by patients, but occur infrequently. Furthermore, although 
hospice care is associated with improved symptom control and lower healthcare 
costs at the end of life, it is underutilized by the ESRD population, even among 
patients who withdraw from dialysis. A palliative care model incorporating 
communication of prognosis, advance care planning, symptom assessment and 
management, and timely hospice referral may improve quality of life and quality 
of dying. Resources and clinical practice guidelines are available to assist 
practitioners with incorporating palliative care into ESRD management.
SUMMARY: There is a large unmet need to alleviate the physical, psychosocial, 
and existential suffering of patients with ESRD. More fully integrating 
palliative care into ESRD management by improving end-of-life care training, 
eliminating structural and financial barriers to hospice use, and identifying 
optimal methods to deliver palliative care are necessary if we are to 
successfully address the needs of an aging ESRD population.

DOI: 10.1097/MNH.0b013e32833d67bc
PMCID: PMC3107069
PMID: 20644475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


675. Am J Manag Care. 2010 Jul 1;16(7):e174-87.

Cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic gastric banding and bypass for morbid 
obesity.

Campbell J(1), McGarry LA, Shikora SA, Hale BC, Lee JT, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Medford, MA, USA. joanna.campbell@i3innovus.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic adjustable gastric 
banding (LAGB) and laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) as treatment 
for morbid obesity.
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov model was developed to simulate weight loss, health 
consequences, and costs for surgical treatment of morbid obesity. The model was 
used to estimate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) in terms of cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
METHODS: Estimates of procedure effectiveness were derived from published 
results of a head-to-head randomized controlled trial. Other model parameters, 
including complication rates, costs of treatment, adverse events and obesity, 
mortality rates, and utilities, were estimated from published literature and 
publicly available databases. Costs (2006 US dollars) and QALYs were discounted 
by 3% per annum.
RESULTS: Under conservative assumptions, both LAGB and LRYGB improved health 
outcomes, at a higher cost, compared with no treatment. ICERs for both LAGB and 
LRYGB versus no treatment were below $25,000 per QALY gained. ICERs were lower 
for individuals with higher initial body mass index and higher for older 
individuals. ICERs for men were generally higher than those of women. 
Sensitivity analyses showed these results to be robust to reasonable variation 
in model parameters and overall parameter uncertainty. Base-case ICERs for LRYGB 
versus LAGB were below $25,000 per QALY gained, but were highly sensitive to 
model assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Both LAGB and LRYGB provide significant weight loss and are 
cost-effective compared with no treatment at conventionally accepted thresholds 
for medical interventions.

PMID: 20645663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2010 Aug;7(8):927-42. doi:
10.1517/17425247.2010.498473.

Metallic nanoparticles: technology overview & drug delivery applications in 
oncology.

Ahmad MZ(1), Akhter S, Jain GK, Rahman M, Pathan SA, Ahmad FJ, Khar RK.

Author information:
(1)Dreamz College of Pharmacy, Khilra-Meramesit, Sundernagar-175036, Mandi, HP, 
India. zaki.manipal@gmail.com

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: The targeted delivery of therapeutic agents to tumour 
cells is a challenge because most of the chemotherapeutic agents distribute to 
the whole body, which results in general toxicity and poor acceptance by 
patients and sometimes discontinuation of the treatment. Metallic nanoparticles 
have been used for a huge number of applications in various areas of medical 
treatment. Metallic nanoparticles are emerging as new carrier and contrast 
agents in cancer treatment. These metallic nanoparticles have been used for 
imaging of tumour cells by means of active and passive targeting. Recent 
advances have opened the way to site-specific targeting and drug delivery by 
these nanoparticles.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: This review summarizes the mechanisms of passive 
and active targeted drug delivery by metallic nanoparticles and their potential 
use in cancer theranostics.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: The reader will gain information on the development 
of tumour cells, advantages of modern methods of cancer treatment over the 
traditional method, targeted delivery of anticancer agents using nanoparticles, 
influence of nanotechnology on the quality and expectancy of life, and 
challenges, implications and future prospects of metallic nanoparticles as 
probes in cancer treatment.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: The development of metallic nanoparticles is rapid and 
multidirectional, and the improved practical potential of metallic nanoparticle 
highlights their potency as new tools for future cancer therapeutics modalities.

DOI: 10.1517/17425247.2010.498473
PMID: 20645671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Oct;13(5):547-51. doi: 10.1089/rej.2010.1025. Epub
2010  Jul 20.

Proteotoxicity and the contrasting effects of oxaloacetate and glycerol on 
Caenorhabditis elegans life span: a role for methylglyoxal?

Hipkiss AR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, The University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, United Kingdom. 
alanandjill@lineone.net

Because accumulation of altered proteins is the most common biochemical symptom 
of aging, it is at least possible that such proteotoxicity may cause aging and 
influence life span. The life span of the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans 
is strongly influenced by changes in the intracellular concentration of 
methylglyoxal (MG), a putative source of much age-related proteotoxicity and 
organelle, cellular, and molecular dysfunction. Glycerol has recently been shown 
to shorten, whereas oxaloacetate has been found to extend, life span in C. 
elegans. It is suggested here that glycerol and oxaloacetate exert opposing 
effects on MG formation in C. elegans. It is proposed that, if not secreted by 
aquaporin, glycerol is converted to glycerol phosphate and then to 
dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) via a reaction requiring nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide (NAD(+)). This inhibits operation of the glycerol phosphate cycle 
in which DHAP is converted into glycerol phosphate, which concomitantly 
regenerates NAD(+) from NADH, thereby ensuring glycolytic oxidation of 
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P). Because DHAP and G3P spontaneously decompose 
into MG, and NAD(+) is required for conversion of G3P into phosphoglycerate, the 
glycerol-induced increased DHAP formation and decreased NAD(+) availability will 
increase the potential for MG generation. In contrast, oxaloacetate may decrease 
MG generation by stimulating the operation of the malate-oxaloacetate shuttle, 
in which oxaloacetate is converted to malate, which regenerates NAD(+) from 
NADH. By the ensuing G3P oxidation, increased NAD(+) availability will decrease 
the potential for MG formation. It should be noted that mitochondria are 
involved in the operation of the above cycle/shuttles and that increased NAD(+) 
availability also stimulates those sirtuin activities that increase mitogenesis 
and mitochondrial activity via effects on signal transduction and gene 
expression, which frequently accompany dietary restriction-induced life span 
extension.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2010.1025
PMID: 20645869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Oct;13(5):561-70. doi: 10.1089/rej.2010.1031. Epub
2010  Jul 20.

Curcumin extends life span, improves health span, and modulates the expression 
of age-associated aging genes in Drosophila melanogaster.

Lee KS(1), Lee BS, Semnani S, Avanesian A, Um CY, Jeon HJ, Seong KM, Yu K, Min 
KJ, Jafari M.

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Korean Research Institute of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology, Daejeon, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Curcumin, an extract from the rhizome of the plant Curcuma longa 
(turmeric), has been widely used as a spice and herbal medicine in Asia. It has 
been suggested to have many biological activities, such as antioxidative, 
antiinflammatory, anticancer, chemopreventive, and antineurodegenerative 
properties. We evaluated the impact of curcumin on life span, fecundity, feeding 
rate, oxidative stress, locomotion, and gene expression in two different 
wild-type Drosophila melanogaster strains, Canton-S and Ives, under two 
different experimental conditions.
RESULTS: We report that curcumin extended the life span of two different strains 
of D. melanogaster, an effect that was accompanied by protection against 
oxidative stress, improvement in locomotion, and chemopreventive effects. Life 
span extension was gender and genotype specific. Curcumin also modulated the 
expression of several aging-related genes, including mth, thor, InR, and JNK.
CONCLUSIONS: The observed positive effects of curcumin on life span and health 
span in two different D. melanogaster strains demonstrate a potential 
applicability of curcumin treatment in mammals. The ability of curcumin to 
mitigate the expression levels of age-associated genes in young flies suggests 
that the action of curcumin on these genes is a cause, rather than an effect, of 
its life span-extending effects.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2010.1031
PMID: 20645870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2010 Sep;52(9):793. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2010.03733.x.  Epub 2010 Jul 14.

Improving growth charts for children and adolescents with cerebral palsy through 
evidence-based clinical practice.

Day SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2010 Sep;52(9):e195-201.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2010.03733.x
PMID: 20646030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Sep;71(5):841-50. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.05.014.
Epub  2010 Jun 2.

Politics and health in eight European countries: a comparative study of 
mortality decline under social democracies and right-wing governments.

Granados JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Environment & Health (SEH/SRC) Program, Institute for Social Research, 
University of Michigan, P.O. Box 1248, 426 Thompson St., Ann Arbor, MI 
48106-1248, United States. jatapia@umich.edu

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2010 Sep;71(5):851-2.

Recent publications have argued that the welfare state is an important 
determinant of population health, and that social democracy in office and higher 
levels of health expenditure promote health progress. In the period 1950-2000, 
Greece, Portugal, and Spain were the poorest market economies in Europe, with a 
fragmented system of welfare provision, and many years of military or 
authoritarian right-wing regimes. In contrast, the five Nordic countries were 
the richest market economies in Europe, governed mostly by center or center-left 
coalitions often including the social democratic parties, and having a generous 
and universal welfare state. In spite of the socioeconomic and political 
differences, and a large gap between the five Nordic and the three southern 
nations in levels of health in 1950, population health indicators converged 
among these eight countries. Mean decadal gains in longevity of Portugal and 
Spain between 1950 and 2000 were almost three times greater than gains in 
Denmark, and about twice as great as those in Iceland, Norway and Sweden during 
the same period. All this raises serious doubts regarding the hypothesis that 
the political regime, the political party in office, the level of health care 
spending, and the type of welfare state exert major influences on population 
health. Either these factors are not major determinants of mortality decline, or 
their impact on population health in Nordic countries was more than offset by 
other health-promoting factors present in Southern Europe.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.05.014
PMID: 20646808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Int J Epidemiol. 2010 Dec;39(6):1656-66. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyq117. Epub 2010
Jul  20.

Decomposition of socio-economic differences in life expectancy at birth by age 
and cause of death among 4 million South Korean public servants and their 
dependents.

Khang YH(1), Yang S, Cho HJ, Jung-Choi K, Yun SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Differences in life expectancy at birth across social classes can be 
more easily interpreted as a measure of absolute inequalities in survival. This 
study quantified age- and cause-specific contributions to life expectancy 
differences by income among 4 million public servants and their dependents in 
South Korea (9.1% of the total Korean population).
METHODS: Using 9-year mortality follow-up data (208,612 deaths) on 4,055,150 men 
and women aged 0-94 years, with national health insurance premiums imposed 
proportionally based on monthly salary as a measure of income, differences in 
life expectancy at birth by income were estimated by age- and cause-specific 
mortality differences using Arriaga's decomposition method.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at birth gradually increased with income. Differences 
in life expectancy at birth between the highest and the lowest income quartile 
were 6.22 years in men and 1.74 years in women. Mortality differentials by 
income among those aged ≥50 years contributed most substantially (80.4% in men 
and 85.6% in women) to the socio-economic differences in life expectancy at 
birth. In men, cancers (stomach, liver and lung), cardiovascular diseases 
(stroke), digestive diseases (liver cirrhosis) and external causes (transport 
accidents and suicide) were important contributors to the life expectancy 
differences. In women, the contribution of ill-defined causes was most 
important. Cardiovascular diseases (stroke and hypertensive disease) and 
external causes (transport accidents and suicide) also contributed to the life 
expectancy differences in women while the contributions of cancers and digestive 
diseases were minimal.
CONCLUSIONS: Reductions in socio-economic differentials in mortality from stroke 
and external causes (transport accidents and suicide) among middle-aged and 
older men and women would significantly contribute to equalizing life expectancy 
among income groups. Policy efforts to reduce mortality differentials in major 
cancers (stomach, liver and lung) and liver cirrhosis are also important for 
eliminating Korean men's socio-economic inequalities in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyq117
PMID: 20647268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Aug 3;107(31):13788-93. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0914715107. Epub 2010 Jul 20.

Systemic and cell intrinsic roles of Gqalpha signaling in the regulation of 
innate immunity, oxidative stress, and longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Kawli T(1), Wu C, Tan MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.

Signal transduction pathways that regulate longevity, immunity, and stress 
resistance can profoundly affect organismal survival. We show that a signaling 
module formed by the G protein alpha subunit, Gqalpha, and one of its downstream 
signal transducer phospholipase C beta (PLCbeta) can differentially affect these 
processes. Loss of Gqalpha and PLCbeta functions result in increased sensitivity 
to pathogens and oxidative stress but confer life span extension. Gqalpha and 
PLCbeta modulate life span and immunity noncell autonomously by affecting the 
activity of insulin/IGF1 signaling (IIS). In addition, Gqalpha and PLCbeta 
function cell autonomously within the intestine to affect the activity of the 
p38 MAPK pathway, an important component of Caenorhabditis elegans immune and 
oxidative stress response. p38 MAPK activity in the intestine is regulated by 
diacylglycerol levels, a product of PLCbeta's hydrolytic activity. We provide 
genetic evidence that life span is largely determined by IIS, whereas p38 MAPK 
signaling is the primary regulator of oxidative stress in PLCbeta mutants. 
Pathogen sensitivity of Gqalpha and PLCbeta mutants is a summation of the 
beneficial effects of decreased IIS through reduced neuronal secretion and the 
detrimental effects of reduced activity of intestinal p38 MAPK. We propose a 
model whereby Gqalpha signaling differentially regulates pathogen sensitivity, 
oxidative stress, and longevity through cell autonomous and noncell autonomous 
effects on p38 MAPK and insulin/IGF1 signaling, respectively.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0914715107
PMCID: PMC2922217
PMID: 20647387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


683. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2010 Aug;19(8):1893-907. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-10-0437. Epub 2010 Jul 20.

Global patterns of cancer incidence and mortality rates and trends.

Jemal A(1), Center MM, DeSantis C, Ward EM.

Author information:
(1)Surveillance and Health Policy Research Department, American Cancer Society, 
250 Williams Street Northwest, Atlanta, GA 30303-1002, USA. 
Ahmedin.jemal@cancer.org

While incidence and mortality rates for most cancers (including lung, 
colorectum, female breast, and prostate) are decreasing in the United States and 
many other western countries, they are increasing in several less developed and 
economically transitioning countries because of adoption of unhealthy western 
lifestyles such as smoking and physical inactivity and consumption of 
calorie-dense food. Indeed, the rates for lung and colon cancers in a few of 
these countries have already surpassed those in the United States and other 
western countries. Most developing countries also continue to be 
disproportionately affected by cancers related to infectious agents, such as 
cervix, liver, and stomach cancers. The proportion of new cancer cases diagnosed 
in less developed countries is projected to increase from about 56% of the world 
total in 2008 to more than 60% in 2030 because of the increasing trends in 
cancer rates and expected increases in life expectancy and growth of the 
population. In this review, we describe these changing global incidence and 
mortality patterns for select common cancers and the opportunities for cancer 
prevention in developing countries.

(c)2010 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-10-0437
PMID: 20647400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2010 Aug;6(8):445-51. doi: 10.1038/nrrheum.2010.105. Epub
 2010 Jul 20.

Rheumatoid cachexia and cardiovascular disease.

Summers GD(1), Metsios GS, Stavropoulos-Kalinoglou A, Kitas GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Royal Derby Hospital, Derby DE22 3NE, UK. 
greg.summers@derbyhospitals.nhs.uk

Both cachexia and cardiovascular disease are strongly associated with rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) and linked to the chronic inflammatory process. Typically, 
rheumatoid cachexia occurs in individuals with normal or increased BMI (reduced 
muscle mass and increased fat mass). Classic cachexia (reduced muscle mass and 
reduced fat mass) is rare in RA but is associated with high inflammatory 
activity and aggressive joint destruction in patients with a poor cardiovascular 
prognosis. Conversely, obesity is linked to hypertension and dyslipidemia but, 
paradoxically, lower RA disease activity and less cardiovascular disease-related 
mortality. Rheumatoid cachexia might represent the 'worst of both worlds' with 
respect to cardiovascular outcome, but until diagnostic criteria for this 
condition are agreed upon, its effect on cardiovascular disease risk remains 
controversial.

DOI: 10.1038/nrrheum.2010.105
PMID: 20647995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Rev Neurol. 2010 Aug 16;51(4):193-200.

[Quantitative measurement of axial rigidity, functional status and 
health-related quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Cano de la Cuerda R(1), Vela L, Miangolarra-Page JC, Macías-Macías Y, 
Muñoz-Hellín E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisioterapia, Terapia Ocupacional, Medicina Física y 
Rehabilitación, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, 
Alcorcón, Madrid, España. roberto.cano@urjc.es

INTRODUCTION: Rigidity is a cardinal symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD). 
Clinically, rigidity is usually assessed by passively flexing and extending a 
patient's limb. Few studies have assessed rigidity in trunk muscles in PD 
patients.
AIMS: To develop an objective measurement to quantify trunk rigidity in PD 
patients, and to examine its relationship with disease severity using the Hoehn 
and Yahr staging score (HY) and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale III 
(UPDRS-III), disease duration, functional status with the Schwab & England 
activities of daily living scale and health related quality of life (HRQoL) was 
assessed with the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions and Parkinson's Disease 
Questionnaire-39 items (PDQ-39).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: An isokinetic dynamometer Biodex System 3 was employed to 
assess trunk rigidity in 36 PD patients. Passive trunk flexion and extension at 
3 angular velocities, 30 degrees/s, 45 degrees/s and 60 degrees /s were applied 
and resistive torques were recorded as trunk flexor and extensors rigidity.
RESULTS: Significant correlations between trunk flexors-extensors tone and HY 
staging score, UPDRS-III, disease duration and functional status at 30 
degrees/s, 45 degrees/s and 60 degrees/s were obtained. Trunk rigidity was 
correlated with the HRQoL assessed with the PDQ-39.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the 30 degrees/s, 45 degrees/s and 60 
degrees/s angular velocities of this objective method was valid to assess trunk 
rigidity and was correlated with disease severity, disease duration, functional 
status and HRQoL in PD patients.

PMID: 20648462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Eur Psychiatry. 2012 May;27(4):294-300. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2010.05.002.
Epub  2010 Jul 22.

Mortality and employment after in-patient opiate detoxification.

Naderi-Heiden A(1), Gleiss A, Bäcker C, Bieber D, Nassan-Agha H, Kasper S, Frey 
R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, Medical University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, 1090 
Vienna, Austria. angela.naderi-heiden@meduniwien.ac.at

AIM: We considered that completed opiate detoxification resulted in increased 
life expectancy and earning capacity as compared to non-completed 
detoxification.
METHODS: The cohort study sample included pure opioid or poly-substance addicts 
admitted for voluntary in-patient detoxification between 1997 and 2004. Of 404 
patients, 58.7% completed the detoxification program and 41.3% did not. The 
Austrian Social Security Institution supplied data on survival and employment 
records for every single day in the individual observation period between 
discharge and December 2007. Statistical analyses included the calculation of 
standardized mortality rates for the follow-up period of up to 11 years.
RESULTS: The standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were between 13.5 and 17.9 
during the first five years after discharge, thereafter they fell clearly with 
time. Mortality did not differ statistically significantly between completers 
and non-completers. The median employment rate was insignificantly higher in 
completers (12.0%) than in non-completers (5.5%). The odds for being employed 
were higher in pure opioid addicts than in poly-substance addicts (p=0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: The assumption that completers of detoxification treatment have a 
better outcome than non-completers has not been confirmed. The decrease in 
mortality with time elapsed since detoxification is interesting. Pure opioid 
addicts had better employment prospects than poly-substance addicts.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2010.05.002
PMID: 20650614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Eur J Public Health. 2011 Jun;21(3):387-91. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq099. Epub
 2010 Jul 22.

Do women with cancer have better survival as compared to men after adjusting for 
staging distribution?

Oberaigner W(1), Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Registry of Tyrol, Department of Clinical Epidemiology of the Tyrolean 
State Hospitals Ltd, Innsbruck, Austria. willi.oberaigner@iet.at

BACKGROUND: Gender aspects in medicine are receiving increasing attention, 
namely also in oncology. For this reason, we decided to investigate whether for 
solid cancer sites women have better survival outcome than do men in the 
population of Tyrol, Austria.
METHODS: We conducted an observational population-based study in Tyrol. All 
solid cancer sites excluding non-melanoma skin cancer and sex-specific sites 
were analysed in total and all specific sites with more than 500 patients in the 
analysis. By the end of 2006, follow-up was ended. We applied a relative excess 
risk model, thus correcting for differences in life expectancy between women and 
men.
RESULTS: For all cancer sites combined, after adjusting for case mix, women had 
a relative excess risk of 0.95 (95% CI 0.91-0.99). For the following sites our 
analysis resulted in a relative excess risk statistically different from 1, 
namely for women as compared to men: head and neck without larynx 0.72 (95% CI 
0.56-0.93), stomach 0.86 (95% CI 0.75-0.97) and lung 0.82 (95% CI 0.75-0.90).
CONCLUSION: In a healthcare system with free access to diagnostics and therapy, 
after adjusting for staging distribution female cancer patients have a lesser 
excess mortality risk than do men for lung, stomach and head and neck cancer and 
also for all cancer sites combined after adjusting for case mix.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq099
PMID: 20650944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. BMJ. 2010 Jul 22;341:c3639. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c3639.

Inequalities in premature mortality in Britain: observational study from 1921 to 
2007.

Thomas B(1), Dorling D, Smith GD.

Author information:
(1)Social and Spatial Inequalities Group, Department of Geography, University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TN. B.S.Thomas@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2010;341:c4614.

OBJECTIVE: To report on the extent of inequality in premature mortality as 
measured between geographical areas in Britain.
DESIGN: Observational study of routinely collected mortality data and public 
records. Population subdivided by age, sex, and geographical area (parliamentary 
constituencies from 1991 to2007, pre-1974 local authorities over a longer time 
span).
SETTING: Great Britain.
PARTICIPANTS: Entire population aged under 75 from 1990 to 2007, and entire 
population aged under 65 in the periods 1921-39, 1950-3, 1959-63, 1969-73, and 
1981-2007.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Relative index of inequality (RII) and ratios of 
inequality in age-sex standardised mortality ratios under ages 75 and 65. The 
relative index of inequality is the relative rate of mortality for the 
hypothetically worst-off compared with the hypothetically best-off person in the 
population, assuming a linear association between socioeconomic position and 
risk of mortality. The ratio of inequality is the ratio of the standardised 
mortality ratio of the most deprived 10% to the least deprived 10%.
RESULTS: When measured by the relative index of inequality, geographical 
inequalities in age-sex standardised rates of mortality below age 75 have 
increased every two years from 1990-1 to 2006-7 without exception. Over this 
period the relative index of inequality increased from 1.61 (95% confidence 
interval 1.52 to 1.69) in 1990-1 to 2.14 (2.02 to 2.27) in 2006-7. Simple ratios 
indicated a brief period around 2001 when a small reduction in inequality was 
recorded, but this was quickly reversed and inequalities up to the age of 75 
have now reached the highest levels reported since at least 1990. Similarly, 
inequalities in mortality ratios under the age of 65 improved slightly in the 
early years of this century but the latest figures surpass the most extreme 
previously reported. Comparison of crudely age-sex standardised rates for those 
below age 65 from historical records showed that geographical inequalities in 
mortality are higher in the most recent decade than in any similar time period 
for which records are available since at least 1921.
CONCLUSIONS: Inequalities in premature mortality between areas of Britain 
continued to rise steadily during the first decade of the 21st century. The last 
time in the long economic record that inequalities were almost as high was in 
the lead up to the economic crash of 1929 and the economic depression of the 
1930s. The economic crash of 2008 might precede even greater inequalities in 
mortality between areas in Britain.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c3639
PMCID: PMC2908738
PMID: 20650979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the Unified Competing Interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare that all 
authors had: no financial support for the submitted work from anyone other than 
their employer; no financial relationships with commercial entities that might 
have an interest in the submitted work; and no non-financial interests that may 
be relevant to the submitted work.


689. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Aug 4;102(15):1207; author reply 1207-10. doi: 
10.1093/jnci/djq246. Epub 2010 Jul 22.

Re: How much is life worth: cetuximab, non-small cell lung cancer, and the $440 
billion question.

Cohen J, Looney W.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Aug 5;101(15):1044-8.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djq246
PMID: 20651322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. J Aging Phys Act. 2010 Jul;18(3):313-34. doi: 10.1123/japa.18.3.313.

Physical activity and years of healthy life in older adults: results from the 
cardiovascular health study.

Hirsch CH(1), Diehr P, Newman AB, Gerrior SA, Pratt C, Lebowitz MD, Jackson SA.

Author information:
(1)Depts. of Medicine and Public Health Sciences, University of California, 
Davis, Medical Center, Sacramento, CA, USA.

Little is known about how many years of life and disability-free years seniors 
can gain through exercise. Using data from the Cardiovascular Health Study, the 
authors estimated the extra years of life and self-reported healthy life (over 
