savings of C$129 per patient. Rivaroxaban is a cost-effective alternative to 
enoxaparin for VTE prophylaxis in patients undergoing THR and TKR. Over a 
five-year horizon, rivaroxaban dominated enoxaparin in the prevention of VTE 
events in patients undergoing THR and TKR, providing more quality-of-life 
benefit at a lower cost.

DOI: 10.1160/TH10-01-0071
PMID: 20806107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Health Econ. 2011 Aug;20(8):945-57. doi: 10.1002/hec.1660. Epub 2010 Aug 31.

The monetary value of a life year: evidence from a qualitative study of 
treatment costs.

McKie J(1), Shrimpton B, Richardson J, Hurworth R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Melbourne, Vic., Australia. 
john.mckie@buseco.monash.edu.au

A small number of studies have provided suggestive evidence that the general 
public rejects the idea of giving higher priority to low-cost patients, in the 
context of a limited budget, in order to maximise health benefits. The study 
reported here used semi-structured group discussions to investigate the 
normative bases of such views among the Australian public. Discussion groups 
help participants reflect critically upon their own reasoning processes and go 
some way towards revealing underlying values rather than unreflective 
preferences. As a part of the exercise, participants were asked to allocate a 
hospital budget. After discussion and deliberation only three out of 41 chose to 
allocate all of the money to the low-cost patients. Reasons were not based on 
conceptual confusion or lack of insight into the implications of the different 
strategies, but rather on views about fairness, including the importance of 
giving all groups a 'chance' of being treated and of not removing 'hope' from 
high-cost patients. The results suggest that as costs rise people are willing to 
pay more than the minimum cost of a quality-adjusted life year for equity 
reasons, indicating that caution must be exercised in estimating a single 
monetary value for a QALY.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1660
PMID: 20806424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2010;111(7):398-403.

Health of Europeans twenty years after the fall of Berlin wall.

Ginter E(1), Simko V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Slovalkia. 
ginter.emil@mail.t-com.sk

The failure of central planning in the totalitarian systems of the USSR and its 
satellites adversely affected not only the economy and social relations but also 
the population health. While in the countries with established democracy (DEM) 
the general health and the life expectancy (LE) steadily improved, in countries 
declaring socialism (SOC) the LE was stagnant and in the USSR even decreased. 
Dramatic changes in Russia after the demise of Soviet Union resulted in an 
extraordinary destabilization of LE that reached a minimum in 1994. Remarkably, 
even twenty years after the breakdown of the Iron Curtain there persists a gap 
in the general health between the DEM and the SOC regions of Europe. Within the 
territory of the former Soviet influence there are additional differences in LE: 
Central Europe is much better off than Russia and its neighbours. Main cause of 
relatively high mortality in the post totalitarian Europe is the cardiovascular 
disease (CVD). Among females about 80% difference in LE between DEM and SOC 
countries is related to premature CVD mortality. In SOC males compared to DEM, 
about 50% of the higher mortality is caused by CVD, 20% is related to external 
factors (trauma, suicide) and 10% is oncologic disorders. The main suggested 
cause of such excess mortality, besides a low socioeconomic level and limited 
funding for health care, is an improper life style: alcoholism, smoking and 
inadequate intake of protective nutrients. Alcoholism, especially binge drinking 
is a prominent factor in Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and in the Baltic Republics 
(Fig. 6, Tab. 4, Ref. 20).

PMID: 20806547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Rev Med Suisse. 2010 Jul 28;6(257):1458-60.

[Health status and care giving needs in the elderly: gender related 
differences].

[Article in French]

Doser Joz-Roland N(1), Monod-Zorzi S.

Author information:
(1)Service de gériatrie et réadaptation gériatrique--CUTR Sylvana Département de 
médecine, CHUV, 1066 Epalinges. Nicole.Doser@chuv.ch

The health status and need for care differ depending on the gender. The most 
notable differences are life expectancy, life expectancy in good health and the 
prevalence of geriatric syndromes or chronic illnesses. Some social health 
determinants (social isolation or financial precariousness) seem to act as risk 
factors for vulnerability, mostly amongst old or very old women. Through some 
examples of differences between men and women in terms of health and caregiving 
needs, this article tries to heighten the awareness of health professionals to a 
gender based approach of the elderly patient in order to promote the best 
possible equity in healthcare.

PMID: 20806564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Natl Health Stat Report. 2010 Apr 21;(24):1-18.

Trends in health status and health care use among older men.

Crescioni M(1), Gorina Y, Bilheimer L, Gillum RF.

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona College of Public Health, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report examines trends in health status and risk factors, 
health care utilization, and health care expenditures among older men in the 
United States.
METHODS: The estimates in this report are based on data from the National Vital 
Statistics System, National Health Interview Survey, National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey, National Health Care Surveys, Medicare Current 
Beneficiary Survey, and Current Population Survey. Trends in death rates, 
prevalence of chronic conditions, risk factors, vaccinations, health care 
utilization, and expenditures are summarized. Major differences in these 
indicators are described for older men and women and by age, race, and Hispanic 
origin.
RESULTS: The difference in life expectancy between older men and women has 
narrowed since 1980, but a gap remains. Older men have lower hypertension and 
cholesterol levels and exercise regularly at higher rates than older women; 
however, the rates of obesity and cigarette smoking are similar in older men and 
women. Although health status has improved for all racial and ethnic groups, 
racial and ethnic disparities remain for many indicators. Older men and women 
have similar rates of hospital admissions and visits to emergency departments 
and physician offices.

PMID: 20806828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2011;6(1):47-56. doi: 
10.3109/17483107.2010.512969.

The use of pressure mapping for seating posture characterisation in children 
with cerebral palsy.

Fradet L(1), Tiernan J, McGrath M, Murray E, Braatz F, Wolf SI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Heidelberg, Schlierbacher 
Landstraße 200a, Heidelberg, Germany. lfradet@yahoo.fr

PURPOSE: To investigate the feasibility of using pressure mapping for the 
characterisation of the seated posture of children with cerebral palsy (CP).
METHOD: Analysis of pressure mapping readings and video of children seated in a 
seating system during two assessments: The first assessment involved the 
pressure mapping of non-disabled children during a standardised protocol, and 
the second one involved the pressure mapping of children with CP performing 
daily life activities.
RESULTS: It was possible to detect periods of activity of the children from 
pressure readings using the mean variation of pressure. Additionally, several 
parameters stemming from pressure readings were shown to be successful in 
assessing the posture of the children. The centre of pressure when positioned 
relative to the ischial tuberosities, allowed for recognition of 'adverse 
postures' involving pelvic obliquity/medio-lateral trunk flexion or 
antero-posterior pelvic tilt/ trunk flexion-extension, as deviations from the 
centre point. The angle between the principal axis of the sensors' pressure and 
the medio-lateral axis of the seat was also proposed to characterise pelvic 
transverse rotation but could not be tested with the actual protocol.
CONCLUSIONS: Pressure monitoring can be used to assess qualitatively and 
quantitatively sitting posture of children with CP.

DOI: 10.3109/17483107.2010.512969
PMID: 20807183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. HIV Med. 2011 Feb;12(2):118-23. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2010.00878.x.

Pregnancy in HIV-infected teenagers in London.

Elgalib A(1), Hegazi A, Samarawickrama A, Roedling S, Tariq S, Draeger E, 
Hemelaar J, Rathnayaka T, Azwa A, Hawkins D, Edwards S, Perez K, Russell J, Wood 
C, Poulton M, Shah R, Noble H, Rodgers M, Taylor GP, Anderson J, de Ruiter A.

Author information:
(1)Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK. alielgalib@yahoo.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to describe pregnancies in HIV-infected 
teenagers.
METHODS: A review of the case notes of HIV-infected pregnant teenagers aged 
13-19 years from 12 London hospitals was carried out for the period 2000-2007.
RESULTS: There were 67 pregnancies in 58 young women, of whom one was known to 
have acquired HIV vertically. The overall mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) 
rate of HIV was 1.5% (one of 66). There were 66 live births. Median ages at HIV 
diagnosis and conception were 17 and 18 years, respectively. Sixty-three per 
cent of women were diagnosed with HIV infection through routine antenatal 
screening. Eighty-two per cent of pregnancies (41 of 50) were unplanned, with 
65% of women (26 of 40) using no contraception. Forty-three per cent of the 
women (20 of 46) had a past history of a sexually transmitted infection (STI). 
In 63 pregnancies, antiretroviral therapy was started post-conception, with 
prevention of HIV MTCT the only indication in 81% of cases. Fifty-eight per cent 
of those on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) had an undetectable HIV 
viral load by delivery. Eighty-seven per cent were uncomplicated pregnancies. 
Seventy-one per cent delivered by Caesarean section and 21% (14 of 64) had a 
preterm delivery (<37 weeks). In the 12 months after delivery, 45% of women 
received contraceptive advice and 25% of women became pregnant again.
CONCLUSION: Obstetric and virological outcomes were favourable in this group of 
HIV-infected young women. However, the majority of pregnancies were unplanned 
with poor documentation of contraception use and advice and low rates of STI 
screening. A quarter of women conceived again within 12 months of delivery. 
Effective measures to reduce STIs, unplanned pregnancies and onward HIV 
transmission in HIV-infected teenagers are needed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2010.00878.x
PMID: 20807252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. BMC Public Health. 2010 Aug 31;10:521. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-521.

Cost and disease burden of dengue in Cambodia.

Beauté J(1), Vong S.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health Unit, Institut Pasteur in Cambodia, Bd 
Monivong 5, BP 983 Phnom Penh, Cambodia. julbeaute@yahoo.fr

BACKGROUND: Dengue is endemic in Cambodia (pop. estimates 14.4 million), a 
country with poor health and economic indicators. Disease burden estimates help 
decision makers in setting priorities. Using recent estimates of dengue 
incidence in Cambodia, we estimated the cost of dengue and its burden using 
disability adjusted life years (DALYs).
METHODS: Recent population-based cohort data were used to calculate direct and 
productive costs, and DALYs. Health seeking behaviors were taken into account in 
cost estimates. Specific age group incidence estimates were used in DALYs 
calculation.
RESULTS: The mean cost per dengue case varied from US$36 - $75 over 2006-2008 
respectively, resulting in an overall annual cost from US$3,327,284 in 2008 to 
US$14,429,513 during a large epidemic in 2007. Patients sustain the highest 
share of costs by paying an average of 78% of total costs and 63% of direct 
medical costs. DALY rates per 100,000 individuals ranged from 24.3 to 100.6 in 
2007-2008 with 80% on average due to premature mortality.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis confirmed the high societal and individual family 
burden of dengue. Total costs represented between 0.03 and 0.17% of Gross 
Domestic Product. Health seeking behavior has a major impact on costs. The more 
accurate estimate used in this study will better allow decision makers to 
account for dengue costs particularly among the poor when balancing the benefits 
of introducing a potentially effective dengue vaccine.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-521
PMCID: PMC2941493
PMID: 20807395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Aug;14(41):1-253, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta14410.

A multicentred randomised controlled trial of a primary care-based cognitive 
behavioural programme for low back pain. The Back Skills Training (BeST) trial.

Lamb SE(1), Lall R, Hansen Z, Castelnuovo E, Withers EJ, Nichols V, Griffiths F, 
Potter R, Szczepura A, Underwood M; BeST trial group.

Collaborators: Lamb S, Underwood M, Hansen Z, Pengel L, Foster G, Withers E, 
Vickers M, Letley L, Chauhan A, Carpenter S, Potter R, Lall R, Daykin A, 
Stewart-Brown S, Sackley C, Jones R, McCarthy C, Barlow J, Pincus T, Joseph S, 
Hills R, Macfarlane G, Watson P, Withers E, Craven L, Page S, Lall R, 
Castelnuovo E, Szczepura A, Clark M, Briant J, Brueton V, Coult J, Counsell S, 
Dearson A, Edwards J, Hall A, Hand L, Hansen Z, Holt K, Horsler K, Jarvey C, 
Jepson S, Law A, Letley L, Lowe J, Marsh P, Dymphna M, Miles JA, Neeley O, 
Nichols V, O'Brien T, Ogden M, Pearn G, Potter R, Rayfield E, Rowland S, Rushmer 
J, Sloan N, Stewart B, Thompson S, Turnbull R, Walker G, Webb S, Williams A, 
Woolvine M.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Coventry, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the clinical effectiveness of active management (AM) in 
general practice versus AM plus a group-based, professionally led cognitive 
behavioural approach (CBA) for subacute and chronic low back pain (LBP) and to 
measure the cost of each strategy over a period of 12 months and estimate 
cost-effectiveness.
DESIGN: Pragmatic multicentred randomised controlled trial with 
investigator-blinded assessment of outcomes.
SETTING: Fifty-six general practices from seven English regions.
PARTICIPANTS: People with subacute and chronic LBP who were experiencing 
symptoms that were at least moderately troublesome.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomised (in a ratio of 2:1) to receive 
either AM+CBA or AM alone.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcomes were the Roland Morris Disability 
Questionnaire (RMQ) and the Modified Von Korff Scale (MVK), which measure LBP 
and disability. Secondary outcomes included mental and physical health-related 
quality of life (Short Form 12-item health survey), health status, fear 
avoidance beliefs and pain self-efficacy. Cost-utility of CBA was considered 
from both the UK NHS perspective and a broader health-care perspective, 
including both NHS costs and costs of privately purchased goods and services 
related to LBP. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated from the 
five-item EuroQoL.
RESULTS: Between April 2005 and April 2007, 701 participants were randomised: 
233 to AM and 468 to AM+CBA. Of these, 420 were female. The mean age of 
participants was 54 years and mean baseline RMQ was 8.7. Outcome data were 
obtained for 85% of participants at 12 months. Benefits were seen across a range 
of outcome measures in favour of CBA with no evidence of group or therapist 
effects. CBA resulted in at least twice as much improvement as AM. Mean 
additional improvement in the CBA arm was 1.1 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.4 
to 1.7], 1.4 (95% CI 0.7 to 2.1) and 1.3 (95% CI 0.6 to 2.1) change points in 
the RMQ at 3, 6 and 12 months respectively. Additional improvement in MVK pain 
was 6.8 (95% CI 3.5 to 10.2), 8.0 (95% CI 4.3 to 11.7) and 7.0 (95% CI 3.2 to 
10.7) points, and in MVK disability was 4.3 (95% CI 0.4 to 8.2), 8.1 (95% CI 4.1 
to 12.0) and 8.4 (95% CI 4.4 to 12.4) points at 3, 6 and 12 months respectively. 
At 12 months, 60% of the AM+CBA arm and 31% of the AM arm reported some or 
complete recovery. Mean cost of attending a CBA course was 187 pounds per 
participant with an additional benefit in QALYs of 0.099 and an additional cost 
of 178.06 pounds. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 1786.00 pounds. 
Probability of CBA being cost-effective reached 90% at about 3000 pounds and 
remained at that level or above; at a cost-effectiveness threshold of 20,000 
pounds the CBA group had an almost 100% probability of being considered 
cost-effective. User perspectives on the acceptability of group treatments were 
sought through semi-structured interviews. Most were familiar with key messages 
of AM; most who had attended any group sessions had retained key messages from 
the sessions and two-thirds talked about a reduction in fear avoidance and 
changes in their behaviour. Group sessions appeared to provide reassurance, 
lessen isolation and enable participants to learn strategies from each other.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of CBA in treating 
subacute and chronic LBP was shown, making this intervention attractive to 
patients, clinicians and purchasers. Short-term (3-month) clinical effects were 
similar to those found in high-quality studies of other therapies and benefits 
were maintained and increased over the long term (12 months). Cost per QALY was 
about half that of competing interventions for LBP and because the intervention 
can be delivered by existing NHS staff following brief training, the back skills 
training programme could be implemented within the NHS with relative ease.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN37807450.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14410
PMID: 20807469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Orv Hetil. 2010 Sep 12;151(37):1495-503. doi: 10.1556/OH.2010.28918.

[Effects of bioactive molecules of Beta vulgaris L. ssp. esculenta var. rubra on 
metastatic prostate cancer].

[Article in Hungarian]

Nyirády P(1), Sárdi E, Beko G, Szucs M, Horváth A, Székely E, Szentmihályi K, 
Romics I, Blázovics A.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar Urológiai, Klinika és 
Uroonkológiai Centrum Budapest. nyiradyp@homail.com

Several reports are known about the effects of nutrition supplements in the 
improvement of quality of life of patients with tumor, however, the 
physiological background remains largely unknown. Table beet affects numerous 
biochemical reactions, enzymes and metabolic-synthesis.
METHODS: Natural table beet product come from commercial service was given twice 
10 g daily for 1 month for 24 patients (mean age 68+/-8 years) with 
hormone-resistant and metastatic prostate cancer treated with taxan 
chemotherapy, who report themselves first, mean 3,6+/-2,8 years ago with their 
complains. 18 men's data were amenable after treatment for evaluation. In 
addition to routine laboratory examination values of HbA1c, 9 cytokines and 
levels of 3 growth factors, the global parameters of redox-homeostasis, few 
elements of their metal-ions, Zn- and level of free protoporfirin, 
trans-metilating processes before and 1 month after treatment were determined.
RESULTS: In most of the patients, favorable impact of beet was enforced and 
significantly high levels of Zn- and free protoporfirin decreased; furthermore, 
trans-metilating processes fastened.
CONCLUSIONS: According to results, it seems that moderate and permanent 
consumption of table beet product affects the life expectancy of patients 
favorably; however, due to the increasing values of EGF, medical control is 
necessary for patients with prostate cancer treated by chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2010.28918
PMID: 20807696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Genet Med. 2010 Nov;12(11):686-93. doi: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3181eff533.

A formal risk-benefit framework for genomic tests: facilitating the appropriate 
translation of genomics into clinical practice.

Veenstra DL(1), Roth JA, Garrison LP Jr, Ramsey SD, Burke W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, 
USA. veenstra@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    Genet Med. 2010 Nov;12(11):680-3.

PURPOSE: Evaluation of genomic tests is often challenging because of the lack of 
direct evidence of clinical benefit compared with usual care and unclear 
evidence requirements. To address these issues, this study presents a 
risk-benefit framework for assessing the health-related utility of genomic 
tests.
METHODS: We incorporated approaches from a variety of established fields 
including decision science, outcomes research, and health technology assessment 
to develop the framework. Additionally, we considered genomic test stakeholder 
perspectives and case studies.
RESULTS: We developed a three-tiered framework: first, we use decision-analytic 
modeling techniques to synthesize data, project incidence of clinical events, 
and assess uncertainty. Second, we defined the health-related utility of genomic 
tests as improvement in health outcomes as measured by clinical event rates, 
life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life-years. Finally, we displayed results 
using a risk-benefit policy matrix to facilitate the interpretation and 
implementation of findings from these analyses.
CONCLUSION: A formal risk-benefit framework may accelerate the utilization and 
practice-based evidence development of genomic tests that pose low risk and 
offer plausible clinical benefit, while discouraging premature use of tests that 
provide little benefit or pose significant health risks compared with usual 
care.

DOI: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3181eff533
PMCID: PMC3312796
PMID: 20808229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Med Care. 2010 Oct;48(10):884-91. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181eb318f.

Cost-effectiveness of a quality improvement collaborative focusing on patients 
with diabetes.

Schouten LM(1), Niessen LW, van de Pas JW, Grol RP, Hulscher ME.

Author information:
(1)Dutch Institute for Healthcare Improvement, Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
l.schouten@cbo.nl

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the lifelong health effects, costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of a quality improvement collaborative focusing on improving 
diabetes management in an integrated care setting.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Economic evaluation from a healthcare perspective with 
lifetime horizon alongside a nonrandomized, controlled, before-after study in 
the Netherlands. Analyses were based on 1861 diabetes patients in 6 intervention 
and 9 control regions, representing 37 general practices and 13 out-patient 
clinics. Change in the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study score, 
remaining lifetime, and costs per quality-adjusted life year gained were 
calculated. Probabilistic life tables were constructed using the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study risk engine, a validated diabetes model, and 
nonparametric bootstrapping of individual patient data.
RESULTS: Annual United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study risk scores reduced 
for cardiovascular events (hazard ratio: 0.83 and 0.98) and cardiovascular 
mortality (hazard ratio: 0.78 and 0.88) for men and women, respectively. Life 
expectancy improved by 0.97 and 0.76 years for men and women, and 
quality-adjusted life years by 0.44 and 0.37, respectively. Higher life 
expectancy in the intervention group increased lifelong costs by &OV0556;860 for 
men and &OV0556;645 for women. Initial program costs were about &OV0556;22 per 
patient. The incremental costs per quality-adjusted life year were &OV0556;1937 
for men and &OV0556;1751 for women compared with usual care costs. There is a 
probability >95% that the collaborative is cost-effective, using a threshold of 
&OV0556;20,000 per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: Optimizing integrated and patient-centered diabetes care through a 
quality-improvement collaborative is cost-effective compared with usual care.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181eb318f
PMID: 20808258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Skull Base. 2010 Mar;20(2):55-60. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1234021.

Surgery for malignant maxillary tumors involving the middle cranial fossa.

Cantu G(1), Solero CL, Riccio S, Colombo S, Pompilio M, Aboh IV, Formillo P, 
Arana GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cranio-Maxillo-Facial Surgery, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio 
e la Cura dei Tumori (National Cancer Institute), Milano, Italy.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the disease-free survival (DFS) of 
patients with maxillary malignant tumors invading the middle cranial fossa (MCF) 
who underwent a lateral or anterolateral skull base resection. This study was a 
retrospective analysis in a tertiary referral center and included 62 patients 
with maxillary malignant tumors invading the MCF (stage T4b) treated with 
surgery with or without postoperative radiotherapy. All patients had sharp pain 
and involvement of at least one branch of the trigeminal nerve. Twenty-eight 
patients had not been treated previously, and 34 had previously been treated 
elsewhere. The MCF dura was infiltrated and resected in 36 cases, and in nine of 
these, there was an intradural extension of the tumor, with temporal lobe and/or 
cavernous sinus invasion. Thirty-six patients underwent reconstruction with a 
temporalis muscle pedicled flap, and 26 patients with a free flap. There was a 
22% overall rate of postoperative complications, but no intraoperative deaths. 
The median follow-up time was 49 months (range 2 to 186). Overall DFS was 33.9% 
and was higher for untreated patients (46.4% versus 23.5%) and for patients in 
whom clean margins were achieved (51.4% versus 12.5%). The survival time for 
patients who died of disease was 9 months for squamous cell carcinoma and 38 
months for adenoid-cystic carcinoma. All patients experienced anesthesia in the 
territory of the resected trigeminal branches, but their pain vanished, and 
their quality of life improved. Lateral skull base surgery may achieve 
satisfactory oncologic results for patients with low-grade tumors, with improved 
quality of life for almost all patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1234021
PMCID: PMC2853074
PMID: 20808528


946. Eur J Health Econ. 2011 Dec;12(6):575-88. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0272-0.
Epub  2010 Aug 31.

Cost-effectiveness of zoledronic acid in the prevention of skeletal-related 
events in patients with bone metastases secondary to advanced renal cell 
carcinoma: application to France, Germany, and the United Kingdom.

Botteman MF(1), Meijboom M, Foley I, Stephens JM, Chen YM, Kaura S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Pharmerit International, 4530 East-West Highway, #430, 
Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. mbotteman@pharmerit.com

BACKGROUND: The use of zoledronic acid (ZOL) has recently been shown to 
significantly reduce the risk of new skeletal-related events (SREs) in renal 
cell carcinoma (RCC) patients with bone metastases. The present exploratory 
study assessed the cost-effectiveness of ZOL in this population, adopting a 
French, German, and United Kingdom (UK) government payer perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This cost-effectiveness model was based on a post hoc 
retrospective analysis of a subset of patients with RCC who were included in a 
larger randomized clinical trial of patients with bone metastases secondary to a 
variety of cancers. In the trial, patients were randomized to receive ZOL (n = 
27) or placebo (n = 19) with concomitant antineoplastic therapy every 3 weeks 
for 9 months (core study) plus 12 months during a study extension. Since the 
trial did not collect costs or data on the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
of the patients, these outcomes had to be assumed via modeling exercises. The 
costs of SREs were estimated using hospital DRG tariffs. These estimates were 
supplemented with literature-based costs where possible. Drug, administration, 
and supply costs were obtained from published and internet sources. Consistent 
with similar economic analyses, patients were assumed to experience quality of 
life decrements lasting 1 month for each SRE. Uncertainty surrounding outcomes 
was addressed via multivariate sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Patients receiving ZOL experienced 1.07 fewer SREs than patients on 
placebo. Patients on ZOL experienced a gain in discounted QALYs of approximately 
0.1563 in France and Germany and 0.1575 in the UK. Discounted SRE-related costs 
were substantially lower among ZOL than placebo patients (-€ 4,196 in France, - 
€ 3,880 in Germany, and -€ 3,355 in the UK). After taking into consideration the 
drug therapy costs, ZOL saved € 1,358, € 1,223, and € 719 in France, Germany, 
and the UK, respectively. In the multivariate sensitivity analyses, therapy with 
ZOL saved costs in 67-77% of simulations, depending on the country. The cost per 
QALY gained for ZOL versus placebo was below € 30,000 per QALY gained threshold 
in approximately 93-94% of multivariate sensitivity analyses simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: The present analysis suggests that ZOL saves costs and increases 
QALYs compared to placebo in French, German, and UK RCC patients with bone 
metastases. Additional prospective research may be needed to confirm these 
results in a larger sample of patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0272-0
PMCID: PMC3197935
PMID: 20809091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Swiss Med Wkly. 2010 Sep 1;140:w13072. doi: 10.4414/smw.2010.13072.
eCollection  2010.

Chronic age-related diseases share risk factors: do they share 
pathophysiological mechanisms and why does that matter?

Probst-Hensch NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, Swiss Tropical and Public Health 
Institute, 4002 Basel, Switzerland. Nicole.Probst@unibas.ch

The World Health Organization (WHO) assigns high priority to the prevention of 
non-communicable age-related diseases such as heart disease, cancer, diabetes, 
stroke and chronic lower respiratory diseases. They are now the leading causes 
of death, in both industrialised and developing countries, mostly due to 
increased life expectancy and urbanisation with associated changes in lifestyle 
and environment. Tobacco smoking, physical inactivity and resulting obesity are 
established risk factors for many chronic diseases. Yet, the aetiology of 
age-related diseases is complex and varies between individuals. This often makes 
it difficult to identify causal risk factors, especially if their relative 
effects are weak. For example, the associations of both obesity and air 
pollution with several age-related diseases remain poorly understood with regard 
to causality and biological mechanisms. Exposure to both, excess body fat and 
particulate matter, is accompanied by systemic low-grade inflammation as well as 
alterations in insulin/insulin-like growth factor signalling and cell cycle 
control. These mechanisms have also been associated in animal and some human 
studies with longevity and ageing in more general terms. In this paper, it is 
therefore hypothesised that they may, at least in part, be responsible for the 
adverse health effects of obesity and air pollution. It is argued that molecular 
and genetic epidemiology now offer novel instruments to improve the 
understanding of these pathophysiological pathways and their link to disease 
aetiology. Understanding the causality of exposure disease associations and 
differences in susceptibilities to environment and lifestyle is an important 
aspect for effective prevention.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2010.13072
PMID: 20809438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Health Econ Policy Law. 2011 Oct;6(4):529-47. doi:
10.1017/S174413311000023X.

Dying of corruption.

Holmberg S(1), Rothstein B.

Author information:
(1)The Quality of Government Institute, Department of Political Science, 
University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. Soren.Holmberg@pol.gu.se

In many poor countries, over 80% of the population have experienced corrupt 
practices in the health sector. In rich countries, corruption takes other forms 
such as overbilling. The causal link between low levels of the quality of 
government (QoG) and population health can be either direct or indirect. Using 
cross-sectional data from more than 120 countries, our findings are that more of 
a QoG variable is positively associated with higher levels of life expectancy, 
lower levels of mortality rates for children and mothers, higher levels of 
healthy life expectancies and higher levels of subjective health feelings. In 
contrast to the strong relationships between the QoG variables and the health 
indicators, the relationship between the health-spending measures and population 
health are rather weak most of the time and occasionally non-existent. Moreover, 
for private health spending as well as for private share of total health 
spending, the relation to good health is close to zero or slightly negative. The 
policy recommendation coming out of our study to improve health levels around 
the world, in rich countries as well as in poor countries, is to improve the QoG 
and to finance health care with public, not private, money.

DOI: 10.1017/S174413311000023X
PMID: 20809992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2011 Jan;45(1):46-50. doi: 10.1177/1538574410379656.
 Epub 2010 Aug 31.

Eversion endarterectomy for external iliac artery occlusive disease.

Donohoe CL(1), Dowdall JF, McDonnell CO, O'Malley MK, O'Donohoe MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, 
Dublin, Ireland.

INTRODUCTION: The advent of effective endovascular techniques has revolutionized 
the treatment of iliac occlusive disease. Long-segment iliac occlusions remain 
technically difficult to treat, particularly in the presence of femoral disease. 
Iliac endarterectomy is an established procedure for the treatment of iliac 
occlusive disease, but it has been suggested that in the era of effective 
endovascular intervention, its role is limited.
METHODS: A review of all patients who had eversion endarterectomy of the 
external iliac artery from a single institution between 2000 and 2008.
RESULTS: Twenty-one patients (18 male) underwent eversion external iliac 
endarterectomy, 15 for external iliac and 6 for iliofemoral disease. Mean age 
was 64.7 years (range: 46-78 years) and the modal American Society of 
Anaesthesiologists (ASA) grade was 3. The indications were critical ischemia (n 
= 16) and disabling claudication (n = 5). Twelve had adjunctive procedures. The 
mean follow-up was 25.3 months (range: 1-59 months). There were no technical 
failures. Seventeen patients had significant improvement in symptoms and three 
had moderate improvement. The cumulative primary patency at 1 year was 81%. One 
patient had no improvement (because of infrainguinal occlusive disease), and 
subsequently required femoro-popliteal bypass. There was no systemic morbidity 
within 30 days. There was 1 in-hospital death from sudden cardiac arrest (47 
days postoperatively). Six patients died during follow-up (from unrelated 
illness).
CONCLUSION: Eversion external iliac endarterectomy is an effective means of 
treating iliofemoral occlusive disease with excellent short-term outcomes and a 
low complication rate in a cohort with high levels of comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574410379656
PMID: 20810406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Drug Ther Bull. 2010 Sep;48(9):105-8. doi: 10.1136/dtb.2010.09.0046.

A guide to health economic evaluations.

[No authors listed]

Economic evaluations are important in healthcare because they help to inform 
decisions on allocating resources within cash-limited systems. Such evaluations 
are increasingly carried out in appraisals of new treatments, such as those by 
the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE), the Scottish 
Medicines Consortium, and the All Wales Medicines Strategy Group. Healthcare 
professionals and others need a working knowledge of health economic evaluations 
to assess or reach decisions informed by results from such calculations. Here we 
discuss different types of health economic evaluations and how the calculations 
from these analyses are used in decision-making.

DOI: 10.1136/dtb.2010.09.0046
PMID: 20810710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 2010 Oct;40(10):616-24. doi:
10.2519/jospt.2010.3346.

Functioning and disability in patients with hip osteoarthritis with mild to 
moderate pain.

Rydevik K(1), Fernandes L, Nordsletten L, Risberg MA.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Research Center for Active Rehabilitation (NAR), Department of 
Orthopedics, Oslo University Hospital and Hjelp24 Norwegian Sports Medicine 
Clinic (Hjelp24 NIMI), Oslo, Norway. karin.rydevik@hjelp24.no

STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
OBJECTIVE: To compare functioning and disability in patients with hip 
osteoarthritis (OA) not candidates for surgery, to a matched control group, and 
thereby to examine the relationship between the functioning and disability 
components used in this study in patients with hip OA.
BACKGROUND: It is well known that patients with severe hip OA have deficits in 
functioning and disability. However, in patients with hip OA not candidates for 
surgery, the knowledge regarding functioning and disability is sparse.
METHODS: Twenty-six patients (12 men, 14 women; mean age, 60 years) with 
radiographic and symptomatic hip OA were matched to 26 controls without hip 
pain. The following variables were measured: muscle strength using isokinetic 
peak force, hip passive range of motion, submaximal aerobic capacity using a 
cycling test, walking ability using the 6-minute walk test, self-reported pain, 
stiffness, and physical function using the Western Ontario and McMaster 
University Osteoarthritis Index, and health-related quality of life using the 
SF-36.
RESULTS: The patients with hip OA had mild to moderate pain, as indicated by the 
Western Ontario and McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index, and significantly 
lower knee extension strength (mean difference [95% confidence interval {CI}]: 
-19.5 [-34.3, -4.7] Nm). Hip range of motion was significantly less in the 
patients with hip OA, with mean (95% CI) differences of -10° (-14°, -6°) for 
extension, -18° (-26°, -11°) for flexion, -9° (-14°, -4°) for abduction, -2° 
(-5°, 0°) for adduction, -16° (-23°, -9°) for internal rotation, and -21° (-28°, 
-14°) for external rotation. The patients with hip OA walked a significantly 
shorter distance in 6 minutes (mean difference, -75 m; 95% CI: -131, -20 m). 
There were no significant differences in hip extension/flexion, knee flexion, 
ankle dorsiflexion/plantar flexion muscle strength, or aerobic capacity between 
the 2 groups. There were significant associations between body function and 
activity components.
CONCLUSION: Physical therapists should consider including 
quadriceps-strengthening and hip range-of-motion exercises when developing 
rehabilitation programs for patients with hip OA, with mild to moderate pain, 
aiming to improve functioning and reduce disability.

DOI: 10.2519/jospt.2010.3346
PMID: 20811166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Cardiol Res Pract. 2010 Jul 25;2010:540749. doi: 10.4061/2010/540749.

Emerging approaches of transcatheter valve repair/insertion.

Taramasso M(1), Cioni M, Giacomini A, Michev I, Godino C, Montorfano M, Colombo 
A, Alfieri O, Maisano F.

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Department, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, via Olgettina 
60, 20122 Milan, Italy.

Aortic stenosis (AS) and mitral regurgitation (MR) account for the majority of 
valvular diseases and their prevalence is increasing according to increased life 
expectancy. Surgical treatment is the gold standard, although operative risk may 
be high in some patients due to comorbidities and age. A large part of the 
patients at high surgical risk who could beneficiate of treatment are not 
referred to surgery. Therefore, there is a need of alternative and less invasive 
procedures.

DOI: 10.4061/2010/540749
PMCID: PMC2926577
PMID: 20811476


953. Int J Oncol. 2010 Oct;37(4):1043-51. doi: 10.3892/ijo_00000756.

In vitro novel combinations of psychotropics and anti-cancer modalities in U87 
human glioblastoma cells.

Tzadok S(1), Beery E, Israeli M, Uziel O, Lahav M, Fenig E, Gil-Ad I, Weizman A, 
Nordenberg J.

Author information:
(1)Felsenstein Medical Research Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva 49100, 
Israel.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a highly aggressive malignant brain tumor. 
Despite some recent improvement in the treatment of this malignancy, life 
expectancy of GBM patients remains extremely low. Therefore, continuous efforts 
to develop new treatment modalities are mandatory. A novel approach to cancer 
treatment is the use of targeted treatments, alone and in combination with other 
therapies. In this study, we evaluated the effects of novel combinations of 
conventional anti-cancer treatments (temozolomide or irradiation) with the 
targeted drug, imatinib, or with psychotropic drugs, belonging to the selective 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and phenothiazine subclasses, as well as 
combination of imatinib with psychotropic agents, on a human U87 glioblastoma 
cell line. The combination of temozolomide with imatinib or the psychotropic 
drugs resulted in an additive anti-proliferative effect, while the combination 
of irradiation and the psychotropic agents resulted in a less than additive 
effect on cell proliferation. A marked synergistic anti-proliferative effect of 
imatinib combined with the psychotropic drugs fluoxetine, sertraline or 
perphenazine was demonstrated. None of the single or combined treatments led to 
a reduction in the expression of phosphorylated MAP kinase. However, a marked 
synergistic reduction in the expression of the key regulatory molecule, pAKT, 
was detected, following the combined treatment of the cells with the 
imatinib/psychotropics combination. This down-regulation of pAKT may mediate the 
synergistic anti-proliferative interaction of imatinib with the psychotropic 
agents. Although the concentrations of the psychotropic agents used in this and 
other in vitro studies were beyond the clinically relevant blood levels in 
humans, recent studies have demonstrated anti-proliferative effects in vivo, 
using sertraline in a human colon cancer model. Thus, it seems that further in 
vivo studies combining imatinib with psychotropic agents, especially fluoxetine 
and sertraline, are warranted.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo_00000756
PMID: 20811727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Age (Dordr). 2011 Jun;33(2):219-27. doi: 10.1007/s11357-010-9172-6. Epub
2010  Sep 3.

Lipid metabolism in long-lived families: the Leiden Longevity Study.

Vaarhorst AA(1), Beekman M, Suchiman EH, van Heemst D, Houwing-Duistermaat JJ, 
Westendorp RG, Slagboom PE, Heijmans BT; Leiden Longevity Study (LLS) Group.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Epidemiology Section, Department Medical Statistics and 
Bioinformatics, Leiden University Medical Centre, RC, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
a.a.m.vaarhorst@lumc.nl

Mechanisms underlying the variation in human life expectancy are largely 
unknown, but lipid metabolism and especially lipoprotein size was suggested to 
play an important role in longevity. We have performed comprehensive lipid 
phenotyping in the Leiden Longevity Study (LLS). By applying multiple logistic 
regression analysis we tested for the first time the effects of parameters in 
lipid metabolism (i.e., classical serum lipids, lipoprotein particle sizes, and 
apolipoprotein E levels) on longevity independent of each other. Parameters in 
lipid metabolism were measured in offspring of nonagenarian siblings from 421 
families of the LLS (n = 1,664; mean age, 59 years) and in the partners of the 
offspring as population controls (n = 711; mean age, 60 years). In the initial 
model, where lipoprotein particles sizes, classical serum lipids and 
apolipoprotein E were included, offspring had larger low-density lipoprotein 
(LDL) particle sizes (p = 0.017), and lower triglyceride levels (p = 0.026), 
indicating that they displayed a more beneficial lipid profile. After backwards 
regression only LDL size (p = 0.014) and triglyceride levels (p = 0.05) were 
associated with offspring from long-lived families. Sex-specific backwards 
regression analysis revealed that LDL particle sizes were associated with male 
longevity (increase in log odds ratio (OR) per unit = 0.21; p = 0.023). 
Triglyceride levels (decrease OR per unit = 0.22; p = 0.01), but not LDL 
particle size, were associated with female longevity. Due to the analysis of a 
comprehensive lipid profile, we confirmed an important role of lipid metabolism 
in human longevity, with LDL size and triglyceride levels as major predicting 
factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-010-9172-6
PMCID: PMC3127468
PMID: 20811950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Ann Behav Med. 2010 Dec;40(3):235-47. doi: 10.1007/s12160-010-9223-3.

Dynamics of changes in self-efficacy and locus of control expectancies in the 
behavioral and drug treatment of severe migraine.

Seng EK(1), Holroyd KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Ohio University, 200 Porter Hall, Athens, OH 
45701-2979, USA. es842306@ohio.edu

BACKGROUND: Modification of expectancies (headache self-efficacy and headache 
locus of control) is thought to be central to the success of psychological 
treatments for migraine.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to examine expectancy changes with various 
combinations of Behavioral Migraine Management and migraine drug therapies.
METHODS: Frequent migraine sufferers who failed to respond to 5 weeks of 
optimized acute migraine drug therapy were randomized to a 2 (Behavioral 
Migraine Management+, Behavioral Migraine Management-) × 2 (β-blocker, placebo) 
treatment design.
RESULTS: Mixed models for repeated measures analyses (N = 176) revealed large 
increases in headache self-efficacy and internal headache locus of control and 
large decreases in chance headache locus of control with Behavioral Migraine 
Management+ that were maintained over a 12-month evaluation period. Chance 
headache locus of control and socioeconomic status moderated changes in headache 
self-efficacy with Behavioral Migraine Management+.
CONCLUSIONS: The "deficiency" hypothesis best explained how patient 
characteristics influenced changes in of headache self-efficacy with Behavioral 
Migraine Management.

DOI: 10.1007/s12160-010-9223-3
PMID: 20812037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Sci Am. 2010 Sep;303(3):42-9. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0910-42.

Why can't we live forever?

Kirkwood T(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, England.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0910-42
PMID: 20812478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2010 Jun;82(2):95-9.

Prostate cancer detection after one or more negative extended needle biopsy: 
results of a multicenter case-findings protocol.

Pepe P(1), Dibenedetto G, Gulletta M, Pietropaolo F, Minaldi G, Gulino V, 
Barbera M, Rotondo S, Azzarello G, Amico F, Aragona F.

Author information:
(1)Urology Unit, Cannizzaro Hospital Catania, Italy. piepepe@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate PCa incidence in patients with one or more negative 
extended prostate biopsy who underwent repeat biopsy or TURP.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From June 2003 to February 2008, 308 patients were 
submitted to repeat prostate biopsy (median 20.5 cores) and 120 patients 
underwent TURP after one or more 12 cores prostate biopsy. Indications for 
biopsy were: abnormal DRE; PSA > 10 ng/mL; PSA included between 4.1-10 or 2.6-4 
ng/mL with free/total PSA < or = 25% and < or = 20%, respectively 262 and 46 
underwent a second and a third biopsy: 218 because for high levels of PSA, 40 
and 50 patients for a previous diagnosis of HGPIN and ASAP, 28 had an abnormal 
DRE. PSA in patients who underwent TURP was 11.6 ng/mL (median); in all cases 
DRE was negative and only 76 patients referred LUTS.
RESULTS: PCa incidence at repeat biopsy was 16.9%; 96.2% of cancers were 
diagnosed at a second biopsy and 3.8% at a third one. PCa incidence was higher 
in patients with previous ASAP (43.4% and 50%) vs patients with HGPIN (25% and 
0%) or benign pathology (11.9% and 0%). PCa was diagnosed in 11.1% and 19% of 
patients who underwent TURP previously submitted to a first and a second biopsy, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In case of persistent suspicion of PCa after a repeated negative 
saturation biopsy, TURP should be proposed as part of the diagnostic procedure 
aside from LUTS, especially in patients with a life expectancy greater than 10 
years.

PMID: 20812532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Med Econ. 2010;13(3):559-70. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.516203.

Cost effectiveness of deferasirox compared to desferrioxamine in the treatment 
of iron overload in lower-risk, transfusion-dependent myelodysplastic syndrome 
patients.

Tolley K(1), Oliver N, Miranda E, Migliaccio-Walle K, Bozkaya D, Li Q.

Author information:
(1)Tolley Health Economics Ltd., Buxton, Derbyshire, UK. 
keith@tolleyhealtheconomics.com

OBJECTIVE: The study evaluated the cost effectiveness of deferasirox (Exjade * ) 
compared to non-proprietary desferrioxamine (DFO) for the control of 
transfusional iron overload in lower risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) 
patients. A UK National Health Service perspective was adopted.
METHODS: Recent clinical evidence has demonstrated the efficacy and safety of 
deferasirox in transfusion-dependent MDS patients with elevated serum ferritin 
levels. An economic model was used to extrapolate the clinical benefits of iron 
chelation therapy (ICT) in a cohort of lower risk MDS patients. Costs for drug 
acquisition, drug administration and monitoring, and quality of life (utility) 
outcomes associated with mode of drug administration were derived from a variety 
of sources. The incremental cost per QALY gained for deferasirox was estimated. 
Costs and outcomes were discounted at 3.5% in line with UK standards.
RESULTS: The base-case cost effectiveness of deferasirox versus DFO was 
estimated to be £20,822 per QALY gained, the key driver being the additional 
quality of life benefits associated with a simpler mode of administration for 
deferasirox. A mean survival benefit for both forms of ICT of 4.5 years was 
estimated. The results were sensitive to drug dose, days of DFO administration, 
and patient weight.
CONCLUSIONS: In the UK, a cost per QALY below £20,000-30,000 is considered cost 
effective. Hence, the results from this economic analysis suggest deferasirox is 
cost effective in lower risk, transfusion-dependent, MDS patients. Limitations 
with the analysis include a lack of comparative randomised controlled trial 
evidence, in particular to differentiate survival and clinical outcomes for 
deferasirox and DFO.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.516203
PMID: 20812793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. J Mol Biol. 2010 Oct 29;403(3):480-93. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.08.032. Epub
2010  Sep 9.

The evolution and structure prediction of coiled coils across all genomes.

Rackham OJ(1), Madera M, Armstrong CT, Vincent TL, Woolfson DN, Gough J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1UB, UK.

Coiled coils are α-helical interactions found in many natural proteins. Various 
sequence-based coiled-coil predictors are available, but key issues remain: 
oligomeric state and protein-protein interface prediction and extension to all 
genomes. We present SpiriCoil (http://supfam.org/SUPERFAMILY/spiricoil), which 
is based on a novel approach to the coiled-coil prediction problem for coiled 
coils that fall into known superfamilies: hundreds of hidden Markov models 
representing coiled-coil-containing domain families. Using whole domains gives 
the advantage that sequences flanking the coiled coils help. SpiriCoil performs 
at least as well as existing methods at detecting coiled coils and significantly 
advances the state of the art for oligomer state prediction. SpiriCoil has been 
run on over 16 million sequences, including all completely sequenced genomes 
(more than 1200), and a resulting Web interface supplies data downloads, 
alignments, scores, oligomeric state classifications, three-dimensional homology 
models and visualisation. This has allowed, for the first time, a genomewide 
analysis of coiled-coil evolution. We found that coiled coils have arisen 
independently de novo well over a hundred times, and these are observed in 16 
different oligomeric states. Coiled coils in almost all oligomeric states were 
present in the last universal common ancestor of life. The vast majority of 
occasions that individual coiled coils have arisen de novo were before the last 
universal common ancestor of life; we do, however, observe scattered instances 
throughout subsequent evolutionary history, mostly in the formation of the 
eukaryote superkingdom. Coiled coils do not change their oligomeric state over 
evolution and did not evolve from the rearrangement of existing helices in 
proteins; coiled coils were forged in unison with the fold of the whole protein.
