
Author information:
(1)Center for Adolescent Nursing, School of Nursing, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. duke0028@umn.edu

US teens overestimate risk for early death. The purpose of this study was to 
identify factors associated with an adolescent's change from early death 
perception to a belief in living into adulthood. Data are from 9140 adolescents 
participating in waves 1 (1995) and 2 (1996) of the National Longitudinal Study 
of Adolescent Health. Logistic regression models were used to determine contexts 
of healthy and unhealthy change associated with the likelihood of early death 
perception change. Youth report of increased caring and connection to other 
adults and increased self-esteem were associated with greater likelihood of 
moving from pessimism to optimism about life expectancy (P = .003 and P = .038, 
respectively). Reductions in self-esteem and poorer perception of health were 
associated with decreased odds of death perception change (P = .017 and P = 
.011, respectively). Nurturing positive connections with adults and strategies 
that improve a youth's self-esteem offer 2 opportunities to facilitate 
adolescent early death perception change.

DOI: 10.1177/0009922810379041
PMID: 20837616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2010 Nov;23(6):574-81. doi:
10.1097/YCO.0b013e32833f46c9.

Cardiovascular aspects of antipsychotics.

Raedler TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Thomas.raedler@albertahealthservices.ca

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Schizophrenia is associated with increased mortality and 
reduced life expectancy, with cardiovascular disease being the most frequent 
cause of death. Antipsychotics have detrimental effects on different risk 
factors for cardiovascular disease. This review will focus on the relationship 
between antipsychotic treatment and cardiovascular disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: The increased overall mortality and mortality from 
cardiovascular disease in schizophrenia are now well documented. Patients with 
schizophrenia are at risk of receiving less optimal treatment for cardiovascular 
disease. Patients with schizophrenia are at high risk of metabolic syndrome, a 
cluster of risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Some antipsychotics, in 
particular, clozapine and olanzapine, frequently cause weight gain, dyslipidemia 
and diabetes mellitus. Antipsychotics differ in their effects on body weight, 
lipids and glucose regulation. However, the long-term effects of these 
differences between individual antipsychotics on overall mortality and 
cardiovascular mortality are not well established.
SUMMARY: More research is needed to better understand the relationship between 
schizophrenia, antipsychotic treatment and cardiovascular disease. More 
effective treatment strategies need to be developed to reduce the burden of 
cardiovascular disease in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1097/YCO.0b013e32833f46c9
PMID: 20838345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Methods Mol Biol. 2011;672:517-30. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60761-839-3_21.

Application of support vector machine-based ranking strategies to search for 
target-selective compounds.

Wassermann AM(1), Geppert H, Bajorath J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science Informatics, B-IT, Rheinische 
Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität, Bonn, Germany.

Support vector machine (SVM)-based selectivity searching has recently been 
introduced to identify compounds in virtual screening libraries that are not 
only active for a target protein, but also selective for this target over a 
closely related member of the same protein family. In simulated virtual 
screening calculations, SVM-based strategies termed preference ranking and 
one-versus-all ranking were successfully applied to rank a database and enrich 
high-ranking positions with selective compounds while removing nonselective 
molecules from high ranks. In contrast to the original SVM approach developed 
for binary classification, these strategies enable learning from more than two 
classes, considering that distinguishing between selective, promiscuously 
active, and inactive compounds gives rise to a three-class prediction problem. 
In this chapter, we describe the extension of the one-versus-all strategy to 
four training classes. Furthermore, we present an adaptation of the preference 
ranking strategy that leads to higher recall of selective compounds than 
previously investigated approaches and is applicable in situations where the 
removal of nonselective compounds from high-ranking positions is not required.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60761-839-3_21
PMID: 20838983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Orthopedics. 2010 Sep 7;33(9):662. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20100722-37.

Management of bone loss in revision TKA: it's a changing world.

Lombardi AV(1), Berend KR, Adams JB.

Author information:
(1)Joint Implant Surgeons, Inc, The Ohio State University, Mount Carmel Health 
System, New Albany, Ohio, USA. LombardiAV@joint-surgeons.com

Bone deficiency represents a common theme in revision total knee arthroplasty 
(TKA). The etiology of bone deficiency may be aseptic loosening resulting in 
direct mechanical bone loss, osteolysis, stress shielding, septic loosening, or 
iatrogenic resulting from implant removal. Not all revisions are created equal. 
The surgeon must assess the degree of complexity and have a broad armamentarium 
available. Principles to consider in bone loss management are defect size and 
location and patient demographics, including body mass index, activity level, 
age, and life expectancy. Treatment options include polymethylmethacrylate 
(PMMA) with or without reinforcing screws; modular TKA systems including 
optional stems, wedges, and metal augments; orthopedic salvage systems such as 
mega- or tumor prostheses; autograft; and morselized or structural allograft. 
Morselized allograft is better suited for reconstitution of contained deficits 
and may be associated with a higher rate of incorporation. Disadvantages of 
allograft include late resorption, fracture or nonunion of structural allograft, 
and risk of disease transmission. A recent innovation has been a variety of 
augments and cones fabricated in the new ultraporous metals to address 
structural defects in revision TKA. Recommendations for bony reconstruction 
include: for deficits <5 mm, PMMA fill; for deficits 5 to 10 mm and <50% of the 
femoral condyle or tibial plateau, PMMA with reinforcing screws; for contained 
deficits >5 mm, morselized allograft; for noncontained deficits 5 to 15 mm and 
>50% of the femoral condyle and tibial plateau, TKA modular systems with stems 
and augments; and for noncontained deficits >15 mm, structural allografts, 
megaprostheses, and ultraporous metal augments.

Copyright 2010, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20100722-37
PMID: 20839684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Orthopedics. 2010 Sep 7;33(9):629. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20100722-32.

Total hip arthroplasty in patients with Down syndrome.

Kosashvili Y(1), Taylor D, Backstein D, Safir O, Gross A, Lakstein D.

Author information:
(1)of Surgery, Division of Orthopedic Surgery, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Hip osteoarthritis is prevalent in 8% to 28% of patients with Down syndrome. 
Presence of disabling hip pain is increased along with prolonged life 
expectancy, suggesting total hip arthroplasty (THA). Seven consecutive patients 
(9 hips) with Down syndrome underwent primary THA. Coxarthrosis was secondary to 
developmental hip dysplasia in 6 patients and slipped capital epiphysis in 1 
patient. In 5 patients (7 hips), a previous hip surgery was performed. Average 
clinical and radiological follow-up was 9.9±6.4 years (range, 2-22.5 years; 
median, 9.3 years). Average patient age at THA was 34.8±7.5 years (range, 25- 47 
years; median, 35.4 years). In 2 patients (3 hips), a trochanteric slide was 
used for the surgical approach, while a lateral transgluteal approach was used 
in the remaining patients. One-way analysis of variance test was used to compare 
Harris Hip Scores (HHS) at postoperative follow-up.Harris Hip Scores improved 
significantly (P=.008) from 4.1±15.1 (range, 18.5-65; median, 45) to 84.8.3±7.7 
(range, 70-93; median, 85.8) at 4-year follow-up. Harris Hip Scores (average, 
70.9±6.2; range, 66.5-80; median, 68) remained essentially unchanged (P=.43) at 
8-year follow-up. Two patients required revision THA for stem loosening at 6 and 
16 years post-THA, respectively. The first patient is 7 years post-revision and 
ambulates without aids. The second patient is 6.1 years post-revision and 
ambulates with a walker. Six of the THAs required a constrained liner. No 
dislocations or deep infections were encountered. At last follow-up, all 
patients had a functional range of motion without evidence of discomfort related 
to their THA.

Copyright 2010, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20100722-32
PMID: 20839689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Int Q Community Health Educ. 1991 Jan 1;12(1):69-80. doi: 
10.2190/T30Y-NUMU-VE57-T649.

Sociocultural factors affecting reproductive health in latin america and the 
Caribbean.

Rice M(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Substance Abuse Prevention, Rockville, MD.

This article provides an overview of the socio-economic, health and fertility 
conditions in the countries of the Americas. Among those considered are GNP and 
annual growth and inflation rates, fertility rates, increasing urbanization, 
life expectancy at birth, infant and child mortality, and maternal mortality 
particularly due to complication from pregnancy and childbirth. Barriers for 
women and men on contraception use are discussed. Among the most important 
influencing factors are ethical and moral considerations, lack of access to 
information and supplies, women holding a lower status than men throughout Latin 
America and some parts of the Caribbean resulting in women's unregulated 
fertility, poor quality health services being available, and lower educational 
opportunities and levels than men. Additionally, the extremely poor quality of 
the interface women have with the health care system sends many of them away. 
Although a major proportion of pregnancies occur in adolescent women, no special 
provisions are made to provide education or services to this population. The 
article ends by proposing some alternative actions to improve options for 
contraceptive choices in the populations of Latin America and the Caribbean.

DOI: 10.2190/T30Y-NUMU-VE57-T649
PMID: 20840960


23. Int Q Community Health Educ. 1983 Jan 1;4(3):213-30. doi: 
10.2190/KVG4-0VFW-PMH1-PX18.

Black elders: viability during a time of cutbacks.

Pilisuk M(1), Mitchell J.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Davis.

Black elders in the United States have fewer resources than their white cohorts. 
They have less income, poorer housing, shorter life expectancy, and more 
barriers to service. Recent federal cutbacks have been differentially damaging 
to black elders who were more dependent upon the programs being cut and who have 
fewer alternative resources. This is a matter of fiscal policy that has 
relevance to the physical and mental well-being of the largest segment of 
minority elderly in the United States.

DOI: 10.2190/KVG4-0VFW-PMH1-PX18
PMID: 20841120


24. J Appl Biomech. 2010 Aug;26(3):316-23. doi: 10.1123/jab.26.3.316.

Effects of training on muscle and tendon in knee extensors and plantar flexors 
in vivo.

Kubo K(1), Ikebukuro T, Yata H, Tsunoda N, Kanehisa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of resistance training on 
muscle and tendon properties between knee extensors and plantar flexors in vivo. 
Twenty healthy young men voluntarily participated in this study. The subjects 
were randomly divided into two training groups: knee extension group (n=10) and 
plantar flexion group (n=10). They performed five sets of exercises with a 1-min 
rest between sets, which consisted of unilateral knee extension for the knee 
extension group and plantar flexion for the plantar flexion group at 80% of 1 
repetition maximum with 10 repetitions per set (4 days/wk, 12 wk). Before and 
after training, muscle strength, neural activation level (by interpolated 
twitch), muscle volume (by magnetic resonance imaging), and tendon stiffness (by 
ultrasonography) were measured. There were no differences in the 
training-induced increases in muscle strength, activation level, muscle volume, 
and tendon stiffness between knee extensors and plantar flexors. These results 
suggested that if the used protocol of training (i.e., intensity, repetition, 
etc.) were the same, there were no differences in the training-induced changes 
in muscle and tendon properties between knee extensors and plantar flexors.

DOI: 10.1123/jab.26.3.316
PMID: 20841623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Am J Gastroenterol. 2010 Nov;105(11):2341-6. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2010.368. Epub 
2010 Sep 14.

The gain in quality-adjusted life months by switching to esomeprazole in those 
with continued reflux symptoms in primary care: EncomPASS--a cluster-randomized 
trial.

Moayyedi P(1), Armstrong D, Hunt RH, Lei Y, Bukoski M, White RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, McMaster University 
Medical Centre, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. moayyep@mcmaster.ca

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2010 Nov;105(11):2347-9.

OBJECTIVES: Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are effective in gastroesophageal 
reflux disease (GERD), but their cost effectiveness is unknown. This is usually 
determined by cost/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, but whether PPI 
therapy improves QALYs has not been assessed in a randomized trial. The PPI acid 
suppression symptom (PASS) test is a five-item questionnaire that identifies 
patients with persistent acid-related symptoms. We evaluated whether a PASS 
test-based management strategy of changing GERD therapy to esomeprazole in those 
with continued symptoms on another PPI or H(2) receptor antagonist therapy would 
be cost effective. We expressed the data in terms of cost per quality-adjusted 
life months (QALM), as this was a 4-week trial.
METHODS: This is a multicenter, cluster-randomized, open-label study in primary 
care physician centers across Canada. Primary care physician centers were 
randomized to intervention or control arms. Patients on acid-suppressing 
medication were identified from primary care records and asked to complete the 
PASS test. PASS test failures at baseline assessment continued current therapy 
in control practices or switched to esomeprazole 20 or 40 mg daily (the dose was 
at the clinician's discretion) for 4 weeks in intervention practices. A planned 
secondary end point was QALM gain, measured using the validated Euroqol (EQ-5D) 
completed at baseline and 4 weeks. Medication use was also assessed by 
questionnaire. Canadian unit generic costs were applied to all GERD drugs, 
except to esomeprazole and lansoprazole, wherein proprietary costs were used 
(all costs in Canadian $). Data were analyzed using bootstrap sampling.
RESULTS: A total of 1,564 patients were recruited from 134 intervention sites 
and 92 control sites. Data were evaluable for 808 intervention and 445 control 
patients. The mean (±standard deviation) QALM at 4 weeks in the intervention 
group was 0.885±0.164 compared with 0.814±0.179 in the control group, resulting 
in a mean 0.071 (95% CI=0.091-0.051) QALM gain (P<0.0001). Esomeprazole was cost 
effective for PASS test failures, with a mean cost of $763 (95% CI=456-1,414) 
per QALM gain.
CONCLUSIONS: Esomeprazole was associated with a statistically significant gain 
in QALMs and was cost effective in primary care patients with persistent 
acid-related symptoms identified by the PASS test.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2010.368
PMID: 20842110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Health Econ. 2010 Oct;19(10):1109-16. doi: 10.1002/hec.1654.

Valuing health technologies at NICE: recommendations for improved incorporation 
of treatment value in HTA.

Goldman D(1), Lakdawalla D, Philipson TJ, Yin W.

Author information:
(1)Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of Southern 
California and RANDCorporation, CA, USA.

Erratum in
    Health Econ. 2010 Dec;19(12):1510.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1654
PMID: 20842680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. BMC Pulm Med. 2010 Sep 15;10:47. doi: 10.1186/1471-2466-10-47.

Tiotropium's cost-effectiveness for the treatment of COPD: a cost-utility 
analysis under real-world conditions.

Neyt M(1), Devriese S, Thiry N, Van den Bruel A.

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre (KCE), Brussels, Belgium. 
mattias.neyt@kce.fgov.be

Comment in
    BMC Pulm Med. 2010;10:48.

BACKGROUND: Tiotropium is reimbursed since March 2004 in Belgium for the 
treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Questions however 
remain on this product's value for money. The purpose of this study is to 
calculate tiotropium's cost-effectiveness under real-world conditions.
METHODS: Strengths of both observational and RCT data were combined in a model. 
A large longitudinal (2002-2006) observational dataset of regular tiotropium 
users (56,321 patients) was analysed to retrieve the baseline risk for 
exacerbations and exacerbation-related hospitalisations the year before the 
first delivery of tiotropium. The relative treatment effect from the UPLIFT 
(Understanding Potential Long-term Impacts on Function with Tiotropium) trial 
was then applied to this baseline risk to reflect the effect of tiotropium 
treatment and calculate the intervention's incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER).
RESULTS: After 1000 Latin Hypercube simulations, the incremental benefit 
expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained is on average 0.00048 
(95% confidence interval (CI) 0.00009-0.00092). In combination with a 
substantial mean incremental cost of €373 per patient (95% CI 279-475), this 
results in an unfavourable average ICER of €1,244,023 (95% CI 328,571-4,712,704) 
per QALY gained. Results were most sensitive to the treatment effect on 
hospitalisations. Based on our large observational database, up to 89% of the 
patients were not hospitalised for COPD in the year before the first tiotropium 
delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: The main cause for tiotropium's unfavourable cost-effectiveness 
ratio is a combination of a relative high price for tiotropium, a low number of 
hospitalisations without tiotropium treatment (on average 0.14/year) and a 
non-significant treatment effect (on average 0.94) with respect to avoiding 
exacerbation-related hospitalisations. From an economic point of view, a 
revision of reimbursement modalities (e.g. with a lower price) would be 
justified and would entail a more efficient use of resources.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2466-10-47
PMCID: PMC2954895
PMID: 20843311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Vasc Surg. 2010 Dec;52(6):1537-45.e1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.06.152.
Epub  2010 Sep 16.

Cost-effectiveness of guidelines for insertion of inferior vena cava filters in 
high-risk trauma patients.

Spangler EL(1), Dillavou ED, Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. 
pangler@alum.mit.edu

BACKGROUND: Inferior vena cava filters (IVCFs) can prevent pulmonary embolism 
(PE); however, indications for use vary. The Eastern Association for the Surgery 
of Trauma (EAST) 2002 guidelines suggest prophylactic IVCF use in high-risk 
patients, but the American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) 2008 guidelines do 
not. This analysis compares cost-effectiveness of prophylactic vs therapeutic 
retrievable IVCF placement in high-risk trauma patients.
METHODS: Markov modeling was used to determine incremental cost-effectiveness of 
these guidelines in dollars per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) during 
hospitalization and long-term follow-up. Our population was 46-year-old trauma 
patients at high risk for venous thromboembolism (VTE) by EAST criteria to whom 
either the EAST (prophylactic IVCF) or ACCP (no prophylactic IVCF) guidelines 
were applied. The analysis assumed the societal perspective over a lifetime. For 
base case and sensitivity analyses, probabilities and utilities were obtained 
from published literature and costs calculated from Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services fee schedules, the Healthcare Cost & Utilization Project 
database, and Red Book wholesale drug prices for 2007. For data unavailable from 
the literature, similarities to other populations were used to make assumptions.
RESULTS: In base case analysis, prophylactic IVCFs were more costly ($37,700 vs 
$37,300) and less effective (by 0.139 QALYs) than therapeutic IVCFs. In 
sensitivity analysis, the EAST strategy of prophylactic filter placement would 
become the preferred strategy in individuals never having a filter, with either 
an annual probability of VTE of ≥ 9.6% (base case, 5.9%), or a very high annual 
probability of anticoagulation complications of ≥ 24.3% (base case, 2.5%). The 
EAST strategy would also be favored if the annual probability of venous 
insufficiency was <7.69% (base case, 13.9%) after filter removal or <1.90% with 
a retained filter (base case, 14.1%). In initial hospitalization only, EAST 
guidelines were more costly by $2988 and slightly more effective by .0008 QALY, 
resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $383,638/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Analysis suggests prophylactic IVC filters are not cost-effective 
in high-risk trauma patients. The magnitude of this result is primarily 
dependent on probabilities of long-term sequelae (venous thromboembolism, 
bleeding complications). Even in the initial hospitalization, however, 
prophylactic IVCF costs for the additional quality-adjusted life years gained 
did not justify use.

Copyright © 2010 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.06.152
PMID: 20843631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Oral Oncol. 2010 Nov;46(11):829-33. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2010.08.004. 
Epub 2010 Sep 20.

The use of the pectoralis major flap for advanced and recurrent head and neck 
malignancy in the medically compromised patient.

Avery CM(1), Crank ST, Neal CP, Hayter JP, Elton C.

Author information:
(1)Consultant in Maxillofacial Surgery, Leicester Royal Infirmary, University 
Hospitals of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom. chrisavery@doctors.org.uk

A retrospective review of seventy-one PPM flaps used between 1996 and 2010 
primarily for oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma presenting as 
either advanced stage IV primary disease (41/43), extensive recurrent (10) or 
metastatic (9) neck disease. The PPM flap was most commonly used following 
resection of the mandible (23) or the tongue/oropharynx (19). When the PPM flap 
was the preferred reconstruction option (54) the main indication, in addition to 
advanced disease, was significant medical co-morbidity (23). The majority of PPM 
flaps (75%) were used in the latter half of the series for an increasing number 
of patients in poor health with advanced disease. There was no evidence of an 
increase in age, ASA grade or extent of disease during this period. 
Approximately one quarter (17) of the flaps were used after failure of a free 
flap, most commonly a DCIA (7) or radial (6) flap. The 30day mortality in this 
group of compromised patients undergoing major surgery for advanced disease was 
7% (5/71). The overwhelming majority had significant co-morbidity (94% grade 2 
or higher with 63% ASA grade 3) and 90% had already undergone previous major 
surgery and/or radiotherapy. The 1-year, 3-year and 5-year overall survival 
rates were 65.5%, 39.1% and 11.0% respectively with cancer-specific survival 
rates of 82.0%, 65.5% and 65.5%. The majority died of disease related to the 
underlying co-morbidity. We recommend an aggressive approach to the surgical 
resection of advanced and recurrent disease but a pragmatic approach to 
reconstruction. The PPM major flap is reliable for reconstruction of defects of 
the mandible, tongue and oropharynx with a complete flap failure rate of 2.8%. 
Lateral defects of the mandible were managed without a plate and with an 
acceptable outcome in the context of limited life expectancy. This is the 
largest study of the use of the PPM flap for this type of patient group. The 
flap retains a major role in the management of advanced primary or recurrent 
disease, extensive metastatic neck disease and after failure of a free flap when 
in conjunction with significant co-morbidity.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2010.08.004
PMID: 20843729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. BMJ. 2010 Sep 15;341:c5014. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c5014.

Access to artificial hips. Using PROMs to improve equity.

Soljak MA, Majeed A.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2010;341:c4092.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c5014
PMID: 20843923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Case Rep Oncol. 2010 Mar 24;3(1):63-71. doi: 10.1159/000299385.

Outcome of Surgical Treatment for Metastatic Vertebra Bone Tumor in Advanced 
Lung Cancer.

Fukuhara A(1), Masago K, Neo M, Fujibayashi S, Fujita S, Hatachi Y, Irisa K, 
Sakamori Y, Togashi Y, Kim YH, Mio T, Mishima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Spinal metastases of patients with advanced stage lung cancer are an 
important target for palliative therapy, because their incidence is high, and 
they often cause severe symptoms and worsen the quality of life. Surgery is one 
of the most effective treatment options, but the indication of surgery is 
unclear as the procedure is invasive and patients with spinal metastasis have a 
rather short life expectancy. Furthermore, there have been few studies that have 
focused on lung cancer with poor prognosis. METHODS: We reviewed all of the 
cases of lung cancer from January 1999 to July 2007 in the Department of 
Respiratory Medicine, Kyoto University Hospital, Japan. Thirteen patients with 
metastatic spinal tumor of lung cancer underwent surgery, and all of them had a 
poor performance status score (3 or 4). RESULTS: Neurological improvement by at 
least 1 Frankel grade was seen in 10 of 14 cases (71%). Improvement of the 
movement capacity was noted in 9 of 14 cases (64%), and pain improvement was 
noted in 12 of 14 (86%). Median postoperative survival was 5 months (1-25 
months). In particular, the group with a good postoperative performance status 
score (0-2) was shown to have a better median postoperative survival of 13 
months. CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment for symptomatic metastatic spinal tumor 
of lung cancer can improve quality of life in a substantially high percentage of 
patients. Surgery should be considered even if preoperative performance status 
is poor.

DOI: 10.1159/000299385
PMCID: PMC2918846
PMID: 20844571


32. PLoS One. 2010 Sep 3;5(9):e12556. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0012556.

Soluble biomarkers of cartilage and bone metabolism in early proof of concept 
trials in psoriatic arthritis: effects of adalimumab versus placebo.

van Kuijk AW(1), DeGroot J, Koeman RC, Sakkee N, Baeten DL, Gerlag DM, Tak PP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, F4-218, Academic Medical 
Center/University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: There is growing interest in soluble biomarkers that could be used 
on the group level for screening purposes in small proof of principle studies 
during early drug development. We investigated early changes in serum levels of 
several candidate biomarkers involved in cartilage and bone metabolism following 
the initiation of adalimumab as a prototypic active treatment in psoriatic 
arthritis (PsA) compared to placebo.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four PsA patients were randomized to receive 
either adalimumab 40 mg s.c. every other week or placebo for 4 weeks, followed 
by an open label extension phase. Serum samples were obtained at baseline and 
after 4 and 12 weeks of treatment and analyzed for levels of CPII and PINP 
(synthesis of type II and type I procollagen), melanoma inhibitory activity 
(MIA) (chondrocyte anabolism), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3, C2C and 
cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) (type II collagen degradation), 
osteocalcin (OC) (bone formation), NTX-I and ICTP (both type I collagen 
degradation).
RESULTS: After 4 weeks, there was a significant decrease in serum MMP-3 levels 
in adalimumab-treated patients (P<0.005), while no change was observed in the 
placebo group. A significant increase in serum MIA was noted after adalimumab 
therapy (P<0.005) but not after placebo treatment. After 12 weeks, there was a 
marked reduction in serum MMP-3 in both groups (P<0.005), whereas other markers 
did not show significant changes compared to baseline.
CONCLUSION: MMP-3 and MIA could serve as soluble biomarkers associated with 
inflammation as well as joint remodelling and destruction and may, together with 
clinical evaluation and in combination with other biomarkers, assist in 
distinguishing between effective and ineffective therapy in small, 
proof-of-principle studies of short duration in PsA.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN23328456.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0012556
PMCID: PMC2937309
PMID: 20844595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: PPT served as a consultant 
to Abbott. JD and NS are employees of the Netherlands Organization for Applied 
Scientific Research (TNO), which is active in 5 core areas of Quality of Life 
that deal with health-related research. TNO was founded by law in 1932 to enable 
business and government to apply knowledge. As a not-for-profit organization 
regulated by public law, it is an independent research organisation, not part of 
any government, university or company. The authors confirm their adherence to 
all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials, as outlined in detail 
in the guide for authors http://www.plosone.org/static/policies.action#sharing.


33. Urologe A. 2010 Oct;49(10):1266-73. doi: 10.1007/s00120-010-2399-0.

[Node-positive prostate cancer. Value of radical prostatectomy].

[Article in German]

Heidenreich A(1), Schrader AJ.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Aachen, Pauwelsstraße 30, 52074 
Aachen. aheidenreich@ukaachen.de

The current review article critically discusses the potential advantages and 
disadvantages of radical prostatectomy in patients with locally advanced lymph 
node-positive prostate cancer. It is the purpose of the manuscript to develop a 
therapeutic algorithm for management of these patients to achieve optimal 
oncological and functional results. Based on the data in the literature radical 
prostatectomy as part of a multimodality approach seems to be indicated in the 
following clinical scenario: limited intrapelvic lymph node metastasis without 
bulky disease; complete resectability of the primary cancer and metastases by 
extended radical prostatectomy and extended pelvic lymphadenectomy; inclusion of 
the patient in a multimodality approach; life expectancy > 10 years. In patients 
with extensive locally advanced PCA or large pelvic metastases, radical 
prostatectomy might be indicated to improve local cancer control and to prevent 
significant local and supravesical complications. In these cases, the indication 
for extensive surgery includes radical cystoprostatectomy and should be 
discussed in an interdisciplinary tumour board.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-010-2399-0
PMID: 20844859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Adv Ther. 2010 Oct;27(10):665-80. doi: 10.1007/s12325-010-0071-0. Epub 2010
Sep  13.

Engaging and empowering patients to manage their type 2 diabetes, Part II: 
Initiatives for success.

Jacob S(1), Serrano-Gil M.

Author information:
(1)Cardio-metabolic Institute, Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) has reached pandemic proportions. The impact of it and its 
long-term sequelae represent a significant burden for many healthcare systems 
around the world, and a significant number of patients struggle to achieve the 
internationally recommended targets for the modifiable risk factors that 
optimize healthy outcomes. In the first part of this two-part review, the scene 
was set showing that there seems to be a knowledge, attitude, and practice (KAP) 
gap hindering successful management of T2D. Although theoretical knowledge about 
how T2D should be managed exists, the attitude of patients and healthcare 
professionals seems to influence the practicalities of implementing 
life-enhancing changes for patients living with diabetes. Following the chronic 
care model, macro-level initiatives such as Finland's national diabetes program, 
"The Development Programme for the Prevention and Care of Diabetes" (DEHKO), 
encourage a coordinated, supportive policy and financial environment for 
healthcare system change, and are advocated by the International Diabetes 
Federation. Over a 10-year period, the DEHKO program aims to demonstrate that a 
top-down population approach to prevention, focusing on reducing obesity, 
increasing physical activity, and encouraging healthier eating habits, may 
improve the overall health of the nation. However, the patient is the focus of 
day-to-day management of T2D, and innovative strategies that use a community 
(meso-level) approach to encourage self-management, or that embrace new 
technologies to access diabetes self-management education or support networks, 
are likely to be the way forward. Such measures may close the apparent KAP gap 
and bring about real and measurable benefits in quality of life and life 
expectancy. The second part of this review describes some of the many and varied 
initiatives designed to engage and empower patients to self-manage their T2D, 
with the aim of increasing the proportion of patients reaching health-related 
targets. This will ultimately impact on national health systems and the quality 
of life of the nation.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-010-0071-0
PMID: 20844999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Health Commun. 2010 Sep;25(6-7):525-8. doi: 10.1080/10410236.2010.496701.

On the need for a life-span approach to health campaign evaluation.

Southwell BG(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. south026@umn.edu

Campaign evaluation researchers should investigate age not just as an audience 
segmentation variable but also as a potentially valuable moderator of measure 
validity and campaign effects. Although researchers interested in 
physician-patient interaction and family communication have long considered 
aging dynamics, media campaign evaluation research has insufficiently addressed 
changes over the life span. In this article, I summarize some examples 
illustrating the importance of such work and propose additional theoretical 
possibilities.

DOI: 10.1080/10410236.2010.496701
PMID: 20845132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2011 May;26(5):483-94. doi: 10.1002/gps.2551. Epub 
2010 Sep 15.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of the rivastigmine transdermal patch for 
Alzheimer's disease in the UK using MMSE- and ADL-based models.

Nagy B(1), Brennan A, Brandtmüller A, Thomas SK, Sullivan SD, Akehurst R.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
England. b.nagy@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: Assess long-term cost-effectiveness of rivastigmine patch in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) management in the UK, using cognitive and functional 
models based on clinical trial efficacy data.
METHODS: Incremental costs and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) associated 
with rivastigmine patch and capsule treatment versus best supportive care (BSC) 
were calculated using two economic models, one based solely on Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) scores, and one also incorporating activities of daily living 
(ADL) scores. The clinical pathway was populated with data from a clinical trial 
of rivastigmine patch (9.5 mg/24 h) and capsules (12 mg/day) versus placebo. 
Costs were based on the UK health and social care costs and basic UK National 
Health Service (NHS) prices. Disease progression was modelled beyond the trial 
period over 5 years using published equations to predict natural decline in AD 
patients. Base case costing variables included drugs, clinical monitoring, and 
institutionalization.
RESULTS: The MMSE model estimated incremental costs per QALY of £10 579 for 
rivastigmine patch and £15 154 for capsule versus BSC. The MMSE-ADL model 
estimated incremental costs per QALY of £9114 for rivastigmine patch and £13 758 
for capsules. The main difference between the models was a greater number of 
institutionalized days avoided for rivastigmine versus BSC estimated by the 
MMSE-ADL model.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the MMSE and MMSE-ADL models suggest that rivastigmine patch 
and capsules are cost-effective treatments versus BSC. Incorporating ADL 
evidence makes a marginal but important difference to estimates in this case. 
Future economic evaluations of AD treatment should include measures of both 
cognition and functioning.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.2551
PMID: 20845395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Indoor Air. 2011 Feb;21(1):25-35. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0668.2010.00679.x. Epub
 2010 Sep 15.

Association between indoor air pollution measurements and respiratory health in 
women and children in Lao PDR.

Mengersen K(1), Morawska L, Wang H, Murphy N, Tayphasavanh F, Darasavong K, 
Holmes NS.

Author information:
(1)School of Mathematical Sciences, Queensland University of Technology, 
Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

This article presents the results of a study on the association between measured 
air pollutants and the respiratory health of resident women and children in Lao 
PDR, one of the least developed countries in Southeast Asia. The study, 
commissioned by the World Health Organisation, included PM(10), CO and NO(2) 
measurements made inside 181 dwellings in nine districts within two provinces in 
Lao PDR over a 5-month period (12/05-04/06), and respiratory health information 
(via questionnaires and peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) measurements) for all 
residents in the same dwellings. Adjusted odds ratios were calculated separately 
for each health outcome using binary logistic regression. There was a strong and 
consistent positive association between NO(2) and CO for almost all 
questionnaire-based health outcomes for both women and children. Women in 
dwellings with higher measured NO(2) had more than triple of the odds of almost 
all of the health outcomes, and higher concentrations of NO(2) and CO were 
significantly associated with lower PEFR. This study supports a growing 
literature confirming the role of indoor air pollution in the burden of 
respiratory disease in developing countries. The results will directly support 
changes in health and housing policy in Lao PDR.
PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: This is the first study that investigated indoor air 
quality and its impact within residential dwellings in Lao PDR, which is one of 
the poorest and least developed countries in south-east Asia, with a 
life-expectancy of 56 years in 2008. While there have been other studies 
published on indoor air quality in other developing countries, the situation in 
Laos is different because the majority of houses in Laos used wood stoves, and 
therefore, emissions from wood burning are the dominant sources of indoor air 
pollution. In other countries, and studies, while emission from wood burning was 
investigated, wood was rarely the main or the only fuel used, as the houses used 
in addition (or solely) dung, kerosene or coal. The study quantified, for the 
first time, concentrations in houses two provinces in Laos PDR and shed light on 
the impact of human activities and urban design on pollutant concentrations and 
respiratory health. This study contributes to the accumulation of evidence to 
provide more reliable estimates of risk and a more informed basis for 
decision-making by concerned governments and communities.

© 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0668.2010.00679.x
PMID: 20846211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Eval Clin Pract. 2012 Apr;18(2):247-55. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01546.x.  Epub 2010 Sep 16.

Cost-utility analysis of bevacizumab versus ranibizumab in neovascular 
age-related macular degeneration using a Markov model.

Patel JJ(1), Mendes MA, Bounthavong M, Christopher ML, Boggie D, Morreale AP.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of intravitreal bevacizumab to 
ranibizumab in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis using a Markov model was performed to evaluate 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER, $US per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained] between bevacizumab and ranibizumab from a US payer perspective. 
Transition probabilities for ranibizumab and bevacizumab were extrapolated from 
published studies and local institutional data. Utility values, likewise, were 
obtained from another published study. Mortality rates were determined from the 
Centers for Disease Control 2003 Life Tables. Resource utilization and total 
direct costs were estimated using the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
and the Veterans Affairs Decision Support System. A hypothetical cohort of 1000 
patients was simulated through the model for 20 years. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed using univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) on all 
costs, transition probabilities and utility values. An acceptability curve was 
generated to illustrate the cost-effectiveness probability of bevacizumab to 
ranibizumab with increasing willingness-to-pay (WTP).
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness ratios (CER) for bevacizumab and ranibizumab 
were $1405 per QALY and $12,177 per QALY, respectively. The ICER for bevacizumab 
was dominant compared to ranibizumab. The base-case CER was sensitive to drug 
costs of the study medications with a breakeven point of $44 for ranibizumab and 
$2666 for bevacizumab. PSA revealed a 95% probability of bevacizumab being more 
cost-effective than ranibizumab at a WTP of $50,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Based on a WTP defined at $50,000 per QALY gained, bevacizumab was 
cost-effective versus ranibizumab 95% of the time because of lower acquisition 
costs and increased efficacy.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01546.x
PMID: 20846318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Neurol Sci. 2010 Nov 15;298(1-2):1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2010.08.025. Epub
 2010 Sep 16.

Perspectives of Kennedy's disease.

Finsterer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria. fifigs1@yahoo.de

Kennedy's disease, also known as bulbospinal muscular atrophy (BSMA), is a rare, 
adult-onset, X-linked, recessive trinucleotide, polyglutamine (poly-G) disorder, 
caused by expansion of an unstable CAG-tandem-repeat in exon 1 of the 
androgen-receptor (AR) gene on chromosome Xq11-12. Poly-Q-expanded AR 
accumulates in nuclei, undergoes fragmentation and initiates degeneration and 
loss of motor neurons and dorsal root ganglia. Phenotypically, patients present 
with weakness and wasting of the facial, bulbar and extremity muscles, sensory 
disturbances, and endocrinological disturbances, such as gynecomastia and 
reduced fertility. In the limb muscles weakness and wasting may be symmetric or 
asymmetric, proximal or distal, or may predominate at the lower or upper limb 
muscles. There may be mild to severe hyper-CK-emia, elevated testosterone or 
other sexual hormones, abnormal motor and sensory nerve conduction studies, and 
neuropathic or rarely myopathic alterations on muscle biopsy. BSMA is diagnosed 
if the number of CAG-repeats exceeds 40. No causal therapy is available but 
symptomatic therapy may be beneficial for weakness, tremor, endocrinological 
abnormalities, muscle cramps, respiratory failure, or dysphagia. The course is 
slowly progressive and the ability to walk lost only late in life. Only few 
patients require ventilatory support and life expectancy is only slightly 
compromised.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2010.08.025
PMID: 20846673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2010 Sep-Oct;45(5):278-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2010.03.007. Epub 2010 Sep 16.

[Usefulness of a geriatric intervention program in the improvement of drug 
treatment for institutionalised patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Gutiérrez Rodríguez J(1), López Gaona V.

Author information:
(1)Dirección Médica, OVIDA Centro Intergeneracional, Oviedo, Spain. 
josegutierrez@ovida.es

OBEJECTIVES: To determine the prevalence of polypharmacy, and inadequate or 
suboptimal prescriptions. To analyse the impact of a geriatric intervention 
program on the optimisation and rationalisation of the use of drugs in 
institutionalised patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A prospective study on a cohort of 21 sheltered subjects.
VARIABLES: Drug prescription, inadequate prescription according to "Screening 
Tool for Older Person's Prescriptions" (STOPP) criteria and suboptimal 
prescriptions according to "Screening Tool to Alert doctors to Right Treatment" 
(START) criteria. The intervention was based on analysing treatments and 
medication issues, correlate treatments to functional and mental situation, 
together with life expectancy, determine efficient and safe drugs, prescribe 
generic drugs, detect and avoid polymedication, inadequate and suboptimal 
prescriptions.
RESULTS: Twenty one subjects were include in the study,(mean age 80.43±8.84 
years old, with 57.1% women, 76.86±27.76 Barthel and 14.52±7.73 MMSE). On 
admittance, the number of drugs was 6.29±3.48 (generics on a 20.23% ratio), 
14.4% consumed 9 or more, 71.4% complied with any STOPP criteria and 52.4% 
complied with any START criteria. After the intervention, the number of drugs 
was 4.9±3.03 (generics on a 61.78 % ratio), 14.3% complied with any STOPP 
criteria and 4.8% complied with any START criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Polymedication, inadequate prescription and suboptimal prescription 
are frequent issues in residential and nursing environment. For our study 
population in an intervention program based upon geriatric assessment and the 
rationalisation on drug use, the drug consumption as well as inadequate and 
suboptimal prescription has reduced, along with increasing the use of generic 
drugs.

Copyright © 2010 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2010.03.007
PMID: 20846750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Cardiol. 2011 Jan;57(1):31-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2010.07.009. Epub 2010
Sep  16.

Mild to moderate aortic stenosis and coronary bypass surgery.

Du X(1), Soon JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, 
District, Tianjin 300052, PR China. dr.xin.du@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Aortic stenosis (AS) is the most common valvular disease in adult 
cardiac surgery and its incidence continues to rise. Increasingly older patients 
are being referred for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with mild to 
moderate AS. Concomitant aortic valve replacement (AVR) for patients with 
moderate or severe AS undergoing CABG is warranted regardless of symptoms. 
Concomitant AVR remains contentious in patients with less than moderate severity 
AS undergoing CABG.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We review the contemporary literature aiming to resolve 
this dilemma in clinical practice. The assessment of these patients is reviewed. 
Considerations include identifying the rapid progressors, and balancing the 
risks of concomitant valve surgery against the potential prognostic gains.
RESULTS: Pathophysiological links between degenerative calcific AS and coronary 
artery disease suggest that the disease is an active, progressive process with 
mutually shared risk factors. Statins, however, offer limited protection against 
AS, despite its established role in coronary artery disease. Age, 
atherosclerosis risk, valve morphology, motion, and hemodynamics identify the 
rapid progressors, whilst the patients' general comorbidities and life 
expectancy influence the risk-benefit profile of concomitant operations.
CONCLUSION: A precise echocardiographic quantification of the stenotic grade is 
mandatory before adopting any therapeutic strategy. Concomitant AVR for moderate 
AS is recommended if surgical risk is not prohibitive. Concomitant AVR for mild 
AS in 'rapid progressors' (i.e. moderate-severe valve calcification) may be 
considered, but patients should have reasonable life expectancy exceeding 5 
years. Moderately restricted leaflet motions, gradient increase of > 10 mm Hg 
per year, and aortic jet velocity increase > 0.4 m/s per year further supports 
intervention. Comorbidities increasing atherosclerotic burden and renal dialysis 
accelerate AS progression and increase surgical risk. Procedural advances in 
interventional cardiology and minimally invasive cardiac surgery may further 
expand the options available for these patients.

Copyright © 2011 Japanese College of Cardiology. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2010.07.009
PMID: 20846824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2010 Dec;11(6):820-1. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2010.243881. Epub 2010 Sep 16.

Minimally-invasive coronary surgery in dextrocardia and situs inversus totalis.

Romano G(1), Guida G, De Garate E, Guida MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery and Transplants, V. Monaldi Hospital, 
Via L. Bianchi, 80131 Naples, Italy. gianpilotto@gmail.com

Dextrocardia associated to situs inversus totalis is a rare congenital 
conditions (prevalence of 1:10,000) in which the organs are located in a 
symmetric or mirror position in the opposite side of the body. These individuals 
usually have a normal life expectancy and the same propensity to develop 
ischaemic coronary disease as the general population. We report a case of a 
59-year-old female patient with a single-vessel obstructive coronary disease 
successfully resolved via a right anterior small thoracotomy on a beating-heart 
using the right internal thoracic artery as a conduit for 'left' anterior 
descending coronary artery.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2010.243881
PMID: 20847064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2010;47(4):281-4. doi: 10.3143/geriatrics.47.281.

[Should the elderly patients undergo additional surgery after non-curative 
endoscopic resection?].

[Article in Japanese]

Gotoda T(1).

Author information:
(1)Endoscopy Division, National Cancer Center Hospital.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Endoscopic resection, including endoscopic mucosal dissection 
(ESD), has gained acceptance widely for early gastric cancer (EGC). However, 
after therapy, some elderly patients with non-curative resection do not undergo 
radical surgery, because elderly patients may have limited life expectancy or 
comorbid disease. The aim of this study is to verify if radical surgery after 
non-curative resection should be performed in the elderly patients as in young 
patients.
METHODS: This is a retrospective review of 432 elderly patients (over 75 years) 
who had undergone enodscopic resection for EGC at the National Cancer Center 
Hospital between January 1999 and December 2005. We compared the overall and 
disease-free survival rate between the curative resection group, non-curative 
resection with surgery group, and non-curative resection without surgery group.
RESULTS: A significant difference in overall and disease-free survival was 
evident between the patients with curative resection and non-curative resection 
