    Phys Life Rev. 2010 Sep;7(3):299-341.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2010.06.008
PMID: 20621571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Palliat Med. 2011 Sep;25(6):650-7. doi: 10.1177/0269216310373165. Epub 2010
Jul  9.

Older people living alone at the end of life in the U.K.: research and policy 
challenges.

Rolls L(1), Seymour JE, Froggatt KA, Hanratty B.

Author information:
(1)International Observatory on End of Life Care, Lancaster University, 
Lancaster, UK. liz.rolls@lancs.ac.uk

Older people who live alone face particular challenges if they are to age and 
die well in the place and manner of their choosing. This discussion paper 
examines the experiences and needs of older people living alone towards the end 
of life. The paper focuses on the U.K., given recent policy and service 
development initiatives there which emphasize home as a place of support and 
care; the promotion of independence; ensuring choice and decision making; and 
equity. These initiatives do not acknowledge diversity in the older population 
and make little provision to meet the specific needs that older people living 
alone may have as they approach the end of life. We identify three broader 
social factors that influence whether older people who live alone can remain at 
home until the end of their lives. The first factor is the physical environment; 
the second concerns their material environment; and the third relates to their 
social environment and their access to informal and formal care services. In 
future, palliative care research of relevance to older people should consider 
living arrangements as an important variable and be cognisant of the way in 
which wider social issues constrain the quality of end-of-life care that those 
living alone in older age receive.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216310373165
PMID: 20621946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Palliat Med. 2011 Jan;25(1):62-70. doi: 10.1177/0269216310373169. Epub 2010
Jul  9.

Are patients' preferences for information and participation in medical 
decision-making being met? Interview study with lung cancer patients.

Pardon K(1), Deschepper R, Vander Stichele R, Bernheim J, Mortier F, Schallier 
D, Germonpr√© P, Galdermans D, Van Kerckhoven W, Deliens L.

Author information:
(1)End-of-Life Care Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, 
Belgium. koen.pardon@vub.ac.be

We examined the degree to which newly diagnosed patients with advanced lung 
cancer wanted to be informed and involved in medical decision-making, and 
whether the patients felt their preferences were met. Patients from 13 hospitals 
in Flanders were interviewed with a standard questionnaire. A total of 128 
patients (68%) participated. Of the patients who wanted to be informed about 
life expectancy, half (53%) reported they were informed, and of those who wanted 
to be informed about palliative care and end-of-life decisions, 25% and 31% said 
they were informed, respectively. With regard to participation in medical 
decision-making (in general, about treatment, transfer or end-of-life), patients 
who preferred the doctor to make decisions or those who preferred to make the 
decision themselves often achieved this (in their perception), while patients 
who wanted an in-between position with some involvement, often did not. To 
conclude, preferences of patients with lung cancer for information concerning 
delicate topics and for shared decision-making with the physician were not well 
met.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216310373169
PMID: 20621948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2010;74(7):1380-5. doi: 10.1271/bbb.100056. Epub
2010  Jul 7.

Major water-soluble polyphenols, proanthocyanidins, in leaves of persimmon 
(Diospyros kaki) and their alpha-amylase inhibitory activity.

Kawakami K(1), Aketa S, Nakanami M, Iizuka S, Hirayama M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Niigata University of Pharmacy and Applied Life 
Sciences.

The amounts and compositions of polyphenol in persimmon leaves and persimmon 
leaf tea were investigated. The predominant polyphenols in fresh leaves were 
water-soluble, and the contents reached a maximum (2.40% w/w) in June, and then 
gradually decreased. Separation of them followed by thiolytic degradation 
revealed that the major components were unique proanthocyanidin oligomers 
consisting of four heterogeneous extension units, including 
epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate. Persimmon leaf tea also contained similar 
proanthocyanidins with similar compositional units. Oral administration of 
starch with polyphenol concentrate of persimmon leaf tea resulted in a 
significant and dose-dependent decrease in the blood glucose level in Wistar 
rats. This effect is considered to be due to inhibition of pancreas 
alpha-amylase. These results indicate that persimmon leaf tea containing 
peculiar proanthocyanidins has a significant role in suppressing blood glucose 
elevation after starch intake, and that the best harvest time is June.

DOI: 10.1271/bbb.100056
PMID: 20622463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Trauma. 2010 Jul;69(1):1-10. doi: 10.1097/TA.0b013e3181e03a21.

The value of trauma center care.

MacKenzie EJ(1), Weir S, Rivara FP, Jurkovich GJ, Nathens AB, Wang W, 
Scharfstein DO, Salkever DS.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg, School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, 
USA. emackenz@jhsph.edu

BACKGROUND: The cost of trauma center care is high, raising questions about the 
value of a regionalized approach to trauma care. To address these concerns, we 
estimate 1-year and lifetime treatment costs and measure the cost-effectiveness 
of treatment at a Level I trauma center (TC) compared with a nontrauma center 
hospital (NTC).
METHODS: Estimates of cost-effectiveness were derived using data on 5,043 major 
trauma patients enrolled in the National Study on Costs and Outcomes of Trauma, 
a prospective cohort study of severely injured adult patients cared for in 69 
hospitals in 14 states. Data on costs were derived from multiple sources 
including claims data from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, UB92 
hospital bills, and patient interviews. Cost-effectiveness was estimated as the 
ratio of the difference in costs (for treatment at a TC vs. NTC) divided by the 
difference in life years gained (and lives saved). We also measured 
cost-effectiveness per quality-adjusted life year gained where quality of life 
was measured using the SF-6D. We used inverse probability of treatment weighting 
to adjust for observable differences between patients treated at TCs and NTCs.
RESULTS: The added cost for treatment at a TC versus NTC was $36,319 per 
life-year gained ($790,931 per life saved) and $36,961 per quality-adjusted life 
years gained. Cost-effectiveness was more favorable for patients with injuries 
of higher versus lower severity and for younger versus older patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide evidence that regionalization of trauma care 
is not only effective but also it is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/TA.0b013e3181e03a21
PMID: 20622572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Br J Nurs. 2010 May 27-Jun 9;19(10):636-9. doi:
10.12968/bjon.2010.19.10.48202.

Prevalence of bone loss in a population with cystic fibrosis.

Robertson J(1), Macdonald K.

Author information:
(1)Western General Hospital, Edingburg.

The adverse effect of an increased life expectancy for people with cystic 
fibrosis (CF) is the increased risk of complications, such as CF-related low 
bone mineral density (BMD). Diagnosis of CF-related low BMD is confirmed by a 
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan. This study reports the results of 
an audit of DXA scans in 108 adults with CF in our clinic. The most common risk 
factors for bone loss were vitamin D deficiency (89%), CF-related diabetes 
(53%), low body mass index (39%) and post-lung transplant (25%); half of those 
with bone loss were genotype homozygous DF508. Overall fracture incidence was 
5.5%; low BMD was not associated with high fracture rates. Thus BMD may not be a 
good predictor of fracture risk. Treatment includes bisphosphonates, which are 
difficult to take and have uncertain long-term effects. It is unknown whether 
bisphosphonate therapy is justified in this already overburdened group.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2010.19.10.48202
PMID: 20622759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. World J Urol. 2011 Jun;29(3):343-8. doi: 10.1007/s00345-010-0576-9. Epub
2010  Jul 11.

Renal function and oncologic outcomes in nephron sparing surgery for renal 
masses in solitary kidneys.

Lee DJ(1), Hruby G, Benson MC, McKiernan JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Columbia University Medical Center, 161 Fort 
Washington St, 11th Fl. Herbert Irving Pavilion, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
Daniel.Lee@hsc.stonybrook.edu

INTRODUCTION: With low life expectancy rates in hemodialysis patients, the 
preservation of renal parenchyma must be weighed against the oncological 
outcomes in considering partial nephrectomy (PN) in solitary kidneys. The main 
objective of this study was to assess the oncologic and functional outcomes 
after PN in patients with solitary kidneys.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of the Columbia University Medical Center 
Urologic Oncology database found 38 patients who underwent PN in the setting of 
a solitary kidney from 1988-2008. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) was defined as 
GFR of <60 cc/min/1.73 m(2). Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate overall 
survival, cancer-specific survival, and local recurrence-free survival.
RESULTS: The study group was followed for a median of 29 months, with a mean age 
of 63.2 years (range 35-83). Only one patient required postoperative long-term 
hemodialysis. Two out of 38 patients had a Clavien III postoperative 
complication. Twenty-one (55.3%) of the patients had preoperative CKD, while 29 
(76%) patients had CKD postoperatively. Those who had CKD at the most recent 
follow-up had significantly larger tumors removed (P < 0.05). Of the 32 patients 
with renal cell carcinoma (RCC), 6 (18.8%) had a local recurrence at a median 
32.6 months. The 5-year overall, disease-specific, and recurrence-free survival 
rates were 59.6, 77.5, and 45.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: PN in the setting of a solitary kidney poses difficult challenges 
for surgical and clinical management. Nephron sparing surgery for the treatment 
of RCC is feasible with low surgical complication rates, satisfactory 
disease-specific survival rates, and acceptable preservation of renal function.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-010-0576-9
PMID: 20623290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Neurosci Res. 2010 Aug 15;88(11):2431-40. doi: 10.1002/jnr.22402.

Long-lasting post-mortem activity of spinal microglia in situ in mice.

Dibaj P(1), Steffens H, Nadrigny F, Neusch C, Kirchhoff F, Schomburg ED.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Georg August University of G√∂ttingen, G√∂ttingen, 
Germany.

As CNS macrophages, microglia show a high spontaneous motility of their 
processes, continuously surveying their microenvironment. Upon CNS injury, 
microglia react by immediate cellular polarization and process extension toward 
the lesion site as well as by subsequent amoeboid lesion-directed migration and 
phagocytosis. To determine the ability of microglia to fulfill their role within 
distinctively lesioned tissue in the absence of life support, we investigated 
microglial activity and responsiveness to laser-induced axonal injuries in the 
spinal dorsal columns in situ after cardiac and respiratory arrest, i.e., 
post-mortem, in the progressively degrading nervous tissue. For this purpose, we 
used time-lapse two-photon laser scanning microscopy in double transgenic mice 
expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein in microglia and enhanced yellow 
fluorescent protein in projection neurons. Depending on the premortal condition 
of the animal, microglial activity and responsiveness remain for up to5-10 hr 
post-mortem. Thereby, the continuously decreasing glial reaction is independent 
of oxygen and glucose supply but requires residual ATP, suggesting a parasitic 
form of energy, such as a transmembrane uptake of ATP released from injured 
nervous tissue. Even though initially microglia are able to detect axonal injury 
after disruption of the blood supply, the later aspects of glial reaction, for 
example amoeboid conversion and migration, are absent post- mortem, 
corresponding to the failure of microglia to prevent secondary damage after 
injury of nervous tissue.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.22402
PMID: 20623536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Rev Prat. 2010 Jun 20;60(6):748-9.

[Economy and public health: learning scarcity].

[Article in French]

Moatti JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit√© mixte de recherches Inserm U912-IRD-universit√© de la M√©diterran√©e SE4S 
(sciences economiques et sociales, syst√®mes de sant√©, soci√©t√©s), universit√© 
Aix-Marseille, 13006 Marseille. jean-paul.moatti@inserm.fr

PMID: 20623885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(9):751-64. doi: 10.2165/11538350-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of adjunctive quetiapine fumarate extended-release tablets 
with mood stabilizers in the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder.

Woodward TC(1), Tafesse E, Quon P, Lazarus A.

Author information:
(1)United Biosource Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

BACKGROUND: Bipolar I disorder (BPD I) is a recurrent illness that affects 1% of 
the US population and constitutes a large economic burden. However, few studies 
have investigated the cost effectiveness of maintenance treatment options for 
BPD I.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness of maintenance treatment with 
quetiapine fumarate extended-release (XR) tablets in combination with mood 
stabilizers (lithium or divalproex) in comparison with the following treatments: 
placebo in combination with lithium or divalproex; no maintenance treatment; 
lithium monotherapy; lamotrigine monotherapy; olanzapine monotherapy; and 
aripiprazole monotherapy.
METHODS: The analysis was conducted from the societal and payer perspectives in 
the US, using a Markov model. The model simulated a cohort of 1000 stabilized 
BPD I patients and estimated the quarterly risk in three health states: 
euthymia, mania and depression. Efficacy data were derived from two randomized, 
double-blind trials comparing quetiapine + lithium/divalproex with placebo + 
lithium/divalproex for up to 2 years, as well as other published literature. 
Resource data were extracted from published literature. Drug costs, 
hospitalizations and physician visits were among the direct costs. Indirect 
costs included absenteeism, and mortality rates included suicide. Benefits and 
costs were discounted at 3% and the price reference year was 2009. Endpoints 
included number of acute mood episodes, hospitalizations due to an acute mood 
event and costs per QALY. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) was conducted 
to evaluate uncertainty in the model inputs.
RESULTS: Treatment with quetiapine XR + lithium/divalproex was associated with 
reductions in acute mania (46%), acute depression (41%) and related 
hospitalizations (44%) compared with placebo + lithium/divalproex, and similar 
reductions in events were observed relative to lithium monotherapy. In the 
base-case analysis from the payer perspective, the discounted incremental cost 
per QALY for quetiapine XR + lithium/divalproex compared with placebo + 
lithium/divalproex was $US22 959, and compared with lithium monotherapy was 
$US100 235, while all other comparators were dominated. PSA showed these results 
to be robust to select assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Quetiapine XR + lithium/divalproex may be a cost-effective 
maintenance treatment option for patients with BPD I.

DOI: 10.2165/11538350-000000000-00000
PMID: 20623994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. CMAJ. 2010 Sep 7;182(12):1307-13. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.090845. Epub 2010 Jul
12.

The cost-effectiveness of screening for colorectal cancer.

Telford JJ(1), Levy AR, Sambrook JC, Zou D, Enns RA.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. jtelford@telus.net

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2010 Sep 7;182(12):1283-4.
    CMAJ. 2011 Jun 14;183(9):1053-4.

BACKGROUND: Published decision analyses show that screening for colorectal 
cancer is cost-effective. However, because of the number of tests available, the 
optimal screening strategy in Canada is unknown. We estimated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of 10 strategies for colorectal cancer screening, as well as 
no screening, incorporating quality of life, noncompliance and data on the costs 
and benefits of chemotherapy.
METHODS: We used a probabilistic Markov model to estimate the costs and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 50-year-old average-risk Canadians without 
screening and with screening by each test. We populated the model with data from 
the published literature. We calculated costs from the perspective of a 
third-party payer, with inflation to 2007 Canadian dollars.
RESULTS: Of the 10 strategies considered, we focused on three tests currently 
being used for population screening in some Canadian provinces: low-sensitivity 
guaiac fecal occult blood test, performed annually; fecal immunochemical test, 
performed annually; and colonoscopy, performed every 10 years. These strategies 
reduced the incidence of colorectal cancer by 44%, 65% and 81%, and mortality by 
55%, 74% and 83%, respectively, compared with no screening. These strategies 
generated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of $9159, $611 and $6133 per 
quality-adjusted life year, respectively. The findings were robust to 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Colonoscopy every 10 years yielded the 
greatest net health benefit.
INTERPRETATION: Screening for colorectal cancer is cost-effective over 
conventional levels of willingness to pay. Annual high-sensitivity fecal occult 
blood testing, such as a fecal immunochemical test, or colonoscopy every 10 
years offer the best value for the money in Canada.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.090845
PMCID: PMC2934796
PMID: 20624866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. J Biol Chem. 2010 Sep 24;285(39):30274-81. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.146274.
Epub  2010 Jul 12.

The ERK-MAPK pathway regulates longevity through SKN-1 and insulin-like 
signaling in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Okuyama T(1), Inoue H, Ookuma S, Satoh T, Kano K, Honjoh S, Hisamoto N, 
Matsumoto K, Nishida E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Graduate School of Biostudies, 
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

It has not been determined yet whether the ERK-MAPK pathway regulates longevity 
of metazoans. Here, we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans ERK cascade promotes 
longevity through the two longevity-promoting transcription factors, SKN-1 and 
DAF-16. We find that RNAi of three genes, which constitute the ERK cascade 
(lin-45/RAF1, mek-2/MEK1/2, and mpk-1/ERK1/2), results in reduction of life 
span. Moreover, RNAi of lip-1, the gene encoding a MAPK phosphatase that 
inactivates MPK-1, increases life span. Epistasis analyses show that the ERK 
(MPK-1) cascade-mediated life span extension requires SKN-1, whose function is 
mediated, at least partly, through DAF-2/DAF-16 insulin-like signaling. MPK-1 
phosphorylates SKN-1 on the key sites that are required for SKN-1 nuclear 
accumulation. Our results also show that one mechanism by which SKN-1 regulates 
insulin-like signaling is through the regulation of expression of insulin-like 
peptides. Our findings thus identify a novel ERK-MAPK-mediated signaling pathway 
that promotes longevity.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.146274
PMCID: PMC2943277
PMID: 20624915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Jul 27;107(30):13420-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1008647107. Epub 2010 Jul 12.

Mammalian life-span determinant p66shcA mediates obesity-induced insulin 
resistance.

Ranieri SC(1), Fusco S, Panieri E, Labate V, Mele M, Tesori V, Ferrara AM, 
Maulucci G, De Spirito M, Martorana GE, Galeotti T, Pani G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of General Pathology, Laboratory of Cell Signaling, Universit√† 
Cattolica Medical School, 00168 Rome, Italy.

Obesity and metabolic syndrome result from excess calorie intake and genetic 
predisposition and are mechanistically linked to type II diabetes and 
accelerated body aging; abnormal nutrient and insulin signaling participate in 
this pathologic process, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms are 
incompletely understood. Mice lacking the p66 kDa isoform of the Shc adaptor 
molecule live longer and are leaner than wild-type animals, suggesting that this 
molecule may have a role in metabolic derangement and premature senescence by 
overnutrition. We found that p66 deficiency exerts a modest but significant 
protective effect on fat accumulation and premature death in lepOb/Ob mice, an 
established genetic model of obesity and insulin resistance; strikingly, 
however, p66 inactivation improved glucose tolerance in these animals, without 
affecting (hyper)insulinaemia and independent of body weight. Protection from 
insulin resistance was cell autonomous, because isolated p66KO preadipocytes 
were relatively resistant to insulin desensitization by free fatty acids in 
vitro. Biochemical studies revealed that p66shc promotes the signal-inhibitory 
phosphorylation of the major insulin transducer IRS-1, by bridging IRS-1 and the 
mTOR effector p70S6 kinase, a molecule previously linked to obesity-induced 
insulin resistance. Importantly, IRS-1 was strongly up-regulated in the adipose 
tissue of p66KO lepOb/Ob mice, confirming that effects of p66 on tissue 
responsiveness to insulin are largely mediated by this molecule. Taken together, 
these findings identify p66shc as a major mediator of insulin resistance by 
excess nutrients, and by extension, as a potential molecular target against the 
spreading epidemic of obesity and type II diabetes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1008647107
PMCID: PMC2922173
PMID: 20624962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


620. Arch Intern Med. 2010 Jul 12;170(13):1171-2. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2010.187.

Physical activity at midlife and health-related quality of life in older men.

Savela SL, Koistinen P, Tilvis RS, Strandberg AY, Pitk√§l√§ KH, Salomaa VV, 
Miettinen TA, Strandberg TE.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2010 Jul 12;170(13):1172-3.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2010 Jan 25;170(2):194-201.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2010.187
PMID: 20625028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Arch Ophthalmol. 2010 Jul;128(7):834-40. doi:
10.1001/archophthalmol.2010.127.

Economic evaluation of toric intraocular lens: a short- and long-term decision 
analytic model.

Pineda R(1), Denevich S, Lee WC, Waycaster C, Pashos CL.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the economic value of improved uncorrected visual acuity 
among patients with cataract and preexisting astigmatism treated with toric 
intraocular lenses (IOLs) compared with conventional monofocal IOLs.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic model of hypothetical patients with 
preexisting astigmatism. We examined costs and outcomes among patients 65 years 
and older with cataract and preexisting astigmatism (1.5-3.0 diopters) who were 
receiving either toric or conventional IOLs with and without intraoperative 
refractive correction (IRC). Data were obtained from the literature and from a 
survey of 60 US ophthalmologists. Total medical costs of bilateral treatment 
were calculated for the first posttreatment year and remaining lifetime. 
Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility outcomes were computed. Future costs and 
utilities were discounted by 3%.
RESULTS: A larger proportion of patients receiving toric IOLs achieved distance 
vision spectacle independence (67%) and uncorrected visual acuity of 20/25 or 
better OU (53%) compared with conventional IOLs with (63% and 48%, respectively) 
or without IRC (53% and 44%, respectively), resulting in fewer future vision 
corrections. Toric IOLs provided an additional 10.20 quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) compared with conventional IOLs with (10.14 QALYs) and without IRC 
(10.10 QALYs). Higher first-year costs of the toric IOL ($5739) compared with 
the conventional IOL with ($5635) or without ($4687) IRC were offset by lifetime 
cost savings of $34 per patient, $393 per patient achieving uncorrected visual 
acuity of 20/25 or better, and $349 per QALY compared with the conventional IOL 
without IRC.
CONCLUSIONS: Toric IOLs reduce lifetime economic costs by reducing the need for 
glasses or contact lenses following cataract removal. These results can inform 
physicians and patients regarding the value of toric IOLs in the treatment of 
cataract and preexisting astigmatism.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2010.127
PMID: 20625042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Ann Acad Med Singap. 2010 Jun;39(6):476-81.

The need for a system of prognostication in skeletal metastasis to decide best 
end-of-life care - a call to arms.

Nathan SS(1), Chan L, Tan WL, Tan I, Go M, Chuah B, Wong A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, 
Singapore. dosssn@nus.edu.sg

INTRODUCTION: The near terminal patient with skeletal metastasis may suitably be 
palliated with an intramedullary nail whereas another patient with good survival 
potential may benefit from a more extensive resection and reconstructive 
procedure. In a previous study by the senior author (Nathan et al, 2005), life 
expectancy in patients operated on for bone metastases correlated with clinical 
and haematological parameters in a normogram. We performed a cross-cultural 
comparison to validate this normogram.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We randomly selected 73 patients who had undergone 
surgery for metastatic bone disease between 28 December 2000 and 11 March 2009. 
The time to deaths was recorded from hospital records and telephone interviews. 
Multiple parameters including clinical, radiological and haematological were 
evaluated for significant prognostic value using Kaplan-Meier survivorship 
analysis. Statistically significant parameters were entered into a Cox 
regression model for statistically independent significance. A multi-tier 
prediction of survival was performed by workers from various levels of 
seniority.
RESULTS: At the time of analysis, there were 40 deaths (55%). Median survival 
was 15.8 (95% CI, 7.9 to 23.7) months. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that low 
haemoglobin (P = 0.0000005), presence of lymph node metastases (P = 0.00008), 
multiple bone metastases (P = 0.003), presence of visceral metastases, (P = 
0.007), low lymphocyte count (P = 0.02) and low serum albumin (P = 0.02) were 
significantly associated with poor survival. By Cox regression analysis, 
presence of visceral metastases (P = 0.002), presence of lymph node metastases 
(P = 0.0002) and low haemoglobin (P = 0.01) were shown to be independent factors 
in the prediction of survival. Survivorship readings were superimposed onto the 
previous normogram and found to be similar. Independent blinded use of the 
normogram allowed good prediction of survival. There was a tendency to 
underestimate survival when patients survived beyond 1 year of skeletal 
metastasis.
CONCLUSION: Our findings are similar to that of the previous study in showing a 
relationship between the above-mentioned parameters and survival. This is 
despite differences in patient demographic characteristics and management 
protocols. Use of the tools may allow better siting of most appropriate surgery 
in metastatic bony disease.

PMID: 20625625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2010 Sep;88(1):177-86. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-010-2754-5. Epub 2010 Jul 13.

Recombinant expression of bioactive peptide lunasin in Escherichia coli.

Liu CF(1), Pan TM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology and Biochemistry, College of Life Science, National 
Taiwan University, No. 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt Road, Taipei, 10617, Taiwan.

Lunasin, a cancer-preventive peptide, was isolated from soybean, barley, and 
wheat. Previous studies showed that this 43-amino acid peptide has the ability 
to suppress chemical carcinogen-induced transformation in mammalian cells and 
skin carcinogenesis in mice. In this study, we attempted to use the Escherichia 
coli T7 expression system for expression of lunasin. The lunasin gene was 
synthesized by overlapping extension polymerase chain reaction and expressed in 
E. coli BL21(DE3) with the use of vector pET29a. The recombinant lunasin 
containing his-tag at the C-terminus was expressed in soluble form which could 
be purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography. After 4 h, the 
expression level is above 4.73 mg of recombinant his-tagged lunasin/L of 
Luria-Bertani broth. It does not affect the bacterial growth and expression 
levels. This is the first study that successfully uses E. coli as a host to 
produce valuable bioactive lunasin. The result of in vitro bioassay showed that 
the purified recombinant lunasin can inhibit histone acetylation. Recombinant 
lunasin also inhibits the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and nitric oxide production). Compared with 
other research methods on extraction or chemical synthesis to produce lunasin, 
our method is very efficient in saving time and cost. In the future, it could be 
applied in medicine and structure-function determination.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-010-2754-5
PMID: 20625716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Childs Nerv Syst. 2010 Oct;26(10):1319-27. doi: 10.1007/s00381-010-1210-2.
Epub  2010 Jul 13.

Microsurgical management of pediatric intracranial aneurysms.

Sanai N(1), Auguste KI, Lawton MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, 
AZ, USA.

PURPOSE: Pediatric aneuryms are rare and have characteristics that distinguish 
them from their adult counterparts. There is a greater capacity for pediatric 
aneurysms to arise de novo and progress rapidly.
METHODS: Saccular aneurysms are rarer; fusiform/giant aneurysms are more common. 
Hemorrhage is less common at presentation than are symptoms that result from 
mass effect. These patients also present with comorbidities that are unique to 
children and these conditions may influence treatment selection between 
minimally invasive procedures and microsurgery. Life expectancy is typically 
measured in decades for this population and thus treatment durability is of 
considerable importance.
RESULTS: Our retrospective review indicated that complete aneurysm obliteration 
occurred in 93% of microsurgery patients versus 79% of endovascular patients. 
Although functional outcomes were similar for both treatment modalities, the 
need for additional treatment was over four times more likely in children 
receiving endovascular therapy.
CONCLUSION: The need for continued follow-up cannot be overstated for this 
patient group, therefore, nor can the collaborative efforts of both surgeons and 
interventionalists to design the most appropriate treatment approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-010-1210-2
PMID: 20625742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Addiction. 2010 Sep;105(9):1616-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2010.03001.x.
Epub  2010 Jul 12.

Cost-effectiveness of extended buprenorphine-naloxone treatment for 
opioid-dependent youth: data from a randomized trial.

Polsky D(1), Glick HA, Yang J, Subramaniam GA, Poole SA, Woody GE.

Author information:
(1)PENN Medicine and the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Blockley 
Hall, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. polsky@mail.med.upenn.edu

AIMS: The objective is to estimate cost, net social cost and cost-effectiveness 
in a clinical trial of extended buprenorphine-naloxone (BUP) treatment versus 
brief detoxification treatment in opioid-dependent youth.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation of a clinical trial conducted at six community 
out-patient treatment programs from July 2003 to December 2006, who were 
randomized to 12 weeks of BUP or a 14-day taper (DETOX). BUP patients were 
prescribed up to 24 mg per day for 9 weeks and then tapered to zero at the end 
of week 12. DETOX patients were prescribed up to 14 mg per day and then tapered 
to zero on day 14. All were offered twice-weekly drug counseling.
PARTICIPANTS: 152 patients aged 15-21 years.
MEASUREMENTS: Data were collected prospectively during the 12-week treatment and 
at follow-up interviews at months 6, 9 and 12.
FINDINGS: The 12-week out-patient study treatment cost was $1514 (P < 0.001) 
higher for BUP relative to DETOX. One-year total direct medical cost was only 
$83 higher for BUP (P = 0.97). The cost-effectiveness ratio of BUP relative to 
DETOX was $1376 in terms of 1-year direct medical cost per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) and $25,049 in terms of out-patient treatment program cost per QALY. 
The acceptability curve suggests that the cost-effectiveness ratio of BUP 
relative to DETOX has an 86% chance of being accepted as cost-effective for a 
threshold of $100,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Extended BUP treatment relative to brief detoxification is cost 
effective in the US health-care system for the outpatient treatment of 
opioid-dependent youth.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2010.03001.x
PMCID: PMC2967450
PMID: 20626379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Woody is a member of the RADARS postmarketing 
study external advisory group whose job is to assess abuse of prescription 
medications. Denver Health administers RADARS and Abbott, Cephalon, Endo, 
Pricara/Ortho-NcNeil, Purdue Pharma, and Shire subscribe to its data. 
Ortho-McNeil and Purdue Pharma funded similar work by him prior to his joining 
RADARS and Schering-Plough, the European distributor for buprenorphine-naloxone, 
funded his travel costs to meetings in Sweden and Finland in June 2008 to 
present data from the study on whose outcomes this study is based. There are no 
other conflicts of interest to report. There are no contractual constraints on 
publishing imposed by the funder.


626. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2010 Nov;21(11):1223-33. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2010.01924.x.

The clinical and radiographic outcome of implants placed in the posterior 
maxilla with a guided flapless approach and immediately restored with a 
provisional rehabilitation: a randomized clinical trial.

Van de Velde T(1), Sennerby L, De Bruyn H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Oral Implantology, University of Ghent, 
Ghent, Belgium. tommie.vandevelde@ugent.be

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate and compare the outcome of dental implants placed using 
a flapless protocol and immediate loading with a conventional protocol and 
loading after 6 weeks.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fourteen patients with bilateral maxillary edentulous 
areas were treated using Straumann SLA-implants. Using a randomized split-mouth 
design, implants were placed in one side of the maxilla using a 
stereolithographic surgical guide for flapless surgery and immediately loaded on 
temporary abutments with a bridge (test). Implants in the other side were placed 
using the conventional protocol and loaded after 6 weeks of healing (control). 
Clinical and radiographic evaluation of peri-implant tissues was performed at 
time of implant surgery, and after 1 week, 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12 and 18 months.
RESULTS: A total of 70 implants were placed (36 test and 34 control). One 
implant (test) was lost after 3 months, resulting in a survival rate of 97.3% 
for the test implants and 100% for the control implants. Marginal bone levels 
were not statistically significantly different between the test and control 
implants but at baseline the marginal bone level was significantly lower 
compared to the other evaluation periods (P < 0.05). The mean bone level for 
test and control implants was 1.95 mm ¬± 0.70 and 1.93 mm ¬± 0.42 after 18 months, 
respectively. There was a significant change in height of the attached mucosa at 
implants placed with a conventional flap between post-operative and 1 week and 
between 1 week and 6 weeks. Statistically significant differences were found 
between the test side and the control side for opinion about speech, function, 
aesthetics, self-confidence and overall appreciation the first 6 weeks.
CONCLUSION: Implants can successfully integrate in the posterior maxilla using a 
flapless approach with immediate loading similar to a conventional protocol. The 
mucosal tissues around implants placed with a conventional flap changed 
significantly compared with flapless placed implants.

¬© 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2010.01924.x
PMID: 20626424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Atherosclerosis. 2010 Sep;212(1):310-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2010.05.011. Epub 2010 Jun 2.

Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate is inversely associated with sex-dependent 
diverse carotid atherosclerosis regardless of endothelial function.

Yoshida S(1), Aihara K, Azuma H, Uemoto R, Sumitomo-Ueda Y, Yagi S, Ikeda Y, 
Iwase T, Nishio S, Kawano H, Miki J, Yamada H, Hirata Y, Akaike M, Sata M, 
Matsumoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Bioregulatory Sciences, The University of 
Tokushima Graduate School of Health Biosciences, 3-18-15 Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima 
770-8503, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) is thought to be associated 
with life expectancy and anti-aging. However, its biological significance in 
atherosclerosis remains controversial. Therefore, the aim of this study was to 
determine whether DHEAS is associated with development of carotid 
atherosclerosis in subjects with cardiovascular risk factors.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A total of 419 Japanese individuals (208 males and 211 
females) were recruited from Tokushima University Hospital, Japan. In all 
subjects, maximum intima-media thickness (max-IMT) in all carotid arteries, and 
mean-IMT and mean blood flow volume (BFV) in the common carotid arteries (CCA) 
were measured by ultrasonography; endothelial function was assessed by 
flow-mediated vasodilation of the brachial artery (%FMD). Serum DHEAS and 
classical cardiovascular risk factors were also evaluated. Statistical 
significance was determined by multiple regression analysis to elucidate 
independent determinants of max-IMT, mean-IMT, mean CCA-BFV, and %FMD.
RESULTS: Serum DHEAS levels were higher in males than in females. Multiple 
regression analysis revealed that DHEAS was an independent negative factor for 
both max-IMT and mean-IMT in males but not in females. In contrast, DHEAS was 
the sole positive factor for mean CCA-BFV in females but not in males. In 
addition, there was no significant relationship between %FMD and DHEAS 
regardless of sex and other confounding factors.
CONCLUSION: Although DHEAS is not involved in endothelial function, DHEAS is 
inversely associated with sex-dependent diverse carotid atherosclerosis such as 
increased max-IMT and mean-IMT in males and decreased CCA-BFV in females.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2010.05.011
PMID: 20627295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Eur J Cancer. 2010 Oct;46(15):2696-707. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.04.025.
Epub  2010 Jun 2.

Spine metastases: current treatments and future directions.

Harel R(1), Angelov L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Spine Health, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, S-80, 
Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Spinal metastases are the most frequently encountered spinal tumour and can 
affect up to 50% of cancer patients. Both the incidence and prevalence of 
metastases are thought to be rising due to better detection and treatment 
options of the systemic malignancy resulting in increased patient survival. 
Further, the development and access to newer imaging modalities have resulted in 
easier screening and diagnosis of spine metastases. Current evidence suggests 
that pain, neurological symptoms and quality of life are all improved if 
patients with spine metastases are treated early and aggressively. However, 
selection of the appropriate therapy depends on several factors including 
primary histology, extent of the systemic disease, existing co-morbidities, 
prior treatment modalities, patient age and performance status, predicted life 
expectancy and available resources. This article reviews the currently available 
therapeutic options for spinal metastases including conventional external beam 
radiation therapy, open surgical decompression and stabilisation, vertebral 
augmentation and other minimally invasive surgery (MIS) options, stereotactic 
spine radiosurgery, bisphosphonates, systemic radioisotopes and chemotherapy. An 
algorithm for the management of spine metastases is also proposed. It outlines a 
multidisciplinary and integrated approach to these patients and it is hoped that 
this along with future advances and research will result in improved patient 
care and outcomes.

Copyright ¬© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.04.025
PMID: 20627705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2010 Nov;49(11):2010-5. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/keq204.  Epub 2010 Jul 13.

Uric acid and evolution.

√Ålvarez-Lario B(1), Macarr√≥n-Vicente J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Complejo Asistencial de Burgos, Burgos, Spain. 
balario@hgy.es

Uric acid (UA) is the end product of purine metabolism in humans due to the loss 
of uricase activity by various mutations of its gene during the Miocene epoch, 
which led to humans having higher UA levels than other mammals. Furthermore, 90% 
of UA filtered by the kidneys is reabsorbed, instead of being excreted. These 
facts suggest that evolution and physiology have not treated UA as a harmful 
waste product, but as something beneficial that has to be kept. This has led 
various researchers to think about the possible evolutionary advantages of the 
loss of uricase and the subsequent increase in UA levels. It has been argued 
that due to the powerful antioxidant activity of UA, the evolutionary benefit 
could be the increased life expectancy of hominids. For other authors, the loss 
of uricase and the increase in UA could be a mechanism to maintain blood 
pressure in times of very low salt ingestion. The oldest hypothesis associates 
the increase in UA with higher intelligence in humans. Finally, UA has 
protective effects against several neurodegenerative diseases, suggesting it 
could have interesting actions on neuronal development and function. These 
hypotheses are discussed from an evolutionary perspective and their clinical 
significance. UA has some obvious harmful effects, and some, not so well-known, 
beneficial effects as an antioxidant and neuroprotector.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keq204
PMID: 20627967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Can J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;45(3):211-4. doi: 10.3129/i10-066.

Cost-utility analysis, the pearl in the crown.

[Article in English, French]

Brown MM, Brown GC.

Comment on
    Can J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;45(3):223-30.

DOI: 10.3129/i10-066
PMID: 20628418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Can J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;45(3):223-30. doi: 10.3129/i10-047.

Pharmacologic management of neovascular age-related macular degeneration: 
systematic review of economic evidence and primary economic evaluation.

Hodge W(1), Brown A, Kymes S, Cruess A, Blackhouse G, Hopkins R, McGahan L, 
Sharma S, Pan I, Blair J, Vollman D, Morrison A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ont. 
William.Hodge@sjhc.london.on.ca

Comment in
    Can J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;45(3):211-4.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the economic implications for the Canadian health system 
of pharmacologic treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration 
(AMD).
DESIGN: Systematic review of economic literature and a primary economic 
evaluation.
PARTICIPANTS: Economic literature search identified 392 potentially relevant 
articles, 12 of which were included for final review.
METHODS: Studies were included if they met the following criteria: (i) provision 
of a summary measure of the trade-off between costs and consequences; (ii) 
participants of 40 years and older with neovascular AMD; (iii) interventions and 
comparators: comparison of photodynamic therapy using verteporfin (V-PDT), 
pegaptanib, bevacizumab, ranibizumab, anecortave acetate, intravitreal 
triamcinolone, placebo, or clinically relevant combinations; and (iv) outcome 
reported as an incremental measure of the implication of moving from the 
comparator to the intervention. The following databases were searched through 
the OVID interface: MEDLINE, EMBASE, BIOSIS Previews, CINAHL, PubMed, Health 
Economic Evaluations Database (HEED), and the Cochrane Library. For the economic 
evaluation, we took a decision analytic approach and modeled a cost-utility 
analysis, conducting it as a microsimulation of a Markov model.
RESULTS: In general, V-PDT is more cost effective than conventional macular 
laser, and pegaptanib is likely more cost effective than V-PDT. The primary 
economic analysis revealed ranibizumab to be effective but at an unacceptably 
high cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY)(>$50,000 per QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Although ranibizumab is effective for wet AMD, its cost is 
unacceptably high based on cost-utility theory.

DOI: 10.3129/i10-047
PMID: 20628420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. World J Surg. 2010 Oct;34(10):2333-7. doi: 10.1007/s00268-010-0712-0.

Clinical outcomes of patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma after the 
detection of distant recurrence.

Ito Y(1), Higashiyama T, Takamura Y, Kobayashi K, Miya A, Miyauchi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35, Shimoyamate-dori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 
City, 650-0011, Japan. ito01@kuma-h.or.jp

PURPOSE: Papillary thyroid carcinoma generally has an excellent prognosis but 
can have recurrence to the distant organs that is often life-threatening. To 
date, prognosis and prognostic factors of papillary carcinoma have been 
intensively investigated, but our knowledge regarding prognosis after the 
detection of distant recurrence remains inadequate.
METHODS: We investigated the prognosis and prognostic factors of papillary 
carcinoma after distant recurrence was detected during follow-up in a series of 
105 patients who underwent locally curative surgery between 1987 and 2004.
RESULTS: To date, 30 patients (29%) have died of carcinoma, and the 5-year and 
10-year cause-specific survival (CSS) rates after the detection of distant 
recurrence were 71 and 50%, respectively. Patients aged 55 years or older at 
recurrence or with massive extrathyroid extension of primary lesions 
demonstrated a significantly worse CSS. On multivariate analysis, these two 
parameters were recognized as independent prognostic factors. Gender, tumor 
size, and lymph node metastasis did not affect patient prognosis. Uptake of 
radioactive iodine (RAI) to distant metastasis was not significantly linked to 
CSS, but none of the patients younger than aged 55 years showing RAI uptake died 
of carcinoma. Appearance of distant recurrence to organs other than lung also 
predicted a dire prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Age at recurrence and extrathyroid extension of primary lesions 
were significantly related to patient prognosis after the detection of distant 
recurrence. RAI therapy is effective, especially for younger patients, if 
metastatic lesions show RAI uptake.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-010-0712-0
PMID: 20628741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Exp Appl Acarol. 2011 Jan;53(1):17-27. doi: 10.1007/s10493-010-9385-5. Epub
2010  Jul 14.

Life tables and development of Amblyseius swirskii (Acari: Phytoseiidae) at 
different temperatures.

Lee HS(1), Gillespie DR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plant Environment, Gyeongnam Agricultural Research & Extension 
Services, Jinju, 660-370, Korea. Lhs2khk@paran.com

Development time, reproduction, survival and sex ratio were determined for the 
omnivorous mite Amblyseius swirskii at nine constant temperatures (13, 15, 18, 
20, 25, 30, 32, 34 and 36¬∞C) on pepper leaf disks with cattail, Typha latifolia, 
pollen for food. These data were used to derive life table parameters at these 
constant temperatures. No development was observed at 13¬∞C. The lower 
development threshold, based on the fit to the linear portion of the development 
curve, was 11.3¬∞C. The upper development threshold was 37.4¬†¬±¬†1.12¬∞C, and the 
optimum temperature was calculated to be 31.5¬∞C. Average lifetime fecundity 
ranged from a low of 1.3¬†¬±¬†0.24¬†eggs/female at 15¬∞C to a high of 16.1¬†¬±¬†0.34 
eggs/female at 25¬∞C, and r (m) was greatest at 32¬∞C. Non-linear regression of 
the relationship between temperature and r (m) produced an estimate of 
15.49¬†¬±¬†0.905¬∞C for the lower threshold for population growth and 
36.99¬†¬±¬†0.816¬∞C for the upper threshold for population growth, and an optimum 
temperature of 30.1¬∞C. These values suggest that A. swiskii populations should 
grow quickly in response to food availability (pollen or prey) between 20 and 
32¬∞C, but that, especially below 20¬∞C, population growth could be slow and 
impacts on prey populations should be monitored carefully.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-010-9385-5
PMID: 20628894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Head Neck. 2011 May;33(5):743-5. doi: 10.1002/hed.21451. Epub 2010 Jul 13.

Questionable necessity to remove the submandibular gland in neck dissection.

Takes RP(1), Robbins KT, Woolgar JA, Rinaldo A, Silver CE, Olofsson J, Ferlito 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Saliva is of major importance in taste, speech, swallowing, and protection 
against dental caries. Neck dissection surgery and/or radiotherapy may impair 
the function of the submandibular glands. Over the years, there has been a trend 
toward more conservative approaches to neck dissection. Metastasis to the 
submandibular gland itself is extremely rare and if removal of the lymph nodes 
of sublevel IB is imperative, it seems feasible to preserve the submandibular 
gland, unless it is involved by direct tumor extension of the primary tumor or 
the adjacent metastatic lymph nodes. Clinical studies to validate this concept 
are needed.

Copyright ¬© 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.21451
PMID: 20629090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Mov Disord. 2010 Jul 30;25(10):1456-63. doi: 10.1002/mds.23111.

Early versus delayed bilateral subthalamic deep brain stimulation for 
parkinson's disease: a decision analysis.

Espay AJ(1), Vaughan JE, Marras C, Fowler R, Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Movement Disorders Center, The Neuroscience 
Institute, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio 45267-0525, USA. 
