Comment in
    PLoS Biol. 8:e1000524.

Humans and other mammals mount vigorous immune assaults against helminth 
parasites, yet there are intriguing reports that the immune response can enhance 
rather than impair parasite development. It has been hypothesized that 
helminths, like many free-living organisms, should optimize their development 
and reproduction in response to cues predicting future life expectancy. However, 
immune-dependent development by helminth parasites has so far eluded such 
evolutionary explanation. By manipulating various arms of the immune response of 
experimental hosts, we show that filarial nematodes, the parasites responsible 
for debilitating diseases in humans like river blindness and elephantiasis, 
accelerate their development in response to the IL-5 driven eosinophilia they 
encounter when infecting a host. Consequently they produce microfilariae, their 
transmission stages, earlier and in greater numbers. Eosinophilia is a primary 
host determinant of filarial life expectancy, operating both at larval and at 
late adult stages in anatomically and temporally separate locations, and is 
implicated in vaccine-mediated protection. Filarial nematodes are therefore able 
to adjust their reproductive schedules in response to an environmental predictor 
of their probability of survival, as proposed by evolutionary theory, thereby 
mitigating the effects of the immune attack to which helminths are most 
susceptible. Enhancing protective immunity against filarial nematodes, for 
example through vaccination, may be less effective at reducing transmission than 
would be expected and may, at worst, lead to increased transmission and, hence, 
pathology.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1000525
PMCID: PMC2957396
PMID: 20976099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


291. PLoS One. 2010 Oct 1;5(10):e13132. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013132.

Routine HIV screening in France: clinical impact and cost-effectiveness.

Yazdanpanah Y(1), Sloan CE, Charlois-Ou C, Le Vu S, Semaille C, Costagliola D, 
Pillonel J, Poullié AI, Scemama O, Deuffic-Burban S, Losina E, Walensky RP, 
Freedberg KA, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Service Universitaire des Maladies Infectieuses et du Voyageur, Centre 
Hospitalier de Tourcoing, Tourcoing, France. yyazdan@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: In France, roughly 40,000 HIV-infected persons are unaware of their 
HIV infection. Although previous studies have evaluated the cost-effectiveness 
of routine HIV screening in the United States, differences in both the 
epidemiology of infection and HIV testing behaviors warrant a setting-specific 
analysis for France.
METHODS/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We estimated the life expectancy (LE), cost and 
cost-effectiveness of alternative HIV screening strategies in the French general 
population and high-risk sub-populations using a computer model of HIV detection 
and treatment, coupled with French national clinical and economic data. We 
compared risk-factor-based HIV testing ("current practice") to universal 
routine, voluntary HIV screening in adults aged 18-69. Screening frequencies 
ranged from once to annually. Input data included mean age (42 years), 
undiagnosed HIV prevalence (0.10%), annual HIV incidence (0.01%), test 
acceptance (79%), linkage to care (75%) and cost/test (€43). We performed 
sensitivity analyses on HIV prevalence and incidence, cost estimates, and the 
transmission benefits of ART. "Current practice" produced LEs of 242.82 
quality-adjusted life months (QALM) among HIV-infected persons and 268.77 QALM 
in the general population. Adding a one-time HIV screen increased LE by 0.01 
QALM in the general population and increased costs by €50/person, for a 
cost-effectiveness ratio (CER) of €57,400 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). 
More frequent screening in the general population increased survival, costs and 
CERs. Among injection drug users (prevalence 6.17%; incidence 0.17%/year) and in 
French Guyana (prevalence 0.41%; incidence 0.35%/year), annual screening 
compared to every five years produced CERs of €51,200 and €46,500/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: One-time routine HIV screening in France improves 
survival compared to "current practice" and compares favorably to other 
screening interventions recommended in Western Europe. In higher-risk groups, 
more frequent screening is economically justifiable.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013132
PMCID: PMC2956760
PMID: 20976112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: With the exception of 
Yazdan Yazdanpanah and Dominique Costagliola, none of the authors report any 
association that might pose a conflict of interest (e.g. pharmaceutical stock 
ownership, consultancy, advisory board membership, relevant patents, or research 
funding). Dr. Yazdanpanah has received travel grants, consultancy fees and 
honoraria for presentation at workshops from Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers 
Squibb, Gilead Sciences, Glaxo-SmithKline, Merck-Sharp & Dohme-Chibret, Pfizer, 
Roche, Schering Plough and Tibotec. Dominique Costagliola has received travel 
grants, consultancy fees, honoraria and study grants from various pharmaceutical 
companies including Abbott, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers-Squibb, Gilead 
Sciences, Glaxo-Smith-Kline, Janssen-Cilag, Merck-Sharp & Dohme-Chibret and 
Roche.


292. PLoS One. 2010 Oct 15;5(10):e13392. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013392.

Cost-effectiveness of adolescent pertussis vaccination for the Netherlands: 
using an individual-based dynamic model.

de Vries R(1), Kretzschmar M, Schellekens JF, Versteegh FG, Westra TA, Roord JJ, 
Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Department of Pharmacy, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. Robin.de.Vries@rug.nl

BACKGROUND: Despite widespread immunization programs, a clear increase in 
pertussis incidence is apparent in many developed countries during the last 
decades. Consequently, additional immunization strategies are considered to 
reduce the burden of disease. The aim of this study is to design an 
individual-based stochastic dynamic framework to model pertussis transmission in 
the population in order to predict the epidemiologic and economic consequences 
of the implementation of universal booster vaccination programs. Using this 
framework, we estimate the cost-effectiveness of universal adolescent pertussis 
booster vaccination at the age of 12 years in the Netherlands.
METHODS/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We designed a discrete event simulation (DES) model 
to predict the epidemiological and economic consequences of implementing 
universal adolescent booster vaccination. We used national age-specific 
notification data over the period 1996-2000--corrected for underreporting--to 
calibrate the model assuming a steady state situation. Subsequently, booster 
vaccination was introduced. Input parameters of the model were derived from 
literature, national data sources (e.g. costing data, incidence and 
hospitalization data) and expert opinions. As there is no consensus on the 
duration of immunity acquired by natural infection, we considered two scenarios 
for this duration of protection (i.e. 8 and 15 years). In both scenarios, total 
pertussis incidence decreased as a result of adolescent vaccination. From a 
societal perspective, the cost-effectiveness was estimated at €4418/QALY (range: 
3205-6364 € per QALY) and €6371/QALY (range: 4139-9549 € per QALY) for the 8- 
and 15-year protection scenarios, respectively. Sensitivity analyses revealed 
that the outcomes are most sensitive to the quality of life weights used for 
pertussis disease.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: To our knowledge we designed the first 
individual-based dynamic framework to model pertussis transmission in the 
population. This study indicates that adolescent pertussis vaccination is likely 
to be a cost-effective intervention for The Netherlands. The model is suited to 
investigate further pertussis booster vaccination strategies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013392
PMCID: PMC2955521
PMID: 20976213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: This study was supported by 
an unrestricted grant from GlaxoSmithKline, The Netherlands. This does not alter 
the authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and 
materials.


293. Przegl Epidemiol. 2010;64(3):425-30.

[Decomposition of changes in life expectancy by age groups, Poland, 1950-2008].

[Article in Polish]

Szukalski P(1).

Author information:
(1)Katedra Socjologii Stosowanej i Pracy Socjalnej UŁ. pies@uni.lodz.pl

A main aim of the paper is decomposition of changes in life expectancies by age 
groups in the postwar Poland.
METHODS: The analysis is based on measures used in the so called "potential 
demography", i.e. branch of population studies dealing with calculation 
individual and group changes in life expectancies. Source of data under study is 
period life tables for the Polish population, 1950-2008.
MAIN OBSERVATIONS: In the first two postwar decades increase in life expectancy 
at age 0 was concentrated among young people. The closer to the newest times, 
the greater impact of mortality reduction in the elderly population, especially 
in the oldest old (80+). The changes are more distinct in females.
RESULTS: The most important effect of the study is quantification how different 
age groups mortality reduction impacts life expectancy of the newborn.
CONCLUSIONS: Concentration of increases in life expectancy in the elderly 
population underlines how important is geriatrics and medical procedures focused 
on specific health needs of the elderly for further advancements in public 
health.

PMID: 20976957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Med Imaging Radiat Oncol. 2010 Oct;54(5):457-61. doi: 
10.1111/j.1754-9485.2010.02207.x.

Percutaneous cystic duct stent placement in the treatment of acute 
cholecystitis.

Comin JM(1), Cade RJ, Little AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Imaging, St Vincent's Hospital Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia. julescomin@gmail.com

Percutaneous cholecystostomy is well established as a temporising treatment 
option in selected patients presenting with acute cholecystitis. However, some 
patients who undergo cholecystostomy will have persistent discharge, which 
precludes catheter removal, or may not be medically suitable for future 
cholecystectomy. In these circumstances, percutaneous cystic duct stenting isa 
novel treatment option. It may delay or avoid the need for cholecystectomy, and 
thereby provide definitive treatment in a subset of patients who have acute 
cholecystitis and a high anaesthetic risk or limited life expectancy. Current 
application has been limited largely to patients with pre-existing malignant 
common bile duct strictures, but there is potential for the application to be 
broadened to include other subsets of patients. In this paper, we describe the 
technique used for percutaneous cystic duct stenting in a patient and report on 
its effectiveness. We also explore the technical considerations and consider the 
application of the procedure on other groups of patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1754-9485.2010.02207.x
PMID: 20976992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Coll Antropol. 2010 Sep;34(3):995-9.

The benefits of regular kinesiotherapy once a week for postmenopausal women: an 
aged-matched study.

Turk Z(1), Lonzarić D, Aleksić D.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, Maribor University 
Clinical Centre, Maribor, Slovenia. zmago.turk@ukc-mb.si

Regular exercise training improves overall physical fitness and quality of life 
in postmenopausal women. The exigent training frequency depends on a 
user-specified training aim. The aim of this study was to confirm the benefits 
of regular once a week exercise training for the maintenance of fitness in 
postmenopausal women. The test group included 20 postmenopausal women (65 +/- 
3.1 years) who have been attending the exercise training program conducted by 
the physiotherapist once a week for three years. The age-matched control group 
included 20 healthy women (65.5 +/- 2.4 years) who did not regularly attend the 
training program. The outcomes were: right and left lateral trunk flexion, right 
and left shoulder flexion, right and left grip strength, endurance capacity of 
the trunk extensors, lower limb muscle strength (1' chair stand test), and 
balance (one-leg standing duration time with eyes open and closed). Women from 
the test group achieved statistically significant better results in the 
following outcomes: right lateral trunk flexion (15.4 cm: 12.6 cm, p < 0.001), 
left lateral trunk flexion (15.4 cm: 12.6 cm, p = 0.001), trunk extension muscle 
endurance (53.4 s: 40.5 s, p < 0.001), lower limb muscle strength (28.4 x: 25 x, 
p < 0.001), and one-leg standing duration time with open eyes (33.5 s: 19.7 s, p 
< 0.001). The results suggest that a regular once a week exercise training 
program designed and conducted by the physiotherapist, may be helpful in the 
improvement or maintenance of flexibility, muscle strength and capacity, and 
balance in postmenopausal women. The better fitness proved by our study could be 
a result of other causes and not solely that of the designed training program.

PMID: 20977094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2012 Oct;14(5):759-67. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2010.00313.x. Epub 2010 Oct 26.

Transcrestal sinus floor elevation: a retrospective study of 46 patients up to 
16 years.

Bruschi GB(1), Crespi R, Capparè P, Gherlone E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry,Vita Salute University, San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical outcomes and 
radiographic data of transcrestal sinus floor elevation (TSFE) of residual 
alveolar bone ≤3 mm.
METHODS: Forty-six patients, edentulous in one or both maxillary posterior 
segments, were enrolled in this study. The residual alveolar ridge was measured. 
TSFE without bone grafting was performed. Three months after the first surgery 
procedure, 66 implants were placed without grafting material. A presurgical 
distance from the alveolar crest to the floor of the maxillary sinus and the 
amount of new radiopacity between the sinus floor and alveolar crest were 
measured from the mesial and distal surfaces of each dental implant surface.
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up period of 10.43 ± 5.01 years (ranged from 5 to 
16 years), a survival rate of 95.45% was reported. Mean bone levels at implant 
placement were 7.12 ± 0.90 mm and, after 1 year, were 13.28 ± 1.23 mm. They were 
stable over time, reporting an up to 16 years' value of 13.07 ± 2.63 mm.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this retrospective clinical study confirmed the 
reliability of the TSFE procedure and the maintenance of bone levels without 
grafting procedures over time.

© 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2010.00313.x
PMID: 20977614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2010 Nov;5(6):524-30. doi: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32833f203e.

Biomarkers of impaired renal function.

Post FA(1), Wyatt CM, Mocroft A.

Author information:
(1)King's College London School of Medicine, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2011 Mar;6(2):145.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Renal disease is increasingly common as life expectancy of 
HIV-infected persons continues to improve. Several biomarkers are available for 
monitoring renal function, although no consensus exists on how best to apply 
these tools in HIV infection. This review describes recent findings for the more 
common renal biomarkers.
RECENT FINDINGS: Although widely used in clinical practice, creatinine-based 
estimates of glomerular filtration rate have not been validated in HIV 
infection. Serum cystatin C has been proposed as a more sensitive marker of 
renal dysfunction in HIV infection, although it may also reflect systemic 
inflammation. Screening for proteinuria and albuminuria allows identification of 
patients at higher risk of kidney disease and other adverse outcomes. Fanconi 
syndrome, which has been associated with tenofovir use, is associated with 
severe tubular proteinuria, and several low molecular weight proteins, including 
retinol-binding protein, β2-microglobulin, and neutrophil gelatinase-associated 
lipocalin have been studied as markers of tubular dysfunction. Studies have 
reported a high prevalence of subclinical proximal tubular dysfunction in 
patients receiving antiretroviral therapy.
SUMMARY: Future studies are needed to determine the optimal biomarkers for the 
detection and monitoring of renal disease in HIV.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32833f203e
PMID: 20978396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2011 Jan;8(1):13-28. doi: 10.1038/nrcardio.2010.162. Epub
2010  Oct 26.

Cardiovascular drug therapy in the elderly: benefits and challenges.

Fleg JL(1), Aronow WS, Frishman WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Sciences, National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. flegj@nhlbi.nih.gov

Increasing life expectancy in industrialized societies has resulted in a huge 
population of older adults with cardiovascular disease. Despite advances in 
device therapy and surgery, the mainstay of treatment for these disorders 
remains pharmacological. Hypertension affects two-thirds of older adults and 
remains a potent risk factor for coronary artery disease, chronic heart failure, 
atrial fibrillation, and stroke in this age group. Numerous trials have 
demonstrated reduction in these adverse outcomes with antihypertensive drugs. 
After acute myocardial infarction, β-adrenergic blockers reduce mortality 
regardless of patient age. Statins and antiplatelet drugs have proven beneficial 
in both primary and, especially, secondary prevention of coronary events in 
older adults. In elders with chronic heart failure, loop diuretics must be used 
cautiously, owing to their higher potential for adverse effects, whereas 
angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors and β-blockers reduce symptoms and 
prolong survival. The high risk of stroke in elderly patients with atrial 
fibrillation is markedly reduced with warfarin, although bleeding risk is 
increased. The high prevalence of polypharmacy among older adults with 
cardiovascular disease, coupled with age-associated physiological changes and 
comorbidities, provides major challenges in adherence and avoidance of 
drug-related adverse events.

DOI: 10.1038/nrcardio.2010.162
PMID: 20978470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2010 Dec 1;55(6):1045-6. doi: 10.1002/pbc.22769.

Preoperative hemostatic screening for pediatric adenotonsillar surgery: 
worthwhile effort or waste of resources?

Werner EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Eastern Virginia Medical School, 
Children's Specialty Group, Children's Hospital of The King's Daughters, 
Norfolk, Virginia 23507, USA. eric.werner@chkd.org

Comment on
    Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2010 Dec 1;55(6):1153-9.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.22769
PMID: 20979166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Diabetes. 2010 Nov;59(11):2717-25. doi: 10.2337/db10-0822.

Physical activity, sedentary behavior, and health: paradigm paralysis or 
paradigm shift?

Katzmarzyk PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisiana State University System, 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, USA. peter.katzmarzyk@pbrc.edu

Comment in
    Diabetes. 2010 Nov;59(11):2715-6.

DOI: 10.2337/db10-0822
PMCID: PMC2963526
PMID: 20980470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Geriatrics. 1946 Sep-Oct;1:384-90.

Mortality and life expectancy in the United States since 1900.

GROOM WS.

PMID: 21000244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Vener Dis Inf. 1946 Feb;27:39-46.

The effect of treated acquired syphilis on life expectancy.

SMITH DC, BRUYERE MC.

PMID: 21015585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Am Med Assoc. 1946 May 11;131:95-100. doi:
10.1001/jama.1946.02870190019005.

Life expectancy in angina pectoris.

PARKER RL, DRY TJ, et al.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.1946.02870190019005
PMID: 21025612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2011 Sep;20(5):577-84. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2010.01228.x. Epub 2010 Oct 5.

Perceptions of terminally ill patients and family members regarding home and 
hospice as places of care at the end of life.

Luijkx KG(1), Schols JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tranzo, Tilburg University, Tilburg, The Netherlands. 
k.g.luijkx@uvt.nl

To enable demand-based palliative care, it is important to know the perceptions 
of terminally ill patients and their family members regarding home and hospice 
as places of care at the end of life. Eight women and five men suffering from 
cancer and with a life expectancy of 3 months or less were interviewed. In each 
case one of the family members was also interviewed. Four patients spent their 
last phase of life at home, nine in a hospice. This paper provides further 
insight in the patient perspective in palliative care. The results reveal that a 
cohabiting partner seems an important prerequisite for terminally ill patients 
to stay at home. For spouses it is an obvious choice to facilitate the patients' 
stay at home, even when it becomes too demanding, something not discussed 
between spouse and patient. When sufficient care at home seems impossible and 
the negotiation between patients and family members results in the opinion that 
living at home is no longer an option, it is decided that the patient moves to a 
hospice. The choice for the specific setting of the patients' new residence 
seems to be random; one possibility is pointed out to them and seems 
appropriate.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2010.01228.x
PMID: 21029220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2010;154:A1900.

[Guideline 'Diagnosis and treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in adults'. 
II. Special situations and organisation of medical care].

[Article in Dutch]

Dijkstra G(1), Derijks LJ, Houwert GJ, Wolf H, van Bodegraven AA; CBO-werkgroep 
‘IBD bij volwassenen'.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum Groningen, afd. Maag-Darm-Leverziekten, the 
Netherlands.

The Dutch national practice guideline 'Diagnosis and treatment of inflammatory 
bowel diseases (IBD) in adults' describes the multidisciplinary approach for 
adult patients with (suspected) IBD, recommended following analysis of the 
literature according to the principles of evidence based guideline development. 
Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are associated with temporary or 
permanent extra-intestinal disorders: reactive inflammatory conditions, 
associated conditions, and those arising as a consequence of long standing, 
inflammatory, intestinal disease. Treatment is aimed first at the IBD disease 
process and subsequently at the specific extra-intestinal conditions if 
complaints persist. The fertility of women with IBD who have not been operated 
is comparable with those without this complaint. With the exception of 
methotrexate in both sexes and of sulfasalazine in men, none of the usual 
medicines for IBD is known to adversely influence fertility. Fertility decreases 
following abdominal surgery. IBD patients are advised to restrict onset of 
pregnancy to a longstanding, quiet phase of the disease (ideally > 1 year). The 
risk of complications during pregnancy is not elevated when IBD is in remission, 
but is increased during active disease. Nulliparae with an ileoanal pouch have 
approximately 50% long term risk of developing faecal incontinence; a planned 
full-term Caesarean section may be beneficial in such cases. Complicated 
perianal disease is similarly an indication for non-vaginal delivery. The life 
expectancy for patients with ulcerative colitis is normal, but is slightly lower 
in patients with Crohn's disease. These positive findings have not yet been 
incorporated into the practice of life insurance providers. The diversity of IBD 
patient health care and its delivery by many professionals places stringent 
requirements on the organisation of care by hospitals and those providing 
treatment. The transfer process from paediatric specialist to gastroenterologist 
affects both patients and parents deeply.

PMID: 21029497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Oct;14(47):1-108, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta14470.

Intensity-modulated radiotherapy for the treatment of prostate cancer: a 
systematic review and economic evaluation.

Hummel S(1), Simpson EL, Hemingway P, Stevenson MD, Rees A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common cancer in men in the UK. 
Radiotherapy (RT) is a recognised treatment for PC and high-dose conformal 
radiotherapy (CRT) is the recommended standard of care for localised or locally 
advanced tumours. Intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) allows better dose 
distributions in RT.
OBJECTIVE: This report evaluates the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of IMRT for the radical treatment of PC.
DATA SOURCES: The following databases were searched: MEDLINE (1950-present), 
EMBASE (1980-present), Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature 
(CINAHL) (1982-present), BIOSIS (1985-present), the Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews (1991-present), the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register 
(1991-present), the Science Citation Index (1900-present) and the NHS Centre for 
Reviews and Dissemination databases (Database of Abstracts of Reviews of 
Effects, NHS Economic Evaluation Database, Health Technology Assessment) 
(1991-present). MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations was searched to 
identify any studies not yet indexed on MEDLINE. Current research was identified 
through searching the UK Clinical Research Network, National Research Register 
archive, the Current Controlled Trials register and the Medical Research Council 
Clinical Trials Register. In addition, abstracts of the American Society of 
Clinical Oncology, the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, 
and European Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology conferences were 
browsed.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic literature review of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of IMRT in PC was conducted. Comparators were 
three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT) or radical prostatectomy. 
Outcomes sought were overall survival, biochemical [prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA)] relapse-free survival, toxicity and health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL). Fifteen electronic bibliographic databases were searched in January 
2009 and updated in May 2009, and the reference lists of relevant articles were 
checked. Studies only published in languages other than English were excluded. 
An economic model was developed to examine the cost-effectiveness of IMRT in 
comparison to 3DCRT. Four scenarios were modelled based on the studies which 
reported both PSA survival and late gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity. In two 
scenarios equal PSA survival was assumed for IMRT and 3DCRT, the other two 
having greater PSA survival for the IMRT cohort. As there was very limited data 
on clinical outcomes, the model estimates progression to clinical failure and PC 
death from the surrogate outcome of PSA failure.
RESULTS: No randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of IMRT versus 3DCRT in PC were 
available, but 13 non-randomised studies comparing IMRT with 3DCRT were found, 
of which five were available only as abstracts. One abstract reported overall 
survival. Biochemical relapse-free survival was not affected by treatment group, 
except where there was a dose difference between groups, in which case higher 
dose IMRT was favoured over lower dose 3DCRT. Most studies reported an advantage 
for IMRT in GI toxicity, attributed to increased conformality of treatment 
compared with 3DCRT, particularly with regard to volume of rectum treated. There 
was some indication that genitourinary toxicity was worse for patients treated 
with dose escalated IMRT, although most studies did not find a significant 
treatment effect. HRQoL improved for both treatment groups following 
radiotherapy, with any group difference resolved by 6 months after treatment. No 
comparative studies of IMRT versus prostatectomy were identified. No comparative 
studies of IMRT in PC patients with bone metastasis were identified.
LIMITATIONS: The strength of the conclusions of this review are limited by the 
lack of RCTs, and any comparative studies for some patient groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The comparative data of IMRT versus 3DCRT seem to support the 
theory that higher doses, up to 81 Gy, can improve biochemical survival for 
patients with localised PC, concurring with data on CRT. The data also suggest 
that toxicity can be reduced by increasing conformality of treatment, 
particularly with regard to GI toxicity, which can be more easily achieved with 
IMRT than 3DCRT. Whether differences in GI toxicity between IMRT and 3DCRT are 
sufficient for IMRT to be cost-effective is uncertain, depending on the 
difference in incidence of GI toxicity, its duration and the cost difference 
between IMRT and 3DCRT.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14470
PMID: 21029717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. QJM. 2011 Mar;104(3):272-3. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcq201. Epub 2010 Oct 28.

Comment on: 'The cost of a QALY'.

Adam J, Stevens A.

Comment on
    QJM. 2010 Sep;103(9):715-20.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcq201
PMID: 21030464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2010 Dec;5(12):2348-54. doi: 10.2215/CJN.06050710.
Epub  2010 Oct 28.

Dialysis fistula or graft: the role for randomized clinical trials.

Allon M(1), Lok CE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
Alabama, USA. mdallon@uab.edu

The Fistula First Initiative has strongly encouraged nephrologists, vascular 
access surgeons, and dialysis units in the United States to make valiant efforts 
to increase fistula use in the hemodialysis population. Unfortunately, the rigid 
"fistula first" recommendations are not based on solid, current, evidence-based 
data and may be harmful to some hemodialysis patients by subjecting them to 
prolonged catheter dependence with its attendant risks of bacteremia and central 
vein stenosis. Once they are successfully cannulated for dialysis, fistulas last 
longer than grafts and require fewer interventions to maintain long-term patency 
for dialysis. However, fistulas have a much higher primary failure rate than 
grafts, require more interventions to achieve maturation, and entail longer 
catheter dependence, thereby leading to more catheter-related complications. 
Given the tradeoffs between fistulas and grafts, there is equipoise about their 
relative merits in patients with moderate to high risk of fistula nonmaturation. 
The time is right for definitive, large, multicenter randomized clinical trials 
to compare fistulas and grafts in various subsets of chronic kidney disease 
patients. Until the results of such clinical trials are known, the optimal 
vascular access for a given patients should be determined by the nephrologist 
and access surgeon by taking into account (1) whether dialysis has been 
initiated, (2) the patient's life expectancy, (3) whether the patient has had a 
previous failed vascular access, and (4) the likelihood of fistula 
nonmaturation. Careful clinical judgment should optimize vascular access 
outcomes and minimize prolonged catheter dependence among hemodialysis patients.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.06050710
PMID: 21030576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Molecules. 2010 Oct 27;15(11):7509-31. doi: 10.3390/molecules15117509.

Synthesis of oligodeoxynucleotides using fully protected deoxynucleoside 
3'-phosphoramidite building blocks and base recognition of oligodeoxynucleotides 
incorporating N3-cyano-ethylthymine.

Tsunoda H(1), Kudo T, Ohkubo A, Seio K, Sekine M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259 
Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama, Japan. htsunoda@bio.titech.ac.jp

Oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) synthesis, which avoids the formation of side 
products, is of great importance to biochemistry-based technology development. 
One side reaction of ODN synthesis is the cyanoethylation of the nucleobases. We 
suppressed this reaction by synthesizing ODNs using fully protected 
deoxynucleoside 3'-phosphoramidite building blocks, where the remaining reactive 
nucleobase residues were completely protected with acyl-, diacyl-, and 
acyl-oxyethylene-type groups. The detailed analysis of cyanoethylation at the 
nucleobase site showed that N3-protection of the thymine base efficiently 
suppressed the Michael addition of acrylonitrile. An ODN incorporating 
N3-cyanoethylthymine was synthesized using the phosphoramidite method, and 
primer extension reactions involving this ODN template were examined. As a 
result, the modified thymine produced has been proven to serve as a chain 
terminator.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules15117509
PMCID: PMC6259151
PMID: 21030906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Biol Res. 2010;43(2):197-203. Epub 2010 Sep 24.

Lucilia sericata strain from Colombia: Experimental colonization, life tables 
and evaluation of two artificial diets of the blowfly Lucilia sericata (Meigen) 
(Diptera: Calliphoridae), Bogotá, Colombia strain.

Rueda LC(1), Ortega LG, Segura NA, Acero VM, Bello F.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de La Salle, Bogotá, Colombia.

The objective of this work was to establish, under experimental laboratory 
conditions, a colony of Lucilia sericata, Bogotá-Colombia strain, to build life 
tables and evaluate two artificial diets. This blowfly is frequently used in 
postmortem interval studies and in injury treatment. The parental adult insects 
collected in Bogotá were maintained in cages at 22°C±1 average temperature, 
60%±5 relative humidity and 12 h photoperiodicity. The blowflies were fed on two 
artificial diets that were evaluated over seven continuous generations. 
Reproductive and population parameters were assessed. The life cycle of the 
species was expressed in the number of days of the different stages: egg = 
0.8±0.1, larvae I = 1.1±0.02, larvae II = 1.94±0.16, larvae III = 3.5±0.54, 
pupae = 6.55±0.47, male adult = 28.7±0.83 and female adult = 33.5±1.0. Total 
survival from egg stage to adult stage was 91.2% for diet 1, while for diet 2 
this parameter was 40.5%. The lifetime reproductive output was 184.51±11.2 eggs 
per female. The population parameters, as well as the reproductive output of the 
blowflies that were assessed, showed relatively high values, giving evidence of 
the continuous increase of the strain over the different generations and making 
possible its maintenance as a stable colony that has lasted for more than two 
years.

PMID: 21031265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Z Geburtshilfe Neonatol. 2010 Oct;214(5):180-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1267213.
 Epub 2010 Oct 28.

[Economic perspectives of health care].

[Article in German]

Meyersiek D(1).

Author information:
(1)EXES Management Information GmbH, Meerbusch. dietmar@meyersiek.de

International comparisons show that life expectancy is positively correlated 
with national expenditures on health care (% of Gross National Product) - albeit 
with significant differences. Over the past decade the increase in health-care 
expenditures grew at twice the rate of the increase in life expectancy. Total 
volume and growth of resources spent on health care require more consideration 
of economic aspects. On the basis of empirical examples (World Health 
Organization) and diagrammatic illustrations of the efficiency of market 
mechanisms, the present paper offers a visual illustration of the argument that 
market-oriented health systems seem to be more effective, and that government 
rules and regulations have to consider the demand AND supply sides of health 
care as well freedom AND responsibility simultaneously.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1267213
PMID: 21031327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2010 Jun;38(6):484-7.

[Cost-utility analysis of percutaneous coronary intervention in 13 cities of 
China].

[Article in Chinese]

Song XT(1), Du MY, Yuan F, Lü SZ; Collaboration Group of Chinese Coronary 
Intervention Status and Medicare Insurance Payment Method.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Capital Medical University, Beijing Anzhen 
Hospital, Beijing 100029, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost-utility of percutaneous coronary intervention 
(PCI) in China.
METHODS: A total of 630 patients from 13 cities undergoing PCI during the first 
half year of 2006 were enrolled in this study. The 36 items derived from the 
short form of health survey (SF-36) were applied prospectively in these patients 
before and 9 months after PCI. The cost per every incremental mark of SF-36 and 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) were calculated.
RESULTS: (1) The age was lower than 60 years old in more than 50% patients. (2) 
In terms of detailed costs, material costs accounted for 82.5% of the 
hospitalization costs, medications costs accounted for 6. 8% , and operation fee 
accounted for 5.9%. These 3 items comprised 95.2% of overall hospitalization 
costs, and 69. 8% material costs were the cost for stents. (3)The average 
re-admission hospitalization costs were 17 841.5 RMB in 44 patients who were 
rehospitalized due to occurrence of major adverse cardiac events. (4) Follow-up 
made at months 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 post index procedure showed that an average 
cost for postoperative drug treatment was 831.50 RMB per month, and most 
patients spent 400.0 RMB for drug treatment per month. (5) The average quality 
of life score increased by 20.59 post PCI (P < 0.05 vs. pre-PCI). The 
cost-effective analysis indicates that the cost per every incremental mark of 
SF-36 was 3975.7 RMB. The cost per every QALY gained was 59 898. 3 RMB.
CONCLUSION: PCI is effective for patients with coronary heart disease and the 
cost per QALY in China was positioned in an acceptable range.

PMID: 21033126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2010 Jun;38(6):558-61.

[Time trends and age-related characteristics of cardio-cerebrovascular deaths in 
Hunan].

[Article in Chinese]

Ming H(1), Xiang HB, Huang MZ, Li GC.

Author information:
(1)Public Health School of Central-south University, Changsha, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the time trends and age-related characteristics of 
mortality and disease burden for cardiocerebrovascular diseases (CVD) in Hunan, 
China during three periods (1973-1975, 1990-1992 and 2004-2005).
METHODS: The cardiocerebrovascular death data of Hunan residents were collected 
by three national retrospective sample surveys of death. Cause-specific 
mortality, proportion, years of potential life lost (YPLL) and associated 
indicators were identified in the population of Hunan in above mentioned three 
periods. Time trends of age-specific mortality rate were assessed by fitting 
curvilinear regression lines and the increase rates of mortality with age were 
analyzed in each period.
RESULTS: The standard all-cause mortality of residents in Hunan decreased (chi2 
= 189.947, P < 0.001, chi2 = 54.201, P < 0.001; chi2 = 27,396.898, P < 0.001) 
while the standard mortality for CVD increased (chi2 = 54.201, P < 0.001; chi2 = 
27,396.898, P < 0.001) from 1973 to 2005. The age-specific mortality rate for 
CVD increased with age in all three periods, especially for citizens older than 
60 years. There were age stages in each period in which the mortality increase 
rate was the fastest (10-14 and 15-19 years old in 1973-1975; 10-14, 15-19 and 
over 80 years old in 1990-1992; 15-19 and over 80 years old in 2004-2005). 
Exponential regression function (y = b0e(b1x)) can be used for the proper 
description of age-specific mortality change. The ratio of YPLL for CVD in all 
death causes showed increase trend (chi2 = 275,630.407, P < 0.001). YPLL rate 
(YPLLs per 1000) in 1973-1975 was higher than those in 1990-1992 and 2004-2005. 
YPLL rate was positively correlated with mortality in all periods.
CONCLUSIONS: The mortality for CVD increased with time and aging. People older 
than 60 years were threatened by CVD mostly. Mortality trend analysis also found 
higher CVD deaths in people age 15-19 in Hunan residents.

PMID: 21033141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Hepatogastroenterology. 2010 Jul-Aug;57(101):939-44.

Cost-effectiveness of peginterferon alpha-2a and peginterferon alpha-2b 
combination regimens in genotype-1 naive patients with chronic hepatitis C.

Gheorghe L(1), Baculea S.

Author information:
(1)Center of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Fundeni Clinical Institute of 
Digestive Diseases & Liver Transplantation, Fundeni street, 253 Bucharest, 
Romania. drgheorghe@xnet.ro

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Pegylated interferons (Peg-IFNs) with ribavirin represent the 
standard treatment in chronic C viral hepatitis in Romania. Primary aim was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Peg-IFN alpha-2a plus ribavirin versus IFN 
alpha-2b plus ribavirin in genotype-1 patients in Romanian setting. The second 
end point was to make an indirect comparison of the cost-effectiveness of 
combination therapy of the two Peg-IFNs.
METHODOLOGY: Published clinical data on sustained virological response rates 
(SVR) and early virological response rates (EVR) from more recent published 
studies were used for both combination therapies. A Markov model with seven 
health states was built. The reference patient was a 45-year-old male with 
chronic non-cirrhotic liver disease due to chronic HCV infection. Time horizon 
is patient lifetime. Published data on the natural history of hepatitis C, local 
mortality data, published utilities and local expertise were used for assessment 
of local procedures, resources used and costs. The perspective is that of the 
National Health Insurance Agency (NHIA).
RESULTS: The incremental cost of treatment with Peg-IFN alpha-2a plus ribavirin 
is 19,056 Rol per LY gained and 27,175 Rol per QALY gained. A one-way 
sensitivity analysis showed that results are sensitive to the discount rate 
used, but they still are highly cost-effective. The indirect comparison of 
cost-effectiveness of Peg-IFNs combination therapies over IFN alpha-2b showed 
superiority of Peg-IFN alpha-2a and ribavirin therapy.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates a higher cost-effectiveness of the current 
state-of-the art treatment with Peg-IFN alpha-2a with ribavirin over the 
standard IFN and ribavirin combination. Although a slight superiority of Peg-IFN 
alpha-2a over Peg-IFN alpha-2b combined regimen was shown in Romanian setting in 
terms of LYs and QALYs gained, there are no significant differences in 
cost-effectiveness of the two therapies.

PMID: 21033255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Ceylon Med J. 2010 Sep;55(3):73-6. doi: 10.4038/cmj.v55i3.2289.

Narrowing health inequalities in Sri Lanka: issues and challenges.

Jayasinghe S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo, 
Sri Lanka. sarojoffice@yahoo.com

DOI: 10.4038/cmj.v55i3.2289
PMID: 21033301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Aviakosm Ekolog Med. 2010 May-Jun;44(3):57-60.

[Investigation of anti-hypoxic action of 3-hydroxypyridine derivatives in 
animals with some types of experimental pathology].

[Article in Russian]

Iasnetsov VV, Ivanov IuV, Karsanova SK, Chel'naia NA, Skachilova SIa, Savina NV, 
Solov'ev NA, Filipenko TV, Luk'ianov VN.

Experiments with occlusion of the common carotid artery in mice demonstrated 
that, unlike mexidol and SK-170, single injection of new derivatives of 
3-hydroxypyridine (3-HP) SK-100 and IBKhF-2, and semax have an anti-hypoxic 
action on the model of acute normobaric hypoxia with hypercapnia. In analogous 
experiments with rats the distinct anti-hypoxic action was produced by 4 new 
3-HP derivatives (SK-100, SK-170, IBKhF-22 at the dose of 100 mg/kg and IBKhF-2 
at the doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg--extension of life span by 25-39%), mexidol (100 
mg/kg) and reference-class antihypoxant amtisol (30 mg/kg, life span expansion 
by 19 and 27%, respectively). A series of experiments with rats with acute 
pancreatitis, a distinct anti-hypoxic action was shown by SK-100, SK-170 at 100 
mg/kg and IBKhF at 10 and 30 mg/kg (life span extension by 26-40%), mexidol (100 
mg/kg) and amtisol (30 mg/kg) which extended life span by 17 and 22%, 
respectively. Therefore, SK-100 and IBKhF-2 are potent to prolong life span of 
equally mice and rats; SK-170 and mexidol were effective only in experiments 
with rats.

PMID: 21033401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2010;111(8):443-8.

Protection of ovarian tissue from radiotherapy.

Pafumi C(1), Iraci SM, Abbate G, Clemente CM, La Rosa I, Gulino FA, Iemmola A, 
Randazzo C, Caldaci L, Teodoro MC, Palumbo MA, Attard M, Ciotta L, Stracquadanio 
MG, Messina A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Catania, Italy. 
pafumi@unict.it

Advances researches in the diagnosis and treatment of childhood, adolescent and 
adult cancer have greatly increased the life expectancy of premenopausal women 
with cancer. However, one of the serious side effects of these treatments is the 
risk of damage to fertility. The ovaries are very sensitive to cytotoxic and 
radiotherapeutic treatment. The only established method of fertility 
preservation is embryo cryopreservation according to the Ethics Committee of the 
American Society for Reproductive Medicine (2005), but this option requires the 
patient to be of pubertal age, have a partner or use donor sperm, and be able to 
undergo a cycle of ovarian stimulation, which is not possible when the 
radiotherapy has to be initiated immediately or when stimulation is 
contraindicated according to the type of cancer. For patients who need immediate 
radiotherapy, cryopreservation of ovarian tissue is the only possible 
alternative. This manuscript reports the different techniques of 
cryopreservation and the results of transplantation of cryopreserved ovarian 
tissue. The current techniques allow cryopreservation of human ovarian fragments 
for a long time with good follicular survival rate after thawing. Numerous 
studies ultimately in this field have demonstrated to improve the survival rate 
of the oocytes and cryopreserved follicles. Moreover this manuscript includes a 
case of a 17-year-old girl who had to undergo pelvic irradiation for 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and the laparoscopic treatment to preserve the fertility 
(Fig. 2, Ref. 47).

PMID: 21033624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2011;9(1):15-27. doi: 
10.2165/11536960-000000000-00000.

Valuing Child Health Utility 9D health states with a young adolescent sample: a 
feasibility study to compare best-worst scaling discrete-choice experiment, 
standard gamble and time trade-off methods.

Ratcliffe J(1), Couzner L, Flynn T, Sawyer M, Stevens K, Brazier J, Burgess L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Clinical Change, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia. julie.ratcliffe@finders.edu.au

QALYs are increasingly being utilized as a health outcome measure to calculate 
the benefits of new treatments and interventions within cost-utility analyses 
for economic evaluation. Cost-utility analyses of adolescent-specific treatment 
programmes are scant in comparison with those reported upon for adults and tend 
to incorporate the views of clinicians or adults as the main source of 
preferences. However, it is not clear that the views of adults are in accordance 
with those of adolescents on this issue. Hence, the treatments and interventions 
most highly valued by adults may not correspond with those most highly valued by 
adolescents. Ordinal methods for health state valuation may be more easily 
understood and interpreted by young adolescent samples than conventional 
approaches. The availability of young adolescent-specific health state values 
for the estimation of QALYs will provide new insights into the types of 
treatment programmes and health services that are most highly valued by young 
adolescents. The first objective of this study was to assess the feasibility of 
applying best-worst scaling (BWS) discrete-choice experiment (DCE) methods in a 
young adolescent sample to value health states defined by the Child Health 
Utility 9D (CHU9D) instrument, a new generic preference-based measure of 
health-related quality of life developed specifically for application in young 
people. The second objective was to compare BWS DCE questions (where respondents 
are asked to indicate the best and worst attribute for each of a number of 
health states, presented one at a time) with conventional time trade-off (TTO) 
and standard gamble (SG) questions in terms of ease of understanding and 
completeness. A feasibility study sample of consenting young adolescent school 
children (n = 16) aged 11-13 years participated in a face-to-face interview in 
which they were asked to indicate the best and worst attribute levels from a 
series of health states defined by the CHU9D, presented one at a time. 
Participants were also randomly allocated to receive additional conventional TTO 
or SG questions and prompted to indicate how difficult they found them to 
complete. The results indicate that participants were able to readily choose 
'best' and 'worst' dimension levels in each of the CHU9D health states presented 
to them and provide justification for their choices. Furthermore, when presented 
with TTO or SG questions and prompted to make comparisons, participants found 
the BWS DCE task easier to understand and complete. The results of this 
feasibility study suggest that BWS DCE methods are potentially more readily 
understood and interpretable by vulnerable populations (e.g. young adolescents). 
These findings lend support to the potential application of BWS DCE methods to 
undertake large-scale health state valuation studies directly with young 
adolescent population samples.

DOI: 10.2165/11536960-000000000-00000
PMID: 21033766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Med J Aust. 2010 Nov 1;193(9):521-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2010.tb04036.x.

The health of urban Aboriginal people: insufficient data to close the gap.

Eades SJ(1), Taylor B, Bailey S, Williamson AB, Craig JC, Redman S; SEARCH 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Bailey S, Baker A, Banks E, Cass A, Clapham K, Craig J, Daniels 
J, Eades S, Kippax S, McIntyre P, Raphael B, Redman S, Taylor R, Vincent F, 
Williamson A, Appoo S, Cockayne N, Fernando D, Fernando P, Makamoo L, McNamara 
B, Taylor B, Wutzke S, West M, Williamson A, Atkinson M, Brown V, Cashman K, 
Fernando J, Fowles S, Kilpatrick J, Robinson R, Skinner T, Wait D, Welsh P.

Author information:
(1)Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. 
Sandra.eades@bakeridi.edu.au

The Australian Government has committed to reducing Indigenous disadvantage, 
including closing the life-expectancy gap within a generation, and to halving 
