
Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2010.08.032
PMID: 20813113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Prosthet Dent. 2010 Sep;104(3):149-57. doi: 10.1016/S0022-3913(10)60111-4.

In vitro fatigue resistance of CAD/CAM composite resin and ceramic posterior 
occlusal veneers.

Magne P(1), Schlichting LH, Maia HP, Baratieri LN.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry of USC, 
Los Angeles, Calif, USA. magne@usc.edu

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Thin, bonded, posterior occlusal veneers constitute a 
conservative alternative to traditional complete coverage crowns. Information 
regarding selection of the appropriate material and its influence on fatigue 
resistance, which may affect the longevity of the restoration, is missing.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to assess and compare the fatigue 
resistance of composite resin and ceramic posterior occlusal veneers.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thirty extracted molars received a standardized 
nonretentive tooth preparation (simulating advanced occlusal erosion), including 
removal of occlusal enamel, exposure of dentin, and immediate dentin sealing 
(Optibond FL). All teeth were restored with a 1.2-mm-thick occlusal veneer 
(Cerec 3 chairside CAD/CAM system). The restorations (n=10) were milled from 
leucite-reinforced and lithium disilicate ceramics (IPS Empress CAD and IPS 
e.max CAD, respectively) and a composite resin (Paradigm MZ100). The intaglio 
surfaces of the ceramic restorations were conditioned by hydrofluoric acid 
etching and silane. Airborne-particle abrasion and silane were used to condition 
the composite resin restorations. Preparations were airborne-particle abraded 
and etched. All restorations were bonded with preheated luting material and 
submitted to cyclic isometric loading at 5 Hz, starting with a load of 200 N 
(x5000 cycles), followed by stepwise loading of 400, 600, 800, 1000, 1200, and 
1400 N at a maximum of 30,000 cycles each. The number of cycles at initial 
failure (first cracks) was recorded. Specimens were loaded for a maximum of 
185,000 cycles. Groups were compared using the life table survival analysis 
(alpha=.016, Bonferroni method).
RESULTS: IPS Empress CAD failed at an average load of 900 N, with no specimen 
withstanding all 185,000 load cycles (survival 0%), while IPS e.max CAD and 
Paradigm MZ100 demonstrated survival rates of 30% and 100%, respectively. None 
of the specimens exhibited catastrophic failure, but only cracks limited to the 
restorative material.
CONCLUSIONS: Posterior occlusal veneers made of composite resin (Paradigm MZ100) 
had significantly higher fatigue resistance (P<.002) compared to IPS Empress CAD 
and IPS e.max CAD.

Copyright © 2010 The Editorial Council of the Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry. 
Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-3913(10)60111-4
PMID: 20813228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. J Invasive Cardiol. 2010 Sep;22(9):E171-4.

Use of endovascular stent-graft repair for type B aortic dissection in 
polycystic kidney disease.

Ramineni R(1), Daniel GK.

Author information:
(1)University of Miami / JFK Medical Center, Boca Raton, Florida, USA.

Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening medical urgency with 
autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) being one of its major risk 
factors. Even though endovascular stentgraft repair has better outcomes in 
complicated Type B AD, its use in a patient with ADPKD has not been reported 
previously. This case involves a 44-year-old female with a history of ADPKD, 
hypertension and chronic low back pain presented with severe pain in the 
interscapular region. She was diagnosed with Type B AD by a computed tomographic 
(CT) scan of her chest and was managed medically. She was readmitted 9 days 
after discharge with worsening pain due to the proximal extension of AD. She was 
treated, with endovascular stentgraft repair sealing the dissection flap with 
significant subsequent reduction of the false lumen index and symptoms. We are 
reporting the first case of a complicated Type B AD in a patient with ADPKD 
managed with endovascular stent-graft repair.

PMID: 20814060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2010 Jul;50(7):969-74.

[Gene cloning, codon optimization and functional expression of Yarrawia 
lipolytica lipase Lip1].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L(1), Zhao H, Xu L, Liu Y, Yan Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Bio-physics, College of Life Science and 
Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China. 
ymw537@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To implement inducible and constitutive over-expression of Yarrowia 
lipolytica lipase gene lipl in Pichia pastoris using codon optimization.
METHODS: We cloned Y. lipolytica lipase gene lip1 according to codon bias of P. 
pastoris, and optimized lipl using overlap extension PCR synthesis. Then, we 
cloned the original and optimized genes into the induced vector pPIC9K and newly 
built constitutive carrier pGAP9K, and electrotransformated the resultant 
expression plasmids into P. pastoris GS115. Through G418 resistance screening, 
high copy transformatants were selected and fermented in shake flasks. 
P-nitrophenyl palmitate (pNPP) was used as substrates for assay the activities 
of the expressed lipase, and the characteristics of the lipase were further 
examined.
RESULTS: We successfully cloned lipase gene lip1 from Y. lipolytica, nucleotide 
sequence revealed that the open reading frame (ORF) had 1461 nucleotides, 
encoding 486 amino acids, without any intron or any signal peptide. SDS-PAGE 
analysis and fermentation result showed that the optimized gene had a higher 
expression level than the original one, and the constitutive expression was 
superior to the inducible expression. Preliminary analysis showed that the 
optimal substrate of Lipl was p-nitrophenyl butyrate (C4), the optimum 
temperature and pH was 45 degrees C and 8.5, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Y. lipolytica lipase gene lip1 can be over-expressed through both 
inducible and constitutive expressions using codon optimization, which lays a 
solid foundation to further study Y. lipolytica lipase family, and also provides 
an important prerequisite for scale production and industrial application of the 
lipase.

PMID: 20815247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Cell Metab. 2010 Sep 8;12(3):209-10. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2010.08.009.

The long and short of fertility and longevity.

Suh Y(1), Vijg J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, 
USA; Institute for Aging Research, Diabetes Research and Training Center, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA; Department of Medicine, 
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA; Institute of Aging 
Research, Guangdong Medical College, Dongguan 523808, China.

Does life span extension come with a reproductive trade-off? In a recent report 
published in Nature, Greer et al. (2010) show that in the nematode worm C. 
elegans, life span extension, as a consequence of deficiencies in histone 
methylation, requires an intact germline and ongoing fertility.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2010.08.009
PMCID: PMC2991055
PMID: 20816086


964. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2010 Sep;11(7):457-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2010.05.009.
Epub  2010 Aug 1.

The paradigm of life extension.

Dominguez LJ, Barbagallo M, Morley JE.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2010.05.009
PMID: 20816330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2010 Sep-Oct;19(5):404-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2009.08.003.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of carotid artery stenting compared with 
endarterectomy.

Young KC(1), Holloway RG, Burgin WS, Benesch CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New 
York, USA. kate_young@urmc.rochester.edu

Endarterectomy and angioplasty with stenting have emerged as 2 alternative 
treatments for carotid artery stenosis. This study's objective was to determine 
the cost-effectiveness of carotid artery stenting (CAS) compared with carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA) in symptomatic subjects who are suitable for either 
intervention. A Markov analysis of these 2 revascularization procedures was 
conducted using direct Medicare costs (2007 US$) and characteristics of a 
symptomatic 70-year-old cohort over a lifetime. In the base case analysis, CAS 
produced 8.97 quality-adjusted life-years, compared with 9.64 quality-adjusted 
life-years for CEA. The incremental cost of stenting was $17,700, and thus CAS 
was dominated by CEA. Sensitivity analyses show that the long-term probabilities 
of major stroke or mortality influenced the results. In the base case analysis, 
CEA for patients with symptomatic stenosis has a greater benefit than CAS, with 
lower direct costs. With 59% probability, CEA will be the optimal intervention 
when all of the model assumptions are varied simultaneously.

Copyright (c) 2010 National Stroke Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2009.08.003
PMCID: PMC2936727
PMID: 20816349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest Disclosures: KCY, RGH, 
CGB: portion of salary covered by NIH funds (please see acknowledgements). WSB 
and CGB: clinical research grant support for ACT-1 (Abbott) and CREST (NIH).


966. Lancet. 2010 Sep 4;376(9743):771-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61377-3.

The Lancet-Palestinian Health Alliance.

Cohn JR, Albert SM, Appelbaum PS, Zoloth L.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2010 Jul 3;376(9734):7-8.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61377-3
PMID: 20816542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2010 Nov;23(11):827-34. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzq058.
Epub  2010 Sep 3.

The effects of affinity and valency of an albumin-binding domain (ABD) on the 
half-life of a single-chain diabody-ABD fusion protein.

Hopp J(1), Hornig N, Zettlitz KA, Schwarz A, Fuss N, Müller D, Kontermann RE.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Zellbiologie und Immunologie, Universität Stuttgart, Allmandring 
31, Stuttgart, Germany.

Fusion of small recombinant antibody fragments to an albumin-binding domain 
(ABD) from streptococcal protein G strongly extends their plasma half-life. This 
ABD binds with nanomolar affinity to human (HSA) and mouse serum albumin (MSA). 
It was speculated that an increase in albumin-binding affinity should lead to a 
further increase in half-life. In the present study, we analyzed the effects of 
affinity and valency of the ABD on the pharmacokinetic properties of a 
bispecific single-chain diabody (scDb), applied previously to investigate 
various half-life extension strategies. The scDb is directed against 
carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CD3 capable of mediating T cell retargeting 
to tumor cells. Two scDb derivatives with increased (scDb-ABD-H) and decreased 
(scDb-ABD-L) affinity as well as an scDb molecule fused to two ABD (scDb-ABD(2)) 
were generated and produced in mammalian cells. The altered binding of these 
constructs to HSA and MSA was confirmed by ELISA and quartz crystal microbalance 
measurements. All constructs bound efficiently to CEA and CD3-positive cells and 
were able to activate T cells in a target cell-dependent manner, although T cell 
activation was reduced in the presence of serum albumin. All three derivatives 
showed a strongly increased half-life in mice as compared with scDb. Compared 
with the wild-type scDb-ABD, the half-life of scDb-ABD-H exhibited a prolonged 
half-life and scDb-ABD-L a reduced half-life, while the half-life scDb-ABD(2) 
was almost identical to that of scDb-ABD. However, these changes were only 
moderate, indicating that the half-life-extending property of the ABD in mice is 
only weakly influenced by affinity for serum albumin or valency of albumin 
binding.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzq058
PMID: 20817756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Int J Mol Med. 2010 Oct;26(4):527-32. doi: 10.3892/ijmm_00000495.

Enhancement of phagocytotic activity by prion protein in PrP-deficient 
macrophage cells.

Uraki R(1), Sakudo A, Ando S, Kitani H, Onodera T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Immunology, School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku Yayoi, Tokyo, Japan.

Macrophages, especially follicular dendritic cells, contribute to the 
pathogenesis of prion diseases by accumulating an abnormal isoform of prion 
protein (PrPSc), which is converted from the cellular isoform of prion protein 
(PrPC). As information on the function of PrPC in macrophages is limited, we 
have established a prion protein (PrP) gene (Prnp)-deficient macrophage cell 
line from the bone marrow of ZrchI Prnp-/- mice. These cells expressed 
macrophage specific proteins (F4/80 and MOMA-2) and displayed phagocytotic 
properties. The Prnp-/- macrophage cell line (MplZ) showed shorter pseudopodium 
extension and less phagocytotic activity than a Prnp+/+ macrophage cell line 
(MWF). In addition, the MplZ cells were more sensitive to serum deprivation than 
the MWF cells and underwent apoptotic cell death in these conditions. These 
findings suggest that PrPC enhances the incorporation of materials possibly 
including PrPSc and decreases the sensitivity of cells to oxidative stress, 
which may be induced by PrPSc accumulation.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm_00000495
PMID: 20818492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Clin Drug Investig. 2010;30(11):789-98. doi:
10.2165/11538520-000000000-00000.

Treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease in the United States: a cost-utility 
model.

Groenendaal H(1), Tarrants ML, Armand C.

Author information:
(1)Vose Consulting, Boulder, Colorado, USA.

BACKGROUND: As Parkinson's disease (PD) progresses, patients and their families 
experience substantial health and economic burdens. Because motor fluctuations 
(also called 'off-time') are linked to poor quality of life and higher 
healthcare costs, minimizing off-time is an effective strategy for reducing 
costs associated with PD.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost utility of rasagiline or entacapone as adjunctive 
therapies to levodopa versus levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone (LCE) versus standard 
levodopa monotherapy in patients with advanced PD and motor fluctuations in the 
US.
METHODS: A 2-year stochastic Markov model was utilized to examine the cost 
effectiveness of treatments of advanced PD. The model assumed that patients 
transition health status every 4 months. Transition probabilities, including 
uncertainties, were estimated from clinical trial data. Medical costs, daily 
drug costs and utility weights were obtained from published literature.
RESULTS: Over 2 years, all therapy options showed greater effectiveness than 
levodopa alone. Rasagiline+levodopa and LCE were cost saving from a payor 
perspective, while entacapone+levodopa was cost saving from a societal 
perspective. Mean benefits over 2 years were 0.12 (90% credibility interval [CI] 
0.07, 0.18) additional quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for 
rasagiline+levodopa, entacapone+levodopa and LCE, 5.08 (90% CI 3.87, 6.28) 
additional months with <or=25% off-time for rasagiline+levodopa and 4.85 (90% CI 
3.63, 6.06) additional months with <or=25% off-time for entacapone+levodopa and 
LCE versus levodopa alone.
CONCLUSION: From a payor perspective, rasagiline+levodopa and LCE were dominant 
therapies over levodopa monotherapy, while entacapone+levodopa was effective at 
a higher cost. With no additional cost over a 2-year period, rasagiline+levodopa 
presents a valuable alternative to entacapone+levodopa, LCE and levodopa 
monotherapy in the treatment of advanced PD patients. Results from this 
cost-utility model and prior adjunctive clinical data provide ongoing support 
for the adjunctive use of rasagiline in advanced PD patients with motor 
fluctuations.

DOI: 10.2165/11538520-000000000-00000
PMID: 20818839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. N Engl J Med. 2010 Aug 19;363(8):704-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp0906597.

New priorities for future biomedical innovations.

Fuchs VR(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp0906597
PMID: 20818873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Rejuvenation Res. 2010 Dec;13(6):683-93. doi: 10.1089/rej.2010.1062. Epub
2010  Sep 6.

The β-blocker atenolol lowers the longevity-related degree of fatty acid 
unsaturation, decreases protein oxidative damage, and increases extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase signaling in the heart of C57BL/6 mice.

Sanchez-Roman I(1), Gomez J, Naudi A, Ayala V, Portero-Otín M, Lopez-Torres M, 
Pamplona R, Barja G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology II, Faculty of Biological Sciences, 
Complutense University, Madrid, Spain.

The interruption of the β-adrenergic receptor signaling at the level of adenylyl 
cyclase (AC) by specifically knocking out (KO) the AC5 gene activates the 
RAF/MEK/ extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway, delays 
bone and heart aging, and increases mean and maximum longevity in mice. However, 
the mechanisms involved in life extension in this animal model with increased 
longevity have not been clarified, although a decrease in oxidative stress has 
been proposed as mediator. Two traits link longevity and oxidative stress. 
Long-lived mammals and birds have a low rate of mitochondrial reactive oxygen 
species (mitROS) generation and a low degree of membrane fatty acid 
unsaturation, but these key factors have not been studied in AC5 KO mice. In the 
present investigation, male C57BL/6 mice were treated with the β-blocker 
atenolol in drinking water, and oxidative stress-related parameters were 
measured in the heart. Atenolol treatment did not change the rate of mitROS 
production and oxidative damage to mitDNA (8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine 
[8-oxodG]), but strongly decreased the degree of fatty acid unsaturation and the 
peroxidizability index, mainly due to decreases in 22:6n-3 and 20:4n-6 and to 
increases in 18:1n-9, 16:1n-7 and 16:0 in the atenolol group. Protein oxidation 
and lipoxidation were lower in the atenolol group than in the controls. The 
mitochondrial complex I and IV content and the amount of p-ERK1/2 signaling 
proteins were significantly higher in the atenolol-treated than in the control 
animals. These results support the idea that the increased longevity of the AC5 
KO mice can be due in part to an ERK signaling-mediated stress-resistance due to 
a decrease in fatty acid unsaturation, leading to lower lipid peroxidation and 
decreased lipoxidation-derived damage to cellular proteins.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2010.1062
PMID: 20818929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Anadolu Kardiyol Derg. 2010 Sep;10 Suppl 2:27-30. doi: 10.5152/akd.2010.127.

[Atrial septostomy in pulmonary hypertension].

[Article in Turkish]

Ozdemir N(1).

Author information:
(1)Kartal Koşuyolu Yüksek Ihtisas Eğitim ve Araştirma Hastanesi, Kardiyoloji 
Kliniği, Istanbul, Türkiye. ozdemirnihal@hotmail.com

Despite the fact that remarkable improvements have been achieved in quality of 
life and survival through increasing number of specific medical treatment 
alternatives in severe pulmonary hypertension, many patients have resistance to 
medical treatment. Atrial septostomy is considered as a palliative procedure in 
severe pulmonary hypertension to relieve symptoms of severe pulmonary 
hypertension by reducing right ventricular preload and increasing systemic flow. 
Gradual balloon dilatation and blade balloon atrial septostomy are the most 
frequently used methods. If atrial septostomy is performed in experienced 
medical centers, it provides clinical improvement and even has tendency to 
extend life expectancy in patients with pulmonary hypertension resistant to 
medical treatment.

DOI: 10.5152/akd.2010.127
PMID: 20819753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Anadolu Kardiyol Derg. 2010 Aug;10 Suppl 1:2-4. doi: 10.5152/akd.2010.112.

[Pulmonary hypertension: diagnosis and clinical classification].

[Article in Turkish]

Küçükoğlu MS(1), Başkurt M.

Author information:
(1)Istanbul Universitesi, Kardiyoloji Enstitüsü, Istanbul, Türkiye. 
kucukoglu3@yahoo.com

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a complex disease with limiting the physical 
activity, life expectancy significantly and requires multidisciplinary approach. 
In recent years, a dramatic increase was observed in the understanding and 
management of the disease. The first clinical classification of PH was made in 
Evian (France) in 1973 and the last clinical classification of PH was made in 
Dana Point (USA) in 2008. Diagnosis and clinical classification of PH is 
discussed in this review.

DOI: 10.5152/akd.2010.112
PMID: 20819760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Anadolu Kardiyol Derg. 2010 Aug;10 Suppl 1:36-42. doi: 10.5152/akd.2010.117.

[Clinical end-points and surrogate markers of pulmonary arterial hypertension in 
the light of evidence-based treatment].

[Article in Turkish]

Can MM(1), Kaymaz C.

Author information:
(1)Kartal Koşuyolu Yüksek Ihtisas Eğitim ve Araştirma Hastanesi, Kardiyoloji 
Kliniği, Istanbul, Türkiye.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare, fatal and progressive disease. 
There is an acceleration in the advent of new therapies in parallel to the 
development of the knowledge about etiogenesis and pathogenesis of PAH. 
Therefore, to optimize the goals of PAH-specific treatment and to determine the 
time to shift from monotherapy to combination therapy, simple, objective and 
reproducible end-points, which may predict the disease severity, progression 
rate and life expectancy are needed. The adventure of end points in PAH has 
started with six minute walk distance and functional capacity, and continues 
with new parameters (biochemical marker, time to clinical worsening, 
echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging etc.), which can better reflect 
the clinical outcome.

DOI: 10.5152/akd.2010.117
PMID: 20819765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2010 Dec;65(12):1275-84. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glq155. Epub 2010 Sep 5.

Life extension by diet restriction and N-acetyl-L-cysteine in genetically 
heterogeneous mice.

Flurkey K(1), Astle CM, Harrison DE.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, 600 Main Street, Bar Harbor, ME 04609, USA.

We used a heterogeneous stock of mice-UM-HET3, the first generation offspring of 
CByB6F1/J and C3D2F1/J parents-to test effects of six antiaging treatments on 
life span. In the first report of diet restriction in a structured, segregating 
heterogeneous population, we observed essentially the same increases in mean and 
maximum life span as found in CByB6F1/J hybrid positive controls. We also report 
results of treatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine started at 7 months, and aspirin, 
nitroflurbiprofen, 4-hydroxy phenyl N-tert-butyl nitrone, and 
nordihydroguaiaretic acid, all started at 16-18 months. Only male UM-HET3 mice 
receiving N-acetyl-L-cysteine had significantly increased life span, and this 
may have been due to treatment-related inadvertent diet restriction. The other 
agents had no significant effects on life span. The use of UM-HET3 mice helps 
assure that these results are not the result of unresponsiveness of a single 
genotype but that they more broadly represent laboratory mice.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glq155
PMCID: PMC2990268
PMID: 20819793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Sci China Life Sci. 2010 Aug;53(8):916-26. doi: 10.1007/s11427-010-4047-8.
Epub  2010 Sep 7.

The tricks plants use to reach appropriate light.

Chao D(1), Lin H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Purdue University, 
West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA. dchao@purdue.edu

The perception of ambient light signals that produce a relevant response to 
ensure exposure to appropriate levels of light energy is vital for plants. In 
response to this, intricate molecular mechanisms to mediate light signaling have 
evolved in plants. Among the responses induced by light, seedling extension is a 
determining event for plant survival in darkness, especially in the initial 
stage of plant growth. Here we review previous studies and recent progress 
towards an understanding of light signaling that regulates seedling elongation. 
We focus on the three regions of the sunlight spectrum that primarily control 
seedling elongation, namely red/far-red light, blue/UV-A light and UV-B light, 
and summarize the four signaling pathways that correspond to the three effective 
spectra.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-010-4047-8
PMID: 20821290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Gene Med. 2010 Sep;12(9):739-46. doi: 10.1002/jgm.1493.

Persistent interferon transgene expression by RNA interference-mediated 
silencing of interferon receptors.

Takahashi Y(1), Vikman E, Nishikawa M, Ando M, Watanabe Y, Takakura Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biopharmaceutics and Drug Metabolism, Graduate School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The in vivo half-life of interferons (IFNs) is very short, and its 
extension would produce a better therapeutic outcome in IFN-based therapy. 
Delivery of IFN genes is one solution for providing a sustained supply. IFNs 
have a variety of functions, including the suppression of transgene expression, 
through interaction with IFN receptors (IFNRs). This suppression could prevent 
IFNs from being expressed from vectors delivered. Silencing the expression of 
IFNAR and IFNGR, the receptors for type I and II IFNs, respectively, in cells 
expressing IFNs may prolong transgene expression of IFNs.
METHODS: Mouse melanoma B16-BL6 cells or mouse liver were selected as a site 
expressing IFNs (not a target for IFN gene therapy) and IFN-expressing plasmid 
DNA was delivered with or without small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting IFNRs.
RESULTS: Transfection of B16-BL6 cells with siRNA targeting IFNAR1 subunit 
(IFNAR1) resulted in the reduced expression of IFNAR on the cell surface. This 
silencing significantly increased the IFN-beta production in cells that were 
transfected with IFN-beta-expressing plasmid DNA. Similar results were obtained 
with the combination of IFN-gamma and IFNGR. Co-injection of IFN-beta-expressing 
plasmid DNA with siRNA targeting IFNAR1 into mice resulted in sustained plasma 
concentration of IFN-beta.
CONCLUSIONS: These results provide experimental evidence that the RNAi-mediated 
silencing of IFNRs in cells expressing IFN, such as hepatocytes, is an effective 
approach for improving transgene expression of IFNs when their therapeutic 
target comprises cells other than those expressing IFNs.

DOI: 10.1002/jgm.1493
PMID: 20821744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Bioinformatics. 2010 Sep 15;26(18):i531-9. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btq376.

Nonlinear dimension reduction and clustering by Minimum Curvilinearity unfold 
neuropathic pain and tissue embryological classes.

Cannistraci CV(1), Ravasi T, Montevecchi FM, Ideker T, Alessio M.

Author information:
(1)Computational Bioscience Research Center, Division of Chemical and Life 
Sciences and Engineering, King Abdullah University for Science and Technology 
(KAUST), Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. kalokagathos.agon@gmail.com

MOTIVATION: Nonlinear small datasets, which are characterized by low numbers of 
samples and very high numbers of measures, occur frequently in computational 
biology, and pose problems in their investigation. Unsupervised hybrid-two-phase 
(H2P) procedures-specifically dimension reduction (DR), coupled with 
clustering-provide valuable assistance, not only for unsupervised data 
classification, but also for visualization of the patterns hidden in 
high-dimensional feature space.
METHODS: 'Minimum Curvilinearity' (MC) is a principle that-for small 
datasets-suggests the approximation of curvilinear sample distances in the 
feature space by pair-wise distances over their minimum spanning tree (MST), and 
thus avoids the introduction of any tuning parameter. MC is used to design two 
novel forms of nonlinear machine learning (NML): Minimum Curvilinear embedding 
(MCE) for DR, and Minimum Curvilinear affinity propagation (MCAP) for 
clustering.
RESULTS: Compared with several other unsupervised and supervised algorithms, MCE 
and MCAP, whether individually or combined in H2P, overcome the limits of 
classical approaches. High performance was attained in the visualization and 
classification of: (i) pain patients (proteomic measurements) in peripheral 
neuropathy; (ii) human organ tissues (genomic transcription factor measurements) 
on the basis of their embryological origin.
CONCLUSION: MC provides a valuable framework to estimate nonlinear distances in 
small datasets. Its extension to large datasets is prefigured for novel NMLs. 
Classification of neuropathic pain by proteomic profiles offers new insights for 
future molecular and systems biology characterization of pain. Improvements in 
tissue embryological classification refine results obtained in an earlier study, 
and suggest a possible reinterpretation of skin attribution as mesodermal.
AVAILABILITY: https://sites.google.com/site/carlovittoriocannistraci/home.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btq376
PMCID: PMC2935424
PMID: 20823318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2010 Nov;13(6):601-7. doi: 
10.1097/MCO.0b013e32833ef30e.

Do all sedentary activities lead to weight gain: sleep does not.

Chaput JP(1), Klingenberg L, Sjödin A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. jepc@life.ku.dk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To discuss the benefits of having a good night's sleep for 
body weight stability.
RECENT FINDINGS: Experimental studies have shown that short-term partial sleep 
restriction decreases glucose tolerance, increases sympathetic tone, elevates 
cortisol concentrations, decreases the satiety hormone leptin, increases the 
appetite-stimulating hormone ghrelin, and increases hunger and appetite. Short 
sleep duration might increase the risk of becoming obese, because it does not 
allow the recovery of a hormonal profile facilitating appetite control. Lack of 
sleep could also lead to weight gain and obesity by increasing the time 
available for eating and by making the maintenance of a healthy lifestyle more 
difficult. Furthermore, the increased fatigue and tiredness associated with 
sleeping too little could lessen one's resolve to follow exercise regimens.
SUMMARY: Short sleep duration appears to be a novel and independent risk factor 
for obesity. With the growing prevalence of chronic sleep restriction, any 
causal association between reduced sleep and obesity would have substantial 
importance from a public health standpoint. Future research is needed to 
determine whether sleep extension in sleep-deprived obese individuals will 
influence appetite control and/or reduce the amount of body fat.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e32833ef30e
PMID: 20823775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Health Stat Q. 2010 Autumn;(47):33-65. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.15.

Life expectancy and disability-free life expectancy estimates for Middle Super 
Output Areas; England, 1999-2003.

Olatunde O(1), White C, Smith MP.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, there has been increasing demand for health 
indicators at small area level to support monitoring and planning. This study 
investigates the use of a small area geography, Middle Layer Super Output Areas 
(MSOAs) for the estimation and comparison of disability-free life expectancy 
(DFLE) in England.
METHODS: Using death registrations from 1999 to 2003 and data on limiting 
long-term illness from the Census 2001, life expectancy and DFLE are estimated 
for English MSOAs and Government Office Regions. Figures are presented for 
quintiles based on MSOA DFLE values, and quintiles of relative deprivation using 
the Index of Multiple Deprivation 2004. Health inequalities are assessed at 
regional level and between quintile extremes for both measures.
RESULTS: The distribution of DFLE across MSOAs was characterised by a 
north-south geographical divide: the highest DFLE at birth for males was in 
Kensington and Chelsea 016 (73.9 years) and lowest was in Manchester 013 (44.1 
years). For females the highest value was in Kensington and Chelsea 012 (74.4 
years) and the lowest in Liverpool 039 (48.2 years). Over 40 per cent of MSOAs 
in the South East, but only about 3 per cent of those in the North East, were in 
the quintile with the highest DFLE values at birth. Conversely, the equivalent 
proportions in the quintile with the lowest values were approximately 4 per cent 
and 50 per cent respectively.At birth, males in the most affluent areas could 
expect to spend an additional 12.6 years without a disability compared to those 
in the most deprived areas. For females this inequality was 10.9 years. At age 
65 inequalities persisted but the differences were narrower.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first use of MSOAs in estimating DFLE, and the results 
highlight the substantial inequalities between quintile groupings based on DFLE 
values as well as between the least and most deprived MSOAs in England. These 
findings provide useful health outcomes information to planners at the local 
level, for benchmarking purposes and to assist in resource allocation through 
the identification of differences in relative need between local populations.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.15
PMID: 20823842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Breast Care (Basel). 2008;3(1):10-16. doi: 10.1159/000114409. Epub 2008 Feb
22.

Breast Cancer in Countries of Limited Resources.

Kantelhardt EJ(1), Hanson C, Albert US, Wacker J.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsfrauenklinik der Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, 
Germany.

For 2010, the annual incidence of breast cancer is estimated to increase from 
now 1.15 Mio to 1.5 Mio new cases per year. The increase is mainly seen in low 
and middle income countries. Resource limitations in means of finance, 
personnel, infrastructure, and by political instability are tremendous. 
Currently, little attention is paid to breast care in low-resource settings due 
to other health priorities. However, with increasing life expectancy and 
reduction of mortality due to infectious diseases, more people are confronted 
with non-communicable diseases, and the topic of cancer in developing countries 
will emerge more and more. Specific guidelines for breast cancer were given by 
the Global Breast Health Initiative differentiating according to available 
resources in different settings. From awareness in public and health care 
facilities to obtaining the diagnosis, deciding on strategies of treatment, and 
putting strategies into practice - all these obstacles differ substantially in 
developed and developing countries. Further research is essential to meet the 
challenge of breast cancer worldwide in the coming years.

Im Jahr 2010 wird die jährliche Inzidenz des Mammakarzinoms weltweit von jetzt 
1,15 Mio. auf 1,5 Mio. Neuerkrankungen pro Jahr ansteigen. Der Anstieg findet 
vor allem in Entwicklungsländern statt. Die Einschränkungen vorhandener 
Ressourcen sind in den Bereichen Finanzen, Personal und Infrastruktur sowie 
durch politische Instabilität enorm. Wegen grundlegenderer Probleme im 
Gesundheitsbereich wird dem Mammakarzinom in solchen Ländern bisher wenig 
Bedeutung beigemessen. Durch steigende Lebenserwartung und eine steigende Zahl 
von Patientinnen wird die Frage der Strategie im Umgang mit Krebserkrankungen in 
Entwicklungsländern in den Vordergrund rücken. Die Global Breast Health 
Initiative hat Leitlinien zum Mammakarzinom herausgegeben, die je nach 
vorhandenen Ressourcen unterteilt Empfehlungen zum Standard geben. Angefangen 
von der Aufklärung der Bevölkerung, über Diagnosestellung und Therapieoptionen 
bis hin zu Implementierung von Strategien – alle diese Hürden sehen in den 
Industrieländern sehr anders aus als in Entwicklungsländern. Mehr Forschung ist 
unentbehrlich, um den Herausforderungen des Mammakarzinoms weltweit in den 
nächsten Jahren gerecht zu werden.

DOI: 10.1159/000114409
PMCID: PMC2931012
PMID: 20824014


982. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2010;686:251-72. doi: 10.1007/978-90-481-9485-8_15.

Quality of life and rare diseases.

Rajmil L(1), Perestelo-Pérez L, Herdman M.

Author information:
(1)Catalan Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Research, Institut 
Municipal d'Investigació Mèdica (IMIM-Hospital del Mar), CIBER en Epidemiologia 
y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Barcelona, 08005, Spain. lrajmil@aatrm.catsalut.cat

HRQOL assessment in patients with rare diseases can help to identify health 
needs, to evaluate the impact of disease and treatments, and to assess the 
evolution in health status through the natural history of disease. Several 
studies have shown that although some rare diseases do not necessarily affect 
life expectancy, the majority lead to physical, emotional and/or psychosocial 
limitations with a wide range of disabilities. Reliability as well as content, 
criterion, and construct validity, and also responsiveness should be taken into 
account in selecting the instrument to be used assessing individuals with rare 
diseases. The use of proxy-report may be essential in some cases where the 
patient is cognitively impaired or unable to communicate. Criteria for selecting 
a HRQOL instrument, as well as the more common strategies proposed help 
interpret scores on HRQOL instruments are addressed in the chapter. Given the 
impact of rare diseases on the quality of life of both patients and carers, it 
is likely that interest in its measurement will continue to increase among 
professionals, patients, and the general public. Improving the quality of life 
of people with rare diseases should be one of the most important goals of any 
health care intervention or multidisciplinary approach.

DOI: 10.1007/978-90-481-9485-8_15
PMID: 20824450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(9):781-2; author reply 782-4, 784-5. doi: 
10.2165/11535700-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of venous thromboembolism pharmacological prophylaxis in 
total hip and knee replacement: a systematic review.

Plumb JM, Clemens A, Monz BU.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(7):521-38.

DOI: 10.2165/11535700-000000000-00000
PMID: 20824908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):1005-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00783.x.
 Epub 2010 Sep 3.

Discrete choice modeling for the quantification of health states: the case of 
the EQ-5D.

Stolk EA(1), Oppe M, Scalone L, Krabbe PF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment and Department of Health Policy 
and Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Probabilistic models have been developed to establish the relative 
merit of subjective phenomena by means of specific judgmental tasks involving 
discrete choices (DCs). The attractiveness of these DC models is that they are 
embedded in a strong theoretical measurement framework and are based on 
relatively simple judgmental tasks. The aim of our study was to determine 
whether the values derived from a DC experiment are comparable to those obtained 
using other valuation techniques, in particular the time trade-off (TTO).
METHODS: Two hundred nine students completed several tasks in which we collected 
DC, rank, visual analog scale, and TTO responses. DC data were also collected in 
a general population sample (N=444). The DC experiment was designed using a 
Bayesian approach, and involved 60 choices between two health states and a 
comparison of all health states to being dead. The DC data were analyzed using a 
conditional logit and a rank-ordered logit model, relying, respectively, on TTO 
values and the value for being dead to anchor the DC-derived values to the 0 to 
1 quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) scale.
RESULTS: Although modeled DC data broadly replicated the pattern found in TTO 
responses, the DC consistently produced higher values. The two methods for 
anchoring DC-derived values on the QALY scale produced similar results.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the high level of comparability between DC-derived 
values and TTO values, future valuation studies based on a combination of these 
two techniques may be considered. The results further suggest that DC can 
potentially be used as a substitute for TTO.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00783.x
PMID: 20825618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):922-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00782.x.
Epub  2010 Sep 3.

Cost-utility analysis of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in the treatment of 
chronic hepatitis B.

Dakin H(1), Bentley A, Dusheiko G.

Author information:
(1)Abacus International, Bicester, Oxfordshire, UK. helen.dakin@abacusint.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B 
(CHB) versus alternative nucleos(t)ides from a UK National Health Service (NHS) 
perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to calculate costs and benefits of 
nucleos(t)ide strategies in hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive and 
HBeAg-negative patients with hepatitis B virus mono-infection and compensated 
liver disease. The model included 18 disease states representing CHB 
progression. Quality-of-life data and costs for severe disease states were based 
on published studies, while monitoring costs for other disease states were based 
on expert opinion. Transition probabilities for movements between states were 
based on a meta-analysis, clinical trials, and natural history studies.
RESULTS: First-line TDF generated the highest net benefits of all 211 
nucleos(t)ide strategies evaluated at a threshold of £ 20,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. First-line TDF cost £ 19,084/QALY 
gained compared with giving lamivudine (LAM) first-line and switching to TDF 
when LAM resistance occurs. First-line TDF was also more effective and less 
costly than first-line entecavir (ETV), and showed extended dominance over 
first-line adefovir and strategies reserving adefovir, ETV, or combination 
therapy until after LAM resistance develops. For patients who have developed LAM 
resistance, TDF was also the most cost-effective treatment, generating greater 
net benefits than any other second-line strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: First-line TDF is the most cost-effective treatment for patients 
with CHB at a £ 20,000 to £ 30,000/QALY ceiling ratio, costing £ 19,084/QALY 
gained compared with the next best alternative.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00782.x
PMID: 20825619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):1046-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00781.x.
 Epub 2010 Sep 3.

Willingness to pay for a quality-adjusted life-year: the individual perspective.

Bobinac A(1), Van Exel NJ, Rutten FF, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management and Institute for Medical 
Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
a.bobinac@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to elicit the individual willingness to pay 
(WTP) for a quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
METHODS: In a Web-based questionnaire containing contingent valuation exercises, 
respondents valued health changes in five scenarios. In each scenario, the 
respondents first valued two health states on a visual analog scale (VAS) and 
expressed their WTP for avoiding a decline in health from the better health 
state to the worse, using a payment scale followed by a bounded open contingent 
valuation question.
ANALYSIS: WTP per QALY was calculated for QALY gains calculated using VAS 
valuations, as well as the Dutch EQ-5D tariffs, the two steps in the WTP 
estimations and each scenario. Heterogeneity in WTP per QALY ratios was examined 
from the perspective of: 1) household income; and 2) the level of certainty in 
WTP indicated by respondents. Theoretical validity was analyzed using clustered 
multivariate regressions.
RESULTS: A total of 1091 respondents, representative of the Dutch population, 
participated in the survey. Mean WTP per QALY was € 12,900 based on VAS 
valuations, and € 24,500 based on the Dutch EuroQoL tariffs. WTP per QALY was 
strongly associated with income, varying from € 5000 in the lowest to € 75,400 
in the highest income group. Respondents indicating higher certainty exhibited 
marginally higher WTP. Regression analyses confirmed expected relations between 
WTP per QALY, income, and other personal characteristics.
CONCLUSION:   Individual WTP per QALY values elicited in this study are similar 
to those found in comparable studies. The use of individual valuations in social 
decision-making deserves attention, however.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00781.x
PMID: 20825620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):1014-27. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00780.x.
 Epub 2010 Sep 3.

Predicting time trade-off health state valuations of adolescents in four Pacific 
countries using the Assessment of Quality-of-Life (AQoL-6D) instrument.

Moodie M(1), Richardson J, Rankin B, Iezzi A, Sinha K.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Population Health Strategic Research Centre, Deakin 
University, Melbourne, Australia. marj.moodie@deakin.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: Pacific Obesity Prevention in Communities (OPIC) is a 
community-based intervention project targeting adolescent obesity in Australia, 
New Zealand, Fiji, and Tonga. The Assessment of Quality of Life Mark 2 (AQoL-6D) 
instrument was completed by 15,481 adolescents to obtain a description of the 
quality of life associated with adolescent overweight and obesity, and a 
corresponding utility score for use in a cost-utility analysis of the 
interventions. This article describes the recalibration of this utility 
instrument for adolescents in each country.
METHODS: The recalibration was based on country-specific time trade-off (TTO) 
data for 30 multiattribute health states constructed from the AQoL-6D 
descriptive system. Senior secondary students, in a classroom setting, responded 
to 10 health state scenarios each. These TTO interviews were conducted for 24 
groups, comprising 279 students in the four countries resulting in 2790 
completed TTO scores. The TTO scores were econometrically transformed by 
regressing the TTO scores upon predicted scores from the AQoL-6D to produce 
country-specific algorithms. The latter incorporated country-specific 
"corrections" to the Australian adult utility weights in the original AQoL.
RESULTS: This article reports two methodological elements not previously 
reported. The first is the econometric modification of an extant multi-attribute 
utility instrument to accommodate cultural and other group-specific differences 
in preferences. The second is the use of the TTO technique with adolescents in a 
classroom group setting. Significant differences in utility scores were found 
between the four countries.
CONCLUSION: Statistical results indicate that the AQoL-6D can be validly used in 
the economic evaluation of both the OPIC interventions and other adolescent 
programs.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00780.x
PMID: 20825621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):998-1004. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00779.x.  Epub 2010 Sep 3.

Is longer waiting time for total knee replacement associated with health 
outcomes and medication costs? Randomized clinical trial.

Tuominen U(1), Sintonen H, Hirvonen J, Seitsalo S, Paavolainen P, Lehto M, 
Hietaniemi K, Blom M.

Author information:
(1)Research Department, National Social Insurance Institution of Finland, 
Helsinki, Finland. ulla.tuominen@thl.fi

BACKGROUND: The aim of this prospective randomized study was to evaluate the 
effect of waiting time (WT) on health-related quality of life (HRQoL), knee pain 
and physical function, and the use and costs of medication of patients awaiting 
total knee replacement.
METHODS: When placed on the waiting list, 438 patients were randomized into a 
short waiting time (SWT ≤ 3 months) or a nonfixed waiting time (NFWT > 3 months) 
group. HRQoL was measured by the 15D, and pain and physical function by modified 
Knee Society Clinical Rating System at baseline, admission, and 3 and 12 months 
postoperatively. The costs of medication due to osteoarthritis were calculated 
at the same measurement points. All analyses were performed using the 
intention-to-treat principle.
RESULTS: The mean WT was 94 and 239 days in the SWT and NFWT groups, 
respectively. Apart from higher weekly cost of medication in the SWT group at 
admission and better HRQoL in the NFWT group 1 year postoperatively, there were 
no statistically significant differences between the groups in other outcomes 
during the follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Those in the SWT group had higher weekly costs of medication at 
admission, and reached better HRQoL 3 months earlier than those in the NFWT 
group, but the latter had better HRQoL after operation. Otherwise, the length of 
WT was not associated with different health and HRQoL outcomes in the groups.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00779.x
PMID: 20825622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2010 Nov;299(5):F905-16. doi: 
10.1152/ajprenal.00318.2010. Epub 2010 Sep 8.
