Epub  2010 Sep 29.

Health supervision and anticipatory guidance in adult myotonic dystrophy type 1.

Gagnon C(1), Chouinard MC, Laberge L, Veillette S, Bégin P, Breton R, Jean S, 
Brisson D, Gaudet D, Mathieu J; DMI Expert Panel.

Collaborators: Ashizawa T, Duboc D, Eymard B, Groh WJ, Hilton-Jones D, Koopman 
W, Longman C, Lopez de Munain AJ, Meola G, Moxley R 3rd, Pace M, 
Pénisson-Besnier I, Philips M, Puymirat J, Venance S.

Author information:
(1)Neuromuscular Clinic, Centre de réadaptation en déficience physique de 
Jonquière, Jonquière, Québec, Canada. cynthia.gagnon4@usherbrooke.ca

The complexity and variability of disease manifestations in myotonic dystrophy 
(DM1) pose a challenge for the clinical management of patients. The follow-up of 
DM1 patients has been described as fragmented, inadequate or even deficient for 
many patients. Through a systematic review of the medical and social literature 
and a validation process with a DM1 expert panel, we summarized systemic and 
social concerns clinically relevant to DM1 and revisited recommendations for 
treatment. This article summarizes common manifestations of the central nervous 
system, visual, respiratory, cardiac, gastro-intestinal, genito-urinary, 
muscular and metabolic impairments. In addition, we emphasized the social 
features of DM1 such as low education attainment, low employment, poor familial 
and social environment and poor social participation. While cardiac, respiratory 
and swallowing problems affect life expectancy, it is often excessive daytime 
sleepiness, fatigue, gastro-intestinal and cognitive behavioural manifestations 
that are the most disabling features of the disorder. A more holistic approach 
in the management of DM1 and a purposeful integrated organization of care 
involving all members of the patients' environment including family, clinicians, 
decision-makers and community organizations are needed to move out of the spiral 
of disease and handicap and move toward optimal citizenship and quality of life.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2010.08.006
PMID: 20884209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2011 Jan;66(1):26-37. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glq163.  Epub 2010 Sep 24.

Heritability analysis of life span in a semi-isolated population followed across 
four centuries reveals the presence of pleiotropy between life span and 
reproduction.

Gögele M(1), Pattaro C, Fuchsberger C, Minelli C, Pramstaller PP, Wjst M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetic Medicine, European Academy Bozen/Bolzano Research, Viale 
Druso/Drususallee, 1 39100 Bolzano/Bozen, Italy. martin.goegele@eurac.edu

Although genetic factors are known to influence the human aging process, the 
proportion of life span and longevity variation explained by them is still 
controversial. We evaluated the genetic contribution to life span using 
historical data from three Alpine communities in South Tyrol, Italy. We 
estimated the heritability of life span and survival to old age (longevity), and 
we assessed the hypothesis of a common genetic background between life span and 
reproduction. The heritability of life span was 0.15 (SE = 0.02), whereas the 
heritability of longevity increased from 0.20 to 0.35 as the longevity threshold 
increased. Heritability estimates were little influenced by shared environment, 
most likely due to the homogeneity of lifestyle and environmental factors in our 
study population. Life span showed both positive association and genetic 
correlation with reproductive history factors. Our study demonstrates a general 
low inheritance of human life span, but which increases substantially when 
considering long-living individuals, and a common genetic background of life 
span and reproduction, in agreement with evolutionary theories of aging.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glq163
PMID: 20884848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Oct 20;102(20):1557-67. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djq342.
Epub  2010 Sep 30.

Human papillomavirus-based cervical cancer prevention: long-term results of a 
randomized screening trial.

Denny L(1), Kuhn L, Hu CC, Tsai WY, Wright TC Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, 
South Africa.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Oct 20;102(20):1524-7.

BACKGROUND: Screen-and-treat approaches to cervical cancer prevention are an 
attractive option for low-resource settings, but data on their long-term 
efficacy are lacking. We evaluated the efficacy of two screen-and-treat 
approaches through 36 months of follow-up in a randomized trial.
METHODS: A total of 6637 unscreened South African women aged 35-65 years who 
were tested for the presence of high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in 
cervical samples underwent visual inspection of the cervix using acetic acid 
staining and HIV serotesting. Of these, 6555 were randomly assigned to three 
study arms: 1) HPV-and-treat, in which all women with a positive HPV DNA test 
result underwent cryotherapy; 2) visual inspection-and-treat, in which all women 
with a positive visual inspection test result underwent cryotherapy; or 3) 
control, in which further evaluation or treatment was delayed for 6 months. All 
women underwent colposcopy with biopsy at 6 months. All women who were HPV DNA- 
or visual inspection-positive at enrollment, and a subset of all other women had 
extended follow-up to 36 months (n = 3639) with yearly colposcopy. The 
endpoint-cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or worse (CIN2+)-was 
analyzed using actuarial life-table methods. All statistical tests were 
two-sided.
RESULTS: After 36 months, there was a sustained statistically significant 
decrease in the cumulative detection of CIN2+ in the HPV-and-treat arm compared 
with the control arm (1.5% vs 5.6%, difference = 4.1%, 95% confidence interval 
[CI] = 2.8% to 5.3%, P < .001). The difference in the cumulative detection of 
CIN2+ in the visual inspection-and-treat arm compared with the control was less 
(3.8% vs 5.6%, difference = 1.8%, 95% CI = 0.4% to 3.2%, P = .002). Incident 
cases of CIN2+ (identified more than 12 months after enrollment) were less 
common in the HPV-and-treat arm (0.3%, 95% CI = 0.05% to 1.02%) than in the 
control (1.0%, 95% CI = 0.5% to 1.7%) or visual inspection-and-treat (1.3%, 95% 
CI = 0.8% to 2.1%) arms.
CONCLUSIONS: In this trial, a screen-and-treat approach using HPV DNA testing 
identified and treated prevalent cases of CIN2+ and appeared to reduce the 
number of incident cases of CIN2+ that developed more than 12 months after 
cryotherapy.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djq342
PMID: 20884893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Oct;197(4):291-6. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.068957.

Cost-effectiveness of improved primary care treatment of depression in women in 
Chile.

Siskind D(1), Araya R, Kim J.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Center for Mental Health Research, University of Queensland School 
of Population Health and Division of Mental Health, Princess Alexandra Hospital, 
Brisbane, Australia. dan_siskind@qcmhr.uq.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Low- and middle-income countries lack information on contextualised 
mental health interventions to aid resource allocation decisions regarding 
healthcare.
AIMS: To undertake a cost-effectiveness analysis of treatments for depression 
contextualised to Chile.
METHODS: Using data from studies in Chile, we developed a computer-based Markov 
cohort model of depression among Chilean women to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of usual care or improved stepped care.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of usual care was I$113 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, versus no treatment, whereas 
stepped care had an ICER of I$468 per QALY versus usual care. This compared 
favourably with Chile's per-capita GDP. Results were most sensitive to variation 
in recurrent episode coverage, marginally sensitive to cost of treatment, and 
insensitive to changes in health-state utility of depression and rate of 
recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that treatments for depression in low- and 
middle-income countries may be more cost-effective than previously estimated.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.068957
PMID: 20884952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Oct;197(4):297-304. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.073080.

Cost-effectiveness of therapist-delivered online cognitive-behavioural therapy 
for depression: randomised controlled trial.

Hollinghurst S(1), Peters TJ, Kaur S, Wiles N, Lewis G, Kessler D.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Primary Health Care, Department of Community Based Medicine, 
University of Bristol, UK. s.p.hollinghurst@bristol.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Therapist-delivered online cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) has 
been found to be effective for depression in primary care.
AIMS: To determine the cost-effectiveness of online CBT compared with usual 
care.
METHOD: Economic evaluation at 8 months alongside a randomised controlled trial. 
Cost to the National Health Service (NHS), personal costs, and the value of lost 
productivity, each compared with outcomes based on the Beck Depression Inventory 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Incremental analysis indicated the NHS 
cost per QALY gain.
RESULTS: Online CBT was more expensive than usual care, although the outcomes 
for the CBT group were better. Cost per QALY gain based on complete case data 
was £17,173, and £10,083 when missing data were imputed.
CONCLUSIONS: Online CBT delivered by a therapist in real time is likely to be 
cost-effective compared with usual care if society is willing to pay at least 
£20,000 per QALY; it could be a useful alternative to face-to-face CBT.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.073080
PMID: 20884953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nat Protoc. 2010 Sep;5(10):1659-65. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2010.130. Epub 2010
Sep  23.

Preparation of retinal explant cultures to study ex vivo tip endothelial cell 
responses.

Sawamiphak S(1), Ritter M, Acker-Palmer A.

Author information:
(1)Frankfurt Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, Goethe University Frankfurt, 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

This protocol details a culture technique for neonatal mouse retina that allows 
the assessment and quantification of acute responses of developing blood vessels 
to pharmacological manipulation. The technique has proven to be a useful tool 
for elucidating the molecular mechanisms that underlie the guidance of tip cells 
in the complex scenario of the angiogenic sprouting process. This culture 
setting allows the acute stimulation or inhibition of cellular functions of 
endothelial cells in their physiological environment ex vivo. Compared with 
other existing techniques, such as retinal injections in animals, the explant 
culture described here is an easily manageable and highly flexible alternative 
that allows pharmacological manipulations of the developing retina vessels. The 
technique involves swift extraction of retina from intact eye and retinal flat 
mounting on a hydrophilic membrane with minimum disturbance of the tissue. The 
responses of tip endothelial cell sprouting activity and filopodial extension to 
different angiogenic and angioinhibitory factors can be evaluated within only 4 
h. The whole process for the retinal explant cultures and stimulation can be 
completed in 10 h.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2010.130
PMID: 20885378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2010;694:81-107. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4419-7002-2_8.

Protein metabolism and lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Depuydt G(1), Vanfleteren JR, Braeckman BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ghent University, K.L. Ledeganckstraat 35, B-9000 
Ghent, Belgium.

Lifespan of the versatile model system Caenorhabditis elegans can be extended by 
a decrease of insulin/IGF-1 signaling, TOR signaling, mitochondrial function, 
protein synthesis and dietary intake. The exact molecular mechanisms by which 
these modulations confer increased life expectancy are yet to be determined but 
increased stress resistance and improved protein homeostasis seem to be of major 
importance. In this chapter, we explore the interactions among several genetic 
pathways and cellular functions involved in lifespan extension and their 
relation to protein homeostasis in C. elegans. Several of these processes have 
been associated, however some relevant data are conflicting and further studies 
are needed to clarify these interactions. In mammals, protein homeostasis is 
also implicated in several neurodegenerative diseases, many of which can be 
modeled in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-7002-2_8
PMID: 20886759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Int J Ment Health Nurs. 2010 Oct;19(5):350-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0349.2010.00686.x.

Adapting the severe mental illness physical Health Improvement Profile for use 
in primary care.

Hardy S(1), Gray R.

Author information:
(1)The Northampton Physical Health and Well-Being Project, Faculty of Health, 
University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. Sheila.Hardy@uea.ac.uk

People with severe mental illness (SMI) have a higher incidence of long-term 
physical conditions, including diabetes and cardiovascular disease. This can 
dramatically reduce their life expectancy. In the UK, it is the duty of 
health-care professionals in primary care to monitor the physical health of this 
group of people. However, these professionals have been given no specific 
training in order to do this effectively. The Northampton Physical Health and 
Well-Being Project has been developed in order to reduce the mortality of people 
with SMI, improve their physical and emotional health, and increase their 
support network. We have adapted the Health Improvement Profile (a tool to help 
mental health nurses profile the physical health of people with SMI) for use in 
primary care by creating a manual and website and will provide bespoke training 
in its use to the health-care professionals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0349.2010.00686.x
PMID: 20887609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Congest Heart Fail. 2010 Sep-Oct;16(5):196-201. doi: 
10.1111/j.1751-7133.2010.00180.x.

Evaluation of 6 prognostic models used to calculate mortality rates in elderly 
heart failure patients with a fatal heart failure admission.

Nutter AL(1), Tanawuttiwat T, Silver MA.

Author information:
(1)College of Engineering, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.

The objective was to evaluate 6 commonly used heart failure (HF) prognostic 
models in an elderly, fatal HF population. Predictive models have been 
established to quantify risk among HF patients. The validation of these models 
has not been adequately studied, especially in an elderly cohort. Applying a 
single-center, retrospective study of serially admitted HF patients who died 
while in the hospital or within 30 days of discharge, the authors evaluated 6 
prognostic models: the Seattle Heart Failure Model (SHFM), Heywood's model, 
Classification and Regression Tree (CART) Analysis, the Heart Failure Survival 
Score (HFSS), Heart Failure Risk Scoring System, and Pocock's score. Eighty 
patients were included (mean age, 82.7 ± 8.2 years). Twenty-three patients 
(28.75%) died in the hospital. The remainder died within 30 days of discharge. 
The models' predictions varied considerably from one another and underestimated 
the patients' actual mortality. This study demonstrates that these models 
underestimate the mortality risk in an elderly cohort at or approaching the end 
of life. Moreover, the predictions made by each model vary greatly from one 
another. Many of the models used were not intended for calculation during 
hospitalization. Development of improved models for the range of patients with 
HF syndromes is needed.

© 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-7133.2010.00180.x
PMID: 20887615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Vaccine. 2010 Nov 10;28(48):7620-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.09.053. Epub
 2010 Sep 29.

Cost-effectiveness of dual influenza and pneumococcal vaccination in 
50-year-olds.

Smith KJ(1), Lee BY, Nowalk MP, Raymund M, Zimmerman RK.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, United States. 
kjs8@pitt.edu

Influenza vaccination is now recommended for all ages; CDC pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccination (PPV) recommendations are comorbidity-based in 
nonelderly patients. We constructed a Markov model to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of dual influenza and pneumococcal vaccination in 
50-year-olds. Patients were followed for 10 years, with differing time horizons 
examined in sensitivity analyses. With 100% vaccine uptake, dual vaccination 
cost $37,700/QALY gained compared to a CDC recommendation strategy; with 
observed vaccine uptake, dual vaccination cost $5,300/QALY. Results were 
sensitive to shorter time horizons, favoring CDC recommendations. We found dual 
vaccination of all 50-year-olds economically reasonable. Shorter duration models 
may not fully account for PPV effectiveness.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.09.053
PMCID: PMC2981678
PMID: 20887828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Cyst Fibros. 2011 Jan;10(1):62-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2010.08.021.

The application of current lifetable methods to compare cystic fibrosis median 
survival internationally is limited.

Jackson AD(1), Daly L, Kelleher C, Marshall BC, Quinton HB, Foley L, Fitzpatrick 
P.

Author information:
(1)UCD School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Population Science, Woodview 
House, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland. 
abaigeal.jackson@ucd.ie

BACKGROUND: Comparing international estimates of survival can be a useful way of 
highlighting differences in life expectancy between cystic fibrosis (CF) 
populations. In this study, we compared survival in two CF populations.
METHODS: The current lifetable method takes age-specific mortality rates 
observed in a given year and applies them to a hypothetical population assuming 
those rates will remain the same in the future. This was used to compare median 
predicted survival in the United States (US) and the Republic of Ireland (RoI) 
(1986-2008). Median age at death among decedents was also examined.
RESULTS: In both countries, median age at death was lower than median predicted 
survival. Successive increases in annual median predicted survival were not 
observed; rather an overall improvement was discerned over time. In the RoI, 
where absolute numbers of deaths were small, year-on-year fluctuations in 
age-specific mortality rates resulted in wide-ranging annual median predicted 
survival estimates.
CONCLUSION: Median age at death is not a good measure of CF survival. Though 
median predicted survival improved in each country over the study period, 
between-country comparison at a given time point may be misleading for rare 
disorders like CF. Longitudinal outcomes must be examined.

Copyright Â© 2010 European Cystic Fibrosis Society. Published by Elsevier B.V. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2010.08.021
PMID: 20888308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2010 Oct;11(8):567-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2009.11.012.
 Epub 2010 Jun 26.

Predicting mortality of older residents in long-term care facilities: 
comorbidity or care problems?

Chen LK(1), Peng LN, Lin MH, Lai HY, Hwang SJ, Lan CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: Accurate prediction of life expectancy in long-term care facilities 
(LTCFs) is important, but previous studies emphasized demographic 
characteristics, disease diagnosis, or comorbidity. The purpose of this study 
was to evaluate the roles of geriatric care problems and comorbidity in 
predicting 12-month mortality in LTCFs.
DESIGN: Prospective, observational.
SETTING: Veterans Care Home.
PARTICIPANTS: Residents of Banciao Veterans Care Home.
MEASUREMENTS: A minimum data set (MDS) was implemented, and resident assessment 
protocol (RAP) triggers were collected as geriatric care problems. Comorbidity 
of the residents was evaluated using Charlson's comorbidity index (CCI).
RESULTS: A total of 559 residents (mean age = 80.9 ± 5.3 years, all males) were 
successfully followed, and 50 residents (7.9%) died during the study period. 
Compared with survivors, deceased subjects had a higher sum of RAP triggers (4.9 
± 2.0 versus 4.1 ± 2.0, P = .004) and CCI (1.2 ± 1.2 versus 0.7 ± 0.9, P = 
.014), and were more likely to be hospitalized (1.6 ± 1.9 versus 0.4 ± 0.9, P < 
.001) and visit the emergency department (0.9 ± 1.2 versus 0.5 ± 1.2, P = .012). 
Moreover, deceased subjects were more prone to have cognitive loss, urinary 
incontinence, and behavioral symptoms than survivors (P all < .05). A Cox 
proportional hazards model showed that both CCI (HR = 1.44, 95% CI: 1.13-1.82, P 
= .003) and the sum of RAP triggers (HR = 2.03, 95% CI: 1.08-3.82, P = .028) 
were significantly associated with 12-month mortality.
CONCLUSION: Independent of comorbidity, the sum of geriatric care problems is a 
significant predictor of 12-month mortality in a veterans care home. Further 
intervention studies are needed to evaluate whether elimination of these care 
problems can improve survival in the long-term care setting.

Copyright © 2010 American Medical Directors Association. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2009.11.012
PMID: 20889092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Am Coll Radiol. 2010 Oct;7(10):814-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2010.05.004.

Radiology in Mexico: professionalism and high-quality radiology practice.

Ramírez-Arias JL(1), Ríos-Reina JL, Fajardo-Dolci G.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Angeles del Pedregal, National Autonomous University of Mexico, 
Mexico City, Mexico. jlramirez.arias@saludangeles.com

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2010.05.004
PMID: 20889115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Bacteriol. 2010 Dec;192(23):6200-8. doi: 10.1128/JB.00874-10. Epub 2010
Oct 1.

Biologically active isoforms of CobB sirtuin deacetylase in Salmonella enterica 
and Erwinia amylovora.

Tucker AC(1), Escalante-Semerena JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

Sirtuins are NAD(+)-dependent protein deacylases that are conserved in all 
domains of life and are involved in diverse cellular processes, including 
control of gene expression and central metabolism. Eukaryotic sirtuins have 
N-terminal extensions that have been linked to protein multimerization and 
cellular localization. Here the first evidence of sirtuin isoforms in bacteria 
is reported. The enterobacterium Salmonella enterica synthesizes two isoforms of 
CobB sirtuin, a shorter 236-amino-acid isoform (here CobB(S)) and a longer 
273-amino-acid isoform (here CobB(L)). The N-terminal 37-amino-acid extension of 
CobB(L) is amphipathic, containing 18 basic amino acids (12 of which are Arg) 
and 13 hydrophobic ones; both isoforms were active in vivo and in vitro. 
Northern blot and transcription start site analyses revealed that cobB is 
primarily expressed as two monocistronic cobB mRNAs from two transcription start 
sites, one of which was mapped within the neighboring ycfX gene and the other of 
which was located within cobB. Additionally, a low-abundance ycfX-cobB 
bicistronic mRNA was observed which could encode up to three proteins (YcfX, 
CobB(L), and CobB(S)). CobB(L) isoforms are common within the family 
Enterobacteriaceae, but species of the genus Erwinia (including the plant 
pathogen Erwinia amylovora) encode only the CobB(L) isoform. The CobB(L) isoform 
from E. amylovora restored growth of as S. enterica cobB mutant strain on low 
acetate.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00874-10
PMCID: PMC2981217
PMID: 20889757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Hosp Pract (1995). 2010;38(3):103-9. doi: 10.3810/hp.2010.06.302.

Liver radioembolization using 90Y resin microspheres in elderly patients: 
tolerance and outcome.

Iñarrairaegui M(1), Bilbao JI, Rodríguez M, Benito A, Sangro B.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Clínica Universitaria de 
Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.

PURPOSE: Yttrium 90 (90Y) microsphere radioembolization (90Y-RE) is an emerging 
locoregional treatment for liver cancer. The most common complications of 90Y-RE 
arise from excessive irradiation of nontarget organs (eg, gastrointestinal 
tract, lung, and nontumoral liver). Patients with advanced age may have 
substantial comorbidities that can affect their life expectancy, and tolerance 
to radiation in elderly patients may be altered. The purpose of this study is to 
evaluate the safety and survival of elderly patients treated with 90Y-RE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed 255 patients with liver tumors (primary or 
metastatic) who were treated with 90Y-RE in our institution from September 2003 
to February 2010. We categorized patients as "elderly" if aged ≥ 70 years and 
"younger" if aged < 70 years.
RESULTS: Seventy-three patients (29%) were aged ≥ 70 years. The most frequent 
liver tumor among elderly patients was hepatocellular carcinoma. Complication 
rates were similar in both groups: 10.4% of elderly patients and 9.9% of younger 
patients developed radioembolization-induced liver disease (P = 1.000). Only 
1.5% of elderly patients developed gastrointestinal ulceration and no patient in 
the elderly group developed pneumonitis. The median overall survival of patients 
with hepatocellular carcinoma was similar in elderly and younger groups (13 
months, 95% confidence interval [CI], 10.4-15.5 and 12 months, 95% CI, 4.2-15.7; 
P = 0.4). In patients with colorectal carcinoma metastatic to the liver, the 
median overall survival was 10 months (95% CI, 5.2-14.7) for elderly patients 
and 13 months (95% CI, 7.0-18.9) for younger patients (P = 0.3). The median 
overall survival of patients with other histologies was 9 months (95% CI, 
3.5-14.4) for younger patients and 4 months (95% CI, 2.7-5.2) for elderly 
patients (P = 0.9).
CONCLUSION: Elderly patients did not have more toxicity than younger patients 
treated with 90Y-RE, and survival was similar for each histology. Elderly 
patients should be considered for 90Y-RE if they otherwise meet the inclusion 
criteria applicable to younger patients.

DOI: 10.3810/hp.2010.06.302
PMID: 20890058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Hosp Pract (1995). 2010;38(3):128-36. doi: 10.3810/hp.2010.06.306.

The comprehensive geriatric assessment in oncology: promises, pitfalls, and 
practicalities.

Horgan AM(1), Knox JJ, Alibhai SM.

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Hospital/University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Cancer commonly occurs in elderly patients. Treatment of cancer in this 
population is complex as the physiologic changes of aging impact treatment 
decisions, tolerance, and outcomes. A comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) 
is an objective means of assessing the global health of older patients, and 
evidence suggesting its promise as an aid to both decision making and outcome 
prediction in the oncology setting is growing. This article describes key 
studies that highlight the merits and limitations of the CGA for the evaluation 
of older patients with cancer. We also discuss the practical problems of its 
application, which may ultimately define the feasibility of its adoption into 
routine clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3810/hp.2010.06.306
PMID: 20890062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Cancer J. 2010 Sep-Oct;16(5):461-6. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181f30e07.

Discussing prognosis: balancing hope and realism.

Campbell TC(1), Carey EC, Jackson VA, Saraiya B, Yang HB, Back AL, Arnold RM.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, 
USA. tcc@medicine.wisc.edu

Erratum in
    Cancer J. 2011 Jan-Feb;17(1):68.

"How much time do I have?" A patient's question about his/her life expectancy is 
among the most difficult of conversation topics. Oncologists, often with very 
little training in communication, routinely handle these requests for sensitive 
information. Oncologists are aware of the emotional weight surrounding a 
prognosis discussion: answering a prognosis question poorly can damage both a 
patient's sense of hope and the relationship with his/her physician. Conversely, 
when handled well, the discussion can affirm the relationship, build trust, and 
leave the patient feeling hopeful. Our review presents clinicians with a 
practical approach to handling prognosis discussions by dealing with 4 critical 
issues. First, we review what information should be conveyed about a patient's 
prognosis. Next, we provide tools to help the oncologist deal with a patient's 
emotional reaction. Then, we provide a framework for the discussion that helps 
preserve a patient's hope despite a poor prognosis. Finally, we address the 
impact on the physician and provide some suggestions for dealing with our own 
emotional reactions.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3181f30e07
PMID: 20890141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Front Comput Neurosci. 2010 Sep 9;4:25. doi: 10.3389/fncom.2010.00025. 
eCollection 2010.

Wrestling model of the repertoire of activity propagation modes in quadruple 
neural networks.

Shteingart H(1), Raichman N, Baruchi I, Ben-Jacob E.

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Center for Neural Computation, Silberman Institute of Life 
Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Jerusalem, Israel.

The spontaneous activity of engineered quadruple cultured neural networks (of 
four-coupled sub-networks) exhibits a repertoire of different types of mutual 
synchronization events. Each event corresponds to a specific activity 
propagation mode (APM) defined by the order of activity propagation between the 
sub-networks. We statistically characterized the frequency of spontaneous 
appearance of the different types of APMs. The relative frequencies of the APMs 
were then examined for their power-law properties. We found that the frequencies 
of appearance of the leading (most frequent) APMs have close to constant 
algebraic ratio reminiscent of Zipf's scaling of words. We show that the 
observations are consistent with a simplified "wrestling" model. This model 
represents an extension of the "boxing arena" model which was previously 
proposed to describe the ratio between the two activity modes in two coupled 
sub-networks. The additional new element in the "wrestling" model presented here 
is that the firing within each network is modeled by a time interval generator 
with similar intra-network Lévy distribution. We modeled the different 
burst-initiation zones' interaction by competition between the stochastic 
generators with Gaussian inter-network variability. Estimation of the model 
parameters revealed similarity across different cultures while the 
inter-burst-interval of the cultures was similar across different APMs as 
numerical simulation of the model predicts.

DOI: 10.3389/fncom.2010.00025
PMCID: PMC2947946
PMID: 20890451


140. Int Microbiol. 2010 Sep;13(3):105-12. doi: 10.2436/20.1501.01.115.

Inactivation and recovery of Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella enterica and 
Staphylococcus aureus after high hydrostatic pressure treatments up to 900 MPa.

Jofré A(1), Aymerich T, Bover-Cid S, Garriga M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Food and Agricultural Research and Technology (IRTA), Monells, 
Girona, Spain. anna.jofre@irta.cat

High hydrostatic pressure (HP) processing is used in the food industry to 
enhance the safety and extend the shelf-life of food. Although a drastic 
decrease in microbial viability is achieved immediately after the application of 
HP treatments, under favorable conditions the injured bacteria can recover. The 
present study evaluated the inactivation and recovery of five strains of 
Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella enterica and Staphylococcus aureus subjected 
to pressures of 400, 600, and 900 MPa under stressing and non-stressing 
conditions in a complex medium. Treatments at 400 and 600 MPa were found to 
greatly affect the viability of L. monocytogenes and S. enterica, but only a 
treatment of 5 min at 900 MPa decreased the levels of the three pathogens to 
below the detection limit (8-9 log units reduction). After HP treatment, not 
only the baroresistant S. aureus but also several replicates of L. monocytogenes 
and S. enterica strains recovered during subsequent incubation under favorable 
conditions. However, when HP was combined with low pH and nitrite but not with 
NaCl or lactate, the viability of pressurized S. aureus cells progressively 
decreased. As pathogenic bacteria can recover even after the application of very 
high pressure levels, the combination of HP with other hurdles for microbial 
growth, either intrinsically present in the food product or extrinsically 
applied, may be needed to guarantee the efficacy of technologies aimed at 
pathogen reduction and shelf-life extension.

DOI: 10.2436/20.1501.01.115
PMID: 20890844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2010 Jun;13(2):65-72.

Should "standard gamble" and "'time trade off" utility measurement be used more 
in mental health research?

Flood C(1).

Author information:
(1)National Patient Safety Agency, National Health Service, UK. 
c.flood@city.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: This review and discussion paper demonstrates that utility and 
preference measurement in mental health research is increasing. However there is 
still a general reluctance around using the methods due to methodological 
challenges and concerns around the capacity of users to understand utility 
methods during the research process.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: This paper sets out to describe and review some of the 
previously documented difficulties of using utility measurements in mental 
health services research and to highlight where they have been used successfully 
as measures. Additionally the paper aims to discuss a means of improving the 
methods used to capture service user utility and preference measurement and why 
decision making would be better informed as a result.
METHODS: International literature on utility measurement is reviewed, 
specifically examining the use of standard gamble and time trade off methods in 
mental health.
RESULTS: Utility measurement in mental health is increasing though as the review 
demonstrates, concerns still exist over its application. A number of methods can 
be used to improve the approach overall and these are discussed as well as 
specific areas worthy of utility measurement including 'disutility' of 
admission, medication and medication side effects.
DISCUSSION AND LIMITATIONS: Overall this paper argues that it is necessary to 
persist with efforts to conduct utility measurement calculation albeit with a 
critical eye on the methods in an attempt to ensure improvements are continually 
made. Utility and preference scores may be limited in that they only provide a 
rough score but they are defended as a means of providing some form of strength 
of preference for health states. The review is limited to English only texts.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CARE PROVISION: The debate on whether to use standard 
gamble and time trade off has implications for health services resource 
allocations, decision making, health economics research, policy making and 
health services research generally involving psychiatric service users. The 
paper argues that the absence of utility measurement in mental health runs the 
risk of mental health being disadvantaged in decisions around resource 
allocation.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: Institutions involved in decision making like 
the United Kingdom's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, 
would be better served in their decision making and calculation of Quality 
Adjusted Life Years if more utility measurement in psychiatric research was 
carried out. Other arguments for using utility measurement include the 
desirability of using utility measurement to elicit a patient dimension of risk.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: Future utility research should aim for better 
involvement of service users in the design stage, the changing of time frames 
offered to users in health state scenarios used, a greater need for comparative 
work of utilities scoring across illness and between standard gamble and time 
trade off and more staff training in the use of utility methodology with mental 
health service users.

PMID: 20919593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2010 Oct;12(10):858-64. doi: 
10.1111/j.1463-1326.2010.01250.x.

Managing diabetes in cystic fibrosis.

Laguna TA(1), Nathan BM, Moran A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota School of Medicine and 
Amplatz Children's Hospital, Minneapolis, MN, USA. lagun005@umn.edu

Cystic fibrosis related diabetes (CFRD) is the most common co-morbidity in 
persons with cystic fibrosis (CF). As the life expectancy of persons with CF 
continues to increase, the need to proactively diagnose and aggressively treat 
CFRD and its potential complications has become more apparent. CFRD negatively 
impacts lung function, growth and mortality, making its diagnosis and management 
crucial in a population already at high risk for early mortality. Compared to 
type 1 and type 2 diabetes, CFRD is a unique entity, requiring a thorough 
understanding of its unique pathophysiology to facilitate the creation and 
utilization of an effective medical treatment plan. The physiology of CFRD is 
complex, likely consisting of a combination of insulin deficiency, insulin 
resistance and a genetic predisposition towards the development of diabetes. 
However, the hallmark of CFRD is insulin deficiency, necessitating the use of 
exogenous insulin as the mainstay of therapy. Insulin administration, in 
combination with a multidisciplinary team of health professionals with expertise 
in the care of patients with CF and CFRD, is the cornerstone of the care for 
these patients. The goals of treatment of the CFRD population are to reverse 
protein catabolism, maintain a healthy weight, and reduce acute and chronic 
diabetes complications. Creating a partnership between the treatment team and 
the patient is the ideal way to accomplish these goals and is essential for 
successful diabetes care.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1326.2010.01250.x
PMID: 20920037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. BMC Neurol. 2010 Sep 28;10:86. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-10-86.

Treatment of moderate to severe restless legs syndrome: 2-year safety and 
efficacy of rotigotine transdermal patch.

Högl B(1), Oertel WH, Stiasny-Kolster K, Geisler P, Beneš H, García-Borreguero 
D, Trenkwalder C, Poewe W, Schollmayer E, Kohnen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria. 
birgit.ho@i-med.ac.at

BACKGROUND: Rotigotine is a unique dopamine agonist with activity across D1 
through D5 receptors as well as select adrenergic and serotonergic sites. This 
study reports the 2-year follow-up safety and efficacy data of an ongoing 
open-label multicenter extension study (NCT00498186) of transdermal rotigotine 
in patients with moderate to severe restless legs syndrome (RLS).
METHODS: Patients received a once-daily patch application of an individually 
optimized dose of rotigotine between 0.5 mg/24 h to 4 mg/24 h. Safety 
assessments included adverse events (AEs) and efficacy was measured by the 
International RLS Study Group Severity Rating Scale (IRLS), RLS-6 scales and 
Clinical Global Impression (CGI). Quality of life (QoL) was measured by QoL-RLS.
RESULTS: Of 310 patients who completed a 6-week placebo-controlled trial 
(SP709), 295 (mean age 58 ± 10 years, 66% females) were included in the 
open-label trial SP710. 64.7% (190/295 patients) completed the 2-year follow-up; 
29 patients discontinued during the second year. Mean daily rotigotine dose 
after 2 years was 2.93 ± 1.14 mg/24 h with a 2.9% dose increase from year 1. 
Rotigotine was generally well tolerated. The rate of typical dopaminergic side 
effects, nausea and fatigue, was low (0.9% and 2.3%, respectively) during the 
second year; application site reactions were frequent but lower than in year 1 
(16.4% vs. 34.5%). The IRLS total score improved from baseline of SP709 (27.8 ± 
5.9) by 17.2 ± 9.2 in year 2 completers. Similar improvements were observed in 
RLS-6 scales, CGI scores and QoL-RLS. The responder rate in the CGI change item 
2 ("much" and "very much" improved) was 95% after year 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Transdermal rotigotine is an efficacious and well-tolerated 
long-term treatment option for patients with moderate to severe RLS with a high 
retention rate during 2 years of therapy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT00498186.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-10-86
PMCID: PMC2958158
PMID: 20920156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Medicina (B Aires). 2010;70(5):453-6.

[The importance of early diagnosis for the survival of HIV positive patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Dilernia DA(1), Mónaco DC, Krolewiecki A, César C, Cahn P, Salomón H.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

In Argentina, HIV diagnosis is reached by voluntary testing or symptom-based 
case findings. However, because of the high proportion of infected individuals 
unaware of their serologic status new strategies are required. In this article 
we show how a mathematic model predicts the impact of expanding HIV testing in 
Argentina. The model is based on time-dependent Markov matrixes and applies 
parameters-dependent transition-probabilities obtained from both national and 
international cohort studies. Outputs include time on clinical stages and 
therapy regime, CD4-count, viral-load, infection-state and age; mortality rates 
and proportion of unidentified infection at a population-level. Simulations were 
performed for current testing strategy and for a theoretical scenario with 
earlier diagnosis. We show how our prediction suggests that diagnosis before 
onset of symptoms would increase life expectancy by 10.7 years. Also, we show 
how a reduction of time to diagnosis to 5 or less years from infection would 
reduce mortality rates in the first year of HAART from 7.6% to 2.1%, the 
proportion of unrecognized infection from 43.2% to 23.8% and the proportion of 
individuals with unaware infection needing treatment from 12% to 0.2%. Based on 
this prediction we stress the importance of implementing health policies aimed 
at detecting HIV infection in early stages in Argentina.

PMID: 20920966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Emerg Med J. 2011 Jun;28(6):477-82. doi: 10.1136/emj.2009.089631. Epub 2010
Oct  4.

Health utility and survival after hospital admission with acute cardiogenic 
pulmonary oedema.

Goodacre S(1), Gray A, Newby D, Dixon S, Masson M, Sampson F, Nicholl J, Elliot 
M, Crane S; 3CPO Investigators.

Collaborators: Gray A, Newby D, Goodacre S, Nicholl J, Kelly C, Crane S, Elliott 
M, Douglas N, Hassan T, Plant P, Sampson F, Paulucy K, Masson M, Dixon S.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK. s.goodacre@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to measure health utility and survival in 
patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema (ACPO), identify predictors of 
outcome and determine the effect of initial treatment with non-invasive 
ventilation (NIV) upon outcomes.
METHODS: A randomised controlled trial was conducted at 26 hospitals in the UK. 
1069 adults with ACPO were randomised to continuous positive airway pressure 
(CPAP), non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) or standard oxygen 
therapy. The main outcome measures were survival to 1-5 years, health utility 
measured using the EQ-5D survey at 1, 3 and 6 months, and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Median survival was 771 days (95% CI 669 to 875), with no difference 
between the three treatment groups (p = 0.827). Age (HR 1.042, 95% CI 1.031 to 
1.052), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (HR 1.13, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.62), 
cerebrovascular disease (HR 1.41, 95% CI 1.14 to 1.73) and diabetes mellitus (HR 
1.31, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.63) independently predicted mortality. Mean EQ-5D scores 
were 0.578, 0.576 and 0.582 at 1, 3 and 6 months, respectively, with no 
significant difference between the treatment groups. Male gender (+0.045 QALYs, 
95% CI 0.009 to 0.081) and cerebrovascular disease (-0.080 QALYs, 95% CI -0.131 
to -0.029) independently predicted health utility.
CONCLUSION: Patients with ACPO have high mortality and reduced health utility. 
Initial treatment with CPAP or NIPPV does not alter subsequent survival or 
health utility.

DOI: 10.1136/emj.2009.089631
PMID: 20921019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Palliat Med. 2010 Oct;24(7):740-1. doi: 10.1177/0269216310375861.

Using a prediction of death in the next 12 months as a prompt for referral to 
palliative care acts to the detriment of patients with heart failure and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease.

Small N, Gardiner C, Barnes S, Gott M, Payne S, Seamark D, Halpin D.

Comment in
    Palliat Med. 2011 Jun;25(4):382.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216310375861
PMID: 20921093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2011 Feb;165(2):112-8. doi: 
10.1001/archpediatrics.2010.182. Epub 2010 Oct 4.

Effects of adverse events on the projected population benefits and 
cost-effectiveness of using live attenuated influenza vaccine in children aged 6 
months to 4 years.

Prosser LA(1), Meltzer MI, Fiore A, Epperson S, Bridges CB, Hinrichsen V, Lieu 
TA.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Pediatrics, University of Michigan Health System, 300 N 
Ingalls Street, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. lisapros@med.umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of adverse events associated with live 
attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) in children younger than 5 years on the 
cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination.
DESIGN: A decision analytic model was developed to predict costs and health 
effects of no vaccination, vaccination with LAIV, and vaccination with 
inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV). Probabilities, costs, and quality 
adjustments for uncomplicated influenza, outpatient visits, hospitalizations, 
deaths, vaccination, and vaccine adverse events were based on primary and 
published data. The analysis included the possible increased incidence of 
adverse events following vaccination with LAIV for children younger than 5 
years, including fever, wheezing, and hospitalization. A societal perspective 
was used. Sensitivity analyses, including probabilistic sensitivity analysis, 
were conducted.
SETTING: Vaccination in the physician office setting in the United States.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohorts of healthy children aged 6 months to 4 years.
INTERVENTION: Vaccination with LAIV or IIV.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from $20 000/QALY (age 6-23 months) to 
$33 000/QALY (age 3-4 years) for LAIV and from $21 000/QALY to $37 000/QALY for 
IIV for healthy children aged 6 months to 4 years. Inclusion of possible new 
adverse events for LAIV had varying effects on cost-effectiveness results. 
Results were not sensitive to the inclusion of wheezing as an adverse event but 
were sensitive to a possible increase in the probability of hospitalization.
CONCLUSION: Live attenuated influenza vaccine had comparable cost-effectiveness 
compared with IIV for children younger than 5 years under a wide range of 
assumptions about the incidence of adverse events.

DOI: 10.1001/archpediatrics.2010.182
PMID: 20921341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Neurology. 2010 Oct 5;75(14):1270-6. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181f61311.

What predicts mortality in Parkinson disease?: a prospective population-based 
long-term study.

Forsaa EB(1), Larsen JP, Wentzel-Larsen T, Alves G.

Author information:
(1)The Norwegian Center for Movement Disorders, Stavanger University Hospital, 
Box 8100, N-4068 Stavanger, Norway. foeb@sus.no

OBJECTIVE: To identify independent risk factors of mortality in a 
community-based Parkinson disease (PD) cohort during prospective long-term 
follow-up.
METHODS: A community-based prevalent sample of 230 patients with PD from 
southwestern Norway was followed prospectively with repetitive assessments of 
motor and nonmotor symptoms from 1993 to 2005. Information on vital status until 
October 20, 2009, was obtained from the National Population Register in Norway. 
Cox proportional hazards models were applied to identify independent predictors 
of mortality during follow-up. Chronological age, Unified Parkinson's Disease 
Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score, levodopa equivalent dose, probable REM sleep 
behavior disorder, psychotic symptoms, dementia, and use of antipsychotics were 
included as time-dependent variables, and age at onset (AAO) and sex as 
time-independent variables.
RESULTS: Of 230 patients, 211 (92%) died during the study period. Median 
survival time from motor onset was 15.8 years (range 2.2-36.6). Independent 
predictors of mortality during follow-up were AAO (hazard ratio [HR] 1.40 for 
10-years increase, p = 0.029), chronological age (HR 1.51 for 10-years increase, 
p = 0.043), male sex (HR 1.63, p = 0.001), UPDRS motor score (HR 1.18 for 
10-point increase, p < 0.001), psychotic symptoms (HR 1.45, p = 0.039), and 
dementia (HR 1.89, p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This population-based long-term study demonstrates that in addition 
to AAO, chronological age, motor severity, and dementia, psychotic symptoms 
independently predict increased mortality in PD. In contrast, no significant 
impact of antipsychotic or antiparkinsonian drugs on survival was observed in 
our PD cohort. Early prevention of motor progression and development of 
psychosis and dementia may be the most promising strategies to increase life 
expectancy in PD.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181f61311
PMID: 20921512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Rev Lat Am Enfermagem. 2010 Jul-Aug;18(4):755-62. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-11692010000400014.

Social representations of the wheelchair for people with spinal cord injury.

Costa Vde S(1), Melo MR, Garanhani ML, Fujisawa DS.

Author information:
(1)Escola de Enfermagem de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil. viviane.pinho@unopar.br

In seeking to understand the social representation of the use of the wheelchair 
through the analysis of interviews with ten people who have suffered spinal cord 
injury, the construction of five representations was elaborated. The phenomenon 
experienced regarding the wheelchair provided a route of meanings and 
symbologies: essential equipment, after the person perceive the inability to 
walk; a symbol of disability when the person experienced functional dependence; 
means of locomotion and transport after the rescue of their potential 
