
[Article in Chinese]

Zhou A(1), Zhang H, Zhang J, Jiang D, An H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing 400016, PR China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the method and outcome of knee resurfacing arthroplasty in 
treating late-staged diffuse pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS).
METHODS: Between November 2002 and May 2009, 11 cases of late-staged diffuse 
PVNS were treated, including 3 males and 8 females with an average age of 51.2 
years (range, 42-63 years). The disease duration was 2.5-10.0 years (mean, 5.2 
years). Unilateral knee was involved in all patients, including 7 left knees and 
4 right knees. Nine patients had a history of trauma and 2 cases had no obvious 
inducing factors. The range of motion was (90.1 +/- 17.2)degrees and Hospital 
for Special Surgery Knee Score (HSS) was 68.9 +/- 8.7. After synovectomy, knee 
resurfacing arthroplasty was performed in all patients.
RESULTS: Superficial infection of the incision occurred in 1 case at 6 days 
postoperatively and was cured after debridement; other incisions healed by first 
intention. Limited flexion and extension, incomplete palsy of common peroneal 
nerve, and deep venous thrombosis occurred in 1 case respectively, and were 
cured or improved after symptomatic treatment. All the 11 cases were followed up 
38 months on median (range, 13 to 102 months). Two cases developed chronic pain 
and were not given treatment. Recurrence occurred in 1 case 12 months 
postoperatively and recovered after synovectomy again. X-ray films showed no 
signs of loosening, sinking, and bone destruction. At last follow-up, the range 
of motion was (109.1 +/- 18.6)degrees and HSS score was 86.7 +/- 9.3, showing 
significant differences when compared with those before operation (P < 0.05). 
According to the HSS score system, the results were excellent in 6 cases, good 
in 3, fair in 1, bad in 1, and the excellent and good rate was 81.8%.
CONCLUSION: A combination of knee resurfacing arthroplasty and synovectomy for 
the treatment of late-staged diffuse PVNS is able to get a good clinical results 
in restoration of function, improvement of the life quality, and decrease of 
recurrence rate.

PMID: 21226356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. BMC Psychiatry. 2011 Jan 12;11:8. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-11-8.

Disrupting the rhythm of depression: design and protocol of a randomized 
controlled trial on preventing relapse using brief cognitive therapy with or 
without antidepressants.

Bockting CL(1), Elgersma HJ, van Rijsbergen GD, de Jonge P, Ormel J, Buskens E, 
Stant AD, de Jong PJ, Peeters FP, Huibers MJ, Arntz A, Muris P, Nolen WA, Schene 
AH, Hollon SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, Groningen University, The Netherlands. 
c.l.h.bockting@rug.nl

BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment with antidepressants is the leading strategy 
to prevent relapse and recurrence in patients with recurrent major depressive 
disorder (MDD) who have responded to acute treatment with antidepressants (AD). 
However, in clinical practice most patients (up to 70-80%) are not willing to 
take this medication after remission or take too low dosages. Moreover, as 
patients need to take medication for several years, it may not be the most 
cost-effective strategy. The best established effective and available 
alternative is brief cognitive therapy (CT). However, it is unclear whether 
brief CT while tapering antidepressants (AD) is an effective alternative for 
long term use of AD in recurrent depression. In addition, it is unclear whether 
the combination of AD to brief CT is beneficial.
METHODS/DESIGN: Therefore, we will compare the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of brief CT while tapering AD to maintenance AD and the 
combination of CT with maintenance AD. In addition, we examine whether the 
prophylactic effect of CT was due to CT tackling illness related risk factors 
for recurrence such as residual symptoms or to its efficacy to modify presumed 
vulnerability factors of recurrence (e.g. rigid explicit and/or implicit 
dysfunctional attitudes). This is a multicenter RCT comparing the above 
treatment scenarios. Remitted patients on AD with at least two previous 
depressive episodes in the past five years (n = 276) will be recruited. The 
primary outcome is time related proportion of depression relapse/recurrence 
during minimal 15 months using DSM-IV-R criteria as assessed by the Structural 
Clinical Interview for Depression. Secondary outcome: economic evaluation (using 
a societal perspective) and number, duration and severity of 
relapses/recurrences.
DISCUSSION: This will be the first trial to investigate whether CT is effective 
in preventing relapse to depression in recurrent depression while tapering 
antidepressant treatment compared to antidepressant treatment alone and the 
combination of both. In addition, we explore explicit and implicit mediators of 
CT.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register (NTR): NTR1907.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-11-8
PMCID: PMC3033804
PMID: 21226937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Eur Heart J. 2011 Apr;32(8):945-51. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehq483. Epub 2011
Jan  12.

Cardiovascular implications from untreated human immunodeficiency virus 
infection.

Baker JV(1), Lundgren JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hennepin County Medical Center, University of 
Minnesota, 701 Park Ave, MC G5, Minneapolis, MN 55415, USA. baker459@umn.edu

Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) has become an important cause of 
morbidity and mortality among individuals with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection with access to antiretroviral medications, as the risk for AIDS 
has fallen and life expectancy improved. Traditional CVD risk factors are often 
more common among individuals with HIV infection, and traditional prevention 
strategies remain important. Recent data have revealed that untreated HIV 
infection itself amplifies additional pro-atherogenic mechanisms related to 
immune activation, inflammation, coagulation, and lipoprotein particle changes 
(e.g. high-density lipoprotein particles). Some of these mechanisms are 
attenuated, though incompletely, with antiretroviral therapy (ART)-related 
suppression of HIV replication. Exposure to ART is also associated with variable 
toxicity that may simultaneously decrease (via viral suppression) and increase 
CVD risk. Ultimately, additional adjunctive treatment will be needed to mitigate 
premature CVD risk among contemporary HIV-infected patients with access to ART.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehq483
PMCID: PMC3076665
PMID: 21228007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Sci Transl Med. 2011 Jan 12;3(65):65ra4. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3001756.

Carrier testing for severe childhood recessive diseases by next-generation 
sequencing.

Bell CJ(1), Dinwiddie DL, Miller NA, Hateley SL, Ganusova EE, Mudge J, Langley 
RJ, Zhang L, Lee CC, Schilkey FD, Sheth V, Woodward JE, Peckham HE, Schroth GP, 
Kim RW, Kingsmore SF.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Genome Resources, Santa Fe, NM 87505, USA.

Comment in
    Sci Transl Med. 2011 Jan 12;3(65):65ps2.
    Clin Genet. 2011 Jul;80(1):25-6.

Of 7028 disorders with suspected Mendelian inheritance, 1139 are recessive and 
have an established molecular basis. Although individually uncommon, Mendelian 
diseases collectively account for ~20% of infant mortality and ~10% of pediatric 
hospitalizations. Preconception screening, together with genetic counseling of 
carriers, has resulted in remarkable declines in the incidence of several severe 
recessive diseases including Tay-Sachs disease and cystic fibrosis. However, 
extension of preconception screening to most severe disease genes has hitherto 
been impractical. Here, we report a preconception carrier screen for 448 severe 
recessive childhood diseases. Rather than costly, complete sequencing of the 
human genome, 7717 regions from 437 target genes were enriched by hybrid capture 
or microdroplet polymerase chain reaction, sequenced by next-generation 
sequencing (NGS) to a depth of up to 2.7 gigabases, and assessed with stringent 
bioinformatic filters. At a resultant 160x average target coverage, 93% of 
nucleotides had at least 20x coverage, and mutation detection/genotyping had 
~95% sensitivity and ~100% specificity for substitution, insertion/deletion, 
splicing, and gross deletion mutations and single-nucleotide polymorphisms. In 
104 unrelated DNA samples, the average genomic carrier burden for severe 
pediatric recessive mutations was 2.8 and ranged from 0 to 7. The distribution 
of mutations among sequenced samples appeared random. Twenty-seven percent of 
mutations cited in the literature were found to be common polymorphisms or 
misannotated, underscoring the need for better mutation databases as part of a 
comprehensive carrier testing strategy. Given the magnitude of carrier burden 
and the lower cost of testing compared to treating these conditions, carrier 
screening by NGS made available to the general population may be an economical 
way to reduce the incidence of and ameliorate suffering associated with severe 
recessive childhood disorders.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3001756
PMCID: PMC3740116
PMID: 21228398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: L.Z. is an employee of 
Illumina Inc. At the time the research was performed, G.P.S. was an employee of 
Illumina Inc. C.C.L., H.E.P., and V.S. are employees of Life Technologies. U.S. 
patent application 20090183268 entitled “Methods and systems for medical 
sequencing analysis” was filed by the National Center for Genome Resources on 
July 16, 2009. This application has claims related to this work. The other 
authors declare no competing interests.


815. Neurodegener Dis. 2011;8(5):275-82. doi: 10.1159/000322791. Epub 2011 Jan
12.

Challenges of longevity in developed countries: vascular prevention of dementia 
as an immediate clue to tackle an upcoming medical, social and economic stretch.

Wehling M(1), Groth H.

Author information:
(1)Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. 
martin.wehling @ medma.uni-heidelberg.de

Aging of societies, with increasing life expectancies, results in surging health 
care expenditures, as older age is closely associated with an increasing number 
of chronic and often resource-consuming diseases. Among those, dementia has the 
greatest impact on an individual's quality of life, the level of burden on the 
family and expenditures to finance nursing. Currently, pharmacological dementia 
treatment is exclusively focused on neurotransmitter-modulating medicines. 
Unfortunately, their effectiveness is not interminable, and the effect size 
limited. Novel approaches such as vaccinations are currently under vigorous 
investigation, but still far from translation into clinical practice. Thus, the 
consequent exploitation of opportunities which are already known is pivotal. 
Dementia prevention can become effective without delay if the vascular 
components of dementia are aggressively targeted through life style 
modifications as well as the treatment of vascular risk factors (e.g. 
hypertension). Longevity will become a significant burden for developed 
countries already within the next 10-20 years. By 2020, the 80+ generation will 
increase by at least 30% and in 2030 by at least 50%, compared to 2010. If the 
associated dementia challenge is not adequately tackled, longevity may no longer 
remain desirable for aged societies.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000322791
PMID: 21228549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Blood Purif. 2011;31(1-3):70-6. doi: 10.1159/000321848. Epub 2011 Jan 10.

Intestinal-renal syndrome: mirage or reality?

Ritz E(1).

Author information:
(1)Nierenzentrum, Im Neuenheimer Feld 162, Heidelberg, Germany. 
Prof.E.Ritz@T-online.de

The recent interest in the role of the intestine in the cardiovascular stability 
of uremic patients, specifically on dialysis, but potentially also in chronic 
kidney disease, must be seen against the background of the recent great interest 
in the role of the gut in chronic heart failure [Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care 
2008;11:632-639]. There has been a long-standing interest in the role of the 
intestine in renal failure, mainly concerning the role of metabolites of 
bacterial metabolism in the gut as potential uremic toxins. This area has 
recently been given a new twist by the finding that increased endotoxin 
concentrations in the blood of dialyzed patients are associated with hypotensive 
episodes and myocardial 'stunning'. Recent studies suggest that intradialytic 
underperfusion of myocardial areas, the so-called stunning, may be related to 
the entry of bacterial endotoxin and/or cytokines across the mucosal barrier 
into the circulation, where they have a negative impact on myocardial function 
(and presumably beyond the negative cardiac side effect also contribute to 
catabolism and malnutrition). Entry of bacterial endotoxin during dialysis 
sessions is presumably the result of intermittent underperfusion of the 
intestine if the effective blood volume is rapidly reduced causing breakdown of 
the mucosal barrier. Apart from the impact on myocardial perfusion, the entry of 
bacterial endotoxin and/or cytokines across the mucosal barrier may also 
contribute to malnutrition, wasting and reduced life expectancy in hemodialyzed 
patients. Such a causal relationship is absolutely plausible in view of an 
extensive literature on congestive heart failure where clinical and experimental 
evidence indicates that bacterial endotoxin and/or cytokines may escape from a 
hypoperfused edematous gut, entering the circulation, triggering an inflammatory 
response, upregulating circulating cytokines and interfering with the function 
of the heart through several pathogenic mechanisms.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000321848
PMID: 21228570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. J Hum Hypertens. 2011 Dec;25(12):739-45. doi: 10.1038/jhh.2010.118. Epub
2011  Jan 13.

Masked hypertension in young patients after successful aortic coarctation 
repair: impact on left ventricular geometry and function.

Di Salvo G(1), Castaldi B, Baldini L, Gala S, del Gaizo F, D'Andrea A, 
Limongelli G, D'Aiello AF, Scognamiglio G, Sarubbi B, Pacileo G, Russo MG, 
Calabrò R.

Author information:
(1)Second University of Naples, Monaldi Hospital, Chair of Cardiology, Pediatric 
Cardiology, GUCH Unit, Naples, Italy. giodisal@yahoo.it

Life expectancy is still reduced in aortic coarctation (AoC) patients despite a 
successful repair because of late arterial hypertension and atherosclerosis. 
Masked hypertension (MH) consists of an elevated daytime or awake ambulatory 
blood pressure (BP) in the presence of a normal BP on conventional measurement 
at the office. To assess the prevalence of MH among AoC normotensive young 
patients successfully treated and to evaluate the impact of MH on left 
ventricular (LV) geometry and function.We studied 76 AoC patients (mean age 
14.5±5.7 years, male 64%). According to 24 h ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) our 
sample was divided in real normotensive patients (Group RN, n=40) and MH 
patients (Group MH, n=36). There was an increased pressure gradient in the 
aortic arch (15 mm Hg±4 vs 13 mm Hg±4.7, P<0.05), increased LV mass 
(51 g m(-2.7)±13 vs 46 g m(-2.7)±12, P<0.05), in MH AoC patients. Regional 
longitudinal deformation properties of the basal septal segment (-15%±2.4 vs 
-20%±5, P<0.01) and LV twist values (14°±1.6 vs 12°±1.9, P<0.0001) were reduced 
in the MH group. There is a high prevalence of MH in young patients with 
repaired AoC, which is associated with abnormal LV structure and function. 
Clinicians should consider 24 h ABPM measurements in apparently normotensive 
patients followed up for AoC repair.

DOI: 10.1038/jhh.2010.118
PMID: 21228825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. J Artif Organs. 2011 Mar;14(1):39-42. doi: 10.1007/s10047-010-0548-2. Epub
2011  Jan 13.

Etiology of renal failure influences the outcome of heart valve replacement in 
chronic dialysis patients.

Washiyama N(1), Shiiya N, Yamashita K, Terada H, Ohkura K, Takahashi K.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 1-20-1 
Handayama, Higashi-ku, Hamamatsu, Japan. nwashi@hama-med.ac.jp

Life expectancy of the chronic dialysis patients depends upon the underlying 
renal disease, but its influence on the outcome of heart valve replacement has 
not been studied. We aimed to elucidate the difference in the early and midterm 
results of heart valve replacement according to the etiology of renal diseases. 
We retrospectively analyzed 17 patients on chronic dialysis who underwent heart 
valve replacement from 2002 to October 2009. Underlying renal disease was 
primary in ten patients (glomerulonephritis 8, others 2) and secondary in seven 
(nephrosclerosis 4, diabetic nephropathy 3). Mean age was 61 ± 10 for primary 
and 67 ± 7 for secondary renal diseases. Mean duration of dialysis was 18 ± 6 
years for primary and 9 ± 9 for secondary renal diseases (p = 0.02). In the 
aortic position, mechanical valves were used in 12 patients and bioprostheses in 
three. In the mitral position, mechanical valves were used in all four. Deep 
hypothermic operation was required for severe aortic calcification in five 
(primary 5). Mean follow up period was 23 ± 18 months. There were two 
in-hospital deaths in patients with primary renal disease. Three-year survival 
rate including hospital deaths, on the other hand, was higher for primary renal 
diseases (80%) than secondary ones (34%). Despite elevated perioperative risk 
due to consequence of longer duration of dialysis, midterm survival of patients 
with primary renal diseases seemed better than for those with secondary renal 
diseases. These results may help the choice of heart valve prosthesis in chronic 
dialysis patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10047-010-0548-2
PMID: 21229278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Scand J Infect Dis. 2011 Apr;43(4):304-12. doi:
10.3109/00365548.2010.545835.  Epub 2011 Jan 13.

Cost-effectiveness of atazanavir/ritonavir compared with lopinavir/ritonavir in 
treatment-naïve human immunodeficiency virus-1 patients in Sweden.

Thuresson PO(1), Heeg B, Lescrauwaet B, Sennfält K, Alaeus A, Neubauer A.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit BV, Rotterdam, Netherlands. pthuresson@pharmerit.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
atazanavir/ritonavir (atazanavir/r) versus lopinavir/ritonavir (lopinavir/r) in 
treatment-naïve human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) patients in Sweden for 
whom efavirenz is not suitable.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to predict the lifetime outcomes of 
atazanavir/r and lopinavir/r in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
total costs. The model was structured to focus on treatment lines--how patients 
progress from first- to second-, and then to third-line treatment. Model inputs 
were derived directly from clinical trials, such as the CASTLE study (a 96-week 
head-to-head trial in first-line therapy), and from the Framingham 
risk-equation. The analysis was conducted from a payer perspective and included 
extensive scenario and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The model predicted atazanavir/r to save 0.16 (95% confidence interval 
(CI) 0.00 to 0.33) QALYs and reduce total costs by -202,896 SEK (95% CI -332,156 
to -81,644 SEK) over a lifetime horizon. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
showed that atazanavir/r had a 100% probability to be cost-effective at a 
willingness to pay of 200,000 SEK per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that atazanavir/r is cost-saving and more 
effective compared to lopinavir/r for patients who have previously not been 
exposed to antiretroviral drugs in Sweden.

DOI: 10.3109/00365548.2010.545835
PMID: 21231811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Chronobiol Int. 2011 Mar;28(2):155-62. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2010.541312.

Latitude of residence and position in time zone are predictors of cancer 
incidence, cancer mortality, and life expectancy at birth.

Borisenkov MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, Komi Science Centre, Ural Branch of Russian Academy 
of Science, Syktyvkar, Russia. borisenkov@physiol.komisc.ru

Comment in
    Chronobiol Int. 2011 May;28(5):471-3; author reply p 473.

According to the hypothesis of circadian disruption, external factors that 
disturb the function of the circadian system can raise the risk of malignant 
neoplasm and reduce life span. Recent work has shown that the functionality of 
the circadian system is dependent not only on latitude of residence but also on 
the region's position in the time zone. The purpose of the present research was 
to examine the influence of latitude and time zone on cancer incidence, cancer 
mortality, and life expectancy at birth. A stepwise multiple regression analysis 
was carried out on residents of 59 regions of the European part of the Russian 
Federation (EPRF) using age-standardized parameters (per 100,000) of cancer 
incidence (CI), cancer mortality (CM), and life expectancy at birth (LE, yrs) as 
dependent variables. The geographical coordinates (latitude and position in the 
time zone) of the regions were used as independent variables, controlling for 
the level of economic development in the regions. The same analysis was carried 
out for LE in 31 regions in China. Latitude was the strongest predictor of LE in 
the EPRF population; it explained 48% and 45% of the variability in LE of women 
and men, respectively. Position within the time zone accounted for an additional 
4% and 3% variability of LE in women and men, respectively. The highest values 
for LE were observed in the southeast of the EPRF. In China, latitude was not a 
predictor of LE, whereas position in the time zone explained 15% and 18% of the 
LE variability in women and men, respectively. The highest values of LE were 
observed in the eastern regions of China. Both latitude and position within the 
time zone were predictors for CI and CM of the EPRF population. Latitude was the 
best predictor of stomach CI and CM; this predictor explained 46% and 50% of the 
variability, respectively. Position within the time zone was the best predictor 
of female breast CM; it explained 15% of the variability. In most cases, CI and 
CM increased with increasing latitude of residence, from the eastern to the 
western border of the time zone, and with increasing level of economic 
development within the region. The dependence of CI, CM, and LE on the 
geographical coordinates of residence is in agreement with the hypothesis of 
circadian disruption.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2010.541312
PMID: 21231877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2011 Feb;12(3):435-41. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.2011.521153. Epub 2011 Jan 14.

Pharmacoeconomic evaluation of warfarin pharmacogenomics.

You JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Pharmacoeconomics Research, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, Hong Kong. 
joyceyou@cuhk.edu.hk

INTRODUCTION: the merit of applying pharmacogenomics in the induction phase of 
warfarin therapy for personalized dosing is controversial and highly dependent 
on its cost-effectiveness.
AREAS COVERED: published studies on pharmacoeconomics of warfarin 
pharmacogenomic application are reviewed. A literature search was done using 
Medline and Embase covering the period 2000 - 2010. Decision tree and Markov 
modeling were the most frequently used methods in the reviewed reports. Studies 
incorporating clinical efficacy data of genotype-guided dosing algorithm had 
shown that warfarin pharmacogenomics would improve quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) gained. Nevertheless, it was unlikely to be cost-effective for general 
patients. Influential factors to improve the cost-effectiveness included low 
genotyping cost, high effectiveness in improving anticoagulation control/event 
rate, and applying warfarin pharmacogenomics to patients with high bleeding risk 
or at practice sites with suboptimal management of anticoagulation control.
EXPERT OPINION: warfarin pharmacogenomics would improve QALYs and could possibly 
be cost-effective in selected patient groups or practice sites.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2011.521153
PMID: 21231897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2011 Jan 13;9:2. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-9-2.

Assessment of self-injection experience in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: 
psychometric validation of the Self-Injection Assessment Questionnaire (SIAQ).

Keininger D(1), Coteur G.

Author information:
(1)UCB Pharma SA, Brussels, Belgium. Geoffroy.Coteur@ucb.com.

BACKGROUND: Subcutaneous self-injection of medication has benefits for the 
patient and healthcare system, but there are barriers such as dexterity problems 
and injection anxiety that can prevent self-injection being used effectively. An 
accurate method of evaluating patients' experiences with self-injection would 
enable assessment of their success in giving self-injections and the likelihood 
of them adhering to a self-injection regimen. The aim of this study was to 
develop a questionnaire to measure overall patient experience with subcutaneous 
self-injection (the Self-Injection Assessment Questionnaire [SIAQ]), and to 
investigate its psychometric properties.
METHODS: The construct validity and reliability of the SIAQ were tested in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis who volunteered to inject certolizumab pegol 
using a standard syringe during an open-label multinational extension trial of 
the long-term safety and efficacy of this drug. The SIAQ PRE module was 
self-completed before the first self-injection, and the POST module was 
self-completed following each of three fortnightly self-injections.
RESULTS: Ninety-seven patients completed the SIAQ. All items correlated well 
with their respective domains in confirmatory factor analysis. As predicted, 
compared with other participants, patients with very low scores (less than 3 out 
of 10) in PRE causal domains (Feelings about injections and Self-confidence) 
were significantly less satisfied with their first self-injection, as were 
patients with a very low score in any POST causal domain (Self-confidence, 
Feelings about injections, Injection-site reactions and Ease of use), 
demonstrating known-groups validity. Causal domain scores generally correlated 
most strongly with the Satisfaction with self-injection domain, supporting 
convergent validity. The SIAQ demonstrated internal consistency and 
reproducibility; Cronbach's α and the test-retest coefficient were > 0.70 for 
all domains. Sensitivity and responsiveness were also shown, where measurable. 
Each language version showed structural validity.
CONCLUSION: The SIAQ was demonstrated to be a valid, reliable tool in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-9-2
PMCID: PMC3027089
PMID: 21232106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Epidemiol Infect. 2011 Dec;139(12):1835-44. doi: 10.1017/S0950268810002980.
Epub  2011 Jan 14.

A decision tree to help determine the best timing and antiretroviral strategy in 
HIV-infected patients.

Piroth L(1), Fournel I, Mahy S, Yazdanpanah Y, Rey D, Rabaud C, Faller JP, Hoen 
B, Fardeheb M, Quantin C, Chavanet P, Binquet C; Groupe InterCOrevih du 
Nord-Est.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, CHU Dijon, and Université de Bourgogne, 
Dijon, F-21000, France. lionel.piroth@chu-dijon.fr

Optimal antiretroviral strategies for HIV-infected patients still need to be 
established. To this end a decision tree including different antiretroviral 
strategies that could be adopted for HIV-infected patients was built. A 10-year 
follow-up was simulated by using transitional probabilities estimated from a 
large cohort using a time-homogeneous Markov model. The desired outcome was for 
patients to maintain a CD4 cell count of >500 cells/mm3 without experiencing 
AIDS or death. For patients with a baseline HIV viral load ≥5 log10 copies/ml, 
boosted protease inhibitor-based immediate highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART) allowed them to spend 12% more time with CD4 ≥500/mm3 than did delayed 
HAART (6·40 vs. 5·69 and 5·57 vs. 4·90 years for baseline CD4 ≥500 and 
350-499/mm3, respectively). In patients with a baseline HIV viral load ≤3·5 
log10 copies/ml, delayed HAART performed better than immediate HAART (6·43 vs. 
6·26 and 5·95 vs. 5·18 for baseline CD4 ≥500 and 350-499/mm3, respectively). 
Immediate HAART is beneficial in patients with a baseline HIV viral load 5 log10 
copies/ml, whereas deferred HAART appears to be the best option for patients 
with CD4 ≥350/mm3 and baseline HIV viral load <3·5 log10 copies/ml.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268810002980
PMID: 21232172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Trends Cardiovasc Med. 1995 Jan-Feb;5(1):37-44. doi: 
10.1016/1050-1738(94)00030-Y.

Scientific insights from clinical studies of converting-enzyme inhibitors in the 
failing heart.

Katz AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Arnold M. Katz is at the Cardiology Division, Department of Medicine, 
University of Connecticut, Farmington, CT 06030, USA.

Recent clinical studies of therapy for chronic heart failure have yielded 
unexpected results; for example, only two classes of vasodilators, the 
converting-enzyme inhibitors and a drug combination that includes nitrates, have 
so far been shown to improve survival in this lethal condition. Evidence that 
other vasodilators, as well as most inotropic drugs, worsen prognosis indicates 
that the underlying problem in chronic heart failure involves more than energy 
starvation and depressed contractility. These counterintuitive findings can be 
explained if the fundamental problem in these patients reflects the fact that 
adult cardiac myocytes are terminally differentiated cells having little or no 
capacity to divide, so that the shortened life expectancy associated with 
overload-induced hypertrophy (which I have called the cardiomyopathy of 
overload) represents an unnatural growth response. Although the mechanism by 
which chronic overload leads eventually to maladaptive hypertrophy remains 
speculative, the ability of converting-enzyme inhibitors and nitrates to improve 
prognosis in heart failure may reflect growth inhibitory effects of these two 
classes of vasodilator drugs.

Copyright © 1995. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/1050-1738(94)00030-Y
PMID: 21232236


825. Am J Public Health. 2011 Mar;101(3):517-23. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2010.195453.
Epub  2011 Jan 13.

Health inequalities in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: lower healthy life expectancy in 
socioeconomically disadvantaged areas.

Szwarcwald CL(1), da Mota JC, Damacena GN, Pereira TG.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Informações em Saúde, Institute of Communication and 
Scientific and Technologic Information in Health, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
celials@cict.fiocruz.br

OBJECTIVES: We investigated deprivation and inequalities in life expectancy and 
healthy life expectancy by location in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
METHODS: We conducted a health survey of 576 adults in 2006. Census tracts were 
stratified by income level and categorization as a slum. We determined health 
status by degree of functional limitation, according to the approach proposed by 
the World Health Organization. We calculated healthy life expectancies by 
Sullivan's method with abridged life table.
RESULTS: We found the worst indicators in the slum stratum. The life expectancy 
at birth of men living in the richest parts of the city was 12.8 years longer 
than that of men living in deprived areas. For both men and women older than age 
65 years, healthy life expectancy was more than twice as high in the richest 
sector as in the slum sector.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis detailed the excess burden of poor health experienced 
by disadvantaged populations of Rio de Janeiro. Policy efforts are needed to 
reduce social inequalities in health in this city, especially among the elderly.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2010.195453
PMCID: PMC3036699
PMID: 21233437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Am J Med Sci. 2011 Mar;341(3):185-90. doi: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e3181ff2393.

Influence of predictive modeling in implementing optimal heart failure therapy.

Prasad H(1), Sra J, Levy WC, Stapleton DD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Guthrie Clinic, Ltd, Sayre, Pennsylvania 
18840, USA.

INTRODUCTION: A gap remains between evidence-based guidelines in the treatment 
of heart failure (HF) and current pharmacologic and device therapy. The Seattle 
Heart Failure Model (SHFM) is an accurate predictive tool that allows the 
clinician to quantitatively assess the influence of pharmacologic and device 
therapy on HF. The authors hypothesized that graphically demonstrating the 
improvement in survival using such a tool may well modify physician practice 
behavior.
METHODS: The authors examined 50 randomly selected patients from 10 primary care 
physicians having HF with a left ventricular ejection fraction <40%. Twenty-one 
data elements were entered into the SHFM to create a survival estimate before 
and after implementation of interventions known to be beneficial, both 
pharmacologic (addition of angiotensin-converting enzyme/angiotensin receptor 
blocker, statin, β-blocker and aldosterone blocker) and device based 
(consideration for automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, 
biventricular pacer and biventricular implantable cardioverter-defibrillator). 
The influence of therapeutic change was presented in a focused clinical session 
with the primary care physician.
RESULTS: The mean age of the population examined was 73 ± 10 years with New York 
Heart Association class 2.2 ± 0.5 symptoms. In the 50 patients examined, the 
authors altered device or medical therapy in 82%. This included advancement of 
medical therapy in 50%, consideration for device referral in 10% or both 
(medical therapy and device referral) in 22%. This augmentation of therapy 
resulted in an increase in estimated mean life expectancy from 8.8 to 10.9 years 
(P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Use of the SHFM significantly impacted intensification of HF therapy 
in this ambulatory HF population.

DOI: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e3181ff2393
PMID: 21233695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Gastrointest Cancer. 2012 Jun;43(2):215-23. doi:
10.1007/s12029-010-9242-0.

Cost-effectiveness of gemcitabine + cisplatin vs. gemcitabine monotherapy in 
advanced biliary tract cancer.

Roth JA(1), Carlson JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. 
rothja@uw.edu

OBJECTIVES: The ABC-02 trial demonstrated a statistically significant survival 
benefit associated with the addition of cisplatin to gemcitabine in the 
palliative treatment of advanced biliary tract cancer (BTC). Based on the ABC-02 
findings, this analysis seeks to evaluate the cost-utility of adding cisplatin 
to standard gemcitabine therapy from a U.S. societal perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to estimate direct medical 
costs, patient time costs, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for two 
treatment strategies: (1) gemcitabine + cisplatin, (2) gemcitabine monotherapy. 
Model parameters were derived from the pivotal trial of gemcitabine + cisplatin 
in advanced BTC, published literature, and government sources. The model 
included trial-based adverse events and costs related to drug treatment, routine 
follow-up, adverse events, and post-progression care. The model results were 
examined using one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA).
RESULTS: Total QALYs for the gemcitabine + cisplatin and gemcitabine monotherapy 
strategies were 0.751 and 0.561, respectively. Total costs were $44,885 and 
$33,653 respectively. Relative to gemcitabine monotherapy, gemcitabine + 
cisplatin had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $59,480 per QALY 
gained. One-way sensitivity analyses found results to be sensitive to 
progression-free survival, overall survival, pre and post-progression health 
state utility values, and the cost of post-progression care. In the PSA, 
gemcitabine monotherapy had the highest probability of being cost-effective 
until a willingness-to-pay of $60,000, after which the gemcitabine + cisplatin 
strategy had the highest probability.
CONCLUSION: The results of this analysis suggest that in advanced BTC, the 
cisplatin + gemcitabine regimen is a cost-effective treatment alternative to 
gemcitabine monotherapy by currently accepted standards of willingness to pay.

DOI: 10.1007/s12029-010-9242-0
PMID: 21234709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Curr Aging Sci. 2011 Jul;4(2):78-100. doi: 10.2174/1874609811104020078.

Role of the immune system in aging and longevity.

Alonso-Fernández P(1), De la Fuente M.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Department, Hospital Infanta Leonor, C/ Gran Vía del Este, 80. 
28031, Madrid, Spain. palonsof@salud.madrid.org

The aging process is a universal, intrinsic, progressive accumulation of 
deleterious changes in cells and tissues that increases morbidity and leads to 
death. The heterogeneity of the age-related physiological changes is shown by 
the "biological age", which determines the rate of ageing experienced by each 
individual and therefore his life expectancy. According to the recent theory of 
oxidation-inflammation to explain the aging process, the immune system seems to 
be involved in the chronic oxidative and inflammatory stress conditions of 
aging. It has been proposed that several age-related changes in immune cell 
functions, which depend on the redox state of these cells, could be good markers 
of health, biological age and longevity. In order to identify parameters of the 
functional and redox situation of immune cells as markers of biological age and 
predictors of longevity, we have studied those parameters in human healthy 
centenarians, in extreme long-living mice, as models of successful aging, and in 
immune cells from murine models of premature immunosenescence. The aim of the 
present work is to review the results in humans and rodents on those parameters 
and their relationship with biological age and longevity, as well as to propose 
several strategies of lifestyle useful to improve the immune function and thus 
to increase the mean life span.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609811104020078
PMID: 21235494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Trends Ecol Evol. 1993 Jun;8(6):205-9. doi: 10.1016/0169-5347(93)90100-4.

Dynamic models of behavior: An extension of life history theory.

Clark CW(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Mathematics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada V6T I Z2.

Life history theory and behavioral ecology, two branches in the study of 
adaptation, have relied extensively on mathematical models, but have tended to 
employ different types of models, and different currencies of fitness. Recently, 
a new approach based on dynamic, state variable models has been increasingly 
applied to the study of behavioral adaptations. In fact, this approach amounts 
to a unification of life history theory and behavioral ecology, to the extent 
that the line separating the two fields is virtually obliterated. Dynamic models 
(usually solved by computer) can yield both general principles and testable, 
quantitative or qualitative predictions about specific behavioral and life 
history phenomena.

Copyright © 1993. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-5347(93)90100-4
PMID: 21236149


830. J Theor Biol. 2011 Apr 7;274(1):170-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2010.12.042.
Epub  2011 Jan 12.

Symbiotic physiology promotes homeostasis in Daisyworld.

Boyle RA(1), Lenton TM, Watson AJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich NR4 7TJ, 
United Kingdom. r.boyle@uea.ac.uk

A connection is hypothesized between the physiological consequences of 
mutualistic symbiosis and life's average long-term impact on certain highly 
biologically conserved environmental variables. This hypothesis is developed 
analytically and with a variant of the Daisyworld model. Biological homeostasis 
is frequently effective due to co-ordination between opposing physiological 
"rein" functions, which buffer an organism in response to an external (often 
environmental) perturbation. It is proposed that during evolutionary history the 
pooling of different species' physiological functions in mutualistic symbioses 
increased the range of suboptimal environmental conditions that could be 
buffered against--a mutual tolerance benefit sometimes sufficient to outweigh 
the cost of cooperation. A related argument is that for a small number of 
biologically-crucial physical variables (i) the difference between organism 
interiors and the life-environment interface is relatively low, and (ii) the 
biologically optimum level of that variable is relatively highly conserved 
across different species. For such variables, symbiosis tends to cause (at a 
cost) an increase in the number of environmental buffering functions per unit of 
selection, which in turn biases the overall impact of the biota on the state of 
the variable towards the biological optimum. When a costly but more 
temperature-tolerant and physiologically versatile symbiosis between one black 
(warming) and one white (cooling) "daisy" is added to the (otherwise unaltered) 
Daisyworld parable, four new results emerge: (1) The extension of habitability 
to a wider luminosity range, (2) resistance to the impact of "cheater" white 
daisies with cold optima, that derive short-term benefit from environmental 
destabilisation, (3) the capacity to maintain residual, oscillatory regulation 
in response to forcings that change more rapidly than allele frequencies and 
(crucially) (4) "succession"-type dynamics in which the tolerant symbiosis 
colonises and to an extent makes habitable an otherwise lifeless environment, 
but is later displaced by free-living genotypes that have higher local fitness 
once conditions improve. The final result is arguably analogous to lichen 
colonisation of the Neoproterozoic land surface, followed by the Phanerozoic 
rise of vascular plants. Caution is necessary in extrapolating from the 
Daisyworld parable to real ecology/geochemistry, but sufficiently conserved 
variables may be water potential, macronutrient stoichiometry and (to a lesser 
extent) the temperature window for metabolic activity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2010.12.042
PMID: 21236264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2011 Feb;25(1):1-15. doi: 
10.1016/j.hoc.2010.11.001.

A history of bone marrow transplantation.

de la Morena MT(1), Gatti RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Internal Medicine, Division of Allergy and 
Immunology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, 5323 
Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, TX 75390-9063, USA.

Republished from
    Immunol Allergy Clin North Am. 2010 Feb;30(1):1-15.

The last 40 years has seen the emergence of hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation as a therapeutic modality for fatal diseases and as a curative 
option for individuals born with inherited disorders that carry limited life 
expectancy and poor quality of life. Despite the rarity of many primary 
immunodeficiency diseases, these disorders have led the way toward innovative 
therapies and further provide insights into mechanisms of immunologic 
reconstitution applicable to all hematopoietic stem cell transplants. This 
article represents a historical perspective of the early investigators and their 
contributions. It also reviews the parallel work that oncologists and 
immunologists have undertaken to treat both primary immunodeficiencies and 
hematologic malignancies.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2010.11.001
PMID: 21236386


832. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2012 Jan 1;82(1):242-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.11.021. Epub 2011 Jan 13.

Predicted rates of secondary malignancies from proton versus photon radiation 
therapy for stage I seminoma.

Simone CB 2nd(1), Kramer K, O'Meara WP, Bekelman JE, Belard A, McDonough J, 
O'Connell J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. csimone@alumni.upenn.edu

PURPOSE: Photon radiotherapy has been the standard adjuvant treatment for stage 
I seminoma. Single-dose carboplatin therapy and observation have emerged as 
alternative options due to concerns for acute toxicities and secondary 
malignancies from radiation. In this institutional review board-approved study, 
we compared photon and proton radiotherapy for stage I seminoma and the 
predicted rates of excess secondary malignancies for both treatment modalities.
METHODS AND MATERIAL: Computed tomography images from 10 consecutive patients 
with stage I seminoma were used to quantify dosimetric differences between 
photon and proton therapies. Structures reported to be at increased risk for 
secondary malignancies and in-field critical structures were contoured. Reported 
models of organ-specific radiation-induced cancer incidence rates based on organ 
equivalent dose were used to determine the excess absolute risk of secondary 
malignancies. Calculated values were compared with tumor registry reports of 
excess secondary malignancies among testicular cancer survivors.
RESULTS: Photon and proton plans provided comparable target volume coverage. 
Proton plans delivered significantly lower mean doses to all examined normal 
tissues, except for the kidneys. The greatest absolute reduction in mean dose 
was observed for the stomach (119 cGy for proton plans vs. 768 cGy for photon 
plans; p < 0.0001). Significantly more excess secondary cancers per 10,000 
patients/year were predicted for photon radiation than for proton radiation to 
the stomach (4.11; 95% confidence interval [CI], 3.22-5.01), large bowel (0.81; 
95% CI, 0.39-1.01), and bladder (0.03; 95% CI, 0.01-0.58), while no difference 
was demonstrated for radiation to the pancreas (0.02; 95% CI, -0.01-0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with stage I seminoma, proton radiation therapy 
reduced the predicted secondary cancer risk compared with photon therapy. We 
predict a reduction of one additional secondary cancer for every 50 patients 
with a life expectancy of 40 years from the time of radiation treatment with 
protons instead of photons. Proton radiation therapy also allowed significant 
sparing of most critical structures examined and warrants further study for 
patients with seminoma, to decrease radiation-induced toxicity.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.11.021
PMCID: PMC3140592
PMID: 21236595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: none


833. Life Sci. 2011 Mar 14;88(11-12):465-72. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2011.01.005. Epub
 2011 Jan 14.

Resveratrol with antioxidant activity inhibits matrix metalloproteinase via 
modulation of SIRT1 in human fibrosarcoma cells.

Lee SJ(1), Kim MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Dong-Eui University, Busan, 614-714, Republic of 
Korea.

AIMS: Resveratrol, a silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) activator, has been 
reported to act as an antioxidant contained in red wine and prevent the 
development of cardiovascular diseases. Histone deacetylase such as SIRT1 is 
involved in the regulation of lifespan extension. In this study, the effect of 
resveratrol on matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) that play an important role in 
metastasis was examined in human fibrosarcoma cell line, HT1080.
MAIN METHODS: The effect of resveratrol on MMPs' activity was evaluated using 
gelatin zymography. Western blot analysis and RT-PCR assay were used to 
determine the effect of resveratrol on the expression level of MMP-9, MAPK and 
SIRT1 proteins and genes, respectively.
KEY FINDINGS: It was observed that resveratrol exhibited not only antioxidant 
effects on lipid peroxidation and DNA oxidation but also inhibitory effects on 
the expression of MMP-2 and 9 in HT1080 cells stimulated with either phorbol 
myristate acetate or phenazine methosulfate. Furthermore, it was found that 
treatment with resveratrol decreased the level of MMP-9 expression via 
down-regulation of p-ERK, c-fos and p65. In addition, the level of SIRT1 gene 
expression was also enhanced by treatment of resveratrol alone but the level of 
MMP-9 gene expression was decreased.
SIGNIFICANCE: These results suggest that the activation of SIRT1 in the presence 
of resveratrol especially inhibits the expression of MMP-9 in HT1080 cells, 
providing evidence that resveratrol can be a potential candidate for 
chemoprevention of cancer.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2011.01.005
PMID: 21238464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Am J Kidney Dis. 2011 Jun;57(6):883-93. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2010.10.050.
Epub  2011 Jan 15.

Role of nutritional status and inflammation in higher survival of African 
American and Hispanic hemodialysis patients.

Streja E(1), Kovesdy CP, Molnar MZ, Norris KC, Greenland S, Nissenson AR, Kopple 
JD, Kalantar-Zadeh K.

Author information:
(1)Harold Simmons Center for Chronic Disease Research and Epidemiology, 
Torrance, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Observational studies indicate greater survival in African American 
and Hispanic maintenance hemodialysis patients compared with their non-Hispanic 
white counterparts, although African Americans have shorter life expectancy than 
whites in the general population. We hypothesized that this apparent survival 
advantage is due to a more favorable nutritional/inflammatory profile in 
minority hemodialysis patients.
STUDY DESIGN: We examined the association between race/ethnicity and 5-year 
survival before and after adjustment for case-mix and surrogates of the 
malnutrition-inflammation complex syndrome (MICS) using Cox regression with or 
without matched sampling in a large cohort of adult hemodialysis patients.
SETTING & PARTICIPANTS: 124,029 adult hemodialysis patients, including 16% 
Hispanics, 49% non-Hispanic whites, and 35% African Americans.
PREDICTORS: Race/ethnicity before and after adjustment for MICS, including 
values for body mass index, serum albumin, total iron-binding capacity, 
ferritin, creatinine, phosphorus, calcium, bicarbonate, white blood cell count, 
lymphocyte percentage, hemoglobin, and protein intake.
OUTCOMES: 5-year (July 2001 to June 2006) survival.
RESULTS: In dialysis patients, blacks and Hispanics had lower mortality overall 
than non-Hispanic whites after traditional case-mix adjustment. However, after 
additional control for MICS, Hispanics had mortality similar to non-Hispanic 
whites, and African Americans had even higher mortality. Unadjusted, case-mix-, 
and MICS-adjusted HRs for African Americans versus whites were 0.68 (95% CI, 
0.66-0.69), 0.89 (95% CI, 0.86-0.91), and 1.06 (95% CI, 1.03-1.09) in the 
unmatched cohort and, 0.95 (95% CI, 0.90-0.99), 0.89 (95% CI, 0.84-0.94), and 
1.16 (95% CI, 1.07-1.26) in the matched cohort, and for Hispanics versus whites, 
0.66 (95% CI, 0.64-0.69), 0.84 (95% CI, 0.81-0.87), and 0.97 (95% CI, 0.94-1.00) 
in the unmatched cohort and 0.89 (95% CI, 0.84-0.95), 0.88 (95% CI, 0.83-0.95), 
and 0.98 (95% CI, 0.91-1.06) in the matched cohort, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: Adjustment cannot be made for unmeasured confounders.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival advantages of African American and Hispanic hemodialysis 
patients may be related to differences in nutritional and inflammatory status. 
Further studies are required to explore these differences.

Copyright © 2011 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2010.10.050
PMCID: PMC3081903
PMID: 21239093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Am J Epidemiol. 2011 Mar 1;173(5):479-87. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwq422. Epub 2011
Jan  14.

Prisoner survival inside and outside of the institution: implications for 
health-care planning.

Spaulding AC(1), Seals RM, McCallum VA, Perez SD, Brzozowski AK, Steenland NK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. aspauld@emory.edu

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2011 Mar 1;173(5):488-91.

The life expectancy of persons cycling through the prison system is unknown. The 
authors sought to determine the 15.5-year survival of 23,510 persons imprisoned 
in the state of Georgia on June 30, 1991. After linking prison and mortality 
records, they calculated standardized mortality ratios (SMRs). The cohort 
experienced 2,650 deaths during follow-up, which were 799 more than expected 
(SMR = 1.43, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.38, 1.49). Mortality during 
