between 1983 and 2008.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Systematic review and comparative analysis calculating 
odds ratios (OR). Electronic searches for literature were conducted in 
PubMed/Medline, Scopus, ISI Web of Knowledge, CRD, IME and IBECS, and manually 
in specialized journals and technical reports.
RESULTS: The 52 studies included in the review showed heterogeneity in the 
quality of the information regarding methods of analysis and data sources. 
Economic evaluation studies of neurological and mental disorders showed the 
following associations, compared to a cohort of studies of other disease 
conditions (n = 425): cost-utility analysis (OR = 1.57; 95% confidence interval, 
95% CI = 0.77-3.22), treatments (OR = 3.02; 95% CI = 1.33-6.88), simulation 
mathematics models (OR = 2.51; 95% CI = 1.30-4.87), and healthcare system 
perspective (OR = 1.43; 95% CI = 0.80-2.54).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggested that there is little research on economic 
evaluation research on neurological and mental disorders in Spain. In the 
future, more and better quality economic evaluation studies -according to their 
burden generated- are expected.

PMID: 21271545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2011 Mar 1;9(2):111-23. doi: 
10.2165/11531500-000000000-00000.

Current and future economic burden of osteoporosis in New Zealand.

Brown P(1), McNeill R, Leung W, Radwan E, Willingale J.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. 
pm.brown@auckland.ac.nz

BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is recognized as a serious health condition in 
developed as well as developing countries. There are no accurate estimates of 
the extent of the burden of osteoporosis in New Zealand. The purpose of this 
study was to estimate the economic burden of osteoporosis in New Zealand using 
data from international studies and population and health services information 
from New Zealand.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the number of osteoporotic fractures and cost of 
treatment and management of osteoporosis and osteoporotic fractures to the 
health system in New Zealand in 2007 and to project the future burden in 2013 
and 2020.
METHODS: Hospitalizations for hip fractures were combined with New Zealand 
census data and estimates from previous studies to estimate the expected number 
of osteoporotic vertebral, humeral, pelvic and other sites fractures in 2007. 
Health services usage and costs were estimated by combining data from New 
Zealand hospitals, the New Zealand Health Survey on the number of people 
diagnosed with osteoporosis, and the New Zealand Health Information Service 
(NZHIS) on pharmaceutical treatments. All prices are in New Zealand dollars 
($NZ), year 2007 values. Losses in QALYs resulting from osteoporotic fractures 
were used to indicate the impact on morbidity and mortality. The lost QALYs and 
economic cost associated with osteoporosis were projected to 2013 and 2020 using 
population projections from the New Zealand census.
RESULTS: There were an estimated 84 354 osteoporotic fractures in New Zealand in 
2007, including 3803 hip and 27 994 vertebral fractures. Osteoporosis resulted 
in a loss of 11 249 QALYs. The total direct cost of osteoporosis was$NZ330 
million, including $NZ212 million to treat the fractures, $NZ85 million for care 
after fractures and $NZ34 million for treatment and management of the estimated 
70 631 people diagnosed with osteoporosis. Sensitivity analysis suggested the 
results were robust to assumptions regarding the number of fractures receiving 
medical treatment. Hospitalization costs represented a significant component of 
total costs. The cost of treatment and management of osteoporosis is expected to 
increase to over $NZ391 million in 2013 and $NZ458 million in 2020, with the 
number of QALYs lost increasing to 13 205 in 2013 and 15 176 in 2020.
CONCLUSIONS: Osteoporosis and osteoporotic fractures create a significant burden 
on the health system in New Zealand. This study highlights the significant scope 
of the burden of osteoporosis and the potential gains that might be made from 
introducing interventions to mitigate the burden.

DOI: 10.2165/11531500-000000000-00000
PMID: 21271750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Ment Health. 2011 Feb;20(1):70-8. doi: 10.3109/09638237.2010.492412.

Carers' experiences of assertive outreach services: an exploratory study.

Hughes H(1), Meddings S, Vandrevala T, Holmes S, Hayward M.

Author information:
(1)Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, Sussex, UK. 
mailhelenhughes@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Recent government policy has highlighted the needs of family and 
friends who provide support to mental health service users. Carers of assertive 
outreach (AO) service users may be particularly in need of support. However, 
little is known about their experiences and how services can support them.
AIM: To explore the experiences of carers of individuals receiving an AO 
service.
METHOD: Ten participants were interviewed using a semi-structured interview 
schedule. Interviews were transcribed and analysed using interpretative 
phenomenological analysis.
RESULTS: Participants were positive about the service they and their relatives 
received from AO teams. They described the service as flexible and responsive to 
their needs and they had developed close collaborative relationships with AO 
workers. AO workers were considered by carers to be an extension of their family 
system. AO interventions helped their relatives to regain independence and 
enabled participants to feel less burdened by their caring role, thereby 
improving the carer's quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: The unique way in which AO teams engage and work alongside service 
users and their families is greatly valued by carers.

DOI: 10.3109/09638237.2010.492412
PMID: 21271828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Transfus Med. 2011 Jun;21(3):175-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3148.2011.01070.x.
Epub  2011 Jan 27.

Bacterial screening by flow cytometry offers potential for extension of platelet 
storage: results of 14 months of active surveillance.

Vollmer T(1), Engemann J, Kleesiek K, Dreier J.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Laboratoriums- und Transfusionsmedizin, Herz- und 
Diabeteszentrum Nordrhein-Westfalen, Universitätsklinik der Ruhr-Universität 
Bochum, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Bacterial contamination is currently the major infectious hazard of 
platelet transfusion in developed countries. It has been demonstrated that a 
significant transfusion risk remains, in particular with older platelet 
concentrates (PCs). In 2009, the shelf life of PCs was therefore reduced in 
Germany to 4 days after the day of production according to Vote 38. The aim of 
the present study was the application and implementation of a recently developed 
flow cytometry-based rapid screening method (BactiFlow) for bacterial 
contamination at the end of PC shelf life as a routine in-process control.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 472 apheresis-derived PCs were tested using 
the BactiFlow flow cytometric assay to detect and count bacteria based on 
esterase activity in viable bacterial cells, while the BacT/Alert automated 
culture system served as the reference method. The automation potential of the 
flow cytometric assay was analysed by applying the semi-automated BactiFlow ALS 
system.
RESULTS: An algorithm was developed for use in routine blood bank operations to 
extend the storage period of PCs. Two of the 472 apheresis PCs tested were 
positive in culture and identified as Propionibacterium species. One PC was 
positive for Staphylococcus aureus by both methods. All remaining specimens were 
tested negative by both methods.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that routine bacterial testing of PCs was 
successfully implemented and the established algorithm proved efficient. The 
BactiFlow flow cytometric assay is the first rapid screening method which is 
suitable for a routine application combined with a high sensitivity.

© 2011 The Authors. Transfusion Medicine © 2011 British Blood Transfusion 
Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3148.2011.01070.x
PMID: 21272103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. BMC Public Health. 2011 Jan 27;11:57. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-57.

Cost-utility analysis of a one-time supervisor telephone contact at 6-weeks 
post-partum to prevent extended sick leave following maternity leave in The 
Netherlands: results of an economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled 
trial.

Uegaki K(1), Stomp-van den Berg SG, de Bruijne MC, van Poppel MN, Heymans MW, 
van Mechelen W, van Tulder MW.

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Assessment Unit, EMGO Institute for Health and Care 
Research, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Working women of childbearing age are a vital part of the 
population. Following childbirth, this group of women can experience a myriad of 
physical and mental health problems that can interfere with their ability to 
work. Currently, there is little known about cost-effective post-partum 
interventions to prevent work disability. The purpose of the study was to 
evaluate whether supervisor telephone contact (STC) during maternity leave is 
cost-effective from a societal perspective in reducing sick leave and improving 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) compared to common practice (CP).
METHODS: We conducted an economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled 
trial. QALYs were measured by the EuroQol 5-D, and sick leave and presenteeism 
by the Health and work Performance Questionnaire. Resource use was collected by 
questionnaires. Data were analysed according to intention-to-treat. Missing data 
were imputed via multiple imputation. Uncertainty was estimated by 95% 
confidence intervals, cost-utility planes and curves, and sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: 541 working women from 15 companies participated. Response rates were 
above 85% at each measurement moment. At the end of the follow-up, no 
statistically significant between-group differences in QALYs, mean hours of sick 
leave or presenteeism or costs were observed. STC was found to be less effective 
and more costly. For willingness-to-pay levels from €0 through €50,000, the 
probability that STC was cost-effective compared to CP was 0.2. Overall resource 
use was low. Mean total costs were €3678 (95% CI: 3386; 3951). Productivity loss 
costs represented 37% of the total costs and of these costs, 48% was 
attributable to sick leave and 52% to work presenteeism. The cost analysis from 
a company's perspective indicated that there was a net cost associated with the 
STC intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: STC was not cost-effective compared to common practice for a 
healthy population of working mothers; therefore, implementation is not 
indicated. The cost-utility of STC for working mothers with more severe 
post-partum health problems, however, needs to be investigated. Work 
presenteeism accounted for half of the total productivity loss and warrants 
attention in future studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN: ISRCTN73119486.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-57
PMCID: PMC3040144
PMID: 21272325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Br J Nutr. 2011 May;105(10):1486-91. doi: 10.1017/S0007114510005180. Epub
2011  Jan 28.

Natural evolution of weight status in Duchenne muscular dystrophy: a 
retrospective audit.

Martigne L(1), Salleron J, Mayer M, Cuisset JM, Carpentier A, Neve V, Tiffreau 
V, Guimber D, Gottrand F.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gastroentérologie, Hépatologie et Nutrition Pédiatrique, Hôpital 
Jeanne de Flandre, Centre Hospitalier Régional et Universitaire, Lille, France. 
leonie.martigne@chru-lille.fr

The life expectancy of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) has 
increased. A cross-sectional study of DMD patients showed that 54 % of 
13-year-old patients are obese and that 54 % of 18-year-old patients are 
underweight. We aimed to describe the natural evolution of weight status in DMD. 
This retrospective multi-centre audit collected body-weight measurements for 
seventy DMD patients born before 1992. The body-weight:age ratio (W:A) was used 
to evaluate weight status in reference to the Griffiths and Edwards chart. At 
the age of 13 years, 73 % were obese and 4 % were underweight. At maximal 
follow-up (age 15-26 years, mean 18·3 (sd 2·3) years), 47 % were obese and 34 % 
were underweight. Obesity at the age of 13 years was associated with later 
obesity, whereas normal weight status and underweight in 13-year-old patients 
predicted later underweight. A W:A ≥ 151 % in 13-year-old patients predicted 
later obesity, and a W:A ≤ 126·5 % predicted later underweight. Our audit 
provides the first longitudinal information about the spontaneous outcome of 
weight status in DMD. Patients (13 years old) with a W:A ≥ 151 % were more 
likely to become obese in late adolescence, but obesity prevented later 
underweight. These data suggest that mild obesity in 13-year-old DMD patients 
(W:A between 120 and 150 %) should not be discouraged because it prevents later 
underweight.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114510005180
PMID: 21272404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Ageing Res Rev. 2011 Sep;10(4):397-403. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2010.12.001. Epub
 2011 Jan 25.

Macromolecular deterioration as the ultimate constraint on human lifespan.

Truscott RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Sydney, Australia. roger.truscott@sydney.edu.au

A number of tissues and organs in the human body contain abundant proteins that 
are long-lived. This includes the heart, lung, brain, bone and connective 
tissues. It is proposed that the accumulation of modifications to such 
long-lived proteins over a period of decades alters the properties of the organs 
and tissues in which they reside. Such insidious processes may affect human 
health, fitness and ultimately may limit our lifespan. The human lens, which 
contains proteins that do not turnover, is used to illustrate the impact of 
these gradual deleterious modifications. On the basis of data derived from the 
lens, it is postulated that the intrinsic instability of certain amino acid 
residues, which leads to truncation, racemisation and deamidation, is primarily 
responsible for the age-related deterioration of such proteins. Since these 
post-translational modifications accumulate over a period of many years, they 
can only be studied using organisms that have lifespans measured in decades. One 
conclusion is that there may be important aspects of human aging that can be 
studied only using long-lived animals.

Crown Copyright © 2010. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2010.12.001
PMID: 21272671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Haematologica. 2011 May;96(5):738-43. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2010.029868.
Epub  2011 Jan 27.

A modeling approach to evaluate long-term outcome of prophylactic and on demand 
treatment strategies for severe hemophilia A.

Fischer K(1), Pouw ME, Lewandowski D, Janssen MP, van den Berg HM, van Hout BA.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, Room Str. 6.131, PO Box 
85090, 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. k.fischer@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: Severe hemophilia requires life-long treatment with expensive 
clotting factor concentrates; studies comparing effects of different therapeutic 
strategies over decades are very difficult to perform. A simulation model was 
developed to evaluate the long-term outcome of on demand, prophylactic and mixed 
treatment strategies for patients with severe hemophilia A.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A computer model was developed based on individual patients' 
data from a Dutch cohort study in which intermediate dose prophylaxis was used 
and a French cohort study in which on demand treatment was used, and 
multivariate regression analyses. This model simulated individual patients' life 
expectancy, onset of bleeding, life-time joint bleeds, radiological outcome and 
concentrate use according to the different treatment strategies.
RESULTS: According to the model, life-time on demand treatment would result in 
an average of 1,494 joint bleeds during the hemophiliac's life, and consumption 
of 4.9 million IU of factor VIII concentrate. In contrast, life-time 
intermediate dose prophylaxis resulted in a mean of 357 joint bleeds and factor 
consumption of 8.3 million IU. A multiple switch strategy (between prophylactic 
and on demand treatment based on bleeding pattern) resulted in a mean number of 
395 joint bleeds and factor consumption of 6.6 million IU. The estimated 
proportion of patients with Pettersson scores over 28 points was 32% for both 
the prophylactic and the multiple switching strategies, compared to 76% for 
continuous on demand treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The present model allows evaluation of the impact of various 
treatment strategies on patients' joint bleeds and clotting factor consumption. 
It may be expanded with additional data to allow more precise estimates and 
include economic evaluations of treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2010.029868
PMCID: PMC3084921
PMID: 21273268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. BMJ. 2011 Jan 27;342:d574. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d574.

High smoking rates in 1940s, 1950s and 1960s in US explain comparatively lower 
life expectancy of older Americans.

Roehr B.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d574
PMID: 21273274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Postgrad Med J. 2011 Apr;87(1026):269-73. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2010.108670.
Epub  2011 Jan 27.

The efficacy of strabismus surgery in adults: a review for primary care 
physicians.

Kushner BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, WI 53705, USA. bkushner@wisc.edu

Many adult patients with strabismus are under the misconception that nothing can 
be done to correct the problem or that treatment is associated with a high 
degree of risk. Moreover, many optometrists, comprehensive ophthalmologists and 
primary care physicians are similarly misinformed. In fact, most adult patients 
with strabismus can be successfully treated, with ∼80% of patients achieving 
satisfactory alignment with one surgical procedure. In addition, adult 
strabismus surgery carries a relatively low risk, with serious complications 
being anecdotal and rare. The majority of adults will experience some 
improvement in binocular function after strabismus surgery even if the 
strabismus has been longstanding. Most commonly this takes the form of an 
expansion of binocular visual fields; however, some patients may also regain 
stereopsis. Consequently, strabismus surgery in adults is not merely cosmetic in 
most cases. There are many psychological and interpersonal benefits to adult 
strabismus surgery. These benefits are highlighted by the finding that the 
majority of adults with strabismus would trade a portion of their life 
expectancy to be rid of their ocular misalignment. Although adult strabismus 
surgery has been shown to be highly cost-effective, many adults with strabismus 
can be successfully managed by non-surgical means. If an adult with strabismus 
is under the impression, or was told, they cannot be treated, or that treatment 
is risky, they should consider a referral to an ophthalmologist specifically 
specialising in strabismus.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.2010.108670
PMID: 21273365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. MEDICC Rev. 2011 Jan;13(1):56. doi: 10.37757/MR2011V13.N1.12.

Addressing Cuba's aging population: why epimapping needs to go local.

Más P.

DOI: 10.37757/MR2011V13.N1.12
PMID: 21273960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Arch Microbiol. 2011 May;193(5):341-50. doi: 10.1007/s00203-011-0679-8. Epub
 2011 Jan 28.

Development of a fluorophore-ribosomal DNA restriction typing method for 
monitoring structural shifts of microbial communities.

Wang T(1), Zhang X, Zhang M, Wang L, Zhao L.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Microbial Metabolism, School of 
Life Science & Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China.

DNA restriction fragment polymorphism technologies such as amplified ribosomal 
DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) and terminal restriction fragment length 
polymorphism (T-RFLP) have been widely used in investigating microbial community 
structures. However, these methods are limited due to either the low resolution 
or sensitivity. In this study, a fluorophore-ribosomal DNA restriction typing 
(f-DRT) approach is developed for structural profiling of microbial communities. 
16S rRNA genes are amplified from the community DNA and digested by a single 
restriction enzyme Msp I. All restriction fragments are end-labeled with a 
fluorescent nucleotide Cy5-dCTP via a one-step extension reaction and detected 
with an automated DNA sequencer. All 50 predicted restriction fragments between 
100 and 600 bp were detected when twelve single 16S rRNA gene sequences were 
analyzed using f-DRT approach; 92% of these fragments were determined with 
accuracy of ±2 bp. In the defined model communities containing five components 
with different ratios, relative abundance of each component was correctly 
revealed by this method. The f-DRT analysis also showed structural shifts of 
intestinal microbiota in carcinogen-treated rats during the formation of 
precancerous lesions in the colon, as sensitive as multiple digestion-based 
T-RFLP analysis. This study provides a labor and cost-saving new method for 
monitoring structural shifts of microbial communities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-011-0679-8
PMID: 21274516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Demography. 1974 May;11(2):301-19. doi: 10.2307/2060565.

New estimates of the vital rates of the United States black population during 
the nineteenth century.

Eblen JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Research Center, University of Chicago, 1126 East 59th Street, 
60637, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A..

The difficulties of obtaining credible estimates of vital rates for the black 
population throughout the entire nineteenth century are overcome in this study. 
The methodology employed the notion of deviating networks of mortality rates for 
each general mortality level, which was taken from the United Nations studyThe 
Concept of a Stable Population. Period life tables and vital rates for 
intercensal periods were generated from the new estimates of the black 
population at each census date. The results of this study are highly compatible 
both with the life tables for the death-registration states in the twentieth 
century and the recent Coale and Rives reconstruction for the period from 1880 
to 1970 and with several estimates of vital rates previously made for the 
mid-nineteenth century. This study places the mean life expectancy at birth for 
the black population during the nineteenth century at about 33.7 years for both 
sexes. The infant death rate (1000m (0)) is shown to have varied between 222 and 
237 for females and between 266 and 278 for males. The intrinsic crude death 
rate centered on 30.4 per thousand during the century, while the birth rate 
declined from 53.2 early in the century to about 43.8 at the end.

DOI: 10.2307/2060565
PMID: 21274815


929. Aging Cell. 2011 Jun;10(3):383-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00671.x.
Epub  2011 Mar 22.

Preservation of femoral bone thickness in middle age predicts survival in 
genetically heterogeneous mice.

Miller RA(1), Kreider J, Galecki A, Goldstein SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, USA. millerr@umich.edu

To see whether age-related changes in bone could predict subsequent lifespan, we 
measured multiple aspects of femur size and shape at 4, 15, and 24 months of age 
in genetically heterogeneous mice. Mice whose cortical bone became thicker from 
4 to 15 months, associated with preservation of the endosteal perimeter, 
survived longer than mice whose endosteal cavity expanded, at the expense of 
cortical bone, over this age range. Femur size at age 4 months was also 
associated with a difference in life expectancy: mice with larger bones 
(measured by length, cortical thickness, or periosteal perimeter) had shorter 
lifespans. Femur length, midlife change in cortical bone thickness, and midlife 
values of CD8 T memory cells each added significant power for longevity 
prediction. Mice in the upper half of the population for each of these three 
endpoints lived, on average, 103 days (12%) longer than mice with the opposite 
characteristics. Thus, measures of young adult bone dimensions, changes as a 
result of bone remodeling in middle age, and immunological maturation provide 
partially independent indices of aging processes that together help to determine 
lifespan in genetically heterogeneous mice.

© 2011 The Authors. Aging Cell © 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00671.x
PMCID: PMC3094489
PMID: 21276183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2011 Sep;42(3):460-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2010.12.001. Epub 2011 Jan 28.

Death, time and the theory of relativity.

Chochinov HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Manitoba, Manitoba, Canada. 
harvey.chochinov@cancercare.mb.ca

Comment in
    J Pain Symptom Manage. 2012 Mar;43(3):e6-7.
    J Pain Symptom Manage. 2012 Apr;43(4):e8-9.

Many people believe that spending large amounts of money on end-of-life care is 
unjustified and even irrational. This fails to recognize that the value of time, 
particularly quality time, appears to increase as death draws near. Paying for 
treatment that merely allows patients and families to avoid confronting the 
inevitability of death is wrong. However, palliative care, which can bolster the 
quality of a patient's remaining days, provides benefits that extend to the 
family and beyond. How can the notion of time gaining value toward the end of 
life be incorporated into conventional cost-benefit analyses? A standard QALY 
(Quality Adjusted Life Years) is the product of quality of life and time, 
without adjusting for any change in the value of time. An additional variable--a 
Valuation Index (Palliative) (or VIP)--needs to be factored into the equation, 
providing a rational explanation for what otherwise might be deemed irrational 
spending. When one recognizes the multitude of important things that happen as 
people approach the very end of life, the numbers start to add up.

Copyright © 2011 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2010.12.001
PMID: 21276702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2011 May;37(5):396-404. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2010.11.027. Epub 2011 Jan 26.

Immunoglobulin treatment in primary antibody deficiency.

Maarschalk-Ellerbroek LJ(1), Hoepelman IM, Ellerbroek PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, P.O. Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
l.j.maarschalk-ellerbroek@umcutrecht.nl

The primary antibody deficiency syndromes are characterised by recurrent 
respiratory tract infections and the inability to produce effective 
immunoglobulin (Ig) responses. The best-known primary antibody deficiencies are 
common variable immunodeficiency (CVID), X-linked agammaglobulinaemia (XLA), 
immunoglobulin G (IgG) subclass deficiency, and selective antibody deficiency 
with normal immunoglobulins (SADNI). Therapy in these patients consists of 
prophylactic antibiotics and/or Ig replacement therapy. Diagnostic delay remains 
common owing to limited awareness of the presenting features and may result in 
increased morbidity and mortality. Replacement therapy with immunoglobulins 
increases life expectancy and reduces the frequency and severity of infections, 
but the effect on end-organ damage is still unknown. Both intravenous 
immunoglobulin (IVIg) and subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIg) treatment appear to 
be safe, with comparable efficacy. A starting dose of 300-400 mg/kg/month in 
IVIg and 100 mg/week for SCIg is recommended. IgG trough levels should be >5 g/L 
for patients with agammaglobulinaemia and 3 g/L greater than the initial IgG 
level for patients with CVID; however, the clinical response should be foremost 
in choosing the dose and trough level. Infusion-related adverse reactions are 
generally mild owing to improved manufacturing processes. In this paper, aspects 
of Ig replacement therapy in primary antibody-deficient patients will be 
addressed.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. and the International Society of Chemotherapy. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2010.11.027
PMID: 21276714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2011 Mar 15;79(4):965-76. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.11.026. Epub 2011 Jan 27.

Palliative radiotherapy for bone metastases: an ASTRO evidence-based guideline.

Lutz S(1), Berk L, Chang E, Chow E, Hahn C, Hoskin P, Howell D, Konski A, 
Kachnic L, Lo S, Sahgal A, Silverman L, von Gunten C, Mendel E, Vassil A, Bruner 
DW, Hartsell W; American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Blanchard Valley Regional Cancer Center, 
Findlay, OH 45840, USA. slutz@bvha.org

Comment in
    Pract Radiat Oncol. 2017 Jan - Feb;7(1):13-15.

PURPOSE: To present guidance for patients and physicians regarding the use of 
radiotherapy in the treatment of bone metastases according to current published 
evidence and complemented by expert opinion.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A systematic search of the National Library of Medicine's 
PubMed database between 1998 and 2009 yielded 4,287 candidate original research 
articles potentially applicable to radiotherapy for bone metastases. A Task 
Force composed of all authors synthesized the published evidence and reached a 
consensus regarding the recommendations contained herein.
RESULTS: The Task Force concluded that external beam radiotherapy continues to 
be the mainstay for the treatment of pain and/or prevention of the morbidity 
caused by bone metastases. Various fractionation schedules can provide 
significant palliation of symptoms and/or prevent the morbidity of bone 
metastases. The evidence for the safety and efficacy of repeat treatment to 
previously irradiated areas of peripheral bone metastases for pain was derived 
from both prospective studies and retrospective data, and it can be safe and 
effective. The use of stereotactic body radiotherapy holds theoretical promise 
in the treatment of new or recurrent spine lesions, although the Task Force 
recommended that its use be limited to highly selected patients and preferably 
within a prospective trial. Surgical decompression and postoperative 
radiotherapy is recommended for spinal cord compression or spinal instability in 
highly selected patients with sufficient performance status and life expectancy. 
The use of bisphosphonates, radionuclides, vertebroplasty, and kyphoplasty for 
the treatment or prevention of cancer-related symptoms does not obviate the need 
for external beam radiotherapy in appropriate patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiotherapy is a successful and time efficient method by which to 
palliate pain and/or prevent the morbidity of bone metastases. This Guideline 
reviews the available data to define its proper use and provide consensus views 
concerning contemporary controversies or unanswered questions that warrant 
prospective trial evaluation.

Copyright © 2011 American Society for Radiation Oncology and American College of 
Radiology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.11.026
PMID: 21277118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2011 Feb;45(2):122-9. doi: 10.1177/1538574410376602.
 Epub 2011 Jan 28.

Quality of life and functional status after revascularization or conservative 
treatment in patients with intermittent claudication.

Hedeager Momsen AM(1), Bach Jensen M, Norager CB, Roerbæk Madsen M, 
Vestersgaard-Andersen T, Lindholt JS.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Research Unit, Department of Surgery, Regional Hospital Herning, 
Herning, Denmark. ammomsen@gmail.com

Revascularization of patients with intermittent claudication (IC) is recommended 
only for selected patients who have chronic pain or disabling disease. However, 
improvement in the quality of life (QoL) could justify more widespread use.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of conservative treatment and 
revascularization on the QoL and physical performance of selected patients with 
IC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This nonrandomized, parallel group, follow-up study 
included 83 patients with IC at Fontaine stage II. On the basis of 
interventional opportunities and the risks and benefits, combined with the 
preference of the patient, 47 patients were treated conservatively and 41 were 
revascularized. The patients were examined at inclusion and 3 months later. The 
evaluations included the QoL measure Short Form 36 (SF-36), the Walking 
Impairment Questionnaire (WIQ), pain-free and maximal walking distance 
(treadmill at 3 km/h, no incline), maximal isometric knee-extension strength and 
endurance, and ankle-brachial blood pressure index (ABI).
RESULTS: At baseline, the SF-36 and WIQ scores and the ABI were significantly 
lower in the patients selected for revascularization. After revascularization, 
all dimensions of QoL and functional status increased significantly in the 
patients who underwent revascularisation compared with the patients treated 
conservatively. The difference in the change in the physical component summary 
of SF-36 was 29.4% (P < .001), in the total WIQ 63.6% (P = .0002), and in the 
pain-free and maximal walking distances 313% (P < .001) and 135% (P < .001), 
respectively. After adjustment for age, smoking, ABI, body mass index (BMI), and 
baseline values, the differences remained statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Revascularization above the knee increased QoL, functional status, 
and walking distance significantly in patients with moderate IC.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574410376602
PMID: 21278180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Oncologist. 2011;16 Suppl 1:79-87. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-S1-79.

Coming of age: breast cancer in seniors.

Muss HB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina Lineberger Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina 27599, USA. muss@med.unc.edu

In the U.S., cancer is a disease of aging. The average 65-year-old patient has 
an anticipated life expectancy of 20 years, and clinicians should take this into 
account when making breast cancer management decisions. However, older breast 
cancer patients can present with wide variations in health status, and treatment 
in older patients should therefore include a careful evaluation of 
comorbidities, physical function, polypharmacy, and other issues that could 
potentially impact a patient's ability to undergo chemotherapy without excessive 
risk. Evaluation tools are under development, including potential molecular 
markers, to identify which older patients are the best candidates for 
chemotherapy, as well as those more susceptible to actually developing cancer. 
Standard chemotherapy regimens are just as effective in older patients as they 
are in the younger population, and can substantially prolong life expectancy 
when used in the right patients. This article discusses breast cancer in 
seniors, including the epidemiology of breast cancer in these patients, the 
potential impact of comorbidities, and effective adjuvant therapy in selected 
older patients.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-S1-79
PMID: 21278444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2011 Feb;199(2):117-21. doi: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e3182083bc4.

Schizotypy, alexithymia, and socioemotional outcomes.

Seghers JP(1), McCleery A, Docherty NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Kent State University, Kent, OH 44242, USA. 
jseghers@kent.edu

Studies have found higher levels of alexithymia in schizophrenic subjects 
relative to controls, with an overall higher level of emotional arousal and 
social withdrawal. The present study is an extension of this research to the 
assessment of schizotypy in a nonclinical sample. Seventy-two undergraduate 
students (40 female; 21.6 ± 6.38 years) were recruited to participate in this 
study. Consistent with earlier research, our results show that both schizotypy 
and alexithymia are associated with relatively poor socioemotional functioning 
across the variables of depression, anxiety, social functioning, and overall 
quality of life. Further, our results show that the significant associations 
found between alexithymia and these 4 outcome variables was predicated on shared 
variance with schizotypy. When both alexithymia and schizotypy were regressed 
onto these variables as independent predictors, the contribution of alexithymia 
was consistently nonsignificant. The implications of these findings are 
discussed in terms of hypothesized substrates of alexithymia.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0b013e3182083bc4
PMCID: PMC4445718
PMID: 21278541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Zentralbl Chir. 2011 Oct;136(5):471-479. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1262626. Epub
2011  Jan 28.

[Vascular surgery in the elderly - recommendations for clinical practice].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Demirel S(1), Hyhlik-Dürr A(1), Attigah N(1), Hakimi M(1), von Tengg-Kobligk 
H(2), Böckler D(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Klinik für Vaskuläre und Endovaskuläre 
Chirurgie, Heidelberg, Deutschland.
(2)Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Klinik für Diagnostische und 
Interventionelle Radiologie, Heidelberg, Deutschland.

Erratum in
    Zentralbl Chir. 2011 Oct;136(5):e1.

Due to the increasingly aging populations of the industrialised countries, the 
prevalence of vascular disorders is increasing, with an emerging patient 
subgroup of 80  years and older (octogenarians), often multi-morbid with an 
increased risk of anaesthesiological and surgical complications. This review 
article presents evidence-based indications for vascular surgery in the elderly 
(> 80  years), and the influence of advanced age on surgical results. Guidelines 
for daily practice were drawn from a thorough analysis of current treatment 
recommendations for three vascular disorders (carotid artery stenosis, abdominal 
aortic aneurysm, and peripheral arterial disease) with the aim of assisting the 
primary care physician in deciding upon the therapeutic management. In summary, 
evidence indicates that CEA (carotid endarterectomy) is the gold standard 
therapy for carotid artery stenosis, as opposed to the "best medical treatment" 
and CAS (carotid artery stenting). With suitable morphology of the aneurysm, 
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) is the therapy of choice for abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA). In elderly patients unfit for open repair and with a life 
expectancy of less than 4  years, EVAR does not offer any survival benefit 
compared with no intervention. In such patients, conservative therapy should be 
taken into consideration. Due to the significantly reduced life expectancy after 
a major amputation, the value of infrainguinal revascularisation is high, with 
the exception of patients aged > 90  years.

Publisher: Durch die zunehmende Überalterung der Bevölkerung in den 
Industriestaaten nimmt nicht nur die Zahl der Gefäßerkrankungen stetig zu, 
sondern auch der Anteil an den sogenannten Betagten (> 80 Jahre), die aufgrund 
ihres hohen Risikoprofils sowohl aus anästhesiologischer als auch aus 
chirurgischer Sicht ein herausforderndes Patientenklientel bilden. Anhand eines 
Übersichtsartikels soll die evidenzbasierte gefäßchirurgische 
Indikationsstellung bei spezifischen Gefäßerkrankungen im Alter und der Einfluss 
des Alters auf den Therapieerfolg dargestellt werden. Basierend auf den 
derzeitigen Ergebnissen der Literatur, bezogen auf das Alter > 80 Jahre, werden 
Handlungsempfehlungen der 3 ausgewählten Erkrankungen (Karotisstenose, 
Bauchaortenaneurysma und pAVK) für die tägliche Praxis abgeleitet, die die 
Entscheidungsfindung hinsichtlich des Therapieverfahrens erleichtern sollen. 
Zusammenfassend stellt die CEA (Karotisendarterektomie) mit der höchstmöglichen 
Evidenz im Vergleich zum „best medical treatment“ und CAS (Karotisstenting) 
aktuell den Goldstandard dar. Bei entsprechender geeigneter Aneurysmamorphologie 
ist die endovaskuläre Aneurysmaausschaltung die Therapie der Wahl. Bei 
Patienten, die aufgrund Ihrer Komorbidität von der offen chirurgischen 
Aneurysmaausschaltung ausgeschlossen werden und eine Lebenserwartung von weniger 
als 4 Jahren haben, sollte die konservative Therapie in Erwägung gezogen werden. 
Die Wertigkeit der peripheren Bypasschirurgie ist aufgrund der signifikant 
reduzierten Lebenserwartung nach einer Major-Amputation mit Ausnahme der 
Patienten im Alter > 90 Jahre als hoch einzustufen.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart ˙ New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1262626
PMID: 21279925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Ethiop Med J. 2010 Oct;48(4):257-66.

An estimate of the magnitude and trend of HIV/AIDS epidemic using data from the 
routine VCT services as an alternative data source to ANC sentinel surveillance 
in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

Getachew Y(1), Gotu B, Enquselassie F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Jimma University.

BACKGROUND: Since early 1980s when AIDS was first recognized, there has been 
uncertainty about the future trend and the ultimate dimensions of the pandemic. 
This uncertainty persists because of difficulties in measuring HIV incidence and 
prevalence with a substantial degree of precision in a given population. One of 
the many factors for the lack of precision is the problem of obtaining 
representative data sources that can be extrapolated to the general population. 
National and regional HIV estimates for Ethiopia are derived from ANC based HIV 
surveillance data. Alternative data sources have not been exhaustively explored 
as potential tools to monitor the trend of HIV/ AIDS epidemic in the country.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the magnitude and trend of HIV/AIDS epidemic using data 
from the routine VCT services as an alternative data source to ANC sentinel 
surveillance data.
METHODS: The study used secondary data sources from all government, private and 
NGO VCT centers, of the period of 2003-2005 in Addis Ababa. For the purpose of 
making comparative analysis of the VCT based estimations and projections, 
records of all five sentinel sites in Addis Ababa for the period 1983-2003 were 
reviewed.
RESULTS: Both ANC and VCT data sources showed similar and regular trends from 
the beginning of the HIV epidemic till the year 1995 where the ANC showed a 
relatively higher prevalence rates than VCT data, with a maximum difference in 
HIV prevalence of 1.06% in 1993. However, a higher HIV prevalence was noted for 
the VCT than the ANC data source for the period of 1996-2002, with a maximum 
difference of 1.4% in 1998, the year when both the ANC and VCT modeled HIV 
prevalence reached the highest peak in Addis Ababa. On the contrary, the ANC 
based prevalence was higher than the VCT data for the period 2004-2010, with a 
maximum difference of 2.2%.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that VCT based HIV prevalence data closely 
approximates the ANC based data. Therefore VCT data source can be valuable to 
complement the ANC data in monitoring the HIV epidemic and trend.

PMID: 21280427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Altern Ther Health Med. 2010 Nov-Dec;16(6):22-7.

Uncovering the expectancy effect: the validation of the acupuncture expectancy 
scale.

Mao JJ(1), Xie SX, Bowman MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Community Health, University of 
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Center for Clinical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, Philadelphia, USA. maoj@uphs.upenn.edu

PURPOSE: Research suggests that expectancy may modulate the response to medical 
interventions, including acupuncture. However, the paucity of validated tools to 
measure expectancy limits rigorous evaluation. We sought to validate a 
previously developed Acupuncture Expectancy Scale (AES) as an instrument to 
measure patients' expected responses to acupuncture.
PURPOSE: Participants were patients with stage I to III cancers seen in 
outpatient medical and radiation oncology clinics. They were drawn from three 
study cohorts that included 404 participants. We examined the reliability, 
validity, and responsiveness of the AES.
RESULTS: The scores on the AES had internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha 
coefficient) of 0.95 and test-retest reliability of 0.62 over 4 weeks without 
acupuncture treatment. Those who had previously used acupuncture had higher AES 
scores compared to those who were acupuncture naive (12.4 vs 9.5, P = .002). AES 
scores were higher in those who reported willingness to participate in an 
acupuncture trial compared to those who did not want to participate in an 
acupuncture trial (11.5 vs 8.1, P < .001). Patients who enrolled in a pilot 
trial of acupuncture had higher AES scores than the general outpatient 
population (13.0 vs 9.8, P = .02), and expectancy increased during the course of 
acupuncture treatment (13.0 to 16.5, P < .017).
CONCLUSION: The AES is reliable and valid, and scores appear to increase during 
or after prior therapy. Incorporation of AES in clinical trials and outcome 
studies can evaluate the role of expectancy on acupuncture outcomes.

PMCID: PMC3569526
PMID: 21280459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. BMC Health Serv Res. 2011 Jan 31;11:24. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-24.

Early identification and preventive care for elevated cardiovascular disease 
risk within a remote Australian Aboriginal primary health care service.

Burgess CP(1), Bailie RS, Connors CM, Chenhall RD, McDermott RA, O'Dea K, 
Gunabarra C, Matthews HL, Esterman AJ.

Author information:
(1)Menzies School of Health Research, Institute of Advanced Studies, Charles 
Darwin University, Darwin, Australia. paul.burgess@menzies.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the single greatest contributor to 
the gap in life expectancy between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. 
Our objective is to determine if holistic CVD risk assessment, introduced as 
part of the new Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Adult Health Check (AHC), 
results in better identification of elevated CVD risk, improved delivery of 
preventive care for CVD and improvements in the CVD risk profile for Aboriginal 
adults in a remote community.
METHODS: Interrupted time series study over six years in a remote primary health 
care (PHC) service involving Aboriginal adults identified with elevated CVD risk 
(N = 64). Several process and outcome measures were audited at 6 monthly 
intervals for three years prior to the AHC (the intervention) and three years 
following: (i) the proportion of guideline scheduled CVD preventive care 
services delivered, (ii) mean CVD medications prescribed and dispensed, (iii) 
mean PHC consultations, (iv) changes in participants' CVD risk factors and 
estimated absolute CVD risk and (v) mean number of CVD events and iatrogenic 
events.
RESULTS: Twenty-five percent of AHC participants were identified as having 
elevated CVD risk. Of these, 84% had not been previously identified during 
routine care. Following the intervention, there were significant improvements in 
the recorded delivery of preventive care services for CVD (30% to 53%), and 
prescription of CVD related medications (28% to 89%) (P < 0.001). Amongst 
participants there was a 20% relative reduction in estimated absolute CVD risk 
(P = 0.004) following the intervention. However, there were no significant 
changes in the mean number of PHC consultations or mean number of CVD events or 
iatrogenic events.
CONCLUSIONS: Holistic CVD risk assessment during an AHC can lead to better and 
earlier identification of elevated CVD risk, improvement in the recorded 
delivery of preventive care services for CVD, intensification of treatment for 
CVD, and improvements in participants' CVD risk profile. Further research is 
required on strategies to reorient and restructure PHC services to the care of 
chronic illness for Aboriginal peoples in remote areas for there to be 
substantial progress in decreasing excess CVD related mortality.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-24
PMCID: PMC3045287
PMID: 21281520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2011 Feb;127(2):406-11. doi:
10.1016/j.jaci.2010.11.038.

The Madison Avenue effect: how drug presentation style influences adherence and 
outcome in patients with asthma.

Clerisme-Beaty EM(1), Bartlett SJ, Teague WG, Lima J, Irvin CG, Cohen R, Castro 
M, Wise RA, Rand CS.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA. crand@jhmi.edu

BACKGROUND: Little is known about how drug presentation influences medication 
adherence.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of an educational program aimed at increasing 
expectations of treatment benefit on medication adherence.
METHODS: Data are analyzed from 99 participants who underwent electronic drug 
monitoring during the Trial of Asthma Patient Education, a randomized, 
placebo-controlled, multicenter trial. Participants with suboptimally controlled 
asthma were randomized to placebo or montelukast in conjunction with a 
presentation mode that was either neutral or designed to increase outcome 
expectancy. Adherence was monitored electronically over 4 weeks and was defined 
as ≥ 80% use of prescribed doses. Outcome expectancy, peak expiratory flow, 
prebronchodilator FEV₁, asthma control (Juniper asthma control questionnaire), 
and asthma-related quality of life were assessed at baseline and at the 4-week 
follow-up.
RESULTS: Average electronic medication adherence was 69.9%. There was a 
significant interaction between presentation mode and drug assignment, with 
participants in the enhanced/montelukast group having a higher change in outcome 
expectancy (Δ 2.1 points; P < .001) and better medication adherence (odds ratio, 
4.0; 95% CI, 1.1-14.3) compared with those in the neutral/placebo group. There 
was no difference in asthma symptoms, quality of life, or clinical outcomes on 
the basis of presentation mode. Rather, increased outcome expectancy was 
associated with modest improvements in asthma symptoms after adjusting for 
presentation mode, drug assignment, and medication adherence.
CONCLUSION: The use of an enhanced presentation aimed at increasing outcome 
expectancy may lead to improved medication adherence.

Copyright © 2011 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2010.11.038
PMCID: PMC3050545
PMID: 21281871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 2011 Jun;40(4):359-62. doi: 
10.1016/j.jgyn.2010.09.006. Epub 2011 Feb 1.

[The gynecologist and the melanoma: breast and endometrial metastases].

[Article in French]

Sans-Mischel AC(1), Trastour C, Piche M, Delotte J, Cohen-Scali P, Azuar P, 
Bongain A.

Author information:
(1)Service de gynécologie, obstétrique, reproduction et médecine fœtale, hôpital 
Archet-II, CHU de Nice, BP 3079, 151, route de Saint-Antoine-de-Ginestière, 
06202 Nice cedex 3, France.

Melanoma has an important metastatic potential and its incidence is greatly 
increasing. Even after many years of negative follow-up, gynecologists should be 
aware that a gynecological tumor might be a secondary location for a woman with 
a medical history of melanoma. Because of a poor prognosis and a reduced life 
expectancy, it is necessary to make a disease staging in order to offer a prompt 
diagnosis and a personalized strategy of treatment. Considering the increasing 
incidence of melanoma, gynecologists will face more frequently with this 
situation.

Copyright © 2010. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgyn.2010.09.006
PMID: 21282018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Mar 1;29(7):845-51. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.32.5332. Epub
2011  Jan 31.

Pre-enucleation chemotherapy for eyes severely affected by retinoblastoma masks 
risk of tumor extension and increases death from metastasis.

Zhao J(1), Dimaras H, Massey C, Xu X, Huang D, Li B, Chan HS, Gallie BL.

