734. Pain Med. 2010 Oct;11(10):1477-88. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00956.x.

Open-label study on the long-term efficacy, safety, and impact on quality of 
life of OROS hydromorphone ER in patients with chronic low back pain.

Wallace M(1), Thipphawong J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pain Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, University of 
California, San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla, California 92037-7650, USA. 
mswallace@ucsd.edu

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy, safety, and impact on quality of life of 
long-term administration of OROS hydromorphone ER (8-128mg) in patients with 
chronic low back pain.
DESIGN: A total of 113 adults with chronic low back pain who completed a 6-week 
open-label study were enrolled in this 6-month extension study.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary end point was the daily pain relief rating 
obtained during monthly study visits. Secondary end points included Investigator 
and Patient Global Evaluations, Brief Pain Inventory scores obtained at monthly 
study visits, and quality-of-life measures (Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire 
and 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey score) obtained at monthly intervals.
RESULTS: Mean±SD change from baseline in pain relief with OROS hydromorphone ER 
for the Month 6 visit was 0.9±2.55 (P=0.0007) and for the last assessment of the 
extension study was 0.9±2.53 (P=0.0002). At the Month 6 visit, 81.3% of 
investigators and 71.0% of patients rated their satisfaction of pain relief with 
OROS hydromorphone ER treatment as good, very good, or excellent. Changes on the 
36-item Short Form Health Survey, a quality-of-life measure, were statistically 
significant for the physical composite scores for all extension phase time 
points, including Month 6 (2.1±5.34; P<0.0001) and the last assessment 
(2.4±5.56; P<0.0001) and mental composite scores for all extension phase time 
points, including Month 6 (3.3±9.52; P=0.0006) and the last assessment (3.1±9.5; 
P=0.0008). Treatment with OROS hydromorphone ER also resulted in significant 
improvement in sleep disturbances. Adverse events included gastrointestinal and 
central nervous system symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The results support the long-term use of OROS hydromorphone ER in 
managing chronic moderate to severe low back pain.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2010.00956.x
PMID: 21199302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2011 Feb 12;366(1563):357-65. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2010.0073.

Flexibility in reproductive timing in human females: integrating ultimate and 
proximate explanations.

Nettle D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle 
University, UK. daniel.nettle@ncl.ac.uk

From an ultimate perspective, the age of onset of female reproduction should be 
sensitive to variation in mortality rates, and variation in the productivity of 
non-reproductive activities. In accordance with this prediction, most of the 
cross-national variation in women's age at first birth can be explained by 
differences in female life expectancies and incomes. The within-country 
variation in England shows a similar pattern: women have children younger in 
neighbourhoods where the expectation of healthy life is shorter and incomes are 
lower. I consider the proximate mechanisms likely to be involved in producing 
locally appropriate reproductive decisions. There is evidence suggesting that 
developmental induction, social learning and contextual evocation may all play a 
role.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2010.0073
PMCID: PMC3013465
PMID: 21199840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2011 Jul;43(7):1200-6. doi:
10.1249/MSS.0b013e318209312c.

Acceleration and force reveal different mechanisms of electromechanical delay.

Sasaki K(1), Sasaki T, Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. sasaki@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

INTRODUCTION: Electromechanical delay (EMD) represents a series of complex 
processes of converting an electrical stimulus to a mechanical response. To 
quantify the contribution of electrochemical and mechanical processes of EMD in 
the human biceps brachii muscle over a wide range of elbow joint angles, we 
determined the onset of muscle contraction and the beginning of force 
development by recording acceleration of skin surface over the muscle and elbow 
flexion force, respectively.
METHODS: Ten healthy male volunteers underwent two experimental sessions, in 
which submaximal paired-pulse stimuli were applied percutaneously to the resting 
biceps brachii muscle at 10 different elbow joint angles from 40° to 130° (0° 
represents full extension).
RESULTS: The electrical stimulation induced repeatable contractions, in which 
the test-retest reliability of time parameters was sufficiently high (intraclass 
correlation coefficient=0.84-0.88). The time for electrochemical process ranged 
between 3.1±0.8 and 3.6±0.9 ms and was independent of elbow joint angle 
(P=0.64). The time for mechanical process and the total duration of EMD, 
however, were significantly greater at elbow flexion positions than at 40°, the 
most extended position in this study (P<0.05). Regression analysis revealed that 
at elbow flexion positions, the time for mechanical process increased 
significantly with decreasing the muscle-tendon length of the biceps brachii 
calculated from a musculoskeletal model (R=0.54, P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that, in the human biceps brachii muscle, the 
prolongation of EMD at short muscle-tendon length is not attributed to the 
impairment of the electrochemical process of muscle contraction but to the 
increased slack within the muscle-tendon unit.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0b013e318209312c
PMID: 21200348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. PLoS One. 2010 Dec 21;5(12):e14388. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014388.

Towards the construction of expressed proteomes using a Leishmania tarentolae 
based cell-free expression system.

Kovtun O(1), Mureev S, Johnston W, Alexandrov K.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.

The adaptation of organisms to a parasitic life style is often accompanied by 
the emergence of novel biochemical pathways absent in free-living organisms. As 
a result, the genomes of specialized parasitic organisms often code for a large 
number (>50%) of proteins with no detectable homology or predictable function. 
Although understanding the biochemical properties of these proteins and their 
roles in parasite biogenesis is the next challenge of molecular parasitology, 
analysis tools developed for free-living organisms are often inadequate for this 
purpose. Here we attempt to solve some of these problems by developing a 
methodology for the rapid production of expressed proteomes in cell-free systems 
based on parasitic organisms. To do so we take advantage of Species Independent 
Translational Sequences (SITS), which can efficiently mediate translation 
initiation in any organism. Using these sequences we developed a single-tube in 
vitro translation system based on the parasitic protozoan Leishmania tarentolae. 
We demonstrate that the system can be primed directly with SITS containing 
templates constructed by overlap extension PCR. To test the systems we 
simultaneously amplified 31 of L. tarentolae's putative translation initiation 
factors and phosphatases directly from the genomic DNA and subjected them to 
expression, purification and activity analysis. All of the amplified products 
produced soluble recombinant proteins, and putative phosphatases could be 
purified to at least 50% purity in one step. We further compared the ability of 
L. tarentolae and E. coli based cell-free systems to express a set of mammalian, 
L. tarentolae and Plasmodium falciparum Rab GTPases in functional form. We 
demonstrate that the L. tarentolae cell-free system consistently produced higher 
quality proteins than E. coli-based system. The differences were particularly 
pronounced in the case of open reading frames derived from P. falciparum. The 
implications of these developments are discussed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014388
PMCID: PMC3006200
PMID: 21203562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


738. Protein Cell. 2010 Apr;1(4):371-383. doi: 10.1007/s13238-010-0044-8. Epub
2010  May 8.

Three-dimensional domain swapping as a mechanism to lock the active conformation 
in a super-active octamer of SARS-CoV main protease.

Zhang S(1)(2), Zhong N(1)(2), Xue F(3), Kang X(1)(2), Ren X(1)(2), Chen J(1)(4), 
Jin C(1)(2)(4), Lou Z(5), Xia B(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center, Peking University, Beijing, 
100871, China.
(2)College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, 
100871, China.
(3)Structural Biology Laboratory, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China.
(4)College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, 100871, China.
(5)Structural Biology Laboratory, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China. 
binxia@pku.edu.cn.
(6)Beijing Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center, Peking University, Beijing, 
100871, China. louzy@xtal.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(7)College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, 
100871, China. louzy@xtal.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(8)College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, 100871, China. 
louzy@xtal.tsinghua.edu.cn.

Proteolytic processing of viral polyproteins is indispensible for the lifecycle 
of coronaviruses. The main protease (M(pro)) of SARS-CoV is an attractive target 
for anti-SARS drug development as it is essential for the polyprotein 
processing. M(pro) is initially produced as part of viral polyproteins and it is 
matured by autocleavage. Here, we report that, with the addition of an 
N-terminal extension peptide, M(pro) can form a domain-swapped dimer. After 
complete removal of the extension peptide from the dimer, the mature M(pro) 
self-assembles into a novel super-active octamer (AO-M(pro)). The crystal 
structure of AO-M(pro) adopts a novel fold with four domain-swapped dimers 
packing into four active units with nearly identical conformation to that of the 
previously reported M(pro) active dimer, and 3D domain swapping serves as a 
mechanism to lock the active conformation due to entanglement of polypeptide 
chains. Compared with the previously well characterized form of M(pro), in 
equilibrium between inactive monomer and active dimer, the stable AO-M(pro) 
exhibits much higher proteolytic activity at low concentration. As all eight 
active sites are bound with inhibitors, the polyvalent nature of the interaction 
between AO-M(pro) and its polyprotein substrates with multiple cleavage sites, 
would make AO-M(pro) functionally much more superior than the M(pro) active 
dimer for polyprotein processing. Thus, during the initial period of SARS-CoV 
infection, this novel active form AOM(pro) should play a major role in cleaving 
polyproteins as the protein level is extremely low. The discovery of AOM(pro) 
provides new insights about the functional mechanism of M(pro) and its 
maturation process.

DOI: 10.1007/s13238-010-0044-8
PMCID: PMC4875095
PMID: 21203949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Caenorhabditis elegans Model for Initial Screening and Mechanistic
Evaluation of  Potential New Drugs for Aging and Alzheimer’s Disease.

Luo Y, Wu Y, Brown M, Link CD.

In: Buccafusco JJ(1), editor. Methods of Behavior Analysis in Neuroscience. 2nd 
edition. Boca Raton (FL): CRC Press/Taylor & Francis; 2009. Chapter 16.
Frontiers in Neuroscience.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Georgia, Augusta

Although the worms may not be universally accepted as having a direct relevance 
for AD pathology, they are well suited for validation of target Aβ toxicity in 
vivo [12,21]. The absence of endogenous Aβ production in the worms offers an 
opportunity to find a direct role of the Aβ involvement in pathological 
behaviors [22]. In addition, predominantly intracellular expression of Aβ 
provides another tool to address specific roles of intracellular Aβ in relation 
to its toxicity. Substantial evidence implicates intracellular Aβ oligomers in 
early events related to AD [16]. Intracellular Aβ has also been observed in 
human brain neurons [23] and in triple transgenic AD mouse models, where its 
accumulation preceded neurofibrillary tangle formation [24]. This evidence 
supports the notion that Aβ toxicity assayed in the worm model reflects Aβ 
toxicity in mammalian neurons. A recent study indicates that the transgenic C. 
elegans model may be generally relevant to the proteotoxicity underlying 
neurodegenerative diseases [25]. Additionally, the strain has been used to 
investigate the role of insulin-like signaling and heat-shock factor in Aβ 
proteotoxicity [26,27], providing excellent examples for the relevance of the C. 
elegans model to AD. There are several advantages of C. elegans over the mouse 
model for initial drug screening and target characterization. First, there are 
highly conserved biochemical pathways between worms and humans. Second, 
established transgenic mutant linking of human Aβ expression with pathological 
behavioral phenotypes are easy to score. The worms have a relatively low cost of 
cultivation because of their small size, rapid life cycle, and short life span 
[28], which allow screening of thousands of animals over multiple generations on 
microtiter plates. The simple structure of its nervous system, consisting of 
only 302 neurons in an adult nematode, makes it valuable for screening drugs 
against age-associated neurodegeneration and the ease of genetic manipulations, 
which is evident in the availability of mutants and application of RNA 
interference (RNAi) knockdown. Several examples illustrate the power of C. 
elegans in screening for new drugs [29], including many known human drugs 
[30,31]. Some lead molecules originating from worm-based screening assays are in 
advanced stages of drug discovery [11]. Using the C. elegans model in the past 
years, we have uncovered effects of natural compounds on extension of the worms’ 
life span; [32] on a stress response protein, the small heat-shock protein 
hsp-16.2; [33] on age-related behavioral declines; [34] on muscle degeneration; 
[35] and on Aβ-expression-induced pathological behaviors [22]. Most of those 
experiments would be difficult and might be impossible to perform in mice. In 
this chapter, we describe methods we have employed for compound screening and 
pharmacological evaluations of potential AD drugs using the C. elegans model.

Copyright © 2009, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

PMID: 21204333


740. Addiction. 2011 Mar;106(3):507-15. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2010.03299.x.

Longitudinal association of preference-weighted health-related quality of life 
measures and substance use disorder outcomes.

Pyne JM(1), Tripathi S, French M, McCollister K, Rapp RC, Booth BM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Mental Healthcare and Outcomes Research, Central Arkansas Veterans 
Healthcare System, Little Rock, USA. jmpyne@uams.edu

AIM: To examine the construct validity of generic preference-weighted 
health-related quality of life measures in a sample of patients with a substance 
use disorder (SUD).
DESIGN: Longitudinal (baseline and 6-month follow-up) data from a research study 
that evaluated interventions to improve linkage and engagement with SUD 
treatment.
SETTING: A central intake unit that referred patients to seven SUD treatment 
centers in a Midwestern US metropolitan area.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 495 individuals with a SUD.
MEASUREMENTS: Participants completed two preference-weighted measures: the 
self-administered Quality of Well-Being scale (QWB-SA) and the standard gamble 
weighted Medical Outcomes Study SF-12 (SF-6D). They were also administered two 
clinical assessments: all seven domains of the Addiction Severity Index (ASI) 
and a symptom checklist based on the DSM-IV. Construct validity was determined 
via the relationships between disease-specific SUD and generic measures.
FINDINGS: In unadjusted analyses, the QWB-SA and SF-6D change scores were 
correlated significantly with six ASI subscale change scores, but not with 
employment status. In adjusted repeated-measures analyses, three of seven ASI 
subscale scores were significant predictors of QWB-SA and 5/7 ASI subscale 
scores were significant predictors of SF-6D. Abstinence and problematic use at 
follow-up were significant predictors of QWB-SA and SF-6D. Effect sizes ranged 
from 0.352 to 0.400 for abstinence and -0.484 to -0.585 for problematic use.
CONCLUSIONS: Generic preference-weighted health-related quality of life measures 
show moderate to good associations with substance-use specific measures and in 
certain circumstances can be used in their stead. This study provides further 
support for the use of the Quality of Well-Being scale and Medical Outcomes 
Study SF-12 in clinical and economic evaluations of substance use disorder 
interventions.

© 2011 Society for the Study of Addiction. No claim to original US government 
works.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2010.03299.x
PMCID: PMC3076048
PMID: 21205046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to report.


741. Int Psychogeriatr. 2011 Jun;23(5):806-13. doi: 10.1017/S1041610210002279.
Epub  2010 Dec 16.

Purpose in life over a five-year period: a longitudinal study in a very old 
population.

Hedberg P(1), Brulin C, Aléx L, Gustafson Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Few studies have specifically examined purpose in life among very 
old people, and we know of none that has used a prospective approach. The aim of 
this study was to examine changes in purpose in life over five years in very old 
men and women and to investigate whether depressed mood, malnutrition, 
inactivity in daily life, or cognitive impairment increased the risk for 
developing low purpose in life.
METHODS: The study includes data from 51 participants (42 women and 9 men) 
living in northern Sweden who completed the Purpose in Life (PIL) Test once at 
baseline and again five years later.
RESULTS: Purpose in life decreased over five years and the decrease was 
significantly associated with being a woman (p < 0.001) and having depressed 
mood (p = 0.009) or depression (p = 0.002) at baseline. There were no 
differences in baseline PIL scores between depressed and not depressed, but 
those who had depression had significantly decreased PIL scores after five years 
(p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: A strong purpose in life does not seem to prevent very old people 
from developing depression, and being depressed at baseline and living with 
depression over five years is associated with a loss of purpose in life.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610210002279
PMID: 21205380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Bull Entomol Res. 2011 Jun;101(3):295-303. doi: 10.1017/S0007485310000507.
Epub  2010 Dec 21.

Argentine stem weevil ( Listronotus bonariensis, Coleoptera: Curculionidae) 
population dynamics in Canterbury, New Zealand dryland pasture.

Goldson SL(1), Barron MC, Kean JM, van Koten C.

Author information:
(1)AgResearch, Christchurch, New Zealand. stephen.goldson@agresearch.co.nz

The Argentine stem weevil (Listronotus bonariensis) was an economically 
important pest in New Zealand pastures until the release of the parasitoid 
Microctonus hyperodae. This contribution uses historical data to investigate the 
regulation of the pest populations prior to, and somewhat during, the 
establishment of this parasitoid in dryland Canterbury, New Zealand. Thus, a 
significant goal of this study is to provide an L. bonariensis population 
dynamics baseline for any future work that aims to analyse the full effects of 
M. hyperodae on the weevil, now that equilibrium with the weevil host has been 
reached.The population dynamics of L. bonariensis, based on a life-table 
approach, were investigated using data collected regularly for eight years from 
populations in Canterbury, New Zealand. The key factor affecting end-of-season 
L. bonariensis density was found to be variation in second generation fourth 
instar prepupal and pupal mortality. This may have been caused by arrested 
development and ongoing mortality resulting from the onset of cooler autumnal 
conditions.A compensatory response was found in recruitment to the second summer 
weevil generation, whereby the realised fecundity of the emergent first summer 
generation of weevils was found to be negatively related to the density of adult 
weevils per ryegrass tiller. This is the first time that this has been found via 
long-term population analysis of L. bonariensis, although indications of this 
have been found elsewhere in caging, pot and small plot experiments.In this 
study, the effect of the parasitoid biocontrol agent Microctonus hyperodae on L. 
bonariensis population dynamics was unclear, as the analysis covered a period 
when the parasitoid Microctonus hyperodae was introduced and still establishing. 
It does, however, raise important questions for future analysis in terms of the 
interaction between parasitism and unrealised fecundity.The results in this 
contribution also highlighted regional differences. Overwintering mortality of 
adult weevils in Canterbury was constant between years, whilst earlier studies 
in the North Island Waikato region indicated this mortality was density 
dependent. In addition, the availability of tillers in endophyte-free ryegrass 
pastures in Canterbury had no influence on egg and early-instar larval survival, 
which contrasts with the finding from endophytic Waikato pastures.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007485310000507
PMID: 21205396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Neurology. 2011 Jan 4;76(1 Suppl 1):S7-13. doi:
10.1212/WNL.0b013e31820502f6.

Analysis of current multiple sclerosis registries.

Hurwitz BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine Neurology, Box 3184, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, NC 27710, USA. hurwi003@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Patient registries are valuable because they provide data that 
cannot be captured in any other way. Observations from registry studies are 
particularly informative if multiple registries confirm similar findings. A 
selection of multiple sclerosis (MS) registry studies were reviewed, and results 
and consistency of those studies are presented.
METHODS: A panel of experts analyzed the study findings of established MS 
registries and presented their conclusions on the overall results and 
consistency of those studies.
RESULTS: A review of evidence from MS registry studies reveals similar findings 
with respect to patterns of disability progression, predictors of disability 
progression, and changes in lifespan. Several registries show that progression 
after Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 4 occurs at a predictable rate, 
and once EDSS 4 is reached, subsequent progression rates are similar regardless 
of the type of MS at onset. Clinicians, payers, and patients need to understand 
that MS may shorten life expectancy. The mortality data derived from registries 
reveal higher death rates in patients with MS compared with the general 
population, indicating that MS is an important public health issue.
CONCLUSIONS: The key findings in registries should be utilized in conjunction 
with data from clinical trials to optimize treatment and improve long-term 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31820502f6
PMID: 21205683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. JAMA. 2011 Jan 5;305(1):50-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.2010.1923.

Gait speed and survival in older adults.

Studenski S(1), Perera S, Patel K, Rosano C, Faulkner K, Inzitari M, Brach J, 
Chandler J, Cawthon P, Connor EB, Nevitt M, Visser M, Kritchevsky S, Badinelli 
S, Harris T, Newman AB, Cauley J, Ferrucci L, Guralnik J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geratric Medicine, School of Medicine, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. sas33@pitt.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2011 Jan 5;305(1):93-4.
    Adv Emerg Nurs J. 2014 Jul-Sep;36(3):209-14.

CONTEXT: Survival estimates help individualize goals of care for geriatric 
patients, but life tables fail to account for the great variability in survival. 
Physical performance measures, such as gait speed, might help account for 
variability, allowing clinicians to make more individualized estimates.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relationship between gait speed and survival.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Pooled analysis of 9 cohort studies 
(collected between 1986 and 2000), using individual data from 34,485 
community-dwelling older adults aged 65 years or older with baseline gait speed 
data, followed up for 6 to 21 years. Participants were a mean (SD) age of 73.5 
(5.9) years; 59.6%, women; and 79.8%, white; and had a mean (SD) gait speed of 
0.92 (0.27) m/s.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Survival rates and life expectancy.
RESULTS: There were 17,528 deaths; the overall 5-year survival rate was 84.8% 
(confidence interval [CI], 79.6%-88.8%) and 10-year survival rate was 59.7% (95% 
CI, 46.5%-70.6%). Gait speed was associated with survival in all studies (pooled 
hazard ratio per 0.1 m/s, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.87-0.90; P < .001). Survival increased 
across the full range of gait speeds, with significant increments per 0.1 m/s. 
At age 75, predicted 10-year survival across the range of gait speeds ranged 
from 19% to 87% in men and from 35% to 91% in women. Predicted survival based on 
age, sex, and gait speed was as accurate as predicted based on age, sex, use of 
mobility aids, and self-reported function or as age, sex, chronic conditions, 
smoking history, blood pressure, body mass index, and hospitalization.
CONCLUSION: In this pooled analysis of individual data from 9 selected cohorts, 
gait speed was associated with survival in older adults.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2010.1923
PMCID: PMC3080184
PMID: 21205966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. JAMA. 2011 Jan 5;305(1):93-4. doi: 10.1001/jama.2010.1970.

Role of gait speed in the assessment of older patients.

Cesari M.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2011 Jan 5;305(1):50-8.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2010.1970
PMID: 21205972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Turk Kardiyol Dern Ars. 2010 Oct;38(7):473-9.

[Clinical and laboratory features of patients with pericardial effusion].

[Article in Turkish]

Gümrükçüoğlu HA(1), Akyol A, Tuncer M, Güneş Y, Beğenik H, Akdağ S, Sahin M, 
Simşek H, Ağırbaşlı M.

Author information:
(1)Van Yüksek İhtisas Eğitim ve Araştırma Hastanesi Kardiyoloji Kliniği, Van, 
Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: We reviewed patients who were diagnosed to have pericardial effusion 
(PE) over a four-year period to determine the causes of PE, clinical and 
laboratory features, and treatment modalities.
STUDY DESIGN: Medical records of 136 patients (81 women, 55 men; mean age 
55.8±18.7 years; range 8 to 90 years) admitted to our department with PE from 
August 2005 to August 2009 were reviewed. The diagnosis of PE was made by 
transthoracic echocardiography. Medical history, physical examination, 
electrocardiography, echocardiography, and laboratory findings and treatment 
methods were recorded.
RESULTS: The most frequent complaint was dyspnea (86.8%) and the most common 
physical examination finding was jugular venous distension (47.1%). The most 
common electrocardiographic and echocardiographic findings were tachycardia 
(47.8%) and mild PE (<1 cm) (63.2%), respectively. Chronic renal failure and 
malignant diseases were the primary causes of PE (25% and 22.8% respectively), 
followed by idiopathic cases (14%). Pericardial tamponade was detected in 34 
patients (25%), of which the majority had malignant diseases (53%). Thirty-eight 
patients (27.9%) underwent interventional treatment (pericardiocentesis in 27, 
surgical drainage in 11), while 98 patients (72.1%) were followed-up with 
medical treatment. Mortality occurred in three patients with pericardial 
tamponade.
CONCLUSION: The most common causes of PE in our cases were chronic renal failure 
and malignancies. The incidence of malignant PE is on the incline owing to 
increased life expectancy. Echocardiography is the primary imaging modality for 
the evaluation of PE.

PMID: 21206200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Semin Neurol. 2010 Nov;30(5):518-27. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1268864. Epub 2011
Jan  4.

Internal carotid artery stenosis: natural history and management.

Lanzino G(1), Tallarita T, Rabinstein AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurologic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, 
USA. lanzino.giuseppe@mayo.edu

Extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis is an important cause of 
ipsilateral stroke. The natural history of the disease is related to the 
presence or absence of ipsilateral hemispheric symptoms and the severity of 
stenosis. Doppler ultrasound is commonly used as a screening test, with more 
advanced noninvasive imaging studies such as computerized tomography angiography 
(CTA) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) utilized as confirmatory tests if 
invasive treatment is contemplated. With less-invasive imaging techniques, 
traditional catheter angiography is rarely indicated for the diagnosis of 
carotid stenosis. Medical therapy remains the mainstay of treatment in patients 
with asymptomatic stenosis. Invasive treatment of asymptomatic internal carotid 
artery stenosis is indicated in a selected group of patients with severe 
stenosis and life expectancy exceeding 5 years. Invasive treatment is indicated 
for symptomatic patients with stenosis greater than 70% and in selected patients 
with recent symptoms and moderate (50% to 69%) stenosis. The risk of ipsilateral 
stroke is highest in the first few weeks following a presenting symptomatic 
event. Therefore, when indicated, invasive treatment of symptomatic disease 
should be considered soon after presenting symptoms to maximize the benefit of 
the procedure. Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) remains the gold standard for 
invasive treatment of internal carotid artery disease (symptomatic and 
asymptomatic). However, based on recent evidence, carotid angioplasty and 
stenting (CAS) is a valid alternative to CEA in an increasing percentage of 
patients in need of invasive treatment. Regardless of treatment modality, proper 
patient selection for invasive treatment remains the single most important 
factor to insure proper use of available technology.

© Thieme Medical Publishers.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1268864
PMID: 21207344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Rejuvenation Res. 2011 Feb;14(1):83-8. doi: 10.1089/rej.2010.1071. Epub 2011
Jan  5.

Beyond sole longevity: a social perspective on healthspan extension.

Lai WF(1), Chan ZC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, China. rori0610@graduate.hku.hk

Pursuance of longevity is not only combating decrepitude but it is also 
extending the health span; otherwise longevity would result in a universal 
medical and social burden. As revealed by the literature, the attainment of a 
healthy life could be impacted by the social milieu. An inquiry of this kind 
could hardly be settled by mere laboratory endeavors, and thus serious 
discussion of the social dimension of life span extension is imperative. 
However, little attention has been paid to this need in the biogerontological 
field. In view of this gap, the aim of this article is to explore the health 
relationship of the social milieu by using social relations as an example and to 
raise the awareness within our biogerontological community of the relevance of 
the social milieu to our existing efforts on longevity pursuance. It is hoped 
that through this article and with the success of antiaging therapies, not only 
could collaborative work between biogerontologists and scholars in other 
disciplines be stimulated, but indefinite extension of both life span and health 
span could also be achieved in the future.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2010.1071
PMID: 21208060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Health Aff (Millwood). 2011 Jan;30(1):81-3. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0995.

Building a stronger foundation for a new century of treatments and cures.

Sebelius K(1).

Author information:
(1)US Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, DC, 
USA.healthcare@hhs.gov

In the past two years, the United States has made a historic investment in 
biomedical research. But innovative medicines often stall in the pipeline from 
microscope to market. To deliver the next generation of cures and treatments to 
help Americans live longer, healthier, and more comfortable lives, strong, 
strategic partnerships both within government and among government, academe, 
industry, and nonprofits are needed at every stage of drug development. In this 
article I describe actual and potential efforts on the part of the US 
government--including the Biomarkers Consortium and National Institutes of 
Health Therapeutics for Rare and Neglected Diseases program--to work with other 
stakeholders to advance biomedical research and development.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0995
PMID: 21209442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Health Aff (Millwood). 2011 Jan;30(1):182; author reply 183. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.2010.1176.

Americans want quality of life, not just longevity.

Edelman NH.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2010 Nov;29(11):2105-13.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2010.1176
PMID: 21209457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Cancer Microenviron. 2010 Mar 5;3(1):149-66. doi: 10.1007/s12307-010-0038-3.

The tumor microenvironment in colorectal carcinogenesis.

Peddareddigari VG, Wang D, Dubois RN.

Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the 
United States. Therapeutic developments in the past decade have extended life 
expectancy in patients with metastatic disease. However, metastatic colorectal 
cancers remain incurable. Numerous agents that were demonstrated to have 
significant antitumor activity in experimental models translated into 
disappointing results in extending patient survival. This has resulted in more 
attention being focused on the contribution of tumor microenvironment to the 
progression of a number of solid tumors including colorectal cancer. A more 
complete understanding of interactions between tumor epithelial cells and their 
stromal elements will enhance therapeutic options and improve clinical outcome. 
Here we will review the role of various stromal components in colorectal 
carcinogenesis and discuss the potential of targeting these components for the 
development of future therapeutic agents.

DOI: 10.1007/s12307-010-0038-3
PMCID: PMC2990487
PMID: 21209781


752. J Osteoporos. 2010 Dec 16;2011:926045. doi: 10.4061/2011/926045.

A roadmap to the brittle bones of cystic fibrosis.

Gore AP(1), Kwon SH, Stenbit AE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Medical Genetics, Department of 
Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC 29425-6300, USA.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder which despite advances 
in medical care continues to be a life-limiting and often fatal disease. With 
increase in life expectancy of the CF population, bone disease has emerged as a 
common complication. Unlike the osteoporosis seen in postmenopausal population, 
bone disease in CF begins at a young age and is associated with significant 
morbidity due to fractures, kyphosis, increased pain, and decreased lung 
function. The maintenance of bone health is essential for the CF population 
during their lives to prevent pain and fractures but also as they approach lung 
transplantation since severe bone disease can lead to exclusion from lung 
transplantation. Early recognition, prevention, and treatment are key to 
maintaining optimal bone health in CF patients and often require a 
multidisciplinary approach. This article will review the pathophysiology, 
current clinical practice guidelines, and potential future therapies for 
treating CF-related bone disease.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/926045
PMCID: PMC3010683
PMID: 21209785


753. PLoS Med. 2010 Dec 21;7(12):e1000382. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000382.

Scaling up the 2010 World Health Organization HIV Treatment Guidelines in 
resource-limited settings: a model-based analysis.

Walensky RP(1), Wood R, Ciaranello AL, Paltiel AD, Lorenzana SB, Anglaret X, 
Stoler AW, Freedberg KA; CEPAC-International Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. rwalensky@partners.org

BACKGROUND: The new 2010 World Health Organization (WHO) HIV treatment 
guidelines recommend earlier antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation (CD4<350 
cells/µl instead of CD4<200 cells/µl), multiple sequential ART regimens, and 
replacement of first-line stavudine with tenofovir. This paper considers what to 
do first in resource-limited settings where immediate implementation of all of 
the WHO recommendations is not feasible.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We use a mathematical model and local input data to 
project clinical and economic outcomes in a South African HIV-infected cohort 
(mean age = 32.8 y, mean CD4 = 375/µl). For the reference strategy, we assume 
that all patients initiate stavudine-based ART with WHO stage III/IV disease and 
receive one line of ART (stavudine/WHO/one-line). We rank-in survival, 
cost-effectiveness, and equity terms-all 12 possible combinations of the 
following: (1) stavudine replacement with tenofovir, (2) ART initiation (by WHO 
stage, CD4<200 cells/µl, or CD4<350 cells/µl), and (3) one or two regimens, or 
lines, of available ART. Projected life expectancy for the reference strategy is 
99.0 mo. Considering each of the guideline components separately, 5-y survival 
is maximized with ART initiation at CD4<350 cells/µl 
(stavudine/<350/µl/one-line, 87% survival) compared with stavudine/WHO/two-lines 
(66%) and tenofovir/WHO/one-line (66%). The greatest life expectancies are 
achieved via the following stepwise programmatic additions: 
stavudine/<350/µl/one-line (124.3 mo), stavudine/<350/µl/two-lines (177.6 mo), 
and tenofovir/<350/µl/two-lines (193.6 mo). Three program combinations are 
economically efficient: stavudine/<350/µl/one-line (cost-effectiveness ratio, 
US$610/years of life saved [YLS]), tenofovir/<350/µl/one-line (US$1,140/YLS), 
and tenofovir/<350/µl/two-lines (US$2,370/YLS).
CONCLUSIONS: In settings where immediate implementation of all of the new WHO 
treatment guidelines is not feasible, ART initiation at CD4<350 cells/µl 
provides the greatest short- and long-term survival advantage and is highly 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000382
PMCID: PMC3014084
PMID: 21209794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: RPW, XA, and RW participated in the World Health 
Organization Guidelines 2009 revision process, including the Peer Review Panel 
(XA) and Review Meeting 14–16 October, 2009, Geneva, Switzerland (RPW and RW).


754. Qual Life Res. 2011 Aug;20(6):853-63. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9826-y. Epub
2011  Jan 6.

State Quality-Adjusted Life Expectancy for U.S. adults from 1993 to 2008.

Jia H(1), Zack MM, Thompson WW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, 617 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
hj2198@columbia.edu

PURPOSE: Quality-Adjusted Life Expectancy (QALE) is a summary measure of 
mortality and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) across different stages of 
life. This study developed a method to calculate state-level QALE for U.S. 
adults.
METHODS: Population HRQOL data came from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance 
System (BRFSS). Using age-specific deaths from the Mortality Summary File, this 
study constructed life tables to estimate life expectancy and QALE for all 50 
States and the District of Columbia by sex and race from 1993 through 2008.
RESULTS: From 1993 to 2008, the QALE of an U.S. adult at 18 years old had 
increased from 51.2 to 52.3 years. In 2006, states with the highest QALE were 
Hawaii (56.2), Minnesota (55.2), North Dakota (54.9), Iowa (54.7), and Nebraska 
(54.4), while the states with the lowest QALE were West Virginia (47.1), 
Mississippi (48.2), Alabama (48.5), Kentucky (48.5), and Oklahoma (49.0).
CONCLUSIONS: Because population HRQOL values and mortality statistics are 
available from existing and publicly accessible data and because formulas for 
the calculation of QALE and its standard error are easy to incorporate in a 
spreadsheet, State and local Health Departments can calculate QALE as a routine 
surveillance measurement for tracking their population's health over time.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9826-y
PMID: 21210226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Health Econ. 2011 Apr;20(4):432-45. doi: 10.1002/hec.1599.

Economic evaluation and the postponement of health care costs.

van Baal PH(1), Feenstra TL, Polder JJ, Hoogenveen RT, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Expertise Centre for Methodology and Information Services, National Institute 
for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
pieter.van.baal@rivm.nl

The inclusion of medical costs in life years gained in economic evaluations of 
health care technologies has long been controversial. Arguments in favour of the 
inclusion of such costs are gaining support, which shifts the question from 
whether to how to include these costs. This paper elaborates on the issue how to 
include cost in life years gained in cost effectiveness analysis given the 
current practice of economic evaluations in which costs of related diseases are 
included. We combine insights from the theoretical literature on the inclusion 
of unrelated medical costs in life years gained with insights from the so-called 
'red herring' literature. It is argued that for most interventions it would be 
incorrect to simply add all medical costs in life years gained to an ICER, even 
when these are corrected for postponement of the expensive last year of life. 
This is the case since some of the postponement mechanism is already captured in 
the unadjusted ICER by modelling the costs of related diseases. Using the 
example of smoking cessation, we illustrate the differences and similarities 
between different approaches. The paper concludes with a discussion about the 
proper way to account for medical costs in life years gained in economic 
evaluations.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1599
PMID: 21210494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Value Health. 2011 Jan;14(1):15-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.016.

Cost-effectiveness of infliximab for the treatment of active and progressive 
psoriatic arthritis.

Cummins E(1), Asseburg C, Punekar YS, Shore E, Morris J, Briggs A, Fenwick E.

Author information:
(1)McMaster Development Consultants Ltd., Glasgow, Scotland, UK.

BACKGROUND: Despite its proven efficacy, infliximab is often considered to be an 
expensive treatment for patients with psoriatic arthritis.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of infliximab among patients with 
active and progressive psoriatic arthritis.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was constructed to simulate disease 
progression in hypothetical cohorts of patients with psoriatic arthritis 
receiving infliximab maintenance treatment. The primary response measure was 
change in Health Assessment Questionnaire score from a baseline estimated from 
mixed treatment models drawn from published clinical trials. Palliative care, 
comprising nonbiologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, was used as a 
comparator. The primary outcome was quality-adjusted life years. The dose of 
infliximab was estimated for a range of 60 to 80 kg per patient body weight. The 
costs and outcomes were discounted at 3.5% for a period of 40 years. Uncertainty 
around the results was explored with probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The mixed treatment comparison showed a significant reduction in Health 
Assessment Questionnaire score across all patients. The tumor necrosis factor α 
inhibitors were significantly superior to palliative care but comparable with 
one another. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for etanercept, 
adalimumab, and infliximab relative to palliative care were £17,327; £19,246; 
and £16,942 to £23,022, respectively, across all patients with psoriatic 
arthritis and £16,613; £18,170; and £15,788 to £21,736, respectively, in the 
subgroup with significant psoriasis.
CONCLUSION: Infliximab represents a cost-effective treatment option well within 
the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence threshold relative to 
palliative care. In light of equivalent outcomes with other tumor necrosis 
factor α inhibitors, its position in the treatment pathway is likely to be 
governed by treatment costs.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.016
PMID: 21211482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Value Health. 2011 Jan;14(1):24-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.025.

Cost-effectiveness of bivalirudin versus heparin plus glycoprotein IIb/IIIa 
inhibitor in the treatment of non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes.

Schwenkglenks M(1), Brazier JE, Szucs TD, Fox KA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland. m.schwenkglenks@unibas.ch

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to assess the cost-effectiveness of bivalirudin 
versus heparin plus glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (GPI) in 
thienopyridine-treated non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome 
(NSTE-ACS) patients undergoing early or urgent invasive management, from a 
United Kingdom National Health Service perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model with lifelong time horizon was populated with 
event risks and resource use parameters derived from the Acute Catheterization 
and Urgent Intervention Triage Strategy (ACUITY) trial raw data. In a parallel 
analysis, key comparator strategy inputs came from Global Registry of Acute 
Coronary Events (GRACE) patients enrolled in the United Kingdom. Upstream and 
catheter laboratory-initiated GPI were assumed to be tirofiban and abciximab, 
respectively. Life expectancy of first-year survivors, unit costs, and 
health-state utilities came from United Kingdom sources. Costs and effects were 
discounted at 3.5%. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were expressed 
as cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Higher acquisition costs for bivalirudin were partially offset by lower 
hospitalization and bleeding costs. In the ACUITY-based analysis, per-patient 
lifetime costs in the bivalirudin and heparin plus GPI strategies were £10,903 
and £10,653, respectively. Patients survived 10.87 and 10.82 years on average, 
corresponding to 5.96 and 5.93 QALYs and resulting in an ICER of £9,906 per QALY 
gained. The GRACE-based ICER was £12,276 per QALY gained. In probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, 72.1% and 67.0% of simulation results were more 
cost-effective than £20,000 per QALY gained, in the ACUITY-based and GRACE-based 
analyses, respectively. Additional scenario analyses implied that greater 
cost-effectiveness may be achieved in actual clinical practice.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating NSTE-ACS patients undergoing invasive management with 
bivalirudin is likely to represent a cost-effective option for the United 
Kingdom, when compared with the current practice of using heparin and a GPI.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.025
PMID: 21211483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Value Health. 2011 Jan;14(1):53-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.009.

The CHD challenge: comparing four cost-effectiveness models.

Turner D(1), Raftery J, Cooper K, Fairbank E, Palmer S, Ward S, Ara R.

Author information:
(1)Wessex Institute University of Southampton, Southampton, UK. 
dturner@soton.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To compare four UK models evaluating the cost-effectiveness of 
interventions in coronary heart disease (CHD), exploring the relative importance 
of structure and inputs in accounting for differences, and the scope for 
consensus on structure and data.
METHODS: We compared published cost-effectiveness results (incremental cost, 
quality-adjusted life year, and cost-effectiveness ratio) of three models 
conforming to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
guidelines dealing with three interventions (statins, percutaneous coronary 
intervention, and clopidogrel) with a model developed in Southampton. 
Comparisons were made using three separate stages: 1) comparison of published 
results; 2) comparison of the results using the same data inputs wherever 
possible; and 3) an in-depth exploration of reasons for differences and the 
potential for consensus.
RESULTS: Although published results differed by up to 73% (for statins), 
standardization of inputs (stage 2) narrowed these gaps. Greater understanding 
of the reasons for differences was achieved, but a consensus on preferred values 
for all data inputs was not reached.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that published guidance on methods was important to reduce 
variation in important model inputs. Although the comparison of models did not 
lead to consensus for all model inputs, it provided a better understanding of 
the reasons for these differences, and enhanced the transparency and credibility 
of all models. Similar comparisons would be aided by fuller publication of 
models, perhaps through detailed web appendices.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.009
PMID: 21211486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Value Health. 2011 Jan;14(1):70-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.011.

The cost-utility analysis of adult male circumcision for prevention of 
heterosexual acquisition of HIV in men in sub-Saharan Africa: a probabilistic 
decision model.

Uthman OA(1), Popoola TA, Yahaya I, Uthman MM, Aremu O.

Author information:
(1)The West Midlands Health Technology Assessment Collaboration (WMHTAC), 
University of Birmingham, Public Health, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK. uthlekan@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-utility of adult male 
circumcision (AMC) versus no AMC in the prevention of heterosexual acquisition 
of HIV in men in sub-Saharan Africa.
METHODS: A decision tree was constructed and parameterized using data from 
published sources. The economic evaluation was conducted from the perspective of 
government health care payer. Benefits (disability adjusted life years [DALYs]) 
and costs were discounted at 3%. Costs were assessed in 2008 US dollars. One-way 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the stability of 
the base-case results. The uncertainty surrounding the estimates of cost 
effectiveness was illustrated through a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve 
and cost-effectiveness plane.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, AMC can be regarded as cost saving because 
it is associated with higher DALYs gained and lower costs than no AMC. The 
probability that AMC is cost effective is above 0.96 at a threshold value of 
$150 and remains high over a wide range of threshold values. Thus, there is very 
little uncertainty surrounding the decision to adopt AMC for prevention of 
heterosexual acquisition of HIV in men. The results were found to be sensitive 
to varying any of the following parameters: DALYs averted, discount, and 
circumcision efficacy.
CONCLUSIONS: AMC is found to be cost saving. AMC may be seen as a promising new 
form of strategy for prevention of heterosexual acquisition of HIV in men, but 
should never replace other known methods of HIV prevention and should always be 
considered as part of a comprehensive HIV prevention package.

Copyright Â© 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.011
