PMID: 21211488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Value Health. 2011 Jan;14(1):90-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.017.

Analysis of EQ-5D scores from two phase 3 clinical trials of romiplostim in the 
treatment of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP).

Sanz MA(1), Aledort L, Mathias SD, Wang X, Isitt JJ.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario La Fe, Servicio de Hematologia, Valencia, Spain. 
msanz@uv.es

OBJECTIVE: Utility-based measures of quality of life are recommended by some 
decision makers in health care. No studies have addressed changes in utility in 
patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenia (ITP). This study sought to 
assess the health utilities of patients with chronic ITP and to evaluate the 
association of change in health utility with changes in other variables, 
including platelet response status and bleeding events.
METHODS: We analyzed EQ-5D data from two international, randomized, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, 24-week trials that evaluated the efficacy and 
safety of romiplostim in adult patients with chronic ITP.
RESULTS: A total of 125 subjects participated. Mean change, adjusted for age, 
gender, splenectomy status, and baseline score using multiple linear regression 
models was greater for romiplostim versus placebo for the EQ-5D index score 
(0.05 vs. -0.03, P = 0.015) and the VAS score (6.42 vs. 0.48, P = 0.066); 
similar for durable platelet responders versus nonresponders; and greater for 
EQ-5D index scores for subjects who did not have a bleeding event during the 
study (n = 29) compared to subjects who did have a bleeding event (n = 47) (0.06 
vs. 0.005; P = 0.066).
CONCLUSIONS: Using romiplostim in cases of chronic ITP was associated with 
improvement in health-related quality of life as measured by the EQ-5D index 
score. Health utility scores derived using the EQ-5D in this study may be useful 
for determining quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in economic evaluations of 
romiplostim for treatment of chronic ITP.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.017
PMID: 21211490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Value Health. 2011 Jan;14(1):97-101. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.021.

Incremental cost-effectiveness of various monthly doses of vardenafil.

Aspinall SL(1), Smith KJ, Cunningham FE, Good CB.

Author information:
(1)VA Center for Medication Safety, Hines, IL, USA. sherrie.aspinall@va.gov

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of four, six, and eight doses per 
month of vardenafil in the context of pharmacy benefit decision making.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness 
of zero, four, six, or eight doses of vardenafil per month in hypothetical 
cohorts of 60-year-old male veterans with erectile dysfunction. Efficacy values 
for vardenafil were obtained from the literature, and vardenafil costs were 
obtained from Veterans Affairs pharmacy data. The analysis was conducted from a 
third-party payer perspective with a lifetime horizon, and the effect of 
parameter uncertainty was explored in one-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained for four doses of vardenafil per month compared with no therapy was $576. 
Six doses per month compared with four cost $2585/quality-adjusted life-year 
gained, and eight doses per month compared with six cost $5169/quality-adjusted 
life-year gained. In one-way sensitivity analyses of six doses per month 
compared with four, variation of two parameters caused the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio to cross a willingness-to-pay threshold of $20,000: 
when the increased utility associated with giving two additional doses/month was 
less than 0.001 (baseline 0.01) and when the cost per dose increased to $15.00 
(baseline $1.69).
CONCLUSION: Although four doses per month of vardenafil was the most 
cost-effective strategy, the use of six or eight doses per month also compares 
favorably with other accepted medical treatments. The results were stable across 
a range of inputs and help to support the current Veterans Affairs policy on the 
number of vardenafil doses provided per month for erectile dysfunction.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.021
PMID: 21211491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Value Health. 2011 Jan;14(1):192-200. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.11.001.

Using HAQ-DI to estimate HUI-3 and EQ-5D utility values for patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis in Spain.

Carreño A(1), Fernández I, Badia X, Varela C, Roset M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research - IMS Health, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Utility values are not usually assessed in clinical trials 
and do not allow cost-utility analysis to be performed with the data collected. 
The aim of this study was to derive relation functions so that Health Assessment 
Questionnaire - Disability Index (HAQ-DI) scores could be used to estimate 
Health Utilities Index - 3 (HUI-3) and EQ-5D utility values for patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: An observational, cross-sectional, naturalistic, multicentre study was 
conducted. A total of 244 patients aged 18 years or older, with RA according to 
American College of Rheumatology diagnostic criteria, were recruited. 
Sociodemographic and clinical variables were recorded and patients completed 
three generic HRQoL questionnaires: the HAQ-DI, the HUI-3, and the EQ-5D. Two 
linear regression models were used to predict HUI-3 and EQ-5D utility values as 
functions of HAQ-DI scores, age, and gender.
RESULTS: Patient mean age was 57.8 years old (standard deviation [SD], 13.3 
years); 75.8% of the patients were women and 95.9% were white. Mean disease 
duration was 10.8 years (SD, 9 years). Patient distribution according to HAQ-DI 
severity was as follows: HAQ-DI < 0.5, 29%; 0.5 ≤ HAQ-DI < 1.1, 28%; 1.1 ≤ 
HAQ-DI < 1.6, 16%,1.6 ≤ HAQ-DI < 2.1, 15%; and HAQ-DI ≥ 2.1, 12%. HAQ-DI and 
EQ-5D mean scores were 1.02 (SD, 0.78) and 63.1 (SD, 20.3), respectively. Mean 
utility values for HUI-3 and time trade-off (TTO) were 0.75 (SD, 0.21) and 0.65 
(SD, 0.3), respectively. The equations converting HAQ-DI scores to utilities 
were HUI-3 = 0.9527 - (0.2018 × HAQ-DI) +ε (R(2)=0.56), and TTO = 0.9567 - 
(0.309 × HAQ-DI) + ε (R(2)=0.54). Error distribution was non-normal. Age and 
gender were found to have no bearing on the utility functions.
CONCLUSIONS: HAQ-DI scores can be used to estimate HUI-3 and EQ-5D utility 
values for patients with RA in data obtained from studies where utility values 
have not been collected.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.11.001
PMID: 21211502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Encephale. 2010 Dec;36 Suppl 5:S112-6. doi: 10.1016/S0013-7006(10)70041-5.

[Depression and health state].

[Article in French]

Lançon C(1).

Author information:
(1)CHU Sainte Marguerite, Pavillon Solaris, Marseille, France. clancon@ap-hm.fr

Depressive disorders are rarely isolated and are most often associated with 
addiction and chronic somatic disorders. Such comorbidity raises the question of 
a model for an effective treatment to expect increased life expectancy of 
patients with depression, we should be able to work with the resources of 
individuals and their subjective models related to health. The adoption of 
appropriate strategies to improve health states should be preferred when the 
depressive episode is correctly and completely curred. Finally, the process of 
change and adaptation to stress should be promoted among depressed patients to 
enable them to even their life expectancy.

Copyright Â© 2010 L'Encéphale. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0013-7006(10)70041-5
PMID: 21211629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Rev Med Interne. 2010 Dec;31 Suppl 2:S279-91. doi: 
10.1016/S0248-8663(10)70028-X.

[Enzyme replacement therapy of lysosomal storage diseases].

[Article in French]

Germain DP(1), Boucly C, Carlier RY, Caudron E, Charlier P, Colas F, Jabbour F, 
Martinez V, Mokhtari S, Orlikowski D, Pellegrini N, Perronne C, Prigent H, 
Rubinsztajn R, Benistan K.

Author information:
(1)Université de Versailles - St Quentin en Yvelines (UVSQ), 78035 Versailles, 
France. dominique.germain@rpc.aphp.fr

Extraction and purification of an acid β-glucosidase from human placenta 
(alglucerase) for the treatment of Gaucher disease, replaced a few years later 
by a recombinant enzyme (imiglucérase, Cerezyme(®)), has paved the way to the 
development of enzyme replacement therapies (ERT) for the treatment of lysosomal 
storage diseases (LSD) among which Fabry disease for which the long-term 
efficacy of the two currently available preparations (agalsidase alfa, 
Replagal(®) and Fabrazyme(®)) is still being investigated. Mucopolysaccharidosis 
(MPS) type I (Hurler and Scheie diseases), II (Hunter syndrome) and VI 
(Maroteaux-Lamy disease) also benefit from ERT using laronidase (Aldurazyme(®)), 
idursulfase (Elaprase(®)) and galsulfase (Naglazyme(®)), respectively. ERT 
reduces the hepatosplenomegaly and improves the physical and respiratory 
capacities of MPS patients with a globally acceptable safety profile although 
the possibility of infusion-associated should always be kept in mind. 
Alglucosidase alpha (Myozyme(®)) improves the cardiomyopathy and life expectancy 
of infants suffering from Pompe disease and is under evaluation for the 
treatment of the juvenile and adult forms of the disease. CNS involvement 
remains a major challenge for many LSD and innovative research and approaches 
are needed to address the fact that recombinant enzymes do not cross the 
blood-brain barrier and therefore are not expected to lead to any improvement in 
CNS damages, except if alternative routes such as intrathecal administration 
would be developed. Molecular chaperones (e.g. migalastat for Fabry disease) and 
inhibitors of glucosylceramide synthesis (e.g. eliglustat tartrate for Gaucher 
disease) are currently under investigation in various clinical trials.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0248-8663(10)70028-X
PMID: 21211680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Meat Sci. 2011 May;88(1):109-16. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2010.12.010. Epub
2010  Dec 9.

Shelf life extension of lamb meat using thyme or oregano essential oils and 
modified atmosphere packaging.

Karabagias I(1), Badeka A, Kontominas MG.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Technology, Department of Chemistry, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina 45110, Greece.

The effect of thyme (TEO) and oregano (OEO) essential oils as well as modified 
atmosphere packaging (MAP) in extending the shelf life of fresh lamb meat stored 
at 4 °C was investigated. In a preliminary experiment TEO and OEO were used at 
concentrations 0.1 and 0.3% v/w while MAP tested included MAP1 (60% CO(2)/40% 
N(2)) and MAP2 (80% CO(2)/20% N(2)). Microbiological, physicochemical and 
sensory properties of lamb meat were monitored over a 20 day period. Sensory 
analysis showed that at the higher concentration both essential oils gave a 
strong objectionable odour and taste and were not further used. Of the two 
essential oils TEO was more effective as was MAP2 over MAP1 for lamb meat 
preservation. In a second experiment the combined effect of TEO (0.1%) and MAP2 
(80/20) on shelf life extension of lamb meat was evaluated over a 25 day storage 
period. Microbial populations were reduced up to 2.8 log cfu/g on day 9 of 
storage with the most pronounced effect being achieved by the combination MAP2 
plus TEO (0.1%). TBA values varied for all treatments and remained lower than 4 
mg MDA/kg throughout storage. pH values varied between 6.4 and 6.0 during 
storage. Color parameters (L and b) increased with storage time while parameter 
(a) remained unaffected. Based primarily on sensory analysis (odour) but also on 
microbiological data, shelf life of lamb meat was 7 days for air packaged 
samples, 9-10 days for samples containing 0.1% of TEO and 21-22 days for MAP 
packaged samples containing 0.1% TEO.

Copyright © 2010 The American Meat Science Association. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2010.12.010
PMID: 21211912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Eur J Ageing. 2010 Dec;7(4):257-269. doi: 10.1007/s10433-010-0171-3. Epub
2010  Nov 9.

Trends in healthy life expectancy in Hong Kong SAR 1996-2008.

Cheung KS(1), Yip PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work and Social Administration, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Although Hong Kong has one of the best life expectancy (LE) records in the 
world, second only to Japan for women, we know very little about the changes in 
the health status of the older adult population. Our article aims to provide a 
better understanding of trends in both chronic morbidity and disability for 
older men and women. The authors compute chronic morbidity-free and 
disability-free life expectancy and the proportion of both in relation to total 
LE using the Sullivan method to examine whether Hong Kong older adults are 
experiencing a compression of morbidity and disability and whether there is any 
gender difference in relation to mortality and morbidity. The results of this 
study show that Hong Kong women tend to outlive Hong Kong men but are also more 
likely to suffer from a 'double disadvantage', namely more years of life with 
more chronic morbidity and disability. There has also been a significant 
expansion of chronic morbidity, as chronic morbidity-free life expectancy 
(CMFLE) decreased substantially for both genders from 1996 to 2008. Although 
disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) increased during this period, it 
increased at a slower pace compared to LE. The proportion of life without 
chronic morbidity also declined remarkably during these 12 years. Among the 
advanced ages, the proportion of remaining life in good health without 
disability has decreased since 1996, indicating a relative expansion of 
disability.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-010-0171-3
PMCID: PMC2995861
PMID: 21212818


767. J Agromedicine. 2011 Jan;16(1):6-18. doi: 10.1080/1059924X.2011.534714.

Incidence and cost of nonfatal farm youth injury, United States, 2001-2006.

Zaloshnja E(1), Miller TR, Lee BC.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, Calverton, Maryland, USA. 
zaloshnja@pire.org

The objective of this study was to estimate the annual incidence and cost of 
nonfatal farm youth injury in the United States for the period 2001-2006. The 
authors used 2001-2006 Childhood Agricultural Injury Survey data to estimate the 
annual incidence of farm youth nonfatal injury. To estimate the costs for 
injuries suffered by youth working/living on the farm, the number of injuries 
was multiplied by published unit costs by body part, nature of injury, and age 
group. The annual number of nonfatal injuries to youth (ages 0-19) on farms in 
2001-2006 was 26,570. The annual cost of nonfatal farm youth injuries was $1 
billion (in 2005 dollars), with 26% of costs related to working on the farm and 
47% on beef cattle farms. Around 9.3% of the cost was medical costs, 37.2% work 
and household productivity loss, and 53.5% quality of life loss.

DOI: 10.1080/1059924X.2011.534714
PMID: 21213160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Med Assoc Thai. 2004 Oct;87 Suppl 4:S23-32.

Longevity of Thai physicians.

Sithisarankul P(1), Piyasing V, Boontheaim B, Ratanamongkolgul S, 
Wattanasirichaigoon S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.

The objectives of this study were to explore characteristics of the long-lived 
Thai physicians. We sent 983 posted questionnaires to 840 male and 143 female 
physicians. We obtained 327 of them back after 2 rounds of mailing, yielding a 
response rate of 33.3 percents. The response rate of male physicians was 32.4 
percents and that of female physicians was 38.5 percents. Their ages were 
between 68-93 years (75.1 +/- 4.86 years on average). The majority were married, 
implying that their spouses were also long-lived. Around half of them still did 
some clinical work, one-fourth did some charity work, one-fourth did various 
voluntary works, one-fifth did some business, one-fifth did some academic work, 
and some did more than one type of work. Most long-lived physicians were not 
obese, with BMI of 16.53-34.16 (average 23.97 +/- 2.80). Only 8 had BMI higher 
than 30. BMIs were not different between male and female physicians. However, 
four-fifths of them had diseases that required treatment, and some of them had 
more than one disease. The five most frequent diseases were hypertension, 
diabetes, ischemic heart disease, dyslipidemia, and benign prostate hypertrophy, 
respectively. Most long-lived physicians did exercise (87.8%), and some did more 
than one method. The most frequent one was walking (52.3%). Most did not drink 
alcohol or drank occasionally, only 9.0% drank regularly. Most of them slept 3-9 
hours per night (average 6.75 +/- 1.06). Most (78.3%) took some medication 
regularly; of most were medicine for their diseases. Most did not eat 
macrobiotic food, vegetarian food, or fast food regularly. Most long-lived 
physicians practiced some religious activities by praying, paying respect to 
Buddha, giving food to monks, practicing meditation, and listening to monks' 
teaching. They also used Buddhist practice and guidelines for their daily living 
and work, and also recommended these to their younger colleagues. Their 
recreational activities were playing musical instruments (15%), singing (27%), 
doing hobbies (64.0%), and others (51.8%). Most did not reply on question 
whether they achieved their self-actualization target of their lives, this might 
result from the fact that this was rather an abstract question. Our first part 
study revealed some characteristics of long-lived Thai physicians that seem to 
be in agreement with other studies indicating that physicians compared favorably 
with the general population in mortality from physical illness. This may result 
from several factors: the medical student selective process leading to "healthy 
worker effect", knowledge in medicine, access to care, and their healthy 
behaviors (such as nutrition, exercise, religious activities which help improve 
their spiritual well-being).

PMID: 21213484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2011 Jan 7;10:1. doi: 10.1186/1475-2840-10-1.

Estimated incidence of cardiovascular complications related to type 2 diabetes 
in Mexico using the UKPDS outcome model and a population-based survey.

Reynoso-Noverón N(1), Mehta R, Almeda-Valdes P, Rojas-Martinez R, Villalpando S, 
Hernández-Ávila M, Aguilar-Salinas CA.

Author information:
(1)Oficina del Subsecretario de Salud, Secretaria de Salud, (Lieja 7, Colonia 
Juárez), México City (06600) México.

BACKGROUND: To estimate the incidence of complications, life expectancy and 
diabetes related mortality in the Mexican diabetic population over the next two 
decades using data from a nation-wide, population based survey and the United 
Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) outcome model.
METHODS: The cohort included all patients with type 2 diabetes evaluated during 
the National Health and Nutrition Survey (ENSANut) 2006. ENSANut is a 
probabilistic multistage stratified survey whose aim was to measure the 
prevalence of chronic diseases. A total of 47,152 households were visited. 
Results are shown stratified by gender, time since diagnosis (> or ≤ to 10 
years) and age at the time of diagnosis (> or ≤ 40 years).
RESULTS: The prevalence of diabetes in our cohort was 14.4%. The predicted 20 
year-incidence for chronic complications per 1000 individuals are: ischemic 
heart disease 112, myocardial infarction 260, heart failure 113, stroke 101, and 
amputation 62. Furthermore, 539 per 1000 patients will have a diabetes-related 
premature death. The average life expectancy for the diabetic population is 10.9 
years (95%CI 10.7-11.2); this decreases to 8.3 years after adjusting for quality 
of life (CI95% 8.1-8.5). Male sex and cases diagnosed after age 40 have the 
highest risk for developing at least one major complication during the next 20 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the current clinical profile of Mexican patients with 
diabetes, the burden of disease related complications will be tremendous over 
the next two decades.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2840-10-1
PMCID: PMC3023678
PMID: 21214916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Soc Sci Med. 2011 Feb;72(4):617-24. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.12.008.
Epub  2010 Dec 16.

World health inequality: convergence, divergence, and development.

Clark R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK 73019, USA. 
robclark@ou.edu

Recent studies characterize the last half of the twentieth century as an era of 
cross-national health convergence, with some attributing welfare gains in the 
developing world to economic growth. In this study, I examine the extent to 
which welfare outcomes have actually converged and the extent to which economic 
development is responsible for the observed trends. Drawing from estimates 
covering 195 nations during the 1955-2005 period, I find that life expectancy 
averages converged during this time, but that infant mortality rates 
continuously diverged. I develop a narrative that implicates economic 
development in these contrasting trends, suggesting that health outcomes follow 
a "welfare Kuznets curve." Among poor countries, economic development improves 
life expectancy more than it reduces infant mortality, whereas the situation is 
reversed among wealthier nations. In this way, development has contributed to 
both convergence in life expectancy and divergence in infant mortality. Drawing 
from 674 observations across 163 countries during the 1980-2005 period, I find 
that the positive effect of GDP PC on life expectancy attenuates at higher 
levels of development, while the negative effect of GDP PC on infant mortality 
grows stronger.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.12.008
PMID: 21215504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Vasc Surg. 2011 May;53(5):1242-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.10.123. Epub
2011  Jan 7.

N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT pro-BNP) is a predictor of 
long-term survival in male patients of 75 years and older with high-grade 
asymptomatic internal carotid artery stenosis.

Duschek N(1), Skrinjar E, Waldhör T, Vutuc C, Daniel G, Hübl W, Assadian A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Vascular Surgery, Wilhelminenspital, Vienna, 
Austria. nduschek@me.com

BACKGROUND: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is commonly performed for asymptomatic 
high-grade internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis to prevent stroke. However, 
despite advancing age of the society, for patients older than 75 years, there is 
no recommendation by the European guidelines for CEA, as this age group might 
not benefit from this intervention due to a limited life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: We assessed N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT pro-BNP) as 
a predictive marker for long-term survival in this particular patient population 
in order to stratify patients for an improved surgical outcome.
METHODS: In a nonrandomized single-center clinical trial, we prospectively 
studied mortality rates of 205 consecutive patients (80 women, 125 men; mean 
age, 75 ± 10 years) with asymptomatic high-grade ICA stenosis in relation to 
preoperative plasma NT pro-BNP levels. We estimated cumulative survival over 5 
years by Kaplan-Meier curves and established a proportional hazard-model by Cox 
regression.
RESULTS: In male patients, higher levels of preoperative NT pro-BNP levels were 
associated with a significantly increased long-term mortality. Those 75 years or 
older had the same survival rate as younger patients, if NT pro-BNP levels were 
low, making them thus eligible for CEA.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study suggest that preoperative plasma levels of 
NT pro-BNP are a valuable tool for the stratification of male patients. Male 
patients older than 75 years with low levels of NT pro-BNP should be referred 
for carotid revascularization, as they will most likely enjoy the benefit of 
surgery.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.10.123
PMID: 21215559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Apr;53(4):906-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.10.095. Epub
2011  Jan 7.

Outcome in cirrhotic patients after elective surgical repair of infrarenal 
aortic aneurysm.

Marrocco-Trischitta MM(1), Kahlberg A, Astore D, Tshiombo G, Mascia D, Chiesa R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, 
Italy. marroccotrischitta.massimiliano@hsr.it

OBJECTIVE: Abdominal surgery in patients with advanced liver disease has been 
reported to be associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. However, the 
surgical risk of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair in cirrhotics 
remains ill-defined. We reviewed our experience to investigate the predictors of 
the outcome in cirrhotic patients after elective AAA open repair.
METHODS: Between January 2001 and March 2006, 1189 patients underwent elective 
open repair of infrarenal AAA and 24 (2%) had a biopsy-proven cirrhosis (23 
male, 1 female; mean age, 68 ± 7 years). The latter were retrospectively 
stratified according to the Child-Turcotte-Pugh (CTP) score and the Model for 
End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score. Operative variables, perioperative 
complications, and survival were recorded and compared with those of 48 
concurrent noncirrhotic controls matched (2:1) by gender, age, aneurysm size, 
preoperative glomerular filtration rate, and type of reconstruction. The effect 
of CTP and MELD scores on midterm survival was investigated in cirrhotics with 
the Kaplan-Meier log-rank method.
RESULTS: No intraoperative or 30-day deaths were recorded. No significant 
differences in terms of major perioperative complications were observed between 
cirrhotic patients and controls. Operative time and intraoperative blood 
transfusion requirement were significantly higher in cirrhotics (162 ± 49 vs 132 
± 39 minutes; P = .007 and 273 ± 364 vs 84 ± 183 mL; P = .040, respectively). 
Hospital length of stay was nearly doubled in cirrhotic patients (11.0 ± 2.8 vs 
5.8 ± 1.5 days; P < .0001). Twenty-two cirrhotic patients were classified as CTP 
A and two as CTP B. Median MELD score was 8 (range, 6-14). CTP class B was 
associated with higher intraoperative blood transfusion requirement (941 ± 54 vs 
213 ± 314 mL; P = .029). At a mean follow-up of 30.7 ± 22.1 months, five deaths 
were recorded in cirrhotics, and three in controls. Actuarial survival at 2 
years was 77.4% in cirrhotics and 97.8% in controls (log-rank test, P = .026). 
Both CTP B patients died within 6 months. CTP class B and a MELD score ≥10 were 
associated with reduced midterm survival rates (log-rank test, P < .0001 and P = 
.021, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience, elective AAA open repair in relatively 
compensated cirrhotics was safely performed with an acceptable increase of the 
magnitude of the operation. However, the reduced life expectancy of cirrhotics 
with a MELD score ≥10 suggests that such a procedure may not be warranted in 
this subgroup of patients.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.10.095
PMID: 21215574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Maturitas. 2011 Mar;68(3):210-6. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2010.11.019. Epub
2011  Jan 7.

Measuring health: a practical challenge with a philosophical solution?

Shroufi A(1), Chowdhury R, Aston LM, Pashayan N, Franco OH.

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Institute of Public Health, Cambridge, UK.

With the current demographic shift being experienced by populations globally, 
almost linear increases in life expectancy have been seen and can be expected. 
However, increases in healthy life expectancy may not keep pace. Among older 
populations the proportion of time spent in less than full health tends to 
increase. As a result, the accurate valuation of life spent in states less than 
full health will become increasingly important. Different techniques and 
approaches have been used to measure health in populations. The use of summary 
measures of population health such as DALYs (Disability Adjusted Life Years) has 
become common, and is widely used to compare health between populations and to 
evaluate the potential impact of interventions in economic analyses. Most of the 
commonly used summary measures of health express some measure of life lived in 
full health and life lived with disability or in a state of sub-optimal health. 
Critical to the construction of summary health measures are values assigned to 
health states. Current tools used in determining these values include the 
standard gamble, time trade off, person trade off, and the visual analogue 
scale. However, these techniques all have the disadvantage of incorporating 
individual biases (derived from particular characteristics specific to 
individuals or populations) into the process through which health state 
valuations are derived. As a consequence health states are often not directly 
comparable between populations, since characteristics such as nationality and 
ethnicity can influence how health states are valued. Furthermore, health can be 
judged differently by those of different ages, with the young often assigning a 
lower value to life lived at less than full health compared to older people. The 
challenge of obtaining opinions which are not influenced by an individual's own 
circumstances is not new. This issue was encountered and described by the 
American philosopher John Rawls in 'A Theory of Justice' (1971), in which he 
employed a thought experiment called 'the veil of ignorance' as a means of 
overcoming this problem. In this thought experiment an individual is asked to 
make decisions about distributive justice by imagining they are behind a 'veil 
of ignorance', whereby they are unaware of their own position in society. Here 
we discuss how current methods for deriving health state values may incorporate 
a veil of ignorance approach, and how this may benefit the comparability of the 
health state valuations produced. We also propose how such methods may be 
operationalized. Considering these issues, we propose that a new society with 
new needs and a progressively growing interest in maintaining adequate health 
requires appropriate measures of health. These measures should facilitate 
derivation of objective measures of health that are comparable to those acquired 
in other populations, irrespective of age, gender, disease status, ethnicity and 
geographical location. Promoting and improving health demands adequate measures 
of health and the application of the Rawlsian veil of ignorance approach could 
be an effective alternative.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2010.11.019
PMID: 21216114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Clin Radiol. 2011 Feb;66(2):132-9. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2010.09.002. Epub
2010  Nov 20.

The adult cystic fibrosis patient with abdominal pain: what the radiologist 
needs to know.

Liong SY(1), Awad D, Jones AM, Sukumar SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital of South Manchester, Wythenshawe 
Hospital, Manchester, UK.

As the life expectancy of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients continues to increase, 
abdominal manifestations of CF are increasingly being encountered by clinicians 
and radiologists. Imaging plays an important role in the evaluation of adult CF 
patients with abdominal pain as a cause is often not discernable clinically. 
Accurate diagnosis is crucial in these patients as some causes may be managed 
conservatively, whilst others may require surgical intervention. In this review, 
we describe clinical presentation, imaging findings, and management of adult CF 
patients presenting with abdominal pain.

Copyright © 2010 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crad.2010.09.002
PMID: 21216329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 2011 May-Jun;22(3):186-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.jana.2010.10.006. Epub 2011 Jan 8.

Symptom disclosure by older HIV-infected persons.

Nokes KM(1).

Author information:
(1)Hunter-Bellevue School of Nursing, Hunter College, CUNY, New York, New York, 
USA.

The life expectancy for persons living with HIV infection is markedly 
increasing, largely because of the advances made with antiretroviral therapy. In 
comparison with other older individuals, those infected with HIV tend to have 
higher rates of liver-related conditions, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, as well as 
substance use and psychiatric disorders. Although these multimorbidities 
contribute to the symptom burden, older persons with HIV tend not to disclose 
symptoms to their health care providers. Culture, religion, age, and race can 
profoundly affect the way in which symptoms are perceived, and reasons for 
nondisclosure include attributing symptoms to the "normal" aging process. The 
purpose of this article is to highlight the unique situation of older patients 
with HIV regarding symptom disclosure and the need for an integrated treatment 
plan that includes an environment that promotes patient-provider communication, 
better day-to-day self-care, and self-management strategies.

Copyright © 2011 Association of Nurses in AIDS Care. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jana.2010.10.006
PMID: 21216627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Eur J Public Health. 2011 Dec;21(6):781-7. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq198. Epub
2011  Jan 8.

Contribution of mortality and disability to the secular trend in health 
inequality at the turn of century in Belgium.

Van Oyen H(1), Charafeddine R, Deboosere P, Cox B, Lorant V, Nusselder W, 
Demarest S.

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Surveillance, Scientific Institute of Public Health, J. 
Wytsmanstraat 15, 1050 Brussels, Belgium. h.vanoyen@wiv-isp.be

BACKGROUND: There is evidence that health inequalities by socio-economic status 
have persisted. We examined whether educational differences in Disability-Free 
Life Expectancy (DFLE) and Disability Life Expectancy (DLE) at age 25 has 
narrowed or widened between the 1990s and 2000s in Belgium. The contribution of 
mortality and disability prevalence to the secular trend is investigated.
METHODS: We used disability data from the 1997 and 2004 Belgian Health 
Interviews Surveys and mortality data from the 3-years follow-up of the 1991 and 
2001 census population to assess education-related disparities in DFLE and DLE 
and to partition these differences into additive contributions of mortality and 
disability.
RESULTS: Compared to the highest educated population, differences in the 
prevalence of disability accounted for at least 66% of the inequality in DFLE. 
In the latest period, the differences in DFLE compared to men with tertiary 
education was 4.8, 6.6, 9.7 and 18.6 years for men with, respectively higher 
secondary, lower secondary, primary and no education. Among females, 
inequalities in DFLE were, respectively 5.8, 5.1, 10.8 and 18.2 years. There was 
no evidence that the educational differences in DFLE narrowed since the 1990s. 
Compared to people with the highest educational attainment, the inequalities in 
DFLE increased over time for all educational groups except for men with primary 
education.
CONCLUSION: The social divide in health increased over time: people with the 
highest education continued to live even longer, they continued to live even 
longer without disability and to live less years with disability.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq198
PMID: 21217118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nat Med. 2011 Jan;17(1):7. doi: 10.1038/nm0111-7a.

Cancer drugs should add months, not weeks, say experts.

Hoag H.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0111-7a
PMID: 21217655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Oncogene. 2011 May 5;30(18):2147-60. doi: 10.1038/onc.2010.587. Epub 2011
Jan  10.

Uncoupling hypoxia signaling from oxygen sensing in the liver results in 
hypoketotic hypoglycemic death.

Kucejova B(1), Sunny NE, Nguyen AD, Hallac R, Fu X, Peña-Llopis S, Mason RP, 
Deberardinis RJ, Xie XJ, Debose-Boyd R, Kodibagkar VD, Burgess SC, Brugarolas J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX, USA.

As the ultimate electron acceptor in oxidative phosphorylation, oxygen plays a 
critical role in metabolism. When oxygen levels drop, heterodimeric 
hypoxia-inducible factor (Hif) transcription factors become active and 
facilitate adaptation to hypoxia. Hif regulation by oxygen requires the protein 
von Hippel-Lindau (pVhl) and pVhl disruption results in constitutive Hif 
activation. The liver is a critical organ for metabolic homeostasis, and Vhl 
inactivation in hepatocytes results in a Hif-dependent shortening in life span. 
While albumin-Cre;Vhl(F/F) mice develop hepatic steatosis and impaired fatty 
acid oxidation, the variable penetrance and unpredictable life expectancy has 
made the cause of death elusive. Using a system in which Vhl is acutely 
disrupted and a combination of ex vivo liver perfusion studies and in vivo 
oxygen measurements, we demonstrate that Vhl is essential for mitochondrial 
respiration in vivo. Adenovirus-Cre mediated acute Vhl disruption in the liver 
caused death within days. Deprived of pVhl, livers accumulated tryglicerides and 
circulating ketone and glucose levels dropped. The phenotype was reminiscent of 
inborn defects in fatty acid oxidation and of fasted PPARα-deficient mice and 
while death was unaffected by pharmacologic PPARα activation, it was delayed by 
glucose administration. Ex vivo liver perfusion analyses and acylcarnitine 
profiles showed mitochondrial impairment and a profound inhibition of liver 
ketone and glucose production. By contrast, other mitochondrial functions, such 
as ureagenesis, were unaffected. Oxygen consumption studies revealed a marked 
suppression of mitochondrial respiration, which, as determined by magnetic 
resonance oximetry in live mice, was accompanied by a corresponding increase in 
liver pO(2). Importantly, simultaneous inactivation of Hif-1β suppressed liver 
steatosis and rescued the mice from death. These data demonstrate that 
constitutive Hif activation in mice is sufficient to suppress mitochondrial 
respiration in vivo and that no other pathway exists in the liver that can allow 
oxygen utilization when Hif is active precluding thereby metabolic collapse.

DOI: 10.1038/onc.2010.587
PMCID: PMC3135264
PMID: 21217781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Korean J Pain. 2010 Dec;23(4):274-7. doi: 10.3344/kjp.2010.23.4.274. Epub
2010  Dec 1.

Ejaculatory failure after unilateral neurolytic celiac plexus block.

Shin SK(1), Kweon TD, Ha SH, Yoon KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Yonsei University Health 
System, Seoul, Korea.

Abdominal pain associated with chronic pancreatitis is often difficult to 
control with analgesics and can be severely debilitating with significant 
impairment of quality of life. In these patients, neurolytic celiac plexus block 
(NCPB) is an effective treatment option with a low complication rate. However, 
there is a risk of ejaculatory failure after NCPB, which may be a problem in 
patients with a long life expectancy. We report a case of ejaculatory failure 
after unilateral NCPB in a patient with chronic pancreatitis.

DOI: 10.3344/kjp.2010.23.4.274
PMCID: PMC3000627
PMID: 21217894


780. Indian J Palliat Care. 2010 Sep;16(3):111-6. doi: 10.4103/0973-1075.73640.

Hospice: rehabilitation in reverse.

Jeyaraman S(1), Kathiresan G, Gopalsamy K.

Author information:
(1)School of Therapeutic Sciences, Masterskill University College of Health 
sciences, Malaysia.

Hospice care is about quality of life at a time when a person has an illness for 
which curative measures are no longer possible, and for which a physician has 
determined the patient has a life expectancy of about six months or less, a 
hospice program can support the process of death and dying in a compassionate 
way. A growing trend is to utilize physical therapy more frequently in hospice. 
Physical therapy has several vital roles in hospice care as follows: maximizing 
functional ability and comfort to enhance quality of life; assuring patient and 
care giver safety; helping people redesign their lives and life goals; providing 
support around physical, emotional and spiritual issues at the end of life. The 
purpose of this review is to provide 1) a description of hospice care, 2) an 
explanation of the roles of physical therapists in hospice care.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1075.73640
PMCID: PMC3012232
PMID: 21217999

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared781. Korean J Pediatr. 2010 Nov;53(11):965-70. doi: 10.3345/kjp.2010.53.11.965.
Epub  2010 Nov 30.

Survival analysis of spinal muscular atrophy type I.

Park HB(1), Lee SM, Lee JS, Park MS, Park KI, Namgung R, Lee C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.

PURPOSE: The life expectancy of patients with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) type 
I is generally considered to be less than 2 years. Recently, with the 
introduction of proactive treatments, a longer survival and an improved survival 
rate have been reported. In this study, we analyzed the natural courses and 
survival statistics of SMA type I patients and compared the clinical 
characteristics of the patients based on their survival periods.
METHODS: We reviewed the medical records of 14 pediatric patients diagnosed with 
SMA type I during a 9-year period. We examined the demographic and clinical 
characteristics of these patients, calculated their survival probabilities, and 
plotted survival curves as on the censoring date, January 1, 2010. We also 
compared the characteristics of the patients who died before the age of 24 
months (early-death, ED group) and those who survived for 24 months or longer 
(long-survival, LS group).
RESULTS: The mean survival time was 22.8±2.0 months. The survival probabilities 
at 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months, and 30 months were 92.9%, 92.9%, 
76.0%, 76.0%, and 65.1%, respectively. Birth weight was the only factor that 
showed a statistically significant difference between the ED and LS groups 
(P=0.048).
CONCLUSION: In this study, the survival probabilities at 2 years were far 
greater than expected. Because of the limited number of patients and information 
in this study, the contribution of improved supportive care on longer survival 
could not be clarified; this may be elucidated in larger cohort studies.

DOI: 10.3345/kjp.2010.53.11.965
PMCID: PMC3012277
PMID: 21218019


782. J Med Assoc Thai. 2004 Oct;87 Suppl 4:S19-22.

Life expectancy of Thai physicians during 1998-2002.

Rattanamongkolgul S(1), Sithisarankul P, Wattanasirichaigoon S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn Medical Center, 
Srinakharinwirot University, Nakhorn Nayok, Thailand.

Previous report suggested early age at death of Thai physicians; the estimate 
however was not a comparable measurement with general Thai population. This 
information created a concern on the health status of Thai population. This 
study was therefore aimed to calculate life expectancy of Thai physicians and to 
compare with Thai population. Information on year of birth of all registered 
physicians and year of death of physicians who died during 1998-2002 was 
retrieved from the database of the Thai Medical Council and the Centre for 
Continuing Medical Education of Thailand. Age-specific mortality rates were 
computed for ages of 23-24, 25-29, and then 5-year intervals until 70 years or 
more. These age-specific mortality rates were used for calculation of life 
expectancy by using the method of abridged life table. During the year 
1998-2002, there were 655 deaths among 25,501 Thai physicians. According to life 
table calculation, life expectancy at age 23 for Thai physicians was 63.5 years 
or they could live until age of 86.5 years when they started their career and 
those figures for Thai general population were 53.2 and 76.2 respectively. The 
differences between these two populations were declined in older age groups. 
Increased life expectancy among physicians compared to general population was 
also reported in other countries. A longer life span of physicians might be a 
result of higher socioeconomic status and low prevalence of health risk 
behavior.

PMID: 21218587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Bull Cancer. 2010 Dec;97(12):1467-76. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2010.1230.

[Trends in radiation therapy for the treatment of metastatic and oligometastatic 
disease in 2010].

[Article in French]

Thariat J(1), Marcy PY, Lagrange JL.

Author information:
(1)Département d'oncologie radiothérapie/IBDC CNRS UMR 6543, Centre 
Antoine-Lacassagne, Université Nice-Sophia-Antipolis, 33, avenue Valombrose, 
06189, Nice cedex 2, France. jthariat@hotmail.com

The role of radiation therapy in metastatic disease has evolved from palliative 
to potentially curative intent for selected oligometastases using highly 
conformal radiation techniques, including extracranial stereotactic body 
radiotherapy (SBRT) in the last decade. SBRT has a potential to use small 
numbers of large doses aiming at achieving high rates of local control while 
preserving the quality of life even in highly pretreated patients. A wide range 
of techniques, doses, and dose fractionation schedules can be found. However, 
the 2-year local control is around 80% for lung metastases with corresponding 
2-year survival of 50%, and a 5% rate of grade III or higher radiation 
toxicities. The 2-year local control varies between 57 and 92% for liver 
metastases and radiation-induced liver disease is exceptional provided that 700 
cm3 of healthy liver are irradiated to less than 15 Gy in three fractions or 
more. Stereotactic radiation is also particularly interesting for spinal, and 
cranial metastases and reirradiations. Also, it has come into focus that 
associations of chemotherapy or targeted therapies and radiation may be used for 
optimized treatment of limited metastatic disease and that irradiation of the 
primary tumor may be recommended in the context of metastatic disease. It also 
appears that the definition of target volumes for palliative radiation therapy 
and scores to assess for life expectancy-based need for irradiation should be 
improved.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2010.1230
PMID: 21220224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 Jan 25;108(4):1267-71. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1018700108. Epub 2011 Jan 10.

Late Pleistocene adult mortality patterns and modern human establishment.

Trinkaus E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA. 
trinkaus@artsci.wustl.edu

The establishment of modern humans in the Late Pleistocene, subsequent to their 
emergence in eastern Africa, is likely to have involved substantial population 
increases, during their initial dispersal across southern Asia and their 
subsequent expansions throughout Africa and into more northern Eurasia. An 
assessment of younger (20-40 y) versus older (>40 y) adult mortality 
distributions for late archaic humans (principally Neandertals) and two samples 
of early modern humans (Middle Paleolithic and earlier Upper Paleolithic) 
provides little difference across the samples. All three Late Pleistocene 
samples have a dearth of older individuals compared with Holocene 
ethnographic/historical samples. They also lack older adults compared with 
Holocene paleodemographic profiles that have been critiqued for having too few 
older individuals for subsistence, social, and demographic viability. Although 
biased, probably through a combination of preservation, age assessment, and 
especially Pleistocene mobility requirements, these adult mortality 
distributions suggest low life expectancy and demographic instability across 
these Late Pleistocene human groups. They indicate only subtle and 
paleontologically invisible changes in human paleodemographics with the 
establishment of modern humans; they provide no support for a life history 
advantage among early modern humans.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1018700108
PMCID: PMC3029716
PMID: 21220336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


785. J Aging Health. 2011 Jun;23(4):629-81. doi: 10.1177/0898264310390940. Epub
2011  Jan 10.

Disability-free life expectancy: a cross-national comparison among Bulgarian, 
Italian, and Latin American older population.

Minicuci N(1), Noale M, León Díaz EM, Gómez León M, Andreotti A, Mutafova M.

Author information:
(1)National Research Council, Institute of Neuroscience, Padova, Italy. 
nadia.minicuci@unipd.it

OBJECTIVE: To present sociodemographic and health status harmonized variables 
constructed to evaluate cross-national differences in term of Disability Free 
Life Expectancy (DFLE) across different surveys.
METHOD: The study comprises national surveys conducted in Bulgaria, Italy, and 
Latin America and the Caribbean. A homogeneous group of health determinants for 
the older population was created and the DFLE indicator based on Sullivan's 
method was developed considering the harmonized common variables on disability.
RESULTS: For all countries, DFLE values decline as age increases for both sexes, 
with a pronounced decline among women. Regardless the native country, women 
always present higher Life Expectancy than men at each age; however, they live a 
higher percentage of these years with disability.
DISCUSSION: Further research should be carried out with standardized instruments 
that allow a more direct comparison, along with measurements of the potential 
differences across countries, which could explain differences in disability 
prevalence and DFLE.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264310390940
PMID: 21220352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Mol Cancer Ther. 2011 Jan;10(1):209-17. doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-10-0774.

Effects of patupilone on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of warfarin 
in patients with advanced malignancies: a phase I clinical trial.

Tsimberidou AM(1), Takimoto CH, Moulder S, Uehara C, Mita M, Mita A, Urban P, 
Tan E, Wang Y, Vining D, Kurzrock R.

Author information:
(1)Corresponding Author: Apostolia M. Tsimberidou, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics, Unit 
455, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, TX 77030, USA. atsimber@mdanderson.org

Patupilone is a novel microtubule-targeting cytotoxic agent, which exerts its 
antitumor effect through microtubule stabilization. Pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics, and safety of warfarin when administered concomitantly with 
patupilone were investigated, and antitumor activity was assessed. This was a 
phase I, two-center, drug-drug interaction study. In the core phase of the 
study, treatment consisted of warfarin 20 mg orally (days 1 and 29) and 
patupilone 10 mg/m(2) i.v. (days 8 and 29). Patients benefiting from patupilone 
treatment continued treatment every 3 weeks (extension phase) until progression 
