proteins and the implication of these findings on age-related pathologies are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.2174/092986611794475039
PMID: 21121893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Crohns Colitis. 2010 Sep;4(3):275-82. doi: 10.1016/j.crohns.2009.11.010.
Epub  2009 Dec 10.

A comparison of physician-rated disease severity and patient reported outcomes 
in mild to moderately active ulcerative colitis.

Poole CD(1), Connolly MP, Nielsen SK, Currie CJ, Marteau P.

Author information:
(1)Pharmatelligence Ltd., Cardiff, UK.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The aim was to derive health state utility scores in 
ulcerative colitis (UC) by establishing the relationship between the 
physician-rated ulcerative colitis disease activity index (UCDAI) and a patient 
reported EQ-5D by statistically mapping the two instruments.
METHODS: In a randomised controlled trial comparing oral plus enema mesalazine 
treatment with oral mesalazine treatment alone (PINCE), UCDAI and EQ-5D scores 
were collected in parallel from patients with active UC. From these data, 
multinomial logistic regression was used to estimate response probabilities to 
each of the five domains of the EQ-5D index from assessment of UC disease 
severity using original and abbreviated (no endoscopy) versions of the UCDAI. 
Predicted EQ-5D responses were converted by Monte Carlo simulation to the EQ-5D 
index for predicting health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The reliability of 
the algorithm was tested using UCDAI scores from a second mesalazine RCT 
(PODIUM).
RESULTS: The abbreviated-UCDAI showed comparable explanatory performance to the 
full UCDAI. For patients in remission, mean utility was 0.939, 0.944, and 0.940U 
for PINCE(estimated), PINCE(observed), and PODIUM, respectively. Mild/moderate 
and relapsing cases showed mean utilities of 0.801, 0.811, and 0.775, 
respectively; whilst for those in severe relapse, the mean utilities were 0.630, 
0.700 and 0.660 units, respectively. The mean squared error between actual and 
predicted utilities from observations in PINCE was 0.019.
CONCLUSION: Response mapping of UC activity to EQ-5D domains produced reliable 
estimates of patient-rated health state utility consistent with UCDAI rated 
severity. Comparing abbreviated-UCDAI and full UCDAI suggests that inclusion of 
endoscopy scores has limited predictive value in estimating patient HRQoL.

Copyright © 2009 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2009.11.010
PMID: 21122516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Disabil Health J. 2008 Jan;1(1):3-4. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2007.11.002.

From the editors.

Turk MA, McDermott S.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2007.11.002
PMID: 21122704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Disabil Health J. 2009 Jan;2(1):20-6. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2008.07.004.

Evidence for potential bias in the Health and Activity Limitation Index as a 
health preference measure for persons with disabilities.

Boslaugh SE(1), Andresen EM, Recktenwald A, Gillespie K.

Author information:
(1)BJC HealthCare, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. seb5632@bjc.org

BACKGROUND: The American public health plan Healthy People 2010 sets overall 
goals based on utility-linked information from the Health and Activity 
Limitation Index (HALex). However, little is known about how utilities measured 
by the HALex compare with those from established gold standard preference-based 
utility measures. In addition, distribution of HALex values from the general 
population underrepresents the experience of persons with disability, leading to 
uncertain interpretation of their utility values. Therefore, we sought to report 
the validity and interpretation of HALex scores compared to scores from a 
preference-based health-related quality of life measure, the Quality of 
Well-Being (QWB) scale.
METHODS: A telephone survey with component measures was administered in random 
order. Participants consisted of 401 adults from a large Midwest metropolitan 
area: 302 were selected by random-digit-dial methodology and 99 were volunteers 
with mobility impairment extending the disability values of the sample. Multiple 
regression analysis predicted HALex scores from QWB scores and from demographic 
and self-reported health characteristics.
RESULTS: QWB scores accounted for 41% of the variance in HALex scores. The 
addition of five demographic and health factors increased the variance explained 
to 63%. Scores on the QWB and HALex were similar on mid-range values and 
discrepant at the extremes; that is, persons with extreme HALex scores tended to 
have more moderate QWB scores. HALex scores were higher for white adults than 
predicted by their QWB scores and lower for people with chronic diseases and 
disabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Utilities as measured by the HALex and QWB can differ markedly, 
particularly if the person is classified at either end of the spectrum of 
function. Of similar concern is that fact that HALex scores show a systematic 
bias in relationship to QWB scores depending on a person's demographic and 
health-related characteristics.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2008.07.004
PMID: 21122739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Disabil Health J. 2010 Jan;3(1):56-70. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2009.09.005.

Public health, populations, and lethal ingestion.

Allison KC(1).

Author information:
(1)Program in Human Rights and Health, University of Minnesota School of Public 
Health, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. alli0001@umn.edu

BACKGROUND: In 2008 the American Public Health Association endorsed lethal 
ingestion as a public health policy as part of "Patients' Rights to 
Self-Determination at the End of Life." Although rhetoric framing 
physician-assisted suicide (PAS) invokes individual autonomy, public health's 
focus is populations. Even regarding treatment refusal, its logic and coercive 
power (e.g., quarantine) subordinate autonomy to population interests. Research 
indicates health practitioners and disciplines that are closer to persons with 
terminal conditions oppose more PAS than those having little contact: 
specifically, public health associations are more willing to authorize 
life-ending means than disciplines directly caring for the dying. Why is that 
the case and with what consequences for populations and public health?
METHODS: Contextual analysis of semantics; policy submissions; standards; 
statutory and regulatory documents; related economic, equity, and demographic 
discourses is employed; and, finally, scenarios offered of the future.
RESULTS: Notwithstanding rhetoric invoking autonomy, public health's population 
orientation is reflected in population health measures (e.g., aggregated DALYs, 
QALYs) that intimate why public health might endorse availing life-ending means. 
Current associated statutes, regulations, terminology, and data practices 
compromise public health and semantic integrity (e.g., the falsification of 
death certificates) and inadequately address population vulnerabilities. In 
recent policy processes, evidence of patient and system vulnerabilities has not 
been given due weight while future-oriented scenarios suggest autonomy-based 
rationales will increasingly yield to population-driven rationales, increasing 
risk of private and public forms of domination and vulnerabilities at life's 
end.
CONCLUSION: Public health should address institutionalized violations of data 
integrity and patient vulnerabilities, while rescinding policy supporting the 
institutionalization of lethal means.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2009.09.005
PMID: 21122769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Proc Biol Sci. 2011 Mar 22;278(1707):801-9. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2010.2190.
Epub  2010 Dec 1.

Before senescence: the evolutionary demography of ontogenesis.

Levitis DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Evolutionary Biodemography, Max Planck Institute for 
Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. levitis@demogr.mpg.de

The age-specific mortality curve for many species, including humans, is 
U-shaped: mortality declines with age in the developing cohort (ontogenescence) 
before increasing with age (senescence). The field of evolutionary demography 
has long focused on understanding the evolution of senescence while largely 
failing to address the evolution of ontogenescence. The current review is the 
first to gather the few available hypotheses addressing the evolution of 
ontogenescence, examine the basis and assumptions of each and ask what the 
phylogenetic extent of ontogenescence may be. Ontogenescence is among the most 
widespread of life-history traits, occurring in every population for which I 
have found sufficiently detailed data, in major groups throughout the 
eukaryotes, across many causes of death and many life-history types. Hypotheses 
seeking to explain ontogenescence include those based on kin selection, the 
acquisition of robustness, heterogeneous frailties and life-history 
optimization. I propose a further hypothesis, arguing that mortality drops with 
age because most transitions that could trigger the risks caused by genetic and 
developmental malfunctions are concentrated in early life. Of these hypotheses, 
only those that frame ontogenescence as an evolutionary by-product rather than 
an adaptation can explain the tremendous diversity of organisms and environments 
in which it occurs.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2010.2190
PMCID: PMC3049054
PMID: 21123273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. AIDS. 2011 Jan 14;25(2):211-20. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e328340fdf8.

Cost-effectiveness of antiretroviral regimens in the World Health Organization's 
treatment guidelines: a South African analysis.

Bendavid E(1), Grant P, Talbot A, Owens DK, Zolopa A.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, USA. 
ebd@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: the World Health Organization (WHO) recently changed its first-line 
antiretroviral treatment guidelines in resource-limited settings. The 
cost-effectiveness of the new guidelines is unknown.
DESIGN: comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness analysis using a model 
of HIV disease progression and treatment.
METHODS: using a simulation of HIV disease and treatment in South Africa, we 
compared the life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, lifetime costs, 
and cost-effectiveness of five initial regimens. Four are currently recommended 
by the WHO: tenofovir/lamivudine/efavirenz; tenofovir/lamivudine/nevirapine; 
zidovudine/lamivudine/efavirenz; and zidovudine/lamivudine/nevirapine. The fifth 
is the most common regimen in current use: stavudine/lamivudine/nevirapine. 
Virologic suppression and toxicities determine regimen effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: choice of first-line regimen is associated with a difference of nearly 
12 months of quality-adjusted life expectancy, from 135.2 months 
(tenofovir/lamivudine/efavirenz) to 123.7 months 
(stavudine/lamivudine/nevirapine). Stavudine/lamivudine/nevirapine is more 
costly and less effective than zidovudine/lamivudine/nevirapine. Initiating 
treatment with a regimen containing tenofovir/lamivudine/nevirapine is 
associated with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $1045 per 
quality-adjusted life year compared with zidovudine/lamivudine/nevirapine. Using 
tenofovir/lamivudine/efavirenz was associated with the highest survival, fewest 
opportunistic diseases, lowest rate of regimen substitution, and an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $5949 per quality-adjusted life year gained compared 
with tenofovir/lamivudine/nevirapine. Zidovudine/lamivudine/efavirenz was more 
costly and less effective than tenofovir/lamivudine/nevirapine. Results were 
sensitive to the rates of toxicities and the disutility associated with each 
toxicity.
CONCLUSION: among the options recommended by WHO, we estimate only three should 
be considered under normal circumstances. Choice among those depends on 
available resources and willingness to pay. Stavudine/lamivudine/nevirapine is 
associated with the poorest quality-adjusted survival and higher costs than 
zidovudine/lamivudine/nevirapine.

2011 Wolters Kluwer Health | Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e328340fdf8
PMCID: PMC3071983
PMID: 21124202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Clin Res Cardiol. 2011 May;100(5):439-46. doi: 10.1007/s00392-010-0262-3.
Epub  2010 Dec 2.

Clinical outcome and quality of life after interventional treatment of left main 
disease with drug-eluting-stents in comparison to CABG in elderly and younger 
patients.

Rittger H(1), Rieber J, Kögler K, Sinha A, Schmidt M, Breithardt OA, Biggar P, 
Einsle F, Diegeler A, Brachmann J.

Author information:
(1)II. Medizinische Klinik, Klinikum Coburg, Ketschendorfer Str. 33, 96450 
Coburg, Germany. rittger@arcor.de

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to prospectively assess the clinical 
outcome and quality of life of elderly patients who underwent either coronary 
artery bypass grafting (CABG) or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with 
drug-eluting stents (DES) for treatment of significant left main disease (LMD) 
compared to a younger patient population.
METHODS: Consecutive patients, admitted into our institution between 04/2004 and 
12/2007 with LMD and a life expectancy of >1 year were prospectively included 
and stratified in two groups (either CABG or left main stenting [LMS] with DES) 
based on the patients' age at inclusion (> or ≤75 years). Rates of death, 
myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, and target lesion revascularization (TLR) 
were evaluated over a 12 month follow-up. Six months after the initial 
procedure, additionally, quality of life was assessed using the SF-36 
questionnaire.
RESULTS: A total of 300 patients was included; 56 of the 95 PCI patients (59%) 
were ≤75 years and 39 (44%) >75 years, whereas 155 of 205 patients in the CABG 
group were ≤75 years (76%), and 50 patients (24%) were >75 years. Mean follow-up 
was 312 ± 226 days in the PCI and 377 ± 286 in the CABG group. Rates of death 
and MI were not significantly different between the four groups at the end of 
follow-up. There was no difference in quality of life after 6 months.
CONCLUSION: In this prospective trial, PCI of LM with DES in elderly patients 
was feasible with a short- and intermediate term outcome comparable to CABG 
procedure and to a younger patient cohort.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-010-0262-3
PMID: 21125287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Relig Health. 2012 Dec;51(4):1216-25. doi: 10.1007/s10943-010-9431-y.

Differences in health and religious beliefs about tobacco use among waterpipe 
users in the rural male population of Egypt.

Singh PN(1), Neergaard J, Job JS, El Setouhy M, Israel E, Mohammed MK, Loffredo 
CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Loma Linda University, 
Loma Linda, CA 92354, USA. psingh@llu.edu

Waterpipe use is a highly prevalent form of tobacco use in the Eastern 
Mediterranean Region that is rooted in long-held cultural traditions that 
predate the use of cigarettes and present a particular challenge for tobacco 
control efforts. We did a stratified sampling of 4,994 Egyptian men from rural 
households of Egypt in order to conduct an interviewer-administered prevalence 
survey to identify differences in attitudes and beliefs toward smoking and 
smoking cessation between waterpipe users, cigarette smokers, mixed users 
(cigarette + waterpipe), and non-smokers. We found that cigarette smokers, mixed 
users, and/or non-smokers were (1) two- to ninefold more likely to believe that 
smoking decreased adult life expectancy and harmed a fetus than waterpipe users, 
(2) significantly more likely to believe that smoking is a sin ("haram") than 
were waterpipe users. Among tobacco users, we found that cigarette smokers 
and/or mixed users were significantly more likely to indicate pre-contemplation, 
contemplation, or intention to quit tobacco than waterpipe users. Our findings 
from rural Egyptian men indicate that waterpipe users are distinct from 
cigarette smokers in their perception that their form of tobacco use is less 
harmful and/or less subject to religious proscription. These beliefs may explain 
why waterpipe users seem less inclined to quit their tobacco habit and need to 
be considered in the design of tobacco cessation and prevention methods in Egypt 
and the region.

DOI: 10.1007/s10943-010-9431-y
PMCID: PMC3589589
PMID: 21125424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest None.


531. Kaohsiung J Med Sci. 2010 Nov;26(11):609-14. doi:
10.1016/S1607-551X(10)70093-0.

Right thoracotomy for carinal resection with left thoracoscopic pneumonectomy as 
a new approach for left sleeve pneumonectomy: a case report.

Yen YT(1), Lai WW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.

A 43-year-old woman, with a history of asthma that had been treated for the 
previous 3 years, was diagnosed with an endobronchial tumor, based on chest 
computed tomography. A biopsy proved the tumor to be adenoid cystic carcinoma. 
For carinal involvement and submucosal extension in the left main bronchus, 
rigid bronchoscopy was done to maintain airway patency, and then a left sleeve 
pneumonectomy was done via a right thoracotomy and left video-assisted 
thoracoscopic surgery. The distance between the tumor-free left main bronchus 
and the carina was large; therefore, preservation of the left lung would have 
compromised the healing of the carinal tracheobronchoplasty and led to 
life-threatening complications. This case revealed that endobronchial lesions 
should be highly suspected after treatment for asthma fails. It also highlighted 
that, because the carina naturally deviates to the right, combined right 
thoracotomy and left video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery for left sleeve 
pneumonectomy provides an anatomical advantage for carinal tracheobronchoplasty. 
Furthermore, the combination reduces the postoperative physiological burden that 
could be caused by bilateral thoracotomy.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1607-551X(10)70093-0
PMID: 21126714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Soc Sci Med. 2011 Jan;72(1):6-14. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.09.052. Epub
 2010 Nov 11.

Ironic technology: Old age and the implantable cardioverter defibrillator in US 
health care.

Kaufman SR(1), Mueller PS, Ottenberg AL, Koenig BA.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Institute for Health and Aging, San Francisco, CA 
94118, USA. sharon.kaufman@ucsf.edu

We take the example of cardiac devices, specifically the implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator, or ICD, to explore the complex cultural role of 
technology in medicine today. We focus on persons age 80 and above, for whom ICD 
use is growing in the U.S. We highlight an ironic feature of this device. While 
it postpones death and 'saves' life by thwarting a lethal heart rhythm, it also 
prolongs living in a state of dying from heart failure. In that regard the ICD 
is simultaneously a technology of life extension and dying. We explore that 
irony among the oldest age group -- those whose considerations of medical 
interventions are framed by changing societal assumptions of what constitutes 
premature death, the appropriate time for death and medicine's goals in an aging 
society. Background to the rapidly growing use of this device among the elderly 
is the 'technological imperative' in medicine, bolstered today by the value 
given to evidence-based studies. We show how evidence contributes to standards 
of care and to the expansion of Medicare reimbursement criteria. Together, those 
factors shape the ethical necessity of physicians offering and patients 
accepting the ICD in late life. Two ethnographic examples document the ways in 
which those factors are lived in treatment discussions and in expectations about 
death and longevity.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.09.052
PMCID: PMC3032945
PMID: 21126815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. HIV Clin Trials. 2010 Sep-Oct;11(5):248-59. doi: 10.1310/hct1105-248.

Early antiretroviral therapy for patients with acute aids-related opportunistic 
infections: a cost-effectiveness analysis of ACTG A5164.

Sax PE(1), Sloan CE, Schackman BR, Grant PM, Rong J, Zolopa AR, Powderly W, 
Losina E, Freedberg KA; Cepac US And Actg A5164 Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. psax@partners.org

PURPOSE: ACTG A5164 demonstrated that early antiretroviral therapy (ART) in 
HIV-infected patients with acute opportunistic infections (OIs) reduced death 
and AIDS progression compared to ART initiation 1 month later. We project the 
life expectancies, costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of 
these strategies.
METHOD: using an HIV simulation model, we compared 2 strategies for patients 
with acute OIs: (1) an intervention to deliver early ART, and (2) deferred ART. 
Parameters from ACTG A5164 included initial mean CD4 count (47/microL), linkage 
to outpatient care (87%), and immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 1 
month after ART initiation (7%). The estimated intervention cost was 
$1,650/patient.
RESULTS: early ART lowered projected 1-year mortality from 10.4% to 8.2% and 
increased life expectancy from 10.07 to 10.39 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). Lifetime costs increased from $385,220 with deferred ART to $397,500 
with early ART, primarily because life expectancy increased, producing an ICER 
of $38,600/QALY. Results were most sensitive to increased intervention cost and 
decreased virologic efficacy in the early ART strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: an intervention to initiate ART early in patients with acute OIs 
improves survival and meets US cost-effectiveness thresholds. Programs should be 
developed to implement this strategy at sites where HIV-infected patients 
present with OIs.

DOI: 10.1310/hct1105-248
PMCID: PMC3183461
PMID: 21126955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Circulation. 2010 Dec 14;122(24):2545-50. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.925396. Epub 2010 Nov 29.

Economic evaluation of fractional flow reserve-guided percutaneous coronary 
intervention in patients with multivessel disease.

Fearon WF(1), Bornschein B, Tonino PA, Gothe RM, Bruyne BD, Pijls NH, Siebert U; 
Fractional Flow Reserve Versus Angiography for Multivessel Evaluation (FAME) 
Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford University Medical Center, 300 
Pasteur Dr, H2103, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. wfearon@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: The Fractional Flow Reserve Versus Angiography for Multivessel 
Evaluation (FAME) study demonstrated significantly improved health outcomes at 1 
year in patients randomized to multivessel percutaneous coronary intervention 
guided by fractional flow reserve (FFR) compared with percutaneous coronary 
intervention guided by angiography alone. The economic impact of routine 
measurement of FFR in this setting is not known.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In this study, 1005 patients were randomly assigned to 
FFR-guided or angiography-guided percutaneous coronary intervention and followed 
up for 1 year. A prospective cost-utility analysis comparing costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years was performed with a time horizon of 1 year. 
Quality-adjusted life-years were calculated with the use of utilities determined 
by the EuroQuol 5 dimension health survey with US weights. Direct medical costs 
included those of the index procedure and hospitalization and costs for major 
adverse cardiac events during follow-up. Confidence intervals for both 
quality-adjusted life-years and costs were estimated by the bootstrap percentile 
method. Major adverse cardiac events at 1 year occurred in 13.2% of those in the 
FFR-guided arm and 18.3% of those in the angiography-guided arm (P=0.02). 
Quality-adjusted life-years were slightly greater in the FFR-guided arm (0.853 
versus 0.838; P=0.2). Mean overall costs at 1 year were significantly less in 
the FFR-guided arm ($14 315 versus $16 700; P<0.001). Bootstrap simulation 
indicated that the FFR-guided strategy was cost-saving in 90.74% and 
cost-effective at a threshold of US $50 000 per quality-adjusted life-years in 
99.96%. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated robust results.
CONCLUSION: Economic evaluation of the FAME study reveals that FFR-guided 
percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with multivessel coronary disease 
is one of those rare situations in which a new technology not only improves 
outcomes but also saves resources. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: 
http://ClinicalTrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00267774.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.925396
PMID: 21126973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2011 Jan-Feb;26(1):65-73. doi:
10.1097/JCN.0b013e3181ec0281.

The influence of chronic heart failure in patient-partner dyads--a comparative 
study addressing issues of health-related quality of life.

Ågren S(1), Evangelista L, Davidson T, Strömberg A.

Author information:
(1)Susanna Ågren, PhD, RN Medical Doctor, Department of Medical and Health 
Sciences, Division of Nursing Science, Linköping University; Department of 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Linköping University Hospital; and The Swedish Institute 
for Health Sciences, Lund, Sweden. Lorraine Evangelista, PhD, RN Senior 
Lecturer, School of Nursing, University of California, Los Angeles. Thomas 
Davidson, PhD Health Economist, Department of Medical and Health Sciences, 
Center for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, Sweden. Anna 
Strömberg, PhD, RN Professor, Department of Medical and Health Sciences, 
Division of Nursing Science, Linköping University; and Department of Cardiology 
Linköping University Hospital, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic heart failure (HF) and their partners face 
many challenges associated with heart disease. High social support in a close 
relationship has been found to improve survival in patients with HF. However, 
caring for a patient with HF may have negative effects on the health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL) of the partner responsible for the care. The main focus 
in health care is still on improving patients' HRQOL, but the awareness of 
partners' and families' role and situation is increasing. Therefore, further 
studies are needed to clarify these issues and the importance of partners in 
relation to HRQOL of patients with HF.
OBJECTIVES: To describe and compare HRQOL, quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
weights, symptoms of depression, and perceived control and knowledge in patients 
with chronic HF and their partners and to compare HRQOL and QALY weights in the 
partners with an age- and sex-matched group.
METHODS: Data were collected from 135 patient-partner dyads at 2 Swedish 
hospitals. Data on the reference group were collected from the same region.
RESULTS: Patients had lower HRQOL in all dimensions (P<.001) except in the 
mental health domain and lower QALY weights compared with their partners 
(P<.001). Mental health scores were lower in partners compared with the age- and 
sex-matched references (P<.001). All other HRQOL scores and the QALY weights 
were comparable between partners and reference group. Patients had more 
depressive symptoms than did their partners (P<.001). There was no difference in 
the level of perceived control or knowledge about chronic HF between patients 
and partners.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm that partners of patients with chronic HF have 
markedly diminished mental health. Interventions focusing on education and 
psychosocial support may potentially promote mental health in partners and 
enhance their ability to support the patient.

DOI: 10.1097/JCN.0b013e3181ec0281
PMCID: PMC3246077
PMID: 21127426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2010 Nov 4;6:557-72. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S8591.

The emerging role of Clostridium histolyticum collagenase in the treatment of 
Dupuytren disease.

Thomas A(1), Bayat A.

Author information:
(1)Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Research, School of Translational 
Medicine, University of Manchester, Manchester Interdisciplinary Biocentre, 
Manchester, UK.

Dupuytren disease (DD) is a common fibroproliferative disease of unknown 
etiopathogenesis affecting the palmar aponeurosis, causing reduced hand function 
and resulting in fixed flexion contractures of the digits. Current gold standard 
treatment for the management of DD is surgical excision involving removal of the 
affected palmar fascial tissue. However, there are potential complications 
associated with surgery as it is costly and a positive surgical outcome is often 
short-lived because the disease tends to recur. Therefore, there is growing 
interest in nonsurgical, outpatient-based treatments that could be quicker, 
cheaper, reduce morbidity, show a decreased rate of recurrence, and give DD 
patients an improved quality of life when compared with traditional surgical 
management. Of the available nonsurgical options, injectable Clostridium 
histolyticum collagenase (CHC) has received recent clinical interest. In this 
article, a brief overview of DD surgical and nonsurgical treatments utilized is 
given, followed by a detailed examination of the nine papers published to date 
on the use of CHC in DD (and similar fibrotic disorders). These papers have 
investigated safe and efficacious doses for the injection of CHC to treat 
palpable DD cords in adult patients and have shown significant short- to 
mid-term results for correction to near-full digital extension (≤5° extension) 
following CHC injection of DD cords. CHC has been shown to target the 
collagen-based DD cords while sparing surrounding neurovasculature, with a 
complication profile that appears comparable to that of the surgical methods 
currently utilized. In conclusion, clostridial collagenase is a novel 
nonsurgical treatment option of considerable potential in the management of DD 
when administered by specialist hand surgeons with detailed knowledge of the 
disease and the relevant anatomy. Nonetheless, there is a need for further data 
on long-term results, complications, and rate of recurrence with the use of this 
emerging treatment option.

DOI: 10.2147/TCRM.S8591
PMCID: PMC2988615
PMID: 21127696


537. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2010 Nov 10;6:1023-37. doi: 10.2147/VHRM.S13496.

Combination therapy of statin and ezetimibe for the treatment of familial 
hypercholesterolemia.

Hamilton-Craig I(1), Kostner K, Colquhoun D, Woodhouse S.

Author information:
(1)Griffith University School of Medicine, Southport, Queensland, Australia. 
ihcgriffith@gmail.com

High-dose potent statin therapy in combination with ezetimibe is now standard 
practice for the treatment of adult patients with heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia (heFH), as the result of numerous studies in patients with 
primary hypercholesterolemia or heFH. These studies have shown the combination 
to be both effective and safe in the short to medium term. Recently, short-term 
ezetimibe therapy has also been shown to be effective and safe in combination 
with statin therapy for children and adolescents with heFH. Effective 
statin-ezetimibe combination therapy is capable of achieving near-normal lipid 
profiles in heFH patients, with expected improvement in risk for cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) and improved life expectancy resulting predominantly from 
reduction in levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. There are few data 
to support a pleiotropic action of ezetimibe with regard to CVD benefit, unlike 
therapy with statins. No serious and unexpected clinical adverse effects of 
combination statin-ezetimibe therapy have emerged till date, although data are 
limited in children and adolescents, for whom longer-term studies are required. 
Recent data suggesting possible proatherogenic effects of ezetimibe require 
confirmation. One large long-term randomized controlled clinical outcomes trial 
is in progress in non-FH patients to determine the efficacy and safety of 
ezetimibe therapy; it is unlikely that such a trial will ever be performed in 
patients with FH.

DOI: 10.2147/VHRM.S13496
PMCID: PMC2988620
PMID: 21127699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Neurol. 2011 Apr;258(4):613-7. doi: 10.1007/s00415-010-5805-z. Epub 2010
Dec  3.

Patients with elevated triglyceride and cholesterol serum levels have a 
prolonged survival in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Dorst J(1), Kühnlein P, Hendrich C, Kassubek J, Sperfeld AD, Ludolph AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Ulm, Oberer Eselsberg 45, 89081 Ulm, 
Germany.

Weight loss is a common phenomenon and an independent prognostic factor in 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Several potential causal mechanisms, 
including intrinsic hypermetabolism and deficient food intake, have been 
discussed. We investigated the influence of fasting serum glucose, cholesterol, 
and triglyceride levels at time of diagnosis on survival in ALS. Serum 
cholesterol (LDL, HDL, and LDL/HDL ratio), triglycerides, and glucose were 
investigated in 488 patients (age of onset = 57.6 ± 12.6 years) in relation to 
survival and revised Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale 
(ALS-FRS) data. High serum levels of both fasting cholesterol and triglycerides 
had a significantly positive effect on survival (p < 0.05). We found a median 
prolonged life expectancy by 14 months for patients with serum triglyceride 
levels above the median of 1.47 mmol/l. The results suggest that the lipid 
metabolism and the nutritional status of ALS patients are important prognostic 
factors. These parameters should be thoroughly monitored during the clinical 
management of these patients. In case of progressive loss of body weight, a diet 
rich in lipids and calories should be considered. However, the final decision 
whether a lipid-rich diet should be recommended to ALS patients can only be 
based on a double-blind placebo-controlled interventional trial. Our results 
further imply that lipid-lowering drugs, e.g., statins, should be applied 
carefully in ALS patients although individual risk considerations must be made.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-010-5805-z
PMID: 21128082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Oecologia. 2011 Jun;166(2):493-506. doi: 10.1007/s00442-010-1854-3. Epub
2010  Dec 3.

The relative influence of competition and prey defences on the trophic structure 
of animalivorous bat ensembles.

Schoeman MC(1), Jacobs DS.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological and Conservation Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, 
Durban, South Africa. schoemanc@ukzn.ac.za

Deterministic filters such as competition and prey defences should have a strong 
influence on the community structure of animals like animalivorous bats which 
have life histories characterized by low fecundity, low predation risk, long 
life expectancy and stable populations. We investigated the relative influence 
of these two deterministic filters on the trophic structure of animalivorous bat 
assemblages in South Africa. We used null models to test if patterns of dietary 
overlap were significantly different from patterns expected by chance and 
multivariate analyses to test the correlations between diet and phenotype (body 
size, wing morphology and echolocation). We found little evidence that 
competition structured the trophic niche of coexisting bats. Contrary to 
predictions from competition, dietary overlap between bats of ensembles and 
functional groups (open-air, clutter-edge, and clutter foragers) were 
significantly higher than expected by chance. Instead, we found support for the 
predictions of the allotonic frequency hypothesis: there were significant 
relationships between peak echolocation frequency and the proportion of moths in 
the diets of bats at local and regional scales, and peak echolocation frequency 
was the best predictor of diet even after we controlled for the influence of 
body size and phylogeny. These results suggest that echolocation frequency and 
prey hearing exert more influence on the trophic structure of sympatric 
animalivorous bats than competition. Nonetheless, differential habitat use and 
sensory bias may also be major determinants of trophic structure because these 
are also correlated with frequencies of bat calls.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-010-1854-3
PMID: 21128085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. CNS Drugs. 2011 Jan;25(1):1-15. doi: 10.2165/11586000-000000000-00000.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: pathophysiology, diagnosis and management.

Gordon PH(1).

Author information:
(1)Fédération des Maladies du Système Nerveux, Centre référent maladie rare SLA, 
Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital de la Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, 
France. paul.gordon@psl.aphp.fr

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease 
associated with a life expectancy of approximately 3 years after symptom onset, 
but the range of survival extends from a few months for some to decades for 
approximately 5% of patients. There is no clear cause in the majority of cases 
and just one medication, riluzole, has been shown to modestly prolong survival. 
Research has identified some of the cellular processes that occur after disease 
onset, including mitochondrial dysfunction, protein aggregation, generation of 
free radicals, excitotoxicity, inflammation and apoptosis, but for most patients 
the underlying cause is unknown. While ALS is considered to be a complex genetic 
disorder in which multiple genes in combination with environmental exposures 
combine to render a person susceptible, few genetic or environmental risks have 
been discovered to date. The diagnosis is based on the history and examination 
showing progressive upper and lower motor neuron findings. The electromyogram 
can help confirm the diagnosis, and additional tests are used to exclude other 
conditions. Published practice parameters guide the care of patients with ALS. 
Until the elucidation of aetiologies leads to the development of more robust 
neuroprotective agents, both pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatments 
are directed at maintaining quality of life and prolonging life to the greatest 
extent possible. Riluzole, ventilatory support for those with respiratory 
insufficiency, gastrostomy for those with dysphagia and multidisciplinary care 
may help extend life. The off-label use of many symptomatic agents can have a 
meaningful impact for those with the illness. Palliative care ensures dignity 
toward the end stages of the disease. Clinical trials currently aim to slow 
disease progression by testing drugs that impact one or more of the processes 
that are initiated after disease onset. Novel therapies currently in trials 
include potential neuroprotective agents with differing mechanisms of action, 
vaccine therapies, stem cell injections and diaphragmatic pacing.

DOI: 10.2165/11586000-000000000-00000
PMID: 21128691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. J Diabetes Sci Technol. 2010 Nov 1;4(6):1322-31. doi: 
10.1177/193229681000400605.

Optimization of the native glucagon sequence for medicinal purposes.

Chabenne JR(1), DiMarchi MA, Gelfanov VM, DiMarchi RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405-7102, USA.

BACKGROUND: Glucagon is a life-saving medication used in the treatment of 
hypoglycemia. It possesses poor solubility in aqueous buffers at or near 
physiological pH values. At low and high pH, at which the peptide can be 
formulated to concentrations of a milligram or more per milliliter, the chemical 
integrity of the hormone is limited, as evidenced by the formation of multiple 
degradation-related peptides. Consequently, the commercial preparation is 
provided as a lyophilized solid with an acidic diluent and directions for 
rendering it soluble at the time of use. Any unused material is recommended for 
disposal immediately after initial use.
METHODS: A set of glucagon analogs was prepared by solid-phase peptide synthesis 
to explore the identification of a glucagon analog with enhanced solubility and 
chemical stability at physiological pH. The physical properties of the peptide 
analogs were studied by solubility determination, high-performance 
chromatography, and mass spectral analysis. The biochemical properties were 
determined in engineered human embryonic kidney cell line 293 (HEK293) cells 
that overexpressed either the human glucagon or glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
receptors linked to a luciferase reporter gene.
RESULTS: We observed the previously characterized formation of glucagon 
degradation products upon incubation of the peptide in dilute acid for extended 
periods or elevated temperature. Lowering the isoelectric point of the hormone 
through the substitution of asparagine-28 with aspartic acid significantly 
increased the solubility at physiological pH. Similarly, the C-terminal 
extension (Cex) of the hormone with an exendin-based, 10-residue, C-terminal 
sequence yielded a peptide of dramatically enhanced solubility. These two 
glucagon analogs, D28 and Cex, maintained high potency and selectivity for the 
glucagon receptor relative to GLP-1 receptor.
CONCLUSIONS: Glucagon presents unique structural challenges to the 
identification of an analog of high biological activity and selectivity that 
also possesses sufficient aqueous solubility and stability such that it might be 
developed as a ready-to-use medicine. The glucagon analogs D28 and Cex 
demonstrated all of the chemical, physical, and biochemical properties 
supportive of further study as potential clinical candidates for treatment of 
hypoglycemia.

© 2010 Diabetes Technology Society.

DOI: 10.1177/193229681000400605
PMCID: PMC3005041
PMID: 21129326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Neurologia. 2010 Oct;25 Suppl 1:80-4. doi: 10.1016/S0213-4853(10)70054-2.

[Neurological catastrophes in the surgical patient].

[Article in Spanish]

Tejero Juste C(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital Clínico Universitario Dr. Lozano Blesa, 
Zaragoza, España. ctejeroj@meditex.es

Surgical activity is one of the major causes of iatrogeny. All surgery carries 
an inherent risk of complications, whether in emergency surgery or in simpler 
elective procedures. Because of the progressive increase in life expectancy, 
surgical techniques are increasingly used in the elderly, with a consequent rise 
in the possibility of catastrophic complications. Intimately related to the 
surgical intervention is the anesthetic technique. The present article reviews 
the most frequent neurological complications of anesthetic techniques and the 
types of surgery most commonly associated with central or peripheral nervous 
system complications. Neurologists are well versed in the complications 
associated with neurosurgery and carotid artery surgery. Other types of surgery, 
such as cardiac surgery, liver transplantation, bariatric surgery or aortic 
aneurism surgery, are also potential sources of complications.

Copyright © 2010 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0213-4853(10)70054-2
PMID: 21129601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Cancer Radiother. 2010 Nov;14 Suppl 1:S182-8. doi: 
10.1016/S1278-3218(10)70022-6.

[Stage 1 testicular seminoma].

[Article in French]

Gross E(1), Champetier C, Pointreau Y, Zaccariotto A, Dubergé T, Chauvet B.

Author information:
(1)Département de radiothérapie, hôpital de la Timone, 264, rue Saint-Pierre, 
13005 Marseille, France. manugross@free.fr

Testicular cancer is rare, representing only 1 % of malignant tumors, but the 
most common cancer in young men, 15 to 35 years. Adjuvant radiotherapy after 
orchidectomy in testicular seminoma stage I, reduces risk of relapse. It aims to 
eradicate micro-metastatic disease in lymph drainage territories. In the case of 
adjuvant radiotherapy, the relapse-free survival of 96 % with an overall 
survival of 98 % at 5 years. The irradiation volume is made up of lymph nodes 
paraaortic which it is possible to add the ipsilateral renal hilum to the 
testicular lesion. The current recommended dose is 20 Gy in 10 fractions and 2 
weeks, usually delivered by two antero-posterior beams. The acute toxicities, 
mainly represented by nausea and diarrhea are usually quickly resolved to the 
end of irradiation. Regarding toxicities long-term, preservation of semen should 
be considered after surgery because of fear of infertility post-treatment. The 
risk of second cancer associated with exposure to ionizing radiation, albeit 
small, is especially important to consider these patients to significant life 
expectancy. Nevertheless, developments in radiotherapy techniques and lower 
doses and irradiated volumes can probably reduce this risk further.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1278-3218(10)70022-6
PMID: 21129662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2010 Dec;105(6):465-70. doi: 
10.1016/j.anai.2010.09.011.

Effectiveness of omalizumab in reducing corticosteroid burden in patients with 
moderate to severe persistent allergic asthma.

Karpel J(1), Massanari M, Geba GP, Kianifard F, Inhaber N, Zeldin RK.

Author information:
(1)North Shore Medical Arts LLP, Great Neck, New York, and Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, Bronx, New York 11021, USA. jpkarpel@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Asthma guidelines advocate maintaining asthma control while 
minimizing corticosteroid exposure.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the reduction in corticosteroid burden during long-term 
treatment and the corresponding impact of this reduction on asthma control, lung 
function, and inflammation in patients with moderate to severe allergic asthma.
METHODS: We conducted a pooled analysis (N = 1,071) of 2 similarly designed, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled omalizumab trials and their 
extension phases. Each study included a 16-week steroid-stable phase, a 12-week 
steroid-reduction phase, and a 24-week extension phase. Patients received 
subcutaneous omalizumab (minimum, 0.016 mg/kg/IU (IgE/mL) every 4 weeks) or 
placebo every 2 or 4 weeks. Outcomes included change from baseline in inhaled 
corticosteroid dose, number of oral corticosteroid bursts, and other clinical 
measures, including asthma exacerbations and change in asthma quality-of-life 
score (questionnaire), lung function, and eosinophil count.
RESULTS: The median reduction from baseline in inhaled corticosteroid dose 
(beclomethasone dipropionate equivalent dose) by the completion of the extension 
phase was greater for the omalizumab group than for the placebo group (-420.0 vs 
-252.0 μg/d; P < .001). During that time, omalizumab-treated patients required 
fewer oral corticosteroid bursts overall for treatment of acute exacerbations 
(mean, 0.2 vs 0.3; relative risk, 0.56; 95% confidence interval, 0.41 to 0.76; P 
< .001) and demonstrated greater improvements in measures of asthma control.
CONCLUSION: The addition of omalizumab to baseline therapy in patients 12 years 
or older with moderate to severe persistent allergic asthma resulted in a 
durable reduction in the overall steroid burden and improvement in other 
clinical measures of asthma control.

Copyright © 2010 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2010.09.011
PMID: 21130385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2011 Jan;65(1):94. doi:
10.1136/jech.2010.120451.  Epub 2010 Oct 21.

Illustrating health inequalities in Glasgow.

McCartney G(1).

Author information:
(1)NHS Health Scotland, Glasgow, Scotland, UK. gmccartney@nhs.net

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2010.120451
PMID: 21131306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. J Bacteriol. 2011 Feb;193(3):759-67. doi: 10.1128/JB.00944-10. Epub 2010 Dec
3.

DifA, a methyl-accepting chemoreceptor protein-like sensory protein, uses a 
novel signaling mechanism to regulate exopolysaccharide production in Myxococcus 
xanthus.

Xu Q(1), Black WP, Nascimi HM, Yang Z.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences I, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA 24061-0910, USA. zmyang@vt.edu

DifA is a methyl-accepting chemotaxis protein (MCP)-like sensory transducer that 
regulates exopolysaccharide (EPS) production in Myxococcus xanthus. Here 
mutational analysis and molecular biology were used to probe the signaling 
mechanisms of DifA in EPS regulation. We first identified the start codon of 
DifA experimentally; this identification extended the N terminus of DifA for 45 
amino acids (aa) from the previous bioinformatics prediction. This extension 
helped to address the outstanding question of how DifA receives input signals 
from type 4 pili without a prominent periplasmic domain. The results suggest 
that DifA uses its N-terminus extension to sense an upstream signal in EPS 
regulation. We suggest that the perception of the input signal by DifA is 
mediated by protein-protein interactions with upstream components. Subsequent 
signal transmission likely involves transmembrane signaling instead of direct 
intramolecular interactions between the input and the output modules in the 
cytoplasm. The basic functional unit of DifA for signal transduction is likely 
dimeric as mutational alteration of the predicted dimeric interface of DifA 
significantly affected EPS production. Deletions of 14-aa segments in the C 
terminus suggest that the newly defined flexible bundle subdomain in MCPs is 
likely critical for DifA function because shortening of this bundle can lead to 
constitutively active mutations.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00944-10
PMCID: PMC3021235
PMID: 21131490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Otol Neurotol. 2011 Jan;32(1):125-31. doi: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e3181ff7562.

Enlarged translabyrinthine approach with transapical extension in the management 
of giant vestibular schwannomas: personal experience and review of literature.

Angeli RD(1), Piccirillo E, Di Trapani G, Sequino G, Taibah A, Sanna M.

Author information:
(1)Gruppo Otologico, C/o Casa di Cura Piacenza, Piacenza and Rome, Italy. 
roberto.dihl@terra.com.br

OBJECTIVE: To describe and analyze the main outcomes achieved in a series of 
patients with sporadic vestibular schwannoma (VS) larger than 40 mm in 
extrameatal diameter, defined as giant VS, submitted to microsurgery by the 
enlarged translabyrinthine approach with transapical extension.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective chart review.
SETTING: Tertiary referral center.
PATIENTS: A retrospective chart review was conducted on 2,133 patients who 
underwent surgery for VS from April 1987 to July 2009. One hundred ten cases of 
giant VS were elected for analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Extent of removal, residual or recurrent disease, facial 
nerve integrity during surgery, long-term facial nerve function, and 
postoperative complications.
RESULTS: Total removal was accomplished in 91.8% of cases. In 5 patients (4.5%), 
total removal was accomplished in 2 stages. Near-total removal was performed in 
7 patients (6.3%). The facial nerve was anatomically preserved in 76.4% of 
cases. Intraoperative facial nerve reconstruction was performed in 8 cases. 
Facial nerve function after 1 year of follow-up was House-Brackmann grades I to 
III in 75% of cases. There were no deaths in this series. Neurovascular 
life-threatening complications occurred in 2 patients. Cerebrospinal fluid leak 
was present in 1.8% of cases.
CONCLUSION: Results indicate the enlarged translabyrinthine approach with 
transapical extension as an elective approach for removal of giant VS. The 
method permits achievement of a high rate of total removal with low incidence of 
complications.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e3181ff7562
PMID: 21131891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Health Stat Q. 2010 Winter;(48):36-57. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2010.20.

Inequalities in disability-free life expectancy by area deprivation: England, 
2001-04 and 2005-08.

Smith MP(1), Olatunde O, White C.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: The reduction of health inequalities is a long-standing public 
health priority. Accurate and timely measurement of the magnitude of health 
inequalities over time is complex, often relying on data available from a 
decennial census to conduct detailed analyses of social and geographical 
inequalities. While inequalities in mortality rates and life expectancy are 
well-established, the scale of inequality in health expectancies has been 
reported to be even greater. This study examines changes in inequality in 
disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) over time between Lower Super Output 
