DOI: 10.1007/s12272-010-1010-y
PMID: 21052936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Eur Spine J. 2011 Jul;20(7):1001-11. doi: 10.1007/s00586-010-1607-3. Epub
2010  Nov 5.

Cost effectiveness of disc prosthesis versus lumbar fusion in patients with 
chronic low back pain: randomized controlled trial with 2-year follow-up.

Fritzell P(1), Berg S, Borgström F, Tullberg T, Tropp H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Center for Clinical Research, Falun 
Hospital, Dalarna, Nissers Väg 3, SE-79182 Falun, Sweden. 
peter.fritzell@ltdalarna.se

This randomized controlled health economic study assesses the cost-effectiveness 
of the concept of total disc replacement (TDR) (Charité/Prodisc/Maverick) when 
compared with the concept of instrumented lumbar fusion (FUS) [posterior lumbar 
fusion (PLF) /posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF)]. Social and healthcare 
perspectives after 2 years are reported. In all, 152 patients were randomized to 
either TDR (n = 80) or lumbar FUS (n = 72). Cost to society (total mean 
cost/patient, Swedish kronor = SEK, standard deviation) for TDR was SEK 599,560 
(400,272), and for lumbar FUS SEK 685,919 (422,903) (ns). The difference was not 
significant: SEK 86,359 (-45,605 to 214,332). TDR was significantly less costly 
from a healthcare perspective, SEK 22,996 (1,202 to 43,055). Number of days on 
sick leave among those who returned to work was 185 (146) in the TDR group, and 
252 (189) in the FUS group (ns). Using EQ-5D, the total gain in quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) over 2 years was 0.41 units for TDR and 0.40 units for FUS 
(ns). Based on EQ-5D, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of using 
TDR instead of FUS was difficult to analyze due to the "non-difference" in 
treatment outcome, which is why cost/QALY was not meaningful to define. Using 
cost-effectiveness probabilistic analysis, the net benefit (with CI) was found 
to be SEK 91,359 (-73,643 to 249,114) (ns). We used the currency of 2006 where 1 
EURO = 9.26 SEK and 1 USD = 7.38 SEK. It was not possible to state whether TDR 
or FUS is more cost-effective after 2 years. Since disc replacement and lumbar 
fusion are based on different conceptual approaches, it is important to follow 
these results over time.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-010-1607-3
PMCID: PMC3176705
PMID: 21053028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Health Econ. 2011 Nov;20(11):1379-91. doi: 10.1002/hec.1677. Epub 2010 Nov
3.

Test-retest reliability of health state valuation techniques: the time trade off 
and person trade off.

Robinson S(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Management Centre, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. 
s.m.robinson@bham.ac.uk.

Economic analysis is increasingly being employed in formal resource allocation 
decision-making processes in health care. As a consequence, the methods employed 
by economic analysts are increasingly subject to close scrutiny. One such area 
of methodology concerns the instruments used to elicit preferences for various 
health states for use in the construction of quality-adjusted life years. There 
are a number of techniques which may be used to elicit preferences and different 
techniques produce different results. The objective of this study was to explore 
the test-retest reliability of two techniques: Time Trade Off (TTO) and Person 
Trade Off (PTO) valuations were collected by a general population postal survey. 
A total of 798 respondents returned questionnaires. The intra class correlation 
coefficients ranged from 0.40 to 0.88 for TTO and, -0.17 to 0.82 for PTO, with 
the majority of coefficients being >0.50. The reliability coefficients varied 
between techniques and health states, with the TTO technique tending to produce 
higher coefficients. While the reliability results for TTO were generally 
positive, the reliability results for PTO are less clear.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1677
PMID: 21053203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Pneumologia. 2010 Jul-Sep;59(3):170-3.

Determination of mortality from cystic fibrosis.

Baghaie N(1), Kalilzadeh S, Hassanzad M, Parsanejad N, Velayati A.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Respiratory Diseases Research Center, NRITLD Shahid Beheshti, 
University of medical sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Assessing the prognosis of cystic fibrosis (CF) and evaluating the 
effect of indicators of mortality is very important in predicting the life 
expectancy of the CF patients.
OBJECTIVE: Determining the effect of seven variables including sex, Forced 
Expiratory Volume in one second (FEV1), Body Mass Index (BMI), bacteriology, 
hemoglobin (Hb), pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP) and the number of previous 
admissions on the survival of 27 patients admitted in Pediatric Pulmonary Ward 
of Masih Daneshvari Hospital in 2007-2009.
METHODS: 27 CF patients were enrolled in a retrospective cross-sectional study. 
Patients data were collected during 2 years of study. Data of patients who died 
and those who remained alive were compared by independent samples t-tests and 
Chi-square.
RESULTS: Twenty seven CF patients (11 female, 10 male) with age range of 5-19 
years and mean age of 13.11 +/- 4.69 were studied. There was no difference in 
age, sex, FEV1, BMI, Hb between the deceased and alive group (p > 0.05). Mean 
PAP for expired patients and alive patients was 40 +/- 15.1 and 68 +/- 11.5 
respectively. The number of admissions during last 6 months was dominant in 
those patients who died. 50% of the alive patients were colonized with 
Pseudomonas. This is compared to deceased patients which 100% were colonized 
with Pseudomonas. There was a strong correlation between death and number of 
previous admissions, PAP and Pseudomonas infection (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Pseudomonas infection, number of previous admissions and the 
severity of pulmonary hypertension has shown to be the major predictors of 
mortality in our study.

PMID: 21053647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Heart Valve Dis. 2010 Sep;19(5):615-22.

Aortic valve replacement in octogenarians: analysis of risk factors for early 
and late mortality.

Nicolini F(1), Beghi C, Barbieri F, Secchi P, Agostinelli A, Fragnito C, 
Spaggiari I, Gherli T.

Author information:
(1)Heart Surgery Section, Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Parma 
Medical School, Parma, Italy. francesco.nicolini@unipr.it

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Cardiac surgery can be performed on elderly 
patients in good physical and mental health, thus improving their mortality, 
morbidity, and quality of life. Nevertheless, for some elderly patients aortic 
valve replacement (AVR) is still denied because of the presence of preoperative 
characteristics, such as older age and left ventricular dysfunction. The study 
aim was to review early and long-term results in patients aged > or = 80 years 
who underwent AVR for severe aortic stenosis, and to identify risk factors for 
in-hospital and late mortality.
METHODS: A total of 165 patients (mean age 82 +/- 2.1 years) underwent AVR for 
severe aortic stenosis, with or without concomitant coronary revascularization, 
at the authors' institution. The mean aortic valve area was 0.61 +/- 0.2 cm2. 
Preoperatively, 20 patients (12%) had a left ventricular ejection fraction < 
35%. The mean EuroSCORE was 9.45 +/- 1.52.
RESULTS: Seven patients (4%) experienced low cardiac output syndrome, and acute 
renal failure occurred in 24. No perioperative myocardial infarction, stroke or 
sternal wound infection was detected. In total, 23 patients (14%) required 
prolonged ventilatory support. The in-hospital mortality was 3%. After a mean 
follow up of 43 +/- 35.6 months there were 18 late deaths: the cardiac-related 
mortality was 7%. The mean NYHA class was improved from 2.86 +/- 0.67 to 1.44 
+/- 0.57 (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: Conventional AVR remains the standard of care, and can be performed 
with satisfactory in-hospital mortality, long-term life expectancy and quality 
of life in high-risk elderly patients. Although the transcatheter aortic valve 
technique seems to be a promising option, its long-term value must be 
established in prospective, randomized trials.

PMID: 21053741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Psychosoc Nurs Ment Health Serv. 2010 Nov;48(11):8-9. doi: 
10.3928/02793695-20101101-09.

Effects of childhood abuse linger into old age.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.3928/02793695-20101101-09
PMID: 21053836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Conserv Biol. 2011 Apr;25(2):350-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2010.01600.x.
Epub  2010 Nov 5.

Effects of multiple levels of social organization on survival and abundance.

Ward EJ(1), Semmens BX, Holmes EE, Balcomb Iii KC.

Author information:
(1)Northwest Fisheries Science Center, Seattle, WA 98112, USA. 
eric.ward@noaa.gov

Identifying how social organization shapes individual behavior, survival, and 
fecundity of animals that live in groups can inform conservation efforts and 
improve forecasts of population abundance, even when the mechanism responsible 
for group-level differences is unknown. We constructed a hierarchical Bayesian 
model to quantify the relative variability in survival rates among different 
levels of social organization (matrilines and pods) of an endangered population 
of killer whales (Orcinus orca). Individual killer whales often participate in 
group activities such as prey sharing and cooperative hunting. The estimated 
age-specific survival probabilities and survivorship curves differed 
considerably among pods and to a lesser extent among matrilines (within pods). 
Across all pods, males had lower life expectancy than females. Differences in 
survival between pods may be caused by a combination of factors that vary across 
the population's range, including reduced prey availability, contaminants in 
prey, and human activity. Our modeling approach could be applied to demographic 
rates for other species and for parameters other than survival, including 
reproduction, prey selection, movement, and detection probabilities.

Conservation Biology ©2010 Society for Conservation Biology. No claim to 
original US government works.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2010.01600.x
PMID: 21054527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2011 Aug;25(8):917-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-3083.2010.03880.x. Epub 2010 Nov 4.

Treatment of focal idiopathic hyperhidrosis with Botulinum Toxin Type A: 
clinical predictive factors of relapse-free survival.

Campanati A(1), Sandroni L, Gesuita R, Giuliano A, Giuliodori K, Marconi B, 
Ganzetti G, Offidani A.

Author information:
(1)Dermatological Clinic, Department of Biostatistics and Medical Information 
Technology, Polytechnic Marche University, Ancona, Italy. a.campanati@univpm.it

BACKGROUND: No material about the identification of predictive clinical factors 
of therapeutic response to Botulinum Toxin Type A (BTX-A) in focal idiopathic 
hyperhidrosis has been found.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate if age, sex, extension rate of hyperhidrotic area, 
localization, disease-related impairment of life quality, number of previous 
local, non-invasive treatments different from BTX-A, and duration of disease, 
may affect the relapse-free survival (RFS) after a BTX-A treatment in palmar and 
axillary focal idiopathic hyperhidrosis.
METHODS: Forty-one patients suffering from palmar hyperhidrosis, and 38 patients 
suffering from axillary hyperhidrosis received intradermal injections of BTX-A. 
All patients were clinically screened before and after treatment; they were 
followed for 15 months after it, according to Hyperhidrosis Disease Severity 
Scale (HDSS), Minor's test, and DLQI test, to state disease severity, and 
disease-related impairment of quality of life.
RESULTS: The duration of therapeutic effect of BTX-A is not significantly 
influenced by age (P = 0.783), sex (P = 0.762), extension of hyperhidrotic area 
(P = 0.770), site of involvement (P = 0.402), disease-induced impairment of life 
quality (P = 0.745), number of previous therapies (P = 0.730), or site of 
involvement (P = 0.402). In palmar idiopathic hyperhidrosis, patients with a 
longer disease history show a shorter duration of RFS after a treatment with 
BTX-A (P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients suffering from palmar hyperhidrosis have a longer lasting 
disease, and a length of disease more than 20 years in these patients influences 
the RFS after BTX-A treatment.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and 
Venereology © 2010 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2010.03880.x
PMID: 21054569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Value Health. 2010 Sep-Oct;13(6):853-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00736.x.

Quantification of the potential impact of cost-effectiveness thresholds on dutch 
drug expenditures using retrospective analysis.

Boersma C(1), Broere A, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology & Pharmacoeconomics (PE2), Department of 
Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Other than the UK, The Netherlands has no formal threshold for 
cost-per-QALY values defined yet. For example, a cutoff value at €20,000 per 
QALY is sometimes mentioned in various discussions, however it has no formal 
status at all. Yet, since 2005, all new innovative do have to go through a 
cost-effectiveness evaluation though, with the assessment being focused on the 
methodology rather than on the exact cost-per-QALY outcome.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to estimate the potential impacts on Dutch drug 
expenditures had a formal threshold been applied in recent years.
METHODS: We analyzed national Dutch prescription data for the period 2005-2007, 
with respect to the costs of specific newly introduced drugs with reported 
positive cost-effectiveness ratios. Various threshold values were investigated.
RESULTS:   In particular, our analysis suggests that modest, though annually 
increasing, reductions in Dutch drug expenditures could have been achieved in 
the recent period 2005-2007 if a threshold for cost-effectiveness at, for 
example, €20,000 per QALY been applied in The Netherlands. At thresholds of €0 
and €20,000 estimated reductions in drug expenditures reflect approximately 
0.25% of total Dutch drug expenditures and for thresholds of €50,000 and €80,000 
this is only 0.01%.
CONCLUSIONS: Modest reductions in drug expenditures can be achieved if a formal 
threshold would be applied in The Netherlands. Potential reductions may be 
expected to increase in next years as expenditures for listed drugs increase 
further and new drugs become listed. Finally, we argue that for optimal and fair 
allocation of resources the in the health-care sector, application of a 
straightforward threshold is eminent and should not be postponed anymore.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00736.x
PMID: 21054659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Dermatol Ther. 2010 Nov-Dec;23(6):606-42. doi:
10.1111/j.1529-8019.2010.01368.x.

Inherited syndromes.

Reyes MA(1), Eisen DB.

Author information:
(1)University of California Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, California, USA.

Many inherited skin conditions are associated with underlying malignancies. The 
astute clinician will be able to recognize many of these cutaneous findings. The 
identification of these genetic syndromes with cutaneous findings, or 
genodermatoses, may allow early recognition of internal malignancies and the 
extension of these patients' life expectancy. Several of these syndromes have 
established screening and treatment protocols, which should be utilized in the 
care of affected patients. This article succinctly reviews the dermatologic, 
clinical, and laboratory findings associated with genodermatoses that have 
associated internal malignancies. Appropriate treatment and screening 
recommendations are explored.

© 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1529-8019.2010.01368.x
PMID: 21054707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Aug;90(5):441-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.02026.x.  Epub 2010 Nov 4.

Micropulse diode laser trabeculoplasty -- 180-degree treatment.

Rantala E(1), Välimäki J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Päijät-Häme Central Hospital, Lahti, Finland. 
elina.rantala@helsinki.fi

PURPOSE: To evaluate the outcome of 180° micropulse diode laser trabeculoplasty 
(MDLT) in patients with open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 40 eyes of 29 MDLT-treated patients with a 
minimum follow-up time of 6 months. Successful outcome was defined as follows: 
(i) a ≥20% or (ii) a ≥3-mmHg decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP), no further 
need for laser- or incisional surgery and the number of glaucoma medication was 
the same or less than preoperative. These definitions will from now on be 
referred to as definition one and definition two.
RESULTS: Life-table analysis showed an overall success rate of 2.5% (1/40) and 
7.5% (3/40) (according to definitions one and two, respectively) after up to 19 
months of follow-up. The average time for failure was by definition one 2.9 
months (standard deviation, SD ± 3.5, range 1-12 months) and by definition two 
3.3 months (SD ± 3.9, range 1-16 months). There were no intra- or postoperative 
complications caused by MDLT. Postoperative inflammatory reaction, cells and 
flare, was scanty.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that 180° MDLT is a safe but ineffective 
treatment in patients with open-angle glaucoma.

© 2010 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2010 Acta Ophthalmologica 
Scandinavica Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.02026.x
PMID: 21054817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. BMC Public Health. 2010 Nov 5;10:675. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-675.

Health related quality of life of Canary Island citizens.

Oliva-Moreno J(1), Lopez-Bastida J, Worbes-Cerezo M, Serrano-Aguilar P.

Author information:
(1)University Castilla La Mancha, Cobertizo de San Pedro Mártir s/n, 45071; 
Toledo, Spain. Juan.OlivaMoreno@uclm.es

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to describe the health-related quality of 
life of Canarian population using information from the Canary Island Health 
Survey and three observational studies developed in the Canary Islands.
METHODS: A descriptive analysis was carried out on a sample of 5.549 Canarian 
citizens using information from 2004 Canary Island Health Survey and three 
observational studies on Alzheimer's disease, Stroke and HIV. EQ-5 D was the 
generic tool used for revealing quality of life of people surveyed. Besides the 
rate of people reporting moderate or severe decrease in quality of life, 
TTO-index scores and visual analogue scale were used for assessing health 
related quality of life of people that suffer a specific diseases and general 
population.
RESULTS: Self-perceived health status of citizens that suffer chronic diseases 
of high prevalence, identifies by the Canary Island Health Survey and other 
diseases such Alzheimer's disease, Stroke and HIV, independently examined in 
observational studies, are worse than self-perceived health of general 
population. Depression/anxiety and pain/discomfort were identified as the 
dimensions of the EQ-5 D with highest prevalence of problems. Alzheimer's 
disease and stroke were the illnesses with greater loss of quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Health related quality of life should be integrated into a set of 
information along with expectancy of life, incidence and prevalence of chronic 
diseases for developing health policy and planning health care activities The 
combination of information on health related quality of life from population 
health surveys with data from observational studies enlarges the sources of 
relevant information for setting health priorities and assessing the impact of 
health policies.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-675
PMCID: PMC3091580
PMID: 21054832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Cell Transplant. 2011;20(5):669-80. doi: 10.3727/096368910X536509. Epub 2010
Nov  5.

Augmenting therapy of ovarian cancer efficacy by secreting IL-21 human umbilical 
cord blood stem cells in nude mice.

Hu W(1), Wang J, Dou J, He X, Zhao F, Jiang C, Yu F, Hu K, Chu L, Li X, Gu N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathogenic Biology and Immunology, Medical School, Southeast 
University, Nanjing, China.

In the present study, CD34(+) human umbilical cord blood stem cells (UCBSCs) 
were engineered to express interleukin-21 (IL-21) and then were transplanted 
into A2780 ovarian cancer xenograft-bearing Balb/c nude mice. The therapeutic 
efficacy of this procedure on ovarian cancer was evaluated. The findings from 
the study indicated that UCBSCs did not form gross or histological teratomas 
until up to 70 days postinjection. The CD34(+) UCBSC-IL-21 therapy showed a 
consistent effect in the ovarian cancer of the treated mice, delaying the tumor 
appearance, reducing the tumor sizes, and extending life expectancy. The 
efficacy was attributable to keeping CD34(+) UCBSC-IL-21 in the neoplastic 
tissues for more than 21 days. The secreted IL-21 not only increased the 
quantity of CD11a(+) and CD56(+) NK cells but also increased NK cell 
cytotoxicities to YAC-1 cells and A2780 cells, respectively. The efficacy was 
also associated with enhancing the levels of IFN-γ, IL-4, and TNF-α in the mice 
as well as the high expressions of the NKG2D and MIC A/B molecules in the tumor 
tissues. This study suggested that transferring CD34(+) UCBSC-IL-21 into the 
nude mice was safe and feasible in ovarian cancer therapy, and that the method 
would be a promising new strategy for clinical treatment of ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.3727/096368910X536509
PMID: 21054951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Vaccine. 2010 Dec 10;29(1):115-22. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.08.078. Epub
2010  Nov 4.

The cost-effectiveness of vaccinating pregnant women against seasonal influenza 
in England and Wales.

Jit M(1), Cromer D, Baguelin M, Stowe J, Andrews N, Miller E.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Infections, Health Protection Agency, 61 Colindale Avenue, London 
NW9 6BT, United Kingdom. mark.jit@hpa.org.uk

We assessed the cost-effectiveness of vaccinating pregnant women against 
seasonal influenza in England and Wales, taking into account the timing of 
vaccination relative to both the influenza season and trimester of pregnancy. 
Women were assumed to be vaccinated in their second or third trimester. 
Vaccination between September and December was found to have an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of £23,000 per quality adjusted life year (QALY) (95% 
CI £10,000-£140,000) if it is assumed that infants are partially protected 
through their mothers, and of £28,000 per QALY gained (95% CI £13,000-£200,000) 
if infants are not protected. If some vaccine protection lasts for a second 
season, then the ratio is only £15,000 per QALY gained (95% CI £6,000-£93,000). 
Most of the benefit of vaccination is in preventing symptomatic episodes, 
regardless of health care resource use. Extending vaccination beyond December is 
unlikely to be cost-effective unless there is good protection into a second 
influenza season. Key sources of uncertainty are the cost of vaccine delivery 
and the quality of life detriment due to a clinically apparent episode of 
confirmed influenza. The cost of vaccine purchase itself is relatively low.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2010.08.078
PMID: 21055501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Feb;53(2):293-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.08.078. Epub 2010
Nov  4.

Long-term results of Talent endografts for endovascular abdominal aortic 
aneurysm repair.

Verhoeven BA(1), Waasdorp EJ, Gorrepati ML, van Herwaarden JA, Vos JA, Wille J, 
Moll FL, Zarins CK, de Vries JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The 
Netherlands. b.verhoeven@antoniusziekenhuis.nl

BACKGROUND: Since the introduction of endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR), 
long-term follow-up studies reporting single-device results are scarce. In this 
study, we focus on EVAR repair with the Talent stent graft (Medtronic, Santa 
Rosa, Calif).
METHODS: Between July 2000 and December 2007, 365 patients underwent elective 
EVAR with a Talent device. Patient data were gathered prospectively and 
evaluated retrospectively. By American Society of Anesthesiologists category, 
74% were categories III and IV. Postoperative computed tomography (CT) scanning 
was performed before discharge, at 3, 12 months, and yearly thereafter. Data are 
presented according to reporting standards for EVAR.
RESULTS: The mean proximal aortic neck diameter was 27 mm (range, 16-36 mm), 
with a neck length <15 mm in 31% (data available for 193 patients). Deployment 
of endografts was successful in 361 of 365 patients (99%). Initially, conversion 
to laparotomy was necessary in four patients. Primary technical success 
determined by results from computed tomography (CT) scans before discharge was 
achieved in 333 patients (91%). Proximal type I endoleaks were present in 28 
patients (8%) during follow-up, and 14 of these patients needed additional 
treatment for type I endoleak. The 30-day mortality for the whole Talent group 
was 1.1% (4 of 365). Follow-up to 84 months is reported for 24 patients. During 
follow-up, 122 (33%) patients died; in nine, death was abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(AAA)-related (including 30-day mortality). Kaplan-Meier estimates revealed 
primary clinical success rates of 98% at 1 year, 93% at 2 years, 88% at 3 years, 
79% at 4 years, 64% at 5 years, 51% at 6 years, and 48% at 7 years. Secondary 
interventions were performed in 73 of 365 patients (20%). Ten conversions for 
failed endografts were performed. Life-table yearly risk for AAA-related 
reintervention was 6%, yearly risk for conversion to open repair was 1.1%, 
yearly risk for total mortality was 8.9%, and yearly risk for AAA-related 
mortality was 0.8%.
CONCLUSION: Initially, technical success of endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) 
using the Talent endograft is high, with acceptable yearly risk for AAA-related 
mortality and conversion. However, a substantial amount of mainly endovascular 
reinterventions is necessary during long-term follow-up to achieve these 
results.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2010.08.078
PMID: 21055897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Eur Urol. 2011 Jan;59(1):61-71. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2010.10.039. Epub 2010
Oct  28.

EAU guidelines on prostate cancer. Part 1: screening, diagnosis, and treatment 
of clinically localised disease.

Heidenreich A(1), Bellmunt J, Bolla M, Joniau S, Mason M, Matveev V, Mottet N, 
Schmid HP, van der Kwast T, Wiegel T, Zattoni F; European Association of 
Urology.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, RWTH University Aachen, Aachen, Germany. 
aheidenreich@ukaachen.de

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to present a summary of the 2010 version of the European 
Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines on the screening, diagnosis, and 
treatment of clinically localised cancer of the prostate (PCa).
METHODS: The working panel performed a literature review of the new data 
emerging from 2007 to 2010. The guidelines were updated, and level of evidence 
and grade of recommendation were added to the text based on a systematic review 
of the literature, which included a search of online databases and bibliographic 
reviews.
RESULTS: A full version is available at the EAU office or Web site 
(www.uroweb.org). Current evidence is insufficient to warrant widespread 
population-based screening by prostate-specific antigen (PSA) for PCa. A 
systematic prostate biopsy under ultrasound guidance and local anaesthesia is 
the preferred diagnostic method. Active surveillance represents a viable option 
in men with low-risk PCa and a long life expectancy. PSA doubling time in <3 yr 
or a biopsy progression indicates the need for active intervention. In men with 
locally advanced PCa in whom local therapy is not mandatory, watchful waiting 
(WW) is a treatment alternative to androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) with 
equivalent oncologic efficacy. Active treatment is mostly recommended for 
patients with localised disease and a long life expectancy with radical 
prostatectomy (RP) shown to be superior to WW in a prospective randomised trial. 
Nerve-sparing RP represents the approach of choice in organ-confined disease; 
neoadjuvant androgen deprivation demonstrates no improvement of outcome 
variables. Radiation therapy should be performed with at least 74 Gy and 78 Gy 
in low-risk and intermediate/high-risk PCa, respectively. For locally advanced 
disease, adjuvant ADT for 3 yr results in superior disease-specific and overall 
survival rates and represents the treatment of choice. Follow-up after local 
therapy is largely based on PSA, and a disease-specific history with imaging is 
indicated only when symptoms occur.
CONCLUSIONS: The knowledge in the field of PCa is rapidly changing. These EAU 
guidelines on PCa summarise the most recent findings and put them into clinical 
practice.

Copyright © 2010 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2010.10.039
PMID: 21056534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nat Biotechnol. 2010 Nov;28(11):1160-3. doi: 10.1038/nbt1110-1160.

What is the value of oncology medicines?

Cohen J(1), Looney W.

Author information:
(1)Tufts University School of Medicine, Center for the Study of Drug 
Development, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Coverage with evidence development (CED), rather than quality-adjusted-life-year 
(QALY) thresholds, offers the best way forward in balancing evidence-based 
policy for new oncology products with the needs of developers, payers, 
physicians and patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt1110-1160
PMID: 21057481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Sociol Forum (Randolph N J). 2009 Dec 1;24(4):754-778. doi: 
10.1111/j.1573-7861.2009.01135.x.

End-of-Life Treatment Preferences Among Older Adults: An Assessment of 
Psychosocial Influences.

Carr D(1), Moorman SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Institute for Health, Health Care Policy, and 
Aging Research, Rutgers University, 30 College Avenue, New Brunswick, New Jersey 
08901.

We explore the content and correlates of older adults' end-of-life treatment 
preferences in two hypothetical terminal illness scenarios: severe physical pain 
with no cognitive impairment, and severe cognitive impairment with no physical 
pain. For each scenario, we assess whether participants would reject 
life-prolonging treatment, accept treatment, or do not know their preferences. 
Using data from the 2004 wave of the Wisconsin Longitudinal Study (N = 5,106), 
we estimate multinomial logistic regression models to evaluate whether treatment 
preferences are associated with direct experience with end-of-life issues, 
personal beliefs, health, and sociodemographic characteristics. Persons who have 
made formal end-of-life preparations, persons with no religious affiliation, 
mainline Protestants, and persons who are pessimistic about their own life 
expectancy are more likely to reject treatment in both scenarios. Women and 
persons who witnessed the painful death of a loved one are more likely to reject 
treatment in the cognitive impairment scenario only. Consistent with rational 
choice perspectives, our results suggest that individuals prefer treatments that 
they perceive to have highly probable desirable consequences for both self and 
family.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1573-7861.2009.01135.x
PMCID: PMC2971558
PMID: 21057589


383. Pneumologia. 2010 Jul-Sep;59(3):164-9.

[A rare cause of pulmonary arterial hypertension diagnosed in an elderly 
patient].

[Article in Romanian]

Hubatsch M(1), Pal K, Zoltan P, Bocicor A, Ene L.

Author information:
(1)Universitatea de Medicină şi Farmacie Tâgu Mureş. hubatschm@yahoo.fr

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare and incurable disease, related 
to right ventricle overload and failure, which are late consequences of 
asymptomatic progressive pulmonary vascular occlusion. The clinical approach 
requires: a high clinical suspicion; the detection and confirmation of PAH by 
echo-Doppler and right heart catheterisation; identification of an etiology; 
assessment of functionality and life expectancy; and reversibility testing. We 
present the case of a 68-year-old male patient presenting with progressive 
fatigability and shortness of breath, abnormal heart beats in the last 4 years, 
aggravated in the last year. Clinical findings showed signs of cardiac failure. 
Multiple echocardiographies demonstrated right atrial and right ventricular 
dilatation, with severe PAH, subsequent severe pulmonary and tricuspid 
regurgitation, mild mitral and aortic regurgitation and efficient left 
ventricular function. Subsequent cardiac catheterization confirms severe PAH, 
excludes VSD, and sees a left-to-right shunt but an ASD could not be 
anatomically localized. Left ventricular function and the coronary arteries were 
normal. Transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated an ASD sinus venosus with 
bidirectional shunt associated with partial abnormal in pulmonary venous 
drainage, with right supranumery pulmonary vein with drainage in the sinus 
venosus, the upper and inferior right pulmonary veins flowing into the right 
atrium, the upper and inferior left pulmonary veins Bowing into the left atrium, 
associated to important superior and inferior vena cava dilatation. The patient 
receives treatment for right heart failure, oral anticoagulation, antiarrhythmic 
drugs, cardio-pulmonary rehabilitation is initiated and he is referred to a 
center specialised in PAH, for bosentan treatment. In this patient, it is 
surprising that even born with a potentially cyanogenic congenital heart 
disease, his condition is discovered at an advanced age on the edge for 
evolution towards an Eisenmenger Syndrome, being fairly asymptomatic until the 
last year when he receives treatment for left heart failure.

PMID: 21058470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Sex Health. 2010 Sep;7(3):242-3. doi: 10.1071/sh10026.

Commentary on opinion pieces re Australian human papillomavirus vaccine policy.

McIntyre P(1).

Author information:
(1)The National Centre for Immunisation Research, The Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, Westmead, Australia. peterm@chw.edu.au

Comment on
    Sex Health. 2010 Sep;7(3):235-7.
    Sex Health. 2010 Sep;7(3):238-41.

DOI: 10.1071/sh10026
PMID: 21058498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Occup Health Psychol. 2010 Oct;15(4):421-33. doi: 10.1037/a0020720.

Feeling good and doing great: the relationship between psychological capital and 
well-being.

Culbertson SS(1), Fullagar CJ, Mills MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS 66506-5302, 
USA. satoris@ksu.edu

This study seeks to determine the relationship between psychological capital and 
an employee's eudaimonic and hedonic well-being. Panel data were collected from 
102 extension agents over a 2-week interval. In addition, daily surveys were 
collected from 67 of the participants. Results from the panel data indicated 
that the relation between psychological capital and hedonic well-being, measured 
two weeks later, is mediated by eudaimonic well-being. Results from the daily 
surveys found that daily eudaimonic work well-being was significantly associated 
with both daily positive mood and daily life satisfaction and that variance in 
eudaimonic work well-being was predicted by one's psychological capital.

© 2010 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0020720
PMID: 21058856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. J Clin Pathol. 2011 Apr;64(4):358-62. doi: 10.1136/jcp.2010.084574. Epub
2010  Nov 7.

Derivation of new reference tables for human heart weights in light of 
increasing body mass index.

Gaitskell K(1), Perera R, Soilleux EJ.

Author information:
(1)Somerville College, Oxford University, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    J Clin Pathol. 2011 Apr;64(4):279-80.

As body weights and body mass indices have increased over time, we questioned 
the validity of correlating heart weight with body weight and whether tables 
from previous decades remain relevant. We investigated this by collecting 
details of heart weight, body weight, height, gender and age from 384 autopsy 
cases with no obvious heart or lung disease. Heart weights, body weights and 
heights showed a normal distribution for both genders. Heart weight correlated 
slightly better with body surface area than body weight and we present new 
reference charts derived from these data. The correlation between heart weight 
and body weight has changed little, despite increases in body weight and body 
mass index. As life expectancy is increasing, we investigated the effect of age 
on heart weight and demonstrated a small increase in heart weight relative to 
body surface area for both genders, in contrast to a previous study.

DOI: 10.1136/jcp.2010.084574
PMID: 21059599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. BMJ. 2010 Nov 8;341:c5869. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c5869.

Population based screening for chronic kidney disease: cost effectiveness study.

Manns B(1), Hemmelgarn B, Tonelli M, Au F, Chiasson TC, Dong J, Klarenbach S; 
Alberta Kidney Disease Network.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
Braden.Manns@albertahealthservices.ca

Comment in
    BMJ. 2010;341:c5734.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness of one-off population based 
screening for chronic kidney disease based on estimated glomerular filtration 
rate.
DESIGN: Cost utility analysis of screening with estimated glomerular filtration 
rate alone compared with no screening (with allowance for incidental finding of 
cases of chronic kidney disease). Analyses were stratified by age, diabetes, and 
the presence or absence of proteinuria. Scenario and sensitivity analyses, 
including probabilistic sensitivity analysis, were performed. Costs were 
estimated in all adults and in subgroups defined by age, diabetes, and 
hypertension.
SETTING: Publicly funded Canadian healthcare system.
PARTICIPANTS: Large population based laboratory cohort used to estimate 
mortality rates and incidence of end stage renal disease for patients with 
chronic kidney disease over a five year follow-up period. Patients had not 
previously undergone assessment of glomerular filtration rate.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime costs, end stage renal disease, quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) gained, and incremental cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, population based screening for chronic 
kidney disease was associated with an incremental cost of $C463 (Canadian 
dollars in 2009; equivalent to about £275, €308, US $382) and a gain of 0.0044 
QALYs per patient overall, representing a cost per QALY gained of $C104 900. In 
a cohort of 100 000 people, screening for chronic kidney disease would be 
expected to reduce the number of people who develop end stage renal disease over 
their lifetime from 675 to 657. In subgroups of people with and without 
diabetes, the cost per QALY gained was $C22 600 and $C572 000, respectively. In 
a cohort of 100 000 people with diabetes, screening would be expected to reduce 
the number of people who develop end stage renal disease over their lifetime 
from 1796 to 1741. In people without diabetes with and without hypertension, the 
cost per QALY gained was $C334 000 and $C1 411 100, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Population based screening for chronic kidney disease with 
assessment of estimated glomerular filtration rate is not cost effective overall 
or in subgroups of people with hypertension or older people. Targeted screening 
of people with diabetes is associated with a cost per QALY that is similar to 
that accepted in other interventions funded by public healthcare systems.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c5869
PMCID: PMC2975430
PMID: 21059726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the Unified Competing Interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare: this project 
was supported by an operating grant from Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical 
Research (now Alberta Innovates-Health Solutions) for the submitted work; no 
financial relationships with any companies that might have an interest in the 
submitted work in the previous 3 years; no other relationships or activities 
that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


388. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Nov 23;107(47):20400-4. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1007273107. Epub 2010 Nov 8.

Ocean acidification compromises recruitment success of the threatened Caribbean 
coral Acropora palmata.

Albright R(1), Mason B, Miller M, Langdon C.

Author information:
(1)Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami, 
Miami, FL 33149, USA. ralbright@rsmas.miami.edu

Ocean acidification (OA) refers to the ongoing decline in oceanic pH resulting 
from the uptake of atmospheric CO(2). Mounting experimental evidence suggests 
that OA will have negative consequences for a variety of marine organisms. 
Whereas the effect of OA on the calcification of adult reef corals is 
increasingly well documented, effects on early life history stages are largely 
unknown. Coral recruitment, which necessitates successful fertilization, larval 
settlement, and postsettlement growth and survivorship, is critical to the 
persistence and resilience of coral reefs. To determine whether OA threatens 
successful sexual recruitment of reef-building corals, we tested fertilization, 
settlement, and postsettlement growth of Acropora palmata at pCO(2) levels that 
represent average ambient conditions during coral spawning (∼400 μatm) and the 
range of pCO(2) increases that are expected to occur in this century [∼560 μatm 
(mid-CO(2)) and ∼800 μatm (high-CO(2))]. Fertilization, settlement, and growth 
were all negatively impacted by increasing pCO(2), and impairment of 
fertilization was exacerbated at lower sperm concentrations. The cumulative 
impact of OA on fertilization and settlement success is an estimated 52% and 73% 
reduction in the number of larval settlers on the reef under pCO(2) conditions 
projected for the middle and the end of this century, respectively. Additional 
declines of 39% (mid-CO(2)) and 50% (high-CO(2)) were observed in postsettlement 
linear extension rates relative to controls. These results suggest that OA has 
the potential to impact multiple, sequential early life history stages, thereby 
severely compromising sexual recruitment and the ability of coral reefs to 
recover from disturbance.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1007273107
PMCID: PMC2996699
PMID: 21059900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


389. Nihon Hoshasen Gijutsu Gakkai Zasshi. 2010 Oct 20;66(10):1303-9. doi: 
10.6009/jjrt.66.1303.

[The property and applications of the photovoltaic solar panel in the region of 
diagnostic X-ray].

[Article in Japanese]

Hirota J(1), Tarusawa K, Kudo K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Life Sciences, Division of Medical Life Sciences, 
Hirosaki University Graduate School of Health Sciences, Japan.

In this study, the sensitivity in the diagnostic X-ray region of the single 
crystalline Si photovoltaic solar panel, which is expected to grow further, was 
measured by using an X-ray tube. The output voltage of the solar panel was 
clearly proportional to the tube voltage and a good time response in the 
irradiation time setting of the tube was measured. The factor which converts 
measured voltage to irradiation dose was extracted experimentally using a 
correction filter to investigate the ability of the solar panel as a dose 
monitor. The obtained conversion factors were N(S) = 13 ± 1[µV/µSv/s] for the 
serial and N(P) = 58 ± 2[µV/µSv/s] for the parallel connected solar panels, both 
with the Al 1 mm + Cu 0.1 mm correction filter, respectively. Therefore, a good 
dose dependence of the conversion factor was confirmed by varying the distance 
between the X-ray tube and the solar panel with that filter. In conclusion, a 
simple extension of our results pointed out the potential of a new concept of 
measurements using, for example, the photovoltaic solar panel, the direct dose 
measurement from X-ray tube and real time estimation of the exposed dose in IVR.

DOI: 10.6009/jjrt.66.1303
PMID: 21060220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Biogerontology. 2011 Jun;12(3):179-84. doi: 10.1007/s10522-010-9308-1.

Life span extension in Drosophila melanogaster induced by morphine.

Dubiley TA(1), Rushkevich YE, Koshel NM, Voitenko VP, Vaiserman AM.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Endocrinology, Institute of Gerontology, Kiev, Ukraine.

The influence of morphine on the life span of Drosophila melanogaster fruit 
flies has been investigated. Morphine hydrochloride (MH) at concentrations of 
0.01, 0.05 and 0.25 mg/ml was added to a medium starting from day 5 or 54 of 
imaginal life. Supplementation with MH starting from day 5 of imaginal life has 
resulted in significant increases in the mean life span of males at all 
concentrations studied. In females, a significant increase in life span compared 
with control was obtained only for those treated with 0.25 mg/ml MH. In flies 
with MH feeding from day 54, residual life span was significantly increased in 
both males and females after treatment with 0.05 mg/ml MH. The present data, 
together with those of our earlier study in mice (Dubiley et al. Probl Aging 
Longvity 9:331–332, 2000) suggest that morphine supplementation can result in 
life extension in both vertebrate and invertebrate animal species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-010-9308-1
PMID: 21061062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Adv Ther. 2010 Nov;27(11):814-27. doi: 10.1007/s12325-010-0078-6. Epub 2010
Oct  12.

Cost-effectiveness of biphasic insulin aspart versus insulin glargine in 
patients with type 2 diabetes in China.

Palmer JL(1), Beaudet A, White J, Plun-Favreau J, Smith-Palmer J.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Basel, Switzerland. jpalmer@ch.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND: The OnceMix and INITIATE studies have indicated that biphasic 
insulin aspart 30 (BIAsp 30) is more effective than insulin glargine (IGlarg), 
in terms of glycohemoglobin reductions, in patients with type 2 diabetes 
initiating insulin therapy. The cost-effectiveness of BIAsp 30 versus IGlarg in 
the Chinese setting is estimated here.
METHODS: The validated and peer-reviewed CORE Diabetes Model was used. The 
nephropathy, retinopathy, and stroke submodels were modified to incorporate 
available Chinese clinical data. Diabetes complication costs were derived from 
hospital surveys in Beijing and Chengdu. Simulated cohorts and insulin treatment 
effects were based on the OnceMix study for once-daily BIAsp 30 versus IGlarg 
and on the INITIATE study for twice-daily BIAsp 30 versus IGlarg. Life 
expectancy and direct medical costs were calculated. Projections were made over 
30-year time horizons, with costs and life years discounted at 3% annually. 
Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed, including adjustments to 
cardiovascular risk for Chinese ethnicity.
RESULTS: Once-daily BIAsp 30 increased life expectancy by 0.04 years (12.37 vs. 
12.33 years) and reduced direct medical costs by Chinese Yuan (CNY) 59,710 per 
patient (CNY 229,911 vs. CNY 289,621 per patient) compared with IGlarg in the 
OnceMix-based analysis. Twice-daily BIAsp 30 increased life expectancy by 0.08 
years (12.99 vs. 12.91 years) and reduced direct medical costs by CNY 107,349 
per patient (CNY 303,142 vs. CNY 410,491 per patient) compared with IGlarg in 
the INITIATE-based analysis. Improvements in life expectancy were driven by 
reduced incidences of most diabetes-related complications. Cost savings were 
attributable to lower lifetime insulin costs for BIAsp 30 compared with IGlarg 
in China. Lowered cardiovascular risk for Chinese ethnicity reduced the 
projected clinical improvements for BIAsp 30 but increased treatment-related 
lifetime cost savings.
CONCLUSIONS: BIAsp 30, either once- or twice-daily, improved projected life 
expectancy and reduced projected costs compared with IGlarg in the Chinese 
setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-010-0078-6
PMID: 21061114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Am J Hematol. 2011 Jan;86(1):92-5. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21896.

Quality of life in thalassemia: a comparison of SF-36 results from the 
thalassemia longitudinal cohort to reported literature and the US norms.

Sobota A(1), Yamashita R, Xu Y, Trachtenberg F, Kohlbry P, Kleinert DA, Giardina 
PJ, Kwiatkowski JL, Foote D, Thayalasuthan V, Porter JB, Thompson AA, Schilling 
L, Quinn CT, Neufeld EJ; Thalassemia Clinical Research Network.

Collaborators: Neufeld E, Braunstein J, Smith A, Lashley L, Quinn C, Boger D, 
Adix L, Richardson S, Boudreaux J, Hassen L, Mueller B, Dino B, Giardina P, 
Evans E, Weinblatt M, Skelly L, Kwiatkowski J, Martin M, Beams O, Thompson A, 
Beatty J, Drinkwater T, Vichinsky E, Foote D, Sweeters N, Vega O, Coates T, 
Carson S, Pang EH, Khanna R, Jeng M, Bakshi K, Wu J, McCartney H, Fitzgerald C, 
Badour S, Olivieri NF, Thayalasuthan V, Odame I, Merelles-Pulcini M, Porter J, 
Bhagwandin C, Shah F, Hassell K, McKinlay S, Virzi L, Trachtenberg F.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
amy.sobota@childrens.harvard.edu

Thalassemia is a chronic, inherited blood disorder, which, in its most severe 
form, causes life-threatening anemia. Advances in treatment have led to 
increased life expectancy however the need for chronic blood transfusions and 
chelation therapy remains a significant burden for patients. Our study compared 
health related quality of life (HRQOL) from the Thalassemia Clinical Research 
Network's (TCRNs) Thalassemia Longitudinal Cohort (TLC) study to US norms and 
assessed association with clinical variables. There were 264 patients over age 
14 who completed the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form Health Survey 
version 2 (SF36v2) baseline assessment. When compared to US norms, TLC patients 
had statistically significant (P < 0.05) worse HRQOL on five of the eight 
subscales (physical functioning, role-physical, general health, social 
functioning, and role-emotional) and on both summary scales (physical component 
summary and mental component summary). Women, older patients, and those with 
more disease complications and side effects from chelation reported lower HRQOL. 
In general, adolescents and adults with thalassemia report worse HRQOL than the 
US population, despite contemporary therapy. The SF-36 should become a standard 
instrument for assessing HRQOL in thalassemia to determine predictors of low 
HRQOL which may be better addressed by a multidisciplinary team.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21896
