incarceration was low (SMR = 0.85, 95% CI: 0.77, 0.94), while postrelease 
mortality was high (SMR = 1.54, 95% CI: 1.48, 1.61). SMRs varied by race, with 
black men exhibiting lower relative mortality than white men. Black men were the 
only demographic subgroup to experience significantly lower mortality while 
incarcerated (SMR = 0.66, 95% CI: 0.58, 0.76), while white men experienced 
elevated mortality while incarcerated (SMR = 1.28, 95% CI: 1.10, 1.48). Four 
causes of death (homicide, transportation, accidental poisoning, and suicide) 
accounted for 74% of the decreased mortality during incarceration, while 6 
causes (human immunodeficiency virus infection, cancer, cirrhosis, homicide, 
transportation, and accidental poisoning) accounted for 62% of the excess 
mortality following release. Adjustment for compassionate releases eliminated 
the protective effect of incarceration on mortality. These results suggest that 
the low mortality inside prisons can be explained by the rarity of deaths 
unlikely to occur in the context of incarceration and compassionate releases of 
moribund patients.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwq422
PMCID: PMC3044840
PMID: 21239522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2010;2010:82-9. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2010.1.82.

Treatment of younger patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Ferrajoli A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Leukemia, Division of Cancer Medicine, The University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA. aferrajo@mdanderson.org

Younger patients (defined as patients younger than 50-55 years of age) represent 
a small group of newly diagnosed patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 
accounting only for 10% to 20% of newly diagnosed cases. However, once these 
patients become symptomatic and require treatment, their life expectancy is 
significantly reduced. Therapeutic approaches for younger patients should be 
directed at improving survival by achieving a complete remission and, where 
possible, eradicating minimal residual disease. Chemoimmunotherapy combinations 
carry the highest response rates and are commonly offered to younger patients. 
Additional strategies that should be considered for younger patients include 
early referral for stem-cell transplantation and clinical trials of 
consolidation therapy to eliminate minimal residual disease.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2010.1.82
PMID: 21239775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2010;2010:191-6. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2010.1.191.

The aging patient with hemophilia: complications, comorbidities, and management 
issues.

Philipp C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School, New Brunswick, NJ 08903, USA. philipp@umdnj.edu

Improvements in hemophilia care and antiviral treatments have resulted in 
increases in median life expectancy for persons with congenital hemophilia A and 
B. Currently, 2% of hemophilia A and B patients surveyed in US comprehensive 
hemophilia treatment centers are 65 years of age or older and 15% are 45 years 
or older. Many of the complications of hemophilia, including intracranial 
hemorrhage, joint disease, and inhibitor development, increase with increasing 
age. Hepatocellular carcinoma and end-stage liver disease are increasing in the 
older hemophilia population due to infection with hepatitis C (HCV) and HCV/HIV 
coinfection. Older hemophilia patients also now face the same medical conditions 
associated with aging in the general population, including cardiovascular 
disease and cancer. Complex hemostatic management, sometimes in conjunction with 
antithrombotic management, with extensive cross-specialty clinical and 
laboratory coordination may be required for the care of the older hemophilia 
patient. Because elderly hemophilia patients currently represent a small portion 
of the overall hemophilia population, there is little in the way of clinical 
data to guide recommendations. Registry databases and cooperative group studies 
are needed for the development of evidence-based guidelines for the older 
hemophilia population, which is anticipated to expand in the future.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2010.1.191
PMID: 21239793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2010;2010:481-8. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2010.1.481.

Understanding and managing ultra high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Stilgenbauer S(1), Zenz T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany. 
stephan.stilgenbauer@uniklinik-ulm.de

Modern treatment approaches such as chemoimmunotherapy (e.g., 
fludarabine/cyclophosphamide/rituximab or FCR) are highly effective in the 
majority of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. However, there remains 
a small but challenging subgroup of patients who show ultra high-risk genetics 
(17p deletion, TP53 mutation) and/or poor response to chemoimmunotherapy. The 
median life expectancy of these patients is below 2 to 3 years with standard 
regimens. Accordingly, CLL with the 17p deletion (and likely also with sole TP53 
mutation) should be treated with alternative strategies. While p53 defects 
appear to play a central role in our understanding of this ultra high-risk 
group, at least half of the cases will not be predictable based on existing 
prognostic models. Current treatment approaches for patients with p53 defects or 
poor response to chemoimmunotherapy should rely on agents acting independently 
of p53, such as alemtuzumab, lenalidomide, flavopiridol, and a growing number of 
novel compounds (or combinations thereof) currently available in clinical 
trials. Poor survival times of patients with ultra high-risk CLL suggest that 
eligible patients should be offered consolidation with reduced-intensity 
allogeneic stem-cell transplantation or experimental approaches in clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2010.1.481
PMID: 21239840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Infus Nurs. 2011 Jan-Feb;34(1):29-35. doi: 10.1097/NAN.0b013e31820219ff.

Recombinant infusion therapies indicated for bleeding disorders.

Kauffman J(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Mercy Hospital and Clinics, Kansas City, Missouri 64108, USA. 
jakauffman@cmh.edu

Hemophilia is a genetic condition that causes prolonged bleeding in those 
affected after surgeries, dental procedures, and injuries. It has been treated 
with a variety of products in the modern era, with some of the treatments 
causing serious viral infections. The development of recombinant-factor products 
has led to longer life expectancy and better quality of life for those affected. 
The objectives of this article are to review the epidemiology and 
pathophysiology of hemophilia A and B and von Willebrand's disease and to 
outline the development of treatment products, along with the advantages and 
disadvantages of each product. Research on newer products is progressing at a 
rapid pace. The article will also discuss some of the newer products currently 
in development.

DOI: 10.1097/NAN.0b013e31820219ff
PMID: 21239949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Med Klin (Munich). 2010 Dec;105(12):887-900. doi: 10.1007/s00063-010-1154-z.
 Epub 2011 Jan 16.

[Drug treatment of cystic fibrosis - cost patterns and savings potential for 
outpatient treatment].

[Article in German]

Baltin CT(1), Smaczny C, Wagner TO.

Author information:
(1)Erwachsenen-Mukoviszidoseambulanz, Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität, 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Christoph.Baltin@hhl.de

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Drug treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) is associated 
with significant costs. To help ensure sustainable care, this study assesses the 
costs associated with outpatient treatment of adult CF patients in Germany. It 
identifies main cost drivers, evaluates the potential for cost savings from "aut 
idem" substitution and presents a projection of lifelong medication costs.
METHODS: The analysis is based on a complete set of prescriptions for adult CF 
patients from the outpatient clinic of the university hospital of Frankfurt am 
Main during 2007 (n = 124 patients). Annual treatment costs were calculated on 
the basis of the "Rote Liste", while the potential for cost savings from "aut 
idem" drug substitution was obtained through ABDATA Pharma Data Service.
RESULTS: The annual outpatient drug costs for an adult patient with CF averages 
€ 17,219 (n = 124), which increases to € 21,782 if i.v. therapies are included. 
With an average life expectancy at birth of 39.7 years, total lifetime drug 
treatment costs amount to € 824,159 (reference year 2007, inflation rate 2.7%, 
3% discount rate). "Aut idem" substitution with cheaper drugs could reduce 
pharmaceutical expenditures by 4.1%.
CONCLUSION: Our results confirm the costly nature of drug treatment for CF 
patients, both on an annual and in particular on a lifelong basis. At the same 
time, the potential for cost savings through "aut idem" substitution with 
cheaper drugs remains limited. The added transparency around a small set of 
costdriving drugs, which is offered in this study, represents a solid 
contribution to assess treatment choices and financing options to help secure 
adequate yet sustainable care for CF patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-010-1154-z
PMID: 21240588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Popul Stud (Camb). 2011 Mar;65(1):73-89. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2010.534642.

Trends and geographic differentials in mortality under age 60 in India.

Saikia N(1), Jasilionis D, Ram F, Shkolnikov VM.

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, India.

The study examines overall and region-specific mortality changes and regional 
mortality variation in India since the 1970s, using data from the Sample 
Registration System (SRS). An evaluation of the quality of SRS data confirms 
their reliability for children and adults under age 60. The results suggest the 
convergence of mortality across the regions of India with important inter-state 
differences in the pace of health improvements over time. After spectacular 
progress during the 1970s and the 1980s, many Indian states have witnessed 
slower mortality improvements in both young and adult age groups. India faces 
difficulties in making further reductions in infant mortality and in the burden 
of chronic and man-made diseases at adult ages.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2010.534642
PMID: 21240833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. New Dir Youth Dev. 2010 Winter;2010(128):13-23. doi: 10.1002/yd.371.

Beyond computer literacy: supporting youth's positive development through 
technology.

Bers MU(1).

Author information:
(1)Eliot-Pearson Department of Child Development, Tufts University.

In a digital era in which technology plays a role in most aspects of a child's 
life, having the competence and confidence to use computers might be a necessary 
step, but not a goal in itself. Developing character traits that will serve 
children to use technology in a safe way to communicate and connect with others, 
and providing opportunities for children to make a better world through the use 
of their computational skills, is just as important. The Positive Technological 
Development framework (PTD), a natural extension of the computer literacy and 
the technological fluency movements that have influenced the world of 
educational technology, adds psychosocial, civic, and ethical components to the 
cognitive ones. PTD examines the developmental tasks of a child growing up in 
our digital era and provides a model for developing and evaluating 
technology-rich youth programs. The explicit goal of PTD programs is to support 
children in the positive uses of technology to lead more fulfilling lives and 
make the world a better place. This article introduces the concept of PTD and 
presents examples of the Zora virtual world program for young people that the 
author developed following this framework.

DOI: 10.1002/yd.371
PMID: 21240949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Scand J Rheumatol. 2011 Mar;40(2):108-15. doi: 10.3109/03009742.2010.503661.
 Epub 2011 Jan 17.

Cost-effectiveness analyses of elective orthopaedic surgical procedures in 
patients with inflammatory arthropathies.

Osnes-Ringen H(1), Kvamme MK, Kristiansen IS, Thingstad M, Henriksen JE, Kvien 
TK, Dagfinrud H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
h-osnes@diakonsyk.no

OBJECTIVE: To examine the costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for 
surgical interventions in patients with inflammatory arthropathies, and to 
compare the costs per QALY gained for replacement versus non-replacement 
surgical interventions.
METHODS: In total, 248 patients [mean age 57 (SD 13) years, 77% female] with 
inflammatory arthropathies underwent orthopaedic surgical treatment and 
responded to mail surveys at baseline and during follow-up (3, 6, 9, and 12 
months). Questionnaires included the quality-of-life EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and 
Short Form-6D (SF-6D) utility scores. The health benefit from surgery was 
subsequently translated into QALYs. The direct treatment costs in the first year 
were, for each patient, derived from the hospital's cost per patient accounting 
system (KOSPA). The costs per QALY were estimated and future costs and benefits 
were discounted at 4%.
RESULTS: Improvement in utility at 1-year follow-up was 0.10 with EQ-5D and 0.03 
with SF-6D (p < 0.05). The estimated 10-year cost per QALY gained was EUR 5000 
for hip replacement surgery (EUR18 600 using SF-6D) and EUR 10 500 (EUR 48 500 
using SF-6D) for all replacement procedures. The 5-year cost per QALY was EUR 17 
800 for non-replacement surgical procedures measured by EQ-5D (SF-6D: EUR 67 
500).
CONCLUSIONS: Elective orthopaedic surgery in patients with inflammatory 
arthropathies was cost-effective when measured with EQ-5D, and some procedures 
were also cost-effective when SF-6D was used in the economic evaluations. Hip 
replacement surgery was most cost-effective, irrespective of the method of 
analysis.

DOI: 10.3109/03009742.2010.503661
PMID: 21241197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Aging Cell. 2011 Apr;10(2):318-26. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00672.x.
Epub  2011 Feb 23.

HIF-1 modulates longevity and healthspan in a temperature-dependent manner.

Leiser SF(1), Begun A, Kaeberlein M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

The hypoxia-inducible factor HIF-1 has recently been identified as an important 
modifier of longevity in the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans. Studies have 
reported that HIF-1 can function as both a positive and negative regulator of 
life span, and several disparate models have been proposed for the role of HIF 
in aging. Here, we resolve many of the apparent discrepancies between these 
studies. We find that stabilization of HIF-1 increases life span robustly under 
all conditions tested; however, deletion of hif-1 increases life span in a 
temperature-dependent manner. Animals lacking HIF-1 are long lived at 25°C but 
not at 15°C. We further report that deletion or RNAi knockdown of hif-1 impairs 
healthspan at lower temperatures because of an age-dependent loss of vulval 
integrity. Deletion of hif-1 extends life span modestly at 20°C when animals 
displaying the vulval integrity defect are censored from the experimental data, 
but fails to extend life span if these animals are included. Knockdown of hif-1 
results in nuclear relocalization of the FOXO transcription factor DAF-16, and 
DAF-16 is required for life span extension from deletion of hif-1 at all 
temperatures regardless of censoring.

© 2011 The Authors. Aging Cell © 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00672.x
PMCID: PMC3980873
PMID: 21241450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Age Ageing. 2011 Mar;40(2):215-20. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afq178. Epub 2011 Jan
17.

Vitamin E may affect the life expectancy of men, depending on dietary vitamin C 
intake and smoking.

Hemilä H(1), Kaprio J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland. 
harri.hemila@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: antioxidants might protect against oxidative stress, which has been 
suggested as a cause of aging.
METHODS: the Alpha-Tocopherol-Beta-Carotene (ATBC) Study recruited males aged 
50-69 years who smoked at least five cigarettes per day at the baseline. The 
current study was restricted to participants who were followed up past the age 
of 65. Deaths were identified in the National Death Registry (1,445 deaths). We 
constructed Kaplan-Meier survival curves for all participants, and for four 
subgroups defined by dietary vitamin C intake and level of smoking. We also 
constructed Cox regression models allowing a different vitamin E effect for low 
and high age ranges.
RESULTS: among all 10,837 participants, vitamin E had no effect on those who 
were 65-70 years old, but reduced mortality by 24% when participants were 71 or 
older. Among 2,284 men with dietary vitamin C intakes above the median who 
smoked less than a pack of cigarettes per day, vitamin E extended lifespan by 2 
years at the upper limit of the follow-up age span. In this subgroup, the 
survival curves of vitamin E and no-vitamin E participants diverged at 71 years. 
In the other three subgroups covering 80% of the participants, vitamin E did not 
affect mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: this is the first study to strongly indicate that protection 
against oxidative stress can increase the life expectancy of some initially 
healthy population groups. Nevertheless, the lack of effect in 80% of this male 
cohort shows that vitamin E is no panacea for extending life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afq178
PMID: 21242192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Am Podiatr Med Assoc. 2011 Jan-Feb;101(1):35-40. doi: 10.7547/1010035.

Prevalence of plantar verrucae in patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
infection during the post-highly active antiretroviral therapy era.

Johnston J(1), King CM, Shanks S, Khademi S, Nelson J, Yu J, Barbosa P.

Author information:
(1)California School of Podiatric Medicine, Samuel Merritt University, Oakland, 
CA 94609, USA.

BACKGROUND: since the implementation of highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART), the life expectancy of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
has significantly increased. This is likely to cause changes in podiatric 
medical manifestations, such as plantar verrucae, in this population.
METHODS: attendees at a San Francisco street fair in 2008 provided information 
about HIV status and the presence of verrucae via a survey. A total of 504 
surveys were analyzed and compared with 1995 data, before HAART implementation. 
We examined if there was a statistically significant change in the increased 
likelihood of plantar verrucae in HIV-positive patients from 1995 to 2008. Then 
we examined the likelihood of HIV-positive patients (compared to HIV-negative 
patients) presenting with plantar verrucae in 2008, by using logistic 
regression, and controlling for age, sex, and race/ethnicity.
RESULTS: patients with HIV infection were 5.2 times more likely to present with 
plantar verrucae compared to patients without HIV infection in 2008 (95% 
confidence interval, 2.5-11.0, P < .0001) and 10.0 times more likely in 1995 
(95% confidence interval, 3.4-29.0, P < .0001). This decrease in likelihood over 
time was not statistically significantly different (P = .33). Logistic 
regression analysis controlling for the covariates of age, race, and sex showed 
that patients with HIV in 2008 were 4.5 times more likely to present with 
verrucae compared to patients without HIV (95% confidence interval, 2.1-9.9, P = 
.0002).
CONCLUSIONS: patients with HIV infection in 2008 are still significantly more 
likely to present with plantar verrucae after controlling for age, race, and 
sex. This increased likelihood has not changed significantly across time. 
Because HAART has increased the life expectancy of patients with HIV, this group 
of patients with plantar verrucae will continue to represent a significant 
population in the practice of podiatric medicine.

DOI: 10.7547/1010035
PMID: 21242468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2010 Dec;68(6):893-7. doi:
10.1590/s0004-282x2010000600012.

The neurological examination of non-complicated preterm newborns using the 
Saint-Anne Dargassies Scale from birth to term.

Alves CI(1), Melo AN.

Author information:
(1)Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the maturational development of 20 (aged 32-36 weeks) 
premature newborns (PNBs) without clinical or neurological complications from 
birth until term.
METHOD: The Saint-Anne Dargassies Scale was applied every two weeks until the 
age of 37 weeks.
RESULTS: The PNBs showed normal Apgar and the growth in head circumference was 
adequate for postmentrual age. The Friedman ANOVA test found a significant 
difference only for the heel-to-ear angles from birth until term. The Saint-Anne 
Dargassies Scale detected changes in 11 PNBs and the most altered reflexes were: 
cardinal points, Moro, cross extension reflexe and automatic walking. These 
changes were found in the first 48 hours of life and in subsequent weeks until 
term.
CONCLUSION: This finding alone justifies the neurological examination of PNBs, 
even if they show no clinical/neurological complications in the perinatal period 
and the importance of neuromotor assessment in preterm infants, as it enables 
detection and appropriate intervention.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x2010000600012
PMID: 21243248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Med Humanit. 2011 Jun;32(2):127-40. doi: 10.1007/s10912-010-9129-x.

"Screw health": representations of sex as a health-promoting activity in medical 
and popular literature.

Gupta K(1).

Author information:
(1)Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA. kgupta2@emory.edu

Recently, scientific and popular press articles have begun to represent sex as a 
health-promoting activity. A number of scientific studies have identified 
possible health benefits of sexual activity, including increased lifespan and 
decreased risk of certain types of cancers. These scientific findings have been 
widely reported on in the popular press. This "sex for health" discourse claims 
that sexual activity leads to quantifiable physical and mental health benefits 
in areas not directly related to sexuality. Analyzing this discourse provides an 
opportunity to better understand both broader health promotion discourses and 
current norms and anxieties about sexuality. In this article, I place this "sex 
for health" discourse within the context of broader health promotion discourses 
and within the context of a number of historical and contemporary discourses 
connecting health and sexuality. I argue that although the "sex for health" 
discourse may serve to de-stigmatize sexual activity for some, it may also 
increase pressure on others to be sexually active and may further pathologize 
sexual "dysfunction." In addition, these representations often serve to further 
privilege a normative form of sexual behavior - coitus in the context of a 
monogamous heterosexual partnership - at the expense of non-normative sexual 
desires, identities, and practices.

DOI: 10.1007/s10912-010-9129-x
PMID: 21243416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2011 Apr;13(2):159-68. doi: 
10.1007/s11936-011-0112-2.

Approach to venous thromboembolism in the cancer patient.

Piccioli A(1), Prandoni P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Sciences, Thromboembolic Unit, 
University Hospital of Padova, Padova, Italy, andreapiccioli@libero.it.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is frequently encountered in cancer patients, acts 
as an important cause of morbidity and mortality, and may be a predictor of 
worse prognosis. In cancer patient who have a poor life expectancy, preventing 
death from pulmonary embolism is the mainstay of treatment. Patients who present 
with severe hypotension or other clinical manifestations suggestive of critical 
pulmonary embolism and do not have contraindications to thrombolysis should 
promptly be administered thrombolytic drugs. Except for selected cases requiring 
aggressive therapy, treatment of VTE in patients with cancer should not differ 
from that of patients without malignancy; the initial treatment should be 
conducted with adjusted dose of unfractionated heparin (UH), fixed dose of 
low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWH), or fondaparinux. LMWHs and fondaparinux 
have the potential to greatly simplify the initial treatment of VTE, making the 
management of the pathology feasible in an outpatient setting for selected 
patients. Traditionally, in cancer as well as in non-cancer patients, UH or LMWH 
or fondaparinux are overlapped by oral anticoagulation, targeted to reach an 
International Normalized Ratio (INR) between 2.0 and 3.0, and then followed by 
oral anticoagulants. However, during oral anticoagulant therapy, cancer patients 
exhibit a two- to fourfold higher risk of recurrent VTE and major bleeding 
complications when compared to non-cancer patients. Studies performed during the 
current decade have demonstrated that LMWHs offer several advantages in terms of 
efficacy in preventing VTE recurrences without increasing the bleeding risk. 
According to International Guidelines, the long-term administration of LMWH 
should be considered an alternative to anti-vitamin K drugs in patients with 
advanced disease and in those with conditions limiting the use of oral 
anticoagulants. The targeted policy is to administer LMWH at full therapeutic 
doses for the first month of treatment and then 75% of the initial dose for at 
least the following 5 months of therapy. Prolongation of anticoagulation should 
be considered for as long as the malignant disorder is active. In patients with 
acute deep venous thrombosis and contraindications to anticoagulation, vena cava 
filters should be considered. If anticoagulation is temporarily contraindicated, 
retrievable filters should be considered. Only patients who are actively 
bleeding or who are at extremely high risk for bleeding should receive a filter 
without anticoagulation coverage.

DOI: 10.1007/s11936-011-0112-2
PMID: 21243449


850. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Apr;13(2):181-92. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0296-0.
Epub  2011 Jan 18.

Treating pneumonia in critical care in the United Kingdom following failure of 
initial antibiotic: a cost-utility analysis comparing meropenem with 
piperacillin/tazobactam.

Edwards SJ(1), Wordsworth S, Clarke MJ.

Author information:
(1)Kellogg College, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. 
steven.edwards@kellogg.ox.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Treating patients admitted to critical care with severe pneumonia 
requires timely intervention with an effective antibiotic. This reduces the risk 
of dying of pneumonia and minimises complications associated with a prolonged 
stay in critical care.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of meropenem 1 g/8 h with 
piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5 g/8 h for treating pneumonia in UK critical care.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to estimate lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of using meropenem versus 
piperacillin/tazobactam to treat severe pneumonia. Estimates of effectiveness, 
utility weights and costs were obtained from published sources. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was conducted to address uncertainty in the model results.
RESULTS: Cost of treating a patient with severe pneumonia was estimated as 
£19,026 with meropenem and £19,978 with piperacillin/tazobactam, respectively. 
QALYs gained were 4.768 with meropenem and 4.654 with piperacillin/tazobactam. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed meropenem to be consistently less 
costly and more effective than piperacillin/tazobactam.
CONCLUSION: The additional efficacy of meropenem translates into more patients 
surviving critical care and leaving this high-cost service more quickly than if 
they had been treated with piperacillin/tazobactam. As meropenem is more 
effective and less expensive than piperacillin/tazobactam at treating patients 
with severe pneumonia, it is the dominant treatment option.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0296-0
PMID: 21243514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Duke Med Health News. 2010 Dec;16(12):5-6.

Healthy lifestyle combo will measurably reduce mortality. No matter what your 
age or level of health, adopting healthy lifestyle factors can still improve 
your life.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 21243745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. BJU Int. 2011 Apr;107(7):1110-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09687.x. Epub
 2011 Jan 18.

Tadalafil administered once daily for lower urinary tract symptoms secondary to 
benign prostatic hyperplasia: a 1-year, open-label extension study.

Donatucci CF(1), Brock GB, Goldfischer ER, Pommerville PJ, Elion-Mboussa A, 
Kissel JD, Viktrup L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

OBJECTIVE: • To evaluate the 1-year safety of 5 mg of tadalafil once daily in 
men with lower urinary tract symptoms secondary to benign prostatic hyperplasia 
(BPH-LUTS); efficacy measures were included to evaluate the maintenance of 
efficacy after an additional year of treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: • In total, 427 men who completed a 12-week, 
placebo-controlled, dose- finding study assessing once-daily tadalafil (2.5, 5, 
10 or 20 mg) or placebo elected to continue into the open-label extension 
period. Safety and efficacy parameters were assessed after 1 month and every 3 
months.
RESULTS: • In total, 299 patients (69.9%) completed the 1-year, open-label 
extension period. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported by 
57.6% of patients, with most TEAEs being mild (44%) or moderate (45%) in 
severity; the most common TEAEs (≥ 2%) were dyspepsia, gastro-oesophageal reflux 
disease, back pain, headache, sinusitis, hypertension and cough. Twenty-two 
patients (5.2%) discontinued as a result of AEs. During the open-label extension 
period, mean prostate-specific antigen increased from 1.6 ± 1.3 ng/mL to 1.8 ± 
1.4 ng/mL. • Mean post-void residual volume was 61.1 ± 60.4 mL at study entry 
and 42.2 ± 64.1 mL after the open-label extension period. Changes in the total 
International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), IPSS irritative and obstructive 
subscores, IPSS health-related quality of life and BPH Impact Index were 
maintained after 1 year. In sexually-active patients with erectile dysfunction, 
improvements in the International Index of Erectile Function-Erectile Function 
domain were maintained after 1 year.
CONCLUSION: • In men with BPH-LUTS, 5 mg of tadalafil once daily during 1 year 
of treatment was well tolerated and efficacy changes were maintained.

© 2011 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09687.x
PMID: 21244606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Biomed Eng Online. 2011 Jan 9;10:1. doi: 10.1186/1475-925X-10-1.

Feature extraction and selection for objective gait analysis and fall risk 
assessment by accelerometry.

Caby B(1), Kieffer S, de Saint Hubert M, Cremer G, Macq B.

Author information:
(1)Université Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium. 
benoit.caby@uclouvain.be

BACKGROUND: Falls in the elderly is nowadays a major concern because of their 
consequences on elderly general health and moral states. Moreover, the aging of 
the population and the increasing life expectancy make the prediction of falls 
more and more important. The analysis presented in this article makes a first 
step in this direction providing a way to analyze gait and classify hospitalized 
elderly fallers and non-faller. This tool, based on an accelerometer network and 
signal processing, gives objective informations about the gait and does not need 
any special gait laboratory as optical analysis do. The tool is also simple to 
use by a non expert and can therefore be widely used on a large set of patients.
METHOD: A population of 20 hospitalized elderlies was asked to execute several 
classical clinical tests evaluating their risk of falling. They were also asked 
if they experienced any fall in the last 12 months. The accelerations of the 
limbs were recorded during the clinical tests with an accelerometer network 
distributed on the body. A total of 67 features were extracted from the 
accelerometric signal recorded during a simple 25 m walking test at comfort 
speed. A feature selection algorithm was used to select those able to classify 
subjects at risk and not at risk for several classification algorithms types.
RESULTS: The results showed that several classification algorithms were able to 
discriminate people from the two groups of interest: fallers and non-fallers 
hospitalized elderlies. The classification performances of the used algorithms 
were compared. Moreover a subset of the 67 features was considered to be 
significantly different between the two groups using a t-test.
CONCLUSIONS: This study gives a method to classify a population of hospitalized 
elderlies in two groups: at risk of falling or not at risk based on 
accelerometric data. This is a first step to design a risk of falling assessment 
system that could be used to provide the right treatment as soon as possible 
before the fall and its consequences. This tool could also be used to evaluate 
the risk several times during the revalidation procedure.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-925X-10-1
PMCID: PMC3022766
PMID: 21244718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2011 
Jan;54(1):75-82. doi: 10.1007/s00103-010-1192-y.

[Psychological comorbidity in elderly patients with cancer].

[Article in German]

Mehnert A(1), Volkert J, Wlodarczyk O, Andreas S.

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Medizinische Psychologie, Universitätsklinikum 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistr. 52 - Gebäude W26, 20246, Hamburg. mehnert@uke.de

Human life expectancy has increased, nationally and internationally, during 
recent years and will continue to increase in the future. Old age is commonly 
associated with health-related impairments, chronic diseases, increasing 
multimorbidity, as well as with psychosocial burdens, such as social 
deprivation, reduced social participation, and impairment in activities of daily 
living. Against this background, studies on mental health addressing 
psychological distress and mental disorders of older people have gained 
increasing attention. The aim of the present overview is to provide insight into 
psychological comorbidity in elderly with chronic illnesses. The following 
questions are addressed: (1) what are the prevalence rates of mental disorders 
in the elderly in general and, specifically, in patients with cancer? (2) How 
are mental disorders and cancer, respectively, diagnosed in elderly patients? 
(3) What are common risk factors associated with the development of mental 
disorders? (4) Which treatment options are available, and which aspects of 
health care for elderly patients with chronic diseases need to be considered?

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-010-1192-y
PMID: 21246332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Neurol Sci. 2011 Apr 15;303(1-2):146-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2010.12.016.
Epub  2011 Jan 17.

Intravascular lymphoma presenting as a longitudinally-extensive myelitis: 
diagnostic challenges and etiologic clues.

Kumar N(1), Keegan BM, Rodriguez FJ, Hammack JE, Kantarci OH.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, United States. 
kumar.neeraj@mayo.edu

Intravascular lymphoma is a rare disorder that commonly involves the central 
nervous system. Neurologic involvement may be the presenting and only 
manifestation. Identifying intravascular lymphoma as the cause of neurologic 
disease is diagnostically challenging. We report an elderly woman presenting 
with subacute onset paraparesis due to spinal cord involvement by an 
intravascular lymphoma. Progressive worsening was associated with extension of a 
longitudinally-extensive thoracic intramedullary spinal cord lesion. Extensive 
investigations failed to provide a diagnosis in life and repeated empiric 
therapeutic trials were unsuccessful. Diagnostic confirmation was postmortem. A 
longitudinally-extensive spinal cord lesion has a broad differential diagnosis. 
Intravascular lymphoma should be considered particularly in older individuals. 
The presence of coexisting hematologic abnormalities should prompt consideration 
of a bone marrow biopsy. Early diagnosis may direct therapy and lead to a more 
favorable prognosis.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2010.12.016
PMID: 21247588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Endocr Pract. 2011 Mar-Apr;17 Suppl 1:69-74. doi: 10.4158/EP10311.RA.

Cost-effectiveness of parathyroidectomy for primary hyperparathyroidism.

Zanocco K(1), Heller M, Sturgeon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Endocrine Surgery, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review cost-effectiveness analyses of treatments for primary 
hyperparathyroidism (PHPT).
METHODS: The PubMed database was searched with the keywords "cost effectiveness" 
and "primary hyperparathyroidism." The results of all studies identified were 
reviewed to ensure that the cost-effectiveness data were reported using 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, which are critical metrics for formal 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: Six studies were identified that measured the cost-effectiveness of 
competing treatment strategies for PHPT with incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios. Three studies were identified that compared surgical and medical 
treatment options for asymptomatic PHPT. Effectiveness was measured in 
quality-adjusted life years. In these studies, the strategy of medical 
observation was less effective than surgery. Surgery was less costly and more 
effective than pharmacologic therapy. Minimally invasive surgery was a 
cost-effective alternative to traditional surgical approaches. Parathyroidectomy 
was cost-effective for asymptomatic patients with a predicted life expectancy of 
5 years (outpatient parathyroidectomy) or 6.5 years (inpatient 
parathyroidectomy). For patients with a shorter life expectancy, observation was 
the optimal strategy. One study examined the cost-effectiveness of 3 strategies 
for the surgical treatment of symptomatic PHPT. A minimally invasive treatment 
strategy had the lowest rate of surgical complications (5.3%), and when compared 
with bilateral neck exploration, produced an incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio of $28,439 per complication avoided. Two studies examined the cost 
effectiveness of adjunctive preoperative imaging in patients with PHPT. The 
results of both analyses favored preoperative imaging over immediate bilateral 
neck exploration.
CONCLUSIONS: Parathyroidectomy has superior outcomes to observation, but it is 
more costly. Pharmacologic treatment strategies are quite costly, and offer 
limited benefits. The contemporary strategy of offering minimally invasive 
procedures with preoperative localization appears to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.4158/EP10311.RA
PMID: 21247844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Neurophysiol. 2011 Apr;105(4):1454-63. doi: 10.1152/jn.00902.2010. Epub
2011  Jan 19.

The timing of associative memory formation: frontal lobe and anterior medial 
temporal lobe activity at associative binding predicts memory.

Hales JB(1), Brewer JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, California, 
USA.

The process of associating items encountered over time and across variable time 
delays is fundamental for creating memories in daily life, such as for stories 
and episodes. Forming associative memory for temporally discontiguous items 
involves medial temporal lobe structures and additional neocortical processing 
regions, including prefrontal cortex, parietal lobe, and lateral occipital 
regions. However, most prior memory studies, using concurrently presented 
stimuli, have failed to examine the temporal aspect of successful associative 
memory formation to identify when activity in these brain regions is predictive 
of associative memory formation. In the current study, functional MRI data were 
acquired while subjects were shown pairs of sequentially presented visual images 
with a fixed interitem delay within pairs. This design allowed the entire time 
course of the trial to be analyzed, starting from onset of the first item, 
across the 5.5-s delay period, and through offset of the second item. Subjects 
then completed a postscan recognition test for the items and associations they 
encoded during the scan and their confidence for each. After controlling for 
item-memory strength, we isolated brain regions selectively involved in 
associative encoding. Consistent with prior findings, increased regional 
activity predicting subsequent associative memory success was found in anterior 
medial temporal lobe regions of left perirhinal and entorhinal cortices and in 
left prefrontal cortex and lateral occipital regions. The temporal separation 
within each pair, however, allowed extension of these findings by isolating the 
timing of regional involvement, showing that increased response in these regions 
occurs during binding but not during maintenance.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00902.2010
PMCID: PMC3075291
PMID: 21248058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2011 Jan 19;93(2):113-20. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.I.01375.

Internet-based outpatient telerehabilitation for patients following total knee 
arthroplasty: a randomized controlled trial.

Russell TG(1), Buttrum P, Wootton R, Jull GA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Physiotherapy, School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, 
University of Queensland, Brisbane 4072, Australia. t.russell@shrs.uq.edu.au

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2011 Jan 19;93(2):e6.

BACKGROUND: total knee arthroplasty is an effective means for relieving the 
symptoms associated with degenerative arthritis of the knee. Rehabilitation is a 
necessary adjunct to surgery and is important in regaining optimum function. 
Access to high-quality rehabilitation services is not always possible, 
especially for those who live in rural or remote areas. The aim of this study 
was to evaluate the equivalence of an Internet-based telerehabilitation program 
compared with conventional outpatient physical therapy for patients who have had 
a total knee arthroplasty.
METHODS: this investigation was a single-blinded, prospective, randomized, 
controlled noninferiority trial. Sixty-five participants were randomized to 
receive a six-week program of outpatient physical therapy either in the 
conventional manner or by means of an Internet-based telerehabilitation program. 
The primary outcome measure was the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities 
Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) measured at baseline and six weeks by a blinded 
independent assessor. Secondary outcomes included the Patient-Specific 
Functional Scale, the timed up-and-go test, pain intensity, knee flexion and 
extension, quadriceps muscle strength, limb girth measurements, and an 
assessment of gait. Noninferiority was assessed through the comparison of group 
differences with a noninferiority margin and with linear mixed model statistics.
RESULTS: baseline characteristics between groups were similar, and all 
participants had significant improvement on all outcome measures with the 
intervention (p < 0.01 for all). After the six-week intervention, participants 
in the telerehabilitation group achieved outcomes comparable to those of the 
conventional rehabilitation group with regard to flexion and extension range of 
motion, muscle strength, limb girth, pain, timed up-and-go test, quality of 
life, and clinical gait and WOMAC scores. Better outcomes for the 
Patient-Specific Functional Scale and the stiffness subscale of the WOMAC were 
found in the telerehabilitation group (p < 0.05). The telerehabilitation 
intervention was well received by participants, who reported a high level of 
satisfaction with this novel technology.
CONCLUSIONS: the outcomes achieved via telerehabilitation at six weeks following 
total knee arthroplasty were comparable with those after conventional 
rehabilitation.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: therapeutic Level I. See Instructions to Authors for a 
complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.I.01375
PMID: 21248209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Cell Cycle. 2011 Jan 1;10(1):144-55. doi: 10.4161/cc.10.1.14455.

Cell size and growth rate are major determinants of replicative lifespan.

Yang J(1), Dungrawala H, Hua H, Manukyan A, Abraham L, Lane W, Mead H, Wright J, 
Schneider BL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2011 Feb 15;10(4):577-8.

Yeast cells, like mammalian cells, enlarge steadily as they age. Unabated cell 
growth can promote cellular senescence; however, the significance of the 
relationship between size and cellular lifespan is not well understood. Herein, 
we report a genetic link between cell size, growth rate and lifespan. Mutations 
that increase cell size concomitantly increase growth rate and decrease 
lifespan. As a result, large cells grow, divide and age dramatically faster than 
small cells. Conversely, small cell mutants age slowly and are long-lived. 
Investigation of the mechanisms involved suggests that attainment of a maximal 
size modulates lifespan. Indeed, cumulative results revealed that life 
expectancy is size-dependent, and that the rate at which cells age is determined 
in large part by the amount of cell growth per generation.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.10.1.14455
PMCID: PMC3048081
PMID: 21248481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. PLoS One. 2011 Jan 7;6(1):e14496. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014496.

White matter changes and word finding failures with increasing age.

Stamatakis EA(1), Shafto MA, Williams G, Tam P, Tyler LK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Anaesthesia, School of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. eas46@cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy necessitates the better understanding of 
the neurophysiological underpinnings of age-related cognitive changes. The 
majority of research examining structural-cognitive relationships in aging 
focuses on the role of age-related changes to grey matter integrity. In the 
current study, we examined the relationship between age-related changes in white 
matter and language production. More specifically, we concentrated on 
word-finding failures, which increase with age.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We used Diffusion tensor MRI (a technique used 
to image, in vivo, the diffusion of water molecules in brain tissue) to relate 
white matter integrity to measures of successful and unsuccessful picture 
naming. Diffusion tensor images were used to calculate Fractional Anisotropy 
(FA) images. FA is considered to be a measure of white matter 
organization/integrity. FA images were related to measures of successful picture 
naming and to word finding failures using voxel-based linear regression 
analyses. Successful naming rates correlated positively with white matter 
integrity across a broad range of regions implicated in language production. 
However, word finding failure rates correlated negatively with a more restricted 
region in the posterior aspect of superior longitudinal fasciculus.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The use of DTI-MRI provides evidence for the 
relationship between age-related white matter changes in specific language 
regions and word finding failures in old age.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014496
PMCID: PMC3017545
PMID: 21249127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


861. World J Surg. 2011 Mar;35(3):473-4. doi: 10.1007/s00268-011-0958-1.

Life, liberty, and the pursuit of quality-adjusted life-years after pancreatic 
cancer surgery.

Adams DB.

Comment on
    World J Surg. 2011 Mar;35(3):662-70.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-011-0958-1
PMID: 21249360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Clin Rheumatol. 2011 Jun;30(6):831-6. doi: 10.1007/s10067-011-1687-4. Epub
2011  Jan 20.

Assessment of cervical pain and function in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

de Souza MC(1), de Ávila Fernandes E, Jones A, Lombardi I Jr, Natour J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Federal University of São Paulo, Rua Botucatu 740, 
04023-900, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by inflammation of the synovial 
membrane, which can lead to deformities and functional disability. Unlike the 
dorsal and lumbar spine, the cervical spine is often affected by RA. The 
objective of this paper is to assess cervical pain and function in patients with 
RA and correlate these variables with overall function, quality of life, and 
radiographic findings on the cervical spine. One hundred individuals aged 18 to 
65 years were divided into study group (50 patients with rheumatoid arthritis) 
and control group (50 healthy individuals, paired for gender and age). Patients 
with prior surgery, prior trauma or other symptomatic cervical spine condition 
were excluded. The visual analogue pain scale (VAS), Neck Pain and Disability 
Scale (NPDS), SF-36, HAQ and X-rays were used for evaluation purposes. Mean 
disease duration was 11.1 years. The cervical VAS was 2.4 cm and 1.3 cm for the 
study and control groups, respectively (p = 0.074). Statistical differences were 
found in NPDS scores, mean = 26.7 and 6.9, and HAQ scores, mean = 1.1 and 0.1, 
for the study and control groups, respectively (p < 0.001). SF-36 scores were 
statistically worse in the study group, except for the vitality, social aspects 
and mental health subscales. There was a positive correlation between the NPDS 
and VAS (r = 0.54) and between the NPDS and HAQ (r = 0.67). There was a negative 
correlation between the NPDS and SF-36 functional capacity domain (r = -0.53) 
and physical limitation domain (r = -0.58). The radiographic findings revealed 
more prevalent anterior atlanto-axial subluxation (p = 0.030), listhesis in 
neutral posture (p = 0.037), listhesis in extension (p = 0.007), degenerative 
alteration of C4-C5 segment (p = 0.023), size of C2 spinal canal (p = 0.002) and 
C3 spinal canal (p = 0.029) in the study group. Patients with RA have poorer 
cervical function than healthy individuals, although there is no difference in 
cervical pain.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-011-1687-4
PMID: 21249408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011 Jan 19;(1):CD006682. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006682.pub3.

Duration of intravenous antibiotic therapy in people with cystic fibrosis.

Plummer A(1), Wildman M.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, Northern General Hospital, Herries Road, Sheffield, UK, 
S5 7AU.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;5:CD006682.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008;(2):CD006682.

BACKGROUND: Respiratory disease is the major cause of mortality and morbidity in 
