MRI composite score.
RESULTS: A significant improvement (P < .05) was demonstrated for all Knee 
injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score and SF-36 subscales over the 
postoperative timeline, as well as the 6-minute walk test and active knee 
extension. A significant improvement (P < .0001) was observed for the MRI 
composite score, as well as several individual graft scoring parameters. At 5 
years after surgery, 67% of MACI grafts demonstrated complete infill, whereas 
89% demonstrated good to excellent filling of the chondral defect. Patient 
demographics, cartilage defect parameters, and injury/surgery history 
demonstrated no significant pertinent correlations with clinical or MRI-based 
outcomes at 5 years, and no significant correlations existed between clinical 
and MRI-based outcome measures. At 5 years after surgery, 98% of patients were 
satisfied with the ability of MACI surgery to relieve knee pain; 86%, with 
improvement in their ability to perform normal daily tasks; and 73%, with their 
ability to participate in sport 5 years after MACI.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that MACI provides a suitable midterm 
treatment option for articular cartilage defects in the knee. Long-term 
follow-up is essential to confirm whether the repair tissue has the durability 
required to maintain long-term patient quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546510390476
PMID: 21257846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2011 Feb;196(2):W112-6. doi: 10.2214/AJR.10.5609.

United States Preventive Services Task Force screening mammography 
recommendations: science ignored.

Hendrick RE(1), Helvie MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Colorado-Denver, School of Medicine, 
C278, 12700 E 19th Ave., Aurora, CO 80045, USA. edward.hendrick@gmail.com

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2011 Oct;197(4):W791; author reply 794.
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2011 Oct;197(4):W792; author reply 794.
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2011 Oct;197(4):W793; author reply 794.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to examine the scientific evidence 
considered by the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) in 
recommending against screening mammography in women 40-49 years old and against 
annual screening mammography in women 50 and older. We use evidence made 
available to the USPSTF to estimate the benefits and "harms" of screening 
mammography in women 40 years old and older. We use Cancer Intervention and 
Surveillance Modeling Network modeling to compare lives saved by different 
screening scenarios and the summary of evidence prepared for the USPSTF to 
estimate the frequency of harms of screening mammography by age.
CONCLUSION: Averaged over the six Cancer Intervention and Surveillance Modeling 
Network models of benefit, screening mammography shows greatest benefit--a 39.6% 
mortality reduction--from annual screening of women 40-84 years old. This 
screening regimen saves 71% more lives than the USPSTF-recommended regimen of 
biennial screening of women 50-74 years old, which had a 23.2% mortality 
reduction. For U.S. women currently 30-39 years old, annual screening 
mammography from ages 40-84 years would save 99,829 more lives than USPSTF 
recommendations if all women comply, and 64,889 more lives with the current 65% 
compliance rate. The potential harms of a screening examination in women 40-49 
years old, on average, consist of the risk of a recall for diagnostic workup 
every 12 years, a negative biopsy every 149 years, a missed breast cancer every 
1,000 years, and a fatal radiation-induced breast cancer every 76,000-97,000 
years. Evidence made available to the USPSTF strongly supports the mortality 
benefit of annual screening mammography beginning at age 40 years, whereas 
potential harms of screening with this regimen are minor.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.10.5609
PMID: 21257850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Health Educ Behav. 2011 Apr;38(2):123-31. doi: 10.1177/1090198110369056.
Epub  2011 Jan 21.

Social marketing, stages of change, and public health smoking interventions.

Diehr P(1), Hannon P, Pizacani B, Forehand M, Meischke H, Curry S, Martin DP, 
Weaver MR, Harris J.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7232, USA. 
pdiehr@u.washington.edu

As a "thought experiment," the authors used a modified stages of change model 
for smoking to define homogeneous segments within various hypothetical 
populations. The authors then estimated the population effect of public health 
interventions that targeted the different segments. Under most assumptions, 
interventions that emphasized primary and secondary prevention, by targeting the 
Never Smoker, Maintenance, or Action segments, resulted in the highest 
nonsmoking life expectancy. This result is consistent with both social marketing 
and public health principles. Although the best thing for an individual smoker 
is to stop smoking, the greatest public health benefit is achieved by 
interventions that target nonsmokers.

DOI: 10.1177/1090198110369056
PMID: 21257973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. J Med Screen. 2010;17(4):181-9. doi: 10.1258/jms.2010.010019.

Is human papillomavirus screening preferable to current policies in vaccinated 
and unvaccinated women? A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Accetta G(1), Biggeri A, Carreras G, Lippi G, Carozzi FM, Confortini M, Zappa M, 
Paci E.

Author information:
(1)Biostatistics Unit, ISPO Cancer Research and Prevention Institute, Via Cosimo 
il Vecchio 2, 50139 Florence, Italy. g.accetta@ispo.toscana.it

OBJECTIVES: Italy was the first European nation to offer free vaccination 
against human papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18. The vaccination is actively 
encouraged and is available free of charge to 11-year-old girls. The 
introduction of new technologies such as HPV DNA testing and HPV vaccination 
requires cost-effectiveness analysis of cervical cancer strategies in Italy for 
both vaccinated and unvaccinated women.
METHODS: A calibrated Markov model was developed to describe the natural history 
of HPV infection and cervical carcinogenesis. We performed a microsimulation 
generating the life histories of 10 million women. Changes in these life 
histories occur as consequences of prevention strategies. We estimated costs of 
screening activities using an activity-based costing analysis. We assessed 
lifetime risk due to cervical cancer, lifetime costs and quality-adjusted 
life-expectancy (QALE) for 18 scenarios. Strategies varied by screening interval 
(three and five years), primary and triage test (Pap test and HPV DNA test), and 
HPV 16 and 18 vaccination.
RESULTS: The current screening policy (Pap test every three years) is more 
costly and less effective than HPV DNA test and Pap test triage every five 
years. For unvaccinated women an HPV DNA test every five years with a Pap test 
triage was cost-effective (ICER €5753/QALE). Vaccination followed by the same 
screening strategy was cost-effective (ICER €23,951/QALE) for women who are 
eligible to be vaccinated.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings strongly support changing the Pap screening policy to 
the use of HPV DNA as a primary test with Pap test triage for both vaccinated 
and unvaccinated women.

DOI: 10.1258/jms.2010.010019
PMID: 21258128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Gesundheitswesen. 2011 Oct;73(10):688-95. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1270468. Epub
2011  Jan 21.

[QALYs and fairness: health economic approaches to the fairness issue and their 
problems].

[Article in German]

Klonschinski A(1), Lübbe W.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Philosophie, Universität Regensburg, Germany.

Empirical studies have shown that QALY-maximization leads to results that are 
perceived as unfair. Health economists have attempted to integrate fairness 
aspects in Cost-Utility Analysis by means of equity weighting. A well-known 
example is Cost-Value Analysis (Nord et al.). Over and above the value of 
individual health related utilities, it tries to capture the value of 
distributing resources fairly. The debate has shown, however, that these 
approaches face several problems. The present contribution argues that the 
difficulties are of a more fundamental nature than most contributors to the 
debate have hitherto assumed. Cost-utility analysis, we believe, cannot 
consistently be adjusted to meet fairness objections by means of weighting 
schemes.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1270468
PMID: 21259190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2010 Dec;24(12):1419-23.

[Comparison of effectiveness of three operations in treatment of displaced 
femoral neck fractures in the elderly patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu M(1), Zhang L, Mao Z, Wang H, Chen H, Guo Y, Tao S, Zhang Q, Liang X, Tang P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, General Hospital of Chinese PLA, Beijing 100853, 
PR China.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of internal fixation, hemiarthroplasty, 
and total hip arthroplasty in the treatment of displaced femoral neck fractures 
in elderly patients so as to provide the evidence for the selection of 
therapeutic methods.
METHODS: Between May 2005 and April 2008, 108 elderly patients with displaced 
femoral neck fractures were treated by internal fixation with compression screw 
(IF group, n = 31), hemiarthroplasty (HA group, n = 37), and total hip 
arthroplasty (THA group, n = 40). In IF group, there were 8 males and 23 females 
with an average age of 73 years (range, 65-80 years); fractures were caused by 
tumbling (25 cases) and traffic accident (6 cases), including 17 cases of Garden 
type III and 14 cases of Garden type IV; and the time from injury to operation 
ranged from 8 hours to 13 days with an average of 4.2 days. In HA group, there 
were 10 males and 27 females with an average age of 74 years (range, 65-80 
years); fractures were caused by tumbling (29 cases) and traffic accident (8 
cases), including 21 cases of Garden type III and 16 cases of Garden type IV; 
and the time from injury to operation ranged from 1 to 14 days with an average 
of 4.4 days. In THA group, there were 11 males and 29 females with an average 
age of 73 years (range, 66-80 years); fractures were caused by tumbling (32 
cases) and traffic accident (8 cases), including 23 cases of Garden type III and 
17 cases of Garden type IV; and the time from injury to operation ranged from 2 
to 14 days with an average of 5.6 days. There was no significant difference in 
general data among 3 groups (P > 0.05).
RESULTS: There were significant differences in operation time and blood loss 
among 3 groups (P < 0.05), and IF group was less than other 2 groups. All 
patients were followed up 1 year and 4 months to 2 years and 3 months with an 
average of 1 year and 8 months. In IF group, HA group, and THA group, the rates 
of early postoperative complications were 19.4% (6/31), 8.1% (3/37), and 7.5% 
(3/40), respectively; the rates of late postoperative complications were 29.0% 
(9/31), 13.5% (5/37), and 7.5% (3/40), respectively; and the reoperation rates 
were 29.0% (9/31), 10.8% (4/37), and 5.0% (2/40), respectively. The rates of the 
early postoperative complication, late postoperative complication, and 
reoperation rate were significantly higher in IF group than in HA group and THA 
group (P < 0.05), but there was no significant difference between HA group and 
THA group (P > 0.05). The mortality rates were 16.1% (5/31), 13.5% (5/37), and 
15.0% (6/40) in IF group, HA group, and THA group, respectively; showing no 
significant difference (P > 0.05). According to Harris hip score, the excellent 
and good rates were 65.4% (17/26), 81.3% (26/32), and 85.3% (29/34) in IF group, 
HA group, and THA group, respectively; showing significant differences among 3 
groups (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: According to patient's age, life expectancy, and general conditions, 
THA is a reasonable choice for the patients aged 65-80 years with displaced 
femoral neck fracture.

PMID: 21261085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2011 Jan;1215:138-43. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05850.x.

Resveratrol and life extension.

Agarwal B(1), Baur JA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Diabetes, Obesity, and Metabolism, Department of Physiology, 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, 19104, USA.

Age is the most important risk factor for diseases affecting the Western world, 
and slowing age-related degeneration would greatly improve the quality of human 
life. In rodents, caloric restriction (CR) extends lifespan by up to 50%. 
However, attempts to mimic the effects of CR pharmacologically have been limited 
by our poor understanding of the mechanisms involved. SIRT1 is proposed to 
mediate key aspects of CR, and small molecule activators may therefore act as CR 
mimetics. The polyphenol resveratrol activates SIRT1 in an in vitro assay, and 
produces changes that resemble CR in vivo, including improvements in insulin 
sensitivity, endurance, and overall survival in obese mice. However, resveratrol 
has numerous other targets that could contribute to its health benefits. 
Moreover, unlike bona fide CR, resveratrol has not been shown to extend lifespan 
in lean mice. Overexpression of SIRT1 or treatment with a novel activator is 
sufficient to improve metabolism, supporting the idea that resveratrol could act 
through this pathway. However, the poor phenotype of SIRT1 null mice has thus 
far precluded a more definitive test.

© 2011 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2010.05850.x
PMID: 21261652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Scand J Caring Sci. 2011 Sep;25(3):567-74. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-6712.2010.00865.x. Epub 2011 Jan 24.

Embedded spirituality: gardening in daily life and stressful life experiences.

Unruh A(1), Hutchinson S.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Human Performance, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, 
Canada. anita.unruh@dal.ca

BACKGROUND: There is a limited body of research examining the relationship 
between spirituality and leisure, or the impact of leisure in the context of 
daily life, and life with stressful events.
AIM: To examine the meaning of gardens and gardening across different life 
experiences using hermeneutic phenomenology to focus on the lived experience of 
leisure gardening.
METHODS: Most participants were interviewed once in each season over a 1 year 
period usually in their home. There were 42 participants (27 women and 15 men) 
in this study. Fifteen individuals had been diagnosed with cancer and were in 
varying stages of diagnosis and treatment. Three people had a chronic and 
progressive disease. Four women were grieving the death of their spouse. 
Participants ranged in age from 32 to 80 years.
RESULTS: In this paper, we focus on the spirituality-related themes in this 
study: spirituality as connectedness; spirituality as an expression of inner 
being; the garden as a spiritual place and gardening as spiritual activity; 
gardening as a spiritual journey; and, stewardship. Participants with religious 
views saw their garden as an extension of their spirituality and a confirmation 
of their beliefs. Participants with secular or sacred views of spirituality that 
was not related to any religious beliefs were more likely to embed their 
spirituality in their relationship with nature as manifested in their garden.
CONCLUSION: This study extends current theory regarding leisure and its 
contribution to meaning focused coping, and spirituality as a significant 
component of leisure in living with stressful health and life events.

© 2011 The Authors. Scandinavian Journal of Caring Sciences © 2011 Nordic 
College of Caring Science.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-6712.2010.00865.x
PMID: 21261671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Feb;26(2):247-54. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06506.x.

Is endoscopic surveillance for non-dysplastic Barrett's esophagus 
cost-effective? Review of economic evaluations.

Hirst NG(1), Gordon LG, Whiteman DC, Watson DI, Barendregt JJ.

Author information:
(1)Genetics and Population Health Division, Queensland Institute of Medical 
Research, PO Royal Brisbane Hospital, Brisbane, Australia.

BACKGROUND AND AIM:   Several health economic evaluations have explored the 
cost-effectiveness of endoscopic surveillance for patients with non-dysplastic 
Barrett's esophagus, with conflicting results. By comparing results across 
studies and highlighting key methodological and data limitations a platform for 
future, more rigorous analyses, can be developed.
METHODS:   A systematic literature review was undertaken of studies evaluating 
cost-effectiveness of surveillance for non-dysplastic Barrett's esophagus. 
Articles were included if they assessed both cost and health outcomes for 
surveillance versus no surveillance. A descriptive review was undertaken and the 
quality of the studies appraised against best-practice recommendations for 
economic evaluations and modeling studies.
RESULTS:   Seven publications met the inclusion criteria. All used 
decision-analytic Markov models. Half of the evaluations found surveillance was 
not cost-effective. At best, surveillance produced improved outcomes at a cost 
of US$16 640 per quality-adjusted life-year, and at worst it did more harm than 
good and at a greater cost. The quality of the evaluations and generalizability 
to the Asia-Pacific region was diminished as a result of inadequate or 
inconsistent evidence supporting parameter estimates, such as quality of life, 
endoscopic sensitivity and specificity and cancer recurrence rates.
CONCLUSIONS:   Unless newly emerging technologies improve the quality-adjusted 
survival benefit conferred by endoscopic surveillance, this strategy is unlikely 
to be cost-effective. Obsolete assumptions and incomplete analyses reduce the 
quality of published evaluations. For these reasons new evaluations are required 
that encompass the growing evidence base for new technologies, such as new 
endoscopic therapies for high-grade dysplasia and intramucosal cancer.

© 2011 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell 
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2010.06506.x
PMID: 21261712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2011 Jan;27(1):71-6. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462310001194. Epub 2011 Jan 25.

Using threshold values for cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained in 
healthcare decisions.

Cleemput I(1), Neyt M, Thiry N, De Laet C, Leys M.

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre (KCE), Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium. irina.cleemput@kce.fgov.be

Comment in
    Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2011 Jan;27(1):98.

BACKGROUND: In many countries, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
is used to assess whether an intervention is worth its costs. At the same time, 
policy makers often feel uncomfortable with refusing reimbursement of any 
intervention purely on the basis of the fact that the ICER exceeds a specific 
threshold value. Reluctance to define a single threshold value for the ICER 
seems to have been stronger in social security systems than in national 
healthcare services systems. This study explores how basic differences between 
healthcare systems impact upon the potential usefulness of an ICER threshold 
value.
METHODS: This study is a narrative review of literature about the theoretical 
foundations of the ICER threshold value approach and its practical relevance in 
different types of healthcare systems.
RESULTS: A single ICER threshold value cannot be maintained, defined, or 
measured and should not be used as a policy-making tool. None of the solutions 
presented up until now to make the ICER threshold approach a valuable 
policy-making tool overcome the important weaknesses of the approach.
CONCLUSIONS: ICERs and ICER threshold values are insufficient for assessing 
interventions' value for money. Rather, they should be considered as one element 
in the decision-making process. Complete rationalization of the decision-making 
process by means of quantitative decision criteria is undesirable and not 
feasible. Increasing transparency in the criteria used for a decision and 
explicitness about the relative importance of each criterion should, therefore, 
be the major goal.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462310001194
PMID: 21262069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. J Biosoc Sci. 2011 May;43(3):353-67. doi: 10.1017/S0021932011000010.

Sex differences in life expectancy in Canada: immigrant and native-born 
populations.

Trovato F(1), Odynak D.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Laboratory, Department of Sociology, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

A growing body of research often indicates that immigrant populations in Western 
countries enjoy a lower level of mortality in relation to their native-born host 
populations. In this literature, sex differences in mortality are often reported 
but substantive analyses of the differences are generally lacking. The present 
investigation looks at sex differences in life expectancy with specific 
reference to immigrant and Canadian-born populations in Canada during 1971 and 
2001. For these two populations, sex differences in expectation of life at birth 
are decomposed into cause-of-death components. Immigrants in Canada have a 
higher life expectancy than their Canadian-born counterparts. In absolute terms, 
immigrant females enjoy the highest life expectancy. In relative terms, however, 
immigrant men show a larger longevity advantage, as their expectation of life at 
birth exceeds that of Canadian-born men by a wider margin than do foreign-born 
females in relation to Canadian-born females. It is also found that immigrants 
have a smaller sex differential in life expectancy as compared with the Canadian 
born. Decomposition analysis shows this is a function of immigrants having 
smaller sex differences in death rates from heart disease and cancer. Factors 
thought to underlie these differentials between immigrants and the Canadian born 
are discussed and suggestions for further research are given.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932011000010
PMID: 21262081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2011 Jan;27(1):23-30. doi: 
10.1017/S026646231000125X.

Improving patient access to cancer drugs in India: Using economic modeling to 
estimate a more affordable drug cost based on measures of societal value.

Dranitsaris G(1), Truter I, Lubbe MS, Sriramanakoppa NN, Mendonca VM, 
Mahagaonkar SB.

Author information:
(1)Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa. 
gdranit@ca.inter.net

BACKGROUND: Using multiples of India's per capita gross domestic product (GDP) 
as the threshold for economic value as suggested by the World Health 
Organization (WHO), decision analysis modeling was used to estimate a more 
affordable monthly cost in India for a hypothetical new cancer drug that 
provides a 3-month survival benefit to Indian patients with metastatic 
colorectal cancer (mCRC).
METHODS: A decision model was developed to simulate progression-free and overall 
survival in mCRC patients receiving chemotherapy with and without the new drug. 
Costs for chemotherapy and side-effects management were obtained from both 
public and private hospitals in India. Utility estimates measured as 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) were determined by interviewing twenty-four 
oncology nurses using the Time Trade-Off technique. The monthly cost of the new 
drug was then estimated using a target threshold of US$9,300 per QALY gained, 
which is three times the Indian per capita GDP.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis suggested that a price of US$98.00 per dose 
would be considered cost-effective from the Indian public healthcare 
perspective. If the drug were able to improve patient quality of life above the 
standard of care or survival from 3 to 6 months, the price per dose could 
increase to US$170 and US$253 and offer the same value.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the WHO criteria for estimating the cost of a new drug 
based on economic value for a developing country like India is feasible and can 
be used to estimate a more affordable cost based on societal value thresholds.

DOI: 10.1017/S026646231000125X
PMID: 21262084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Thromb Res. 2011 Feb;127 Suppl 3:S9-S12. doi: 10.1016/S0049-3848(11)70004-4.

Thromboprophylaxis after cesarean section: decision analysis.

Blondon M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Geneva University Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland. marc.blondon@hcuge.ch

Although venous thromboembolism (VTE) is the leading cause of maternal mortality 
in developed countries, the usefulness of preventive low-molecular weight 
heparin (LMWH) after cesarean section remains a matter of controversy. This 
article will review a recent decision analysis addressing this question, 
comparing a 7-day LMWH with none in this setting. Prophylaxis with LMWH yielded 
the highest quality-adjusted life expectancy, with a net gain of 1.5 days per 
treated patient. Sensitivity analyses showed the incidence of VTE after cesarean 
section and the haemorrhagic risk related to LMWH to be critical, at threshold 
values of 0.22% and 0.24% respectively. In the hypothetical cases created by the 
authors, LMWH was safe but only marginally more effective in women with no risk 
factors. With the addition of other risk factors, reductions in VTE greatly 
outnumbered the increase in major hemorrhages. This study highlights the need to 
assess the individual thrombotic risk in women after a cesarean section.

© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0049-3848(11)70004-4
PMID: 21262452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Support Oncol. 2010 Nov-Dec;8(6):242-51. doi:
10.1016/j.suponc.2010.09.027.

Cost-utility analysis of palonosetron-based therapy in preventing emesis among 
breast cancer patients.

Avritscher EB(1), Shih YC, Sun CC, Gralla RJ, Grunberg SM, Xu Y, Elting LS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Quantitative Sciences, Department of Gynecologic Oncology, The 
University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77230, USA. 
ecaramel@mdanderson.org

We estimated the cost-utility of palonosetron-based therapy compared with 
generic ondansetron-based therapy throughout four cycles of anthracycline and 
cyclophosphamide for treating women with breast cancer. We developed a Markov 
model comparing six strategies in which ondansetron and palonosetron are 
combined with either dexamethasone alone, dexamethasone plus aprepitant 
following emesis, or dexamethasone plus aprepitant up front. Data on the 
effectiveness of antiemetics and emesis-related utility were obtained from 
published sources. Relative to the ondansetron-based two-drug therapy, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for the palonosetron-based regimens were 
$115,490/quality-adjusted life years (QALY) for the two-drug strategy, 
$199,375/QALY for the two-drug regimen plus aprepitant after emesis, and 
$200,526/QALY for the three-drug strategy. In sensitivity analysis, using the 
$100,000/QALY benchmark, the palonosetron-based two-drug strategy and the 
two-drug regimen plus aprepitant following emesis were shown to be 
cost-effective in 39% and 26% of the Monte Carlo simulations, respectively, and 
with changes in values for the effectiveness of antiemetics and the rate of 
hospitalization. The cost-utility of palonosetron-based therapy exceeds the 
$100,000/QALY threshold. Future research incorporating the price structure of 
all antiemetics following ondansetron's recent patent expiration is needed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suponc.2010.09.027
PMID: 21265391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Environ Sci Technol. 2011 Feb 15;45(4):1184-91. doi: 10.1021/es1034552. Epub
 2011 Jan 25.

Role of motor vehicle lifetime extension in climate change policy.

Kagawa S(1), Nansai K, Kondo Y, Hubacek K, Suh S, Minx J, Kudoh Y, Tasaki T, 
Nakamura S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Economics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan. 
kagawa@en.kyushu-u.ac.jp

Vehicle replacement schemes such as the "cash for clunkers" program in the U.S. 
and the "scrappage scheme" in the UK have featured prominently in the economic 
stimulation packages initiated by many governments to cope with the global 
economic crisis. While these schemes were designed as economic instruments to 
support the vehicle production industry, governments have also claimed that 
these programs have environmental benefits such as reducing CO2 emissions by 
bringing more fuel-efficient vehicles onto the roads. However, little evidence 
is available to support this claim as current energy and environmental 
accounting models are inadequate for comprehensively capturing the economic and 
environmental trade-offs associated with changes in product life and product 
use. We therefore developed a new dynamic model to quantify the carbon emissions 
due to changes in product life and consumer behavior related to product use. 
Based on a case study of Japanese vehicle use during the 1990-2000 period, we 
found that extending, not shortening, the lifetime of a vehicle helps to reduce 
life-cycle CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain. Empirical results also 
revealed that even if the fuel economy of less fuel-efficient ordinary passenger 
vehicles were improved to levels comparable with those of the best available 
technology, i.e. hybrid passenger cars currently being produced in Japan, total 
CO2 emissions would decrease by only 0.2%. On the other hand, we also find that 
extending the lifetime of a vehicle contributed to a moderate increase in 
emissions of health-relevant air pollutants (NOx, HC, and CO) during the use 
phase. From the results, this study concludes that the effects of global warming 
and air pollution can be somewhat moderated and that these problems can be 
addressed through specific policy instruments directed at increasing the market 
for hybrid cars as well as extending lifetime of automobiles, which is contrary 
to the current wisdom.

DOI: 10.1021/es1034552
PMID: 21265568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Addiction. 2009 Oct;104(10):1646-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2009.02708.x.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions to prevent alcohol-related disease and 
injury in Australia.

Cobiac L(1), Vos T, Doran C, Wallace A.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Queensland, 
Australia. l.cobiac@uq.edu.au

Comment in
    Addiction. 2009 Oct;104(10):1656-7.

AIMS: To evaluate cost-effectiveness of eight interventions for reducing 
alcohol-attributable harm and determine the optimal intervention mix.
METHODS: Interventions include volumetric taxation, advertising bans, an 
increase in minimum legal drinking age, licensing controls on operating hours, 
brief intervention (with and without general practitioner telemarketing and 
support), drink driving campaigns, random breath testing and residential 
treatment for alcohol dependence (with and without naltrexone). 
Cost-effectiveness is modelled over the life-time of the Australian population 
in 2003, with all costs and health outcomes evaluated from an Australian health 
sector perspective. Each intervention is compared with current practice, and the 
most cost-effective options are then combined to determine the optimal 
intervention mix.
MEASUREMENTS: Cost-effectiveness is measured in 2003 Australian dollars per 
disability adjusted life year averted.
FINDINGS: Although current alcohol intervention in Australia (random breath 
testing) is cost-effective, if the current spending of $71 million could be 
invested in a more cost-effective combination of interventions, more than 10 
times the amount of health gain could be achieved. Taken as a package of 
interventions, all seven preventive interventions would be a cost-effective 
investment that could lead to substantial improvement in population health; only 
residential treatment is not cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on current evidence, interventions to reduce harm from 
alcohol are highly recommended. The potential reduction in costs of treating 
alcohol-related diseases and injuries mean that substantial improvements in 
population health can be achieved at a relatively low cost to the health sector.

© 2009 The Authors. Journal compilation © 2009 Society for the Study of 
Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2009.02708.x
PMID: 21265906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. BJU Int. 2011 Sep;108(5):665-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09957.x. Epub
 2011 Jan 25.

Economic evaluation of new targeted therapies for the first-line treatment of 
patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

Benedict A(1), Figlin RA, Sandström P, Harmenberg U, Ullén A, Charbonneau C, 
Sandin R, Remák E, Hariharan S, Négrier S.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: • To assess the economic value of targeted therapies as first-line 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) treatment in the US and Sweden by 
indirect comparison of survival data.
METHODS: • A Markov model simulated disease progression, adverse events and 
survival with sunitinib vs sorafenib in the US and bevacizumab plus interferon-α 
(IFN-α) in both countries. • Results, in life-years (LYs), progression-free LYs 
(PFLYs), quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs) gained and treatment costs (2008 USD) were 
obtained through deterministic and probabilistic analyses over the patient's 
lifetime.
RESULTS: • Sunitinib was more effective and less costly than sorafenib (gains of 
0.52 PFLYs, 0.16 LYs and 0.17 QALYs and savings/patient of $13,576 in the US) 
and bevacizumab plus IFN-α (gains of 0.19 PFLYs, 0.23 LYs and 0.16 QALYs in both 
countries and savings/patient of $67,798 and $47,264 in the US and Sweden, 
respectively). • Results were most influenced by hazard ratios for 
progression-free and overall survival and treatment costs, making results 
generalizable across other countries if relative costs were to fall within the 
ranges of those in the US and Sweden.
CONCLUSION: • The present analyses suggest that first-line mRCC treatment with 
sunitinib is a cost-effective alternative to sorafenib and bevacizumab plus 
IFN-α.

© 2011 PFIZER INC.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09957.x
PMID: 21265994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. BMC Public Health. 2011 Jan 26;11:53. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-53.

Burden of disease in Thailand: changes in health gap between 1999 and 2004.

Bundhamcharoen K(1), Odton P, Phulkerd S, Tangcharoensathien V.

Author information:
(1)International Health Policy Program, Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, 
Thailand. kanitta@ihpp.thaigov.net

BACKGROUND: Continuing comprehensive assessment of population health gap is 
essential for effective health planning. This paper assessed changes in the 
magnitude and pattern of disease burden in Thailand between 1999 and 2004. It 
further drew lessons learned from applying the global burden of disease (GBD) 
methods to the Thai context for other developing country settings.
METHODS: Multiple sources of mortality and morbidity data for both years were 
assessed and used to estimate Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) loss for 
110 specific diseases and conditions relevant to the country's health problems. 
Causes of death from national vital registration were adjusted for 
misclassification from a verbal autopsy study.
RESULTS: Between 1999 and 2004, DALYs loss per 1,000 population in 2004 slightly 
decreased in men but a minor increase in women was observed. HIV/AIDS maintained 
the highest burden for men in both 1999 and 2004 while in 2004, stroke took over 
the 1999 first rank of HIV/AIDS in women. Among the top twenty diseases, there 
was a slight increase of the proportion of non-communicable diseases and two out 
of three infectious diseases revealed a decrease burden except for lower 
respiratory tract infections.
CONCLUSION: The study highlights unique pattern of disease burden in Thailand 
whereby epidemiological transition have occurred as non-communicable diseases 
were on the rise but burden from HIV/AIDS resulting from the epidemic in the 
1990s remains high and injuries show negligent change. Lessons point that 
assessing DALY over time critically requires continuing improvement in data 
sources particularly on cause of death statistics, institutional capacity and 
long term commitments.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-53
PMCID: PMC3037312
PMID: 21266087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2011 Feb;12(2):153-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2010.06.008.
Epub  2010 Oct 8.

Onco-geriatric approach for the management of older patients with cancer.

Cesari M(1), Colloca G, Cerullo F, Ferrini A, Testa AC, Foti E, Ciaburri M, 
Scambia G, Bernabei R, Gambassi G.

Author information:
(1)Università Campus Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy. macesari@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE: The number of older cancer patients is increasing 
with global aging of the population. A close interaction between oncologists and 
geriatricians becomes necessary to (1) better evaluate the elders' health 
status, (2) determine their residual clinical/biological reserves, and (3) 
optimize the provided medical care. In fact, aggressive antineoplastic 
managements are often denied to older patients, possibly because of the common 
misconception suggesting older age and/or clinical complexity as absolute 
contraindications to advanced treatments.
METHODS: The primary aim of the presented project is to assess whether assigning 
a geriatrician to provide daily medical care to older cancer patients (aged 65 
years and older) admitted to an oncology ward increases the number of patients 
eligible for a chemotherapeutic and/or surgical intervention. The project is 
articulated in 2 phases: (1) a retrospective phase based on analysis of data 
collected over the 2 years before the beginning of the study, and (2) a 
prospective 2-year intervention. Additional information about clinical 
conditions, biological parameters, adverse drug reactions, body composition, 
physical function, and 1-year health-related events will also be recorded.
OUTCOMES: The combination of expertise from oncologists and geriatricians is 
likely to result in (1) an improved selection of candidates for interventions 
aimed at increasing disability-free life expectancy and/or overall survival, and 
(2) a more rational exclusion of patients at higher risk of toxicity or with 
poor prognosis. In this article, the development of an onco-geriatric unit aimed 
at the evaluation, management, and treatment of older women with gynecological 
cancer is also described.

Copyright © 2011 American Medical Directors Association. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2010.06.008
PMID: 21266292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Nutr Health Aging. 2011 Jan;15(1):65-70. doi: 10.1007/s12603-011-0014-8.

A practical approach to lipid management in the elderly.

Viljoen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Pathology, Lister Hospital, Stevenage, Hertfordshire 
SG1 4AB, UK. adie.viljoen@nhs.net

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) increases in a curvilinear fashion after 65 years 
in men and 75 years in women and the majority of all cardiovascular events occur 
in individuals older then 65 years. There are notable differences in the 
clinical assessment of hyperlipidaemia, cardiovascular risk estimation as well 
as the safety and tolerability profiles in the elderly compared to younger 
individuals. Clinical trial data have now demonstrated the benefits of statin 
treatment in the elderly in both the primary and secondary prevention settings. 
There is however limited data for individuals older than 80 years. Little data 
is available on other lipid modifying medication in the elderly. With continuing 
increases in average life expectancy, preventive efforts will become 
increasingly important for preventing morbidity, improving quality of life, and 
reducing healthcare expenditures for older persons. This emphasizes the 
importance of clinical decision-making and weighing up the risks and benefits of 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s12603-011-0014-8
PMID: 21267522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Am J Ind Med. 2011 Apr;54(4):285-92. doi: 10.1002/ajim.20930. Epub 2011 Jan
25.

Health impact of pneumoconiosis in Mongolia: estimation of losses in life 
expectancy and quality adjusted life expectancy.

Oyunbileg S(1), Wang JD, Sumberzul N, Chang YY, Erdenchimeg E.

Author information:
(1)National Taiwan University, Taipei County, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the life expectancy (LE), quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE), and their losses, in patients with pneumoconiosis in 
Mongolia.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: All patients (n = 432) diagnosed with occupational 
pneumoconiosis during 1986-2006 were recruited from the registry of the National 
Research Center of Occupational Diseases, which was linked to the National 
Mortality Registry of Mongolia to obtain the survival function. We simulated age 
and gender matched referents group based on the life table in 2000. The survival 
ratio between patients and referents was used to extrapolate and calculate the 
LE. The average expected years of life loss (EYLL) of pneumoconiosis were 
calculated as the mean survival difference between patients and referents. We 
adopted utility values for workers with pneumoconiosis and multiplied them with 
the survival function to estimate the QALE, which was then used to calculate the 
loss of QALE.
RESULTS: The life expectancy and EYLL of a patient with pneumoconiosis were 18.1 
and 9.5 years respectively. QALE and loss of QALE were 15.1 and 12.5 QALYs 
(quality-adjusted life years), respectively, indicating a health gap of 45%.
CONCLUSION: The health inequality suffered by miners in Mongolia must be 
addressed through prevention, including exposure monitoring and control, early 
diagnosis and case management and rehabilitation of pneumoconiosis.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.20930
PMID: 21268051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Harv Womens Health Watch. 2010 Oct;18(2):7.

Sitting can shorten your life.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 21268317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Acta Clin Belg. 2010 Nov-Dec;65(6):392-8. doi: 10.1179/acb.2010.65.6.004.

Prevalence of chronic renal failure stage 3 or more in HIV-infected patients in 
Antwerp: an observational study.

Colson AW(1), Florence E, Augustijn H, Verpooten GA, Lynen L, Gheuens E.

Author information:
(1)Dienst Nefrologie, Universitair Ziekenhuis Antwerpen, Antwerpen, België.

The introduction of Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy has transformed 
HIV-infection from an inevitably lethal disease to a chronic condition with a 
life expectancy comparable to that of people with diabetes mellitus. In recent 
years it has become evident that people living with HIV/AIDS have an increased 
risk of developing cardiovascular disease and it is expected that the prevalence 
of chronic kidney disease will rise accordingly. To investigate the prevalence 
of chronic kidney disease in patients with HIV, we conducted a retrospective 
observational analysis using the clinical database of a large centre (Institute 
of Tropical Medicine) in the urban area of Antwerp, Belgium. The prevalence of 
chronic kidney disease among HIV infected subjects was found to be 3.0%. The 
development of chronic kidney disease was associated with age above 50 years, 
lower CD4 cell counts and Caucasian origin. Screening for chronic renal 
disorders and prevention of evolution toward chronic renal failure is a crucial 
challenge in the management of people living with HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1179/acb.2010.65.6.004
PMID: 21268952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Sci Transl Med. 2011 Jan 26;3(67):67cm2. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3001890.

Between confidentiality and scientific exchange: the place of publication in 
drug discovery and pharmaceutical research.

Clozel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Gewerbestrasse 16, CH-4123 Allschwil, 
Switzerland. martine.clozel@actelion.com

To continue to improve life expectancy and quality of life, the discovery of 
innovative therapies should be among the prime goals of the life sciences. The 
large majority of the drugs that are discovered and successfully developed to 
the point of being used by patients come from the drug industry, but 
publications from this sector are rare among life sciences research 
publications. Publications in the field of pharmaceutical drug discovery should 
take into account the confidentiality inherent to the protection of the 
intellectual property rights of a discovery, but they are fundamentally 
important because they can enhance scientific knowledge, improve the care and 
safety of patients, provide information for prescribers, and educate the public 
about the pharmaceutical industry.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3001890
PMID: 21270337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 May 1;36(10):E638-46. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181fa1da2.

Low back pain in Iran: a growing need to adapt and implement evidence-based 
practice in developing countries.

Mousavi SJ(1), Akbari ME, Mehdian H, Mobini B, Montazeri A, Akbarnia B, 
Parnianpour M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. jmousavi@razi.tums.ac.ir

STUDY DESIGN: A descriptive overview of the literature.
OBJECTIVE: To present a comprehensive descriptive overview of the published 
papers about epidemiologic features, burden, and current management of low back 
pain (LBP) in Iran.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Little is known about the epidemiology, burden, and 
management of LBP in developing and low- to middle-income countries, such as 
Iran.
METHODS: A literature search was carried out using MEDLINE database to assess 
existing literature about prevalence, disease burden, impact, and current 
management of nonspecific LBP in Iran.
RESULTS: Twenty-six articles matched inclusion criteria and included in the 
study. The findings related to point, period, and lifetime prevalence of LBP in 
general population, working population, school children, and pregnant women 
ranged from 14.4% to 84.1%. The 1-year incidence of disabling LBP was found to 
be 2.1%. LBP is the third leading cause of disease burden (measured by 
Disability Adjusted Life Years) in Iranian population aged 15 to 69 years, 
without considering causes of intentional and unintentional injuries. High 
levels of anxiety and depression among patients with LBP and the etiological 
role of job strain in causing LBP in workers have been reported in Iran. Our 
search failed to find any articles about referral system, direct and indirect 
costs, social determinants, and current management of LBP in Iran.
CONCLUSION: This overview of the literature illustrates that LBP is a common 
symptom and an important cause of disease burden in Iran, in particular, in the 
most productive age for both males and females. The 1-year incidence of 
disabling LBP in Iran was found to be low. Future research will be necessary to 
investigate economic cost, social determinants, health technology assessment, 
and management of LBP in Iran.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181fa1da2
PMID: 21270691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Exp Oncol. 2010 Dec;32(4):224-7.

At a crossroads of cancer risk and aging: the role of telomeres.

Gerashchenko BI(1).

Author information:
(1)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology and Radiobiology, 
National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Vasylkivska 45, Kyiv 03022, Ukraine. 
biger63@yahoo.com

The risk of overall cancer inevitably increases with advancing age. The cancer 
incidence rate is not constant within the human life span (it exponentially 
increases with advancing age). Aging itself is a complex biological process with 
a poorly understood mechanism of its regulation. The aging process, as evidenced 
from the survey of the chances for death for the large cohort of people of 
various age groups, manifests probably due to a progressive accumulation of 
diverse adverse changes that increase the risk of death. While an increase of 
cancer risk due to aging cannot be fully explained, the length of telomeres 
(biomarker of aging) appears to be important to predict this risk. Cellular 
senescence, which is believed to be associated with dysfunctional (shortened) 
telomeres, may contribute to the aging of a whole organism. Here, based on 
recent literature data, we investigate the possible link between telomere 
dysfunction associated cellular senescence and tumorigenesis.

PMID: 21270748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Microb Ecol. 2011 Aug;62(2):265-73. doi: 10.1007/s00248-011-9804-0. Epub
2011  Jan 27.

Evolutionary changes in growth rate and toxin production in the cyanobacterium 
Microcystis aeruginosa under a scenario of eutrophication and temperature 
increase.

Rouco M(1), López-Rodas V, Flores-Moya A, Costas E.

Author information:
(1)Genética (Producción Animal), Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad 
Complutense, Avenida Puerta de Hierro s/n, 28040, Madrid, Spain. 
roucomon@vet.ucm.es

Toxic blooms of the cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa affect humans and 
animals in inland water systems worldwide, and it has been hypothesized that the 
development of these blooms will increase under the future scenario of global 
change, considering eutrophication and temperature increase as two important 
consequences. The importance of genetic adaptation, chance and history on 
evolution of growth rate, and toxin production of M. aeruginosa was studied 
under these new conditions. The experiment followed the idea of "replaying 
life's tape" by means of the simultaneous propagation of 15 independent isolates 
of three M. aeruginosa strains, which were grown under doubled nutrient 
concentration and temperature during c. 87 generations. Adaptation by new 
mutations that resulted in the enhancement of growth rate arose during 
propagation of derived cultures under the new environmental conditions was the 
main component of evolution; however, chance also contributed in a lesser 
extension to evolution of growth rate. Mutations were selected, displacing the 
wild-type ancestral genotypes. In contrast, the effect of selection on mutations 
affecting microcystin production was neutral. Chance and history were the 
pacemakers in evolution of toxin production. Although this study might be 
considered an oversimplification of the reality, it suggest that a future 
scenario of global change might lead to an increase in M. aeruginosa bloom 
frequency, but no predictions about the frequency of toxicity can be made.

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-011-9804-0
PMID: 21271244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Rev Neurol. 2011 Jan 16;52(2):65-71.

[Economic evaluation of neurological and mental disorders in Spain: systematic 
review and comparative analysis].

[Article in Spanish]

Catala-Lopez F(1), Garcia-Altes A, Alvarez-Martin E, Genova-Maleras R, 
Morant-Ginestar C.

Author information:
(1)Agencia Espanola de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios (AEMPS), Madrid, 
Espana. fcatala@aemps.es

AIM: We analyzed the trends over time and the characteristics of economic 
evaluation studies of neurological and mental disorders published in Spain 
