program of cardiovascular risk prevention.

La Asociación Americana de Diabetes ha incluido en 2010 la determinación de la 
hemoglobina glucosilada (HbA1c) como criterio para el diagnóstico de diabetes 
con un punto de corte ≥ 6,5%, pero puede tener un porcentaje relevante de falsos 
negativos. Otras sociedades científicas han aceptado con matices dicho 
posicionamiento. La HbA1c complementa, pero no sustituye, a la glucemia basal 
como prueba de cribado y diagnóstico, ni a la determinación de glucosa tras 2 h 
de la sobrecarga oral de glucosa. La HbA1c no debe emplearse para el diagnóstico 
de diabetes gestacional. Su interpretación tiene limitaciones en casos de 
personas con anemias y hemoglobinopatías, por lo que se deben valorar, además de 
su sensibilidad y especificidad, los costes y el ambiente epidemiológico. ¿Es 
útil y seguro llevar a nuestros pacientes con diabetes mellitus tipo 2 a valores 
de HbA1c cercanos a la normalidad? Los resultados de los estudios ACCORD, 
ADVANCE y VADT son contradictorios y han generado una considerable polémica, 
pero las prolongaciones de los estudios UKPDS y STENO-2 han demostrado los 
beneficios de un buen control a largo plazo. Como norma general, parece adecuado 
un objetivo de HbA1c < 7%. En pacientes con poco riesgo de hipoglucemias, corta 
evolución de la enfermedad y jóvenes podemos plantearnos una HbA1c < 6,5%. En 
pacientes con frecuentes hipoglucemias, ancianos o personas con expectativas de 
vida limitadas serían aceptables cifras superiores al 7%. Este objetivo 
deberemos conseguirlo mediante un tratamiento individualizado, de inicio 
temprano, intensivo, seguro y sin riesgo de hipoglucemia, integrándolo en un 
programa global de prevención de riesgo cardiovascular.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0212-6567(10)70002-0
PMCID: PMC8171380
PMID: 21074070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Ann Epidemiol. 2010 Dec;20(12):917-23. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2010.08.009.

Glaucoma medications and mortality: a retrospective cohort study.

French DD(1), Margo CE.

Author information:
(1)V.A. Center of Excellence on Implementing Evidence Based Practice, 
Regenstrief Institute Inc., Department of General Internal Medicine and 
Geriatrics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. 
Dustin.French2@va.gov

PURPOSE: This study presents a retrospective, cohort analysis to estimate the 
4-year rate of all-cause risk-adjusted mortality for veterans who were dispensed 
glaucoma medications. The main outcome measures was hazard of death according to 
glaucoma medication exposure.
METHODS: Beneficiaries 40 years and older enrolled in Veterans Health 
Administration (VHA) with International Disease Classification diagnoses of 
glaucoma. VHA clinical and pharmacy data sets were linked with a national VHA 
mortality registry. Patients were identified with a primary diagnosis of 
glaucoma were then put into one of two groups, glaucoma medication exposure or 
nonexposure medication group. Four-year survival analysis using the Cox 
proportional hazard method was adjusted for comorbidities using pertinent 
demographic characteristics and hierarchical condition categories from the 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
RESULTS: Of 214,971 beneficiaries with glaucoma or suspected glaucoma, 25,148 
(11.7%) died during the study period. Compared to unexposed patients with 
glaucoma, the use of any class of glaucoma medication was associated with a 
statistically significant 7% reduced hazard of death (adjusted hazard ratio, 
0.93; 95% confidence interval: 0.90-0.95). Reduced risk of death was found for 
multiple topical medication use, but not individual glaucoma agents.
CONCLUSIONS: The seemingly inexplicable protective effect of glaucoma agents on 
all-cause mortality may best be explained by unmeasured confounding variables 
involved in the clinical decision of whether or not to treat patients with 
limited life expectancy for glaucoma.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2010.08.009
PMID: 21074106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Lancet. 2010 Nov 20;376(9754):1775-84. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61514-0.
Epub  2010 Nov 10.

Tackling of unhealthy diets, physical inactivity, and obesity: health effects 
and cost-effectiveness.

Cecchini M(1), Sassi F, Lauer JA, Lee YY, Guajardo-Barron V, Chisholm D.

Author information:
(1)Health Division, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(OECD), Paris, France.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2010 Nov 13;376(9753):1619-21.

The obesity epidemic is spreading to low-income and middle-income countries as a 
result of new dietary habits and sedentary ways of life, fuelling chronic 
diseases and premature mortality. In this report we present an assessment of 
public health strategies designed to tackle behavioural risk factors for chronic 
diseases that are closely linked with obesity, including aspects of diet and 
physical inactivity, in Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia, and South Africa. 
England was included for comparative purposes. Several population-based 
prevention policies can be expected to generate substantial health gains while 
entirely or largely paying for themselves through future reductions of 
health-care expenditures. These strategies include health information and 
communication strategies that improve population awareness about the benefits of 
healthy eating and physical activity; fiscal measures that increase the price of 
unhealthy food content or reduce the cost of healthy foods rich in fibre; and 
regulatory measures that improve nutritional information or restrict the 
marketing of unhealthy foods to children. A package of measures for the 
prevention of chronic diseases would deliver substantial health gains, with a 
very favourable cost-effectiveness profile.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61514-0
PMID: 21074255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2010 Nov-Dec;45(6):335-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2010.06.006. Epub 2010 Nov 13.

[Outcomes of elderly patients admitted to hospital due to severe aortic stenosis 
and rejected for surgical intervention].

[Article in Spanish]

Retegui García de Quesada G(1), Ogalla Vera S, de la Yglesia RP, Cobo Cabello M, 
Marín Morgado J, Ruiz Borrell M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Cardiología, Hospital San Juan de Dios del Aljarafe, Bormujos, 
Sevilla, España. gabrielretegui@msn.com

INTRODUCTION: The natural outcome of untreated severe symptomatic aortic 
stenosis in the elderly patient is extremely poor. In this analysis we studied 
the clinical, ultrasound and analytical variables, that could be associated with 
the vital prognosis in this patient sub-group.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective study of patients admitted to our hospital 
between 2004 and 2008 due to symptoms associated with the presence of a severe 
aortic stenosis and were not considered for surgery. Demographic, concomitant 
diseases, ultrasound (ejection fraction, transvalvular gradient, valve area) and 
laboratory analytical data (haemoglobin, creatinine, atrial natriuretic peptide) 
were analysed and the logistic euroscore was calculated.
RESULTS: A total of 49 patients were included (73.5% women), with a mean age of 
82.2±5.5 years. The median follow up was 396.0 days, interquartile range 
99.5-731.0 days, with a mortality of 75.5%. In the multivariate analysis, only 
the left ventricular ejection fraction measured by ultrasound was an important 
predictor as regards life expectancy (EF 35-50%: HR 3.74, IC 95% CI; 1.11-12.65, 
P=0.034; EF<35%: HR 6.76, IC 95% CI; 1.86-24.52, p=0.004).
CONCLUSION: The life expectancy of elderly patients with untreated severe 
symptomatic aortic stenosis is very limited, with a high mortality during the 
first year. The ejection fraction is significantly associated with the prognosis 
in these patients.

Copyright © 2010 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2010.06.006
PMID: 21075488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Med Hypotheses. 2011 Mar;76(3):350-2. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.10.037. Epub
2010  Nov 13.

Necroptosis: a novel therapeutic target for glioblastoma.

Jiang YG(1), Peng Y, Koussougbo KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan Province 410011, China. 13707315567@139.com

Glioblastoma or glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most encountered and 
malignant form of brain tumors in clinical practice. In spite of optimal and 
early treatment, the life expectancy of patients with GBM remains poor. It is 
believed that dysfunction of apoptosis underlies GBM tumorigenesis, 
proliferation and resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Although GBM is 
defective in apoptotic process, pathologic and radiologic observations almost 
always reveal obvious necrosis foci within GBM. Necrosis seems to be related 
with GBM proliferation, angiogenesis and invasion. However, tumor cell necrosis 
induced by various therapies has a potential therapeutic value. Just recently, 
necrotic cell death is considered as a regulated and controlled process, like 
apoptosis, termed necroptosis or programmed necrosis. Induction of apoptosis has 
not made any significant achievements in the treatment of GBM mainly because the 
tumor cells are apoptosis-resistant. We may achieve a better result by 
modulating the necroptosis of GBM thus circumvent the apoptosis resistance. 
Albeit specific molecular pathways involved in GBM necroptosis is not clear and 
much more studies are needed to confirm the effects of therapy-induced 
necroptosis on GBM, it provides us with a new direction in the treatment of GBM.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2010.10.037
PMID: 21075544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Optom Vis Sci. 2011 Jan;88(1):155-63. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3181fc30f3.

Cost-effectiveness of glaucoma interventions in Barbados and Ghana.

Wittenborn JS(1), Rein DB.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Economics Program, RTI International, Research Triangle Park, 
North Carolina 27709, USA. jwittenborn@rti.org

PURPOSE: More than 90% of blindness worldwide exists in the developing world, 
but information on the social and economic burden and the cost-effectiveness of 
treatment in these settings is often limited or nonexistent. We demonstrate the 
use of computer modeling to simulate the current and future epidemiology, 
outcomes, and treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma in high-incidence 
populations of the developing world.
METHODS: A previously validated vision model was modified to simulate the 
incidence progression and social and economic outcomes of glaucoma in Barbados, 
which was the source of epidemiology data, and Ghana, which has similar 
propensity for glaucoma but lower socioeconomic development. We then assessed 
the cost-effectiveness of hypothetical case-finding and treatment scenarios, 
including U.S. guideline-level care and one-time laser surgery.
RESULTS: Barbados incurs relatively greater social and economic burden from 
glaucoma than Ghana. In Barbados, population screening followed by U.S. 
guideline levels of care appears to be highly cost-effective. Because of a 
younger population with higher mortality at younger ages, glaucoma appears to 
cause less visual impairment and blindness in Ghana than in Barbados, resulting 
in lower per capita disability and productivity losses. Population screening or 
guideline-level treatment scenarios were generally not cost-effective in Ghana, 
but treating self-referring patients with a hypothetical one-time laser surgery 
was highly cost-effective relative to World Health Organization willingness to 
pay thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: The social and economic burden of glaucoma is higher in developed 
nations because of increased life expectancy, an older population age profile, 
and higher per capita gross domestic product. Similarly, lower mortality rates 
and higher per capita gross domestic product increase the relative 
cost-effectiveness of screening and treatment interventions intended to mitigate 
glaucoma burden.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3181fc30f3
PMCID: PMC3740958
PMID: 21076360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest in any 
of the products mentioned in this manuscript.


424. Transplantation. 2010 Dec 27;90(12):1542-6. doi:
10.1097/TP.0b013e3181ff1458.

Patient survival after the diagnosis of cancer in renal transplant recipients: a 
nested case-control study.

van de Wetering J(1), Roodnat JI, Hemke AC, Hoitsma AJ, Weimar W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Transplantation, Erasmus MC, University 
Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.vandewetering.1@erasmusmc.nl

INTRODUCTION: Malignancy is a well-known complication after renal 
transplantation. We studied the influence of cancer on patient survival in the 
Dutch renal transplant population in a nested case-controlled analysis.
METHODS: Between March 1966 and May 2008, 15,227 renal transplantations in 
12,805 recipients were registered in the Netherlands Organ Transplant Registry 
database. Total follow-up was 89,651 person years. We performed an analysis of 
patient and graft survival both from the day of transplantation and the 
diagnosis of cancer in recipients with invasive cancer. Recipients without 
invasive cancer, matched for gender, age, and year of transplantation, served as 
a control group. For the survival analysis after the diagnosis of cancer, the 
matched control group consisted of patients with a functioning graft at the 
moment the index patient was diagnosed with cancer.
RESULTS: Cancer had been registered in 908 (7.1%) patients, 630 (69%) of them 
died with functioning kidney, 510 (81%) because of their malignancy (at 8.2 
years after transplantation, median). The median patient survival after 
transplantation was 11.9 vs. 16.8 years in the study and control group, 
respectively (P<0.001). The median patient and graft survival after the 
diagnosis of cancer was 2.1 vs. 8.3 (P<0.001) and 25 vs. 22.4 (P<0.001) years in 
the study and control group, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Mortality because of cancer is observed at a significantly later 
time after transplantation compared with mortality because of the other main 
lethal complications. It significantly affects life expectancy and carries a 
poor prognosis with a limited survival after diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3181ff1458
PMID: 21076383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Comput Stat Data Anal. 2011 Jan 1;55(1):667-676. doi: 
10.1016/j.csda.2010.06.010.

A semi-parametric generalization of the Cox proportional hazards regression 
model: Inference and Applications.

Devarajan K(1), Ebrahimi N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Population Science, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 
19111.

The assumption of proportional hazards (PH) fundamental to the Cox PH model 
sometimes may not hold in practice. In this paper, we propose a generalization 
of the Cox PH model in terms of the cumulative hazard function taking a form 
similar to the Cox PH model, with the extension that the baseline cumulative 
hazard function is raised to a power function. Our model allows for interaction 
between covariates and the baseline hazard and it also includes, for the two 
sample problem, the case of two Weibull distributions and two extreme value 
distributions differing in both scale and shape parameters. The partial 
likelihood approach can not be applied here to estimate the model parameters. We 
use the full likelihood approach via a cubic B-spline approximation for the 
baseline hazard to estimate the model parameters. A semi-automatic procedure for 
knot selection based on Akaike's Information Criterion is developed. We 
illustrate the applicability of our approach using real-life data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.csda.2010.06.010
PMCID: PMC2976538
PMID: 21076652


426. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2010;78(6):392-8.

[Prevalence of home mechanical ventilation in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Nasiłowski J(1), Szkulmowski Z, Migdał M, Andrzejewski W, Drozd W, 
Czajkowska-Malinowska M, Opuchlik A, Chazan R.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Klinika Chorób Wewnetrznych, Pneumonologii i Alergologii, 
Warszawski Uniwersytet Medyczny. jnasilowski@wum.edu.pl

INTRODUCTION: Home mechanical ventilation (HMV) is increasingly used in the 
treatment of chronic respiratory failure thanks to rapid technological 
development, increasing number of elderly people and extension of indications. 
The aim of the study was to assess: prevalence of HMV in Poland, the proportions 
of lung disease and neuromuscular patients using HMV and the type of interface 
(invasive v. non-invasive).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The questionnaire was send to all institutions providing 
HMV in Poland and to regional departments of National Health System (NHS).
RESULTS: All NHS departments responded. They reported 846 HMV users, 31% of 
children. The prevalence of HMV in Poland was assessed as 2,2 patient per 
100.000 population without striking differences between provinces. Among 39 HMV 
centers in Poland 12 (31%) answered. They reported 206 patients (24% of all HMV 
users). Proportion of ventilation mode consisted of 59% (122 pts) treated via a 
tracheostomy and 41% (84 pts) with non invasive ventilation (NIV). 168 patients 
(82%) had neuromuscular diseases (ND), majority of them muscular dystrophy - 57 
patients ( 34% of ND) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - 39 patients (23% of 
ND). There were only 38 patients (18%) with lung and thoracic cage diseases: 17 
with COPD and 10 with kyphoscoliosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of HMV treatment in Poland has developed 
dramatically in the last decade, but is still very low comparing to other 
European countries, especially due to very low number of patients with lung and 
chest wall diseases. The prevalence of invasive mode of ventilation is extremely 
high. The most important factors which inhibit development of HMV in Poland are: 
omission of respiratory physicians in the process of qualification, lack of 
national guidelines, sophisticated demands for HMV providers. The awareness of 
the need of HMV especially in patients with respiratory failure due to obesity 
hypoventilation syndrome and restrictive lung diseases should be increased among 
chest physicians.

PMID: 21077031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. BJOG. 2010 Dec;117(13):1616-27. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2010.02752.x.

Cost-effectiveness of rapid tests and other existing strategies for screening 
and management of early-onset group B streptococcus during labour.

Kaambwa B(1), Bryan S, Gray J, Milner P, Daniels J, Khan KS, Roberts TE.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, Public Health Building, University of Birmingham, UK.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2011 Jun;118(7):889; author reply 889-90.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of alternative screening and 
prevention strategies, including rapid intrapartum testing, for prevention of 
early-onset neonatal group B streptococcus (GBS) infection in the UK.
DESIGN: A decision model was developed to investigate the cost-effectiveness of 
screening and prevention strategies for GBS. A strategy of doing nothing was 
also considered. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
carried out.
SETTING: Two large UK based obstetric units.
PARTICIPANTS: Test accuracy data were obtained from a primary study of rapid 
tests at the onset of labour and risk factors from 1400 women.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental health sector costs per case of early-onset 
GBS death avoided.
RESULTS: Compared with a strategy of do nothing, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was £32,000 per Early-Onset GBS Disease avoided and 
£427,000 per Early-Onset GBS Death avoided for the strategy of providing routine 
intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis to all women without prior screening; Based 
on their current sensitivity, specificity and cost, screening using rapid tests 
was dominated by other more cost-effective strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: The most cost-effective strategy was shown to be the provision of 
routine intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis to all women without prior screening 
but, given broader concerns relating to antibiotic use, this is unlikely to be 
acceptable. In its absence, intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis directed by 
screening with enriched culture becomes cost-effective. The current strategy of 
risk-factor-based screening is not cost-effective compared with screening based 
on culture.

© 2010 The Authors Journal compilation © RCOG 2010 BJOG An International Journal 
of Obstetrics and Gynaecology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2010.02752.x
PMID: 21078057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2011 Mar;63(3):335-41. doi: 10.1002/acr.20398.
 Epub 2010 Nov 15.

Economic evaluation of multidisciplinary rehabilitation after primary total knee 
arthroplasty based on a randomized controlled trial.

Kauppila AM(1), Sintonen H, Aronen P, Ohtonen P, Kyllönen E, Arokoski JP.

Author information:
(1)Oulu University Hospital, Finland. anna-maija.kauppila@oulu.fi

OBJECTIVE: To conduct an economic evaluation of a multidisciplinary, 
biopsychosocial outpatient rehabilitation program implemented 2-4 months after 
total knee arthroplasty (TKA), compared with conventional orthopedic care.
METHODS: After surgery, 86 patients were randomized to a multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation group (n = 44) or a conventional orthopedic care group (n = 42). 
Alongside the randomized controlled trial, we estimated the costs of 
rehabilitation, health care resource use, and community support. Information 
about resource use was collected by means of a questionnaire together with data 
from hospital records. The primary outcome (effectiveness) measure was change in 
self-reported functional capacity and the secondary measure was quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) gained during the 12-month followup. Cost-effectiveness was 
assessed from between-group differences in costs, change in functional capacity, 
and QALYs gained.
RESULTS: Both protocols of providing rehabilitation services turned out to be 
equally effective, but the conventional orthopedic care protocol was 
unequivocally cost saving: the saving was €1,830 per patient (95% confidence 
interval -548, 3,623) using the available direct cost data.
CONCLUSION: Multidisciplinary rehabilitation for unselected osteoarthritis 
patients in the subacute period of recovery after TKA is not a cost-effective 
use of health care resources. Similar rehabilitation protocols cannot be 
recommended for clinical pathways of TKA in the future.

Copyright © 2011 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/acr.20398
PMID: 21080347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(12):1109-21. doi:
10.2165/11537300-000000000-00000.

A review and critique of studies reporting utility values for 
schizophrenia-related health states.

Mavranezouli I(1).

Author information:
(1)National Collaborating Centre for Mental Health, Centre for Outcomes Research 
and Effectiveness, Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health 
Psychology, University College London, London, UK. i.mavranezouli@ucl.ac.uk

Economic evaluation of health technologies in the form of cost-utility analysis 
is increasingly advocated. The most common outcome measure in this type of 
analysis is the QALY. In order to estimate QALYs, appropriate utility values are 
required. The objective of this review was to identify and critique utility 
values for schizophrenia-related health states. A critical appraisal was 
performed on utility values for schizophrenia identified in the systematic 
literature review that informed the economic analysis of the updated edition of 
the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) clinical 
guideline on schizophrenia for England and Wales. Seven studies reporting 
utility values for schizophrenia were identified. The studies employed a variety 
of methods for generating utility values. None of the reported sets of utility 
values for schizophrenia were generated using the EQ-5D, which is a measure 
widely used in cost-utility analysis and preferred by NICE. Nevertheless, the 
EQ-5D may be less sensitive in capturing aspects of health-related quality of 
life in patients with schizophrenia. A condition-specific preference-based 
instrument may be more appropriate than a generic measure to inform cost-utility 
analyses of interventions for schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.2165/11537300-000000000-00000
PMID: 21080736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Drugs. 2010 Dec 3;70(17):2315-38. doi: 10.2165/11203800-000000000-00000.

Efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate single-tablet regimen 
(Atripla®): a review of its use in the management of HIV infection.

Deeks ED(1), Perry CM.

Author information:
(1)Adis, a Wolters Kluwer Business, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

The non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, efavirenz, and the two 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF) are now available as a single-tablet regimen 
(efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 600 mg/200 mg/300 mg; Atripla®). The 
efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF single-tablet regimen is the first 
once-daily, single-tablet, triple antiretroviral therapy (ART) formulation 
available for the treatment of HIV infection and, in the EU, is indicated for 
use in adults infected with HIV-1 who have been virologically suppressed for >3 
months on their current ART regimen. In treatment-experienced adults with HIV-1 
infection already virologically suppressed with ART, switching to once-daily 
triple combination therapy with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir DF 
(including the single-tablet regimen) is effective in maintaining virological 
suppression and is generally well tolerated, according to several randomized, 
open-label or noncomparative multicentre trials and an open-label extension 
study of up to 96 weeks' duration. Moreover, additional data from some of these 
studies indicate that adherence to treatment was maintained or improved after 
switching to the once-daily triple combination, with patients generally 
preferring the efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF single-tablet regimen over 
their previous more complex regimen and (in one of two trials) finding it easier 
to follow. Thus, the efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF single-tablet regimen 
provides a convenient once-daily regimen for use in treatment-experienced adults 
that may confer an advantage over more complex or frequently administered 
regimens for which adherence to treatment is an issue.

DOI: 10.2165/11203800-000000000-00000
PMID: 21080746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2011 Feb;66(2):163-9. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glq165.  Epub 2010 Nov 15.

Multiple pathways regulating the calorie restriction response in yeast.

Rahat O(1), Maoz N, Cohen HY.

Author information:
(1)The Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan 52900, Israel.

In yeast, SIR2 overexpression or calorie restriction (CR) results in life-span 
extension. It was previously suggested that CR activates Sir2 by reducing the 
levels of Sir2 inhibitors, NADH, or nicotinamide. Whereas NADH reduction is 
associated with an increase in respiration, nicotinamide clearance is induced by 
the upregulation of PNC1. Here, we show that, consistent with the hormesis 
hypothesis, PNC1 is part of a transcriptional stress response module consisting 
of 39 genes that increases under various stresses. Under high CR (0.1% glucose), 
Pnc1 becomes activated and its levels increase. However, low CR (0.5% glucose) 
increases yeast life span without PNC1 induction or activation of any 
transcriptional stress response. Instead, microarray analysis of low CR shows 
that the messenger RNA levels of iron transport genes increase, suggesting that 
this mode of CR is regulated by a shift toward respiration and lowering NADH 
levels. Thus, at least two pathways regulate the CR response in yeast.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glq165
PMID: 21081478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Radiology. 2011 Jan;258(1):98-105. doi: 10.1148/radiol.10100655. Epub 2010
Nov  16.

Risk of radiation-induced breast cancer from mammographic screening.

Yaffe MJ(1), Mainprize JG.

Author information:
(1)Imaging Research Program, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of 
Toronto, 2075 Bayview Ave, Room S6-57, Toronto, ON, Canada M4N 3M5. 
Martin.Yaffe@sunnybrook.ca

Erratum in
    Radiology. 2012 Jul;264(1):306.

PURPOSE: To assess a schema for estimating the risk of radiation-induced breast 
cancer following exposure of the breast to ionizing radiation as would occur 
with mammography and to provide data that can be used to estimate the potential 
number of breast cancers, cancer deaths, and woman-years of life lost 
attributable to radiation exposure delivered according to a variety of screening 
scenarios.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An excess absolute risk model was used to predict the 
number of radiation-induced breast cancers attributable to the radiation dose 
received for a single typical digital mammography examination. The algorithm was 
then extended to consider the consequences of various scenarios for routine 
screening beginning and ending at different ages, with examinations taking place 
at 1- or 2-year intervals. A life-table correction was applied to consider 
reductions of the cohort size over time owing to nonradiation-related causes of 
death. Finally, the numbers of breast cancer deaths and woman-years of life lost 
that might be attributable to the radiation exposure were calculated. Cancer 
incidence and cancer deaths were estimated for individual attained ages 
following the onset of screening, and lifetime risks were also calculated.
RESULTS: For a cohort of 100 000 women each receiving a dose of 3.7 mGy to both 
breasts and who were screened annually from age 40 to 55 years and biennially 
thereafter to age 74 years, it is predicted that there will be 86 cancers 
induced and 11 deaths due to radiation-induced breast cancer.
CONCLUSION: For the mammographic screening regimens considered that begin at age 
40 years, this risk is small compared with the expected mortality reduction 
achievable through screening. The risk of radiation-induced breast cancer should 
not be a deterrent from mammographic screening of women over the age of 40 
years.

© RSNA, 2010

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.10100655
PMID: 21081671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2011 Jun;127(3):739-49. doi:
10.1007/s10549-010-1243-y.  Epub 2010 Nov 17.

Economic evaluation of the 21-gene signature (Oncotype DX) in lymph 
node-negative/positive, hormone receptor-positive early-stage breast cancer 
based on Japanese validation study (JBCRG-TR03).

Kondo M(1), Hoshi SL, Yamanaka T, Ishiguro H, Toi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Policy and Management, Graduate School of 
Comprehensive Human Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennoudai, Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki 305-8577, Japan. mkondo@md.tsukuba.ac.jp

The 21-gene signature is validated as a good predictor of recurrence for lymph 
node-negative/positive, hormone receptor-positive, early-stage breast cancer in 
Japanese patient population. This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of two 
scenarios designed to include the assay into Japan's social health insurance 
benefit package: one for LN-, ER+, ESBC and another for LN-/+, ER+, ESBC. An 
economic decision tree and Markov model under Japan's health system from the 
societal perspective is constructed with new evidence from the Japanese 
validation study. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are estimated as 
¥384,828 (US$3,848) per QALY for the indication for LN- scenario and ¥568,533 
(US$5,685) per QALY for the indication for LN-/+ scenario. Both are not more 
than the suggested social willingness-to-pay for one QALY gain from an 
innovative medical intervention in Japan, ¥5,000,000/QALY (US$50,000/QALY). 
Sensitivity analyses show that this result is plausibly robust, since ICERs do 
not exceed the threshold by various changes of assumptions made and values 
employed. In conclusion, the inclusion of the assay in Japan's social health 
insurance benefit package for not only LN- diseases but also LN+ diseases is 
cost-effective. Such a decision can be justifiable as an efficient use of finite 
resources for health care.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-010-1243-y
PMID: 21082239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. J Neurol. 2011 Mar;258(3):359-65. doi: 10.1007/s00415-010-5830-y. Epub 2010
Nov  17.

Management of respiratory symptoms in ALS.

Hardiman O(1).

Author information:
(1)HRB Clinician Scientist, Trinity College and Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, 
Ireland. orla@hardiman.net

Respiratory insufficiency is a frequent feature of ALS and is present in almost 
all cases at some stage of the illness. It is the commonest cause of death in 
ALS. FVC is used as important endpoint in many clinical trials, and in 
decision-making events for patients with ALS, although there are limitations to 
its predictive utility. There are multiple causes of respiratory muscle failure, 
all of which act to produce a progressive decline in pulmonary function. 
Diaphragmatic fatigue and weakness, coupled with respiratory muscle weakness, 
lead to reduced lung compliance and atelectasis. Increased secretions increase 
the risk of aspiration pneumonia, which further compromises respiratory 
function. Bulbar dysfunction can lead to nutritional deficiency, which in turn 
increases the fatigue of respiratory muscles. Early recognition of respiratory 
decline and symptomatic intervention, including non-invasive ventilation can 
significantly enhance both quality of life and life expectancy in ALS. Patients 
with respiratory failure should be advised to consider an advance directive to 
avoid emergency mechanical ventilation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-010-5830-y
PMID: 21082322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. J Neurotrauma. 2011 Jun;28(6):1009-19. doi: 10.1089/neu.2010.1301. Epub 2011
Jan  9.

Impact of cervical spine management brain injury on functional survival outcomes 
in comatose, blunt trauma patients with extremity movement and negative cervical 
spine CT: application of the Monte Carlo simulation.

Dunham CM(1), Carter KJ, Castro F, Erickson B.

Author information:
(1)Trauma/Critical Services, St. Elizabeth Health Center, Youngstown, Ohio 
44501, USA. dunham.michael@sbcglobal.net

Comment in
    J Neurotrauma. 2012 May 20;29(8):1714-5.

Cervical spine (CS) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and collar use may prevent 
quadriplegia, yet create brain injury. We developed a computer model to assess 
the effect of CS management strategies on outcomes in comatose, blunt trauma 
patients with extremity movement and a negative CS CT scan. Strategies include 
early collar removal (ECR), ECR & MRI, late collar removal (LCR), and LCR & MRI. 
MRI risks include hypoxia, hypotension, increased intracranial pressure (↑ICP), 
and ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP). LCR risks include ↑ICP, VAP, and 
delirium. Model elements include Quadriplegia and Primary, Secondary, LCR, and 
MRI Brain Injury. The Monte Carlo simulation determines health outcomes 
(Functional Survival versus Quadriplegia, Severe Brain Disability, or Dead). 
Utility values are Functional Survival 0.90, Quadriplegia 0.20, Severe Brain 
Disability 0.10, and Dead 0.00. Years of life expectancy are Functional Survival 
39.5, Quadriplegia 20.0, Severe Brain Disability 20.0, and Dead 0.0. Unstable CS 
rate 2.5%: Functional Survival/1,000: Unstable Patients: ECR 384, LCR 350, LCR & 
MRI 332, ECR & MRI 331; High-Risk Patients: ECR 161, LCR 151, LCR & MRI 140, ECR 
& MRI 153; Stable Patients: ECR 596, LCR 587, LCR & MRI 573, ECR & MRI 595. 
Quality-Adjusted Life Months for Unstable, High-Risk, and Stable Patients are 
greater with ECR; Stable Patient ECR and ECR & MRI are similar. Unstable CS rate 
0.5%: Functional Survival/1000: Unstable Patients: ECR 394, LCR 352, LCR & MRI 
332, ECR & MRI 332; High-Risk Patients: ECR 164, LCR 151, LCR & MRI 140, ECR & 
MRI 152; Stable Patients: ECR 611, LCR 592, LCR & MRI 576, ECR & MRI 598. 
Quality-Adjusted Life Months for Unstable, High-Risk, and Stable Patients are 
greater with ECR. LCR and MRI brain injury results in losses of functional 
survivorship that exceed those from quadriplegia. Model results suggest that 
early collar removal without cervical spine MRI is a reasonable, and likely the 
preferable, cervical spine management strategy for comatose, blunt trauma 
patients with extremity movement and a negative cervical spine CT scan.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2010.1301
PMID: 21083417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. J Long Term Eff Med Implants. 2009;19(4):279-85. doi: 
10.1615/jlongtermeffmedimplants.v19.i4.50.

Health-economic evaluation in implant trials: design considerations.

Alt V(1), Pavlidis T, Szalay G, Heiss C, Schnettler R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma Surgery, University Hospital Giessen-Marburg GmbH, 
Giessen, Germany. volker.alt@chiru.med.uni-giessen.de

In today's world, demonstration of the safety, efficacy, and quality of a new 
treatment strategy is no longer sufficient in many countries for market entry 
and reimbursement in the public healthcare system. This implies that new 
implants in orthopedic and orthopedic trauma surgery not only must be shown to 
lead to better medical outcome compared with the standard of care implant, but 
also must be shown to exhibit "good value" for the money for the public 
health-care system based on sound economic data from health-economic studies. 
The purpose of this article is to elucidate a framework for health-economic 
aspects alongside implant trials, with the assumption that the new implant is 
more costly but potentially better than the control implant. Cost-effectiveness, 
cost-utility, and cost-benefit studies are suitable for the assessment of the 
health-economic value of a new implant. The following criteria should be 
considered for a health-economic study design in the context with an implant: i) 
it should state medical benefits of the new implant compared with the control 
implant; ii) it should precise the type of health economic study; iii) it should 
define the methodological approach, perspective of the study, and types of 
costs; iv) if necessary, it should state discount costs and/benefits; and v) a 
sound sensitivity analysis should be included. Furthermore, close cooperation 
between researchers, clinicians, and health economists is essential.

DOI: 10.1615/jlongtermeffmedimplants.v19.i4.50
PMID: 21083534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Transfus Apher Sci. 2010 Dec;43(3):251-259. doi:
10.1016/j.transci.2010.09.019.  Epub 2010 Nov 16.

Cost-effectiveness study comparing pharmaceutically licensed plasma for 
transfusion (OctaplasLG®) versus fresh frozen plasma (FFP) in critically Ill 
patients in the UK.

van Eerd MC(1), Mario Ouwens JN(2), de Peuter MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, De Molen 84, 3995 AX Houten, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: margreet.vaneerd@mapivalues.com.
(2)Mapi Values, De Molen 84, 3995 AX Houten, The Netherlands.

This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of OctaplasLG® (pharmaceutically 
licensed plasma for transfusion) versus fresh frozen plasma (FFP) in critically 
ill patients in the UK using a decision-analytic approach. Transfusion with 
OctaplasLG® resulted in 0.03 quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and 0.03 life 
years saved compared with FFP. The discounted cost per life year was £949 
($1504), and the discounted cost per QALY saved was £1030 ($1632) with 
OctaplasLG® in the UK. Based on a higher price of £70 ($111) for OctaplasLG® 
versus £28.42 ($45.04) for FFP, OctaplasLG® is considered to be cost-effective 
at a threshold of £30,000 ($47,548) per QALY.

Copyright © 2010. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transci.2010.09.019
PMID: 21084224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Eur J Public Health. 2011 Oct;21(5):609-12. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq165. Epub
 2010 Nov 17.

Premature mortality due to stroke and trend in stroke mortality in Japan 
(1980-2005).

Pham TM(1), Fujino Y, Kubo T, Murata A, Le DC, Ozasa K, Matsuda S, Yoshimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, School of Medicine, 
University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, Japan. 
ptrminh@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Although a downward trend in stroke mortality over the last decades 
has been observed in many countries, stroke remains an important contributor to 
the total burden of disease. In the present study, we provided additional 
measures, namely years of life lost (YLLs) and average years of life lost 
(AYLLs) to reflect the burden of this condition in Japan.
METHODS: We obtained stroke mortality data for Japan from the World Health 
Organization mortality database for the period 1980-2005 to analyze trends of 
age-standardized rates (ASRs) per 100,000 of stroke mortality. YLLs and AYLLs 
were also estimated according to Japanese life tables.
RESULTS: Decreases in ASRs by 68% in men and by 74% in women were observed at 
the end of this study period. In men, there were total of 1,684,482 YLLs in 
1980; 776,350 in 1995 and 745,636 in 2005, corresponding to an overall AYLLs for 
all stroke deaths of 20.6; 11.2 and 11.7 years earlier than expected, 
respectively. In women, the respective numbers were 1,567,817 YLLs in 1980; 
810,135 in 1995 and 726,650 in 2005, corresponding to an overall AYLLs for all 
stroke deaths of 19.4; 10.5 and 10.5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings showed shorter AYLLs due to stroke in Japan, 
suggesting that stroke patients died from this condition at older age at the end 
of the study period. This change in premature mortality was consistent with 
decreased trend in the stroke mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq165
PMID: 21084377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011 Feb;96(2):454-8. doi: 10.1210/jc.2010-1167.
Epub  2010 Nov 17.

Do the effects of testosterone on muscle strength, physical function, body 
composition, and quality of life persist six months after treatment in 
intermediate-frail and frail elderly men?

O'Connell MD(1), Roberts SA, Srinivas-Shankar U, Tajar A, Connolly MJ, Adams JE, 
Oldham JA, Wu FC.

Author information:
(1)Andrology Research Unit, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, 
Manchester Royal Infirmary, The University of Manchester, Manchester, United 
Kingdom.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Feb;187(2):622.

CONTEXT: Short-term testosterone (T) treatment in frail elderly men improves 
muscle mass and strength. It is unclear whether these effects can be maintained 
post treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the durability of androgen effects in frail men.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Single center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trial to investigate the effects of 6 months T (25-75 mg daily) on muscle 
strength, body composition, physical function, and quality of life (QoL). 
Participants were assessed at the end of treatment (6 months) and 6 months after 
treatment cessation (12 months).
PARTICIPANTS: 274 intermediate-frail and frail elderly men aged 65-90 years with 
low T levels.
RESULTS: Mean T increased from 11.1 (3.1) nmol/liter at baseline to 18.4 (3.5) 
nmol/liter at 6 months, then declined to 10.5 (3.7) nmol/L at 12 months, in the 
T-treated group. Isometric knee extension peak torque increased in the T-treated 
group compared with placebo to give an adjusted mean difference (95% CI) between 
groups of 8.1 (-0.2 to 16.5) Nm at 6 months. Lean mass increased in the 
T-treated group giving a difference between groups of 1.2 (0.8 to 1.7) kg at 6 
months. Somatic and sexual symptoms improved during treatment. None of these 
differences between groups remained at 12 months. Prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) levels and haematocrit increased slightly during treatment but returned to 
baseline by 12 months.
CONCLUSION: The effects of 6-month T treatment on muscle strength, lean mass, 
and QoL in frail men are not maintained at 6 months post treatment.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2010-1167
PMID: 21084399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Aging (Albany NY). 2010 Nov;2(11):760-74. doi: 10.18632/aging.100230.

Metformin for aging and cancer prevention.

Anisimov VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Carcinogenesis and Oncogerontology, N.N. Petrov Research 
Institute of Oncology, St. Petersburg 197758, Russia. aging@mail.ru

Studies in mammals have led to the suggestion that hyperglycemia and 
hyperinsulinemia are important factors in aging. Insulin/insulin-like growth 
factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling molecules that have been linked to longevity include 
daf-2 and InR and their homologues in mammals, and inactivation of the 
corresponding genes increases life span in nematodes, fruit flies and mice. It 
is possible that the life-prolonging effect of caloric restriction is due to 
decreasing IGF-1 levels. Evidence has emerged that antidiabetic drugs are 
promising candidates for both life span extension and prevention of cancer. 
Thus, antidiabetic drugs postpone spontaneous carcinogenesis in mice and rats, 
as well as chemical and radiation carcinogenesis in mice, rats and hamsters. 
Furthermore metformin seems to decrease cancer risk in diabetic patients.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100230
PMCID: PMC3006019
PMID: 21084729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interests.


441. Rev Neurosci. 2010;21(4):273-87. doi: 10.1515/revneuro.2010.21.4.273.

Antibody therapy in neurodegenerative disease.

Southwell AL(1), Patterson PH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, Child and Family Research 
Institute, University of British Columbia, BC, Canada.

Advances in medical science have led to increased life expectancy and increased 
median age in the population. Because the symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases 
generally onset in mid- to late-life, a concomitant increase in the number of 
persons afflicted with these devastating diseases has occurred. Developing 
therapies for neurodegenerative diseases is of the highest priority due to the 
enormous cost of medical care required, as well as for the human suffering 
involved. Although caused by a variety of genetic and environmental insults, 
such diseases share commonalities. Many of these diseases are 
proteinopathies--diseases caused by misfolded, aggregating proteins. Antibodies 
that can recognize and remove misfolded proteins are ideally suited for 
proteinopathy therapeutics. The numerous intriguing advances in antibody-based 
therapies for neurodegenerative diseases are discussed in this review.

DOI: 10.1515/revneuro.2010.21.4.273
PMID: 21086760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2011 Feb;97(1):79-88. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2010.06.014. Epub 2010 Nov 18.

Early prediction of femoral head avascular necrosis following neck fracture.

Ehlinger M(1), Moser T, Adam P, Bierry G, Gangi A, de Mathelin M, Bonnomet F.

Author information:
(1)Orthopedic Surgery and Traumatology Department, Hautepierre Hospital, 
Strasbourg University Hospitals, 1, avenue Molière, 67098 Strasbourg cedex, 
France. matthieu.ehlinger@chru-strasbourg.fr

Femoral neck fracture puts at risk functional prognosis in young patients and 
can be life-threatening in the elderly. The present study reviews methods of 
femoral head vascularity assessment following neck fracture, to address the 
following issues: what is the risk of osteonecrosis? And what, in the light of 
this risk, is the best-adapted treatment to avoid iterative surgery? Femoral 
head vascularity depends on retinacular vessels and especially the lateral 
epiphyseal artery, which contributes from 70 to 80% of the femoral head vascular 
supply. Fracture causes vascular lesions, which are in turn the prime cause of 
necrosis. Other factors combine with this: hematoma tamponade effect, reduced 
joint space and increased pressure due to lower extremity positioning in 
extension/internal rotation/abduction during surgery. Head deformity is not due 
to direct cell death but to the repair process originating from the surrounding 
living bone. In post-traumatic necrosis, proliferation rapidly invades the head, 
with significant osteogenesis. Pathologic fractures occur at the boundary 
between the new and dead bone. Many techniques have been reported to help assess 
residual hemodynamics and risk of necrosis. Some are invasive: superselective 
angiography, intra-osseous oxygen pressure measurement, or Doppler-laser 
hemodynamic measurement; others involve imaging: scintigraphy, conventionnal or 
dynamic MRI. The future seems to lie with dynamic MRI, which allows a new 
classification of femoral neck fractures, based on a non-invasive assessment of 
femoral head vascularity.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2010.06.014
PMID: 21087905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Med Decis Making. 2011 May-Jun;31(3):380-5. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10385847.
Epub  2010 Nov 18.

How long and how well: oncologists' attitudes toward the relative value of 
life-prolonging v. quality of life-enhancing treatments.

Kozminski MA(1), Neumann PJ(2), Nadler ES(3), Jankovic A(1), Ubel PA(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Behavioral and Decision Sciences in Medicine, University of 
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI (MAK, AJ, PAU)
(2)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, MA (PJN)
(3)Charles Sammons Cancer Center, Baylor University Medical Center, Dallas, TX 
(ESN)
(4)Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Division of General Internal 
Medicine, Ann Arbor, MI (PAU)

OBJECTIVE: To determine how oncologists value quality-enhancing v. 
life-prolonging outcomes attributable to chemotherapy.
METHODS: The authors surveyed a random sample of 1379 US medical oncologists 
(members of the American Society of Clinical Oncology), presenting them with 2 
scenarios involving a hypothetical new chemotherapy drug. Given their responses, 
the authors derived the implicit cost-effectiveness ratios each physician 
attributed to quality-enhancing and life-prolonging chemotherapies.
RESULTS: The authors received responses from 58% of the oncologists surveyed. On 
average, the responses implied that oncologists were willing to prescribe 
treatments that cost $245,972 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY; SD $243,663 
per QALY) in life-prolonging situations v. only $119,082 per QALY (SD $197,048 
per QALY) for treatments that improve quality of life but do not prolong 
survival (P < 0.001). This difference did not depend on age, gender, percentage 
of time in clinical work, or self-reported preparedness to use and interpret 
cost-effectiveness information (P > 0.05 for all specifications). Differences 
across these situations persisted even among those who considered themselves to 
be "well-prepared" to make cost-effectiveness decisions.
CONCLUSION: Cost-effectiveness thresholds for oncologists vary widely for 
life-prolonging chemotherapy compared to treatments that only enhance quality of 
life. This difference suggests that oncologists value length of survival more 
highly than quality of life when making chemotherapy decisions.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10385847
PMID: 21088130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2011 Jan;4(1):9-22. doi: 
10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-10-0262. Epub 2010 Nov 18.

Health benefits and cost-effectiveness of primary genetic screening for Lynch 
syndrome in the general population.

Dinh TA(1), Rosner BI, Atwood JC, Boland CR, Syngal S, Vasen HF, Gruber SB, Burt 
RW.

