expectancy, and reduced incidence of diabetes complications compared with no 
SMBG in type 2 diabetes patients on OADs. Direct medical costs increased by CHF 
528, CHF 1'650 and CHF 2'899 in patients performing SMBG once, twice or three 
times daily compared to those not using SMBG, respectively. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were well below commonly quoted willingness-to-pay 
thresholds at CHF 9'177, CHF 12'928 and CHF 17'342 per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on data from a large observational study, SMBG is likely to 
be cost-effective by generally accepted standards in SMBG-naïve patients on oral 
anti-diabetic agents in the Swiss setting.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2010.13103
PMID: 21110238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Disabil Rehabil. 2011;33(17-18):1683-92. doi: 10.3109/09638288.2010.533816.
Epub  2010 Nov 26.

Total knee arthroplasty in motivated patients with knee osteoarthritis and 
athletic activity approach type goals: a conceptual decision-making model.

Nyland J(1), Kanouse Z, Krupp R, Caborn D, Jakob R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Louisville, Louisville 
40202, USA. john.nyland@louisville.edu

Knee osteoarthritis is one of the most common disabling medical conditions. With 
longer life expectancy the number of total knee arthroplasty (TKA) procedures 
being performed worldwide is projected to increase dramatically. Patient 
education, physical activity, bodyweight levels, expectations and goals 
regarding the ability to continue athletic activity participation are also 
increasing. For the subset of motivated patients with knee osteoarthritis who 
have athletic activity approach type goals, early TKA may not be the best knee 
osteoarthritis treatment option to improve satisfaction, quality of life and 
outcomes. The purpose of this clinical commentary is to present a conceptual 
decision-making model designed to improve the knee osteoarthritis treatment 
intervention outcome for motivated patients with athletic activity approach type 
goals. The model focuses on improving knee surgeon, patient and rehabilitation 
clinician dialogue by rank ordering routine activities of daily living and 
quality of life evoking athletic activities based on knee symptom exacerbation 
or re-injury risk. This process should help establish realistic patient 
expectations and goals for a given knee osteoarthritis treatment intervention 
that will more likely improve self-efficacy, functional independence, 
satisfaction and outcomes while decreasing the failure risk associated with 
early TKA.

DOI: 10.3109/09638288.2010.533816
PMID: 21110726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. J Am Diet Assoc. 2010 Dec;110(12):1840-51. doi: 10.1016/j.jada.2010.09.013.

Cost-effectiveness of medical nutrition therapy and therapeutically designed 
meals for older adults with cardiovascular disease.

Troyer JL(1), McAuley WJ, McCutcheon ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Belk College of Business, University of North 
Carolina, NC 28223-0001, USA. jtroyer@uncc.edu

BACKGROUND: Many older adults experience hyperlipidemia and hypertension, but 
there is little information about whether medical nutrition therapy (MNT) or 
therapeutic meals have independent or joint beneficial effects on older adults 
with these diagnoses.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of MNT and therapeutic meals for 
older adults with hyperlipidemia and/or hypertension.
DESIGN: A 1-year prospective four-arm controlled randomized community-based 
clinical trial.
SUBJECTS/SETTING: Participants were people ages 60 years or older residing in 
community settings who were medically diagnosed with either hypertension or 
hyperlipidemia. They were recruited through a number of venues beginning in May 
2003.
INTERVENTION: The 321 eligible individuals were assigned to one of four arms: 
(a) a literature control group, (b) a therapeutic meal group that received seven 
diagnosis-appropriate therapeutic meals a week, (c) an MNT group, and (d) an 
MNT-plus-therapeutic meal group.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The outcome measure was quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). Costs included both intervention and medical costs.
STATISTICAL ANALYSES: Estimations of separate models of costs and QALYs 
facilitated the construction of incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Net 
benefit analysis produced the probability that each intervention was 
cost-effective given different values for society's willingness to pay for a 
QALY.
RESULTS: Therapeutic meals are cost-effective. Using the net benefit approach 
and a willingness to pay of $109,000 per QALY, the probability that the 
therapeutic meal delivery program is cost-effective is 95% and for MNT the 
probability is 90%. However, the combination of MNT and therapeutic meals did 
not have an independent significant effect on QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Results inform the debate about extending Medicare funding for MNT 
to individuals with hypertension and hyperlipidemia. Future research should 
include more individuals who are not currently receiving medications for these 
diseases.

Copyright © 2010 American Dietetic Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jada.2010.09.013
PMID: 21111094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Lancet. 2011 Jan 8;377(9760):139-46. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61388-8.

Worldwide burden of disease from exposure to second-hand smoke: a retrospective 
analysis of data from 192 countries.

Oberg M(1), Jaakkola MS, Woodward A, Peruga A, Prüss-Ustün A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Jan 8;377(9760):101-2.
    Natl Med J India. 2011 May-Jun;24(3):164-5.

BACKGROUND: Exposure to second-hand smoke is common in many countries but the 
magnitude of the problem worldwide is poorly described. We aimed to estimate the 
worldwide exposure to second-hand smoke and its burden of disease in children 
and adult non-smokers in 2004.
METHODS: The burden of disease from second-hand smoke was estimated as deaths 
and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for children and adult non-smokers. 
The calculations were based on disease-specific relative risk estimates and 
area-specific estimates of the proportion of people exposed to second-hand 
smoke, by comparative risk assessment methods, with data from 192 countries 
during 2004.
FINDINGS: Worldwide, 40% of children, 33% of male non-smokers, and 35% of female 
non-smokers were exposed to second-hand smoke in 2004. This exposure was 
estimated to have caused 379,000 deaths from ischaemic heart disease, 165,000 
from lower respiratory infections, 36,900 from asthma, and 21,400 from lung 
cancer. 603,000 deaths were attributable to second-hand smoke in 2004, which was 
about 1·0% of worldwide mortality. 47% of deaths from second-hand smoke occurred 
in women, 28% in children, and 26% in men. DALYs lost because of exposure to 
second-hand smoke amounted to 10·9 million, which was about 0·7% of total 
worldwide burden of diseases in DALYs in 2004. 61% of DALYs were in children. 
The largest disease burdens were from lower respiratory infections in children 
younger than 5 years (5,939,000), ischaemic heart disease in adults (2,836,000), 
and asthma in adults (1,246,000) and children (651,000).
INTERPRETATION: These estimates of worldwide burden of disease attributable to 
second-hand smoke suggest that substantial health gains could be made by 
extending effective public health and clinical interventions to reduce passive 
smoking worldwide.
FUNDING: Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and Bloomberg 
Philanthropies.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61388-8
PMID: 21112082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2011 Jan;21(1):145-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.giec.2010.09.004.

Endoscopic interventions in Barrett's esophagus: Do the dollars make sense?

Chennat J(1), Ferguson MK.

Author information:
(1)Section of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Center for Endoscopic 
Research and Therapeutics, The University of Chicago Medical Center, 5758 South 
Maryland Avenue, MC 9028, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
jchennat@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Advances in the development of endoscopic therapies for Barrett's esophagus have 
resulted in the emergence of an important paradigm shift for management of early 
neoplasia and represent an opportunity to alter the natural history of the 
disease. Clinical incorporation of these endoscopic modalities may have 
significant implications for disease management and health care delivery from a 
cost perspective. This article reviews the current literature on the cost 
analyses of commonly used Barrett endoscopic interventions and summarizes the 
overall cost-effectiveness of these treatments as compared with surveillance or 
surgery.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.giec.2010.09.004
PMID: 21112504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Br J Anaesth. 2011 Feb;106(2):189-93. doi: 10.1093/bja/aeq335. Epub 2010 Nov
25.

Observational study of nonogenarians undergoing emergency, non-trauma surgery.

Pelavski AD(1), Lacasta A, Rochera MI, de Miguel M, Roigé J.

Author information:
(1)Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Department of Anaesthesia, Autonoma 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. pelavski@yahoo.es

BACKGROUND: Nonagenarian population is growing, and so is the number of them 
needing emergency surgery. Yet, their treatment is often based on the outcomes 
of younger patients: although old age is known to be a risk factor for surgery, 
its level is not clear. This is a prospective, observational study to describe 
the population. It is aimed at providing quantified scientific evidence of the 
current procedures and their outcomes.
METHODS: All non-traumatic nonagenarians who underwent surgery between July 2006 
and September 2010 in our University Hospital were recruited and followed up 
over a month after discharge. A descriptive statistical analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Of the approximately 12 660 surgical emergencies, 102 were 
nonagenarians: 69.6% were women, who mostly had an ASA score III (62.7%). 
Perioperative morbidity and mortality rates of 61.6% [95% confidence interval 
(CI): 52.33-71.19%] and 35.3% (95% CI: 26.01-44.57%), respectively, were found 
statistically associated with preoperative neoplasms. The most frequent causes 
of surgery were acute limb arterial thrombosis (20), incarcerated hernia (17), 
and bowel occlusion (14). Confusion, renal failure, and abdominal problems 
accounted for the most frequent causes of morbidity. Among them, abdominal 
complications, cardiogenic pulmonary oedema, aspiration, stroke, and renal 
failure were associated with mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The study gave scientific support and actual figures to many 
intuitive beliefs: morbidity and mortality are high and are associated with many 
preoperative comorbidities. All this, combined with an already reduced life 
expectancy, and a presumably low physiological reserve makes these patients 
particularly vulnerable to emergency surgery.

DOI: 10.1093/bja/aeq335
PMID: 21112879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Eur Heart J. 2011 Jul;32(13):1631-9. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehq408. Epub
2010  Nov 25.

Cost-effectiveness of cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with 
asymptomatic to mild heart failure: insights from the European cohort of the 
REVERSE (Resynchronization Reverses remodeling in Systolic Left Ventricular 
Dysfunction).

Linde C(1), Mealing S, Hawkins N, Eaton J, Brown B, Daubert JC; REVERSE study 
group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Karolina University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2011 Jul;32(13):1580-2.

AIMS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of cardiac resynchronization therapy 
(CRT) compared with optimal medical therapy in patients with New York Heart 
Association (NYHA) II heart failure (HF) or NYHA I with previous HF symptoms.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A proportion in state model with Monte Carlo simulation was 
developed to assess the costs, life years and quality-adjusted life year (QALYs) 
associated with CRT-ON and -OFF over a 10 year time period. Data from 262 
patients in the European cohort of the REVERSE clinical trial (QRS ≥ 120 ms, 
left ventricular ejection fraction ≤ 40%, CRT-ON, n = 180, CRT-OFF, n = 82) were 
used to model all-cause mortality, change in NYHA class and resource use. EQ-5D 
preference weights were taken from a previous cost-effectiveness model of CRT 
and unit costs from national UK databases. Costs and benefits were discounted at 
3.5% p.a. Extensive deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed. Compared with CRT-OFF, 0.94 life years or 0.80 QALYs were gained in 
the CRT ON group at an additional cost of €11 455, yielding an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of €14.278 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained. At a threshold of €33 000 (£30 000) per QALY gained, the probability 
that CRT is cost-effective is 79.6%. Cardiac resynchronization therapy becomes 
cost effective after ∼4.5 years. Cardiac resynchronization therapy needs only to 
demonstrate a modest impact on all cause mortality (hazard ratio = 0.82) in 
order to demonstrate cost-effectiveness. The results are robust to changes in 
all other parameters.
CONCLUSION: Cardiac resynchronization therapy is a cost-effective intervention 
for patients with mildly symptomatic HF and for asymptomatic patients with left 
ventricular dysfunction and previous HF symptoms.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehq408
PMID: 21112898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Mol Biol Rep. 2011 Aug;38(6):4231-5. doi: 10.1007/s11033-010-0546-8. Epub
2010  Nov 27.

PTPN22 1858C>T (R620W) functional polymorphism and human longevity.

Napolioni V(1), Natali A, Saccucci P, Lucarini N.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Genetics, School of Biosciences and Biotechnologies, 
University of Camerino, Via Gentile III da Varano, 62032, Camerino, Italy.

The PTPN22 gene, located on chromosome 1p13, encoding lymphoid protein tyrosine 
phosphatase (LYP), plays a crucial role in the negative control of T lymphocyte 
activation. Since the age-related change in T-cell signal transduction may be 
one of the most important causes of cell-mediated immune response decline with 
ageing, we performed a population-based association study to test whether the 
PTPN22 1858C>T (R620W) functional polymorphism affects the ability to survive to 
old age and to reach even exceptional life expectancy. 892 unrelated healthy 
individuals (age range 8-106 years, 403 males and 489 females) from central 
Italy were studied. For both gender, the frequency of PTPN22*T1858 carriers does 
not differ significantly in nona/centenarians and in octogenarians respect to 
young group. Allele and genotype frequencies of age groups were compared to 
those reported in previously published studied carried out on control 
individuals with Italic ancestry (N = 1393), further confirming results obtained 
from our sample population. Overall, our study suggests that PTPN22*T1858 allele 
is not negatively selected at oldest ages and we speculate that its increased 
ability to protect individuals against development of infectious diseases may 
counteract its deleterious effect on immune system leading to autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-010-0546-8
PMID: 21113673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 Oct;41(5):204-13. doi: 10.1007/BF03096212.

[Living longer, working longer? The impact of subjective life expectancy on 
retirement intentions and behavior].

[Article in Dutch]

van Solinge H(1), Henkens K.

Author information:
(1)Onderzoeker Nederlands Interdisciplinair Demografisch Instituut, Den Haag. 
solinge@nidi.nl

Virtually all Western countries are seeking to bring retirement ages more in 
line with increases in longevity. The central question in this paper is whether 
individuals choose a retirement age that fits their life expectancy. This would 
be ideal from a public policy perspective. The present study aims to test 
empirically whether retirement planning varies with expectations of survival 
among a sample of older employees in the Netherlands. Two questions are 
addressed: (1) What are older employees' expectations of their remaining 
lifetime, and what factors influence this subjective life expectancy? (2) Are 
individuals who perceive longer life horizons (high subjective life expectancy) 
more inclined to retire later than people who expect to live shorter? Using data 
from a panel study on retirement behaviour in the Netherlands (N=1621 older 
employees aged 50-60), regression and survival models are estimated to examine 
the effect of subjective life expectancy on retirement planning and behaviour. 
The results indicate that subjective life expectancy is a factor that is taken 
into account in retirement decision making, at least as far as retirement 
intentions are concerned. Older employees with longer time horizons have a 
preference for later retirement. When it comes to actual behaviour, however, 
time horizon does not appear to play a role. The results suggest that 
particularly employees with a high perceived life expectancy and an intention to 
work longer do not succeed in carrying their intentions into effect.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03096212
PMID: 21114056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Eval Clin Pract. 2012 Apr;18(2):238-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01569.x.  Epub 2010 Nov 30.

Bayesian sensitivity models for missing covariates in the analysis of survival 
data.

Hemming K(1), Hutton JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Birmingham University, Birmingham, UK. 
k.hemming@bham.ac.uk

RATIONALE: This paper presents a Bayesian approach using WinBUGS for analysing 
survival data in which observations have missing information on some covariates. 
Modelling the joint density of the survival time and the covariates allows for 
the missing covariate data to be missing at random (MAR), as opposed to the more 
restrictive assumptions imposed by a complete case analysis.
METHODS: Here, the survival times are modelled by the accelerated failure time 
model and the joint covariate density is factorized as a series of conditional 
densities, each modelled by logistic regression. We propose a class of models to 
examine MAR assumption by using Bayesian informative priors or auxiliary data.
RESULTS: In the example considered, the complete case analysis underestimates 
the proportion of severely impaired cases. Furthermore, models evaluating 
sensitivity to the MAR assumption suggest that median life expectancies could be 
increased. Gains in precision are small in the application considered, possibly 
a reflection of extra uncertainty because of the inclusion of all cases, 
including those of unknown severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Through simple Bayesian models, more realistic assumptions 
concerning the nature of the missing data can be made. Implementation in WinBUGS 
means that this model is accessible to practicing statisticians.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01569.x
PMID: 21114712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Brain Res Bull. 2011 Jun 30;85(5):283-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2010.11.010. Epub 2010 Nov 27.

Early switching between movement types: indication of predictive control?

Levy-Tzedek S(1), Tov MB, Karniel A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, 
Beer Sheva, Israel. shelly@huji.ac.il

In everyday life, we frequently alternate between performing discrete and 
rhythmic movements. When performing a periodic movement, two distinct movement 
types can be distinguished: highly harmonic vs. discrete-like. The harmonicity 
of the movement is used to classify it as one or the other. We asked: (1) 
whether the frequency at which a periodic movement is performed affects the 
harmonicity of the resultant movement; and (2) what underlies switching between 
these movement types. To answer these questions, we studied horizontal 
flexion/extension forearm movements in 13 young adults over a wide range of 
frequencies. Movements were performed either at a fixed frequency, or at 
gradually increasing or decreasing target frequencies. We found movement 
harmonicity to depend on the frequency of the movement. Furthermore, we found a 
reverse hysteresis behavior, where participants switched movement type in 
anticipation of the future-required frequency. These findings suggest that 
predictive control is employed in switching between movement types.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2010.11.010
PMID: 21115104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2011 Jan 12;366(1561):9-16. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2010.0276.

The first long-lived mutants: discovery of the insulin/IGF-1 pathway for ageing.

Kenyon C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. 
cynthia.kenyon@ucsf.edu

Inhibiting insulin/IGF-1 signalling extends lifespan and delays age-related 
disease in species throughout the animal kingdom. This life-extension pathway, 
the first to be defined, was discovered through genetic studies in the small 
roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans. This discovery is described here.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2010.0276
PMCID: PMC3001308
PMID: 21115525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2011 Jan 12;366(1561):28-34. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2010.0281.

Single-gene mutations and healthy ageing in mammals.

Bartke A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
801 North Rutledge Street, Room 4389, Springfield, IL 62794-9628, USA. 
abartke@siumed.edu

Studies of the effects of single-gene mutations on longevity in Caenorhabditis 
elegans, Drosophila melanogaster and Mus musculus identified homologous, highly 
conserved signalling pathways that influence ageing. In each of these very 
distantly related species, single mutations which lead-directly or indirectly-to 
reduced insulin, insulin-like growth factor (IGF) or insulin/IGF-like signalling 
(IIS) can produce significant increases in both average and maximal lifespan. In 
mice, most of the life-extending mutations described to date reduce somatotropic 
(growth hormone (GH) and IGF-1) signalling. The reported extensions of longevity 
are most robust in GH-deficient and GH-resistant mice, while suppression of 
somatotropic signalling 'downstream' of the GH receptor produces effects that 
are generally smaller and often limited to female animals. This could be due to 
GH influencing ageing by both IGF-1-mediated and IGF-1-independent mechanisms. 
In mutants that have been examined in some detail, increased longevity is 
associated with various indices of delayed ageing and extended 'healthspan'. The 
mechanisms that probably underlie the extension of both lifespan and healthspan 
of these animals include increased stress resistance, improved antioxidant 
defences, alterations in insulin signalling (e.g. hypoinsulinaemia combined with 
improved insulin sensitivity in some mutants and insulin resistance in others), 
a shift from pro- to anti-inflammatory profile of circulating adipokines, 
reduced mammalian target of rapamycin-mediated translation and altered 
mitochondrial function including greater utilization of lipids when compared 
with carbohydrates.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2010.0281
PMCID: PMC3001310
PMID: 21115527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2011 Jan 12;366(1561):108-12. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2010.0288.

Tragedy and delight: the ethics of decelerated ageing.

Gems D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, and G.E.E., Darwin Building, University College 
London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK. david.gems@ucl.ac.uk

Biogerontology is sometimes viewed as similar to other forms of biomedical 
research in that it seeks to understand and treat a pathological process. Yet 
the prospect of treating ageing is extraordinary in terms of the profound 
changes to the human condition that would result. Recent advances in 
biogerontology allow a clearer view of the ethical issues and dilemmas that 
confront humanity with respect to treating ageing. For example, they imply that 
organismal senescence is a disease process with a broad spectrum of pathological 
consequences in late life (causing or exascerbating cardiovascular disease, 
cancer, neurodegenerative disease and many others). Moreover, in laboratory 
animals, it is possible to decelerate ageing, extend healthy adulthood and 
reduce the age-incidence of a broad spectrum of ageing-related diseases. This is 
accompanied by an overall extension of lifespan, sometimes of a large magnitude. 
Discussions of the ethics of treating ageing sometimes involve hand-wringing 
about detrimental consequences (e.g. to society) of marked life extension which, 
arguably, would be a form of enhancement technology. Yet given the great 
improvements in health that decelerated ageing could provide, it would seem that 
the only possible ethical course is to pursue it energetically. Thus, 
decelerated ageing has an element of tragic inevitability: its benefits to 
health compel us to pursue it, despite the transformation of human society, and 
even human nature, that this could entail.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2010.0288
PMCID: PMC3001315
PMID: 21115537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Int J Nanomedicine. 2010 Nov 10;5:889-900. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S13402.

The application of exosomes as a nanoscale cancer vaccine.

Tan A(1), De La Peña H, Seifalian AM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nanotechnology and Regenerative Medicine, University College 
London, London, UK.

Cancer is a leading cause of death globally, and it is predicted and projected 
to continue rising as life expectancy increases. Although patient survival rates 
for some forms of cancers are high due to clinical advances in treatment 
protocols, the search for effective cancer vaccines remains the ultimate Rosetta 
Stone in oncology. Cervarix(®), Gardasil(®), and hepatitis B vaccines are 
currently employed in preventing certain forms of viral cancers. However, they 
are, strictly speaking, not 'true' cancer vaccines as they are prophylactic 
rather than therapeutic, are only effective against the oncogenic viruses, and 
do not kill the actual cancer cells. On April 2010, a new prostate cancer 
vaccine Provenge(®) (sipuleucel-T) was approved by the US FDA, and it is the 
first approved therapeutic vaccine that utilizes antigen-presenting cell 
technology involving dendritic cells in cancer immunotherapy. Recent evidence 
suggests that the use of nanoscale particles like exosomes in immunotherapy 
could form a viable basis for the development of novel cancer vaccines, via 
antigen-presenting cell technology, to prime the immune system to recognize and 
kill cancer cells. Coupled with nanotechnology, engineered exosomes are emerging 
as new and novel avenues for cancer vaccine development. Here, we review the 
current knowledge pertaining to exosome technology in immunotherapy and also 
seek to address the challenges and future directions associated with it, in 
hopes of bringing this exciting application a step closer toward an effective 
clinical reality.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S13402
PMCID: PMC2990382
PMID: 21116329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2011 Jul;469(7):1971-83. doi:
10.1007/s11999-010-1704-y.  Epub 2010 Nov 30.

Is total hip arthroplasty after hip arthrodesis as good as primary arthroplasty?

Fernandez-Fairen M(1), Murcia-Mazón A, Torres A, Querales V, Murcia A Jr.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Cirugía Ortopédica y Traumatología de Barcelona, Río de Oro 37, 
5º3ª, Barcelona 08034, Spain. mferfai@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Conversion of hip arthrodesis to a THA reportedly provides a 
reasonable solution, improving function, reducing back and knee pain, and 
slowing degeneration of neighboring joints associated with a hip fusion. 
Patients generally are satisfied with conversion despite the fact that range of 
mobility, muscle strength, leg-length discrepancy (LLD), persistence of limp, 
and need for assistive walking aids generally are worse than those for 
conventional primary THA.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We compared THA after hip arthrodesis and primary THA to 
determine whether these procedures would be associated with similar functional 
scores, maintenance of scores with time, complications and failures, 
survivorship of the arthroplasty, and patient satisfaction.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively matched 48 patients undergoing 
conversion of a fused hip to a THA between January 1980 and January 2000, with 
50 patients receiving a primary THA during the same period. We prospectively 
followed all patients between January 2000 and January 2010. The changes in 
function and pain after THA were compared between the two cohorts using the 
Harris hip score (HHS) and the Rosser Index Matrix (RIM). The Oxford hip score 
(OHS) and the SF-36 also were used to assess quality of life (QOL) during 
followup. Complications were collected and survivorship of the THA was 
evaluated. Patient satisfaction was assessed using the Robertsson and Dunbar 
questionnaire. The minimum followup was 10 years (mean, 17 years; range, 10-29 
years).
RESULTS: At last followup, hip function and health-related QOL were similar for 
patients having conversion of hip arthrodesis to THA and for patients having a 
routine THA. Scores diminished overall in the two groups between 2000 and 2010, 
but without a difference for the HHS, RIM QOL, and OHS in the study cohort. The 
rate of complications, THA survival, and patient satisfaction were similar in 
both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Conversion of hip arthrodesis to a THA provides substantial 
improvement of hip function and health-related QOL, with an acceptable rate of 
complications, good expectancy of survival for the arthroplasty, and high level 
of patient satisfaction comparable to those of primary THA.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for 
a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-010-1704-y
PMCID: PMC3111784
PMID: 21116751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. J Marital Fam Ther. 1989 Jul;15(3):289-97. doi: 
10.1111/j.1752-0606.1989.tb00810.x.

The prevalence of later life family concerns in the marriage and family therapy 
journal literature (1976-1985): a content analysis*.

Flori DE(1).

Author information:
(1)Purdue University.

This study assessed the frequency with which the marital and family therapy 
journal literature focused on problems associated with aging in a family 
context. Content analysis was used to assess the prevalence of later life family 
concerns in two leading journals, Family Process and the Journal of Marital and 
Family Therapy, during a 10-year period (1976-1985). Results indicate that 
neither journal covered later life family issues to any appreciable degree. It 
is concluded that elders in marital and family relationships constitute a new 
frontier for the extension and elaboration of family therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1752-0606.1989.tb00810.x
PMID: 21118459


513. BMJ. 2010 Nov 30;341:c6414. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c6414.

Effect of integrated care for sick listed patients with chronic low back pain: 
economic evaluation alongside a randomised controlled trial.

Lambeek LC(1), Bosmans JE, Van Royen BJ, Van Tulder MW, Van Mechelen W, Anema 
JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, EMGO Institute for Health and 
Care Research, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2011 Aug;16(4):105-6.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness, cost utility, and cost-benefit of 
an integrated care programme compared with usual care for sick listed patients 
with chronic low back pain.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation alongside a randomised controlled trial with 12 
months' follow-up.
SETTING: Primary care (10 physiotherapy practices, one occupational health 
service, one occupational therapy practice) and secondary care (five hospitals) 
in the Netherlands, 2005-9.
PARTICIPANTS: 134 adults aged 18-65 sick listed because of chronic low back 
pain: 66 were randomised to integrated care and 68 to usual care.
INTERVENTIONS: Integrated care consisted of a workplace intervention based on 
participatory ergonomics, with involvement of a supervisor, and a graded 
activity programme based on cognitive behavioural principles. Usual care was 
provided by general practitioners and occupational physicians according to Dutch 
guidelines.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was duration until sustainable return 
to work. The secondary outcome was quality adjusted life years (QALYs), measured 
using EuroQol.
RESULTS: Total costs in the integrated care group (£13 165, SD £13 600) were 
significantly lower than in the usual care group (£18 475, SD £13 616). Cost 
effectiveness planes and acceptability curves showed that integrated care was 
cost effective compared with usual care for return to work and QALYs gained. The 
cost-benefit analyses showed that every £1 invested in integrated care would 
return an estimated £26. The net societal benefit of integrated care compared 
with usual care was £5744.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of an integrated care programme for patients sick 
listed with chronic low back pain has a large potential to significantly reduce 
societal costs, increase effectiveness of care, improve quality of life, and 
improve function on a broad scale. Integrated care therefore has large gains for 
patients and society as well as for employers.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c6414
PMCID: PMC2995018
PMID: 21118874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the Unified Competing Interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support 
from any company for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any 
companies that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 3 
years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced 
the submitted work.


514. Hum Mol Genet. 2011 Feb 15;20(4):681-93. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddq514. Epub 2010
Nov  30.

Intravenous scAAV9 delivery of a codon-optimized SMN1 sequence rescues SMA mice.

Dominguez E(1), Marais T, Chatauret N, Benkhelifa-Ziyyat S, Duque S, Ravassard 
P, Carcenac R, Astord S, Pereira de Moura A, Voit T, Barkats M.

Author information:
(1)UPMC-AIM UMR S974, INSERM U 974, CNRS UMR 7215, Institut de Myologie, 
Université Pierre et Marie Curie Paris 6, Paris, France.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is the most common genetic disease leading to 
infant mortality. This neuromuscular disorder is caused by the loss or mutation 
of the telomeric copy of the 'survival of motor neuron' (Smn) gene, termed SMN1. 
Loss of SMN1 leads to reduced SMN protein levels, inducing degeneration of motor 
neurons (MN) and progressive muscle weakness and atrophy. To date, SMA remains 
incurable due to the lack of a method to deliver therapeutically active 
molecules to the spinal cord. Gene therapy, consisting of reintroducing SMN1 in 
MNs, is an attractive approach for SMA. Here we used postnatal day 1 systemic 
injection of self-complementary adeno-associated virus (scAAV9) vectors carrying 
a codon-optimized SMN1 sequence and a chimeric intron placed downstream of the 
strong phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) promoter (SMNopti) to overexpress the human 
SMN protein in a mouse model of severe SMA. Survival analysis showed that this 
treatment rescued 100% of the mice, increasing life expectancy from 27 to over 
340 days (median survival of 199 days) in mice that normally survive about 13 
days. The systemic scAAV9 therapy mediated complete correction of motor 
function, prevented MN death and rescued the weight loss phenotype close to 
normal. This study reports the most efficient rescue of SMA mice to date after a 
single intravenous injection of an optimized SMN-encoding scAAV9, highlighting 
the considerable potential of this method for the treatment of human SMA.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddq514
PMID: 21118896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. JAMA. 2010 Dec 1;304(21):2373-80. doi: 10.1001/jama.2010.1720.

Active surveillance compared with initial treatment for men with low-risk 
prostate cancer: a decision analysis.

Hayes JH(1), Ollendorf DA, Pearson SD, Barry MJ, Kantoff PW, Stewart ST, 
Bhatnagar V, Sweeney CJ, Stahl JE, McMahon PM.

Author information:
(1)Lank Center for Genitourinary Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
MA 02115, USA. julia_hayes@dfci.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2011 May 11;305(18):1862.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2010 Dec 1;304(21):2411-2.
    Eur Urol. 2011 May;59(5):882-3.
    Eur Urol. 2011 May;59(5):883-4.
    Eur Urol. 2011 Aug;60(2):393.
    Eur Urol. 2013 Feb;63(2):411-2.

CONTEXT: In the United States, 192,000 men were diagnosed as having prostate 
cancer in 2009, the majority with low-risk, clinically localized disease. 
Treatment of these cancers is associated with substantial morbidity. Active 
surveillance is an alternative to initial treatment, but long-term outcomes and 
effect on quality of life have not been well characterized.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the quality-of-life benefits and risks of active 
surveillance compared with initial treatment for men with low-risk, clinically 
localized prostate cancer.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Decision analysis using a simulation model was performed: 
men were treated at diagnosis with brachytherapy, intensity-modulated radiation 
therapy (IMRT), or radical prostatectomy or followed up by active surveillance 
(a strategy of close monitoring of newly diagnosed patients with serial 
prostate-specific antigen measurements, digital rectal examinations, and 
biopsies, with treatment at disease progression or patient choice). 
Probabilities and utilities were derived from previous studies and literature 
review. In the base case, the relative risk of prostate cancer-specific death 
for initial treatment vs active surveillance was assumed to be 0.83. Men 
incurred short- and long-term adverse effects of treatment.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohorts of 65-year-old men newly diagnosed as having 
clinically localized, low-risk prostate cancer (prostate-specific antigen level 
<10 ng/mL, stage ≤T2a disease, and Gleason score ≤6).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE).
RESULTS: Active surveillance was associated with the greatest QALE (11.07 
quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]), followed by brachytherapy (10.57 QALYs), 
IMRT (10.51 QALYs), and radical prostatectomy (10.23 QALYs). Active surveillance 
remained associated with the highest QALE even if the relative risk of prostate 
cancer-specific death for initial treatment vs active surveillance was as low as 
0.6. However, the QALE gains and the optimal strategy were highly dependent on 
individual preferences for living under active surveillance and for having been 
treated.
CONCLUSIONS: Under a wide range of assumptions, for a 65-year-old man, active 
surveillance is a reasonable approach to low-risk prostate cancer based on QALE 
compared with initial treatment. However, individual preferences play a central 
role in the decision whether to treat or to pursue active surveillance.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2010.1720
PMCID: PMC3055173
PMID: 21119084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Korean J Hematol. 2010 Mar;45(1):8-13. doi: 10.5045/kjh.2010.45.1.8. Epub
2010  Mar 31.

Recent advances in the management of venous thromboembolism.

Ageno W(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center on Thromboembolic Diseases and Antithrombotic Therapies, 
Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a spectrum of diseases that includes deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Anticoagulant treatment is the 
mainstay of therapy for VTE. Unfractionated heparin (UFH) or low molecular 
weight heparin (LMWH) followed by vitamin K antagonists have been the treatment 
of choice for most patients with VTE, with the aim to prevent thrombus extension 
or embolization and recurrent VTE. Fondaparinux, a selective, indirect, 
parenteral factor Xa inhibitor, is now also approved for the initial treatment 
of VTE and represents an important alternative to UFH or LMWH. Secondary 
prevention of VTE with vitamin K antagonists is usually prescribed for a minimum 
of three months, with the duration of treatment based on the presence or absence 
of major identifiable risk factors for the index event. Patients with permanent 
risk factors or patients with recurrent DVT or PE require life long secondary 
prevention. Over the last years, new oral anticoagulant agents have been 
developed and are now undergoing extensive clinical evaluation in several 
settings, including the treatment of VTE. New oral anticoagulants include 
selective, direct thrombin inhibitors, such as dabigatran etexilate, and 
selective, direct factor Xa inhibitos, such as rivaroxaban, apixaban or 
edoxaban. All these drugs are admistered at fixed daily doses and do not require 
laboratory monitoring. The positive results of the first completed clinical 
trials suggest that a new era in the management of VTE is about to begin.

DOI: 10.5045/kjh.2010.45.1.8
PMCID: PMC2983000
PMID: 21120157


517. J Psycholinguist Res. 2011 Jun;40(3):189-94. doi: 10.1007/s10936-010-9162-y.

Theoretic note: the relation of embryology to linguistic and cognitive process.

Brown J(1).

Author information:
(1)New York University Medical Center, New York, NY 10075, USA. 
drjbrown@hotmail.com

This paper is a conceptual essay that views the unfolding or individuation from 
the ovum to mind/brain form and process as the outcome of a unitary highly 
conserved pattern of epigenetic growth. The principle question concerns the 
extent to which the cognitive process can be understood as an extension or 
replication of primordial trends in the growth of organism. There are several 
lines of embryological study, some with a clear relation to cognitive process, 
others perhaps merely analogous, but there are sufficient data to support the 
claim that fundamental patterns in development recur in a momentary act of 
thought or perception. Indeed, the Bauplan that accounts for brain maturation at 
the cellular level accounts for the generation of the mind/brain state in 
maturity. The specification of cells in fetal brain growth corresponds with the 
progressive individuation of psychic structures in the course of early 
development. Growth trends in epigenetic process that translate the genetic code 
to morphology and physiology persist in the brain or psyche as patterns of 
mental process. Psychic structure is temporal, not spatial, and the structure of 
the mind/brain is ongoing formative process, not the resultant stabilities. One 
can say that in the brain, morphology is the form that process takes early in 
development, while brain function is the form process takes once structure is 
relatively settled. Put otherwise, morphogenesis first lays down form as 
structure, then lays down form as function (see Goodwin in J Theor Biol 
97:43-55, 1982). The structure of the mind/brain is not a circuit board that 
outputs function, but is a recurrent activity that actualizes in behavior. 
Cognition is a mode of growth that is carried over from embryonic to adult life.

DOI: 10.1007/s10936-010-9162-y
PMID: 21120609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2011;697:1-8. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4419-7185-2_1.

The value of vaccination.

Bloom DE(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, USA. dbloom@hsph.harvard.edu

Vaccination is most often studied from a scientific, clinical, or 
epidemiological perspective, and rightly so, for vaccines are meant to improve 
health outcomes. But these are not the only lenses through which the effects of 
vaccination programs can be understood. This chapter provides an economic 
perspective on vaccination programs, detailing in particular a new line of 
inquiry that makes a case for the importance of vaccination to achieving 
national economic aims. Research has shown that national spending on childhood 
vaccination programs does more than just reduce morbidity and mortality in a 
country: it also promotes national economic growth and poverty reduction. The 
chapter begins with a look at recent research that demonstrates powerful links 
that run from population health to economic well-being. Second, it discusses how 
knowledge of the economic benefits of health fundamentally transforms how we 
understand the value of vaccination. And third, it provides evidence for the 
scale of the returns that countries receive when they invest in immunization 
programs - returns that have not been fully captured by traditional economic 
analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-7185-2_1
PMID: 21120715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Laryngoscope. 2011 Jan;121(1):116-34. doi: 10.1002/lary.21226.

What treatment for early-stage glottic carcinoma among adult patients: CO2 
endolaryngeal laser excision versus standard fractionated external beam 
radiation is superior in terms of cost utility?

Higgins KM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. kevin.higgins@sunnybrook.ca

Comment in
    Strahlenther Onkol. 2012 Aug;188(8):717-8.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: To determine which treatment for Tis/T1 glottic carcinoma 
among adult patients, transoral CO(2) laser excision (TOL) versus external beam 
radiation (XRT), is superior in terms of cost utility.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis.
METHODS: Six head-to-head comparison studies and 22 consecutive case series were 
identified to examine oncologic control. The case series were pooled as a 
composite group. Primary end points were local control (LC), laryngectomy-free 
survival (LFS), and overall survival (OS). Objective and subjective 
voice-quality measures were secondary end points. Third-party payer perspective 
was adopted for cost-utility analysis. Operational and capital costs were 
determined with the microcosting method. Rollback calculations and quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated with decision-tree modeling.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between TOL surgery and XRT with 
respect to LC (odds ratio [OR], 0.81; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.51-1.3) 
and LFS (OR, 0.84, 95% CI, 0.42-1.66). The weighted mean difference for OS was 
0.03. There were no objective differences for measures of voice quality. 
Decision-tree analysis was undertaken using mean 5-year local control initial 
probabilities. CO(2) laser cost $2475.65/case (US $2407.32/case), generating 
1.663 QALYs, whereas radiation cost $4965.85/case (US $4828.79/case), generating 
1.506 QALYs. This contrasts initial upstream costs for CO(2) laser (∼$1889/case, 
∼US $1836.86/case) and radiation (∼$2454.70/case, ∼US $2386.95/case).
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis shows that there is no clear difference in 
oncologic outcome between TOL surgery and XRT. There is a trend for improved 
post-treatment voice quality with XRT, although the clinical significance of 
this is questionable. TOL surgery dominates XRT from a cost-utility standpoint 
primarily because of the enhanced downstream affordability of salvage treatment.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.21226
PMID: 21120828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Mil Med. 2010 Nov;175(11):926-8. doi: 10.7205/milmed-d-09-00221.

Extraordinary military medical care of a pediatric patient with penetrating 
pelvic trauma: a case report.

Samms S(1), Wittich A, Graf K.

Author information:
(1)Clark Health Clinic, Bldg 5-4256 Bastogne Drive Extension, Fort Bragg, NC 
28310, USA.

Modern military medicine is an ever advancing field, capable of remarkable 
feats. We present the case of a 16-year-old Iraqi female with a single gunshot 
wound to the pelvis with extensive rectal injury who survived despite the odds. 
Using "damage control" techniques, this patient survived despite a reported 30% 
mortality associated with such wounds. During the course of her stay, she was 
cared for by a multidisciplinary team whose integrated efforts led to survival 
and complete closure of 2 of 3 wounds prior to discharge. The case demonstrates 
the success of modern military medical measures applied to a malnourished 
pediatric civilian in an austere environment. In addition to being noteworthy as 
an extraordinary case of survival, this case raises questions about the 
implications of practicing short-term modern medicine on a population that will 
have to be reintegrated into a primitive medical establishment, possibly before 
definitive care is complete.

DOI: 10.7205/milmed-d-09-00221
PMID: 21121508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. N Engl J Med. 2010 Dec 2;363(23):2181-3. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1011362.

Government payment for health care--causes and consequences.

Fuchs VR(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp1011362
PMID: 21121829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Protein Pept Lett. 2011 Feb;18(2):167-73. doi: 10.2174/092986611794475039.

SIRT1 deacetylase activity and the maintenance of protein homeostasis in 
response to stress: an overview.

Monteiro JP(1), Cano MI.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Genética, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Estadual 
Paulista Jélio de Mesquita Filho-UNESP, Botucatu, SP, Brazil.

The present review intends to summarize the, yet preliminary, but very important 
emerging data underlining the functions exerted by the nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent deacetylase SIRT1 on protein homeostasis. The main 
focus of the discussion is the cooperation between SIRT1 and the heat shock 
factor 1 (HSF1) responsible for activating the transcription of molecular 
chaperones, the protein-protective factors that resolve damaged/misfolded and 
aggregated proteins generated by heat stress or metabolism. SIRT1, a mammalian 
ortholog of the yeast silent information regulator 2, is a stress activated 
protein deacetylase that contributes to life-span extension by regulating 
different cell survival pathways, including replicative senescence, inflammation 
and resistance to hypoxic and heat stress. Phosphorylation is the major 
mechanism controlling the level and function of SIRT1 required for normal cell 
cycle progression and cell survival under stress conditions. Phosphorylated 
SIRT1 deacetylates and coactivates different substrates, including HSF1. 
Deacetylated HSF1 binds to the heat shock promoter element found upstream of 
genes encoding molecular chaperones. Overexpression of SIRT1 in cultured cells 
also helps them to survive exposure to heat stress. Conversely, its 
down-regulation accelerates the attenuation of the heat shock response promoting 
the release of HSF1 from its cognate promoter element. Very recently, in a mouse 
model for Alzheimer's disease, SIRT1 deacetylase activity was also found 
activating the transcription of α-secretase, the enzyme responsible for 
inhibiting the formation of aggregates of neuronal β-amyloid plaques. How SIRT1 
activity protects cells from the deleterious effects of damaged/misfolded 
