Areas (LSOAs) in England, grouped into quintiles of an area-based measure of 
relative deprivation.
METHODS: Life expectancy (LE) and DFLE for males and females at birth and at age 
65 were estimated using a combination of survey, mortality and population data; 
survey data provided an estimate of the prevalence of limiting long-standing 
illness or disability (LLSI) used in the DFLE metric. An estimate of the 
inequality in DFLE between area-based quintiles of relative deprivation (using 
the Index of Multiple Deprivation 2007) in the periods 2001-04 and 2005-08 
enabled the measurement of change in equality over time between advantaged and 
disadvantaged areas.
RESULTS: The prevalence of LLSI among males and females rose incrementally with 
increasing levels of deprivation in both periods. Males and females in the most 
deprived areas were more than 1.5 times more likely to report LLSI compared to 
those in the least deprived areas. There were also large inequalities in LE and 
DFLE in a similar pattern to LLSI. The extent of inequality in DFLE between the 
most and least deprived quintiles was approximately twice that of LE. Although 
LE and DFLE generally increased over time, this improvement varied across 
quintiles, causing the gap between the most and least deprived quintiles to 
increase. In comparison with more advantaged areas, people experiencing the 
greatest deprivation spent the greatest proportion of their lives with a 
limiting illness or disability, and this proportion increased over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Males and females at birth and at age 65 in the less deprived areas 
could expect longer, healthier lives than their counterparts in more deprived 
areas in both 2001-04 and 2005-08. This analysis suggests that the inequality in 
DFLE between deprived and affluent area clusters has increased during the first 
decade of the 21st century.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2010.20
PMID: 21131986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Ig Sanita Pubbl. 2010 Jul-Aug;66(4):525-40.

Hospital bodies: the genesis of Italian National Health Service.

Vannelli A(1), Buongiorno M, Battaglia L, Poiasina E, Boati P, Rampa M, Leo E.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery B Foundation, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, 
Milano Via Venezian 1. 20133 Milan Italia. alberto.vannelli@istitutotumori.mi.it

Hospital public bodies were instituted in Italy in 1968. Their creation 
represents a fundamental step forward in the evolution of the national 
healthcare system and has allowed improvements in social equity in hospitals. 
The lack of independent funding beyond the insurance-type healthcare system 
existing at the time, hindered its success. The hospital body has however left a 
trace in the modern national healthcare system with the introduction of the 
hospital corporation.

PMID: 21132043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. World J Surg. 2011 Mar;35(3):662-70. doi: 10.1007/s00268-010-0883-8.

Cost-utility estimation of surgical treatment of pancreatic carcinoma aimed at 
cure.

Ljungman D(1), Lundholm K, Hyltander A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 413 45 Gothenburg, Sweden.

Comment in
    World J Surg. 2011 Mar;35(3):473-4.

BACKGROUND: Little is reported on costs for radical tumor resections of 
pancreatic carcinoma in relationship to adjusted quality of life survival 
postoperatively. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to estimate the 
cost utility of surgical treatment aimed at cure.
METHODS: A population-based cohort of patients with exocrine or ampullary 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma resected for cure in Gothenburg University Hospitals 
during 1998-2005 were evaluated retrospectively (n = 139). Total inpatient and 
outpatient healthcare costs were available for 103 patients, and health-related 
quality of life (HRQL) (based on the SF-36 Health Survey) were assessed 
preoperatively and postoperataively in 119 patients. Survival and utility index 
(SF-36-6D) across 5 years of postoperative follow-up were used to achieve 
quality adjusted life years.
RESULTS: Mean survival after resection was 977 days for patients with exocrine 
pancreatic carcinoma, with expected differences among subgroups as related to 
disease stage (p < 0.01), in agreement with international reports. The HRQL 
index was 0.65 ± 0.06 preoperatively, 0.63 ± 0.04 early postoperatively (<1 
year) and 0.69 ± 0.06 at long-term follow-up (1-5 years) compared to 0.77 ± 0.02 
in age-matched healthy reference individuals from the Swedish population (p < 
0.05). Total lifetime costs for treatments including surgery and adjuvant 
chemotherapy were 39,000 euro per patient, with a mean of 1.13 (95% Confidence 
Interval [CI] 0.93-1.40) QALYs across 5 years follow-up. The cost per QALY was 
35,000 euro (95% CI 28,026 euro-41,947 euro).
CONCLUSIONS: Resection aimed at cure of pancreatic exocrine ductal carcinoma 
provided costs for one quality adjusted year of survival comparable to other 
complex surgical treatments within cost limits regarded as reasonable to bear by 
the Swedish health care system, as well as in several other Western countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-010-0883-8
PMID: 21132294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Qual Life Res. 2011 Jun;20(5):713-21. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9805-3. Epub
2010  Dec 4.

Self-rated health as a tool for estimating health-adjusted life expectancy among 
patients newly diagnosed with localized prostate cancer: a preliminary study.

Mohan R(1), Beydoun HA, Beydoun MA, Barnes-Eley M, Davis J, Lance R, 
Schellhammer P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Eastern Virginia Medical School, 
Norfolk, VA, USA. mohanr@evms.edu

PURPOSE: Localized prostate cancer (LPC) patients are faced with numerous 
treatment options, including observation or watchful waiting. The choice of 
treatment largely depends on their baseline health-adjusted life expectancy 
(HALE). By consensus, physicians recommend treatment if the patient's HALE is 
ten or more years. However, the estimation of HALE is difficult. Although 
subjective by nature, self-rated health (SRH) is a robust predictor of 
mortality. We studied the usefulness of SRH in estimating HALE in patients who 
are considering treatment for LPC.
METHODS: A total of 144 LPC patients from a large urology private practice in 
Norfolk, Virginia, were surveyed before they had chosen a treatment option.
RESULTS: HALE determined by SRH correlated well with objective health measures 
and was higher than age-based life expectancy by an average of 2 years. The 
observed difference in life expectancy due to SRH adjustment was higher among 
patients with a better socioeconomic and health profile.
CONCLUSIONS: SRH is an easy-to-use indicator of HALE in LPC patients. A table 
for HALE estimation by age and SRH is provided for men aged 70-80 years. 
Additional research with larger samples and prospective study designs are needed 
before the SRH method can be used in primary care and urology settings.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9805-3
PMCID: PMC3066264
PMID: 21132389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Environ Sci Technol. 2011 Jan 1;45(1):288-93. doi: 10.1021/es102872h. Epub
2010  Dec 6.

Density functional theory study on aqueous aluminum-fluoride complexes: 
exploration of the intrinsic relationship between water-exchange rate constants 
and structural parameters for monomer aluminum complexes.

Jin X(1), Qian Z, Lu B, Yang W, Bi S.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, State Key Laboratory of 
Coordination Chemistry of China & Key Laboratory of MOE for Life Science, 
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.

Density functional theory (DFT) calculation is carried out to investigate the 
structures, (19)F and (27)Al NMR chemical shifts of aqueous Al-F complexes and 
their water-exchange reactions. The following investigations are performed in 
this paper: (1) the microscopic properties of typical aqueous Al-F complexes are 
obtained at the level of B3LYP/6-311+G**. Al-OH(2) bond lengths increase with 
F(-) replacing inner-sphere H(2)O progressively, indicating labilizing effect of 
F(-) ligand. The Al-OH(2) distance trans to fluoride is longer than other 
Al-OH(2) distance, accounting for trans effect of F(-) ligand. (19)F and (27)Al 
NMR chemical shifts are calculated using GIAO method at the HF/6-311+G** level 
relative to F(H(2)O)(6)(-) and Al(H(2)O)(6)(3+) references, respectively. The 
results are consistent with available experimental values; (2) the dissociative 
(D) activated mechanism is observed by modeling water-exchange reaction for 
[Al(H(2)O)(6-i)F(i)]((3-i)+) (i = 1-4). The activation energy barriers are found 
to decrease with increasing F(-) substitution, which is in line with 
experimental rate constants (k(ex)). The log k(ex) of AlF(3)(H(2)O)(3)(0) and 
AlF(4)(H(2)O)(2)(-) are predicted by three ways. The results indicate that the 
correlation between log k(ex) and Al-O bond length as well as the given 
transmission coefficient allows experimental rate constants to be predicted, 
whereas the correlation between log k(ex) and activation free energy is poor; 
(3) the environmental significance of this work is elucidated by the extension 
toward three fields, that is, polyaluminum system, monomer Al-organic system and 
other metal ions system with high charge-to-radius ratio.

DOI: 10.1021/es102872h
PMID: 21133367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2010;11(4):859-62.

Burden of hepatocellular carcinoma in Iran; Bayesian projection and trend 
analysis.

Pourhoseingholi MA(1), Fazeli Z, Zali MR, Alavian SM.

Author information:
(1)Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Baqiyatallah Research Centre for 
Gastroenterology and Liver Disease, Tehran, Iran. Aminphg@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most prevalent cancer 
worldwide. Iran is located in a low risk area but, while the true prevalence of 
HCC in Iran is unknown, it is not an uncommon malignancy. The aim of this study 
was to provide quantitative estimations of the burden of death due to HCC cancer 
in Iran and its trend during over recent decades for the Iranian population.
METHODS: National death statistics reported by the Ministry of Health and 
Medical Education (MOH and ME) from 1999 to 2004, stratified by age group, sex, 
and cause of death (ICD-9) were used to generate HCC mortality (ICD-9; 20) 
expressed as the mortality rate per 100,000 people. The Bayesian approach to 
correct for misclassification was employed and a time series model was applied 
to predict mortality. The burden of HCC, including years of life lost (YLL), was 
calculated using Iranian life expectancy.
RESULTS: The rate of HCC mortality and YLL moderately increased from 1999 to 
2004 but according to our prediction it seems that these rates are going to 
level off. Also HCC mortality and YLL was higher for older age, and was 
considerably greater in men than in women.
CONCLUSION: Burden of HCC is low in Iran because most of cases are due to HBV 
and this infection is less common in Iran than Southeast Asia and Africa and 
there is nomajor increase projected for the future. However, up to 40% of its 
death statistics are underreported. Screening can be advised for early HCC 
detection in chronic HCV and HBV carriers.

PMID: 21133591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2010;11(4):943-51.

Comparative cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccines in the prevention of cervical 
cancer in Malaysia.

Ezat SW(1), Aljunid S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, UKM Medical Centre, United Nations 
University-International Institute for Global Health, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
sh_ezat@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: Cervical cancer (CC) had the second highest incidence of female 
cancers in Malaysia in 2003-2006. Prevention is possible by both Pap smear 
screening and HPV vaccination with either the bivalent vaccine (BV) or the 
quadrivalent vaccine (QV). In the present study, cost effectiveness options were 
compared for three programs i.e. screening via Pap smear; modeling of HPV 
vaccination (QV and BV) and combined strategy (screening plus vaccination). A 
scenario based sensitivity analysis was conducted using screening population 
coverages (40-80%) and costs of vaccines (RM 100-200/dose) were calculated.
METHODS: This was an economic burden, cross sectional study in 2006-2009 of 
respondents interviewed from six public Gynecology-Oncology hospitals. Methods 
included expert panel discussions to estimate treatment costs of CC, genital 
warts and vulva/vagina cancers by severity and direct interviews with 
respondents using costing and SF-36 quality of life questionnaires.
RESULTS: A total of 502 cervical cancer patients participated with a mean age at 
53.3±11.2 years and a mean marriage length of 27.7±12.1 years, Malays accounting 
for 44.2%. Cost/quality adjusted life year (QALY) for Pap smear in the base case 
was RM 1,215 and RM 1,100 at increased screening coverage. With QV only, in base 
case it was RM 15,662 and RM 24,203 when the vaccination price was increased. 
With BV only, the respective figures were RM 1,359,057 and RM 2,530,018. For QV 
combined strategy cost/QALY in the base case it was RM 4,937, reducing to RM 
3,395 in the best case and rising to RM 7,992 in the worst case scenario. With 
the BV combined strategy, these three cost/QALYs were RM 6,624, RM 4,033 and RM 
10,543. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) showed that screening at 70% 
coverage or higher was highly cost effective at RM 946.74 per QALYs saved but 
this was preceded by best case combined strategy with QV at RM 515.29 per QALYs 
saved.
CONCLUSIONS: QV is more cost effective than BV. The QV combined strategy had a 
higher CE than any method including Pap smear screening at high population 
coverage.

PMID: 21133606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Periodontol 2000. 2011 Feb;55(1):217-30. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0757.2010.00341.x.

Cost-effectiveness of adjunctive antimicrobials in the treatment of 
periodontitis.

Heasman PA, Vernazza CR, Gaunt FL, Pennington MW.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0757.2010.00341.x
PMID: 21134237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2010 Dec;9(6):654-7.

Ileal loop interposition: an alternative biliary bypass technique.

Coimbra FJ(1), Diniz AL, Ribeiro HS, Costa WL Jr, Lima EN, Montagnini AL.

Author information:
(1)Abdominal Surgery Department, Hospital do Cancer AC Camargo, Rua Professor 
Antonio Prudente 211, Liberdade, Sao Paulo, Brazil. coimbra.felipe@uol.com.br

BACKGROUND: Obstructive jaundice is a common condition in advanced digestive 
cancer. Palliative procedures can improve quality of life and allow patients to 
attempt a systemic treatment. Bilioenteric anastomosis is still the procedure of 
choice for patients in many centers. When a surgical bypass is not possible, 
biliary drainage can be done by placing endoscopic or transparietal stents, 
which are less durable methods even when an expandable stent is employed.
METHODS: A 47-year-old male with an excellent clinical status and a previous 
cholecystectomy and an exploratory laparotomy for advanced gastric cancer was 
referred with obstructive jaundice. A preoperative CT scan showed a dilated bile 
duct and a small mass at the distal hepatic hilum. No other signs of metastasis 
were found. A surgical bilioenteric anastomosis was indicated. At surgery, a 
distal choledochal obstruction and a mesenteric retraction by a lymph node mass 
prevented the jejunum to ascend for a bilioenteric anastomosis. Surgically, an 
alternative bilioenteric bypass was performed by means of an ileal loop 
interposition between the bile duct and the jejunum.
RESULT: The recovery of the patient was uneventful and his bilirubin levels 
normalized after one week. The patient was then referred for systemic 
chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: This alternative biliary bypass can be safely and easily performed, 
and may be a good alternative for patients already referred for surgery because 
of a better life expectancy and when the jejunum is not an alternative.

PMID: 21134838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Haematologica. 2011 Mar;96(3):441-9. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2010.033506. Epub
 2010 Dec 6.

Risk stratification based on both disease status and extra-hematologic 
comorbidities in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome.

Della Porta MG(1), Malcovati L, Strupp C, Ambaglio I, Kuendgen A, Zipperer E, 
Travaglino E, Invernizzi R, Pascutto C, Lazzarino M, Germing U, Cazzola M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology Oncology, University of Pavia Medical School & 
Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, 27100 Pavia, Italy.

Comment in
    Haematologica. 2011 Oct;96(10):e41-2.
    Haematologica. 2012 Feb;97(2):e2.

The incidence of myelodysplastic syndromes increases with age and a high 
prevalence of co-morbid conditions has been reported in these patients. So far, 
risk assessment in myelodysplastic syndromes has been mainly based on disease 
status. We studied the prognostic impact of comorbidity on the natural history 
of myelodysplastic syndrome with the aim of developing novel tools for risk 
assessment. The study population included a learning cohort of 840 patients 
diagnosed with myelodysplastic syndrome in Pavia, Italy, and a validation cohort 
of 504 patients followed in Duesseldorf, Germany. Information on comorbidity was 
extracted from detailed review of the patients' medical charts and laboratory 
values at diagnosis and during the course of the disease. Univariable and 
multivariable survival analyses with both fixed and time-dependent covariates 
were performed using Cox's proportional hazards regression models. Comorbidity 
was present in 54% of patients in the learning cohort. Cardiac disease was the 
most frequent comorbidity and the main cause of non-leukemic death. In 
multivariable analysis, comorbidity had a significant impact on both 
non-leukemic death (P=0.01) and overall survival (P=0.02). Cardiac, liver, 
renal, pulmonary disease and solid tumors were found to independently affect the 
risk of non-leukemic death. A time-dependent myelodysplastic syndrome-specific 
comorbidity index (MDS-CI) was developed for predicting the effect of 
comorbidity on outcome. This identified three groups of patients which showed 
significantly different probabilities of non-leukemic death (P<0.001) and 
survival (P=0.005) also in the validation cohort. Landmark survival analyses at 
fixed time points from diagnosis showed that the MDS-CI can better define the 
life expectancy of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome stratified according 
to the WHO-classification based Prognostic Scoring System (WPSS).Comorbidities 
have a significant impact on the outcome of patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome. Accounting for both disease status by means of the WPSS and 
comorbidity through the MDS-CI considerably improves risk stratification in 
myelodysplastic syndromes.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2010.033506
PMCID: PMC3046276
PMID: 21134982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2011 Jan;66(1):75-86. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbq088. Epub 2010 Dec 6.

Mortality and morbidity trends: is there compression of morbidity?

Crimmins EM(1), Beltrán-Sánchez H.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA. 90089-0191, USA. crimmin@usc.edu

OBJECTIVE: This paper reviews trends in mortality and morbidity to evaluate 
whether there has been a compression of morbidity.
METHODS: Review of recent research and analysis of recent data for the United 
States relating mortality change to the length of life without 1 of 4 major 
diseases or loss of mobility functioning.
RESULTS: Mortality declines have slowed down in the United States in recent 
years, especially for women. The prevalence of disease has increased. 
Age-specific prevalence of a number of risk factors representing physiological 
status has stayed relatively constant; where risks decline, increased usage of 
effective drugs is responsible. Mobility functioning has deteriorated. Length of 
life with disease and mobility functioning loss has increased between 1998 and 
2008.
DISCUSSION: Empirical findings do not support recent compression of morbidity 
when morbidity is defined as major disease and mobility functioning loss.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbq088
PMCID: PMC3001754
PMID: 21135070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Dec 21;107(51):22272-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1016369107. Epub 2010 Dec 6.

Effects of a growth hormone-releasing hormone antagonist on telomerase activity, 
oxidative stress, longevity, and aging in mice.

Banks WA(1), Morley JE, Farr SA, Price TO, Ercal N, Vidaurre I, Schally AV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine, Geriatrics Research Education 
and Clinical Center, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle, 
WA 98108, USA. wabanks1@u.washington.edu

Both deficiency and excess of growth hormone (GH) are associated with increased 
mortality and morbidity. GH replacement in otherwise healthy subjects leads to 
complications, whereas individuals with isolated GH deficiency such as Laron 
dwarfs show increased life span. Here, we determined the effects of treatment 
with the GH-releasing hormone (GHRH) receptor antagonist MZ-5-156 on aging in 
SAMP8 mice, a strain that develops with aging cognitive deficits and has a 
shortened life expectancy. Starting at age 10 mo, mice received daily s.c. 
injections of 10 μg/mouse of MZ-5-156. Mice treated for 4 mo with MZ-5-156 
showed increased telomerase activity, improvement in some measures of oxidative 
stress in brain, and improved pole balance, but no change in muscle strength. 
MZ-5-156 improved cognition after 2 mo and 4 mo, but not after 7 mo of treatment 
(ages 12, 14 mo, and 17 mo, respectively). Mean life expectancy increased by 8 
wk with no increase in maximal life span, and tumor incidence decreased from 10 
to 1.7%. These results show that treatment with a GHRH antagonist has positive 
effects on some aspects of aging, including an increase in telomerase activity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1016369107
PMCID: PMC3009756
PMID: 21135231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


560. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Jan 10;29(2):235-41. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.30.2075. Epub
2010  Dec 6.

Impact of age at diagnosis on prostate cancer treatment and survival.

Bechis SK(1), Carroll PR, Cooperberg MR.

Author information:
(1)Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California-San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143-1695, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2011 Apr 1;29(10):e281; author reply e282.
    J Clin Oncol. 2012 Feb 10;30(5):476-8.

PURPOSE: Older men are more likely to be diagnosed with high-risk prostate 
cancer and to have lower overall survival. As a result, age often plays a role 
in treatment choice. However, the relationships among age, disease risk, and 
prostate cancer-specific survival have not been well established.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied men in the Cancer of the Prostate Strategic 
Urologic Research Endeavor (CaPSURE) database with complete risk, treatment, and 
follow-up information. High-risk patients were identified by using the validated 
Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA) score. Competing risks regression 
was used to identify the independent impact of age on cancer-specific survival. 
We also analyzed the effect of local treatment on survival among older men with 
high-risk disease.
RESULTS: In all, 26% of men age ≥ 75 years presented with high-risk disease 
(CAPRA score 6 to 10). Treatment varied markedly with age across risk strata; 
older men were more likely to receive androgen deprivation monotherapy. 
Controlling for treatment modality alone, or for treatment and risk, age did not 
independently predict cancer-specific survival. Furthermore, controlling for 
age, comorbidity, and risk, older men with high-risk tumors receiving local 
therapy had a 46% reduction in mortality compared with those treated 
conservatively.
CONCLUSION: Older patients are more likely to have high-risk prostate cancer at 
diagnosis and less likely to receive local therapy. Indeed, underuse of 
potentially curative local therapy among older men with high-risk disease may in 
part explain observed differences in cancer-specific survival across age strata. 
These findings support making decisions regarding treatment on the basis of 
disease risk and life expectancy rather than on chronologic age.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.30.2075
PMCID: PMC3058279
PMID: 21135285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


561. Pediatr Res. 2011 Mar;69(3):265-70. doi: 10.1203/PDR.0b013e3182097219.

Prognosis factors in probands with an FBN1 mutation diagnosed before the age of 
1 year.

Stheneur C(1), Faivre L, Collod-Béroud G, Gautier E, Binquet C, Bonithon-Kopp C, 
Claustres M, Child AH, Arbustini E, Adès LC, Francke U, Mayer K, Arslan-Kirchner 
M, De Paepe A, Chevallier B, Bonnet D, Jondeau G, Boileau C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pédiatrie, Hôpital Ambroise Paré, Boulogne, 92100 France. 
chantal.stheneur@apr.aphp.fr

Marfan syndrome (MFS) is an autosomal dominant connective tissue disorder. 
Diagnostic criteria of neonatal MFS (nMFS), the most severe form, are still 
debated. The aim of our study was to search for clinical and molecular 
prognostic factors that could be associated with length of survival. Probands 
ascertained via the framework of the Universal Marfan database-FBN1, diagnosed 
before the age of 1 y and presenting with cardiovascular features (aortic root 
dilatation or valvular insufficiency) were included in this study. Clinical and 
molecular data were correlated to survival. Among the 60 individuals, 38 had 
died, 82% died before the age of 1 y, mostly because of congestive heart 
failure. Three probands reached adulthood. Valvular insufficiencies and 
diaphragmatic hernia were predictive of shorter life expectancy. Two FBN1 
mutations were found outside of the exon 24-32 region (in exons 4 and 21). 
Mutations in exons 25-26 were overrepresented and were associated with shorter 
survival (p = 0.03). We report the largest genotyped series of probands with MFS 
diagnosed before 1 y of life. In this population, factors significantly 
associated with shorter survival are presence of valvular insufficiencies or 
diaphragmatic hernia in addition to a mutation in exons 25 or 26.

DOI: 10.1203/PDR.0b013e3182097219
PMID: 21135753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Phys Chem C Nanomater Interfaces. 2010 Oct 21;114(48):20719-20733. doi: 
10.1021/jp106760t.

Multiple Scales in the Simulation of Ion Channels and Proteins.

Eisenberg B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Physiology, Rush University, Chicago 
IL 60612.

Computation of living processes creates great promise for the everyday life of 
mankind and great challenges for physical scientists. Simulations molecular 
dynamics have great appeal to biologists as a natural extension of structural 
biology. Once a biologist sees a structure, she/he wants to see it move. 
Molecular biology has shown that a small number of atoms, sometimes even one 
messenger ion, like Ca(2+), can control biological function on the scale of 
cells, organs, tissues, and organisms. Enormously concentrated ions-at number 
densities of ~20 M-in protein channels and enzymes are responsible for many of 
the characteristics of living systems, just as highly concentrated ions near 
electrodes are responsible for many of the characteristics of electrochemical 
systems. Here we confront the reality of the scale differences of ions. We show 
that the scale differences needed to simulate all the atoms of biological cells 
are 10(7) in linear dimension, 10(21) in three dimensions, 10(9) in resolution, 
10(11) in time, and 10(13) in particle number (to deal with concentrations of 
Ca(2+)). These scales must be dealt with simultaneously if the simulation is to 
deal with most biological functions. Biological function extends across all of 
them, all at once in most cases. We suggest a computational approach using 
explicit multiscale analysis instead of implicit simulation of all scales. The 
approach is based on an energy variational principle EnVarA introduced by Chun 
Liu to deal with complex fluids. Variational methods deal automatically with 
multiple interacting components and scales. When an additional component is 
added to the system, the resulting Euler Lagrange field equations change form 
automatically-by algebra alone-without additional unknown parameters. 
Multifaceted interactions are solutions of the resulting equations. We suggest 
that ionic solutions should be viewed as complex fluids with simple components. 
Highly concentrated solutions-dominated by interactions of components-are easily 
computed by EnVarA. Successful computation of ions concentrated in special 
places may be a significant step to understanding the defining characteristics 
of biological and electrochemical systems. Indeed, computing ions near proteins 
and nucleic acids may prove as important to molecular biology and chemical 
technology as computing holes and electrons has been to our semiconductor and 
digital technology.

DOI: 10.1021/jp106760t
PMCID: PMC2996618
PMID: 21135913


563. Proteomics Clin Appl. 2007 Mar;1(3):299-311. doi: 10.1002/prca.200600835.

Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of human CD8(+) T lymphocytes 
over-expressing telomerase.

Thadikkaran L(1), Menzel O, Tissot JD, Rufer N.

Author information:
(1)Service Régional Vaudois de Transfusion Sanguine, Lausanne, Switzerland. 
Lynne.Thadikkaran@srtsvd.ch.

Human T lymphocytes have a finite life span resulting from progressive telomere 
shortening that occurs at each cell division, eventually leading to chromosomal 
instability. It has been shown that ectopic expression of the human telomerase 
reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene into various human cells results in the 
extension of their replicative life span, without inducing changes associated 
with transformation. However, it is still unclear whether cells that 
over-express telomerase are physiologically and biochemically indistinguishable 
from normal cells. To address this question, we compared the proteome of young 
and aged human CD8(+) T lymphocytes with that of T cells transduced with hTERT. 
Interestingly, we found no global changes in the protein pattern in young T 
cells, irrespective of telomerase expression. In contrast, several relevant 
proteins with differential expression patterns were observed in hTERT-transduced 
T cells with extended life span upon long-term culture. Altogether, our data 
revealed that T lymphocytes over-expressing telomerase displayed an intermediate 
protein pattern, sharing a similar protein expression not only with young T 
cells, but also with aged T cells. Finally, the results obtained from this 
global proteomic approach are in agreement with the overall gene transcription 
profiling performed on the same T-cell derived clones.

Copyright © 2007 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/prca.200600835
PMID: 21136680


564. Vnitr Lek. 2010 Sep;56(9):915-9.

[Cardiovascular morbidity in patients after treatment for testicular cancer].

[Article in Slovak]

Valentová M(1), Mladosievicová B.

Author information:
(1)Oddelenie klinickej patofyziológie Lekárskej fakulty UK Bratislava, Slovenská 
republika.

Increase of incidence and favorable prognosis of testicular cancer are 
accompanied by growing evidence of late complications following antineoplastic 
treatment, such as cardiovascular diseases, peripheral neuropathy, renal damage, 
hearing impairment, secondary malignancies, pulmonary toxicity, gonadal 
dysfunction and bone mineral density abnormalities. During the last years a 
sufficient evidence has been accumulated that there is a higher incidence of 
cardiovascular diseases, particularly in patients treated with high-dose 
cisplatin chemotherapy or mediastinal irradiation. Acute myocardial infarction 
and angina pectoris are the most common from cardiovascular complications. 
Several authors have reported high prevalence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, 
metabolic syndrome, endothelial dysfunction and also an excessive increase of 
body mass index among patients being treated successfully for testicular cancer. 
Pathogenesis of the cardiovascular toxicity remains still unclear. At present 
there are no clear and widely accepted recommendations on follow-up management 
including late complications of treatment for testicular cancer. Early 
identification of cardiovascular risk factors and their treatment may improve 
quality and expectancy of their life.

PMID: 21137178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Adv Gerontol. 2010;23(3):442-6.

[Possibilities and limitations of life span changes in laboratory experiment].

[Article in Russian]

Ben'kovskaia GV.

The article shows the results of set of experiments with laboratory strains of 
Musca domestica L. demonstrating high level of polymorphism and differentiation 
in the initial population (strain Cooper) by sign of adults' life span (LS). 
Possibility of LS indices extension as a consequence of hormesis caused by a 
short-term contact with the toxic compound (piperonylbutoxide) has been 
illustrated. Limitations of LS changes defined by species genotype 
characteristics have been established.

PMID: 21137218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Zhongguo Gu Shang. 2010 Oct;23(10):739-42.

[Clinical study of open vertebroplasty in treating thoracolumbar metastatic 
tumor].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu WL(1), Lu JM, Ouyang J, Wei YL, Fang M, Wang XW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Spinal Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Medical College of 
Ningbo University, Ningbo 315020, Zhejiang, China. Yuwuliang@sina.com

OBJECTIVE: To explore the clinical application and therapeutic effect of open 
vertebroplasty for thoracolumbar metastatic tumor.
METHODS: From September 2003 to December 2009, 21 patients with thoracolumbar 
metastatic tumor underwent the surgical procedure of posterior spinal cord 
decompression and open vertebroplasty combined with short-segmental pedicle 
screw fixation during the same intervention. There were 14 males and 7 females, 
ranging in age from 48 to 73 years with the mean of 59.5 years and ranging in 
course of disease from 1 to 4 months with an average of 2.5 months. The primary 
focus of the tumor of 19 cases were established, lung carcinoma was in 8 cases, 
breast cancer in 4 cases, prostate carcinoma in 4 cases, hepatocarcinoma in 2 
cases and thyroid carcinoma in 1 case. The primary focus of 2 cases could not be 
established. The spinal function according to Frankel grade, grade B was in 4 
cases, C in 6, D in 5, E in 6. The lumbar-back pain, height of anterior and 
posterior vertebral body, Cobb angle and spinal function were recorded before 
and after operation.
RESULTS: The operation of all patients was successful, there were no severe 
complications and aggravation of spinal function. The VAS score of lumbar-back 
pain decreased from 8.78 +/- 0.45 preoperatively to 2.25 +/- 0.36 
postoperatively. Among 16 cases combined with pathological fracture, the height 
of anterior spinal vertebral body increased from (12.7 +/- 2.1) mm 
preoperatively to (19.5 +/- 3.9) mm postoperatively; the height of posterior 
spinal vertebral body increased from (14.1 +/- 1.8) mm preoperatively to (20.3 
+/- 2.3) mm postoperatively; Cobb angle decreased from (26.0 +/- 8.9) degrees 
preoperatively to (6.0 +/- 0.9) degrees postoperatively. There was significant 
difference above items between before and after operation (P < 0.05). The spinal 
function according to Frankel grade at final follow up, grade C was in 2 cases, 
D in 4, E in 15. All patients were followed up from 5 to 28 months with an 
average of 14 months, there was no loosening and breakage of internal fixity, 15 
cases died during follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: The surgical intervention can effectively preserve spinal 
instability and alleviate the spinal cord symptoms, improve the life quality of 
patients. It may provide an alternative treatment for patients in poor general 
health and shorter life expectancy.

PMID: 21137282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Zhongguo Gu Shang. 2010 Oct;23(10):790-1.

[Clinical observation of post-extension pulling massage in treating lumbar disc 
herniation].

[Article in Chinese]

Lü LJ(1), Ke XA, Mao XD, Chen XJ, Wu FC, Tong HJ.

Author information:
(1)The 3rd Clinical Medical College of Zhejiang University of TCM, Hangzhou 
310053, Zhejiang, China. lvlj0288@sina.com

OBJECTIVE: To observe the clinical effect of post-extension pulling massage in 
treating lumbar disc herniation.
METHODS: From January 2008 to December 2008, 61 patients with lumbar disc 
herniation, 34 males and 27 females, ranging in age from 17 to 67 years with an 
average of 42.6 years, were treated with post-extension pulling massage after 
continued traction for 30 minutes (on alternate days one time, 3 times as a 
course of treatment). There was bulging type in 9 cases, hernia type in 22, free 
type in 30. After a course of treatment, the clinical effects were evaluated 
according to standard of Macnab, the items included pain, lumbar activity, 
normal work and life of patients.
RESULTS: All patients were followed up from 1 to 9 months with an average of 4.6 
months. After treatment, the symptoms and signs of patients had obviously 
improved in above aspects. According to standard of Macnab, 48 cases got 
excellent result, 10 good, 2 fair, 1 poor.
CONCLUSION: The post-extension pulling massage in treating lumbar disc 
herniation can obtain satisfactory results, which have localized site of action, 
small compression for vertebral body and can reduce accidental injury.

PMID: 21137299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Soins Gerontol. 2010 Sep-Oct;(85):28-30.

[Caring for "young" Alzheimer's patients in a home for dependent elderly 
people].

[Article in French]

Lebert F(1), Bieder F, Turcq S.

Author information:
(1)Centre National de Référence des Malades Alzheimer Jeunes, Université Lille 
Nord de France. florence.lebert@epsm-des-flandres.com

Alzheimer's disease can affect people under the age of 60, considered as "young" 
patients. In France, the disease affects 8 000 such people today. Caring for 
them at home is sometimes impossible and the 2008-2012 Alzheimer plan comprises 
a measure to reflect on requirements with regard to medico-social 
establishments. For the last ten years, a residential home for dependent elderly 
people in the north of France has regularly taken in "young" residents with 
Alzheimer's disease and reports, via a study, on their characteristics and their 
needs.

PMID: 21137490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Mol Pharm. 2011 Feb 7;8(1):204-12. doi: 10.1021/mp100267k. Epub 2010 Dec 17.

Amphotericin-B-loaded polymersomes formulation (PAMBO) based on (PEG)₃-PLA 
copolymers: an in vivo evaluation in a murine model.

Jain JP(1), Jatana M, Chakrabarti A, Kumar N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & 
Research (NIPER), Sector 67, SAS Nagar-160062, India.

This paper deals with in vivo evaluation of a new amphotericin-B-loaded 
polymersomes (PAMBO) formulation in terms of pharmacokinetics, toxicity, tissue 
distribution profile, and its efficacy in a murine model of disseminated 
candidiasis. Pharmacokinetic and tissue distribution studies of the PAMBO showed 
sustained levels of the drug in plasma as well as in target organs which harbor 
fungal and leishmanial infection. PAMBO was found to be much less toxic than 
Fungizone. It was observed that 700% increment in the dose is tolerated without 
observable toxicity which is supported by survival, biochemical, and 
histopathological results. PAMBO showed a significant improvement in the 
survival rate of immunosuppressed mice infected with Candida albicans as 
compared to control. It also showed better dose to dose (1 mg/kg) efficacy as 
compared to Fungizone and a significant improvement in the life expectancy at 3 
and 5 mg/kg dose levels in the animals. Colony forming unit (CFU) counts in the 
target organs revealed significant reduction in Candida burden with PAMBO 
treatment. Kidney, spleen, and lung were cleared of infection, although liver 
was carrying a very low level of infection. Overall, PAMBO formulation is found 
to be more efficacious and less toxic in a fungal mice model.

DOI: 10.1021/mp100267k
PMID: 21138276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Nord J Psychiatry. 2011 Sep;65(4):259-65. doi: 10.3109/08039488.2010.540039.
 Epub 2010 Dec 8.

Genetic vulnerability and premature death in schizophrenia spectrum disorders: a 
28-year follow-up of adoptees in the Finnish Adoptive Family Study of 
Schizophrenia.

Hakko H(1), Wahlberg KE, Tienari P, Räsänen S.

Author information:
(1)Oulu University Hospital, Department of Psychiatry, Oulu University Hospital, 
Finland. helina.hakko@oulu.fi

BACKGROUND: Excess mortality is widely reported among schizophrenia patients, 
but rarely examined in adoption study settings.
AIM: We investigated whether genetic background plays a role in the premature 
death of adoptees with schizophrenia.
METHODS: Mortality among 382 adoptees in the Finnish Adoptive Family Study of 
Schizophrenia was monitored from 1977 to 2005 through the national 
causes-of-death register. The sample covered 190 adoptees with a high genetic 
risk of schizophrenia (HR) and 192 with a low risk (LR).
RESULTS: Overall mortality among the adoptees did not differ between the HR and 
LR groups, as 10% and 9% respectively had died during the follow-up, at mean 
ages of 45 and 46 years. Schizophrenia spectrum disorder was the most 
significant predictor of premature death in both groups, with dysfunction in the 
rearing family environment associated with mortality, unnatural deaths and 
suicides in the HR but not in the LR group. All the suicides involved HR cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality among the adoptees was not related to genetic factors but 
to environmental ones. The association of unnatural deaths and suicides with 
dysfunction in the rearing environment among the HR adoptees may indicate that 
they had a greater genetically determined vulnerability to environmental effects 
than their LR counterparts. The genetic and rearing environments can be 
disentangled in this setting because the biological parents give the offspring 
their genes and the adoptive parents give them their rearing environment. Our 
findings add to knowledge of the factors associated with the premature death of 
adoptees in mid-life.

DOI: 10.3109/08039488.2010.540039
PMID: 21138403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Scand J Trauma Resusc Emerg Med. 2010 Dec 7;18:65. doi:
10.1186/1757-7241-18-65.

Blood product ratio in acute traumatic coagulopathy--effect on mortality in a 
Scandinavian level 1 trauma centre.

Dirks J(1), Jørgensen H, Jensen CH, Ostrowski SR, Johansson PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Centre of Head and Orthopedics, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Dirks@dadlnet.dk

BACKGROUND: Trauma is the leading cause of loss of life expectancy worldwide. In 
the most seriously injured patients, coagulopathy is often present on admission. 
Therefore, transfusion strategies to increase the ratio of plasma (FFP) and 
platelets (PLT) to red blood cells (RBC), simulating whole blood, have been 
introduced. Several studies report that higher ratios improve survival in 
massively bleeding patients. Here, the aim was to investigate the potential 
effect of increased FFP and PLT to RBC on mortality in trauma patients.
METHODS: In a retrospective before and after study, all trauma patients 
primarily admitted to a level-one Trauma Centre, receiving blood transfusion, in 
2001-3 (n = 97) and 2005-7 (n = 156), were included. In 2001-3, FFP and PLT were 
administered in accordance with the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) 
guidelines whereas in 2005-7, Hemostatic Control Resuscitation (HCR) entailing 
pre-emptive use of FFP and PLT in transfusion packages during uncontrolled 
haemorrhage and thereafter guided by thrombelastograph (TEG) analysis was 
employed. The effect of transfusion therapy and coagulopathy on mortality was 
investigated.
RESULTS: Patients included in the early and late period had comparable 
demography, injury severity score (ISS), admission hematology and coagulopathy 
(27% vs. 34% had APTT above normal). There was a significant change in blood 
transfusion practice with shorter time interval from admission to first 
transfusion (median time 3 min vs.28 min in massive bleeders, p < 0.001), 
transfusion of higher ratios of FFP:RBC, PLT:RBC and PLT:FFP in the HCR group 
but 30-day mortality remained comparable in the two periods. In the 2005-7 
period, higher age, ISS and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) above 
normal were independent predictors of mortality whereas no association was fund 
between blood product ratios and mortality.
CONCLUSION: Aggressive administration of FFP and PLT did not influence mortality 
in the present trauma population.

DOI: 10.1186/1757-7241-18-65
PMCID: PMC3004812
PMID: 21138569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Biol Chem. 2011 Feb 18;286(7):5234-41. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.164848. Epub
2010  Dec 7.

Extending half-life by indirect targeting of the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) 
using a minimal albumin binding domain.

Andersen JT(1), Pehrson R, Tolmachev V, Daba MB, Abrahmsén L, Ekblad C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Immune Regulation, Department of Molecular Biosciences, University 
of Oslo, 0316 Oslo, Norway.

The therapeutic and diagnostic efficiency of engineered small proteins, 
peptides, and chemical drug candidates is hampered by short in vivo serum 
half-life. Thus, strategies to tailor their biodistribution and serum 
persistence are highly needed. An attractive approach is to take advantage of 
the exceptionally long circulation half-life of serum albumin or IgG, which is 
attributed to a pH-dependent interaction with the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) 
rescuing these proteins from intracellular degradation. Here, we present 
molecular evidence that a minimal albumin binding domain (ABD) derived from 
streptococcal protein G can be used for efficient half-life extension by 
indirect targeting of FcRn. We show that ABD, and ABD recombinantly fused to an 
Affibody molecule, in complex with albumin does not interfere with the strictly 
pH-dependent FcRn-albumin binding kinetics. The same result was obtained in the 
presence of IgG. An in vivo study performed in rat confirmed that the clinically 
relevant human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-targeting Affibody molecule 
fused to ABD has a similar half-life and biodistribution profile as serum 
albumin. The proof-of-concept described may be broadly applicable to extend the 
in vivo half-life of short lived biological or chemical drugs ultimately 
resulting in enhanced therapeutic or diagnostic efficiency, a more favorable 
dosing regimen, and improved patient compliance.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.164848
PMCID: PMC3037636
PMID: 21138843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Oncologist. 2010;15 Suppl 5:57-65. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-S5-57.

Coming of age: breast cancer in seniors.

Muss HB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina Lineberger Cancer Center, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina 27599, USA. muss@med.unc.edu

In the U.S., cancer is a disease of aging. The average 65-year-old patient has 
an anticipated life expectancy of 20 years, and clinicians should take this into 
account when making breast cancer management decisions. However, older breast 
cancer patients can present with wide variations in health status, and treatment 
in older patients should therefore include a careful evaluation of 
comorbidities, physical function, polypharmacy, and other issues that could 
potentially impact a patient's ability to undergo chemotherapy without excessive 
risk. Evaluation tools are under development, including potential molecular 
markers, to identify which older patients are the best candidates for 
chemotherapy, as well as those more susceptible to actually developing cancer. 
Standard chemotherapy regimens are just as effective in older patients as they 
are in the younger population, and can substantially prolong life expectancy 
when used in the right patients. This article discusses breast cancer in 
seniors, including the epidemiology of breast cancer in these patients, the 
potential impact of comorbidities, and effective adjuvant therapy in selected 
older patients.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-S5-57
PMID: 21138956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. BMJ. 2010 Dec 7;341:c7004. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c7004.

FDA is gold standard of review.

Leahey MB.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2010;341:c4753.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c7004
PMID: 21139000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Aging Health. 2011 Apr;23(3):554-77. doi: 10.1177/0898264310389491. Epub
2010  Dec 7.

Lifetime risk and duration of chronic disease and disability.

Murtaugh CM(1), Spillman BC, Wang XD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Home Care Policy and Research, Visiting Nurse Service of New York, 
NY 10001-1810, USA. Chris.Murtaugh@vnsny.org

OBJECTIVE: To estimate risk and duration of chronic conditions and disability 
for all older Americans and demographic subgroups.
METHOD: Analysis of National Mortality Followback Survey data for survivors to 
age 65 to project lifetime risk and duration of selected conditions and examine 
their relationship with life expectancy and disability.
RESULTS: For women, Blacks, and non-Blacks, arthritis is most common and has the 
longest average duration, followed by diabetes and COPD. Among men, diabetes 
duration is longest, followed by COPD. Disability risk is elevated for all 
conditions studied, except heart attack. Those very overweight most of life and 
persons with dementia have the greatest disability risk and relatively long 
disability durations. Among women, those very overweight most of life can expect 
to die 3.1 years sooner and have above average disability duration.
DISCUSSION: Findings provide new information about the relative burden of common 
chronic diseases among all older Americans and major subgroups.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264310389491
PMID: 21139078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2011 Jan 1;4(1):76-84. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.110.957365. Epub 2010 Dec 7.

Cost-effectiveness of genetic testing in family members of patients with long-QT 
syndrome.

Perez MV(1), Kumarasamy NA, Owens DK, Wang PJ, Hlatky MA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Inherited Cardiovascular Disease, Stanford University Medical 
Center, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. mvperez@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Family members of patients with established long-QT syndrome (LQTS) 
often lack definitive clinical findings, yet may have inherited an LQTS mutation 
and be at risk of sudden death. Genetic testing can identify mutations in 75% of 
patients with LQTS, but genetic testing of family members remains controversial.
