    Circulation. 2011 Jan 18;123(2):e10.

BACKGROUND: Myocardial perfusion scans contribute up to 20% of the estimated 
annual collective radiation dose to the US population. We estimated potential 
future cancer risk from these scans by age at exposure and current frequency of 
use in the United States.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Usage patterns were determined from national survey data, 
and radionuclide dosage was based on current guidelines. Cancer risk projection 
models were generated on the basis of the National Research Council Biological 
Effects of Ionizing Radiation VII report, under the assumption that risk has a 
linear relationship with radiation exposure even at low doses. The mean 
projected number of radiation-related incident cancers and 95% uncertainty 
intervals were estimated with the use of Monte Carlo simulations. Estimated 
risks for a scan performed at age 50 years ranged from 2 cancers per 10,000 
scans (95% uncertainty interval, 1 to 5) for a positron emission tomography 
ammonia-13 test to 25 cancers per 10,000 scans (95% uncertainty interval, 9 to 
58) for a dual-isotope (thallium-201 plus technetium-99m) scan. Risks were 50% 
lower at age 70 years but were similar for men and women. The combination of 
cancer risk estimates and data on frequency of use suggests that the 9.1 million 
myocardial perfusion scans performed annually in the United States could result 
in 7400 (95% uncertainty interval, 3300 to 13,700) additional future cancers.
CONCLUSIONS: The lifetime cancer risk from a single myocardial perfusion scan is 
small and should be balanced against likely benefit and appropriateness of the 
test. The estimates depend on a number of assumptions, including life 
expectancy. They apply directly to asymptomatic individuals with life 
expectancies similar to those of the general population. For individuals with a 
symptomatic clinical profile, on whom such scans are typically performed, the 
risks will be lower because of shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.941625
PMCID: PMC3548424
PMID: 21098448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: None of the authors have any 
potential conflicts of interest to disclose.


471. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2010 Nov 26;59(46):1518-22.

Racial disparities in smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life 
lost --- Missouri, 2003-2007.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

An estimated 443,000 deaths in the United States occur each year as a result of 
cigarette smoking and exposure to secondhand smoke. These deaths cost the nation 
approximately $97 billion in lost productivity and $96 billion in health-care 
costs. During 2000-2004 in Missouri, smoking caused 9,600 deaths, 132,000 years 
of potential life lost (YPLL), $2.4 billion in productivity losses, and $2.2 
billion in smoking-related health-care expenditures annually. To limit the 
adverse health consequences of tobacco use, states implement comprehensive 
tobacco control programs that identify disparities among population groups and 
target those disproportionately affected by tobacco use. This report compares 
the public health burden of smoking among whites and blacks in Missouri by 
estimating the number of smoking-attributable deaths and YPLL in these 
population subgroups during 2003-2007. The findings indicate that the average 
annual smoking-attributable mortality (SAM) rate in the state was 18% higher for 
blacks (338 deaths per 100,000) than for whites (286 deaths per 100,000). The 
relative difference in smoking-attributable mortality rates between blacks and 
whites was larger for men (28%) than women (11%). For Missouri, these estimates 
provide an important benchmark for measuring the success of tobacco control 
programs in decreasing the burden of smoking-related diseases in these 
populations and reaffirm the need for full implementation of the state's 
comprehensive tobacco control program.

PMID: 21102406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Br J Cancer. 2010 Dec 7;103(12):1773-82. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6605974. Epub
2010  Nov 23.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of human papillomavirus DNA testing and Pap smear 
for cervical cancer screening in a publicly financed health-care system.

Chow IH(1), Tang CH, You SL, Liao CH, Chu TY, Chen CJ, Chen CA, Pwu RF.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Care Administration, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: to evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of different strategies 
for human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing combined with Pap smear for cervical 
cancer screening in Taiwan.
METHODS: this study adopts a perspective of Department of Health in 
cost-effectiveness analysis to compare a no-screening strategy with nine 
different screening strategies. These strategies comprise three screening tools 
(Pap smear alone, HPV DNA testing followed by Pap smear triage, and HPV DNA 
testing combined with Pap smear), and three screening intervals (annually, every 
3 years, and every 5 years). Outcomes are life expectancy, quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), lifetime costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs). Probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSAs) were conducted to assess 
parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: when three times gross domestic product per capita is used as the 
decision threshold, all nine screening strategies were cost-effective compared 
with the no-screening strategy. Compared with the current screening strategy (an 
annual Pap smear), HPV DNA testing followed by Pap smear triage every 5 years 
and every 3 years were cost-effective. Results of PSA also indicated that a HPV 
DNA testing followed by Pap smear triage every 5 or every 3 years achieved the 
highest expected net benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: possible economic advantages are associated with extending the 
cervical cancer screening interval from one Pap smear annually to HPV DNA 
testing followed by Pap smear triage every 5 years with an ICER $1 247 000 per 
QALY gained, especially in a country with a publicly financed health-care 
system.

2010 Cancer Resaerch UK.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6605974
PMCID: PMC3008604
PMID: 21102588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. PLoS Biol. 2010 Nov 16;8(11):e1000542. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1000542.

A polarised population of dynamic microtubules mediates homeostatic length 
control in animal cells.

Picone R(1), Ren X, Ivanovitch KD, Clarke JD, McKendry RA, Baum B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mathematics and Physics in the Life Sciences and Experimental 
Biology, University College London, London, United Kingdom.

Because physical form and function are intimately linked, mechanisms that 
maintain cell shape and size within strict limits are likely to be important for 
a wide variety of biological processes. However, while intrinsic controls have 
been found to contribute to the relatively well-defined shape of bacteria and 
yeast cells, the extent to which individual cells from a multicellular animal 
control their plastic form remains unclear. Here, using micropatterned lines to 
limit cell extension to one dimension, we show that cells spread to a 
characteristic steady-state length that is independent of cell size, pattern 
width, and cortical actin. Instead, homeostatic length control on lines depends 
on a population of dynamic microtubules that lead during cell extension, and 
that are aligned along the long cell axis as the result of interactions of 
microtubule plus ends with the lateral cell cortex. Similarly, during the 
development of the zebrafish neural tube, elongated neuroepithelial cells 
maintain a relatively well-defined length that is independent of cell size but 
dependent upon oriented microtubules. A simple, quantitative model of cellular 
extension driven by microtubules recapitulates cell elongation on lines, the 
steady-state distribution of microtubules, and cell length homeostasis, and 
predicts the effects of microtubule inhibitors on cell length. Together this 
experimental and theoretical analysis suggests that microtubule dynamics impose 
unexpected limits on cell geometry that enable cells to regulate their length. 
Since cells are the building blocks and architects of tissue morphogenesis, such 
intrinsically defined limits may be important for development and homeostasis in 
multicellular organisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1000542
PMCID: PMC2982804
PMID: 21103410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


474. J Bras Nefrol. 2010 Jul-Sep;32(3):286-91.

Histopathological findings in elderly patients.

Carmo PA(1), Kirsztajn GM, Carmo WB, Franco MF, Bastos MG.

Author information:
(1)Fundação IMEPEN, Brazil. pvcarmo@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: The elderly population has significantly increased worldwide and 
recent studies have evidenced a 10-year increase in Brazilian life expectancy. 
Similarly to other comorbidities, glomerular diseases are also observed in the 
elderly, and, in that age group, kidney biopsy emerges as a fundamental 
diagnostic tool to help disease management, preventing unnecessary therapies.
OBJECTIVE: To establish the frequency of histological diagnoses in the elderly 
undergoing kidney biopsy, with an emphasis on glomerulopathies (GPs), at two 
Brazilian universities.
METHODS: Retrospective assessment of kidney biopsy reports of the Department of 
Pathology of UNIFESP (patients aged 60 years or above, from 01/01/1996 to 
12/31/2003) and of the outpatient clinic of GPs of NIEPEN. The studies of 
transplanted kidneys and nephrectomies were excluded. The following data were 
analyzed: age; sex; clinical syndrome at presentation; and histological 
diagnosis (light microscopy and immunofluorescence). Nephropathies were 
classified as primary GPs, secondary kidney diseases, nonglomerular diseases, 
and others.
RESULTS: One hundred and thirteen biopsies were assessed, the mean age of 
patients was 66.0 ± 6.0 years, and the male sex prevailed (54.8%). The most 
common clinical presentation was nephrotic syndrome (32.7%), followed by acute 
and chronic kidney failure (18.6%, each). Glomerular diseases were as follows: 
membranous nephropathy (MN), 15%; hypertensive nephrosclerosis, 11.5%; focal 
segmental glomerulosclerosis and vasculitis/crescentic GN, 9.7% each; 
amyloidosis, chronic glomerulonephritis, and minimal change disease, 7.1% each; 
diffuse proliferative GN, 4.4%; IgA nephropathy and lupus nephritis, 2.7% each. 
Primary GPs predominated (45.2%) as compared with other nephropathies.
CONCLUSION: Nephrotic syndrome was the major indication for kidney biopsy. 
Regarding the kidney histological diagnoses, glomerular diseases predominated, 
in particular MN and hypertensive nephrosclerosis, findings compatible with 
previous studies in the area, but rarely assessed among us. It is clear that the 
diversity of diagnoses and differentiated treatments justify kidney biopsy for 
decision making in that group of patients.

PMID: 21103693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. J Bras Nefrol. 2010 Jul-Sep;32(3):316-22.

Mental disorders and quality of life in pediatric patients with chronic kidney 
disease.

Marciano RC(1), Soares CM, Diniz JS, Lima EM, Silva JM, Canhestro MR, Oliveira 
AG, Melo CD, Dias CS, Correa H, Oliveira EA.

Author information:
(1)Hospital das Clínicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil.

In the last decades there was a striking improvement in survival of children 
with chronic kidney disease. As life expectancy has increased in children with 
CKD, concern has risen about its physical, psychological, and social 
consequences. The aim of this study was to perform a review of the psychological 
consequences of CKD in the pediatric population, with the focus on mental 
disorders and on quality of life. We also reviewed studies regarding emotional 
and social effects and their possible influences on treatment adhesion. Several 
studies have shown impairment on quality of life and on mental health of these 
patients. A better understanding of emotional consequences of CKD in pediatric 
population possibly can reduce the impact of the renal disease on children. 
Moreover, a comprehensive approach of children and adolescents with CKD might 
result in a better clinical control and improve treatment adhesion.

PMID: 21103696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Vasa. 2010 Nov;39(4):319-24. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526/a000056.

Endovascular treatment for chronic atherosclerotic occlusive mesenteric disease: 
is stenting superior to balloon angioplasty?

Daliri A(1), Grunwald C, Jobst B, Szucs-Farkas Z, Diehm NA, Kickuth R, Do DD, 
Hoppe H.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Endovascular treatment is an increasingly used therapeutic option in 
patients with chronic atherosclerotic occlusive mesenteric disease. Purpose of 
this study was evaluation of patency and mortality in patients treated with 
visceral artery percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) or stenting 
including follow-up.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of 17 consecutive patients (4 
women, 13 men) with endovascular treatment for symptomatic chronic mesenteric 
ischemia from 1998 to 2004 was performed. Mean follow-up period was 42 months. 
Patient demographics, interventional details, primary and/or secondary patency 
and mortality were recorded. Cumulative mortality and patency rates were 
determined using Kaplan-Meier life table analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-six interventions (PTA alone n=13, PTA and stenting n=13) were 
performed in 17 patients. Interventions were performed in the superior 
mesenteric artery (n=13) and celiac artery (n=13). The re-intervention rate was 
30% (6/26). Re-interventions were performed for the superior mesenteric artery 
(n=4) and celiac artery (n=2). Cumulative overall 1-year results were primary 
patency rate 81%, secondary patency rate 94%, and survival rate 82%. Cumulative 
10-year results were primary patency rate 73%, secondary patency rate 94%, and 
survival rate 65%. The 10-year secondary patency rate was 100% in patients post 
initial stenting and 86% in patients post initial PTA.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term follow-up post endovascular treatment for chronic 
mesenteric ischemia demonstrated a considerable overall secondary patency rate 
of 94%. However, the long-term secondary patency rate was higher in patients 
post initial stenting compared to PTA alone.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526/a000056
PMID: 21104621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. J Vasc Access. 2011 Jan-Mar;12(1):36-44. doi: 10.5301/jva.2010.6065.

Comparison among transposed brachiobasilic, brachiobrachial arteriovenous 
fistulas and Flixene™ vascular graft.

Lioupis C(1), Mistry H, Rix T, Chandak P, Tyrrell M, Valenti D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, King's College Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the outcomes of 3 upper arm access types: transposed 
brachiobasilic arteriovenous fistula (BBAVF), autogenous brachial vein-brachial 
artery access (ABBA), and a new type of ePTFE graft (Flixene™ graft) (AVG), in a 
consecutive series of patients treated in a tertiary centre.
METHODS: A prospective, computerized access database was analysed 
retrospectively to identify all patients undergoing BBAVF, ABBA, or AVG between 
January 1, 2008, and December 31, 2009.
RESULTS: A total of 108 patients were identified; of whom 45 had BBAVF, 15 ABBA, 
and 48 ePTFE brachioaxillary AVG. Early failure was similar in all 3 groups. The 
18-month functional patency rates for the ABBAs, BBAVFs, and grafts were 27%, 
51%, and 55%, respectively. The median time to first use for AVGs was 
significantly shorter (p<0.0001). Complications were not more frequent in AVGs 
than ABBAs and BBAVFs (p=0.127). The total number of access interventions was 
similar between the AVG and ABBA groups (p=0.58), but it was significantly 
higher in the AVG group compared with the BBAVF group (p<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study supports the current recommendations of the NKF Kidney 
Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative for using BBAVFs as third choice after 
radiocephalic and brachiocephalic arteriovenous fistulas. We also showed good 
results with a new type of prosthetic graft (Flixene™ graft) that allows 
cannulation within days of implantation. We now favour the use of this graft 
instead of basilic vein transposition in elderly patients with short life 
expectancy and urgent need of renal access.

DOI: 10.5301/jva.2010.6065
PMID: 21104668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2010 Dec;32(6):1370-8. doi: 10.1002/jmri.22374.

Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging in cystic fibrosis lung 
disease.

Eichinger M(1), Heussel CP, Kauczor HU, Tiddens H, Puderbach M.

Author information:
(1)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) Heidelberg, Radiology (E010), 
Heidelberg, Germany.

Computed tomography (CT) is the current "gold standard" for assessment of lung 
morphology and is so far the most reliable imaging modality for monitoring 
cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease. CT has a much higher radiation exposure than 
chest x-ray. The cumulative radiation dose for life-long repeated CT scans has 
limited its use for CF patients as their life expectancy increases. Clearly, no 
dose would be preferable over low dose when the same or more relevant 
information can be obtained. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is comparable to 
CT with regard to the detection of most morphological changes in the CF lung. It 
is thought to be less sensitive to detect small airway disease. At the same 
time, MRI is superior to CT when it comes to the assessment of functional 
changes such as altered pulmonary perfusion. The recommendation is to further 
reduce radiation dose related to the use of CT and to use MRI in the follow-up 
of morphological changes where possible.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.22374
PMID: 21105141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2010;(9):3-9.

[Health problems of working-age population in the Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Izmerov NF, Tikhonova GI.

The paper deals with health problems of working-age population in the Russian 
Federation. According to foreign and domestic experts reduction of the 
able-bodied population and its fraction in the general population will be 
accompanied by ageing of labour force in the nearest two decades. Despite the 
growth of life expectancy in 2006-2007 demonstrated by disability, mortality and 
life expectancy indices for the age group of interest, its health status is 
considered to be critical. Mathematical simulation of mortality rates allowed 
for the assessment of potential years of life lost (PYLL) from leading causes of 
death among active working population. The data obtained provide a basis for the 
elaboration of medical and social programs aimed at increasing life expectancy. 
The most essential role in current negative tendencies in the health of active 
working population belongs to the deterioration of work conditions and safety at 
industrial enterprises coupled to low efficiency of occupational health 
prevention system accounting for the significantly reduced accessibility of 
health services. Restoration of occupational health system in Russia is of 
crucial importance. Experts of the Institute of Occupational Health have 
elaborated a draft National Action Plan designed to improve health protection of 
labour force in this country; its implementation would help to solve demographic 
problems and increase the amount and quality of labour force.

PMID: 21105229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Vestn Oftalmol. 2010 Mar-Apr;126(2):30-4.

[Enucleations in uveal melanoma (analysis of archival records)].

[Article in Russian]

Grishina EE, Davydov DV, Stoiukhina AS.

The paper analyzes outpatient cards of 415 patients who underwent enucleation 
for uveal melanoma (UM) in 1962-2008 and who have been registered in the Moscow 
City Ophthalmology Center since 1990. The patients' mean age was 58.94 +/-1.29 
years. During the follow-up, 56 patients died 5.24 +/- 1.84 years 
postoperatively. The distribution of UM by the histological types was as 
follows: spindle cell (n = 275; 66.27%); mixed cell (n = 100; 24.09%), and 
epithelioid cell (n = 26; 6.27%) UM. Eleven (2.65%) patients were diagnosed as 
having necrotic melanoma. Poor (preequatorial and juxtapapillary) position was 
observed in 35.4% of the patients. Mortality in patients with UM after 
enucleation was 14.44% with a life expectancy of 5.24 +/- 1.84 years. The 
findings make it possible to recommend that an enucleation procedure should be 
developed, by concurrently forming a locomotor stump, which promotes the 
improvement of the results of individual cosmetic prosthetics in patients with 
UM that is not to undergo organ-saving treatment.

PMID: 21105376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Man Ther. 2011 Apr;16(2):190-5. doi: 10.1016/j.math.2010.10.008. Epub 2010
Nov  23.

A preliminary investigation into the magnitude of effect of lumbar extension 
exercises and a segmental rotatory manipulation on sympathetic nervous system 
activity.

Perry J(1), Green A, Singh S, Watson P.

Author information:
(1)Coventry University, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Department of 
Physiotherapy, Priory Street, Coventry, UK. hsx472@coventry.ac.uk

Two commonly utilised manual therapy techniques; McKenzie's lumbar extension 
exercises (EE); and segmental rotational grade V manipulation were investigated 
to determine their magnitude of neurophysiological effect. Proxy measures of 
sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity (skin conductance) were utilised to 
ascertaining neurophysiological response. This study determined the neurological 
effects of these two treatment techniques in addition to establishing the Biopac 
System as a reliable measure of neurophysiological changes. A 
quasi-experimental, independent group's design was utilised, with random 
allocation of 50 normal, healthy participants into a manipulation or an EE 
group. Neurophysiological measurements of skin conductance were taken in the 
lower limbs before, during and after the administration of the techniques. 
Results were converted into percentage change calculations for the intervention 
and the post-intervention periods. Both treatments increased SNS activity during 
the intervention period, 63% for the manipulation group (p = 0.0005) and 42% for 
EE group (p = 0.0005) with the manipulative technique having significantly 
greater effect (p = 0.012). Further analysis of the manipulation group found no 
difference between the 'opening' and the 'closing' side of the technique (p = 
0.76). Biopac System is a reliable method for measuring SNS activity with 
minimum measurement variability. Preliminary evidence now exists supporting the 
neurophysiological effects of two lumbar techniques.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.math.2010.10.008
PMID: 21106433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Sex Transm Infect. 2010 Dec;86 Suppl 2(Suppl_2):ii67-71. doi: 
10.1136/sti.2010.046060.

Estimating the impact of antiretroviral therapy: regional and global estimates 
of life-years gained among adults.

Mahy M(1), Stover J, Stanecki K, Stoneburner R, Tassie JM.

Author information:
(1)UNAIDS, 20 avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland. mahym@unaids.org

OBJECTIVE: An estimated 4.9 million adults received antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
in low and middle income countries in 2009. A further estimated 700 000 adults 
received ART in high-income countries. The impact of providing ART is not often 
quantifiable due to limited monitoring systems. One measure, life-years gained, 
provides a standardised measure that shows the survival impact of ART on the 
population while controlling for variations in underlying survival. Measuring 
life-years gained allows a comparison of the impact of ART between regions.
METHODS: Using the Spectrum computer package, two different scenarios were 
created for 151 countries. One scenario describes the results of providing 
adults with ART as reported by countries between 1995 and 2009, the second 
scenario describes a situation in which no ART was provided to adults living 
with HIV between 1995 and 2009. The difference in the number of life-years 
accrued among adults in the two scenarios is compared and summarised by 
geographical region.
RESULTS: An estimated 14.4 million life-years have been gained among adults 
globally between 1995 and 2009 as a result of ART. 54 % of these years were 
gained in western Europe and North America, where ART has been available for 
over 10 years. In recent years the growth in life-years has occurred more 
rapidly in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia.
DISCUSSION: The substantial impact of ART described here provides evidence to 
argue for continued support of sustainable ART programmes in low and 
middle-income countries. Strengthening ART monitoring systems and mortality 
surveillance in low and middle-income countries will make this evidence more 
accessible to programme managers.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2010.046060
PMCID: PMC3173805
PMID: 21106518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


483. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2011 Nov;65(11):972-9. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2010.111492. Epub 2010 Nov 23.

Socioeconomic inequalities in life and health expectancies around official 
retirement age in 10 Western-European countries.

Majer IM(1), Nusselder WJ, Mackenbach JP, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC - University Medical Center 
Rotterdam, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, the Netherlands. i.majer@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Discussions on raising pension eligibility age focus more on 
improvement in life expectancy (LE) and health expectancy measures than on 
socioeconomic differences in these measures. Therefore, this study assesses the 
level of socioeconomic differences in these two measures in Western-Europe.
METHODS: Data from seven annual waves (1995-2001) of the European Community 
Household Panel were used. Health and socioeconomic information was collected 
using standardised questionnaires. Health was measured in terms of disability in 
daily activities. Socioeconomic status was determined as education level at 
baseline. Multi-state Markov modelling was applied to obtain age-specific 
transition rates between health states for every country, educational level and 
gender. The multi-state life table method was used to estimate LE and disability 
free life expectancy (DFLE) according to country, educational level and gender.
RESULTS: When comparing high and low educational levels, differences in partial 
DFLE between the ages 50 and 65 years were 2.1 years for men and 1.9 years for 
women. At age 65 years, for LE the difference between high and low educated 
groups was 3 years for men and 1.9 years for women, and for DFLE the difference 
between high and low educated groups was 4.6 years for men and 4.4 years for 
women. Similar patterns were observed in all countries, although inequalities 
tended to be greater in the southern countries.
CONCLUSIONS: Educational inequalities, favouring the higher educated, exist on 
both sides of the retirement eligibility age. Higher educated persons live 
longer in good health before retirement and can expect to live longer 
afterwards.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2010.111492
PMID: 21106546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Blood. 2011 Feb 17;117(7):2113-20. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-05-285502. Epub
2010  Nov 24.

A Markov decision analysis of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation 
versus chemotherapy in patients with acute myeloid leukemia in first remission.

Kurosawa S(1), Yamaguchi T, Miyawaki S, Uchida N, Kanamori H, Usuki K, Yamashita 
T, Watanabe M, Yakushiji K, Yano S, Nawa Y, Taguchi J, Takeuchi J, Tomiyama J, 
Nakamura Y, Miura I, Kanda Y, Takaue Y, Fukuda T.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Transplantation Division, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, 
Japan;

Comment in
    Blood. 2011 Feb 17;117(7):2080-1.

Various prospective trials have been performed to assess the roles of allogeneic 
hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) and chemotherapy in patients with 
acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in first complete remission (CR1). However, the 
results have not always been consistent, and there has been a limited evaluation 
of quality of life (QOL) in these postremission strategies. We performed a 
Markov decision analysis that enabled us to compare survival outcomes with a QOL 
evaluation using a database of 2029 adult AML patients who achieved CR1. The 
Markov decision model compared 2 strategies: allo-HCT or chemotherapy in CR1. 
Patients who had intermediate- or unfavorable-risk AML had a longer life 
expectancy when they received allo-HCT in CR1 than patients treated with 
chemotherapy alone. Likewise, patients who had a suitable related donor who 
received allo-HCT in CR1 had a longer life expectancy. The life expectancy was 
shortened to a greater degree by adjustment for QOL in the allo-HCT group. 
Nevertheless, QOL-adjusted life expectancies in most of the subgroups remained 
longer in the allo-HCT group than in the chemotherapy group. Our results showed 
that older patients with a related donor and younger patients with unfavorable 
cytogenetics benefited the most from allo-HCT in CR1.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2010-05-285502
PMID: 21106987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Phlebology. 2010 Dec;25(6):267-8. doi: 10.1258/phleb.2010.010e05.

The burden of chronic venous diseases is unknown.

Guex JJ.

DOI: 10.1258/phleb.2010.010e05
PMID: 21106998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Neurosurgery. 2010 Dec;67(6):1589-98; discussion 1598-9. doi: 
10.1227/NEU.0b013e3181f8d1b2.

Cavernous malformations of the brainstem presenting in childhood: surgical 
experience in 40 patients.

Abla AA(1), Lekovic GP, Garrett M, Wilson DA, Nakaji P, Bristol R, Spetzler RF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurological Surgery, Barrow Neurological Institute, St. Joseph's 
Hospital and Medical Center, Phoenix, Arizona 85013, USA.

BACKGROUND: Brainstem cavernous malformations (BSCMs) are believed to compose 9% 
to 35% of all cerebral cavernous malformations, but these lesions have been 
reported in children in very limited numbers.
OBJECTIVE: To review surgical outcomes of pediatric patients with BSCMs treated 
at 1 institution.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the course of 40 pediatric patients (19 
males, 21 females; age range, 10 months to 18.9 years; mean, 12.3 years) who 
underwent surgery between 1984 and 2009. Age, sex, presenting symptoms, location 
of lesion, surgical approach, new postoperative deficits, Glasgow Outcome Scale 
score, recurrences, and resolution of baseline symptoms were recorded.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients experienced hemorrhage before surgery. Lesion 
locations included the pons (n=22), midbrain (n=4), midbrain and thalamus (n=4), 
pontomesencephalic junction (n=3), medulla (n=3), pontomedullary junction (n=3), 
and cervicomedullary junction (n=1). Mean lesion size was 2.3 cm. Mean length of 
hospital stay was 10.7 days. The average clinical follow-up was 31.9 months in 
36 patients with follow-up after discharge. At last follow-up, 5 patients had 
experienced symptoms and/or imaging consistent with rehemorrhage, either from a 
residual that enlarged or true recurrence (5.25% annual rebleed risk per patient 
after surgery); 2 required reoperation for further resection of cavernoma. Mean 
Glasgow Outcome Scale score was 4.2 on admission, 4.05 at discharge, and 4.5 at 
latest follow-up. Preoperative symptoms and deficits improved in 16 patients 
(40%). New neurological deficits developed in 19 patients (48%) and resolved in 
9, leaving 10 patients (25%) with new permanent deficit.
CONCLUSION: Compared with adults, pediatric patients with BCSMs tend to have 
larger lesions and higher rates of recurrence (regrowth of residual lesion). 
Given the greater life expectancy of children, surgical treatment seems 
warranted in those with surgically accessible lesions that have bled. Outcomes 
were similar to those in our adult series of patients with BSCMs.

DOI: 10.1227/NEU.0b013e3181f8d1b2
PMID: 21107189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2011 Jul;19(7):1082-9. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-010-1325-8. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Physiological risk factors for falls in people with knee osteoarthritis before 
and early after knee replacement surgery.

Levinger P(1), Menz HB, Wee E, Feller JA, Bartlett JR, Bergman NR.

Author information:
(1)Musculoskeletal Research Centre, Faculty of Health Sciences, La Trobe 
University, Bundoora 3086, Australia. p.levinger@latrobe.edu.au

PURPOSE: Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause of disability and a risk 
factor for falls in older people. The purpose of this study was to assess the 
falls risk of people with knee OA before surgery and at 4 months following 
surgery and to compare this to a control group.
METHODS: Thirty-five patients with knee OA prior to undergoing knee replacement 
surgery and 27 asymptomatic age-matched controls participated in the study. The 
surgical group were tested prior to their surgery and at 4 months post-surgery. 
The short form of the Physiological Profile Assessment was used to assess falls 
risk and included tests of vision, lower limb proprioception, knee extension 
strength, reaction time and postural sway. Physical activity, quality of life, 
fear of falls and disability before and after surgery were also documented.
RESULTS: At least one fall in the previous 12 months was reported for 48% of the 
surgical group compared with 30% of the control group. Following the surgery, 
there was a reduction in fear of falling and pain, and improvements in function 
for the surgical group. However, compared to the control group, the surgical 
group exhibited a greater fear of falling and reduced lower limb proprioception 
and knee extension strength both pre- and post-surgery.
CONCLUSION: People who undergo knee replacement surgery may be at increased risk 
of falls both prior to and 4 months following their surgery, primarily due to 
deficits in knee extension strength and lower limb proprioception. Therefore, 
interventions to reduce the risk of falls should be implemented early after the 
surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-010-1325-8
PMID: 21107530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2010 Nov;50(10):931-7. doi:
10.1080/10408390903044073.

Dietary lipophilic antioxidants: implications and significance in the aging 
process.

Chong-Han K(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Society of Singapore, Singapore. kuach@alumni.nus.edu.sg

Longevity can be explained by the free radical theory of aging, and caloric 
restriction (CR) studies showed that CR-induced lifespan extension is associated 
with the prevention of a decrease in oxidative stress. Non-enzymatic lipophilic 
antioxidants may play a pivotal role in our aging process, and are reflected in 
our dietary lifestyle and dietary supplementation. Their significance lies in 
their general good absorption and slow excretion within our body. Although 
difficulties exist with human aging studies due to the nature of our longevity 
in comparison with other species, findings have implied a relationship between 
non-enzymatic antioxidants and longevity. Common non-enzymatic antioxidants 
found in our dietary intake include vitamin A and E supplementation, flavanoids 
(major source includes tea, one of our main fluid intake), resveratrol (its 
protective role in cardiovascular disease and aging having stemmed from the 
"French Paradox"), as well as coenzyme Q₁₀ supplementation. The review discusses 
current findings and their implication in the aging process. This review 
concludes by asserting that although none of these antioxidants has yet provided 
clear-cut evidence toward longevity and the aging process, they have certainly 
demonstrated other potential health benefits.

DOI: 10.1080/10408390903044073
PMID: 21108073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Endoscopy. 2011 Feb;43(2):81-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1255952. Epub 2010 Nov
24.

Some diminutive colorectal polyps can be removed and discarded without 
pathological examination.

Denis B(1), Bottlaender J, Weiss AM, Peter A, Breysacher G, Chiappa P, Perrin P.

Author information:
(1)Médecine A, Hôpital Pasteur, Colmar, France. bernard.denis@ch-colmar.fr

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: Pathological examination of colorectal polyps is 
useful if clinical management is affected (i. e. when invasive carcinoma is 
detected or postpolypectomy surveillance interval is guided). Our aim was to 
assess whether the pathological examination of some diminutive (measuring ≤ 5 
mm) polyps can be omitted.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Consecutive patients undergoing a colonoscopy at Pasteur 
Hospital (Colmar, France) between January and August 2008 were included in this 
prospective study. Six senior gastroenterologists predicted the future 
surveillance interval without referring to the result of pathological 
examination.
RESULTS: In all, 350 polyps from 175 patients were removed and analyzed. The 
endoscopist was able to predict the correct surveillance interval without 
referring to the result of pathological examination in 118 patients (67.4 %; 95 
% confidence interval [CI] 60.5 - 74.4). The pathological examination of 18.4 % 
(95 % CI 13.7 - 23.1) of diminutive polyps either associated with a cancer or a 
polyp measuring ≥ 10 mm or removed in very old or frail patients could be 
omitted without any consequence for the patient. If diminutive polyps one or two 
in number were discarded without pathological examination in patients with a 
personal history of colorectal neoplasm, three patients out of 43 would have a 
5-year instead of a 3-year surveillance interval. As a whole, if 44.1 % (95 % CI 
38.0 - 50.1) of diminutive polyps were discarded, the surveillance interval 
would remain identical in 98.3 % (95 % CI 96.4 - 100) of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The pathological examination of up to 44 % of diminutive polyps (i. 
e. 33 % of all polyps), can be safely omitted. The pathological examination 
would be required only for those with suspicious gross appearance, those three 
or more in number, and those isolated one or two in number that are removed from 
people without personal history of colorectal neoplasm.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1255952
PMID: 21108174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Am J Hematol. 2010 Dec;85(12):921-5. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21894.

Masitinib for the treatment of systemic and cutaneous mastocytosis with 
handicap: a phase 2a study.

Paul C(1), Sans B, Suarez F, Casassus P, Barete S, Lanternier F, 
Grandpeix-Guyodo C, Dubreuil P, Palmérini F, Mansfield CD, Gineste P, Moussy A, 
Hermine O, Lortholary O.

Author information:
(1)Université Paul Sabatier, Toulouse, France.

Treatment options for patients suffering from indolent forms of mastocytosis 
remain inadequate with the hyperactivation of mast cells responsible for many of 
the disease's systemic manifestations. Masitinib is a potent and highly 
selective oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor. A combined inhibition of c-Kit and Lyn 
make it particularly efficient in controlling the activity of mast cells and 
therefore, of potential therapeutic benefit in mastocytosis. Masitinib was 
administered to 25 patients diagnosed as having systemic or cutaneous 
mastocytosis with related handicap (i.e., disabilities associated with flushes, 
depression, pruritus and quality-of-life) at the initial dose levels of 3 or 6 
mg/kg/day over 12 weeks. In accordance with the AFIRMM study, response was based 
upon change of clinical symptoms associated with patient handicap at week 12 
relative to baseline, regardless of disease subtype. Improvement was observed in 
all primary endpoints at week 12 including a reduction of flushes, Hamilton 
rating, and pruritus as compared with baseline by 64% (P = 0.0005), 43% (P = 
0.0049), and 36% (P = 0.0077), respectively. An overall clinical response was 
observed in 14/25 patients (56%; [95%CI = 37%-75%]), with sustainable 
improvement observed throughout an extension phase (>60 weeks). Common adverse 
events were edema (44%), nausea (44%), muscle spasms (28%), and rash (28%), the 
majority of which were of mild or moderate severity with a significant decline 
in frequency observed after 12 weeks of treatment. One patient experienced a 
serious adverse event of reversible agranulocytosis. Masitinib is a promising 
treatment for indolent forms of mastocytosis with handicap and indicates 
acceptable tolerability for long-term treatment regimens.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21894
PMID: 21108325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2005 Aug 20;8(4):283-90. doi: 
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2005.04.07.

[Results of randomized, multicenter, double-blind phase III trial of 
rh-endostatin (YH-16) in treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer 
patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang J(1), Sun Y, Liu Y, Yu Q, Zhang Y, Li K, Zhu Y, Zhou Q, Hou M, Guan Z, Li 
W, Zhuang W, Wang D, Liang H, Qin F, Lu H, Liu X, Sun H, Zhang Y, Wang J, Luo S, 
Yang R, Tu Y, Wang X, Song S, Zhou J, You L, Wang J, Yao C.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100021, 
P.R.China.

BACKGROUND: Endostar™ (rh-endostatin, YH-16) is a new recombinant human 
endostatin developed by Medgenn Bioengineering Co. Ltd., Yantai, Shandong, 
P.R.China. Pre-clinical study indicated that YH-16 could inhibit tumor 
endothelial cell proliferation, angiogenesis and tumor growth. Phase I and phase 
II studies revealed that YH-16 was effective as single agent with good tolerance 
in clinical use.The current study was to compare the response rate , median ti 
me to progression (TTP) ,clinical benefit andsafety in patients with advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC) , who were treated with YH-16 plus 
vi-norelbine and cisplatin (NP) or placebo plus NP.
METHODS: Four hundred and ninety-three histologically or cy-tologically 
confirmed stage IIIB and IV NSCLC patients , withlife expectancy > 3 months and 
ECOG perform-ance status 0-2 , were enrolledin a randomized ,double-blind 
,placebo-controlled , multicenter trial ,either trialgroup : NP plus YH-16 
(vinorelbine 25 mg/m² on day 1 and day 5 ,cisplatin 30mg/m² on days 2 to 4 , 
YH-167.5mg/m² on days 1 to 14) or control group : NP plus placebo (vinorelbine 
25 mg/m² on day 1 and day 5 ,cis-platin 30 mg/m² on days 2 to 4 ,0.9% 
sodium-chloride 3 .75 ml on days 1 to 14) every 3 weeks for 2-6 cycles .The 
trial endpoints included response rate ,clinical benefit rate ,time to 
progression,quality of life and safety .
RESULTS: Of 486 assessable patients , overall response rate was 35.4% in trial 
group and 19.5% in controlgroup (P=0 .0003) . The median TTP was 6 .3 months and 
3 .6 months for trial group and control group respectively (P < 0 .001) . The 
clinical benefit rate was 73 .3 %in trial group and 64.0% in control group (P=0 
.035) .In untreated patients of trial group and control group ,the response rate 
was 40 .0% and 23.9%(P=0 .003) ,the clinical benefit rate was 76 .5 % and 65 .0 
% (P=0 .023) ,the median TTP was 6 .6 and 3 .7months (P=0 .0000) ,respectively 
.In pretreated patients of trial group and control group ,the response ratewas 
23.9% and 8.5%(P=0 .034) ,the clinical benefit rate was 65.2% and 61.7%(P=0 .68) 
,the median TTP was 5 .7 and 3 .2 months (P=0 .0002) ,respectively . The relief 
rate of clinical symptoms in trial groupwas higher than that of those in control 
group ,but no significance existed (P > 0 .05) . The score of quality oflife in 
trial group was significantly higher than that in control group (P=0 .0155) 
after treatment . There were no significant differences in incidence of 
hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity , moderate and severe sideeffects 
betweentrial group and control group .
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of YH-16 to NP regimen results in significantly and 
clinically meaningful improvement in response rate , median time to tumor 
progression,and clinical benefit rate compared with NP alone in advanced NSCLC 
patients . YH-16 in combination with chemotherapy shows a synergic activity and 
a favorable toxic profile in advanced cancer patients .

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2005.04.07
PMID: 21108883


492. Environ Int. 2011 Feb;37(2):375-82. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2010.10.010. Epub
2010  Dec 15.

Lung-cancer reduction from smoking cessation and radon remediation: a 
preliminary cost-analysis in Northamptonshire, UK.

Groves-Kirkby CJ(1), Timson K, Shield G, Denman AR, Rogers S, Phillips PS.

Author information:
(1)Medical Physics Dept., Northampton General Hospital, Northampton, NN1 5BD, 
UK. chris.groves-kirkby@northampton.ac.uk

Domestic radon levels in parts of the United Kingdom are sufficiently high as to 
increase the risk of lung-cancer among residents. Public health campaigns in the 
county of Northamptonshire, a designated radon Affected Area with 6.3% of homes 
having average radon levels in excess of the UK Action Level of 200 Bq m(-3), 
have encouraged householders to test for radon and then, if indicated to be 
necessary, to carry out remediation in their homes. These campaigns have been 
only partially successful, since to date only 40% of Northamptonshire houses 
have been tested, and only 15% of those householders finding raised levels have 
proceeded to remediate. Those who remediate have been shown to have smaller 
families, to be older, and to include fewer smokers than the average population, 
suggesting that current strategies to reduce domestic radon exposure are not 
reaching those most at risk. During 2004-2005, the NHS Stop-Smoking Services in 
Northamptonshire assisted 2847 smokers to quit to the 4-week stage, the 15% 
(435) of these 4-week quitters remaining quitters at 1year forming the subjects 
of a retrospective study considering whether smoking cessation campaigns 
contribute significantly to radon risk reduction. Quantitative assessment of the 
risk of lung-cancer among the study population, from knowledge of the 
individuals' age, gender, and smoking habits, together with the radon levels in 
their homes, demonstrates that smoking cessation programmes have significant 
added value in reducing the incidence of lung-cancer in radon Affected Areas, 
and contribute a substantially greater health benefit at a lower cost than the 
alternative strategy of reducing radon levels in the smokers' homes, while they 
remain smokers. Both radon remediation and smoking cessation programmes are very 
cost effective in Northamptonshire, with smoking cessation being significantly 
more cost effective, and these are potentially valuable programmes to drive 
health improvements through promotion of the uptake or environmental management 
for radon in the home.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2010.10.010
PMID: 21109305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2011 Jan;22(1):24-33. doi:
10.1016/j.tem.2010.10.002.  Epub 2010 Nov 5.

Estrogen and androgen receptors: regulators of fuel homeostasis and emerging 
targets for diabetes and obesity.

Mauvais-Jarvis F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Molecular 
Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 
60611, USA. f-mauvais-jarvis@northwestern.edu

Because of increasing life expectancy, the contribution of age-related estrogen 
or androgen deficiency to obesity and type 2 diabetes will become a new 
therapeutic challenge. This review integrates current concepts on the mechanisms 
through which estrogen receptors (ERs) and androgen receptor (AR) regulate 
energy homeostasis in rodents and humans. In females, estrogen maintains energy 
homeostasis via ERα and ERβ, by suppressing energy intake and lipogenesis, 
enhancing energy expenditure, and ameliorating insulin secretion and 
sensitivity. In males, testosterone is converted to estrogen and maintains fuel 
homeostasis via ERs and AR, which share related functions to suppress adipose 
tissue accumulation and improve insulin sensitivity. We suggest that ERs and AR 
could be potential targets in the prevention of age-related metabolic disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2010.10.002
PMCID: PMC3011051
PMID: 21109497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Oncol Rep. 2011 Jan;25(1):113-20.

Clinical, radiological and biological features of lung metastases in 
gastrointestinal stromal tumors (case reports).

Nannini M(1), Biasco G, Di Scioscio V, Di Battista M, Zompatori M, Catena F, 
Castellucci P, Paterini P, Dei Tos AP, Stella F, Maleddu A, Pantaleo MA.

Author information:
(1)University of Bologna, Department of Hematology and Oncological Sciences L.A. 
Seragnoli, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Bologna, Italy. maggie.nannini@gmail.com

Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are mesenchymal tumors that most 
frequently arise in the gastrointestinal tract. The liver and peritoneum are 
common sites of distant GIST lesions, whereas lung metastases are infrequent, 
accounting for 7% of all lesions. The clinical significance of these metastases 
remains unknown. Although lung metastases are relatively rare in the natural 
history of GIST, they may become more prevalent due to increased patient life 
expectancy. The present report describes four patients with GIST who had lung 
metastases. Two were female (54 and 28 years of age), and two were male (64 and 
44 years of age). The primary GISTs were localized in the stomach in two 
patients and in the small intestine in the other two patients. Three patients 
presented with multiple lung lesions and one presented with one lung lesion. 
Lung metastases were present at the time of initial diagnosis in one patients, 
and were observed during the follow-up period in the other three. In this report 
we detail the clinical presentation and radiological features of the lung 
lesions as observed by computed tomography (CT) and computed tomography/ 
positron emission tomography (CT/PET). We describe each patient's clinical 
history and treatment which included surgery and the tyrosine kinase inhibitors, 
imatinib and sunitinib, and the novel therapy, nilotinib. Moreover, we discuss 
some biological aspects of this relatively rare occurrence and the resulting 
clinical implications. These findings may help clinicians to manage lung 
metastases arising from GISTs in future.

PMID: 21109965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Neurosurg Rev. 2010 Apr;34(2):173-9. doi: 10.1007/s10143-010-0299-9. Epub
2010  Nov 26.

Two step approach for surgical removal of petroclival meningiomas with large 
supratentorial extension.

Samii M(1), Gerganov V, Giordano M, Samii A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, International Neuroscience Institute, 
Rudolf-Pichlmayer-Strasse. 4, 30625, Hannover, Germany.

The treatment of petroclival meningiomas is still a matter of controversy in 
literature. In the last decades, many approaches have been introduced. Our 
strategy for the treatment of such tumors having large supratentorial extension 
with encasement of the internal carotid artery or compression of optic and 
oculomotor nerves has evolved in the attempt to improve the outcome. Currently, 
we favor a surgical technique consisting of two steps. As first step, we perform 
a retrosigmoid suprameatal approach in order to resect the posterior part of the 
tumor and obtain brainstem decompression. In the second step, carried out after 
patient's recovery from the first surgery, we remove the supratentorial portion 
of the lesion using a frontotemporal craniotomy to achieve the decompression of 
the optic nerve, oculomotor nerve, and carotid artery. The retrosigmoid 
suprameatal approach allows for adequate brainstem decompression: the tumor 
itself creates a surgical channel increasing the accessibility to the lower and 
upper petroclival surface. Moreover, this route allows for early visualization 
of cranial nerves in the posterior fossa and safe tumor removal under direct 
visual control, reducing the risk of postoperative deficits. Via the simple and 
safe frontotemporal craniotomy, the supratentorial part of the lesion can be 
removed thus avoiding the need of invasive approaches. We propose a two-stage 
surgery for treatment of petroclival meningiomas combining two simple routes 
such as retrosigmoid suprameatal and frontotemporal craniotomy. This approach 
reflects our philosophy to use simple and less invasive approaches in order to 
preserve neurological function and a good quality of life of the patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s10143-010-0299-9
PMID: 21110058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Swiss Med Wkly. 2010 Oct 25;140:w13103. doi: 10.4414/smw.2010.13103.
eCollection  2010.

Evaluating the cost-effectiveness of self-monitoring of blood glucose in type 2 
diabetes patients on oral anti-diabetic agents.

Pollock RF(1), Valentine WJ, Goodall G, Brändle M.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of self-monitoring of blood 
glucose (SMBG) in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with oral anti-diabetic 
agents (OADs) in Switzerland.
METHODS: A validated computer model of diabetes was used to project outcomes 
reported from a published longitudinal study of SMBG in type 2 diabetes 
patients, treated with OADs and with no history of SMBG, over a 30-year time 
horizon and cost-effectiveness was assessed from the perspective of a third 
party healthcare payer. Costs and clinical outcomes were discounted at 3% 
annually in line with recommended practice. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Once, twice or three times daily SMBG was associated with improvements 
in HbA1c which led to increased life expectancy and quality-adjusted life 
