the gap in mortality rates for children under 5 years of age within a decade. 
Sixty per cent of the health gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous 
Australians is attributable to the health of Indigenous people living in 
non-remote areas of Australia. We conducted a brief review of recent Australian 
original research publications on the health of the 53% of Indigenous people who 
live in urban areas, and found that data are sparse; there were only 63 studies 
in the past 5 years (11% of all articles about Indigenous health during this 
period). Although Indigenous Australians living in remote areas experience 
greater health disparity, the government will not achieve its aims without 
paying due attention to the non-remote-living population. More research is 
required, and particularly research that actually tests the impact of policies 
and programs.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2010.tb04036.x
PMID: 21034386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Clin Psychiatry. 2011 Jan;72(1):51-9. doi: 10.4088/JCP.09m05228blu. Epub
2010  Oct 5.

Cost-effectiveness of psychotherapy for cluster C personality disorders: a 
decision-analytic model in the Netherlands.

Soeteman DI(1), Verheul R, Meerman AM, Ziegler U, Rossum BV, Delimon J, 
Rijnierse P, Thunnissen M, Busschbach JJ, Kim JJ.

Author information:
(1)Viersprong Institute for Studies on Personality Disorders (VISPD), PO Box 7, 
4660 AA Halsteren, The Netherlands. DSoetema@hsph.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: To conduct a formal economic evaluation of various dosages of 
psychotherapy for patients with avoidant, dependent, and obsessive-compulsive 
(ie, cluster C) personality disorders (Structured Interview for DSM-IV 
Personality criteria).
METHOD: We developed a decision-analytic model to assess the cost-effectiveness 
of 5 dosages of psychotherapy (ie, long-term outpatient psychotherapy, 
short-term and long-term day hospital psychotherapy, and short-term and 
long-term inpatient psychotherapy) over a 5-year time horizon in terms of cost 
per recovered patient-year and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Model 
parameters were estimated using data from 466 patients with cluster C 
personality disorders who were admitted to 6 specialist centers of psychotherapy 
in The Netherlands and assigned to 1 of the 5 treatment groups. Probabilistic 
analysis was conducted to explore the stability of results over uncertain data 
ranges. Analyses were conducted from both societal and payer perspectives.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective and below a threshold of € 2,637 (US 
$3,351.92) per recovered patient-year, short-term day hospital psychotherapy 
resulted in the highest level of benefit for its cost; above the threshold, 
short-term inpatient psychotherapy was the most cost-effective choice. In terms 
of cost per QALY, this switch point was at a threshold value of € 16,570 (US 
$21,062.29) per QALY. From the payer perspective, the optimal strategy changed 
from short-term day hospital psychotherapy to short-term inpatient psychotherapy 
at threshold values of € 9,874 (US $12,550.94) per recovered patient-year and € 
66,302 (US $84,277.13) per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that short-term day hospital psychotherapy and 
short-term inpatient psychotherapy are the most cost-effective treatment 
strategies for patients with cluster C personality disorders. The ultimate 
selection depends on what cost-effectiveness threshold is considered acceptable 
and what perspective is adopted.

© Copyright 2011 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

DOI: 10.4088/JCP.09m05228blu
PMID: 21034679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Pediatr. 2011 Feb;158(2):181-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2010.09.035. Epub
2010  Oct 30.

Population-based health requires population-based change.

Elliott DJ, Weintraub WS.

Comment on
    J Pediatr. 2011 Feb;158(2):257-64.e1-7.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2010.09.035
PMID: 21035817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Ophthalmology. 2011 Mar;118(3):564-73. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.07.024.
Epub  2010 Oct 29.

Kjellin syndrome: long-term neuro-ophthalmologic follow-up and novel mutations 
in the SPG11 gene.

Puech B(1), Lacour A, Stevanin G, Sautiere BG, Devos D, Depienne C, Denis E, 
Mundwiller E, Ferriby D, Vermersch P, Defoort-Dhellemmes S.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Exploration de la Vision et Neuro-Ophtalmologie, Hôpital 
Roger-Salengro, CHRU de Lille, Lille Cedex, France. bpuech@nordnet.fr

OBJECTIVE: Kjellin's syndrome is a hereditary neuro-ophthalmologic syndrome. We 
describe the clinical phenotypes of 7 patients, identifying the responsible 
mutations for 4 of them. A 10-year ophthalmologic and neurologic follow-up of 5 
patients allowed us to describe the disease's characteristics, early symptoms 
and progression, associated ocular signs, and retinal changes in carriers.
DESIGN: Retrospective clinical study and molecular genetics investigation.
PARTICIPANTS: The records of 7 patients with Kjellin's syndrome were analyzed 
retrospectively.
METHODS: All patients underwent full neurologic and ophthalmologic examinations. 
The neurologic examinations included assessments of initial symptoms, 
intelligence quotient tests, psychologic tests, and either magnetic resonance 
imaging or computed tomography. The ophthalmologic examinations included visual 
acuity on an Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart, intraocular 
pressure color vision assessment, slit-lamp and fundus examination, Goldmann 
perimetry, fundus autofluorescence, optical coherence tomography and fluorescein 
angiography, electro-oculography, electroretinography, and flash visual evoked 
potentials. Direct sequencing of the SPG11 and SPG15 genes and gene-dosage 
analysis for the former were performed for 4 of these index patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Identification of new mutations in the SPG11 gene, 
validating its implication in Kjellin's syndrome.
RESULTS: The first signs appear before the age of 10 years, with late verbal 
development and difficulty running and walking. Life expectancy is between 30 
and 40 years. The secondary ophthalmologic symptoms only moderately affect 
visual acuity. In addition to the classic symptoms, 3 of the 7 patients 
displayed small whitish lens opacities, and 3 neurologically unaffected parents 
(father or mother), all heterozygous carriers, exhibited whitish retinal dots. 
All the patients who were tested carried SPG11, not SPG15, mutations.
CONCLUSIONS: Neurologic signs of SPG11 mutations emerge in early infancy, with 
walking and language difficulties. Onset of paraplegia occurs at the end of the 
first decade or during the second decade. Retinal changes, an integral part of 
SPG11 mutations in this series of patients, are only observed once the 
paraplegia has become apparent.

Copyright © 2011 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.07.024
PMID: 21035867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Soc Sci Med. 2011 Feb;72(3):355-64. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.09.022.
Epub  2010 Sep 29.

Aboriginal peoples, health and healing approaches: the effects of age and place 
on health.

Wilson K(1), Rosenberg MW, Abonyi S.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto Mississauga, Department of Geography, 3359 Mississauga 
Road North, Mississauga, Ontario L5L 1C6, Canada. kathi.wilson@utoronto.ca

For demographic reasons and as a result of a number of high profile health 
incidents in recent years, much of the health research and policy focus is on 
the younger cohorts of Aboriginal peoples in Canada. A critical examination of 
recent demographic trends reveals, however, that older cohorts of the Aboriginal 
population are increasing at a faster rate than younger cohorts, primarily due 
to improvements in life expectancy and declining fertility rates. Yet, there are 
surprisingly few health studies that have recognized the aging of the Aboriginal 
population. The overall goal of this paper is to examine differences in health 
status, use of conventional health care and traditional approaches to healing 
between older and younger cohorts of the Aboriginal population as well as to 
examine the importance of age as a determinant of health and health care use. 
Using data from the 2001 Statistics Canada Aboriginal Peoples Survey and 
contingency tables and logistic regression, the results demonstrate that older 
Aboriginal people face unique challenges - e.g. loss of traditional approaches 
to healing, geographic isolation, identity politics, constitutional and legal 
divisions within the Aboriginal community - with respect to their health and 
access to health services. These outcomes result from a colonial past and 
contemporary policies that affect all Aboriginal people.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.09.022
PMID: 21036444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Anticancer Res. 2010 Oct;30(10):4303-8.

Life stress due to losses and deficit in childhood and adolescence as breast 
cancer risk factor: a prospective case-control study in Kuopio, Finland.

Eskelinen M(1), Ollonen P.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Department of Surgery, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland. matti.eskelinen@kuh.fi

BACKGROUND: To our knowledge, the associations between the life stress due to 
losses and deficit at childhood and adolescence and the risk of breast cancer 
are rarely considered together in a prospective study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study is an extension of the Kuopio Breast Cancer 
Study. Women with breast symptoms were referred by physicians to the Kuopio 
University Hospital (Finland) and were asked to participate in this study. These 
women (n=115) were interviewed, and all study variables were obtained before any 
diagnostic procedures were carried out, so neither the investigator nor the 
participants knew the final diagnosis of breast symptoms at the time of the 
interview. The research method used was the semistructured in-depth interview 
method. The investigator used the Montgomery-Asberg depression rating scale 
(MADRS) to evaluate the depression of the study participants. All participants 
were also asked to complete standardized questionnaires (Beck depression 
inventory and Spielberger trait inventory).
RESULTS: The clinical examination and biopsy showed breast cancer in 34 
patients, benign breast disease in 53 patients, and 28 individuals were shown to 
be healthy. The BC group had significantly higher mean score for the deficit in 
childhood than the BBD and HSS groups (p<0.05). The women in the BC group had 
almost significantly higher mean scores for the loss of social status in 
childhood than the women in the BBD and HSS groups (p=0.05). The BC group had 
also significantly more severe deficit in childhood than the BBD and HSS groups 
(p=0.02). The results indicated that breast cancer patients tended to have more 
life stress due to losses and deficit in childhood and adolescence than BBD and 
HSS groups.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study support a weak association between life 
stress due to losses and deficit in childhood and adolescence and breast cancer 
risk. However, the biological explanation for such an association is unclear and 
it might be that stress due to losses and deficit impacts indirectly on breast 
cancer risk, affecting behaviour, or directly on the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and autonomic nervous system functioning.

PMID: 21036756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Nov;197(5):348-9. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.110.082453.

Is the EQ-5D fit for purpose in mental health?

Brazier J.

Comment on
    Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Nov;197(5):386-94.

The EQ-5D is a widely used questionnaire for calculating quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) for assessing cost-effectiveness in healthcare. It reflects 
the impact of common mental health conditions such as mild to moderate 
depression but seems to be more problematic for use in people with psychotic and 
severe and complex non-psychotic disorders.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.110.082453
PMID: 21037210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Br Med Bull. 2010;96:5-21. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldq033. Epub 2010 Oct 29.

Health outcomes in economic evaluation: the QALY and utilities.

Whitehead SJ(1), Ali S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, Heslington, York, UK. 
sarah.whitehead@york.ac.uk

The quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is routinely used as a summary measure of 
health outcome for economic evaluation, which incorporates the impact on both 
the quantity and quality of life. Key studies relating to the QALY and utility 
measurement are the sources of data. Areas of agreement include the need for a 
standard measure of health outcome to enable comparisons across different 
disease areas and populations, and the methods used for valuing health states in 
utility measurement. Areas of controversy include the limitation of the QALY 
approach in terms of the health benefits it can capture, its blindness towards 
equity concerns, the underlying theoretical assumptions and the most appropriate 
generic preference-based measure of utility. There is growing debate relating to 
whether a QALY is the same regardless of who accrues it, and also the issue as 
to who should value health states. Research is required to further enhance the 
QALY approach to deal with challenges relating to equity-weighted utility 
maximization and testing the validity of underlying assumptions. Issues around 
choosing between condition-specific measures and generic instruments also merit 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldq033
PMID: 21037243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Int J Epidemiol. 2011 Jun;40(3):626-44. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyq190. Epub 2010
Oct  29.

Intelligence in youth and all-cause-mortality: systematic review with 
meta-analysis.

Calvin CM(1), Deary IJ, Fenton C, Roberts BA, Der G, Leckenby N, Batty GD.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive Epidemiology, Department of 
Psychology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2011 Jun;40(3):644-6.

BACKGROUND: A number of prospective cohort studies have examined the association 
between intelligence in childhood or youth and life expectancy in adulthood; 
however, the effect size of this association is yet to be quantified and 
previous reviews require updating.
METHODS: The systematic review included an electronic search of EMBASE, MEDLINE 
and PSYCHINFO databases. This yielded 16 unrelated studies that met inclusion 
criteria, comprising 22,453 deaths among 1,107,022 participants. Heterogeneity 
was assessed, and fixed effects models were applied to the aggregate data. 
Publication bias was evaluated, and sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: A 1-standard deviation (SD) advantage in cognitive test scores was 
associated with a 24% (95% confidence interval 23-25) lower risk of death, 
during a 17- to 69-year follow-up. There was little evidence of publication bias 
(Egger's intercept = 0.10, P = 0.81), and the intelligence-mortality association 
was similar for men and women. Adjustment for childhood socio-economic status 
(SES) in the nine studies containing these data had almost no impact on this 
relationship, suggesting that this is not a confounder of the 
intelligence-mortality association. Controlling for adult SES in five studies 
and for education in six studies attenuated the intelligence-mortality hazard 
ratios by 34 and 54%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Future investigations should address the extent to which 
attenuation of the intelligence-mortality link by adult SES indicators is due to 
mediation, over-adjustment and/or confounding. The explanation(s) for 
association between higher early-life intelligence and lower risk of adult 
mortality require further elucidation.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyq190
PMCID: PMC3147066
PMID: 21037248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2010;11(3):633-40.

Disability adjusted life years for cancer patients in India.

Murthy NS(1), Nandakumar BS, Pruthvish S, George PS, Mathew A.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Registry Programme (ICMR), MS Ramaiah Medical College, 
Bangalore, India.

The disability adjusted life year (DALY) has been employed to quantify the 
burden of diseases. This measure allows for combining in a single indicator 
"years of life lived with disabilities (YLD)" and "years of life lost from 
premature death (YLL)" . The present communication attempts to estimate the 
burden of cancers in-terms of YLL, YLD and DALY for "all sites" and leading 
sites of cancer in India for the years 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016. The YLL, YLD 
and DALY were estimated by employing Global Burden of Disease (GBD) methodology 
using the DISMOD procedure. The published data on age, gender and site specific 
cancer incidence and mortality for the years 2001-2003 relating to six 
population-based cancer registries viz. Bangalore, Barshi, Bhopal, Chennai, 
Delhi and Mumbai, expectation of life by gender for urban areas of the country 
for 1999-2003 and the projected population during years 2001, 2006, 2011 and 
2016 were utilized for the computations. DALYs were found to be lower for males 
(2,038,553, 2,313,843, 2,656,693 and 3,021,708 for 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016 
respectively) as compared to females (2,560,423, 2,961,218, 3,403,176 and 
3,882,649). Amongst males, highest DALYs were contributed by cancer of the lung 
and esophagus while in females they were for cancers of breast and cervix uteri. 
It is estimated that total DALYs due to cancer in India combined for both 
genders would increase from 4,598,976 in 2001 to 6,904,358 by 2016. Premature 
mortality is a major contributor to disease burden. According to the present 
estimates, the YLL component of DALY is about 70.0%. The above described 
computations reveal an urgent need for initiating primary and secondary 
prevention measures for control of cancers.

PMID: 21039029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2011 Jan;74(1):104-10. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.2010.03885.x.

The value of detectable thyroglobulin in patients with differentiated thyroid 
cancer after initial ¹³¹I therapy.

van Dijk D(1), Plukker JT, van der Horst-Schrivers AN, Jansen L, Brouwers AH, 
Muller-Kobold A, Sluiter WJ, Links TP.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Endocrinology, University Medical Centre Groningen, University 
of Groningen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the prognostic value of detectable thyroglobulin (Tg) after 
initial surgery and radioactive iodine (¹³¹I) therapy by comparing patients with 
a negative post-therapeutic whole body scan (WBS) with either detectable or 
undetectable Tg.
BACKGROUND: Differentiated thyroid cancer has a good prognosis. However, 
recurrences can occur up to 30 years after initial treatment. Because life-long 
follow-up is necessary, it is important to explore possible risk factors 
associated with recurrence and mortality.
DESIGN, PATIENTS AND MEASUREMENTS: We studied 539 patients who were treated 
between 1980 and 2007. After the last therapeutic dosage of 5550 MBq ¹³¹I, 72 
patients had negative post-therapeutic WBS and positive Tg levels (Tg+ group) 
and 399 patients had negative post-therapeutic WBS and negative Tg (Tg- group). 
The 68 remaining patients had proven residual macroscopic disease. We 
investigated recurrences and overall mortality in the Tg+ and Tg- group compared 
with the Dutch population.
RESULTS: In the Tg+ group, detectable recurrences occurred significantly earlier 
and more frequently than in the Tg- group (19%vs 13%, P = 0·024). Survival 
between these groups was comparable, but shorter than the general Dutch 
population [Standardised Mortality Rate (SMR) 1·38 (95% CI 1·12;1·63) (P = 
0·003)]. Disease-free survival in the Tg groups was comparable and not 
significantly different from the Dutch population [SMR = 1·09 (95% CI 0·81;1·34) 
(P = 0·569)].
CONCLUSION: Patients with detectable Tg during the last ¹³¹I treatment and a 
negative post-therapeutic WBS have significant earlier and more recurrences than 
patients without detectable Tg. Survival in both groups is comparable. After 
initial therapy, the combination of a negative high dose post-therapeutic WBS 
with detectable Tg is a valuable predictor for earlier and more recurrences, but 
is not associated with survival.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2010.03885.x
PMID: 21039721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Cell Prolif. 2010 Dec;43(6):606-16. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2184.2010.00710.x.

Schwann-like cell differentiation of rat adipose-derived stem cells by indirect 
co-culture with Schwann cells in vitro.

Wei Y(1), Gong K, Zheng Z, Liu L, Wang A, Zhang L, Ao Q, Gong Y, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and Membrane 
Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVES: Schwann cell (SC) transplantation is a promising therapy for 
peripheral nerve transaction, however, clinical use of SCs is limited due to 
their very limited availability. Adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) have been 
identified as an alternative source of adult stem cells in recent years. The aim 
of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of using ADSCs as a source of stem 
cells for differentiation into Schwann-like cells by an indirect co-culture 
approach, in vitro.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Multilineage differentiation potential of the obtained 
ADSCs was assayed by testing their ability to differentiate into osteoblasts and 
adipocytes. The ADSCs were co-cultured with SCs to be induced into Schwann-like 
cells through proximity, using a Millicell system. Expression of typical SC 
markers S-100, GFAP and P75NTR of the treated ADSCs was determined by 
immunocytochemical staining, western blotting and RT-PCR. Myelination capacity 
of the differentiated ADSCs (dADSCs) was evaluated in dADSC/dorsal root ganglia 
neuron (DRGN) co-cultures.
RESULTS: The treated ADSCs adopted a spindle shaped-like morphology after 
co-cultured with SCs for 6 days. All results of immunocytochemical staining, 
western blotting and RT-PCR showed that the treated cells expressed S-100, GFAP 
and P75NTR, indications of differentiation. dADSCs could form Schwann-like cell 
myelin in co-culture with DRGNs. Undifferentiated ADSCs (uADSCs) did not form 
myelin compared to DRGNs cultured alone, but could produce neurite extension.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that this indirect co-culture 
microenvironment could induce ADSCs to differentiate into Schwann-like cells in 
vitro, which may be beneficial for treatment of peripheral nerve injuries in the 
near future.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2184.2010.00710.x
PMCID: PMC6496385
PMID: 21039999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Eval Clin Pract. 2011 Dec;17(6):1094-101. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01481.x. Epub 2010 Oct 12.

Incorporation of economic evidence in the Dutch guideline 'cardiovascular risk 
management'.

Tan SS(1), Rutten FF, Hakkaart-van Roijen L.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Universiteit Rotterdam, Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands. tan@bmg.eur.nl

RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The consideration of economic evidence in 
guideline development may be particularly important in health care management 
when different (drug) therapies show similar efficacy on clinical endpoints, 
such as in cardiovascular diseases. This article investigates to what extent the 
Dutch guideline 'cardiovascular risk management' (2006) considers 
cost-effectiveness and budget impact according to the most recent economic 
evidence.
METHOD: We carried out a systematic review of economic evaluations on 
cholesterol-lowering drugs and antihypertensives followed by an assessment of 
guideline recommendations.
RESULTS: The guideline does not consider the most recent economic evidence but 
does consider cost-effectiveness based on economic evaluations performed in 
conjunction with clinical trials. Their conclusions are largely in agreement 
with the most recent economic evidence. An innovative aspect in the guideline is 
the application of a budget impact analysis to take accessibility and 
affordability constraints into account when considering cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the most recent economic evidence, the guideline could be 
improved by more firmly formulating recommendations in favour of cost-effective 
drug therapies (simvastatin, pravastatin and low-dose diuretics) to stimulate 
compliance to the guideline in clinical practice.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2010.01481.x
PMID: 21040249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Hemodial Int. 2010 Oct;14 Suppl 1:S32-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1542-4758.2010.00488.x.

Maximum conservative management for patients with chronic kidney disease stage 
5.

Burns A(1), Davenport A.

Author information:
(1)UCL Center for Nephrology, University College London Medical School, London, 
UK.

Following the expansion of dialysis services for patients with chronic kidney 
disease, an increasing number of elderly patients with varying degrees of 
frailty and additional comorbidities have been offered treatment. Life 
expectancy is somewhat limited in this group of patients, and initiation of 
dialysis may not necessarily improve quality of life. As such, an increasing 
number of centers are offering conservative care for patients who have made an 
informed decision not to have dialysis. As conservative care includes active 
treatment of anemia, volume overload, blood pressure control, and management of 
uremic symptoms, including pruritus, we term this approach as maximal 
conservative management of chronic kidney disease. We describe our experience of 
maximum conservative management, which although may not prolong life, can 
maintain the quality of life and functional ability until the final illness in 
the majority of patients. Although these patients do not go to the hospital on a 
regular basis, coordinated support from the hospital, the community, and the 
care giver/relative is required for successful care of the patient. Appropriate 
end of life planning can then be made according to the wishes of the patient.

© 2010 The Authors. Hemodialysis International © 2010 International Society for 
Hemodialysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1542-4758.2010.00488.x
PMID: 21040417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Head Face Med. 2010 Nov 1;6:25. doi: 10.1186/1746-160X-6-25.

Modern concepts in facial nerve reconstruction.

Volk GF(1), Pantel M, Guntinas-Lichius O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolarnygology, University Jena, Lessingstrasse 2, Jena, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Reconstructive surgery of the facial nerve is not daily routine for 
most head and neck surgeons. The published experience on strategies to ensure 
optimal functional results for the patients are based on small case series with 
a large variety of surgical techniques. On this background it is worthwhile to 
develop a standardized approach for diagnosis and treatment of patients asking 
for facial rehabilitation.
CONCLUSION: A standardized approach is feasible: Patients with chronic facial 
palsy first need an exact classification of the palsy's aetiology. A 
step-by-step clinical examination, if necessary MRI imaging and 
electromyographic examination allow a classification of the palsy's aetiology as 
well as the determination of the severity of the palsy and the functional 
deficits. Considering the patient's desire, age and life expectancy, an 
individual surgical concept is applicable using three main approaches: a) early 
extratemporal reconstruction, b) early reconstruction of proximal lesions if 
extratemporal reconstruction is not possible, c) late reconstruction or in cases 
of congenital palsy. Twelve to 24 months after the last step of surgical 
reconstruction a standardized evaluation of the therapeutic results is 
recommended to evaluate the necessity for adjuvant surgical procedures or other 
adjuvant procedures, e.g. botulinum toxin application. Up to now controlled 
trials on the value of physiotherapy and other adjuvant measures are missing to 
give recommendation for optimal application of adjuvant therapies.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-160X-6-25
PMCID: PMC2984557
PMID: 21040532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Explore (NY). 2010 Nov-Dec;6(6):352-8. doi: 10.1016/j.explore.2010.08.003.

Secrets of long life: cross-cultural explorations in sustainably enhancing 
vitality and promoting longevity via elders' practice wisdom.

Pesek T(1), Reminick R, Nair M.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Cleveland State University, Cleveland, OH 44115, 
USA. t.pesek@csuohio.edu

In searching for different patterns of practice, lifestyle, and environment 
supportive of optimal health, we look to our elders around the world, who in the 
wisdom that has sustained them, we learn from with careful attention. 
Thirty-seven elders who live by their traditions participated in the present 
study. They assisted in the refinement of the methodology and collections and 
preparation of these data. These participants are well-respected, representative 
elders and traditional healers of their regions. These data, from study sites of 
the Eastern Afromontane and Albertine Rift region of Ethiopia, Africa; the Maya 
Mountains region of Belize, Central America; the Western Ghats region of India; 
and the Appalachian Mountains region of the United States, were grouped into 
three major categories: (1) philosophy, attitudes, and outlook, (2) lifestyle 
practices, and (3) dietary and nutritional practices. These elders demonstrate a 
relatively comprehensive but simple set of practices that can enhance our 
vitality and promote longevity sustainably. In essence, these practices, or 
practice wisdom, of our longest living elders, promote propagation of healthful 
lifestyles by following traditional ways and taking care of body, mind, spirit 
and our environment. Further field research among a larger cohort is required to 
fully generalize the findings of this study, but much of it is consistent with 
what we already know should be done. These data begin illustration of practice 
wisdom for implementation and serve to engage our universities, our hospitals, 
our industries, and our students, who we must position toward social change.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.explore.2010.08.003
PMID: 21040883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Psychiatr Serv. 2010 Nov;61(11):1146-9. doi: 10.1176/ps.2010.61.11.1146.

Public's view of mental health services for the elderly: responses to Dear Abby.

Koh S(1), Blank K, Cohen CI, Cohen G, Faison W, Kennedy G, Kyomen H, Liptzin B, 
Meador K, Rohrbaugh R, Rusch B, Sakauye K, Schultz S, Streim J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, RTO 9116A, 
9500 Gilman Dr., La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. sskoh@ucsd.edu

The need for adequate mental health services for older adults is an increasingly 
urgent issue as the life expectancy of Americans continues to extend; yet there 
are unresolved questions regarding the public's perception of service needs. The 
Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry collaborated with advice columnist 
Jeannie Phillips of "Dear Abby" to invite public feedback on mental health 
services for the elderly. Feedback was invited on access to services as well as 
perceived need for improvement in the quality or quantity of those services. The 
effort resulted in 800 responses that identified three primary issues: problems 
in accessing care, inadequate detection of mental health conditions by general 
practitioners, and a need for more psychotherapy services. It is hoped that this 
Open Forum will stimulate discussion throughout the country for the benefit of 
older persons with mental health needs as the country grapples with changes to 
come after the passage of health care reform.

DOI: 10.1176/ps.2010.61.11.1146
PMID: 21041356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Ann Intern Med. 2011 Jan 4;154(1):1-11. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-154-1-201101040-00289. Epub 2010 Nov 1.

Cost-effectiveness of dabigatran compared with warfarin for stroke prevention in 
atrial fibrillation.

Freeman JV(1), Zhu RP, Owens DK, Garber AM, Hutton DW, Go AS, Wang PJ, Turakhia 
MP.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Apr 19;154(8):570; author reply 570-1.
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Apr 19;154(8):570; author reply 570-1.
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Jun 21;154(12):JC6-12.

BACKGROUND: Warfarin reduces the risk for ischemic stroke in patients with 
atrial fibrillation (AF) but increases the risk for hemorrhage. Dabigatran is a 
fixed-dose, oral direct thrombin inhibitor with similar or reduced rates of 
ischemic stroke and intracranial hemorrhage in patients with AF compared with 
those of warfarin.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the quality-adjusted survival, costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of dabigatran compared with adjusted-dose warfarin for 
preventing ischemic stroke in patients 65 years or older with nonvalvular AF.
DESIGN: Markov decision model.
DATA SOURCES: The RE-LY (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation 
Therapy) trial and other published studies of anticoagulation. The cost of 
dabigatran was estimated on the basis of pricing in the United Kingdom.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients aged 65 years or older with nonvalvular AF and risk 
factors for stroke (CHADS₂ score ≥1 or equivalent) and no contraindications to 
anticoagulation.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Warfarin anticoagulation (target international normalized ratio, 
2.0 to 3.0); dabigatran, 110 mg twice daily (low dose); and dabigatran, 150 mg 
twice daily (high dose).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs (in 2008 U.S. 
dollars), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: The quality-adjusted life expectancy was 10.28 
QALYs with warfarin, 10.70 QALYs with low-dose dabigatran, and 10.84 QALYs with 
high-dose dabigatran. Total costs were $143 193 for warfarin, $164 576 for 
low-dose dabigatran, and $168 398 for high-dose dabigatran. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios compared with warfarin were $51 229 per QALY for 
low-dose dabigatran and $45 372 per QALY for high-dose dabigatran.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The model was sensitive to the cost of 
dabigatran but was relatively insensitive to other model inputs. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio increased to $50 000 per QALY at a cost of $13.70 per 
day for high-dose dabigatran but remained less than $85 000 per QALY over the 
full range of model inputs evaluated. The cost-effectiveness of high-dose 
dabigatran improved with increasing risk for stroke and intracranial hemorrhage.
LIMITATION: Event rates were largely derived from a single randomized clinical 
trial and extrapolated to a 35-year time frame from clinical trials with 
approximately 2-year follow-up.
CONCLUSION: In patients aged 65 years or older with nonvalvular AF at increased 
risk for stroke (CHADS₂ score ≥1 or equivalent), dabigatran may be a 
cost-effective alternative to warfarin depending on pricing in the United 
States.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: American Heart Association and Veterans Affairs Health 
Services Research & Development Service.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-154-1-201101040-00289
PMID: 21041570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Heart. 2010 Dec;96(23):1920-5. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2010.199240. Epub 2010 Nov
1.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions to reduce dietary salt intake.

Cobiac LJ(1), Vos T, Veerman JL.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Herston, QLD 4006, 
Australia. l.cobiac@uq.edu.au

Comment in
    Heart. 2010 Dec;96(23):1863-4.
    Heart. 2011 Feb;97(4):341-2; author reply 342.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate population health benefits and cost-effectiveness of 
interventions for reducing salt in the diet.
DESIGN: Proportional multistate life-table modelling of cardiovascular disease 
and health sector cost outcomes over the lifetime of the Australian population 
in 2003.
INTERVENTIONS: The current Australian programme of incentives to the food 
industry for moderate reduction of salt in processed foods; a government mandate 
of moderate salt limits in processed foods; dietary advice for everyone at 
increased risk of cardiovascular disease and dietary advice for those at high 
risk.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs measured in Australian dollars for the year 2003. 
Health outcomes measured in disability-adjusted life years (DALY) averted over 
the lifetime.
RESULTS: Mandatory and voluntary reductions in the salt content of processed 
food are cost-saving interventions under all modelled scenarios of discounting, 
costing and cardiovascular disease risk reversal (dominant cost-effectiveness 
ratios). Dietary advice targeting individuals is not cost-effective under any of 
the modelled scenarios, even if directed at those with highest blood pressure 
risk only (best case median cost-effectiveness A$100 000/DALY; 95% uncertainty 
interval A$64 000/DALY to A$180 000/DALY). Although the current programme that 
relies on voluntary action by the food industry is cost-effective, the 
population health benefits could be 20 times greater with government legislation 
on moderate salt limits in processed foods.
CONCLUSIONS: Programmes to encourage the food industry to reduce salt in 
processed foods are highly recommended for improving population health and 
reducing health sector spending in the long term, but regulatory action from 
government may be needed to achieve the potential of significant improvements in 
population health.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2010.199240
PMID: 21041840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Neurocirugia (Astur). 2010 Oct;21(5):390-5. doi: 
10.4321/s1130-14732010000500004.

[Spinal pleomorphic xantoastrocytoma. Case report].

[Article in Spanish]

Simal-Julián JA(1), Sanchis-Martín R, Prat-Acín R, Miranda-Lloret P, 
Conde-Sardón R, Cárdenas-Ruiz-Valdepeñas E, Beltrán-Giner A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía Hospital La Fe de Valencia, España.

INTRODUCTION: we report the clinical, radiological and pathological features of 
a spinal pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, an unusual neoplastic entity in a really 
rare location, establish an appropriated management of these lesions and review 
the short available english literature.
CASE REPORT: a 60 years old woman consulted with doctor because she felt 
progressive clumsiness accompanied by occasional paresthesias on her left hand. 
Neurological examination showed up weakness and slight propioceptive 
disturbances. The differential imagine diagnosis was established between 
intramedullary astrocytoma and ependimoma. Patient underwent surgical gross 
total remove. Histopathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of 
pleomorfic xanthoastrocytoma. We performed MRI controls at 6, 12, 24 and 36 
months that did not reveal recurrence. Nowadays, the patient has regained her 
previous quality of life.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: comparing to published cases about intracranial 
pleomorphic xanthoastrocytomas, spinal pleomorphic xanthoastrocytomas (SPXA) 
present different epidemiological characteristics. The known SPXAs affected to 
cervical and/or high thoracic levels. The hypothesis about a more aggressive 
behaviour of PXA in spinal cord may be corroborated after literature review. 
Extension examination is mandatory since dissemination along the neuroaxis has 
been described. Removal extension is crucial in the prevention of tumour 
recurrence. Adyuvant radiotherapy should only be considered when there is 
postoperative residual tumour and/or anaplastic features. Randomized clinical 
trials or databases are necessary to know all the aspects of this pathological 
entity.

DOI: 10.4321/s1130-14732010000500004
PMID: 21042690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2010 Jun 28;58(21):1-40.

United States life tables, 2006.

Arias E(1).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Centers for Disease Contorl and 
Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, 
Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: this report presents complete period life tables by age, race, and 
sex for the United States based on age-specific death rates in 2006.
METHODS: Data used to prepare the 2006 life tables are 2006 final mortality 
statistics, July 1, 2006 population estimates based on the 2000 decennial 
census, and 2006 Medicare data for ages 66-100. The 2006 life tables were 
estimated using a recently revised methodology first applied to the final annual 
U.S. life tables series with the 2005 edition (1). For comparability, all life 
tables for the years 2000-2004 were reestimated using the revised methodology 
and were published in an appendix of the United States Life Tables, 2005 report 
(1). These revised tables replace all previously published life tables for years 
2000-2004.
RESULTS: In 2006, the overall expectation of life at birth was 77.7 years, 
representing an increase of 0.3 years from life expectancy in 2005. From 2005 to 
2006, life expectancy at birth increased for all groups considered. It increased 
for males (from 74.9 to 75.1) and females (from 79.9 to 80.2), the white (from 
77.9 to 78.2) and black populations (from 72.8 to 73.2), black males (from 69.3 
to 69.7) and females (from 76.1 to 76.5), and white males (from 75.4 to 75.7) 
and females (from 80.4 to 80.6).

PMID: 21043319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Reprod Med. 2010 Sep-Oct;55(9-10):373-81.

When should women with placenta previa be delivered? A decision analysis.

Zlatnik MG(1), Little SE, Kohli P, Kaimal AJ, Stotland NE, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical and Policy Perinatal Research, Department of Obstetrics, 
Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, University of California-San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 94143, USA. zlatnikm@obgyn.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal gestational age of delivery for women with 
placenta previa by accounting for both neonatal and maternal outcomes.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision-analytic model was designed comparing total maternal 
and neonatal quality-adjusted life years for delivery of women with previa at 
gestational ages from 34 to 38 weeks. At each week, we allowed for four 
different delivery strategies: (1) immediate delivery, without amniocentesis or 
steroids; (2) delivery 48 hours after steroid administration (without 
amniocentesis); (3) amniocentesis with delivery if fetal lung maturity (FLM) 
positive or retesting in one week if FLM negative; (4) amniocentesis with 
delivery if FLM testing is positive or administration of steroids if FLM 
negative.
RESULTS: Delivery at 36 weeks, 48 hours after steroids, for women with previa 
optimizes maternal and neonatal outcomes. In sensitivity analyses, these results 
were robust to a wide range of variation in input assumptions. If it is assumed 
that steroids offer no neonatal benefit at this gestational age, outright 
delivery at 36 weeks' gestation is the best strategy.
CONCLUSION: Steroid administration at 35 weeks and 5 days followed by delivery 
at 36 weeks for women with placenta previa optimizes maternal and neonatal 
outcomes.

PMCID: PMC6633882
PMID: 21043362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2010;8(6):407-20. doi: 
10.2165/11535530-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of establishing a neonatal screening programme for 
phenylketonuria in Libya.

Sladkevicius E(1), Pollitt RJ, Mgadmi A, Guest JF.

Author information:
(1)CATALYST Health Economics Consultants Ltd, Northwood, Middlesex, UK.

BACKGROUND: Inborn errors of metabolism (IEM) are a significant cause of 
morbidity and mortality in North Africa and the Middle East. With the evident 
success of neighbouring countries in initiating neonatal screening for IEM, the 
Libyan Authorities are now considering introducing neonatal screening for 
phenylketonuria (PKU) in Libya in the first instance, with the prospect of 
expanding the programme to cover other IEM in the future.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of neonatal screening for PKU 
compared with no neonatal screening in Libya.
METHODS: A decision model was constructed to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
neonatal screening for PKU, from the perspective of Libyan society. Healthcare 
resource use and other input parameters were based on expert opinion.
RESULTS: The expected discounted cost to Libyan society of screening over 15 
years and managing ∼374 patients with detected PKU over their lifetime was 
estimated to be $US213.6 (95% CI 211.9, 214.3) million (year 2007-8 values). The 
current expected discounted cost of managing these same PKU patients over their 
lifetime as a result of not screening was estimated to be $US321.2 (95% CI 
318.0, 322.7) million. Hence, screening would save Libyan society $US107.6 (95% 
CI 105.5, 109.1) million over the lifetime of PKU patients and lead to an 
additional 6947 life-years (95% CI 6837, 7056). The expected cost per 
undiscounted life-year gained was estimated to be -$US15,500 (95% CI -16,600, 
1100). There would be a 90% return on investment in the screening programme 
since society would gain $US1.9 for every $US1 invested. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the screening programme has a 0.95 
probability of being cost effective even at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$US4000 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the model's limitations, neonatal screening for PKU appears 
to offer Libyan society a strategy that is cost effective compared with no 
neonatal screening.

DOI: 10.2165/11535530-000000000-00000
PMID: 21043542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Int Braz J Urol. 2010 Sep-Oct;36(5):537-47. doi: 
10.1590/s1677-55382010000500003.

Radical cystectomy with orthotopic neobladder for invasive bladder cancer: a 
critical analysis of long term oncological, functional and quality of life 
results.

Stenzl A(1), Sherif H, Kuczyk M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany. 
urologie@med.uni-tuebingen.de

PURPOSE: Analyze current knowledge and practice regarding tumor-related 
cystectomy with subsequent orthotopic neobladder both in male and female 
patients.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Evaluate literature predominantly from the 
last decade dealing with long-term experience in large numbers of patients with 
an orthotopic neobladder following cystectomy. Oncological outcome specific to 
an orthotopic neobladder, functional aspects such as urinary continence, renal 
function, sexual activity and other quality of life issues are elucidated.
RESULTS: Local pelvic recurrences after urothelial bladder cancer occur in 
7-12%. Urethral second primary tumors in male and female patients in 
contemporary series with bladder substitution are 4-6% and 1.4 o 4%, 
respectively. Upper tract recurrences vary between 2.4-17%. Complications 
regarding the upper urinary tract have dramatically diminished due to simplified 
forms of upper tract protection as well as a more refined technique of 
ureterointestinal anastomosis. Depending on the technique ureteroileal stenosis 
was lately reported to lie between 2.7 to 3.8%. Renal function remained stable 
in 96% after a mean follow-up of up to 5 years.
CONCLUSION: Radical cystectomy in carefully selected patients has stood the test 
of time by providing adequate long-term survival and low local recurrence rates. 
Orthotopic bladder substitution does not compromise oncological outcome, yields 
excellent functional results, is cost effective compared to other types of 
urinary diversion, may improve quality of life and should therefore be the 
diversion of choice both in men and women. Chronological age is generally not a 
contraindication for cystectomy, but for orthotopic urinary diversion, tumor 
extent, functional pelvic floor deficits and general life expectancy are 
limiting factors.

DOI: 10.1590/s1677-55382010000500003
PMID: 21044370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Biol Chem. 2011 Jan 7;286(1):410-9. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.101527. Epub
2010  Nov 2.

Functional gene expression profiling in yeast implicates translational 
dysfunction in mutant huntingtin toxicity.

Tauber E(1), Miller-Fleming L, Mason RP, Kwan W, Clapp J, Butler NJ, Outeiro TF, 
Muchowski PJ, Giorgini F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, Leicester LE1 7RH, United 
Kingdom.

Huntington disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion 
of a polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin (htt) protein. To uncover candidate 
therapeutic targets and networks involved in pathogenesis, we integrated gene 
expression profiling and functional genetic screening to identify genes critical 
for mutant htt toxicity in yeast. Using mRNA profiling, we have identified genes 
differentially expressed in wild-type yeast in response to mutant htt toxicity 
as well as in three toxicity suppressor strains: bna4Δ, mbf1Δ, and ume1Δ. BNA4 
encodes the yeast homolog of kynurenine 3-monooxygenase, a promising drug target 
for HD. Intriguingly, despite playing diverse cellular roles, these three 
suppressors share common differentially expressed genes involved in stress 
response, translation elongation, and mitochondrial transport. We then 
systematically tested the ability of the differentially expressed genes to 
suppress mutant htt toxicity when overexpressed and have thereby identified 12 
novel suppressors, including genes that play a role in stress response, Golgi to 
endosome transport, and rRNA processing. Integrating the mRNA profiling data and 
the genetic screening data, we have generated a robust network that shows 
enrichment in genes involved in rRNA processing and ribosome biogenesis. 
Strikingly, these observations implicate dysfunction of translation in the 
pathology of HD. Recent work has shown that regulation of translation is 
critical for life span extension in Drosophila and that manipulation of this 
process is protective in Parkinson disease models. In total, these observations 
suggest that pharmacological manipulation of translation may have therapeutic 
value in HD.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.101527
PMCID: PMC3012999
PMID: 21044956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2011 Jan;26(1):28-35. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfq576. Epub
 2010 Nov 2.

Diabesity: an overview of a rising epidemic.

Farag YM, Gaballa MR.

'Diabesity' is the term for diabetes occurring in the context of obesity. In 
this review, we will overview the latest epidemiological data available 
describing the rising prevalence, health impact and economic impact of 
diabesity. We will also outline the measures required to slowdown this newly 
evolving epidemic. The global prevalence of diabetes in 2010 was 284 million 
people worldwide constituting around 6.4% of the world population, which is 
higher than was projected in earlier studies. Furthermore, the projections for 
2030 show the prevalence to reach 439 million individuals comprising ~7.7% of 
the world population. The burden of diabetes on the world economy has been 
rising steadily in the last decade to reach $376 billion in 2010 and is expected 
to reach $490 billion in 2030. Diabesity represents a substantial economic 
burden as reflected by diabetes and obesity consuming 14 and 5.7% of the USA's 
total health expenditure, respectively, representing the highest known 
expenditure on diabesity worldwide. When costs associated with being overweight 
were also included, the upper limit of obesity expenditure rises to 9.1% of the 
USA's total healthcare expenditure. The highest recorded expenditure on diabetes 
alone was in Saudi Arabia consuming 21% of the country's total health 
expenditure, with no data available about the health expenditure on obesity. The 
health impact of diabesity is substantial to include long-term diabetic 
complications, reduction in health-related functioning, reduction of quality of 
life and reduced overall life expectancy. Long-term complications include 
myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular stroke and end-stage renal disease. Also 
