of disease, death, or unacceptable toxicity. Seventeen patients were treated 
(core phase, 17; extension, 9). The geometric mean ratios 
(comedication/monotherapy) for C(max) and area under the curve(0-168) of 
warfarin were near unity and their 90% confidence intervals were within the 
equivalence limits of 0.80 and 1.25. The half-life, plasma clearance, and 
International Normalized Ratio (INR) of warfarin were not affected by patupilone 
coadministration. The most common adverse events were diarrhea, nausea, 
vomiting, abdominal pain, anorexia, dehydration, asthenia, and peripheral 
neuropathy. Five (29.4%) patients experienced grade 3 study drug-related adverse 
events (diarrhea, 17.6%; increased INR, 11.8%; dehydration, 5.9%; and 
neutropenia, 5.9%). One patient with triple-negative breast cancer (estrogen 
receptor, progesterone receptor, and HER2/neu negative) had a partial response 
(35% decrease in tumor measurements by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid 
Tumors), and 11 had stable disease for 6 weeks or more (≥12 weeks, 6 patients). 
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of warfarin were not affected by 
patupilone coadministration, suggesting that patupilone has no clinically 
relevant effect on CYP2C9 metabolism. Patupilone showed antitumor activity in 
triple-negative breast cancer.

©2010 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-10-0774
PMID: 21220503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Feb 10;29(5):573-82. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.29.8711. Epub
2011  Jan 10.

Myeloproliferative neoplasms: molecular pathophysiology, essential clinical 
understanding, and treatment strategies.

Tefferi A(1), Vainchenker W.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
tefferi.ayalew@mayo.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2011 Jun 20;29(18):e564-5.

To update oncologists on pathogenesis, contemporary diagnosis, risk 
stratification, and treatment strategies in BCR-ABL1-negative myeloproliferative 
neoplasms, including polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and 
primary myelofibrosis (PMF). Recent literature was reviewed and interpreted in 
the context of the authors' own experience and expertise. Pathogenetic 
mechanisms in PV, ET, and PMF include stem cell-derived clonal 
myeloproliferation and secondary stromal changes in the bone marrow and spleen. 
Most patients carry an activating JAK2 or MPL mutation and a smaller subset also 
harbors LNK, CBL, TET2, ASXL1, IDH, IKZF1, or EZH2 mutations; the precise 
pathogenetic contribution of these mutations is under investigation. JAK2 
mutation analysis is now a formal component of diagnostic criteria for PV, ET, 
and PMF, but its prognostic utility is limited. Life expectancy in the majority 
of patients with PV or ET is near-normal and disease complications are 
effectively (and safely) managed by treatment with low-dose aspirin, phlebotomy, 
or hydroxyurea. In PMF, survival and quality of life are significantly worse and 
current therapy is inadequate. In ET and PV, controlled studies are needed to 
show added value and justify the risk of unknown long-term health effects 
associated with nonconventional therapeutic approaches (eg, interferon-alfa). 
The unmet need for treatment in PMF dictates a different approach for assessing 
the therapeutic value of new drugs (eg, JAK inhibitors, pomalidomide) or 
allogeneic stem-cell transplantation.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.29.8711
PMID: 21220604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Arch Neurol. 2011 May;68(5):573-9. doi: 10.1001/archneurol.2010.356. Epub
2011  Jan 10.

Statin use following intracerebral hemorrhage: a decision analysis.

Westover MB(1), Bianchi MT, Eckman MH, Greenberg SM.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Stroke Research Center, 175 Cambridge Street, 
Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Neurol. 2011 May;68(5):565-6.

CONTEXT: Statins are widely prescribed for primary and secondary prevention of 
ischemic cardiac and cerebrovascular disease. Although serious adverse effects 
are uncommon, results from a recent clinical trial suggested increased risk of 
intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) associated with statin use. For patients with 
baseline elevated risk of ICH, it is not known whether this potential adverse 
effect offsets the cardiovascular and cerebrovascular benefits.
OBJECTIVE: To address the following clinical question: Given a history of prior 
ICH, should statin therapy be avoided?
DESIGN: A Markov decision model was used to evaluate the risks and benefits of 
statin therapy in patients with prior ICH.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Life expectancy, measured as quality-adjusted life-years. 
We investigated how statin use affects this outcome measure while varying a 
range of clinical parameters, including hemorrhage location (deep vs lobar), 
ischemic cardiac and cerebrovascular risks, and magnitude of ICH risk associated 
with statins.
RESULTS: Avoiding statins was favored over a wide range of values for many 
clinical parameters, particularly in survivors of lobar ICH who are at highest 
risk of ICH recurrence. In survivors of lobar ICH without prior cardiovascular 
events, avoiding statins yielded a life expectancy gain of 2.2 quality-adjusted 
life-years compared with statin use. This net benefit persisted even at the 
lower 95% confidence interval of the relative risk of statin-associated ICH. In 
patients with lobar ICH who had prior cardiovascular events, the annual 
recurrence risk of myocardial infarction would have to exceed 90% to favor 
statin therapy. Avoiding statin therapy was also favored, although by a smaller 
margin, in both primary and secondary prevention settings for survivors of deep 
ICH.
CONCLUSIONS: Avoiding statins should be considered for patients with a history 
of ICH, particularly those cases with a lobar location.

DOI: 10.1001/archneurol.2010.356
PMCID: PMC3158138
PMID: 21220650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Arch Intern Med. 2011 Jan 10;171(1):39-45. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2010.479.

Projected cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation interventions in patients 
hospitalized with myocardial infarction.

Ladapo JA(1), Jaffer FA, Weinstein MC, Froelicher ES.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
jladapo@post.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: As many as 70% of smokers with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) 
continue to smoke after hospital discharge despite high rates of inpatient 
smoking cessation counseling. Supportive contact after discharge improves quit 
rates but is rarely used.
METHODS: Using data from a meta-analysis of randomized trials of smoking 
cessation interventions and other published sources, we developed a Monte Carlo 
model to project health and economic outcomes for a hypothetical US cohort of 
327,600 smokers hospitalized with AMI. We compared routine care, consisting of 
advice to quit smoking, with counseling with supportive follow-up, consisting of 
routine care and follow-up telephone calls from a nurse after discharge. Primary 
outcomes were number of smokers, AMIs, and deaths averted; health care and 
productivity costs; cost per quitter; and cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: Implementation of smoking cessation counseling with follow-up contact 
for the 2010 cohort of hospitalized smokers would create 50,230 new quitters, 
cost $27.3 million in nurse wages and materials, and prevent 1380 nonfatal AMIs 
and 7860 deaths. During a 10-year period, it would save $22.1 million in reduced 
hospitalizations but increase health care costs by $166.4 million, primarily 
through increased longevity. Productivity costs from premature death would fall 
by $1.99 billion and nonmedical expenditures would increase by $928 million, for 
a net positive value to society of $894 million. The program would cost $540 per 
quitter considering only intervention costs. Cost-effectiveness would be $5050 
per quality-adjusted life-year. Results were sensitive to the utility and 
incidence of nonfatal AMI and the potential effect of pharmacotherapies.
CONCLUSION: Smoking cessation counseling with supportive contact after discharge 
is potentially cost-effective and may reduce the incidence of smoking and its 
associated adverse health events and social costs.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2010.479
PMID: 21220659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Epidemiol Prev. 2010 Sep-Dec;34(5-6 Suppl 2):1-188.

Italian cancer figures, report 2010: Cancer prevalence in Italy. Patients living 
with cancer, long-term survivors and cured patients.

[Article in English, Italian]

AIRTUM Working Group.

Collaborators: Guzzinati S, Dal Maso L, De Angelis R, De Paoli A, Buzzoni C, 
Crocetti E, Bucchi L, Casella C, Cuccaro F, Fusco M, Luminari S, Madeddu A, 
Mangone L, Patriarca S, Piffer S, Stracci F, Tagliabue G, Tumino R, Zappa M, 
Capocaccia R, Ferretti S, Mazzoleni G, Bellú F, Tschugguel B, De Valiere E, 
Facchinelli G, Falk M, Dal Cappello T, Giacomin A, Vercellino PC, Andreone S, 
Busato A, Marzola L, Migliari E, Carletti N, Nenci I, Caldarella A, Corbinelli 
A, Giusti F, Intrieri T, Manneschi G, Nemcova L, Romeo G, Sacchettini C, Paci E, 
Serraino D, Angelin T, Bidoli E, de Dottori M, De Santis E, Forgiarini O, 
Zucchetto A, Zanier L, Vercelli M, Orengo MA, Marani E, Puppo A, Celesia MV, 
Cogno R, Manenti S, Garrone E, Quaglia A, Pannozzo F, Busco S, Rashid I, 
Ramazzotti V, Cercato MC, Battisti W, Sperduti I, Macci L, Bugliarello E, 
Bernazza E, Tamburo L, Rossi M, Curatella S, De Francesco C, Tamburrino S, 
Bisanti L, Autelitano M, Randi G, Ghilardi S, Leone R, Filipazzi L, Bonini A, 
Giubelli C, Federico M, Artioli ME, Valla K, Braghiroli B, Cirilli C, Pirani M, 
Ferrari L, Bellatalla C, Fusco M, Panico M, Perrotta C, Vassante B, Traina A, 
Carruba G, Cusimano R, Amodio R, Dolcemascolo C, Staiti R, Zarcone M, Michiara 
M, Bozzani F, Sgargi P, Cilia S, La Rosa MG, Cascone G, Frasca G, Giurdanella 
MC, Martorana C, Morana G, Nicita C, Rollo P, Ruggeri MG, Sigona A, Spata E, 
Vacirca S, Di Felice E, Pezzarossi A, Caroli S, Pellegri C, Vicentini M, Storchi 
C, Cavuto S, Costa J, Falcini F, Colamartini A, Balducci C, Ravegnani M, Vitali 
B, Cordaro C, Caprara L, Giuliani O, Giorgetti S, Salvatore S, Palumbo M, 
Vattiato R, Ravaioli A, Foca F, Rinaldi E, Donato A, Iannelli A, Senatore G, 
Zevola A, Budroni M, Cesaraccio R, Pirino D, Carboni D, Fiori G, Soddu M, Mameli 
G, Mura F, Contrino ML, Tisano F, Sciacca S, Muni A, Mizzi M, Russo M, 
Tessandori R, Ardemagni G, Gianola L, Maspero S, Annulli ML, Moroni E, Roberto 
G, Zanetti R, Rosso S, Prandi R, Sobrato I, Gilardi F, Busso P, Franchini S, 
Gentilini MA, Battisti L, Cappelletti M, Moser M, La Rosa F, D'Alò D, Scheibel 
M, Costarelli D, Spano F, Rossini S, Santucci C, Petrinelli AM, Solimene C, 
Bianconi F, Brunori V, Crosignani P, Contiero P, Preto L, Tittarelli A, Maghini 
A, Codazzi T, Frassoldi E, Gada D, Costa E, di Grazia L, Zambon P, Baracco M, 
Bovo E, Dal Cin A, Fiore AR, Greco A, Monetti D, Rosano A, Stocco C, Tognazzo S, 
Donato F, Limina RM, Adorni A, Andreis P, Zani G, Piovani F, Salvi O, Puleio M, 
Vitarelli S, Antonini S, Candela G, Pappalardo G, Scuderi T, Lottero B, Ribaudo 
M, Ricci P, Guarda L, Gatti L, Bozzeda A, Dall'Acqua M, Pironi V, Sutera Sardo 
A, Mazzei A, Sirianni N, Lavecchia AM, Mancuso P, Usala M, Pala F, Sini GM, 
Pintori N, Canu L, Demurtas G, Doa N, Pisani P, Pastore G, Magnani C, Terracini 
B, Cena T, Alessi D, Baussano I, Merletti F, Maule M, Mosso ML, Nonnato M, 
Rasulo A, Richiardi L, Zuccolo L, Pivetta E, Dalmasso P, Macerata V, Ponz de 
Leon M, Domati F, Rossi G, Goldoni CA, Rossi F, De Gaetani C, Benatti P, 
Roncucci L, Di Gregorio C, Pedroni M, Pezzi A, Maffei S, Mariani F, Borsi E, 
Cocchioni M, Pascucci C, Gennaro V, Lazzarotto A, Benfatto L, Mazzucco G, 
Montanaro F.

OBJECTIVES: the aim of the present monograph is to update the estimation of the 
number of people living with cancer in Italy, to describe geographic 
variability, and estimate the number of long-term survivors, i.e., people living 
five years or more after a cancer diagnosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: the study included the data of the AIRTUMdatabase. 
Twenty-four Cancer Registries (CRs) (covering 27% of the Italian population) 
collected information on the incidence and vital status of 1,275,353 cases 
diagnosed between 1978 and 2005. For each CR, the observed prevalence was 
calculated up to the maximum observable duration. To estimate the complete 
prevalence (all living patients, independently from time since diagnosis) and 
the prevalence for lengths of time exceeding the CR maximum duration of 
registration, the observed prevalence was corrected through a completeness 
index. Completeness indices, gender, age and site specific, were estimated by 
means of statistical regression models using cancer incidence and survival data 
available from CRs with more than 15 years of observation. As of 1 January 2006, 
the prevalence was estimated (as absolute numbers and as a proportion per 
100,000 inhabitants) for 46 cancer sites, by gender, age class, years since 
diagnosis and geographic areas.
RESULTS: as of 2006, 2,244,000 persons (4%of the Italian population) were alive 
with a cancer diagnosis. A relevant geographic variability emerged, with 
proportions between 4%-5% among CRs in the Centre and North of Italy, and 
proportions between 2%-3% in the South. Forty-four percent of prevalent subjects 
(988,000) were males and 56% (1,256,000) females. Fifty-seven percent (1,285,680 
people, 2.2% of total population) of these patients was represented by long-term 
survivors. In patients aged 75 years or more, the proportions of prevalent cases 
were 19%in males and 13%in females, and 10%between 60 and 75 years of age in 
both genders.More than half a million Italian women were alive with a breast 
cancer diagnosis (42%of women with a neoplasm), followed by women with cancers 
of the colonrectum (12%), corpus uteri (7%), thyroid (5%), and cervix uteri 
(4%). In men, 22%of prevalent cases (216,716) included patients with prostate 
cancer, 18% with bladder cancer, and 15%with colon-rectum cancer. Percentages of 
long-term survivors higher than 70% were reported for cancers of the cervix 
uteri (82% at five years, and 55% at 15 years from diagnosis), Hodgkin lymphoma, 
testis, brain and central nervous system, bone and connective tissue. Many 
patients with these types of cancers (often occurring in young people) can be 
considered "cured", i.e., with a life expectancy overlapping that of the general 
population.The estimated proportions of prevalent cases emerging from this study 
in Italy were quite similar to those reported in Northern Europe, but at least 
15%lower than those in the United States.
CONCLUSIONS: in 2006, the number of prevalent cases nearly doubled compared to 
1992. The increase over time in the proportion of elderly patients, related to 
population ageing, requires adequate health policies. Knowing the number of 
people alive many years after cancer diagnosis (either cured or long-term 
survivors) provides the scientific bases for the definition of health policies 
focusing on them. Furthermore, it promotes the conduction of studies aimed at 
improving the present knowledge on the quality of life of these patients during 
and after the active phase of treatments, in addition to studies on the 
long-term effects of treatments.

PMID: 21220827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Ear Hear. 2011 Jul-Aug;32(4):428-35. doi: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e3181fdf09f.

Assessment of health state in patients with tinnitus: a comparison of the EQ-5D 
and HUI mark III.

Maes IH(1), Joore MA, Cima RF, Vlaeyen JW, Anteunis LJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Medical Technology Assessment, Maastricht University Medical 
Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands. iris.maes@mumc.nl

OBJECTIVES: Expressing the outcomes of treatment in quality-adjusted life years 
is increasingly important as a tool to aid decision makers concerning the 
allocation of scarce resources within the health care sector. A quality-adjusted 
life year is a measure of life expectancy that is weighted by health-related 
quality of life. These weights are referred to as utility scores and are usually 
measured by multiattribute utility measures. Several studies found that 
different utility measures provide different estimates of the same person's 
level of utility. The aim of this study was to investigate which of two widely 
used utility measures, the EQ-5D and the HUI mark III, is preferred in a 
tinnitus population.
METHODS: Baseline and follow-up data on EQ-5D and HUI mark III of 429 patients 
of a randomized controlled clinical trial, investigating cost-effectiveness of 
usual care versus specialized care of tinnitus, were included. Agreement, 
discriminative power, and responsiveness of the health state description and the 
utility scores were examined.
RESULTS: Corresponding dimensions of the EQ-5D and HUI mark III showed large 
correlations; although ceiling effects were more frequently observed in the 
EQ-5D. Mean utility scores for EQ-5D (0.77; SD 0.22) and HUI mark III (0.64; SD 
0.28) were significantly different (Wilcoxon signed ranks test, p < 0.001), and 
agreement was low to moderate (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.53). Both 
health state description and utility scores of both measures discriminated 
between different severity groups. These groups were based on baseline scores of 
the Tinnitus Questionnaire. The HUI mark III had a higher ability than the EQ-5D 
to detect improved patients from randomly selected pairs of improved and 
unimproved patients.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that different utility measures lead to different 
health state descriptions and utility scores among tinnitus patients. However, 
both measures are capable of discriminating between clinically different groups. 
The HUI mark III is more responsive than the EQ-5D, and therefore preferred in a 
tinnitus population.

DOI: 10.1097/AUD.0b013e3181fdf09f
PMID: 21221004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Strahlenther Onkol. 2010 Dec;186(12):681-6. doi: 10.1007/s00066-010-2156-8.
Epub  2010 Nov 29.

[Prediction of clinical course of glioblastomas by MRI during radiotherapy].

[Article in German]

Leitzen C(1), Schild HH, Bungart B, Herrlinger U, Lütter C, Müdder T, 
Wilhelm-Buchstab T, Schüller H.

Author information:
(1)Radiologische Klinik, FE Strahlentherapie, Universitätsklinik Bonn, Bonn, 
Deutschland. christina.leitzen@ukb.uni-bonn.de

PURPOSE: determine the value of MR studies in patients undergoing radiotherapy 
for glioblastomas pre and during radiotherapy to predict the clinical course.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: MR follow-up studies were performed in 33 patients with 
glioblastomas before radiotherapy, after 30 Gy, after 60 Gy, and in the 
treatment follow-up. Findings on MR were categorized into: definite progress, 
questionable progress, status idem. Patients were followed clinically (median 
for 11 months).
RESULTS: after 30 Gy 23/33 (70%) of the MR examination showed status idem. 10/33 
(30%) demonstrated definite (n = 6) or questionable (n = 4) progress. Further 
tumor progress was faster in these patients and patients succumb to their 
disease earlier (9 vs. 22 months). The 60 Gy study showed definite (n = 8) and 
questionable (n = 6) progress in 14/33 (42%) cases. All these tumors were 
progressing faster and were associated with a comparatively reduced life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSION: MR follow-up studies after 30 Gy in patients undergoing radiotherapy 
for glioblastomas allow for prognostic appraisal, and potentially early 
modification of treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-010-2156-8
PMID: 21221885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Rev Invest Clin. 2010 Jul-Aug;62(4):287-8.

[Geriatric Institute: in the search of healthy and active aging].

[Article in Spanish]

Gutiérrez-Robledo LM, Gutiérrez-Avila H, Avila-Fematt F.

PMID: 21222304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Rev Invest Clin. 2010 Jul-Aug;62(4):357-65.

[Pharmacological treatment of diabetes in the elderly].

[Article in Spanish]

García-Lara JM(1), Avila-Funes JA, Aguilar-Navarro S.

Author information:
(1)Clínica de Geriatría, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición 
Salvador Zubirán, Tlalpan, DF México. drjuangarcialara@prodigy.net.mx

Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a highly prevalent disease in the geriatric 
population. The elderly are at increased risk for adverse drug reactions 
(hypoglycemia) compared with the young due to physiological changes associated 
with age, high number of comorbidities and polypharmacy usually present, causing 
changes in drugs pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. At present, there are 
wide therapeutic options to treat DM, so it is important to know the different 
drug families and their potential side effects. As a general principle, 
metformin remains an appropriate option for the management of DM in the elderly, 
first-generation sulfonylureas (chlorpropamide) is preferable not to use due the 
high risk of hypoglycemia. Some thiazolidinediones have been associated with 
heart failure, as their use in the elderly is controversial. About the new drugs 
that act on the DPP-4, results are promising with a low risk profile of adverse 
reactions. We must consider the use of human insulin or insulin analogues in the 
elderly when not achieved with other hypoglycaemic agents. At the start of 
therapy is important to establish the most appropriate management goals based on 
patient comorbidities and their life expectancy.

PMID: 21222315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. J Med Econ. 2011;14(1):53-64. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.545563. Epub 2011
Jan  11.

The cost effectiveness of zoledronic acid 5 mg for the management of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis in women with prior fractures: evidence from 
Finland, Norway and the Netherlands.

Akehurst R(1), Brereton N, Ariely R, Lusa T, Groot M, Foss P, Boonen S.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to assess the cost effectiveness of 
zoledronic acid 5 mg as a first-line treatment for the secondary prevention of 
fragility fractures in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis in Finland, Norway 
and the Netherlands.
METHODS: A discrete-event, individual-patient computer-simulation model was used 
to compare the cost effectiveness of zoledronic acid with that of basic 
treatment (calcium and vitamin D) and commonly prescribed bisphosphonates in 
postmenopausal women aged 50-80 years who have experienced one previous fracture 
and have a bone mineral density T-score of -2.5.
RESULTS: The cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained with zoledronic 
acid compared with basic treatment ranged from being cost saving in all age 
groups in Norway, to costing approximately €19,000 in Finland and €22,300 in the 
Netherlands. Compared with the other branded bisphosphonates, zoledronic acid 
was cost saving in many scenarios, including all age groups in Finland. In 
Norway, zoledronic acid dominated branded risedronate and ibandronate in all age 
groups and dominated or had incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of up 
to NOK83,954 per QALY gained compared with branded alendronate. In the 
Netherlands, zoledronic acid dominated branded intravenous ibandronate in all 
age groups; compared with branded risedronate and oral ibandronate, zoledronic 
acid dominated or had ICERs of up to €4832 per QALY gained; compared with 
branded alendronate, it had ICERs of up to €48,383 per QALY gained. In all three 
countries, zoledronic acid may be cost effective compared with generic 
alendronate when patient compliance with drug therapy is taken into account. 
Sensitivity analyses showed that the model was robust to changes in key values. 
The main model limitations were the lack of real-life compliance and persistence 
data, and lack of country-specific data for some parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Using local or commonly used thresholds, this analysis suggests 
that zoledronic acid would be a cost-effective first-line option compared with 
other branded bisphosphonates and, in some scenarios, compared with generic 
alendronate, for the secondary prevention of fractures in women with 
postmenopausal osteoporosis in Finland, Norway and the Netherlands.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.545563
PMID: 21222506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Med Chem. 2011 Mar;7(2):71-9. doi: 10.2174/157340611794859370.

Comparative molecular field analysis of a series of inhibitors of HIV-1 
protease.

Ferreira LG(1), Leitão A, Montanari CA, Andricopulo AD.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Química Medicinal e Computacional, Instituto de Física de São 
Carlos, Universidade de São Paulo, Av. Trabalhador São-Carlense 400, 13560-970, 
São Carlos-SP, Brazil.

Several protease inhibitors have reached the world market in the last fifteen 
years, dramatically improving the quality of life and life expectancy of 
millions of HIV-infected patients. In spite of the tremendous research efforts 
in this area, resistant HIV-1 variants are constantly decreasing the ability of 
the drugs to efficiently inhibit the enzyme. As a consequence, inhibitors with 
novel frameworks are necessary to circumvent resistance to chemotherapy. In the 
present work, we have created 3D QSAR models for a series of 82 HIV-1 protease 
inhibitors employing the comparative molecular field analysis (CoMFA) method. 
Significant correlation coefficients were obtained (q(2) = 0.82 and r(2) = 
0.97), indicating the internal consistency of the best model, which was then 
used to evaluate an external test set containing 17 compounds. The predicted 
values were in good agreement with the experimental results, showing the 
robustness of the model and its substantial predictive power for untested 
compounds. The final QSAR model and the information gathered from the CoMFA 
contour maps should be useful for the design of novel anti-HIV agents with 
improved potency.

DOI: 10.2174/157340611794859370
PMID: 21222610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. BMC Health Serv Res. 2011 Jan 11;11:8. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-8.

The social value of a QALY: raising the bar or barring the raise?

Donaldson C(1), Baker R, Mason H, Jones-Lee M, Lancsar E, Wildman J, Bateman I, 
Loomes G, Robinson A, Sugden R, Prades JL, Ryan M, Shackley P, Smith R.

Author information:
(1)Yunus Centre for Social Business & Health, Research Institutes, 3rd Floor 
Buchanan House, Glasgow Caledonian University, Cowcaddens Road Glasgow G4 0BA, 
UK. cam.donaldson@gcu.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Since the inception of the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE) in England, there have been questions about the 
empirical basis for the cost-per-QALY threshold used by NICE and whether QALYs 
gained by different beneficiaries of health care should be weighted equally. The 
Social Value of a QALY (SVQ) project, reported in this paper, was commissioned 
to address these two questions. The results of SVQ were released during a time 
of considerable debate about the NICE threshold, and authors with differing 
perspectives have drawn on the SVQ results to support their cases. As these 
discussions continue, and given the selective use of results by those involved, 
it is important, therefore, not only to present a summary overview of SVQ, but 
also for those who conducted the research to contribute to the debate as to its 
implications for NICE.
DISCUSSION: The issue of the threshold was addressed in two ways: first, by 
combining, via a set of models, the current UK Value of a Prevented Fatality 
(used in transport policy) with data on fatality age, life expectancy and 
age-related quality of life; and, second, via a survey designed to test the 
feasibility of combining respondents' answers to willingness to pay and health 
state utility questions to arrive at values of a QALY. Modelling resulted in 
values of £10,000-£70,000 per QALY. Via survey research, most methods of 
aggregating the data resulted in values of a QALY of £18,000-£40,000, although 
others resulted in implausibly high values. An additional survey, addressing the 
issue of weighting QALYs, used two methods, one indicating that QALYs should not 
be weighted and the other that greater weight could be given to QALYs gained by 
some groups.
SUMMARY: Although we conducted only a feasibility study and a modelling 
exercise, neither present compelling evidence for moving the NICE threshold up 
or down. Some preliminary evidence would indicate it could be moved up for some 
types of QALY and down for others. While many members of the public appear to be 
open to the possibility of using somewhat different QALY weights for different 
groups of beneficiaries, we do not yet have any secure evidence base for 
introducing such a system.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-8
PMCID: PMC3023672
PMID: 21223540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2011 Jan;20(1):21-9. doi: 10.1017/S0963180110000599.

Considerable life extension and three views on the meaning of life.

Häyry M.

Comment in
    Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2014 Jan;23(1):63-7.
    Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2014 Jan;23(1):68-72.

DOI: 10.1017/S0963180110000599
PMCID: PMC3535323
PMID: 21223607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2010 Nov;32(11):875-9.

[Predictive value of three surgical scoring systems for estimation of life 
expectancy in patients with extradural spinal metastasis].

[Article in Chinese]

Liang TZ(1), Wan Y, Long GH, Zou XN, Peng XS, Zheng ZM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Spine Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou 510080, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the predictive values of Tokuhashi score, revised 
Tokuhashi score and Tomita score systems for life expectancy and treatment 
options in patients with spinal metastasis.
METHODS: From February 1996 to January 2009, spinal operations in 104 cases with 
spinal metastasis were performed in our hospital. There were 65 males and 39 
females, with an average of 53.4 years (median 52.5 years). To calculate AUC 
(area under the curve) values of Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves 
of three scores, and to analyze the accuracy of prediction of life expectancy. 
To compare the actual survival time with the expected survival time of the three 
scores by Kaplan-Meier method. Spearman correlation analysis was performed 
between the survival time and three scoring systems.
RESULTS: All cases were followed-up with an average duration of 10.9 months, and 
77 patients died. AUC analysis of ROC curves showed that the difference of the 
accuracy of the three scores was not significant. AUC in all groups of Tokuhashi 
Score was low, with a poor diagnostic accuracy. In the "died within 3 months" 
and "died within 6 months" groups of revised Tokuhashi score, the accuracy was 
low, while high in the other two groups. The AUC values of Tomita score in "died 
within 6 months" and "died within 24 months" were high, with a great diagnostic 
accuracy while the other two groups were low with a low diagnostic accuracy. 
Kaplan-Meier survival curve analysis showed that the actual survival time in all 
three scores was not entirely consistent with the expected survival time. 
Tokuhashi score and revised score were positively correlated with the survival 
time while that of Tomita score was negative.
CONCLUSION: All the three prognosis scores in patients with spinal metastasis 
were closely related with survival time. The combination of Tokuhashi score and 
Tomita score may be applied to better predict postoperative survival prognosis 
and guide the surgical options for patients with spinal metastasis.

PMID: 21223698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2010;77(6):494-500.

[Restoration of upper-limb function in patients with cervical spinal cord 
lesion].

[Article in Czech]

Cižmář I(1), Ehler E, Calabová N, Vinter R, Palčák J.

Author information:
(1)Traumatologické oddělení FN Olomouc.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Injury to the spinal chord at the C5 level results in a 
severe handicap to the patient because of a loss of active motion of the wrist 
and hand. Selected surgical procedures can effectively restore active extension 
of the wrist and provide conditions for some vital pinching and gripping 
abilities. The deltoid muscle also has a potential for restoration of upper limb 
function, because its posterior portion can be used to restore elbow extension. 
The aim of this clinical retrospective study was to describe and evaluate the 
techniques used to improve the quality of life in patients with spinal chord 
lesions at the C5 level.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The group studied consisted of 15 patients (3 women and 12 
men; average age, 34 years) with a spinal chord lesion at the C5 segment who had 
zero wrist extension or in whom wrist extensor muscle force was equal to the 
third degree of muscle strength or less. The procedures to restore active 
extension of the wrist involved the radiobrachialis muscle, the reconstruction 
of elbow extension was activated by the posterior portion of the deltoid muscle, 
and a fixed supination posture of the forearm was corrected by elongating the 
distal tendon of the biceps muscle which was derotated and attached to the 
proximal radius. The interval between injury and reconstructive surgery was 36 
months on the average.
RESULTS: The reconstructive surgery described resulted in restoration of hand 
and wrist function with sufficient muscle strength in all patients, which had a 
favourable effect on many aspects of their daily lives. The average values of 
muscle strength were 4.1° (3° to 5°). for wrist extension and 3.3° (2° to 4°) 
for elbow extension. Key-pinch force was on average 1.2 kg (0.2 to 2.1). A 
failure of thumb carpometacarpal arthrodesis was the most frequent complication 
and occurred in two patients. On clinical evaluation, all patients reported 
satisfaction with the restored function of their upper extremities and expressed 
their willingness to undergo the same procedure again.
DISCUSSION: Reconstructive surgery of the upper extremity in tetraplegic 
patients has been performed with success in several countries, namely USA and 
Sweden, for many years. Since 2003 the results in the Czech Republic have also 
shown positive effects of reconstructive procedures on better quality of life in 
patients with cervical spinal chord injury at the lower levels, in whom the goal 
is to restore vital pinching and gripping abilities. A good outcome of surgical 
treatment requires good quality post-operative care provided by a team of 
physical therapists fully informed of the reconstructive procedures involved.
CONCLUSIONS: A restored function of the upper extremity in the patients with 
spinal chord injury at the C level plays a decisive role in the whole spectrum 
of the patient's daily activities, such as dressing, communication, etc., and 
thus improves their self- care. The restoration of active elbow extension has a 
positive effect on the patient's mobility.

PMID: 21223830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Health Syst Transit. 2010;12(5):1-266, xxv.

Belgium: Health system review.

Gerkens S(1), Merkur S.

Author information:
(1)KCE, Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre.

The Health Systems in Transition (HiT) profiles are country-based reports that 
provide a detailed description of a health system and of policy initiatives in 
progress or under development. HiTs examine different approaches to the 
organization, financing and delivery of health services and the role of the main 
actors in health systems; describe the institutional framework, process, content 
and implementation of health and health care policies; and highlight challenges 
and areas that require more in-depth analysis. The Belgian population continues 
to enjoy good health and long life expectancy. This is partly due to good access 
to health services of high quality. Financing is based mostly on proportional 
social security contributions and progressive direct taxation. The compulsory 
health insurance is combined with a mostly private system of health care 
delivery, based on independent medical practice, free choice of physician and 
predominantly fee-for-service payment. This Belgian HiT profile (2010) presents 
the evolution of the health system since 2007, including detailed information on 
new policies. While no drastic reforms were undertaken during this period, 
policy-makers have pursued the goals of improving access to good quality of care 
while making the system sustainable. Reforms to increase the accessibility of 
the health system include measures to reduce the out-of-pocket payments of more 
vulnerable populations (low-income families and individuals as well as the 
chronically ill). Quality of care related reforms have included incentives to 
better integrate different levels of care and the establishment of information 
systems, among others. Additionally, several measures on pharmaceutical products 
have aimed to reduce costs for both the National Institute for Health and 
Disability Insurance (NIHDI) and patients, while maintaining the quality of 
care.

World Health Organization 2010, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 21224177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 2011 Jan;35(1):25-31. doi: 
10.1177/0148607110374476.

Intragastric balloon therapy in the management of obesity: why the bad wrap?

Evans JT(1), DeLegge MH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina 29425, USA. evansjos@musc.edu

For the first time in the history of the United States, in the 21st century, 
there may be a decline in life expectancy, as a result of the increasing rate of 
obesity. It is known that even the modest reduction of 10% of excess body weight 
significantly reduces obesity-associated comorbidities. Conservative measures 
such as diet and exercise seldom give durable results in the long term. 
Bariatric surgery has been shown to achieve durable weight loss but is not 
without significant risks and complications. As a result, greater focus has 
turned toward minimally invasive endoscopic therapies for the management of 
obesity. There have been multiple reports of creative endoscopic devices and 
techniques in the literature, but most have only demonstrated early pilot data. 
By far, the most widely studied of the minimally invasive endoscopic therapies 
for obesity is the gastric balloon. Now obsolete, the Garren-Edwards gastric 
bubble was removed from the market in the United States after several 
sham-controlled studies showed that diet and behavior modification were equally 
efficacious and that the device was associated with a prohibitive number of 
complications. However, the concept and technique of intragastric balloon 
placement has evolved considerably since that time, and we now have data on 
nearly 3,000 patients who have undergone placement of the BioEnterics 
Intragastric Balloon (Carpenteria, CA) worldwide. The balloon is approved as 
part of a multifaceted approach to obesity in many countries and has been shown 
to result in at least a 10% excess weight loss durable over 1 year. However, the 
device is not yet approved for use in the United States. In this article, the 
authors review the efficacy, indications, complications, and potential uses for 
the intragastric balloon. The intragastric balloon might be the best start as 
gastroenterologists in the United States begin to play an increasing role in the 
treatment of the obesity pandemic.

DOI: 10.1177/0148607110374476
PMID: 21224431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Epidemiol Prev. 2010 Jul-Aug;34(4):150-8.

[Life expectancy, strenuous work and pension system's fairness. First evidence 
from the Work Histories Italian Panel].

[Article in Italian]

Leombruni R(1), Richiardi M, Demaria M, Costa G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Economia S. Cognetti de Martiis, Università di Torino, Turin. 
roberto.leombruni@unito.it

OBJECTIVE: the study aims to estimate the differentials in life expectancy by 
income and work history in Italy during the 2000's, in order to evaluate the 
level of actuarial equity of the recent Italian retirement reform in computing 
benefits proportional to the contributions paid.
DESIGN: retrospective cohort study.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: mortality follow up of a 1% sample of the Italian 
workforce employed or self employed in the private sector, retired between 1985 
and 2003 (about 63,000 people), whose work history and income since 1985 is 
registered in the National Institute for Social Insurance (INPS) data base.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: mortality differentials computed through Cox model.
RESULTS: social inequalities in survival in favour of the more advantaged 
categories of income and occupational classes are observed.
CONCLUSION: the principle of actuarial equity assumes that life expectancy 
varies only according to age and birth cohort; nevertheless inequalities in life 
expectancy exist also along other dimensions, like income and occupational 
class: this means that the system is producing an opposite redistribution, from 
the careers more socially disadvantaged to the less disadvantaged ones.

PMID: 21224516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Med Care. 2011 Mar;49(3):267-72. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31820192cd.

Willingness to pay per quality-adjusted life year: is one threshold enough for 
decision-making?: results from a study in patients with chronic prostatitis.

Zhao FL(1), Yue M, Yang H, Wang T, Wu JH, Li SC.

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the willingness to pay (WTP) per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) ratio with the stated preference data and compare the results 
obtained between chronic prostatitis (CP) patients and general population (GP).
METHODS: WTP per QALY was calculated with the subjects' own health-related 
utility and the WTP value. Two widely used preference-based health-related 
quality of life instruments, EuroQol (EQ-5D) and Short Form 6D (SF-6D), were 
used to elicit utility for participants' own health. The monthly WTP values for 
moving from participants' current health to a perfect health were elicited using 
closed-ended iterative bidding contingent valuation method.
RESULTS: A total of 268 CP patients and 364 participants from GP completed the 
questionnaire. We obtained 4 WTP/QALY ratios ranging from $4700 to $7400, which 
is close to the lower bound of local gross domestic product per capita, a 
threshold proposed by World Health Organization. Nevertheless, these values were 
lower than other proposed thresholds and published empirical researches on 
diseases with mortality risk. Furthermore, the WTP/QALY ratios from the GP were 
significantly lower than those from the CP patients, and different determinants 
were associated with the within group variation identified by multiple linear 
regression.
CONCLUSIONS: Preference elicitation methods are acceptable and feasible in the 
socio-cultural context of an Asian environment and the calculation of WTP/QALY 
ratio produced meaningful answers. The necessity of considering the QALY type or 
disease-specific QALY in estimating WTP/QALY ratio was highlighted and 1 to 3 
times of gross domestic product/capita recommended by World Health Organization 
could potentially serve as a benchmark for threshold in this Asian context.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31820192cd
PMID: 21224742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Int J Obes (Lond). 2011 Aug;35(8):1071-8. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2010.246. Epub
2011  Jan 11.

Cost-effectiveness of diet and exercise interventions to reduce overweight and 
obesity.

Forster M(1), Veerman JL, Barendregt JJ, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)The University of Queensland, School of Population Health, Herston, 
Queensland, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze whether two dietary weight loss interventions--the dietary 
approaches to stop hypertension (DASH) program and a low-fat diet program--would 
be cost-effective in Australia, and to assess their potential to reduce the 
disease burden related to excess body weight.
DESIGN: We constructed a multi-state life-table-based Markov model in which the 
distribution of body weight influences the incidence of stroke, ischemic heart 
disease, hypertensive heart disease, diabetes mellitus, osteoarthritis, 
post-menopausal breast cancer, colon cancer, endometrial cancer and kidney 
cancer. The target population was the overweight and obese adult population in 
Australia in 2003. We used a lifetime horizon for health effects and costs, and 
a health sector perspective for costs. We populated the model with data 
identified from Medline and Cochrane searches, Australian Bureau of Statistics 
published catalogues, Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, and Department 
of Health and Ageing.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Disability adjusted life years (DALYs) averted, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) and proportions of disease burden avoided. 
ICERs under AUS$50,000 per DALY are considered cost-effective.
RESULTS: The DASH and low-fat diet programs have ICERs of AUS$12,000 per DALY 
(95% uncertainty range: Cost-saving- 68,000) and AUS$13,000 per DALY 
(Cost-saving--130,000), respectively. Neither intervention reduced the body 
weight-related disease burden at population level by more than 0.1%. The 
sensitivity analysis showed that when participants' costs for time and travel 
are included, the ICERs increase to AUS$75,000 per DALY for DASH and AUS$49,000 
per DALY for the low-fat diet. Modest weight loss during the interventions, 
post-intervention weight regain and low participation limit the health benefits.
CONCLUSION: Diet and exercise interventions to reduce obesity are potentially 
cost-effective but have a negligible impact on the total body weight-related 
disease burden.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2010.246
PMID: 21224825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Tex Heart Inst J. 2010;37(6):658-9.

Does transcatheter aortic valve implantation mean the end of surgical aortic 
valve replacement?

Mack MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Baylor Healthcare System, Plano, Texas 
75075, USA. mmack@csant.com

Although the results of the early TAVI experience are promising, longer-term 
follow-up is necessary before the procedure can be extended to lowerrisk 
patients. Many issues are not yet resolved, including the long-term effects of 
paravalvular leaks (which occur in most TAVI patients), the true stroke rate in 
TAVI patients (which is probably in the range of 5% to 6%), and the need for 
permanent pacemaker implantation (which ranges from 5% to 40% in TAVI patients, 
depending upon the device used). As the procedure is extended into the 
lower-risk population, these issues will assume greater import than they have in 
the population currently in treatment—very elderly, high-risk patients with 
limited life expectancy. As in the coronary-revascularization paradigm of 
percutaneous coronary intervention versus coronary artery bypass grafting, there 
will be increasing adoption of the transcatheter approach. Just as the rumors of 
the demise of surgical bypass were premature, conventional AVR will continue to 
be the predominant technique for the treatment of aortic stenosis during at 
least the next decade. Although the percentage of patients treated by a 
transcatheter approach will continue to increase, regulatory and reimbursement 
factors are likely to be the primary determinants of the rate of adoption.

PMCID: PMC3014148
PMID: 21224936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Thromb Haemost. 2011 Feb;105(2):207-8. doi: 10.1160/TH10-12-0818. Epub 2011
Jan  12.

Aging in haemophilia: getting to the heart of the matter.

Ragni MV.

Comment on
    Thromb Haemost. 2011 Feb;105(2):274-8.

DOI: 10.1160/TH10-12-0818
PMID: 21225103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Arch Microbiol. 2011 Apr;193(4):263-74. doi: 10.1007/s00203-010-0669-2. Epub
 2011 Jan 12.

Two promoters and two translation start sites control the expression of the 
Shigella flexneri outer membrane protease IcsP.

Hensley CT(1), Kamneva OK, Levy KM, Labahn SK, Africa LA, Wing HJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Nevada, 4505 Maryland Parkway, Las 
Vegas, NV, 89154-4004, USA.

The Shigella flexneri outer membrane protease IcsP proteolytically cleaves the 
actin-based motility protein IcsA from the bacterial surface. The icsP gene is 
monocistronic and lies downstream of an unusually large intergenic region on the 
Shigella virulence plasmid. In silico analysis of this region predicts a second 
transcription start site 84 bp upstream of the first. Primer extension analyses 
and beta-galactosidase assays demonstrate that both transcription start sites 
are used. Both promoters are regulated by the Shigella virulence gene regulator 
VirB and both respond similarly to conditions known to influence Shigella 
virulence gene expression (iron concentration, pH, osmotic pressure, and phase 
of growth). The newly identified promoter lies upstream of a Shine-Dalgarno 
sequence and second 5'-ATG-3', which is in frame with the annotated icsP gene. 
The use of either translation start site leads to the production of IcsP capable 
of proteolytically cleaving IcsA. A bioinformatic scan of the Shigella genome 
reveals multiple occurrences of in-frame translation start sites associated with 
putative Shine-Dalgarno sequences, immediately upstream and downstream of 
annotated open reading frames. Taken together, our observations support the 
possibility that the use of in-frame translation start sites may generate 
different protein isoforms, thereby expanding the proteome encoded by bacterial 
genomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-010-0669-2
PMCID: PMC3071033
PMID: 21225241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir. 2011 Jun;43(3):167-74. doi: 
10.1055/s-0030-1267985. Epub 2011 Jan 11.

[Experience with the SRTM-PIP prosthesis as joint replacement: a retrospective 
overview with a follow-up of 2.4 years].

[Article in German]

Ampofo C(1), Aerni M.

Author information:
(1)Kantonsspital Münsterlingen, Chirurgie, Münsterlingen, Schweiz. 
christinaampofo@gmx.de

PURPOSE: In the following article we present our results with a cemented 
titanium/polyethylene prosthesis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The SR (TM)-PIP-prosthesis from the firm SBI (©) (formally 
Avanta (©)) was implanted in 39 patients in our clinic from 2001-2007. In all, 
we were able to follow-up in a retrospect clinical study 32 patients with 39 
proximal interphalangeal joint prostheses. We examined the range of motion, the 
strength and looked for deformities. The patients had to fill in a questionnaire 
before examination about their pain and limitation in daily life. We also 
performed X-rays of the operated fingers.
RESULTS: The postoperative range of motion was about 67°. The strength mean 
value was 24.7 kg. 4 patients needed surgical revisions, in one case due to 
loosening of the proximal part of the prosthesis. 2 patients also received a 
tenoarthrolysis because of extension deficits and one patient because of a 
swan-neck deformity. We noted 7 swan-neck deformities and in 7 cases we found 
implant loosening of the proximal part of the prothesis. The postoperative 
Quick-DASH score was about 32.2 and showed a good result. All participants 
reported a marked improvement in pain reduction.
CONCLUSION: These positive results, the reduction of pain and the satisfaction 
of the patients advocate the use of this prosthesis for the proximal 
interphalangeal joint. The postoperative ROM is comparable to those of other 
prostheses. Concerning implant loosening and swan-neck deformity, these results 
still offer room for improvement. Critical judgement and further development of 
the prosthesis design, the operation technique and the instrumentation are 
required to further optimise the results.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1267985
PMID: 21225570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2011 Jan 17;50(3):586-621. doi:
10.1002/anie.201000044.  Epub 2011 Jan 7.

Plant polyphenols: chemical properties, biological activities, and synthesis.

Quideau S(1), Deffieux D, Douat-Casassus C, Pouységu L.

Author information:
(1)Université de Bordeaux, Institut des Sciences Moléculaires (CNRS-UMR 5255), 2 
rue Robert Escarpit, 33607 Pessac Cedex, France. s.quideau@iecb.u-bordeaux.fr

Eating five servings of fruits and vegetables per day! This is what is highly 
recommended and heavily advertised nowadays to the general public to stay fit 
and healthy! Drinking green tea on a regular basis, eating chocolate from time 
to time, as well as savoring a couple of glasses of red wine per day have been 
claimed to increase life expectancy even further! Why? The answer is in fact 
still under scientific scrutiny, but a particular class of compounds naturally 
occurring in fruits and vegetables is considered to be crucial for the 
expression of such human health benefits: the polyphenols! What are these plant 
products really? What are their physicochemical properties? How do they express 
their biological activity? Are they really valuable for disease prevention? Can 
they be used to develop new pharmaceutical drugs? What recent progress has been 
made toward their preparation by organic synthesis? This Review gives answers 
from a chemical perspective, summarizes the state of the art, and highlights the 
most significant advances in the field of polyphenol research.

Copyright © 2011 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/anie.201000044
PMID: 21226137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2010 Nov;24(11):1334-7.

[Effectiveness of knee resurfacing arthroplasty in treating late-staged diffuse 
pigmented villonodular synovitis].
