A life expectancy of hermetically sealed 10 Gb/sec LiNbO3 optical modulators was 
obtained after aging them for 5000 hours at 85° C. After the test, no failure 
was found in the device parameters and the dc drift behavior. The lifetime was 
estimated to be over 20 years at ~50° C.

DOI: 10.1364/AO.35.006842
PMID: 21151280


606. J Aging Res. 2010 Nov 29;2010:260123. doi: 10.4061/2010/260123.

Mortality salience effects on the life expectancy estimates of older adults as a 
function of neuroticism.

Maxfield M(1), Solomon S, Pyszczynski T, Greenberg J.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, University of Colorado at Colorado Springs, 1420 
Austin Bluffs Pkwy, Colorado Springs, CO 80918-7150, USA.

Research has shown that reminders of mortality lead people to engage in defenses 
to minimize the anxiety such thoughts could arouse. In accord with this notion, 
younger adults reminded of mortality engage in behaviors aimed at denying 
vulnerability to death. However, little is known about the effects of mortality 
reminders on older adults. The present study examined the effect of reminders of 
death on older adults' subjective life expectancy. Mortality reminders did not 
significantly impact the life expectancy estimates of old-old adults. Reminders 
of death did however lead to shorter life expectancy estimates among young-old 
participants low in neuroticism but longer life expectancy estimates among 
young-old participants high in neuroticism, suggesting that this group was most 
defensive in response to reminders of death.

DOI: 10.4061/2010/260123
PMCID: PMC2997504
PMID: 21151516


607. Medicine (Abingdon). 2010 Nov 1;38(11):597-601. doi: 
10.1016/j.mpmed.2010.08.008.

What is type 2 diabetes?

Smushkin G(1), Vella A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

Type 2 diabetes is a common metabolic disorder characterized by chronic 
hyperglycaemia. It is associated with a reduced life expectancy owing to a 
greater risk of heart disease, stroke, peripheral neuropathy, renal disease, 
blindness and amputation. At present, the best predictors of increased diabetes 
risk and progression to diabetes are an elevated fasting plasma glucose, an 
abnormal glucose tolerance test, obesity and evidence of impaired insulin 
action. However, the mechanisms by which people with impaired fasting glucose 
and/or abnormal glucose tolerance `progress' to overt type 2 diabetes are not 
completely understood. Moreover, type 2 diabetes is defined in a `negative' 
sense (hyperglycaemia occurring in the absence of evidence of autoimmune 
destruction of islet cells). This has two consequences - one is the 
heterogeneity of the disease, the other is that the disease is identified purely 
in terms of hyperglycaemia, to a certain extent ignoring the underlying 
mechanisms that lead to the disease. In this review, we explore some of these 
mechanisms in an attempt to remind readers that hyperglycaemia is one of many 
abnormalities in type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mpmed.2010.08.008
PMCID: PMC3073595
PMID: 21151710


608. Soc Forces. 2010 Jun 1;88(4):1885-1908. doi: 10.1353/sof.2010.0000.

Explaining Late Life Urban vs. Rural Health Discrepancies in Beijing.

Zimmer Z(1), Kaneda T, Tang Z, Fang X.

Author information:
(1)University of Utah.

Social characteristics that differ by place of residence are consequential for 
health. To study implications of this among older adults in rural vs. urban 
China, this study employs data from the Beijing municipality, a region that has 
witnessed growth and gaps in development. Life and active life expectancy is 
assessed using a multistate life table technique that estimates hazard rates and 
subsequent expected years in various health states. Hazards are estimated for a 
model that adjusts regional differences for age and sex and for a series of 
other models including additional covariates. Results indicate urban residents 
have an advantage. Specific factors show socio-economic status and access to 
health service account for a large part, social support and health behaviors for 
little, while disease is a suppressor.

DOI: 10.1353/sof.2010.0000
PMCID: PMC2998765
PMID: 21151893


609. Int J Mol Sci. 2010 Oct 21;11(10):4080-93. doi: 10.3390/ijms11104080.

Antioxidant activities of extract and fractions from the hypocotyls of the 
mangrove plant Kandelia candel.

Wei SD(1), Zhou HC, Lin YM.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Coastal and Wetland 
Ecosystems, School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, China.

The antioxidant activities of 70% acetone extract (70% AE) from the hypocotyls 
of the mangrove plant Kandelia candel and its fractions of petroleum ether (PF), 
ethyl acetate (EF), water (WF), and the LF (WF fraction further purified through 
a Sephadex LH-20 column), were investigated by the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl 
(DPPH) free radical scavenging and ferric reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP) 
assays. The results showed that all the extract and fractions possessed potent 
antioxidant activity. There was a significant linear correlation between the 
total phenolics concentration and the ferric reducing power or free radical 
scavenging activity of the extract and fractions. Among the extract and 
fractions, the LF fraction exhibits the best antioxidant performance. The 
MALDT-TOF MS and HPLC analyses revealed that the phenolic compounds associated 
with the antioxidant activity of the LF fraction contains a large number of 
procyanidins and a small amount of prodelphinidins, and the epicatechin is the 
main extension unit.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms11104080
PMCID: PMC2996807
PMID: 21152321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Intensive Care Med. 2011 Mar;37(3):444-52. doi: 10.1007/s00134-010-2102-3.
Epub  2010 Dec 9.

Cost-effectiveness of the Surviving Sepsis Campaign protocol for severe sepsis: 
a prospective nation-wide study in Spain.

Suarez D(1), Ferrer R, Artigas A, Azkarate I, Garnacho-Montero J, Gomà G, Levy 
MM, Ruiz JC; Edusepsis Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Epidemiología y Evaluación, Instituto Universitario Fundación Parc 
Tauli, Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona, Sabadell (Barcelona), Spain. 
david.suarez.lamas@gmail.com

CONTEXT: Severe sepsis is associated with high mortality and increased costs. 
The 'Surviving Sepsis Campaign' (SSC) protocol was developed as an international 
initiative to reduce mortality. However, its cost-effectiveness is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of the SSC protocol for the 
treatment of severe sepsis in Spain after the implementation of an educational 
program compared with the conventional care of severe sepsis.
DESIGN: Observational prospective before-and-after study.
SETTING: 59 medical-surgical intensive care units located throughout Spain.
PATIENTS: A total of 854 patients were enrolled in the pre-educational program 
cohort (usual or standard care of severe sepsis) and 1,465 patients in the 
post-educational program cohort (SSC protocol care of severe sepsis).
INTERVENTIONS: The educational program aimed to increase adherence to the SSC 
protocol. The SSC protocol included pharmacological and medical interventions.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical (hospital mortality) and economic (health-care 
resource and treatment costs) outcomes were recorded. A health-care system 
perspective was used for costs. The primary outcome was incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Patients in the SSC protocol care cohort had a lower risk of hospital 
mortality (44.0% vs. 39.7%, P = 0.04). However, mean costs per patient were 
1,736 euros higher in the SSC protocol care cohort (95% CI 114-3,358 euros), 
largely as a result of increased length of stay. Mean life years gained (LYG) 
were higher in the SSC protocol care cohort: 0.54 years (95% CI 0.02-1.05 
years). The adjusted ICER of the SSC protocol was 4,435 euros per LYG. Nearly 
all (96.5%) the bootstrap replications were below the threshold of 30,000 euros 
per LYG.
CONCLUSION: The SSC protocol seems to be a cost-effective option for treating 
severe sepsis in Spain.

DOI: 10.1007/s00134-010-2102-3
PMID: 21152895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Zentralbl Chir. 2010 Dec;135(6):523-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1262692. Epub
2010  Dec 13.

[Value of surgery in the palliative therapy for rectal cancer].

[Article in German]

Delgadillo X(1), Müller JS, Solass W, Reymond MA.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de Montbrillant, Service de Coloproctologie, La Chaux-de-Fonds, 
Switzerland.

The treatment of advanced rectal cancer is a complicated task that can only 
poorly be reduced to the simple question "to operate or not to operate?" Instead 
the following factors must be taken into consideration: symptomatic versus 
non-symptomatic patients, emergency surgery versus elective surgery, proximal 
versus distal rectal cancer, local advanced versus metastatic disease, primary 
tumour versus recurrence, unresectable versus potentially resectable metastases, 
resection versus diversionary surgical procedures, etc. Also within the 
conservative group one must decide between interventional therapy (combined 
chemotherapy, stent placement, radiotherapy, etc.) and purely palliative 
therapy. Results from studies are not sufficient for the formulation of general 
recommendations. However, there are only few arguments against a surgical 
procedure in a symptomatic situation when the primary tumour dominates. In cases 
of metastasizing colorectal cancer modern chemotherapeutic procedures and new 
antibody therapies can markedly prolong survival. These results cannot be 
achieved by surgery alone. In this situation, it should be considered whether 
the longer life expectancy will be accompanied by the later occurrence of 
symptoms, which again justifies a surgical indication within the framework of 
multimodality therapy. The widely differing starting situations lead to 
different therapeutic approaches so that an individual indication can be made in 
the course of a tumour board discussion.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart ˙ New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1262692
PMID: 21154209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Zentralbl Chir. 2010 Dec;135(6):535-40. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1262701. Epub
2010  Dec 13.

[Palliative chemotherapy for colorectal cancer--current state, significance, 
trends].

[Article in German]

Stübs P(1), Habermann P, Wex C, Mohren M, Zierau K, Lippert H, Fahlke J.

Author information:
(1)Otto-von-Guericke-Universität, Klinik für Allgemein-, Viszeral- und 
Gefäßchirurgie, Magdeburg, Deutschland. patrick.stuebs@med.ovgu.de

BACKGROUND: There are a number of effective substances available for palliative 
treatment of colorectal cancer, contributing to a considerable extension of the 
median survival time either purely medically or by increasing the chance of 
secondary resectability through improved effectiveness of the administered 
drugs. PATIENTS / MATERIAL: Defining treatment depending on predominant patient 
characteristics remains crucial for any therapeutic success. This requires 
interdisciplinary co-ordination within tumour boards.
METHODS: In aggressive tumours a therapeutic approach inducing high response 
rates is favoured, usually including a triple or quadruple combination incl. 
antibodies. In cases of slow tumour progress and limited patient profile, a 
sequence of chemotherapy is chosen. Implementing and integrating locally 
ablative modes of therapy into the treatment strategy can increase the 
effectiveness additionally. In a best case scenario additional systemic side 
effects can be avoided resulting in a not insignificant benefit in quality of 
life.
RESULTS: Further genotyping beyond the K-RAS state is necessary to make 
predictive and prognostic statements concerning the drugs applied and to avoid 
ineffectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Considerable progress has been achieved in the medical therapy for 
metastasised colorectal cancer. The targeted application of already available as 
well as recently developed substances requires further evaluation by appropriate 
studies.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart ˙ New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1262701
PMID: 21154211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Md Med. 2010 Winter;11(1):5; author reply 5-6.

Quality of care in America.

Goodman N.

Comment on
    Md Med. 2009 Autumn;10(3):6-8.

PMID: 21155118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Geriatr Phys Ther. 2010 Jul-Sep;33(3):135-40.

The feasibility and efficacy of eccentric exercise with older cancer survivors: 
a preliminary study.

Lastayo PC(1), Larsen S, Smith S, Dibble L, Marcus R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84108, 
USA. paul.lastayo@health.utah.edu

INTRODUCTION: Older individuals who have survived cancer and the commensurate 
treatment often experience a reduced quality of life in part due to their 
impaired muscular abilities and deficits in mobility. The purpose of this 
preliminary study was to determine the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of 
resistance exercise via negative, eccentrically induced work (RENEW) with older 
cancer survivors.
METHODS: Older cancer survivors with a perception of moderate muscle weakness 
and fatigue participated in 12 weeks of RENEW. Measures of feasibility included 
(1) the participant's ability to progress the total amount of work of RENEW; (2) 
whether peak knee extension torque production became impaired; and (3) whether 
RENEW induced leg muscle pain as measured on a visual analog scale. The 
preliminary measure of efficacy included the performance of a timed up-and-go 
mobility test.
RESULTS: The participants significantly increased the total average work per 
week over the 12 weeks of RENEW. Participants increased (P < .001) their work 
approximately 3-fold from week 3 (7.6 [5.11 kJ) to week 12 (22.1 [14.8] kJ) 
without muscle pain over the 12-week RENEW training period. Knee extension peak 
torque production improved (11%) significantly (P = .02) (pretest: 248 [92] N; 
posttest: 275 [99] N) after 12 weeks of RENEW. The time to perform the up-and-go 
test improved (14%) significantly (P < .001) (pretest: 8.4 [2.7]; posttest: 7.2 
[2.3] s) after 12 weeks of RENEW, suggesting preliminary efficacy.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, RENEW appears feasible and potentially efficacious for 
older, weak, and fatigued cancer survivors.
IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: The use of eccentric muscle exercise may be 
ideally suited for older cancer survivors due to its high force and low 
energetic-cost capabilities.

PMCID: PMC3018757
PMID: 21155509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2010 Dec;10(6):667-76. doi: 
10.1586/erp.10.81.

Quality-of-life concerns in lung cancer patients.

Siddiqui F(1), Konski AA, Movsas B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Henry Ford Hospital, 2799 West Grand 
Boulevard, Detroit, MI 48202, USA.

Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer deaths for both men and women across 
the world. In the past, studies on lung cancer have focused on traditional end 
points such as survival, disease-free survival or local control. More recently, 
investigators have begun to appreciate the importance of health-related 
quality-of-life outcomes, particularly in the setting of lung cancer. This 
article provides an overview of the importance, methodology, analysis and 
presentation of health-related quality of life in lung cancer trials, and also 
discusses some of the limitations and challenges of such studies.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.10.81
PMID: 21155700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Breast J. 2011 Jan-Feb;17(1):103-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.01017.x.
Epub  2010 Dec 14.

Cost-benefit of laparoscopic versus medical ovarian suppression in premenopausal 
breast cancer.

Hagemann AR, Zighelboim I, Odibo AO, Rader JS, Mutch DG, Powell MA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.01017.x
PMID: 21155918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Pediatr Transplant. 2011 Feb;15(1):25-31. doi:
10.1111/j.1399-3046.2010.01439.x.  Epub 2010 Dec 13.

Challenges in pediatric transplantation: the impact of chronic kidney disease 
and cardiovascular risk factors on long-term outcomes and recommended management 
strategies.

Filler G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, London Health Science Centre, Children's Hospital, 
University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada. guido.filler@lhsc.on.ca

Barriers to successful outcomes following pediatric transplantation have shifted 
from ischemic reperfusion injury and rejection to more long-term complications. 
Of particular concern is the high prevalence of CKD owing to preexisting damage 
and nephrotoxicity, as well as other CV complications such as hypertension and 
cardiomyopathy. All of these contribute to graft loss and shortened life 
expectancy, thereby limiting the success story of solid-organ transplantation. 
Managing CKD and related CV morbidity should be integral to the care of 
pediatric transplant patients, and timely detection of any irregularities would 
increase the chances of restoring lost kidney function. GFR is still the widely 
accepted indicator of renal function, and nuclear medicine techniques are the 
gold standard measurement methods. These methods are limited by costs, radiation 
exposure and substrate injection, and current practice still uses the Schwartz 
estimate, despite its well-documented limitations. Newer endogenous markers of 
GFR, such as cystatin C clearance, give a more accurate measure of true GFR but 
have not been embraced in the management of pediatric transplant recipients. 
Furthermore, indirect markers (e.g., microalbuminuria and hypertension) could 
also aid early detection of renal damage. The effects of mainstay 
immunosuppressants on kidney and heart function are varied, with available data 
indicating favorable outcomes with tacrolimus compared with ciclosporin. There 
is a need for appropriately designed and powered randomized controlled trials to 
validate innovative concepts for tailored immunosuppression in the pediatric 
population. To date, very few studies have generated long-term data in pediatric 
renal transplant patients - results of 1-4-yr study favored tacrolimus over 
ciclosporin, but other immunosuppressive agents also need to be evaluated.

© 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3046.2010.01439.x
PMID: 21155958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. World Health Popul. 2010;12(1):42-56.

The influence of birth spacing on child survival in Bangladesh: a life table 
approach.

Akter S(1), Rahman JA, Rahman MM, Abedin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Science and Human Resource Development, University 
of Rajshahi, Rajshahi-6205, Bangladesh.

In this paper we have attempted to demonstrate the relationship between birth 
spacing and child survival in Bangladesh using data from the 2004 Bangladesh 
Demographic Health Survey (BDHS). We used standard life table techniques to 
estimate the probability of child survival and appropriate spacing of births. 
Logistic regression models were used to investigate the covariates, along with 
the birth interval that has significant influence on child survival. Study 
results showed that the probability of child survival was much lower when the 
preceding birth interval was less than 12 months, and it may be also impeded by 
a higher birth interval. Child survival probability was highest for a preceding 
birth interval of 5 years; thereafter, the probability declined. Results of the 
logistic regression model clearly showed that preceding birth interval was an 
important and strongly significant factor in explaining infant and child 
mortality. While education, current age, breastfeeding status and birth order 
were substantial and highly significant factors both in infant and child 
mortality, socio-economic factors such as occupation and socio-economic status 
showed a significant effect only on child mortality. Postponing another child 
(for a birth interval of 5 years and above) and proper spacing of births would 
have a noticeable effect in reducing the level of mortality.

PMID: 21157191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2010 Nov;11(11):1211-20.

Targeting the IL-1 family members in skin inflammation.

Jensen LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Temple University School of Medicine, Department of Microbiology and 
Immunology, 1158 MERB, 3500 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, PA 19140-4106, 
USA. liselott@temple.edu

The IL-1 family of cytokines comprises 11 proteins with pro- and 
anti-inflammatory functions that are mediated through an equally large group of 
receptors and coreceptors. Dysregulation of the IL-1 system may lead to diseases 
such as psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis and cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus. These inflammatory skin conditions greatly affect quality of life 
and life expectancy, and their frequencies are increasing. However, treatment 
options for these diseases are unsatisfactory. This review briefly summarizes 
new findings, reported in the past 2 years, implicating IL-1 family members in 
skin inflammation. Furthermore, how the biological activities of the IL-1 family 
members may be inhibited is discussed.

PMCID: PMC3059231
PMID: 21157640


620. Health Econ. 2011 Jan;20(1):68-72. doi: 10.1002/hec.1600.

Welfare, QALYs, and costs - a comment.

Liljas B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
bengt.liljas@astrazeneca.com

What costs and what effects should be included in cost-effectiveness analysis 
from a welfare theoretic perspective? There is a broad agreement to include 
health-care costs and to measure the effects as Quality-Adjusted Life-Years 
(QALYs). However, a hot topic has been how to handle survivor consumption and 
leisure foregone. It is well established that the costs for these aspects should 
be included only if their associated benefits are also included. The key 
question is, then, if these benefits are included in QALYs. In a recent paper by 
Nyman (Health Econ., in press) it was argued that these benefits are not 
generally included in the empirical assessment of QALYs and that these costs 
therefore should be excluded. Even if this recommendation is correct, the 
reasons for it can be questioned. It is here instead argued that this decision 
should be based on theoretical - and not empirical - considerations. Thus, these 
costs should be excluded because QALYs are unlikely to be consistent with a 
utility function also including consumption and leisure. If so, then it becomes 
more important to instruct individuals not to include these benefits in their 
QALY assessments than to consider to what extent they may or may not be 
implicitly included. It is also demonstrated that these results have bearings on 
non-medical costs for the case when survival is not affected.

2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1600
PMID: 21157833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2011 Jan;294(1):156-64. doi: 10.1002/ar.21279. Epub 2010
Nov  2.

Development and structure of the glandopreputial sulcus of the human clitoris 
with a special reference to glandopreputial glands.

van der Putte SC(1), Sie-Go DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. s.c.j.vandeputte@umcutrecht.nl

The structure and development of the sulcus between the glans and prepuce of the 
human clitoris have hardly been investigated. Interest in its structure was 
raised when in the female, in contrast to the male, glands were found to develop 
from the solid lamella-like precursor of the glandopreputial sulcus. It prompted 
a further histological analysis of the sulcus in female fetuses and newborn and 
an extension of that study to clitorises of adult women. The investigation 
showed that in the clitoris, in contrast to the penis, the transformation of the 
glandopreputial lamella into the open sulcus was mostly incomplete and 
apparently remained so throughout life. As a most striking and probably 
exclusively female feature, two to eight eccrine glands developed from the base 
of the lamella in fetuses older than 14.5 weeks gestation. These glands formed 
secretory coils near and occasionally inside the adjacent distal corpora 
cavernosa. Some glands showed atresia, cystic dilatation, and squamous 
metaplasia. A remarkably similar picture was observed in the adult clitorises, 
in which the secretory coils were often found between the large blood vessels 
and nerves to the glans and were connected to the sulcus by long excretory 
ducts. All glands revealed unmistakably eccrine features. It is suggested that 
their secretion moistens the female glandopreputial sulcus, which is not 
lubricated by urethral secretion as in the male. The findings may explain the 
rare clitoral phimosis, cysts, and some pilonidal sinuses.

2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21279
PMID: 21157926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Parasitol. 2010 Dec;96(6):1089-101. doi: 10.1645/GE-2539.1. Epub 2010 Jul
20.

Description of a new argasid tick (Acari: Ixodida) from bat caves in Brazilian 
Amazon.

Nava S(1), Venzal JM, Terassini FA, Mangold AJ, Camargo LM, Labruna MB.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria, Estación Experimental 
Agropecuaria Rafaela, CC 22, CP 2300 Rafaela, Santa Fe, Argentina. 
snava@rafaela.inta.gov.ar

Nothoaspis amazoniensis n. sp. (Acari: Ixodida: Argasidae) is described from 
adult and immature ticks (nymph II, nymph I, larva) collected from bat caves in 
the Brazilian Amazon. Also, 16S rDNA sequences are provided. The diagnostic 
characters for adults are the presence of false shield or nothoaspis, an 
anteriorly projecting hood covering the capitulum, a medial extension of palpal 
article I (flaps), genital plate extending from coxa I to IV, absence of 2 setae 
on the internal margin of the flaps, a minute hypostome without denticles, 
presence of a central pore in the base of hypostome, and a reticulate surface 
pattern on the posterior half of the nothoaspis in males. The nymph II stage is 
characterized by a hood that is small in relation to the capitulum, short coxal 
setae, palpal flaps lacking setae on the internal margin, long hypostome, 
pointed with dentition 4/4 apically, and the anterior half of the body is 
covered by a cell-like configuration. Nymph I stage is characterized by a hood, 
small in relation to the capitulum, dorsum of the body covered by a cell-like 
configuration, venter integument covered by a cell-like configuration, and 
hypostome dentition 4/4 with apices that are "V"-shaped. Diagnostic characters 
of the larvae are the number and size of dorsal setae, and the shape of scutum 
and hypostome. The new species appears to have a life cycle with a larva that 
feeds on bats, a non-feeding nymphal stage (nymph I), a feeding nymphal stage 
(nymph II), and adults that probably represent non-feeding stages.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-2539.1
PMID: 21158616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Prev Chronic Dis. 2011 Jan;8(1):A06. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

Mortality of urban Aboriginal adults in Canada, 1991-2001.

Tjepkema M(1), Wilkins R, Senécal S, Guimond E, Penney C.

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
michael.tjepkema@statcan.gc.ca

OBJECTIVE: To compare mortality patterns for urban Aboriginal adults with those 
of urban non-Aboriginal adults.
METHODS: Using the 1991-2001 Canadian census mortality follow-up study, our 
study tracked mortality to December 31, 2001, among a 15% sample of adults, 
including 16 300 Aboriginal and 2 062 700 non-Aboriginal persons residing in 
urban areas on June 4, 1991. The Aboriginal population was defined by ethnic 
origin (ancestry), Registered Indian status and/or membership in an Indian band 
or First Nation, since the 1991 census did not collect information on Aboriginal 
identity.
RESULTS: Compared to urban non-Aboriginal men and women, remaining life 
expectancy at age 25 years was 4.7 years and 6.5 years shorter for urban 
Aboriginal men and women, respectively. Mortality rate ratios for urban 
Aboriginal men and women were particularly elevated for alcohol-related deaths, 
motor vehicle accidents and infectious diseases, including HIV/AIDS. For most 
causes of death, urban Aboriginal adults had higher mortality rates compared to 
other urban residents. Socio-economic status played an important role in 
explaining these disparities.
CONCLUSION: Results from this study help fill a data gap on mortality 
information of urban Aboriginal people of Canada.

PMCID: PMC3044017
PMID: 21159218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Biomed Pharmacother. 2011 Mar;65(2):95-104. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2010.10.005.  Epub 2010 Nov 4.

Assisting the diagnosis of Graves' hyperthyroidism with pattern recognition 
methods and a set of three routine tests parameters, and their correlations with 
free T4 levels: Extension to male patients.

Aoki S(1), Hoshi K, Kawakami J, Sato K, Satoh K, Mori K, Sugawara A, Saito Y, 
Yoshida K.

Author information:
(1)Information Science Center, Tohoku Pharmaceutical University, 4-4-1 
Komatsushima, Aoba-ku, Sendai 981-8558, Japan.

In our previous paper, we proposed a novel screening method that aids the 
diagnosis of female patients with Graves' hyperthyroidism via two types of 
neural networks and the use of routine test data. This method can be applied by 
non-specialists during physical checkups at a low cost and is expected to lead 
to rapid referrals for examination and treatment by thyroid specialists; i.e., 
to improve patients' QOL. In this report, we investigate whether the screening 
method is also applicable to males since sex differences exist in routine test 
data. The values of 14 routine test parameters for 78 subjects with definite 
diagnoses (31 patients with Graves' hyperthyroidism and 48 healthy volunteers) 
were adopted as training data, and 133 individuals who had also undergone the 
same routine tests at Tohoku University Hospital were screened for Graves' 
hyperthyroidism using our method. The present examination of our screening 
method in males showed its high screening ability with the set of parameters 
used (low serum creatinine, elevated alkaline phosphatase, and low total 
cholesterol). It was also found that there is strong multiple correlation 
between a set of three parameters and serum free thyroxine (FT4) in male 
patients with Graves' hyperthyroidism. A formula for FT4 consisting of three 
parameters was obtained, and this can be utilized in place of the true FT4 
value. This result also supports the usefulness of our screening method.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2010.10.005
PMID: 21159485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2011 Jan;41(1):97-103. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2010.06.024. Epub 2010 Dec 14.

Cost-effectiveness of exercise therapy in patients with intermittent 
claudication: supervised exercise therapy versus a 'go home and walk' advice.

van Asselt AD(1), Nicolaï SP, Joore MA, Prins MH, Teijink JA; Exercise Therapy 
in Peripheral Arterial Disease Study Group.

Collaborators: van Asselt AD, Nicolaï SP, Joore MA, Willigendael EM, 
Bendermacher BL, Kruidenier LM, van Det RJ, Jörning PJ, Vahl A, Tutein 
Nolthenius RP, Cuypers PW, Bartelink ML, Hendriks EJ, de Bie RA, Prins MH, 
Teijink JA.

Author information:
(1)Maastricht University Medical Center, Department of Clinical Epidemiology and 
Medical Technology Assessment, P.O. Box 5800, 6202 AZ Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: The Exercise Therapy in Peripheral Arterial Disease (EXITPAD) study 
has shown supervised exercise therapy (SET) to be more effective regarding 
walking distance and quality of life than a 'go home and walk' advice (WA) for 
patients with intermittent claudication. The present study aims to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of SET versus WA.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data from the EXITPAD study, a 12-month randomised 
controlled trial in 304 patients with claudication, was used to study the 
proportion of costs to walking distance and quality of life. Two different 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated for SET versus WA: 
costs per extra metre on the treadmill test, and costs per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY). QALYs were based on utilities derived from the EuroQoL-5 dimensions 
(EQ-5D).
RESULTS: Mean total costs were higher for SET than for WA (3407 versus 2304 
Euros), mainly caused by the costs of exercise therapy. The median walking 
distance was 620 m for SET and 400 m for WA. QALYs were 0.71 for SET and 0.67 
for WA. All differences were statistically significant. The ICER for cost per 
extra metre on the 12-month treadmill test was € 4.08. For cost per QALY, the 
ICER was € 28,693.
CONCLUSION: At a willingness-to-pay threshold of € 40,000 per QALY, SET likely 
is a cost-effective therapeutic option for patients with claudication.

Copyright Â© 2010 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2010.06.024
PMID: 21159527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Scand J Surg. 2010;99(4):230-4. doi: 10.1177/145749691009900410.

High leg salvage rate after infrainguinal bypass surgery for ischemic tissue 
loss (Fontaine IV) is compromised by the short life expectancy.

Söderström M(1), Arvela E, Aho PS, Lepäntalo M, Albäck A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland. maria.soderstrom@hus.fi

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Most studies analysing the prognosis of infrainguinal 
bypass surgery (IBS) in patients with critical leg ischemia (CLI) have combined 
the outcome of patients with rest pain and tissue loss. The aim of the present 
study was to evaluate amputation-free survival (AFS) after IBS in patients with 
the most advanced form of peripheral arterial disease, CLI with tissue loss 
(Fontaine IV), and to analyse the risk factors for an adverse outcome.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 636 patients with CLI and tissue loss who underwent 
unilateral IBS between January 2000 and December 2006 at our institution were 
included in this retrospective study.
RESULTS: At one year, the leg salvage, survival and amputation-free survival 
rates were 83%, 71% and 55%, respectively, and at five years 76%, 38% and 30%, 
respectively. In univariate analysis, diabetes was associated with decreased 
AFS. In multivariate analysis, age, coronary artery disease, chronic pulmonary 
disease, gangrene and renal insufficiency were independent risk factors for 
decreased AFS.
CONCLUSION: Infrainguinal bypass grafting results in a high rate of leg salvage. 
Amputation-free survival was low during the follow-up due to the high mortality 
of patients with CLI and tissue loss. Several co-morbidities of the CLI patients 
were associated with decreased amputation-free survival.

DOI: 10.1177/145749691009900410
PMID: 21159594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Circulation. 2011 Feb 1;123(4):e18-e209. doi: 10.1161/CIR.0b013e3182009701.
Epub  2010 Dec 15.

Heart disease and stroke statistics--2011 update: a report from the American 
Heart Association.

Roger VL, Go AS, Lloyd-Jones DM, Adams RJ, Berry JD, Brown TM, Carnethon MR, Dai 
S, de Simone G, Ford ES, Fox CS, Fullerton HJ, Gillespie C, Greenlund KJ, 
Hailpern SM, Heit JA, Ho PM, Howard VJ, Kissela BM, Kittner SJ, Lackland DT, 
Lichtman JH, Lisabeth LD, Makuc DM, Marcus GM, Marelli A, Matchar DB, McDermott 
MM, Meigs JB, Moy CS, Mozaffarian D, Mussolino ME, Nichol G, Paynter NP, 
Rosamond WD, Sorlie PD, Stafford RS, Turan TN, Turner MB, Wong ND, Wylie-Rosett 
J; American Heart Association Statistics Committee and Stroke Statistics 
Subcommittee.

Erratum in
    Circulation. 2011 Feb 15;123(6):e240.
    Circulation. 2011 Oct 18;124(16):e426.

Each year, the American Heart Association (AHA), in conjunction with the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and other 
government agencies, brings together the most up-to-date statistics on heart 
disease, stroke, other vascular diseases, and their risk factors and presents 
them in its Heart Disease and Stroke Statistical Update. The Statistical Update 
is a valuable resource for researchers, clinicians, healthcare policy makers, 
media professionals, the lay public, and many others who seek the best national 
data available on disease morbidity and mortality and the risks, quality of 
care, medical procedures and operations, and costs associated with the 
management of these diseases in a single document. Indeed, since 1999, the 
Statistical Update has been cited more than 8700 times in the literature 
(including citations of all annual versions). In 2009 alone, the various 
Statistical Updates were cited ≈1600 times (data from ISI Web of Science). In 
recent years, the Statistical Update has undergone some major changes with the 
addition of new chapters and major updates across multiple areas. For this 
year’s edition, the Statistics Committee, which produces the document for the 
AHA, updated all of the current chapters with the most recent nationally 
representative data and inclusion of relevant articles from the literature over 
the past year and added a new chapter detailing how family history and genetics 
play a role in cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. Also, the 2011 Statistical 
Update is a major source for monitoring both cardiovascular health and disease 
in the population, with a focus on progress toward achievement of the AHA’s 2020 
Impact Goals. Below are a few highlights from this year’s Update.
DEATH RATES FROM CVD HAVE DECLINED, YET THE BURDEN OF DISEASE REMAINS HIGH: The 
2007 overall death rate from CVD (International Classification of Diseases 10, 
I00–I99) was 251.2 per 100 000. The rates were 294.0 per 100 000 for white 
males, 405.9 per 100 000 for black males, 205.7 per 100 000 for white females, 
and 286.1 per 100 000 for black females. From 1997 to 2007, the death rate from 
CVD declined 27.8%. Mortality data for 2007 show that CVD (I00–I99; Q20–Q28) 
accounted for 33.6% (813 804) of all 2 243 712 deaths in 2007, or 1 of every 2.9 
deaths in the United States. On the basis of 2007 mortality rate data, more than 
2200 Americans die of CVD each day, an average of 1 death every 39 seconds. More 
than 150 000 Americans killed by CVD (I00–I99) in 2007 were <65 years of age. In 
2007, nearly 33% of deaths due to CVD occurred before the age of 75 years, which 
is well before the average life expectancy of 77.9 years. Coronary heart disease 
caused ≈1 of every 6 deaths in the United States in 2007. Coronary heart disease 
mortality in 2007 was 406 351. Each year, an estimated 785 000 Americans will 
have a new coronary attack, and ≈470 000 will have a recurrent attack. It is 
estimated that an additional 195 000 silent first myocardial infarctions occur 
each year. Approximately every 25 seconds, an American will have a coronary 
event, and approximately every minute, someone will die of one. Each year, ≈795 
000 people experience a new or recurrent stroke. Approximately 610 000 of these 
are first attacks, and 185 000 are recurrent attacks. Mortality data from 2007 
indicate that stroke accounted for ≈1 of every 18 deaths in the United States. 
On average, every 40 seconds, someone in the United States has a stroke. From 
1997 to 2007, the stroke death rate fell 44.8%, and the actual number of stroke 
deaths declined 14.7%. In 2007, 1 in 9 death certificates (277 193 deaths) in 
the United States mentioned heart failure.
PREVALENCE AND CONTROL OF TRADITIONAL RISK FACTORS REMAINS AN ISSUE FOR MANY 
AMERICANS: Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
(NHANES) 2005–2008 indicate that 33.5% of US adults ≥20 years of age have 
hypertension (Table 7-1). This amounts to an estimated 76 400 000 US adults with 
hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is nearly equal between men and 
women. African American adults have among the highest rates of hypertension in 
the world, at 44%. Among hypertensive adults, ≈80% are aware of their condition, 
71% are using antihypertensive medication, and only 48% of those aware that they 
have hypertension have their condition controlled. Despite 4 decades of 
progress, in 2008, among Americans ≥18 years of age, 23.1% of men and 18.3% of 
women continued to be cigarette smokers. In 2009, 19.5% of students in grades 9 
through 12 reported current tobacco use. The percentage of the nonsmoking 
population with detectable serum cotinine (indicating exposure to secondhand 
smoke) was 46.4% in 1999 to 2004, with declines occurring, and was highest for 
those 4 to 11 years of age (60.5%) and those 12 to 19 years of age (55.4%). An 
estimated 33 600 000 adults ≥20 years of age have total serum cholesterol levels 
≥240 mg/dL, with a prevalence of 15.0% (Table 13-1). In 2008, an estimated 18 
300 000 Americans had diagnosed diabetes mellitus, representing 8.0% of the 
adult population. An additional 7 100 000 had undiagnosed diabetes mellitus, and 
36.8% had prediabetes, with abnormal fasting glucose levels. African Americans, 
Mexican Americans, Hispanic/Latino individuals, and other ethnic minorities bear 
a strikingly disproportionate burden of diabetes mellitus in the United States 
(Table 16-1).
THE 2011 UPDATE EXPANDS DATA COVERAGE OF THE OBESITY EPIDEMIC AND ITS 
ANTECEDENTS AND CONSEQUENCES: The estimated prevalence of overweight and obesity 
in US adults (≥20 years of age) is 149 300 000, which represents 67.3% of this 
group in 2008. Fully 33.7% of US adults are obese (body mass index ≥30 kg/m2). 
Men and women of all race/ethnic groups in the population are affected by the 
epidemic of overweight and obesity (Table 15-1). Among children 2 to 19 years of 
age, 31.9% are overweight and obese (which represents 23 500 000 children), and 
16.3% are obese (12 000 000 children). Mexican American boys and girls and 
African American girls are disproportionately affected. Over the past 3 decades, 
the prevalence of obesity in children 6 to 11 years of age has increased from 
≈4% to more than 20%. Obesity (body mass index ≥30 kg/m2) is associated with 
marked excess mortality in the US population. Even more notable is the excess 
morbidity associated with overweight and obesity in terms of risk factor 
development and incidence of diabetes mellitus, CVD end points (including 
coronary heart disease, stroke, and heart failure), and numerous other health 
conditions, including asthma, cancer, degenerative joint disease, and many 
others. The prevalence of diabetes mellitus is increasing dramatically over 
time, in parallel with the increases in prevalence of overweight and obesity. On 
the basis of NHANES 2003–2006 data, the age-adjusted prevalence of metabolic 
syndrome, a cluster of major cardiovascular risk factors related to 
overweight/obesity and insulin resistance, is 34% (35.1% among men and 32.6% 
among women). The proportion of youth (≤18 years of age) who report engaging in 
no regular physical activity is high, and the proportion increases with age. In 
2007, among adolescents in grades 9 through 12, 29.9% of girls and 17.0% of boys 
reported that they had not engaged in 60 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity, defined as any activity that increased heart rate or 
breathing rate, even once in the previous 7 days, despite recommendations that 
children engage in such activity ≥5 days per week. Thirty-six percent of adults 
reported engaging in no vigorous activity (activity that causes heavy sweating 
and a large increase in breathing or heart rate). Data from NHANES indicate that 
between 1971 and 2004, average total energy consumption among US adults 
increased by 22% in women (from 1542 to 1886 kcal/d) and by 10% in men (from 
2450 to 2693 kcal/d; see Chart 19-1). The increases in calories consumed during 
this time period are attributable primarily to greater average carbohydrate 
intake, in particular, of starches, refined grains, and sugars. Other specific 
changes related to increased caloric intake in the United States include larger 
portion sizes, greater food quantity and calories per meal, and increased 
consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, snacks, commercially prepared 
(especially fast food) meals, and higher energy-density foods.
THE 2011 UPDATE PROVIDES CRITICAL DATA REGARDING CARDIOVASCULAR QUALITY OF CARE, 
PROCEDURE UTILIZATION, AND COSTS: In light of the current national focus on 
healthcare utilization, costs, and quality, it is critical to monitor and 
understand the magnitude of healthcare delivery and costs, as well as the 
quality of healthcare delivery, related to CVDs. The Update provides these 
critical data in several sections.
QUALITY-OF-CARE METRICS FOR CVDS: Chapter 20 reviews many metrics related to the 
quality of care delivered to patients with CVDs, as well as healthcare 
disparities. In particular, quality data are available from the AHA’s “Get With 
The Guidelines” programs for coronary artery disease and heart failure and the 
American Stroke Association/ AHA’s “Get With the Guidelines” program for acute 
stroke. Similar data from the Veterans Healthcare Administration, national 
Medicare and Medicaid data and National Cardiovascular Data Registry Acute 
Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network - “Get With The Guidelines” 
Registry data are also reviewed. These data show impressive adherence with 
guideline recommendations for many, but not all, metrics of quality of care for 
these hospitalized patients. Data are also reviewed on screening for 
cardiovascular risk factor levels and control.
CARDIOVASCULAR PROCEDURE UTILIZATION AND COSTS: Chapter 21 provides data on 
trends and current usage of cardiovascular surgical and invasive procedures. For 
example, the total number of inpatient cardiovascular operations and procedures 
increased 27%, from 5 382 000 in 1997 to 6 846 000 in 2007 (National Heart, 
Lung, and Blood Institute computation based on National Center for Health 
Statistics annual data). Chapter 22 reviews current estimates of direct and 
indirect healthcare costs related to CVDs, stroke, and related conditions using 
Medical Expenditure Panel Survey data. The total direct and indirect cost of CVD 
and stroke in the United States for 2007 is estimated to be $286 billion. This 
figure includes health expenditures (direct costs, which include the cost of 
physicians and other professionals, hospital services, prescribed medications, 
home health care, and other medical durables) and lost productivity resulting 
from mortality (indirect costs). By comparison, in 2008, the estimated cost of 
all cancer and benign neoplasms was $228 billion ($93 billion in direct costs, 
$19 billion in morbidity indirect costs, and $116 billion in mortality indirect 
costs). CVD costs more than any other diagnostic group. The AHA, through its 
Statistics Committee, continuously monitors and evaluates sources of data on 
heart disease and stroke in the United States to provide the most current data 
available in the Statistics Update. The 2007 mortality data have been released. 
More information can be found at the National Center for Health Statistics Web 
site, http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr58/nvsr58_01.pdf. Finally, it must 
be noted that this annual Statistical Update is the product of an entire year’s 
worth of effort by dedicated professionals, volunteer physicians and scientists, 
and outstanding AHA staff members, without whom publication of this valuable 
resource would be impossible. Their contributions are gratefully acknowledged. 
Véronique L. Roger, MD, MPH, FAHA. Melanie B. Turner, MPH. On behalf of the 
American Heart Association Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics Writing Group. 
Note: Population data used in the compilation of NHANES prevalence estimates is 
for the latest year of the NHANES survey being used. Extrapolations for NHANES 
prevalence estimates are based on the census resident population for 2008 
because this is the most recent year of NHANES data used in the Statistical 
Update.

DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0b013e3182009701
PMCID: PMC4418670
PMID: 21160056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The American Heart Association makes every 
effort to avoid any actual or potential conflicts of interest that may arise as 
a result of an outside relationship or a personal, professional, or business 
interest of a member of the writing panel. Specifically, all members of the 
writing group are required to complete and submit a Disclosure Questionnaire 
showing all such relationships that might be perceived as real or potential 
conflicts of interest. A copy of the statement is available at 
http://www.americanheart.org/presenter.jhtml?identifier_3003999 by selecting 
either the “topic list” link or the “chronological list” link (No. KB-0111). To 
purchase additional reprints, call 843-216-2533 or e-mail 
kelle.ramsay@wolterskluwer.com. Expert peer review of AHA Scientific Statements 
is conducted at the AHA National Center. For more on AHA statements and 
guidelines development, visit 
http://www.americanheart.org/presenter.jhtml?identifier_3023366.


628. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2010 Dec;37(13):2813-6.

[Treatment of esophageal cancer in elderly patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakui M(1), Chino O, Ozawa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Tokai University, 143 Shimokasuya, 
Isehara 259-1193, Japan.

During the last 30 years, the median survival time and 5-year survival rate of 
esophageal cancer have improved significantly. In recent years, two major 
factors have greatly contributed to improve the outcomes of treatment for 
esophageal cancer in Japan. One is the establishment of endoscopic diagnosis and 
treatment of superficial esophageal cancer, and another is the establishment of 
a standard surgical procedure, subtotal esophagectomy with dissection of three 
field lymph nodes. In an aging society like Japan, with the increased incidence, 
the diagnosis and treatment of esophageal cancer will become increasingly 
important in the future. The effectiveness and risk of surgical treatment, 
chemotherapy, radiotherapy and combination therapy for elderly patients with 
esophageal cancer will also become important. However, the average life 
expectancy has reached 79 years for Japanese men, and various evidence from 
clinical research on patients less than 75 years old is not longer sufficient. 
Care of elderly patients with esophageal cancer has relied on past experience. 
Now, clinical studies on elderly esophageal cancer must be improved.

PMID: 21160255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2010 Dec;37(13):2829-32.

[Breast cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Sakai T(1), Iwase T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, Cancer Institute Hospital, Japanese Foundation 
for Cancer Research, 3-10-6 Ariake, Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-8550, Japan.

Many studies have suggested that older women with breast cancer have tumors with 
less aggressive biological features such as small tumor size, higher expression 
of steroid hormone receptor, and absence of expression of HER2. The 3 major 
treatments for breast cancer are surgery, drug therapy, and radiotherapy. The 
treatment of choice is determined by many factors, particularly the biological 
characteristics of the tumor and the risk of recurrence; the same factors are 
used to determine the treatment of choice in elderly patients. Surgery, 
endocrine therapy, and radiotherapy are relatively less invasive treatments. 
However, chemotherapy is a highly invasive treatment especially given its side 
effects. Because few women older than 70 years have been enrolled in randomized 
controlled trials, evidence-based treatment guidelines, particularly with regard 
to adjuvant chemotherapy, are lacking. A few older patients with breast cancers 
have high-risk features such as positive lymph nodes, absence of hormone 
receptors, and presence of HER2 expression. Chemotherapy is recommended for 
those older women for whom the risk of recurrence is higher. The important 
factors influencing the choice of treatment for breast cancer are the risk of 
recurrence and efficacy of treatment. Life expectancy, comorbidities, and organ 
function are also features that have to be considered when treating the elderly.

PMID: 21160258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2010 Dec 15;35(26 Suppl):S375-82. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31820238d9.

The economics of minimally invasive spine surgery: the value perspective.

Allen RT(1), Garfin SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of California San Diego Medical 
Center, San Diego, CA, USA. rtallen@ucsd.edu

STUDY DESIGN: Review of the literature.
OBJECTIVE: To summarize current cost and clinical efficacy data in minimally 
invasive spine (MIS) surgery.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Cost effectiveness (CE), using cost per 
quality-adjusted life-years gained, has been shown for lumbar discectomy, 
decompressive laminectomy, and for instrumented and noninstrumented lumbar 
fusions in several high-quality studies using conventional, open surgical 
procedures. Currently, comparisons of costs and clinical outcomes of MIS surgery 
