cystic fibrosis (CF). Life expectancy of people with CF has increased 
dramatically in the last 40 years. One of the major reasons for this increase is 
the mounting use of antibiotics to treat chest exacerbations caused by bacterial 
infections. The optimal duration of intravenous antibiotic therapy is not 
clearly defined. Individuals usually receive intravenous antibiotics for 14 
days, but treatment may range from 10 to 21 days. A shorter duration of 
antibiotic treatment risks inadequate clearance of infection which could lead to 
further lung damage. Prolonged courses of intravenous antibiotics are expensive 
and inconvenient and the incidence of allergic reactions to antibiotics also 
increases with prolonged courses. The use of aminoglycosides requires frequent 
monitoring to avoid some of their side effects. However, some organisms which 
infect people with CF are known to be multi-resistant to antibiotics, and may 
require a longer course of treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the optimal duration of intravenous antibiotic therapy for 
treating chest exacerbations in people with cystic fibrosis.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Trials Register which comprises references identified from comprehensive 
electronic database searches, handsearches of relevant journals, abstract books 
and conference proceedings.Most recent search of the Group's Cystic Fibrosis 
Trials Register: 3 December 2010.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials comparing 
different durations of intravenous antibiotic courses for acute respiratory 
exacerbations in people with CF, either with the same drugs at the same dosage, 
the same drugs at a different dosage or frequency or different antibiotics 
altogether, including studies with additional therapeutic agents.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No eligible trials were identified.
MAIN RESULTS: No eligible trials were identified.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There are no clear guidelines on the optimum duration of 
intravenous antibiotic treatment. Duration of treatment is currently based on 
unit policies and response to treatment. Shorter duration of treatment should 
improve quality of life and compliance; result in a reduced incidence of drug 
reactions; and be less costly. However, this may not be sufficient to clear a 
chest infection and may result in an early recurrence of an exacerbation. This 
systematic review identifies the need for a multicentre, randomised controlled 
trial comparing different durations of intravenous antibiotic treatment as it 
has important clinical and financial implications.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006682.pub3
PMID: 21249681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Lancet Oncol. 2011 Jan;12(1):16-7. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(10)70276-x.

NICE guidance on trastuzumab for the treatment of HER2-positive metastatic 
gastric cancer.

Holden J, Garrett Z, Stevens A.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(10)70276-x
PMID: 21249723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Lancet. 2011 Jan 15;377(9761):200-1. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(11)60035-4.

Learning from others.

Sen A.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(11)60035-4
PMID: 21249752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. (68)Ga-Labeled 
2-[3-(1-carboxy-5-{7-[5-carboxy-5-(3-phenyl-2-{3-phenyl-2-[2-(4,7,10-tris-carboxymethyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododec-1-l)acetylamino]propionylamino}propionylamino)pentylcarbamoyl]heptanoylamino}pentyl)ureido]pentanedioic
 acid.

Chopra A(1).

In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda 
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004–2013.
2010 Sep 27 [updated 2010 Dec 28].

Author information:
(1)National Center for Biotechnology Information, NLM, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20894

The prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a type II membrane glycoprotein 
that is present primarily in the prostate and is overexpressed during all stages 
of the androgen-insensitive or the metastatic cancer of this organ (1). In 
addition, PSMA is expressed at lower levels (compared to the prostate) in the 
neovasculature of some solid tumors (for details, see Elsasser-Beile et al. 
(1)). Because of its high expression during the development and progression of a 
malignancy, PSMA is considered to be a good target for the imaging and treatment 
of prostate cancer (2). Several investigators have reported the use of 
radio-halogenated (e.g., 18F, 125I, etc.) and 99mTc-labeled small molecule 
inhibitors for the imaging of PSMA (3). Among these radionuclides, 18F is the 
most frequently used to label diverse positron emission tomography (PET) agents 
for diagnostic imaging because its addition to a molecule (usually by the 
replacement of a hydrogen atom) does not alter its chemical properties; however, 
due to its short half-life (~110 min), an on-site cyclotron is needed to produce 
this radio-halogen (4). Recently 68Ga (half-life, ~68 min) has been suggested to 
be a suitable alternative to the use of 18F for the production of PET imaging 
probes because 68Ga is easy to produce with a 68Ge/68Ga generator system that 
does not have to be on-site. However, it is necessary to mention that currently 
no 68Ge/68Ga generator system has been approved by the United States Food and 
Drug Administration (Eckelman: personal communication). In addition, 68Ga has 
been successfully used by some investigators to study cancer and tumor biology 
(4, 5). On the basis of these observations, and as an extension of their earlier 
work (Banerjee et al. developed two 68Ga-labeled, urea-based inhibitors of PSMA 
([68Ga]-labeled 
2-[3-(1-carboxy-5-{7-[5-carboxy-5-(3-phenyl-2-{3-phenyl-2-[2-(4,7,10-tris-carboxymethyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododec-1-l)acetylamino]propionylamino}propionylamino)pentylcarbamoyl] 
heptanoylamino}pentyl)ureido]pentanedioic acid ([68Ga]6)) and [68Ga]-labeled 
2-{3-[5-(7-{1-benzyloxycarbonyl-5-[2-(4,7,10-tris-carboxymethyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododec-1-l)acetylamino]pentylcarbamoyl}-heptanoylamino)-1-carboxypentyl]ureido}pentanedioic 
acid ([68Ga]3)) and evaluated them for biodistribution and the imaging of 
PSMA-expressing tumors in nude mice (3). This chapter details the results 
obtained with [68Ga]6. Results obtained with [68Ga]3 are presented in a separate 
chapter of MICAD (www.micad.nih.gov) (6).

PMID: 21249764


867. Improving the Health of Populations: Lessons of Experience.

Medlin CA, Chowdhury M, Jamison DT, Measham A.

In: Jamison DT, Breman JG, Measham AR, Alleyne G, Claeson M, Evans DB, Jha P, 
Mills A, Musgrove P, editors. Disease Control Priorities in Developing 
Countries. 2nd edition. Washington (DC): The International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank; 2006. Chapter 8.

In the past 50 years, the world has experienced enormous and unprecedented gains 
in the health of human populations. Progress has been especially apparent in 
developing countries. Average life expectancy has risen by more than 60 percent, 
from 40 years in 1950 to 65 years today. In 1950, roughly 28 percent of children 
died before their fifth birthday, but by 1990, this number had fallen to 10 
percent. Furthermore, many of the world's most deadly and debilitating diseases, 
including leprosy, measles, poliomyelitis (polio), and many childhood illnesses, 
have been effectively contained in most areas and virtually eliminated in 
others. Smallpox, a highly contagious and deadly disease that affected more than 
50 million people a year prior to 1950, has been completely eradicated. 
Researchers have identified economic growth, rising incomes, and better living 
conditions brought about by rapid social and political transformations in many 
societies as major contributors to these impressive health gains. However, in 
recent years, the role of scientific and technological progress has emerged as a 
crucial, but little understood, factor underlying these gains. As Davis (1956, 
306–7) observes,"It seems clear that the great reduction of mortality in 
underdeveloped areas since 1940 has been brought about mainly by the discovery 
of new methods of disease treatment applicable at reasonable cost [and] by the 
diffusion of these new methods." New research has sought to validate, and indeed 
quantify, this basic intuition. For example, Jamison, Lau, and Wang (2005) show 
that technological progress (which is broadly defined as the generation or 
adoption of new technologies), together with education, has been a far more 
important contributor to declining infant mortality rates in developing 
countries than income growth. Furthermore, improvements in health brought about 
by investments in technological progress generate an important and positive 
feedback loop favoring economic growth and development in these countries. An 
important question that follows is what can be done to further consolidate these 
gains and ensure that the fruits of scientific and technology progress are 
placed in the hands of the people in developing countries who stand to benefit 
most? Because the work of the Disease Control Priorities Project (DCPP) focuses 
primarily on identifying the most cost-effective interventions for diseases and 
conditions affecting the health of populations in developing countries, this 
work provides the starting point for analysis. The goal is to isolate the 
critical factors—in particular those "actionable" through specific public 
policies—that have contributed to the effective deployment and scaling up of 
proven cost-effective technologies and services in low-income settings. To 
address this question, the DCPP joined forces with the Center for Global 
Development in Washington, DC, to create the What Works Working Group, which was 
funded by the DCPP and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. DCPP authors were 
asked to identify outstanding examples of successful implementation of programs 
and projects geared toward the deployment of proven cost-effective interventions 
in their respective fields of international health and to speculate on what 
kinds of programmatic aspects and broader public policy decisions might have 
contributed to their success. From an initial set of nominations, the What Works 
Working Group selected a subset of cases that conformed to strict selection 
criteria, researched them thoroughly, and produced a report to be widely 
disseminated to policy makers and leading health experts in both developed and 
developing countries. In parallel, the DCPP initiated a systematic review of the 
case materials to identify commonalities or factors that may have contributed to 
the deployment and scaling up of those interventions. The objective was to 
identify a set of specific policy levers and programmatic decisions that could 
facilitate the transplantation of those and other cost-effective interventions 
to new and different settings. This chapter presents the results of that study.

Copyright © 2006, The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/The 
World Bank Group.

PMID: 21250316


868. Demographic and Epidemiological Characteristics of Major Regions, 1990–2001.

Lopez AD, Begg S, Bos E.

In: Lopez AD, Mathers CD, Ezzati M, Jamison DT, Murray CJL, editors. Global 
Burden of Disease and Risk Factors. Washington (DC): The International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank; 2006. Chapter 2.

This chapter begins by providing an overview of global population trends in each 
major region of the world and the current size and composition of the 
population. Given this volume's focus on the descriptive epidemiology of 
diseases, injuries, and risk factors, we then examine trends in mortality over 
the past decade in more detail as background against which the current 
assessment of the disease burden might be more usefully interpreted. This 
includes both an assessment of trends in age-specific mortality and summary 
measures of the age schedule of mortality, such as life expectancy and the 
probability of dying within certain age ranges, as well as a specific discussion 
of trends in the main causes of child mortality. The focus on child mortality is 
entirely appropriate because (a) the fact that at the end of the 20th century, 
we remained woefully ignorant of its levels, let alone its causes, is 
highlighted; (b) the reduction of child mortality should remain a priority for 
global health development efforts, and the moral imperative to do so remains as 
relevant today as it was 30 years ago, when efforts to improve child survival 
became increasingly organized and focused; and (c) the resulting emphasis by the 
global public health community on reducing child mortality has yielded vastly 
more epidemiological information that can be used to assess trends in levels and 
causes. Nevertheless, we argue later in the chapter that large and unacceptable 
uncertainties about trends in cause-specific child mortality rates persist, with 
important implications for program planning and evaluation.

Copyright © 2006, The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/The 
World Bank Group.

PMID: 21250372


869. J Neurosurg Spine. 2011 Mar;14(3):341-7. doi: 10.3171/2010.11.SPINE09870.
Epub  2011 Jan 21.

The role of flexion and extension computed tomography with reconstruction in 
clearing the cervical spine in trauma patients: a pilot study.

Wadhwa R(1), Shamieh S, Haydel J, Caldito G, Williams M, Nanda A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Louisiana State University Health Sciences 
Center–Shreveport, Louisiana 71130-3932, USA.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Feb;16(2):211-2.

OBJECT: As a result of spinal trauma, approximately 12,000 individuals become 
quadriplegic or paraplegic each year in the US. The cervical spine is the most 
frequently injured part of the spinal column, and approximately 60% of spinal 
cord injuries involve the cervical region. The cervical collar remains the best 
method of prehospital spinal stabilization. Following trauma, difficulty 
securing an airway, the shielding of life-threatening injuries, and pressure 
ulcers are just a few of the serious problems that may be encountered in 
patients placed in cervical collars. The authors' goal was to develop an 
efficient method of clearing the cervical spine, by incorporating flexion and 
extension CT scanning with reconstruction (FECTR) into a trauma protocol.
METHODS: This prospective study reviewed consecutive patients evaluated by the 
neurosurgery and trauma services who underwent FECTR. Imaging studies were 
reviewed using the Picture Activating and Communication System. The incidence of 
injury detection was recorded, and detection of otherwise-missed cervical spinal 
injuries using FECTR and CT scanning were also recorded. This technique was also 
applied, without causing any new neurological complications, for comatose 
patients if the original CT showed no suspicion of unstable injury. The study 
end point was determination of the presence of cervical spinal column injury 
that would pose a threat of instability or injury to the patient.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven consecutive patients who underwent FECTR were identified. 
Far superior visualization of the cervicothoracic junction was achieved compared 
with flexion-extension cervical spine radiographs. In this case series, the 
sensitivity and specificity, respectively, of both FECTR and CT were 80% and 
98.6% for all radiographic abnormalities. More importantly, for clinically 
unstable injuries, FECTR had a sensitivity of 100%. The use of FECTR added 
approximately 10-12 minutes to the time required for CT scanning.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors' initial findings show FECTR to be a safe, effective, 
and efficient method of posttraumatic cervical spine clearance. In unconscious 
or obtunded patients, FECTR facilitates cervical spine clearance with a high 
degree of accuracy. A larger prospective study is needed to confirm these 
findings.

DOI: 10.3171/2010.11.SPINE09870
PMID: 21250811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2011 Apr;92(1):57-64. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2010.12.033. Epub 2011 Jan 19.

International noninterventional study of acarbose treatment in patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Li C(1), Hung YJ, Qamruddin K, Aziz MF, Stein H, Schmidt B.

Author information:
(1)Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing, China. LCL301@yahoo.com.cn

AIM: To obtain data on efficacy, safety and tolerability of acarbose monotherapy 
or combination therapy during daily-life treatment.
METHODS: This prospective, non-controlled, observational study enrolled patients 
with type 2 diabetes, whose physician decided that acarbose treatment was 
appropriate, from China, Middle East, Indonesia, Morocco, Pakistan, Philippines, 
Poland and Taiwan. The observation period included an initial visit and up to 
three follow-up visits; an extension of 2 years was realized in Pakistan and 
Poland.
RESULTS: Of 14,574 patients enrolled, 14,418 comprised the intent-to-treat 
population. At the initial visit, 74.1% of patients had been treated with a 
glucose-lowering agent. Fasting blood glucose was reduced from 175.2mg/dL at the 
initial visit to 133.7 mg/dL at the last visit (mean of 11.3 weeks after initial 
visit; P<0.0001). Mean 2-h postprandial blood glucose decreased from 244.7 mg/dL 
to 172.4 mg/dL (P<0.0001). HbA1c reduced from 8.4% to 7.4% (P<0.0001). Glycemic 
efficacy was maintained over the 2-year extension period. There were 432 adverse 
events in 293 patients (2.03%), mainly gastrointestinal. Physicians assessed 
efficacy as "very good"/"good" in 85.1% of patients, and were "very 
satisfied"/"satisfied" with acarbose therapy in 94.3% of cases.
CONCLUSION: Acarbose therapy was efficacious and well tolerated in daily life in 
patients with type 2 diabetes.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2010.12.033
PMID: 21251726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 2011 Jun;26(5):438-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2010.12.012. Epub 2011 Jan 19.

The effects of creep and recovery on the in vitro biomechanical characteristics 
of human multi-level thoracolumbar spinal segments.

Busscher I(1), van Dieën JH, van der Veen AJ, Kingma I, Meijer GJ, Verkerke GJ, 
Veldhuizen AG.

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Department of 
Orthopaedics, Hanzeplein 1, Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Several physiological and pathological conditions in daily life 
cause sustained static bending or torsion loads on the spine resulting in creep 
of spinal segments. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of 
creep and recovery on the range of motion, neutral zone, and neutral zone 
stiffness of thoracolumbar multi-level spinal segments in flexion, extension, 
lateral bending and axial rotation.
METHODS: Six human cadaveric spines (age at time of death 55-84 years) were 
sectioned in T1-T4, T5-T8, T9-T12, and L1-L4 segments and prepared for testing. 
Moments were applied of +4 to -4 N m in flexion-extension, lateral bending, and 
axial rotation. This was repeated after 30 min of creep loading at 2 N m in the 
tested direction and after 30 min of recovery. Displacement of individual motion 
segments was measured using a 3D optical movement registration system. The range 
of motion, neutral zone, and neutral zone stiffness of the middle motion 
segments were calculated from the moment-angular displacement data.
FINDINGS: The range of motion increased significantly after creep in extension, 
lateral bending and axial rotation (P<0.05). The range of motion after flexion 
creep showed an increasing trend as well, and the neutral zone after flexion 
creep increased by on average 36% (P<0.01). The neutral zone stiffness was 
significantly lower after creep in axial rotation (P<0.05).
INTERPRETATION: The overall flexibility of the spinal segments was in general 
larger after 30 min of creep loading. This higher flexibility of the spinal 
segments may be a risk factor for potential spinal instability or injury.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2010.12.012
PMID: 21251737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2010;30(6):461-8. doi: 10.1159/000321666. Epub
2011  Jan 20.

IL-6-174 G/C and ApoE gene polymorphisms in Alzheimer's and vascular dementia 
patients attending the cognitive disorder clinic of the All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, New Delhi.

Mansoori N(1), Tripathi M, Alam R, Luthra K, Ramakrishnan L, Parveen S, 
Mukhopadhyay AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Ansari Nagar, New Delhi, India.

BACKGROUND: Remarkable improvement in the life expectancy of the Indian 
population is expected to commensurate with the increase in number of dementia 
cases. Among various types of dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular 
dementia (VaD) are common and widely studied. We evaluated the role of 
apolipoprotein E (ApoE) and interleukin-6 (IL-6)-174 G/C gene polymorphism along 
with serum IL-6 levels in AD and VaD patients.
METHODS: The polymorphisms in ApoE and IL-6-174 G/C genes were assessed using 
RFLP. Serum IL-6 level was measured by ELISA.
RESULTS: The allele ε4 of the ApoE gene was found to be associated with AD and 
VaD patients (p < 0.05). No association of IL-6-174 G/C polymorphism was 
observed in AD patients, while the IL-6-174 C allele increased the odds of 
having VaD twofold. Regression analysis to assess possible interaction between 
ApoE and the IL-6-174 G/C genes revealed that presence of both the ε4 and C 
alleles increased the odds of having AD 13.75-fold and VaD 14.7-fold. Serum IL-6 
levels did not correlate with either presence or severity of disease among AD or 
VaD patients.
CONCLUSION: The ApoE ε4 allele is an important genetic marker for AD and VaD. 
Presence of both ApoE ε4 and IL-6 C genes increases the OR of having AD and VaD 
markedly.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000321666
PMID: 21252539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2010;30(6):469-78. doi: 10.1159/000322086. Epub
2011  Jan 20.

Family caregiving in dementia: the Asian perspective of a global problem.

Chan SW(1).

Author information:
(1)Alice Lee Centre for Nursing Studies, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, 
National University of Singapore, 7 Engineering Drive 1, Singapore. 
nurcwcs@nus.edu.sg

BACKGROUND/AIMS: With an increasing life expectancy, the number of people 
suffering from dementia globally will rise to about 115.4 million by 2050. It is 
projected that in the 21st century, the majority of the world's older people 
will be living in Asia. This paper examines the global issues of family 
caregiving for older persons with dementia from an Asian perspective.
METHODS: Literature review of published empirical studies from 1990 to October 
2010.
RESULTS: A full understanding of the specific way that culture could influence 
family caregivers' burdens may play an important part in the development of a 
holistic model for family-centered care. Well-designed psychoeducation 
interventions or multicomponent interventions could help in reducing caregivers' 
burden. With socio-economical and demographical changes, families need to be 
supported when taking on the caregiving role and be offered alternatives of 
care.
CONCLUSION: There is a need for future trials with more rigorous randomization 
and longitudinal follow-up to assess family caregiver burdens at different 
illness stages. Future studies could focus on protective factors that promote 
caregivers' resilience. It is essential to develop psychometrically robust 
measures for family caregiver burden and gain.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000322086
PMID: 21252540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Curr Opin Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2011 Apr;19(2):113-8. doi: 
10.1097/MOO.0b013e328343af3d.

Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma: palliation or treatment?

Wein RO(1), Weber RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Tufts Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. rwein@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review the recent published literature on the topic of 
anaplastic thyroid carcinoma and discern if significant advances have occurred 
that alter the historically poor prognosis associated with this diagnosis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Surgical resection for patients with stage IVA disease 
(intra-thyroidal without extracapsular extension) with postoperative 
chemoradiation remains the standard recommendation. Care for patients with stage 
IVB disease, extrathyroidal spread without distant metastases, remains varied 
and controversial. Research into different molecular therapies (deacetylase 
inhibitors, tubulin binding compounds, etc.) and the pathogenesis of anaplastic 
carcinoma continues to evolve. Care for patients with metastatic disease, stage 
IVC, is focused on quality of life.
SUMMARY: Although occasional reports exist of long-term survivors with 
anaplastic thyroid carcinoma, the prognosis remains poor. Accurate staging is 
critical to offering the most appropriate treatment. Multimodality treatment is 
required if prolonged locoregional control or survival is desired.

DOI: 10.1097/MOO.0b013e328343af3d
PMID: 21252667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Menopause. 2011 Mar;18(3):336-42. doi: 10.1097/gme.0b013e3181ed957a.

The evolutionary origin and significance of menopause.

Pollycove R(1), Naftolin F, Simon JA.

Author information:
(1)California Pacific Medical Center, 2100 Webster Street, Suite 320, San 
Francisco, CA 94115, USA. rickipol@pacbell.net

Contemporary women have long life expectancy (81 y, United States), especially 
relative to the age at menopause (51 y, United States). Menopause is a 
consequence of reproductive aging and follicular depletion (ovarian failure), 
yielding very low circulating estrogen serum concentrations and biologically 
disadvantageous metabolic alterations. Stated in terms of antagonistic 
pleiotropy, the ongoing hypoestrogenic endocrine environment, beneficial during 
lactation, results in acceleration of several age-related illnesses after 
menopause (ie, late postmenopausal osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, and 
cognitive decline). Specifically, the similar hypoestrogenic hormonal milieu 
present during postpartum lactation provides biologic advantages (fitness) to 
both mother and newborn. These precepts of evolutionary medicine encourage a 
reassessment of hormone therapy, and on the basis of data presented the authors 
propose additional opportunities for disease prevention and morbidity reduction 
in postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.1097/gme.0b013e3181ed957a
PMCID: PMC3433273
PMID: 21252729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Can Fam Physician. 1988 Jul;34:1625-7.

Health promotion, community development, and participation: an approach to 
native health education.

Phillips S.

Health-care parameters for Natives living in isolated northern areas of Canada 
show rates of life expectancy, morbidity, and infant mortality far worse than 
the Canadian average. Improving access to medical facilities has not affected 
these statistics. Socioeconomic factors such as inadequate housing and lack of 
sewage systems are likely contributors to poor health, as is an attitude of 
hopelessness and impotence on the part of Native people. Health-care providers 
have recognized the need for health promotion as well as treatment, but have 
often instituted programs that blame the victim. An approach to health education 
that embodies community development, participation, and the fostering of a 
positive self-image is discussed. The implication of this approach is that when 
Native Canadian groups can identify their own health problems, have access to 
the information needed for their solution, and develop the confidence and 
assertiveness to act, change may occur at a community, as well as an individual, 
level.

PMCID: PMC2218157
PMID: 21253037


877. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2011;188:11-20. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-10858-7_2.

Lessons learned from prevention programs: different endpoints should be used in 
secondary and tertiary prevention.

Porzsolt F(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Economics, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany. 
franz.porzsolt@uniklinik-ulm.de

It is mandatory to compare cost and consequences of healthcare services if 
public support is requested. This request will apply to all healthcare services 
including prevention. As the demand for health care will always exceed the 
available resources, methods that make it possible to select the "best" programs 
for implementation have to be developed. The selection of the "best" programs is 
not easy because there exist so far no generally accepted quality criteria that 
can be used to identify the "best" prevention programs.Based on a model on 
structural and functional properties of a disease, it is concluded that the 
traditional outcomes of treatment and prevention may be useful for the 
evaluation of tertiary prevention programs, but not of secondary prevention 
programs. Neither the traditional endpoints of treatment studies nor traditional 
surrogate parameters are useful for the evaluation of secondary prevention 
programs.Using the assumptions of the model and a list of available data in 
secondary prevention programs we recommend to assess five indicators for 
description of the value of a secondary prevention program: quality of life, 
surrogates for life expectancy, the perspective of the assessor, the conditions 
of assessment, and finally the payment. As each of these five items offers two 
possible values prevention programs may be classified into 32 different groups.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-10858-7_2
PMID: 21253786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Ecotoxicology. 2011 Mar;20(2):397-408. doi: 10.1007/s10646-010-0591-z. Epub
2011  Jan 21.

Application of physiologically based modelling and transcriptomics to probe the 
systems toxicology of aldicarb for Caenorhabditis elegans (Maupas 1900).

Wren JF(1), Kille P, Spurgeon DJ, Swain S, Sturzenbaum SR, Jager T.

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences, Cardiff University, Park Place, Cardiff, UK.

The toxicity of aldicarb on movement, life cycle, population growth rate and 
resource allocation, and the gene expression changes underpinning these effects, 
were investigated for Caenorhabditis elegans. A clear effect of aldicarb on 
nematode movement was found suggesting that this pesticide acts as a 
neurotoxicant. Aldicarb also had an effect on life cycle traits including low 
concentration life-span extension; high concentration brood size reduction and a 
high concentration extension of time to first egg. All life-cycle and growth 
data were integrated into a biology-based model (DEBtox) to characterise 
aldicarb effects on life-history traits, resource allocation and population 
growth rate within a single modelling framework. The DEBtox fits described 
concentration dependent effects on individual traits and population growth rate 
and indicated that the most probable mechanism of action of the pesticide was an 
increase in energy demands for somatic and reproductive tissue maintenance. 
Transcriptomic profiling indicated that aldicarb was associated with changes in 
amino acid metabolism, DNA structure, fatty acid metabolism and cytochrome P450 
mediated xenobiotic metabolism. The changes in the amino acid and fatty acid 
pathways suggest an effect of aldicarb on protein integrity; while effects on 
DNA suggests that aldicarb influence DNA morphology or replication. Both these 
effects have the potential to incur increased costs for structural maintenance 
of macromolecules. These effects, coupled to the effect on biotransformation 
enzymes also seen, represent the materialisation of the maintenance costs 
indicated by DEBtox modelling.

DOI: 10.1007/s10646-010-0591-z
PMCID: PMC3037492
PMID: 21253838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Health Econ. 2012 Mar;21(3):222-37. doi: 10.1002/hec.1709. Epub 2011 Jan 20.

Disentangling WTP per QALY data: different analytical approaches, different 
answers.

Gyrd-Hansen D(1), Kjaer T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark. 
dgh@dsi.dk

A large random sample of the Danish general population was asked to value health 
improvements by way of both the time trade-off elicitation technique and 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) using contingent valuation methods. The data 
demonstrate a high degree of heterogeneity across respondents in their relative 
valuations on the two scales. This has implications for data analysis. We show 
that the estimates of WTP per QALY are highly sensitive to the analytical 
strategy. For both open-ended and dichotomous choice data we demonstrate that 
choice of aggregated approach (ratios of means) or disaggregated approach (means 
of ratios) affects estimates markedly as does the interpretation of the constant 
term (which allows for disproportionality across the two scales) in the 
regression analyses. We propose that future research should focus on why some 
respondents are unwilling to trade on the time trade-off scale, on how to 
interpret the constant value in the regression analyses, and on how best to 
capture the heterogeneity in preference structures when applying mixed 
multinomial logit.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1709
PMID: 21254305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2011 Dec 15;57(7):1100-3. doi: 10.1002/pbc.22975. Epub
 2011 Jan 19.

Late effects in childhood cancer survivors: a review with a framing effect bias?

Fryer C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, British Columbia's Children's Hospital, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. cfryer@cw.bc.ca

Most publications report the adverse (negative) health issues in childhood 
cancer survivors. Presenting information to the newly diagnosed patient in a 
positive manner is advocated, while noting that recurrence is the most likely 
adverse event. Re-analysis of population-based studies on life-threatening 
toxicities from Nordic, Dutch, United Kingdom, French, Italian, and N. American 
publications shows that 5-year survivors have a near normal life expectancy, 75% 
have no severe or life-threatening treatment related toxicity and 87% remain 
free of a second malignancy. Children who received radiation or anthracycline 
>250-300 mg/m(2) are at greatest risk for treatment related life-threatening 
toxicities.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.22975
PMID: 21254380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Aust Occup Ther J. 2011 Feb;58(1):11-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1630.2010.00917.x.

Occupational therapy at the 'cultural interface': Lessons from research with 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians.

Thomas Y(1), Gray M, McGinty S.

Author information:
(1)James Cook University, Townsville, Queensland, Australia. 
yvonne.thomas@jcu.edu.au

BACKGROUND: In 2008, the Council of Australian Governments announced its goals 
to improve Indigenous life expectancy, health, education and employment: 
'Closing the Gap' (Commonwealth of Australia, 2008). Internationally, 
occupational therapists seek to promote social justice and human rights through 
occupation. Despite this effort, Australian occupational therapists have largely 
remained silent in response to the national agenda of closing the gap in 
Indigenous health.
METHODS: This article identifies the challenges of research and practice at the 
'cultural interface', the juncture where Western knowledge meets the Indigenous 
knowledge of our clients. The article draws on the first author's research 
experience with Indigenous peoples. Through a process of reflection on the 
challenges highlighted by research at the cultural interface, this article 
identifies a range of professional processes used to negotiate differing and 
conflicting perspectives.
RESULTS: By comparing the research context with occupational therapy practice, 
the author identifies some of the actions and supports that can be used by 
occupational therapists to provide culturally appropriate and negotiated 
interventions with Indigenous people.
CONCLUSIONS: Although a number of individual occupational therapists work with 
Indigenous communities and individuals to improve the services offered, it is 
suggested that the occupational therapy profession needs to work together 
towards closing the gap. The development of special interest groups, 
professional networks and a National Position Statement on Indigenous Health 
would provide the background to developing guidelines for practice with 
Indigenous clients.

© 2011 The Authors. Australian Occupational Therapy Journal © 2011 Australian 
Association of Occupational Therapists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1630.2010.00917.x
PMID: 21255027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Aust Occup Ther J. 2011 Feb;58(1):25-33. doi:
10.1111/j.1440-1630.2010.00914.x.  Epub 2011 Jan 4.

Ageing well from an urban Indigenous Australian perspective.

Waugh E(1), Mackenzie L.

Author information:
(1)University of Sydney, Lidcombe, New South Wales, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: The poor health status of Indigenous Australians as demonstrated 
by high rates of morbidity and mortality compared with non-Indigenous 
Australians has been of concern to health providers for decades. Largely because 
of low life expectancy, Indigenous Australians are considered to be ageing from 
the age of 45 years. However, little is known about the needs and views of this 
unique group as they age. The aim of the study was to explore perspectives of 
older Indigenous Australians about their health and wellbeing.
METHODS: A qualitative study was conducted using data from face-to-face 
interviews with six Indigenous people aged over 45 years living in southwest 
Sydney, Australia. Data were analysed using a phenomenological approach.
RESULTS: Participants described important considerations for ageing well that 
related to the four main themes of: personal identity, family, community and 
perception of health and ageing.
DISCUSSION: Engaging in meaningful occupations to support culturally valued 
roles were key elements in strengthening identity and facilitating personal, 
family and community health. Health and wellbeing were perceived as 
multidimensional concepts by participants, which did not always match available 
services primarily developed for non-Indigenous populations. Culturally 
sensitive health services are needed to meet the needs of older Indigenous 
people. Ageing well was associated with participating in family and community 
roles, connection with community networks and managing the effects of chronic 
health problems. Further research is needed to determine how health services can 
support, identity and promote health for older Indigenous Australians.

© 2011 The Authors. Australian Occupational Therapy Journal © 2011 Australian 
Association of Occupational Therapists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1630.2010.00914.x
PMID: 21255029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Clin Nephrol. 2011 Feb;75(2):120-4. doi: 10.5414/cnp75120.

A new form of myeloma "kidney": shortened hemofilter survival and implications 
for membrane filtration plasmapheresis.

Dana AP(1), Ahmar CA, Clapp WL, Ross EA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Hypertension and Transplantation, and Department of 
Pathology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610-0224, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite rigorous focus on extracorporeal CRRT parameters such as 
access, blood flow, hemoconcentration, and anticoagulation, some patients have 
unexpected repetitive hemofilter clotting. We instead explored patient or 
disease-related factors that could be responsible, and present a case of plasma 
cell dyscrasia in which paraproteins caused hollow fiber failure.
METHODS: A patient with IgG kappa chain multiple myeloma complicated by sepsis 
and acute renal failure was started on CVVH with a regional citrate 
anticoagulation protocol that typically yields filter life of >50 h. Polysulfone 
hemofilters repetitively clotted every 2-4 h, even after excluding 
circuit-related problems. Failed filters were examined by light, electron (EM), 
and immunofluorescence (IF) microscopy.
RESULTS: Imaging of the hemofilters revealed several ultrastructural features 
typical for myeloma-associated alterations in native human tissue. Red cell 
rouleaux formation occurred within the hollow fibers. There was extensive 
protein layering on the luminal surface of the fibers with some extension into 
their walls: these deposits were IF+ for IgG kappa, and had a fibrillary 
substructure on EM.
CONCLUSION: Extracorporeal hollow fiber phenomena recapitulate many 
intra-corporeal paraprotein effects such as those described in the kidney with 
plasma cell dyscrasias. Rapid protein layering suggests fouling of the membrane, 
decreased solute clearance before total device failure, and raises the 
theoretical concern that this might also occur during filtration plasmapheresis: 
we thus suggest serial serum free light chain levels to confirm their removal 
when using that technique. These findings emphasize the importance of disease 
rather than circuit-related factors that are under-appreciated causes of 
premature hemofilter failure.

DOI: 10.5414/cnp75120
PMID: 21255541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2011 Jun;156(2):125-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejogrb.2010.12.039. Epub 2011 Jan 21.

The history and usage of the vaginal pessary: a review.

Oliver R(1), Thakar R, Sultan AH.

Author information:
(1)Urogynecology, Mayday University Hospital, London Road, Croydon, Surrey CR7 
7YE, UK.

It is expected that with the rising female life expectancy the prevalence of 
pelvic organ prolapse will increase. From ancient times mechanical devices have 
been used to reposition prolapsed organs. Given that surgical correction of 
prolapse is associated with high recurrence rates, pessaries offer a favorable 
alternative. In spite of the antiquity of pessary usage the evidence for its 
use, the effectiveness of symptom relief, and the nuances of clinical management 
with the pessary in situ have not been studied methodically. There is a need for 
controlled trials to assess the efficacy of pessaries as opposed to other 
non-surgical and surgical methods of treating pelvic organ prolapse. 
Additionally, the long term effects and complications of pessary usage have not 
been assessed in trials, and knowledge about the potential complications caused 
by the pessary rests mainly on anecdotal data. This review provides a historical 
perspective and appraises the current knowledge regarding the indications, 
effectiveness and the potential complications associated with pessary use. Data 
were obtained from an electronic search of Medline (1966-2010) and by hand 
searching the citations which were not available online. Keywords used were 
pelvic organ prolapse, pelvic floor dysfunction, vaginal pessary and urinary 
incontinence. Textbooks are also quoted where relevant. Most studies report 
moderate success rates in the short term following insertion of a pessary for 
the management of prolapse and concur in the remission of almost all symptoms 
attributable to the prolapse. Reported success is variable in the remission of 
urinary and bowel symptoms. We conclude that based on the available evidence 
(mostly retrospective and prospective cohort studies), treatment with a vaginal 
pessary is a feasible option that can be offered in the short term to women with 
prolapse. There is a need for controlled trials to assess the long term 
efficacy.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2010.12.039
PMID: 21255901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Gait Posture. 2011 Mar;33(3):466-72. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2010.12.027.
Epub  2011 Jan 20.

Changes in balance, functional performance and fall risk following whole body 
vibration training and vitamin D supplementation in institutionalized elderly 
women. A 6 month randomized controlled trial.

Bogaerts A(1), Delecluse C, Boonen S, Claessens AL, Milisen K, Verschueren SM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation, Department of Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Faculty of Kinesiology and Rehabilitation Sciences, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Tervuursevest 101, 3001 Leuven, Belgium.

Falls in the elderly constitute a growing public health problem. This randomized 
controlled trial investigated the potential benefit of 6 months of whole body 
vibration (WBV) training and/or vitamin D supplementation on balance, 
functionality and estimated fall risk in institutionalized elderly women. A 
total of 113 women (mean age: 79.6) were randomly assigned to either a WBV or a 
no-training group, receiving either a conventional dose (880 IU/d) or a high 
dose (1600 IU/d) of vitamin D3. The WBV group performed exercises on a vibration 
platform 3×/week. Balance was evaluated by computerized posturography. 
Functionality was assessed by 10 m walk test, Timed up and Go (TUG) performance 
and endurance capacity (Shuttle Walk). Fall risk was determined with the 
Physiological Profile Assessment. Performance on the 10 m walk test and on TUG 
improved over time in all groups. For none of the parameters, high-dose vitamin 
D resulted in a better performance than conventional dosing. The improvements in 
the WBV group in endurance capacity, walking at preferred speed, and TUG were 
significantly larger than the changes with supplementation alone. No additional 
benefit of WBV training could be detected on fall risk and postural control, 
although sway velocity and maximal isometric knee extension strength improved 
only in the WBV group. This trial showed that a high-dose vitamin D 
supplementation is not more efficient than conventional dosing in improving 
functionality in institutionalized elderly. WBV training on top of vitamin D 
supplementation provided an added benefit with regard to walking, TUG 
performance, and endurance capacity.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2010.12.027
PMID: 21256028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Cancer Lett. 2011 Mar 28;302(2):100-8. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2010.11.008.
Epub  2011 Jan 22.

Green tea epigallocatechin gallate enhances therapeutic efficacy of temozolomide 
in orthotopic mouse glioblastoma models.

Chen TC(1), Wang W, Golden EB, Thomas S, Sivakumar W, Hofman FM, Louie SG, 
Schönthal AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California (USC), Los Angeles, CA, USA. tcchen@usc.edu

The alkylating agent temozolomide, in combination with surgery and radiation, is 
the current standard of care for patients with glioblastoma. However, despite 
this extensive therapeutic effort, the inclusion of temozolomide extends 
survival only by a few short months. Among the factors contributing to 
chemoresistance is elevated expression of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 
chaperone GRP78 (glucose-regulated protein 78; BiP), a key pro-survival 
component of the ER stress response system. Because the green tea component EGCG 
(epigallocatechin 3-gallate) had been shown to inhibit GRP78 function, we 
investigated whether this polyphenolic agent would be able to increase the 
therapeutic efficacy of temozolomide in preclinical models of glioblastoma. Mice 
with intracranially implanted human U87 (p53 wild type) or U251 (p53 mutant) 
glioblastoma cells were treated with temozolomide and EGCG, alone and in 
combination. We found that EGCG alone did not provide survival benefit, but 
significantly improved the existing therapeutic effect of temozolomide, i.e., 
life extension was substantially greater under combination therapy as compared 
to temozolomide therapy alone. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumor tissue 
revealed increased expression levels of GRP78 in temozolomide-treated animals, 
which was diminished when temozolomide was combined with EGCG. Parallel in vitro 
experiments with siRNA targeting GRP78 or its major pro-apoptotic antagonist 
CHOP (CCAAT/enhancer binding protein homologous protein/GADD153) further 
established a critical role of the ER stress response system, where si-GRP78 
sensitized cells to treatment with temozolomide, and si-CHOP provided protection 
from drug-induced toxicity. Thus, ER stress-regulatory components affect the 
chemotherapeutic response of glioblastoma cells to treatment with temozolomide, 
and inclusion of EGCG is able to increase the therapeutic efficacy of this 
DNA-damaging agent.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2010.11.008
PMID: 21257259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Eur J Cancer. 2011 May;47(8):1175-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.12.017. Epub
2011  Jan 21.

Economic evaluation of four follow-up strategies after curative treatment for 
breast cancer: results of an RCT.

Kimman ML(1), Dirksen CD, Voogd AC, Falger P, Gijsen BC, Thuring M, Lenssen A, 
van der Ent F, Verkeyn J, Haekens C, Hupperets P, Nuytinck JK, van Riet Y, 
Brenninkmeijer SJ, Scheijmans LJ, Kessels A, Lambin P, Boersma LJ.

Author information:
(1)MAASTRO Clinic, Maastricht, The Netherlands. Merel.kimman@ctc.usyd.edu.au

BACKGROUND: An economic evaluation was performed alongside a randomised 
controlled trial (ISRCTN 74071417) investigating the cost-effectiveness of 
nurse-led telephone follow-up instead of hospital visits, and of a short 
educational group programme (EGP) in the first year after breast cancer 
treatment.
METHOD: This economic evaluation (n = 299) compared the one-year costs and the 
effects of four follow-up strategies: (1) hospital follow-up; (2) nurse-led 
telephone follow-up; (3) hospital follow-up plus EGP; and (4) nurse-led 
telephone follow-up plus EGP. Costs were measured using cost diaries and 
hospital registrations. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were measured using 
the EQ-5D. Outcomes were expressed in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: Hospital follow-up plus EGP yielded most QALYs (0.776), but also 
incurred the highest mean annual costs (€4914). The ICER of this strategy versus 
the next best alternative, nurse-led telephone follow-up plus EGP (0.772 QALYs 
and €3971), amounted to €235.750/QALY. Hospital and telephone follow-up without 
EGP both incurred higher costs and less QALYs than telephone follow-up plus EGP 
and were judged inferior. Hospital follow-up plus EGP was not considered 
cost-effective, therefore, telephone follow-up plus EGP was the preferred 
strategy. The probability of telephone follow-up plus EGP being cost-effective 
ranged from 49% to 62% for different QALY threshold values. Secondary and 
sensitivity analyses showed that results were robust.
CONCLUSION: Nurse-led telephone follow-up plus EGP seems an appropriate and 
cost-effective alternative to hospital follow-up for breast cancer patients 
during their first year after treatment.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.12.017
PMID: 21257305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. BMJ. 2011 Jan 21;342:c7456. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c7456.

Healthcare in Turkey: from laggard to leader.

Baris E(1), Mollahaliloglu S, Aydin S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Country Health Systems, WHO Regional Office for Europe, 
Copenhagen, Denmark. ebaris@worldbank.org

Comment in
    BMJ. 2011;342:d1957.
    BMJ. 2011;342:d1959.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c7456
PMID: 21257656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Am J Sports Med. 2011 Apr;39(4):753-63. doi: 10.1177/0363546510390476. Epub
2011  Jan 21.

Clinical and magnetic resonance imaging-based outcomes to 5 years after 
matrix-induced autologous chondrocyte implantation to address articular 
cartilage defects in the knee.

Ebert JR(1), Robertson WB, Woodhouse J, Fallon M, Zheng MH, Ackland T, Wood DJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport Science, Exercise and Health, University of Western 
Australia, Crawley, Perth, Australia. jayebert@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The availability remains limited of midterm clinical and radiologic 
results into matrix-induced autologous chondrocyte implantation (MACI). Outcomes 
are required to validate the efficacy of MACI as a suitable surgical treatment 
option for articular cartilage defects in the knee.
HYPOTHESIS: A significant improvement in clinical and magnetic resonance 
imaging-based (MRI-based) outcomes after MACI will exist throughout the 
postoperative timeline to 5 years after surgery. Furthermore, patient 
demographics, cartilage defect parameters, and injury/surgery history will be 
associated with patient and graft outcome, whereas a significant correlation 
will exist between clinical and MRI-based outcomes at 5 years after surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: Case series; Level of evidence, 4.
METHODS: A prospective evaluation was undertaken to assess clinical and 
MRI-based outcomes to 5 years in 41 patients (53 grafts) after MACI to the knee. 
After MACI surgery and a 12-week structured rehabilitation program, patients 
underwent clinical assessments (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, 
SF-36, 6-minute walk test, knee range of motion) and MRI assessments at 3, 12, 
and 24 months, as well as 5 years after surgery. The MRI evaluation assessed 8 
previously defined pertinent parameters of graft repair, as well as a combined 
