to open (or nonoperative) approaches are rare and of lesser quality, but suggest 
that a potential for cost benefits exist using less-invasive surgical 
approaches.
METHODS: A literature review was performed using the database of the National 
Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), PUBMED/Medline.
RESULTS: Reports of clinical results of MIS approaches are far more common than 
economic evaluations. MIS techniques can be classified as endoscopic or 
nonendoscopic. Although endoscopic approaches decrease some approach 
morbidities, the high cost of instrumentation, steep learning curves, and new 
complication profiles introduced have prevented widespread adoption. 
Additionally, the high costs have not been shown to be justified by superior 
clinical benefits. Nonendoscopic MIS approaches, such as percutaneous posterior 
or lateral, and mini-open lateral and anterior approaches, use direct 
visualization, standard operative techniques, and report lower complication 
rates, reduced length of stay, and faster recovery time. For newer MIS and 
mini-open techniques, significantly lower acute and subacute costs were observed 
compared with open techniques, mainly due to lower rates of complications, 
shorter length of stay, and less blood loss, as well as fewer discharges to 
rehab. Although this suggests that certain MIS procedures produce early cost 
benefits, the quality of the existing data are low.
CONCLUSION: Although the CE of MIS surgery is yet to be carefully studied, the 
few economic studies that do exist suggest that MIS has the potential to be a 
cost-effective intervention, but only if improved clinical outcomes are 
maintained (durable). Longer follow-up and better outcome and cost data are 
needed to determine if incremental CE exists with MIS techniques, versus open or 
nonsurgical interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e31820238d9
PMID: 21160403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Breast Care (Basel). 2009;4(3):155-161. doi: 10.1159/000227829. Epub 2009
Jun  23.

Is Endocrine Therapy Really Pleasant? Considerations about the Long-Term Use of 
Antihormonal Therapy and Its Benefit/Side Effect Ratio.

Blaha P(1), Exner R, Borgo AD, Bigenzahn S, Panhofer P, Riedl O, Schoppmann S, 
Bachleitner-Hofmann T, Sporn E, Pluschnig U, Fitzal F, Steger G, Jakesz R, 
Dubsky P, Gnant M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical University of Vienna, Austria.

Endocrine therapy has become a key part in the adjuvant treatment of hormone 
responsive breast cancer. The positive effect on relapse risk reduction is well 
defined, but therapy is not free from bothersome side effects for which estrogen 
deprivation accounts to a great extent. Since endocrine therapy is usually 
prescribed for 5 years or longer to optimally display its protective effect, and 
because physical strain is missing, good tolerability and safety properties are 
important, particularly in low-risk patients. While tamoxifen has been the 
standard adjuvant endocrine treatment with well documented efficiency, it is 
increasingly replaced by third generation aromatase inhibitors due to their 
better effectiveness and tolerability. Because tamoxifen holds a risk for 
life-threatening adverse events such as endometrial cancer, pulmonary embolism, 
and stroke, its recommended duration of therapy is limited to 5 years, also 
because extension beyond that time did not produce a measurable advantage. While 
some side effects are present both with tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors, 
differences in side effect profiles are well established. Although side effects 
of aromatase inhibitor-related therapy usually are mild and common to symptoms 
of menopause, misconception of the symptoms and their mechanism of action, as 
well as lack of knowledge about how to handle them, can easily lead to dangerous 
discontinuation of therapy.

Endokriner Therapie kommt mittlerweile eine Schlüsselrolle bei der adjuvanten 
Therapie von Patientinnen mit hormon-rezeptorpositivem Mammakarzinom zu. Der 
positive Effekt auf die Reduktion des Rückfallrisikos ist gut dokumentiert, 
allerdings ist die Therapie nicht frei von Nebenwirkungen, welche zum Großteil 
auf den Entzug der Östrogenwirkung zurückzuführen sind. Da endokrine Therapie 
üblicherweise für 5 Jahre oder länger verschrieben wird, um die positiven 
Effekte auszuspielen, und physischer Leidensdruck in dieser Zeit nicht vorhanden 
ist, kommt der optimalen Verträglichkeit und Sicherheit der Therapie eine 
besondere Bedeutung zu, speziell bei Patientinnen mit niedrigem Risiko. Während 
Tamoxifen die Standardtherapie mit gut dokumentierter Wirksamkeit war, wird es 
wegen besserer Verträglichkeit und Wirksamkeit immer mehr von 
Aromataseinhibitoren (AI) der dritten Generation abgelöst. Die Therapie mit 
Tamoxifen ist auf 5 Jahre limitiert, da das Risiko für lebensbedrohliche 
Nebenwirkungen wie Endometriumkarzinom, Pulmonalembolie und Schlaganfall erhöht 
wird und kein zusätzlicher Nutzen für eine verlängerte Therapie nachgewiesen 
werden konnte. Während manche Nebenwirkungen unter Tamoxifen wie unter AI 
auftreten, bestehen auch typische Unterschiede zwischen den beiden 
Substanzgruppen. Obwohl AI üblicherweise nur mit milden Nebenwirkungen, ähnlich 
menopausalen Beschwerden, verbunden sind, können Missverständnisse bezüglich der 
Wirkungsweise, der Symptome und dem richtigen Management der Beschwerden zu 
einem gefährlichen vorzeitigen Therapieabbruch führen.

DOI: 10.1159/000227829
PMCID: PMC2931002
PMID: 21160541


632. World J Gastrointest Oncol. 2010 Jun 15;2(6):272-81. doi: 
10.4251/wjgo.v2.i6.272.

Parenchyma-sparing pancreatectomies for benign or border-line tumors of the 
pancreas.

Sperti C(1), Beltrame V, Milanetto AC, Moro M, Pedrazzoli S.

Author information:
(1)Cosimo Sperti, Valentina Beltrame, Anna Caterina Milanetto, Margherita Moro, 
Sergio Pedrazzoli, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, IV Surgical 
Clinic, University of Padua, 35128 Padova, Italy.

Standard pancreatic resections, such as pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal 
pancreatectomy, or total pancreatectomy, result in an important loss of normal 
pancreatic parenchyma and may cause impairment of exocrine and endocrine 
function. Whilst these procedures are mandatory for malignant tumors, they seem 
to be too extensive for benign or border-line tumors, especially in patients 
with a long life expectancy. In recent years, there has been a growing interest 
in parenchyma-sparing pancreatic surgery with the aim of achieving better 
functional results without compromising oncological radicality in patients with 
benign, border-line or low-grade malignant tumors. Several limited resections 
have been introduced for isolated or multiple pancreatic lesions, depending on 
the location of the tumor: central pancreatectomy, duodenum-preserving 
pancreatic head resection with or without segmental duodenectomy, inferior head 
resection, dorsal pancreatectomy, excavation of the pancreatic head, 
middle-preserving pancreatectomy, and other multiple segmental resections. All 
these procedures are technically feasible in experienced hands, with very low 
mortality, although with high morbidity rate when compared to standard 
procedures. Pancreatic endocrine and exocrine function is better preserved with 
good quality of life in most of the patients, and tumor recurrence is uncommon. 
Careful patient selection and expertise in pancreatic surgery are crucial to 
achieve the best results.

DOI: 10.4251/wjgo.v2.i6.272
PMCID: PMC2999190
PMID: 21160640


633. World J Gastrointest Oncol. 2009 Oct 15;1(1):47-54. doi:
10.4251/wjgo.v1.i1.47.

Newly emerging standard chemotherapies for gastric cancer and clinical potential 
in elderly patients.

Sakuramoto S(1), Yamashita K, Watanabe M.

Author information:
(1)Shinichi Sakuramoto, Keishi Yamashita, Masahiko Watanabe, Department of 
Surgery, Kitasato University Hospsital, Kitasato 1-15-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 
228-8555, Japan.

With the increase in average life expectancy, the rate of occurrence of gastric 
cancer in elderly patients is also rising. While many clinical trials have been 
conducted to examine the effect of chemotherapy treatment on gastric cancer, age 
limits for eligible subjects have prevented the establishment of standards for 
chemotherapy in elderly patients with gastric cancer. As of March 2009, 
evidence-based standard chemotherapy regimens were established. In the Western 
world, debates centered on the ECF (Epirubicin/cisplatin/5-FU) or DCF 
(Docetaxel/cisplatin/5-FU) regimens based on the phase III randomized controlled 
trial at the Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) or the V325 study, respectively. The 
JCOG9912 and SPIRITS trials emerged from Japan indicating attractive regimens 
that include S-1 for advanced gastric cancer patients. Using these active 
anticancer drugs, the trials that studied the efficacy of adjuvant therapies or 
surgical approaches, such as the Int-116/MAGIC/ACTS-GC trials, have actually 
succeeded in demonstrating the benefits of adjuvant therapies in gastric cancer 
patients. For cases of gastric cancer in elderly patients, treatment policies 
should consider these studies while analyzing not only the therapeutic effects 
but also drug toxicity, individual general health conditions, and social factors 
to select treatments that emphasize quality of life.

DOI: 10.4251/wjgo.v1.i1.47
PMCID: PMC2999089
PMID: 21160774


634. Chirurg. 2011 Jul;82(7):625-30. doi: 10.1007/s00104-010-2022-3.

[Microsurgical reconstruction of the pelvic floor after pelvic exenteration. 
Reduced morbidity and improved quality of life by an interdisciplinary concept].

[Article in German]

Stechl NM(1), Baumeister S, Grimm K, Kraus TW, Bockhorn H, Exner KE.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Plastische, Wiederherstellungs- und Handchirurgie, 
Markus-Krankenhaus, Wilhelm- Epstein-Straße 4, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. 
N.Stechl@gmx.de

BACKGROUND: Pelvic exenteration for advanced or recurrent rectal cancer often 
results in complex defects associated with high complication rates and morbidity 
for the patients. The goal of therapy is therefore restoration of functional 
stability and adequate soft tissue coverage, thus enhancing the quality of life 
with limited life expectancy by an interdisciplinary approach.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We report on eight patients treated by combined 
interdisciplinary pelvic exenteration with resection of the sacrum and 
subsequent coverage of the pelvic floor defect with free latissimus dorsi muscle 
flaps. All patients were treated in two stages according to a pre-established 
therapeutic algorithm. First, an abdominal and transsacral pelvic exenenteration 
was performed with an ileostomy and ileum conduit system and the pelvic floor 
was closed with vicryl meshes. The open wound was optimized by vacuum-assisted 
closure (VAC) therapy before reconstruction of the pelvic floor was undertaken 
10-12 days later with free latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flaps either 
anastomosed to the lower or upper gluteal vessels or to an AV-loop using the 
saphenous vein as connection to the groin vessels.
RESULTS: In all cases a sufficient and stable reconstruction of the pelvic floor 
could be achieved and no flap loss occurred. In three patients a minor wound 
dehiscence occurred, which could be closed by secondary suture. The time span 
between the free flap transfer and stable wound closure was 19-28 days. Later 
complications such as fistula formation and chronic wound infections were not 
observed. The survival of the patients ranged from 10-36 months.
CONCLUSION: The present two-stage concept of pelvic floor reconstruction with 
free latissimus dorsi muscle flaps for wound closure after pelvic exenteration 
improves postoperative morbidity and mortality and increases the quality of life 
of the affected patients. A shortened period of open wound therapy brings 
additional economic benefits. Because of its anatomical features the free 
latissimus dorsi flap can be regarded as the method of choice of microsurgical 
reconstruction within an interdisciplinary concept after pelvic exenteration.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-010-2022-3
PMID: 21161142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2011 Jun;41(3):249-59. doi:
10.1007/s11084-010-9229-7.  Epub 2010 Dec 16.

Parity-violation energy of biomolecules-IV: protein secondary structure.

Faglioni F(1), Cuesta IG.

Author information:
(1)Dipartamento di Chimica, Università di Modena e Reggio Emilia, Via G. Campi 
183, Modena, Italy. cecco@unimo.it

The parity-violation energy difference between enantiomeric forms of the same 
amino acid sequence, from the amyloid β-peptide involved in Alzheimer's disease, 
in both α-helix and β-sheet configurations, is investigated with ab-initio 
techniques. To this end, we develop an extension of the N2 computational scheme 
that selectively includes neighboring amino acids to preserve the relevant 
H-bonds. In agreement with previous speculations, it is found that the helical α 
structure is associated with larger parity-violation energy differences than the 
corresponding β form. Implications for the evolution of biological homochirality 
are discussed as well as the relative importance of various effects in 
determining the parity-violation energy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-010-9229-7
PMID: 21161387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Dec;10(12):12-3. doi: 10.1080/15265161.2010.528525.

The problem of obesity: how are we going to address it?

Sarr MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. sarr.michael@mayo.edu

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Dec;10(12):3-11.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161.2010.528525
PMID: 21161831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. J Perioper Pract. 2010 Nov;20(11):386.

Nice or not so nice.

McColgan K(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Queen's University Belfast.

PMID: 21162353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Drugs. 2010 Dec 14;70 Suppl 2:25-33. doi:
10.2165/1158584-S0-000000000-00000.

Clinical experience with bemiparin.

Abad Rico JI(1), Lozano Sánchez FS, Rocha E.

Author information:
(1)Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgery Department, Carlos Haya Regional University 
Hospital, Málaga, Spain.

Subcutaneous bemiparin has been evaluated for the prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in moderate to high-risk patients undergoing surgery, and 
for the acute and long-term treatment of established VTE. General and 
orthopaedic surgery is associated with VTE incidence rates of 15-60% in the 
absence of thromboprophylaxis and this can be reduced by over 70% with 
appropriate thromboembolic prophylaxis. Bemiparin was as effective as 
unfractionated heparin (UFH) in the prevention of VTE, when both were initiated 
preoperatively, but was associated with significantly fewer bleeding episodes 
than UFH. Bemiparin prophylaxis initiated postoperatively was at least as 
effective as bemiparin initiated preoperatively and was associated with a lower 
incidence of bleeding complications than preoperative initiation. In terms of 
patients with cancer undergoing abdominal or pelvic surgery, preliminary results 
from a recent study with bemiparin showed that extended prophylaxis for 4 weeks 
significantly reduced the rate of major VTE, without increasing bleeding risk, 
compared with prophylaxis for one week. Bemiparin, initiated postoperatively, 
was as effective as enoxaparin, initiated preoperatively, in the prevention of 
VTE in patients undergoing total knee replacement. The incidence of bleeding 
complications was similar between groups, although the incidence of injection 
site haematoma was significantly higher with enoxaparin than with bemiparin. 
Postoperative initiation of bemiparin thromboprophylaxis minimized the risk of 
spinal haematoma in patients using neuraxial anaesthesia (approximately 93% of 
patients). In addition, postoperative initiation is likely to reduce the total 
costs, because patients do not need to be admitted to hospital the day before 
surgery. Bemiparin was more effective than intravenous UFH in the acute 
treatment of established deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and was as effective as oral 
warfarin in the subsequent secondary prevention of VTE over 3 months of therapy, 
while bleeding complications over 3 months of therapy were similarly low. In a 
European study, acute treatment of DVT with bemiparin for one week followed by 
12 weeks' secondary prevention with bemiparin (i.e. bemiparin/bemiparin) was 
associated with a cost saving of &U20AC;908 per patient compared with 
UFH/warfarin. Similarly, bemiparin/warfarin produced a cost saving of &U20AC;769 
compared with UFH/warfarin. The savings were predominantly the result of reduced 
hospital stays during acute treatment with bemiparin. Bemiparin was also 
associated with increased quality-adjusted life expectancy. Observational 
studies in routine clinical practice demonstrated that outpatient treatment of 
acute VTE was as effective as inpatient treatment, but with lower costs, and 
bemiparin was as effective as vitamin K antagonists over 3 months for secondary 
prevention, with VTE recurrence rates of 0% and 0.3% over 3 months in separate 
studies. Bemiparin is thus an effective, well tolerated agent for 
thromboprophylaxis in surgery, and for the acute and long-term treatment of 
established VTE, having advantages over UFH and particular benefits as a result 
of initiating therapy postoperatively.

DOI: 10.2165/1158584-S0-000000000-00000
PMID: 21162607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Oct;31(10):1090-3.

[Analysis on the long-term trend of injury related deaths in Macheng of Hubei 
province, 1974-2008].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu XX(1), Li J, Zhang DK, Chen H, Shen M.

Author information:
(1)Center for Injury Control and Research, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China. 
liuxx@mails.tjmu.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To study the long-term trend of injury related deaths, the 
distribution of causes of injuries as well as disease burden in Macheng city, 
Hubei province, in 1974 - 2008.
METHODS: Data was gathered from vital statistics and registration system of 
Macheng city which was established in 1974. Data related to Cause Eliminated 
Life Expectancy (CELE), years of potential life lost (YPLL) and proportion of 
YPLL on total deaths were calculated.
RESULTS: The injury death rates varied between 62.64/100 000 and 154.97/100 000 
during that 35 years. In males and females, injury death rates varied between 
69.16/100 000 - 163.86/100 000 and 55.34/100 000 - 157.35/100 000, respectively. 
Death rates on injury in males exceeded those of females. The average infant 
injury mortality was 770.13/100 000, stayed the highest in all of the age 
groups. In terms of geographic region, death rate showed the highest in the 
hilly area (37.03/100 000), followed by mountainous area (33.66/100 000) and the 
rate was lowest in the plain area (31.43/100 000). In terms of causes of deaths, 
suicide, drowning, suffocation, traffic accident and fall were the five top 
causes of injury, accounting for 84.26% of all the injury mortality. The 
mortality of suicide showed highest in the injury mortality accounting for 
48.14% of all the injury mortality. Injury was the main causes of death among 
children and youths. The mortality of injury was the highest in people aged from 
15 to 29 years, with 59.38% in males and 62.26% in females. Injury eliminated 
life expectancy increased while the YPLL due to injury decreased, annually.
CONCLUSION: Although the trends of mortality rates on injuries were declining 
over the past 10 years, it remained high in figures. The main causes of injury 
shifted around, but suicide had always been the main cause over the years, in 
different age groups, sex or terrains. The death rate of traffic accident was 
increasing. Effective control strategies should be formulated based on the 
caused of death related to injuries and among the high-risk populations.

PMID: 21162806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Jul;31(7):733-6.

[The impact of hypertension on active life expectancy among senior citizens of 
Beijing].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang ZY(1), Tang Z, Feng M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University, Beijing 
100053, China.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to explore the influence of hypertension on 
life expectancy (LE), active life expectancy (ALE) and active life 
expectancy/life expectancy (ALE/LE) among senior citizens in Beijin.
METHODS: The sample derived from Beijing multidimensional longitudinal study on 
aging, baseline survey consisted of 1847 elderly people aged 60 years and over 
dwelling in the communities from one urban district (Xuanwu), one suburban 
country (Daxing) and one mountainous country (Huairou) in Beijing, 2004. 
Cluster, stratified and randomly selected sampling technique was used and a 
follow-up program was carried out in 2007. The subjects were invited to fill in 
questionnaires at home through well-trained interviewers, together with medical 
history of hypertension and repeated blood pressure measurements adopted. The 
state of activity was defined according to whether they could perform activities 
of daily life (ADL). IMaCH software for multi-state life table method was used 
to calculate the life expectancy (LE), active life expectancy (ALE) and active 
life expectancy/life expectancy (ALE/LE) in people with hypertension and normal 
blood tension, as well as on those people with hypertension with or without 
cardio-cerebral disease.
RESULTS: The study manifested that hypertensives were associated with the 
reduction of LE, ALE and ALE/LE compared to the normotensives. The ALE/LE was 
descending along with ageing, and the speed of reduction was much faster in the 
hypertensive group, especially within senile population. LE, ALE and LE/LE among 
the hypertensives with cardio-cerebral vascular diseases were shorter than the 
hypertensives without the disease. Difference in ALE/LE was striking in people 
with virile senility.
CONCLUSION: Hypertension remarkably impacted the active life expectancy on 
senior citizens living in Beijing, especially for elderly. Hypertensives with 
cardio-cerebral vascular diseases exerted further influence on active life 
expectancy, particularly among population of virile senility. The finding 
underlined the tremendous importance of preventing high blood pressure and its 
complication.

PMID: 21162832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Jun;31(6):633-7.

[Study on the natural history of HIV among former commercial plasma donors 
caused by contaminated plasma donation in central China].

[Article in Chinese]

Li DM(1), Wang L, Gao X, Wang Z, Cui ZL, Song LP, He WS, Wang SW, Chen CK, Wang 
N.

Author information:
(1)National Center for AIDS/STD Control and Prevention, Chinese Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 102206, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the natural history of HIV infection caused by 
contaminated plasma donation among former commercial plasma donors in China.
METHODS: Ambispective cohort study among HIV/AIDS cases and suspected AIDS 
deaths was conducted from January 1, 1995 to March 31, 2008 in 7 administrative 
villages in Shangcai county of Henan province. Information regarding diagnostic 
criteria, deaths and anti-retrovirus treatment was collected. Incubation and 
survival time were calculated using Kaplan-Meier and life-tables method. 
Sensitive analysis on the time of outcome was conducted.
RESULTS: A total number of 2569 cases of HIV infection including 483 suspected 
AIDS deaths were involved in a cohort. 200 patients with rapid progress (7.8%) 
and 337 long-term but non-progressive patients (13.1%) were identified. Results 
from the sensitive analysis showed that the median incubation period from HIV 
infection to AIDS was between 8.5 and 8.9 years, with incidence as 11.7 - 12.0 
cases/100 person-years and the median survival time for HIV progression to death 
was from 8.8 to 10.7 years, with the death rate as 6.9 - 8.3 cases/100 
person-years. The median survival time for AIDS patient was from 1.2 to 2.0 
years, with death rate as 34.9 - 51.5 cases/100 person-years.
CONCLUSION: According to sensitive analysis, the incubation period for HIV 
progression to AIDS, the median survival time for HIV progression to death and 
the median survival time for AIDS patient to death were 8.8 years, 1.2 years and 
9.8 years, respectively.

PMID: 21163092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Neurologia. 2013 Mar;28(2):103-18. doi: 10.1016/j.nrl.2010.09.016. Epub 2010
Nov  19.

Strokes and their relationship with sleep and sleep disorders.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Ferre A(1), Ribó M, Rodríguez-Luna D, Romero O, Sampol G, Molina CA, 
Álvarez-Sabin J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurofisiología Clínica, Unidad de Sueño, Hospital Universitario 
de la Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, España. doctorferre@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: In the current population, strokes are one of the most important 
causes of morbidity and mortality, to which new risk factors are increasingly 
being attributed. Of late, there is increased interest in the relationship 
between sleep disorders and strokes as regards risk and prognosis.
DEVELOPMENT: This article presents the changes in sleep architecture and brain 
activity in stroke patients, as well as the interaction between stroke and sleep 
disorders, including those which may also influence the outcome and recovery 
from strokes. The different treatments discussed in the literature are also 
reviewed, as correct treatment of such sleep disorders may not only improve 
quality of life and reduce after-effects, but can also increase life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Sleep disorders are becoming increasingly associated with stroke. 
In addition to being a risk factor, they can also interfere in the outcome and 
recovery of stroke patients. This article aims to present an exhaustive and 
current review on strokes and their relationship with sleep alterations and 
sleep disorders.

Copyright © 2010 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nrl.2010.09.016
PMID: 21163212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Eur J Med Res. 2010 Nov 30;15(12):564-70. doi: 10.1186/2047-783x-15-12-564.

Pharmaco-economic evaluation of antibiotic therapy strategies in DRG-based 
healthcare systems - a new approach.

Wilke MH(1), Grube R.

Author information:
(1)michael.wilke@d-w-g.de

The cost of treatments especially in conditions where multiresistant bacteria 
are involved are a major issue in times where in most developed countries in the 
world payment systems based on diagnoses-related-groups (DRG) are in place. 
There is great evidence that especially the length of stay in hospital (LOS), 
the time in the intensive care unit (ICU-days) and the hours of mechanical 
ventilation (HMV) are major cost drivers. - While established methods of 
pharmacoeconomical analyses focus on the efficiency of drugs from healthcare 
system perspective, these data are often not sufficient for improving treatment 
strategies in a given hospital context. - We developed a system that allows the 
analysis of patients with severe infections on the basis of routine data that is 
also used for reimbursement. These data contain a lot of information concerning 
the clinical conditions. By using the ICD-coding we developed an algorithm which 
allows the detection of patients with infections and gives information on the 
potential financial outcome of these patients. By using the analysis it is 
possible to identify subsets of infections and the patient records that had a 
potentially negative DRG-result, i.e. the costs are higher than the 
reimbursement. When identified the patient records undergo a peer review, where 
the clinical situation and the antibiotic therapy are reviewed by medical 
experts. In case simulations it is possible to find out if a different 
therapeutic approach, e.g. by different choices in initial (empirical) 
antibiotic treatment would have caused other outcomes. - Data driven analyses 
together with peer reviews of patient records are a useful tool to examine 
antibiotic treatment strategies and to establish changes that again can be 
reviewed on a regular basis. Doing this a continous improvement process can be 
established in hospitals which can lead to a better balance of clinical and 
economical outcomes in patients with severe infections. Moreover these analyses 
are helpful in assessing the literature on economical benefits of new therapies.

DOI: 10.1186/2047-783x-15-12-564
PMCID: PMC3352105
PMID: 21163731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2011 Feb;4(2):277-83. doi: 
10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-10-0200. Epub 2010 Dec 16.

Cost utility of prostate cancer chemoprevention with dutasteride in men with an 
elevated prostate specific antigen.

Svatek RS(1), Lotan Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The University of Texas San Antonio, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: In the Reduction by Dutasteride of Prostate Cancer Events (REDUCE) 
trial, dutasteride reduced the relative risk of prostate cancer (CaP) diagnosis 
over a 4-year period by 22.8%, but questions remain regarding the 
cost-effectiveness of widespread utilization. We evaluated the cost utility of 
chemoprevention using dutasteride in men at elevated risk for CaP.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model with probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was designed to determine the lifetime prostate-health-related costs, 
beginning at age 50, for men treated with dutasteride compared with placebo who 
are at elevated risk for CaP. Model assumptions were based on data in REDUCE; 
surveillance, epidemiology, and end-results program; literature review of costs, 
utilities, and transition rates among various prostate cancer health states; and 
local institutional cost data.
RESULTS: Under the assumptions of the base case analysis, dutasteride 
chemoprevention is associated with a gain of 108 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) per 1,000 men and the quality-adjusted cost-effectiveness ratio for 
dutasteride compared with men not receiving chemoprevention was $140,240 per 
QALYs. At a cost of $626 per year, down from the current cost of $1,400, the 
model predicts a cost benefit from dutasteride with a willingness-to-pay 
threshold lower than $50 K. Assuming a 15% period prevalence renders, an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $576,630 per QALYs and a 30% period 
prevalence would yield a $98,059 per QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Dutasteride is unlikely to be cost effective when considering the 
impact on survival differences among treated versus untreated groups. However, 
chemoprevention may be cost effective in high-risk populations when taking into 
consideration adjustments for the impact on quality of life.

©2010 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-10-0200
PMID: 21163937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. In Vivo. 2010 Nov-Dec;24(6):899-904.

Life stress and losses and deficit in adulthood as breast cancer risk factor: a 
prospective case-control study in Kuopio, Finland.

Eskelinen M(1), Ollonen P.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Surgery, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland. 
matti.eskelinen@kuh.fi

BACKGROUND: to the Authors' knowledge, the associations between the life stress 
and losses and deficit in adulthood and the risk of breast cancer (BC) are 
rarely considered together in a prospective study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: in an extension of the Kuopio Breast Cancer Study, 115 
women with breast symptoms were semi-structurally interviewed in-depth, as well 
as asked to complete standardised questionnaires, and all study variables were 
obtained before any diagnostic procedures were carried out. The 
Montgomery-Åsberg depression rating scale (MADRS) was used to evaluate the 
depression of the study participants.
RESULTS: the clinical examination and biopsy showed BC in 34 patients, benign 
breast disease (BBD) in 53 patients, and 28 individuals were shown to be healthy 
(HSS). The BC group had significantly higher mean score for the loss of social 
status in adulthood than did the BBD and HSS groups (p<0.05). In addition, the 
women in the BC group had significantly higher mean score for stress in 
adulthood in the previous 6-10 years (p<0.01), in the previous 2-6 years 
(p<0.05) and for stress in adulthood in the previous two years (p<0.05) than the 
women in the BBD and HSS groups. The BC group also had significantly more severe 
losses in adulthood than the BBD and HSS groups (p<0.01). The results indicated 
that breast cancer patients tended to have more life stress and losses in 
adulthood than did those in the BBD and HSS groups.
CONCLUSION: the results of this study support a weak association between life 
stress and losses in adulthood and breast cancer risk and it might be that 
stress and losses impacts indirectly on breast cancer risk, affecting behaviour, 
or directly on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and autonomic nervous 
system functioning.

PMID: 21164052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Pflugers Arch. 2011 Mar;461(3):317-24. doi: 10.1007/s00424-010-0911-4. Epub
2010  Dec 17.

Angiotensin inhibition and longevity: a question of hydration.

Thornton SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Henri Poincaré, Nancy Université, Nancy, France. 
Simon.Thornton@scbiol.uhp-nancy.fr

With the advancement of medical and investigative science, it is somewhat 
surprising that although it is possible to stabilise medical patients with 
hypertension and the associated kidney dysfunction, obesity, diabetes and even 
cancer, there is still no clear method of significantly reducing these chronic 
disease pathologies, and thus, extending life expectancy. There is one hormone 
common to these pathologies, the antagonism of which goes some way to clinical 
improvements, and this is angiotensin, which is released during hypovolaemia. 
Angiotensin antagonists are used to treat many of these pathologies, and it has 
been shown in the obesity literature that angiotensin antagonists decrease 
weight, but also increase the drinking of water. Increased cellular hydration, 
and hence, improved mitochondrial metabolism could be one of the mechanisms for 
the reduction in weight seen in these studies, as well as for reducing the other 
pathologies, all showing metabolic dysfunction. It appears that the application 
of straightforward physiological regulation might be an appropriate medical 
approach to the prevention of hypertension, kidney disease, obesity, diabetes 
and cancer, and thus, to an increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-010-0911-4
PMID: 21165644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Infect Chemother. 2011 Aug;17(4):456-61. doi: 10.1007/s10156-010-0191-0.
Epub  2010 Dec 17.

Prevalence of sexually transmitted infections and the sexual behavior of elderly 
people presenting to health examination centers in Korea.

Choe HS(1), Lee SJ, Kim CS, Cho YH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, St. Vincent's Hospital, The Catholic University of 
Korea College of Medicine, 93-6 Ji-dong, Paldal-gu, Suwon, 442-723, Korea.

Sexually transmitted infections are diseases provoking a great social and 
economic burden as well as health-related problems, and with the aging of 
society and the extension of life expectancy sexually transmitted infections in 
the elderly have drawn more attention these days. For the management of sexually 
transmitted infections in this population, basic epidemiological data need to be 
established. In this study, 1,804 persons from the general population aged over 
60 years visiting health examination centers were tested for syphilis, 
gonorrhea, and chlamydia, and interviewed about the patterns of sexual behavior 
of elderly people through questionnaires. The prevalence rates of syphilis, 
gonorrhea, and chlamydia recorded were 0.222% (4/1804), 0 (none), and 0.776% 
(14/1804), respectively. The results of the survey showed that the sexual life 
of the elderly people was currently active, and the sexual behavior of chlamydia 
patients was distinguished in some characteristics from that of the general 
participants. Political management to prevent sexually transmitted infections 
needs to be continued in elderly people as it is in other age groups. More 
detailed follow-up studies are necessary to determine the incidence and 
prevalence rates of the diseases in the elderly population in future, and the 
results of this study are considered to be useful as basic data for such 
studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10156-010-0191-0
PMID: 21165756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. BJU Int. 2011 Aug;108(4):558-64. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09905.x. Epub
 2010 Dec 16.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of sacral neuromodulation and botulinum toxin A 
treatment for patients with idiopathic overactive bladder.

Leong RK(1), de Wachter SG, Joore MA, van Kerrebroeck PE.

Author information:
(1)Departments Urology Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Jun;187(6):2157-8.

Study Type - Therapy (economic analysis).
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 1b.
OBJECTIVE: To assess and compare the costs and effects value of either starting 
with sacral neuromodulation (SNM) or botulinum toxin A (BTX) treatment in 
patients with refractory idiopathic overactive bladder from a societal 
perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An economic model comparing SNM with BTX was developed. A 
clinical relevant effect (i.e. success) was defined as 50% or greater reduction 
in incontinence episodes or urgency frequency symptoms. Information on the 
clinical effectiveness of the two treatments and on the course of the disease 
with the two treatments were based primarily on published literature and, when 
required, on expert opinion. Both treatments were assumed to be performed under 
general anaesthesia and, for SNM treatment, first-stage tined lead test was 
used. All costs were based on national data from the year 2008. Analyses from 
the societal perspective were conducted for a 5-year duration. Costs were 
discounted at 4% and effects at 1.5%. In addition, different modelling scenarios 
were used to see determine any changes in the results obtained.
RESULTS: Starting with SNM resulted in a higher quality adjusted life year 
(QALY) gain (difference of 0.23) and a higher cost (difference of €6428) 
compared to starting with BTX. The corresponding incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was €27,991/QALY. The probability of this ratio being cost effective (e.g. 
under €40,000/QALY) is 88%. SNM starts to be cost-effective after 4 years. SNM 
was not cost-effective in some other scenarios, such as when BTX was conducted 
under local anaesthesia or when peripheral nerve evaluation or bilateral testing 
was used for SNM.
CONCLUSIONS: Starting with SNM, treatment is cost-effective after 5 years 
compared to BTX. However, in some scenarios, such as the use of local 
anaesthesia for BTX treatment and SNM peripheral nerve evaluation or bilateral 
test, SNM was not cost-effective.

© 2010 THE AUTHORS; BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2010 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09905.x
PMID: 21166750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2010 Autumn;22(3):216-24. doi: 
10.1053/j.semtcvs.2010.10.004.

When to intervene for asymptomatic mitral valve regurgitation.

Topilsky Y(1), Suri R, Schaff HV, Enriquez-Sarano M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo College of 
Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

Mitral regurgitation (MR), currently the most frequent valvular heart disease, 
is mostly degenerative, linked to aging and of increasing prevalence. 
Indications of mitral surgery, the only current approved treatment of MR, are 
disputed. Coherent cumulative evidence obtained worldwide show that early 
surgery in asymptomatic patients is the preferred approach. Waiting for symptoms 
or left ventricular dysfunction is a failed strategy in that these 
characteristics are insensitive markers of risk, are often unrecognized in a 
timely manner and, even after successful surgery, are associated with poor 
outcome. Furthermore, in patients with severe organic MR, surgery is almost 
unavoidable and early mitral repair before the appearance of symptoms or overt 
LV dysfunction may restore life expectancy as long as valve repair is performed. 
New objective markers of adverse outcome under medical management have recently 
been described, allowing selection of patients for performance of restorative 
surgery that reestablishes life expectancy. This approach of early surgery 
provides improved outcomes in observational studies and is conceivable in 
centers that provide low risk, high repair rates, high quality of repairs and of 
Doppler-Echocardiographic assessment.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semtcvs.2010.10.004
PMID: 21167455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2011 Sep-Oct;53(2):158-62. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2010.10.028. Epub 2010 Dec 16.

Flexibility, functional autonomy and quality of life (QoL) in elderly yoga 
practitioners.

Gonçalves LC(1), Vale RG, Barata NJ, Varejão RV, Dantas EH.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Motricity Biosciences, LABIMH, Castelo Branco University, 
UCB, Av. Salvador Allende, n 6700, Recreio do Bandeirantes, Rio de Janeiro, RJ 
CEP 22780-160, Brazil. leilacastrogoncalves@yahoo.com.br

The aim of this study was to assess the levels of flexibility, functional 
autonomy and QoL in elderly yoga practitioners. The subjects were divided into a 
yoga group (YG; n = 52; age = 66.79 ± 3.30 years; BMI = 24.77 ± 3.18) and 
control group (CG; n = 31; age = 69.33 ± 4.84 years; BMI = 24.32 ± 3.71) and 
submitted to flexibility tests through goniometry, the LADEG autonomy protocol 
and QoL, using the WHOQOL-Old questionnaire. Repeated measures ANOVA showed 
increases in articular range of motion in shoulder abduction (Δ%SA = 14.11%; p = 
0.0001), horizontal shoulder extension (Δ%HSE = 33.90%; p = 0.0001), lumbar 
spine flexion (Δ%LSF = 50.74%; p = 0.0001), hip flexion (Δ%HF = 35.75%; p = 
0.0001), hip extension (Δ%HE = 10.93%; p = 0.021) and knee flexion (Δ%KF = 
3.90%; p = 0.001) and in the GDLAM autonomy index (Δ%AI = -13.67%; p = 0.0001) 
in the YG compared to the CG. The Mann-Whitney test revealed increases in QoL 
scores in Facet 1 (Δ%Fac1 = 9.04%; p=0.043), Facet 5 (Δ%Fac5 = 51.06%; p = 
0.0001) and in overall QoL (Δ%OqoL = 8.13%; p = 0.046) in the YG compared to the 
CG. The remaining variables showed no significant intergroup modifications. 
Thus, the study suggests that the regular practice of yoga may lead to improved 
range of motion in the performance of activities of daily living in elderly 
women.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2010.10.028
PMID: 21167613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2011 Jul;40(1):249-54. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2010.10.042. Epub 2010 Dec 17.

Long-term survival and quality of life after cardiac resuscitation following 
coronary artery bypass grafting.

Karhunen JP(1), Jokinen JJ, Raivio PM, Salminen US.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Jorvi Hospital, Espoo, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: Follow-up studies of patients surviving emergency resternotomy, open 
cardiac massage, and additional emergency cardiac surgery following coronary 
artery bypass grafting (CABG) remain sparse and studies focusing on 
health-related quality of life are lacking. Our aim was to elucidate the 
long-term course of patients experiencing this hazardous complication.
METHODS: Between 1988 and 1999, 76 patients suffered sudden hemodynamic collapse 
following isolated CABG. All patients underwent emergency resternotomy and open 
cardiac massage. An emergency cardiac reoperation was performed in the 62 (82%) 
primary survivors. Additional 76 patients were pair-matched to the study 
patients on the basis of their preoperative characteristics and served as 
controls. Of the study patients, 41 (54%), and of the controls, 76, (100%) were 
discharged. In December 2009, all patients were traced with respect to mortality 
data and the health-related quality of life of living patients was studied using 
the RAND-36 Item Health Survey questionnaire.
RESULTS: Altogether 19 (73%) of the 26 study patients, and 38 (84%) of the 45 
controls were available. After exclusion of the early deaths, the life 
expectancy was similar between the groups: neither overall (p = 0.60) nor 
cardiac (p = 0.64) survival differed significantly after a mean follow-up time 
of 15.1 ± 3.5 years. In addition, cardiac re-interventions were equally 
frequently required in both the groups. The RAND-36 scores were congruent (p = 
ns) between the groups and the age- and sex-matched national reference 
population in the health-related quality-of-life dimensions describing physical, 
mental, and social domains.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who have survived severe hemodynamic collapse, open 
cardiac massage, and emergency cardiac reoperation following CABG achieve 
similar long-term prognosis in terms of survival and cardiac interventions as 
the pair-matched control patients. In addition, 15 years postoperatively, they 
have a good health-related quality of life, similar to that of an age- and 
sex-matched national reference population.

Copyright © 2010 European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2010.10.042
PMID: 21168340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2011 Jan;23(1):10-23. doi:
10.1177/1010539510390673.

Mortality trends and the epidemiological transition in Nauru.

Carter K(1), Soakai TS, Taylor R, Gadabu I, Rao C, Thoma K, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

This article aims to examine the epidemiological transition in Nauru through 
analysis of available mortality data. Mortality data from death certificates and 
published material were used to construct life tables and calculate 
age-standardized mortality rates (from 1960) with 95% confidence intervals. 
Proportional mortality was calculated from 1947. Female life expectancy (LE) 
varied from 57 to 61 years with no significant trend. Age-standardized mortality 
for males (15-64 years) doubled from 1960-1970 to 1976-1981 and then decreased 
to 1986-1992, with LE fluctuating since then from 49 to 54 years. Proportional 
mortality from cardiovascular disease and diabetes increased substantially, 
reaching more than 30%. Nauru demonstrates a very long period of stagnation in 
life expectancy in both males and females as a consequence of the 
epidemiological transition, with major chronic disease mortality in adults 
showing no sustained downward trends over 40 years. Potential overinterpretation 
of trends from previous data due to lack of confidence intervals was 
highlighted.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539510390673
PMID: 21169596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Transplantation. 2011 Jan 27;91(2):237-44. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318200000c.

Universal prophylaxis is cost effective in cytomegalovirus serology-positive 
kidney transplant patients.

Luan FL(1), Kommareddi M, Ojo AO.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. fluan@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: The economic merit of universal prophylaxis and preemptive therapy 
in the management of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection for serology positive (R+) 
kidney transplant patients remains undefined. We performed cost effectiveness 
and cost utility modeling comparing these two approaches.
METHODS: The incidence of CMV infection under universal prophylaxis and 
preemptive therapy was determined among 653 R+ patients from our institution and 
416 R+ patients from various clinic trials, respectively. Standardized decision 
tree analysis and Markov transitional models were used to calculate cost and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) from the prototypical clinical data and 
published literature. Incremental cost effectiveness and cost utility were 
calculated as dollars for one case of infection avoided and one QALY gained over 
10 years, respectively. One- and two-way sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The incidence of CMV infection was 4.1% and 55.5% within the first year 
after transplant for universal prophylaxis and preemptive therapy, respectively. 
Compared with preemptive therapy, universal prophylaxis incurred $1464 more in 
direct cost while saving $7309 in indirect cost, and resulted in a net gain of 
0.209 in QALYs per patient over a 10-year period. Thus, universal prophylaxis 
dominates over preemptive therapy with a cost saving of $27,967 for 1 QALY 
gained. This cost saving was sensitive to the variation in the rate of CMV 
infection and disease with each approach.
CONCLUSION: Universal prophylaxis in CMV R+ kidney transplant patients is 
clinically effective and cost saving. It should be considered as the preferred 
approach.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318200000c
PMID: 21169881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Am J Health Promot. 2006 Jan-Feb;20(3):iv. doi: 10.4278/0890-1171-20.3.iv.

Sir Richard Dole: The passing of a remarkable scientist and the completion of a 
remarkable study.

O'Donnell MP.

DOI: 10.4278/0890-1171-20.3.iv
PMID: 21171504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2010 Dec 20;10:75. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-10-75.

A theoretical decision model to help inform advance directive discussions for 
patients with COPD.

Hajizadeh N(1), Crothers K, Braithwaite RS.

Author information:
(1)Yale Center for Medical Informatics, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, USA. Negin.Hajizadeh@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: Advance directives (AD) may promote preference-concordant care yet 
are absent in many patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). 
In order to begin to inform AD discussions between clinicians and COPD patients, 
we constructed a decision tree to estimate the impact of alternative AD 
decisions on both quality and quantity of life (quality adjusted life years, 
QALYs).
METHODS: Two aspects of the AD were considered, Do Not Intubate (DNI; i.e., no 
invasive mechanical ventilation) and Full Code (i.e., may use invasive 
mechanical ventilation). Model parameters were based on published estimates. Our 
model follows hypothetical patients with COPD to evaluate the effect of 
underlying COPD severity and of hypothetical patient-specific preferences (about 
long-term institutionalization and complications from invasive mechanical 
ventilation) on the recommended AD.
RESULTS: Our theoretical model recommends endorsing the Full Code advance 
directive for patients who do not have strong preferences against having a 
potential complication from intubation (ETT complications) or being discharged 
to a long-term ECF. However, our model recommends endorsing the DNI advance 
directive for patients who do have strong preferences against having potential 
complications of intubation and are were willing to tradeoff substantial amounts 
of time alive to avoid ETT complications or permanent institutionalization. Our 
theoretical model also recommends endorsing the DNI advance directive for 
patients who have a higher probability of having complications from invasive 
ventilation (ETT).
CONCLUSIONS: Our model suggests that AD decisions are sensitive to patient 
preferences about long-term institutionalization and potential complications of 
therapy, particularly in patients with severe COPD. Future work will elicit 
actual patient preferences about complications of invasive mechanical 
ventilation, and incorporate our model into a clinical decision support to be 
used for actual COPD patients facing AD decisions.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-10-75
PMCID: PMC3020153
PMID: 21172022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Immun Ageing. 2010 Dec 16;7 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S1. doi:
10.1186/1742-4933-7-S1-S1.

Predictive diagnostics and personalized medicine for the prevention of chronic 
degenerative diseases.

Licastro F(1), Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Pathology, University of Bologna, Via San Giacomo 
14, 40126, Bologna, Italy. federico.licastro@unibo.it.

