PMCID: PMC4250926
PMID: 21061309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nihon Rinsho. 2010 Nov;68(11):1967-72.

[Gastric ulcer in the elderly: general concept and clinical features].

[Article in Japanese]

Kubo M(1), Tanigawa T, Machida H, Okazaki H, Yamagami H, Watanabe K, Watanabe T, 
Tominaga K, Fujiwara Y, Arakawa T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Osaka City University Graduate School of 
Medicine.

The total number of elderly persons with gastric ulcers in Japan is increasing 
with an improvement in the average life expectancy. So far, gastric ulcer in 
elderly persons is considered proximal gastric ulcer due to corpus-predominant 
atrophic gastritis. However, the clinical features of the disease will change 
with a decrease in the number of persons with Helicobacter pylori infection. On 
the other hand, the numbers of persons with gastric ulcers associated with 
aging-related diseases and those with gastric ulcers induced by drugs such as 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin are increasing. Even recently, 
there have been no changes in the mortality of patients with severe gastric 
ulcers. Management based on pathological conditions of gastric ulcers in the 
elderly persons is required.

PMID: 21061517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. J Econ Entomol. 2010 Oct;103(5):1628-35. doi: 10.1603/ec10058.

Life-table analysis of the performance of Nilaparvata lugens (Hemiptera: 
Delphacidae) on two wild rice species.

Hu LX(1), Chi H, Zhang J, Zhou Q, Zhang RJ.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biocontrol and Institute of Entomology, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510275, China.

Life tables of the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: 
Delphacidae) on two wild rice species, Oryza officinalis Wall, ex Watt. and 
Oryza rufipogon Griff., and on 'Taichung Native 1' (O. sativa indica TN1) were 
studied at 27 degrees C in the laboratory. The raw data were analyzed based on 
the age-stage, two-sex life table to take both sexes and the variable 
developmental rate among individuals and between sexes into consideration. The 
intrinsic rate of increase (r), the finite rate (lamda), the net reproduction 
rate (R0) and the mean generation time (T) of N. lugens on O. officinalis were 
-0.0616 d(-1), 0.9402 d(-1), 0.10 offspring, and 36.7 d, respectively, showing 
that the species is resistant to N. lugens. The resistance of O. officinalis is 
expressed in the long developmental time from first to fifth instar of N. 
lugens, the reduced preadult survival rate, the short adult longevity, and low 
fecundity. However, the population parameters of the N. lugens on O. rufipogon 
and TN1 were 0.1096 d(-1), 1.1158 d(-1), 67.82 offspring, and 38.6 d and 0.1340 
d(-1), 1.1434 d(-1), 144.77 offspring, and 37.2 d, respectively. These 
population parameters showed that N. lugens can successfully survive and 
reproduce on both O. rufipogon and TN1.

DOI: 10.1603/ec10058
PMID: 21061962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Econ Entomol. 2010 Oct;103(5):1729-34. doi: 10.1603/ec10083.

Life history and life tables of Bactericera cockerelli (Hemiptera: Psyllidae) on 
potato under laboratory and field conditions in the lower Rio Grande Valley of 
Texas.

Yang XB(1), Zhang YM, Hua L, Liu TX.

Author information:
(1)Key laboratory of Applied Entomology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi 712100, China.

Effective management of potato 'Zebra Chip' (ZC) disease caused by Cadidatus 
Liberibacter psyllaurous (syn. solanacearum) depends on the management of its 
insect vector insect, potato psyllid, Bactericera cockerelli (Sulc) (Hemiptera: 
Psyllidae). To elucidate the age-specific population dynamics of B. cockerelli, 
the life-table parameters were determined on potato, Solanum tuberosum L., under 
both laboratory and field conditions in the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of 
Texas. Generally, survival, fecundity, and longevity of B. cockerelli were 
significantly greater under laboratory than under field conditions. The 
mortality under laboratory conditions was mainly due to natural intrinsic 
mortality. However, under field conditions, most (83.2%) B. cockerelli were 
missing, and of those that were not, they developed slower, and had shorter 
preoviposition period, shorter oviposition period, shorter longevity, lower 
fecundity, and higher mortality than those under laboratory conditions. As a 
result, most of the life-table parameters of B. cockerelli, including the 
intrinsic rate of increase, finite rate of increase, and net reproductive rate, 
were significantly lower in the field under the environmental conditions of the 
LRGV of Texas than in the laboratory. The information could help increase our 
understanding of the epidemiology of the ZC diseases associated with the 
pathogens transmitted by this insect pest.

DOI: 10.1603/ec10083
PMID: 21061973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. J Insect Sci. 2010;10:170. doi: 10.1673/031.010.14130.

Resistance to the whitefly, Aleurotrachelus socialis, in wild populations of 
cassava, Manihot tristis.

Carabalí A(1), Bellotti AC, Montoya-Lerma J, Fregene M.

Author information:
(1)Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical, AA 6713, Cali, Colombia. 
a_carabali@yahoo.com

The levels of resistance in the wild species of cassava, Manihot tristis 
Muell-Arg. (Malpighiales: Euphorbiaceae), to the whitefly, Aleurotrachelus 
socialis Bondar (Hemiptera: Alelyrodidae), the most important economic pest in 
cassava, Manihot esculenta Crantz (Malpighiales: Euphorbiaceae) crops in South 
America, were estimated under glasshouse conditions. The parameters of the life 
history of A. socialis were studied on TST-26 and TST-18 accessions of the wild 
parent and compared with the susceptible (CMC-40) and resistant (MEcu-72) 
cultivars. The average longevity on the wild accessions (TST-26, 4.1; TST-18, 
4.6 days) and oviposition rates (TST-26, 2.0; TST-18, 1.6 eggs/female/2 days) of 
the A. socialis females were not significantly different from those of MEcu-72 
(5.1 days and 3.4 eggs/female/2 days). The longevity and oviposition rates on 
CMC-40 were highest (11 days and 8.6 eggs/female/2 days). Analyses of the 
demographic parameters (Ro, r(m); DT) showed a significant impact of the M. 
tristis accessions on the potential growth of A. socialis. The average survival 
time of adults that fed on TST-26, TST-18, and MEcu-72 were significantly 
different from those recorded on the susceptible genotype. Results from this 
study revealed important levels of resistance to the whitefly A. socialis on the 
TST-26 and TST-18 accessions due to the marked differences found for longevity 
and reproduction, which influenced and were consistent with the differences 
found in the net reproduction rate (Ro), intrinsic growth rate (r(m)) and 
population doubling time (DT). The combined effect of these parameters indicated 
that M. tristis accessions were inappropriate hosts for A. socialis.

DOI: 10.1673/031.010.14130
PMCID: PMC3016885
PMID: 21062208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Transplantation. 2010 Dec 27;90(12):1420-6. doi:
10.1097/TP.0b013e3181ff500d.

Prolonged prophylaxis with valganciclovir is cost effective in reducing 
posttransplant cytomegalovirus disease within the United States.

Blumberg EA(1), Hauser IA, Stanisic S, Mueller E, Berenson K, Gahlemann CG, 
Humar A, Jardine AG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. blumbere@mail.med.upenn.edu

BACKGROUND: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease in transplant patients is known to 
have a substantial clinical and economic burden, and its prevention is expected 
to have long-term benefits. Evidence from the Improved Protection Against CMV in 
Transplant trial proved that prolonged prophylaxis of 200 days with 
valganciclovir compared with 100 days significantly reduces the incidence of CMV 
in high-risk kidney transplant seropositive donors/seronegative recipients. The 
aim of this study was to develop a cost-effectiveness model to evaluate 
prolonged prophylaxis of 200 days with valganciclovir and its long-term economic 
impact.
METHODS: An economic model was designed to simulate long-term costs and outcomes 
of prolonged prophylaxis with valganciclovir (200 vs. 100 days) in a cohort of 
10,000 high-risk renal transplant patients over 5 and 10 years. The first year 
of the model was based on the results of the Improved Protection Against CMV in 
Transplant trial and the extension to the long-term periods (5 and 10 years); 
and quality of life data were based on evidence retrieved through a systematic 
literature search. This analysis was conducted from the US healthcare payer 
perspective.
RESULTS: For the 5-year time horizon, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of US $14,859/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) suggests that 200-day 
valganciclovir prophylaxis is cost effective over the 100-day regimen 
considering a threshold of US $50,000/QALY. The 10-year analysis revealed the 
200-day prophylaxis as cost saving with a 2380 QALY gain and simultaneously 
lower cost.
CONCLUSION: Prolonged prophylaxis with valganciclovir reduces the incidence of 
events associated with CMV infection in high-risk kidney transplant recipients 
and is a cost-effective strategy in CMV disease management.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3181ff500d
PMID: 21063245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. AANA J. 2010 Oct;78(5):366-8.

Total knee arthroplasty in a patient with diastrophic dwarfism.

Crowley RL(1), Haas RE.

Author information:
(1)York College of Pennsylvania/WellSpan Health Nurse Anesthetist Program, USA.

Diastrophic dwarfism is an autosomal recessive disease that predominantly occurs 
in the Finnish population (1 in 33,000) but has been known to occur worldwide. 
Affected patients present with multiple cartilaginous anomalies and early 
degeneration of weight-bearing joints. Once past infancy, life expectancy is 
favorable and patients may undergo multiple surgical procedures throughout their 
lifetime to repair .or replace affected joints. The characteristic short trunk 
of these patients in addition to scoliosis, cervical kyphosis, and involvement 
of articular cartilages can create unique ventilation and airway challenges for 
anesthesia providers involved in their care.

PMID: 21067083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Endourol. 2011 Feb;25(2):251-6. doi: 10.1089/end.2010.0384. Epub 2010 Nov
10.

Laparoscopic pyeloplasty outcomes of elderly patients.

Giri SK(1), Murphy D, Costello AJ, Moon DA.

Author information:
(1)The Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. 
s21giri@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Laparoscopic pyeloplasty (LP) has been described as the 
new gold standard operation for patients with ureteropelvic junction obstruction 
(UPJO). As life expectancy continues to increase, we will be faced with the need 
to counsel older patients on the risks and benefits of undergoing surgery. It is 
clear that laparoscopic renal surgery has significant benefits over open renal 
surgery. Avoidance of open surgery would seem particularly beneficial in elderly 
patients who receive a diagnosis of this condition, although results in this 
group have not been formally studied. We compared the perioperative and 
medium-term outcomes of LP for primary UPJO in patients who are 70 years and 
older with those who are under age 70.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January 2006 and June 2009, 74 consecutive 
patients underwent LP for UPJO performed by one surgeon. A four-port 
extraperitoneal approach was used in all but one case. Patient demographic and 
perioperative data were recorded prospectively. Outcome measures were success 
rate at a median follow-up of 12 months, complications, and length of hospital 
stay.
RESULTS: Fifteen (20%) patients were aged 70 years or older. Older patients had 
a higher median American Society of Anesthesiologists score (2 vs 1). Moreover, 
older patients often presented with compromised renal function than their 
younger counterparts (median split renal function on the affected kidney 35% vs 
45%, serum creatinine level 130 vs 90 μmol/L, P < 0.001). The success rate in 
the older group was 87%, with no treatment failures in the younger patients. 
Median hospital stay was longer for older patients (3 days vs 2 days, P = 0.01). 
Frequency of complications were not significantly different between the groups; 
however, there was a postoperative death in an elderly patient with a solitary 
kidney and preoperative renal failure.
CONCLUSIONS: LP is feasible with generally good results for managing UPJO in 
patients 70 years or older. Older patients, however, are likely to need a longer 
hospital stay compared with their younger counterparts, and their co-morbidities 
should be carefully assessed preoperatively to minimize morbidity. Advanced 
chronologic age should not be a contraindication for LP in patients with 
symptomatic UPJO.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2010.0384
PMID: 21067272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. BMJ. 2010 Nov 10;341:c6380. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c6380.

Civil rights groups call on US to do more to end discrimination in health care.

Zarocostas J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c6380
PMID: 21068118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Neurosci. 2010 Nov 10;30(45):15196-209. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0934-10.2010.

Ablation of glutamate receptor GluRδ2 in adult Purkinje cells causes multiple 
innervation of climbing fibers by inducing aberrant invasion to parallel fiber 
innervation territory.

Miyazaki T(1), Yamasaki M, Takeuchi T, Sakimura K, Mishina M, Watanabe M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Hokkaido University School of Medicine, Sapporo 
060-8638, Japan.

Glutamate receptor GluRδ2 is exclusively expressed in Purkinje cells (PCs) from 
early development and plays key roles in parallel fiber (PF) synapse formation, 
elimination of surplus climbing fibers (CFs), long-term depression, motor 
coordination, and motor learning. To address its role in adulthood, we 
previously developed a mouse model of drug-induced GluRδ2 ablation in adult PCs 
(Takeuchi et al., 2005). In that study, we demonstrated an essential role to 
maintain the connectivity of PF-PC synapses, based on the observation that both 
mismatching of presynaptic and postsynaptic specializations and disconnection of 
PF-PC synapses are progressively increased after GluRδ2 ablation. Here, we 
pursued its role for CF wiring in adult cerebellum. In parallel with the 
disconnection of PF-PC synapses, ascending CF branches exhibited distal 
extension to innervate distal dendrites of the target and neighboring PCs. 
Furthermore, transverse CF branches, a short motile collateral rarely forming 
synapses in wild-type animals, displayed aberrant mediolateral extension to 
innervate distal dendrites of neighboring and remote PCs. Consequently, many PCs 
were wired by single main CF and other surplus CFs innervating a small part of 
distal dendrites. Electrophysiological recording further revealed that surplus 
CF-EPSCs characterized with slow rise time and small amplitude emerged after 
GluRδ2 ablation, and increased progressively both in number and amplitude. 
Therefore, GluRδ2 is essential for maintaining CF monoinnervation in adult 
cerebellum by suppressing aberrant invasion of CF branches to the territory of 
PF innervation. Thus, GluRδ2 fuels heterosynaptic competition and gives PFs the 
competitive advantages over CFs throughout the animal's life.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0934-10.2010
PMCID: PMC6633829
PMID: 21068325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2011 Jan 1;56(1):26-35. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181fb8f24.

The clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of routine, voluntary HIV screening 
in South Africa.

Walensky RP(1), Wood R, Fofana MO, Martinson NA, Losina E, April MD, Bassett IV, 
Morris BL, Freedberg KA, Paltiel AD; Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS 
Complications-International Investigators.

Collaborators: Anglaret X, Yazdanpanah Y, Kumarasamy N, Mayer K, Horsburgh CR, 
Goldie S, Seage GR 3rd, Weinstein MC, Sloan C, Uhler L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA. rwalensky@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Although 900,000 HIV-infected South Africans receive antiretroviral 
therapy, the majority of South Africans with HIV remain undiagnosed.
METHODS: We use a published simulation model of HIV case detection and treatment 
to examine 3 HIV screening scenarios, in addition to current practice as 
follows: (1) one-time; (2) every 5 years; and (3) annually. South African model 
input data include the following: 16.9% HIV prevalence, 1.3% annual incidence, 
49% test acceptance rate, HIV testing costs of $6.49/patient, and a 47% 
linkage-to-care rate (including 2 sequential antiretroviral therapy regimens) 
for identified cases. Outcomes include life expectancy, direct medical costs, 
and incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: HIV screening one-time, every 5 years, and annually increase 
HIV-infected quality-adjusted life expectancy (mean age 33 years) from 180.6 
months (current practice) to 184.9, 187.6, and 197.2 months. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness of one-time screening is dominated by screening every 5 
years. Screening every 5 years and annually each have incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of $1570/quality-adjusted life year and 
$1720/quality-adjusted life year. Screening annually is very cost-effective even 
in settings with the lowest incidence/prevalence, with test acceptance and 
linkage rates both as low as 20%, or when accounting for a stigma impact at 
least four-fold that of the base case.
CONCLUSIONS: In South Africa, annual voluntary HIV screening offers substantial 
clinical benefit and is very cost-effective, even with highly constrained access 
to care and treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181fb8f24
PMCID: PMC3005842
PMID: 21068674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Nov 10;(11):CD007461. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007461.pub2.

Deferasirox for managing iron overload in people with myelodysplastic syndrome.

Meerpohl JJ(1), Antes G, Rücker G, Fleeman N, Motschall E, Niemeyer CM, Bassler 
D.

Author information:
(1)German Cochrane Centre, Institute of Medical Biometry & Medical Informatics 
and Pediatric Hematology & Oncology, Center for Pediatrics & Adolescent 
Medicine, University Medical Center Freiburg, Berliner Allee 29, Freiburg, 
Germany, 79110.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014;10:CD007461.

BACKGROUND: The myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) comprises a diverse group of 
haematopoietic stem cell disorders. Due to symptomatic anaemia most patients 
require supportive therapy including repeated red blood cell (RBC) transfusions. 
In combination with increased iron absorption, this contributes to the 
accumulation of iron resulting in secondary iron overload and the risk of organ 
dysfunction and reduced life expectancy. Since the human body has no natural 
means of getting rid of excess iron, iron chelation therapy is usually 
recommended. However, whether the new oral chelator deferasirox leads to 
relevant benefit is unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and safety of oral deferasirox in people 
with myelodysplastic syndrome and iron overload.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library, Biosis 
Previews, Web of Science, Derwent Drug File, XTOXLINE and three trial 
registries: Current Controlled Trials: www.controlled-trials.com, 
ClinicalTrials.gov: www.clinicaltrials.gov, ICTRP: www.who.int./ictrp/en/. Most 
recent searches of these databases: June 2010.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials comparing deferasirox with no 
therapy/placebo or with another iron chelating treatment schedule.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No studies eligible for inclusion in this review 
were identified.
MAIN RESULTS: No studies were included in this review. However, we identified 
one ongoing study comparing deferasirox with deferoxamine.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We planned to report evidence from randomised clinical 
trials evaluating the effectiveness of deferasirox compared to either placebo/no 
treatment or other chelating regimens such as deferoxamine in people with 
myelodysplastic syndrome. However, no completed randomised trials addressing 
this question could be identified.One ongoing randomised study comparing 
deferasirox with placebo was identified and preliminary data will hopefully be 
available soon. These results will be important to inform physicians and 
patients on the advantages and disadvantages of this treatment option.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007461.pub2
PMID: 21069694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Breast J. 2010 Nov-Dec;16(6):625-32. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.00976.x.

Bilateral breast carcinoma: clinical characteristics and its impact on survival.

Vuoto HD(1), García AM, Candás GB, Zimmermann AG, Uriburu JL, Isetta JA, Cogorno 
L, Khoury M, Bernabó OL.

Author information:
(1)Breast Diseases Division, Buenos Aires British Hospital, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.

The higher incidence of breast cancer, the improvements in diagnosis and 
treatment, together with the growing life expectancy have brought about an 
increase in the number of patients at risk for bilateral breast carcinoma. The 
aim of this study is to describe the characteristics of patients suffering from 
bilateral breast carcinoma who underwent surgery at the Breast Pathology Service 
of the Buenos Aires British Hospital and to analyze impact on survival. Between 
January 1970 and May 2007, 4,085 cases of breast carcinoma in 3,864 patients 
were treated at the Breast Diseases Division of the Buenos Aires British 
Hospital. A retrospective study of 194 patients with bilateral breast carcinoma 
was carried out: 80 synchronous and 114 metachronous. In order to compare 
survival, a group of 2,237 patients with unilateral breast carcinoma who had 
undergone surgery was analyzed. The risk of developing a contralateral breast 
carcinoma was 0.9% per year, with an accumulated risk at 15 years of 12.75%. The 
5-year survival was 85.9% for unilateral carcinomas, 94.6% for metachronous 
carcinoma, and 63.3% for synchronous carcinoma. The 15-year survival was 65.5% 
for unilateral carcinomas, 52.3% for metachronous, and 37.2% for synchronous. 
The incidence of bilateral carcinomas is low. Survival was worse in patients 
with metachronous carcinoma diagnosed within 5 years of the first malignancy. 
Survival in patients with metachronous carcinoma diagnosed after 5 years is 
similar to those with unilateral carcinoma. Synchronous carcinoma was associated 
to worse survival, being an independent risk factor for mortality.

© 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2010.00976.x
PMID: 21070440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 May-Jun;39(4):336-43. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02466.x. Epub 2011 Jan 14.

Quality of life of the most severely vision-impaired.

Crewe JM(1), Morlet N, Morgan WH, Spilsbury K, Mukhtar A, Clark A, Ng JQ, 
Crowley M, Semmens JB.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Health Research, Curtin Health Innovation Research 
Institute, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, Australia. 
j.crewe@curtin.edu.au

Comment in
    Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 May-Jun;39(4):291-2.

BACKGROUND: To explore the interaction between vision impairment, perceived 
quality of life loss and willingness to trade remaining life for vision gain.
DESIGN: Community-based cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Legally blind or severely vision-impaired people selected randomly 
from the Association for the Blind of Western Australia register.
METHODS: Individuals were examined by consultant ophthalmologists and completed 
the Impact of Vision Impairment profile quality of life assessment and a Time 
Trade-Off evaluation. Vision-related utility values were calculated. The results 
were analysed using univariate and multivariate regression methods.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: IVI Rasch Logits and TTO utility values (TTO UV).
RESULTS: 156 people volunteered to contribute to the study. The median age was 
80 (19-97) years, and 56% were female. Being legally blind (logMAR > 1) (95% CI 
1.1 to 5.2, P = 0.003), clinically depressed (95% CI -11.2 to -1.8, P = 0.007) 
or more than 40 years of age (95% CI 0.9 to 8.1, P = 0.015) significantly 
lowered overall impact of vision impairment scores. The emotional domain of 
impact of vision impairment was associated with willingness to trade part of 
remaining life. A 5-Logit increase in impact of vision impairment emotional 
score resulted in a 21% (95% CI 10 to 31) decrease in the odds of being likely 
to trade life for sight. The Australian definition of blindness compared with 
World Health Organisation or USA best separates those with perceived loss and 
appears useful in identifying vision loss-related morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that emotional health and lack of depression 
are important determinants for quality and value of life.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal 
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2010.02466.x
PMID: 21070550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. BJU Int. 2011 May;107(10):1612-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09684.x.
Epub  2010 Nov 11.

Validity and reliability of the patient's perception of intensity of urgency 
scale in overactive bladder.

Cartwright R(1), Srikrishna S, Cardozo L, Robinson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urogynaecology, King's College Hospital, London, UK. 
rufus.cartwright@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: • To assess the measurement characteristics of the Patient Perception 
of Intensity of Urgency Scale (PPIUS) in patients with overactive bladder (OAB).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: • Adult women with at least a 3-month history of OAB. The 
design was a 4-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of 
transdermal oxybutynin, with a 2-week placebo run-in and 8-week, open-label 
extension. • Symptom improvement was assessed using 3-day bladder diaries 
incorporating the PPIUS, and disease-specific health-related quality of life was 
assessed using the King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ). Convergent validity was 
shown by correlation with the KHQ, and other bladder diary variables. Known 
groups validity was assessed by comparison of baseline mean urge ratings, and 
urgency episode frequency for continent and incontinent patients, and by 
comparison with the same measures from a historical control group of 40 
asymptomatic female volunteers. • Between- and within-groups responsiveness was 
assessed using standardized effect sizes (Cohen's d and effect size r). 
Reliability was assessed for the two arms of the trial at different time points 
and intervals, using intraclass correlation (ICC) and a t-test for the 
difference between mean scores.
RESULTS: • In total, 96 women were randomized. Urgency episode frequency showed 
moderate correlation with total KHQ score (r = 0.500, P < 0.001) and with 
daytime and night-time voiding frequency. • There were significant differences 
in continent and incontinent subgroups for mean urge ratings (difference in 
means, -0.61/void, P < 0.001), and urgency episodes (difference in means, -2.67 
episodes/day, P < 0.001), as well as between OAB patients and normal controls 
(mean urge rating: difference in means 1.22 per void, P < 0.001; urgency 
episodes: difference in means 2.93 episodes/day, P < 0.001). • Between-groups 
analysis of effect size found that urgency episode frequency (d = 0.679, r = 
0.321) was more responsive than mean urge rating (d = 0.480, r = 0.233). In both 
subgroups, urgency episode frequency (d = 0.421-0.454, r = 0.206-0.222) had 
better within-groups responsiveness than mean urge rating. • Urgency episodes 
(ICC, 0.65-0.81) were measured more reliably than urgency urinary incontinence 
episodes (ICC, 0.50-0.65).
CONCLUSIONS: • Assessment of urgency episodes using the PPIUS shows good 
reliability, excellent known groups validity, high responsiveness and 
convergence with subjective measures of severity. • PPIUS is freely available, 
and should be useful in both clinical practice and research studies when 
assessing women with urgency, with or without urgency urinary incontinence.

© 2010 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2010 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.09684.x
PMID: 21070569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Aging Cell. 2011 Feb;10(1):18-27. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2010.00647.x.
Epub  2010 Dec 7.

Social context, stress, and plasticity of aging.

Amdam GV(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, PO Box 874501, Tempe, AZ 
85287-4501, USA. Gro.Amdam@asu.edu

Positive social contact is an important factor in healthy aging, but our 
understanding of how social interactions influence senescence is incomplete. As 
life expectancy continues to increase because of reduced death rates among 
elderly, the beneficial role of social relationships is emerging as a 
cross-cutting theme in research on aging and healthspan. There is a need to 
improve knowledge on how behavior shapes, and is shaped by, the social 
environment, as well as needs to identify and study biological mechanisms that 
can translate differences in the social aspects of behavioral efforts, 
relationships, and stress reactivity (the general physiological and behavioral 
response-pattern to harmful, dangerous or unpleasant situations) into variation 
in aging. Honey bees (Apis mellifera) provide a genetic model in sociobiology, 
behavioral neuroscience, and gerontology that is uniquely sensitive to social 
exchange. Different behavioral contact between these social insects can shorten 
or extend lifespan more than 10-fold, and some aspects of their senescence are 
reversed by social cues that trigger aged individuals to express youthful 
repertoires of behavior. Here, I summarize how variation in social interactions 
contributes to this plasticity of aging and explain how beneficial and 
detrimental roles of social relationships can be traced from environmental and 
biological effects on honey bee physiology and behavior, to the expression of 
recovery-related plasticity, stress reactivity, and survival during old age. 
This system provides intriguing opportunities for research on aging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2010.00647.x
PMID: 21070589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Nov 11;8:129. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-129.

Quality of life and life circumstances in German myasthenia gravis patients.

Twork S(1), Wiesmeth S, Klewer J, Pöhlau D, Kugler J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences/Public Health, Faculty of Medicine "Carl Gustav 
Carus", University of Technology Dresden, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a chronic neuromuscular disease. Advances 
in medical therapy have continuously increased the life expectancy of MG 
patients, without definitively curing the disease. To analyze life circumstances 
and quality of life (QoL), a large German MG cohort was investigated.
METHODS AND SAMPLE: In cooperation with the German Myasthenia Association, 2,150 
patients with confirmed MG were asked to respond to a mailed questionnaire. The 
standardized questions related to demographic data, impairments, therapeutic 
course, use of complementary therapies, illness-related costs, and quality of 
life (SF-36). In total, 1,518 patients participated, yielding a response rate of 
70.6%. The average age was 56.7 years, and the proportion of females 58.6%.
RESULTS: Despite receiving recommended therapy, many patients still suffered 
from MG-related impairments. In particular, mobility and mental well-being were 
reduced; moreover, quality of life was markedly reduced. Stepwise linear 
regression analysis revealed illness stability, impairments, mental conditions, 
comorbid diseases, and employment to be determinants of QoL.
CONCLUSION: Results indicate that despite prolonged life expectancy among MG 
patients, health-related quality of life is low. This outcome resulted mainly 
from impaired mobility and depression. Physical and mental well-being might be 
improved by additional therapy options. Additionally, health care resources 
could be used more efficiently in these patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-129
PMCID: PMC2994799
PMID: 21070628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. BMC Public Health. 2010 Nov 11;10:692. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-692.

Partnership work between Public Health and Health Psychology: introduction to a 
novel training programme.

Gilinsky AS(1), Dombrowski SU, Dale H, Marks D, Robinson C, Eades C, Ouzounidou 
D.

Author information:
(1)Directorate of Public Health, NHS Tayside, Kings Cross Hospital, Dundee, DD3 
8EA, UK. a.s.gilinsky@stir.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Public health services implement individual, community and 
population level interventions to change health behaviours, improve healthy life 
expectancy and reduce health inequalities. Understanding and changing health 
behaviour is complex. Integrating behaviour change theory and evidence into 
interventions has the potential to improve services.
METHODS: Health Psychologists apply evidence and theories aimed at understanding 
and changing health behaviour. A Scottish programme is piloting the training of 
Health Psychologists within NHS contexts to address prominent public health 
challenges.
RESULTS: This article outlines the details of this novel programme. Two projects 
are examined to illustrate the potential of partnership working between public 
health and health psychology.
CONCLUSION: In order to develop and improve behaviour change interventions and 
services, public health planners may want to consider developing and using the 
knowledge and skills of Health Psychologists. Supporting such training within 
public health contexts is a promising avenue to build critical NHS internal mass 
to tackle the major public health challenges ahead.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-692
PMCID: PMC3091582
PMID: 21070643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Prim Care Diabetes. 2011 Apr;5(1):9-17. doi: 10.1016/j.pcd.2010.10.001. Epub
 2010 Nov 10.

The cost-effectiveness of interventions in diabetes: a review of published 
economic evaluations in the UK setting, with an eye on the future.

Tucker DM(1), Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)Menzies Research Institute, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, 
Australia.

AIM: To synthesise key outcomes data from cost-effectiveness studies in 
diabetes, in the UK setting, and describe a narrative for the evidence-base, in 
order to understand the direction that future health economics research in this 
field could be heading.
METHODS: The peer-reviewed literature was searched at http://www.pubmed.com for 
health economics analyses in diabetes in the UK setting published between 1995 
and 2008, using the keywords: "costs", "cost-effectiveness", "diabetes", "UK". 
Studies on screening for diabetes or prevention of diabetes were excluded, along 
with studies that looked purely at cost of diabetes treatment or monitoring.
RESULTS: There were over 350 hits on MEDLINE. A total of 23 articles were 
identified and reviewed. 18 studies were in type 2, two in type 1 and three 
studies in both types 1 and type 2 diabetes. All studies evaluated treatment 
from the perspective of the NHS, with the time horizons varying from 12 months 
to patient lifetimes. 13 studies estimated quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(QALE). The majority of studies used health economics modelling techniques to 
project clinical benefit and cost outcomes beyond the context of clinical 
trials, with Markov-type models predominating. The United Kingdom Prospective 
Study of Diabetes was the most frequently cited source of clinical effectiveness 
and cost data. Most studies were funded by the pharmaceutical industry and 
evaluated more expensive products, rather than cheaper generic therapies such as 
human insulin and metformin monotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Treatment-to-target in patients with diabetes in the UK is generally 
cost-effective and sometimes cost-saving vs. standard care. Ongoing health 
economics analysis in diabetes is essential as new clinical data are published. 
Future analysis of clinical and cost outcomes in diabetes could be expected to 
look beyond the impact of interventions on HbA1c in isolation, as manufacturers 
seek to differentiate innovative products in the market. Furthermore, it is 
anticipated that the competitiveness in the market for interventions in diabetes 
will lead to future cost-effectiveness analysis taking more interest in 
comparisons of off-patent medication and generic, fixed-dose combination 
therapies.

Copyright © 2010 Primary Care Diabetes Europe. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcd.2010.10.001
PMID: 21071296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Cardiovasc Res. 2011 Apr 1;90(1):182-90. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvq356. Epub 2010
Nov  10.

Haploinsufficiency of the murine Col3a1 locus causes aortic dissection: a novel 
model of the vascular type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.

Smith LB(1), Hadoke PW, Dyer E, Denvir MA, Brownstein D, Miller E, Nelson N, 
Wells S, Cheeseman M, Greenfield A.

Author information:
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, The Queen's Medical Research Institute, 
47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh, UK. l.smith@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

AIMS: The vascular type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS IV) is an 
autosomal-dominant disorder characterized by thin translucent skin and extensive 
bruising. Patients with EDS IV have reduced life expectancy (median 45-50 years) 
due to spontaneous rupture of arteries (particularly large arteries) or bowel. 
EDS IV results from mutation of the COL3A1 gene, which encodes the pro-α(1) 
chains of type III collagen that is secreted into the extracellular matrix, e.g. 
by smooth muscle cells. A mouse model of EDS IV produced by targeted ablation of 
Col3a1 has been of limited use as only 10% of homozygous animals survive to 
adulthood, whereas heterozygous animals do not die from arterial rupture. We 
report a novel, exploitable model of EDS IV in a spontaneously generated mouse 
line.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Mice were identified by predisposition to sudden, 
unexpected death from dissection of the thoracic aorta. Aortic dissection 
inheritance was autosomal-dominant, presented at an early age (median, 6 weeks) 
with incomplete penetrance, and had a similar sex ratio bias as EDS IV (2:1, 
male:female). Molecular genetic analysis demonstrated that the causal mutation 
is a spontaneous 185 kb deletion, including the promoter region and exons 1-39, 
of the Col3a1 gene. As in EDS IV, aortic dissection was not associated with 
elevated blood pressure, aneurysm formation, or infection, but may result from 
aberrant collagen fibrillogenesis within the aortic wall.
CONCLUSION: This novel, exploitable mouse line that faithfully models the 
vascular aspects of human EDS IV provides an important new tool for advancing 
understanding of EDS IV and of aortic dissection in general.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvq356
PMCID: PMC3058731
PMID: 21071432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Gut. 2010 Dec;59(12):1592-605. doi: 10.1136/gut.2009.204982.

The provision of a percutaneously placed enteral tube feeding service.

Westaby D(1), Young A, O'Toole P, Smith G, Sanders DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology Hammersmith Hospital Site, Imperial College 
Healthcare NHS Trust, London W12 0HS, UK. david.westaby@imperial.nhs.uk

There is overwhelming evidence that the maintenance of enteral feeding is 
beneficial in patients in whom oral access has been diminished or lost. 
Short-term enteral access is usually achieved via naso-enteral tube placement. 
For longer term tube feeding there are recognised advantages for enteral feeding 
tubes placed percutaneously. The provision of a percutaneous enteral tube 
feeding service should be within the remit of the hospital nutrition support 
team (NST). This designated team should provide a framework for patient 
selection, pre-assessment and post-procedural care. Close working relations with 
community-based services should be established. An accredited therapeutic 
endoscopist should be a member of the NST and direct the technical aspects of 
the service. Every endoscopy unit in an acute hospital setting should provide a 
basic percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) service. This should include 
provision for fitting a PEG jejunal extension (PEGJ) if required. Specialist 
units should be identified where a more comprehensive service is provided, 
including direct jejunal placement (DPEJ), as well as radiological and 
laparoscopically placed tubes. Good understanding of the indications for 
percutaneous enteral tube feeding will prevent inappropriate procedures and 
ensure that the correct feeding route is selected at the appropriate time. Each 
unit should adopt and become familiar with a limited range of PEG tube 
equipment. Careful adherence to the important technical details of tube 
insertion will reduce peri-procedural complications. Post-procedural 
complications remain relatively common, however, and an awareness of the correct 
approach to managing them is essential for all clinicians involved in providing 
a percutaneous enteral tube feeding service. Finally, ethical considerations 
should always be taken into account when considering long-term enteral feeding, 
especially for patients with a poor quality of life.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.2009.204982
PMID: 21071581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Rev Peru Med Exp Salud Publica. 2010 Mar;27(1):22-30. doi: 
10.1590/s1726-46342010000100005.

[Association between cutaneous leishmaniasis incidence and the human development 
index and its components in four endemic states of Venezuela].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez-Morales AJ(1), Pascual-González Y, Benítez JA, López-Zambrano MA, 
Harter-Griep R, Vilca-Yengle LM, Cárdenas R.

Author information:
(1)Sección de Inmunoparasitología, Instituto de Medicina Tropical Felix Pifano, 
Universidad Central de Venezuela, Caracas, Venezuela. alfonsorm@ula.ve

OBJECTIVES: Assess potential relationships between the Human Development Index 
(HDI) and its components and the incidence of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in 
four endemic States of Venezuela (Mérida, Trujillo, Lara and Sucre) in the 
period 1994-2003.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Socioeconomical data (classified according the World Bank) 
was obtained from the National Institute of Statistics, and the epidemiological 
data from the Ministry of Health, both from Venezuela. For this ecological study 
the annual variation of the variables was assessed and also regression models 
were done.
RESULTS: The HDI varied in the period from 0.6746 in 1994 to 0.8144 in 2003 
(p=0.90). During this time an increase in the cumulative incidence of 
Leishmaniasis was observed, particularly from 1998 (7.3 cases/100,000 pop) to 
1999 (11.3 cases/100,000 pop). Analyzing the linear regression models, it was 
observed that the relationship between epidemiological and social variables was 
different at States levels. For Mérida and Trujillo it was observed a 
significant decrease in the CL regard to the increase of literacy (p<0.05), of 
the gross combined enrollment (p<0.05), life expectancy (p<0.05), money income 
(p<0.05) and the HDI (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: This information reflects the significant influence of 
socioeconomical indicators on the CL incidence at Trujillo and Merida, being an 
inverse relationship between both types of variables; with an increase or 
improvement in the socioeconomical indicators, the disease incidence rate 
decreased.

DOI: 10.1590/s1726-46342010000100005
PMID: 21072446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Sci China C Life Sci. 2003 Aug;46(4):370-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03192580.

Characterization of an ethylene receptor homolog gene from rice.

Cao W(1), Dong Y, Zhang J, Chen S.

Author information:
(1)Plant Biotechnology Lab, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 100101, Beijing, China.

Ethylene plays important roles in plant growth, development and stress 
responses. Its receptor genes have been studied in dicots such asArabidopsis, 
tobacco and tomato. However, no research has been reported for the ethylene 
receptors from monocots currently. In the present study, we cloned an ethylene 
receptor geneOSPK2 from rice and found that its encoded protein was divergent 
from the ethylene receptors from dicots. OSPK2 had a long extension in its 
N-terminal, followed by three transmembrane segments, a GAF domain, a putative 
kinase domain and a putative receiver domain. Although most of the domains were 
conserved, the expected phosphorylation site His and the phosphate receiver Asp 
have been replaced by Gln and Asn, respectively. This fact indicates that OSPK2 
may not function as a histidine kinase in a phosphorelay manner, but rather play 
roles by other mechanism, probably through Ser/Thr kinase activity. The 
expression of theOSPK2 gene was investigated by RT-PCR method under different 
conditions. We found that this gene was apparently induced by wounding and PEG 
treatment, but not significantly affected by salt and ABA treatments. The 
differential expression of theOSPK2 gene may reflect its roles in mediating 
different abiotic stress responses, consistent with our previous studies on 
tobacco ethylene receptors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03192580
PMID: 21072609


415. Biopolymers. 2011;96(3):348-57. doi: 10.1002/bip.21566.

Structural study of an active analog of EX-4 in solution and micelle associated 
states.

Wang S(1), Yu J, Li W, Li F.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Supramolecular Structure and Materials, Jilin 
University, Changchun 130012, People's Republic of China.

Of many drug candidates designed for treatment of type II diabetes, an exendin-4 
(EX-4) analog from the substitutions of both beta-Asp for Glu3 and Tyrfor Glnl3 
of EX-4 was found to have a prolongation in biological half life, an increase in 
cell proliferation and a remarkable improvement in reducing blood glucose with 
respect to EX-4. In this study, we applied CD and NMR approaches to characterize 
the structures of this active EX-4 analog in water, trifluoroethanol (TFE) 
aqueous solution, and dodecylphosphocholine (DPC) micelles and compared the 
results of the EX-4 analog with those of EX-4. Both EX-4 peptides adopt 
alpha-helix structures with the N-termini disordered and the C-terminal parts 
folded as hydrophobic clusters in these media. However, the analog has a longer 
helical extension in the N-terminal part than EX-4. The increasing helical turns 
may favor affinity for extracellular domain of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor 
and accurate positioning of the crucial N-terminal residues in the transmembrane 
domains of the receptor. The analog has a stronger propensity to aggregate than 
the native EX-4, which is attributed to more coiled-coil interaction in the 
analog than in its native type. We also probed the association of EX-4 and its 
analog to DPC micelles and observed micelle-induced insertion of both peptides 
with their N- and C-termini as well as the central parts embedded in micelles 
and the residues near Asp9 and the residues around Trp25-Ser32 more water 
exposed. A single-step ligand-receptor binding model was suggested based on the 
analysis of these results.

DOI: 10.1002/bip.21566
PMID: 21072854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Mol Ecol. 2011 Mar;20(5):881-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04910.x. Epub
 2010 Nov 12.

Measures of immune function of wild mice, Mus musculus.

Abolins SR(1), Pocock MJ, Hafalla JC, Riley EM, Viney ME.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol 
BS8 1UG, UK.

The immune function of wild animals has been rather little studied. Wild 
animals' immune function may differ from that of laboratory bred animals because 
of their different environments. This idea follows from the concept of resource 
partitioning in which animals distribute scarce resources to all aspects of 
life, including to costly immune responses. A logical extension of this idea is 
that there may be substantial interindividual variation in the immune function 
of wild animals. To begin to investigate this, we compared the immune function 
of a laboratory bred mouse strain (C57BL/6, a widely used mouse strain that 
makes potent immune responses) and wild caught Mus musculus. We found that by 
most measures of immune function, the wild caught mice had greater immune 
function. Specifically, wild mice had greater concentrations and more avid 
antigen-specific IgG responses, as well as higher concentrations of total IgG 
and IgE, compared with those laboratory bred mice. Moreover, flow cytometric 
analysis showed a comparatively greater overall level of activation of the cells 
of the immune system in wild mice. Lastly, we observed that immune function was 
substantially more variable among wild caught mice than among the laboratory 
bred mice. The next research challenge is to understand which aspects of an 
individual animal's life determine its immune function.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04910.x
PMID: 21073587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2010 Dec;69(5):424-36. doi:
10.3402/ijch.v69i5.17679.  Epub 2010 Nov 10.

A review of health care reform in the United States and in Alaska.

Anderson KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Alaska, Pescatore Systems International LLC, 11500 Discovery 
Heights Circle, Anchorage, AK 99515, USA. kathyjanderson@acsalaska.net

OBJECTIVES: To review the status of health care reform in the U.S. in general 
and in Alaska in particular.
STUDY DESIGN: This paper reviews the literature concerning health care reform in 
the U.S. and in Alaska.
METHODS: N/A.
RESULTS: N/A.
CONCLUSIONS: The United States spends more per capita on health care than any 
other OECD country, yet its health outcomes such as life expectancy and infant 
mortality lag behind other countries. Health care reform has been a major 
activity of the federal government and of some states for the past several 
years. The 3 goals of optimizing cost, access and quality, at both the national 
level and at the Alaska state level, are discussed. Some of the major policy 
changes at the national level, including payment system reform, enhanced 
insurance regulation and increased attention to prevention, are discussed. The 
unique health care reform challenges in circumpolar Alaska are highlighted and 
the status of current state level reform initiatives is reviewed.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v69i5.17679
PMID: 21073825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Aten Primaria. 2010 Sep;42 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):2-8. doi: 
10.1016/S0212-6567(10)70002-0.

[Diagnosis and management of type 2 diabetes].

[Article in Spanish]

Díez Espino J(1).

Author information:
(1)EAP, Tafalla, Navarra, España. javier.diez.espino@cfnavarra.es

In 2010, the American Diabetes Association included glycosylated hemoglobin 
(HbA1c) as a criterion for the diagnosis of diabetes with a cut-off point of ≥ 
6.5%. However, there may be a substantial percentage of false negative results. 
Other scientific societies have accepted this approach but with slight 
differences. HbA1c complements, but does not substitute, basal glycemia as a 
screening and diagnostic test or the 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test. HbA1c 
should not be used for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes. Interpretation of 
HbA1c is limited in persons with anemia and hemoglobinopathies. Therefore, in 
addition to its sensitivity and specificity, its costs and the epidemiological 
situation should also be evaluated. An important question is whether almost 
normal HbA1c levels are safe in patients with type 2 diabetes. The results of 
the ACCORD, ADVANCE and VADT trials are contradictory and have aroused 
considerable controversy. However, the extensions of the UKPDS and STENO-2 
studies have shown the benefits of good glycemic control in the long term. As a 
general rule, a target of HbA1c < 7% seems appropriate. In patients at low risk 
of hypoglycemic episodes, short disease duration and young persons, HbA1c < 6.5% 
can be considered. In patients with frequent hypoglycemic episodes, the elderly 
and persons with short life expectancy, values of more than 7% are acceptable. 
This target should be achieved through individualized, early, intensive and safe 
treatment, without risk of hypoglycemia, and should be integrated in an overall 
