
DOI: 10.1155/2010/562578
PMCID: PMC3003987
PMID: 21188198


707. Eur J Epidemiol. 2011 May;26(5):359-68. doi: 10.1007/s10654-010-9541-6. Epub
 2010 Dec 28.

Ten-year risk of all-cause mortality: assessment of a risk prediction algorithm 
in a French general population.

Bérard E(1), Bongard V, Arveiler D, Amouyel P, Wagner A, Dallongeville J, Haas 
B, Cottel D, Ruidavets JB, Ferrières J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Health Economics and Public Health, Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire de Toulouse, France.

While assessment of global cardiovascular risk is uniformly recommended for risk 
factor management, prediction of all-cause death has seldom been considered in 
available charts. We established an updated algorithm to predict absolute 
10-year risk of all-cause mortality in apparently healthy subjects living in 
France, a country with high life expectancy. Analyses were based on the Third 
French MONICA Survey on cardiovascular risk factors (1995-1996) carried out in 
3,208 participants from the general population aged 35-64. Vital status was 
obtained 10 years after inclusion and assessment of determinants of mortality 
was based on multivariable Cox modelling. One-hundred-fifty-six deaths were 
recorded. Independent determinants of mortality were living area (Northern 
France), older age, male gender, no high-school completion, smoking, systolic 
blood pressure ≥ 160 mmHg, LDL-cholesterol ≥ 5.2 mmol/l, and diabetes. Score 
sheets were developed to easily estimate 10-year risk of death. For example, a 
non diabetic, heavy smoker, 46-year old man, living in South-Western France, who 
did not complete high-school, with LDL-cholesterol ≥ 5.2 mmol/l and systolic 
blood pressure < 160 mmHg, has a 17% probability of death in the ten coming 
years. The C-statistic of the prediction model was 0.76 [95% CI: 0.72-0.80] with 
a degree of overoptimism estimated at 0.0058 in a bootstrap sample. Calibration 
was satisfying: P value for Hosmer-Lemeshow χ(2) test was 0.483. This prediction 
algorithm is a simple tool for guiding practitioners towards a more or less 
aggressive management of risk factors in apparently healthy subjects.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-010-9541-6
PMID: 21188478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Int J Health Care Finance Econ. 2011 Mar;11(1):1-34. doi: 
10.1007/s10754-010-9086-y. Epub 2010 Dec 25.

The quality of medical care, behavioral risk factors, and longevity growth.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, 3022 Broadway, 504 Uris 
Hall, New York, NY 10027, USA. frank.lichtenberg@columbia.edu

The rate of increase of longevity has varied considerably across U.S. states 
since 1991. This paper examines the effect of the quality of medical care, 
behavioral risk factors (obesity, smoking, and AIDS incidence), and other 
variables (education, income, and health insurance coverage) on life expectancy 
and medical expenditure using longitudinal state-level data. We examine the 
effects of three different measures of the quality of medical care. The first is 
the average quality of diagnostic imaging procedures, defined as the fraction of 
procedures that are advanced procedures. The second is the average quality of 
practicing physicians, defined as the fraction of physicians that were trained 
at top-ranked medical schools. The third is the mean vintage (FDA approval year) 
of outpatient and inpatient prescription drugs. Life expectancy increased more 
rapidly in states where (1) the fraction of Medicare diagnostic imaging 
procedures that were advanced procedures increased more rapidly; (2) the vintage 
of self- and provider-administered drugs increased more rapidly; and (3) the 
quality of medical schools previously attended by physicians increased more 
rapidly. States with larger increases in the quality of diagnostic procedures, 
drugs, and physicians did not have larger increases in per capita medical 
expenditure. We perform several tests of the robustness of the life expectancy 
model. Controlling for per capita health expenditure (the "quantity" of 
healthcare), and eliminating the influence of infant mortality, has virtually no 
effect on the healthcare quality coefficients. Controlling for the adoption of 
an important nonmedical innovation also has little influence on the estimated 
effects of medical innovation adoption on life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10754-010-9086-y
PMID: 21188512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Duodecim. 2010;126(22):2591-9.

[Kidney transplantation criteria in Finland].

[Article in Finnish]

Saha H(1), Kyllönen L, Koskinen P, Salmela K.

Author information:
(1)TAYS, PL 2000, 33521 Tampere.

In the treatment of end-stage renal disease, kidney transplantation is the best 
and most cost-effective alternative with regard to both prognosis and quality of 
life. Problems arise from the disproportion between the number of available 
allografts and the patients waiting for the transplantation. There are few 
absolute contraindications to kidney transplantation. In the assessment of the 
eligibility for transplantation of patients on dialysis the most important 
factors include cardiovascular diseases, cancer diseases, other diseases 
affecting operability and life expectancy, age, excess weight and possible 
infections.

PMID: 21188875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Lat Am Res Rev. 2010;45(2):114-39.

The color of child mortality in Brazil, 1950-2000: social progress and 
persistent racial inequality.

Wood CH, Magno de Carvalho JA, Guimarães Horta CJ.

Now that racism has been officially recognized in Brazil, and some universities 
have adopted affirmative-action admission policies, measures of the magnitude of 
racial inequality and analyses that identify the factors associated with changes 
in racial disparities over time assume particular relevance to the conduct of 
public debate. This study uses census data from 1950 to 2000 to estimate the 
probability of death in the early years of life, a robust indicator of the 
standard of living among the white and Afro-Brazilian populations. Associated 
estimates of the average number of years of life expectancy at birth show that 
the 6.6-year advantage that the white population enjoyed in the 1950s remained 
virtually unchanged throughout the second half of the twentieth century, despite 
the significant improvements that accrued to both racial groups. The application 
of multivariate techniques to samples selected from the 1960, 1980, and 2000 
census enumerations further shows that, controlling for key determinants of 
child survival, the white mortality advantage persisted and even increased 
somewhat in 2000. The article discusses evidence of continued racial inequality 
during an era of deep transformation in social structure, with reference to the 
challenges of skin color classification in a multiracial society and the 
evolution of debates about color, class, and discrimination in Brazil.

PMID: 21188889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Acta Orthop. 2011 Feb;82(1):82-9. doi: 10.3109/17453674.2010.548026. Epub
2010  Dec 29.

Health-related quality of life (EQ-5D) before and after orthopedic surgery.

Jansson KÅ(1), Granath F.

Author information:
(1)Orthopedics Section, Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska 
Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, Sweden. 
karl-ake.jansson@karolinska.se

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Population data on mortality and life expectancy are 
generally available for most countries. However, no longitudinal data based on 
the health-related quality of life outcome from the EQ-5D instrument have been 
reported for orthopedic patients. We assessed the effect of orthopedic surgery 
as measured by EQ-5D.
METHODS: We analyzed EQ-5D data from 2,444 patients who were operated at the 
Department of Orthopedic Surgery at Karolinska University Hospital, 2001-2005. 
We also made a comparison between results from this cohort and those from a 
Swedish EQ-5D population survey.
RESULTS: The mean EQ-5D (index) score improved from 0.54 to 0.72. Hip and knee 
arthroplasty, operations related to previous surgery, trauma-related procedures, 
and rheumatoid arthritis surgeries had preoperative EQ-5D (index) scores of 0.48 
to 0.52. All of these groups showed substantial improvement in scores (0.63 to 
0.80). Patients with tumors or diseases of the elbow/hand showed higher 
preoperative scores (0.66 to 0.77), which were similar postoperatively. In most 
patients, the EQ-5D (index) score improved but did not reach the level reported 
for an age- and sex-matched population sample (mean difference = 0.11).
INTERPRETATION: Our results can be used as part of the preoperative patient 
information to increase the level of patient awareness and cooperation, and to 
facilitate rehabilitation. In future it will be possible-but not easy-to use the 
EQ-5D instrument as a complementary consideration in clinical priority 
assessment.

DOI: 10.3109/17453674.2010.548026
PMCID: PMC3230002
PMID: 21189112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Feb 1;29(4):464-7. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.30.6373. Epub
2010  Dec 28.

What is the true number needed to screen and treat to save a life with 
prostate-specific antigen testing?

Loeb S(1), Vonesh EF, Metter EJ, Carter HB, Gann PH, Catalona WJ.

Author information:
(1)Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, 
MD, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2011 Feb 1;29(4):345-7.
    J Clin Oncol. 2011 Aug 20;29(24):3336; author reply 3337.

PURPOSE: The European Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer (ERSPC) 
reported a 20% mortality reduction with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
screening. However, they estimated a number needed to screen (NNS) of 1,410 and 
a number needed to treat (NNT) of 48 to prevent one prostate cancer death at 9 
years. Although NNS and NNT are useful statistics to assess the benefits and 
harms of an intervention, in a survival study setting such as the ERSPC, NNS and 
NNT are time specific, and reporting values at one time point may lead to 
misinterpretation of results. Our objective was to re-examine the effect of 
varying follow-up times on NNS and NNT using data extrapolated from the ERSPC 
report.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: On the basis of published ERSPC data, we modeled the 
cumulative hazard function using a piecewise exponential model, assuming a 
constant hazard of 0.0002 for the screening and control groups for years 1 to 7 
of the trial and different constant rates of 0.00062 and 0.00102 for the 
screening and control groups, respectively, for years 8 to 12. Annualized cancer 
detection and drop-out rates were also approximated based on the observed number 
of individuals at risk in published ERSPC data.
RESULTS: According to our model, the NNS and NNT at 9 years were 1,254 and 43, 
respectively. Subsequently, NNS decreased from 837 at year 10 to 503 at year 12, 
and NNT decreased from 29 to 18.
CONCLUSION: Despite the seemingly simplistic nature of estimating NNT, there is 
widespread misunderstanding of its pitfalls. With additional follow-up in the 
ERSPC, if the mortality difference continues to grow, the NNT to save a life 
with PSA screening will decrease.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.30.6373
PMCID: PMC3058289
PMID: 21189374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


713. Pediatr Nephrol. 2011 Apr;26(4):605-12. doi: 10.1007/s00467-010-1737-1. Epub
 2010 Dec 29.

Renal function in pediatric cystic fibrosis patients in the first decade of 
life.

Prestidge C(1), Chilvers MA, Davidson AG, Cho E, McMahon V, White CT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Nephrology, BC Children's Hospital, 
4480 Oak Street, ACB K4-151, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

With increasing life expectancy and the need for lung transplantation in the 
cystic fibrosis (CF) population, there are increasing reports of chronic kidney 
disease (CKD). However, values for baseline or longitudinal glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) as measured by exogenous clearance markers are lacking in 
this population. Retrospective cross-sectional study in 2 to 18-year-olds cared 
for at a single CF center who had a GFR measured by plasma disappearance of 
Technetium-99 m diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (mGFR). The primary outcome 
was evidence of renal dysfunction as defined by CKD stage II or below (mGFR <90 
ml/min/1.73 m(2), persistent abnormalities in urinary sediment, abnormal renal 
imaging). Of 63 patients evaluated, four had apparent renal dysfunction, one 
demonstrated decreased mGFR, and three others had persistent microscopic 
hematuria. The mean mGFR was substantially higher (140 ± 24 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) 
than expected or previously reported for healthy children. We did not 
demonstrate the presence of significant renal impairment after limited 
aminoglycoside exposure in the first decade following diagnosis with CF. 
However, we did document the presence of glomerular hyperfiltration in a 
significant proportion of our CF patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-010-1737-1
PMID: 21190043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Glaucoma. 2011 Jan;20(1):30-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181d1d20a.

The clinical impact of 2 different strategies for initiating therapy in patients 
with ocular hypertension.

Peeters A(1), Webers CA, Prins MH, Hendrikse F, Schouten JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To assess the impact of 2 strategies for initiating therapy in ocular 
hypertension (OH) on drug use, intraocular pressure (IOP), and blindness caused 
by glaucoma.
METHODS: Using a simulation model, initiating therapy with timolol (strategy 1) 
and with latanoprost (strategy 2) was simulated for a hypothetic cohort of 
ocular hypertension patients with an initial IOP distribution (data of 1000 
patients). Adjustment of therapy within 15 months and a subsequent lifelong 
follow-up, with an IOP dependent conversion to glaucoma, were modeled. The IOP 
lowering effect of medication (based on a meta-analysis) was applied by Monte 
Carlo simulation. Therapy could be maintained or changed, depending on the 
achieved IOP and side effects. Four drugs (latanoprost, timolol, brimonidine, 
dorzolamide) were used as monotherapy or in combination. Glaucoma conversion 
rate was based on literature.
RESULTS: Treatment goal was achieved in both strategies in 90% by monotherapy. 
This was 60% for patients with initial IOP's of 30 mm Hg. The originally 
prescribed medication was maintained in 66% (1) and in 77% (2). IOP decreased 
with approximately 34%, from 25.4 mm Hg (mean) to 16.7 mm Hg (1) and to 16.5 mm 
Hg (2) Blindness per person within 18.7 years of life expectancy was 0.0923 
years (1) and 0.0870 years (2), which corresponds to approximately 1 month. The 
difference between strategies was 2 days spent in blindness per patient.
CONCLUSIONS: The difference in clinical effects of the strategies is small. This 
is largely owing to the key concept of a target pressure, which underlies both 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181d1d20a
PMID: 21191272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Neurologist. 2011 Jan;17(1):52-6. doi: 10.1097/NRL.0b013e3181e7db67.

Chordoid glioma: a case report and literature review.

Liu WP(1), Cheng JX, Yi XC, Zhen HN, Fei Z, Li Q, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Institute of Clinical Neuroscience, Xijing 
Hospital, Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: chordoid glioma is a rare tumor (World Health Organization grade II) 
with both glial and chordoid features, often located in the suprasellar region 
and anterior third ventricle. It was first described by Brat in 1998. Because 
there is no detailed information available from the clinical perspective, we 
reviewed the literature.
METHODS: a literature search through PUBMED and CNKI revealed 64 cases of 
chordoid glioma. Information on the clinical course was very limited. We 
reviewed the literature and studied the pathologic and imaging features, 
postoperative mortality and morbidity in relation to surgical extension and 
approaches, and the importance of adjuvant treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: mortality in the immediate postoperative period is 28%, and 
postoperative morbidity is 60%, which are statistically higher after gross total 
resection as compared with subtotal resection. Translamina terminalis approach 
is considered to be the best approach. The current study cannot document that 
patients have longer survival and higher quality of life after gross total 
resection than subtotal resection. The role of postoperative radiotherapy is 
uncertain and there is no report on the use of chemotherapy. More information 
about the optimal treatment strategy is needed.

DOI: 10.1097/NRL.0b013e3181e7db67
PMID: 21192197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Med Econ. 2011;14(1):36-46. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2010.541045. Epub 2010
Dec  31.

The cost effectiveness of rapid-acting insulin aspart compared with human 
insulin in type 2 diabetes patients: an analysis from the Japanese third-party 
payer perspective.

Pollock RF(1), Valentine WJ, Pilgaard T, Nishimura H.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications GmbH, Basel, Switzerland. 
pollock@ossianconsulting.com

OBJECTIVES: The Nippon Ultra-Rapid Insulin and Diabetic Complication Evaluation 
Study (NICE Study) (NCT00575172) was a 5-year, open-label, randomised controlled 
trial which compared cardiovascular outcomes in Japanese type 2 diabetes 
patients intensively treated with regular human insulin or insulin aspart 
(NovoRapid; Novo Nordisk A/S, Bagsvaerd, Denmark), a rapid-acting insulin 
analogue. The aim of the present analysis was to evaluate the cost effectiveness 
of insulin aspart versus regular human insulin from the perspective of a 
Japanese third-party healthcare payer.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A discrete event-simulation model was developed in 
Microsoft Excel to assess the within-trial cost effectiveness and make 
longer-term clinical projections in patients treated with regular human insulin 
or insulin aspart. In addition to severe hypoglycaemia, the model captured 
myocardial and cerebral infarction events and percutaneous coronary intervention 
and coronary artery bypass graft procedures. Within-trial mortality, incidence 
of severe hypoglycaemia and cardiovascular event probabilities were derived from 
the annual rates observed during the trial period, while post-trial outcomes 
were calculated using the event rates from the trial, adjusted for increasing 
patient age. Event costs were accounted from the healthcare payer perspective 
and expressed in 2008 Japanese yen (JPY), while health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) was captured using event and state utilities. Future costs and clinical 
benefits were discounted at 3% annually. Life expectancy, quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, cardiovascular event rates and costs were evaluated over 5- and 
10-year time horizons and sensitivity analyses were performed to assess 
variability in model outcomes.
RESULTS: Over 5 years of treatment, insulin aspart dominated human insulin both 
in incremental life expectancy and in incremental quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYS). Insulin aspart was associated with a small improvement in discounted 
life expectancy of 0.005 years (4.688 vs. 4.684 years) and an increase of 0.023 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) (3.800 vs. 3.776 QALYs) when compared with 
regular human insulin. Insulin aspart also incurred lower costs (JPY 481,586 vs. 
594,717, difference -113,131) which resulted from the decreased incidence of 
cardiovascular events with insulin aspart (0.013 events per patient year vs. 
0.030 on regular human insulin). Breakdown of costs indicated that pharmacy 
costs were higher with insulin aspart (JPY 346,608 vs. 278,468), but these costs 
were more than offset by the reduced costs associated with cardiovascular 
complications and hypoglycaemia over 5 years of treatment (JPY 134,978 vs. 
316,249). Sensitivity analysis showed that insulin aspart was still 
cost-effective in the case where only 18% of the within-trial cardiovascular and 
mortality benefit over regular human insulin was captured in the model (assuming 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of JPY 5,000,000).
LIMITATIONS: The NICE study cohort was relatively small (n = 325), meaning that 
caution should be exercised when calculating and interpreting the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio. Also, despite the differences in cardiovascular risk 
profile between the Japanese and UK populations, UKPDS-derived risk equations 
were used to project MI outcomes and PCI and CABG procedures and UKPDS HRQoL 
scores were applied to all health states. While these risk formulas and HRQoL 
utilities may not be directly applicable to the Japanese population, no 
equivalent Japanese-specific data are currently available.
CONCLUSIONS: In a Japanese type 2 diabetes population, prescribing rapid-acting 
insulin aspart significantly reduced cardiovascular complications over 5- and 
10-year time horizons, resulting in increased quality of life and decreased 
costs when compared with human insulin.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2010.541045
PMID: 21192769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2011 Mar;17(3):156-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2010.12.003. Epub 2010 Dec 30.

Memantine for non-motor features of Parkinson's disease: a double-blind placebo 
controlled exploratory pilot trial.

Ondo WG(1), Shinawi L, Davidson A, Lai D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. 
wondo@bcm.tmc.edu

OBJECT: To perform an exploratory study evaluating memantine for several common 
non-motor problems in Parkinson's disease.
METHODS: We conducted a single center, double-blind, placebo controlled pilot 
trial of memantine, titrated to 20 mg/day, in PD subjects. Inclusion criteria 
were intentionally broad and included both fluctuating and non-fluctuating 
patients. After baseline assessments, subjects (N = 40) were randomized to drug 
and placebo groups. They received a battery of traditional and non-motor 
assessments. After a safety call (2 weeks after baseline) they returned for 
identical assessments at week 8. An 8-week open label extension was started if 
desired.
RESULTS: Subject demographics (age 69.1 ± 7.8; 24 males), were similar in the 
drug and placebo groups. Four dropped from the study while on drug vs. none on 
placebo. Two of 36 remaining dropped out over the 8-week open label section. Of 
the 34 who completed the final open label visit, 24 elected to be prescribed 
memantine after the study. During the controlled trial, there was no significant 
change in UPDRS section I or II, Epworth sleepiness scale, fatigue severity 
scale, Hamilton depression scale, Conner adult inventory, PD Quality of Life-39, 
or clinical global impressions. UPDRS "on" motor scores tended to improved, p = 
0.19.
CONCLUSION: Memantine was well tolerated in PD; however, specific measures of 
sleepiness, fatigue, depression, and attention did not significantly improve. 
The majority of subjects elected to stay on the drug after the open label 
extension suggesting some unassessed benefit.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2010.12.003
PMID: 21193343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. BMJ. 2010 Dec 30;341:c7400. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c7400.

Earlier retirement. Retirement and socioeconomic inequalities.

Van Bever K, Engelbeen T, Van Reusel E, Van Duppen D.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2010;341:c6089.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c7400
PMID: 21193504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Hell J Nucl Med. 2010 Sep-Dec;13(3):206-7.

Can we increase our life span? The role of nuclear gerontology.

Grammaticos P.

Elderly people, those above 60 or 65 years old differ from younger people in 
many ways. Nuclear medicine can play a role in the diagnosis of diseases of the 
elderly and thus help, in social adjustment and in care for the elderly people. 
The question is why adult stem cells have a certain limit of reproduction, since 
their DNA in a normal physical environment can theoretically live very much 
longer. The elderly are prone to suffer more diseases than the young. It is 
important that the elderly should use water soluble and not lipid soluble drugs. 
There are many more to write about the elderly. We have tried to be brief in 
order to show the importance of using nuclear medicine in gerontology. Let us 
mention here that the word gerontology means in greek "talk about the elderly" 
(gerontas is the old man and logy is to talk about). Elderly people are a large 
part of our society and we do have every reason, every interest and 
responsibility to keep this part of our society healthy, useful and productive.

PMID: 21193870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Clin Ther. 2010 Sep;32(10):1756-67. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.08.010.

Results of a model analysis of the cost-effectiveness of liraglutide versus 
exenatide added to metformin, glimepiride, or both for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes in the United States.

Lee WC(1), Conner C, Hammer M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics & Outcomes Research, IMS Health, Falls Church, Virginia 
22046, USA. wclee@us.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND: Nearly half of all US patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) 
are unable to maintain adequate glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA₁(c)) control (ie, 
<7.0%).
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to determine the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of incretin-based therapy with once-daily liraglutide (vs 
twice-daily exenatide) combined with metformin, glimepiride, or both for the 
treatment of T2DM.
METHODS: Patient data were obtained from the Liraglutide Effect and Action in 
Diabetes 6 (LEAD 6) trial. Baseline data included mean HbA₁(c) (8.15%), age 
(56.7 years), disease duration (8 years), sex, body mass index, blood pressure, 
lipid levels, cardiovascular and renal risk factors, and other complications. 
The IMS Center for Outcomes Research Diabetes Model was used to project and 
compare lifetime (ie, 35-year) clinical and economic outcomes for once-daily 
liraglutide 1.8 mg compared with twice-daily exenatide 10 (ig, each used as 
add-on therapy with maximum-dose metformin and/or glimepiride. Treatment-effect 
assumptions were also derived from the LEAD 6 trial. Transition probabilities, 
utilities, and complication costs were obtained from published sources. All 
outcomes were discounted at 3% per annum, and the analysis was conducted from 
the perspective of a third-party payer in the United States.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis indicated that, compared with exenatide, 
liraglutide add-on therapy was associated with a mean (SD) increase in life 
expectancy of 0.187 (0.250) years and an increase in qualityadjusted life-years 
of 0.322 (0.164) years. Compared with exenatide, total lifetime treatment costs 
for liraglutide were $12,956 higher, yielding an incremental costeffectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of $40,282. However, the costs of diabetes-related complications 
were lower with liraglutide than with exenatide ($49,784 vs $52,429, 
respectively). Sensitivity analysis indicated that setting patient HbA(1c) 
levels at the 95% upper limit reduced the ICER for liraglutide compared with 
exenatide to $33,086.
CONCLUSION: In this model analysis using published clinical data and current 
medication acquisition price assumptions, liraglutide (in combination with 
metformin and/or glimepiride) appeared to be cost-effective in the US payer 
setting over a 35-year time horizon.

Copyright © 2010 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.08.010
PMID: 21194600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Clin Ther. 2010 Sep;32(10):1768-81. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.09.011.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of tapentadol immediate release for the treatment of 
acute pain.

Kwong WJ(1), Ozer-Stillman I, Miller JD, Haber NA, Russell MW, Kavanagh S.

Author information:
(1)Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Services, L.L.C., Raritan, New Jersey, USA.

BACKGROUND: Tapentadol immediate-release (IR) tablets are indicated for the 
treatment of moderate to severe acute pain. In clinical trials, tapentadol IR 
effectively reduced moderate to severe pain with improved tolerability compared 
with oxycodone IR at doses providing comparable analgesia.
OBJECTIVE: This analysis compared the cost-effectiveness of tapentadol IR with 
doses of oxycodone IR providing comparable analgesia in the outpatient treatment 
of acute postsurgical and nonsurgical pain. The perspective was that of a US 
managed care health plan as third-party payer.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate clinical-economic outcomes for 
tapentadol IR 100 mg compared with oxycodone IR 15 mg in the treatment of acute 
postsurgical pain (3 days) and for tapentadol IR 50 mg compared with oxycodone 
IR 10 mg in the treatment of acute nonsurgical pain (10 days). The model 
simulated changes in pain relief; occurrence of opioid-related adverse events 
(AEs); opioid switching, discontinuation, and dose change; and number of 
quality-adjusted life-days (QALDs). Data inputs for the model were obtained from 
clinical trials, claims databases, surveys, Medicare fee schedules, and other 
published sources. Only direct costs were included. Drug costs were based on the 
wholesale acquisition cost. Prescription copayments were set at $5 for oxycodone 
IR and $25 for tapentadol IR. All costs were in 2008 US dollars. Sensitivity 
analyses were conducted on key model parameters.
RESULTS: The cost of pain medication per patient was higher for tapentadol IR 
than for oxycodone IR in both the surgical pain setting ($15.23 vs $9.57, 
respectively) and the nonsurgical pain setting ($57.17 vs $21.31). However, this 
cost difference was offset by reductions in pharmacy and medical costs 
associated with the treatment of AEs and opioid switching/discontinuation, 
resulting in a lower mean treatment cost per patient for tapentadol IR 100 mg 
compared with oxycodone IR 15 mg in the treatment of acute surgical pain ($52.90 
vs $55.99) and for tapentadol IR 50 mg compared with oxycodone IR 10 mg in the 
treatment of acute nonsurgical pain ($139.48 vs $144.79). Tapentadol IR also was 
associated with a greater mean number of treatment days with ≥30% improvement in 
pain intensity without opioid-related AEs compared with oxycodone IR and a 
greater mean number of QALDs (surgical pain: 1.73 vs 1.68; nonsurgical pain: 
6.03 vs 4.92). Because both doses of tapentadol IR were dominant (ie, lower 
treatment costs and greater effectiveness) relative to the corresponding doses 
of oxycodone IR providing com- parable analgesia, incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were not calculated.
CONCLUSION: The results of this model suggest that at doses providing comparable 
analgesia, tapentadol IR is a cost-effective alternative to oxycodone IR for the 
treatment of acute surgical and nonsurgical pain.

Copyright Â© 2010 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.09.011
PMID: 21194601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2011 Feb;64(2):151-4. doi: 10.1016/j.recesp.2010.02.001.
Epub  2010 Dec 30.

Value of molecular diagnosis in a family with Marfan syndrome and an atypical 
vascular phenotype.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Lebreiro A(1), Martins E, Almeida J, Pimenta S, Bernardes JM, Machado JC, 
Abreu-Lima C.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cardiología, Hospital S. João, Oporto, Portugal. 
ana.lebreiro@gmail.com

Marfan syndrome is mainly caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene. Diagnosis is 
usually based on clinical criteria, but the phenotypic presentation varies 
widely among affected individuals. Aortic dissection or rupture is the cause of 
death in over 90% of untreated patients. Early identification of individuals at 
risk is important given the availability of medical and surgical treatment that 
can significantly improve life-expectancy. Molecular testing could provide an 
etiologic diagnosis in patients who present with milder or atypical clinical 
forms of the disease. Moreover, it could contribute to preventive treatment in 
carriers, inform genetic counseling and offer reassurance to unaffected 
individuals. By describing a family with Marfan syndrome in whom the disease 
presented in an atypical aggressive form, this article highlights the value of 
tests for detecting FBN1 mutations in selected cases.

Copyright © 2010 Sociedad Española de Cardiología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.recesp.2010.02.001
PMID: 21194821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Eval Health Prof. 2011 Jun;34(2):201-25. doi: 10.1177/0163278710393955. Epub
 2010 Dec 30.

Assessing costs and potential returns of evidence-based programs for seniors.

Miller TR(1), Dickerson JB, Smith ML, Ory MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Rural Public Health, 
Texas A&M Health Science Center, College Station, USA. trmiller@srph.tamhsc.edu

The authors describe the customary tools used by health services researchers to 
conduct economic evaluations of health interventions. Recognizing the inherent 
challenges of these tools for utilization in contemporary public health 
practice, we recommend a practical cost-benefit analysis (PCBA) to allow public 
health practitioners to assess the economic merits of their existing public 
health programs. The PCBA estimates what health effects and corresponding 
medical cost avoidance would be required to support the costs associated with 
implementing a community-based prevention program. We apply the PCBA to evaluate 
a statewide evidence-based falls prevention program for seniors in Texas. We 
estimate a positive return on realized costs due to avoided direct and indirect 
medical expenses if the program averts 7 falls among 140 participants within the 
first year. While acknowledging the demonstrated health-related benefits of 
public health interventions, we provide a practical ex-post economic evaluation 
methodology to assess return on investment as a more simplistic yet effective 
alternative for public health practitioners versus contemporary analyses of 
health services researchers.

DOI: 10.1177/0163278710393955
PMID: 21196430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2011 Feb;143(2-4):207-13. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncq520.
Epub  2010 Dec 31.

A cell kinetic model of granulopoiesis under radiation exposure: extension from 
rodents to canines and humans.

Hu S(1), Cucinotta FA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Space Life Sciences, Universities Space Research Association, 
Houston, TX 77058, USA. shaowen.hu-1@nasa.gov

As significant ionising radiation exposure will occur during prolonged space 
travel in future, it is essential to understand their adverse effects on the 
radiosensitive organ systems that are important for immediate survival of 
humans, e.g. the haematopoietic system. In this paper, a biomathematical model 
of granulopoiesis is used to analyse the granulocyte changes seen in the blood 
of mammalians under acute and continuous radiation exposure. This is one of a 
set of haematopoietic models that have been successfully utilised to simulate 
and interpret the experimental data of acute and chronic radiation on rodents. 
Extension to canine and human systems indicates that the results of the model 
are consistent with the cumulative experimental and empirical data from various 
sources, implying the potential to integrate them into one united model system 
to monitor the haematopoietic response of various species under irradiation. The 
suppression of granulocytes' level of a space traveller under chronic stress of 
low-dose irradiation as well as the granulopoietic response when encountering a 
historically large solar particle event is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/ncq520
PMID: 21196459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Dermatology. 2011 Feb;222(1):59-66. doi: 10.1159/000322495. Epub 2010 Dec
22.

Sentinel lymph node biopsy status is a key parameter to stratify the prognostic 
heterogeneity of malignant melanoma in high-risk tumors >4.0 mm.

Göppner D(1), Ulrich J, Pokrywka A, Peters B, Gollnick H, Leverkus M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, Otto von Guericke University, 
Magdeburg, Germany.

Erratum in
    Dermatology. 2011;222(4):329.

BACKGROUND: The value of sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) as a useful strategy 
to assess the risk of future metastasis in high-risk melanomas (>4.0 mm) is 
controversially discussed.
OBJECTIVES: In a single-center retrospective study, the prognostic relevance of 
SLNB and other risk factors in the subgroup of melanomas >4.0 mm was 
investigated and compared to previously published results.
METHODS: Using Kaplan-Meier estimates and Cox regressions, we assessed the 
prognostic relevance of SLNB in our subcohort of 87 patients with thick 
melanomas >4.0 mm (T4). The mean follow-up for this subgroup was 51 months. We 
compared SLN value as compared to ulceration.
RESULTS: SLN and ulceration, analyzed as separate risk factors as well as their 
combination, predicted a highly reduced life expectancy in terms of 
recurrence-free survival (RFS) in our cohort of patients. SLN, but not 
ulceration, also predicted overall survival (OS).
CONCLUSIONS: Positive SLNB is an essential predictor of RFS and OS in T4 
melanoma patients, whereas ulceration lacked significance with respect to OS in 
our cohort. Our data thus suggest the routine use of SLNB also for T4 melanoma 
and may therefore allow to optimize risk-stratified therapeutic regimens.

Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000322495
PMID: 21196701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Aging Res. 2010 Dec 15;2011:127315. doi: 10.4061/2011/127315.

Aging, resistance training, and diabetes prevention.

Flack KD(1), Davy KP, Hulver MW, Winett RA, Frisard MI, Davy BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Foods and Exercise, 221 Wallace Hall (0430), 
Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA 24061, USA.

With the aging of the baby-boom generation and increases in life expectancy, the 
American population is growing older. Aging is associated with adverse changes 
in glucose tolerance and increased risk of diabetes; the increasing prevalence 
of diabetes among older adults suggests a clear need for effective diabetes 
prevention approaches for this population. The purpose of paper is to review 
what is known about changes in glucose tolerance with advancing age and the 
potential utility of resistance training (RT) as an intervention to prevent 
diabetes among middle-aged and older adults. Age-related factors contributing to 
glucose intolerance, which may be improved with RT, include improvements in 
insulin signaling defects, reductions in tumor necrosis factor-α, increases in 
adiponectin and insulin-like growth factor-1 concentrations, and reductions in 
total and abdominal visceral fat. Current RT recommendations and future areas 
for investigation are presented.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/127315
PMCID: PMC3010636
PMID: 21197110


727. Int Rev Res Ment Retard. 2010;39(C):107-126. doi:
10.1016/S0074-7750(10)39004-5.

Health conditions associated with aging and end of life of adults with Down 
syndrome.

Esbensen AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center.

Expectations for the life course of individuals with Down syndrome (DS) have 
changed, with life expectancy estimates increasing from 12 in 1949 to nearly 60 
years of age today (Bittles & Glasson, 2004; Penrose, 1949). Along with this 
longer life expectancy comes a larger population of adults with DS who display 
premature age-related changes in their health. There is thus a need to provide 
specialized health care to this aging population of adults with DS who are at 
high risk for some conditions and at lower risk for others. This review focuses 
on the rates and contributing factors to medical conditions that are common in 
adults with DS or that show changes with age. The review of medical conditions 
includes the increased risk for skin and hair changes, early onset menopause, 
visual and hearing impairments, adult onset seizure disorder, thyroid 
dysfunction, diabetes, obesity, sleep apnea and musculoskeletal problems. The 
different pattern of conditions associated with the mortality of adults with DS 
is also reviewed.

DOI: 10.1016/S0074-7750(10)39004-5
PMCID: PMC3010180
PMID: 21197120


728. Heart Advis. 2010 Feb;13(2):8.

I had a tissue aortic valve transplant two years ago, and today I feel great. 
The fatigue is gone and I exercise every day. But when I had an echocardiogram, 
I had an ejection fraction of 55 percent, which was better than my 
pre-transplant ejection fraction of 35 percent, though still at the low end of 
'normal'. Why is the ejection fraction still fairly low, and can it ever 
improve?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 21197687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Rev Prat. 2010 Oct 20;60(8):1039.

[Women live longer: a distorting mirror?].

[Article in French]

Deleuze J.

PMID: 21197727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2010;11(5):1205-11.

Prognostic factors for elderly breast cancer patients in University Malaya 
Medical Centre, Malaysia.

Phua CE(1), Bustam AZ, Yip CH, Taib NA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Penang General Hospital, Penang, Malaysia. 
vince_phua@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Information about elderly breast cancer patients' outcome is 
limited. This study aimed to evaluate the treatment outcomes in women aged 70 
and above with specific analysis on prognostic clinicopathological features and 
treatment modalities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective study examined breast cancer patients 
between 1st January 1994 and 31st December 2004 in UMMC. Survival analysis was 
performed using the Kaplan-Meier method and comparisons between groups using the 
log-rank test. Univariate and multivariate analysis on prognostic factors were 
carried out using the Cox's proportionate hazard model for patient demographics, 
and tumour and treatment factors.
RESULTS: One hundred and thirty six patients were identified, with a median age 
at diagnosis of 75 years. Most had at least one co-morbidity (61.8%). Only 75.0% 
had a good performance status (ECOG 0-1). Mean tumour size was 4.4 cm. Primary 
tumour stages (T stages) 3 and 4 were present in 8.1% and 30.1% of patients 
respectively, and 30.9% had stage III and 8.8% had stage IV disease based on 
overall AJCC staging. ER positivity was 58.1%. PR status was positive in 30.1%. 
Surgery was performed in 69.1% of the patients and mastectomy and axillary 
clearance were the commonest surgical procedures (50.7%). Some 79.4% of patients 
received hormonal therapy, 30.1% radiotherapy and only 3.6% chemotherapy. 
Non-standard treatment was given to 39.0% of patients due to a variety of 
reasons. The cumulative 5 years overall, relapse free and cause specific 
survivals were 51.9%, 79.7% and 73.3% respectively. Performance status, T3-4 
tumour, presence of metastasis, tumour grade and ER status were independent 
prognostic factors for overall survival. For cause specific survival they were 
T4 tumour, presence of metastasis and ER status.
CONCLUSION: The 5 years overall survival rate was 51.9% and 41.8% of deaths were 
non-breast cancer related deaths. Low survival rate was related to low life 
expectancy in this population. Locally advanced disease, metastatic disease and 
high ER negative rates play a major role in the survival of elderly breast 
cancer patients in Malaysia.

PMID: 21198264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2011 Feb;36(1):1-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2710.2009.01150.x.

Quadrivalent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine: a review of safety, efficacy, 
and pharmacoeconomics.

Pomfret TC(1), Gagnon JM Jr, Gilchrist AT.

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts Medical School, Commonwealth Medicine-Clinical 
Pharmacy Services, Shrewsbury, MA 01545-4169, USA. thomas.pomfret@umassmed.edu

WHAT IS KNOWN AND BACKGROUND: The introduction of vaccines has lead to a 
significant reduction in morbidity and mortality from diseases such as measles, 
rubella and poliomyelitis, as well as the eradication of smallpox (Ertl HC, 
Xiang Z (1996) The Journal of Immunology, 156, 3579-3582). A recent vaccine 
approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the recombinant 
quadrivalent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine (Merck, Gardasil®). Concerns 
raised with this preventive measure include safety and efficacy issues as well 
as the financial implications. Furthermore, the use of the vaccine in women 
outside the currently approved age ranges and in adolescent boys and men has 
also been a source of debate.
OBJECTIVE: A review of two licensed HPV vaccines (Gardasil, Merck and Cervarix, 
GalxoSmithKline) in the light of these issues.
METHODS: Literature searches were conducted using the MEDLINE (1966-December 
2008) and PubMed databases in addition to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention website. Bibliographies of selected references were also evaluated 
for relevant articles. Published guidelines and press releases were utilized as 
were the manufacturer's package inserts. The collection of information for this 
review was limited to the most recently available human data.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The HPV quadrivalent vaccine has been effective in the 
management of HPV by preventing vaccine subtype-related persistent infection and 
precancerous lesions as evidenced by numerous clinical trials. It is also 
regarded as a generally safe and well-tolerated vaccine, based on an assessment 
of reported adverse events submitted through governmental databases and analyzed 
by independent researchers. The majority of adverse events were non-serious and 
the vaccine has not been conclusively implicated with serious events. The FDA 
continues to focus on routine post-marketing surveillance monitoring of reported 
adverse events. The bivalent vaccine has also been shown to be effective in 
reported trials. Its adverse effect profile also appears acceptable.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: The HPV vaccines appear safe and effective. 
Additional clinical research on the vaccines on women outside the currently 
approved age ranges and in males is necessary. Studies on longer-term outcomes, 
including cervical cancer and the emergence of new viral genotypes are also 
necessary.

© 2010 The Authors. JCPT © 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2009.01150.x
PMID: 21198715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. J Adv Nurs. 2011 Apr;67(4):811-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2010.05542.x.
Epub  2010 Dec 28.

Predictors of self-efficacy and self-rated health for older male inmates.

Loeb SJ(1), Steffensmeier D, Kassab C.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Department of Medicine, Penn State College of Medicine and 
Affiliate Faculty Gerontology Center, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, Pennsylvania, USA. svl100@psu.edu

AIMS: The aims of this study were to examine: (1) the relationships between 
self-efficacy for health management and (a) health-promoting behaviours, (b) 
health-monitoring behaviours, and (c) self-rated health status in older male 
prisoners; and (2) the variations in self-rated health status and self-efficacy 
for health management by inmate characteristics of older men in prison.
BACKGROUND: The greying of the inmate population around the globe can be 
attributed to increases in punitive crime control practices, life expectancy; 
and the ageing baby boom generation. Older inmates are typically not a healthy 
group. Therefore, the needs of burgeoning numbers of older, sicker inmates are 
issues of international significance.
METHODS: A descriptive, correlational, survey was conducted from late 2007 to 
mid-2008 with Bandura's self-efficacy model as the guiding framework.
RESULTS/FINDINGS: Participants were 131 male inmates, aged 50 and older. A 
statistically significant positive relationship was found between self-efficacy 
for health management and the indexes measuring health-promoting behaviours 
(r=0.550; P<0.001), health-monitoring behaviours (r=0.323; P=0.001), and the 
single item rating for self-rated health (τ(b)=0.411; P<0.001). There was a 
tendency for education to be positively related to self-rated health but not 
self-efficacy (τ(b)=0.140; P=0.054 and τ(b)=0.105; P=0.122, respectively). Years 
of incarceration was not significantly related to self-rated health or 
self-efficacy.
CONCLUSION: These research findings support Bandura's self-efficacy theoretical 
work and its applicability to health-related research in prisons. Nurses are 
front line healthcare providers in prison, who are in a key position to 
implement interventions that promote greater inmate self-efficacy for healthy 
behaviours and chronic disease management.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2010.05542.x
PMCID: PMC3060278
PMID: 21198807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: No conflict of interest 
has been declared by the authors.


733. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2011 Oct;25(10):1153-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-3083.2010.03935.x. Epub 2010 Dec 29.

Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in children: a review of 
the experience with paediatric patients in a university hospital.

Ferrándiz-Pulido C(1), García-Fernández D, Domínguez-Sampedro P, García-Patos V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, Universitary Vall 
d'Hebron Hospital, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. 
40879cfp@comb.cat

BACKGROUND: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) 
are life-threatening drug reactions considered to be part of the spectrum of a 
single pathological process.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical and epidemiological characteristics of 
SJS/TEN in children attended at our hospital.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective study of children diagnosed with SJS/TEN 
between 1999 and 2009 in a University Hospital provided with regional-level burn 
and paediatric intensive care units.
RESULTS: We found 14 paediatric patients (eight SJS and six TEN). They presented 
an average of 60% of the body surface area affected and 31% of epidermal 
sloughing. The average of suspected drugs was 1.7 per patient, anticonvulsants 
(carbamazepine, phenytoin and lamotrigine) and antibiotics (penicillin and 
macrolides) being the most frequent ones. Silver sulfadiazine was the topical 
treatment most frequently used, 86% of patients received systemic steroids and 
28.5% intravenous immunoglobulins. One patient died.
CONCLUSIONS: The SJS/TEN complex is a true dermatological critical condition 
that also affects children. Any drug can be the causative agent, more frequently 
anticonvulsants and antibiotics. Depending on the extension of the affected body 
surface, patients should be rapidly admitted to a critical care area with 
experience in the care of burn patients. Discontinuation of the suspected 
offending drugs is mandatory. Optimal supportive care and management of denuded 
skin areas are still the mainstay of treatment. The use of specific therapies 
remains controversial. Compared with adults, the disease in children seems to be 
milder with lower mortality.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and 
Venereology © 2010 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2010.03935.x
PMID: 21198948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


