with a profile similar to those TITAN patients who had one or more International 
AIDS Society - USA (IAS-USA) primary protease inhibitor (PI) 
resistance-associated mutations (RAMs) at baseline. This population had less 
advanced HIV disease and a broader range of previous PI exposure/failure (0 - ≥ 
2 PIs) at enrollment than those in the darunavir phase IIb POWER trials.
METHODS: An existing Markov model containing six health states defined by CD4 
cell count range (>500, 351-500, 201-350, 101-200, 51-100 and 0-50 cells/mm³) 
and an absorbing state of death was adapted. Baseline demographics, CD4 cell 
count distribution and antiretroviral drug usage, virological response (at week 
24), and immunological response estimates and matching transition probabilities 
were based on data collected directly from the one or more IAS-USA PI mutation 
subpopulation during the first 48 weeks of the TITAN trial, as well as from 
published literature. Patients were assumed to switch to a regimen containing 
tipranavir plus an optimized background regimen after treatment failure. For 
each CD4 cell count range or health state, the utility values, HIV and 
non-HIV-related mortality rates, and non-antiretroviral-related cost of HIV care 
estimates were derived from published literature. Unit costs were derived from 
official local sources. A lifetime horizon was taken in the base-case analysis.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis predicted discounted quality-adjusted survival 
gains of 0.493 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for DRV/r compared with 
LPV/r, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US$23,057 
per QALY gained over a lifetime horizon. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
indicated a 0.754 probability of an ICER below the threshold of US$50,000 per 
QALY gained. DRV/r remained cost effective over all parameter ranges tested in 
extensive one-way sensitivity analyses and variability analyses, which examined 
the impact of input parameter uncertainty and changes in model assumptions and 
treatment patterns, respectively. Shortening the model time horizon had the 
largest impact on the ICER, reducing it most notably to US$4919 with a 10-year 
time horizon.
CONCLUSION: From a US societal perspective and based on an analysis of the 
patients with primary IAS-USA PI RAMs enrolled in the darunavir phase III TITAN 
trial, a highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) regimen containing DRV/r 
600/100 mg bid is estimated to be a cost-effective therapy when compared with a 
HAART regimen containing LPV/r, for the management of treatment-experienced, 
PI-resistant, HIV-infected adults with a broad range of previous PI use/failure.

DOI: 10.2165/11587490-000000000-00000
PMID: 21182348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28 Suppl 1:147-67. doi: 
10.2165/11587500-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg bid in 
treatment-experienced, lopinavir-naive, protease inhibitor-resistant, 
HIV-infected adults in Belgium, Italy, Sweden and the UK.

Moeremans K(1), Hemmett L, Hjelmgren J, Allegri G, Smets E.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Health Economics Outcomes Research, Brussels, Belgium. 
KMoeremans@be.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND: Using data from the phase IIb POWER trials, darunavir boosted with 
low-dose ritonavir (DRV/r; 600/100 mg twice daily; bid)-based highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) was shown to be significantly more efficacious 
and cost effective than other protease inhibitor (PI)-based therapy in highly 
treatment-experienced, HIV-1-infected adults. Furthermore, in the phase III 
TITAN trial (TMC114-C214), DRV/r 600/100 mg bid-based HAART generated a superior 
48-week virological response rate compared with standard-of-care 
lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r; 400/100 mg bid)-based therapy in 
treatment-experienced, lopinavir-naive patients, and in particular those with 
one or more International AIDS Society - USA (IAS-USA) primary PI 
resistance-associated mutations at baseline. These patients had a broader degree 
of previous PI use/failure (0 - ≥ 2) than the POWER patients.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether DRV/r 600/100 mg bid-based HAART is cost 
effective compared with LPV/r-based therapy, from the perspective of Belgian, 
Italian, Swedish and UK reimbursement authorities, when used in 
treatment-experienced patients similar to TITAN patients with one or more 
IAS-USA primary PI mutations at baseline.
METHODS: An existing Markov model containing health states defined by CD4 cell 
count ranges (>500, 351-500, 201-350, 101-200, 51-100 and 0-50 cells/mm³) and an 
absorbing state of death was adapted for use in the above-mentioned healthcare 
settings. Baseline demographics, CD4 cell count distribution, antiretroviral 
drug usage, virological/immunological response rates and matching transition 
probabilities were based on data collected during the first 48 weeks of therapy 
in the modelled subgroup of TITAN patients and the published literature. After 
treatment failure, patients were assumed to switch to a follow-on combination 
regimen. For each health state, utility values and mortality rates were obtained 
from the published literature. Data from local observational studies (Belgium, 
Sweden and Italy) or the published literature (UK) were used to determine 
resource-use patterns and costs associated with each CD4 cell count range. Unit 
costs were derived from official local sources; a lifetime horizon was taken and 
discount rates were chosen based on local guidelines.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis predicted quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gains of 0.785 in Belgium, 0.608 in Italy, 0.584 in Sweden and 0.550 in the UK 
when DRV/r-based therapy was used instead of LPV/r-based treatment. The 
estimated base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
€6964/QALY gained in Belgium, €9277/QALY gained in Italy, €6868 (SEK69,687)/QALY 
gained in Sweden and €14,778 (£12 612)/QALY gained in the UK. Assuming a 
threshold of €30,000/QALY gained, DRV/r-based therapy remained cost effective 
over most parameter ranges tested in extensive one-way sensitivity analyses. The 
variation of immunological response rates and the time horizon were identified 
as important drivers of cost effectiveness. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
revealed a greater than 70% probability of achieving an ICER below this 
threshold in all four healthcare settings.
CONCLUSION: From the perspective of Belgian, Italian, Swedish and UK payers, 
DRV/r 600/100 mg bid-based HAART is predicted to be cost effective compared with 
LPV/r 400/100 mg bid-based therapy, when used to manage treatment experienced, 
lopinavir-naive, PI-resistant, HIV-infected adults with a broad range of 
previous PI use/failure.

DOI: 10.2165/11587500-000000000-00000
PMID: 21182349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Pharmacotherapy. 2011 Jan;31(1):76-91. doi: 10.1592/phco.31.1.76.

Valvular heart disease: a primer for the clinical pharmacist.

Bungard TJ(1), Sonnenberg B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. tammy.bungard@ualberta.ca

Valvular heart disease is a commonly encountered clinical condition that is not 
taught in most undergraduate and graduate pharmacy programs, leaving the 
practicing pharmacist without basic knowledge to expand on and subsequently 
apply to direct patient care. Unlike other areas of cardiology in which 
thousands of patients are recruited in many well-designed randomized clinical 
trials, data assessing treatments for valvular heart disease are limited and 
often consist of retrospective case series or observations. Our goal is to 
provide a basic overview of chronic valvular heart disease, with emphasis on 
describing the common conditions requiring surgery and the available options, as 
well as common pharmacologic therapies used in this patient population. 
Anomalies in valves can be broadly classified as stenosis and regurgitation. 
Depending on the valve and the type of anomaly, the impact on the cardiovascular 
system will vary. Understanding the hemodynamic consequences of aortic stenosis, 
aortic regurgitation, mitral stenosis, and mitral regurgitation is imperative to 
effectively counsel patients surrounding disease progression and 
self-monitoring, use of vasodilators, and prophylaxis for endocarditis and 
rheumatic fever. Further, patient characteristics factored into the choice of 
implanting either a bioprosthetic (tissue) or prosthetic (metal) valve encompass 
patient choice, life expectancy, and willingness or ability to accept lifelong 
anticoagulation therapy. The evolution of metal valves has resulted in newer 
generations under clinical study that have more laminar flow (minimizing 
interaction with blood products) and improved pyrolytic carbon (minimizing 
infection and interaction with blood products). Although antithrombotic therapy 
with warfarin is now mandatory in North America for all patients receiving metal 
valves, research is ongoing to assess the need with the most recent generation 
of valves.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.31.1.76
PMID: 21182361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Mech Ageing Dev. 2011 Jan-Feb;132(1-2):72-3. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2010.11.004.
 Epub 2010 Dec 21.

Paternal genome effects on aging: evidence for a role of Rasgrf1 in longevity 
determination?

de Magalhães JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Integrative Genomics of Ageing Group, Institute of Integrative Biology, 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK. jp@senescence.info

A recent study by Kawahara and Kono (2010) reports that mice artificially 
produced with two sets of female genomes have an increased average lifespan of 
28%. Moreover, these animals exhibit a smaller body size, a trait also observed 
in several other long-lived mouse models. One hypothesis is that alterations in 
the expression of paternally methylated imprinted genes are responsible for the 
life-extension of bi-maternal mice. Considering the similarities in postnatal 
growth retardation between mice with mutations in the Rasgrf1 imprinted gene and 
bi-maternal mice, Rasgrf1 is the most likely culprit for the low body weight and 
extended lifespan of bi-maternal mice. Rasgrf1 is a neuronal guanine-nucleotide 
exchange factor that induces Ras signaling in a calcium-dependent manner and has 
been implicated in learning and memory. Like other long-lived mouse strains, 
Rasgrf1 mutants are known to have low growth hormone and IGF-1 levels and the 
Rasgrf1 yeast homolog CDC25 had been previously associated with lifespan. 
Therefore, although the evidence is not conclusive, it does point towards the 
involvement of Rasgrf1 in the regulation of longevity, hypothetically through a 
mechanism similar to that observed in other long-lived mice of low GH/IGF-1 
signaling causing a low body weight and life-extension.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2010.11.004
PMID: 21182853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Lancet. 2011 Jan 8;377(9760):127-38. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)62231-3.
Epub  2010 Dec 21.

Cancer survival in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and the UK, 
1995-2007 (the International Cancer Benchmarking Partnership): an analysis of 
population-based cancer registry data.

Coleman MP(1), Forman D, Bryant H, Butler J, Rachet B, Maringe C, Nur U, Tracey 
E, Coory M, Hatcher J, McGahan CE, Turner D, Marrett L, Gjerstorff ML, 
Johannesen TB, Adolfsson J, Lambe M, Lawrence G, Meechan D, Morris EJ, Middleton 
R, Steward J, Richards MA; ICBP Module 1 Working Group.

Collaborators: Andersen O, Bryant H, Currow D, Gavin A, Gunnarsson G, Hanson J, 
Hill D, Kaasa S, de Neergaard L, Richards MA, Sullivan T, Adolfsson J, Bryant H, 
Coory M, Forman D, Gjerstorff ML, Johannesen TB, Lambe M, Meechan D, Middleton 
R, Shin J, Steward J, Tracey E, Hatcher J, Russell C, Coldman A, Elwood M, Levy 
D, McGahan CE, Dhaliwal D, Turner D, Marrett L, McLaughlin J, Milnes K, Nishri 
D, Sherar M, Engholm G, Morris EJ, Thomas J, Linklater K, Elleray R, Meechan D, 
Smith A, Lawrence G, Bannon F, Fox C, White C, Bergh J, Boyages J, Boyer M, 
Butler J, Clark P, Evans B, Fielder H, Fields T, Finan P, Fornander T, Hacker N, 
Hanna L, Hogberg T, Hosbond C, Kölbeck K, Lee M, Lee PB, Lester J, Levine M, 
Lindmark G, Maughan T, Menon U, Moneypenny I, Nordin A, Patnick J, Peake M, 
Radcliffe A, Rosen B, Sjövall A, Spigelman A, Wagenius G, Wärnberg F, Williams 
M, Williamson I, Allemani C, Coleman MP, Ellis L, Maringe C, Nur U, Quaresma M, 
Rachet B, Walters S.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK Cancer Survival Group, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK. michel.coleman@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Jan 8;377(9760):99-101.
    Lancet. 2011 Apr 2;377(9772):1149; author reply 1149-50.
    Lancet. 2011 Apr 2;377(9772):1149; author reply 1149-50.

BACKGROUND: Cancer survival is a key measure of the effectiveness of health-care 
systems. Persistent regional and international differences in survival represent 
many avoidable deaths. Differences in survival have prompted or guided cancer 
control strategies. This is the first study in a programme to investigate 
international survival disparities, with the aim of informing health policy to 
raise standards and reduce inequalities in survival.
METHODS: Data from population-based cancer registries in 12 jurisdictions in six 
countries were provided for 2·4 million adults diagnosed with primary 
colorectal, lung, breast (women), or ovarian cancer during 1995-2007, with 
follow-up to Dec 31, 2007. Data quality control and analyses were done centrally 
with a common protocol, overseen by external experts. We estimated 1-year and 
5-year relative survival, constructing 252 complete life tables to control for 
background mortality by age, sex, and calendar year. We report age-specific and 
age-standardised relative survival at 1 and 5 years, and 5-year survival 
conditional on survival to the first anniversary of diagnosis. We also examined 
incidence and mortality trends during 1985-2005.
FINDINGS: Relative survival improved during 1995-2007 for all four cancers in 
all jurisdictions. Survival was persistently higher in Australia, Canada, and 
Sweden, intermediate in Norway, and lower in Denmark, England, Northern Ireland, 
and Wales, particularly in the first year after diagnosis and for patients aged 
65 years and older. International differences narrowed at all ages for breast 
cancer, from about 9% to 5% at 1 year and from about 14% to 8% at 5 years, but 
less or not at all for the other cancers. For colorectal cancer, the 
international range narrowed only for patients aged 65 years and older, by 2-6% 
at 1 year and by 2-3% at 5 years.
INTERPRETATION: Up-to-date survival trends show increases but persistent 
differences between countries. Trends in cancer incidence and mortality are 
broadly consistent with these trends in survival. Data quality and changes in 
classification are not likely explanations. The patterns are consistent with 
later diagnosis or differences in treatment, particularly in Denmark and the UK, 
and in patients aged 65 years and older.
FUNDING: Department of Health, England; and Cancer Research UK.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)62231-3
PMCID: PMC3018568
PMID: 21183212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Ann Transplant. 2010 Oct-Dec;15(4):110-9.

Heart transplantation in the elderly: why cardiac transplantation does not need 
to be limited to younger patients but can be safely performed in patients above 
65 years of age.

Daneshvar DA(1), Czer LS, Phan A, Trento A, Schwarz ER.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, 
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048, U.S.A.

Within the last forty years, heart transplantation as the ultimate option for 
the treatment of end-stage heart disease has undergone dramatic changes and 
advances in operative techniques, postoperative care, immunosuppression, and 
rejection management which resulted in reduced morbidity and mortality. As the 
heart failure epidemic worsens and the population grows older, cardiac 
transplantation criteria have expanded for end-stage heart disease refractory to 
medical management. Although outcomes after cardiac transplantation have 
improved, the critical organ shortage is a limitation to its efficacy. The 
demand-supply disparity for heart transplantations has led to clinical and 
ethical issues examining adequate candidacy for organ transplantation. Cardiac 
transplantation in the elderly recipient was considered a contraindication due 
to poor survival rates compared to younger recipients. Given the increase in 
life expectancy over the last decades, single-center studies have assessed the 
outcome of transplantation among elderly recipients and comparable survival and 
quality of life have been described among older heart transplantation 
recipients. Alternatives to cardiac transplantation which have become more 
common, such as mechanical circulatory support, and further investigation of the 
viability of transplantation in the elderly may help determine the proper 
allocation of the limited organ supply.

PMID: 21183885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2011 Jun;19(6):1187-92. doi: 10.1038/oby.2010.313.
Epub  2010 Dec 23.

Long-term effects of a multidisciplinary treatment of uncomplicated obesity on 
carotid intima-media thickness.

Buscemi S(1), Batsis JA, Verga S, Carciola T, Mattina A, Citarda S, Re A, Arnone 
M, D'Orio L, Belmonte S, D'Angelo A, Cerasola G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Malattie Cardiovascolari e NefroUrologiche; 
Facoltà di Medicina, University of Palermo, Palermo, Sicily, Italy. 
silbus@tin.it

Obesity is associated with well-known cardiovascular risk factors and a lower 
life expectancy. This study investigated whether nonoperative nutritional 
treatment of obesity without comorbidities influenced the carotid intima-media 
thickness (c-IMT) in the long run. Fifty-four subjects of an original cohort of 
251 subjects were re-evaluated 10 years after a medical nutritional treatment 
(MNT) with cognitive-behavioral approach for uncomplicated obesity. Forty 
subjects were classified as failure (10-year body weight change > 0.5 kg) and 14 
(body weight change ≤ 0.5 kg) as a success of the MNT. Ten years after MNT, 
c-IMT significantly increased (0.06 ± 0.02 mm; P = 0.004) in the failure group 
and significantly decreased (-0.07 ± 0.03 mm; P = 0.027) in the success group. 
Ten-year change in c-IMT correlated significantly with 10-year change in body 
weight (r = 0.28; P = 0.040). Multiple stepwise linear regression analysis 
demonstrated that age, final BMI, and group (success or failure) influenced 
independently the 10-year c-IMT. In conclusion, this study is in agreement with 
the possibility that the successful MNT of obesity may be an effective choice in 
the long run and seems to indicate that it may be able to reduce the 
cardiovascular risk as reflected by the change in c-IMT.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2010.313
PMID: 21183931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Nefrologia. 2010;30 Suppl 2:47-59. doi:
10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2010.Nov.10691.

[Assessment and selection of kidney living donors].

[Article in Spanish]

Gentil Govantes MÁ(1), Pereira Palomo P.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Gestión Clinica de Urologia y Nefrologia, Hospital Universitario 
Virgen del Rocio, Sevilla. mgentil@cica.es

Donor protection should always be taken account during the selection and 
assessment of a living donor. On these terms, the evaluation of a potential 
donor must include these issues: 1) The donor act is altruistic, consciousness 
and out of coercion; 2) Life expectancy and quality of life of the recipient 
will improve after the living donor kidney transplantation; 3) The donor has 
normal renal function and the potential risk of developing nephropathy in the 
long term follow up is scarce (familiar nephropathies and other processes that 
may increase the potential risk for renal disease in the future, like severe 
hypertension, diabetes, etc must be ruled out). The glomerular filtrate should 
meet criteria for the normal function corresponding to age furthermore the 
absence of proteinuria and urine smear is normal; 4) The screening in the donor 
should contemplate those clinical situations or diseases non related to the 
kidney function but might elevate the surgical and/or anesthesia risk besides 
disease transmission to the recipient (as neoplasia or infections); 5) The 
surgical act is possible without technical difficulties and always performed 
after a negative result of the crossmatch between donor and recipient. The 
living donor evaluation process will follow a different schedule based on each 
particular case and the center facilities. Any case, the mentioned process is 
divided in two parts: The first one contains an initial screening (using non 
invasive and low cost tests) that allows discarding contraindications for 
donation (in both donor and recipient). In a second phase the assessment of the 
donor varies with donor characteristics. However, a test for renal function is 
mandatory besides imaging techniques (like angioTC), screening for transmissible 
diseases and a detailed evaluation for psychosocial aspects preferably made by 
professional. Moreover Spanish policy on living donation requires a report with 
information about the consent for donation developed by an independent board 
(ethics committee) besides the consent for donation given at the civil registry.

DOI: 10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2010.Nov.10691
PMID: 21183963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Nefrologia. 2010;30 Suppl 2:85-93. doi:
10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2010.Nov.10695.

[Children as receptors of living donors].

[Article in Spanish]

Navarro Torres M(1), Espinosa Román L.

Author information:
(1)Servico de Nefrologia Pediátrica, Hospital Universitaro La Paz, Madrid. 
mnavarro.hulp@salud.madrid.org

The most important factor in life expectancy for children on renal replacement 
therapy (RRT) is to have a functioning graft when they reach adulthood (63 
years&nbsp; on transplantation vs 37 years on dialysis). The pediatric recipient 
is very suitable for a living donor transplantation (LDT), with few 
contraindications. There are several reasons that make LDT the most recommended 
RRT in children: pre-emptive transplant avoiding dialysis, good renal mass, 
minimal cold ischemia time, better HLA-matching and the possibility to program 
the time of surgery. Long term graft survival in LDT is significantly better 
than in cadaveric donor transplantation (CDT) (81.3%&nbsp; LDT vs 60.8 % CDT at 
10 years follow-up). Calculated half-life graft survival for recipients aged 2-5 
years reaches 27.5 years in some series, making LDT the ideal option for these 
children. Adolescent recipients (12-17 years) have an excellent early graft 
survival, but the worst long term outcome compared with the rest of pediatric 
population. However, preemptive LDT has a 70% of graft survival at 10 years. 
Late rejections episodes associated with non-adherence factors are found in all 
series. Unrelated LDT in pediatric recipients outcome remain unclear.

DOI: 10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2010.Nov.10695
PMID: 21183967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Gastrointest Endosc. 2011 Jan;73(1):149-53. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2010.09.031.

Endoscopically applied radiofrequency ablation appears to be safe in the 
treatment of malignant biliary obstruction.

Steel AW, Postgate AJ, Khorsandi S, Nicholls J, Jiao L, Vlavianos P, Habib N, 
Westaby D.

Comment in
    Endoscopy. 2012 Apr;44(4):383-8.

BACKGROUND: In unresectable malignant bile duct obstruction in a patient with a 
life expectancy longer than 3 months, the use of self-expandable metal stents 
(SEMSs) is the standard technique to ensure continued biliary drainage. As many 
as 50% of patients with SEMSs will present with stent occlusion within 6 months. 
Changes to stent design and composition and concomitant therapy have failed to 
improve stent patency; therefore, alternative techniques to safely prolong stent 
patency are required.
OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the safety of endobiliary bipolar radiofrequency 
ablation (RFA) in patients with malignant biliary obstruction and to report the 
90-day biliary patency of this novel procedure.
DESIGN: Open-label pilot study.
SETTING: Single tertiary care unit.
PATIENTS: A total of 22 patients with unresectable malignant bile duct 
obstruction.
INTERVENTIONS: Bipolar RFA within the bile duct.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Immediate and 30-day complications and 90-day stent 
patency.
RESULTS: A total of 22 patients (16 pancreatic, 6 cholangiocarcinoma) were 
recruited between January 2009 and April 2010. Deployment of an RFA catheter was 
successful in 21 patients. SEMS placement was achieved in all cases of 
successful RFA catheter deployment. One patient failed to demonstrate successful 
biliary decompression after SEMS placement and died within 90 days. All other 
patients maintained stent patency at 30 days. One patient had asymptomatic 
biochemical pancreatitis, 2 patients required percutaneous gallbladder drainage, 
and 1 patient developed rigors. At 90-day follow-up, 1 additional patient had 
died with a patent stent, and 3 patients had occluded biliary stents.
LIMITATIONS: Cohort study.
CONCLUSIONS: Endobiliary RFA treatment appears to be safe. Randomized studies 
with prolonged follow-up are warranted.

Copyright © 2011 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2010.09.031
PMID: 21184881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Public Health. 2011 Feb;125(2):114-5. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2010.08.016. Epub
2010  Dec 23.

It's not just deprivation.

Hussey R(1), Hennell T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health North West, Manchester, United Kingdom. 
Ruth.Hussey@northwest.nhs.uk

Comment on
    Public Health. 2010 Sep;124(9):487-95.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2010.08.016
PMID: 21185042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Chem Biol Interact. 2011 May 30;191(1-3):66-74. doi:
10.1016/j.cbi.2010.12.016.  Epub 2010 Dec 23.

Anthracyclines and their metabolism in human liver microsomes and the 
participation of the new microsomal carbonyl reductase.

Skarka A(1), Skarydová L, Stambergová H, Wsól V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles University, 
Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.

Anthracyclines (ANTs) are widely used in the treatment of various forms of 
cancer. Although their usage contributes to an improvement in life expectancy, 
it is limited by severe adverse effects-acute and chronic cardiotoxicity. 
Several enzymes from both AKR and SDR superfamilies have been reported as 
participants in the reduction of ANTs. Nevertheless all of these are located in 
the cytosolic compartment. One microsomal reductase has been found to be 
involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics-11beta-HSD1, but no further 
information has been reported about its role in the metabolism of ANTs. The aim 
of this study is to bring new information about the biotransformation of 
doxorubicin (DOX), daunorubicin (DAUN) and idarubicin (IDA), not only in human 
liver microsomal fraction, but also by a novel human liver microsomal carbonyl 
reductase that has been purified by our group. The reduction of ANTs at C-13 
position is regarded as the main pathway in the biotransformation of ANTs. 
However, our experiments with human liver microsomal fraction show different 
behaviour, especially when the concentration of ANTs in the incubation mixture 
is increased. Microsomal fraction was incubated with doxorubicin, daunorubicin 
and idarubicin. DOX was both reduced into doxorubicinol (DOXOL) and hydrolyzed 
into aglycone DOX and then subsequently reduced. The same behaviour was observed 
for the metabolism of DAUN and IDA. The activity of hydrolases definitely brings 
a new look to the entire metabolism of ANTs in microsomal fraction, as formed 
aglycones undergo reduction and compete for the binding site with the main ANTs. 
Moreover, as there are two competitive reducing reactions present for all three 
ANTs, kinetic values of direct reduction and the reduction of aglycone were 
calculated. These results were compared to previously published data for human 
liver cytosol. In addition, the participation of the newly determined human 
liver microsomal carbonyl reductase was studied. No reduction of DOX into DOXOL 
was detected. Nevertheless, the involvement in reduction of DAUN into DAUNOL as 
well as IDA into IDAOL was demonstrated. The kinetic values obtained were then 
compared with data which have already been reported for cytosolic ANTs 
reductases.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.12.016
PMID: 21185270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Am J Surg. 2011 Aug;202(2):220-4. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2010.09.009. Epub
2010  Dec 24.

Individualized, targeted wound treatment based on the tissue bacterial level as 
a biological marker.

Pierpont YN(1), Uberti MG, Ko F, Robson MC, Smith CA, Wright TE, Payne WG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Tissue Regeneration, Repair, and Rehabilitation, Bay Pines VA 
Healthcare System, Bay Pines, FL, USA.

BACKGROUND: The use of biologic markers to aid in individualizing wound 
treatment may help improve outcomes. A biologic marker that has been 
demonstrated to be predictive of healing in both chronic and acute wounds is 
wound tissue bacterial level. The objective of this study was to determine 
whether tissue bacterial level can be used to individualize wound treatment 
regimens with a stem-like cell-derived product.
METHODS: Amnion-derived cellular cytokine solution (ACCS) was topically applied 
to rat chronic wounds, and healing rates were measured.
RESULTS: Experimental wounds treated with ACCS demonstrated accelerated healing 
regardless of the tissue level of bacteria, compared with saline. As the level 
of tissue bacteria increased, the frequency of ACCS application required to 
obtain optimal results increased.
CONCLUSIONS: It appears that the biologic characteristic of tissue bacterial 
level can serve as a marker to predict the response of open granulating wounds 
treated with ACCS.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2010.09.009
PMID: 21185550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2011 Feb;32(2):107-15. doi:
10.1016/j.tips.2010.11.009.  Epub 2010 Dec 23.

Anti-TNF therapy in the injured spinal cord.

Esposito E(1), Cuzzocrea S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine and Pharmacology, School of 
Medicine, University of Messina, Torre Biologica - Policlinico Universitario Via 
C. Valeria - Gazzi - 98100 Messina, Italy.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) has a significant impact on the quality and expectancy 
of life. It also carries a heavy economic burden, with considerable costs 
associated with primary care and loss of income. The normal architecture of the 
spinal cord is radically disrupted by injury. After the initial insult, 
structure and function are lost through active secondary processes that involve 
reactive astrocytes, glial progenitors, microglia, macrophages, fibroblasts and 
Schwann cells. These cells produce chemokines and cytokines such as tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-1β, which mediate the recruitment 
of inflammatory cells to the injury site. Targeting of these cytokines 
represents a potential strategy to reduce the secondary damage in SCI. In this 
review, we focus on several emerging strategies to neutralize TNF-α, including 
antibodies, soluble receptors, recombinant TNF-binding proteins, TNF receptor 
fusion proteins, and non-specific agents (e.g. thalidomide) and discuss their 
potential as therapy for SCI.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tips.2010.11.009
PMID: 21185611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. J Am Diet Assoc. 2011 Jan;111(1):53-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jada.2010.10.014.

A quality-adjusted life year of prevention: the cost-effectiveness of nutrition 
counseling.

Tsai AG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Center for Human Nutrition, 
University of Colorado, Denver, USA. adam.tsai@ucdenver.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.jada.2010.10.014
PMID: 21185965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. J Am Diet Assoc. 2011 Jan;111(1):56-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jada.2010.10.011.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a low-fat diet in the prevention of breast and 
ovarian cancer.

Bós AM(1), Howard BV, Beresford SA, Urban N, Tinker LF, Waters H, Bós AJ, 
Chlebowski R, Ennis JM.

Author information:
(1)Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, 
USA. abos@jhsph.edu

BACKGROUND: Results of the Women's Health Initiative Randomized Controlled 
Dietary Modification Trial (WHI-DM) suggest that a low-fat diet may be 
associated with beneficial health outcomes for specific groups of women.
OBJECTIVE: The objective is to assess how cost-effective the WHI-DM would be if 
implemented as a public health intervention and under the sponsorship of private 
health insurers and Medicare. Breast and ovarian cancers are the health outcomes 
of interest.
PARTICIPANTS: Two groups of WHI-DM participants form the target population for 
this analysis: participants consuming >36.8% of energy from fat at baseline, and 
participants at high risk for breast cancer with 32% or more of energy from fat 
at baseline.
METHODS: This study uses Markov cohort modeling, following societal and health 
care payer perspectives, with Monte Carlo simulations and one-way sensitivity 
analyses. WHI-DM records, nationally representative prices, and published 
estimates of medical care costs were the sources of cost information. 
Simulations were performed for hypothetical cohorts of women aged 50, 55, 60, 
65, or 70 years at the beginning of the intervention. Effectiveness was 
estimated by quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and the main outcome measure 
was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Following the societal perspective, the ICERs for the 50-year old 
cohort are $13,773/QALY (95% confidence interval $7,482 to $20,916) for women 
consuming >36.8% of energy from fat at baseline and $10,544/QALY ($2,096 to 
$23,673) for women at high risk for breast cancer. The comparable ICER from a 
private health care payer perspective is $66,059/QALY ($30,155 to $121,087) and 
from a Medicare perspective, it is $15,051/QALY ($6,565 to $25,105).
CONCLUSIONS: The WHI-DM is a cost-effective strategy for the prevention of 
breast and ovarian cancers in the target population, from both societal and 
Medicare perspectives. Private health care payers have a relative short 
timeframe to realize a return on investment, since after age 65 years the 
financial benefits associated with the prevention program would accrue to 
Medicare. For this reason, the intervention is not cost-effective from a private 
health care payer perspective.

Copyright © 2011 American Dietetic Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jada.2010.10.011
PMCID: PMC4381432
PMID: 21185966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: STATEMENT OF POTENTIAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST: No 
potential conflict of interest was reported by the authors.


697. Womens Health Issues. 2011 Jan-Feb;21(1):64-70. doi:
10.1016/j.whi.2010.08.007.

Gender differences in life expectancy and disability-free life expectancy among 
older adults in São Paulo, Brazil.

Drumond Andrade FC(1), Guevara PE, Lebrão ML, de Oliveira Duarte YA, Santos JL.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Department of Kinesiology and 
Community Health, Champaign, Illinois 61820, USA. fandrade@illinois.edu

BACKGROUND: research on life expectancy has demonstrated the negative impact of 
disability on the health of older adults and its differential effects on women 
as evidenced by their higher disabled life expectancy (DLE). The goal of the 
present study was to investigate gender differences in total life expectancy 
(TLE), disability-free life expectancy (DFLE), and DLE; examine gender 
differences on personal care assistance among older adults in São Paulo, Brazil; 
and discuss the implications for public policies.
METHODS: the sample was drawn from two waves (2000, 2006) of the dataset of 
Salud, Bienestar, y Envejecimiento, a large longitudinal study conducted in São 
Paulo (n = 2,143). The study assessed disability using the activities of daily 
living (ADL). The interpolation of Markov Chain method was used to estimate 
gender differences in TLE, DLE, and DFLE.
FINDINGS: TLE at age 60 years was approximately 5 years longer for women than 
men. Women aged 60 years were expected to live 28% of their remaining 
lives-twice the percentage for men-with at least one ADL disability. These women 
also lived more years (M = 0.71, SE = 0.42) with three or more ADL disabilities 
than men (M = 0.82, SE = 0.16). In terms of personal care assistance, women 
received more years of assistance than men.
CONCLUSION: among older adults in São Paulo, women lived longer lives but 
experienced a higher and more severe disability burden than men. In addition, 
although women received more years of personal assistance than men, women 
experienced more unmet care assistance needs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.whi.2010.08.007
PMID: 21185991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Mod Pathol. 2011 Apr;24(4):585-95. doi: 10.1038/modpathol.2010.224. Epub
2010  Dec 24.

Aberrant expression of CD30 in neoplastic mast cells in high-grade mastocytosis.

Sotlar K(1), Cerny-Reiterer S, Petat-Dutter K, Hessel H, Berezowska S, Müllauer 
L, Valent P, Horny HP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany. 
Karl.Sotlar@med.uni-muenchen.de

Systemic mastocytosis either presents as aggressive neoplasm with short survival 
time or indolent systemic mastocytosis with normal life expectancy. In both 
instances, neoplastic mast cells usually harbor the D816V-mutated variant of 
KIT. Phenotypically, mast cells in systemic mastocytosis usually express CD25. 
However, no robust marker that discriminates between aggressive and indolent 
variants of systemic mastocytosis has been identified yet. We here report that 
CD30, also known as Ki-1 antigen, is expressed in neoplastic mast cells in a 
majority of patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (11/13, 85%), whereas 
in most patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis (12/45, 27%; P<0.001), only 
a few if any mast cells stained positive for CD30. These results could be 
confirmed by TissueFAXS analysis in subsets of patients with indolent systemic 
mastocytosis (n=7) and advanced systemic mastocytosis (n=4; P=0.008). The mast 
cell leukemia cell line HMC-1, derived from a patient with aggressive systemic 
mastocytosis also expressed the CD30 protein. In addition, we were able to 
detect CD30 mRNA in HMC-1 cells as well as in bone marrow biopsy samples in 
patients with systemic mastocytosis. In contrast, CD30 transcripts could not be 
detected in bone marrow biopsies in cases of reactive mast cell hyperplasia and 
in various other myeloid neoplasms. In conclusion, CD30 is preferentially 
expressed in neoplastic mast cells in advanced mast cell neoplasms. Upregulated 
expression of CD30 in advanced systemic mastocytosis may thus be employed as a 
potential marker for grading systemic mastocytosis in hematopathology.

DOI: 10.1038/modpathol.2010.224
PMID: 21186345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Oral Implantol. 2011 Aug;37(4):431-45. doi: 10.1563/AAID-JOI-D-10-00133.
Epub  2010 Dec 27.

The all-on-four immediate function treatment concept with NobelActive implants: 
a retrospective study.

Babbush CA(1), Kutsko GT, Brokloff J.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland ClearChoice Dental Implant Center, Pepper Pike, Ohio, USA. 
cab@thedentalimplantcenter.com

The All-on-Four treatment concept provides patients with an immediately loaded 
fixed prosthesis supported by 4 implants. This single-center retrospective study 
evaluated the concept while using the NobelActive implant (Nobel Biocare, 
Gothenburg, Sweden). Seven hundred eight implants placed in 165 subjects 
demonstrated a cumulative survival rate of 99.6% (99.3% in maxilla and 100% in 
the mandible) for up to 29 months of loading. The definitive prosthesis survival 
rate was 100%.

DOI: 10.1563/AAID-JOI-D-10-00133
PMID: 21186961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 Jan 28;404(4):974-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.12.093. Epub 2010 Dec 25.

Rapamycin treatment causes developmental delay, pigmentation defects, and 
gastrointestinal malformation on Xenopus embryogenesis.

Moriyama Y(1), Ohata Y, Mori S, Matsukawa S, Michiue T, Asashima M, Kuroda H.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Shizuoka University, 836 Ohya, 
Suruga-ku, Shizuoka 422-8529, Japan.

Rapamycin is a drug working as an inhibitor of the TOR (target of rapamycin) 
signaling pathway and influences various life phenomena such as cell growth, 
proliferation, and life span extension in eukaryote. However, the extent to 
which rapamycin controls early developmental events of amphibians remains to be 
understood. Here we report an examination of rapamycin effects during Xenopus 
early development, followed by a confirmation of suppression of TOR downstream 
kinase S6K by rapamycin treatment. First, we found that developmental speed was 
declined in dose-dependent manner of rapamycin. Second, black pigment spots 
located at dorsal and lateral skin in tadpoles were reduced by rapamycin 
treatment. Moreover, in tadpole stages severe gastrointestinal malformations 
were observed in rapamycin-treated embryos. Taken together with these results, 
we conclude that treatment of the drug rapamycin causes enormous influences on 
early developmental period.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.12.093
PMID: 21187064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Biol Chem. 2011 Mar 11;286(10):8459-8471. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.171223.
Epub  2010 Dec 27.

Phospholipase Cdelta3 regulates RhoA/Rho kinase signaling and neurite outgrowth.

Kouchi Z(1), Igarashi T(1), Shibayama N(1), Inanobe S(1), Sakurai K(1), 
Yamaguchi H(2), Fukuda T(3), Yanagi S(3), Nakamura Y(1), Fukami K(4).

Author information:
(1)From the Laboratory of Genome and Biosignal, Tokyo University of Pharmacy and 
Life Sciences, 1432-1 Horinouchi, Hachioji, 192-0392 Tokyo.
(2)From the Laboratory of Genome and Biosignal, Tokyo University of Pharmacy and 
Life Sciences, 1432-1 Horinouchi, Hachioji, 192-0392 Tokyo,; PRESTO, Japan 
Science and Technology Agency, 4-1-8 Honcho Kawaguchi, Saitama, and.
(3)the Laboratory of Molecular Biochemistry, Tokyo University of Pharmacy and 
Life Sciences, 1432-1 Horinouchi, Hachioji, 192-0392 Tokyo, Japan.
(4)From the Laboratory of Genome and Biosignal, Tokyo University of Pharmacy and 
Life Sciences, 1432-1 Horinouchi, Hachioji, 192-0392 Tokyo,. Electronic address: 
kfukami@ls.toyaku.ac.jp.

Phospholipase Cδ3 (PLCδ3) is a key enzyme regulating phosphoinositide 
metabolism; however, its physiological function remains unknown. Because PLCδ3 
is highly enriched in the cerebellum and cerebral cortex, we examined the role 
of PLCδ3 in neuronal migration and outgrowth. PLCδ3 knockdown (KD) inhibits 
neurite formation of cerebellar granule cells, and application of PLCδ3KD using 
in utero electroporation in the developing brain results in the retardation of 
the radial migration of neurons in the cerebral cortex. In addition, PLCδ3KD 
inhibits axon and dendrite outgrowth in primary cortical neurons. PLCδ3KD also 
suppresses neurite formation of Neuro2a neuroblastoma cells induced by serum 
withdrawal or treatment with retinoic acid. This inhibition is released by the 
reintroduction of wild-type PLCδ3. Interestingly, the H393A mutant lacking 
phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate hydrolyzing activity generates 
supernumerary protrusions, and a constitutively active mutant promotes extensive 
neurite outgrowth, indicating that PLC activity is important for normal neurite 
outgrowth. The introduction of dominant negative RhoA (RhoA-DN) or treatment 
with Y-27632, a Rho kinase-specific inhibitor, rescues the neurite extension in 
PLCδ3KD Neuro2a cells. Similar effects were also detected in primary cortical 
neurons. Furthermore, the RhoA expression level was significantly decreased by 
serum withdrawal or retinoic acid in control cells, although this decrease was 
not observed in PLCδ3KD cells. We also found that exogenous expression of PLCδ3 
down-regulated RhoA protein, and constitutively active PLCδ3 promotes the RhoA 
down-regulation more significantly than PLCδ3 upon differentiation. These 
results indicate that PLCδ3 negatively regulates RhoA expression, inhibits 
RhoA/Rho kinase signaling, and thereby promotes neurite extension.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.171223
PMCID: PMC3048730
PMID: 21187285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Br J Sports Med. 2011 Mar;45(3):162-4. doi: 10.1136/bjsm.2010.081141. Epub
2010  Dec 27.

Strenuous endurance exercise: is more better for everyone? Our genes won't tell 
us.

La Gerche A, Prior DL, Heidbüchel H.

Comment on
    Br J Sports Med. 2011 Mar;45(3):159-61.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsm.2010.081141
PMID: 21187292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Arch Esp Urol. 2010 Dec;63(10):855-61.

Prostate cancer as incidental finding in transurethral resection.

Dellavedova T(1), Ponzano R, Racca L, Minuzzi F, Domínguez M.

Author information:
(1)Fundación Urológica Córdoba para la Docencia e Investigación Médica, Córdoba, 
Argentina. fucdim@fucdim.com.ar

Prostate adenocarcinoma is found in surgical samples without prior diagnosis in 
4 to 15% of the patients. In some of them, there is previous suspicion but in 
others this finding is completely incidental. We present 7 cases of prostate 
cancer detected in 100 patients who underwent bipolar transurethral resection 
(TUR) of the prostate due to regular indications. The aim of this paper is to 
describe patient's characteristics, postoperative outcome, analyze TURP as a 
diagnostic tool and evaluate therapeutic options for prostate cancer (PCa).
METHODS: One hundred patients with bladder outlet obstruction due to benign 
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) underwent TURP in FUCDIM between June 2007 and 
August 2009. In 7 of them, prostate adenocarcinomas were detected. None of the 
patients underwent TURP only because of increased prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA).
RESULTS: Mean preoperative PSA was 7.6 ng/ml (r= 0.72 -27 ng/ml), 39% of the 
patients had PSA < 4 ng/ml; 33 (40%) had undergone previous biopsies and 36% of 
them had 2 or more previous biopsies. Prostate cancer detection global rate was 
7%, 3 cases were incidental findings (low PSA and low-risk tumors), 3 patients 
had increased PSA and several previous biopsies with negative results and 1 had 
low PSA and aggressive tumor (Gleason 4+3).
CONCLUSIONS: TURP patients with prostate cancer are a heterogeneous group. TURP 
can be both diagnostic and therapeutic when facing patients with obstructive 
symptoms, high PSA and negative prostate biopsies. There are several therapeutic 
alternatives for TURP patients with cancer, taking into consideration tumor 
grade and stage, age, life expectancy and will of the patient. Bipolar TUR, in 
selected patients, allows to offer optional active surveillance (in these 
patients PSADT is very useful) and if cancer is not found, it eases the follow 
up of these patients. Active treatment (surgery or radiotherapy) is indicated in 
T1a patients with life expectancy longer than 10 years, and in the majority of 
T1b patients.

PMID: 21187568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Indian J Dent Res. 2010 Oct-Dec;21(4):611-4. doi: 10.4103/0970-9290.74234.

Autosomal-dominant osteopetrosis: an incidental finding.

Rajathi M(1), Austin RD, Mathew P, Bharathi CS, Srivastava KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Rajah Muthiah Dental College and 
Hospital, Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu, India. mariaomdr@gmail.com

Osteopetrosis is a descriptive term that refers to a group of rare, heritable 
disorders of the skeleton. Osteopetrotic conditions vary greatly in their 
presentation and severity, from just as an incidental finding on radiographs to 
causing life-threatening complications such as bone marrow suppression. It is 
caused by failure of osteoclast development and function. Osteopetrosis can be 
inherited as autosomal-recessive, autosomal-dominant or as X-linked traits, with 
the most severe forms being the autosomal-recessive ones. The severity of the 
disease is mild to moderate in the autosomal-dominant forms, with normal life 
expectancy. Diagnosis is largely based on clinical and radiographic evaluation. 
The present paper reports a case of autosomal-dominant osteopetrosis complicated 
by osteomyelitis with a short review of the condition.

DOI: 10.4103/0970-9290.74234
PMID: 21187637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2011 Apr;127(4):1583-1592. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0b013e318208d28e.

Systematic review of flexor tendon rehabilitation protocols in zone II of the 
hand.

Chesney A(1), Chauhan A, Kattan A, Farrokhyar F, Thoma A.

Author information:
(1)Hamilton, Ontario, Canada From the Division of Plastic Surgery, the 
Departments of Surgery and Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, and the 
Surgical Outcomes Research Center, McMaster University.

BACKGROUND: Restoration of function following flexor tendon repair in zone II 
represents a difficult clinical problem. Despite many publications on 
rehabilitation methods, there exists no consensus as to which method is 
superior. This study was undertaken to determine which flexor tendon 
rehabilitation protocol provides the best outcome after surgical repair in zone 
II.
METHODS: Electronic databases were searched for articles published between 1970 
and 2009. The population included patients aged 5 years and older who sustained 
a flexor tendon laceration in zone II. The primary outcome was rupture rate. 
Secondary outcomes were range of motion and quality of life. The following 
protocols and their variations were considered: passive flexion and active 
extension protocols (Kleinert type protocols), controlled passive motion 
protocols (Duran type protocols), combination of the Kleinert and Duran 
protocols, and early active motion protocols.
RESULTS: Seventy-nine articles were identified. Fifteen studies met the 
inclusion criteria. The mean rate of rupture was lowest in the combined Kleinert 
and Duran protocols (2.3 percent) and highest in the Kleinert protocols (7.1 
percent). No statistically significant differences were found. The combined 
Kleinert and Duran protocols and the early active motion protocols exhibited the 
highest proportion of digits with excellent or good results using the Strickland 
and Buck-Gramcko systems. One study included a quality-of-life 
assessment-meaningful comparison was not possible.
CONCLUSIONS: Both early active motion protocols and combined Kleinert and Duran 
protocols result in low rates of tendon rupture and acceptable range of motion 
following flexor tendon repair in zone II. Future studies should include 
quality-of-life measurements using validated scales.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e318208d28e
PMID: 21187807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Hepat Res Treat. 2010;2010:562578. doi: 10.1155/2010/562578. Epub 2010 Sep
27.

Long-term effects of antiviral therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C.

Kagawa T(1), Keeffe EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Tokai University School of Medicine, 
Shimokasuya 143, Isehara 259-1193, Japan.

Chronic hepatitis C is a major cause of chronic liver disease globally, and the 
natural history of progression may lead to cirrhosis with liver failure, 
hepatocellular carcinoma, and premature liver-related death. Emerging data 
demonstrates that interferon-based therapy, particularly among those achieving a 
sustained virologic response (SVR), is associated with long-term persistence of 
SVR, improved fibrosis and inflammation scores, reduced incidence of 
hepatocellular carcinoma, and prolonged life expectancy. This reduction in the 
rate of progression has also been demonstrated in patients with chronic 
hepatitis C and cirrhosis in some but not all studies. The majority of these 
results are reported with standard interferon therapy, and long-term results of 
peginterferon plus ribavirin therapy with a higher likelihood of SVR should have 
a yet greater impact on the population of treated patients. The impact on 
slowing progression is greatest in patients with an SVR, less in relapsers, and 
equivocal in nonresponders. Thus, the natural history of chronic hepatitis C 
after completion of antiviral therapy is favorable with achievement of an SVR, 
although further data are needed to determine the likely incremental impact of 
peginterferon plus ribavirin, late long-term effects of therapy, and the benefit 
of treatment in patients with advanced hepatic fibrosis.
