Author information:
(1)Archimedes, Inc, San Francisco, California, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2011 Mar;4(3):471; author reply 472.

In current clinical practice, genetic testing to detect Lynch syndrome mutations 
ideally begins with diagnostic testing of an individual affected with cancer 
before offering predictive testing to at-risk relatives. An alternative strategy 
that warrants exploration involves screening unaffected individuals via 
demographic and family histories, and offering genetic testing to those 
individuals whose risks for carrying a mutation exceed a selected threshold. 
Whether this approach would improve health outcomes in a manner that is 
cost-effective relative to current standards of care has yet to be demonstrated. 
To do so, we developed a simulation framework that integrated models of 
colorectal and endometrial cancers with a 5-generation family history model to 
predict health and economic outcomes of 20 primary screening strategies (at a 
wide range of compliance levels) aimed at detecting individuals with mismatch 
repair gene mutations and their at-risk relatives. These strategies were 
characterized by (i) different screening ages for starting risk assessment and 
(ii) different risk thresholds above which to implement genetic testing. For 
each strategy, 100,000 simulated individuals, representative of the U.S. 
population, were followed from the age of 20, and the outcomes were compared 
with current practice. Findings indicated that risk assessment starting at ages 
25, 30, or 35, followed by genetic testing of those with mutation risks 
exceeding 5%, reduced colorectal and endometrial cancer incidence in mutation 
carriers by approximately 12.4% and 8.8%, respectively. For a population of 
100,000 individuals containing 392 mutation carriers, this strategy increased 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) by approximately 135 with an average 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $26,000 per QALY. The cost-effectiveness of 
screening for mismatch repair gene mutations is comparable to that of accepted 
cancer screening activities in the general population such as colorectal cancer 
screening, cervical cancer screening, and breast cancer screening. These results 
suggest that primary screening of individuals for mismatch repair gene 
mutations, starting with risk assessment between the ages of 25 and 35, followed 
by genetic testing of those whose risk exceeds 5%, is a strategy that could 
improve health outcomes in a cost-effective manner relative to current practice.

©2010 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-10-0262
PMCID: PMC3793254
PMID: 21088223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest 
Tuan Dinh, Benjamin Rosner, and James Atwood are full time employees of 
Archimedes, Inc. Other authors disclose potential conflicts of interest: C. 
Richard Boland (Myriad Genetic Laboratories, Inc.), Sapna Syngal (Archimedes, 
Marina Biotech, Interquest), Stephen B. Gruber (Archimedes, Myriad Genetic 
Laboratories, Inc.), and Randall Burt (Archimedes, Myriad Genetic Laboratories, 
Inc., Caris Inc.).


445. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2011 Jan;22(1):15-8. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0b013e3283414f64.

Cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery.

Agarwal A(1), Kumar DA.

Author information:
(1)Dr Agarwal's Eye Hospital and Eye Research Centre, Chennai, India. 
dragarwal@vsnl.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review the changes in the cost-effectiveness of cataract 
surgery in the last few decades.
RECENT FINDINGS: Cataract surgery is the commonly performed procedure and it has 
evolved through various techniques, namely extracapsular cataract extraction, 
phacoemulsification and small or microincision cataract surgery. In this article 
we have reviewed the healthcare variant analysis, mainly the cost-effectiveness 
and cost utility over the past few years.
SUMMARY: Cost-effectiveness implies the economic analysis of relative costs and 
practical outcomes after cataract surgery. Cost utility is typically in terms of 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained. Cost-utility values for cataract 
surgery for first eye varied from US$245 to US$22000/QALY in Western countries 
and from US$9 to US$1600 in developing countries. There are two methods that 
have been used to calculate the cost utility namely the costs that are 
discounted at 3% for 12 years and discounted at 3% for 5 years.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3283414f64
PMID: 21088579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Korean Circ J. 2010 Oct;40(10):527-9. doi: 10.4070/kcj.2010.40.10.527. Epub
2010  Oct 31.

Successful percutaneous coronary intervention for acute coronary syndrome in a 
patient with severe hemophilia a.

Kim DK(1), Kim DI, Kim MS, Lee EJ, Kim YB, Cho HJ, Han YC, Kim U, Seol SH, Yang 
TH, Kim DK, Kim DS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University 
College of Medicine, Busan Paik Hospital, Busan, Korea.

Patients with hemophilia generally have a reduced frequency of coronary artery 
disease compared to the general population. As advances in the management of 
hemophilia have increased their life expectancy, the prevalence of coronary 
artery disease also has increased. However, there are no standard treatment 
guidelines for coronary artery disease in patients with hemophilia, especially 
in the field of coronary intervention. We report the case of a patient with 
severe hemophilia A who presented with acute coronary syndrome and was 
successfully treated with percutaneous coronary intervention.

DOI: 10.4070/kcj.2010.40.10.527
PMCID: PMC2978296
PMID: 21088757


447. J Appl Toxicol. 2011 Oct;31(7):608-17. doi: 10.1002/jat.1603. Epub 2010 Nov
19.

Application of dosimetry systems and cytogenetic status of the child population 
exposed to diagnostic X-rays by use of the cytokinesis-block micronucleus cytome 
assay.

Gajski G(1), Milković D, Ranogajec-Komor M, Miljanić S, Garaj-Vrhovac V.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Research and Occupational Health, Mutagenesis Unit, 
10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

Low-dose ionizing radiation used for medical purposes is one of the definite 
risk factors for cancer development, and children exposed to ionizing radiation 
are at a relatively greater cancer risk as they have more rapidly dividing cells 
than adults and have longer life expectancy. Since cytokinesis-block 
micronucleus cytome (CBMN Cyt) assay has become one of the standard endpoints 
for radiation biological dosimetry, we used that assay in the present work for 
the assessment of different types of chromosomal damage in children exposed to 
diagnostic X-ray procedures. Twenty children all with pulmonary diseases between 
the ages of 4 and 14 years (11.30 ± 2.74) were evaluated. Absorbed dose 
measurements were conducted for posterior-anterior projection on the forehead, 
thyroid gland, gonads, chest and back. Doses were measured using 
thermoluminescence and radiophotoluminescent dosimetry systems. It was shown 
that, after diagnostic X-rays, the mean total number of CBMN Cyt assay 
parameters (micronucleus, nucleoplasmic bridges and nuclear buds) was 
significantly higher than prior to diagnostic procedure and that interindividual 
differences existed for each monitored child. For the nuclear division index 
counted prior and after examination, no significant differences were noted among 
mean group values. These data suggest that even low-dose diagnostic X-ray 
exposure may induce damaging effect in the somatic DNA of exposed children, 
indicating that immense care should be given in both minimizing and optimizing 
radiation exposure to diminish the radiation burden, especially in the youngest 
population.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.1603
PMID: 21089162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. J Clin Lab Anal. 2010;24(6):376-84. doi: 10.1002/jcla.20397.

Role of tissue disorder markers in the evaluation of disease progress and 
outcome prediction: a prospective cohort study in non-cardiac critically ill 
patients.

Ye J(1), Chen Z, Wang T, Tong J, Li X, Jiang J, Chen E, Lu Y.

Author information:
(1)Emergency Department, Shanghai Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University, 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) has a 
remarkable association with clinical syndrome, life expectancy, and length of 
ward stay. But the defects are obvious. It is crucial to detect an effective and 
convenient evaluation method to monitor disease progress and predict outcome.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether myoglobin (Mb) and other five tissue disorder 
biomarkers, troponin-I, creatine-kinase, creatine kinase-muscle brain, aspartate 
aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase are independent predictors of 
disease progress and mortality in non-cardiac critical illness.
METHODS: A prospective study with 179 patients admitted to the Intensive Care 
Unit was conducted. All serum tissue disorder markers and APACHE-II score were 
measured within 24  hr of admission.
RESULTS: All the six biomarkers were significantly correlated with disease 
severity stratified by APACHE-II and outcome. Serial blood samples were taken 
from 17 patients on detection of two new organs failure. The occurrence of 
organs failure was significantly associated with the elevation of Mb, 
troponin-I, and APACHE-II. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that elevated Mb 
was the principal risk factor related to mortality either during hospitalization 
or 180-day followup. Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test also showed that 
patients with elevated Mb levels had significantly shorter survival. The 
mortality was higher in patients with both Mb>500  ng/ml and APACHE-II>20 than 
in those with only Mb>500  ng/ml or APACHE-II>20.
CONCLUSION: All the six tissue disorder markers are predictors of disease 
severity, organ failure, and outcome in non-cardiac critically illness. Among 
them, Mb plays a pivotable role. The combined use of Mb and APACHE-II suggest an 
effective method to determine the outcome of critical ill syndrome.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcla.20397
PMCID: PMC6647642
PMID: 21089167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Rev Med Brux. 2010 Sep;31(4):309-14.

[Geriatric day care hospital, an apport for the general practitioner in the 
management and follow-up of cognitive disorders].

[Article in French]

Berg N(1), Giet D.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gériatrie, C.H. du Bois de l'Abbaye et de Hesbaye, Seraing. 
n.berg@chbah.be

The management of cognitive disorders requires a complex evaluation, especially 
since patients are frail, polypathological and because the complications are 
numerous. The general practitioner (GP) has an important role in detecting 
predictive signs but his task to specify the diagnosis and to organize the 
follow-up is not easy. Evaluating the patient as well as his/her surroundings 
and taking into account the caregivers' difficulties is necessary. The number of 
patients with cognitive disorders is huge and could rise with the growth of life 
expectancy and the increased incidence of dementia for the elderly. The 
geriatric day care hospital activities are developing further in Belgium since 
2006 thanks to the funding of pilot projects. These structures are benefiting 
from a multidisciplinary team lead by a geriatrician. This paper presents what 
the geriatric day care hospital brings to the GP in the diagnosis and the 
follow-up of cognitive disorders. The geriatric day care hospital realizes 
diagnosis and follow-up within a suited environment. The multidisciplinary teams 
are used to perform complex assessment of frail patients. The various patient 
comorbidities are evaluated taking into account both the environment in which 
the patient lives and his/her caregivers. The collected data allows the setup, 
together with the GP, of a care plan optimizing the support of the patient and 
his/her surroundings.

PMID: 21089408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Minerva Pediatr. 2010 Jun;62(3 Suppl 1):177-9.

Neonatal stroke.

Ramenghi LA(1), Bassi L, Fumagalli M, Ometto A, Groppo M, De Carli A, Pisoni S, 
Dessimone F, Farè P, Mosca F.

Author information:
(1)Ospedale Ca' Granda Fondazione Policlinico IRCCS, Milano, Italy.

The perinatal ischemic stroke is defined as "a group of heterogenous conditions 
with a focal disruption of cerebral flow secondary to an arterial or a venous 
thrombosis or embolization between the 20 week of foetal life through the 28 
post-natal day". Three subgroups are identified: arterial ischemic stroke (AIS), 
cerebral sinovenous thrombosis (CSVT) and haemorragic infarct. Many strokes are 
detected in the neonatal period due to early onset seizures, although symptoms 
can be more subtle leading to a significant delay in the diagnosis. MRI-DWI 
remains the best tool for a correct diagnosis, extension of the lesion and 
suggestion of timing. Lesions detected in utero or at early neonatal imaging 
with signs of tissue loss are considered "foetal stroke". The "neonatal stroke", 
with the symptoms in the first 4 days, shows the typical abnormalities of the 
acute phase evolving later in a white matter loss. The AIS shows the ischemic 
area of restriction at the early DWI in a arterial territory, mainly the middle 
cerebral artery. The MR-Venogram is useful in the CVST to detect the thrombus in 
a sinovenous vessel and the potentially associated lesion, such as 
intraventricular haemorrage and parenchymal oedema. The extension of the lesion 
and the involvement of the basal ganglia and thalami have a negative prognostic 
value for the development of hemiplegia especially in the presence of abnormal 
PLIC. An early diagnosis.

PMID: 21089737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Expert Rev Hematol. 2010 Dec;3(6):675-7. doi: 10.1586/ehm.10.72.

ESH-SIOG International Conference on Haematological Malignancies in the Elderly.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Oncology, Senior Adult Oncology program, Moffitt Cancer 
Center, Tampa, FL, USA. lodovico.balducci@moffitt.org

The aging of the population has been associated with an increased incidence and 
prevalence of neoplastic diseases. The management of cancer in the older aged 
person involves novel clinical problems, including benefits and risks of 
treatment in individuals with reduced life expectancy and treatment tolerance. 
The European School of Hematology has convened the first conference on 
hematological malignancies in the elderly to explore the issues related to the 
diagnosis and the treatment of these conditions, and to provide a frame of 
reference for therapeutic decisions to practicing hematologists. The main themes 
of the conference, which was attended by hematologists and geriatricians from 
Europe and the Americas, included an operative definition of aging, the 
effectiveness and risks of antineoplastic treatment in the aged, and the 
management of common malignancies such as myelodysplasia, leukemia, myeloma and 
lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1586/ehm.10.72
PMID: 21091143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):903-14. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00798.x.
Epub  2010 Nov 22.

Cost-effectiveness of maraviroc for antiretroviral treatment-experienced 
HIV-infected individuals in Mexico.

Contreras-Hernandez I(1), Becker D, Chancellor J, Kühne F, Mould-Quevedo J, Vega 
G, Marfatia S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Social Security Mexican Institute, Mexico 
City, Mexico.

OBJECTIVE: Maraviroc is the first approved drug in a new class of 
antiretrovirals, the CCR5 antagonists. The objective of this study was to 
predict the long-term clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of maraviroc in 
treatment-experienced adults with HIV/AIDS in Mexico.
METHODS: The AntiRetroviral Analysis by Monte Carlo Individual Simulation 
(ARAMIS) model was adapted to the Mexican context to predict clinical and 
economic outcomes of treating with optimized background therapy (OBT) versus 
testing for viral tropism status and treating with OBT ± maraviroc accordingly 
in treatment-experienced adults in Mexico. Baseline characteristics and efficacy 
were from the MOTIVATE trials' screening cohort. Costs and population mortality 
data were specific to Mexico. Results were reported from the perspective of 
health care payers in 2008 Mexican pesos (converted to 2008 US$ in parentheses).
RESULTS: Compared to treatment with OBT alone, treatment with OBT ± maraviroc 
contingent on tropism test result increased projected undiscounted life 
expectancy and discounted quality-adjusted life expectancy from 7.54 to 8.71 
years and 4.42 to 4.92 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), respectively, at an 
incremental cost of $228,215 (US$21,329). The resultant incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was $453,978 (US$42,429) per QALY gained. The 
ICER was somewhat lower when maraviroc was modeled in individuals susceptible to 
≤ 2 components of OBT ($407,329; US$38,069), while the ICER was higher in 
individuals susceptible to ≥3 OBT components ($718,718; US$67,171).
CONCLUSION: In treatment-experienced individuals with HIV/AIDS in Mexico, 
maraviroc may be cost-effective, particularly in individuals with limited 
options for active antiretroviral therapy (ART).

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00798.x
PMID: 21091827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nutr Rev. 2010 Dec;68(12):739-48. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.2010.00342.x.

Micronutrient adequacy and morbidity: paucity of information in children with 
cerebral palsy.

Schoendorfer N(1), Boyd R, Davies PS.

Author information:
(1)Children's Nutrition Research Centre, The University of Queensland School of 
Medicine, Herston, Australia.

A literature review was conducted to investigate the status of vitamins and 
minerals in children with cerebral palsy and the implications of various 
deficiencies on health outcomes. Children with cerebral palsy commonly have 
feeding difficulties, which significantly impact their growth, general health, 
and life expectancy. Current nutritional literature focuses on energy 
expenditure, with little information available on other parameters, such as 
micronutrient status. Due to the paucity of micronutrient research in these 
children, the impacts of deficiencies and benefits in other populations have 
been considered. The role of micronutrients in maintaining cellular homeostasis 
throughout all body systems highlights a need for future research and monitoring 
of their levels, particularly in vulnerable populations with well-documented 
incidence of undernutrition.

© 2010 International Life Sciences Institute.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.2010.00342.x
PMID: 21091917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):915-21. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00797.x.
Epub  2010 Nov 23.

Cost-effectiveness of specialized multidisciplinary heart failure clinics in 
Ontario, Canada.

Wijeysundera HC(1), Machado M, Wang X, Van Der Velde G, Sikich N, Witteman W, Tu 
JV, Lee DS, Goodman SG, Petrella R, O'Flaherty M, Capewell S, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Schulich Heart Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada. wijeysundera@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Specialized multidisciplinary clinics have been shown to reduce 
mortality in heart failure (HF). Our objective was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of this model of care delivery.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis, with a 12-year time 
horizon, from the perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-term 
Care, comparing a standard care cohort, consisting of all patients admitted to 
hospital with HF in 2005, to a hypothetical cohort treated in HF clinics. 
Survival curves describing the natural history of HF were constructed using 
mortality estimates from the Enhanced Feedback for Effective Cardiac Treatment 
(EFFECT) study. Survival benefits and resource uptake associated with HF clinics 
were estimated from a meta-analysis of published trials. HF clinics costs were 
obtained by costing a representative clinic in Ontario. Health-related costs 
were determined through linkage to administrative databases. Outcome measures 
included life expectancy (years), costs (in 2008 Canadian dollars) and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: HF clinics were associated with a 29% reduction in all-cause mortality 
(risk ratio [RR] 0.71; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.56-0.91) but a 12% 
increase in hospitalizations (RR 1.12; 95% CI 0.92-1.135). The cost of care in 
HF clinics was $52 per 30 patient-days. Projected life-expectancy of HF clinic 
patients was 3.91 years, compared to 3.21 years for standard care. The 12-year 
cumulative cost per patient in the HF clinic group was $66,532 versus $53,638 in 
the standard care group. The ICER was $18,259/life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: HF clinics appear to be a cost effective way of delivering 
ambulatory care to HF patients.

© 2010, International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00797.x
PMID: 21091970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2011 Mar;74(3):289-93. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.2010.03939.x.

Androgen deprivation therapy in men with prostate cancer: how should the side 
effects be monitored and treated?

Grossmann M(1), Zajac JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Austin Health/Northern Health, University of 
Melbourne, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia. mathisg@unimelb.edu.au

Adverse effects of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) are a consequence of the 
induced sex steroid deficiency. ADT increases fat mass leading to insulin 
resistance and diabetes, and accelerates bone loss causing increased fracture 
risk. Given the high prevalence of cardiovascular disease and reduced bone 
density in ADT-naïve men with prostate cancer, the benefits of ADT have to be 
carefully weighed against its side effects, especially as a diagnosis of 
prostate cancer does not alter the life expectancy for most men. Men commencing 
ADT should be counselled about and be carefully monitored for these and other 
ADT-induced complications, which include fatigue, sexual dysfunction, hot 
flushes and anaemia. ADT-associated side effects should be prevented and treated 
in order that ADT-induced toxicity does not outweigh its benefits. Future 
clinical trials are needed: first, to better define the effects of ADT on 
survival in men with localized prostate cancer or with biochemical 
prostate-specific antigen recurrence; second, to delineate ADT-associated harm, 
especially with respect to cardiovascular events and fractures; and third, to 
test the efficacy of interventions designed to minimize ADT-related adverse 
outcomes. Such information will be essential to better quantify the risk-benefit 
ratio of ADT in the individual man with prostate cancer.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2010.03939.x
PMID: 21092052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2010 Nov 22;5:30. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-5-30.

Fabry disease.

Germain DP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Versailles - St Quentin en Yvelines, Faculté de Médecine Paris 
- Ile de France Ouest (PIFO), 78035 Versailles, France. 
dominique.germain@rpc.aphp.fr

Fabry disease (FD) is a progressive, X-linked inherited disorder of 
glycosphingolipid metabolism due to deficient or absent lysosomal 
α-galactosidase A activity. FD is pan-ethnic and the reported annual incidence 
of 1 in 100,000 may underestimate the true prevalence of the disease. 
Classically affected hemizygous males, with no residual α-galactosidase A 
activity may display all the characteristic neurological (pain), cutaneous 
(angiokeratoma), renal (proteinuria, kidney failure), cardiovascular 
(cardiomyopathy, arrhythmia), cochleo-vestibular and cerebrovascular (transient 
ischemic attacks, strokes) signs of the disease while heterozygous females have 
symptoms ranging from very mild to severe. Deficient activity of lysosomal 
α-galactosidase A results in progressive accumulation of globotriaosylceramide 
within lysosomes, believed to trigger a cascade of cellular events. 
Demonstration of marked α-galactosidase A deficiency is the definitive method 
for the diagnosis of hemizygous males. Enzyme analysis may occasionnally help to 
detect heterozygotes but is often inconclusive due to random X-chromosomal 
inactivation so that molecular testing (genotyping) of females is mandatory. In 
childhood, other possible causes of pain such as rheumatoid arthritis and 
'growing pains' must be ruled out. In adulthood, multiple sclerosis is sometimes 
considered. Prenatal diagnosis, available by determination of enzyme activity or 
DNA testing in chorionic villi or cultured amniotic cells is, for ethical 
reasons, only considered in male fetuses. Pre-implantation diagnosis is 
possible. The existence of atypical variants and the availability of a specific 
therapy singularly complicate genetic counseling. A disease-specific therapeutic 
option - enzyme replacement therapy using recombinant human α-galactosidase A - 
has been recently introduced and its long term outcome is currently still being 
investigated. Conventional management consists of pain relief with analgesic 
drugs, nephroprotection (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and 
angiotensin receptors blockers) and antiarrhythmic agents, whereas dialysis or 
renal transplantation are available for patients experiencing end-stage renal 
failure. With age, progressive damage to vital organ systems develops and at 
some point, organs may start to fail in functioning. End-stage renal disease and 
life-threatening cardiovascular or cerebrovascular complications limit 
life-expectancy of untreated males and females with reductions of 20 and 10 
years, respectively, as compared to the general population. While there is 
increasing evidence that long-term enzyme therapy can halt disease progression, 
the importance of adjunctive therapies should be emphasized and the possibility 
of developing an oral therapy drives research forward into active site specific 
chaperones.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-5-30
PMCID: PMC3009617
PMID: 21092187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Scand J Trauma Resusc Emerg Med. 2010 Nov 23;18:62. doi: 
10.1186/1757-7241-18-62.

Is advanced life support better than basic life support in prehospital care? A 
systematic review.

Ryynänen OP(1), Iirola T, Reitala J, Pälve H, Malmivaara A.

Author information:
(1)University of Eastern Finland, Department of Public Health and Clinical 
Nutrition, P.O. Box 1627, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Prehospital care is classified into ALS- (advanced life support) and 
BLS- (basic life support) levels according to the methods used. ALS-level 
prehospital care uses invasive methods, such as intravenous fluids, medications 
and intubation. However, the effectiveness of ALS care compared to BLS has been 
questionable.
AIM: The aim of this systematic review is to compare the effectiveness of ALS- 
and BLS-level prehospital care.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In a systematic review, articles where ALS-level 
prehospital care was compared to BLS-level or any other treatment were included. 
The outcome variables were mortality or patient's health-related quality of life 
or patient's capacity to perform daily activities.
RESULTS: We identified 46 articles, mostly retrospective observational studies. 
The results on the effectiveness of ALS in unselected patient cohorts are 
contradictory. In cardiac arrest, early cardiopulmonary resuscitation and 
defibrillation are essential for survival, but prehospital ALS interventions 
have not improved survival. Prehospital thrombolytic treatment reduces mortality 
in patients having a myocardial infarction. The majority of research into trauma 
favours BLS in the case of penetrating trauma and also in cases of short 
distance to a hospital. In patients with severe head injuries, ALS provided by 
paramedics and intubation without anaesthesia can even be harmful. If the 
prehospital care is provided by an experienced physician and by a HEMS 
organisation (Helicopter Emergency Medical Service), ALS interventions may be 
beneficial for patients with multiple injuries and severe brain injuries. 
However, the results are contradictory.
CONCLUSIONS: ALS seems to improve survival in patients with myocardial 
infarction and BLS seems to be the proper level of care for patients with 
penetrating injuries. Some studies indicate a beneficial effect of ALS among 
patients with blunt head injuries or multiple injuries. There is also some 
evidence in favour of ALS among patients with epileptic seizures as well as 
those with a respiratory distress.

DOI: 10.1186/1757-7241-18-62
PMCID: PMC3001418
PMID: 21092256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2010 Dec;140(6 Suppl):S171-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2010.07.061.

Branched endografts for thoracoabdominal aneurysms.

Greenberg R(1), Eagleton M, Mastracci T.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Vascular Surgery, Cardiothoracic Surgery, Radiology, and 
Biomedical Engineering, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. 
greenbr@ccf.org

PURPOSE: Endovascular management of thoracoabdominal aneurysms has been studied 
since 2001, with marked advances allowing for the treatment of complex anatomic 
situations including chronic aortic dissections, tortuous anatomy, and extensive 
aneurysms that involve the visceral segment, aortic arch, and iliacs as well. 
However, the technology is not widely disseminated, and a thorough understanding 
of the engineering principles, imaging techniques, and devices available is 
required.
METHODS: Reinforced fenestrated branches coupled with balloon expandable stent 
grafts, and side-arm branch designs mated with self-expanding stent grafts have 
been used. Pure fenestrated designs were used for juxtarenal aneurysms, whereas 
thoracoabdominal aneurysms were treated with reinforced fenestrated branches or 
hybrid devices including side-arm branches and reinforced fenestrated branches. 
Intraoperative fusion techniques have been used since 2009, whereby preoperative 
computed tomographic data are fused with intraoperative fluoroscopy. Long-term 
survival in accordance with extent of disease was assessed with life table 
analysis techniques, and differences were analyzed using the log rank test. 
Intermediate-term data pertaining to patency related to both types of branches 
and paraplegia have been evaluated and previously published.
RESULTS: A total of 406 patients with thoracoabdominal aneurysms and 227 
patients with juxtarenal aneurysms have been enrolled in a prospective study. 
Perioperative and 2-year survival were most closely related to extent of initial 
disease and were estimated to be 1.8% and 82% for juxtarenal aneurysms, 2.3% and 
82% for type IV, and 5.2% and 74% for type II and III thoracoabdominal aneurysms 
at 24 months, respectively. When patients undergoing endovascular repair (ER 
group) were matched with those having contemporary surgical repair (SR group) 
for anatomic disease extent, mortality was similar at 30 days (5.7% ER vs 8.3% 
SR; P = .2) and at 12 months (15.6% ER vs 15.9% SR; P = .9). Paraplegia risk was 
also similar between the 2 groups (4.3% ER vs 7.5% SR, respectively; P = .08). 
Among the 633 patients, there were 5 (0.8%) late ruptures at a mean of 18 months 
after treatment, of which 4 were fatal. They were attributed to component 
separation (n = 3), a remote aneurysm rupture proximal to the endovascular 
repair, and a failed surgical polyester graft distal to the repair. Reinforced 
fenestrated branch patency, when coupled with balloon-expandable stent grafts, 
was 97.8% at a mean follow-up of 15 months. Side-arm branch occlusion occurred 
in only 1 case, within 24 hours of the procedure. New imaging tools resulted in 
a marked reduction in the average contrast dose (>50%).
CONCLUSIONS: Intermediate-term results with multiple methods of endovascular 
repair of thoracoabdominal aneurysm indicate the technical feasibility of the 
procedure and show great promise in patients considered at high risk for open 
surgery. The intermediate-term patency and survival are excellent, and ruptures 
are exceedingly uncommon. However, mortality and spinal cord ischemia risks are 
still considerable with this technique.

Copyright © 2010 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2010.07.061
PMID: 21092788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Int J Cardiol. 2012 Mar 22;155(3):383-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2010.10.050.
Epub  2010 Nov 20.

End-of-life in adults with congenital heart disease: a call for early 
communication.

Tobler D(1), Greutmann M, Colman JM, Greutmann-Yantiri M, Librach LS, Kovacs AH.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Congenital Cardiac Centre for Adults, Peter Munk Cardiac Centre, 
University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: We investigated preferences of adults with congenital heart disease 
(CHD) and their health care providers regarding end-of-life (EOL) communication.
METHODS: Adult CHD outpatients and health care providers completed surveys about 
preferences for and experiences with EOL communication. Responses were compared 
between patients and providers.
RESULTS: Two hundred patients (18-79 years) and 48 CHD health care providers 
(primarily cardiologists) completed surveys. Only 2 patients (1%) indicated that 
they had discussed EOL planning with their medical team. In contrast, 50% of 
providers reported that they typically discuss issues including life expectancy, 
advance planning, and resuscitation preferences with their outpatients. 
Seventy-eight percent (156/199) of patients wanted their medical team to raise 
EOL issues; this preference was independent of disease complexity and 
socio-demographic factors. In contrast, providers reported that their EOL 
discussions increase in accordance with disease complexity (p<0.001). Early 
initiation of EOL discussions, before diagnosis with life-threatening 
complications, was favored by 62% of patients but only 38% of providers 
(p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Health professionals caring for adults with CHD should explore 
preferences of their patients for EOL discussions earlier in the disease course, 
and not only with patients facing life-threatening complications and/or with 
complex conditions. When EOL discussions do occur, health care providers should 
attempt to ensure that patients better understand these conversations. Increased 
attention to EOL issues is proposed in order to improve the care of patients 
with CHD across the lifespan.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2010.10.050
PMID: 21094550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Am J Kidney Dis. 2010 Dec;56(6):1023-5. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2010.10.001.

The challenges of cost-effectiveness analyses for the clinician.

Erickson KF, Winkelmayer WC.

Comment on
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2010 Dec;56(6):1050-61.
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2010 Dec;56(6):1108-16.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2010.10.001
PMCID: PMC4142430
PMID: 21094913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Blood Rev. 2011 Jan;25(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2010.09.001. Epub 2010
Nov  20.

State of the art treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.

Hallek M(1), Pflug N.

Author information:
(1)Klinik I für Innere Medizin, German CLL Study Group, University of Cologne, 
Kerpener Strasse 62, 50937 Köln, Germany. Michael.hallek@uni-koeln.de

The management of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is currently undergoing profound 
changes. Several drugs like bendamustine, alemtuzumab and rituximab have 
recently been approved for CLL treatment by regulatory agencies. New and very 
promising compounds like lenalidomide, ofatumumab, GA101, flavopiridol, or 
ABT-263 are currently investigated in clinical trials and are likely to further 
enlarge the therapeutic armamentarium in the next years. Latest results show 
that chemoimmunotherapies like FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab) 
may improve the life expectancy of CLL patients. This new paradigm will modify 
the way of CLL management in a radical manner. Finally, the development of new 
biological markers that describe distinct forms of CLL allows to enter the era 
of personalized therapy similar to other malignancies.

Copyright © 2010. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.blre.2010.09.001
PMID: 21095047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Med Clin North Am. 2011 Jan;95(1):87-100. doi: 10.1016/j.mcna.2010.08.013.

Male lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).

Roehrborn CG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines 
Boulevard, J8 142, Dallas, TX 75390-9110, USA. 
claus.roehrborn@utsouthwestern.edu

Male lower urinary tract symptoms, benign prostatic hyperplasia, enlargement of 
the prostate, and bladder outlet obstruction are common among aging men and will 
increase in socioeconomic and medical importance at a time of increased life 
expectancy and aging of the baby boomer generation. This article reviews the 
epidemiology, management, and therapeutic options for these conditions. In 
patients bothered by moderate to severe symptoms, providers can make educated 
and differential choices between several classes of drugs, alone or in 
combination, to treat effectively and improve the symptoms in most men. Despite 
the efficacy of medical therapy, there will be patients who require referral to 
a urologist either early, to rule out prostate cancer and other conditions, or 
later, after initial medical therapy and lifestyle management has failed. 
Perhaps as many as 30% of patients fail to achieve sufficient symptom 
improvement with medication, lifestyle adjustment, and fluid management, and may 
require more invasive or surgical treatment options.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcna.2010.08.013
PMID: 21095413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Transplant Proc. 2010 Nov;42(9 Suppl):S16-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.07.005.

Can the early elimination of calcineurin inhibitors result in clinical benefits?

Weir MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MD21202, USA. mweir@medicine.umaryland.edu

Ideally, every kidney should serve its owner for his or her remaining life 
expectancy. Current approaches with immunosuppression have steadily reduced 
early rejection rates. However, we have not seen a comparable improvement in 
graft longevity. Reduction of acute rejection rates should improve survival, 
unless concurrent nephrotoxicity offsets this benefit. An important question is 
whether selective substitution of other drugs/biologicals for calcineurin 
inhibitors will permit adequate immunoprophylaxis, yet improve graft longevity.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.07.005
PMID: 21095444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2010;2010:208-11. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2010.5627875.

Information and assistance bubbles to help elderly people in public 
environments.

Huertas S(1), Lazaro JP, Guillen S, Traver V.

Author information:
(1)ITACA-TSB Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, 46022, SPAIN. 
sanhuesa@itaca.upv.es

Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) is an emerging bundle of technologies and services 
that has been specially conceived to support disabled and elderly people to be 
more autonomous in their daily life. Support for mobility is a key aspect in 
AAL, and makes elderly people feel very independent and socially integrated. 
This paper describes an AAL solution to support elderly people outside home: 
provides information and assistance at the street near public buildings, and 
inside public buildings. The concept of bubble is proposed in this paper as a 
physical space where it is possible to consume to a number of local services. 
Presented mobility-based AAL Services are integrated with an ambient assisted 
home, so users perceive mobility service as an extension of the care chain 
beyond the boundaries of their homes.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2010.5627875
PMID: 21097182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2011 Jan;77(2):618-26. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02028-10.
Epub  2010 Nov 19.

Metatranscriptome analysis for insight into whole-ecosystem gene expression 
during spontaneous wheat and spelt sourdough fermentations.

Weckx S(1), Allemeersch J, Van der Meulen R, Vrancken G, Huys G, Vandamme P, Van 
Hummelen P, De Vuyst L.

Author information:
(1)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology, Faculty of 
Sciences and Bio-engineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 
B-1050 Brussels, Belgium.

Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are of industrial importance in the production of 
fermented foods, including sourdough-derived products. Despite their limited 
metabolic capacity, LAB contribute considerably to important characteristics of 
fermented foods, such as extended shelf-life, microbial safety, improved 
texture, and enhanced organoleptic properties. Triggered by the considerable 
amount of LAB genomic information that became available during the last decade, 
transcriptome and, by extension, metatranscriptome studies have become one of 
the most appropriate research approaches to study whole-ecosystem gene 
expression in more detail. In this study, microarray analyses were performed 
using RNA sampled during four 10-day spontaneous sourdough fermentations carried 
out in the laboratory with an in-house-developed LAB functional gene microarray. 
For data analysis, a new algorithm was developed to calculate a net expression 
profile for each of the represented genes, allowing use of the microarray 
analysis beyond the species level. In addition, metabolite target analyses were 
performed on the sourdough samples to relate gene expression with metabolite 
production. The results revealed the activation of different key metabolic 
pathways, the ability to use carbohydrates other than glucose (e.g., starch and 
maltose), and the conversion of amino acids as a contribution to redox 
equilibrium and flavor compound generation in LAB during sourdough fermentation.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02028-10
PMCID: PMC3020550
PMID: 21097589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2011 Sep;65(9):751-6. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2010.119842. Epub 2010 Nov 20.

Incorporating uncertainty in aggregate burden of disease measures: an example of 
DALYs-averted by a smoking cessation campaign in the UK.

de Vocht F(1), Higgerson J, Oliver K, Verma A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Occupational and Environmental Health, Health Sciences Research 
Group, School of Community Based Medicine, Manchester Academic Health Sciences 
Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. frank.devocht@manchester.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Summary measures of population health (SMPH) combine information 
about morbidity and mortality as a means of describing the health of a 
population and allow for the comparison between otherwise incomparable health 
problems. Despite the widespread use of SMPHs in global public health policy, 
the uncertainty in their calculation, inherent due to the variable quality and 
availability of data from different sources required to calculate SMPHs, is 
generally ignored.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using the example of the expected effect of a smoking 
cessation mass-media campaign on ischaemic heart disease in the UK expressed in 
DALYs (disability adjusted life years)-averted, a transparent and 
straightforward probabilistic methodology to incorporate uncertainty in the 
calculation of population impact measures of health, to better inform the public 
health debate, is described. In addition, a rationale on how this additional 
information can be utilised to further improve the use of quantitative data for 
SMPH is presented, and public health policy makers are provided with additional 
tools for prioritisation of interventions and cost-effective prioritisation of 
data collection campaigns for the improvement of the calculation of future SMPH.
CONCLUSION: Systematic use of these tools will provide a stronger evidence base 
for public health policy in the future and will further direct a drive towards 
the use of quantitative tools.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2010.119842
PMID: 21097808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Sex Transm Infect. 2011 Mar;87(2):141-8. doi: 10.1136/sti.2010.045559. Epub
2010  Nov 20.

Projected cost-savings with herpes simplex virus screening in pregnancy: towards 
a new screening paradigm.

Tuite AR(1), McCabe CJ, Ku J, Fisman DN.

Author information:
(1)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, 155 College 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections in newborns are an uncommon 
but potentially devastating consequence of genital HSV infection in women. 
Current practice focuses on preventing perinatal transmission by women with 
prevalent HSV, but transmission risk is greatest when genital HSV is acquired 
for the first time late in pregnancy. The objective of this study was to assess 
the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of identifying pregnant women at risk 
of de novo HSV acquisition as a means of preventing vertical HSV transmission.
METHODS: A Bayesian decision tree model was parameterized using the best 
available health and economic data relating to HSV in pregnancy and was used to 
evaluate the cost effectiveness of screening to identify individuals susceptible 
to HSV infection in a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 pregnant women in their 
second trimester of pregnancy. Final outcomes were the projected incidence of 
maternal and neonatal HSV, quality-adjusted life expectancy and life-time costs 
associated with neonatal HSV.
RESULTS: In the absence of testing, model projected incidence of neonatal HSV 
was 34 cases per 100,000 births, similar to available surveillance data. 
Screening pregnant women and their partners was projected to decrease the 
incidence of HSV-1 and HSV-2 infections in women and infants and to save costs. 
These findings were robust under alternative assumptions and in wide-ranging 
sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of accurate and relatively inexpensive serological tests 
for HSV to identify women vulnerable to incident HSV infection in pregnancy has 
the potential to reduce neonatal HSV incidence and reduce health-related costs.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2010.045559
PMID: 21097810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Ann Oncol. 2011 May;22(5):1011-1018. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdq607. Epub 2010
Nov  22.

Is cardiotoxicity being adequately assessed in current trials of cytotoxic and 
targeted agents in breast cancer?

Verma S(1), Ewer MS(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Odette 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Canada. Electronic address: sunil.verma@sunnybrook.ca.
(2)Department of Cardiology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 2011 May;22(5):1243-4.

The cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines, trastuzumab and other agents is of special 
importance to adjuvant breast cancer patients whose life expectancy is restored 
to normal but who may be left with cardiac abnormalities that can present years 
later. We systematically reviewed the design of current trials (including 
adjuvant studies) on the clinicaltrials.gov Web site. Surprisingly few specify 
primary or secondary cardiac end points. Although cardiac ultrasound 
(echocardiography) and multiple uptake gated acquisition scintigraphy remain the 
most frequent techniques for estimating left ventricular ejection fraction, 
there is no consistency in the degree of reduction from baseline or absolute 
value taken as indicating cardiotoxicity. The details given do not suggest that 
diastolic function (which may give earlier warning of problems) is a focus of 
interest. There is growing interest in troponin as a marker of myocyte death and 
brain natriuretic peptide as a marker of myocardial stress and possible heart 
failure (though their clinical usefulness has still to be adequately defined). 
The duration of follow-up in many adjuvant studies may not be sufficient to 
determine the risk of late cardiac events. The findings indicate a need to study 
and standardize cardiac toxicity assessments in oncology trials.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdq607
PMID: 21097988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Circulation. 2010 Nov 30;122(22):2264-72. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.946343. Epub 2010 Nov 22.

Temporal trends in survival to adulthood among patients born with congenital 
heart disease from 1970 to 1992 in Belgium.

Moons P(1), Bovijn L, Budts W, Belmans A, Gewillig M.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services and Nursing Research, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven, Kapucijnenvoer 35, Post Box 7001, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
Philip.Moons@med.kuleuven.be

Comment in
    Circulation. 2010 Nov 30;122(22):2231-3.

BACKGROUND: Over the past decades, the life expectancy of individuals with 
congenital heart disease (CHD) has increased significantly. However, precise 
estimates for survival to adulthood are scarce for patients with CHD. We 
investigated the proportion of CHD patients born between 1990 and 1992 who 
survived into adulthood. We also compared their survival with that of CHD 
patients born in earlier eras and evaluated survival as a function of the type 
of heart defect.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We reviewed the CHD program administrative and clinical 
database at the University Hospitals Leuven (Leuven, Belgium) and analyzed the 
records of 7497 CHD patients born from 1970 to 1992. Survival to 18 years of age 
in patients born between 1990 and 1992 was 88.6% (95% confidence interval [CI], 
86.3% to 90.5%), which was significantly greater than that of patients born in 
previous decades (P<0.0001). For patients born between 1990 and 1992, survival 
into adulthood for those with mild heart defects was 98.0% (95% CI, 95.8% to 
99.1%), whereas survival for those with moderate- and severe-complexity heart 
defects was 90.0% (95% CI, 86.8% to 92.5%) and 56.4% (95% CI, 47.4% to 64.5%), 
respectively. Analysis per heart defect confirmed these findings, demonstrating 
that patients with univentricular heart (49.1% [95% CI, 30.8% to 65.1%]) and 
hypoplastic left heart syndrome (7.5% [95% CI, 0.6% to 26.6%]) had the poorest 
survival rate.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that almost 90% of children with CHD have 
the prospect of surviving into adulthood.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.946343
PMID: 21098444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Circulation. 2010 Dec 7;122(23):2403-10. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.941625.  Epub 2010 Nov 22.

Myocardial perfusion scans: projected population cancer risks from current 
levels of use in the United States.

Berrington de Gonzalez A(1), Kim KP, Smith-Bindman R, McAreavey D.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, 
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. berringtona@mail.nih.gov

Erratum in
