
5. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2011 Dec 1;81(5):e767-74. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.10.074. Epub 2011 Feb 6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of stereotactic body radiotherapy and radiofrequency 
ablation for medically inoperable, early-stage non-small cell lung cancer.

Sher DJ(1), Wee JO, Punglia RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. dsher@lroc.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: The standard management of medically inoperable Stage I non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) conventionally has been fractionated three-dimensional 
conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT). The relatively poor local control rate and 
inconvenience associated with this therapy have prompted the development of 
stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), a technique that delivers very high doses 
of irradiation typically over 3 to 5 sessions. Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has 
also been investigated as a less costly, single-day therapy that thermally 
ablates small, peripheral tumors. The cost-effectiveness of these three 
techniques has never been compared.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We developed a Markov model to describe health states of 
65-year-old men with medically inoperable NSCLC after treatment with 3D-CRT, 
SBRT, and RFA. Given their frail state, patients were assumed to receive 
supportive care after recurrence. Utility values, recurrence risks, and costs 
were adapted from the literature. Sensitivity analyses were performed to model 
uncertainty in these parameters.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for SBRT over 3D-CRT was 
$6,000/quality-adjusted life-year, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
for SBRT over RFA was $14,100/quality-adjusted life-year. One-way sensitivity 
analysis showed that the results were robust across a range of tumor sizes, 
patient utility values, and costs. This result was confirmed with probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses that varied local control rates and utilities.
CONCLUSION: In comparison to 3D-CRT and RFA, SBRT was the most cost-effective 
treatment for medically inoperable NSCLC over a wide range of treatment and 
disease assumptions. On the basis of efficacy and cost, SBRT should be the 
primary treatment approach for this disease.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.10.074
PMID: 21300476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 Apr;39(7):2995-3004. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq914. Epub
2011  Feb 7.

Biochemical behavior of N-oxidized cytosine and adenine bases in DNA 
polymerase-mediated primer extension reactions.

Tsunoda H(1), Kudo T, Masaki Y, Ohkubo A, Seio K, Sekine M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology and CREST, JST, 
4259 Nagatsuta, Midoriku, Yokohama 226-8501, Japan.

To clarify the biochemical behavior of 2'-deoxyribonucleoside 5'-triphosphates 
and oligodeoxyribonucleotides (ODNs) containing cytosine N-oxide (C(o)) and 
adenine N-oxide (A(o)), we examined their base recognition ability in DNA duplex 
formation using melting temperature (T(m)) experiments and their substrate 
specificity in DNA polymerase-mediated replication. As the result, it was found 
that the T(m) values of modified DNA-DNA duplexes incorporating 
2'-deoxyribonucleoside N-oxide derivatives significantly decreased compared with 
those of the unmodified duplexes. However, single insertion reactions by DNA 
polymerases of Klenow fragment (KF) (exo(-)) and Vent (exo(-)) suggested that 
C(o) and A(o) selectively recognized G and T, respectively. Meanwhile, the 
kinetic study showed that the incorporation efficiencies of the modified bases 
were lower than those of natural bases. Ab initio calculations suggest that 
these modified bases can form the stable base pairs with the original 
complementary bases. These results indicate that the modified bases usually 
recognize the original bases as partners for base pairing, except for 
misrecognition of dATP by the action of KF (exo(-)) toward A(o) on the template, 
and the primers could be extended on the template DNA. When they misrecognized 
wrong bases, the chain could not be elongated so that the modified base served 
as the chain terminator.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq914
PMCID: PMC3074161
PMID: 21300642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Phys Biol. 2011 Feb;8(1):015002. doi: 10.1088/1478-3975/8/1/015002. Epub 2011 
Feb 7.

Stochastic dynamics of cancer initiation.

Foo J(1), Leder K, Michor F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Most human cancer types result from the accumulation of multiple genetic and 
epigenetic alterations in a single cell. Once the first change (or changes) have 
arisen, tumorigenesis is initiated and the subsequent emergence of additional 
alterations drives progression to more aggressive and ultimately invasive 
phenotypes. Elucidation of the dynamics of cancer initiation is of importance 
for an understanding of tumor evolution and cancer incidence data. In this 
paper, we develop a novel mathematical framework to study the processes of 
cancer initiation. Cells at risk of accumulating oncogenic mutations are 
organized into small compartments of cells and proliferate according to a 
stochastic process. During each cell division, an (epi)genetic alteration may 
arise which leads to a random fitness change, drawn from a probability 
distribution. Cancer is initiated when a cell gains a fitness sufficiently high 
to escape from the homeostatic mechanisms of the cell compartment. To 
investigate cancer initiation during a human lifetime, a 'race' between this 
fitness process and the aging process of the patient is considered; the latter 
is modeled as a second stochastic Markov process in an aging dimension. This 
model allows us to investigate the dynamics of cancer initiation and its 
dependence on the mutational fitness distribution. Our framework also provides a 
methodology to assess the effects of different life expectancy distributions on 
lifetime cancer incidence. We apply this methodology to colorectal tumorigenesis 
while considering life expectancy data of the US population to inform the 
dynamics of the aging process. We study how the probability of cancer initiation 
prior to death, the time until cancer initiation, and the mutational profile of 
the cancer-initiating cell depends on the shape of the mutational fitness 
distribution and life expectancy of the population.

DOI: 10.1088/1478-3975/8/1/015002
PMCID: PMC3569097
PMID: 21301064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 2010;47(6):611-6. doi: 10.3143/geriatrics.47.611.

[Effects of a motor function improvement program on alleviation of knee 
osteoarthritis].

[Article in Japanese]

Obuchi S(1), Kojima M, Arai T, Kojima N, Shiba Y, Kawai H.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology.

AIM: The purposes of this study were to develop a new exercise program for the 
elderly with knee pain, and to evaluate the effects of the program.
METHODS: The participants in the present study were 37 community-dwelling 
elderly people (75 ± 7 years) with knee pain who were living in Tokyo. The 
participants were instructed to do a walking exercise with weights attached to 
each ankle together with an exercise to develop their ability to recognize pain 
objectively, at a weekly meeting, with training on alternate days at home. The 
measurements of this study were: one-leg standing time, functional reach (FR), 
timed up and go, 5 m walking time, knee extension strength, health-related 
quality of life (QOL) questionnaire (SF-36) and the Japanese Knee Osteoarthritis 
Measure (JKOM).
RESULTS: The total JKOM scores decreased significantly (p<0.01). Each subscale 
of the JKOM decreased significantly (p<0.05). Furthermore, knee extension 
strength and FR increased significantly (p<0.01). Among the SF-36 subscale 
scores, physical functioning, role physical, role emotional and mental health 
improved significantly (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The current results suggest that the new program introduced in the 
present study reduces knee pain and improves the activity of participants.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.47.611
PMID: 21301161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Aust Fam Physician. 2010 Dec;39(12):938-41.

Hereditary haemochromatosis - diagnosis and management.

Allen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Gut and Liver Research group leader, Murdoch 
Childrens Research Institute, and University of Melbourne Department of 
Paediatrics, Melbourne, Victoria. katie.allen@rch.org.au

Comment in
    Aust Fam Physician. 2011 Jun;40(6):362.

BACKGROUND: Hereditary haemochromatosis is a common inherited disorder in which 
excessive iron is absorbed and which, over time, may cause organ damage. Genetic 
predisposition leads to disease in some but not all cases.
OBJECTIVE: This article discusses the presentation, testing, treatment and 
management of hereditary haemochromatosis.
DISCUSSION: Hereditary haemochromatosis is autosomal recessive and is more 
common in people of Celtic or northern European descent. Although more than 90% 
of cases of hereditary haemochromatosis are due to C282Y homozygosity (carrying 
two copies of the C282Y gene) not all C282Y homozygous individuals will progress 
through all stages of disease development. Clinical disease is less common in 
females due to physiological blood loss from menstruation and pregnancy. Most 
importantly, early diagnosis and treatment of hereditary haemochromatosis 
prevents complications and results in a normal life expectancy. Venesection is a 
simple and effective way to both prevent and manage the potential sequelae of 
iron overload, which include severe fatigue, arthritis, impotence, raised 
alanine aminotransferase/aspartate aminotransferase, fibrosis or cirrhosis, 
diabetes, and cardiomyopathy.

PMID: 21301675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Aust Fam Physician. 2011 Jan-Feb;40(1-2):16-9.

Indigenous health - a role for private general practice.

Johanson RP(1), Hill P.

Author information:
(1)Majellan Medical Centre, Scarborough, Queensland, Australia. 
p-johans@bigpond.net.au

BACKGROUND: The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander life expectancy gap is 
associated with lower primary care usage by Indigenous Australians. Many 
Indigenous Australians regard private general practitioners as their usual 
source of healthcare. However, a range of barriers results in relatively low 
access to primary care, with subsequent inadequate prevention and management of 
chronic disease. Indigenous primary care requires development of a set of 
attributes by the GP. Clinician autonomy may need to be tempered to be 
responsive to the needs of local indigenous communities.
OBJECTIVE: A partnership between an urban indigenous community and a private 
general practice is described.
DISCUSSION: Over a period of 1 year, registered indigenous patients at the 
private general practice clinic increased from 10 to 147; monthly attendance 
increased from five to 40 (p<0.001). Local engagement between private practices 
and indigenous communities may be implemented widely to reduce the primary care 
gap.

PMID: 21301687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2011 Apr;118(4):637-40. doi: 
10.1007/s00702-011-0590-0. Epub 2011 Feb 8.

Asymptomatic carotid stenosis: intervention or just stick to medical 
therapy--the case for medical therapy.

Streifler JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Rabin Medical Center, Golda Campus, Petach Tikva and Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel. streifll@post.tau.ac.il

Comment in
    J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2011 Apr;118(4):629.

Comment on
    J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2011 Apr;118(4):631-6.

Asymptomatic significant (≥50%) carotid stenosis (ASCS) is a frequent finding in 
the aging population. The prevalence of moderate stenosis (50-70%) increases 
from 3.6% for those <70 years to 9.3% in those ≥70 years. The (additional) 
prevalence of severe (70-99%) stenosis is 1.7%. The natural history of ASCS is 
quite benign. The overall risk of stroke is around 2% per year and within the 
group higher degrees of stenosis are associated with higher risks. Yet this 
stroke risk also includes "unrelated" strokes (i.e., lacunar and cardioembolic), 
and similarly, it is more of a marker for identifying high-risk group of 
patients at risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (as revealed by many 
studies)! Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) has been evaluated in several studies; 
mainly ACAS and ACST. An overall modest benefit of about 1% risk reduction (per 
year) was found for CEA (with a peri-operative risk of <3%) versus medical 
treatment, over a 5-year period. Basically these two studies recruited similar 
patients with ≥60% stenosis based on carotid duplex. However, the similar 
favorable results differ: while ACAS (published in 1995) found the risk for 
ipsilateral stroke in the medical group to be 11% over a 5-year period, the 
11.8% risk observed in ACST (published in 2004) was for any strokes--showing a 
better "natural history" for patients with ASCS in the recent study. This 
observation adds to other reports suggesting a better outcome for patients with 
ASCS in the recent years, probably because of better medical treatment, mainly 
due to the significant increase in the use of statins. The suggested guideline 
that results from the above-mentioned studies is that CEA should be considered 
in every patient with significant (≥60%?, ≥70%?) stenosis who has a life 
expectancy of more than 5 years (and is <75 years?). Taking this advice as such, 
would mean that we should screen for ASCS and operate on all appropriate 
candidates. This will result in a surge of CEA's! Such a recommendation is not 
in place, because the observed benefit of CEA by numbers needed to treat (NNT) 
per year to prevent any stroke is more than one hundred! (for symptomatic 
patients NNT is <10). This high-figure (i.e., low yield) results from failure of 
these studies to identify specific risk-factors (including the degree of 
stenosis within the wide range [60-99%] allowed in the studies) in patients with 
ASCS. Some studies are underway. Therefore, at present, it seems that for most 
patients, best (intensive) medical treatment is the best option. Alternately, 
they should join studies that will help to identify patients with the highest 
risk--those who will clearly benefit from carotid intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-011-0590-0
PMID: 21301896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Demography. 2010;47 Suppl(Suppl 1):S131-49. doi: 10.1353/dem.2010.0000.

Facilitating longer working lives: international evidence on why and how.

Wise DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
dwise72037@aol.com

The article advances the view that social and economic choices in societies can 
reasonably adjust as the age structure of the population changes; in particular, 
some of the bounty of longer lives can reasonably be allocated to prolonging the 
labor force participation of older workers. Data on reductions in mortality and, 
in some countries, declines in disability are presented in ways that help to 
clarify that prolonged working lives may be a natural concomitant of living 
longer. The article reviews the problems inherent in the combination of living 
longer and reducing labor force participation at older ages. It discusses two 
ways to facilitate longer working lives: (1) eliminating penalties on work at 
older ages--inherent in the provisions of the social security programs in many 
countries--that induce older persons to leave the labor force at younger ages; 
and (2) correcting a false rationale--the "boxed economy" view of the labor 
market--that is often used to support retention of the provisions that induce 
older persons to leave the labor force.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2010.0000
PMCID: PMC5870615
PMID: 21302423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Demography. 2010;47 Suppl(Suppl 1):S211-31. doi: 10.1353/dem.2010.0008.

Disease prevalence, disease incidence, and mortality in the United States and in 
England.

Banks J(1), Muriel A, Smith JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University Manchester, USA.

We find that both disease incidence and disease prevalence are higher among 
Americans in age groups 55-64 and 70-80, indicating that Americans suffer from 
higher past cumulative disease risk and experience higher immediate risk of new 
disease onset compared with the English. In contrast, age-specific mortality 
rates are similar in the two countries, with an even higher risk among the 
English after age 65. We also examine reasons for the large financial gradients 
in mortality in the two countries. Among 55- to 64-year-olds, we estimate 
similar health gradients in income and wealth in both countries, but for 70- to 
80-year-olds, we find no income gradient in the United Kingdom. Standard 
behavioral risk factors (work, marriage, obesity, exercise, and smoking) almost 
fully explain income gradients among those aged 55-64 in both countries and a 
significant part among Americans 70-80 years old. The most likely explanation of 
the absence of an English income gradient relates to the English income benefit 
system: below the median, retirement benefits are largely flat and independent 
of past income, and hence past health, during the working years. Finally, we 
report evidence using a long panel of American respondents that their subsequent 
mortality is not related to large changes in wealth experienced during the prior 
10-year period.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2010.0008
PMCID: PMC5870617
PMID: 21302425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Tumori. 2010 Sep-Oct;96(5):704-8. doi: 10.1177/030089161009600511.

Laparoscopic resection of colorectal cancer in elderly patients.

Fiscon V(1), Portale G, Migliorini G, Frigo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery Azienda ULSS 15 Alta Padovana, Cittadella, 
Padova, Italy. valentino.fiscon@virgilio.it

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Aging of the population and a longer life expectancy have 
led to an increased number of elderly patients presenting with colorectal cancer 
and searching for treatment. The aim of the study was to assess the effects of 
age on the outcome of laparoscopic colorectal surgery for cancer at a single 
department.
METHODS: Perioperative outcome of patients > or =75 years old undergoing 
laparoscopic colorectal surgery between June 2005 and January 2009 for 
colorectal cancer were compared with findings in younger patients.
RESULTS: The analysis considered 134 patients <75 years and 82 patients > or =75 
years of age. There was a significant difference in perioperative risk factors, 
as reflected by different ASA scores and a significantly higher postoperative 
'medical' morbidity, but 'surgical' morbidity was similar in the two groups and 
remained low.
DISCUSSION: Surgical morbidity rate was not affected by age. Cardiovascular and 
pulmonary comorbid conditions were mainly responsible for the higher morbidity 
rate reported in the elderly patients, although advanced age, per se, should not 
be considered a contraindication to laparoscopic colorectal surgery for cancer.

DOI: 10.1177/030089161009600511
PMID: 21302616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Adolesc Med State Art Rev. 2010 Dec;21(3):480-90, viii-ix.

The obesity epidemic and disordered sleep during childhood and adolescence.

Gozal D(1), Kheirandish-Gozal L.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Sleep Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Pritzker 
School of Medicine, University of Chicago, 5721 S. Maryland Avenue, MC 8000, 
Suite K-160, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. dgozal@uchicago.edu

The obesity pandemic is claiming its presence even among youngest of children 
and is clearly on the rise. Although the extent and implications of this massive 
increase in the prevalence of overweight and obese children are unclear, they 
are anticipated to be deleterious to global health outcomes and life expectancy. 
The potential interrelationships between sleep and obesity have gained recent 
attention. In this chapter, we initially examine the critical evidence 
supporting or refuting such proposed associations. In addition, the potential 
reciprocal roles of obesity and obstructive sleep apnea in the facilitation of 
their pathophysiology are also reviewed, along with their amplificatory effects 
on their respective morbidities.

PMID: 21302856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Agric Food Chem. 2011 Mar 9;59(5):1939-53. doi: 10.1021/jf104392y. Epub
2011  Feb 8.

Comprehensive sensomics analysis of hop-derived bitter compounds during storage 
of beer.

Intelmann D(1), Haseleu G, Dunkel A, Lagemann A, Stephan A, Hofmann T.

Author information:
(1)Chair of Food Chemistry and Molecular Sensory Science, Technische Universität 
München, Lise-Meitner Strasse 34, D-85354 Freising, Germany.

For the first time, quantitative LC-MS/MS profiling of 56 hop-derived 
sensometabolites contributing to the bitter taste of beer revealed a 
comprehensive insight into the transformation of individual bitter compounds 
during storage of beer. The proton-catalyzed cyclization of trans-iso-α-acids 
was identified to be the quantitatively predominant reaction leading to 
lingering, harsh bitter tasting tri- and tetracyclic compounds such as, e.g. the 
cocongeners tricyclocohumol, tricyclocohumene, isotricyclocohumene, 
tetracyclocohumol, and epitetracyclocohumol, accumulating in beer during storage 
with increasing time and temperature. The key role of these transformation 
products in storage-induced trans-iso-α-acid degradation was verified for the 
first time by multivariate statistics and hierarchical cluster analysis of the 
sensomics data obtained for a series of commercial beer samples stored under 
controlled conditions. The present study offers the scientific basis for a 
knowledge-based extension of the shelf life of the desirable beer's bitter taste 
and the delay of the onset of the less preferred harsh bitter aftertaste by 
controlling the initial pH value of the beer and by keeping the temperature as 
low as possible during storage of the final beverage.

DOI: 10.1021/jf104392y
PMID: 21302939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Anal Biochem. 2011 May 15;412(2):229-36. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2011.02.003. Epub 
2011 Feb 26.

Fluorogenic polymerase, endonuclease, and ligase assays based on DNA substrates 
labeled with a single fluorophore.

Nikiforov TT(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Technologies Corp., Carlsbad, CA 92008, USA. theo.nikiforov@lifetech.com

This paper describes the development of homogeneous, fluorogenic polymerase, 
restriction endonuclease, and ligase assays based on the use of DNA substrate 
molecules labeled with a single fluorophore. All three enzymatic assays are 
based on the same observed phenomenon whereby the fluorescence intensity of 
hairpin-type oligonucleotides with a 5'single-stranded extension, labeled with a 
single fluorophore, changes when the distance of the dye from the 3' end of the 
molecule is altered as a result of the enzymatic transformation (i.e., 
polymerase extension, endonuclease hydrolysis, or ligation). The magnitudes of 
the observed fluorescence intensity changes range from 1.2-fold to 3.9-fold, and 
they are dependent on the type of dye used, its position within the substrate 
and product molecules, and the base composition surrounding the labeling site.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2011.02.003
PMID: 21303650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Demography. 2009 May;46(2):371-86. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0057.

Modeling transition rates using panel current-status data: how serious is the 
bias?

Wolf DA(1), Gill TM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Policy Research, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY 13244, USA. 
dawolf@maxwell.syr.edu

Studies of disability dynamics and active life expectancy often rely on 
transition rates or probabilities that are estimated using panel survey data in 
which respondents report on current health or functional status. If respondents 
are contacted at intervals of one or two years, then relatively short periods of 
disability or recovery between surveys may be missed. Much published research 
that uses such data assumes that there are no unrecorded transitions, applying 
event-history techniques to estimate transition rates. In recent years, a 
different approach based on embedded Markov chains has received growing use. We 
assessed the performance of both approaches, using as a criterion their ability 
to reproduce the parameters of a "true" model based on panel data collected at 
one-month intervals. Neither of the widely used approaches performs particularly 
well, and neither is uniformly superior to the other.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0057
PMCID: PMC2831273
PMID: 21305398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Demography. 1974 Aug;11(3):407-21. doi: 10.2307/2060435.

Economic development and fertility change in Mexico, 1950-1970.

Hicks WW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Missouri-Columbia, 65201, Columbia, 
Missouri.

This paper is an attempt to isolate the determinants of fertility in Mexico. Of 
the variables included, two are significant in accounting for differences in the 
level of completed fertility in the 32 "states" in 1970. They are the share of 
the labor force in agriculture, which is directly related to fertility, and the 
percentage of the population speaking an indigenous language, which shows an 
inverse relationship.The most important factors acting to reduce total fertility 
rates over time are increases in life expectancy and declines in the share of 
the labor force in agriculture. However, based on the estimated linear 
relationship, these two variables by themselves are not adequate to achieve a 
rapid decline in fertility in the future.

DOI: 10.2307/2060435
PMID: 21305412


20. Acta Ortop Mex. 2010 Jul-Aug;24(4):230-4.

[Functional outcomes in patients subjected to acetabular revision with 
reinforcement rings].

[Article in Spanish]

González Ugalde H(1), Ilizaliturri Sánchez VM, Camacho Galindo J, Rojas Ponce C, 
Izaguirre A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Reconstrucción Articular Cadera y rodilla del Instituto Nacional 
de Rehabilitación. drhumber@yahoo.com.mx

BACKGROUND: Total hip arthroplasty is the most successful orthopedic procedure 
and the frequency of use of revision components has grown exponentially. The 
increased number of revisions results from the longer life expectancy of the 
population and the greater frequency of the hip arthroplasty indication among 
young patients. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the functional results 
of patients subjected to revision of the acetabular component using 
reinforcement rings.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study included patients with a diagnosis of septic or 
aseptic prosthetic loosening and sequelae of acetabular fractures between 
January 2007 and November 2009 in whom a reinforcement ring was used. The WOMAC 
scale was used for the functional evaluation.
RESULTS: According to the WOMAC scale, the patient functionality results showed 
a mean preoperative score of 41.89 and a mean postoperative score of 74.26, 
which represented an improvement of 33.11 points in the median of patients 
subjected to the surgical intervention, with a statistically significant 
difference (p = 0.036).
DISCUSSION: This study shows an improvement in the functionality of the patients 
subjected to surgery with a reinforcement ring, as, first and foremost, a 
statistically significant difference was seen between the preoperative and 
postoperative values and, secondly, there are papers published in the literature 
showing that a difference of more than 12 points between the preoperative and 
postoperative scores in the WOMAC scale indicates a significant clinical 
improvement of patients.
CONCLUSION: Patients subjected to acetabular revision with a reinforcement ring 
together with cemented polyethylene have an improved quality of life after the 
surgical intervention.

PMID: 21305758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Chem Res Toxicol. 2011 Mar 21;24(3):402-11. doi: 10.1021/tx100351c. Epub 2011
 Feb 9.

DNA alkylation with N-methylquinolinium quinone methide to N2-dG adducts 
resulting in extensive stops in primer extension with DNA polymerases and 
subsequent suppression of GFP expression in A549 cells.

Zhou Q(1), Qu Y, Mangrum JB, Wang X.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Materia Medica, College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, PR China. qibingzhou@hust.edu.cn

Quinone methides (QMs) are involved in the metabolism of many drugs and 
carcinogens as reactive intermediates to form covalent nucleobase adducts in DNA 
that associate with high mutagenicity. Recently, a plethora of synthetic QM DNA 
alkylating agents have been developed to form various nucleobase adducts as 
potential antitumor agents. However, the mutagenic potential of these synthetic 
QM alkylating agents has not been fully investigated. In this report, 
N-methylquinolinium QM was developed as a synthetic model to study biological 
consequences of the formation of nucleobase adducts in a DNA target. 
N-Methylquinolinium QM was generated in situ via an elimination process from a 
bis-quaternary ammonium precursor that was synthesized from a quinoline 
derivative. Alkylation with N-methylquinolinium QM on a DNA target produced 
mostly a stable N(2)-dG adduct as revealed by gel electrophoresis and DNA 
digestion assays and confirmed by mass and NMR analyses. The formation of 
N(2)-dG adducts of a DNA target was found to cause extensive stops in the primer 
extension with high fidelity DNA polymerase T7 and even low fidelity error prone 
Dpo4. The direct biological impact of a prealkylated green fluorescence protein 
plasmid with N-methylquinolinium QM was demonstrated as significant suppression 
of protein expression in A549 cells. Overall, our results suggested that 
nucleobase-QM adducts could potentially block nucleobase mismatch/translesion in 
the error-prone process to reduce the mutagenic potential if designed carefully.

DOI: 10.1021/tx100351c
PMID: 21306116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Clin Nurs. 2011 Apr;20(7-8):925-39. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03322.x. 
Epub 2011 Feb 9.

Complementary and alternative therapy (CAT) use and highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART): current evidence in the literature, 2000-2009.

Hoogbruin A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Community & Health Studies, Kwantlen Polytechnic University, 
Surrey, BC, Canada. amandah.hoogbruin@kwantlen.ca

AIM AND OBJECTIVE: To determine current evidence about the use of complementary 
and alternative medicine in the context of highly active antiretroviral therapy. 
The following objectives included identifying the risks and benefits of using 
complementary and alternative medicine when living with the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and taking such medications.
BACKGROUND: In Canada and the USA, HIV/AIDS service organisations recognise that 
people affected or infected by HIV are increasingly choosing to use 
complementary and alternative medicine to cope with this disease. These same 
organisations advocate for increased access to complementary and alternative 
medicine and more information about the safe use of complementary and 
alternative medicine to make informed decisions. Based on the increased integral 
use of complementary and alternative medicine and conventional medicine in 
Canada and the USA, the literature review was limited to these two countries.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
METHOD: Available full-text abstracts published in English from 2000-2009 were 
retrieved by electronic searches of selected databases, including the websites 
of Health Canada and American National Center for Complementary and Alternate 
Medicine (NCCAM). Forty studies were examined and were categorised by referring 
to the NCCAM (2007) four types of complementary and alternative medicine.
RESULTS: Insufficient evidence exists to support the use of a particular 
complementary and alternate therapy to enhance the management of HIV disease.
CONCLUSION: Decisions about using complementary and alternative medicine in 
conjunction with highly active antiretroviral therapy are often poorly informed. 
Safety risks and potential drug interactions are frequently ignored as people 
who use highly active antiretroviral therapy prefer to focus on the physical and 
mental benefits of using selected complementary and alternate therapies to 
promote their quality of life.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: As life expectancy increases, from the use of 
highly active antiretroviral therapy, it is important for health professionals 
like nurses to be knowledgeable about the prevention, assessment and treatment 
of HIV symptoms and treatment side effects. Given the increased trend of using 
complementary and alternative medicine by the general population, it is also 
important to understand the appropriate use of complementary and alternative 
medicine for symptom management in HIV/AIDS care.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03322.x
PMID: 21306453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Biosoc Sci. 2011 Jul;43(4):475-80. doi: 10.1017/S0021932011000034. Epub
2011  Feb 10.

Association between healthy life expectancy at birth and consanguineous 
marriages in 63 countries.

Saadat M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Sciences, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran.

In order to investigate the association between mean inbreeding coefficient (α) 
and healthy life expectancy at birth (HALE; years) the present ecological study 
on 63 countries was done. Statistical analysis showed that HALE negatively and 
positively correlated with log(10)α and log(10)GNI per capita, respectively 
(p<0.001). It should be noted that log(10)α and log(10)GNI per capita were 
significantly correlated with each other (p<0.001). After controlling for 
log(10)GNI per capita, significant negative correlations between log(10)α and 
HALE were observed. The countries were stratified according to their GNI per 
capita into low- and high-income countries. In countries with high income, after 
controlling for log(10)GNI per capita, the correlation between HALE at birth and 
log(10)α was significant (for males r=-0.399, df=32, p=0.001; for females 
r=-0.683, df=32, p<0.001). In high-income Asian and African countries, where 
consanguineous marriage is common, after controlling for log(10)GNI per capita, 
the correlation between HALE at birth and log(10)α was significant (for males 
r=-0.819, df=8, p=0.004; for females r=-0.936, df=8, p<0.001). It seems that 
consanguinity influences HALE independent of country income.

© Cambridge University Press, 2011

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932011000034
PMID: 21306664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Hum Mol Genet. 2011 Apr 15;20(8):1633-42. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddr040. Epub 2011
Feb  9.

Premature death and neurologic abnormalities in transgenic mice expressing a 
mutant huntingtin exon-2 fragment.

Tebbenkamp AT(1), Swing D, Tessarollo L, Borchelt DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, SantaFe HealthCare Alzheimer's Disease Research 
Center, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, 100 Newell Dr, Rm. 
L1-100, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized 
pathologically by aggregates composed of N-terminal fragments of the mutant form 
of the protein huntingtin (htt). The role of these N-terminal fragments in 
disease pathogenesis has been questioned based in part on studies in transgenic 
mice. In one important example, mice that express an N-terminal fragment of 
mutant htt terminating at the C-terminus of exon 2 (termed the Shortstop mouse) 
were reported to develop robust inclusion pathology without developing 
phenotypic abnormalities seen in the R6/2 or N171-82Q models of HD, which are 
also based on expression of mutant N-terminal htt fragments. To further explore 
the capacity of mutant exon-2 htt fragments to produce neurologic abnormalities 
(N-terminal 118 amino acids; N118), we generated transgenic mice expressing cDNA 
that encodes htt N118-82Q with the mouse prion promoter vector. In mice 
generated in this manner, we demonstrate robust inclusion pathology accompanied 
by early death and failure to gain weight. These phenotypes are the most robust 
abnormalities identified in the R6/2 and N171-82Q models. We conclude that the 
lack of an overt phenotype in the initial Shortstop mice cannot be completely 
explained by the properties of mutant htt N118 fragments.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddr040
PMCID: PMC3063989
PMID: 21307087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2010 Nov;28(5):326-36.

Economic impact of fatal and nonfatal road traffic injuries in Belize in 2007.

Pérez-Núñez R(1), Híjar-Medina M, Heredia-Pi I, Jones S, Silveira-Rodrigues EM.

Author information:
(1)Health Systems Research Center, National Institute of Public Health, 
Cuernavaca, Mexico. ricardo.perez@insp.mx

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the economic cost of road traffic injuries in Belize in 
2007.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted using secondary cost data, 
assuming the health system and social perspectives. Epidemiologic information 
was obtained from the mortality database, the national hospital discharge 
database, and administrative records from police and the Ministry of Health. A 
health provider survey was carried out in order to estimate the postdischarge 
ambulatory utilization figures. Direct cost was estimated with the World Health 
Organization WHO-CHOICE (CHOosing Interventions that are Cost Effective) 
database. Prehospital costs were obtained from the Belize emergency response 
team. After estimating years of potential life lost using the Belize life 
expectancy for 2008 and methodology proposed by the Pan American Health 
Organization, the indirect cost associated with premature death was estimated 
with the human capital approach. Total estimation of road traffic injuries' 
economic costs used a decision tree model approach. Multiway sensitivity 
analysis was used to incorporate uncertainty in the estimations.
RESULTS: Sixty-one people died due to road traffic injuries during 2007, 338 
were hospitalized, and 565 people were estimated to be slightly injured. A total 
of 2,501 years of potential life were lost in Belize due to premature death, 
with a total economic cost of US$11,062,544. This figure represents 0.9% of the 
Belize gross domestic product. Direct cost was estimated at US$163,503, of which 
2.4% was spent on fatalities, 46.7% on the severely injured, and 50.9% on the 
slightly injured.
CONCLUSIONS: The economic cost estimations make clear the need to prevent road 
traffic injuries with a strategic and multisectoral approach that focuses on 
addressing the main problems identified.

PMID: 21308177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Curr Infect Dis Rep. 2011 Feb;13(1):83-93. doi: 10.1007/s11908-010-0144-x.

The Rapidly Evolving Research on Vitamin D Among HIV-Infected Populations.

Overton ET(1), Yin MT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Washington University School of Medicine, 
Campus Box 8011, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO, 63110, USA, 
toverton@dom.wustl.edu.

With ongoing improvement in antiretroviral therapy, mortality among HIV-infected 
persons has dramatically decreased. For HIV-infected persons who remain engaged 
in care on suppressive therapy, life expectancy approaches that of the general 
population. Additionally, we have seen increases in comorbidities traditionally 
associated with aging: diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, ischemic heart 
disease, and osteoporosis. Vitamin D deficiency has also been identified as a 
highly prevalent entity among HIV-infected populations. The association of 
vitamin D deficiency with several of these comorbidities and its impact on 
immune function provide the impetus for well-designed studies to evaluate the 
impact of vitamin D supplementation on HIV disease and antiretroviral therapy. 
This review summarizes the role of vitamin D in several disease states that are 
prevalent among HIV populations, with a specific focus on bone health and the 
interactions with antiretroviral medications.

DOI: 10.1007/s11908-010-0144-x
PMID: 21308459


27. Demography. 2010 Nov;47(4):1035-51. doi: 10.1007/BF03213738.

Unhealthy and uninsured: exploring racial differences in health and health 
insurance coverage using a life table approach.

Kirby JB(1), Kaneda T.

Author information:
(1)The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Center for Financing, Access, 
and Cost Trends, Rockville, MD, USA. jkirby@ahrq.gov

Millions of people in the United States do not have health insurance, and wide 
racial and ethnic disparities exist in coverage. Current research provides a 
limited description of this problem, focusing on the number or proportion of 
individuals without insurance at a single time point or for a short period. 
Moreover, the literature provides no sense of the joint risk of being uninsured 
and in need of medical care. In this article, we use a life table approach to 
calculate health- and insurance-specific life expectancies for whites and 
blacks, thereby providing estimates of the duration of exposure to different 
insurance and health states over a typical lifetime. We find that, on average, 
Americans can expect to spend well over a decade without health insurance during 
a typical lifetime and that 40% of these years are spent in less-healthy 
categories. Findings also reveal a significant racial gap: despite their shorter 
overall life expectancy, blacks have a longer uninsured life expectancy than 
whites, and this racial gap consists entirely of less-healthy years. Racial 
disparities in insurance coverage are thus likely more severe than indicated by 
previous research.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03213738
PMCID: PMC3000037
PMID: 21308569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Demography. 2010 Nov;47(4):1053-77. doi: 10.1007/BF03213739.

Obtaining multistate life table distributions for highly refined subpopulations 
from cross-sectional data: A Bayesian extension of Sullivan's method.

Lynch SM(1), Brown JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA. 
slynch@princeton.edu

Multistate life table methods are often used to estimate the proportion of 
remaining life that individuals can expect to spend in various states, such as 
healthy and unhealthy states. Sullivan's method is commonly used when panels 
containing data on transitions are unavailable and true multistate tables cannot 
be generated. Sullivan's method requires only cross-sectional mortality data and 
cross-sectional data indicating prevalence in states of interest. Such data 
often come from sample surveys, which are widely available. Although the data 
requirements for Sullivan's method are minimal, the method is limited in its 
ability to produce estimates for subpopulations because of limited 
disaggregation of data in cross-sectional mortality files and small cell sizes 
in aggregated survey data. In this article, we develop, test, and demonstrate a 
method that adapts Sullivan's approach to allow the inclusion of covariates in 
producing interval estimates of state expectancies for any desired subpopulation 
that can be specified in the cross-sectional prevalence data. The method 
involves a three-step process: (1) using Gibbs sampling to sample parameters 
from a bivariate regression model; (2) using ecological inference for producing 
transition probability matrices from the Gibbs samples; (3) using standard 
multistate calculations to convert the transition probability matrices into 
multistate life tables.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03213739
PMCID: PMC3000035
PMID: 21308570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Urologia. 2010 Oct-Dec;77 Suppl 17:32-7.

[Diagnosis and treatment of octogenarian neoplastic patients: bladder cancers].

[Article in Italian]

Destefanis P(1), Bisconti A, Lasaponara F, Fontana D.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Universitaria di Urologia 2, Ospedale San Giovanni Battista 
Molinette, Torino, Italy. pdestefanis2@molinette.piemonte.it

Age is a risk factor for the occurrence of bladder cancer and bladder cancer is 
a disease of the elderly. The choice of treatment relays on the staging into 
non-invasive and muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Non-invasive bladder cancer is 
usually treated with transurethral resection of the bladder (TURB) followed by 
intravesical therapy with BCG or chemotherapeutic agents. The gold standard in 
the treatment of muscle-invasive bladder cancer is radical cystectomy. The 
elderly and, in particular, the octogenarian have a worse tolerance for 
aggressive therapies, due to the higher incidence of side effects and 
complications. This problem could significantly occur for intravesical BCG 
therapy and for radical cystectomy. When the urologist faces the treatment of an 
octogenarian affected by bladder cancer, he should answer many questions: 1. In 
case of a non-invasive bladder cancer, is it possible to use the same drugs that 
we use for younger patients (BCG vs chemotherapeutic agents)? Should the timing 
and the kind of follow-up be the same? 2. Should the octogenarian affected by 
muscle-invasive bladder cancer undergo radical cystectomy or a less invasive 
treatment? What kind of diversion should be preferred? Is it possible to propose 
an orthotopic neobladder to an octogenarian patient? The choice of the treatment 
should be made on the basis of a careful evaluation of the patient, considering 
not only the patient's age but also comorbidities and life expectancy.

PMID: 21308672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Health Econ. 2011 Mar;20(3):348-61. doi: 10.1002/hec.1596.

A uniform time trade off method for states better and worse than dead: 
feasibility study of the 'lead time' approach.

Devlin NJ(1), Tsuchiya A, Buckingham K, Tilling C.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK. ndevlin@ohe.org

The way time trade off (TTO) values are elicited for states of health considered 
'worse than being dead' has important implications for the mean values used in 
economic evaluation. Conventional approaches to TTO, as used in the UK's 'MVH' 
value set, are problematic because they require fundamentally different 
trade-offs tasks for the valuation of states better and worse than dead. This 
study aims to refine and test the feasibility of a new approach described by 
Robinson and Spencer (2006. Health Economics 15: 393-402), and to explore the 
characteristics of the valuation data it generates. The approach introduces a 
'lead time' into the TTO, producing a uniform procedure for generating values 
either >0 or<0. We used this lead time TTO to value 10 moderate to severe EQ-5D 
states using a sample of the general public (n=109). We conclude that the 
approach is feasible for use in valuation studies and appears to overcome the 
discontinuity in values around 0 evident in conventional methods. However, 
further research is required to resolve the issue of how to handle participants 
who 'use up' all lead time; to develop ways of controlling for individual time 
preferences; and to better understand the implications for valuations of states 
better than dead.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1596
PMID: 21308856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Econ Entomol. 2010 Dec;103(6):2009-18. doi: 10.1603/ec09258.

Development and population growth of Lygus hesperus on selected weed hosts, 
artificial diet and cotton in the laboratory.

Chen C(1), Parajulee MN.

Author information:
(1)Texas A&M System AgriLife Research and Extension Center, 1102 E FM 1294, 
Lubbock, TX 79403, USA.

Laboratory studies were conducted to obtain basic biological information of 
Lygus hesperus Knight (Hemiptera: Miridae) on alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.), 
pigweed (Amaranthus palmeri S. Wats.), Russian thistle (Salsola iberica Sennen 
and Pau), green bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), artificial diet, and cotton 
(Gossypium hirsutum L.) square and cotton boll at 27 degrees C. The nymphal 
developmental duration was 28.8 d on cotton bolls, nearly twice longer, compared 
with approximately 15 d in other hosts. The nymphal survivorship was 
significantly lowest on the cotton boll (18%), whereas the survivorship in other 
hosts ranged from 33% (cotton square) to 93% (green bean). The average total 
nymphal survivorship was approximately 60% and the most nymphal mortalities 
occurred on the first three instars. The life-table parameters were obtained 
only in cotton square, artificial diet, green bean, and alfalfa. The average 
adult longevity in artificial diet was the shortest (18.7 d),with the longest 
longevity observed (36.1 d) on green beans. The intrinsic rates of population 
increase (r(m)) were much higher in artificial diet (0.0771) and green beans 
(0.0671) than in alfalfa (0.0327) and cotton square (0.0317). Although 
statistically significant, the difference in r(m) values between alfalfa and 
cotton square was very small, indicating the similarity in reproductive 
suitability of cotton square and alfalfain a no-choice test. Thus, even though 
cotton is not a preferred host, when blooming alfalfa and roadside weeds are 
mowed in the Texas High Plains during June-July, it is the most likely time that 
Lygus bugs may move from alfalfa and other host plants into adjacent cotton 
fields and become effective pest of actively fruiting cotton.

DOI: 10.1603/ec09258
PMID: 21309220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Law Med Ethics. 2011 Mar;39 Suppl 1:34-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-720X.2011.00562.x.

Environmental public health law: three pillars.

Jackson RJ(1), Malloy TF.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Health Sciences at UCLA School of Public Health, CA, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-720X.2011.00562.x
PMID: 21309893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 May;151(5):768-773.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2010.10.034. 
Epub 2011 Feb 18.

The lifetime economic burden of keratoconus: a decision analysis using a markov 
model.

Rebenitsch RL(1), Kymes SM, Walline JJ, Gordon MO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110-1093, USA.

PURPOSE: To estimate the expected incremental lifetime cost of treatment of 
keratoconus compared to the expected cost of the treatment of myopia.
DESIGN: Cost estimate from the patient's perspective using a Markov decision 
model.
