compared with shortened duration courses (24 weeks for genotype 1, 16 weeks for 
genotype 2/3) or best supportive care (BSC). Outcomes included sustained 
virological response (SVR), relapse rate and adverse events. In addition, full 
economic evaluations and studies of health-related quality of life were sought 
for this subgroup of patients. Data extraction and quality assessment were 
undertaken by two reviewers independently. Studies were synthesised through a 
narrative review with tabulation of results. Our previously published Markov 
state-transition model was adapted to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
treatment strategies in subgroups of adults with chronic HCV who were eligible 
for shortened treatment and re-treatment and those with HCV/HIV co-infection. 
The model extrapolated the impact of SVR on life expectancy, quality-adjusted 
life expectancy and lifetime costs for each subgroup of patients with HCV. 
Categories of costs included in the model were drug acquisition, patient 
management, on-treatment monitoring, management of adverse events, and 
health-state costs for disease progression.
RESULTS: In total, 2400 references were identified. Six RCTs were included in 
the review of clinical effectiveness, all reporting peginterferon alfa and 
ribavirin therapy in patients eligible for shortened treatment. In general, 
these RCTs were of good quality. No RCTs comparing peginterferon and ribavirin 
with BSC were identified for the re-treatment or co-infection populations. The 
results suggest that chronic HCV patients who have LVL at baseline and who 
achieve an RVR can be treated with shortened courses of therapy (24 weeks for 
genotype 1, 16 weeks for genotype 2/3) and achieve SVR rates that are comparable 
to those who receive the standard duration of treatment (ranges 84%-96% vs 
83%-100%, respectively). However, patient numbers in the LVL/RVR subgroups were 
small and none of the trials was powered for this subgroup analysis, so results 
should be interpreted with caution. In the one trial reporting virological 
relapse rates in the subgroup of patients with LVL/RVR, rates were low and not 
statistically significantly different between those treated for 24 versus 48 
weeks [3.6% vs 0%, respectively, difference 3.6%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 
-7.2% to 6.6%, p = 1.000]. In the cost-effectiveness analysis of shortened 
treatment with peginterferon alfa-2a, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) ranged from £35,000 to £65,000 for patients with genotype 1, whereas in 
patients with genotypes 2 and 3 shortened treatment dominated standard 
treatment. For patients with genotype 1 with LVL/RVR, shortened treatment with 
peginterferon alfa-2b dominated standard treatment. In patients with genotype 1 
and those with genotype non-1 who were re-treated with peginterferon alfa-2a, 
the ICERs were £9169 and £2294, respectively. In patients with genotypes 1 and 
4, who were re-treated with peginterferon alfa-2b, the ICER was £7681, whereas 
re-treatment dominated BSC for patients with genotypes 2 and 3. In patients 
co-infected with HCV/HIV, who were receiving peginterferon alfa-2a, the ICER was 
£7941 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained in patients with genotypes 1 
and 4, whereas in patients with genotypes 2 and 3 peginterferon alfa-2a 
dominated BSC. In co-infected patients receiving peginterferon alfa-2b the ICER 
was £11,806 in genotypes 1 and 4, and £2161 in genotypes 2 and 3.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical trial evidence indicates that patients may be 
successfully treated with a shorter course of peginterferon combination therapy 
without compromising the likelihood of achieving an SVR. The economic evaluation 
shows that treatment with peginterferon alfa in the specified subgroups of 
patients with LVL/RVR will yield QALY gains, without excessive increases in 
costs, and may be cost saving in some situations. However, a judgement is 
required on the value of the QALY loss that may result from adopting a shorter 
treatment regimen, if shorter treatment is associated with a lower SVR than 
standard treatment duration. There is a need for further RCT evidence, 
particularly in people who have not responded to, or relapsed following, 
treatment. Phase II and Phase III trials are currently in progress, evaluating 
the safety and efficacy of protease inhibitors and nucleoside analogues for 
treatment-naive and treatment-experienced people with chronic HCV.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15170
PMCID: PMC4780942
PMID: 21473834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Cancer Epidemiol. 2011 Aug;35(4):342-4. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2011.01.010.
Epub  2011 Apr 6.

Estimation of premature mortality from oral cancer in Japan, 1995 and 2005.

Ibayashi H(1), Pham TM, Fujino Y, Kubo T, Ozasa K, Matsuda S, Yoshimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, School of Medicine, 
University of Occupational and Environmental Health, 1-1 Iseigaoka, 
Yahatanishi-ku, Kitakyushu 807-8555, Japan.

BACKGROUND: To better understand the picture of premature death from oral 
cancer, we estimated years of life lost (YLL) and average years of life lost 
(AYLL) of this cancer for the years 1995 and 2005 in Japan.
METHODS: We obtained the mortality data for 5-year age groups from the Vital 
Statistics of Japan for the years 1995 and 2005, an interval of 10 years. 
Age-standardized rates (ASRs) per 100,000 persons were calculated for each 
subset of oral cancer. We estimated YLL and AYLL according to life tables in 
Japan to reflect premature mortality.
RESULTS: For both men and women combined, 4099 and 5679 deaths due to oral 
cancer were recorded for the years 1995 and 2005. In men, cancer of tongue, 
oropharynx, and hypopharynx were the most frequently observed anatomic sites. We 
observed a total of 51,339.1 years of life lost in 1995 and 68,630.4 years in 
2005, corresponding to an overall AYLL for all oral cancer deaths combined of 
17.2 and 16.5 years earlier than life expectancy, respectively. The greatest 
AYLL was seen for deaths from nasopharyngeal cancer, with AYLL of 21.1 years in 
1995 and 20.3 years in 2005. In women, cancer of the tongue and gum were the 
most affected anatomic sites. Total numbers of YLL were 18,884.8 years in 1995 
and 24,765.7 in 2005, corresponding to an overall AYLL of 16.9 and 16.2 years 
earlier than life expectancy. The greatest AYLL was seen for deaths from 
nasopharyngeal cancer, with AYLL of 22.4 years and 20.4 years in 1995 and 2005, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The present study shows that cancer of pharynx, tongue, and gum were 
the most frequent oral cancers in both sexes in both 1995 and 2005, and 
responsible for a remarkable number of years of life expectancy lost. Deaths due 
to those cancer sites occurred about 16-21 years earlier than expected in men, 
and 14-22 years in women.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2011.01.010
PMID: 21474414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Eur J Heart Fail. 2011 Jun;13(6):681-9. doi: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfr023. Epub
2011  Apr 6.

Cost-effectiveness of highly purified omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid ethyl 
esters in the treatment of chronic heart failure: results of Markov modelling in 
a UK setting.

Cowie MR(1), Cure S, Bianic F, McGuire A, Goodall G, Tavazzi L.

Author information:
(1)National Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College, Royal Brompton Hospital, 
London, UK. m.cowie@imperial.ac.uk

AIMS: A recent randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial has reported 
reductions in mortality and hospitalizations in patients with chronic heart 
failure (CHF) who were prescribed highly purified omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty 
acid ethyl esters (n-3 PUFA). This study aimed at evaluating the cost and 
benefits associated with their use in the treatment of CHF in a UK setting.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Results from a recent clinical trial were used to develop a 
Markov model to project clinical outcomes while capturing relevant costs and 
patient quality of life. The model captured outcomes over a lifetime horizon 
from a UK National Health Service perspective, with direct costs accounted in 
2009 GBP (£) and discounted at 3.5% together with clinical benefits. Results are 
presented in terms of life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, direct 
costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. In addition to standard 
therapy, n-3 PUFA vs. placebo increased lifetime direct costs by £993 (≈€1150), 
with additional quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.079 quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), and mean lifetime costs of £12,636 (≈€14,600) per QALY gained. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analyses suggested a 60% likelihood of n-3 PUFA being 
regarded as cost-effective versus placebo at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
£30,000 (≈€34,600) per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: By currently accepted standards of value for money in the UK; the 
addition of n-3 PUFA to optimal medical therapy for patients with heart failure 
is likely to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfr023
PMID: 21474462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. BMJ. 2011 Apr 7;342:d1548. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d1548.

Economic evaluation alongside randomised controlled trials: design, conduct, 
analysis, and reporting.

Petrou S(1), Gray A.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, 
Coventry CV4 7AL, UK. S.Petrou@warwick.ac.uk

Collecting economic data at the same time as evidence of effectiveness maximises 
the information available for analysis but requires proper consideration at the 
design stage

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d1548
PMCID: PMC3230107
PMID: 21474510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the unified competing interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare no support from 
any organisation for the submitted work; The Warwick Clinical Trials Unit 
benefited from facilities funded through the Birmingham Science City 
Translational Medicine Clinical Research and Infrastructure Trials Platform, 
with support from Advantage West Midlands. The Health Economics Research Centre 
receives funding from the National Institute of Health Research. SP started 
working on this article while employed by the National Perinatal Epidemiology 
Unit, University of Oxford, and the Health Economics Research Centre, University 
of Oxford, and funded by a UK Medical Research Council senior non-clinical 
research fellowship. AG is an NIHR senior investigator. They have no other 
relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted 
work.


405. J Neurol Phys Ther. 2011 Mar;35(1):41-6. doi: 10.1097/NPT.0b013e31820c4b00.

Portable neurorobotics for the severely affected arm in chronic stroke: a case 
study.

Page SJ(1), Hermann VH, Levine PG, Lewis E, Stein J, DePeel J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, University of Cincinnati Academic 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. Stephen.Page@uc.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Few motor therapies increase active movement in the 
severely impaired arm of individuals with chronic stroke. Existing robotic 
devices to address this need are large and expensive. This case study describes 
the application and reports outcomes associated with a repetitive task-specific 
training (RTP) program incorporating a portable robotic device. We assessed 
outcomes related to affected arm impairment, ability to perform valued 
activities, satisfaction with movement performance, and quality of life in a 
participant with chronic stroke exhibiting severe arm hemiparesis.
CASE DESCRIPTION: The participant was a 53-year-old man, 30 months after 
hemorrhagic stroke. At the time of enrollment, he exhibited some active shoulder 
and elbow flexion, but no active elbow extension, and no active movement at any 
joint below the elbow.
INTERVENTION: The participant engaged in RTP incorporating a portable, 
electromyography-triggered neurorobotic device in 1-hour sessions, 3 days/week 
for 8 weeks using the affected arm.
OUTCOMES: The upper extremity section of the Fugl-Meyer Impairment scale (FM), 
the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM), and the Stroke Impact 
Scale (SIS) were administered before and after training. After intervention, the 
subject exhibited reduced affected arm impairment (+2 points on the FM), 
increased ability to perform valued activities, increased satisfaction with 
performance of these activities (indicated by score increases of +2 and +1.8 
points on the COPM Performance and Satisfaction scales, respectively), improved 
strength, performance of activities of daily living, hand function, 
participation, and physical function (as indicated by increases in respective 
SIS scores).
DISCUSSION: The RTP incorporating the neurorobotic device appears promising. To 
our knowledge, this is the first study documenting a portable robotic-based RTP 
strategy in a person exhibiting this severity of hemiparesis.

DOI: 10.1097/NPT.0b013e31820c4b00
PMID: 21475083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Eur J Ageing. 2011 Mar;8(1):49-61. doi: 10.1007/s10433-011-0179-3. Epub 2011
Feb  20.

Trends and variation in mild disability and functional limitations among older 
adults in Norway, 1986-2008.

Moe JO(1), Hagen TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health and 
Society, University of Oslo, Blindern, P.O. Box 1089, 0317 Oslo, Norway.

An increase in the number of older adults may raise the demand for health and 
care services, whereas decreasing prevalence of disability and functional 
limitations among them might counteract this demographic effect. However, the 
trends in health are inconsistent between studies and countries. In this 
article, we estimated the trends in mild disability and functional limitations 
among older Norwegians and analyzed whether they differ between 
socio-demographic groups. Data were obtained from repeated cross-sectional 
surveys conducted in 1987, 1991, 1995, 2002, 2005, and 2008, in total 4,036 
non-institutionalized persons aged 67 years or older. We analyzed trends using 
multivariate logistic regression. On average, the age-adjusted trend in 
functional limitations was -3.3% per year, and in disability 3.4% per year. The 
risk for functional limitations or disability was elevated for women compared to 
men, for married compared to non-married, and was inversely associated with 
educational level The trends were significantly weaker with increasing age for 
disabilities, whereas none of the trends differed significantly between 
subgroups of sexes, educational level or marital status. Both functional 
limitations free and disability-free life expectancy appeared to have increased 
more than total life expectancy at age 67 during this period. The analysis 
suggests downward trends in the prevalence of mild disability and functional 
limitations among older Norwegians between 1987 and 2008 and a compression of 
lifetime in such health states. The reduced numbers of older people with 
disability and functional limitations may have restrained the demand for health 
and care services caused by the increase in the number of older adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-011-0179-3
PMCID: PMC3047681
PMID: 21475398


407. Int J Health Sci (Qassim). 2009 Jul;3(2):197-202.

Is Tertiary care Treatment Affordable to All? - Explore Alternative (s) for 
Healthcare Financing.

Chandra H(1), Pahari S, Kandulna J, Srivastava A, Masih L, Jamaluddin K, 
Barthwal CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hospital Administration, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute 
of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow (India).

BACKGROUND: Health indicators such as life expectancy at birth, infant mortality 
rate etc. are some of the tools to measure the social development of that 
country. Due to advancement in technology, disease profile etc. expenditure on 
health care, especially tertiary care treatment is increasing day by day, and is 
beyond the reach of common people. This is one of the hindrances in the social 
development. India is a developing country and approx. 35% population is below 
poverty line. Since many people now are below poverty line or in a lower income 
group, people do not have any feeling to save or cannot save the money for 
future expenditure on health; therefore the tertiary care facility is 
inaccessible to a major fraction of the society.
METHODS: A study was conducted at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) Lucknow in the month of May-June 2007 with objectives 
to find out the level of awareness about hospital care financing, analyze the 
mode and mechanism of Health care financing and to assess the affordability of 
the tertiary care treatment by the patients undergoing treatment at this centre. 
A prospective study of 154 patients by floating the structured questionnaire 
containing 17 questions, covering various issues of HCF was carried out.
RESULTS: While observing the HCF pattern of High cost treatment diseases related 
to ICU, kidney transplant, cardiovascular surgery, Haematology, Surgical 
Gastroenterology etc. (expenditure limit more than Rupees (Rs) 75000 so far 
incurred in one patient), the study revealed that the average size of family is 
6 members with an income of approx. Rs. 10185 per month per family. Average 
expenditure so far incurred by one shows that majority 115 (75%) patients bear 
the expenses themselves (out of pocket) It was also observed that approx. 50% 
out of pocket expenditure was met by taking loan from the bank, relatives, 
selling of assets and mortgaging the assets. approx. 34 (22%) reported that 
their expenditure will be reimbursed or got advance payment. Only 40 patients 
out of pocket had received some sort of assistance from some of the of the 
sources like CM, PM Fund and other types of donation. The study further 
highlights that average treatment expenditure already incurred in one patient 
i.e. Rupees 219376/- has exceeded the per capita expenditure on health care of 
individual (Rs. 1500/-), & total expenditure on whole family (Rs. 9000/-) and 
even total estimated annual income of one member (Rs.20370/) and whole family 
(approx. 122220/-). Only 2 (1.2%) respondents had health insurance policy.
CONCLUSION: The present study findings reflect that the tertiary & high cost 
treatment is beyond the reach of majority and will have great impact on the 
economy and health profile of society. In view of above, it is the need of the 
hour to strengthen the mechanism of the HCF by mass awareness with great 
emphasis is to be given to meet the "out of pocket expenditure" and encourage 
the "health insurance" mechanism. This may help in providing the tertiary care 
treatment to many people; otherwise the treatment cost is unaffordable.

PMCID: PMC3068811
PMID: 21475537


408. Duke Med Health News. 2011 Mar;17(3):4-5.

How fast you walk linked to how long you will live. Gait speed may reflect 
overall health and appears to be as reliable a predictor of longevity as other 
factors, such as age and gender.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 21476241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2011 Apr;11(2):195-204. doi: 
10.1586/erp.11.10.

Economic impact of stereotactic radiosurgery for malignant intracranial brain 
tumors.

Lal LS(1), Franzini L, Panchal J, Chang E, Meyers CA, Swint JM.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas School of Public Health, 3315 Ithaca Drive, Missouri 
City, TX 77459, USA. lincy.lal@ingenixconsulting.com

Brain metastases occur frequently in cancer patients and can lead to 
neurological complications that result in decreased quantity and quality of 
life. Treatment alternatives include whole-brain radiation therapy, neurosurgery 
and the newest modality, stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). This article reviews 
economic evaluations of SRS in the metastatic setting compared with other 
treatment options. Studies were included if they were published in peer-reviewed 
journals, primarily focused on patients with malignant brain metastasis and 
included a cost analysis between interventions. Uncertainty surrounding the 
cost-effectiveness of SRS is due to a lack of efficacy information between 
treatment alternatives, methodological limitations and design differences 
between the available studies. When cost-effectiveness ratios are available, SRS 
appears to be a reasonable option in resource-limited settings, with incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios just below the US$50,000 range. However, 
better-designed economic analysis in the setting of randomized clinical trials 
or observational studies needs to be conducted to fully understand the economic 
value of SRS.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.11.10
PMID: 21476821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Curr Stem Cell Res Ther. 2011 Sep;6(3):255-72. doi:
10.2174/157488811796575369.

Stem cell and tissue engineering therapies for ocular regeneration.

Silva GA(1), Silva NF, Fortunato TM.

Author information:
(1)CBME/IBB, Center of Molecular and Structural Biology/Institute for 
Biotechnology and Bioengineering, University of Algarve, Campus de Gambelas, 
Faro, Portugal. gasilva@ualg.pt

The eye is a relatively small but very complex organ. It is responsible for 
vision. Most of its cells are terminally differentiated, and several pathologies 
affecting those cells lead to vision loss and eventual blindness. Several years 
ago, a group of cells, located in the limbus, was identified as having the 
capacity of self-renewal and later on found to feed the renewal of the corneal 
epithelial layer. Since then, this niche of stem cells has been studied in order 
to provide clues that can be valuable for the regeneration of ocular structures. 
The worldwide shortage of donors, increased risk of transmissible diseases and 
immune rejection and the increased life expectancy, all contributed for the 
development of strategies to regenerate or repair ocular tissues. In this review 
we focus on two approaches for ocular regeneration: one based on stem cells and 
the other one based on tissue engineering strategies, and present examples where 
these two strategies overlap. We review the sources of cells and tissue 
engineering strategies for the regeneration of the cornea and of the retina, 
summarizing the most relevant and recent findings.

DOI: 10.2174/157488811796575369
PMID: 21476978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Acta Paediatr. 2011 Oct;100(10):1306-14. doi:
10.1111/j.1651-2227.2011.02309.x.  Epub 2011 May 13.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of palivizumab as respiratory syncytial virus 
prophylaxis in preterm infants in Sweden.

Neovius K(1), Buesch K, Sandström K, Neovius M.

Author information:
(1)Snowbox Research AB, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Acta Paediatr. 2011 Oct;100(10):1302-5.

AIM: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of palivizumab vs. no prophylaxis for 
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection in preterm infants in Sweden.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was populated using a nationwide register 
linkage and data from the literature. Cost-effectiveness was investigated from a 
societal perspective over a lifetime for infants born at <29 weeks of gestation. 
Palivizumab was modelled using assumptions for its direct effect on RSV 
hospitalization risk and an indirect effect (via decreased RSV hospitalization) 
on subsequent asthma and mortality during the epidemic. Costs and effects were 
discounted by 3%.
RESULTS: In the base case, prophylaxis resulted in an additional 0.102 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) at a cost of 20,000 SEK relative to no 
prophylaxis (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] 195,000 SEK/QALY). The 
probability of prophylaxis being cost-effective was 99% at a willingness-to-pay 
of 500,000 SEK/QALY. Assumptions about a causal association between RSV 
infection and subsequent asthma had a moderate impact, while exclusion of the 
indirect prophylaxis effect on mortality increased the ICER to 492,000 SEK/QALY. 
When excluding both of these, prophylaxis was not cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Based on a willingness-to-pay of 500,000 SEK/QALY, palivizumab was 
found to be cost-effective compared with no prophylaxis for infants born at <29 
weeks if severe RSV infection was assumed to increase subsequent asthma or 
mortality risk.

© 2011 The Author(s)/Acta Paediatrica © 2011 Foundation Acta Paediatrica.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1651-2227.2011.02309.x
PMID: 21477089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. BJOG. 2011 Aug;118(9):1073-83. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2011.02966.x. Epub
2011  Apr 8.

Minimising twins in in vitro fertilisation: a modelling study assessing the 
costs, consequences and cost-utility of elective single versus double embryo 
transfer over a 20-year time horizon.

Scotland GS(1), McLernon D, Kurinczuk JJ, McNamee P, Harrild K, Lyall H, 
Rajkhowa M, Hamilton M, Bhattacharya S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. 
g.scotland@abdn.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cumulative costs and consequences of double embryo 
transfer (DET) or elective single embryo transfer (eSET) in women commencing in 
vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatment aged 32, 36 and 39 years.
DESIGN: Microsimulation model.
SETTING: Three assisted reproduction centres in Scotland.
SAMPLE: A total of 6153 women undergoing treatment at one of three Scottish IVF 
clinics, between January 1997 and June 2007.
METHODS: A microsimulation model, populated using data inputs derived from a 
large clinical data set and published literature, was developed to compare the 
costs and consequences of using eSET or DET over multiple treatment cycles.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Disability-free live births; twin pregnancy rate; women's 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs); health service costs.
RESULTS: Not only did DET produce a higher cumulative live birth rate compared 
with eSET for women of all three ages, but also a higher twin pregnancy rate. 
Compared with eSET, DET ranged from costing an additional £ 27,356 per extra 
live birth in women commencing treatment aged 32 years, to costing £ 15,539 per 
extra live birth in 39-year-old women. DET cost ∼ £ 28,300 and ∼ £ 20,300 per 
additional QALY in women commencing treatment aged 32 and 39 years, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the high twin pregnancy rate associated with DET, 
coupled with uncertainty surrounding QALY gains, eSET is likely to be the 
preferred option for most women aged ≤ 36 years. The cost-effectiveness of DET 
improves with age, and may be considered cost-effective in some groups of older 
women. The decision may best be considered on a case-by-case basis for women 
aged 37-39 years.

© 2011 The Authors BJOG An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology © 
2011 RCOG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2011.02966.x
PMID: 21477172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Food Prot. 2011 Apr;74(4):545-52. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-10-252.

Cost of illness and disease burden in The Netherlands due to infections with 
Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157.

Tariq L(1), Haagsma J, Havelaar A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention and Health Services Research, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment, P.O. Box 1, 3720 BA Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands.

Infections with Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157 (STEC O157) are 
associated with hemorrhagic colitis, hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), and 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD). In the present study, we extend previous 
estimates of the burden of disease associated with STEC O157 with estimates of 
the associated cost of illness in The Netherlands. A second-order stochastic 
simulation model was used to calculate disease burden as disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) and cost of illness (including direct health care costs and 
indirect non-health care costs). Future burden and costs are presented 
undiscounted and discounted at annual percentages of 1.5 and 4%, respectively. 
Annually, approximately 2.100 persons per year experience symptoms of 
gastroenteritis, leading to 22 cases of HUS and 3 cases of ESRD. The disease 
burden at the population level was estimated at 133 DALYs (87 DALYs discounted) 
per year. Total annual undiscounted and discounted costs of illness due to STEC 
O157 infection for the Dutch society were estimated at €9.1 million and €4.5 
million, respectively. Average lifetime undiscounted and discounted costs per 
case were both €126 for diarrheal illness, both €25,713 for HUS, and €2.76 
million and €1.22 million, respectively, for ESRD. The undiscounted and 
discounted costs per case of diarrheal disease including sequelae were €4,132 
and €2,131, respectively. Compared with other foodborne pathogens, STEC O157 
infections result in relatively low burden and low annual costs at the societal 
level, but the burden and costs per case are high.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-10-252
PMID: 21477467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Cir Cir. 2011 Jan-Feb;79(1):90-3.

Cardiothoracic surgery in perspective. An analysis required by other 
specialties?

[Article in English, Spanish]

Guillermo Careaga-Reyna G(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía Cardiotorácica y Asistencia Circulatoria, Hospital 
General, Centro Médico Nacional La Raza, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 
México, DF Mexico. gcareaga3@gmail.com

Cardiothoracic surgery is one of the younger surgical specialties. We present a 
review of current and future needs for assistance derived of life expectancy and 
the main causes of mortality. We also analyze the profile of the cardiothoracic 
surgeon, duration of professional life, and how knowledge is transmitted. We 
present a proposal for the ideal characteristics of the future cardiothoracic 
surgeon. Life expectancy for the Mexican population is 75.7 years. Among the 
main causes of mortality is ischemic heart disease. In males, neoplasm of the 
airway and lung causes 16.8% of deaths related to malignant tumors. A 
cardiothoracic surgeon requires 2 years of general surgical training and 4 years 
of cardiothoracic surgical training. The mean age of the cardiothoracic surgeons 
is 49.3 ± 10.1 years, and the mean length of time of professional activity is 
16.7 ± 12.5 years. In actuality, 220 surgeons are board certified. The use of 
medical journals for publications is limited. We now have new surgical options 
and an increase in the number and complexity of patients is expected. An 
analysis of the actual social conditions and the profile and number of 
cardiothoracic surgeons is required for the short-term demand of care in our 
specialty.

PMID: 21477524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. J Med Ethics. 2011 Sep;37(9):526-9. doi: 10.1136/jme.2010.042085. Epub 2011
Apr  8.

Just health: On the conditions for acceptable and unacceptable priority settings 
with respect to patients' socioeconomic status.

Bærøe K(1), Bringedal B.

Author information:
(1)The Ethics Programme, University of Oslo, IFIKK, Postboks 1020 Blindern, Oslo 
0315, Norway. kristine.baroe@ifikk.uio.no

It is well documented that the higher the socioeconomic status (SES) of 
patients, the better their health and life expectancy. SES also influences the 
use of health services-the higher the patients' SES, the more time and 
specialised health services provided. This leads to the following question: 
should clinicians give priority to individual patients with low SES in order to 
enhance health equity? Some argue that equity is best preserved by physicians 
who remain loyal to 'ordinary medical fairness' in non-ideal circumstances when 
health disparities persist; ie, doctors should allocate care according to needs 
only and treat everyone with equal regard by being neutral with respect to 
patients' SES. This paper furthers a discussion of this view by questioning how 
equitable needs relate to SES. To clarify, it distinguishes between four 
versions of 'healthcare need' and approaches an acceptable conceptualisation of 
the notion supported by Norman Daniels' theory on health equity. It concludes 
that doctors should remain neutral to patients' SES in cases in which several 
patients require the same health care. However, equitable health care requires 
considerations of the impact of socioeconomic factors (SEF) on patients' 
capacity to benefit from the care. Remaining neutral towards patients' SES in 
this respect does not promote equal regard. It follows that priority setting on 
the basis of SEF is required in fair clinical distribution of care, eg, through 
allocating more time to patients with low SES. In order to advance equity 
accurately, the concept of ordinary medical fairness should be amplified 
according to this clarification.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2010.042085
PMID: 21478418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Circ J. 2011;75(5):1028-41. doi: 10.1253/circj.cj-11-0289. Epub 2011 Apr 9.

Innovations in therapies for heart valve disease.

Padala M(1), Keeling WB, Guyton RA, Thourani VH.

Author information:
(1)Joseph B. Whitehead Department of Surgery, Division of Cardiothoracic 
Surgery, Emory University School of Medicine, GA, USA.

The burden of heart valve disease among adults is enormous in the developed 
world. Increased life expectancy and age-related valvular degeneration remain 
the predominant contributors to heart valve dysfunction, which if uncorrected 
lead to congestive heart failure and increased morbidity and mortality. Clinical 
evidence on the detrimental impact of valve disease on both pediatric and adult 
populations has fueled growing interest in diagnosis and therapy for heart valve 
disease, and also significant financial investment from hospitals and medical 
device manufacturers in hybrid operating rooms and novel medical device 
technologies. A wide array of surgical, minimally invasive and percutaneous 
heart valve technologies are available today, which have significantly enlarged 
the surgeon's armamentarium, and revolutionized the traditional role of a 
surgeon in correcting such lesions. Amid this revolution in heart valve 
technologies, we present recent advances in heart valve therapies, critically 
appraise their clinical need, and finally discuss the clinical experience and 
outcomes of some of these technologies. The expected outcome of this review is 
to provide the clinical reader with a reasonable scientific basis to enable 
appropriate adoption of these technologies into their clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.cj-11-0289
PMID: 21478626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2011;7:99-102. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S17912. Epub 2011 Mar
10.

Inferior vena cava filters in cancer patients: to filter or not to filter.

Abdel-Razeq H(1), Mansour A, Ismael Y, Abdulelah H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine.

PURPOSE: Cancer and its treatment are recognized risk factors for venous 
thromboembolism (VTE); active cancer accounts for almost 20% of all newly 
diagnosed VTE. Inferior vena cava (IVC) filters are utilized to provide 
mechanical thromboprophylaxis to prevent pulmonary embolism (PE) or to avoid 
bleeding from systemic anticoagulation in high-risk situations. In this report, 
and utilizing a case study, we will address the appropriate utilization of such 
filters in cancer patients.
METHODS: The case of a 43-year-old female patient with rectal cancer, who 
developed deep vein thrombosis following a complicated medical course, will be 
presented. The patient was anticoagulated with a low molecular weight heparin, 
but a few months later and following an episode of bleeding, an IVC filter was 
planned. Using the PubMed database, articles published in English language 
addressing issues related to IVC filters in cancer patients were accessed and 
will be presented.
RESULTS: Many recent studies questioned the need to insert IVC filters in 
advanced-stage cancer patients, particularly those whose anticipated survival is 
short and prevention of PE may be of little clinical benefit and could be a poor 
utilization of resources.
CONCLUSION: Systemic anticoagulation can be safely offered for the majority of 
cancer patients. When the risk of bleeding or pulmonary embolism is high, IVC 
filters can be utilized. However, placement of such filters should take into 
consideration the stage of disease and life expectancy of such patients.

DOI: 10.2147/TCRM.S17912
PMCID: PMC3071346
PMID: 21479140


418. PLoS One. 2011 Mar 30;6(3):e18143. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018143.

Translocation as a novel approach to study effects of a new breeding habitat on 
reproductive output in wild birds.

Burger C(1), Both C.

Author information:
(1)Animal Ecology Group, Centre for Life Sciences, University of Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands. c.burger@rug.nl

Environmental conditions under which species reproduce have major consequences 
on breeding success and subsequent fitness. Therefore breeding habitat choice is 
ultimately important. Studies rarely address the potential fitness pay-offs of 
alternative natural breeding habitats by experimental translocation. Here we 
present a new tool to study fitness consequences of free living birds in 
different habitats. We translocated a migratory passerine, the pied flycatcher 
(Ficedula hypoleuca), to a novel site, where pairs were subjected to a short 
stay (2-4 days) in a nest box-equipped aviary before being released. We show 
that it is technically possible to retain birds in the new area for breeding, 
allowing the study of reproductive consequences of dispersal under natural 
conditions. The translocation resulted in an extension of the interval between 
arrival and egg laying of four days, highlighting the importance of having an 
adequate control group. Clutch size and nestling parameters did not differ 
significantly between translocated and unmanipulated females, which suggests 
that the procedure did not affect birds in their reproductive performance later 
on. This method could be applied broadly in evolutionary and ecological 
research, e.g., to study the potential fitness benefits and costs for dispersing 
to more northern latitudes as a way of adapting to climate change.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018143
PMCID: PMC3068174
PMID: 21479183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


419. Cancer. 2011 Oct 15;117(20):4642-50. doi: 10.1002/cncr.26104. Epub 2011 Apr
8.

Comorbidity and competing risks for mortality in men with prostate cancer.

Daskivich TJ(1), Chamie K, Kwan L, Labo J, Dash A, Greenfield S, Litwin MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, USA. tdaskivich@ucla.edu

Comment in
    Cancer. 2011 Oct 15;117(20):4576-8.

BACKGROUND: Accurate estimation of life expectancy is essential for men deciding 
between aggressive and conservative treatment of prostate cancer. The authors 
sought to assess the competing risks of nonprostate cancer and prostate cancer 
mortality among men with differing Charlson comorbidity index scores and tumor 
risks.
METHODS: The authors conducted a retrospective study of 1482 men with 
nonmetastatic prostate cancer diagnosed from 1997 to 2004 at the Greater Los 
Angeles and Long Beach Veterans Affairs Medical Centers. They performed 
Kaplan-Meier and competing risks regression analyses to assess survival 
outcomes.
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 6.0 years, 370 (25%) men died from other 
causes, whereas 44 (3%) died of prostate cancer. At 10 years after diagnosis, 
men with Charlson scores 0, 1, 2, and 3+ had nonprostate cancer mortality rates 
of 17%, 34%, 52%, and 74%, respectively. In competing risks regression analysis, 
each point increase in Charlson score was associated with a 2-fold increase in 
hazard of nonprostate mortality. Men with Charlson 3+ had 8.5× the hazard of 
death from other causes, compared with men with the lowest scores (subhazard 
ratio, 8.5; 95% confidence interval, 6.2-11.7). After stratification by tumor 
risk, nonprostate mortality rates remained markedly elevated among men with 
higher Charlson scores, whereas prostate cancer mortality was rare, especially 
among low-risk and intermediate-risk groups (0.4%, 3%, and 8% for low, 
intermediate, and high risk, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Men with the highest Charlson scores should consider conservative 
management of low-risk and intermediate-risk tumors, given their exceedingly 
high risk of death from other causes and low risk of prostate cancer mortality.

Copyright © 2011 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.26104
PMID: 21480201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Lancet. 2011 Apr 16;377(9774):1341-52. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60205-5.
Epub  2011 Apr 8.

Effects of low-dose, controlled-release, phentermine plus topiramate combination 
on weight and associated comorbidities in overweight and obese adults (CONQUER): 
a randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial.

Gadde KM(1), Allison DB, Ryan DH, Peterson CA, Troupin B, Schwiers ML, Day WW.

Author information:
(1)Obesity Clinical Trials Programme, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. gadde001@mc.duke.edu

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2011 Apr 30;377(9776):1494.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Apr 16;377(9774):1295-7.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Jun;8(6):297.
    Lancet. 2011 Jul 9;378(9786):125-6; author reply 126-7.
    Lancet. 2011 Jul 9;378(9786):126; author reply 126-7.
    Evid Based Med. 2012 Feb;17(1):14-5.

BACKGROUND: Obesity is associated with a reduction in life expectancy and an 
increase in mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and other causes. We 
therefore assessed the efficacy and safety of two doses of phentermine plus 
topiramate controlled-release combination as an adjunct to diet and lifestyle 
modification for weight loss and metabolic risk reduction in individuals who 
were overweight and obese, with two or more risk factors.
METHODS: In this 56-week phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned overweight or obese 
adults (aged 18-70 years), with a body-mass index of 27-45 kg/m(2) and two or 
more comorbidities (hypertension, dyslipidaemia, diabetes or prediabetes, or 
abdominal obesity) to placebo, once-daily phentermine 7·5 mg plus topiramate 
46·0 mg, or once-daily phentermine 15·0 mg plus topiramate 92·0 mg in a 2:1:2 
ratio in 93 centres in the USA. Drugs were administered orally. Patients were 
randomly assigned by use of a computer-generated algorithm that was implemented 
through an interactive voice response system, and were stratified by sex and 
diabetic status. Investigators, patients, and study sponsors were masked to 
treatment. Primary endpoints were the percentage change in bodyweight and the 
proportion of patients achieving at least 5% weight loss. Analysis was by 
intention to treat. This study is registered with Clinical Trials.gov, number 
NCT00553787.
FINDINGS: Of 2487 patients, 994 were assigned to placebo, 498 to phentermine 7·5 
mg plus topiramate 46·0 mg, and 995 to phentermine 15·0 mg plus topiramate 92·0 
mg; 979, 488, and 981 patients, respectively, were analysed. At 56 weeks, change 
in bodyweight was -1·4 kg (least-squares mean -1·2%, 95% CI -1·8 to -0·7), -8·1 
kg (-7·8%, -8·5 to -7·1; p<0·0001), and -10·2 kg (-9·8%, -10·4 to -9·3; 
p<0·0001) in the patients assigned to placebo, phentermine 7·5 mg plus 
topiramate 46·0 mg, and phentermine 15·0 mg plus topiramate 92·0 mg, 
respectively. 204 (21%) patients achieved at least 5% weight loss with placebo, 
303 (62%; odds ratio 6·3, 95% CI 4·9 to 8·0; p<0·0001) with phentermine 7·5 mg 
plus topiramate 46·0 mg, and 687 (70%; 9·0, 7·3 to 11·1; p<0·0001) with 
phentermine 15·0 mg plus topiramate 92·0 mg; for ≥10% weight loss, the 
corresponding numbers were 72 (7%), 182 (37%; 7·6, 5·6 to 10·2; p<0·0001), and 
467 (48%; 11·7, 8·9 to 15·4; p<0·0001). The most common adverse events were dry 
mouth (24 [2%], 67 [13%], and 207 [21%] in the groups assigned to placebo, 
phentermine 7·5 mg plus topiramate 46·0 mg, and phentermine 15·0 mg plus 
topiramate 92·0 mg, respectively), paraesthesia (20 [2%], 68 [14%], and 204 
[21%], respectively), constipation (59 [6%], 75 [15%], and 173 [17%], 
respectively), insomnia (47 [5%], 29 [6%], and 102 [10%], respectively), 
dizziness (31 [3%], 36 [7%], 99 [10%], respectively), and dysgeusia (11 [1%], 37 
[7%], and 103 [10%], respectively). 38 (4%) patients assigned to placebo, 19 
(4%) to phentermine 7·5 mg plus topiramate 46·0 mg, and 73 (7%) to phentermine 
15·0 mg plus topiramate 92·0 mg had depression-related adverse events; and 28 
(3%), 24 (5%), and 77 (8%), respectively, had anxiety-related adverse events.
INTERPRETATION: The combination of phentermine and topiramate, with office-based 
lifestyle interventions, might be a valuable treatment for obesity that can be 
provided by family doctors.
FUNDING: Vivus.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60205-5
PMID: 21481449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Child Abuse Negl. 2011 Mar;35(3):159-61. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2011.02.001.
Epub  2011 Apr 9.

The dollars and senselessness in failing to prioritize childhood maltreatment 
prevention.

Wekerle C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, HSC 3A, CAAP 3N10, McMaster University, 1200 Main 
St. W., Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5, Canada.

Childhood maltreatment captured medical attention almost 50 years ago. Reviews 
considering the evidence for published maltreatment prevention programming 
emerged about 20 years ago. In the second decade of the 21st century, 
evidence-based maltreatment prevention is a reality for at-risk groups; however, 
the research-to-practice and policy gap remains in most countries. This article 
considers the importance of personal financial health and how that is 
necessarily the building blocks of national health. It argues for the primacy of 
the goal of problem prevention-the prevention of childhood maltreatment. A 
twofold approach is suggested: (1) broad-scale adoption of evidence-based 
prevention and (2) and on-going commitment to refining the evidence base for 
effective, promising, and novel intervention.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2011.02.001
PMID: 21481465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Maturitas. 2011 Jun;69(2):113-9. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.03.009. Epub
2011  Apr 9.

Management of osteoporosis in elderly men.

Gates BJ(1), Das S.

Author information:
(1)Washington State University, College of Pharmacy/Providence Visiting Nurses 
Association, Spokane, WA 99202, United States. brian_gates@wsu.edu

Osteoporosis is a common condition associated with aging but has been considered 
to primarily affect women because of the substantial effect of menopause on 
osteoporosis. Bone density can decrease with aging in men but occurs more 
gradually than in postmenopausal women. With improvements in healthcare and 
extended life expectancy, it is becoming more apparent that osteoporosis affects 
men and can have serious consequences. Recently, a greater number of 
osteoporosis studies are either including men or focusing specifically on them. 
The majority of medication trials in men, however, used bone density as the 
primary outcome rather than fractures. Therefore, treatment data for men is 
still rather limited, and there is also very little information in the oldest 
subset of this population. The more recent guidelines for treating osteoporosis 
now include men, but the recommendations for screening and treatment are not 
necessarily gender specific. Despite the limited data, some osteoporosis 
treatments have received approval to treat or prevent osteoporosis specifically 
in men. Future studies must provide greater information on fracture prevention 
in men and also must include a greater population of the oldest geriatric 
patients, who are typically not well represented in osteoporosis trials, to 
evaluate any differences in both efficacy and side effects. The oldest group is 
important because they are at the highest risk for both osteoporosis-related 
complications and treatment-related adverse events.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.03.009
PMID: 21481552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Cortex. 2012 Feb;48(2):230-41. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2011.03.006. Epub 2011
Mar  15.

Mapping the brain in younger and older asymptomatic HIV-1 men: frontal volume 
changes in the absence of other cortical or diffusion tensor abnormalities.

Towgood KJ(1), Pitkanen M, Kulasegaram R, Fradera A, Kumar A, Soni S, Sibtain 
NA, Reed L, Bradbeer C, Barker GJ, Kopelman MD.

Author information:
(1)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK. 
karren.towgood@kcl.ac.uk

INTRODUCTION: Over the past decade the developments made in treating people with 
human immune deficiency virus (HIV) have greatly improved quality of life and 
life expectancy. However, the nature of asymptomatic HIV-associated minor 
neurocognitive disorder (HAND) remains unclear. In this study we explored the 
occurrence of neuropsychological and neuroimaging changes in medically and 
psychiatrically stable HIV-1 infected patients on highly active antiretroviral 
treatment (HAART) from two separate age groups.
METHODS: Participants included 20 HIV-1 infected younger (aged 20-40) and 20 
HIV-1 older patients (aged 50-75). Comparisons were made with 20 age- and 
education-matched younger and 22 matched older healthy seronegative males. 
Participants were stable on treatment and asymptomatic at study onset with 
undetectable HIV-1 viral loads, and free of medical or psychiatric co-morbidity, 
alcohol or substance misuse. A detailed neuropsychological assessment was used 
and volumetric-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and diffusion tensor imaging 
(DTI) performed to assess grey and white-matter integrity.
RESULTS: We found significant effects of ageing on memory, grey and white matter 
measures. Comparison of the HIV-positive and HIV-negative groups did not show 
significant differences on the neuropsychological tests after Bonferroni 
correction, and there were no significant age by HIV status interactions. 
However, we did find reduced grey matter volume on MRI in our HIV-positive 
participants within the medial and superior frontal gyri. We also found 
significant ageing effects in fronto-temporal grey and white matter, independent 
of the effect of HIV.
CONCLUSIONS: The results from this study suggest that HIV-1 disease by itself 
does not significantly impair cognitive function when patients are otherwise 
asymptomatic. Nevertheless, the imaging techniques were sensitive enough to 
detect subtle grey matter changes not normally evident until much later in the 
disease. If confirmed in a longitudinal study this frontal grey matter change 
could represent an important biomarker for trials in HIV disease.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Srl. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2011.03.006
PMID: 21481856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Eur J Cancer. 2011 Jul;47(11):1633-46. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2011.03.006. Epub
 2011 Apr 7.

Cost-effectiveness of primary HPV screening for cervical cancer in Germany--a 
decision analysis.

Sroczynski G(1), Schnell-Inderst P, Mühlberger N, Lang K, Aidelsburger P, Wasem 
J, Mittendorf T, Engel J, Hillemanns P, Petry KU, Krämer A, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Health Technology Assessment, UMIT - 
University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology, Eduard 
Wallnoefer Center I, A-6060 Hall iT, Austria.

OBJECTIVES: To systematically evaluate the long-term effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of HPV-based primary cervical cancer screening in the German 
health care context using a decision-analysis approach.
METHODS: A Markov-model for HPV-infection and cervical cancer was developed for 
the German health care context, and applied to evaluate various screening 
strategies that differ by screening interval and test algorithms, including 
HPV-testing alone or in combination with cytology. German clinical, 
epidemiological, and economic data, and test accuracy data from international 
meta-analyses were used. Outcomes predicted included the reduction in cervical 
cancer cases and deaths, life expectancy and discounted incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER). The analysis was performed from the 
perspective of the healthcare system adopting a 3% annual discount rate for 
costs and outcomes. Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: HPV-based screening is more effective than cytology alone. It results 
in a 71-97% reduction in cervical cancer cases as compared to 53-93% for 
cytology alone. The ICER range from 2600 Euro/LYG (cytology, 5-year-interval) to 
155,500 Euro/LYG (annual HPV-testing starting at age 30 years, cytology age 
20-29 years). Annual cytology alone, the current recommended screening strategy 
in Germany, is dominated by HPV-strategies. Increasing the age at screening 
initiation from 20 to 25 years does not result in a relevant loss in 
effectiveness but results in lower costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our analyses, HPV-based cervical cancer screening is more 
effective than cytology alone and could be cost-effective if performed at 
intervals of two years or longer. In the German context, an optimal screening 
strategy may be biennial HPV screening starting at age 30 years preceded by 
biennial cytology for women aged 25-29 years. Longer screening intervals may be 
considered in low-risk women with good screening adherence and in populations 
with low HPV-incidence.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2011.03.006
PMID: 21482103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Scand J Surg. 2011;100(1):14-21. doi: 10.1177/145749691110000104.

