palliative, end-of-life-care setting.
OBJECTIVE: The objectives of the study were to assess time perception in 
disease-free and advanced cancer patients and examine the relation of time 
perception with patients' distress.
METHODS: A descriptive research design was used. Ninety-six disease-free and 63 
advanced cancer patients filled out Cottle's Circle Test to assess time 
coherence and time dominance, Cottle's Line Test to assess temporal extension 
and Bayes' question on speed of time, the European Organisation for 
Research-and-Treatment of Cancer QOL-Questionnaire version 2.0, Beck's 
Depression Inventory for primary care, and Beck's Hopelessness-Scale.
RESULTS: In patients without evidence of disease, future dominance was most 
often observed, whereas in advanced cancer patients, the present was the 
dominant time segment. In both groups, a focus on the past was associated with 
distress. In contrast with patients without evidence of disease, advanced cancer 
patients perceived time as moving slowly, and this was correlated with distress.
CONCLUSIONS: The time perception of cancer patients without evidence of disease 
and advanced cancer patients is significantly different and is related to 
distress.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The observed relation between a focus on the past and 
distress gives room for interventions of nurses and other healthcare 
professionals. Specific attention is needed for differences between cancer 
patients without evidence of disease and advanced cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0b013e31820f4eb7
PMID: 21558853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Int J Oncol. 1994 Aug;5(2):275-84. doi: 10.3892/ijo.5.2.275.

Effects of L-(adamant-2-yl)glycyl-L-alanyl-d-isoglutamine on the antitumor 
action of cyclophosphamide, 5-fu, Cisplatin and dacarbazine on advanced 
carcinomas of the mouse.

Dasic G(1), Pacor S, Bergamo A, Salerno G, Vranesic B, Jukic R, Tomasic J, Sava 
G.

Author information:
(1)UNIV TRIESTE, SCH PHARM, INST PHARMACOL, VIA L GIORGIERI 7, I-34127 TRIESTE, 
ITALY. FDN CALLERIO, BIOL RES LABS, TRIESTE, ITALY. UNIV ZAGREB, INST IMMUNOL, 
ZAGREB, CROATIA.

A new biological response modifier, 
L-(adamant-2-yl)glycyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine hydrochloride (AdTP), recently 
synthesized and characterized for antitumor, antiviral and immunomodulating 
properties was studied in comparison to the peptidoglycan monomer (PGM) isolated 
from Brevibacterium divaricatum to test the effects of their use concomitant to 
that of anticancer cytotoxic drugs such as cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil 
(5-FU), cisplatin and 4-(3,3-dimethyl-1-triazeno)-5-carboxamide (dacarbazine). 
The experiments, performed using both Lewis lung carcinoma and MCa mammary 
carcinoma of CBA mouse, indicated that: a) the cytotoxic drugs, used at the 
maximum tolerated doses, caused different degrees of reduction of the tumors; b) 
the same drugs reduced lung metastases with greater efficacy when treatments 
were applied at the early stages of metastasis formation; c) AdTP, similarly to 
PGM confirmed its ability to increase some immunological parameters of 
lymphocytes obtained from the spleens of the treated mice; d) AdTP increased the 
effects of 5-FU on lung metastases but failed to show any increase of life 
expectancy with any treatment performed. These data indicate that AdTP, although 
increasing some functional responses of lymphocytes in vitro, does not improve 
the therapeutic activity of cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, 5-FU and dacarbazine in 
the experimental models presently used.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.5.2.275
PMID: 21559586


616. Support Care Cancer. 2011 Nov;19(11):1823-30. doi:
10.1007/s00520-010-1024-5.  Epub 2011 May 11.

Survival prediction and frequency of anticancer treatment in cancer patients 
hospitalized due to acute conditions. Role of clinical parameters and PaP score.

Numico G(1), Occelli M, Russi EG, Silvestris N, Pasero R, Fea E, Granetto C, Di 
Costanzo G, Colantonio I, Gasco M, Garrone O, Polla V, Merlano MC.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology, Ospedale Regionale della Valle d'Aosta, Aosta, Italy. 
gnumico@ausl.vda.it

PURPOSE: Survival prediction is useful in selecting patients for palliative care 
or active anticancer therapy. The palliative and prognostic (PaP) score was 
shown to predict 1-month survival in terminally ill patients. Its application to 
patients with less advanced disease is a subject of debate. We assessed the 
value of the PaP score and of other clinical parameters in predicting survival 
in patients admitted in an oncological ward due to acute conditions. We also 
evaluated the frequency of active anticancer treatment in the last weeks of 
life.
METHODS: All the 208 patients, consecutively admitted in a department of medical 
oncology and radiotherapy in a 9-month period, were included. Patients and 
disease features together with the PaP score were assessed and included in a 
multivariable model for survival prediction.
RESULTS: Overall, median survival was 19 weeks and 12-week survival was 59.6%. 
The PaP score accurately predicted 4-week survival. Among the 39 patients who 
died within 4 weeks, 36% were on active treatment. The reason of admission, 
disease control, treatment, and PaP score were independently related to 12-week 
survival in the multivariate analysis; however patients with a 12-week survival 
lower than 30% were a minority.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the PaP score accurately predicts life expectancy, its use 
in the setting of acute conditions seems not straightforward, due to the overall 
good prognosis of these patients. Active treatment in the last period of life is 
common. The potential reversibility of acute conditions makes prognostic 
measures inadequate for the purpose of treatment choices.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-010-1024-5
PMID: 21560032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Harv Heart Lett. 2011 Apr;21(8):3.

Study suggests caution on statins after a bleeding stroke. These drugs may harm 
more than help after a stroke linked to a degenerative brain condition.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 21560287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Natl Med J India. 2010 Nov-Dec;23(6):352-3.

Dietary salt reduction and cardiovascular disease.

Nair M(1), Prabhakaran D.

Author information:
(1)Fogarty International Centre-New Delhi.

PMID: 21561048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Curr Med Res Opin. 2011 Jul;27(7):1329-38. doi:
10.1185/03007995.2011.582863.  Epub 2011 May 12.

Lacosamide as adjunctive therapy for partial-onset epileptic seizures: a review 
of the clinical and economic literature.

Simoens S(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Pharmaceutical Care and Pharmacoeconomics, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. steven.simoens@pharm.kuleuven.be

OBJECTIVE: This article provides a short but comprehensive pharmacotherapeutic 
update of adjunctive therapy with lacosamide for partial-onset seizures in adult 
patients.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: PubMed, Centre for Reviews and Dissemination 
databases, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, EconLit were searched from 
January 1999 to September 2010. Studies evaluating intravenous lacosamide were 
excluded because this article focuses on chronic adjunctive therapy.
RESULTS: Three randomised, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials 
have investigated the efficacy of lacosamide in 1300 adults with epilepsy. The 
median percent reduction in seizure frequency per 28 days from baseline to 
maintenance was 18.4% for placebo, 33.3% for lacosamide 200 mg/day (p < 0.01), 
36.8% for 400 mg/day (p < 0.001), 39.4% for 600 mg/day. The percentage of 
patients attaining a seizure frequency reduction of ≥50% was 22.6% with placebo, 
34.1% with lacosamide 200 mg/day (p < 0.05), 39.7% with lacosamide 400 mg/day (p 
< 0.001), 39.6% with lacosamide 600 mg/day. Three open-label extension studies 
showed that long-term treatment with lacosamide produced sustained efficacy in 
and was well-tolerated by patients. Three economic evaluations used a similar 
design to determine the cost effectiveness of lacosamide from the healthcare 
payer perspective in Sweden, Finland and Belgium. These studies showed that 
standard anti-epileptic drug therapy plus lacosamide is likely to constitute a 
cost-effective alternative. The budget impact of introducing lacosamide is 
likely to be limited.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence on lacosamide was limited and studies suffered from a 
number of methodological limitations. Lacosamide appears to be a safe, 
efficacious and cost-effective adjunctive therapy for partial-onset epileptic 
seizures in adult patients. However, these results need to be validated by 
studies that explore the impact of lacosamide in real-life clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2011.582863
PMID: 21561394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. J Law Med Ethics. 2011 Summer;39(2):194-200. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-720X.2011.00588.x.

Costs and end-of-life care in the NICU: lessons for the MICU?

Lantos JD(1), Meadow WL.

Author information:
(1)University of Missouri-Kansas City, and Children's Mercy Bioethics Center at 
Children's Mercy Hospital, Kansas City, MO, USA.

Neonatal intensive care units (NICUs) and medical intensive care units (MICUs) 
are both very expensive. The cost-effectiveness of NICUs has been extensively 
evaluated, as has the long-term outcomes of subpopulations of NICU patients. 
NICU treatment is among the most cost-effective of high-tech interventions. And 
most patients do well. There are fewer evaluations of cost-effectiveness in the 
MICU and almost no long-term outcome studies. Policymakers who scrutinize 
expensive high-tech interventions would do well to study the examples found in 
the NICU.

© 2011 American Society of Law, Medicine & Ethics, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-720X.2011.00588.x
PMID: 21561514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Law Med Ethics. 2011 Summer;39(2):215-23. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-720X.2011.00590.x.

The value of life at the end of life: a critical assessment of hope and other 
factors.

Menzel PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Pacific Lutheran University, Tacoma, WA, USA.

Low opportunity cost, weak influence of quality of life in the face of death, 
the social value of life extension to others, shifting psychological reference 
points, and hope have been proposed as factors to explain why people apparently 
perceive marginal life extension at the end of life to have disproportionately 
greater value than its length. Such value may help to explain why medical 
spending to extend life at the end of life is as high as it is, and the various 
factors behind this value might provide normative rationale for that spending. 
Upon critical analysis, however, most of these factors turn out to be 
questionable or incompletely conceived; this includes hope, which is examined 
here in special detail. These factors help to explain complexity and nuance in 
the normative issues, but they do not provide adequate justification for 
spending as high as it often is. In any case, two additional factors must be 
added to the descriptive explanation of high spending, and they throw its 
normative justification into further doubt: the "insurance effect" and 
provider-created demand. Overall, the perception of especially high value of 
life at the end of life provides some normative justification for high spending, 
but seldom strong justification, and not for spending as high as it often is.

© 2011 American Society of Law, Medicine & Ethics, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-720X.2011.00590.x
PMID: 21561516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15(22):1-82, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta15220.

Evidence Review Group approaches to the critical appraisal of manufacturer 
submissions for the NICE STA process: a mapping study and thematic analysis.

Kaltenthaler E(1), Boland A, Carroll C, Dickson R, Fitzgerald P, Papaioannou D.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR) Technology Assessment Group, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
single technology appraisal (STA) process was set up as a rapid way to appraise 
new technologies for use within the NHS in England and Wales and has been in 
place since 2005.
OBJECTIVES: This study had five primary objectives: (1) to provide a map of the 
STA process to date; (2) to identify current approaches to the critical 
appraisal of manufacturers' submissions (MSs) by Evidence Review Groups (ERGs); 
(3) to identify recurring themes in clarification letters sent to manufacturers; 
(4) to provide recommendations for possible alternative approaches to be used in 
the critical appraisal process; and (5) to revise the current ERG report 
template.
DATA SOURCES: Data for the mapping of the STA process were obtained from the 
NICE website (www.nice.org.uk). Data for the analyses of the ERG reports and 
clarification letters were taken from the reports and letters themselves.
REVIEW METHODS: For the mapping, a spreadsheet was developed to collect data on 
22 predefined variables related to timings and outcomes. Simple descriptive 
statistics were used to analyse the data. For the thematic analysis, a 
documentary analysis of 30 ERG reports was undertaken. Data on key elements of 
the MSs, the processes undertaken by ERGs and the strengths and weaknesses of 
MSs were extracted. A framework of a priori themes was developed. Data were 
extracted, coded and analysed according to a framework approach. Twenty-one 
clarification letters were examined and data were extracted using a set of codes 
to cover report quality, systematic review methods and clinical/economic issues. 
The current ERG report template was modified and sent to the current ERG teams 
for comment. All comments were considered and formed the basis for further 
revisions to the template.
RESULTS: Ninety-five STAs were included in the mapping exercise. Many STAs were 
subject to delay or cancellation for a variety of reasons. The ERG reports 
highlighted the strengths and weaknesses of MSs to the STA process. Thematic 
analysis of these data offered a means of clarifying and describing these 
aspects of the submissions. This analysis generated five themes: process, 
reporting, satisfaction of objectives, reliability and validity of findings, and 
content. Points from clarification letters were analysed and presented in four 
main categories: report quality, systematic review methods, clinical data 
analysis and economic data analysis.
LIMITATIONS: Nearly all data were obtained from the NICE website; therefore, any 
errors in the data on the website will be reflected in the mapping analysis 
presented in this report. Missing data for the mapping exercise limit the 
generalisability of the findings. Analyses were limited to what was reported in 
the ERG reports and the clarification letters.
CONCLUSIONS: Guidance suggested for manufacturers will help to ensure that more 
appropriate submissions are received in the future while recommendations 
provided for ERG teams will help to guide teams to ensure that reporting methods 
are transparent.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15220
PMID: 21561569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Ugeskr Laeger. 2011 May 9;173(19):1349-52.

[New online tool for assessment of the risk of osteoporotic fractures].

[Article in Danish]

Abrahamsen B(1), Rubin KH, Brixen K.

Author information:
(1)Klinisk Institut, Syddansk Universitet, Denmark. b.abrahamsen@physician.dk

The decision to initiate anti-osteoporotic treatment in Denmark relies on the 
presence of risk factors combined with a low bone mineral density or on previous 
low energy fracture, but does not take into account factors like residual life 
expectancy or the complex relationship between age, bone mineral density and 
risk factors. The WHO FRAX tool estimates the ten-year risk of osteoporotic 
fractures by superimposing national fracture and mortality rates on a 
generalized risk model derived from large studies. As a version adapted for 
Denmark has now become available, we discuss the strengths and limitations and 
the impact on clinical decision-making and health policy.

PMID: 21561572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Lancet. 2011 Jun 11;377(9782):2042-53. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60055-X.
Epub  2011 May 9.

Health conditions and health-policy innovations in Brazil: the way forward.

Victora CG(1), Barreto ML, do Carmo Leal M, Monteiro CA, Schmidt MI, Paim J, 
Bastos FI, Almeida C, Bahia L, Travassos C, Reichenheim M, Barros FC; Lancet 
Brazil Series Working Group.

Collaborators: Aquino EM, Barata RB, Barreto SM, Chor D, Duncan BB, Macinko J, 
Menezes AM, Menezes PR, Cecília S Minayo M, Moraes CL, Silva CP, Souza ER, 
Rodrigues LC, Azevedo e Silva G, Szwarcwald CL, Gloria Teixeira M, Ximenes RA.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Epidemiologia, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, 
Brazil. cvictora@gmail.com

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Jun 11;377(9782):1984-6.
    Lancet. 2011 Jul 23;378(9788):316-7.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2011 May 21;377(9779):1724-5.
    Lancet. 2011 May 21;377(9779):1721-2.
    Lancet. 2011 Jun 4;377(9781):1898-900.
    Lancet. 2011 May 21;377(9779):1722-3.

Brazil is a large complex country that is undergoing rapid economic, social, and 
environmental change. In this Series of six articles, we have reported important 
improvements in health status and life expectancy, which can be ascribed largely 
to progress in social determinants of health and to implementation of a 
comprehensive national health system with strong social participation. Many 
challenges remain, however. Socioeconomic and regional disparities are still 
unacceptably large, reflecting the fact that much progress is still needed to 
improve basic living conditions for a large proportion of the population. New 
health problems arise as a result of urbanisation and social and environmental 
change, and some old health issues remain unabated. Administration of a complex, 
decentralised public-health system, in which a large share of services is 
contracted out to the private sector, together with many private insurance 
providers, inevitably causes conflict and contradiction. The challenge is 
ultimately political, and we conclude with a call for action that requires 
continuous engagement by Brazilian society as a whole in securing the right to 
health for all Brazilian people.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60055-X
PMID: 21561659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011 Sep 1;184(5):590-601. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201101-0181OC.

Priorities for screening and treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in the 
United States.

Linas BP(1), Wong AY, Freedberg KA, Horsburgh CR Jr.

Author information:
(1)HIV Epidemiology and Outcomes Research Unit, Boston Medical Center, Section 
of Infectious Disease, Evans Biomedical Research Center, 650 Albany St. Rm 647, 
Boston, MA 02118, USA. benjamin.linas@bmc.org

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011 Sep 1;184(5):501-2.

RATIONALE: To improve the effectiveness of tuberculosis (TB) control programs in 
the United States by identifying cost-effective priorities for screening for 
latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI).
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of LTBI screening using the 
tuberculin skin test (TST)and interferon-g release assays (IGRAs).
METHODS: A Markov model of screening for LTBI with TST and IGRA in risk-groups 
considered in current LTBI screening guidelines.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In all risk-groups, TST and IGRA screening 
resulted in increased mean life expectancy, ranging from 0.03–0.24 life-months 
per person screened. IGRA screening resulted in greater life expectancy gains 
than TST. Screening always cost more than not screening, but IGRA was 
cost-saving compared with TST in some groups. Four patterns of 
cost-effectiveness emerged, related to four risk categories. (1) Individuals at 
highest risk of TB reactivation (close contacts and those infected with HIV): 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of IGRA compared with TST was 
less than $100,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. (2) The 
foreign-born: IGRA was cost-saving compared with TST and cost-effective compared 
with no screening (ICER ,$100,000 per QALY gained). (3) Vulnerable populations 
(e.g., homeless, drug user, or former prisoner): the ICER of TST screening was 
approximately $100,000–$150,000 per QALY gained, but IGRA was not 
cost-effective. (4) Medical comorbidities (e.g., diabetes): the ICER of 
screening with TST or IGRA was greater than $100,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: LTBI screening guidelines could make progress toward TB elimination 
by prioritizing screening for close contacts, those infected with HIV, and the 
foreign-born regardless of time living in the United States. For these groups, 
IGRA screening was more cost-effective than TST screening.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201101-0181OC
PMCID: PMC3175546
PMID: 21562129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Funct Integr Genomics. 2011 Sep;11(3):419-29. doi:
10.1007/s10142-011-0230-7.  Epub 2011 May 12.

A signature of six genes highlights defects on cell growth and specific 
metabolic pathways in murine and human hepatocellular carcinoma.

Schröder PC(1), Segura V, Riezu JI, Sangro B, Mato JM, Prieto J, Santamaría E, 
Corrales FJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepatology and Gene Therapy, Proteomics, Genomics & 
Bioinformatics Unit, Center for Applied Medical Research, University of Navarra, 
Pamplona, Spain.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents a major health problem as it afflicts 
an increasing number of patients worldwide. Albeit most of the risk factors for 
HCC are known, this is a deadly syndrome with a life expectancy at the time of 
diagnosis of less than 1 year. Definition of the molecular principles governing 
the neoplastic transformation of the liver is an urgent need to facilitate the 
clinical management of patients, based on innovative methods to detect the 
disease in its early stages and on more efficient therapies. In the present 
study, we have combined the analysis of a murine model and human samples of HCC 
to identify genes differentially expressed early in the process of 
hepatocarcinogenesis, using a microarray-based approach. Expression of 190 genes 
was impaired in murine HCC from which 65 were further validated by low-density 
array real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The expression of the best 
45 genes was then investigated in human samples resulting in 18 genes in which 
expression was significantly modified in HCC. Among them, JUN, methionine 
adenosyltransferase 1A and 2A, phosphoglucomutase 1, and acyl CoA dehydrogenase 
short/branched chain indicate defective cell proliferation as well as one carbon 
pathway, glucose and fatty acid metabolism, both in HCC and cirrhotic liver, a 
well-known preneoplastic condition. These alterations were further confirmed in 
public transcriptomic datasets from other authors. In addition, 
vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein, an actin-associated protein involved in 
cytoskeleton remodeling, was also found to be increased in the liver and serum 
of cirrhotic and HCC patients. In addition to revealing the impairment of 
central metabolic pathways for liver homeostasis, further studies may probe the 
potential value of the reported genes for the early detection of HCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s10142-011-0230-7
PMID: 21562899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Popul Stud (Camb). 2011 Jul;65(2):231-44. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2011.571280.
 Epub 2011 May 23.

The role of smoking in the explanation of the Israeli Jewish pattern of sex 
differentials in mortality.

Staetsky L(1).

Author information:
(1)RAND Europe, Cambridge, UK. staetsky@rand.org

The difference in life expectancy between women and men among Israeli Jews is 
very low relative to the difference in other developed countries, and the 
reasons for this are not fully understood. This paper explores the contribution 
of smoking to the observed patterns of sex-specific mortality among Israeli 
Jews, and to the sex difference in mortality exhibited by this population. The 
results show that the mortality of Israeli Jewish men is low owing to the 
relatively weak impact of smoking-related mortality, and that this also 
contributes to an explanation of the small sex difference. The result is 
explained by the high level of health-protective behaviour of Israeli Jewish 
men, including a low intensity of smoking (though not a low prevalence). The 
findings could have implications for some debates on the determinants of 
divergences and convergences in mortality, and research into the relationship 
between mortality and the Mediterranean diet.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2011.571280
PMID: 21563014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011 May 11;(5):CD002309. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002309.pub3.

Phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Chong J(1), Poole P, Leung B, Black PN.

Author information:
(1)University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

Comment in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;(8):ED000028.
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2011 Aug;136(34-35):1711.
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Sep 20;155(6):JC3-2.

BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) affects symptoms, lung 
function, quality of life and life expectancy. Apart from smoking cessation, 
there are no other treatments that slow lung function decline. Roflumilast and 
cilomilast are oral phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE(4)) inhibitors proposed to reduce 
the airway inflammation and bronchoconstriction seen in COPD.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of PDE(4) inhibitors in the 
management of people with stable COPD. Outcomes included lung function, quality 
of life, symptoms, exacerbations and adverse effects.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We identified randomised controlled trials (RCTs) from the 
Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of trials (date of last search 6 
August 2010). We found other trials from web-based clinical trial registers.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs if they compared oral PDE(4) inhibitors 
with placebo in people with COPD. We allowed co-administration of standard COPD 
therapy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One review author extracted data and a second 
review author checked the data, before entry into The Cochrane Collaboration 
software programme (RevMan version 5.1). We reported pooled data as mean 
differences (MD), standardised mean differences (SMD), or odds ratios (OR).
MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-three separate RCTs studying roflumilast (nine trials, 9211 
patients) or cilomilast (fourteen trials, 6457 patients) met the inclusion 
criteria. None of the trials exceeded a year in duration.Treatment with a PDE(4) 
inhibitor was associated with a significant improvement in FEV(1)over the trial 
period compared with placebo (MD 45.59 mL; 95% confidence interval (CI) 39.15 to 
52.03), regardless of COPD severity or concomitant COPD treatment. There were 
some small improvements in quality of life (St George's Respiratory 
Questionnaire MD -1.04; 95% CI -1.66 to -0.41) and COPD-related symptoms, but no 
change in exercise tolerance. Treatment with a PDE(4) inhibitor was associated 
with a reduced likelihood of COPD exacerbation (OR 0.78; 95% CI 0.72 to 0.85). 
More participants in the treatment groups experienced non-serious adverse events 
compared with controls, particularly gastrointestinal symptoms and headache. 
Roflumilast was associated with weight loss during the trial period.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: In people with COPD, PDE(4) inhibitors offered benefit 
over placebo in improving lung function and reducing likelihood of 
exacerbations, however, they had little impact on quality of life or symptoms. 
Gastrointestinal adverse effects and weight loss were common. The optimum place 
of PDE(4) inhibitors in COPD management remains to be defined. Longer-term 
trials are needed to determine whether or not PDE(4) inhibitors modify FEV(1) 
decline, healthcare utilisation or mortality in COPD.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002309.pub3
PMID: 21563134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Int J Health Serv. 2011;41(2):231-8. doi: 10.2190/HS.41.2.c.

Estimating the economic burden of racial health inequalities in the United 
States.

LaVeist TA(1), Gaskin D, Richard P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Johns Hopkin University, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. tlaveist@jhsph.edu

The primary hypothesis of this study is that racial/ethnic disparities in health 
and health care impose costs on numerous aspects of society, both direct health 
care costs and indirect costs such as loss of productivity. The authors 
conducted three sets of analysis, assessing: (1) direct medical costs and (2) 
indirect costs, using data from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (2002-2006) 
to estimate the potential cost savings of eliminating health disparities for 
racial/ethnic minorities and the productivity loss associated with health 
inequalities for racial/ethnic minorities, respectively; and (3) costs of 
premature death, using data from the National Vital Statistics Reports 
(2003-2006). They estimate that eliminating health disparities for minorities 
would have reduced direct medical care expenditures by about $230 billion and 
indirect costs associated with illness and premature death by more than $1 
trillion for the years 2003-2006 (in 2008 inflation-adjusted dollars). We should 
address health disparities because such inequities are inconsistent with the 
values of our society and addressing them is the right thing to do, but this 
analysis shows that social justice can also be cost effective.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.41.2.c
PMID: 21563622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Agric Food Chem. 2011 Jun 8;59(11):5927-34. doi: 10.1021/jf104798n. Epub
2011  May 12.

Isolation and Caenorhabditis elegans lifespan assay of flavonoids from onion.

Xue YL(1), Ahiko T, Miyakawa T, Amino H, Hu F, Furihata K, Kita K, Shirasawa T, 
Sawano Y, Tanokura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-8657, Japan.

The main flavonoids were isolated from three selected onion cultivars. Three 
phenolic compounds were obtained by reverse-phase HPLC, and their structures 
were elucidated by multiple NMR measurements. There were two known compounds, 
quercetin and quercetin 3'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (Q3'G), and one novel compound, 
quercetin 3-O-β-D-glucopyranoside-(4→1)-β-d-glucopyranoside (Q3M), which was 
identified in onion for the first time. These flavonoids were found to be more 
abundant in the onion peel than in the flesh or core. Their antioxidative 
activities were tested using the DPPH method, and their antiaging activities 
were evaluated using a Caenorhabditis elegans lifespan assay. No direct 
correlation was found between antioxidative activity and antiaging activity. 
Quercetin showed the highest antioxidative activity, whereas Q3M showed the 
strongest antiaging activity among these flavonoids, which might be related to 
its high hydrophilicity.

DOI: 10.1021/jf104798n
PMID: 21563825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. JACC Cardiovasc Imaging. 2011 May;4(5):549-56. doi:
10.1016/j.jcmg.2011.03.008.

Cost-effectiveness of coronary computed tomography and cardiac stress imaging in 
the emergency department: a decision analytic model comparing diagnostic 
strategies for chest pain in patients at low risk of acute coronary syndromes.

Priest VL(1), Scuffham PA, Hachamovitch R, Marwick TH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, School of Medicine, Griffith University, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

Emergency department presentations with chest pain are expensive and often 
unrelated to coronary artery disease (CAD). Coronary computed tomographic 
angiography (CTA) may allow earlier discharge of low-risk patients, resulting in 
cost savings. We modeled clinical and economic outcomes of diagnostic strategies 
in patients with chest pain and at low risk of CAD: exercise electrocardiography 
(ECG), stress single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), stress 
echocardiography, and a CTA strategy comprising an initial CTA scan with 
confirmatory SPECT for indeterminate results. Our results suggest that a 2-step 
diagnostic strategy of CTA with SPECT for intermediate scans is likely to be 
less costly and more effective for the diagnosis of a patient group at low risk 
of CAD and a prevalence of 2% to 30%. The CTA strategies were cost saving (lower 
costs, higher quality-adjusted life-years) compared with stress ECG, 
echocardiography, and SPECT. Confirming intermediate/indeterminate CTA scans 
with SPECT results in cost savings and quality-adjusted life-year gains due to 
reduced hospitalization of patients who returned false-positive initial CTA 
test. However, CTA may be associated with a higher event rate in negative 
patients than SPECT, and the diagnostic and prognostic information for the use 
of CTA in the emergency department is evolving. Large comparative, randomized, 
controlled trials of the different diagnostic strategies are needed to compare 
the long-term costs and consequences of each strategy in a population of defined 
low-risk patients in the emergency department.

Copyright © 2011 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcmg.2011.03.008
PMID: 21565744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Gerontologist. 2011 Jun;51 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S5-7. doi:
10.1093/geront/gnr036.

Community engagement and the resource centers for minority aging research.

Sood JR(1), Stahl SM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Behavioral and Social Research, National Institute on 
Aging/National Institutes of Health, 7201 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite #533, 
Bethesda, MD 20892-9205, USA.

The National Institute on Aging created the Resource Centers for Minority Aging 
Research (RCMARs) to address infrastructure development intended to reduce 
health disparities among older adults. The overall goals of the RCMARs are to 
(a) increase the size of the cadre of researchers conducting research on issues 
related to minority aging; (b) increase the diversity of researchers conducting 
research on minority aging; (c) create and test reliable measures for use in 
older diverse populations; and (d) conduct research on recruitment and retention 
of community-dwelling older adults for research addressing behavioral, social, 
and medical issues. Along with this latter goal, the RCMARs developed and 
maintain academic-community partnerships. To accomplish the recruitment and 
retention goal, the RCMARs established Community Liaison Working Groups using a 
collaborative approach to scientific inquiry; this special issue will identify 
research priorities for moving the science of recruitment and retention forward. 
In addition, sustainable and efficient methods for fostering long-term 
partnerships will be identified between community and academia. Evidence-based 
approaches to the recruitment and retention of diverse elders are explored. We 
expect this supplement to serve as a catalyst for researchers interested in 
engaging diverse community-dwelling elders in health-related research. In 
addition, this supplement should serve as a source of the most contemporary 
evidence-based approaches to the recruitment and retention of diverse older 
populations for participation in social, behavioral, and clinical research.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnr036
PMCID: PMC3106367
PMID: 21565819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Orthop Trauma. 2011 Jun;25 Suppl 2:S41. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e31821ac704.

Fragility fractures: a global problem? Introduction.

Bhandari M(1), Schemitsch EH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Orthopaedics, Department of Surgery, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. bhandam@mcmaster.ca

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e31821ac704
PMID: 21566470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. J Orthop Trauma. 2011 Jun;25 Suppl 2:S66-70. doi:
10.1097/BOT.0b013e31821b8c28.

Periprosthetic fractures: epidemiology and future projections.

Della Rocca GJ(1), Leung KS, Pape HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Missouri, 1 Hospital Drive, 
MC213,DC053.10, Columbia, MO 65212, USA. dellaroccag@health.missouri.edu

Periprosthetic fractures are fractures that occur in association with an 
orthopaedic implant, most often used for joint arthroplasty or fracture 
fixation. They are associated with significant morbidity and increased mortality 
in some cases. The incidence of periprosthetic fractures appears to be 
increasing as a result of increasing patient longevity, more demanding activity 
levels that persist into advanced age for some patients, and as a result of the 
increasing rate of revision arthroplasty which accompanies increasing patient 
longevity. Implant, surgeon, and patient factors all contribute to the risk of 
periprosthetic fracture. In this review, we intend to discuss current trends in 
periprosthetic fractures and risk factors associated with their development in 
the joint arthroplasty and fracture patient.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e31821b8c28
PMID: 21566478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. G Ital Dermatol Venereol. 2011 Jun;146(3):169-77.

Health-related quality of life in psoriasis: an analysis of Psocare project 
patients.

Spandonaro F(1), Altomare G, Berardesca E, Calzavara-Pinton P, Chimenti S, 
Girolomoni G, Peserico A, Guerra AP, Vena GA, Polistena B, Ayala F.

Author information:
(1)CEIS, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. 
Federico.spandonaro@uniroma2.it

AIM: Psoriasis is a common, chronic, immune-mediated skin disorder that may be 
complicated by psoriatic arthritis in up to one-third of patients. Psoriasis 
treatments are increasingly effective, yet more expensive, thus requiring 
rational decision-making on interventional priorities. The ability to perform 
cost-utility analyses is hindered by the lack of algorithms that allow the 
inference of utility measures, like QALY, from specific dermatological 
health-related quality-of-life (HR-QoL) measures (e.g. Dermatology Life Quality 
Index [DLQI]). This study aimed to assess whether psoriasis-related HR-QoL data 
(DLQI) could be used to obtain utility measures for use in economic analyses.
METHODS: Psoriasis patients attending 11 Italian Psocare project treatment 
centers over a 19-day period were enrolled and completed a questionnaire, 
including several HR-QoL scales and sociodemographic/clinical data, and 
underwent a clinical examination. Data were subjected to a Multiple 
Correspondence Analysis and multiple regression analysis to determine the 
contribution of single items to the HR-QoL.
RESULTS: DLQI and Psychological General Well-Being Index (PGWBI) scores were 
most closely correlated with the EuroQol health status index. Age and gender 
were considered confounding factors, while pain and arthritis contributed 
significantly to HR-QoL deterioration. For disease severity, the need for 
hospitalization and the number of examinations, but not the Psoriasis Area 
Severity Index (PASI), contributed to HR-QoL deterioration.
CONCLUSION: Recent historical clinical and HR-QoL data from psoriasis patients 
can reproducibly define a health status index, such as the EuroQol SD-5Q, that 
could be used reliably to estimate QALYs for use in cost-utility analyses to 
compare the cost-benefit profiles of competing therapies.

PMID: 21566546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Int J Epidemiol. 2011 Apr;40(2):267-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyr056.

Jokes, drinking and life expectancy.

Ebrahim S.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyr056
PMID: 21568016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2010 Apr-May;194(4-5):793-801; discussion 801-4.

[Tomorrow, who will take care of the elderly? The oldest old support ratio].

[Article in French]

Michel JP(1), Robine JM, Herrmann F.

Author information:
(1)Gériatrie, Hôpitaux universitaires de Genève-Suisse, 40A route de Malagou 
1208 Genève-Suisse. jean-pierre.michel@hcuge.ch

The 1998 report on Aging by the French National Ethical Advisory Committee 
stated that: "human life expectancy is increasing at its fastest rate in 
history". Professor Denys Pellerin, one of the rapporteurs, stressed the 
problems this would pose in coming years. More than 10 years later, these 
forecasts have been confirmed and new emerging problems call for further 
reflection. In particular, the place of informal caregivers needs to be 
reevaluated. This article examines informal caregivers' involvement in the care 
of the oldest-old and dependent adults in France, and the implications of the 
ongoing reduction in their numbers. Intergenerational links are examined, along 
with differences between chronological and functional age, chronic health 
impairments and disabilities in daily living. The large number of people over 75 
years of age, and their difficult living conditions, underline the importance of 
informal caregivers. In France, in the 1950s, the oldest-old support ratio 
(OOSR) between persons aged 50 to 75 years and persons over 85 years was 45 to 
1. In 2050 the OOSR is likely to be closer to 5 to 1! This trend will have 
important consequences for home care, which is widely considered to be the best 
way of preserving human dignity, as underlined by Professor Maurice Tubiana in a 
2005 report on "Social insertion of the elderly at home ". While homecare is the 
most economic form of care, it also appears to be the most difficult to maintain 
and develop. Possible solutions include:--Better integration of old age within 
the human life cycle--Recognizing and supporting informal caregivers' excellent 
work--Maintaining adequate numbers of community-based healthcare 
professionals--Providing caregivers and healthcare professionals with specific 
training--Developing new and financially attractive care programs.

PMID: 21568052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2011 Jan-Feb;139(1-2):58-63. doi: 10.2298/sarh1102058m.

[Results of surgical treatment of developmental dysplasia of hip considering 
child's age].

[Article in Serbian]

Milasinović S.

INTRODUCTION: Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) represents one of common 
diseases of the locomotor system. Late discovery and inadequate healing of this 
defect leads to serious disability in the best years of human life.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to analyse the quality of functional and 
anatomic restitution of the diseased hip, depending on the age of the patient at 
the time of surgery.
METHODS: Our retrospective study was developed on 78 children surgically treated 
for DDH. The examiners were distributed in three groups according to age in 
which they had been operated. The data were produced on the basis of full-scale 
medical documents for each patient.
RESULTS: We analysed and compared anatomic and functional results of surgeries 
treating DDH in the group of examiners. On examination, we got data that the 
most prevalent were distorted gait, inequality of the legs and positive 
Trendelendburg's sign in the group of children who had been operated in the 
oldest age. The patients who were surgically treated in older age had worse 
postoperative results in aspect value angle of flexion and abduction in treated 
hip, higher frequency in manifesting pain and asymmetric gait. Better corrective 
results on aspect of dimension of the colodiaphyseal and Hilgenrainer's angle 
will be obtained if DDH treatment is conducted in younger age of patients. In 
94.95%, the patients were treated with Salter innominate osteotomy of pelvis 
with osteotomy of the femur involving its shortening and reverse rotation. 
Preoperative treatment with Pavliks harness was provided in 44.02% children, 
with abduction of Hilgenrainer's apparatus in 2.6%, with abductions "Niva" slips 
in 2.6% and preoperative extension in 28.2%.
CONCLUSION: The surgical treatment of DDH in the observed patients done at the 
earlier age of growth resulted in the evidently better anatomical and functional 
results at postoperative observation.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh1102058m
PMID: 21568084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Future Oncol. 2011 May;7(5):679-91. doi: 10.2217/fon.11.43.

Imaging in prostate cancer.

Abdellaoui A(1), Iyengar S, Freeman S.

Author information:
(1)Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust, Radiology Department, Derriford Road, 
Crownhill, Plymouth, Devon PL6 8DH, UK. adel.abdellaoui@gmail.com

Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in men, in general. Most patients 
diagnosed with prostate cancer have localized disease confined to the prostate. 
A small percentage of patients with aggressive tumors will progress to develop 
local, extracapsular tumor extension and distant metastases. The aim of prostate 
cancer management is to identify and treat those patients with aggressive 
disease before they develop locally advanced or metastatic disease, and to avoid 
overtreating indolent tumors, which are unlikely to be life threatening. Imaging 
has been shown to be valuable in local staging of prostate cancer and as an aid 
to the management of clinically significant disease. In this article, we discuss 
the different established imaging modalities and emerging techniques for 
prostate cancer imaging in patients with clinically localized disease who may be 
suitable for radical treatment.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.11.43
PMID: 21568683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Endourol. 2011 Jun;25(6):991-7. doi: 10.1089/end.2010.0615. Epub 2011 May
13.

Perioperative, oncologic, and functional outcomes of laparoscopic renal 
cryoablation and open partial nephrectomy: a matched pair analysis.

Klatte T(1), Mauermann J, Heinz-Peer G, Waldert M, Weibl P, Klingler HC, Remzi 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 
tobias.klatte@gmx.de

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Jan;187(1):85-6.

PURPOSE: To directly compare perioperative, oncologic, and functional outcomes 
of laparoscopic renal cryoablation and open partial nephrectomy using a matched 
pair analysis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 41 patients who underwent laparoscopic 
cryoablation for an incidental, solid clinical T(1a)N(0)M(0) renal tumor were 
matched with 82 patients who received partial nephrectomy in cold ischemia, 
using optimal matching based on propensity scores, which were created on the 
basis of preoperative aspects and dimensions used for an anatomic classification 
of renal tumors (PADUA) score, preoperative glomerular filtration rate, 
age-adjusted Charlson comorbidity index, and sex. Median follow-up was 33.6 
months.
RESULTS: No differences in the overall incidence of complications (cryoablation, 
20%; partial nephrectomy, 17%; P=0.739) and grade of complications (P=0.424) 
were observed. After cryoablation, local recurrence developed in four patients 
with renal-cell carcinoma (n=35) after a median duration of 14 months (range 
6-18  mos), but none after partial nephrectomy. The 3-year recurrence-free 
survival probabilities after laparoscopic renal cryoablation vs open partial 
nephrectomy were 83% vs 100%, respectively (P=0.015). The average decrease of 
estimated glomerular filtration rate during follow-up was 7.8±3.1  mL/min/1.73 
 m(2) after laparoscopic cryoablation and 9.8±2.3  mL/min/1.73  m(2) after open 
partial nephrectomy, which was not statistically significant (P=0.602).
CONCLUSIONS: Perioperative complications and renal functional outcomes of 
laparoscopic cryoablation and open partial nephrectomy are similar; however, 
laparoscopic cryoablation confers a substantially higher local recurrence risk 
of about 17% after 3 years. Therefore, laparoscopic renal cryoablation should be 
reserved for high-risk patients with decreased life expectancy. Careful patient 
counseling is advocated. Study limitations include the small sample size, the 
lack of randomization, and the short follow-up.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2010.0615
PMID: 21568698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. J Anim Ecol. 2011 Nov;80(6):1227-35. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2656.2011.01854.x.
Epub  2011 May 13.

Prospectors combine social and environmental information to improve habitat 
selection and breeding success in the subsequent year.

Pärt T(1), Arlt D, Doligez B, Low M, Qvarnström A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, The Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Box 
7044, SE 750 07 Uppsala, Sweden. tomas.part@slu.se

1. Because habitats have profound effects on individual fitness, there is strong 
selection for improving the choice of breeding habitat. One possible mechanism 
is for individuals to use public information when prospecting future breeding 
sites; however, to our knowledge, no study has shown prospecting behaviour to be 
directly linked to subsequent choice of breeding site and future reproductive 
success. 2. We collected long-term data on territory-specific prospecting 
behaviour and subsequent breeding in the short-lived northern wheatear (Oenanthe 
oenanthe). Non-breeders established prospecting territories (<2 ha) that 
overlapped the breeding territories of conspecifics. We tested whether: (i) 
prospectors used social and environmental cues that predicted territory-specific 
breeding success in the following year, and (ii) the prospecting territory was 
tightly linked to the subsequent breeding territory of the prospector, and 
whether this link would be weakened by intraspecific competition with original 
territory owners if they also survived. 3. As expected, prospectors were 
attracted to a combination of site-specific cues that predicted future breeding 
success, i.e. short ground vegetation, a successfully breeding focal pair and 
successful close neighbours. 4. Prospecting behaviour was directly linked to the 
choice of the following year's breeding territory: 79% of surviving prospectors 
established a breeding territory at their prospecting site in the following 
year, with their breeding success being higher than other individuals of the 
same age. As predicted, fidelity to the prospected site was strongly dependent 
on whether the original territory owner of the same sex had died or moved. 
5. Our findings suggest that the use of multiple cues reduces the negative 
impact of stochasticity on the reliability of social cues at small spatial 
scales (e.g. territories) and hence increases the probability of breeding 
success in the next year. Also, the use of conspecific attraction (i.e. the 
preference for breeding aggregations) is selectively advantageous because 
individuals are more likely to find a vacancy in an aggregation as compared to a 
solitary site. By extension, we hypothesize that species life-history traits may 
influence the spatial scale of prospecting behaviour and habitat selection 
strategies.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Animal Ecology © 2011 British Ecological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2656.2011.01854.x
PMID: 21569028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Acad Emerg Med. 2011 May;18(5):488-95. doi:
10.1111/j.1553-2712.2011.01068.x.

Cost-effectiveness of point-of-care biomarker assessment for suspected 
myocardial infarction: the randomized assessment of treatment using panel Assay 
of cardiac markers (RATPAC) trial.

Fitzgerald P(1), Goodacre SW, Cross E, Dixon S.

Author information:
