surgical resection and local stabilization. In this article we review the role 
and rationale for preoperative embolization of spinal metastatic disease and 
discuss various related issues, including determining who is most likely to 
benefit from preoperative embolization, important anatomical considerations, and 
other technical points, such as timing of surgery and accepted methods of 
achieving effective local tumor devascularization.

© Thieme Medical Publishers.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1275596
PMID: 21500133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2011 May;20(5):725-32. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2010.2553.  Epub 2011 Apr 18.

Flexibility in faculty work-life policies at medical schools in the Big Ten 
conference.

Welch JL(1), Wiehe SE, Palmer-Smith V, Dankoski ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Methodist Hospital Emergency Medicine and Trauma Center, Indianapolis, IN 46202, 
USA. jlwelch@iupui.edu

PURPOSE: Women lag behind men in several key academic indicators, such as 
advancement, retention, and securing leadership positions. Although reasons for 
these disparities are multifactorial, policies that do not support work-life 
integration contribute to the problem. The objective of this descriptive study 
was to compare the faculty work-life policies among medical schools in the Big 
Ten conference.
METHODS: Each institution's website was accessed in order to assess its 
work-life policies in the following areas: maternity leave, paternity leave, 
adoption leave, extension of probationary period, part-time appointments, 
part-time benefits (specifically health insurance), child care options, and 
lactation policy. Institutions were sent requests to validate the online data 
and supply additional information if needed.
RESULTS: Each institution received an overall score and subscale scores for 
family leave policies and part-time issues. Data were verified by the human 
resources office at 8 of the 10 schools. Work-life policies varied among Big Ten 
schools, with total scores between 9.25 and 13.5 (possible score: 0-21; higher 
scores indicate greater flexibility). Subscores were not consistently high or 
low within schools.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparing the flexibility of faculty work-life policies in relation 
to other schools will help raise awareness of these issues and promote more 
progressive policies among less progressive schools. Ultimately, flexible 
policies will lead to greater equity and institutional cultures that are 
conducive to recruiting, retaining, and advancing diverse faculty.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2010.2553
PMID: 21501084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Eur Urol. 2011 Jul;60(1):16-8; discussion 19-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.eururo.2011.04.004. Epub 2011 Apr 15.

Health care spending, social policy, public health, and life expectancy: what 
cancer outcomes can tell us beyond treatment efficacy.

Catto JW.

Comment on
    Eur Urol. 2011 Jul;60(1):1-15.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.04.004
PMID: 21501922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2011 Jul;146(1-3):272-5. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncr168.
Epub  2011 Apr 18.

Risk of cancer and non-cancer diseases in the atomic bomb survivors.

Ozasa K(1), Shimizu Y, Sakata R, Sugiyama H, Grant EJ, Soda M, Kasagi F, Suyama 
A.

Author information:
(1)Hiroshima Laboratories, Department of Epidemiology, Radiation Effects 
Research Foundation, Hiroshima Laboratorie, 5-2 Hijiyama-Park, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima 732-0815, Japan. ozasa@rerf.or.jp

Late health effects of exposure to atomic bomb radiation have been evaluated in 
survivors. A cohort of 120 321 people has been followed since 1950 for 
mortality, including the cause of death using the Japanese population registry 
system (Life Span Study), and for cancer incidence using population-based cancer 
registries. Findings have included a markedly increased risk of leukaemia 
several years after the exposure, increased risk of various malignant tumours 
several decades after the exposure and, more recently, findings of increased 
rates of non-cancer diseases such as cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/ncr168
PMID: 21502293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J Cell Biol. 2011 Apr 18;193(2):365-80. doi: 10.1083/jcb.201101035.

Measurements of spatiotemporal changes in G-actin concentration reveal its 
effect on stimulus-induced actin assembly and lamellipodium extension.

Kiuchi T(1), Nagai T, Ohashi K, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan. tai.kiuchi@kcl.ac.uk

To understand the intracellular role of G-actin concentration in 
stimulus-induced actin assembly and lamellipodium extension during cell 
migration, we developed a novel technique for quantifying spatiotemporal changes 
in G-actin concentration in live cells, consisting of sequential measurements of 
fluorescent decay after photoactivation (FDAP) of Dronpa-labeled actin. 
Cytoplasmic G-actin concentrations decreased by ∼40% immediately after cell 
stimulation and thereafter the cell area extended. The extent of 
stimulus-induced G-actin loss and cell extension correlated linearly with 
G-actin concentration in unstimulated cells, even at concentrations much higher 
than the critical concentration of actin filaments, indicating that cytoplasmic 
G-actin concentration is a critical parameter for determining the extent of 
stimulus-induced G-actin assembly and cell extension. Multipoint FDAP analysis 
revealed that G-actin concentration in lamellipodia was comparable to that in 
the cell body. We also assessed the cellular concentrations of free G-actin, 
profilin- and thymosin-β4-bound G-actin, and free barbed and pointed ends of 
actin filaments by model fitting of jasplakinolide-induced temporal changes in 
G-actin concentration.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.201101035
PMCID: PMC3080261
PMID: 21502360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Inj Violence Res. 2012 Jul;4(2):79-86. doi: 10.5249/jivr.v4i2.101. Epub
2011  Apr 16.

Suicide rates: age-associated trends and their correlates.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)International School for Communities, Rights and Inclusion, University of 
Central Lancashire, Preston and Consultant Psychiatrist, West London Mental 
Health NHS Trust, London, United Kingdom. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Suicide rates traditionally increased with ageing. There is a 
paucity of studies examining factors associated with age-associated trends in 
suicide rates.
METHODS: The relationship between suicide rates and ageing was examined by 
ascertaining suicide rates in the seven age-bands 16-24 years to 75+ years from 
the World Health Organisation for 97 countries. The relationship between 
socio-economic status, income inequality, health-care expenditure, child 
mortality rates and life expectancy and countries with an increase, a decline 
and no change in suicide rates with ageing was examined using data from the 
United Nations.
RESULTS: In males and females there was a decline in 5 and 10 countries, an 
increase in 33 and 37 countries and no change in 59 and 50 countries 
respectively in suicide rates with ageing. Age-associated trends in suicide 
rates were significantly associated with socio-economic status (males) or income 
inequality (females), per capita expenditure in healthcare, the proportion of 
gross-national domestic product spent on healthcare, child mortality rates and 
life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study, of factors associated with age-associated trends 
in suicide rates, confirmed a previously developed five sequential stage model 
to explain the relationship between elderly suicide rates and socio-economic 
status and income inequality, quality and quantity of healthcare services, child 
mortality rates and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.5249/jivr.v4i2.101
PMCID: PMC3426905
PMID: 21502781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Korean J Pediatr. 2011 Feb;54(2):55-63. doi: 10.3345/kjp.2011.54.2.55. Epub
2011  Feb 28.

Systematic review of the clinical and genetic aspects of Prader-Willi syndrome.

Jin DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a complex multisystem genetic disorder that is 
caused by the lack of expression of paternally inherited imprinted genes on 
chromosome 15q11-q13. This syndrome has a characteristic phenotype including 
severe neonatal hypotonia, early-onset hyperphagia, development of morbid 
obesity, short stature, hypogonadism, learning disabilities, behavioral 
problems, and psychiatric problems. PWS is an example of a genetic condition 
caused by genomic imprinting. It can occur via 3 main mechanisms that lead to 
the absence of expression of paternally inherited genes in the 15q11.2-q13 
region: paternal microdeletion, maternal uniparental disomy, and an imprinting 
defect. Over 99% of PWS cases can be diagnosed using DNA methylation analysis. 
Early diagnosis of PWS is important for effective long-term management. Growth 
hormone (GH) treatment improves the growth, physical phenotype, and body 
composition of patients with PWS. In recent years, GH treatment in infants has 
been shown to have beneficial effects on the growth and neurological development 
of patients diagnosed during infancy. There is a clear need for an integrated 
multidisciplinary approach to facilitate early diagnosis and optimize management 
to improve quality of life, prevent complications, and prolong life expectancy 
in patients with PWS.

DOI: 10.3345/kjp.2011.54.2.55
PMCID: PMC3077502
PMID: 21503198


487. Biogerontology. 2011 Aug;12(4):329-47. doi: 10.1007/s10522-011-9334-7. Epub
2011  Apr 19.

Hormetins, antioxidants and prooxidants: defining quercetin-, caffeic acid- and 
rosmarinic acid-mediated life extension in C. elegans.

Pietsch K(1), Saul N, Chakrabarti S, Stürzenbaum SR, Menzel R, Steinberg CE.

Author information:
(1)Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Department of Biology, Laboratory of 
Freshwater & Stress Ecology, Späthstr. 80/81, 12437, Berlin, Germany. 
kpietsch@gmx.de

Quercetin, Caffeic- and Rosmarinic acid exposure extend lifespan in 
Caenorhabditis elegans. This comparative study uncovers basic common and 
contrasting underlying mechanisms: For all three compounds, life extension was 
characterized by hormetic dose response curves, but hsp-level expression was 
variable. Quercetin and Rosmarinic acid both suppressed bacterial growth; 
however, antibacterial properties were not the dominant reason for life 
extension. Exposure to Quercetin, Caffeic- and Rosmarinic acid resulted in 
reduced body size, altered lipid-metabolism and a tendency towards a delay in 
reproductive timing; however the total number of offspring was not affected. An 
indirect dietary restriction effect, provoked by either chemo-repulsion or 
diminished pharyngeal pumping was rejected. Quercetin and Caffeic acid were 
shown to increase the antioxidative capacity in vivo and, by means of a 
lipofuscin assay, reduce the oxidative damage in the nematodes. Finally, it was 
possible to demonstrate that the life and thermotolerance enhancing properties 
of Caffeic- and Rosmarinic acid both rely on osr-1, sek-1, sir-2.1 and unc-43 
plus daf-16 in the case of Caffeic acid. Taken together, hormesis, in vivo 
antioxidative/prooxidative properties, modulation of genetic players, as well as 
the re-allocation of energy all contribute (to some extent and dependent on the 
polyphenol) to life extension.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-011-9334-7
PMID: 21503726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Genet Couns. 2011 Aug;20(4):374-83. doi: 10.1007/s10897-011-9361-1. Epub
2011  Apr 19.

Parents' communication with siblings of children affected by an inherited 
genetic condition.

Plumridge G(1), Metcalfe A, Coad J, Gill P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health & Population Science, Primary Clinical Sciences, University 
of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

The objective of this study was to explore parents' communication about risk 
with siblings of children affected by an inherited genetic condition, and to 
ascertain what level of support, if any, is required from health professionals. 
Semi-structured interviews were conducted with affected and unaffected children 
and their parents. Families were affected by one of six genetic conditions 
representing different patterns of inheritance and variations in age of onset, 
life expectancy and impact on families. Interviews were analysed using 
constructivist grounded theory and informed by models which focused on three 
different aspects of family communication. Interviews with 33 families showed 
that siblings' information and support needs go largely unrecognized by health 
professionals and sometimes by parents. Some siblings were actively informed 
about the genetic condition by parents, others were left to find out and 
assimilate information by themselves. Siblings were given information about the 
current symptoms and management of the genetic condition but were less likely to 
know about its hereditary nature and their own potential risk. When siblings 
were fully informed about the condition and included in family discussion, they 
had a better understanding of their role within their family, and family 
relationships were reported to be more harmonious. The information and support 
needs of siblings can be overlooked. Parents with the responsibility for caring 
for a child affected by a genetic condition may require support from health 
professionals to understand and respond to their unaffected children's need for 
more information about the genetic condition and its implications for the 
children's own future health and reproductive decision-making.

DOI: 10.1007/s10897-011-9361-1
PMID: 21503823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 May;29(5):415-32. doi:
10.2165/11588340-000000000-00000.

Updated cost-effectiveness analysis of trastuzumab for early breast cancer: a UK 
perspective considering duration of benefit, long-term toxicity and pattern of 
recurrence.

Hall PS(1), Hulme C, McCabe C, Oluboyede Y, Round J, Cameron DA.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, Leeds, UK. p.s.hall@leeds.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Trastuzumab has significantly improved survival outcomes for women 
with Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2 (HER2)-positive early breast 
cancer. Trastuzumab was established as a cost-effective adjuvant treatment in 
2006. We present an updated cost-effectiveness analysis from the UK perspective, 
which explores assumptions about the duration of benefit from treatment, pattern 
of metastatic recurrence and long-term cardiac toxicity.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to calculate, from the UK NHS 
perspective, expected costs (year 2008 values) and benefits over the lifetime of 
an average cohort of women with HER2-positive early breast cancer treated with 
or without 1 year of adjuvant trastuzumab sequentially after chemotherapy.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed using a discrete-state 
time-dependent semi-Markov model. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used to 
characterize uncertainty around expected outcomes. Value-of-information (VOI) 
analysis was used to identify areas of priority for further research.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness estimates were highly sensitive to the estimated 
duration of treatment benefit. Trastuzumab remained a cost-effective treatment 
strategy at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £30,000 per QALY provided the 
duration of benefit was more than 3.6 years from treatment initiation, assuming 
the hazard ratio for disease-free survival was 0.63. An increasing proportion of 
brain metastases with trastuzumab produced a small change towards worse cost 
effectiveness. Long-term cardiac toxicity needed to rise to high levels to 
affect overall life expectancy and cost effectiveness. VOI analysis placed 
highest value on research into the duration of treatment benefit. The 
relationships between progression-free survival and overall survival and the 
costs of cancer recurrence were also important.
CONCLUSION: The cost effectiveness of adjuvant trastuzumab remains uncertain and 
dependent on assumptions regarding its clinical effect. Uncertainty around cost 
effectiveness could be reduced by further research into the duration of 
treatment effect, particularly in subgroups where this may be shorter. Long-term 
follow-up is warranted and methods to accurately measure duration of treatment 
effect and late toxicities should be developed for future adjuvant drug studies.

DOI: 10.2165/11588340-000000000-00000
PMID: 21504241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. BMC Health Serv Res. 2011 Apr 19;11:85. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-85.

Balancing influence between actors in healthcare decision making.

Kaplan RM(1), Babad YM.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Health Services and Medicine, University of California-Los 
Angeles, CA, USA. rmkaplan@ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: Healthcare costs in most developed countries are not clearly linked 
to better patient and public health outcomes, but are rather associated with 
service delivery orientation. In the U.S. this has resulted in large variation 
in healthcare availability and use, increased cost, reduced employer 
participation in health insurance programs, and reduced overall population 
health outcomes. Recent U.S. healthcare reform legislation addresses only some 
of these issues. Other countries face similar healthcare issues.
DISCUSSION: A major goal of healthcare is to enhance patient health outcomes. 
This objective is not realized in many countries because incentives and 
structures are currently not aligned for maximizing population health. The 
misalignment occurs because of the competing interests between "actors" in 
healthcare. In a simplified model these are individuals motivated to enhance 
their own health; enterprises (including a mix of nonprofit, for profit and 
government providers, payers, and suppliers, etc.) motivated by profit, 
political, organizational and other forces; and government which often acts in 
the conflicting roles of a healthcare payer and provider in addition to its role 
as the representative and protector of the people. An imbalance exists between 
the actors, due to the resources and information control of the enterprise and 
government actors relative to the individual and the public. Failure to use 
effective preventive interventions is perhaps the best example of the 
misalignment of incentives. We consider the current Pareto efficient balance 
between the actors in relation to the Pareto frontier, and show that a 
significant change in the healthcare market requires major changes in the 
utilities of the enterprise and government actors.
SUMMARY: A variety of actions are necessary for maximizing population health 
within the constraints of available resources and the current balance between 
the actors. These actions include improved transparency of all aspects of 
medical decision making, greater involvement of patients in shared medical 
decision making, greater oversight of guideline development and coverage 
decisions, limitations on direct to consumer advertising, and the need for an 
enhanced role of the government as the public advocate.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-85
PMCID: PMC3108374
PMID: 21504599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Clin Rehabil. 2011 Aug;25(8):720-30. doi: 10.1177/0269215511398376. Epub
2011  Apr 19.

Evaluation of a home-based physiotherapy programme for those with moderate to 
severe multiple sclerosis: a randomized controlled pilot study.

Miller L(1), Paul L, Mattison P, McFadyen A.

Author information:
(1)MS Service, NHS Ayrshire and Arran, School of Health, Glasgow Caledonian 
University, Irvine, UK. linda.miller2@aaaht.scot.nhs.uk

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of an eight-week home-based physiotherapy 
programme in reducing physical impairment, disability and psychological distress 
for people with moderate to severe multiple sclerosis (MS).
DESIGN: Pilot randomized controlled trial.
SETTING: Community; subjects' homes.
SUBJECTS: Thirty people moderately to severely affected by MS (Extended 
Disability Status Score, EDSS, 6.5-8) were randomized to an intervention or 
control group.
INTERVENTION: The intervention group received twice weekly, home-based 
physiotherapy for eight weeks and the control group received usual care.
MAIN MEASURES: The following outcome measures were recorded at baseline, 
post-intervention (Week 8) and at follow-up (Week 16). Primary outcome measure; 
Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS29) and secondary outcome measures assessed 
physical impairment, MS symptoms, quality of life, mood, and disability.
RESULTS: Although the Group * Time interaction failed to reach statistical 
significance with MSIS29 (p = 0.925), MS - related symptom checklist (MS-RS) 
(p = 0.627) and for lower limb strength, right knee extension (p = 0.375) and 
right knee flexion (p = 0.794), there is more evidence of altered levels in the 
treatment group than in the control group.
CONCLUSION: A minimum of 58 subjects per group are required to achieve a power 
of 80% at the 5% level of significance based on the MSIS29. A larger scale study 
is required.

DOI: 10.1177/0269215511398376
PMID: 21504954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2011 Dec;28(8):576-82. doi:
10.1177/1049909111406706.  Epub 2011 Apr 19.

Malignant bowel obstruction: a review of current treatment strategies.

Dolan EA(1).

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University, University Hospitals of Cleveland, OH, 
44106, USA. elisabethdolan@gmail.com

Malignant bowel obstruction is common in individuals with intra-abdominal and 
pelvic malignancies and results in considerable suffering. Treatments target 
both the resolution of obstruction and symptom management. Emerging procedures 
include stents placement in the bowel to return patency and newer surgical 
procedures that are evolving to be less invasive. The use of medical 
interventions like corticosteroids, alone or in concert with additional drugs, 
can be utilized to achieve resolution of obstruction. Throughout treatment, it 
is important to also aggressively treat obstructive symptoms like pain and 
nausea/vomiting. This can mostly be achieved with medications, but use of 
venting percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) can also relieve symptoms. 
Parenteral hydration and nutrition use remain controversial with this 
population. The factor most closely tied to prognosis is performance status.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909111406706
PMID: 21504999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2011 May;224(1):21-7. doi: 10.1620/tjem.224.21.

Alcohol consumption as a risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma in North 
China.

Chen J(1), Zhang N, Ling Y, Wakai T, He Y, Wei L, Wang S, Akazawa K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Information Science and Biostatistics, Niigata University 
Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigara, Japan. 
chenjun@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma has been rising in many countries, 
while esophageal squamous cell carcinoma has remained stable or even declined in 
the same populations over the identical periods. These differences in trends 
indicate that these cancer subtypes may have a different etiology, which may be 
caused by lifestyle factors such as alcohol consumption and cigarette smoking. 
Therefore, a matched case-control study to clarify the risk factors of alcohol 
and tobacco intake on the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma was collected 
in Hebei Province of China. The life expectancy of the study area was around 70 
years old. In the present study, 98 patients younger than 65 years who were 
diagnosed with esophageal adenocarcinoma and had initial surgeries (cases) were 
matched with 294 healthy adults (controls) at a ratio of 1:3 according to sex 
and age. We found the proportions of drinkers and smokers among cases were 48.0% 
and 60.2%, respectively, versus 21.2% and 43.5% among controls. Univariate 
conditional logistic regression analyses revealed that the odds ratios (ORs) 
showed a nearly monotonic increase for the duration of alcohol consumption and 
duration of tobacco smoking. Multivariate conditional logistic regression 
analysis indicated that only alcohol consumption was a significant risk factor 
for esophageal adenocarcinoma. Additional analysis of the combination of amount 
and duration of alcohol consumption indicated that heavy drinkers (> 30 ml/day) 
had significantly higher ORs, irrespective of the duration of alcohol 
consumption. In conclusion, heavy alcohol consumption increases the risk for 
esophageal adenocarcinoma independent of the duration of such consumption.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.224.21
PMID: 21505271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Oct 1;36(21):1807-14. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31821cba1f.

Function after spinal treatment, exercise, and rehabilitation: 
cost-effectiveness analysis based on a randomized controlled trial.

Morris S(1), Morris TP, McGregor AH, Doré CJ, Jamrozik K.

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College 
London, London, UK. steve.morris@ucl.ac.uk

STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis alongside a factorial randomized 
controlled trial.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a rehabilitation program and/or 
an education booklet each compared with usual care for the postoperative 
management of patients undergoing discectomy or lateral nerve root decompression 
surgery.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: There is little knowledge about the 
cost-effectiveness of postoperative management of patients after spinal surgery.
METHODS: A total of 338 patients were recruited into the study between June 2005 
and March 2009. Patients were randomized to rehabilitation only, booklet only, 
rehabilitation plus booklet, or usual care only. Interactions between booklet 
and rehabilitation were nonsignificant; hence, we compare booklet versus no 
booklet and rehabilitation versus no rehabilitation. We adopt an English 
National Health Service and personal social services perspective. Data on 
outcomes and costs are based on patient level data from the trial. A 1-year time 
horizon was used. Outcomes were measured in terms of quality-adjusted life 
years. Health-related quality of life was reported by patients using the 
EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D). A comprehensive range of health service contacts were 
included in the cost analysis.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in costs or outcomes associated 
with either intervention. Mean incremental costs and mean quality-adjusted life 
years gained per patient of booklet versus no booklet were -£87 (95% CI: -£1221 
to £1047) and -0.023 (95% CI: -0.068 to 0.023), respectively. Figures for 
rehabilitation versus no rehabilitation were £160 (95% CI: -£984 to £1304) and 
0.002 (95% CI: -0.044 to 0.048), respectively. Neither intervention was 
cost-effective when compared with the threshold range commonly used to judge 
whether or not an intervention is cost-effective in the English National Health 
Service.
CONCLUSION: Cost-effectiveness evidence does not support use of booklet over no 
booklet or rehabilitation over no rehabilitation for the postoperative 
management of patients after spinal surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e31821cba1f
PMID: 21505377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Curr Oncol. 2011 Apr;18(2):67-75. doi: 10.3747/co.v18i2.701.

A Canadian economic analysis of U.S. Oncology Adjuvant Trial 9735.

Bernard LM, Verma S, Thompson MF, Chan BC, Mittmann N, Asma L, Jones SE.

OBJECTIVES: Recent results of the U.S. Oncology Adjuvant Trial 9735 demonstrated 
significant disease-free survival and overall survival benefits for docetaxel 
and cyclophosphamide (tc) compared with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (ac) in 
the adjuvant treatment of operable invasive breast cancer. Based on clinical 
data from the 9735 study, we evaluated the lifetime cost-effectiveness of tc 
compared with ac from the perspective of the Canadian publicly funded health 
care system.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained and per life-year gained. Monthly survival and 
risk of disease recurrence up to 7 years were obtained directly from the overall 
survival and disease-free survival curves in the 9735 study; life-years beyond 7 
years were estimated using the average life expectancy of age-matched women in 
the general Canadian population. Canadian-specific resource utilization and unit 
costs (in 2008 Canadian dollars) were applied to estimate costs for chemotherapy 
administration, chemotherapy-related toxicities, recurrence, and adverse events. 
Health-utility scores and decrements used in the calculation of quality-adjusted 
life-years were derived from the literature.
RESULTS: The lifetime cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained was $8,251 for 
tc compared with ac, and the cost per life-year gained was $6,842. The results 
were robust across a range of sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness, combined with efficacy and an acceptable safety 
profile, support the adoption of tc as an alternative to ac in Canadian clinical 
practice for the adjuvant treatment of operable early breast cancer.

DOI: 10.3747/co.v18i2.701
PMCID: PMC3070705
PMID: 21505597


496. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2011 Apr;108(13):209-15. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2011.0209.
Epub  2011 Apr 1.

The diagnosis and treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Prinz C(1), Farr M, Hering D, Horstkotte D, Faber L.

Author information:
(1)Kardiologische Klinik, Herz- und Diabeteszentrum NRW, Ruhr-Universität 
Bochum, Bad Oeynhausen. akleemeyer@hdz-nrw.de

BACKGROUND: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common hereditary 
disease of the heart.
METHODS: In this article, we summarize the current state of the diagnosis and 
treatment of HCM on the basis of a selective review of recent publications with 
relevance to clinical practice.
RESULTS: Several hundred mutations in more than 27 genes, most of which encode 
sarcomeric structures, are associated with the HCM phenotype. Thus, HCM can be 
thought of as a sarcomeric disease, with myocardial fiber disarray as its 
histological hallmark. There are two types of HCM, a more common, obstructive 
type (HOCM, 70%) and a less common, non-obstructive type (HNCM; in all cases of 
HCM, testing should be performed to detect outflow obstruction at rest and/or on 
provocation, and to thereby determine whether HOCM or HNCM is present. The 
symptoms of HCM include dyspnea, angina pectoris, palpitations, dizziness, and 
occasionally syncope. Because sudden cardiac death is the most serious 
complication of HCM, particularly in young and asymptomatic patients, it follows 
that correct diagnosis, followed by risk stratification of patients with regard 
to the need for prophylactic implantation of an implantable cardiac 
defibrillator (ICD), can be of life-saving importance. The pharmacotherapy of 
symptomatic HNCM consists of the treatment of heart failure with a normal 
ejection fraction (HFNEF). In HOCM, the patient's symptoms and the obstructive 
gradient are the guide to treatment with beta-blockers or verapamil. For 
patients with drug-resistant disease, surgical myectomy and percutaneous septal 
ablation are now standard treatments.
CONCLUSION: A near-normal life expectancy and a highly satisfactory quality of 
life are now realistic treatment goals for patients with HCM.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2011.0209
PMCID: PMC3078548
PMID: 21505608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Qual Life Res. 2012 Feb;21(1):25-34. doi: 10.1007/s11136-011-9917-4. Epub
2011  Apr 21.

Constantly proving the opposite? A test of CPTO using a broad time horizon and 
correcting for discounting.

Attema AE(1), Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. attema@bmg.eur.nl

PURPOSE: An important assumption underlying the quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) model is that people trade off life years against health in the same 
proportion irrespective of the number of remaining life years. This is known as 
the constant proportional trade-offs (CPTO) condition. Previous studies have 
produced mixed empirical evidence about the validity of CPTO. This paper is the 
first to test CPTO using the time trade-off (TTO) method for a broad time 
horizon.
METHODS: In a sample of 83 students, we use a choice based TTO protocol to 
elicit TTO scores for back pain, using ten different gauge durations ranging 
between 1 and 46 years. The TTO scores are corrected for discounting, which is 
elicited by means of the direct method.
RESULTS: We find average TTO scores varying between 0.72 and 0.81. Although the 
scores do not differ much for different durations in absolute terms, some 
differences are significant, rejecting CPTO, with and without correcting for 
discounting. No clear relationship between TTO scores and gauge duration is 
found. An anchoring and rounding heuristic to some extent explains our results.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the importance of elicitation methods and 
context dependencies in QALY measurement and warrant detailed investigation of 
their influence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-011-9917-4
PMCID: PMC3254865
PMID: 21505879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Ther Umsch. 2011 May;68(5):231-3. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000156.

[Statutory basis and legal aspects of evaluating a person's aptitude to drive].

[Article in German]

Baumgartner T(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Administrative Verkehrssicherheit, Straßenverkehrs- und 
Schifffahrtsamt des Kantons Bern.

Evaluating a driving licence holder's aptitude to drive will gain in 
significance in the coming years. In view of demographic developments and rising 
life expectancy, the focus will be primarily on medical examinations testing the 
driving ability of motorists aged over 70. Treating physicians or general 
practitioners will thus increasingly be confronted with questions such as how to 
handle patients who are no longer fit to drive, what duties of information they 
have vis-à-vis their patients in this respect, and whether they should or must 
report persons unfit for driving to the relevant road traffic authorities.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000156
PMID: 21506083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2011 May 1;9(3):149-56. doi: 
10.2165/11587340-000000000-00000.

Valuing health at different ages: evidence from a nationally representative 
survey in the US.

Eisenberg D(1), Freed GL, Davis MM, Singer D, Prosser LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2029, USA. daneis@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Evidence about how people value health gains for different age 
groups is controversial and incomplete, despite the significance of this issue 
for priority setting in health policy.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to collect and analyse nationally 
representative data in the US regarding how people prioritize health programmes 
for children versus older adults.
METHODS: In January 2009, an online survey was administered to a nationally 
representative sample of US adults. Participants were asked for their 
preferences between health programmes benefiting 100 children aged 10 years 
versus health programmes benefiting a randomly varying number of adults aged 60 
years. Participants were also asked about reasons for their choices.
RESULTS: The survey response rate was 64% (n = 2132). Most respondents favoured 
programmes for 100 children aged 10 years when compared with programmes 
benefiting as many as 1000 adults aged 60 years. This was true even for the 
respondent group least inclined to favour children - older adults without 
children aged <18 years.
CONCLUSION: US adults, regardless of sociodemographic characteristics, report 
preferences for health gains for children that go well beyond differentials that 
can be explained by relative life expectancy. Further work is needed to 
understand the extent to which these findings accurately reflect societal 
preferences.

DOI: 10.2165/11587340-000000000-00000
PMID: 21506621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Ophthalmology. 2011 Sep;118(9):1827-33. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.12.034.
Epub  2011 Apr 20.

Economic considerations of macular edema therapies.

Smiddy WE(1).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, PO Box 016880, Miami, FL 33101-6880, USA. 
wsmiddy@med.miami.edu

PURPOSE: To relate costs and treatment benefits for diabetic macular edema 
(DME), branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), and central retinal vein occlusion 
(CRVO).
DESIGN: A model of resource use, outcomes, and cost-effectiveness and utility.
PARTICIPANTS: None.
METHODS: Results from published clinical trials (index studies) of laser, 
intravitreal corticosteroids, intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF) agents, and vitrectomy trials were used to ascertain visual 
benefit and clinical protocols. Calculations followed from the costs of 1 year 
of treatment for each treatment modality and the visual benefits as ascertained.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visual acuity (VA) saved, cost of therapy, cost per line 
saved, cost per line-year saved, and costs per quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs).
RESULTS: The lines saved for DME (0.26-2.02), BRVO (0.74-4.92), and CRVO 
(1.2-3.75) yielded calculations of costs/line of saved VA for DME 
($1329-$11,609), BRVO ($494-$13,039), and CRVO ($704-$7611); costs/line-year for 
DME ($60-$561), BRVO ($25-$754), and CRVO ($45-$473); and costs/QALY ($824 to 
$25,566).
CONCLUSIONS: Relative costs and benefits should be considered in perspective 
when applying and developing treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2011 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.12.034
PMCID: PMC3483086
PMID: 21507488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author does not have any financial interests 
to disclose.


501. J Med Ethics. 2011 May;37(5):262-6. doi: 10.1136/jme.2011.043695.

Sparrows, hedgehogs and castrati: reflections on gender and enhancement.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Science, School of Law, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, 
Manchester M13 9PL, UK. john.harris@manchester.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2012 Jan;38(1):4-7.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2011 May;37(5):276-9.

In a number of papers, including the one published in this journal, Robert 
Sparrow has mounted attacks on consequentialism using principally what he takes 
to be an important fact, which he believes constitutes a reductio ad absurdum of 
consequentialism in its many forms and of this author's approach to enhancement 
and disability in particular (see page 276). This fact is the current longer 
life expectancy of women when compared with men. Here the author argues that 
Sparrow's arguments and entire approach utterly fail. In doing so the author 
hopes to shed further light on the role of normalcy, normal species functioning 
and species-typical functioning in debates about enhancement and disability.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2011.043695
PMID: 21508191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Sultan Qaboos Univ Med J. 2011 Feb;11(1):5-28. Epub 2011 Feb 12.

Clinical development of experimental therapies for malignant glioma.

Rainov NG(1), Heidecke V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Klinikum Augsburg, D-86156 Augsburg, Germany.

Advances in medical and surgical treatments in the last two to three decades 
have resulted in quantum leaps in the overall survival of patients with many 
types of non-central nervous system (CNS) malignant disease, while survival of 
patients with malignant gliomas (WHO grades 3 and 4) has only moderately 
improved. Surgical resection, external fractionated radiotherapy and oral 
chemotherapy, during and after irradiation, remain the pillars of malignant 
glioma therapy and have shown significant benefits. However, numerous clinical 
trials with adjuvant agents, most of them administered systemically and causing 
serious complications and side effects, have not achieved a noteworthy extension 
of survival, or only with considerable deterioration in patients' quality of 
life. Significant attention was focussed in the last decades on the cell biology 
and molecular genetics of gliomas. Improved understanding of the fundamental 
features of tumour cells has resulted in the introduction and increasing 
clinical use of local therapies, which employ spatially defined delivery methods 
and tumour-selective agents specifically designed to be used in the environment 
of a glioma-invaded brain. This review summarises the key findings of some of 
the most recent and important clinical studies of locally administered novel 
treatments for malignant glioma. Several such therapies have shown considerable 
anti-tumour activity and a favourable profile of local and systemic side 
effects. These include biodegradable polymers for interstitial chemotherapy, 
targeted toxins administered by convection enhanced delivery, and intra- and 
peritumourally injected genetically modified viruses conferring glioma-selective 
toxicity. Areas of possible improvement of these therapies and essential future 
developments are also outlined.

PMCID: PMC3074673
PMID: 21509204


503. Br J Surg. 2011 Aug;98(8):1099-106. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7501. Epub 2011 Apr 20.

Economic evaluation of a randomized controlled trial of ultrasound therapy for 
hard-to-heal venous leg ulcers.

Chuang LH(1), Soares MO, Watson JM, Bland JM, Cullum N, Iglesias C, Kang'ombe 
AR, Torgerson D, Nelson EA; VenUS III team.

Collaborators: Adderley U, Allcoat P, Ashton J, Brown A, Collins S, Cross B, 
Dumville J, Flemming K, Wadsworth V, Dealey C, Holey E, McDermott-Scales L, 
McGowan J, Vowden K, Vowden P, Oswald A, Walton S, Pankhurst S, Pye S, McGinnis 
E, ter Riet G, Walker M, Worthy G, Witherow A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, UK. lc525@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: A pragmatic, multicentre randomized controlled trial (VenUS III) was 
conducted to determine whether low-dose ultrasound therapy increased the healing 
rate of hard-to-heal leg ulcers. This study was a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
the trial data.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses were conducted alongside 
the VenUS III trial, in which patients were randomly allocated to either 
ultrasound treatment administered weekly for 12 weeks along with standard care, 
or standard care alone. The time horizon was 12 months and based on the UK 
National Health Service (NHS) perspective.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis showed that ultrasound therapy added to standard 
care was likely to be more costly and provide no extra benefit over standard 
care alone. Individuals who received ultrasound treatment plus standard care 
took a mean of 14.7 (95 per cent confidence interval - 32.7 to 56.8) days longer 
to heal, had 0.009 (-0.042 to 0.024) fewer quality-adjusted life years and had 
higher treatment costs by £ 197.88 (-35.19 to 420.32). Based on these point 
estimates, ultrasound therapy plus standard care for leg ulcers was dominated by 
standard care alone. The analysis of uncertainty showed that this treatment 
strategy is unlikely to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Ultrasound treatment was not cost-effective for hard-to-heal leg 
ulcers and should not be recommended for adoption in the NHS.

© 2011 Crown copyright. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7501
PMID: 21509750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Adv Gerontol. 2010;23(4):611-20.

[Longevity: 1. Social, clinical and some metabolic aspects].

[Article in Russian]

Alidzhanova KhG, Kaurov BA, Artem'eva OV.

We haven't found or identified individual risk factors of cardiovascular 
diseases (smoking, drinking habit) and a later accession of other risk factors 
(arterial hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, anemia, 
hyperfibrinogenemia) in nonagenarians with different age-related diseases. This 
age group was characterized by comorbidity, delayed onset of the disease with 
fewer complications and some features of metabolism as compared to other age 
groups. These results enable us to consider longevity as possible model of 
successful aging.

PMID: 21510087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Palliat Care. 2011 Spring;27(1):12-9.

Specialist physician approaches to discussing cardiopulmonary resuscitation for 
frail older adults: a qualitative study.

Mallery L(1), Hubbard RE, Moorhouse P, Koller K, Eeles EM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Care of the Elderly, Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences 
Centre, 5955 Veterans' Memorial Lane, Ste. 2650, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada 
B3H 2E1. laurie.mallery@cdha.nshealth.ca

BACKGROUND: Despite the impact and importance of end-of-life discussions, little 
is known about how physicians discuss cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) with 
patients and their families. The necessary components for successful 
communication about CPR are poorly understood and an established framework to 
structure these conversations is lacking. Here, we were motivated to understand 
how physicians approach resuscitation planning with families when older patients 
have limited life expectancy and a high burden of illness.
METHOD: Qualitative analysis was conducted of semi-structured interviews of 28 
physicians of varying medical sub-specialties in a tertiary care hospital.
RESULTS: Most physicians explored the surrogates' goals and values, but few 
provided explicit information about the patients' overall health status or 
expected long-term health outcome related to CPR and underlying illnesses.
CONCLUSION: There is considerable heterogeneity in physicians' approaches to CPR 
discussions. The principle of autonomy is dominant with less emphasis on 
providing adequate information for effective decision-making.

PMID: 21510127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Palliat Care. 2011 Spring;27(1):53-61.

Integrating palliative care for patients with advanced chronic kidney disease: 
recent advances, remaining challenges.

Davison SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Institute of Health Economics, University of 
Alberta, 11-107 Clinical Sciences Building, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2G3. 
sara.davison@ualberta.ca

Patients with ESRD have extensive and unique end-of-life care considerations and 
needs. Despite substantial advancements in renal palliative care over the past 
decade, much research is still required. Identifying CKD patients whose illness 
trajectory has shifted and would likely benefit from a palliative approach to 
care should be a priority of all nephrology programs. Further research on 
symptom management, the effectiveness of ACP, the life expectancy of 
conservatively managed and incident dialysis patients, anticipated changes in 
functional status and HRQL with the initiation of dialysis (especially among the 
frail elderly), and the best way to deliver renal palliative care is required to 
maximize the integration and effectiveness of renal palliative care services.

PMID: 21510132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Health Rep. 2011 Mar;22(1):25-36.

Potential years of life lost at ages 25 to 74 among Status Indians, 1991 to 
2001.

Tjepkema M(1), Wilkins R, Pennock J, Goedhuis N.

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0T6. 
michael.tjepkema@statcan.gc.ca

BACKGROUND: Compared with other Canadians, First Nations peoples experience a 
disproportionate burden of illness and disease. Potential years of life lost 
(PYLL) before age 75 highlights the impact of youthful or early deaths.
DATA AND METHODS: The 1991 to 2001 Canadian census mortality follow-up study 
tracked a 15% sample of adults aged 25 or older over more than a decade. This 
study examined mortality among people aged 25 to 74-55,600 Status Indians 
(39,200 on reserve and 16,500 off reserve) and 2,475,700 non-Aboriginal 
adults-all of whom were enumerated by the 1991 census long-form questionnaire. 
Age-standardized PYLL rates were calculated, based on the number of person-years 
at risk before age 75.
RESULTS: Status Indian adults had 2.5 times the risk of dying before age 75, 
compared with non-Aboriginal adults. Results did not differ greatly by residence 
on or off reserve. Relative and absolute inequalities were greatest for 
unintentional and intentional injuries. Socio-economic factors such as income, 
education, housing and employment explained a substantial share of the 
disparities in premature death.
INTERPRETATION: Status Indian adults had higher rates of premature mortality. 
Socio-economic factors played an important role in those disparities. Injuries 
were important contributors to both relative and absolute inequalities.

PMID: 21510587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Health Rep. 2011 Mar;22(1):37-46.

Potential years of life lost at ages 25 to 74 among Métis and non-Status 
Indians, 1991 to 2001.

Tjepkema M(1), Wilkins R, Senécal S, Guimond E, Penney C.

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0T6. 
michael.tjepkema@statcan.gc.ca

BACKGROUND: Aboriginal peoples experience a disproportionate burden of disease, 
compared with other Canadians. However, relatively little information is 
available about mortality among Métis and non-Status Indians.
METHODS: This study calculates potential years of life lost before age 75 (PYLL) 
for people aged 25 to 74 by all-cause and cause-specific mortality, and examines 
the effect of socio-economic factors on premature mortality. Age-specific and 
age-standardized PYLL rates were calculated for 11,600 Métis, 5,400 non-Status 
Indians, and 2,475,700 non-Aboriginal adults based on the number of person-years 
at risk up to age 75.
RESULTS: Métis and non-Status Indian adults had about twice the risk of dying 
before age 75, compared with non-Aboriginal adults. While the largest percentage 
of PYLL was due to non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease and 
cancer, relative and absolute inequalities were greatest for injuries. 
Socioeconomic indicators such as income, education and employment explained a 
large share of the disparities in premature mortality.
INTERPRETATION: The results highlight the losses of potential years of life due 
to chronic diseases, as well as the possible importance of injury prevention 
programs for Métis and non-Status Indians.

