there was a remaining difference in favour of TDR for back pain. 73% in the TDR 
group and 63% in the fusion group were much better or totally pain-free (n.s.), 
while twice as many patients in the TDR group were totally pain free (30%) 
compared to the fusion group (15%). Time of surgery and total time in hospital 
were shorter in the TDR group. There was no difference in complications and 
reoperations, except that seventeen of the patients in the fusion group were 
re-operated for removal of their implants. The second study concerned sex life 
and sexual function. TDR is performed via an anterior approach, an approach that 
has been used for a long time for various procedures on the lumbar spine. A 
frequent complication reported in males when this approach is used is persistent 
retrograde ejaculation. The TDR group in this material was operated via an 
extra-peritoneal approach to the retroperitoneal space, and there were no cases 
of persistent retrograde ejaculation. There was a surprisingly high frequency of 
men in the fusion group reporting deterioration in ability to have an orgasm 
postoperatively. Preoperative sex life was severely hampered in the majority of 
patients in the entire material, but sex life underwent a marked improvement in 
both treatment groups by the two-year follow-up that correlated with reduction 
in back pain. The third study was on mobility in the lumbar spinal segments, 
where X-rays were taken in full extension and flexion prior to surgery and at 
two-year follow-up. Analysis of the films showed that 78% of the patients in the 
fusion group reached the surgical goal (non-mobility) and that 89% of the TDR 
patients maintained mobility. Preoperative disc height was lower than in a 
normative database in both groups, and remained lower in the fusion group, while 
it became higher in the TDR group. Mobility in the operated segment increased in 
the TDR group postoperatively. Mobility at the rest of the lumbar spine 
increased in both treatment groups. Mobility in adjacent segments was within the 
norm postoperatively, but slightly larger in the fusion group. In the fourth 
study the health economics of TDR vs Fusion was analysed. The hospital costs for 
the procedure were higher for patients in the fusion group compared to the TDR 
group, and the TDR patients were on sick-leave two months less. In all, these 
studies showed that the results in the TDR group were as good as in the fusion 
group. Patients are more likely to be totally pain-free when treated with TDR 
compared to fusion. Treatment with this new procedure seems justified in 
selected patients at least in the short-term perspective. Long-term follow-up is 
underway and results will be published in due course.

DOI: 10.3109/17453674.2011.575327
PMID: 21542779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2011 May 4;6:18. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-6-18.

Mortality associated with neurofibromatosis 1: a cohort study of 1895 patients 
in 1980-2006 in France.

Duong TA(1), Sbidian E, Valeyrie-Allanore L, Vialette C, Ferkal S, Hadj-Rabia S, 
Glorion C, Lyonnet S, Zerah M, Kemlin I, Rodriguez D, Bastuji-Garin S, 
Wolkenstein P.

Author information:
(1)AP-HP, Hôpital Henri-Mondor, Service de Dermatologie, F-94010 Créteil, 
France.

BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1), a common autosomal dominant disorder, was 
shown in one study to be associated with a 15-year decrease in life expectancy. 
However, data on mortality in NF1 are limited. Our aim was to evaluate mortality 
in a large retrospective cohort of NF1 patients seen in France between 1980 and 
2006.
METHODS: Consecutive NF1 patients referred to the National French Referral 
Center for Neurofibromatoses were included. The standardized mortality ratio 
(SMR) with its 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated as the ratio of 
observed over expected numbers of deaths. We studied factors associated with 
death and causes of death.
RESULTS: Between 1980 and 2006, 1895 NF1 patients were seen. Median follow-up 
was 6.8 years (range, 0.4-20.6). Vital status was available for 1226 (65%) 
patients, of whom 1159 (94.5%) survived and 67 (5.5%) died. Overall mortality 
was significantly increased in the NF1 cohort (SMR, 2.02; CI, 1.6-2.6; P < 
10-4). The excess mortality occurred among patients aged 10 to 20 years (SMR, 
5.2; CI, 2.6-9.3; P < 10-4) and 20 to 40 years (SMR, 4.1; 2.8-5.8; P < 10-4). 
Significant excess mortality was found in both males and females. In the 10-20 
year age group, females had a significant increase in mortality compared to 
males (SMR, 12.6; CI, 5.7-23.9; and SMR, 1.8; CI, 0.2-6.4; respectively). The 
cause of death was available for 58 (86.6%) patients; malignant nerve sheath 
tumor was the main cause of death (60%).
CONCLUSIONS: We found significantly increased SMRs indicating excess mortality 
in NF1 patients compared to the general population. The definitive diagnosis of 
NF1 in all patients is a strength of our study, and the high rate of death 
related to malignant transformation is consistent with previous work. The 
retrospective design and hospital-based recruitment are limitations of our 
study. Mortality was significantly increased in NF1 patients aged 10 to 40 years 
and tended to be higher in females than in males.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-6-18
PMCID: PMC3095535
PMID: 21542925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2011 May;21(4):647-53. doi:
10.1097/IGC.0b013e318212b87d.

No supportive evidence for clinical benefit of routine follow-up in ovarian 
cancer: a Dutch multicenter study.

Geurts SM(1), van Altena AM, de Vegt F, Tjan-Heijnen VC, Massuger LF, van Dijck 
JA, Verbeek AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and HTA, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. S.Geurts@ebh.umcn.nl

INTRODUCTION: Routine follow-up is standard medical practice in ovarian cancer 
patients treated with curative intent. However, no strong evidence exists 
indicating that prognosis is improved. The objective of this study was to 
evaluate the routine follow-up schedule for ovarian cancer patients regarding 
the adherence to the Dutch protocol, the detection of recurrences, and the 
follow-up's impact on overall survival.
METHODS: All 579 consecutive patients diagnosed with epithelial ovarian, primary 
peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer in 4 Dutch hospitals between 1996 and 2006 
were selected. Only patients in complete clinical remission after primary 
treatment were studied. Compliance to the Dutch follow-up guideline was assessed 
in a random sample of 68 patients. Of the 127 patients with recurrence, the mode 
of recurrence detection was addressed. Survival time since primary treatment was 
calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: The patients received more follow-up visits than was recommended 
according to the guideline. The cumulative 5-year risk of recurrence was 55% 
(95% confidence interval [CI], 43%-67%). The survival of patients with recurrent 
ovarian cancer detected asymptomatically at a routine visit (n = 51) tended to 
be better compared with patients with symptomatic detection at a routine (n = 
31) or diagnosed after an interval visit (n = 31). The median survival times 
were 44 (95% CI, 38-64), 29 (95% CI, 21-38), and 33 months (95% CI, 19-61), 
respectively (P = 0.08). The median time from primary treatment to recurrence 
was similar for the 3 groups: 14, 10, and 11 months, respectively (P = 0.26).
CONCLUSIONS: Follow-up in line with (inter)national guidelines yields a 
seemingly longer life expectancy if the recurrence was detected 
asymptomatically. However, this result is expected to be explained by 
differences in tumor biology and length-time bias.

DOI: 10.1097/IGC.0b013e318212b87d
PMID: 21543930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Am J Hematol. 2011 Jun;86(6):484-9. doi: 10.1002/ajh.22012. Epub 2011 May 4.

Oxidative stress in sickle cell disease; pathophysiology and potential 
implications for disease management.

Nur E(1), Biemond BJ, Otten HM, Brandjes DP, Schnog JJ; CURAMA Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Slotervaart Hospital Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. e.nur@amc.uva.nl

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a hemoglobinopathy characterized by hemolytic 
anemia, increased susceptibility to infections and vaso-occlusion leading to a 
reduced quality of life and life expectancy. Oxidative stress is an important 
feature of SCD and plays a significant role in the pathophysiology of hemolysis, 
vaso-occlusion and ensuing organ damage in sickle cell patients. Reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) and the (end-)products of their oxidative reactions are potential 
markers of disease severity and could be targets for antioxidant therapies. This 
review will summarize the role of ROS in SCD and their potential implication for 
SCD management.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.22012
PMID: 21544855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2011;12(2):387-91.

Risk of cancer development in India.

Murthy NS(1), Rajaram D, Gautham MS, Shivaraj NS, Nandakumar BS, Pruthvish S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, MS Ramaiah Medical College, Bangalore, 
India. nsmurthy44@yahoo.com

Incidence as a measure of risk for development of cancer is a well accepted 
epidemiological concept which can be precisely defined. The present 
communication documents an estimate of the current probability of development of 
cancer for specific age groups as well as for entire life time risk at the India 
country level for several cancers and 'all sites together'. The published data 
on age specific cancer incidence rates from 12 population based registries 
located at various parts of the country along with the abridged life tables 
relating to the Indian population formed the basic material for computation. 
Employing life table methodology for estimates, the current probability of 
developing cancer of all sites from 35-64 years is 4.67% in males and 6.55% in 
females while life time risk was found to be 9.05% and 10.2% respectively. The 
greater risk in females was mainly due to the high risk of development of cancer 
of the uterine cervix and breast. When the age-period of 35 to 70+ years were 
considered, the probability percentage was found to be 9.94 % in males whereas 
it was 11.6% in females. According to these estimates 1 in 10 men and 1 in 8 
women in India can expect develop cancer of any form, in their life span after 
the age of 35 years. The probability of developing tobacco related cancers from 
35 to 70+ years was found to be 4.75% and 2.16% in males and females 
respectively. Estimation in terms of probability will be useful in evaluating 
the changes in the disease spectrum as a result of change in mortality 
experience and population structure over a period of time.

PMID: 21545200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2011 Jun;36(3):249-56. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2710.2010.01181.x.  Epub 2010 Aug 24.

How much is the life of a cancer patient worth? A pharmaco-economic perspective.

Simoens S(1), Dooms M.

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Pharmaceutical Care and Pharmaco-Economics, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Leuven Hospital Pharmacy, University Hospitals Leuven, 
Leuven, Belgium. steven.simoens@pharm.kuleuven.be

WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Countries struggle to accommodate the introduction 
of new effective cancer medicines, while containing costs. Our objective is to 
comment on several pharmaco-economic challenges involved in determining the 
value of cancer medicines by reviewing cost-effectiveness thresholds for cancer 
medicines in several countries and by discussing the cost-effectiveness of 
anti-cancer biotechnology and orphan medicines.
COMMENT: A literature search was carried out of PubMed, Centre for Reviews and 
Dissemination databases, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and EconLit up 
to August 2009. Health technology assessment agencies in England and Scotland 
are willing to incur a higher cost per quality-adjusted life year for cancer 
medicines than for other medicines. Risk-sharing arrangements have been 
implemented to optimize the value of cancer medicines. The cost-effectiveness of 
biotechnology medicines in cancer care is challenged by their high price, and 
depends on the ability to identify the most responsive target population, 
through use of suitable biomarkers. The evaluation of orphan medicines in cancer 
care needs to balance the absence of an alternative therapy for a 
life-threatening disease against the high cost-effectiveness ratio, and usually 
weak clinical data.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Current strategies used to inform decisions on the 
funding of expensive anti-cancer medicines are commented on to highlight 
important issues and problems. Pharmaco-economic evaluation is an important tool 
for assessing the value of cancer medicines and to inform evidence-based 
decision making in cancer care. Value-judgments such as preferential 
consideration of anti-cancer medicines can then be made explicitly.

© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2010.01181.x
PMID: 21545607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Lancet. 2011 May 14;377(9778):1673-80. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60246-8.
Epub  2011 May 3.

Dengue vector control strategies in an urban setting: an economic modelling 
assessment.

Luz PM(1), Vanni T, Medlock J, Paltiel AD, Galvani AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. paula.luz@ipec.fi ocruz.br

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 May 14;377(9778):1630-1.

BACKGROUND: An estimated 2·5 billion people are at risk of dengue. Incidence of 
dengue is especially high in resource-constrained countries, where control 
relies mainly on insecticides targeted at larval or adult mosquitoes. We did 
epidemiological and economic assessments of different vector control strategies.
METHODS: We developed a dynamic model of dengue transmission that assesses the 
evolution of insecticide resistance and immunity in the human population, thus 
allowing for long-term evolutionary and immunological effects of decreased 
dengue transmission. We measured the dengue health burden in terms of 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) lost. We did a cost-effectiveness 
analysis of 43 insecticide-based vector control strategies, including strategies 
targeted at adult and larval stages, at varying efficacies (high-efficacy [90% 
mortality], medium-efficacy [60% mortality], and low-efficacy [30% mortality]) 
and yearly application frequencies (one to six applications). To assess the 
effect of parameter uncertainty on the results, we did a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis and a threshold analysis.
FINDINGS: All interventions caused the emergence of insecticide resistance, 
which, with the loss of herd immunity, will increase the magnitude of future 
dengue epidemics. In our model, one or more applications of high-efficacy larval 
control reduced dengue burden for up to 2 years, whereas three or more 
applications of adult vector control reduced dengue burden for up to 4 years. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of the strategies for two 
high-efficacy adult vector control applications per year was US$615 per DALY 
saved and for six high-efficacy adult vector control applications per year was 
$1267 per DALY saved. Sensitivity analysis showed that if the cost of adult 
control was more than 8·2 times the cost of larval control then all strategies 
based on adult control became dominated.
INTERPRETATION: Six high-efficacy adult vector control applications per year has 
a cost-effectiveness ratio that will probably meet WHO's standard for a 
cost-effective or very cost-effective intervention. Year-round larval control 
can be counterproductive, exacerbating epidemics in later years because of 
evolution of insecticide resistance and loss of herd immunity. We suggest the 
reassessment of vector control policies that are based on larval control only.
FUNDING: The Fulbright Programme, CAPES (Brazilian federal agency for 
post-graduate education), the Miriam Burnett trust, and the Notsew Orm Sands 
Foundation.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60246-8
PMCID: PMC3409589
PMID: 21546076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Pediatr Emerg Care. 2011 May;27(5):406-8. doi: 10.1097/PEC.0b013e318216b2f8.

Tension chylothorax complicating acute malignant airway obstruction.

Piastra M(1), Pietrini D, Ruggiero A, Rizzo D, Marzano L, Attinà G, De Luca D, 
De Rosa G, Conti G.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, Emergency Department, Catholic University 
Medical School, Rome, Italy.

Acute upper airway obstruction represents one of the most challenging 
emergencies in pediatric practice. In particular, a tension chylothorax 
complicating a malignant airway obstruction is a rare and life-threatening 
complication. We report a rapidly progressing tension chylothorax associated 
with a cervical mass in a 10-month-old male infant. To our knowledge, the 
extension of a cervical mass to the supraclavear region resulting in a 
compressive chylothorax represents an exceptional event in pediatrics. Early 
recognition and prompt treatment resulted to be essential to relieve the 
compression and to avoid end-stage hemodynamic and respiratory function 
derangement.

DOI: 10.1097/PEC.0b013e318216b2f8
PMID: 21546802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Radiol Manage. 2011 Mar-Apr;33(2):40-4.

CT dose reduction in pediatric patients.

Firestine K(1).

Author information:
(1)Memorial Hermann Healthcare System, Houston, TX, USA. 
kelly.firestine@memorialhermann.org

CT is an incredibly valuable imaging tool, but there are unique concerns with 
pediatric patients, including the increase of sensitivity to radiation, increase 
risk of cancer formation with the longer life expectancy, and larger radiation 
doses received when adult CT settings are used. With a grant from the AHRA and 
Toshiba Putting Patients First program, Memorial Hermann Healthcare System was 
able to better educate technologists and physicians which helped in reducing 
radiation dose to pediatric patients by as much as 60%. Standardizing CT 
protocols and properly training staff are very important. But to make 
improvements on a larger scale, strategies for tracking compliance and providing 
feedback must be used.

PMID: 21548498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Mol Cell. 2011 May 6;42(3):390-400. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.03.021.

Absence of mitochondrial translation control proteins extends life span by 
activating sirtuin-dependent silencing.

Caballero A(1), Ugidos A, Liu B, Öling D, Kvint K, Hao X, Mignat C, Nachin L, 
Molin M, Nyström T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg, 
Medicinaregatan 9C, 413 90 Göteborg, Sweden. antonio.caballero_reyes@kcl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2011 May 6;42(3):271-3.

Altered mitochondrial functionality can extend organism life span, but the 
underlying mechanisms are obscure. Here we report that inactivating SOV1, a 
member of the yeast mitochondrial translation control (MTC) module, causes a 
robust Sir2-dependent extension of replicative life span in the absence of 
respiration and without affecting oxidative damage. We found that SOV1 interacts 
genetically with the cAMP-PKA pathway and the chromatin remodeling apparatus. 
Consistently, Sov1p-deficient cells displayed reduced cAMP-PKA signaling and an 
elevated, Sir2p-dependent, genomic silencing. Both increased silencing and life 
span extension in sov1Δ cells require the PKA/Msn2/4p target Pnc1p, which 
scavenges nicotinamide, a Sir2p inhibitor. Inactivating other members of the MTC 
module also resulted in Sir2p-dependent life span extension. The data 
demonstrate that the nuclear silencing apparatus senses and responds to the 
absence of MTC proteins and that this response converges with a pathway for life 
span extension elicited by reducing TOR signaling.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.03.021
PMID: 21549315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Med Clin North Am. 2011 May;95(3):477-93, ix-x. doi:
10.1016/j.mcna.2011.02.009.

Nutritional strategies for successful aging.

Woo J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine & Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China.

With increasing life expectancy in developed and developing countries, 
maintaining health and function in old age has become an important goal, 
including avoidance or optimal control of chronic diseases; maintenance or 
retarding the decline of physical and cognitive function; optimizing 
psychological health; and maintaining independent functioning in tasks related 
to self-care and societal interaction. This article discusses all of those, as 
well as other components of successful aging such as social network and 
socioeconomic status.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcna.2011.02.009
PMID: 21549873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2011 Jun;6(6):1375-84. doi: 10.2215/CJN.08841010.
Epub  2011 May 5.

Clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of lanthanum carbonate as second-line 
therapy in hemodialysis patients in Japan.

Goto S(1), Komaba H, Moriwaki K, Fujimori A, Shibuya K, Nishioka M, Kim JI, 
Yoshiya K, Shin J, Hasegawa H, Taniguchi M, Fujii H, Nishi S, Kamae I, Fukagawa 
M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Kidney Center, Kobe University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kobe, Japan.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Lanthanum carbonate (LC) is a nonaluminum, noncalcium 
phosphate binder that is effective for hyperphosphatemia in dialysis patients. 
However, its efficacy and cost-effectiveness as second-line therapy have not 
been fully examined.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: We first conducted a multicenter, 
open-label, 16-week clinical trial to examine the effect of additive LC in 116 
hemodialysis patients who had uncontrolled hyperphosphatemia with conventional 
phosphorus-lowering therapy alone. Based on these clinical data, a state 
transition model was developed to evaluate the benefits and costs associated 
with LC as second-line therapy. Reduced risks for cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality among patients treated with LC arise through more of the population 
achieving the target phosphorus levels. Uncertainty was explored through 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: After 16 weeks of additive LC treatment, mean serum phosphorus levels 
decreased from 7.30 ± 0.90 to 5.71 ± 1.32 mg/dl, without significant changes in 
serum calcium or intact parathyroid hormone levels. A subsequent 
cost-effectiveness analysis showed that compared with conventional treatment, 
additive LC incurred an average additional lifetime cost of $22,054 per person 
and conferred an additional 0.632 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). This 
resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $34,896 per QALY gained. 
Applying a cost-effectiveness threshold of $50,000 per QALY, a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis showed that additive LC had a 97.4% probability of being 
cost-effective compared with conventional treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the use of LC as second-line therapy 
would be cost-effective among hemodialysis patients with uncontrolled 
hyperphosphatemia in Japan.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.08841010
PMCID: PMC3109935
PMID: 21551021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Health History. 2010;12(2):57-78. doi: 10.5401/healthhist.12.2.0057.

Science and survival in paradise.

Scragg R(1).

Author information:
(1)PNG University.

Nineteenth-century European colonialists of Papua New Guinea brought western 
ideas and government, along with diseases that decimated the population. They 
received in exchange the killing endemic diseases of the country and all 
nineteenth-century settlers suffered severely. As doctors were few, and 
medicines did little, and as sick children could not attend school, sixty years 
of prewar medical services and education had little impact. However over those 
same years there was an expansion of medical science and the challenge in 1946 
was to use these advances to reduce the high morbidity and mortality and ensure 
healthy children for educators to prepare for eventual national self 
sufficiency. Epidemiological research within the Public Health Department was an 
essential component in generating management and prevention strategies for all 
the significant diseases. The principal outcomes by 1975 were a raised life 
expectancy from 34 years to 56 years, a doubled population, many university 
graduates, and nationhood.

DOI: 10.5401/healthhist.12.2.0057
PMID: 21553695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. BMC Public Health. 2011 May 10;11:286. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-286.

Aboriginal premature mortality within South Australia 1999-2006: a 
cross-sectional analysis of small area results.

Banham D(1), Jury H, Woollacott T, McDermott R, Baum F.

Author information:
(1)Research and Ethics Policy, SA Health, 11 Hindmarsh Square, Adelaide, SA, 
5000, Australia. david.banham@health.sa.gov.au

BACKGROUND: This paper initially describes premature mortality by Aboriginality 
in South Australia during 1999 to 2006. It then examines how these outcomes vary 
across area level socio-economic disadvantage and geographic remoteness.
METHODS: The retrospective, cross-sectional analysis uses estimated resident 
population by sex, age and small areas based on the 2006 Census, and Unit Record 
mortality data. Premature mortality outcomes are measured using years of life 
lost (YLL). Subsequent intrastate comparisons are based on indirect sex and age 
adjusted YLL results. A multivariate model uses area level socio-economic 
disadvantage rank, geographic remoteness, and an interaction between the two 
variables to predict premature mortality outcomes.
RESULTS: Aboriginal people experienced 1.1% of total deaths but 2.2% of YLL and 
Aboriginal premature mortality rates were 2.65 times greater than the South 
Australian average. Premature mortality for Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people 
increased significantly as area disadvantage increased. Among Aboriginal people 
though, a significant main effect for area remoteness was also observed, 
together with an interaction between disadvantage and remoteness. The 
synergistic effect shows the social gradient between area disadvantage and 
premature mortality increased as remoteness increased.
CONCLUSIONS: While confirming the gap in premature mortality rates between 
Aboriginal South Australians and the rest of the community, the study also found 
a heterogeneity of outcomes within the Aboriginal community underlie this 
difference. The results support the existence of relationship between area level 
socio-economic deprivation, remoteness and premature mortality in the midst of 
an affluent society. The study concludes that vertically equitable resourcing 
according to population need is an important response to the stark mortality gap 
and its exacerbation by area socio-economic position and remoteness.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-286
PMCID: PMC3112121
PMID: 21554738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15(21):1-132. doi: 10.3310/hta15210.

A pragmatic single-blind randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation of 
the use of leukotriene receptor antagonists in primary care at steps 2 and 3 of 
the national asthma guidelines (ELEVATE study).

Price D(1), Musgrave S, Wilson E, Sims E, Shepstone L, Blyth A, Murdoch J, 
Mugford M, Juniper E, Ayres J, Wolfe S, Freeman D, Lipp A, Gilbert R, Harvey I.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Academic Primary Care, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. 
david@respiratoryresearch.org

DOI: 10.3310/hta15210
PMID: 21554855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Arch Intern Med. 2011 Aug 8;171(15):1344-51. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2011.206. Epub 2011 May 9.

Long-term outcomes following positive fecal occult blood test results in older 
adults: benefits and burdens.

Kistler CE(1), Kirby KA, Lee D, Casadei MA, Walter LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
27599-7595, USA. Christine_Kistler@med.unc.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2011 Aug 8;171(15):1351.
    Arch Intern Med. 2011 Aug 8;171(15):1332-4.

BACKGROUND: In the United States, older adults have low rates of follow-up 
colonoscopy after a positive fecal occult blood test (FOBT) result. The 
long-term outcomes of these real world practices and their associated benefits 
and burdens are unknown.
METHODS: Longitudinal cohort study of 212 patients 70 years or older with a 
positive FOBT result at 4 Veteran Affairs (VA) facilities in 2001 and followed 
up through 2008. We determined the frequency of downstream outcomes during the 7 
years of follow-up, including procedures, colonoscopic findings, outcomes of 
treatment, complications, and mortality based on chart review and national VA 
and Medicare data. Net burden or benefit from screening and follow-up was 
determined according to each patient's life expectancy. Life expectancy was 
classified into 3 categories: best (age, 70-79 years and Charlson-Deyo 
comorbidity index [CCI], 0), average, and worst (age, 70-84 years and CCI, ≥4 or 
age, ≥85 years and CCI, ≥1).
RESULTS: Fifty-six percent of patients received follow-up colonoscopy (118 of 
212), which found 34 significant adenomas and 6 cancers. Ten percent experienced 
complications from colonoscopy or cancer treatment (12 of 118). Forty-six 
percent of those without follow-up colonoscopy died of other causes within 5 
years of FOBT (43 of 94), while 3 died of colorectal cancer within 5 years. 
Eighty-seven percent of patients with worst life expectancy experienced a net 
burden from screening (26 of 30) as did 70% with average life expectancy (92 of 
131) and 65% with best life expectancy (35 of 51) (P = .048 for trend).
CONCLUSIONS: Over a 7-year period, older adults with best life expectancy were 
less likely to experience a net burden from current screening and follow-up 
practices than are those with worst life expectancy. The net burden could be 
decreased by better targeting FOBT screening and follow-up to healthy older 
adults.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2011.206
PMCID: PMC3291514
PMID: 21555655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. PLoS One. 2011 Apr 27;6(4):e18892. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018892.

Frequency of aneuploidy related to age in porcine oocytes.

Hornak M(1), Jeseta M, Musilova P, Pavlok A, Kubelka M, Motlik J, Rubes J, Anger 
M.

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Research Institute, Brno, Czech Republic.

It is generally accepted that mammalian oocytes are frequently suffering from 
chromosome segregation errors during meiosis I, which have severe consequences, 
including pregnancy loss, developmental disorders and mental retardation. In a 
search for physiologically more relevant model than rodent oocytes to study this 
phenomenon, we have employed comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), combined 
with whole genome amplification (WGA), to study the frequency of aneuploidy in 
porcine oocytes, including rare cells obtained from aged animals. Using this 
method, we were able to analyze segregation pattern of each individual 
chromosome during meiosis I. In contrast to the previous reports where 
conventional methods, such as chromosome spreads or FISH, were used to estimate 
frequency of aneuploidy, our results presented here show, that the frequency of 
this phenomenon was overestimated in porcine oocytes. Surprisingly, despite the 
results from human and mouse showing an increase in the frequency of aneuploidy 
with advanced maternal age, our results obtained by the most accurate method 
currently available for scoring the aneuploidy in oocytes indicated no increase 
in the frequency of aneuploidy even in oocytes from animals, whose age was close 
to the life expectancy of the breed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018892
PMCID: PMC3083398
PMID: 21556143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


603. Int J Periodontics Restorative Dent. 2011 Jun;31(3):255-63.

Multicenter retrospective analysis of 201 consecutively placed camlog dental 
implants.

Franchini I(1), Capelli M, Fumagalli L, Parenti A, Testori T.

Author information:
(1)Section of Implant Dentistry and Oral Rehabilitation, Department of Health 
Technologies, School of Dentistry, I.R.C.C.S. Galeazzi Institute, University of 
Milan, Italy. ilaria.franchini@dentimplant.it

Camlog tube-in-tube implants were introduced several years ago. This multicenter 
retrospective analysis evaluated the success rate of Root-Line and Screw-Line 
tube-in-tube implants in daily use. A total of 201 implants were placed in 96 
patients with different indications and implantation procedures. Implants were 
analyzed retrospectively after a functional loading period of 12 to 78 months. 
At the end of the observation period, all but 1 implant fulfilled the success 
criteria, resulting in an implant survival rate of 99.5%. Individual case 
analysis of implants in special indications, such as immediate loading, short 
implants, and tilted implants, did not indicate any increased risk of implant 
failure.

PMID: 21556382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Osteoporos Int. 2012 Mar;23(3):921-7. doi: 10.1007/s00198-011-1652-8. Epub
2011  May 11.

Estimation of the lifetime risk of hip fracture for women and men in Canada.

Hopkins RB(1), Pullenayegum E, Goeree R, Adachi JD, Papaioannou A, Leslie WD, 
Tarride JE, Thabane L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Health 
Science, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. hopkinr@mcmaster.ca

In Canada in 2008, based on current rates of fracture and mortality, a woman or 
man at age 50 years will have a projected lifetime risk of fracture of 12.1% and 
4.6%, respectively, and 8.9% and 6.7% after incorporating declining rates of hip 
fracture and increases in longevity.
INTRODUCTION: In 1989, the lifetime risk of hip fractures in Canada was 14.0% 
(women) and 5.2% (men). Since then, there have been changes in rates of hip 
fracture and increased longevity. We update these estimates to 2008 adjusted for 
these trends, and in addition, we estimated the lifetime risk of first hip 
fracture.
METHODS: We used national administrative data from fiscal year April 1, 2007 to 
March 31, 2008 to identify all hip fractures in Canada. We estimated the crude 
lifetime risk of hip fracture for age 50 years to end of life using life tables. 
We projected lifetime risk incorporating national trends in hip fracture and 
increased longevity from Poisson regressions. Finally, we removed the percentage 
of second hip fractures to estimate the lifetime risk of first hip fracture.
RESULTS: From April 1, 2007 to March 31, 2008, there were 21,687 hip fractures, 
15,742 (72.6%) in women and 5,945 (27.4%) in men. For women and men, the crude 
lifetime risk was 12.1% (95%CI, 12.1, 12.2%) and 4.6% (95%CI, 4.5, 4.7%), 
respectively. When trends in mortality and hip fractures were both incorporated, 
the lifetime risk of hip fracture were 8.9% (95%CI, 2.3, 15.4%) and 6.7% (95%CI, 
1.2, 12.2%). The lifetime risks for first hip fracture were 7.3% (95%CI, 0.8, 
13.9%) and 6.2% (95%CI, 0.7, 11.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: The lifetime risk of hip fracture has fallen from 1989 to 2008 for 
women and men. Adjustments for trends in mortality and rates of hip fracture 
with removing second fractures produced non-significant differences in 
estimates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-011-1652-8
PMCID: PMC5101063
PMID: 21557096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


605. Int J Inj Contr Saf Promot. 2011 Dec;18(4):285-91. doi: 
10.1080/17457300.2011.569088. Epub 2011 Jun 1.

Injury prevention priority setting based on the National Injury Surveillance 
data in Korea.

Hong J(1), Eo EK, Shin SD, Im TH, Lee BE, Lee YK, Kim YT, Park H.

Author information:
(1)Office of Policy Development, Seoul Welfare Foundation, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.

For the reduction of injury burden, injury prevention efforts are essential. 
However, financial, material and human resources are far from sufficient, and 
this situation necessitates setting priorities for effective injury prevention. 
Hence, the aim of this study is to prioritise 13 injury mechanisms for 
prevention of injury using four injury burden criteria. National death 
certificate, hospital discharge data and emergency data during 2004 were used. 
According to the 13 most frequent injury mechanisms (ICD-10), mortality priority 
score, years of potential life lost (YPLL) priority score, morbidity priority 
score and hospital charge priority score were calculated. Injury mechanisms 
which were ranked fourth or higher on at least three of the four criteria scores 
were arranged in rank orders. Traffic crashes ranked highest on all four of the 
priority criteria for injury prevention followed by fall and poisoning in second 
and third positions, respectively. Categorised by age groups, in 0-19 year olds, 
traffic crashes, suffocation and drowning; in 20-59 years, traffic crashes, 
suffocation and poisoning; and in 60 and over, traffic crashes and fall were 
shown to be significant injury prevention priority in rank orders. Injury 
prevention priorities identified from this study could be useful in 
strategically allocating limited resources and implementing more focused 
prevention policies in Korea.

DOI: 10.1080/17457300.2011.569088
PMID: 21557125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Chemistry. 2011 Jun 14;17(25):7007-12. doi: 10.1002/chem.201003712. Epub
2011  May 9.

Synthesis and characterization of red-luminescent graphene oxide functionalized 
with silica-coated Eu3+ complex nanoparticles.

Zhao C(1), Feng L, Xu B, Ren J, Qu X.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Inorganic Chemistry, State Key Laboratory of Rare 
Earth Resource Utilization, Laboratory of Chemical Biology, Changchun Institute 
of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun, Jilin 130022, 
China.

Traditional dye-doped fluorescent graphene oxide (GO) reveals a low quantum 
yield and a short life expectancy. Herein, red-luminescent silica-coated Eu(3+) 
complex nanoparticles were synthesized and covalently coupled to GO nanosheets 
by means of a carbodiimide-mediated amidation process. SEM and TEM studies 
demonstrated successful attachment of the silica-coated Eu(3+) complex 
nanoparticles onto the GO surface. Spectroscopic studies showed that the 
GO-nanoparticle conjugates exhibit strong luminescence, long lifetimes, as well 
as good photostability, which suggests that this new type of luminescent 
nanomaterial has the potential for highly sensitive time-resolved fluorescence 
cyto- and histochemistry imaging.

Copyright © 2011 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/chem.201003712
PMID: 21557351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Sep;29(9):753-69. doi:
10.2165/11585990-000000000-00000.

Decision-analytic models to simulate health outcomes and costs in heart failure: 
a systematic review.

Goehler A(1), Geisler BP, Manne JM, Jahn B, Conrads-Frank A, Schnell-Inderst P, 
Gazelle GS, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment and Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02214, USA. alex@mgh-ita.org

Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a critical public health issue with increasing 
effect on the healthcare budgets of developed countries. Various 
decision-analytic modelling approaches exist to estimate the cost effectiveness 
of health technologies for CHF. We sought to systematically identify these 
models and describe their structures. We performed a systematic literature 
review in MEDLINE/PreMEDLINE, EMBASE, EconLit and the Cost-Effectiveness 
Analysis Registry using a combination of search terms for CHF and 
decision-analytic models. The inclusion criterion required 'use of a 
mathematical model evaluating both costs and health consequences for CHF 
management strategies'. Studies that were only economic evaluations alongside a 
clinical trial or that were purely descriptive studies were excluded. We 
identified 34 modelling studies investigating different interventions including 
screening (n = 1), diagnostics (n = 1), pharmaceuticals (n = 15), devices 
(n = 13), disease management programmes (n = 3) and cardiac transplantation 
(n = 1) in CHF. The identified models primarily focused on middle-aged to 
elderly patients with stable but progressed heart failure with systolic left 
ventricular dysfunction. Modelling approaches varied substantially and included 
27 Markov models, three discrete-event simulation models and four mathematical 
equation sets models; 19 studies reported QALYs. Three models were externally 
validated. In addition to a detailed description of study characteristics, the 
model structure and output, the manuscript also contains a synthesis and 
critical appraisal for each of the modelling approaches. Well designed decision 
models are available for the evaluation of different CHF health technologies. 
Most models depend on New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes or number of 
hospitalizations as proxy for disease severity and progression. As the 
diagnostics and biomarkers evolve, there is the hope for better intermediate 
endpoints for modelling disease progression as those that are currently in use 
all have limitations.

DOI: 10.2165/11585990-000000000-00000
PMID: 21557632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nephrology (Carlton). 2011 Sep;16(7):626-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1797.2011.01471.x.

Exercise training in haemodialysis patients: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Smart N(1), Steele M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise Science, University of New England, Armidale, 
Queensland, Australia. nsmart2@une.edu.au

Comment in
    J Physiother. 2012;58(2):130.

BACKGROUND: We quantified baseline and observed change in peak VO(2) , quality 
of life, cardiac function, strength and energy intake following exercise 
training in haemodialysis patients and optimal exercise delivery for producing 
greatest adherence, safety and patient improvements.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was completed in August 2010 to identify 
randomized, controlled trials of exercise training studies in haemodialysis 
patients. A subsequent meta-analysis was conducted and the search repeated in 
December 2010.
RESULTS: Fifteen studies, yielding 565 patients were included. Baseline, peak 
VO(2) values were 70% of age-predicted values, exercise intervention patients 
improved post-training peak VO(2) to 88% predicted. Exercise training produced 
mean 26 ± 12% improvements in eight studies that reported peak VO(2) , mean 
difference 5.22 mL O(2) /kg per min (95% confidence interval 3.86, 6.59, P < 
0.00001). Equivocal results for change in short-form 36 health questionnaire 
scores were reported post-training. Heart rate variability was improved after 
exercise training of normal to normal interval, mean difference 1634 
milliseconds (95% confidence interval 8.3, 24.3, P < 0.0001). Significant 
improvements in lean body mass, quadriceps muscle area, knee extension, hip 
abduction and flexion strength were also reported (all P < 0.0001). Exercise 
training appears safe, with no deaths directly associated with exercise in 28 
400 patient-hours and no differences in withdrawal rates between exercise and 
control participants, P = 0.98. Exercise training for 6 months or more conveyed 
larger improvements in peak VO(2) than shorter programmes. Data indicate about 
25% of patients were excluded from exercise training studies for medical 
reasons.
CONCLUSION: Exercise training is safe and imparts large improvements in peak 
VO(2) , and heart rate variability.

© 2011 The Authors. Nephrology © 2011 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1797.2011.01471.x
PMID: 21557787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Psychol Med. 2011 Jul;41(7):1564; author reply 1564-5. doi: 
10.1017/S0033291711000651. Epub 2011 May 4.

Life history theory as a possible explanation for teenage pregnancy.

Hubbeling D.

Comment on
    Psychol Med. 2011 Sep;41(9):1867-77.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291711000651
PMID: 21557894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J R Soc Med. 2011 May;104(5):223-4. doi: 10.1258/jrsm.2011.100379.

Practising medicine in China: an unsolved dilemma.

Tian Y(1), Hu Y, Chen P, Tang Z, Gao CQ.

Author information:
(1)The Research Center for Medical Sciences, The 3rd XiangYa Hospital, Central 
South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.

DOI: 10.1258/jrsm.2011.100379
PMCID: PMC3089872
PMID: 21558101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Integr Comp Biol. 2010 Nov;50(5):808-17. doi: 10.1093/icb/icq007. Epub 2010
Mar  15.

Metabolism and longevity: is there a role for membrane fatty acids?

Hulbert AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Research Centre & School of Biological Sciences, University of 
Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia. hulbert@uow.edu.au

More than 100 years ago, Max Rubner combined the fact that both metabolic rate 
and longevity of mammals varies with body size to calculate that "life energy 
potential" (lifetime energy turnover per kilogram) was relatively constant. This 
calculation linked longevity to aerobic metabolism which in turn led to the 
"rate-of-living" and ultimately the "oxidative stress" theories of aging. 
However, the link between metabolic rate and longevity is imperfect. Although 
unknown in Rubner's time, one aspect of body composition of mammals also varies 
with body size, namely the fatty acid composition of membranes. Fatty acids vary 
dramatically in their susceptibility to peroxidation and the products of lipid 
peroxidation are very powerful reactive molecules that damage other cellular 
molecules. The "membrane pacemaker" modification of the "oxidative stress" 
theory of aging proposes that fatty acid composition of membranes, via its 
influence on peroxidation of lipids, is an important determinant of lifespan 
(and a link between metabolism and longevity). The relationship between membrane 
fatty acid composition and longevity is discussed for (1) mammals of different 
body size, (2) birds of different body size, (3) mammals and birds that are 
exceptionally long-living for their size, (4) strains of mice that vary in 
longevity, (5) calorie-restriction extension of longevity in rodents, (6) 
differences in longevity between queen and worker honeybees, and (7) variation 
in longevity among humans. Most of these comparisons support an important role 
for membrane fatty acid composition in the determination of longevity. It is 
apparent that membrane composition is regulated for each species. Provided the 
diet is not deficient in polyunsaturated fat, it has minimal influence on a 
species' membrane fatty acid composition and likely also on it's maximum 
longevity. The exceptional longevity of Homo sapiens combined with the limited 
knowledge of the fatty acid composition of human tissues support the potential 
importance of mitochondrial membranes in determination of longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/icb/icq007
PMID: 21558243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Integr Comp Biol. 2010 Nov;50(5):818-28. doi: 10.1093/icb/icq105. Epub 2010
Aug  16.

Allocation of nutrients to somatic tissues in young ovariectomized grasshoppers.

Judd ET(1), Hatle JD, Drewry MD, Wessels FJ, Hahn DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Florida, 1 UNF Drive, 
Jacksonville, Florida 32224, USA.

The disposable soma hypothesis predicts that when reproduction is reduced, life 
span is increased because more nutrients are invested in the soma, increasing 
somatic repair. Rigorously testing the hypothesis requires tracking nutrients 
from ingestion to allocation to the soma or to reproduction. Fruit flies on 
life-extending dietary restriction increase allocation to the soma "relative" to 
reproduction, suggesting that allocation of nutrients can be associated with 
extension of life span. Here, we use stable isotopes to track ingested nutrients 
in ovariectomized grasshoppers during the first oviposition cycle. Previous work 
has shown that ovariectomy extends life span, but investment of protein in 
reproduction is not reduced until after the first clutch of eggs is laid. 
Because ovariectomy does not affect investment in reproduction at this age, the 
disposable soma hypothesis would predict that ovariectomy should also not affect 
investment in somatic tissues. We developed grasshopper diets with distinct 
signatures of ¹³C and ¹⁵N, but that produced equivalent reproductive outputs. 
These diets are, therefore, appropriate for the reciprocal switches in diet 
needed for tracking ingested nutrients. Incorporation of stable isotopes into 
eggs showed that grasshoppers are income breeders, especially for carbon. 
Allocation to the fat body of nitrogen ingested as adults was slightly increased 
by ovariectomy; this was our only result that was not consistent with the 
disposable soma hypothesis. In contrast, ovariectomy did not affect allocation 
of nitrogen to femoral muscles. Further, allocation of carbon to the fat body or 
femoral muscles did not appear to be affected by ovariectomy. Total anti-oxidant 
activities in the hemolymph and femoral muscles were not affected by 
ovariectomy. These experiments showed that allocation of nutrients was altered 
little by ovariectomy in young grasshoppers. Additional studies on older 
individuals are needed to further test the disposable soma hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1093/icb/icq105
PMCID: PMC3140271
PMID: 21558244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. JAMA. 2011 May 11;305(18):1902-3. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.617.

Public health implications of government spending reductions.

Woolf SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Center on Human Needs, Virginia Commonwealth University, West Hospital, 1200 
East Broad St, PO Box 980251, Richmond, VA 23298-0251, USA. swoolf@vcu.edu

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.617
PMID: 21558522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Cancer Nurs. 2011 Nov-Dec;34(6):453-63. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0b013e31820f4eb7.

Time perception of cancer patients without evidence of disease and advanced 
cancer patients in a palliative, end-of-life-care setting.

van Laarhoven HW(1), Schilderman J, Verhagen CA, Prins JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. h.vanlaarhoven@onco.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Time perception may be an important factor influencing distress of 
cancer patients. However, no comparative studies have been performed for cancer 
patients without evidence of disease and advanced cancer patients in the 
