
OBJECTIVES: In industrialized countries the increase in life expectancy of the 
population has led to an increase in chronic diseases such as osteoarthritis 
(OA). Knee osteoarthritis for the high disability and psychological stress, not 
considered adequately, has negative impact on the quality of life. In this 
pathology SPA therapy, in particular the sulphur mud-bath therapy, can provide a 
stage of the therapeutic strategy. However, studies on the impact of SPA therapy 
on the quality of life in knee osteoarthritis are insufficient. The aim research 
was to evaluate the effectiveness of SPA therapy on chronic pain, joint function 
and psychological distress that characterize knee osteoarthritis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study has been performed on 44 subjects affected by 
knee Osteoarthritis, being 27 (61%) women and 17 (39%) men (mean age: 58±8.7 
years, age range: 42-76 years). The investigated subjects were treated with a 
cycle of a combination of daily locally applied mud-packs and 
bicarbonate-sulphurous mineral bath water from Terme of Telese SpA 
(Benevento-Italy). At the beginning and at the end of the Spa therapy was 
evaluated the level of pain (using VAS scale), the degree of knee flexion (using 
goniometer), the level of anxiety and depression (using SDS Zung Test and SAS 
Zung test) and the impact of sulphurous mud-bath treatment on quality of life 
(using the algofunctional Lequesne indice).
RESULTS: At the end of Spa therapy the results of our study have shown a 
significant (p<0.05) reduction of the pain (1.8±1.6 → 0,9±1,3) and a significant 
(p<0.01) increase of the knee flexion (79°±22 → 91.3°±19) with an improved 
quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: The data from this investigation seem to indicate that the SPA 
therapy may be useful in improving joint function and quality of life in knee 
osteoarthritis.

PMID: 21533309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Qual Life Res. 2011 Dec;20(10):1737-44. doi: 10.1007/s11136-011-9912-9. Epub
 2011 May 1.

Validation of the FACIT-fatigue subscale, selected items from 
FACT-thrombocytopenia, and the SF-36v2 in patients with chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia.

Signorovitch J(1), Brainsky A, Grotzinger KM.

Author information:
(1)Analysis Group, Inc, Huntington Ave, Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: To assess the validity and reliability of the fatigue subscale of the 
Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT-F), a 6-item subset from 
the thrombocytopenia subscale of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy 
(FACT-Th6) and the Short Form-36 Version 2 (SF-36v2) in 2 clinical trials of the 
thrombopoietin receptor agonist eltrombopag in chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
(ITP) patients.
METHODS: In the 6-month, RAndomized placebo-controlled ITP Study with 
Eltrombopag (RAISE; n = 197), the FACIT-F, FACT-Th6, and SF-36v2 were 
administered at baseline, day 43, weeks 14 and 26, or early withdrawal. In the 
ongoing open-label extension study, Eltrombopag EXTENDed Dosing Study (EXTEND; n 
= 154), measures were administered at baseline, at the beginning of each stage, 
and at permanent discontinuation of study medication.
RESULTS: FACIT-F, FACT-Th6, and SF-36v2 demonstrated acceptable internal 
consistency reliability (i.e., all Cronbach's alphas >0.70) and test-retest 
reliability (all intraclass correlation coefficients >0.70). Construct validity 
was supported by moderate (0.35 < r < 0.50) to strong (r > 0.50) inter-measure 
correlations for baseline and change scores. A small to medium magnitude of 
effect was captured by the FACIT-F and FACT-Th6 among patients who experienced 
sustained platelet responses.
CONCLUSIONS: Results provide support for the validity, reliability, and 
responsiveness of the FACIT-F, FACT-Th6, and SF-36v2 in chronic ITP patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-011-9912-9
PMID: 21533818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Soc Work Public Health. 2011;26(3):278-93. doi: 10.1080/19371910903126747.

Rural women's access to health care in Bangladesh: swimming against the tide?

Hossen MA(1), Westhues A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Social Work, Wilfrid Laurier University, Kitchener, Ontario, 
Canada. ahossen2001@yahoo.com

Large segments of the population in developing countries are deprived of a 
fundamental right: access to basic health care. The problem of access to health 
care is particularly acute in Bangladesh. One crucial determinant of health 
seeking among rural women is the accessibility of medical care and barriers to 
care that may develop because of location, financial requirements, bureaucratic 
responses to the patient, social distance between client and provider, and the 
sex of providers. This article argues that to increase accessibility fundamental 
changes are required not only in resource allocation but also in the very 
structure of health services delivery.

DOI: 10.1080/19371910903126747
PMID: 21534125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Bioethics. 2012 Nov;26(9):455-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2011.01888.x.
Epub  2011 Apr 29.

Evaluating interventions in health: a reconciliatory approach.

Wolff J(1), Edwards S, Richmond S, Orr S, Rees G.

Author information:
(1)University College London, London, United Kingdom. j.wolff@ucl.ac.uk

Health-related Quality of Life measures have recently been attacked from two 
directions, both of which criticize the preference-based method of evaluating 
health states they typically incorporate. One attack, based on work by Daniel 
Kahneman and others, argues that 'experience' is a better basis for evaluation. 
The other, inspired by Amartya Sen, argues that 'capability' should be the 
guiding concept. In addition, opinion differs as to whether health evaluation 
measures are best derived from consultations with the general public, with 
patients, or with health professionals. And there is disagreement about whether 
these opinions should be solicited individually and aggregated, or derived 
instead from a process of collective deliberation. These distinctions yield a 
wide variety of possible approaches, with potentially differing policy 
implications. We consider some areas of disagreement between some of these 
approaches. We show that many of the perspectives seem to capture something 
important, such that it may be a mistake to reject any of them. Instead we 
suggest that some of the existing 'instruments' designed to measure HR QoLs may 
in fact successfully already combine these attributes, and with further 
refinement such instruments may be able to provide a reasonable reconciliation 
between the perspectives.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2011.01888.x
PMID: 21535065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Clin Nurs. 2011 Jul;20(13-14):1834-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03673.x.  Epub 2011 Apr 28.

Quality of end-of-life care for non-cancer patients in a non-acute hospital.

Woo J(1), Lo R, Cheng JO, Wong F, Mak B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China. jeanwoowong@cuhk.edu.hk

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Few surveys have been carried out documenting the quality 
of life for non-cancer patients in general district hospitals reaching the final 
trajectory towards death. We carried out a survey of 80 patients facing the 
final stages of their chronic illness as well as their carers and hospital 
staff.
BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy, a large majority of patients are 
older, where palliative care principles for patients with cancer are equally 
applicable. Few surveys have been carried out documenting the quality of life 
for non-cancer patients in general district hospitals reaching the final 
trajectory towards death in terms of patients' and carers' perspective, compared 
with the more extensive literature for patients with cancer.
DESIGN: Survey.
METHODS: Assessment tools include symptom check list, geriatric depression 
scale, Chinese Death Anxiety Inventory and the McGill Quality of Life 
Questionnaire for patients; SF-12 and the Chinese cost of care index for 
informal carers; and the Chinese Maslach Bumout and Death Anxiety Inventories 
for hospital staff.
RESULTS: Lower-limb weakness (92·5%), fatigue (86·2%), oedema (85%), dysphagia 
(58·2%) and pain (48·8%) were the most common symptoms in this group of 
patients. The mean Chinese Caregiver Stress Index score was 45·93 (SD 6·45) 
(maximum score = 80). For staff, the mean SF-12 physical component score was 
lower than the Hong Kong population average.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that there is room for improvement in the 
quality of end-of-life care. Relevance to clinical practice.  Patients in the 
final stages of many chronic illnesses have high prevalence of symptoms 
comparable to those of patients with cancer. Raising awareness and improving 
training for all health care professionals, formulating guidelines and care 
pathways and incorporating quality of care as key performance indicators are 
measures to improve the quality of end-of-life care.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03673.x
PMID: 21535275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Clin Nurs. 2011 Aug;20(15-16):2183-94. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03674.x.  Epub 2011 May 3.

Before the cradle and beyond the grave: a lifespan/settings-based framework for 
health promotion.

Whitehead D(1).

Author information:
(1)Massey University, College of Humanities and Social Sciences, School of 
Health and Social Services, Palmerston North, New Zealand. 
D.Whitehead@massey.ac.nz

AIM: To develop a unique framework which combines the concepts of settings and 
lifespan where they are applied to health promotion.
BACKGROUND: The influential World Health Organisation's 1986 Ottawa Charter for 
Health Promotion supported certain settings being nominated as unique social 
systems for enabling specific health promotion activity. These initially 
included a whole raft of proposed settings ranging from the micro to macro; 
these at the time mainly being hospitals, communities, schools, workplaces, 
cities, villages, islands and the home and family. Several other settings have 
since also been added to the list - which now include health-promoting 
universities and health-promoting prisons. Most of the mentioned settings have 
in more recent times being acknowledged in the nursing literature.
DESIGN: Discursive.
METHOD: A critical examination and exploration of the existing health promotion 
literature related to both settings and lifespan.
RESULTS: It is possible to combine the related, but hitherto unexplored, 
concepts of health promotion settings and lifespan. This has resulted in a 
useable framework to further assist practitioners with their health promotion 
work.
CONCLUSION: What has not yet surfaced in both the nursing and the general health 
promotion literature is that most settings can be linked as a whole, not just by 
their geographical location and proximity to each other, but also to the fact 
that they tend to follow a linear direction that ranges across the total 
lifespan.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Viewing health promotion in the way that this 
framework proposes further assists in locating and clarifying the often confused 
and contested position of health promotion in nursing.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03674.x
PMID: 21535458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Food Sci. 2010 Sep;75(7):M406-11. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01724.x.

Quality assessment of salted, modified atmosphere packaged rainbow trout under 
treatment with oregano essential oil.

Pyrgotou N(1), Giatrakou V, Ntzimani A, Savvaidis IN.

Author information:
(1)General Hospital of Nicosia, Dept. of Microbiology, Nicosia, Cyprus.

The present study evaluated the effect of oregano essential oil (EO) on fresh 
salted, packaged (45%CO(2)/5%O(2)/50%N(2)) rainbow trout fillets and stored for 
a period of 21 d at 4 °C. Treatments included the following: M1 (control without 
added EO), M2 (EO 0.2%, v/w), and M3 (0.4%, v/w). Populations of lactic acid 
bacteria (LAB), H(2)S-producing bacteria (including Shewanella putrefaciens), 
Enterobacteriaceae, and Pseudomonas spp. reached higher final numbers in control 
(M1) than for M2 and M3 samples. Under treatments M2 and M3, total volatile 
basic nitrogen (TVBN) and trimethylamine nitrogen (TMAN) values were lower than 
for M1 samples, whereas lipid oxidation, as judged by determination of 
thiobarbituric acid values (TBA), did not occur during the refrigerated storage 
period. Interestingly, treatment M2 resulted in a shelf-life extension of 7 to 8 
d for the fresh trout fillets, whereas treatment M3 proved unsuitable (due to 
strong odor) for trout fillet preservation, as determined by sensory evaluation.
PRACTICAL APPLICATION: The use of an essential oil such as oregano oil in fresh 
fish preservation may be considered an alternative "natural" additive, enhancing 
the sensory characteristics and extending the shelf life of the product.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01724.x
PMID: 21535548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. J Food Sci. 2010 Nov-Dec;75(9):M586-96. doi:
10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01868.x.

Carboxymethyl cellulose coating and low-dose gamma irradiation improves storage 
quality and shelf life of pear (Pyrus communis L., Cv. Bartlett/William).

Hussain PR(1), Meena RS, Dar MA, Wani AM.

Author information:
(1)Astrophysical Science Div., Nuclear Research, Laboratory, Bhabha Atomic 
Research Centre, Zakura, Srinagar, Kashmir 190006, India. 
hussainpr@rediffmail.com

Carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) coatings alone and in combination with gamma 
irradiation were tested for maintaining the storage quality and extending shelf 
life of pear. Matured green pears were CMC coated at levels 0.25% to 1.0% w/v 
and gamma irradiated at 1.5 kGy. The treated fruit including control was stored 
under ambient (temperature 25 ± 2 °C, RH 70%) and refrigerated (temperature 3 ± 
1 °C, RH 80%) conditions. Irradiation alone at 1.5 kGy gave 8 and 4 d extension 
in shelf life of pear following 45 and 60 d of refrigeration, respectively. CMC 
coating at 1.0% w/v was effective in giving 6 and 2 d extension in shelf life of 
pear following 45 and 60 d of refrigeration, respectively. All combinatory 
treatments delayed the decaying of pear during postrefrigerated storage, but 
combination of 1.0% w/v CMC and 1.5 kGy irradiation proved significantly 
(P≤0.05) effective in maintaining the storage quality and delaying the decaying 
of pear. The above combinatory treatment gave an extension of 12 and 6 d in 
shelf life of pear during postrefrigerated storage at 25 ± 2 °C, RH 70% 
following 45 and 60 d of refrigeration.

© 2010 Institute of Food Technologists®

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01868.x
PMID: 21535615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Food Sci. 2011 Jan-Feb;76(1):M54-63. doi:
10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01910.x.  Epub 2010 Nov 29.

Antimicrobial effectiveness of bioactive packaging materials from edible 
chitosan and casein polymers: assessment on carrot, cheese, and salami.

Moreira Mdel R(1), Pereda M, Marcovich NE, Roura SI.

Author information:
(1)Natl. Univ. of Mar del Plata, Natl. Research Council of Republic Argentina 
(CONICET), Juan B. Justo 4302, 7600 Mar del Plata, Argentina. 
moreira_maria@fi.mdp.edu.ar

Antimicrobial packaging is one of the most promising active packaging systems 
for controlling spoilage and pathogenic microorganisms. In this work, the 
intrinsic antimicrobial properties of chitosan (CH) were combined with the 
excellent thermoplastic and film-forming properties of sodium caseinate (SC) to 
prepare SC/CH film-forming solutions and films. The antimicrobial effectiveness 
of SC, CH, and SC/CH coatings on the native microfloras of cheese, salami, and 
carrots was evaluated. In vitro assays through the test tube assay indicated 
that the most significant antimicrobial effect was achieved by CH and SC/CH 
solutions on carrot and cheese native microfloras. SC film-forming solutions did 
not exert antimicrobial activity on any of the native microflora studied. SC, 
CH, and SC/CH films stored in controlled environments showed that the retention 
of the antimicrobial action was observed until 5-d storage, at 65% relative 
humidity in both temperatures (10 °C and 20 °C). In vivo assays were also 
performed with SC, CH, and SC/CH applied as coatings or wrappers on the 3 food 
substrates. CH and SC/CH applied at both immersion and wrapper exerted a 
significant bactericidal action on mesophilic, psychrotrophic, and yeasts and 
molds counts, showing the 3 microbial populations analyzed a significant 
reduction (2.0 to 4.5 log CFU/g). An improvement of the bactericidal properties 
of the CH/SC blend respect to those of the neat CH film is reported. The ionic 
interaction between both macromolecules enhances its antimicrobial properties. 
Practical Application: The continuous consumer interest in high quality and food 
safety, combined with environmental concerns has stimulated the development and 
study of biodegradable coatings that avoid the use of synthetic materials. Among 
them, edible coatings, obtained from generally recognized as safe (GRAS) 
materials, have the potential to reduce weight loss, respiration rate, and 
improve food appearance and integrity. They can be used in combination with 
other food preservation techniques in order to extend the effectiveness of the 
food preservation chain. Moreover, antimicrobial films and coatings have 
innovated the concept of active packaging and have been developed to reduce, 
inhibit, or delay the growth of microorganisms on the surface of food in contact 
with the package. The use of antimicrobials packaging films to control the 
growth of microorganisms in food can have a significant impact on shelf-life 
extension and food safety. In addition, antimicrobial films can be prepared by 
the combination of inherent antimicrobial materials (that is, CH), with good 
film-forming protein-based ones (that is, SC). Therefore, the objective of this 
work is to study the performance of 2 biodegradable and edible biopolymers and 
their combination as natural packages for selected food products.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01910.x
PMID: 21535694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Apr;15(19):iii-xvi, 1-252. doi:
10.3310/hta15190.

Hysterectomy, endometrial ablation and Mirena® for heavy menstrual bleeding: a 
systematic review of clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Bhattacharya S(1), Middleton LJ, Tsourapas A, Lee AJ, Champaneria R, Daniels JP, 
Roberts T, Hilken NH, Barton P, Gray R, Khan KS, Chien P, O'Donovan P, Cooper 
KG; International Heavy Menstrual Bleeding Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis 
Collaborative Group; Abbott J, Barrington J, Bhattacharya S, Bongers MY, Brun 
JL, Busfield R, Clark TJ, Cooper J, Cooper KG, Corson SL, Dickersin K, Dwyer N, 
Gannon M, Hawe J, Hurskainen R, Meyer WR, O'Connor H, Pinion S, Sambrook AM, Tam 
WH, van Zon-Rabelink IA, Zupi E.

Author information:
(1)University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this project was to determine the clinical effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of hysterectomy, first- and second-generation endometrial 
ablation (EA), and Mirena® (Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA) for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding.
DESIGN: Individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis of existing randomised 
controlled trials to determine the short- to medium-term effects of 
hysterectomy, EA and Mirena. A population-based retrospective cohort study based 
on record linkage to investigate the long-term effects of ablative techniques 
and hysterectomy in terms of failure rates and complications. Cost-effectiveness 
analysis of hysterectomy versus first- and second-generation ablative techniques 
and Mirena.
SETTING: Data from women treated for heavy menstrual bleeding were obtained from 
national and international trials. Scottish national data were obtained from the 
Scottish Information Services Division.
PARTICIPANTS: Women who were undergoing treatment for heavy menstrual bleeding 
were included.
INTERVENTIONS: Hysterectomy, first- and second-generation EA, and Mirena.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Satisfaction, recurrence of symptoms, further surgery and 
costs.
RESULTS: Data from randomised trials indicated that at 12 months more women were 
dissatisfied with first-generation EA than hysterectomy [odds ratio (OR): 2.46, 
95% confidence interval (CI) 1.54 to 3.93; p = 0.0002), but hospital stay [WMD 
(weighted mean difference) 3.0 days, 95% CI 2.9 to 3.1 days; p < 0.00001] and 
time to resumption of normal activities (WMD 5.2 days, 95% CI 4.7 to 5.7 days; p 
< 0.00001) were longer for hysterectomy. Unsatisfactory outcomes associated with 
first- and second-generation techniques were comparable [12.2% (123/1006) vs 
10.6% (110/1034); OR 1.20, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.62; p = 0.2). Rates of 
dissatisfaction with Mirena and second-generation EA were similar [18.1% (17/94) 
vs 22.5% (23/102); OR 0.76, 95% CI 0.38 to 1.53; p = 0.4]. Indirect estimates 
suggested that hysterectomy was also preferable to second-generation EA (OR 
2.32, 95% CI 1.27 to 4.24; p = 0.006) in terms of patient dissatisfaction. The 
evidence to suggest that hysterectomy is preferable to Mirena was weaker (OR 
2.22, 95% CI 0.94 to 5.29; p = 0.07). In women treated by EA or hysterectomy and 
followed up for a median [interquartile range (IQR)] duration of 6.2 (2.7-10.8) 
and 11.6 (7.9-14.8) years, respectively, 962/11,299 (8.5%) women originally 
treated by EA underwent further gynaecological surgery. While the risk of 
adnexal surgery was similar in both groups [adjusted hazards ratio 0.80 (95% CI 
0.56 to 1.15)], women who had undergone ablation were less likely to need pelvic 
floor repair [adjusted hazards ratio 0.62 (95% CI 0.50 to 0.77)] and 
tension-free vaginal tape surgery for stress urinary incontinence [adjusted 
hazards ratio 0.55 (95% CI 0.41 to 0.74)]. Abdominal hysterectomy led to a lower 
chance of pelvic floor repair surgery [hazards ratio 0.54 (95% CI 0.45 to 0.64)] 
than vaginal hysterectomy. The incidence of endometrial cancer following EA was 
0.02%. Hysterectomy was the most cost-effective treatment. It dominated 
first-generation EA and, although more expensive, produced more quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) than second-generation EA and Mirena. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for hysterectomy compared with Mirena and hysterectomy 
compared with second-generation ablation were £1440 per additional QALY and £970 
per additional QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite longer hospital stay and time to resumption of normal 
activities, more women were satisfied after hysterectomy than after EA. The few 
data available suggest that Mirena is potentially cheaper and more effective 
than first-generation ablation techniques, with rates of satisfaction that are 
similar to second-generation techniques. Owing to a paucity of trials, there is 
limited evidence to suggest that hysterectomy is preferable to Mirena. The risk 
of pelvic floor surgery is higher in women treated by hysterectomy than by 
ablation. Although the most cost-effective strategy, hysterectomy may not be 
considered an initial option owing to its invasive nature and higher risk of 
complications. Future research should focus on evaluation of the clinical 
effectivesness and cost-effectiveness of the best second-generation EA technique 
under local anaesthetic versus Mirena and types of hysterectomy such as 
laparoscopic supracervical hysterectomy versus conventional hysterectomy and 
second-generation EA.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15190
PMCID: PMC4781434
PMID: 21535970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Prog Neurobiol. 2011 Sep 1;94(4):347-59. doi:
10.1016/j.pneurobio.2011.04.010.  Epub 2011 Apr 22.

The emergence of designed multiple ligands for neurodegenerative disorders.

Geldenhuys WJ(1), Youdim MB, Carroll RT, Van der Schyf CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Northeast Ohio Medical University 
(NEOMED), 4209 State Route 44, Rootstown, OH 44272, USA.

The incidence of neurodegenerative diseases has seen a constant increase in the 
global population, and is likely to be the result of extended life expectancy 
brought about by better health care. Despite this increase in the incidence of 
neurodegenerative diseases, there has been a dearth in the introduction of new 
disease-modifying therapies that are approved to prevent or delay the onset of 
these diseases, or reverse the degenerative processes in brain. Mounting 
evidence in the peer-reviewed literature shows that the etiopathology of these 
diseases is extremely complex and heterogeneous, resulting in significant 
comorbidity and therefore unlikely to be mitigated by any drug acting on a 
single pathway or target. A recent trend in drug design and discovery is the 
rational design or serendipitous discovery of novel drug entities with the 
ability to address multiple drug targets that form part of the complex 
pathophysiology of a particular disease state. In this review we discuss the 
rationale for developing such multifunctional drugs (also called designed 
multiple ligands or DMLs), and why these drug candidates seem to offer better 
outcomes in many cases compared to single-targeted drugs in pre-clinical studies 
for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. 
Examples are drawn from the literature of drug candidates that have already 
reached the market, some unsuccessful attempts, and others that are still in the 
drug development pipeline.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pneurobio.2011.04.010
PMID: 21536094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Presse Med. 2011 Apr;40 Suppl 1:1S54-60. doi: 10.1016/S0755-4982(11)70008-2.

[Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension in 2011: what's new since the 2009 
ERS/ESC guidelines?].

[Article in French]

Savale L(1), Jaïs X, Montani D, Sitbon O, Simonneau G, Humbert M.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Sud, Faculté de Médecine, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France. 
laurent.savale@abc.aphp.fr

The current treatment strategies for pulmonary arterial hypertension, outlined 
in the ERS/ESC guidelines published in 2009, have led to improvements in life 
expectancy and patient quality of life. However, a cure for the disease remains 
elusive. In order to improve the prognosis for patients with PAH, future 
research will focus on development of new therapeutic agents, identification of 
novel targets and studies involving combinations of existing treatments An 
important goal is to refine the efficacy and tolerability of agents that target 
NO, endothelin and prostacyclin signaling pathways. Novel targeted therapies, 
such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors that directly act on the abnormal 
proliferation of pulmonary vascular cells, are under active investigation. 
Finally, clinical trials evaluating combinations of treatments have shown 
encouraging results.

DOI: 10.1016/S0755-4982(11)70008-2
PMID: 21536181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Aten Primaria. 2011 Sep;43(9):497-502. doi: 10.1016/j.aprim.2010.09.023.
Epub  2011 May 4.

[Ethics and esthetics in international cooperation].

[Article in Spanish]

de Aranzabal Agudo M(1), Hermana Tezanos MT.

Author information:
(1)Equipo de Atención Primaria Centro de Salud Lakua-Arriaga, Vitoria-Gasteiz, 
España. mdearanzabal@gmail.com

Although more optimistic, the new report by the World Health Organization (WHO) 
continues to cast horrifying statistics on inequalities, not only in life 
expectancy but in many areas. Many Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) related 
to medicine seek to address this imbalance. To cooperate does not in any way 
appeal to the call of sentimentality. Cooperation moves money and is 
accountable. It requires a strong background in both professional and human 
values. It requires research on vaccines and diseases foreign to our society. To 
cooperate means "operate with" local counterparts, according to their needs and 
global health project. And finally, cooperation implies the demand for change in 
certain aspects of the global economic order. We reflect on these questions and 
describe the different ethical frameworks for the population and NGOs.

Aunque más optimista, el nuevo informe de la Organización Mundial de la Salud 
(OMS) continúa arrojando datos escalofriantes sobre las desigualdades no sólo en 
la esperanza de vida sino en múltiples ámbitos. Muchas organizaciones no 
gubernamentales (ONG) relacionadas con la medicina tratan de paliar este 
desequilibrio. Sin embargo en la opinión pública y entre los actores surgen 
dudas sobre la idoneidad y la utilidad a largo plazo de la cooperación. Cooperar 
no significa acudir de cualquier forma a la llamada del sentimentalismo. La 
cooperación mueve dinero y se han de rendir cuentas. Exige una fuerte formación 
tanto en valores profesionales como humanos. Obliga a investigar en vacunas o 
enfermedades extrañas a nuestra sociedad. Cooperar significa «operar con» la 
contraparte local, según sus necesidades y su proyecto sanitario global. Y 
finalmente la Cooperación implica la reivindicación de cambio en ciertos 
aspectos del orden económico mundial. Reflexionamos sobre estos interrogantes y 
exponemos los diferentes marcos éticos en que se mueven la mayoría de las ONG.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aprim.2010.09.023
PMCID: PMC7025058
PMID: 21536349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. J Med Screen. 2011;18(1):1. doi: 10.1258/jms.2010.010136.

Discounting the value of life.

Wald NJ, Oppenheimer P.

DOI: 10.1258/jms.2010.010136
PMID: 21536808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Jun 1;29(16):2247-52. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.32.9979. Epub
 2011 May 2.

Testing women with endometrial cancer to detect Lynch syndrome.

Kwon JS(1), Scott JL, Gilks CB, Daniels MS, Sun CC, Lu KH.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
jkwon@post.harvard.edu

Comment in
    CA Cancer J Clin. 2011 Sep-Oct;61(5):285-6.

PURPOSE: Women with endometrial cancer as a result of Lynch syndrome may not be 
identified as such by Amsterdam II criteria. We estimated the costs and benefits 
of different testing criteria to identify Lynch syndrome in women with 
endometrial cancer.
METHODS: We developed a Markov Monte Carlo simulation model to compare six 
criteria for Lynch syndrome testing for women with endometrial cancer: Amsterdam 
II criteria; age younger than 50 years with at least one first-degree relative 
having a Lynch-associated cancer at any age (FDR); immunohistochemistry (IHC) 
triage if age younger than 50 years; IHC triage if age younger than 60 years; 
IHC triage at any age if 1 FDR; and IHC triage of all endometrial cancers. Net 
health benefit was life expectancy, and primary outcome was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). The model estimated the number of new 
colorectal cancers associated with each strategy.
RESULTS: IHC triage of women with endometrial cancer having at least 1 FDR 
yielded a favorable ICER of $9,126 per year of life gained. This strategy would 
subject fewer cases to IHC but identify more mutation carriers than age 
thresholds of 50 or 60 years. IHC triage of all endometrial cancers could 
identify the most mutation carriers and prevent the most colorectal cancers but 
at considerable cost ($648,494 per year of life gained).
CONCLUSION: IHC triage of women with endometrial cancer at any age having at 
least 1 FDR with a Lynch-associated cancer is a cost-effective strategy for 
detecting Lynch syndrome.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.32.9979
PMCID: PMC4874206
PMID: 21537049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


576. J Trauma. 2011 Dec;71(6):1908-14. doi: 10.1097/TA.0b013e31820989ed.

Severely injured geriatric population: morbidity, mortality, and risk factors.

Labib N(1), Nouh T, Winocour S, Deckelbaum D, Banici L, Fata P, Razek T, Khwaja 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: With an increasing life expectancy and more active elderly 
population, management of geriatric trauma patients continues to evolve. The aim 
was to describe the mechanism and injuries of severely injured geriatric 
patients and to identify risk factors associated with mortality.
METHODS: The Trauma Registry at a Canadian Level I trauma center was queried for 
all trauma patients older than 65 years and injury severity score >15 from 2004 
to 2006, resulting in a retrospective chart review of 276 patients. The data 
were subsequently analyzed using univariate and multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: Average age was 81.5 years (mean injury severity score of 25). Most 
common comorbid illness was hypertension (57.3%) and most frequent mechanism of 
injury was falls (72.3%). The overall mortality was comparable with the US 
National Trauma Data Bank (26.8% vs. 32.0%, confidence interval, 0.00-0.10). 
Geriatric patients requiring intubation, blood transfusions, or suffering from 
head, C-spine, or chest trauma had an increased likelihood of death. In-hospital 
respiratory, gastrointestinal, or infectious complications also had higher 
likelihood of death.
CONCLUSIONS: Falls continue to be the most frequent mechanism of injury in 
severely injured geriatric patients. Risk factors associated with a higher 
likelihood of death are identified. More research is needed to better understand 
this important and increasing group of trauma patients.

DOI: 10.1097/TA.0b013e31820989ed
PMID: 21537212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Aug;13(4):429-43. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0314-2.
Epub  2011 May 3.

Relative cost effectiveness of the SPHERE intervention in selected patient 
subgroups with existing coronary heart disease.

Gillespie P(1), O'Shea E, Murphy AW, Smith SM, Byrne MC, Byrne M, Cupples ME; 
SPHERE study team.

Collaborators: Leathem C, Houlihan A, O'Malley M, Spillane V, Grealish H, Ryan 
P, Corrigan M, D'Eath M, Wilson J, Kelly A, Newell J, Donnelly M.

Author information:
(1)School of Business and Economics, National University of Ireland, Galway, 
Ireland. paddy.gillespie@nuigalway.ie

Heterogeneity exists within the patient population with coronary heart disease 
and the cost effectiveness of treatment may vary across subgroups within the 
overall population. This study compares the cost effectiveness of a secondary 
prevention intervention for a combined patient population relative to three 
selected subgroups: patients aged over 70 years; patients with a diagnosis other 
than angina only (that is, patients with a history of myocardial infarction, 
coronary artery bypass graft and/or percutaneous transluminal coronary 
angioplasty); and patients with diabetes. The results for the general population 
have been published elsewhere, but ongoing budget constraints require 
consideration of the appropriateness of targeting resources to patient 
subgroups. We adopt a probabilistic model to combine within trial and beyond 
trial impacts of treatment to estimate the lifetime health care costs and 
quality-adjusted life years of two primary care-based secondary prevention 
strategies: SPHERE Intervention--tailored practice and patient care plans and 
Control--standardised usual care. In all cases, the intervention was associated 
with mean cost savings and mean QALYs gains, when compared to the control, 
though statistical significance was never achieved. However, the probability of 
the intervention being cost effective was higher than 85% in all analyses across 
a range of potential cost-effectiveness threshold values. There is no compelling 
statistical evidence to support the targeting of specific subgroups across the 
general population. However, if affordability constraints are binding, the 
results do allow a tentative ranking of priorities based on the probabilistic 
subgroup analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0314-2
PMID: 21537952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Gerontol Nurs. 2011 Apr;37(4):10-5. doi: 10.3928/00989134-20110309-01.

Introducing insulin into diabetes management: transition strategies for older 
adults.

Spain M(1), Edlund BJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.

Many older adults with type 2 diabetes require insulin to supplement or replace 
oral hypoglycemic control. Overtime, the addition of this more intensive therapy 
is needed to preserve beta cell function or prevent macrovascular sequelae. This 
is the result of the natural progression of diabetes and not a failure on the 
part of the patient. Clinicians must evaluate many factors in an attempt to 
individualize a safe optimal glycemic level for older adults. Considerations 
should include when insulin should be initiated, the type of insulin and 
regimen, and a safe individualized target goal while preventing hypoglycemia. 
Important in this decision are the patients comorbid condition, functional and 
cognitive status, social environment, financial ability, and life expectancy. 
The risks and benefits of more stringent glycemic control must be considered in 
the context of treatment options, priorities, and quality-of-life issues for 
both the patient and family.

DOI: 10.3928/00989134-20110309-01
PMID: 21539006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Expert Rev Neurother. 2011 Jul;11(7):1077-88. doi: 10.1586/ern.11.68. Epub
2011  May 3.

Pseudobulbar affect: the spectrum of clinical presentations, etiologies and 
treatments.

Miller A(1), Pratt H, Schiffer RB.

Author information:
(1)Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Carmel Medical Center, Department of 
Neurology, 7 Michal St., Haifa 34362, Israel. millera@tx.technion.ac.il

Pseudobulbar affect (PBA) consists of uncontrollable outbursts of laughter or 
crying inappropriate to the patient's external circumstances and incongruent 
with the patient's internal emotional state. Recent data suggest disruption of 
cortico-pontine-cerebellar circuits, reducing the threshold for motor expression 
of emotion. Disruption of the microcircuitry of the cerebellum itself may 
likewise impair its ability to act as a gate-control for emotional expression. 
Current evidence also suggests that serotonergic and glutamatergic 
neurotransmission play key roles. Although antidepressants have shown benefit, 
the supportive clinical data have often derived from small numbers of patients 
and unvalidated measures of PBA severity. Dextromethorphan/quinidine, the first 
FDA-approved PBA medication, is a novel therapy with antiglutamatergic actions. 
As life expectancy lengthens and the neurologic settings of PBA become more 
common, the need for treatment can be expected to increase.

DOI: 10.1586/ern.11.68
PMID: 21539437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Health Syst Transit. 2011;13(2):v-xxiii, 1-174.

Slovakia health system review.

Szalay T(1), Pazitný P, Szalayová A, Frisová S, Morvay K, Petrovic M, van 
Ginneken E.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy Institute, Slovakia.

The Health Systems in Transition (HiT) profiles are country-based reports that 
provide a detailed description of a health system and of policy initiatives in 
progress or under development. HiTs examine different approaches to the 
organization, financing and delivery of health services, and the role of the 
main actors in health systems; describe the institutional framework, process, 
content and implementation of health and health care policies; and highlight 
challenges and areas that require more in-depth analysis. The Slovak health 
system is a system in progress. Major health reform in the period 2002 to 2006 
introduced a new approach based on managed competition. Although large 
improvements have been made since the 1990s (for example in life expectancy and 
infant mortality), health outcomes are generally still substantially worse than 
the average for the EU15 but close to the other Visegrad Four countries. Per 
capita health spending (in purchasing power parity [PPP]) was around half the 
EU15 average. A large share of these resources was absorbed by pharmaceutical 
spending (28% in 2008, compared to 16% in OECD countries). Some important 
utilization indicators signal plenty of resources in the system but may also 
indicate excess bed capacity and overutilization. The number of physicians and 
nurses per capita has been actively reduced since 2001 but remains above the 
average of the EU12 (i.e. the 12 countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007). 
An ageing workforce and professional migration may reinforce a shortage of 
health care workers. People have free choice of general practitioner (GP) and 
specialist. Their services are provided without cost-sharing from patients, with 
the notable exception of dental procedures. Inpatient care and specialized 
ambulatory care are provided in general hospitals and specialized hospitals. 
Pharmaceutical expenditure per capita accounts for one-third of public 
expenditure on health care. Long-term care is provided by health care facilities 
and social care facilities. Slovakia has a progressive system of financing 
health care. However, the health reforms of 2002 to 2006 led to an increase in 
the number of households that contributed more from their income and the 
distributive impacts were not equitable. This was mainly caused by the 
introduction of a reference pricing scheme for pharmaceuticals. Some key 
challenges remain: improving the health status of the population and the quality 
of care while securing the future financial sustainability of the system.

World Health Organization 2011, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 21540135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Health (London). 2012 Mar;16(2):169-85. doi: 10.1177/1363459311403946. Epub
2011  May 3.

Negotiating hearing disability and hearing disabled identities.

Hindhede AL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Aarhus, Denmark. anlh@dpu.dk

Using disability theory as a framework and social science theories of identity 
to strengthen the arguments, this article explores empirically how working-age 
adults confront the medical diagnosis of hearing impairment. For most 
participants hearing impairment threatens the stability of social interaction 
and the construction of hearing disabled identities is seen as shaped in the 
interaction with the hearing impaired person's surroundings. In order to 
overcome the potential stigmatization the 'passing' as normal becomes 
predominant. For many the diagnosis provokes radical redefinitions of the self. 
The discursively produced categorization and subjectivity of senescence mean 
that rehabilitation technologies such as hearing aids identify a particular 
life-style (disabled) which determines their social significance. Thus wearing a 
hearing aid works against the contemporary attempt to create socially ideal 
bodily presentations of the self, as the hearing aid is a symbolic extension of 
the body's lack of function.

DOI: 10.1177/1363459311403946
PMID: 21540252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Am J Sports Med. 2011 Aug;39(8):1697-705. doi: 10.1177/0363546511403279.
Epub  2011 May 3.

Repair of focal cartilage defects with scaffold-assisted autologous chondrocyte 
grafts: clinical and biomechanical results 48 months after transplantation.

Kreuz PC(1), Müller S, Freymann U, Erggelet C, Niemeyer P, Kaps C, Hirschmüller 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University Medical Center Rostock, 
Rostock, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Scaffold-assisted autologous chondrocyte implantation is a 
clinically effective procedure for cartilage repair, but biomechanical 
evaluations are still missing.
PURPOSE: This study was conducted to assess the clinical efficacy, including 
biomechanical analyses, of BioSeed-C treatment for traumatic and degenerative 
cartilage defects of the knee.
STUDY DESIGN: Case series; Level of evidence, 4.
METHODS: The authors evaluated the midterm clinical and biomechanical outcome of 
BioSeed-C, a cell-based fibrin-polymer graft for the treatment of cartilage 
defects. Clinical outcome at 4-year follow-up was assessed in 52 patients with 
full-thickness cartilage defects, International Cartilage Repair Society (ICRS) 
stage III and IV. Clinical scoring was performed preoperatively and 48 months 
after implantation using the Lysholm score, the International Knee Documentation 
Committee (IKDC) score, the ICRS score, the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis 
Outcome Score (KOOS), and the Noyes score. Cartilage regeneration was assessed 
by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using the Henderson-Kreuz score. 
Biomechanical evaluation was performed by isokinetic strength measurements, 
comparing healthy and operated knee of each patient.
RESULTS: Clinical evaluation showed significant improvement in the Lysholm (from 
51.8 preoperatively to 80.7 at 48 months postoperatively), IKDC (from 47.5 to 
71.5), ICRS (from 3.8 to 2.0), KOOS (subcategory pain from 62 to 78, symptoms 
from 68 to 76, activities of daily living from 68 to 85, sports from 19 to 55, 
and quality of life from 30 to 55), and Noyes (from 31 to 59) scores (P ≤ .001) 
48 months after implantation of BioSeed-C compared with the preoperative 
situation. The MRI evaluations showed moderate to complete defect filling in 43 
of 44 treated patients. Two patients without improvement in the clinical and MRI 
scores received a total knee endoprosthesis after 4 years. Isokinetic evaluation 
showed significantly reduced maximum strength capacities for knee flexion and 
extension at the operated knee compared with the healthy knee (P < .05).
CONCLUSION: The clinical outcomes 4 years after graft implantation are good 
despite a persisting strength deficit. Implanting BioSeed-C is a promising 
treatment option for cartilage defects of the knee. More emphasis should be put 
on the rehabilitation of muscular strength.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546511403279
PMID: 21540360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. JAMA. 2011 May 4;305(17):1806-7. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.566.

What next for QALYs?

Neumann PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Tufts University School of Medicine, Institute for Clinical Research and 
Health Policy Studies, 800 Washington St, Tufts Medical Center, No. 063, Boston, 
MA 02111, USA. pneumann@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.566
PMID: 21540426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Int J Mol Sci. 2011 Feb 15;12(2):1146-60. doi: 10.3390/ijms12021146.

Antioxidant activities of fractions of polymeric procyanidins from stem bark of 
Acacia confusa.

Wei SD(1), Zhou HC, Lin YM.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Coastal and Wetland 
Ecosystems, School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, China; 
E-Mails: weishudong2005@126.com (S.-D.W.); seapass2004@163.com (H.-C.Z.).

The polymeric procyanidins extracted from Acacia confusa stem bark were 
fractionated with a step gradient of water, methanol and acetone on a Sephadex 
LH-20 column. The antioxidant activity of the collected fractions was 
investigated by the 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) free radical scavenging 
and ferric reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP) assays. All fractions possessed 
potent antioxidant activity with the highest activity observed for fraction F9. 
The matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry 
(MALDI-TOF MS) and reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography 
(RP-HPLC) analyses suggested that the collected fractions consisted primarily of 
oligomeric and polymeric procyanidins, with different polymer ranges and most 
abundant polymer size. For each fraction, catechin and epicatechin were present 
as both terminal and extension units, and epicatechin was the major component in 
the extended chain. The mean degree of polymerization (mDP) of each fraction 
differed, ranging from 1.68 (fraction F2) to 17.31 (fraction F11). There was a 
relationship between antioxidant activity (IC50/DPPH and FRAP) and mDP (R(2) 
(DPPH) = 0.861, P = 0.006 and R(2) (FRAP) = 0.608, P = 0.038), respectively. 
However, the highest antioxidant activity of fraction (F9) was not coincident 
with the maximum mDP of fraction (F11).

DOI: 10.3390/ijms12021146
PMCID: PMC3083696
PMID: 21541049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2012 Feb 1;79(2):198-209. doi:
10.1002/ccd.23147.  Epub 2011 Sep 26.

Economic outcomes of percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-eluting stents 
versus bypass surgery for patients with left main or three-vessel coronary 
artery disease: one-year results from the SYNTAX trial.

Cohen DJ(1), Lavelle TA, Van Hout B, Li H, Lei Y, Robertus K, Pinto D, Magnuson 
EA, Mcgarry TF, Lucas SK, Horwitz PA, Henry CA, Serruys PW, Mohr FW, Kappetein 
AP.

Author information:
(1)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, University of Missouri-Kansas City 
School of Medicine, Kansas City, Missouri 64111, USA. dcohen@saint-lukes.org

Comment in
    Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2012 Feb 1;79(2):210.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of alternative approaches to 
revascularization for patients with three-vessel or left main coronary artery 
disease (CAD).
BACKGROUND: Previous studies have demonstrated that, despite higher initial 
costs, long-term costs with bypass surgery (CABG) in multivessel CAD are similar 
to those for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The impact of 
drug-eluting stents (DES) on these results is unknown.
METHODS: The SYNTAX trial randomized 1,800 patients with left main or 
three-vessel CAD to either CABG (n = 897) or PCI using paclitaxel-eluting stents 
(n = 903). Resource utilization data were collected prospectively for all 
patients, and cumulative 1-year costs were assessed from the perspective of the 
U.S. healthcare system.
RESULTS: Total costs for the initial hospitalization were $5,693/patient higher 
with CABG, whereas follow-up costs were $2,282/patient higher with PCI due 
mainly to more frequent revascularization procedures and higher outpatient 
medication costs. Total 1-year costs were thus $3,590/patient higher with CABG, 
while quality-adjusted life expectancy was slightly higher with PCI. Although 
PCI was an economically dominant strategy for the overall population, 
cost-effectiveness varied considerably according to angiographic complexity. For 
patients with high angiographic complexity (SYNTAX score > 32), total 1-year 
costs were similar for CABG and PCI, and the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio for CABG was $43,486 per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with three-vessel or left main CAD, PCI is an 
economically attractive strategy over the first year for patients with low and 
moderate angiographic complexity, while CABG is favored among patients with high 
angiographic complexity.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ccd.23147
PMID: 21542113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Acta Orthop Suppl. 2011 Feb;82(343):1-29. doi: 10.3109/17453674.2011.575327.

On total disc replacement.

Berg S(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm Spine Center, Löwenströmska Hospital, SE-194 89 Upplands Väsby, 
Sweden. svante.berg@spinecenter.se

Low back pain consumes a large part of the community's resources dedicated to 
health care and sick leave. Back disorders also negatively affect the individual 
leading to pain suffering, decreased quality-of-life and disability. Chronic low 
back pain (CLBP) due to degenerative disc disease (DDD) is today often treated 
with fusion when conservative treatment has failed and symptoms are severe. This 
treatment is as successful as arthroplasty is for hip arthritis in restoring the 
patient's quality of life and reducing disability. Even so, there are some 
problems with this treatment, one of these being recurrent CLBP from an adjacent 
segment (ASD) after primarily successful surgery. This has led to the 
development of alternative surgical treatments and devices that maintain or 
restore mobility, in order to reduce the risk for ASD. Of these new devices, the 
most frequently used are the disc prostheses used in Total Disc Replacement 
(TDR). This thesis is based on four studies comparing total disc replacement 
with posterior fusion. The studies are all based on a material of 152 patients 
with DDD in one or two segments, aged 20-55 years that were randomly treated 
with either posterior fusion or TDR. The first study concerned clinical outcome 
and complications. Follow-up was 100% at both one and two years. It revealed 
that both treatment groups had a clear benefit from treatment and that patients 
with TDR were better in almost all outcome scores at one-year follow-up. Fusion 
patients continued to improve during the second year. At two-year follow-up 
