
DOI: 10.1007/s10384-010-0893-y
PMID: 21331690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Demography. 1969 Aug;6(3):223-42. doi: 10.2307/2060393.

The pattern of mortality change in Latin America.

Arriaga EE(1), Davis K.

Author information:
(1)International Population and Urban Research and Departments of Demography and 
Sociology, University of California, 94720, Berkeley, California.

Using 69 new life tables recently made by Arriaga for Latin American countries 
by stable-population methods, the authors examine the mortality trends for more 
countries and more periods of history than have previously been available for 
analysis. For the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the new tables 
yield a substantially lower life-expectancy than that shown by previously 
published life tables; for recent decades the difference is smaller, though in 
the same direction. As a consequence, the new tables show a speed of mortality 
decline in Latin America greater than the speed hitherto assumed. When the trend 
is analyzed in terms of economic development, it appears that the decline was 
extremely slow in the more backward Latin American countries until around 1930, 
whereas in the more advanced countries of the region, a more rapid decline had 
set in before that. After 1930, however, in both groups of countries the pace of 
decline was faster than ever, and it was virtually the same for both groups, 
suggesting that after that date public health measures were exerting a strong 
influence independently of local economic development. This result is confirmed 
by comparison with the past history of now developed countries; the mortality 
decline in Latin America after 1930 was much faster than it was historically at 
the same level in the industrial countries. As compared with other 
underdeveloped countries today, the unprecedented decline of mortality in Latin 
America is typical. In most underdeveloped countries, whether in Latin America 
or elsewhere, mortality change seems increasingly independent of economic 
improvement and more dependent on the importation of preventive medicine and 
public health from the industrial countries.

DOI: 10.2307/2060393
PMID: 21331845


84. Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult. 2010 Sep-Oct;(5):3-6.

[Application of low-intensity electromagnetic millimeter waves to the treatment 
of diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Russian]

Samosiuk IZ, Chukhraeva EN, Sushko BS.

This experimental study has demonstrated positive effects of low-intensity 
electromagnetic millimeter wave treatment on the development of experimental 
diabetes mellitus in mice. It was shown that repeated electromagnetic 
irradiation of the E-36 acupuncture point (daily 10 minute-long sessions for 14 
days) decreased the blood glucose level in these animals, stimulated their 
locomotor activity, and increased life expectancy in comparison with controls. 
Possible mechanisms of action of low-intensity electromagnetic millimeter waves 
are discussed.

PMID: 21332084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Med Econ. 2011;14(2):187-93. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.557111. Epub 2011
Feb  18.

Regression analysis on the variation in efficiency frontiers for prevention 
stage of HIV/AIDS.

Kamae MS(1), Kamae I, Cohen JT, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Statistics, Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe University, 
Japan. mkamae@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

OBJECTIVES: To investigate how the cost effectiveness of preventing HIV/AIDS 
varies across possible efficiency frontiers (EFs) by taking into account 
potentially relevant external factors, such as prevention stage, and how the EFs 
can be characterized using regression analysis given uncertainty of the 
QALY-cost estimates.
METHODS: We reviewed cost-effectiveness estimates for the prevention and 
treatment of HIV/AIDS published from 2002-2007 and catalogued in the Tufts 
Medical Center Cost-Effectiveness Analysis (CEA) Registry. We constructed 
efficiency frontier (EF) curves by plotting QALYs against costs, using methods 
used by the Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) in 
Germany. We stratified the QALY-cost ratios by prevention stage, country of 
study, and payer perspective, and estimated EF equations using log and 
square-root models.
RESULTS: A total of 53 QALY-cost ratios were identified for HIV/AIDS in the 
Tufts CEA Registry. Plotted ratios stratified by prevention stage were visually 
grouped into a cluster consisting of primary/secondary prevention measures and a 
cluster consisting of tertiary measures. Correlation coefficients for each 
cluster were statistically significant. For each cluster, we derived two EF 
equations - one based on the log model, and one based on the square-root model.
DISCUSSION: Our findings indicate that stratification of HIV/AIDS interventions 
by prevention stage can yield distinct EFs, and that the correlation and 
regression analyses are useful for parametrically characterizing EF equations. 
Our study has certain limitations, such as the small number of included articles 
and the potential for study populations to be non-representative of countries of 
interest. Nonetheless, our approach could help develop a deeper appreciation of 
cost effectiveness beyond the deterministic approach developed by IQWiG.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.557111
PMID: 21332273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Neurosurg Spine. 2011 May;14(5):598-604. doi: 10.3171/2010.12.SPINE10472.
Epub  2011 Feb 18.

Utility of minimum clinically important difference in assessing pain, 
disability, and health state after transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion for 
degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis.

Parker SL(1), Adogwa O, Paul AR, Anderson WN, Aaronson O, Cheng JS, McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

OBJECT: Outcome studies for spine surgery rely on patient-reported outcomes 
(PROs) to assess treatment effects. Commonly used health-related quality-of-life 
questionnaires include the following scales: back pain and leg pain visual 
analog scale (BP-VAS and LP-VAS); the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI); and the 
EuroQol-5D health survey (EQ-5D). A shortcoming of these questionnaires is that 
their numerical scores lack a direct meaning or clinical significance. Because 
of this, the concept of the minimum clinically important difference (MCID) has 
been put forth as a measure for the critical threshold needed to achieve 
treatment effectiveness. By this measure, treatment effects reaching the MCID 
threshold value imply clinical significance and justification for implementation 
into clinical practice.
METHODS: In 45 consecutive patients undergoing transforaminal lumbar interbody 
fusion (TLIF) for low-grade degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis-associated 
back and leg pain, PRO questionnaires measuring BP-VAS, LPVAS, ODI, and EQ-5D 
were administered preoperatively and at 2 years postoperatively, and 2-year 
change scores were calculated. Four established anchor-based MCID calculation 
methods were used to calculate MCID, as follows: 1) average change; 2) minimum 
detectable change (MDC); 3) change difference; and 4) receiver operating 
characteristic curve analysis for two separate anchors (the health transition 
index [HTI] of the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey [SF-36], and the 
satisfaction index).
RESULTS: All patients were available at the 2-year follow-up. The 2-year 
improvements in BP-VAS, LP-VAS, ODI, and EQ-5D scores were 4.3 ± 2.9, 3.8 ± 3.4, 
19.5 ± 11.3, and 0.43 ± 0.44, respectively (mean ± SD). The 4 MCID calculation 
methods generated a range of MCID values for each of the PROs (BP-VAS, 2.1-5.3; 
LP-VAS, 2.1-4.7; ODI, 11-22.9; and EQ-5D, 0.15-0.54). The mean area under the 
curve (AUC) for the receiver operating characteristic curve from the 4 
PRO-specific calculations was greater for the HTI versus satisfaction anchor 
(HTI [AUC 0.73] vs satisfaction [AUC 0.69]), suggesting HTI as a more accurate 
anchor.
CONCLUSIONS: The TLIF-specific MCID is highly variable based on calculation 
technique. The MDC approach with the SF-36 HTI anchor appears to be most 
appropriate for calculating MCID because it provided a threshold above the 95% 
CI of the unimproved cohort (greater than the measurement error), was closest to 
the mean change score reported by improved and satisfied patients, and was least 
affected by the choice of anchor. Based on the MDC method with HTI anchor, MCID 
scores following TLIF are 2.1 points for BP-VAS, 2.8 points for LP-VAS, 14.9 
points for ODI, and 0.46 quality-adjusted life years for EQ-5D.

DOI: 10.3171/2010.12.SPINE10472
PMID: 21332281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Scand J Infect Dis. 2011 Jul;43(6-7):504-14. doi:
10.3109/00365548.2011.556145.  Epub 2011 Feb 18.

Economic evaluation of caspofungin versus liposomal amphotericin B for empirical 
antifungal therapy in patients with persistent fever and neutropenia in Sweden.

Naik S(1), Lundberg J, Kumar R, Sjolin J, Jansen JP.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, Boston, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of caspofungin versus liposomal 
amphotericin B (L-AmB) for empirical antifungal therapy in patients with 
persistent fever and neutropenia in Sweden.
METHODS: With a decision-analytic model, the expected direct costs, life-years 
lost and quality adjusted life-years lost were estimated for an average patient 
in Sweden. Efficacy/tolerability data were obtained from analysis of a 
randomized, double-blind multinational trial. Life expectancy, medical resource 
use and unit costs data were gathered from the literature and expert opinion. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used to evaluate the impact of 
uncertainty in data on outcomes.
RESULTS: The direct cost with caspofungin amounted to 233,851 SEK (95% 
uncertainty interval 225,091-242,210) and with L-AmB to 271,921 SEK 
(262,935-281,363), a difference of 38,070 SEK (31,745-44,811) favouring 
caspofungin. Treatment with caspofungin resulted in 0.25 (0.01-0.55) 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) saved in comparison to L-AmB. Given the 
uncertainty in the estimates there is a >95% probability that caspofungin is 
economically dominant over L-AmB, i.e. cost-saving and QALY-saving.
CONCLUSION: Given the underlying assumptions and data used, caspofungin is 
expected to be cost-effective with at least comparable outcomes compared to 
L-AmB for the empirical treatment of patients with suspected fungal infections 
in Sweden.

DOI: 10.3109/00365548.2011.556145
PMID: 21332286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Hypertens Pregnancy. 2012;31(1):50-8. doi: 10.3109/10641955.2010.544955. Epub
 2011 Feb 18.

Physicians' knowledge of future vascular disease in women with preeclampsia.

Young B(1), Hacker MR, Rana S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Preeclampsia, a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy, affects 5-8% of 
women. Large studies demonstrate a strong association between preeclampsia and 
future cardiovascular disease (CVD). Despite CVD being the leading cause of 
mortality for women, there has been little education for internal medicine 
physicians or obstetrician-gynecologists (ob-gyns) about this association; 
published guidelines do not include preeclampsia as a risk factor for future 
CVD. Therefore, women with a history of preeclampsia may not receive adequate 
risk-reduction counseling for CVD. It is unclear whether primary care physicians 
are aware of the association; thus, we sought to determine whether primary care 
providers at our institution were aware of preeclampsia's association with 
future CVD and whether they were providing appropriate counseling.
METHODS: An anonymous online survey was sent to all internists and (ob-gyns) at 
our hospital.
RESULTS: Although most internists (95%) and (ob-gyns) (70%) provide routine 
cardiovascular risk-reduction counseling, a substantial proportion of them were 
unaware of any health risk associated with a history of preeclampsia. Many 
internists were unsure or did not know whether preeclampsia is associated with 
ischemic heart disease (56%), stroke (48%), and decreased life expectancy (79%). 
The corresponding proportions for (ob-gyns) were 23, 38, and 77%, respectively. 
Only 9% of internists and 38% of obstetrician-gynecologists were providing 
cardiovascular risk-reduction counseling to women with a history of 
preeclampsia.
CONCLUSION: There is limited knowledge of the association between preeclampsia 
and future CVD; this deficiency may limit the application of this risk factor to 
clinical care.

DOI: 10.3109/10641955.2010.544955
PMCID: PMC3227747
PMID: 21332326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Health Expect. 2012 Sep;15(3):255-66. doi: 10.1111/j.1369-7625.2011.00663.x. 
Epub 2011 Feb 17.

The role of support groups in facilitating families in coping with a genetic 
condition and in discussion of genetic risk information.

Plumridge G(1), Metcalfe A, Coad J, Gill P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Population Science, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND:   Giving children and young people information about genetic 
conditions and associated risk has been shown to be important to their identity, 
coping and decision making. Parents, however, find talking to their children 
difficult, and support from health professionals is often not available to them.
OBJECTIVE:   To explore the role of support groups in family coping, and in 
assisting parents' communication about risk with children in families affected 
by an inherited genetic condition.
METHODS:   Semi-structured interviews analysed using grounded theory and 
informed by models focusing on aspects of family communication.
PARTICIPANTS:   Affected and unaffected children and their parents, from 
families affected by one of six genetic conditions, that represent different 
patterns of inheritance, and variations in age of onset, life expectancy and 
impact on families.
RESULTS:   Parents often sought support they did not receive elsewhere from 
support groups. They identified benefits, but also potential disadvantages to 
this involvement. These related to the specific condition and also whether 
groups were run solely by parents or had professional input. Support groups 
rarely helped directly with family communication, but attendance often 
stimulated family discussion, and they provided information that improved 
parents' confidence in discussing the condition.
CONCLUSIONS:   Support groups should be seen only as additional to the support 
offered by health and social care professionals. An increased understanding of 
the role of support groups in assisting families with genetic conditions has 
been highlighted, but further work is needed to explore more fully how this may 
be made more sustainable and far-reaching.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1369-7625.2011.00663.x
PMCID: PMC5060625
PMID: 21332619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Nanobiotechnology. 2011 Feb 18;9:5. doi: 10.1186/1477-3155-9-5.

In vivo observation of gold nanoparticles in the central nervous system of 
Blaberus discoidalis.

Rocha A(1), Zhou Y, Kundu S, González JM, BradleighVinson S, Liang H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, 
Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND: Nanoparticles (NPs) are widely studied for biomedical applications. 
Understanding interactions between NPs and biomolecules or cells has yet to be 
achieved. Here we present a novel in vivo method to study interactions between 
NPs and the nervous system of the discoid or false dead-head roach, Blaberus 
discoidalis. The aims of this study were to present a new and effective method 
to observe NPs in vivo that opens the door to new methods of study to observe 
the interactions between NPs and biological systems and to present an 
inexpensive and easy-to-handle biological system.
RESULTS: Negatively charged gold nanoparticles (nAuNPs) of 50 nm in diameter 
were injected into the central nervous system (CNS) of the insect. By using such 
a cost effective method, we were able to characterize nAuNPs and to analyze 
their interactions with a biological system. It showed that the charged 
particles affected the insect's locomotion. The nAuNPs affected the insect's 
behavior but had no major impacts on the life expectancy of the cockroach after 
two months of observation. This was apparently due to the encapsulation of 
nAuNPs inside the insect's brain. Based on cockroach's daily activity, we 
believed that the encapsulation occurred in the first 17 days.
CONCLUSIONS: The method proposed here is an inexpensive and reliable way of 
observing the response of biological systems to nanoparticles in-vivo. It opens 
new windows to further understand how nanoparticles affect neural communication 
by monitoring insect activity and locomotion.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-3155-9-5
PMCID: PMC3050800
PMID: 21332995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2011 Mar;15(3):358-62.

A cost-benefit analysis of scaling up tuberculosis control in India.

Goodchild M(1), Sahu S, Wares F, Dewan P, Shukla RS, Chauhan LS, Floyd K.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, New Delhi, India. goodchildm@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: To measure the economic costs and benefits of scaling up 
tuberculosis (TB) control under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control 
Programme (RNTCP) in India.
DESIGN: Modelling based on country-level programme and epidemiological data from 
1997 to 2006.
RESULTS: The scale-up of TB control in India has resulted in a total health 
benefit of 29.2 million disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), including 1.3 
million deaths averted. In 2006, the burden of TB measured in terms of DALYs 
lost would have been 1.8 times higher in the absence of the programme. The total 
gain in economic well-being from TB control is estimated at US$88.1 billion over 
the 1997-2006 10-year period. Total public expenditure on TB control over this 
period amounted to US$768 million, with the RNTCP accounting for US$299 million 
and other health sector costs accounting for US$469 million. The cost of TB 
control averaged just US$26 per DALY gained over 1997-2006 and generated a 
return of US$115 per dollar spent.
CONCLUSIONS: The scale-up of TB control has been a very cost-effective strategy 
for improving the health status of India's population, while the return on 
investment has been exceptional from a societal perspective.

PMID: 21333103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Feb;15(10):i-xxi, 1-329. doi: 10.3310/hta15100.

Etanercept, infliximab and adalimumab for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis: 
a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Rodgers M(1), Epstein D, Bojke L, Yang H, Craig D, Fonseca T, Myers L, Bruce I, 
Chalmers R, Bujkiewicz S, Lai M, Cooper N, Abrams K, Spiegelhalter D, Sutton A, 
Sculpher M, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: Etanercept, infliximab and adalimumab are licensed in the UK for the 
treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in adults who have 
an inadequate response to standard treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical effectiveness, safety and 
cost-effectiveness of these biologic agents in the treatment of active and 
progressive PsA.
DATA SOURCES: Systematic reviews were performed, with data sought from 10 
electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled 
Trials, Science Citation Index, Conference Proceedings Citation Index - Science, 
ClinicalTrials.gov, metaRegister of Current Controlled Trials, NHS Economic 
Evaluation Database, Health Economic Evaluations Database and EconLit) up to 
June 2009.
REVIEW METHODS: Full paper manuscripts of titles/abstracts considered relevant 
were obtained and assessed for inclusion by two reviewers according to criteria 
on study design, interventions, participants and outcomes. Data on study and 
participant characteristics, efficacy outcomes, adverse effects, costs to the 
health service and cost-effectiveness were extracted, along with baseline data 
where reported. The primary efficacy outcomes were measures of anti-inflammatory 
response, skin lesion response and functional status, and the safety outcome was 
the incidence of serious adverse events. The primary measure of 
cost-effectiveness was incremental cost per additional quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY). Standard meta-analytic techniques were applied to efficacy 
data. Published cost-effectiveness studies and the economic analyses submitted 
to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) by the 
biologic manufacturers were reviewed. An economic model was developed by 
updating the model produced by the York Assessment Group for the previous NICE 
appraisal of biologics in PsA.
RESULTS: Pooled estimates of effect demonstrated a significant improvement in 
patients with PsA for all joint disease and functional status outcomes at 12-14 
weeks' follow-up. The biologic treatment significantly reduced joint symptoms 
for etanercept [relative risk (RR) 2.60, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.96 to 
3.45], infliximab (RR 3.44, 95% CI 2.53 to 4.69) and adalimumab (RR 2.24, 95% CI 
1.74 to 2.88), with 24-week data demonstrating maintained treatment effects. 
Trial data demonstrated a significant effect of all three biologics on skin 
disease at 12 or 24 weeks. Evidence synthesis found that infliximab appeared to 
be most effective across all outcomes of joint and skin disease. The response in 
joint disease was greater with etanercept than with adalimumab, whereas the 
response in skin disease was greater with adalimumab than with etanercept, 
although these differences are not statistically significant. Under base-case 
assumptions, etanercept was the most likely cost-effective strategy for patients 
with PsA and mild-to-moderate psoriasis if the threshold for cost-effectiveness 
was £20,000 or £30,000 per QALY. All biologics had a similar probability of 
being cost-effective for patients with PsA and moderate-to-severe psoriasis at a 
threshold of £20,000 per QALY.
LIMITATIONS: Limited available efficacy data and difficulty in assessing PsA 
activity and its response to biologic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The data indicated that etanercept, infliximab and adalimumab were 
efficacious in the treatment of PsA compared with placebo, with beneficial 
effects on joint symptoms, functional status and skin. Short-term data suggested 
that these biologic agents can delay joint disease progression and evidence to 
support their use in the treatment of PsA is convincing. Future research would 
benefit from long-term observational studies with large sample sizes of patients 
with PsA to demonstrate that beneficial effects are maintained, along with 
further monitoring of the safety profiles of the biologic agents.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15100
PMCID: PMC4781419
PMID: 21333232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Transplant Proc. 2011 Jan-Feb;43(1):211-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.12.047.

Recommendations for use of marginal donors in heart transplantation: Brazilian 
Association of Organs Transplantation guideline.

Fiorelli AI(1), Stolf NA, Pego-Fernandes PM, Oliveira Junior JL, Santos RH, 
Contreras CA, Filho DD, Dinkhuysen JJ, Moreira MC, Mejia JA, Castro MC.

Author information:
(1)Brazilian Association for Organ Transplantation, Brazil. 
fiorelliai@uol.com.br

The high prevalence of heart failure has increased the candidate list for heart 
transplantation; however, there is a shortage of viable donated organs, which is 
responsible for the high mortality of patients awaiting a transplantation. 
Because the marginal donor presents additional risk factors, it is not 
considered to be an ideal donor. The use of a marginal donor is only justified 
in situations when the risk of patient death due to heart disease is greater 
than that offered by the donor. These recommendations sought to expand the 
supply of donors, consequently increasing the transplant rate. We selected 
articles based on robust evidence to provide a substratum to develop 
recommendations for donors who exceed the traditional acceptance criteria. 
Recipient survival in the immediate postoperative period is intimately linked to 
allograft quality. Primary allograft failure is responsible for 38% to 40% of 
immediate deaths after heart transplantation: therefore; marginal donor 
selection must be more rigorous to not increase the surgical risk. The main 
donor risk factors with the respective evidence levels are: cancer in the donor 
(B), female donor (B), donor death due to hemorrhagic stroke (B), donor age 
above 50 years (relative risk [RR] = 1.5) (B), weight mismatch between donor and 
recipient < 0.8 (RR = 1.3) (B), ischemia > 240 minutes (RR = 1.2) (B), left 
ventricular dysfunction with ejection fraction below 45% (B), and use of high 
doses of vasoactive drugs (dopamine > 15 mg/kg·min) (B). Factors that impact 
recipient mortality are: age over 50 years (RR = 1.5); allograft harvest at a 
distance; adult recipient weighing more than 20% of the donor; high doses of 
vasoactive drugs (dopamine greater than 15 mg/kg·min) and ischemic time >4 
hours. The use of a marginal donor is only justified when it is able to increase 
life expectancy compared with clinical treatment, albeit the outcomes are 
interior to those using an ideal donor.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.12.047
PMID: 21335190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. BMJ. 2011 Feb 18;342:d1143. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d1143.

Americans are living longer, but obesity and diabetes are rising.

Tanne JH.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d1143
PMID: 21335410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Crit Care Med. 2011 Jun;39(6):1306-12. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e31821201be.

Cost-effectiveness of an emergency department-based early sepsis resuscitation 
protocol.

Jones AE(1), Troyer JL, Kline JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Carolinas Medical Center, Charlotte, NC, 
USA. alan.jones@carolinas.org

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2011 Jun;39(6):1559-60.

OBJECTIVES: Guidelines recommend that sepsis be treated with an early 
resuscitation protocol such as early goal-directed therapy. Our objective was to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of implementing early goal-directed therapy as a 
routine protocol.
DESIGN: Prospective before and after study.
SETTING: Large urban hospital emergency department with >110,000 visits/yr.
PATIENTS: The target population was patients with consensus criteria for septic 
shock. We excluded those with age <18 yrs, no aggressive care desired, or need 
for immediate surgery.
INTERVENTIONS: Clinical and cost data were prospectively collected on two 
groups: 1) patients from 1 yr before; and 2) 2 yrs after implementing early 
goal-directed therapy as standard of care. Before phase patients received 
nonprotocolized care at attending discretion. The primary outcomes were 1-yr 
mortality, discounted life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life-years. Using 
costs and quality-adjusted life-years, we constructed an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio and performed a net monetary benefit analysis, 
producing the probability that the intervention was cost-effective given 
different values for the willingness to pay for a quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: Two hundred eighty-five subjects, 79 in the before and 206 in the after 
phases, were enrolled. Treatment with early goal-directed therapy was associated 
with an increased hospital cost of $7,028 and an increase in both discounted 
sepsis-adjusted life expectancy and quality-adjusted life years of 1.5 and 1.3 
yrs, respectively. Early goal-directed therapy use was associated with a cost of 
$5,397 per quality-adjusted life-years gained and the net monetary benefit 
analysis indicates a 98% probability (p = .038) that early goal-directed therapy 
is cost-effective at a willingness to pay of $50,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-years.
CONCLUSION: Implementation of early goal-directed therapy in the emergency 
department care of patients with severe sepsis is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e31821201be
PMCID: PMC3102146
PMID: 21336115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Eur J Epidemiol. 2011 May;26(5):395-403. doi: 10.1007/s10654-011-9553-x. Epub
 2011 Feb 20.

Higher education delays and shortens cognitive impairment: a multistate life 
table analysis of the US Health and Retirement Study.

Reuser M(1), Willekens FJ, Bonneux L.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute (NIDI), The Hague, The 
Netherlands.

Improved health may extend or shorten the duration of cognitive impairment by 
postponing incidence or death. We assess the duration of cognitive impairment in 
the US Health and Retirement Study (1992-2004) by self reported BMI, smoking and 
levels of education in men and women and three ethnic groups. We define 
multistate life tables by the transition rates to cognitive impairment, recovery 
and death and estimate Cox proportional hazard ratios for the studied 
determinants. 95% confidence intervals are obtained by bootstrapping. 55 year 
old white men and women expect to live 25.4 and 30.0 years, of which 1.7 [95% 
confidence intervals 1.5; 1.9] years and 2.7 [2.4; 2.9] years with cognitive 
impairment. Both black men and women live 3.7 [2.9; 4.5] years longer with 
cognitive impairment than whites, Hispanic men and women 3.2 [1.9; 4.6] and 5.8 
[4.2; 7.5] years. BMI makes no difference. Smoking decreases the duration of 
cognitive impairment with 0.8 [0.4; 1.3] years by high mortality. Highly 
educated men and women live longer, but 1.6 years [1.1; 2.2] and 1.9 years [1.6; 
2.6] shorter with cognitive impairment than lowly educated men and women. The 
effect of education is more pronounced among ethnic minorities. Higher life 
expectancy goes together with a longer period of cognitive impairment, but not 
for higher levels of education: that extends life in good cognitive health but 
shortens the period of cognitive impairment. The increased duration of cognitive 
impairment in minority ethnic groups needs further study, also in Europe.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-011-9553-x
PMCID: PMC3109265
PMID: 21337033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Orthop Res. 2011 Apr;29(4):547-55. doi: 10.1002/jor.21232. Epub 2010 Oct
26.

Human intervertebral disc internal strain in compression: the effect of disc 
region, loading position, and degeneration.

O'Connell GD(1), Vresilovic EJ, Elliott DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19104-6081, USA.

The primary function of the disc is mechanical; therefore, degenerative changes 
in disc mechanics and the interactions between the annulus fibrosus (AF) and 
nucleus pulposus (NP) in nondegenerate and degenerate discs are important to 
functional evaluation. The disc experiences complex loading conditions, 
including mechanical interactions between the pressurized NP and the surrounding 
fiber-reinforced AF. Our objective was to noninvasively evaluate the internal 
deformations of nondegenerate and degenerate human discs under axial compression 
with flexion, neutral, and extension positions using magnetic resonance imaging 
and image correlation. The side of applied bending (e.g., anterior AF in 
flexion) had higher tensile radial and compressive axial strains, and the 
opposite side of bending exhibited tensile axial strains even though the disc 
was loaded under axial compression. Degenerated discs exhibited higher 
compressive axial and tensile radial strains, which suggest that load 
distribution through the disc subcomponents are altered with degeneration, 
likely due to the depressurized NP placing more of the applied load directly on 
the AF. The posterior AF exhibited higher compressive axial and higher tensile 
radial strains than the other AF regions, and the strains were not correlated 
with degeneration, suggesting this region undergoes high strains throughout 
life, which may predispose it to failure and tears. In addition to understanding 
internal disc mechanics, this study provides important new data into the changes 
in internal strain with degeneration, data for validation of finite element 
models, and provides a technique and baseline data for evaluating surgical 
treatments.

Copyright © 2010 Orthopaedic Research Society.

DOI: 10.1002/jor.21232
PMCID: PMC3428014
PMID: 21337394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Am Surg. 2011 Feb;77(2):169-73.

Cost-effective analysis of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt versus 
surgical portacaval shunt for variceal bleeding in early cirrhosis.

Pierce DS(1), Sperry J, Nirula R.

Author information:
(1)Harbor Surgical Associates, Aberdeen, Washington, USA.

Upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage carries significant morbidity and mortality in 
patients with portal hypertension and cirrhosis. The optimal prevention strategy 
for rebleeding in these patients remains controversial with respect to the 
safety and efficacy of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) 
versus a portocaval surgical shunt (PC). We sought to determine the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of these two treatments. A Markov state transition decision 
analysis was created and Monte Carlo sensitivity analysis performed to follow 
patients with early cirrhosis who have an upper gastrointestinal bleed despite 
medical therapy into either TIPS or PC. Patients were followed throughout the 
transition states until either death or survival. Probabilities of 
gastrointestinal rebleed, hepatic encephalopathy, surgical and TIPS-related 
complications as well as death were obtained from an extensive literature 
review. Costs were derived from average Medicare reimbursements. The main 
outcome was dollars per life-year saved. For patients with mild to moderate 
cirrhosis with upper gastrointestinal variceal bleed, the average cost per life 
year saved was $17,771 (SD = 471) and $21,438 (SD = 308) for TIPS and PC, 
respectively. The average life expectancy was 5.0 years and 7.0 years for TIPS 
and PC, respectively. This yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness rate for 
portocaval shunt of $3,299 per life year saved. Compared with TIPS, surgical PC 
shunt resulted in improved survival with minimal increase in cost. Therefore, 
given the low incremental cost of PC, it should be adopted as a cost-effective 
strategy in managing this patient population.

PMID: 21337874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Jun;119(6):821-6. doi: 10.1289/ehp.119-821.
Epub  2011 Feb 21.

Estimating the global public health implications of electricity and coal 
consumption.

Gohlke JM(1), Thomas R, Woodward A, Campbell-Lendrum D, Prüss-Üstün A, Hales S, 
Portier CJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Toxicology, National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA. jgohlke@uab.edu

Erratum in
    Environ Health Perspect. 2014 Nov;122(11):A295.

Comment in
    Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Jun;119(6):A258.

BACKGROUND: The growing health risks associated with greenhouse gas emissions 
highlight the need for new energy policies that emphasize efficiency and 
low-carbon energy intensity.
OBJECTIVES: We assessed the relationships among electricity use, coal 
consumption, and health outcomes.
METHODS: Using time-series data sets from 41 countries with varying development 
trajectories between 1965 and 2005, we developed an autoregressive model of life 
expectancy (LE) and infant mortality (IM) based on electricity consumption, coal 
consumption, and previous year's LE or IM. Prediction of health impacts from the 
Greenhouse Gas and Air Pollution Interactions and Synergies (GAINS) integrated 
air pollution emissions health impact model for coal-fired power plants was 
compared with the time-series model results.
RESULTS: The time-series model predicted that increased electricity consumption 
was associated with reduced IM for countries that started with relatively high 
IM (> 100/1,000 live births) and low LE (< 57 years) in 1965, whereas LE was not 
significantly associated with electricity consumption regardless of IM and LE in 
1965. Increasing coal consumption was associated with increased IM and reduced 
LE after accounting for electricity consumption. These results are consistent 
with results based on the GAINS model and previously published estimates of 
disease burdens attributable to energy-related environmental factors, including 
indoor and outdoor air pollution and water and sanitation.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased electricity consumption in countries with IM < 100/1,000 
live births does not lead to greater health benefits, whereas coal consumption 
has significant detrimental health impacts.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.119-821
PMCID: PMC3114817
PMID: 21339091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


100. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2011 Jan 26;5:61-70. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S16489.

Abatacept in the treatment of polyarticular JIA: development, clinical utility, 
and place in therapy.

Goldzweig O(1), Hashkes PJ.

Author information:
(1)Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital, Cleveland, OH, USA.

Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is a group of chronic arthritides affecting 
children. The polyarthritis category, affecting five or more joints in the first 
six months, tends to be more aggressive, leading to a destructive joint disease 
with significant morbidity, disability, and costs to society. The current 
treatment regimen, which primarily combines methotrexate and tumor necrosis 
factor alpha (TNF-α) blockade, still leaves a significant group of patients with 
an inadequate response. Therefore, the development of new medications that act 
via other mechanisms of pathogenesis is necessary. T cell lymphocytes are key 
components in the immune reaction in JIA. Cytotoxic lymphocyte-associated 
antigen-4 (CTLA-4) is a potent inhibitor of the costimulation pathway necessary 
to activate T cells. Abatacept is a recombinant fusion protein comprising the 
extracellular part of human CTLA-4 connected to a modified Fc part of IgG-1. In 
a randomized, multinational, blinded withdrawal study in children with 
polyarticular JIA, abatacept was found to be effective in about 70% of the 
patients, including 39% of TNF-α blockade failures, with significantly fewer 
flares occurring during the withdrawal phase than in patients receiving placebo. 
Abatacept continued to show good efficacy in a three-year open-label extension 
study, with a beneficial effect on health-related quality of life. The safety 
profile of abatacept is generally good. In 2008, the US Food and Drug 
Administration approved abatacept for use in children over six years of age with 
JIA and a polyarticular course. In 2010, the European Medicines Agency gave 
approval for abatacept to be used in combination with methotrexate for those who 
fail at least one disease-modifying medication and TNF-α blockade.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S16489
PMCID: PMC3038996
PMID: 21340039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Harefuah. 2010 Aug;149(8):508-11, 551.

[Schizophrenia--a life shortening disease].

[Article in Hebrew]

Munitz H.

The life expectancy of schizophrenic patients is shortened by about 20%. This 
alarming finding is mainly caused by an increased rate of the metabolic syndrome 
which is inherent in schizophrenic patients and is increased by the use of 
antipsychotic drugs, mainly second generation drugs. Another reason is a high 
rate of suicide and violent death. There is a controversy about the relationship 
of malignant disease and schizophrenia. Problems in the health behavior of 
patients should also be considered, mainly lack of exercise, high smoking rate, 
inappropriate diet and overweight. Psychiatrists and family physicians tend to 
be passive in dealing with this problem. This article proposes activism of the 
medical profession aimed at improving health behavior, early detection of 
physical problems and increased awareness of the medical profession, patients 
and their families.

PMID: 21341429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2010 Dec;82(4):184-6.

Headache: a unique clinical presentation for renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

Candiano G(1), Pepe P, Grasso G, Aragona F.

Author information:
(1)Urology Unit, Cannizzaro Hospital, Catania, Italy. urocandia@virgilio.it

Brain metastases of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) are generally seen in advanced 
stages of disease with a short life-expectancy. A solitary, synchronous brain 
metastasis of RCC is rare and neurological symptoms may be the presenting sign 
of cancer. An aggressive surgical approach is justified in patients with 
favorable prognostic factors (good performance status, age under 65 years, 
absence of extracraneal lesions) for palliation of symptoms and improvement of 
cancer-related survival.

PMID: 21341558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Platelets. 2011 Feb 22. doi: 10.3109/09537104.2010.547958. Epub 2011 Feb 22.

Retracted: Platelet storage lesion: current proteomics approach.

Gupta A(1), Chandra T, Kumar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine and Blood Bank, Chhatrapati Shahuji 
Maharaj Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Retraction in
    Heptinstall S, Petrylak A. Platelets. 2011;22(4):312.

The platelet storage lesion (PSL) is best defined as the sum of all deleterious 
changes leading to progressive damage in platelet structure and function that 
arise from the time blood is drawn from a donor to the time platelets are 
transfused to a recipient. Proteomics, the analysis of all proteins of a system 
at a defined state, has gained increasing interest in hematology as a diagnostic 
tool. The application of proteomics in transfusion medicine holds promise to 
revolutionize quality assessment and therapeutic monitoring. The potential of 
proteomics as a viable tool for the identification of the PSL has since 
increased dramatically with the development of mass spectrometry and has 
required the development of quantitative proteomic techniques such as 
differential gel electrophoresis, isotope-coded affinity tagging, and isotope 
tagging for relative and absolute quantitation. In principle, two main areas in 
the field of proteomics have been developed, each of them having its pros and 
cons. These fields are "profiling" and "functional" proteomics. With the recent 
implementation of pathogen reduction technologies (PRT) a new dimension of 
challenges has appeared on the horizon. The treatment of platelet concentrates 
with either UV-A and a photo sensitizer or UV-C revealed acceleration of PSL 
development. In conclusion, proteomics thus provides an excellent tool to decode 
complex processes by identifying novel platelet-expressed proteins and analysing 
functional changes of the platelet proteome. These recent results suggest that 
protein kinases might represent one important group of proteins involved in the 
development of PSL and provide a potential target for inhibition in order to 
reduce development of PSL. Bacterial risk receives and deserves a lot of 
attention when it comes to extension of platelet storage; however, determining 
the quality of platelets during storage needs to be treated with equal 
importance. As a platelet's life span is 7-10 days, extension of the platelet's 
shelf life by 2-3 days would improve platelet inventory and efforts of donor 
recruitment tremendously, as well as to the overall cost of provision of this 
blood product to patients.

DOI: 10.3109/09537104.2010.547958
PMID: 21341971


104. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2011;155:A2598.

[Health of the mentally handicapped elderly].

[Article in Dutch]

Evenhuis HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, afd. Huisartsgeneeskunde, subafd. Geneeskunde voor Verstandelijk 
Gehandicapten, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. h.evenhuis@erasmusmc.nl

As a result of increased life expectancy of persons with intellectual 
disabilities, the number of ageing persons with intellectual disability has 
increased rapidly. As a result of changed attitudes in health care, the majority 
of people aged 50 years or more now live in the community and make use of the 
standard general and specialist healthcare services. Except in people with Down 
syndrome, primary ageing occurs at a normal age in this population. 
Nevertheless, an increased age-related vulnerability can be observed, occurring 
earlier than in the general population. Although scientific research is still 
scarce, the following factors threatening health can be distinguished: 
functional impairments, multimorbidity, unhealthy lifestyle, incomplete 
detection of risk factors for cardiovascular disease, insufficient participation 
in population screening, missed diagnoses as a result of lack of subjective 
symptoms. Reliable information on health status of ageing people with an 
intellectual disability will become available in the next few years based on 
current Dutch research. Following several changes in the rules of the Dutch 
Healthcare Authority (NZa) it is possible for general practitioners to refer 
those patients with an intellectual disability living in the community to a 
doctor specialised in intellectual disability medicine.

PMID: 21342595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Cir Esp. 2011 Mar;89(3):152-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ciresp.2010.12.005. Epub 2011
Feb  20.

[Is body mass index a prognostic factor of survival in colonic cancer? A 
multivariate analysis].

[Article in Spanish]

Garcia-Oria Serrano MJ(1), Armengol Carrasco M, Caballero Millán A, Ching CD, 
Codina Cazador A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía General y Digestiva, Hospital Universitario de Getafe, 
Madrid, Spain. miguel.garcia.oria@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: The long-term survival of patients operated on for colonic cancer 
depends on many factors. Obesity decreases the life expectancy of the general 
population who suffer from it, but it is not clear whether obesity, measured by 
the Body Mass Index (BMI), is a prognostic factor of survival for patients 
operated on for colonic cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The patients included in this study had TNM stage I, II y 
III, and were subjected to elective surgery for cancer of the colon in the 
Girona University Hospital between 1990 and 2001. The BMI was classified 
according to the WHO classification. A total of 38 different variables were 
studied using a bivariate analysis with BMI. A Cox model was subsequently 
constructed with the most clinically relevant parameters, and with those most 
strongly associated with survival in the bivariate analysis.
RESULTS: BMI was not associated with survival in the bivariate analysis. Neither 
did the multivariate analysis show that BMI was an independent prognostic factor 
of long-term survival in cancer of the colon without metastasis, but it did show 
that the TNM stage, ASA score, surgical technique, age at surgery, and the 
immune cell response were prognostic factors.
CONCLUSIONS: The body mass index is not a prognostic factor of the long-term 
survival of patients with colonic cancer.

Copyright © 2010 AEC. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ciresp.2010.12.005
PMID: 21342681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. J Biol Chem. 2011 Apr 15;286(15):13127-33. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.205849.
Epub  2011 Feb 22.

Intracellular rescue of the uroporphyrinogen III synthase activity in enzymes 
carrying the hotspot mutation C73R.

Fortian A(1), González E, Castaño D, Falcon-Perez JM, Millet O.

Author information:
(1)Structural Biology Unit, Centro de Investigacion Cooperativa en Biociencias, 
Derio, Vizcaya 48160, Spain. jfalcon@cicbiogune.es

A single mutation (C73R) in the enzyme uroporphyrinogen III synthase (UROIIIS) 
is responsible for more than one-third of all of the reported cases of the rare 
autosomal disease congenital erythropoietic porphyria (CEP). CEP patients 
carrying this hotspot mutation develop a severe phenotype of the disease, 
including reduced life expectancy. Here, we have investigated the molecular 
basis for the functional deficit in the mutant enzyme both in vitro and in 
cellular systems. We show that a Cys in position 73 is not essential for the 
catalytic activity of the enzyme but its mutation to Arg speeds up the process 
of irreversible unfolding and aggregation. In the mammalian cell milieu, the 
mutant protein levels decrease to below the detection limit, whereas wild type 
UROIIIS can be detected easily. The disparate response is not produced by 
differences at the level of transcription, and the results with cultured cells 
and in vitro are consistent with a model where the protein becomes very unstable 
upon mutation and triggers a degradation mechanism via the proteasome. Mutant 
protein levels can be restored upon cell treatment with the proteasome inhibitor 
MG132. The intracellularly recovered C73R-UROIIIS protein shows enzymatic 
activity, paving the way for a new line of therapeutic intervention in CEP 
patients.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.205849
PMCID: PMC3075659
PMID: 21343304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Aug 15;36(18):E1179-86. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31820644ed.

Is behavioral graded activity cost-effective in comparison with manual therapy 
for patients with subacute neck pain? An economic evaluation alongside a 
randomized clinical trial.

Bosmans JE(1), Pool JJ, de Vet HC, van Tulder MW, Ostelo RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands. judith.bosmans@falw.vu.nl

STUDY DESIGN: An economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled trial 
comparing behavioral graded activity (BGA) with manual therapy (MT).
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of BGA in comparison with MT for 
patients with subacute neck pain from a societal perspective.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Neck pain is common and poses an important 
socioeconomic burden to society. Data on the cost-effectiveness of treatments 
for neck pain are scarce.
METHODS: A randomized clinical trial was conducted, involving 146 patients with 
subacute nonspecific neck pain. The BGA program can be described as a 
time-contingent increase in activities from baseline toward predetermined goals. 
MT consists of specific spinal mobilization techniques and exercises. Clinical 
outcomes included recovery, pain, disability, and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). Costs were measured from a societal perspective using cost diaries. The 
follow-up period was 52 weeks. Multiple imputation was used for missing cost and 
effect data. Uncertainty surrounding cost differences and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios was estimated using bootstrapping. Cost-effectiveness 
planes and cost-effectiveness acceptability (CEA) curves were estimated.
RESULTS: BGA had no significant effect on recovery or QALYs gained in comparison 
with MT but pain and disability did improve significantly in the BGA group in 
comparison with the MT group. Total societal costs in the BGA group were 
nonsignificantly higher than in the MT group. Cost-effectiveness analyses showed 
that BGA is not cost-effective in comparison with MT for recovery and QALYs 
gained. Substantial investments are needed to reach a 0.95 probability that BGA 
is cost-effective in comparison with MT for pain and disability.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of the data presented, we consider BGA not 
cost-effective in comparison with MT.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e31820644ed
PMID: 21343847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Dec 1;36(25):2211-6. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318202a403.

Predicting health-utility scores from the Cervical Spine Outcomes Questionnaire 
in a multicenter nationwide study of anterior cervical spine surgery.

Skolasky RL(1), Carreon LY, Anderson PA, Albert TJ, Riley LH 3rd.

Author information:
