increased with the quantity of glucose ingested and exceeded 25 mmol l(-1) blood 
in resting bats, which is among the highest values ever recorded in mammals fed 
sugar quantities similar to their natural diet. During normal feeding, blood 
glucose values decreased with increasing flight time, but only fell to expected 
values when bats spent 75 per cent of their time airborne. Either nectar-feeding 
bats have evolved mechanisms to avoid negative health effects of hyperglycaemia, 
or high activity is key to balancing blood glucose levels during foraging. We 
suggest that the coevolutionary specialization of bats towards a nectar diet was 
supported by the high activity and elevated metabolic rates of these bats. High 
activity may have conferred benefits to the bats in terms of behavioural 
interactions and foraging success, and is simultaneously likely to have 
increased their efficiency as plant pollinators.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2011.0465
PMCID: PMC3189374
PMID: 21490011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Adv Dent Res. 2011 May;23(2):201-6. doi: 10.1177/0022034511402079.

Social determinants and dental health.

Marmot M(1), Bell R.

Author information:
(1)UCL International Institute for Society and Health, Department of 
Epidemiology and Public Health, University College, London, UK. 
m.marmot@ucl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1177/0022034511402079
PMID: 21490231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. J Health Soc Behav. 2011 Jun;52(2):212-27. doi: 10.1177/0022146510393972.
Epub  2011 Apr 13.

"Macho men" and preventive health care: implications for older men in different 
social classes.

Springer KW(1), Mouzon DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Institute for Health, Health Care Policy, and 
Aging Research, Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ 
08901, USA. kspringe@rci.rutgers.edu

The gender paradox in mortality--where men die earlier than women despite having 
more socioeconomic resources--may be partly explained by men's lower levels of 
preventive health care. Stereotypical notions of masculinity reduce preventive 
health care; however, the relationship between masculinity, socioeconomic status 
(SES), and preventive health care is unknown. Using the Wisconsin Longitudinal 
Study, the authors conduct a population-based assessment of masculinity beliefs 
and preventive health care, including whether these relationships vary by SES. 
The results show that men with strong masculinity beliefs are half as likely as 
men with more moderate masculinity beliefs to receive preventive care. 
Furthermore, in contrast to the well-established SES gradient in health, men 
with strong masculinity beliefs do not benefit from higher education and their 
probability of obtaining preventive health care decreases as their occupational 
status, wealth, and/or income increases. Masculinity may be a partial 
explanation for the paradox of men's lower life expectancy, despite their higher 
SES.

DOI: 10.1177/0022146510393972
PMID: 21490311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Int J Microbiol. 2010;2010:148178. doi: 10.1155/2010/148178. Epub 2011 Jan
27.

Similarities and differences in the glycosylation mechanisms in prokaryotes and 
eukaryotes.

Dell A(1), Galadari A, Sastre F, Hitchen P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Biosciences and Centre for Integrative Systems Biology, 
Faculty of Natural Sciences, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.

Recent years have witnessed a rapid growth in the number and diversity of 
prokaryotic proteins shown to carry N- and/or O-glycans, with protein 
glycosylation now considered as fundamental to the biology of these organisms as 
it is in eukaryotic systems. This article overviews the major glycosylation 
pathways that are known to exist in eukarya, bacteria and archaea. These are (i) 
oligosaccharyltransferase (OST)-mediated N-glycosylation which is abundant in 
eukarya and archaea, but is restricted to a limited range of bacteria; (ii) 
stepwise cytoplasmic N-glycosylation that has so far only been confirmed in the 
bacterial domain; (iii) OST-mediated O-glycosylation which appears to be 
characteristic of bacteria; and (iv) stepwise O-glycosylation which is common in 
eukarya and bacteria. A key aim of the review is to integrate information from 
the three domains of life in order to highlight commonalities in glycosylation 
processes. We show how the OST-mediated N- and O-glycosylation pathways share 
cytoplasmic assembly of lipid-linked oligosaccharides, flipping across the 
ER/periplasmic/cytoplasmic membranes, and transferring "en bloc" to the protein 
acceptor. Moreover these hallmarks are mirrored in lipopolysaccharide 
biosynthesis. Like in eukaryotes, stepwise O-glycosylation occurs on diverse 
bacterial proteins including flagellins, adhesins, autotransporters and 
lipoproteins, with O-glycosylation chain extension often coupled with secretory 
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1155/2010/148178
PMCID: PMC3068309
PMID: 21490701


457. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2011;7:159-64. doi: 10.2147/VHRM.S10783. Epub 2011
Mar  16.

Association between depression and development of coronary artery disease: 
pathophysiologic and diagnostic implications.

Serrano CV Jr(1), Setani KT, Sakamoto E, Andrei AM, Fraguas R.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute (InCor HCFMUSP), Avenida Enéas de Carvalho Aguiar, 44 
Building II, 2nd Floor, Room 12, São Paulo, SP 05403-901, Brazil. 
carlos.serrano@incor.usp.br

Depression and coronary artery disease (CAD) are both extremely prevalent 
diseases. In addition, compromised quality of life and life expectancy are 
characteristics of both situations. There are several conditions that aggravate 
depression and facilitate the development of CAD, as well as provoke a worse 
prognosis in patients with already established CAD: inferior adherence to 
medical orientations (medications and life style modifications), greater 
platelet activation and aggregation, endothelial dysfunction, and impaired 
autonomic dysfunction (lowered heart rate variability). Recent literature has 
shown that depression alone is becoming an independent risk factor for cardiac 
events both in primary and secondary prevention. As the diagnosis of depression 
in patients with heart disease is difficult, due to similarities of symptoms, 
the health professional should perform a careful evaluation to differentiate the 
clinical signs of depression from those related with general heart diseases. 
After a myocardial infarction, depression is an independent risk factor for 
mortality. Successful therapy of depression has been shown to improve patients' 
quality of life and cardiovascular outcome. However, multicentric clinical 
trials are needed to support this inference. A practical liaison between 
qualified professionals is necessary for the better management of depressed 
patients with excess risk in developing CAD. Accordingly, pathophysiological and 
clinical implications between depression and CAD are discussed in this article.

DOI: 10.2147/VHRM.S10783
PMCID: PMC3072738
PMID: 21490940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Swiss Med Wkly. 2011 Apr 13;141:w13181. doi: 10.4414/smw.2011.13181.
eCollection  2011.

Life-extension: a biomedical goal? Scientific prospects, ethical concerns.

Barazzetti G(1), Reichlin M.

Author information:
(1)Plateforme Ethos, University of Lausanne, Switzerland. 
Gaia.Barazzetti@unil.ch

The potential for development of biomedical technologies capable of extending 
the human lifespan raises at least two kinds of question that it is important 
both to distinguish and to connect with one another: scientific, factual 
questions regarding the feasibility of life extension interventions; and 
questions concerning the ethical issues related to the extension of life- and 
healthspans. This paper provides an account of some life extension interventions 
considered to be amongst the most promising, and presents the ethical questions 
raised by the prospect of their pursuit. It is suggested that problems 
concerning the effects of these technologies on health care resources and on 
intergenerational relationships will be the most difficult to tackle.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2011.13181
PMID: 21491211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Health Serv Res. 2011 Oct;46(5):1534-61. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2011.01263.x.  Epub 2011 Apr 14.

The cost-effectiveness of three screening alternatives for people with diabetes 
with no or early diabetic retinopathy.

Rein DB(1), Wittenborn JS, Zhang X, Allaire BA, Song MS, Klein R, Saaddine JB; 
Vision Cost-Effectiveness Study Group.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, 2951 Flowers Road, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. drein@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether biennial eye evaluation or telemedicine 
screening are cost-effective alternatives to current recommendations for the 
estimated 10 million people aged 30-84 with diabetes but no or minimal diabetic 
retinopathy.
DATA SOURCES: United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study, National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey, American Academy of Ophthalmology Preferred 
Practice Patterns, Medicare Payment Schedule.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness Monte Carlo simulation.
DATA COLLECTION/EXTRACTION METHODS: Literature review, analysis of existing 
surveys.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Biennial eye evaluation was the most cost-effective 
treatment option when the ability to detect other eye conditions was included in 
the model. Telemedicine was most cost-effective when other eye conditions were 
not considered or when telemedicine was assumed to detect refractive error. The 
current annual eye evaluation recommendation was costly compared with either 
treatment alternative. Self-referral was most cost-effective up to a willingness 
to pay (WTP) of U.S.$37,600, with either biennial or annual evaluation most 
cost-effective at higher WTP levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Annual eye evaluations are costly and add little benefit compared 
with either plausible alternative. More research on the ability of telemedicine 
to detect other eye conditions is needed to determine whether it is more 
cost-effective than biennial eye evaluation.

© Health Research and Educational Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2011.01263.x
PMCID: PMC3166398
PMID: 21492158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2011 Nov;142(5):1062-73. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2011.02.013. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Cost and cost-effectiveness of cardiac surgery in elderly patients.

Gelsomino S(1), Lorusso R, Livi U, Masullo G, Lucà F, Maessen J, Gensini GF.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Unit, Careggi Hospital, Florence, Italy. 
sandro.gelsomino@libero.it

OBJECTIVE: Cost-effectiveness of heart surgery for elderly patients is still 
poorly defined. We evaluated outcome, quality of life (QoL), cost, and 
cost-effectiveness of octogenarians undergoing cardiac surgery.
METHODS: One thousand six hundred forty octogenarians undergoing various cardiac 
surgical procedures were prospectively studied between January 1998 and January 
2009 and compared with similar patients aged 70 to 79 years. Several 
questionnaires were used to assess QoL. Six hundred age- and sex- matched 
healthy octogenarians and three hundred forty patients older than 80 years with 
medically treated valvular or coronary artery disease were healthy and 
unoperated control groups, respectively. In-hospital costs were obtained from 
the hospital's financial accounting department and cost-effectiveness was 
estimated and expressed as cost/QoL-adjusted life year (QALY) and 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: Significant improvements occurred in elderly patients in Role Physical 
(P < .001), Bodily Pain (P < .001), General Health (P = .004), Social 
Functioning (P < .001), and Role Emotional (P < .001), whereas Physical 
Functioning, Vitality, and Mental Health did not change (difference not 
signficant). Total direct costs were $5293 higher in the octogenarian group. 
Cost-effectiveness was $1391/QALY for elderly surgical patients, $516/QALY for 
younger cardiac surgical patients (P < .001 vs elderly), $897/QALY for untreated 
control group, and $641/QALY for healthy control group (P < .001 vs elderly 
surgical patients). The cost-effectiveness ratio for octogenarians was $94,426.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm that cardiac surgery in elderly patients 
remains controversial from a cost-effectiveness standpoint, making econometric 
analysis an important component for any future evaluation of novel 
cardiovascular therapies. Our findings need to be confirmed by additional 
multicenter studies.

Copyright © 2011 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2011.02.013
PMID: 21492881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2011 May-Jun;46(3):147-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2011.01.002. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

[Measurement of functional capacity and health related quality of life in an 
elderly group following a walking program: pilot study].

[Article in Spanish]

Fortuño Godes J(1), Romea Viñets J, Guerra Balic M, Sainz Pardo G, Queralt 
Zueras J.

Author information:
(1)Esport 3, Barcelona, España. jesusfg@blanquerna.url.edu

INTRODUCTION: This pre-experimental study analyses the Functional Capacity (FC), 
Body Mass Index (BMI), Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) and Health Capital 
Stock (HCS) of elderly people participating in a Walking program in Granollers 
(Barcelona).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: One hundred and seventy-three participants were invited to 
participate. One hundred and one of them were users of the Municipal Program for 
Elderly People, and 72 received information by the communication media. One 
hundred and thirty-one (76.3%) of the participants completed the Program. The 
intervention consisted of a 6-month program, supervised by a specialist 
instructor once a week and controlled daily by a pedometer. The 6-minute walk 
test (6MWT) was analysed for the FC, and the EuroQoL for the HRQoL. The 
preferences derived from the EuroQoL scores and the Life Expectancy were used to 
calculate the FC. The monetary data were obtained using a fixed value.
RESULTS: An increase in the average number of steps was observed after the 
program, especially in men. The results also showed a decrease in the BMI. The 
participants showed a improvement in overall health perception at the end of the 
program. The HCS scores confirmed the improvement in the HRQoL in men.
CONCLUSIONS: The Program was positive for increasing the number of steps and 
improving physical condition and health. The usefulness of the pedometer as a 
motivational tool of physical exercise is discussed.

Copyright © 2010 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2011.01.002
PMID: 21492966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2011 Dec;40(6):1508-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2011.01.088. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Perioperative and long-term outcomes following aortic valve replacement: a 
population cohort study of 4124 consecutive patients.

McLean RC(1), Briggs AH, Slack R, Zamvar V, Berg GA, El-Shafei H, Oldroyd KG, 
Pell JP.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Health Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Because of increasing life expectancy, more patients require valve 
replacement for aortic stenosis. We aimed to determine perioperative and 
long-term outcomes, the factors associated with these and whether they have 
changed over time.
METHODS: We undertook a retrospective cohort study of all 4124 patients, who 
underwent isolated, primary aortic valve replacement in Scotland between April 
1996 and March 2009 inclusive.
RESULTS: Annual operations increased by 68%, from 261 to 439. The overall risk 
of dying within 30 days, 5 years and 10 years was 3.4%, 19.9% and 38.5%, 
respectively. Over 10 years' follow-up, 4.4% underwent further valve surgery, 
7.9% suffered a stroke and 5.3% a myocardial infarction. Age, renal impairment 
and urgency were predictors of both perioperative and long-term death. 
Perioperative death was associated with left-ventricular impairment and 
long-term death with respiratory disease, diabetes and deprivation. Over the 13 
years, there was an increase in median age (from 66 to 69 years, p < 0.001), 
diabetes (from 1.9% to 12.6%, p < 0.001), hypertension (from 26.4% to 56.1%, p < 
0.001), cerebrovascular disease (from 3.7% to 9.8%, p < 0.001), respiratory 
disease (from 6.6% to 9.7%, p = 0.020) and previous myocardial infarction (from 
0.6% to 5.8%, p < 0.001), but the risk of perioperative death fell from 6.5% to 
3.1% (odds ratio (OR) 0.87, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.83, 0.92, p < 0.001) 
per year.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients undergoing aortic valve replacement have a poor risk 
profile. Over time, their numbers, age and co-morbidity have increased. In spite 
of these, there has been a significant reduction in the risk of perioperative 
death.

Copyright © 2011 European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2011.01.088
PMID: 21493086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2011 Jul;145(1):71-3. doi:
10.1177/0194599811401793.

Individualized estimation of conditional survival for patients with head and 
neck cancer.

Wang SJ(1), Wissel AR, Ord CB, Kalpathy-Cramer J, Fuller CD, Holland JM, Gross 
ND.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, 
Portland, Oregon, USA. wangsa@ohsu.edu

Survival for cancer patients is usually only reported as survival from time of 
diagnosis. For patients who survive 1 or more years after diagnosis, however, 
survival probability changes over time and is more accurately depicted by 
conditional survival. The specific aim of this project was to build a survival 
regression model and Web-based tool to make individualized estimates of 
conditional survival for patients with head and neck cancer based on tumor and 
patient characteristics. Using data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results (SEER) database, a prediction modeling tool was built that can estimate 
prognosis for patients with head and neck cancer who have already survived a 
period of time after diagnosis. Having more accurate prognostic information may 
empower both patients and clinicians to make more appropriate decisions 
regarding follow-up, surveillance testing, and future treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/0194599811401793
PMCID: PMC3156237
PMID: 21493289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors disclosed no 
potential conflicts of interest.


464. Microbiology (Reading). 2011 Jul;157(Pt 7):1920-1928. doi: 
10.1099/mic.0.049684-0. Epub 2011 Apr 14.

Alanine 32 in PilA is important for PilA stability and type IV pili function in 
Myxococcus xanthus.

Yang Z(1), Hu W(2)(3), Chen K(4)(5), Wang J(2)(3), Lux R(3), Zhou ZH(4)(5), Shi 
W(4)(3)(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Institute, University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), 
Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, School of Life Science, 
Shandong University, Jinan 250100, Shandong, PR China.
(3)School of Dentistry, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics, UCLA, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095-7364, USA.
(5)California NanoSystems Institute, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Type IV pili (TFP) are membrane-anchored filaments with a number of important 
biological functions. In the model organism Myxococcus xanthus, TFP act as 
molecular engines that power social (S) motility through cycles of extension and 
retraction. TFP filaments consist of several thousand copies of a protein called 
PilA or pilin. PilA contains an N-terminal α-helix essential for TFP assembly 
and a C-terminal globular domain important for its activity. The role of the 
PilA sequence and its structure-function relationship in TFP-dependent S 
motility remain active areas of research. In this study, we identified an M. 
xanthus PilA mutant carrying an alanine to valine substitution at position 32 in 
the α-helix, which produced structurally intact but retraction-defective TFP. 
Characterization of this mutant and additional single-residue variants at this 
position in PilA demonstrated the critical role of alanine 32 in PilA stability, 
TFP assembly and retraction.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.049684-0
PMCID: PMC3167889
PMID: 21493683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2011 May;32(5):809-12. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A2516. Epub
2011  Apr 14.

Assessing prognosis from nonrandomized studies: an example from brain 
arteriovenous malformations.

Raymond J(1), Naggara O, Guilbert F, Altman DG.

Author information:
(1)Interventional Neuroradiology Research Unit, Department of Radiology, 
International Consortium of Neuroendovascular Centres, University of Montreal, 
Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montreal, Notre-Dame Hospital, Quebec, 
Canada. jean.raymond@Umontreal.ca

Comment in
    AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2011 Oct;32(9):E180; author's reply E181.

Two recent publications from Helsinki and Toronto that investigated the natural 
history of brain AVMs are the background topic for reviewing some principles and 
pitfalls of prognostic studies. Multivariable prognostic research involves 3 
steps: developing the prognostic model, validating its performance in other 
individuals, and assessing its clinical impact on patients' outcomes. 
Unfortunately, the predictive ability of the model can be poor when it is 
applied to a new population, and clinical impact studies are rarely performed. 
Models that have not been validated should not be used to inform clinical 
decisions. Unfortunately, for rare outcomes in rare diseases, clinical data are 
limited. Although the 2 studies on brain AVMs may represent the best data 
currently available, they still included few patients with events and there are 
several methodologic concerns undermining the reliability of results. The 
estimates of risk of rupture per year are uncertain. Multiplying those uncertain 
numbers by the life expectancy of individuals can inflate error beyond control. 
Hence relying on these estimates to make clinical decisions may be dangerous.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A2516
PMCID: PMC7965537
PMID: 21493766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Breast Care (Basel). 2010 Dec;5(6):401-7. doi: 10.1159/000322661.

Clinical Recommendations of DEGRO and AGO on Preferred Standard Palliative 
Radiotherapy of Bone and Cerebral Metastases, Metastatic Spinal Cord 
Compression, and Leptomeningeal Carcinomatosis in Breast Cancer.

Souchon R(1), Feyer P, Thomssen C, Fehm T, Diel I, Nitz U, Janni W, Bischoff J, 
Sauer R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Tübingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: To provide guidance for clinical practice on preferred standard 
palliative radiotherapy (RT) of different sites of metastasis for breast cancer 
patients based on current published evidence complemented by expert opinion.
METHODS: The breast cancer expert panel of the German Society for Radiation 
Oncology (DEGRO) and members of the Working Party of Gynecologic Oncology (AGO) 
Breast Committee formulated recommendations based on the panel's interpretation 
of the level of evidence referring to the criteria of evidence-based medicine 
added to the AGO grades of recommendation.
RESULTS: For different types and sites of metastasis, distinct therapeutic goals 
(alleviation of symptoms, pain relief, local tumor control, prevention or 
improvement of neurological deficits, stabilization of the spine or other bones) 
require complex approaches considering individual factors (i.e. life expectancy, 
tumor progression at other sites). With regard to different therapeutic goals, 
different dose concepts and fractionation schedules, and single-versus 
multi-fraction palliative RT should be adapted individually.
CONCLUSIONS: RT is an effective tool in palliation treatment of bone metastasis 
(BM), cerebral metastasis (CM) and metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC), or 
leptomeningeal carcinomatosis (LC) and plays a central role in an 
interdisciplinary approach. Preferred technique, targeting, and different dose 
schedules are described in detail in the DEGRO guidelines, which are also 
integrated in the updated 2010 AGO recommendations.

Publisher: HINTERGRUND: Erstellung praktischer Handlungsempfehlungen zur 
palliativen Radiotherapie (RT) verschiedener Metastasierungsmanifestationen bei 
Patientinnen mit Mammakarzinom auf Basis aktuell publizierter Evidenz und 
ergänzender Expertenmeinung.
METHODIK: Die vom Expertengremium der Organgruppe Mamma der Deutschen 
Gesellschaft für Radioonkologie (DEGRO) und Mitgliedern der Kommission Mamma in 
der Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynäkologische Onkologie (AGO) erstellten Empfehlungen 
basieren auf der Analyse kontrollierter klinischer Studien und internationalen 
sowie nationalen praktischen Handlungsanleitungen und den Interpretationen der 
Evidenzgrade nach Kriterien der Evidenz-basierten Medizin, ergänzt um die 
Empfehlungsgrade der AGO-Kommission.
ERGEBNISSE: Unterschiedliche Therapieziele für die Palliation (Schmerzlinderung, 
lokale Tumorkontrolle, Prävention und Rückbildung neurologischer Ausfälle, 
ossäre Stabilisierung) erfordern jeweils auf den individuellen Fall abgestimmte, 
differenzierte, radioonkologische Behandlungskonzepte unter Berücksichtigung von 
Lebenserwartung und Tumoraktivität an den verschiedenen Manifestationsorten. Je 
nach Palliationsziel kommen unterschiedliche Dosiskonzepte und 
Fraktionierungsschemata in Form von Einzel-oder Multifraktionierungs-RT zur 
Anwendung.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNGEN: Die RT ist ein effektiver Bestandteil bei der palliativen 
Behandlung bei ossärer (BM) oder zerebraler (CM) Metastasierung, des 
tumorbedingten spinalen Kompressionssyndroms (MSCC) oder bei Leptomeningeosis 
carcinomatosa (LC). Techniken, Zielvolumenbestimmungen und verschiedene 
Dosiskonzepte für unterschiedliche klinische Konstellationen werden in den 
DEGRO-Handlungsempfehlungen, die in die aktualisierten AGO-Empfehlungen 2010 
integriert wurden, detailliert beschrieben.

DOI: 10.1159/000322661
PMCID: PMC3076353
PMID: 21494406


467. Internist (Berl). 2011 May;52(5):533-8. doi: 10.1007/s00108-010-2734-y.

[Peripheral artery disease and disorders of microcirculation in patients with 
diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Dreyer M(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für innere Medizin, Asklepios Westklinikum Hamburg, Suurheid 20, 
Hamburg, Germany. manfred.dreyer@asklepios.com

The increase in prevalence of diabetes mellitus and in life expectancy cause the 
growing number of diabetic patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD). 
Patients with long standing diabetes suffer frequently (about 70%) from 
peripheral sensory neuropathy. Therefore these patients miss the symptoms of 
claudication. Patients with silent ischemia will be classified to stadium I 
(Fontaine) instead to stadium II or III or their diagnosis will be missed at 
all. The clinical investigation of the food pulses should be done at least once 
per year in all patients with diabetes mellitus. When one or more pulses are not 
detectable the further diagnostic procedures should start with the measurement 
of the ABI (Ankle Brachial Index). In patients with mediasclerosis the 
measurement will give false high numbers. After early diagnosis conventional 
treatment may be effective. With late diagnosis in the stadium IV (Fontaine) 
always and especially before any amputation revascularisation should be done. 
Guidelines give the right choice of catheter-based or open vascular-surgical 
procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-010-2734-y
PMID: 21494815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2009 Apr-Jun;113(2):322-9.

[Obesity prevention--is there any limits for primary care medicine].

[Article in Romanian]

Petrovanu R(1), Coman AE, Petrovanu C, Murariu GC, Popa E, Grigore C.

Author information:
(1)Disciplina de Medicină de Familie, Facultatea de Medicină, Universitate de 
Medicină si Farmacie Gr.T. Popa Iaşi.

What does obesity mean? One of the people's health markers is the nutritional 
steady-state, the mean ponderal equilibrium. The normal weight means the longest 
life expectancy assuring body weight, from all points of view. The body weight 
increasing means adipose tissue accumulation and the onset of obesity. Obesity 
quantification could be made by BMI (body mass index)--normal range 22-24 kg/m2- 
waist to hip ratio--normal range 0.8-0.9--and abdominal perimeter--normal range 
up to 80 cm. Why should we do obesity prevention? Because obesity means a high 
risk factor for cardio-vascular disease, cancer, bone diseases, general 
mortality. By 10 kg weight loss, real benefits are achieved: left ventricle 
hypertrophy reduction, decreasing of cardio-vascular risk, pulmonary function 
improve, reducing of atherosclerotic symptoms by 91%, of arterial pressure by 
10-20 mmHg, of diabetes mortality by 30%, cancer by 40% and general mortality by 
20%. In our country, 53% of population is overweight and obese, predominantly 
urban population. Obesity costs are high: about 4-8% of health budget are spent 
for screening, diagnosis and obesity management, including economical losses. 
When should we do obesity prevention? Primary care physicians must control all 
health indexes. If the patient passes over normal ranges of body weight, we 
should take account and intervene efficiently, by specific and non-specific 
therapeutic methods. How could we do obesity prevention? General care physicians 
and specialists could prevent efficiently this disease by taking apart obesity 
causes and risk factors: genetics, life-style, drug intake, smoking, 
professional and endocrine factors. Primary and secondary care physicians have 
to screen high risk persons, to analyze professional, familial and social 
conditions, to appreciate educational and economical status. All these realize 
an integral obesity management, together with the psychologist and the 
sociologist. Secondary prevention means obesity treatment, in order to prevent 
complications and, in the same time, to maintain normal body weight after 
ponderal excess loss. Obesity prevention is an important and complex social 
problem to debate. We have to mobilize political and economical factors, food 
industry, education. Obesity control means protection against one of the most 
aggressive health risk factors.

PMID: 21495336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Servir. 2009 Jan-Apr;57(1-2):46-56.

[Origin of the diseases suffered by the aged, today: behavior, life style, diet, 
greater life expectancy].

[Article in Portuguese]

Casado JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Geriatria do Hospital San Carlos Madrid, Espanha.

PMID: 21495402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Hastings Cent Rep. 2011 Mar-Apr;41(2):23-7. doi: 10.1353/hcr.2011.0031.

Rationing: theory, politics, and passions.

Callahan D(1).

Author information:
(1)The Hastings Center, Garrion, NY 10524, USA.

Comment in
    Hastings Cent Rep. 2011 Nov-Dec;41(6):4; author reply 6.
    Hastings Cent Rep. 2011 Nov-Dec;41(6):4-5; author reply 6.
    Hastings Cent Rep. 2011 Nov-Dec;41(6):5-6; author reply 6.

DOI: 10.1353/hcr.2011.0031
PMID: 21495512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Annu Rev Biochem. 2011;80:885-916. doi:
10.1146/annurev-biochem-081308-165917.

Sterol regulation of metabolism, homeostasis, and development.

Wollam J(1), Antebi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Huffington Center on Aging, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Sterol metabolites are critical signaling molecules that regulate metabolism, 
development, and homeostasis. Oxysterols, bile acids (BAs), and steroids work 
primarily through cognate sterol-responsive nuclear hormone receptors to control 
these processes through feed-forward and feedback mechanisms. These signaling 
pathways are conserved from simple invertebrates to mammals. Indeed, results 
from various model organisms have yielded fundamental insights into cholesterol 
and BA homeostasis, lipid and glucose metabolism, protective mechanisms, tissue 
differentiation, development, reproduction, and even aging. Here, we review how 
sterols act through evolutionarily ancient mechanisms to control these 
processes.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-biochem-081308-165917
PMCID: PMC3918218
PMID: 21495846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Curr Drug Metab. 2011 Sep;12(7):647-51. doi: 10.2174/138920011796504563.

The risk of adverse drug reactions in older patients: beyond drug metabolism.

Onder G(1), Lattanzio F, Battaglia M, Cerullo F, Sportiello R, Bernabei R, Landi 
F.

Author information:
(1)Centro Medicina dell' Invecchiamento Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore 
00168, Rome, Italy. graziano_onder@rm.unicatt.it

Changes in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, associated with increasing 
age, are often considered the only culprits of increasing Adverse Drug Reactions 
(ADR) rate observed in older adults, but other factors may be responsible for a 
reduction in drug efficacy and increase the risk of iatrogenic illness in this 
population. The aging process is characterized by a high level of complexity, 
which makes the care of older adults and the use of medications a challenging 
task. In particular, comorbidity, geriatric syndromes, cognitive and functional 
deficits, limited life expectancy are typical conditions observed in older 
adults which may reduce the efficacy of prescribed drugs and increase the risk 
of iatrogenic illness. As a consequence, a comprehensive assessment and 
management of the health care problems, with the goal of recognizing and 
preventing potential drug-related problems and improve quality of prescribing is 
necessary to reduce the risk of ADR. Several studies have assessed the effect of 
a comprehensive geriatric assessment and management on drug prescribing and drug 
related illness, showing a substantial improvement in quality of prescription 
and a reduction in rate of ADR. In addition, clinical guidelines providing 
recommendations regarding the use of drugs in chronic disease rarely assess the 
level of complexity observed in older adults and therefore they should be 
applied with caution in this population.

DOI: 10.2174/138920011796504563
PMID: 21495971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Immun Ageing. 2011 Apr 16;8(1):4. doi: 10.1186/1742-4933-8-4.

Inflammatory and Immunological parameters in adults with Down syndrome.

Trotta MB(1), Serro Azul JB, Wajngarten M, Fonseca SG, Goldberg AC, Kalil JE.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute University of São Paulo Medical School, São Paulo. 
mbfortunato1@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The increase in life expectancy within the general population has 
resulted in an increasing number of elderly adults, including patients with Down 
syndrome (DS), with a current life expectancy of about 50 years. We evaluate the 
parameters of humoral and cellular immune response, the quantitative expression 
of the regulator of calcineurin1 gene (RCAN1) and the production of cytokines. 
The study group consisted of adults DS (n = 24) and a control group with 
intellectual disability without Down syndrome (ID) (n = 21) and living in a 
similar environmental background. It was evaluated serology, immunophenotyping, 
the quantitative gene expression of RCAN1 and the production of cytokines.
RESULTS: In the DS group, the results showed an increase in NK cells, CD8, 
decreased CD19 (p < 0.05) and an increase spontaneous production of IFNgamma, 
TNFalpha and IL-10 (p < 0.05). There was not any difference in RCAN1 gene 
expression between the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest a similar humoral response in the two groups. 
The immunophenotyping suggests sign of premature aging of the immune system and 
the cytokine production show a proinflammatory profile.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4933-8-4
PMCID: PMC3101128
PMID: 21496308


474. Popul Health Metr. 2011 Apr 17;9:9. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-9.

Capture-recapture analysis of all-cause mortality data in Bohol, Philippines.

Carter KL(1), Williams G, Tallo V, Sanvictores D, Madera H, Riley I.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Herston (Brisbane), 
Queensland, Australia. k.carter1@uq.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Despite the importance of mortality data for effective planning and 
monitoring of health services, official reporting systems rarely capture every 
death. The completeness of death reporting and the subsequent effect on 
mortality estimates were examined in six municipalities of Bohol province in the 
Philippines using a system review and capture-recapture analysis.
METHODS: Reports of deaths were collected from records at local civil 
registration offices, health centers and hospitals, and parish churches. Records 
were reconciled using a specific set of matching criteria, and both a two-source 
and a three-source capture-recapture analysis was conducted. For the two-source 
analysis, civil registry and health data were combined due to dependence between 
these sources and analyzed against the church data.
RESULTS: Significant dependence between civil registration and health reporting 
systems was identified. There were 8,075 unique deaths recorded in the study 
area between 2002 and 2007. We found 5% to 10% of all deaths were not reported 
to any source, while government records captured only 77% of all deaths. Life 
expectancy at birth (averaged for 2002-2007) was estimated at 65.7 years and 
73.0 years for males and females, respectively. This was one to two years lower 
than life expectancy estimated from reconciled reported deaths from all sources, 
and four to five years lower than life expectancy estimated from civil 
registration data alone. Reporting patterns varied by age and municipality, with 
childhood deaths more underreported than adult deaths. Infant mortality was 
underreported in civil registration data by 62%.
CONCLUSIONS: Deaths are underreported in Bohol, with inconsistent reporting 
procedures contributing to this situation. Uncorrected mortality measures would 
subsequently be misleading if used for health planning and evaluation purposes. 
These findings highlight the importance of ensuring that official mortality 
estimates from the Philippines are derived from data that have been assessed for 
underreporting and corrected as necessary.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-9
PMCID: PMC3096587
PMID: 21496336


475. Gac Sanit. 2011 May-Jun;25(3):205-10. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.02.005.
Epub  2011 Apr 14.

[Palliative and support care at home in primary care].

[Article in Spanish]

Vega T(1), Arrieta E, Lozano JE, Miralles M, Anes Y, Gomez C, Quiñones C, 
Perucha M, Margolles M, Gómez de Caso JÁ, Gil M, Fernández S, de la Iglesia P, 
López A, Alamo R, Zurriaga O, Mauro Ramos J; por el Grupo RECENT.

Author information:
(1)Consejería de Sanidad, Junta de Castilla y León, Valladolid, España. 
vegaloto@jcyl.es

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the proportion of people requiring palliative and 
support care at home in primary care and to describe their characteristics.
METHODS: A descriptive study was carried out by five Spanish sentinel networks 
between October 2007 and March 2008 in 282,216 people attended by 218 general 
practitioners and nurses. Patients receiving comprehensive, active and continued 
care at home were included if the aim was not to prolong life but to achieve the 
best quality of life for the patient, the family and the carers. A standard form 
was used to collect data on age, sex, type of patient, underlying diseases and 
other variables related to the process. Crude and age-adjusted rates were 
estimated.
RESULTS: Of the 400 men and 792 women registered, 12% were strictly terminal. 
The mean age was 82.4 years and was higher in patients with functional 
disability (82.9 years) than in terminally-ill patients (78.9 years) (p<0.01). 
The estimated prevalence was 422.3 per 100,000 inhabitants aged 14 years or more 
(95% CI: 398.7-447.0) and was much higher in women than in men (553.9 versus 
287.3, p<0.01). The estimate for the entire Spanish population was 309.0 per 
100,000 inhabitants (95% CI: 286.0-332.0).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of palliative and support care in Spain is around 
three cases per 1,000 inhabitants and is higher in elderly populations. More 
than 85% of patients needing palliative or support care have a life expectancy 
of over 6 months and thus represent the majority of persons using this type of 
medical and social support. The most susceptible groups are women and the 
oldest-old.

Copyright © 2010 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.02.005
PMID: 21496971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Orv Hetil. 2011 May 1;152(18):696-702. doi: 10.1556/OH.2011.29109.

[The importance of early diagnosis in acromegaly].

[Article in Hungarian]

Valkusz Z(1), Tóth M, Boda J, Nagy E, Julesz J.

Author information:
(1)Szegedi Tudományegyetem I. Belgyógyászati Klinika Szeged Korányi fasor 8. 
6720. valkusz@freemail.hu

The authors review the historical and epidemiological aspects, clinical features 
and complications of acromegaly while emphasizing the importance of the early 
diagnosis and treatment. Acromegaly is a rare and mostly sporadic disorder due 
to excessive production of growth hormone. It is characterized by progressive 
somatic disfigurement (mainly involving the face and extremities) and systemic 
manifestations. The prevalence is estimated between 40 and 125 cases/million. 
Generally, it is diagnosed in middle-aged adults (mean age 40 years, men and 
women equally affected). Due to its insidious onset and slow progression, 
acromegaly is often diagnosed 7 to more than 10 years after its onset. The 
disease has cardiovascular, rheumatological, respiratory and metabolic 
consequences which highly determine its prognosis. Acromegaly is associated with 
a number of complications resulting in a two- or four-fold increase of mortality 
and a decrease of life expectancy by about 10 years. The major causes of death 
include cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, respiratory diseases and 
malignancies. The duration of the disease before the introduction of effective 
therapy may be a major predictor of increased mortality mainly due to 
complications . The early diagnosis is important for timely commencement of 
treatment and for prevention of serious complications of the disease.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2011.29109
PMID: 21498157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Support Care Cancer. 2012 Apr;20(4):857-64. doi: 10.1007/s00520-011-1163-3.
Epub  2011 Apr 16.

Validation of the Cochin Risk Index Score (CRIS) for life expectancy prediction 
in terminally ill cancer patients.

Durand JP(1), Mir O, Coriat R, Cessot A, Pourchet S, Goldwasser F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital Cochin, Université Paris 
Descartes, Assistance Publique–Hôpitaux de Paris, 27, Rue du Faubourg Saint 
Jacques, 75014 Paris, France. jean-philippe.durand@cch.aphp.fr

BACKGROUND: Oncologists often overestimate survival of advanced cancer patients. 
This study aimed to validate a score for survival prediction in terminally ill 
cancer patients.
METHODS: Between 2004 and 2008, a prospective study was performed in 500 
consecutive advanced cancer patients referred to a palliative care unit. 
Evaluation at admission included physical examination and routine blood tests. 
On a randomly selected training set, independent factors assessable at inclusion 
predicting 2-week survival by a multiple logistic regression were assigned 
integer-rounded weights to develop a risk index score, which was tested on a 
validation set.
RESULTS: On the training set (334 patients), predictive factors were: urea 
>12 mmol/L (weight = 5, odds ratio (OR) = 3.72, 95% confidence interval 
(95%CI) = [1.59; 8.71], p = 0.002), Karnofsky Performance Status ≤30% 
(weight = 4, OR = 3.28, 95%CI = [1.80; 6.01], p < 0.001), leucocytes >15 g/L 
(weight = 3, OR = 2.49, 95%CI = [1.18; 5.25], p = 0.017), transthyretin 
≤0.05 g/L (weight = 3, OR = 2.42, 95%CI = [1.16; 5.04], p = 0.019) and male 
gender (weight = 2, OR = 2.25, 95%CI = [1.28; 3.97], p = 0.005). On the 
validation set (166 patients), the Cochin Risk Index Score (CRIS) ≥ 7 identified 
high-risk patients, with a positive predictive value of 78%.
CONCLUSION: We validated the CRIS for survival prediction in terminally ill 
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-011-1163-3
PMID: 21499844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2011 Aug;268(8):1101-1107. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-011-1597-8. Epub 2011 Apr 17.

Prevalence of age-related hearing loss in Europe: a review.

Roth TN(1), Hanebuth D(2)(3)(4), Probst R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University Hospital 
of Zurich, Frauenklinikstr. 24, 8091, Zurich, Switzerland. thomas.roth@usz.ch.
(2)Department Epidemiology and Public Health, Unit Gender and Health, Swiss 
Tropical and Public Health Institute, Socinstrasse 57, 4002, Basel, Switzerland.
(3)University of Basel, Petersplatz 1, 4003, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Computer Science, ETH Zurich, Universitätstrasse 6, 8092, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University Hospital 
of Zurich, Frauenklinikstr. 24, 8091, Zurich, Switzerland.

Populations are becoming progressively older thus presenting symptoms of 
diminished organ function due to degenerative processes. These may be 
physiological or caused by additional factors damaging the organ. Presbyacusis 
refers to the physiological age-related changes of the peripheral and central 
auditory system leading to hearing impairment and difficulty understanding 
spoken language. In contrast to epidemiological data of other continents, the 
prevalence of age-related hearing loss (ARHL) in Europe is not well defined, due 
in part to the use of different classification systems. We performed a 
systematic literature review with the aim of gaining a picture of the prevalence 
of ARHL in Europe. The review included only population and epidemiological 
studies in English since 1970 with samples in European countries with subjects 
aged 60 years and above. Nineteen studies met our selection criteria and 
additional five studies reported self-reported hearing impairment. When these 
data were crudely averaged and interpolated, roughly 30% of men and 20% of women 
in Europe were found to have a hearing loss of 30 dB HL or more by age 70 years, 
and 55% of men and 45% of women by age 80 years. Apparent problems in comparing 
the available data were the heterogeneity of measures and cut-offs for grades of 
hearing impairment. Our systematic review of epidemiological data revealed more 
information gaps than information that would allow gaining a meaningful picture 
of prevalence of ARHL. The need for standardized procedures when collecting and 
reporting epidemiological data on hearing loss has become evident. Development 
of hearing loss over time in conjunction with the increase in life expectancy is 
a major factor determining strategies of detection and correction of ARHL. Thus, 
we recommend using the WHO classification of hearing loss strictly and including 
standard audiometric measures in population-based health surveys.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-011-1597-8
PMCID: PMC3132411
PMID: 21499871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Radiat Environ Biophys. 2011 Aug;50(3):459-73. doi:
10.1007/s00411-011-0362-0.  Epub 2011 Apr 17.

Dynamic model for tritium transfer in an aquatic food chain.

Melintescu A(1), Galeriu D.

Author information:
(1)Life and Environmental Physics Department, Horia Hulubei National Institute 
for Physics and Nuclear Engineering, 30 Reactorului St., POB MG-6, 077125, 
Bucharest-Magurele, Romania. ancameli@ifin.nipne.ro

Tritium ((3)H) is released from some nuclear facilities in relatively large 
quantities. It is a ubiquitous isotope because it enters straight into 
organisms, behaving essentially identically to its stable analogue (hydrogen). 
Tritium is a key radionuclide in the aquatic environment, in some cases, 
contributing significantly to the doses received by aquatic, non-human biota and 
by humans. The updated model presented here is based on more standardized, 
comprehensive assessments than previously used for the aquatic food chain, 
including the benthic flora and fauna, with an explicit application to the 
Danube ecosystem, as well as an extension to the special case of dissolved 
organic tritium (DOT). The model predicts the organically bound tritium (OBT) in 
the primary producers (the autotrophs, such as phytoplankton and algae) and in 
the consumers (the heterotrophs) using their bioenergetics, which involves the 
investigation of energy expenditure, losses, gains and efficiencies of 
transformations in the body. The model described in the present study intends to 
be more specific than a screening-level model, by including a metabolic approach 
and a description of the direct uptake of DOT in marine phytoplankton and 
invertebrates. For a better control of tritium transfer into the environment, 
not only tritiated water must be monitored, but also the other chemical forms 
and most importantly OBT, in the food chain.

DOI: 10.1007/s00411-011-0362-0
PMID: 21499903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Semin Musculoskelet Radiol. 2011 Apr;15(2):135-42. doi:
10.1055/s-0031-1275596.  Epub 2011 Apr 15.

Preoperative embolization of spinal metastatic disease: rationale and technical 
considerations.

Heran MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neuroradiology, Department of Radiology, Vancouver General 
Hospital, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
manraj.heran@vch.ca

The spine is the most common site of bony metastatic disease, with the incidence 
of spinal metastatic disease increasing, likely as a result of improved 
survivorship in patients with cancer. Although occasionally incidentally 
identified through cancer screening/staging or studies done for other reasons, 
spinal metastatic disease often is symptomatic. The three key points to consider 
when devising a treatment algorithm are neurological compromise, spinal 
instability, and individual patient factors. Because the goal of treatment is 
almost always palliation, a multidisciplinary approach is taken to offer the 
best chance at alleviating the patient's symptoms. Consideration is given to 
various treatment choices, such as radiation therapy, chemotherapy, as well as 
locoregional management strategies, such as thermal ablation (radiofrequency and 
cryoablation). However, the mainstay of accepted management, especially in those 
whose life expectancy is > 12 weeks where other strategies have failed, is 
