If confirmed by prospective studies, these modalities may be used in order to 
identify patients at risk of diabetes-related complications. This could, 
ultimately, lead to decreased mortality and morbidity in type 1 diabetic 
patients.

© 2011 The Author. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2011 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica 
Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2010.02105.x
PMID: 21443578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Eur J Radiol. 2012 Jul;81(7):1413-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2011.03.027. Epub
2011  Mar 27.

Cost-effectiveness modeling of colorectal cancer: computed tomography 
colonography vs colonoscopy or fecal occult blood tests.

Lucidarme O(1), Cadi M, Berger G, Taieb J, Poynard T, Grenier P, Beresniak A.

Author information:
(1)Radiology Department, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris and Université Paris 6-Pierre-et-Marie-Curie, Paris, 
France. Olivier.lucidarme@psl.ap-hop-paris.fr

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of three colorectal-cancer (CRC) 
screening strategies in France: fecal-occult-blood tests (FOBT), 
computed-tomography-colonography (CTC) and optical-colonoscopy (OC).
METHODS: Ten-year simulation modeling was used to assess a virtual asymptomatic, 
average-risk population 50-74 years old. Negative OC was repeated 10 years 
later, and OC positive for advanced or non-advanced adenoma 3 or 5 years later, 
respectively. FOBT was repeated biennially. Negative CTC was repeated 5 years 
later. Positive CTC and FOBT led to triennial OC. Total cost and CRC rate after 
10 years for each screening strategy and 0-100% adherence rates with 10% 
increments were computed. Transition probabilities were programmed using 
distribution ranges to account for uncertainty parameters. Direct medical costs 
were estimated using the French national health insurance prices. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses used 5000 Monte Carlo simulations generating model outcomes 
and standard deviations.
RESULTS: For a given adherence rate, CTC screening was always the most effective 
but not the most cost-effective. FOBT was the least effective but most 
cost-effective strategy. OC was of intermediate efficacy and the least 
cost-effective strategy. Without screening, treatment of 123 CRC per 10,000 
individuals would cost €3,444,000. For 60% adherence, the respective costs of 
preventing and treating, respectively 49 and 74 FOBT-detected, 73 and 50 
CTC-detected and 63 and 60 OC-detected CRC would be €2,810,000, €6,450,000 and 
€9,340,000.
CONCLUSION: Simulation modeling helped to identify what would be the most 
effective (CTC) and cost-effective screening (FOBT) strategy in the setting of 
mass CRC screening in France.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2011.03.027
PMID: 21444171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2011 Jul;37(7):571-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2011.02.009.
Epub  2011 Mar 27.

Clinical prediction of survival by surgeons for patients with incurable 
abdominal malignancy.

Hølmebakk T(1), Solbakken A, Mala T, Nesbakken A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, Oslo University Hospital, Aker, 0514 
Oslo, Norway. toto.holmebakk@oslo-universitetssykehus.no

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Accurate prognosis facilitates decision-making and 
counselling in incurable cancer. However, predictions of survival are frequently 
inaccurate and survival is consistently overestimated. The prognostic skills of 
surgeons are sparsely documented, and the present study was undertaken to assess 
their prognostic accuracy for patients with advanced abdominal malignancy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Clinical predictions of survival were made by three 
consultant surgeons independently in consecutive patients with incurable 
abdominal cancer. Survival was predicted in intervals ranging from <1 week to 
18-24 months. Prognoses were considered accurate when actual survival fell 
within the expected range. Performance status was classified according to the 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG).
RESULTS: 243 assessments were made in 178 patients. Prognoses were accurate in 
27%, over-optimistic in 42% and over-pessimistic in 31%. Accuracy was inversely 
related to length of actual survival and did not differ between surgeons (P = 
0.466). The proportion of over-optimistic prognoses differed significantly 
between surgeons (P < 0.001). Prognostic accuracy was 44% in gastric cancer 
patients, 29% in pancreatic cancer patients and 22% in colorectal cancer 
patients (P = 0.052). ECOG performance status correlated well with survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgeons' accuracy in determining prognosis is poor. There are 
considerable individual differences between surgeons, and accuracy is reduced in 
cases with prolonged life expectancy.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2011.02.009
PMID: 21444178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Pediatrics. 2011 Apr;127(4):672-9. doi: 10.1542/peds.2010-2476. Epub 2011
Mar  28.

Evidence suggests there was not a "resurgence" of kernicterus in the 1990s.

Brooks JC(1), Fisher-Owens SA, Wu YW, Strauss DJ, Newman TB.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, California, USA. 
brooks@lifeexpectancy.org

BACKGROUND: Although some have suggested that kernicterus disappeared in the 
United States in the 1970s to 1980s and dramatically reappeared in the 1990s, 
population-based data to support such a resurgence are lacking.
METHODS: We used diagnosis codes on data collection forms from the California 
Department of Developmental Services (DDS) to identify kernicterus cases among 
children born from 1988 to 1997. We examined kernicterus mortality trends in the 
United States from 1979 to 2006 using death certificate data from the National 
Center for Health Statistics.
RESULTS: We identified 25 cases of physician-diagnosed kernicterus. This figure 
was augmented to reflect estimates of cases lost to infant mortality, yielding 
incidence estimates of 1 in 200 000 California live births, 1 in 2500 among 
children who received services from DDS, and 1 in 400 children with cerebral 
palsy. There was no significant trend in kernicterus incidence from 1988 to 1997 
(P = .77). Incidence before and after the 1994 publication of the AAP practice 
parameter for hyperbilirubinemia in healthy term infants was not significantly 
different (P = .92). Nationally, there were 3 reported infant deaths from 
kernicterus in 1994 and 2 or fewer in the other 28 years from 1979 to 2006 (0.28 
deaths per million live births): there was no significant increase in 
kernicterus mortality over this period.
CONCLUSION: Data from California do not support a resurgence of kernicterus in 
the 1990s. Deaths from kernicterus in the United States have remained rare, with 
no apparent increase during the last 25 years.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2010-2476
PMID: 21444599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Clin Oncol. 2011 May 1;29(13):1736-43. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.31.9004. Epub
 2011 Mar 28.

Population-based patterns and predictors of prostate-specific antigen screening 
among older men in the United States.

Drazer MW(1), Huo D, Schonberg MA, Razmaria A, Eggener SE.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago Medical Center, 5841 S Maryland Ave, Chicago, IL 60637, 
USA.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2011 Aug;60(2):392.

PURPOSE: For patients who elect to have prostate cancer screening, the optimal 
time to discontinue screening is unknown. Our objective was to describe rates 
and predictors of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening among older men in 
the United States.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the population-based 2000 and 2005 National 
Health Interview Survey (NHIS). PSA screening was defined as a PSA test as part 
of a routine exam within the past year. Demographic, socioeconomic, and 
functional characteristics were collected, and a validated 5-year estimated life 
expectancy was calculated. Age-specific rates of PSA screening were determined, 
and sampling weight-adjusted multivariate regressions were fitted to determine 
predictors of screening among men age 70 years or older.
RESULTS: The PSA screening rate was 24.0% in men age 50 to 54 years, and it 
increased steadily with age until a peak of 45.5% among age 70 to 74 years. 
Screening rates then gradually declined by age, and 24.6% of men age 85 years or 
older reported being screened. Among men age 70 years or older, screening rates 
varied by estimated 5-year life expectancy: rates were 47.3% in men with high 
life expectancies (≤ 15% probability of 5-year mortality), 39.2% in men with 
intermediate life expectancies (16% to 48% probability), and 30.7% in men with 
low life expectancies (> 48% probability; P < .001). In multivariate analysis, 
estimated life expectancy and age remained independently associated with PSA 
screening (P < .001 for each).
CONCLUSION: Rates of PSA screening in the United States are associated with age 
and estimated life expectancy, but excessive PSA screening in elderly men with 
limited life expectancies remains a significant problem. The merits and 
limitations of PSA should be discussed with all patients considering prostate 
cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.31.9004
PMCID: PMC4821471
PMID: 21444863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


327. Rev Esc Enferm USP. 2011 Mar;45(1):79-86. doi:
10.1590/s0080-62342011000100011.

[Quality of the Live Birth Information System in the state of Paraná, from 2000 
to 2005].

[Article in Portuguese]

da Silva GF(1), Aidar T, de Freitas Mathias TA.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa, Ponta Grossa, PR, Brazil. 
gifsnurse@yahoo.com.br

This study analyzed the quality of the Live Birth Information System in the 
State of (SINAC) Paraná, Brazil, from 2000 to 2005, through the percentage of 
undeclared variables, using a database provided by the State Health Department. 
Quality was analyzed using the following scale: excellent, undeclared 
percentage<1%; good between 1% and 2.99%; regular between 3% and 6.99%; and 
poor>7%. The quality in completing the SINAC in Paraná was excellent, especially 
as of year 2003. The mothers' occupation, classified as regular and poor, was 
the variable with the lowest quality in all Regional Health Departments. Live 
births, stillbirths, and race/color varied between poor and excellent quality. 
There is a need to improve the quality of the variables marital status and 
stillbirths in all Regional Health Departments. The excellence of the SINAC 
demonstrated its potential as a source of health information in Paraná.

DOI: 10.1590/s0080-62342011000100011
PMID: 21445492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Med Pregl. 2010 Sep-Oct;63(9-10):689-95. doi: 10.2298/mpns1010689m.

[Treatment of locally advanced prostatic cancer].

[Article in Serbian]

Marusić G(1), Vojinov S, Levakov I.

Author information:
(1)Klinicki centar Vojvodine, Novi Sad. gmarusic@nscable.net

INTRODUCTION: A locally advanced prostate cancer is defined as a malignant 
process spreading beyond the prostate capsule or in seminal vesicles but without 
distant metastasis or regional lymph nodes invasion.
CLINICAL CLASSIFICATION, PREDICTION AND TREATMENT OF PROSTATE CANCER: An exact 
staging of clinical T3 stadium is usually difficult because of the frequent over 
and under staging. The risk prognostic stratification is performed through 
nomograms and ANN (artificial neural networks). The options for treatment are: 
radical prostatectomy, external radiotherapy and interstitial implantation of 
radioisotopes, hormonal therapy by androgen blockade. Radical prostatectomy is 
considered in patients with T3 stage but extensive dissection of lymph nodes, 
dissection of neurovascular bundle (on tumor side), total removal of seminal 
vesicle and sometimes resection of bladder neck are obligatory. Postoperative 
radiotherapy is performed in patients with invasion of seminal vesicles and 
capsular penetration or with prostate specific antigen value over 0.1 ng/ml, one 
month after the surgical treatment. Definitive radiotherapy could be used as the 
best treatment option considering clinical stage, Gleason score, age, starting 
prostate specific antigen (PSA) value, concomitant diseases, life expectancy, 
quality of life, through multidisciplinary approach (combined with androgen 
deprivation). Hormonal therapy in intended for patients who are not eligible for 
surgical treatment or radiotherapy. Conclusion Management of locally advanced 
prostate cancer is still controversial and studies fbr better diagnosis and new 
treatment modalities are ongoing.

DOI: 10.2298/mpns1010689m
PMID: 21446100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Med Pregl. 2010 Sep-Oct;63(9-10):701-4. doi: 10.2298/mpns1010701z.

[Quality of life evaluation in cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in Serbian]

Zdravković M(1), Krotin M, Deljanin-Ilić M, Zdravković D.

Author information:
(1)Klinicko-bolnicki centar Bezanijska kosa, Beograd majadare@EUnet.rs

DEFINITION OF QUALITY OF LIFE: In recent years, quality of life has become a 
very important measure of treatment of disease and successful therapy, regarding 
not only general health of an individual patient but also of the whole 
population. In 1993 the WHO proclaimed "Vision of health for all", as "Add years 
to life" but also "Add life to years", emphasizing quality of life to be as 
important as life duration. Although the remaining life expectancy in patients 
with cardiovascular disease is prolonged, there is still medical challenge: "How 
to improve quality of life in these patients?".
MEASUREMENT OF QUALITY OF LIFE: Quality of life can be defined as the patient's 
perception of impact of disease and concomitant therapy and procedures on his 
physical and working capacity, emotional role, social communication and general 
health.
DIFFERENT TYPES OF STANDARDIZED QUESTIONNAIRES FOR QUALITY OF LIFE EVALUATION: 
It can be measured by general health questionnaires and specified questionnaires 
for disease. Questionnaire SF-36 is regarded as one of the most reliable, 
considering the great number of publications.
CONCLUSION: The most important step in complicated evaluation of quality of life 
is the adequate selection of questionnaire with a high confidence.

DOI: 10.2298/mpns1010701z
PMID: 21446102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Nanosci Nanotechnol. 2011 Jan;11(1):701-5. doi: 10.1166/jnn.2011.3289.

The evaluation of the micro-tracks and micro-dimples on the tribological 
characteristics of thrust ball bearings.

Amanov A(1), Pyoun YS, Cho IS, Lee CS, Park IG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Sun Moon University, Asan 336-708, 
Korea.

One of the primary remedies for tribological problems is surface modification. 
The reduction of the friction between the ball and the raceway of bearings is a 
very important goal of the development of bearing technology. A low friction has 
a positive effect in terms of the extension of the fatigue life, avoidance of a 
temperature rise, and prevention of premature failure of bearings. Therefore, 
this research sought to investigate the effects of micro-tracks and 
micro-dimples on the tribological characteristics at the contact point between 
the ball and the raceway of thrust ball bearings (TBBs). The ultrasonic 
nanocrystal surface modification (UNSM) technology was applied using different 
intervals (feed rates) to the TBB raceway surface to create micro-tracks and 
micro-dimples. The friction coefficient after UNSM at 50 microm intervals showed 
marked sensitivity and a significant reduction of 30%. In this study, the 
results showed that more micro-dimples yield a lower friction coefficient.

DOI: 10.1166/jnn.2011.3289
PMID: 21446527


331. J Chem Inf Model. 2011 Apr 25;51(4):788-806. doi: 10.1021/ci100297y. Epub
2011  Mar 29.

MultiMCS: a fast algorithm for the maximum common substructure problem on 
multiple molecules.

Hariharan R(1), Janakiraman A, Nilakantan R, Singh B, Varghese S, Landrum G, 
Schuffenhauer A.

Author information:
(1)Strand Life Sciences, Fifth Floor, Kirloskar Business Park, Bellary Road, 
Hebbal, Bangalore 560024, India. ramesh@strandls.com

Several efficient correspondence graph-based algorithms for determining the 
maximum common substructure (MCS) of a pair of molecules have been published in 
the literature. The extension of the problem to three or more molecules is 
however nontrivial; heuristics used to increase the efficiency in the 
two-molecule case are either inapplicable to the many-molecule case or do not 
provide significant speedups. Our specific algorithmic contribution is two-fold. 
First, we show how the correspondence graph approach for the two-molecule case 
can be generalized to obtain an algorithm that is guaranteed to find the optimum 
connected MCS of multiple molecules, and that runs fast on most families of 
molecules using a new divide-and-conquer strategy that has hitherto not been 
reported in this context. Second, we provide a characterization of those 
compound families for which the algorithm might run slowly, along with a 
heuristic for speeding up computations on these families. We also extend the 
above algorithm to a heuristic algorithm to find the disconnected MCS of 
multiple molecules and to an algorithm for clustering molecules into groups, 
with each group sharing a substantial MCS. Our methods are flexible in that they 
provide exquisite control on various matching criteria used to define a common 
substructure.

DOI: 10.1021/ci100297y
PMID: 21446748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Neurochem. 2011 Jun;117(6):927-36. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2011.07262.x.
Epub  2011 May 3.

Effects of rapamycin and TOR on aging and memory: implications for Alzheimer's 
disease.

Santos RX(1), Correia SC, Cardoso S, Carvalho C, Santos MS, Moreira PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences - Faculty of Sciences and Technology, University 
of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.

Rapamycin is a macrolide immunosuppressant drug, originally used as an 
anti-fungal agent, which is widely used in transplantation medicine to prevent 
organ rejection. Target of rapamycin (TOR) is an evolutionarily conserved 
serine/threonine kinase with pleiotropic cellular functions, regulating 
processes such as growth and metabolism, cell survival, transcription and 
autophagy. TOR intervenes in two distinct enzymatic complexes with different 
functions, a rapamycin-sensitive complex TORC1 and a rapamycin-insensitive 
complex TORC2. Rapamycin has an inhibitory effect on TORC1 activity and it has 
been suggested to increase life span, an effect correlated with decreased 
protein biosynthesis and autophagy activation. In the CNS, rapamycin shows 
beneficial effects in neuronal survival and plasticity, thus contributing to 
memory improvement. In this review, evidence implying rapamycin and TOR in 
aging/life span extension and memory improvement will be discussed. Recent 
findings about the effects of rapamycin on Alzheimer's disease-associated 
neuropathology will be also discussed.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Neurochemistry © 2011 International Society for 
Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2011.07262.x
PMID: 21447003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2011;155:A2996.

[Too little evaluation of diagnostic imaging tests].

[Article in Dutch]

de Jong PA(1), van der Graaf Y, Bossuyt PM.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht, Afd. Radiologie, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. pimdejong@gmail.com

The use of diagnostic imaging is increasing rapidly. Imaging tests can lead to 
fast and accurate diagnosis but as they can be harmful these tests need to be 
carefully evaluated. This evaluation generally involves three steps: evaluation 
of analytic validity or reliability (e.g. reproducibility), evaluation of 
clinical validity (e.g. positive and negative predictive value) and evaluation 
of clinical benefit (e.g. improvement in life-expectancy and quality of life). 
Two commonly observed problems with current research are the overall poor 
quality of many diagnostic studies and the relative absence of studies 
evaluating the added value and clinical benefit of imaging tests. Research into 
the clinical utility of imaging is not simple; it requires multi-disciplinary 
co-operation and the methodology is less well developed than in research into 
the effects of therapy. Pressure is increasing, both from society and from 
government, to improve the evaluation of imaging tests.

PMID: 21447223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2011 Apr;27(2):180-7. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462311000043. Epub 2011 Mar 29.

Bridging the gap between methods research and the needs of policy makers: a 
review of the research priorities of the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence.

Longworth L(1), Sculpher MJ, Bojke L, Tosh JC.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB8 
3PH, UK. louise.longworth@brunel.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to establish a list of priority topics for 
methods research to support decision making at the National Institute for Health 
and Clinical Excellence (NICE).
METHODS: Potential priorities for methods research topics were identified 
through a focused literature review, interviews, an email survey, a workshop and 
a Web-based feedback exercise. Participants were members of the NICE secretariat 
and its advisory bodies, representatives from academia, industry, and other 
organizations working closely with NICE. The Web exercise was open to anyone to 
complete but publicized among the above groups.
RESULTS: A list of potential topics was collated. Priorities for further 
research differed according to the type of respondent and the extent to which 
they work directly with NICE. Priorities emerging from the group closest to NICE 
included: methodology for indirect and mixed treatment comparisons; synthesis of 
qualitative evidence; research relating to the use of quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) in decision making; methods and empirical research for 
establishing the cost-effectiveness threshold; and determining how data on the 
uncertainty of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness data should be taken into 
account in the decision-making process. Priorities emerging from the broadest 
group of respondents (through the Web exercise) included: methods for 
extrapolating beyond evidence observed in trials, methods for capturing benefits 
not included in the QALY and methods to assess when technologies should be 
recommended in the context of further evidence gathering.
CONCLUSIONS: Consideration needs to be given to the needs of those who use the 
outputs of research for decision making when determining priorities for future 
methods research.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462311000043
PMID: 21447260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. BMJ Qual Saf. 2011 Oct;20(10):826-31. doi: 10.1136/bmjqs.2010.048363. Epub
2011  Mar 29.

Health and social services expenditures: associations with health outcomes.

Bradley EH(1), Elkins BR, Herrin J, Elbel B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Administration, Yale School of Public Health, 
60 College Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. elizabeth.bradley@yale.edu

Comment in
    Acad Med. 2017 Mar;92 (3):271-273.

OBJECTIVE: To examine variations in health service expenditures and social 
services expenditures across Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) countries and assess their association with five 
population-level health outcomes.
DESIGN: A pooled, cross-sectional analysis using data from the 2009 release of 
the OECD Health Data 2009 Statistics and Indicators and OECD Social Expenditure 
Database.
SETTING: OECD countries (n = 30) from 1995 to 2005.
MAIN OUTCOMES: Life expectancy at birth, infant mortality, low birth weight, 
maternal mortality and potential years of life lost.
RESULTS: Health services expenditures adjusted for gross domestic product (GDP) 
per capita were significantly associated with better health outcomes in only two 
of five health indicators; social services expenditures adjusted for GDP were 
significantly associated with better health outcomes in three of five 
indicators. The ratio of social expenditures to health expenditures was 
significantly associated with better outcomes in infant mortality, life 
expectancy and increased potential life years lost, after adjusting for the 
level of health expenditures and GDP.
CONCLUSION: Attention to broader domains of social policy may be helpful in 
accomplishing improvements in health envisioned by advocates of healthcare 
reform.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjqs.2010.048363
PMID: 21447501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. NeuroRehabilitation. 2011;28(2):161. doi: 10.3233/NRE-2011-0644.

Life expectancy for people with disabilities.

Shavelle R, Katz RT, MacKenzie R, Rosenbloom L, DeVivo M, Hutton J, Strauss D, 
Day S, Brooks J.

Comment on
    NeuroRehabilitation. 2010;27(2):201-9.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-2011-0644
PMID: 21447916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2011 Apr;33 Suppl 1:S64-7. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0b013e31821223a3.

Palliative care situation in Palestinian Authority.

Shawawra M(1), Khleif AD.

Author information:
(1)Al-Sadeel Society for Palliative Care for Cancer Patients, 733 Geminer St., 
Karkafa, Bethlehem, Palestinian National Authority, East Jesusalem. 
sadeelsoc@yahoo.com

Palliative care is a very new concept in Palestine. In fact, it is still not 
applicable or provided within the Palestinian health care system. However, 
Al-Sadeel Society had organized a one day workshop in Bethlehem on November 2008 
for the health professionals from the governmental and non-governmental sectors 
to initiate and introduce the idea of palliative care for the first time in 
Palestine. The general population of Palestine is approximately 2.4 millions 
(2007), with a life expectancy of 74.3 years of age, the death rate is 3.7 per 
1000 population, having 8,910 deaths a year. Deaths due to cancer were 2,305 in 
five years (1999-2003), where 5,542 new cases were newly diagnosed in the same 
period. Health services available for cancer patients are hospital units either 
in patient or day care units. According to the ministry of health (MOH) 
statistics there are 75 beds in oncology departments in MOH hospitals; represent 
2.7% of the total number of beds available, and 60 beds in daily care 
departments with an occupancy rate at 231.8%. There is no hospice or bereavement 
follow up care available for patients or their families. Despite the fact that 
the Palestinian culture is one of the cultures that respect and care for the 
elderly, but at the end of life, when the load of symptoms is high, most of the 
patient are care for at hospitals, and usually dye there, because the families 
are not able to care for their patients, and as there is no system for home care 
available for the Palestinian patients, and if it is available it is available 
in limited places and on private bases that are expensive and not affordable to 
the majority of patients, gross domestic product (GPD) per capita= 1,100 as 2007 
estimates). We conducted a needs assessment survey within the only four 
facilities that provide care for the oncology patients in the West Bank and were 
filled by the direct health care providers. The results were expressing the fact 
that there is no palliative care service available for cancer patients or their 
families, absence of organizations strategic planning for palliative care, No 
presence of educational resources for palliative care, No presence of 
communication or consultation to the clergy man, Absence of bereavement support 
group, no active follow up for the patient and the family, no standards for 
palliative care service or training programs in palliative care, no home care 
service for palliative care, absence of community awareness for palliative care 
And Absence of national standard for palliative care. The recommendations that 
we can conclude, depending on the needs assessment that we did, and according to 
the recommendations that come up through the workshop that was organized by 
Al-Sadeel Society and was attended by key personnel from the Palestinian MOH who 
summarized the conclusion, are as follows: 1. The need for better quality care 
for the cancer patient.2. The need for training of health professionals in 
palliative care.3. The importance of networking and cooperation between the 
national NGO's and the MOH.4. The need for public awareness regarding the early 
detection for cancer especially breast cancer.5. The need for national policy 
and standards for palliative care and opioids legislations.6. The importance of 
base line data and research. 7. The need for interdisciplinary team work in the 
issue of cancer. 8. To involve palliative care education within the curriculum 
of schools of health professions.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0b013e31821223a3
PMID: 21448041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Am J Gastroenterol. 2011 Aug;106(8):1439-45. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2011.94. Epub
2011  Mar 29.

Cost-effectiveness model of endoscopic biopsy for eosinophilic esophagitis in 
patients with refractory GERD.

Miller SM(1), Goldstein JL, Gerson LB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Digestive Diseases and Nutrition, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The population prevalence of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is ~7% 
in adults. Current American Gastroenterology Association guidelines recommend 
endoscopic biopsy (Bx) in patients with symptoms of dysphagia. We conducted a 
cost-effectiveness model to determine if endoscopic Bx is cost effective in 
patients with refractory gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) without 
dysphagia.
METHODS: We designed a 5-year Markov model to compare costs and quality-adjusted 
life years for a cohort of 35-year-old patients with GERD refractory to proton 
pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy. We compared upper endoscopy (EGD) with and without 
Bx for EoE. We modeled that patients with EoE who did not undergo initial biopsy 
would wait 5 years until the diagnosis would be established via a second 
endoscopy with biopsy.
RESULTS: In patients with refractory GERD without dysphagia, endoscopic Bx for 
EoE was associated with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
$51,420 per quality of life year (QALY). The upper endoscopy with biopsy arm 
cost $12,490 per patient and was associated with 4.080 QALYs, compared with EGD 
without Bx arm that cost $12,280 and was associated with 4.076 QALYs. The ICER 
was <$50,000 per QALY when the prevalence of EoE exceeded 8%, or the time of 
missed diagnosis was 6 years or greater. The biopsy arm was also cost effective 
if the QALY associated with symptomatic GERD was ≤0.93, cost of 3-month course 
of PPI therapy ≥$770 cost of fluticasone <$650, probability of EoE resolved on 
PPI ≤25%, symptom resolution on fluticasone ≥70%, cost endoscopy with biopsy 
≤$520, or the cost of endoscopy without biopsy exceeded $300.
CONCLUSIONS: Upper endoscopy with Bx for EoE appears to be a cost-effective 
approach in patients when the prevalence of EoE is 8% or greater.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2011.94
PMID: 21448144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Bras Nefrol. 2010 Mar;32(1):112-7.

Alternative hemodialysis regimens.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Matos JP(1), Lugon JR.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Diálise e Transplante, Divisão de Nefrologia, Hospital 
Universitário Antônio Pedro, Universidade Federal Fluminense - Niterói, RJ, 
Brazil.

The mortality rate among patients on hemodialysis (HD) is extremely high. 
Remaining life expectancy for a patient initiating HD is only approximately one 
quarter of that of the general population at the same age bracket. The 
conventional HD regimen based on four-hour sessions three times a week was 
empirically established nearly four decades ago and needs to be revisited. Since 
the failure of the HEMO Study to demonstrate the clinical benefits of higher 
urea Kt/V for patients on conventional HD, an increasing interest for 
alternative HD regimens has emerged aiming at providing a treatment for 
improving survival rates. Short daily HD and long nocturnal HD stand out as the 
most promising alternative regimens. Economical obstacles which could hinder the 
clinical application of emerging knowledge in the field should be overcome.

PMID: 21448529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Horm Metab Res. 2011 Jun;43(6):397-403. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1273769. Epub
2011  Mar 29.

Calorimetry, morphometry, oxidative stress, and cardiac metabolic response to 
growth hormone treatment in obese and aged rats.

Seiva FR(1), Chuffa LG, Ebaid GM, Silva T, Fernandes AA, Novelli EL.

Author information:
(1)Post Graduation Course, Department of Clinical and Cardiology, School of 
Medicine, São Paulo State University, UNESP, Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.

This study investigated the effects of growth hormone therapy on energy 
expenditure, lipid profile, oxidative stress and cardiac energy metabolism in 
aging and obesity conditions. Life expectancy is increasing in world population 
and with it, the incidence of public health problems such as obesity and cardiac 
alterations. Because growth hormone (GH) concentration is referred to be 
decreased in aging conditions, a question must be addressed: what is the effect 
of GH on aging related adverse changes? To investigate the effects of GH on 
cardiac energy metabolism and its association with calorimetric parameters, 
lipid profile and oxidative stress in aged and obese rats, initially 32 male 
Wistar rats were divided into 2 groups (n=16), C: given standard-chow and water; 
H: given hypercaloric-chow and receiving 30% sucrose in its drinking water. 
After 45 days, both C and H groups were divided into 2 subgroups (n=8), C+PL: 
standard-chow, water, and receiving saline subcutaneously; C+GH: standard-chow, 
water, and receiving 2 mg/kg/day rhGH subcutaneously; H+PL: hypercaloric-chow, 
30% sucrose, receiving saline subcutaneously; H+GH: hypercaloric-chow, 30% 
sucrose, receiving rhGH subcutaneously. After 30 days, C+GH and H+PL rats had 
higher body mass index, Lee-index, body fat content, percent-adiposity, serum 
triacylglycerol, cardiac lipid-hydroperoxide, and triacylglycerol than C+PL. 
Energy-expenditure (RMR)/body weight, oxygen consumption and fat-oxidation were 
higher in H+GH than in H+PL. LDL-cholesterol was highest in H+GH rats, whereas 
cardiac pyruvate-dehydrogenase and phosphofrutokinase were higher in H+GH and 
H+PL rats than in C+PL. In conclusion, the present study brought new insights on 
aging and obesity, demonstrating for the first time that GH therapy was harmful 
in aged and obesity conditions, impairing calorimetric parameters and lipid 
profile. GH was disadvantageous in control old rats, having undesirable effects 
on triacylglycerol accumulation and cardiac oxidative stress.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1273769
PMID: 21448849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Am J Hum Biol. 2011 May-Jun;23(3):412-6. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.21165. Epub 2011
Mar  29.

How boys grow determines how long they live.

J P Barker D(1), Kajantie E, Osmond C, Thornburg KL, Eriksson JG.

Author information:
(1)MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton 
General Hospital, Southampton SO16 6YD, United Kingdom. djpbarker@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: Increase in height in modern societies has been accompanied by an in 
increase in lifespan. The longer lives of taller people suggest that good 
nutrition during childhood, together with freedom from recurrent minor 
infection, prolong human life. There is, however, a caveat. Tall adult stature 
may be the result of rapid "compensatory" growth following a setback. 
Compensatory growth is known to reduce the lifespan of animals, possibly because 
it is disorganized.
METHODS: We analyzed lifespan among 6,975 men born in Helsinki, Finland, during 
1934-44. Their early growth was recorded.
RESULTS: Boys who were tallest at seven years of age had lower all cause 
mortality, the hazard ratio being 0.79(95%CI 0.70 to 0.89, P < 0.0001) per 10 cm 
increase in height. There was, however, a group of boys among whom being tall 
was associated with increased all cause mortality, the hazard ratio being 
1.32(1.00 to 1.75, P = 0.05). These boys were taller at seven years than their 
birthweight and length at birth predicted. After they were excluded from the 
analysis, boys who were more than 126 cm in height at seven lived for eight 
years longer than those who were 114 cm or less. This increase in lifespan was 
similar to the effect of high socio-economic status in adult life.
CONCLUSIONS: Rapid growth in childhood height usually predicts a longer life. 
But tallness among men may be a misleading indicator of wellbeing and longer 
life expectancy in populations where compensatory growth is widespread. African 
Americans may be an example. Am. J. Hum. Biol., 2011. © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.21165
PMCID: PMC3923646
PMID: 21448906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Harefuah. 2011 Jan;150(1):37-40, 68.

[Who is likely to gain from high dose supplementation of vitamin E?].

[Article in Hebrew]

Lichtenberg D(1).

Author information:
(1)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, TeL Aviv University. physidov@post.tau.ac.il

Given the assumption that oxidative stress plays a pivotal role in 
atherogenesis, it could have been predicted that antioxidants will slow or even 
stop the development of atherotic plaques. The results of the latter prediction 
were disappointing. Moreover, previous meta-analyses concluded that 
indiscriminate supplementation of vitamin E at high dose (400 IU or more) 
results in increased mortality, both cardiovascular and all-cause. This 
conclusion raised serious criticisms, particularly on the choice of studies for 
meta-analyses, the end point (mortaLity) and the heterogeneity of the clinicaL 
studies with respect to both the population and the treatment. In Dr. Dotan's 
PhD thesis, conducted under my supervision, with the assistance of Drs. Leshno 
and Pinchuk, we analysed the results of the major cLinicaL studies within a 
Markov model. Using this approach enabled us to adjust the data for 
heterogeneities and assess the sensitivity of the outcome to the different 
affectors. The adjusted data were then used to assess the risk of transitions 
between predefined health state (healthy, dead or CVD patients, following a 
cardiac event). We also used a different 'end point', that is the 
quantity-adjusted life years (QALY), which reflects both morbidity and 
mortality. The major result of this study is that indiscriminate high dose 
supplementation of vitamin E is associated with an average loss of about 0.3 
QALY. Yet, we think that some specific groups (presumably those that suffer from 
high oxidative stress) may gain from vitamin E supplementation. The existing 
data is insufficient to predict who is likely to benefit from vitamin E 
treatment. Until such data becomes available, we cannot recommend high dose 
vitamin E supplementation.

PMID: 21449155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Environ Health. 2011 Mar 31;10:25. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-10-25.

How to determine life expectancy change of air pollution mortality: a time 
series study.

Rabl A(1), Thach TQ, Chau PY, Wong CM.

Author information:
(1)ARMINES/Ecole des Mines de Paris, 60 bd. St.-Michel, 75272 Paris, France. 
ari.rabl@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Information on life expectancy (LE) change is of great concern for 
policy makers, as evidenced by discussions of the "harvesting" (or "mortality 
displacement") issue, i.e. how large an LE loss corresponds to the mortality 
results of time series (TS) studies. Whereas loss of LE attributable to chronic 
air pollution exposure can be determined from cohort studies, using life table 
methods, conventional TS studies have identified only deaths due to acute 
exposure, during the immediate past (typically the preceding one to five days), 
and they provide no information about the LE loss per death.
METHODS: We show how to obtain information on population-average LE loss by 
extending the observation window (largest "lag") of TS to include a sufficient 
number of "impact coefficients" for past exposures ("lags"). We test several 
methods for determining these coefficients. Once all of the coefficients have 
been determined, the LE change is calculated as time integral of the relative 
risk change after a permanent step change in exposure.
RESULTS: The method is illustrated with results for daily data of non-accidental 
mortality from Hong Kong for 1985 - 2005, regressed against PM10 and SO2 with 
observation windows up to 5 years. The majority of the coefficients is 
statistically significant. The magnitude of the SO2 coefficients is comparable 
to those for PM10. But a window of 5 years is not sufficient and the results for 
LE change are only a lower bound; it is consistent with what is implied by other 
studies of long term impacts.
CONCLUSIONS: A TS analysis can determine the LE loss, but if the observation 
window is shorter than the relevant exposures one obtains only a lower bound.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-10-25
PMCID: PMC3079600
PMID: 21450107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2012 Apr;19(2):267-74. doi: 10.1177/1741826711398431.
Epub  2011 Feb 28.

Are HIV patients undertreated? Cardiovascular risk factors in HIV: results of 
the HIV-HEART study.

Reinsch N(1), Neuhaus K, Esser S, Potthoff A, Hower M, Mostardt S, Neumann A, 
Brockmeyer NH, Gelbrich G, Erbel R, Neumann T; German Competence Network Heart 
Failure; German Competence Network for HIV/AIDS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, West-German Heart Center, University of Essen 
Medical School, Hufelandstrasse 55, Essen, Germany. nico.reinsch@uk-essen.de

BACKGROUND: Antiretroviral therapy improved the survival of patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. With increased life expectancy, 
HIV-infected patients increasingly are experiencing comorbidities, most notably 
cardiovascular risk factors (CRFs) and coronary heart disease (CHD).
DESIGN: This study utilized a prospective, cross-sectional multicentre long-term 
design.
METHODS: In 803 patients (82% male; mean age 44.2 ± 10.3 years) we evaluated the 
prevalence of CRFs and 10-year risk of CHD using the Framingham risk model. The 
presence of a risk factor was determined based on the guidelines of the National 
Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP ATP III), the Joint National Committee on 
Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC7), 
and the German Society of Cardiology.
RESULTS: The most common CRFs were smoking (51.2%), high triglycerides (39.0%), 
low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (27.5 %) and high blood pressure 
(21.4%). In total, 60.3%, 21.6%, and 18.1% of patients were categorized as being 
at low (<10%), moderate (10-20%), and high (>20%) 10-year risk for CHD, 
respectively. In patients with hypertension, at least one antihypertensive drug 
was given in 91/163 (55.8%) patients. The percentage of patients on treatment 
with diabetes mellitus was 23/41 (56.1%). Anti-platelet therapy was prescribed 
to 42/102 (41.2%) patients with known CHD or CHD equivalent. In patients of 
moderate or high CHD risk there were more than 50% and 30% for LDL cholesterol 
and more than 60% and 40% for total cholesterol untreated.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of CRFs remains high in an HIV-infected population. 
CRF management of HIV-infected patients deserves further improvement.

DOI: 10.1177/1741826711398431
PMID: 21450595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2011 Oct;18(5):717-23. doi: 
10.1177/1741826711398425. Epub 2011 Feb 18.

Health and cost consequences of early versus late invasive strategy after 
thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction.

Bøhmer E(1), Kristiansen IS, Arnesen H, Halvorsen S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Innlandet Hospital Trust, Lillehammer, Norway. 
ellen.bohmer@sykehuset-innlandet.no

The NORwegian study on DIstrict treatment of ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction 
showed an improved clinical outcome with early transfer for percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI) compared to a more conservative approach after 
thrombolysis. The aim of this substudy was to compare the 12-month 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs of these alternative strategies.
METHODS: Patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction <6 h duration and 
>90 min expected delay to PCI, received full-dose tenecteplase and were 
randomized to either early or late invasive strategy (n = 266). Detailed quality 
of life and resource use data were registered prospectively for a period of 12 
months. Health outcomes were measured as quality of life using a generic 
instrument (15D). Quality of life scores were translated into QALYs. Unit costs 
were based on hospital accounts, fee schedules, and market prices.
RESULTS: After 12 months of follow-up, patients in the early invasive group had 
0.008 (95% CI -0.027 to 0.043) more QALYs compared to the late invasive group. 
The mean total costs were €18,201 in the early versus €17,643 in the late 
invasive group, with a mean difference of €558 (95% CI -2258 to 3484). Cost/QALY 
was €69,750 while cost/avoided clinical endpoint was €5636.
CONCLUSION: Early and late invasive strategies after thrombolysis resulted in 
similar quality of life and similar costs in ST-elevation myocardial infarction 
patients living far from a PCI centre (NCT00161005).

DOI: 10.1177/1741826711398425
PMID: 21450598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2011 Apr;18(2):248-53. doi: 
10.1177/1741826710389355. Epub 2011 Feb 11.

Decreasing systolic blood pressure and declining mortality rates in an untreated 
population: results from the Copenhagen City Heart Study.

Andersen UO(1), Marott JL, Jensen GB.

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen City Heart Study, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. Ullaoa@dadlnet.dk

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to evaluate developments in 30 years 
mortality risk that may be associated with developments in population systolic 
blood pressure (SBP) and to evaluate possible secular trends in BP-associated 
mortality risk in the untreated population.
DESIGN: The Copenhagen City Heart Study is a prospective longitudinal 
epidemiological study. The present analysis comprised participants from survey 1 
(1976-78) and 3 (1991-94).
METHODS: BP measurements and other methods were fully standardized and unchanged 
throughout the observation period. Questionnaires were completed by the 
participants and double checked by the technicians while they were interviewing 
the participants.
RESULTS: 18 077 persons participated. Age, systolic BP, diastolic BP, 
cholesterol, BMI, diabetes, gender and habitual physical activity were 
significant predictors of all-cause death in all age groups. Risk factor 
adjusted risk for all-cause death was significantly lower in survey 3 compared 
with survey 1. Among elderly people, there was no development in mortality risk. 
In the age groups 40-49 years and 50-59 years there were survey differences 
indicating a significant trend towards longer life expectancy compared with 
their age-matched counterparts in survey 1. The association between BP and 
mortality remained unchanged.
CONCLUSION: A declining risk of all-cause death was observed in the younger and 
middle-aged cohorts of the population. The decrease in systolic BP and decline 
in mortality risk in the same age groups points to a role of systolic BP in 
age-cohort differentiated improvements of life expectancy. The effect of 
systolic BP on mortality did not change during follow-up.

DOI: 10.1177/1741826710389355
PMID: 21450672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2011 Apr;18(2):254-61. doi: 
10.1177/1741826710389368. Epub 2011 Jan 28.

Asymptomatic peripheral arterial disease: is pharmacological prevention of 
cardiovascular risk cost-effective?

Sigvant B(1), Henriksson M, Lundin F, Wahlberg E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden. birgitta.sigvant@liv.se

Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is associated with an increased risk of early 
death in cardiovascular (CV) disease. The majority of PAD subjects are 
asymptomatic with a prevalence of 11 per cent among the elderly. Long-term drug 
prevention aiming to minimize disease progression and CV events in these 
subjects is probably beneficial, but expensive. The purpose of this analysis was 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pharmacological risk reduction in 
subclinical PAD. Long-term costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 
estimated by employing a decision-analytic model for ACE-inhibitor, statin, 
aspirin and non-aspirin anti-platelet therapy. Rates of CV events without 
treatment were derived from epidemiological studies and event rate reduction 
were retrieved from clinical trials. Costs and health-related quality of life 
estimates were obtained from published sources. All four drugs reduced CV 
events. Using ACE-inhibition resulted in a heart rate (HR) of 0.67 (95% CI: 
0.55-0.79), statins 0.74 (0.70-0.79), and clopidogrel 0.72 (0.43-1.00). Aspirin 
had a HR of 0.87 and the 95% CI passed included one (0.72-1.03). ACE-inhibition 
was associated with the largest reduction in events leading to the highest gain 
in QALYs (7.95). Furthermore, ACE-inhibitors were associated with the lowest 
mean cost €40.556. In conclusion, while all drugs reduced CV events, 
ACE-inhibition was the most cost-effective. These results suggest that we should 
consider efforts to identify patients with asymptomatic PAD and, when 
identified, offer ACE-inhibition.

DOI: 10.1177/1741826710389368
PMID: 21450673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. BMJ. 2011 Mar 30;342:d1672. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d1672.

Statin treatment for primary prevention of vascular disease: whom to treat? 
Cost-effectiveness analysis.

Greving JP(1), Visseren FL, de Wit GA, Algra A.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Netherlands. J.P.Greving@umcutrecht.nl

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of low dose statins for primary 
prevention of vascular disease, incorporating current prices, non-adherence 
(reduced clinical efficacy while maintaining healthcare costs), and the results 
of the recently published JUPITER trial.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model. Sensitivity analyses 
and Monte Carlo simulation evaluated the robustness of the results.
SETTING: Primary care in The Netherlands.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical populations of men and women aged 45 to 75 years 
without a history of vascular disease at different levels of risk for vascular 
disease (myocardial infarction and stroke) over 10 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Low dose statin treatment daily versus no treatment for 10 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Number of fatal and nonfatal vascular events prevented, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios over 10 years.
RESULTS: Over a 10-year period, statin treatment cost €35 000 (£30 000, $49 000) 
per QALY gained for men aged 55 years with a 10-year vascular risk of 10%. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio improved as risk for vascular disease 
increased. The cost per QALY ranged from approximately €5000 to €125 000 when 
