Deriving trends in life expectancy by the National Statistics Socioeconomic 
Classification using the ONS Longitudinal Study.

Johnson B(1).

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

BACKGROUND: Health inequalities among socio-economic groups are well documented. 
One of the measures used to track inequalities over time is the series 'Trends 
in life expectancy by social class, 1972-2005', on the Office for National 
Statistics website. In 2001 the National Statistics Socio-economic 
Classification (NS-SEC), replaced Registrar General's social class (RGSC) for 
the purposes of official statistics. This paper describes the challenges 
involved in producing an analogous series of trends in life expectancy by NS-SEC 
to that by RGSC, the approach adopted, and publishes the first results of the 
new series.
METHODS: NS-SEC was devised in the 1990s and introduced in 2001. Like RGSC, it 
is an occupation-based measure. In order to produce a series of trends over more 
than 20 years based on NS-SEC, it is necessary to classify people according to 
NS-SEC based on their occupation at the 1981 and 1991 Censuses and then to 
measure subsequent mortality rates for different classes. The 1981 Census 
preceded the construction of the NS-SEC classification system by nearly 20 
years, and there was no recognised way of classifying 1981 Census respondents by 
NS-SEC. This paper describes how an approximation to allow such a classification 
was derived. The ONS Longitudinal Study was used to provide the data from which 
mortality and survival rates by NS-SEC class could then be estimated.
RESULTS: The results are presented in terms of life expectancy at birth and at 
age 65 by five-year calendar periods, from 1982-86 to 2002-06. A social gradient 
was found using NS-SEC, similar to the one found using RGSC. For most classes 
for all periods studied, life expectancy improved for both males and females but 
inequalities persisted between classes. There was a difference of around six 
years for males between the most and least advantaged classes in expectation of 
life at birth and about four years for females in the period 2002-06. The 
estimates suggested a widening of inequalities over the study period for men, 
which appeared to end after 2001. For women, no overall trend could be detected, 
but there were no signs of any narrowing of the gap in the most recent period.
CONCLUSIONS: NS-SEC can be used to provide medium-term trends in life expectancy 
by occupation based class, which will be capable of extension over time, 
although certain approximations are necessary. It is important that work should 
continue on investigating other means of classification, particularly for women, 
for example based on educational attainment and on household rather than 
individual-based measures.List of Tables, 12.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2011.2
PMID: 21372844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Biogerontology. 2011 Aug;12(4):273-81. doi: 10.1007/s10522-011-9327-6. Epub
2011  Mar 4.

Sarcopenia: current theories and the potential beneficial effect of creatine 
application strategies.

Candow DG(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Kinesiology and Health Studies, Centre on Aging and Health, 
University of Regina, Regina, SK, S4S 0A2, Canada. Darren.Candow@uregina.ca

Sarcopenia, defined as the age-related loss of muscle mass, subsequently has a 
negative effect on strength, metabolic rate and functionality leading to a 
reduced quality of life. With the projected increase in life expectancy, the 
incidence of muscle loss may rise and further drain the health care system, with 
greater need for hospitalization, treatment, and rehabilitation. Without 
effective strategies to counteract aging muscle loss, a global health care 
crisis may be inevitable. Resistance training is well established to increase 
aging muscle mass and strength. However, muscle and strength loss is still 
evident in older adults who have maintained resistance training for most of 
their life, suggesting that other factors such as nutrition may affect aging 
muscle biology. Supplementing with creatine, a high-energy compound found in red 
meat and seafood, during resistance training has a beneficial effect on aging 
muscle. Emerging evidence now suggests that the timing and dosage of creatine 
supplementation may be important factors for aging muscle accretion. 
Unfortunately, the long-term effects of different creatine application 
strategies on aging muscle are relatively unknown.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-011-9327-6
PMID: 21373890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Methods Mol Med. 2001;59:223-36. doi: 10.1385/1-59259-134-5:223.

Conformation as therapeutic target in the prionoses and other neurodegenerative 
conditions.

Wisniewski T(1), Sigurdsson EM, Aucouturier P, Frangione B.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology and Pathology, New York University Medical Center, 
New York, NY.

Neurodegenerative conditions are increasing in prevalence as the average human 
life expectancy rises. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the fourth commonest cause of 
death in the United States; the recent outbreak of new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob 
disease (nvCJD) has raised the specter of a large population being at risk to 
develop this prionosis. The pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases is 
now recognized to be associated with abnormalities of protein conformation. A 
common theme in these disorders is the conversion of a soluble normal precursor 
protein into an insoluble, aggregated, ?-sheet rich form that is toxic. In AD, a 
critical event is the conversion of the normal, soluble A? (sA?) peptide into 
fibrillar A?, within neuritic plaques and congophilic angiopathy (1). Similarly, 
in the prionoses, the central event is the conversion of the normal prion 
protein, PrPC, to PrPSc (2). An increased ?-sheet content characterizes both A? 
and PrPSc.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-134-5:223
PMID: 21374507


163. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2010 Aug 15;35(18):1721-8. doi: 
10.1097/brs.0b013e3181e9acb2.

Clearance of the cervical spine in clinically unevaluable trauma patients.

Halpern CH(1), Milby AH, Guo W, Schuster JM, Gracias VH, Stein SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Jun 15;36(14):1165; author reply 1165-6.
    Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Jun 15;36(14):1167; author reply 1167-8.

STUDY DESIGN: Meta-analytic costeffectiveness analysis.
OBJECTIVE: Our goal was to compare the results of different management 
strategies for trauma patients in whom the cervical spine was not clinically 
evaluable due to impaired consciousness, endotracheal intubation, or painful 
distracting injuries.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: We performed a structured literature review related 
to cervical spine trauma, radiographic clearance techniques (plain radiography, 
flexion/extension, CT, and MRI), and complications associated with semirigid 
collar use.
METHODS: Meta-analytic techniques were used to pool data from multiple sources 
to calculate pooled mean estimates of sensitivities and specificities of imaging 
techniques for cervical spinal clearance, rates of complications from various 
clearance strategies and from empirical use of semirigid collars. A decision 
analysis model was used to compare outcomes and costs among these strategies.
RESULTS: Slightly more than 7.5% of patients who are clinically unevaluable have 
cervical spine injuries, and 42% of these injuries are associated with spinal 
instability. Sensitivity of plain radiography or fluoroscopy for spinal 
clearance was 57% (95% CI: 57%-60%). Sensitivities for CT and MRI alone were 83% 
(82%-84%) and 87% (84%-89%), respectively. Complications associated with collar 
use ranged from 1.3% (2 days) to 7.1% (10 days) but were usually minor and 
short-lived. Quadriplegia resulting from spinal instability missed by a 
clearance test had enormous impacts on longevity, quality of life, and costs. 
These impacts overshadowed the effects of prolonged collar application, even 
when the incidence of quadriplegia was extremely low.
CONCLUSION: As currently used, neuroimaging studies for cervical spinal 
clearance in clinically unevaluable patients are not cost-effective compared 
with empirical immobilization in a semirigid collar.

DOI: 10.1097/brs.0b013e3181e9acb2
PMID: 21374896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Laparoendosc Adv Surg Tech A. 2011 Apr;21(3):249-50. doi: 
10.1089/lap.2010.0460. Epub 2011 Mar 5.

Extensive cellulitis as the first symptom of ureter lesion after laparoscopic 
hysterectomy.

van Ooijen P(1), ter Haar JF, Pijnenborg JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, TweeSteden Hospital, Tilburg, The 
Netherlands.

Laparoscopic hysterectomy as an alternative to abdominal hysterectomy is 
frequently performed for benign uterine pathology. Although laparoscopic 
hysterectomy is associated with less pain, quicker recovery, and better 
short-term quality of life, it is associated with an increased risk of ureter 
lesions compared with the open procedure. We point out the case of a woman who 
underwent a total laparoscopic hysterectomy and presented postoperatively with a 
cellulitis at the right side of the body expanding over the abdomen and the 
pelvis, and subsequently problems with micturition. Computed tomography 
demonstrated a lesion of the left ureter nearby the ureterovesical junction. 
Cellulitis was treated with clindamycin, and a nephrostomy catheter was placed 
since the placement of a Double-J stent was not possible. Six weeks after 
surgery, a ureter re-anastomosis was performed by laparotomy. Urine leakage into 
the abdomen combined with urinary tract infection or infection of the wounds can 
lead to rapid extension of cellulitis and is therefore an important additional 
symptom for urological complications after a laparoscopic hysterectomy.

DOI: 10.1089/lap.2010.0460
PMID: 21375415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2011 Apr;8(4):451-66. doi:
10.1517/17425247.2011.561310.  Epub 2011 Mar 5.

Challenges and advances in the development of inhalable drug formulations for 
cystic fibrosis lung disease.

Ibrahim BM(1), Tsifansky MD, Yang Y, Yeo Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial and Physical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Purdue 
University, 575 Stadium Mall Drive, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystem genetic disorder, which 
usually results in significant respiratory dysfunction. At present there is no 
cure for CF, but advances in pharmacotherapy have gradually increased the life 
expectancy of CF patients. As many drugs used in the therapy of CF are delivered 
by inhalation, the demand for effective and convenient inhalational CF drug 
formulations will grow as CF patients live longer. Knowledge of the current 
limitations in inhalational CF drug delivery is critical in identifying new 
opportunities and designing rational delivery strategies.
AREAS COVERED: This review discusses current and emerging therapeutic agents for 
CF therapy, selected physiological challenges to effective inhalational 
medication delivery, and various approaches to overcoming these challenges. The 
reader will find an integrated view of the known inhalational drug delivery 
challenges and the rationales for recent investigational inhalational drug 
formulations.
EXPERT OPINION: An ideal drug/gene delivery system to CF airways should overcome 
the tenacious sputum, which presents physical, chemical and biological barriers 
to effective transport of therapeutic agents to the targets and various cellular 
challenges.

DOI: 10.1517/17425247.2011.561310
PMID: 21375469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Ophthalmology. 2011 Mar;118(3):601-601.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.10.046.

Utility value and retinal detachment surgery.

Zou H, Zhang X, Xu X, Liu H, Bai L, Xu X.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.10.046
PMID: 21376245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2012 Jul;66(7):573-8. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2010.123182. Epub 2011 Mar 4.

Trends in life expectancy by income from 1988 to 2007: decomposition by age and 
cause of death.

Tarkiainen L(1), Martikainen P, Laaksonen M, Valkonen T.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Department of Social Research, University of 
Helsinki, PO Box 18, Helsinki FIN-00014, Finland. lasse.tarkiainen@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: Less attention has been paid to mortality trends across income 
groups than those measured by other socioeconomic indicators. This study 
assessed the change in life expectancy by income over 20 years in the Finnish 
general population.
METHODS: Life expectancy among 35-year-olds by household income quintiles was 
studied. Change in life expectancy from 1988-92 to 2003-7 was decomposed by age 
and cause of death. The dataset contained 754,087 deaths by oversample of 80% of 
all deaths during the period.
RESULTS: The gap in life expectancy between the highest and the lowest income 
quintiles widened during the study period by 5.1 years among men and 2.9 years 
among women, and in 2007 it stood at 12.5 years and 6.8 years, respectively. 
Stagnation in the lowest income group was the main reason for the increased 
disparity for both sexes. Increasing mortality attributable to alcohol-related 
diseases and increasing or stagnating mortality for many cancers, as well as a 
slower decline in mortality due to ischaemic heart disease among men in the 
lowest income quintile, were the most significant factors increasing the gap.
CONCLUSIONS: The increasing gap in life expectancy was mostly due to the 
stagnation of mortality in the lowest income quintile and especially because of 
the increasing mortality in alcohol-related diseases. The increase in disparity 
may be more extreme when using income instead of occupational class or 
education, possibly because income identifies a lower and economically more 
deprived segment on a social hierarchy more clearly. The results identify a 
clear need to tackle the specific health problems of the poorest.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2010.123182
PMID: 21378391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Br J Community Nurs. 2011 Feb;16(2):90-8. doi: 10.12968/bjcn.2011.16.2.90.

Help-seeking behaviour for the treatment of chronic pain.

Cornally N(1), McCarthy G.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Brookfield Health Sciences Complex, 
University College Cock. n.cornally@ucc.ie

There are more people living with chronic pain than cardiovascular disease and 
cancer combined. Many people with chronic pain do not seek help from health 
professionals and suffer in silence for many years. Untreated chronic pain can 
lead to increased disability, increased risk of fall, depression, sleep 
deprivation, reduced quality of life and social isolation. The aim of this 
review is to determine the factors associated with help-seeking for chronic pain 
in an effort to highlight potential reasons why help may or may not be sought. A 
total of 23 studies were included in the review. On the whole the review has 
demonstrated that the most significant demographic and clinical factors 
associated with help-seeking were increasing age, female gender, pain severity 
and disability. Psychosocial factors included past help seeking, outcome 
expectancy, age-related beliefs, social cost and social influence. While the 
evidence presented appears promising, some conflicting results were found and 
methodological limitations were noted. Further research needs to examine the 
underlying determinants of help-seeking behaviour for chronic pain underpinned 
by theory. The information derived from such research will augment the 
development of a complex nursing intervention to improve help-seeking for 
chronic pain.

DOI: 10.12968/bjcn.2011.16.2.90
PMID: 21378675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Bull World Health Organ. 2011 Mar 1;89(3):166-7. doi: 10.2471/BLT.11.020311.

Looming dementia epidemic in Asia.

Parry J, Weiyuan C.

Dementia is increasing fast in Asia placing a huge burden on a growing army of 
carers, who are mainly family members. Jane Parry and Cui Weiyuan report on how 
dementia is starting to receive the recognition it deserves.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.11.020311
PMCID: PMC3044257
PMID: 21379410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Apr;13(2):145-56. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0293-8.
Epub  2011 Mar 6.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment with etanercept for psoriasis in Sweden.

Knight C(1), Mauskopf J, Ekelund M, Singh A, Yang S, Boggs R.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Velocity House Business and Conference Centre, 
Sheffield, UK. cknight@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness, from a Swedish societal 
perspective, of intermittent use of etanercept (Enbrel) with interruptions of 
use after 24 weeks compared to continuous use of adalimumab (Humira) as well as 
non-systemic standard of care in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis.
METHODS: A Markov decision-tree model was constructed from clinical trials 
results. Patients starting etanercept, adalimumab, or non-systemic therapy moved 
through the model's 10-years horizon. Model input parameters included clinical 
response rates. Outcome measures included direct and indirect costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The incremental total (direct and indirect) costs per QALY were 
1,559,939 kr (<euro>165,354) for adalimumab 40 mg every other week, compared 
with intermittent once-weekly Enbrel 50 mg, and 93,629 kr (<euro>9,925) for 
once-weekly intermittent etanercept 50 mg compared with non-systemic standard of 
care.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis showed that, with a 470,000 kr (<euro>50,000) per 
QALY willingness-to-pay threshold, once-weekly etanercept 50 mg, used 
intermittently, is a cost-effective treatment for moderate to severe psoriasis 
compared with adalimumab and non-systemic standard of care.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0293-8
PMID: 21380772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Yale J Health Policy Law Ethics. 2011 Winter;11(1):51-99.

Saving lives, saving from death, saving from dying: reflections on 
'over-valuing' identifiable victims.

Kelman M(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford Law School, USA.

PMID: 21381512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Meat Sci. 2011 Jul;88(3):542-7. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2011.02.008. Epub
2011  Feb 15.

High pressure and freezing temperature effect on quality and microbial 
inactivation of cured pork carpaccio.

Realini CE(1), Guàrdia MD, Garriga M, Pérez-Juan M, Arnau J.

Author information:
(1)IRTA, Monells, Finca Camps i Armet E-17121 Monells (Girona), Spain. 
carolina.realini@irta.es

The effects of high hydrostatic pressure (HHP: 0, 400, and 600 MPa) and freezing 
temperature (-15° vs. -35°C) were evaluated on the quality and microbial 
inactivation of cured pork carpaccio. Samples treated with HHP resulted in 
lighter and yellower color, higher Chroma, shear force, scores for pink color, 
cooked and gel appearance, incidence of iridescence, lower scores for brightness 
and raw meat appearance and lower levels of lactic acid bacteria and 
psychrotrophs during shelf life compared with untreated samples (P<0.05). 
Treating carpaccio at -35°C resulted in a darker color and a more tender 
carpaccio with a higher rating for crumbliness and lower rating for fibrousness 
and chewiness compared with -15°C (P<0.05). While HHP is effective in microbial 
inactivation and shelf life extension of pork carpaccio, product quality may be 
decreased due to lower tenderness and poorer appearance. However, HHP in 
combination with low freezing temperature can be used successfully to deliver 
high quality pork carpaccio with extended shelf life to the ready-to-eat market.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2011.02.008
PMID: 21382672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. An Pediatr (Barc). 2011 Jun;74(6):377-87. doi: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2011.01.011.
 Epub 2011 Mar 5.

[Ecologic study in Mexico (2003-2009) on cleft lip and/or palate and associated 
sociodemographic, socioeconomic and pollution factors].

[Article in Spanish]

González-Osorio CA(1), Medina-Solís CE, Pontigo-Loyola AP, Casanova-Rosado JF, 
Escoffié-Ramírez M, Corona-Tabares MG, Maupomé G.

Author information:
(1)Unidad Académica de Odontología, Universidad Autónoma de Nayarit, Tepic, 
Nayarit, México.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the rates of cleft lip and/or cleft palate (CLP) in Mexico 
between 2003 and 2009 and assess their association with variables at ecological 
level, sociodemographic, socioeconomic, and pollution.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: An ecological study was conducted with data from the 32 
states of Mexico for incidence of CLP, obtained from the Ministry of Health. We 
included sociodemographic, socioeconomic, and pollution information, obtained 
from governmental agencies. CLP incidence rates were used as dependent variable; 
independent variables were socioeconomic, demographic and pollution indicators. 
Statistical analysis was performed using Spearman correlation and chi(2) tests.
RESULTS: During the study period 10573 new cases presented (mean 1510.43 per 
year). The States with the highest rate (per 1000 births) were: in 2003 the 
Federal District (Mexico City) (1.76), in 2004 Jalisco (2.62), in 2005 Oaxaca 
(1.66), in 2006 the State of Mexico (1.29), in 2007, 2008 and 2009 Jalisco 
(2.17, 2.92, and 1.99). For all the years men were more likely affected than 
women (P<.05). Variables found positively correlated to LPH rates were total 
population, solid waste, life expectancy, urban solid waste. The variables 
negatively correlated were population percentages of high alcohol users, and of 
alcohol abuse or addiction.
CONCLUSIONS: The State of Jalisco was one of the most affected locations over 
the years. Ecologic positive correlations existed between cleft lip and/or 
palate and sociodemographic, socioeconomic, and pollution factors. Incidence 
rate was negatively correlated with alcohol use and abuse. More detailed 
epidemiological studies are needed to fully characterize risk factors in Mexican 
populations.

Copyright © 2010 Asociación Española de Pediatría. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2011.01.011
PMID: 21382756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Scand J Public Health. 2011 Mar;39(2):179-86. doi: 10.1177/1403494810395823.

Live long and prosper? Childhood living conditions, marital status, social class 
in adulthood and mortality during mid-life: a cohort study.

Fors S(1), Lennartsson C, Lundberg O.

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Karolinska Institutet & Stockholm University, Sweden, 
Department of Social Work, Stockholm University, Sweden. stefan.fors@ki.se

AIMS: The aim of the present study was to investigate the impact of childhood 
living conditions, marital status, and social class in adulthood on the risk of 
mortality during mid-life. Two questions were addressed: Is there an effect of 
childhood living conditions on mortality risk during mid-life and if so, is the 
effect mediated or modified by social class and/or marital status in adulthood?
METHODS: A nationally representative, Swedish, level of living survey from 1968 
was used as baseline. The study included those aged 25-69 at baseline (n = 
4082). Social conditions in childhood and adulthood were assessed using 
self-reports. These individuals were then followed for 39 years using registry 
data on mortality.
RESULTS: The results showed associations between childhood living conditions, 
marital status, social class in adulthood and mortality during mid life. Social 
class and familial conditions during childhood as well as marital status and 
social class in adulthood all contributed to the risk of mortality during 
mid-life. Individuals whose father's were manual workers, who grew up in broken 
homes, who were unmarried, and/or were manual workers in adulthood had an 
increased risk of mortality during mid life. The effects of childhood conditions 
were, in part, both mediated and modified by social class in adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study suggest that there are structural, 
social conditions experienced at different stages of the life course that affect 
the risk of mortality during mid-life.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494810395823
PMID: 21382856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2012 Mar;18(1):57-67. doi: 10.1177/1078155210390724.
Epub  2011 Mar 7.

A pharmacoeconomic modeling approach to estimate a value-based price for new 
oncology drugs in Europe.

Dranitsaris G(1), Ortega A, Lubbe MS, Truter I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Port 
Elizabeth, South Africa. gdranit@ca.inter.net

BACKGROUND: Several European governments have recently mandated price cuts in 
drugs to reduce health care spending. However, such measures without supportive 
evidence may compromise patient care because manufacturers may withdraw current 
products or not launch new agents. A value-based pricing scheme may be a better 
approach for determining a fair drug price and may be a medium for negotiations 
between the key stakeholders. To demonstrate this approach, pharmacoeconomic 
(PE) modeling was used from the Spanish health care system perspective to 
estimate a value-based price for bevacizumab, a drug that provides a 1.4-month 
survival benefit to patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). The 
threshold used for economic value was three times the Spanish per capita GDP, as 
recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO).
METHODS: A PE model was developed to simulate outcomes in mCRC patients 
receiving chemotherapy ± bevacizumab. Clinical data were obtained from 
randomized trials and costs from a Spanish hospital. Utility estimates were 
determined by interviewing 24 Spanish oncology nurses and pharmacists. A price 
per dose of bevacizumab was then estimated using a target threshold of € 78,300 
per quality-adjusted life year gained, which is three times the Spanish per 
capita GDP.
RESULTS: For a 1.4-month survival benefit, a price of € 342 per dose would be 
considered cost effective from the Spanish public health care perspective. The 
price may be increased to € 733 or € 843 per dose if the drug were able to 
improve patient quality of life or enhance survival from 1.4 to 3 months.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that a value-based pricing approach using 
PE modeling and the WHO criteria for economic value is feasible and perhaps a 
better alternative to government mandated price cuts. The former approach would 
be a good starting point for opening dialog between European government payers 
and the pharmaceutical industry.

DOI: 10.1177/1078155210390724
PMID: 21382915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. BMJ. 2011 Mar 7;342:d726. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d726.

Cystic fibrosis and survival in patients with advanced lung disease.

Dasenbrook EC.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2011;342:d1008.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d726
PMID: 21382942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Vet Pathol. 2011 May;48(3):772-84. doi: 10.1177/0300985811400445. Epub 2011
Mar  7.

A critical review of the effectiveness of rodent pharmaceutical carcinogenesis 
testing in predicting for human risk.

Alden CL(1), Lynn A, Bourdeau A, Morton D, Sistare FD, Kadambi VJ, Silverman L.

Author information:
(1)Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA.

The pharmaceutical industry and regulatory agency toxicology testing paradigms 
in the United States currently appear successful, in part because of the 
continuously increasing life expectancy and the declining age-adjusted cancer 
rates in the United States. Although drugs likely have a minimal impact on the 
population statistics for cancer rates, pharmaceutical pathologists and 
toxicologists must focus on the individual risk for pharmaceutical 
carcinogenesis. As our understanding of carcinogenesis increases exponentially, 
and after hundreds if not thousands of rodent cancer tests, significant 
improvement in the precision of human pharmaceutical carcinogenesis hazard 
identification should now be possible and would enable a reduction in the 
substantial false-negative and false positive-rates reported herein. The 
appropriate use of acute, subchronic, chronic, and special toxicology tests to 
identify the major associated cancer risk factors, specifically, hormonal 
modulation, immunosuppression, genetic toxicity, and chronic toxicity, can be 
recognized through this review of pharmaceutical carcinogens. Significant 
opportunities exist for improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
current cancer risk assessment paradigm.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985811400445
PMID: 21383116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. PLoS One. 2011 Feb 24;6(2):e16837. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0016837.

NIH disease funding levels and burden of disease.

Gillum LA(1), Gouveia C, Dorsey ER, Pletcher M, Mathers CD, McCulloch CE, 
Johnston SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: An analysis of NIH funding in 1996 found that the strongest 
predictor of funding, disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), explained only 39% 
of the variance in funding. In 1998, Congress requested that the Institute of 
Medicine (IOM) evaluate priority-setting criteria for NIH funding; the IOM 
recommended greater consideration of disease burden. We examined whether the 
association between current burden and funding has changed since that time.
METHODS: We analyzed public data on 2006 NIH funding for 29 common conditions. 
Measures of US disease burden in 2004 were obtained from the World Health 
Organization's Global Burden of Disease study and national databases. We 
assessed the relationship between disease burden and NIH funding dollars in 
univariate and multivariable log-linear models that evaluated all measures of 
disease burden. Sensitivity analyses examined associations with future US 
burden, current and future measures of world disease burden, and a newly 
standardized NIH accounting method.
RESULTS: In univariate and multivariable analyses, disease-specific NIH funding 
levels increased with burden of disease measured in DALYs (p = 0.001), which 
accounted for 33% of funding level variation. No other factor predicted funding 
in multivariable models. Conditions receiving the most funding greater than 
expected based on disease burden were AIDS ($2474 M), diabetes mellitus ($390 
M), and perinatal conditions ($297 M). Depression ($719 M), injuries ($691 M), 
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ($613 M) were the most underfunded. 
Results were similar using estimates of future US burden, current and future 
world disease burden, and alternate NIH accounting methods.
CONCLUSIONS: Current levels of NIH disease-specific research funding correlate 
modestly with US disease burden, and correlation has not improved in the last 
decade.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0016837
PMCID: PMC3044706
PMID: 21383981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


179. J Sci Food Agric. 2011 Mar 30;91(5):867-76. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.4258.

Evaluation of fruit extracts of six Turkish Juniperus species for their 
antioxidant, anticholinesterase and antimicrobial activities.

Oztürk M(1), Tümen İ, Uğur A, Aydoğmuş-Öztürk F, Topçu G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Muğla University, 
48121 Muğla, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Juniperus L. (Cupressaceae) species are mostly spread out in the 
Northern Hemisphere of the world, and some of them are used as folkloric 
medicines. The fruits of some species are eaten. Since oxidative stress is one 
of the reasons for neurodegeneration and is associated with the Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), the extracts prepared from the fruits of six Juniperus species 
were screened for their antioxidant activity. Therefore, the extracts were also 
evaluated against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), 
which are chief enzymes in the pathogenesis of AD. In addition, antimicrobial 
activity was also evaluated.
RESULTS: In the β-carotene-linoleic acid assay, acetone extracts of J. oxycedrus 
subsp. oxycedrus, J. sabina and J. excelsa, and methanol extracts of J. 
phoenicea and J. sabina, effectively inhibited oxidation of linoleic acid. The 
hexane extracts of J. oxycedrus subsp. oxycedrus, J. foetidissima and J. 
phoenicea showed remarkable inhibitory effect against AChE and BChE.
CONCLUSION: Because of their high antioxidant activity, J. excelsa, J. oxycedrus 
subsp. oxycedrus, J. sabina and J. phoenicia might be used in the food industry 
as preservative agents or extension of the shelf-life of raw and processed 
foods. Since the hexane extracts of J. oxycedrus subsp. oxycedrus and J. 
foetidissima demonstrated significant anticholinesterase activity they should be 
considered as a potential source for anticholinesterase agents.

Copyright © 2010 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.4258
PMID: 21384354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Liver Transpl. 2011 Mar;17(3):243-50. doi: 10.1002/lt.22240.

Liver transplantation in patients with cystic fibrosis: analysis of United 
Network for Organ Sharing data.

Mendizabal M(1), Reddy KR, Cassuto J, Olthoff KM, Faust TW, Makar GA, Rand EB, 
Shaked A, Abt PL.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Hígado y Trasplante Hepático, Hospital Universitario Austral, 
Pilar, Argentina. mmendiza@cas.austral.edu.ar

The improved life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has led to a 
change in the impact of liver disease on the prognosis of this population. Liver 
transplantation has emerged as the procedure of choice for patients with CF and 
features of hepatic decompensation and for intractable variceal bleeding as a 
major manifestation. We retrospectively reviewed the United Network for Organ 
Sharing database to analyze the outcomes of 55 adults and 148 children with CF 
who underwent liver transplantation, and we compared them to patients who 
underwent transplantation for other etiologies. We additionally compared the 
benefits of liver transplantation among patients who underwent transplantation 
for cystic fibrosis-related liver disease (CFLD) and those who remained on the 
waiting list. The 5-year survival rates for children and adults undergoing liver 
transplantation were 85.8% and 72.7%, respectively (P = 0.016). A multivariate 
Cox regression analysis comparing pediatric and adult CF patients to patients 
who underwent transplantation for other etiologies noted lower 5-year survival 
rates (P < 0.0001). However, compared to those remaining on the waiting list, 
pediatric transplant recipients with CF (hazard ratio = 0.33, 95% confidence 
interval = 0.16-0.70, P = 0.004) and adult transplant recipients with CF (hazard 
ratio = 0.25, 95% confidence interval = 0.11-0.57, P = 0.001) gained a 
significant survival benefit. In conclusion, long-term outcomes in patients with 
CFLD are acceptable but are inferior in comparison with the outcomes of those 
undergoing transplantation for other etiologies. Despite such observations, a 
survival benefit was noted in transplant patients versus those who remained on 
the waiting list.

Copyright © 2011 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.22240
PMID: 21384506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2011 Jul;15(7):803-15. doi: 
10.1517/14728222.2011.566215. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

New molecular targets beyond KIT and PDGFRA in gastrointestinal stromal tumors: 
present and future.

Nannini M(1), Biasco G, Maleddu A, Pantaleo MA.

Author information:
(1)University of Bologna, S.Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Department of Hematology 
and Oncological Sciences, Bologna, Italy. maggie.nannini@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: The biological complexity of gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
(GISTs) and the concomitant increase in patients' life expectancy have enhanced 
the need for new therapeutic options to overcome the development of primary and 
secondary resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Aided by more sophisticated 
molecular biology techniques, researchers have recently sought to identify new 
therapeutic targets with a defined role in GISTs pathogenesis and a potential 
application in clinical practice.
AREAS COVERED: The first aim of this review is to describe new targets and drugs 
in GISTs, alone or in combination, both in pre-clinical and clinical settings. 
The second aim is to discuss the criticism in this field, the role of molecular 
biology, and future perspectives in light of the recent development of more 
sophisticated whole-genomic technologies.
EXPERT OPINION: Several targets involved in GIST pathogenesis have been 
identified and novel biological drugs have recently been developed, offering new 
treatment options in the scenario of GIST therapy. However, the identification 
of new therapeutic targets represents a long process and requires a global 
overview of the problem and a multi-step approach to convert an initial 
intuition or casual finding into a systematic analytical process.

DOI: 10.1517/14728222.2011.566215
PMID: 21385119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Med Econ. 2011;14(2):262-6. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.562580. Epub 2011
Mar  9.

Response to: Demarteau N, Standaert B. Modelling the economic value of cross- 
and sustained-protection in vaccines against cervical cancer. J Med Econ 
2010;13:324-38.

Hillemanns P.

Comment on
    J Med Econ. 2010;13(2):324-38.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.562580
PMID: 21385146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Aging Cell. 2011 Jun;10(3):448-56. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00691.x.
Epub  2011 Apr 11.

Transplantation of young ovaries restored cardioprotective influence in 
postreproductive-aged mice.

Mason JB(1), Cargill SL, Griffey SM, Reader JR, Anderson GB, Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
California, Davis, USA. masonjef@vet.upenn.edu

The female cardioprotective advantage, present in mammals of a reproductively 
competent age, is lost during the transition to a postreproductive state. The 
role of reproductive hormones in this transition is most evident in women with 
premature ovarian failure, where reduced estrogen production has been associated 
with an increased incidence of early death from cardiovascular disease. 
Previously, we reported that postreproductive-aged mice that received young 
ovaries displayed an increased life span. Subsequent histopathological analysis 
suggested the presence of a cardioprotective effect associated with the 
restoration of ovarian influence. This restoration in postreproductive-aged mice 
produced a sharp decrease in evidence of significant cardiomyopathy at death, 
compared with sham-transplanted mice (36.0% vs. 73.3%, respectively). Within the 
intact transplant group, evidence of cardiomyopathy at death was decreased in 
mice that were reproductively cycling at the time of transplant, compared with 
acyclic mice (26.7% vs. 50.0%, respectively). This observation reflects the 
importance of timing in restoration of ovarian influence in this study. 
Transplantation of young ovaries to intact, postreproductive-aged female mice 
provided significant, long-term restoration of a cardioprotective benefit, 
similar to that previously present during a reproductively competent age. In 
these mice, restoration of ovarian influence through ovarian transplantation 
may, in effect, have postponed the advance of age-associated cardiomyopathy to a 
point where the disease did not reach a clinically relevant threshold during the 
lifetime of the recipients. These results offer support for previous clinical 
observations suggesting that hormone replacement therapy can produce divergent 
results if initiated during the perimenopausal period, compared with the 
postmenopausal ages.

© 2011 The Authors. Aging Cell © 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00691.x
PMCID: PMC3102294
PMID: 21385306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. BMC Res Notes. 2011 Mar 7;4:48. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-4-48.

PIMS sequencing extension: a laboratory information management system for DNA 
sequencing facilities.

Troshin PV(1), Postis VL, Ashworth D, Baldwin SA, McPherson MJ, Barton GJ.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee, DD1 4HN, UK. 
p.v.troshin@dundee.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Facilities that provide a service for DNA sequencing typically 
support large numbers of users and experiment types. The cost of services is 
often reduced by the use of liquid handling robots but the efficiency of such 
facilities is hampered because the software for such robots does not usually 
integrate well with the systems that run the sequencing machines. Accordingly, 
there is a need for software systems capable of integrating different robotic 
systems and managing sample information for DNA sequencing services. In this 
paper, we describe an extension to the Protein Information Management System 
(PIMS) that is designed for DNA sequencing facilities. The new version of PIMS 
has a user-friendly web interface and integrates all aspects of the sequencing 
process, including sample submission, handling and tracking, together with 
capture and management of the data.
RESULTS: The PIMS sequencing extension has been in production since July 2009 at 
the University of Leeds DNA Sequencing Facility. It has completely replaced 
manual data handling and simplified the tasks of data management and user 
communication. Samples from 45 groups have been processed with an average 
throughput of 10000 samples per month. The current version of the PIMS 
sequencing extension works with Applied Biosystems 3130XL 96-well plate 
sequencer and MWG 4204 or Aviso Theonyx liquid handling robots, but is readily 
adaptable for use with other combinations of robots.
CONCLUSIONS: PIMS has been extended to provide a user-friendly and integrated 
data management solution for DNA sequencing facilities that is accessed through 
a normal web browser and allows simultaneous access by multiple users as well as 
facility managers. The system integrates sequencing and liquid handling robots, 
manages the data flow, and provides remote access to the sequencing results. The 
software is freely available, for academic users, from 
http://www.pims-lims.org/.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-4-48
PMCID: PMC3058032
PMID: 21385349


185. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Feb;3(2):148-57. doi: 10.18632/aging.100273.

If started early in life, metformin treatment increases life span and postpones 
tumors in female SHR mice.

Anisimov VN(1), Berstein LM, Popovich IG, Zabezhinski MA, Egormin PA, Piskunova 
TS, Semenchenko AV, Tyndyk ML, Yurova MN, Kovalenko IG, Poroshina TE.

Author information:
(1)N.N. Petrov Research Institute of Oncology, Pesochny-2, St. Petersburg, 
Russia. aging@mail.ru

Comment in
    Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Apr;3(4):348-62.

Hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia accelerate both aging and cancer. 
Antidiabetic biguanides such as metformin decrease glucose, insulin and IGF-1 
level. Metformin increases lifespan and prevents cancer in mice, although its 
effects vary, depending on mice strain and gender. Here we showed that chronic 
treatment of female outbred SHR mice with metformin started at the age of 3, 9 
or 15 months decreased body temperature and postponed age-related switch-off of 
estrous function. Surprisingly, metformin did not affect levels of serum 
cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose and insulin. Treatment with metformin 
started at the age of 3 months increased mean life span by 14% and maximum life 
span by 1 month. The treatment started at the age of 9 months insignificantly 
increased mean life span by only 6%, whereas the treatment started at the age of 
15 months failed to increase life span. The mean life span of tumor-free mice 
was increased by 21% in 'the youngest group', by 7% in 'middle-aged group' and 
in contrast was reduced by 13% in 'the oldest group'. When started at the age of 
3 and 9 months, metformin delayed the first tumor detection by 22% and 25%, 
correspondingly. Thus, in female SHR mice, metformin increased life span and 
postponed tumors when started at the young and middle but not at the old age. In 
contrast, metformin improves reproductive function when started at any age.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100273
PMCID: PMC3082009
PMID: 21386129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interests to declare.


186. Int J Cancer. 2012 Feb 1;130(3):567-74. doi: 10.1002/ijc.26040. Epub 2011
Apr  27.

A fast, cost-efficient and sensitive approach for KRAS mutation detection using 
multiplexed primer extension with IP/RP-HPLC separation.

Tierling S(1), Sers C, Lehmann A, Walter J.

Author information:
(1)Saarland University, FR 8.3 Life Sciences, Genetics/Epigenetics, 66041 
Saarbrücken, Germany. s.tierling@mx.uni-saarland.de

Mutations in the KRAS gene are very important diagnostic and prognostic markers 
in cancer. Particularly, KRAS mutations at codons 12 and 13 have a high 
prognostic value for EGFR-directed antibody therapies. Several methods are 
available to detect the most common mutations, some of them are commercialized. 
The most frequently used techniques, allele-specific PCR or direct sequencing, 
are not standardized and often lack sensitivity to detect low amounts of mutated 
tumor cells in paraffin-embedded tissue-blocks leading to a high number of 
false-negatives. Here we present a reliable, fast, cost-effective and sensitive 
approach for KRAS mutation detection that has a high potential for standardized 
large scale screening. The method is based on multiplexed primer extension 
reactions coupled to HPLC separation. The highly sensitive assay gives easily 
interpretable and reproducible results at affordable costs. We describe the 
method and an application example for diagnosis in early colorectal cancer 
screening.

Copyright © 2011 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.26040
PMID: 21387306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Am J Hum Biol. 2011 May-Jun;23(3):381-91. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.21155. Epub 2011
Mar  8.

Harris lines revisited: prevalence, comorbidities, and possible etiologies.

Papageorgopoulou C(1), Suter SK, Rühli FJ, Siegmund F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Evolutionary Medicine, Institute of Anatomy, University of Zurich, 
8057 Zurich, Switzerland. christina.p@anatom.uzh.ch

OBJECTIVES: The occurrence of transverse radiopaque lines in long bones-Harris 
lines (HLs)-is correlated with episodes of temporary arrest of longitudinal 
growth and has been used as an indicator of health and nutritional status of 
modern and historical populations. However, the interpretation of HLs as a 
stress indicator remains debatable. The aim of this article is to evaluate the 
perspectives and the limitations of HLs analyses and to examine their 
reliability as a stress indicator.
METHODS: The study was conducted on 241 tibiae from a medieval Swiss skeletal 
material and was carried out using a standardized, semiautomated HL detection 
and analysis tool developed by the authors. We compared four different 
age-at-formation estimation methods and analyzed the correlation of HL 
occurrence to life expectancy, mean-age-at-death, stature, tibia length, and 
metabolic disorders as expressed by linear enamel hypoplasia and hypothyroidism.
RESULTS: The evaluation of the age-at-formation estimation methods showed 
statistical significant differences. Therefore, a mathematical framework for the 
conversion between the methods has been developed. Remodeling had eliminated 
about half of the HLs formed during adolescence, and a further half of the 
remaining ones during early adulthood, whereas no association between the 
aforementioned conditions and HL prevalence could be determined. The peaks of 
high HL frequency among various populations were found to parallel normal growth 
spurts and growth hormone secretion.
CONCLUSIONS: We suggest a reconsideration of HLs as more of a result of normal 
growth and growth spurts, rather than a pure outcome of nutritional or 
pathologic stress.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.21155
PMID: 21387459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. MLO Med Lab Obs. 2011 Feb;43(2):8, 10, 12 passim; quiz 16-7.

Diabetes cases on the rise: current diagnosis guidelines and research efforts 
for a cure.

Molinaro RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Diabetes is a devastating disease that accounts for more than $132 billion in 
healthcare costs annually in the U.S., and these costs are predicted to rise as 
high as $192 billion by the year 2020 (see recent statistics from AHRQ on page 
12). For many people with diabetes, the life expectancy is shorter than that of 
age-matched non-diabetics. This fate is due to both the microvascular and 
macrovascular complications resulting from prolonged hyperglycemia. Current ADA 
guidelines for diagnosis include measures of plasma glucose and Alc, a glycated 
form of hemoglobin that has been used for many years as a marker of average 
glycemia. To see how Alc affects the overall number of people in the U.S. 
diagnosed with diabetes as a result of the test's greater practicality will be 
interesting. Significant progress has been made in diabetes research through the 
use of stem-cell technology, molecular DNA methods, and discoveries of novel 
insulin-controlling systems in the body. Several federally funded 
diabetes-research centers across the United States are currently continuing 
these efforts and, ultimately, hope for a cure for diabetes and its 
complications.

PMID: 21388025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Aging Cell. 2011 Aug;10(4):629-39. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00702.x.
Epub  2011 Apr 25.

Fat maintenance is a predictor of the murine lifespan response to dietary 
restriction.

Liao CY(1), Rikke BA, Johnson TE, Gelfond JA, Diaz V, Nelson JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio, TX 78229, USA.
