Long-term results of liver transplantation.

Åberg F(1), Isoniemi H, Höckerstedt K.

Author information:
(1)Transplantation and Liver Surgery Clinic, Helsinki University Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland. Fredrik.Aberg@helsinki.fi

Liver transplantation (LT) is an established therapy associated with a dramatic 
improvement in patients life expectancy. With improved early-term management, 
current 10-year patient survival rates in many indications exceed 70%. Life-long 
immunosuppressive therapy may, however, be accompanied by considerable longterm 
toxicity: most importantly, renal dysfunction, cardiovascular disease, and 
cancer, which, in addition to recurrence of the primary liver disease, emerge as 
key contributors to late mortality. Chronic kidney disease cumulatively affects 
up to 28% of patients by ten years after LT. Various factors can contribute to 
renal impairment, but perioperative acute kidney injury, calcineurin inhibitor 
toxicity, hypertension, and diabetes are considered most important. LT patients 
demonstrate 3-fold risk for cardiovascular events, which seems to result mostly 
from an excess of traditional risk factors, mainly hypertension and diabetes. 
The cumulative cancer incidence reaches 16-42% by 20 years after LT, and cancer 
rates are 2- to 4-fold higher among LT patients than among matched controls. 
Highest rates are for nonmelanoma skin cancer (3- to 70-fold) and lymphoma (8- 
to 29-fold). The liver graft usually displays uncomplicated function in the long 
term. Most common causes for chronic graft dysfunction include disease 
recurrence and biliary problems. LT generally restores patients quality of life 
to a level comparable with that of the general population, with only minor 
deficits in some areas. Thus, long-term survival after LT is impressive, and 
despite these long-term complications, patients quality of life remains 
comparable with that of the general population.

DOI: 10.1177/145749691110000104
PMID: 21482501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. BMJ. 2011 Apr 11;342:d1766. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d1766.

Economic evaluation using decision analytical modelling: design, conduct, 
analysis, and reporting.

Petrou S(1), Gray A.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Unit, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry 
CV4 7AL, UK. S.Petrou@warwick.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d1766
PMID: 21482590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Apr;3(4):348-62. doi: 10.18632/aging.100316.

Gerosuppressant metformin: less is more.

Menendez JA(1), Cufí S, Oliveras-Ferraros C, Vellon L, Joven J, Vazquez-Martin 
A.

Author information:
(1)Catalan Institute of Oncology, Girona, Catalonia, Spain. 
jmenendez@iconcologia.net

Comment on
    Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Feb;3(2):148-57.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100316
PMCID: PMC3117449
PMID: 21483040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. J Inj Violence Res. 2011 Jan;3(1):25-7. doi: 10.5249/jivr.v3i1.70.

Does adversity early in life affect general population suicide rates? A 
cross-national study.

Shah A(1), Bhandarkar R.

Author information:
(1)University of Central Lancashire, Preston, United Kingdom and Consultant 
Psychiatrist, West London Mental Health NHS Trust, United Kingdom. 
ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Adversity early in life has been suggested as a protective factor 
for elderly suicides. However, studies examining this relationship in general 
population suicide rates are scarce.
METHODS: The relationship between general population suicide rates and four 
proxy measures of adversity earlier in life was examined using data from the 
World Health Organization and the United Nations data banks.
RESULTS: General population suicide rates were negatively correlated with the 
percentage of children under the age of 5 years who were underweight, the 
percentage of children under the age of 5 years who were under height, the 
percentage of infants with low birth weight babies, and the percentage of the 
general population that was undernourished. The only independent predictor 
general population suicide rates in both sexes, on multiple regression analysis, 
was the Gini coefficient (a measure of income inequality).
CONCLUSIONS: Income inequality may lead to low birth weight, undernourishment, 
underweight and under height because income inequality results in poor access to 
healthcare and nutrition. These adversities may increase child mortality rates 
and reduce life expectancy. Those surviving into adulthood in countries with 
greater adversity early in life may be at reduced risk of suicide because of 
selective survival of those at reduced risk of suicide due to constitutional or 
genetic factors and development of greater tolerance to hardship in adulthood. ‎

DOI: 10.5249/jivr.v3i1.70
PMCID: PMC3134922
PMID: 21483211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. J Inj Violence Res. 2011 Jan;3(1):29-34. doi: 10.5249/jivr.v3i1.71.

Further evidence for epidemiological transition hypothesis for elderly suicides.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)International School for Communities, Rights and Inclusion, University of 
Central Lancashire, Preston, United Kingdom. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: A developmental model of epidemiological transition for elderly 
suicide rates with four sequential stages has been developed to simultaneously 
explain cross-national variations in elderly suicide rates, trends over time for 
elderly suicide rates and age-associated trends in suicides rates reported in 
the literature. This model was supported by demonstration of a curvilinear 
(inverted U-shaped curve) relationship between elderly suicide rates and 
socio-economic status fitting the quadratic equation Y = A + BX - CX2 (where Y 
is the suicide rate, X is the socio-economic status and A,B, and C are 
constants) in both sexes. However, this relationship was derived from a 
cross-sectional study and, therefore, only an association can be inferred. One 
way to substantiate this further would be to examine the above curvilinear 
relationship between suicide rates and socio-economic status in a series of 
younger age-bands because a large part of the epidemiological transition 
hypothesis was contingent upon the impact of socio-economic status, through a 
series of mechanisms, on life expectancy. It was hypothesized that the 
curvilinear (inverted U-shaped curve) relationship between suicide rates and 
socio-economic status would be absent in younger age-bands and may be present in 
the younger age-bands closer to the older age-bands (i.e. 45-54 years and 55-64 
years).
METHODS: The curvilinear relationship between suicide rates in five age-bands 
15-24 years to 55-64 years in both sexes and gross national domestic product 
(GDP), a measure of socio-economic status, fitting the above quadratic equation 
was examined with curve estimation regression model using data from the World 
Health Organization.
RESULTS: In males in the age-bands 35-44 years, 45-54 years and 55-64 years 
there was a statistically significant curvilinear (inverted U-shaped curve) 
relationship with GDP and fitted the quadratic equation Y = A + BX - CX2; this 
relationship was absent in males in the age-bands 15-24 years and 25-34 years. 
In females in the age-bands 45-54 years and 55-64 years there was a 
statistically significant curvilinear with GDP (inverted U-shaped curve) and 
fitted the quadratic equation Y = A + BX - CX2; this relationship was absent in 
females in the age-bands 15-24 years, 25-34 years and 35-44 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Although caution should be exercised in accepting the model of the 
epidemiological transition hypothesis for elderly suicide rates because it had 
been generated from cross-sectional data using an ecological design, the 
findings of the current study of suicide rates in younger age-bands provide 
support for this hypothesis. ‎

DOI: 10.5249/jivr.v3i1.71
PMCID: PMC3134919
PMID: 21483212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Prev Med Public Health. 2011 Jan;44(1):32-40. doi:
10.3961/jpmph.2011.44.1.32.

Age and gender differences in the relation of chronic diseases to activity of 
daily living (ADL) disability for elderly South Koreans: based on representative 
data.

Kim IH(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Aetiology of Mental Illness (SAMI) CIHR Training Program, Social 
Equity and Health Research Center for Addition and Mental Health, Toronto, 
Canada. il-ho_kim@camh.net

OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the gender and age differential effect of 
major chronic diseases on activity of daily living (ADL) disability.
METHODS: Surveyfreq and Surveylogistic regression analyses were employed on the 
2005 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES) with a 
sample of 3609 persons aged 65-89.
RESULTS: After adjusting for potential covariates, stroke, among elderly men 
more so than women, had a 2-3 times greater odds of engendering ADL disability 
in the 65-69 (p < 0.05) and 70-79 age groups (p < 0.01). In comparison to 
elderly women, cancer, diabetes, and incontinence in elderly men was associated 
with a higher risk of ADL disability in the 70-79 age group (p < 0.05), and this 
association was also observed for pulmonary disease in the 80-89 age group. 
Among elderly women, however, a significant association between incontinence and 
ADL disability was identified in all three age groups. In addition, this 
association was found in pulmonary disease and diabetes in elderly women aged 
70-79 years. Significant gender differences were observed in the association 
between stroke in the 60-79 age group and cancer in the 70-79 age group.
CONCLUSIONS: Age and gender differences were observed in the effect of chronic 
diseases on ADL disability.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.2011.44.1.32
PMID: 21483221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. MEDICC Rev. 2009 Oct;11(4):17-9. doi: 10.37757/MR2009V11.N4.5.

Counting to 100: A First Look at Cuba's National Centenarian Study.

Giraldo G.

During the twentieth century, life expectancy rose significantly across the 
globe due to improvements in public health and overall living conditions.[1] By 
1950, life expectancy in most of today's developed countries had increased by an 
average of 20 years. In 1900, Japan's life expectancy was 43 years; today that 
country boasts the highest in the world at 83. The United States entered the 
last century with a life expectancy of 47 years, today reaching 78,[2] the same 
as in Cuba, where life expectancy in the early 1900s was only 38 years.[3,4].

DOI: 10.37757/MR2009V11.N4.5
PMID: 21483293


432. MEDICC Rev. 2009 Jul;11(3):27-33. doi: 10.37757/MR2009V11.N3.7.

Clinical experience with nimotuzumab in cuban pediatric patients with brain 
tumors, 2005 to 2007.

Saurez G(1), Cabanas R, Zaldívar M, Garnier T, Iglesias B, Piedra P, Castillo 
MR, Longchong M, Iznaga N, Lage A.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Immunology Center, Havana, Cuba. giselle@cim.sld.cu.

Introduction Nimotuzumab, developed in Cuba, is a humanized monoclonal antibody 
that targets the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). It has been evaluated 
in malignant brain tumors in adults and children, and shown to be 
therapeutically safe and effective in terms of increased survival and improved 
quality of life. Objective Describe nimotuzumab's safety profile and clinical 
benefits in terms of disease control and survival in pediatric patients with 
progressive or recurrent primary brain tumors who were included in an expanded 
access program. Methods An open, prospective clinical study was designed. 
Between December 2005 and December 2007, 22 patients were included, all of whom 
had an histological and/or radiological diagnosis of progressive or recurrent 
primary brain tumor, classified as high-grade malignant glioblastoma (n=6), 
diffuse brain stem glioma (n=6), ependymoblastoma (n=5), low-grade glioma (n=4), 
or thalamic tumor (n=1); life expectancy of at least 4 weeks; and a Karnofsky or 
Lansky Performance Status score of ≥50. Nimotuzumab was administered on a 100 mg 
weekly intravenous infusion schedule for 6 to 8 weeks, followed by a bi-weekly 
maintenance phase, as long as there was no deterioration in the patient's 
functional capacity. Therapeutic protocols were followed for administration as 
monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. All 
patients received clinical and imaging follow-up. Results Nimotuzumab was well 
tolerated in all therapeutic modalities, even with prolonged exposure. A 
minority of patients reported slight or moderate adverse events, such as 
vomiting, mucositis and chills, as classified by the Common Terminology Criteria 
for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The disease was controlled in 64% (14/22) of 
patients; 6-month and 1-year survival rates were 82% and 64%, respectively; 
average survival was 20.3 months and median survival, 19 months. Recovery of 
neurological functions and improvement in general status were notable in 
patients who attained control of the disease. Conclusions As used in this study, 
nimotuzumab demonstrated a broad safety profile, making it acceptable for 
chronic use, and implied clinical benefits in terms of increased survival and 
improved functional status in these patients, compared to findings described in 
the literature. These results indicate further studies of this product are 
warranted.

DOI: 10.37757/MR2009V11.N3.7
PMID: 21483304


433. MEDICC Rev. 2009 Jul;11(3):43-7. doi: 10.37757/MR2009V11.N3.9.

Smoking-attributable mortality in cuba.

Varona P(1), Herrera D, García RG, Bonet M, Romero T, Venero SJ.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Microbiology, Havana, Cuba. 
patricia.varona@infomed.sld.cu.

Introduction Smoking is the main preventable cause of death worldwide. The World 
Health Organization estimates that smoking causes 5 million deaths annually, a 
figure that could double shortly if the present trend in tobacco product 
consumption continues. Objectives Estimate smoking-attributable mortality in the 
Cuban population and provide information needed to carry out effective public 
health actions. Methods This is a descriptive study using smoking prevalence and 
mortality data in Cuba for 1995 and 2007. Causes of death were grouped in three 
categories: malignant tumors, cardiovascular diseases and chronic respiratory 
diseases. Etiological fractions and attributable mortality were calculated by 
cause and sex. Results Of deaths recorded in 1995 and 2007, 15% and 18% of 
preventable deaths were attributed to smoking, respectively. In Cuba in 2007, 
smoking caused 86% of deaths from lung cancer, 78% of deaths from chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, 28% of deaths from ischemic heart disease, and 
26% of deaths from cerebrovascular disease. Conclusions Smoking is responsible 
for high rates of preventable mortality in Cuba. There is willingness on the 
part of administrative and political authorities to discourage smoking, and more 
than half of smokers in Cuba wish to quit smoking. Given awareness that reducing 
smoking is the most effective means of decreasing preventable morbidity and 
mortality, the country is moving steadily toward concrete, sustainable steps 
leading to increased life expectancy and quality of life for the Cuban 
population.

DOI: 10.37757/MR2009V11.N3.9
PMID: 21483306


434. Saudi Med J. 2011 Apr;32(4):339-46.

End stage chronic kidney disease in Saudi Arabia. A rapidly changing scene.

Al-Sayyari AA(1), Shaheen FA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health 
Sciences, PO Box 22490, Riyadh 11426, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
aaalsayyari@gmail.com

There have been a marked rise in the prevalence and incidence of end stage 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) in Saudi Arabia over the last 3 decades. This rise 
exceeds those reported from many countries. The enormous and rapid changes in 
lifestyle, high population growth, and fast increase in life expectancy, and 
massive urbanization that has occurred over the last 3 decades combined to make 
the current CKD status different to what it was. The 2 major factors that 
influence the CKD status are the very high rate of diabetic nephropathy and 
shift in age demographics.

PMID: 21483990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Curr Infect Dis Rep. 2011 Aug;13(4):333-42. doi: 10.1007/s11908-011-0187-7.

Cardiovascular implantable device infections.

Viola GM(1), Darouiche RO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Unit 1460, Houston, 
TX, 77030, USA, GMViola@mdanderson.org.

As life expectancy continues to increase and biotechnology advances, the use of 
cardiovascular implantable devices will continue to rise. Unfortunately, despite 
modern medical advances, the infection and mortality rates remain excessively 
elevated. This article reviews the pathophysiology and general concepts of 
cardiac device-related infections, including the physical and chemical 
characteristics of the medical device, host response to the medical device, and 
the microbiologic virulence factors. Infections of the most commonly utilized 
cardiovascular implantable devices, including cardiovascular implantable 
electronic devices, bioprosthetic and mechanical valves, ventricular assist 
devices, total artificial hearts, and coronary artery stents, are reviewed in 
detail.

DOI: 10.1007/s11908-011-0187-7
PMID: 21484218


436. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Aug;13(4):381-91. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0310-6.
Epub  2011 Apr 12.

Cost-effectiveness of adjunctive eptifibatide in patients undergoing coronary 
stenting in Germany.

Dewilde S(1), Brüggenjürgen B, Nienaber C, Senges J, Welte R, Willich SN.

Author information:
(1)Services in Health Economics, Rue des Eburons 55, 1000 Brussels, Belgium. 
sd@she-consuling.be

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of adding eptifibatide to the 
standard treatment for selected high-risk patients undergoing coronary stenting 
in Germany. Furthermore, to investigate the impact of several extrapolation 
methods on the results.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to reflect the clinical events in this 
specific patient population, including target vessel revascularization, 
myocardial infarction, and death. To extrapolate clinical data beyond 1 year, a 
linear, an exponential, and a Weibull survival curves were estimated. Patient 
characteristics and transition probabilities were derived from a high-risk 
subgroup of the ESPRIT trial; patient-level utility data came from a published 
Dutch study. Costs were calculated from a hospital and from a third-party payer 
perspective.
RESULTS: For both perspectives, the additional treatment with eptifibatide is 
the considered dominant alternative. The incremental net benefit of its use 
exceeds €10,000 for both perspectives. Results proved stable in probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis as well as under the different extrapolation scenarios.
CONCLUSIONS: Eptifibatide is likely to be dominant strategy with 77.7 and 96.7% 
of the simulations leading to QALYs gained and generating cost savings from both 
the hospital and the third-party payer perspective. Eptifibatide offsets its 
additional treatment costs by avoiding costly repeat procedures and leads to 
positive QALY gains by preventing cardiovascular events lending themselves to 
transient or permanent lower quality of life. The method used to extrapolate the 
short-term risks did not impact on results, mainly due to similar clinical risk 
profiles between the two treatment groups in the long term.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0310-6
PMID: 21484498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Gesundheitswesen. 2011 May;73(5):292-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1271715. Epub
2011  Apr 11.

[Life expectancy with and without need for care. Extent and development trends 
in Germany].

[Article in German]

Unger R(1), Müller R, Rothgang H.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Sozialpolitik, Parkallee 39, 28209 Bremen. 
r.unger@zes.uni-bremen.de

This article addresses the question if the number of life years men and women 
can expect to live in good health is increasing and secondly if the life years 
in long-term care decline to a shorter period before death (compression of 
morbidity) during the periods 1999-2003 to 2004-2008. The analyses is based on 
data of a health insurance company (Gmünder Ersatzkasse, GEK), which are 
calculated, using the prevalence-rate method of Sullivan. The results show that 
men and women at age 60 can expect to live longer (21.21 years instead of 20.04 
years for men and 25.1 years instead of 23.96 years for women) and also live 
longer free of long-term care (19.89 instead of 18.89 years for men and 22.37 
instead of 21.55 years for women). In addition to the prolonged life years, also 
the number of years a person can expect to live in long-term-care has increased 
(from 1.15 years to 1.32 years for men and from 2.41 years to 2.73 years for 
women). Therefore the data suggest that there is no compression of morbidity.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1271715
PMID: 21484674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Tunis Med. 2011 Apr;89(4):342-6.

Retained common bile duct stones after endoscopic sphincterotomy: temporary and 
longterm treatment with biliary stenting.

Kochlef A(1), Gargouri D, Kilani A, Ouakaa A, Elloumi H, Kharrat J, Belhadj N, 
Romani M, Ghorbel A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hépato-Gastroentérologie.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic extraction of biliary tract stones is safe and effective. 
When the procedure is not successful, the use of a biliary stent can be a 
solution.
AIM: To prospectively analyse the usefulness of a stenting in management of 
biliary obstruction due to choledocolithiasis.
METHODS: All patients referred to our endoscopic unit from January 2005 to 
January 2008, for management of bile duct stone are studied. We included 
patients subjected to an endoscopic insertion of a biliary stent.
RESULTS: Of 414 patients with choledocolithiasis, 51 failed to have their ducts 
cleared with the first endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP): 25 
patients (6%) were referred to surgical stone removal. Twenty six consecutive 
patients had endoscopic insertion of a 10 Fr biliary stent: There were 12 men 
and 14 women ranging in age from 35 to 102 years (median age 68 years). The 
indications for stent placement in common bile duct stone were mainly the 
endoscopic portal hypertension, elderly patients or with a short life 
expectancy. Twenty four patients (88%) are symptom free after stenting. Six 
patients (23%) had duct clearance after a median of 3 sessions at a mean of 13 
months (range 3-48 months). In 3 patients endoprosthesis was inserted as a 
permanent therapy of biliary obstruction. Cholangitis occurred in 5 patients, 
early in two cases and later at a mean of 18 months (range 6-24 months) in 3 
patients and was managed endoscopically by stent replacement and fluid 
antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS: These data favor temporary use of biliary endoprostheses in 
patients with endoscopically irretrievable bile duct stones until the definitive 
treatment is carried out. However, as a permanent therapy, late complications 
occur in many patients and the risk increases proportionally in time. Therefore, 
permanent biliary stenting should preferably be restricted to patients unfit for 
elective treatment at a later stage and with a short life expectancy.

PMID: 21484682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2012 Feb;18(2):201-11. doi: 10.1002/ibd.21697. Epub 2011
Apr  11.

Long-term infliximab maintenance therapy for ulcerative colitis: the ACT-1 and 
-2 extension studies.

Reinisch W(1), Sandborn WJ, Rutgeerts P, Feagan BG, Rachmilewitz D, Hanauer SB, 
Lichtenstein GR, de Villiers WJ, Blank M, Lang Y, Johanns J, Colombel JF, 
Present D, Sands BE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Univ Klinik Innere Medizin 
III, AKH Wien, Vienna, Austria. walter.reinisch@meduniwien.ac.at

BACKGROUND: The aim was to evaluate long-term efficacy, quality of life, and 
safety in ulcerative colitis patients who received infliximab during the ACT-1 
and -2 extension studies.
METHODS: Adults with moderate-to-severely active ulcerative colitis in the 
54-week ACT-1 and 30-week ACT-2 studies who achieved benefit from infliximab 
were eligible to participate in extension studies and receive up to 3 additional 
years of therapy. Patients received randomized study medication until all sites 
were unblinded; placebo-treated patients were discontinued. Patients receiving 5 
or 10 mg/kg infliximab continued to receive open-label infliximab every 8 weeks. 
Patients receiving infliximab 10 mg/kg could decrease to 5 mg/kg; patients 
receiving infliximab 5 mg/kg could increase to 10 mg/kg if response was lost.
RESULTS: A total of 229 of 484 infliximab-treated patients from the ACT-1 and 
ACT-2 main studies entered the long-term extensions. Overall, 70 (30.6%) 
patients discontinued infliximab infusions for adverse events (24 [10.5%]), lack 
of efficacy (11 [4.8%]), required a colectomy (1 [0.4%]), or for other reasons 
(34 [14.8%]). Proportions of patients whose Physician's Global Assessment scores 
were indicative of no or mild disease (score = 0 or 1) were maintained during 
the extension studies; 76.5% at Extension week 0 and ranged between 90.0% and 
94.3% through Extension week 152. Improvement in Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Questionnaire scores observed in the main studies was maintained. During the 
long-term extension, the infliximab safety profile was consistent with that of 
the main studies; no new or unexpected safety signals were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term treatment with infliximab for up to 3 additional years 
was effective and well tolerated.

Copyright © 2011 Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ibd.21697
PMID: 21484965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Am J Manag Care. 2011 Jan;17(1):e1-9.

Economic model for emergency use authorization of intravenous peramivir.

Lee BY(1), Tai JH, Bailey RR, McGlone SM, Wiringa AE, Zimmer SM, Smith KJ, 
Zimmerman RK.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Computational and Operations Research, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine and Graduate School of Public Health, PA 15213, USA. 
byl1@pitt.edu

OBJECTIVES: To develop 3 computer simulation models to determine the potential 
economic effect of using intravenous (IV) antiviral agents to treat hospitalized 
patients with influenza-like illness, as well as different testing and treatment 
strategies.
STUDY DESIGN: Stochastic decision analytic computer simulation model.
METHODS: During the 2009 influenza A(H1N1) pandemic, the Food and Drug 
Administration granted emergency use authorization of IV neuraminidase 
inhibitors for hospitalized patients with influenza, creating a need for rapid 
decision analyses to help guide use. We compared the economic value from the 
societal and third-party payer perspectives of the following 4 strategies for a 
patient hospitalized with influenza-like illness and unable to take oral 
antiviral agents: Strategy 1: Administration of IV antiviral agents without 
polymerase chain reaction influenza testing. Strategy 2: Initiation of IV 
antiviral treatment, followed by polymerase chain reaction testing to determine 
whether the treatment should be continued. Strategy 3: Performance of polymerase 
chain reaction testing, followed by initiation of IV antiviral treatment if the 
test results are positive. Strategy 4: Administration of no IV antiviral agents. 
Sensitivity analyses varied the probability of having influenza (baseline, 10%; 
range, 10%-30%), IV antiviral efficacy (baseline, oral oseltamivir phosphate; 
range, 25%-75%), IV antiviral daily cost (range, $20-$1000), IV antiviral 
reduction of illness duration (baseline, 1 day; range, 1-2 days), and ventilated 
vs nonventilated status of the patient.
RESULTS: When the cost of IV antiviral agents was no more than $500 per day, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for most of the IV antiviral treatment 
strategies was less than $10,000 per quality-adjusted life-year compared with no 
treatment. When the cost was no more than $100 per day, all 3 IV antiviral 
strategies were even more cost-effective. The order of cost-effectiveness from 
most to least was strategies 3, 1, and 2. The findings were robust to changing 
risk of influenza, influenza mortality, IV antiviral efficacy, IV antiviral 
daily cost, IV antiviral reduction of illness duration, and ventilated vs 
nonventilated status of the patient for both societal and third-party payer 
perspectives.
CONCLUSION: Our study supports the use of IV antiviral treatment for 
hospitalized patients with influenza-like illness.

PMCID: PMC3763185
PMID: 21485418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosures: The authors (BYL, JHYT, RRB, 
SMM, AEW, SMZ, KJS, RKZ) report no relationship or financial interest with any 
entity that would pose a conflict of interest with the subject matter of this 
article.


441. J N J Dent Assoc. 2011 Winter;82(1):26-8.

Almost 2 million seniors (including 662,000 with disabilities) will reside in 
New Jersey--how will their dental needs be met?

Waldman HB(1), Wong A, Perlman SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Dentistry, School of Dental Medicine, Stony Brook 
University, USA. hwaldman@notes.cc.sunysb.edu

PMID: 21485956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Pediatr Int. 2011 Aug;53(4):483-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-200X.2011.03377.x.

Acute renal failure SNAPPE and mortality.

Türker G(1), Ozsoy G, Günlemez A, Gökalp AS, Arisoy AE, Bircan Z.

Author information:
(1)Neonatology Division, Medical Faculty, Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Turkey. 
gulcanturker@kocaeli.edu.tr

BACKGROUND: The aim of the present study was to determine, using the score for 
neonatal acute physiology and perinatal extension II (SNAPPE-II), whether there 
is an association with acute renal failure (ARF) and whether it is possible to 
identify newborns at risk for ARF prior to a rise in creatinine in newborns.
METHODS: Information on postnatal risk factors and SNAPPE-II on the first day of 
life (non-ARF group, n= 475; ARF group, n= 78) were collected. Renal failure was 
defined as serum creatinine level >1 mg/dL and >1.3 mg/dL (for ≥ 33 weeks and < 
33 weeks, respectively) after 48 h of life.
RESULTS: In newborns with ARF (n= 78), the median (range) of SNAPPE-II and 
mortality rate were significantly higher than those of the control group. Patent 
ductus arteriosus (PDA), disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), 
SNAPPE-II, and resuscitation were identified as independent predictors of ARF in 
infants on forward stepwise logistic regression. Sepsis, respiratory distress 
syndrome, ARF, DIC, and SNAPPE-II were identified as independent predictors of 
mortality in infants on the same analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: SNAPPE-II on the first day of life was significantly higher among 
babies with ARF, suggesting a positive association between higher scores and the 
development of ARF and mortality, but based on receiver operating characteristic 
curve results, SNAPPE-II at admission did not enhance the assessment of risk for 
ARF prior to a rise in creatinine.

© 2011 The Authors. Pediatrics International © 2011 Japan Pediatric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200X.2011.03377.x
PMID: 21486376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Inj Prev. 2011 Dec;17(6):365-70. doi: 10.1136/ip.2010.029579. Epub 2011 Apr
12.

Review of the long-term disability associated with hip fractures.

Bertram M(1), Norman R, Kemp L, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)The University of Queensland, Centre for Burden of Disease & Cost 
Effectiveness, School of Population Health, Brisbane, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the proportion of hip fracture patients who experience 
long-term disability and to re-estimate the resulting burden of disease 
associated with hip fractures in Australia in 2003.
METHODS: A literature review of the functional outcome following a hip fracture 
(keywords: morbidity, treatment outcome, disability, quality of life, recovery 
of function, hip fractures, and femoral neck fractures) was carried out using 
PubMed and Ovid MEDLINE.
RESULTS: A range of scales and outcome measures are used to evaluate recovery 
following a hip fracture. Based on the available evidence on restrictions in 
activities of daily living, 29% of hip fracture cases in the elderly do not 
reach their pre-fracture levels 1 year post-fracture. Those who do recover tend 
to reach their pre-fracture levels of functioning at around 6 months. These new 
assumptions result in 8251 years lived with disability for hip fractures in 
Australia in 2003, a 4.5-fold increase compared with the previous calculation 
based on Global Burden of Disease assumptions that only 5% of hip fractures lead 
to long-term disability and that the duration of short-term disability is just 
51 days.
CONCLUSIONS: The original assumptions used in burden of disease studies grossly 
underestimate the long-term disability from hip fractures. The long-term 
consequences of other injuries may similarly have been underestimated and need 
to be re-examined. This has important implications for modelling the 
cost-effectiveness of preventive interventions where disability-adjusted life 
years are used as a measure of health outcome.

DOI: 10.1136/ip.2010.029579
PMID: 21486987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2011 May;4(3):268-75. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.110.959239. Epub 2011 Apr 12.

Individual and population benefits of daily aspirin therapy: a proposal for 
personalizing national guidelines.

Sussman JB(1), Vijan S, Choi H, Hayward RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs, VA Health Service Research and Development 
Center of Excellence, VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. 
jeremysu@med.umich.edu

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2011 May;4(3):260-2.

BACKGROUND: Clinical practice guidelines that help clinicians and patients to 
understand the magnitude of expected individual risks and benefits would help 
with patient-centered decision-making and prioritization of care. We assessed 
the net benefit from taking daily aspirin to estimate the individual and public 
health implications of a more individualized decision-making approach.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used data from the National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey representing all US persons aged 30 to 85 years with no 
history of myocardial infarction and applied a Markov model based on randomized 
evidence and published literature to estimate lifetime effects of aspirin 
treatment in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). We found that treatment 
benefit varies greatly by an individual's cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. 
Almost all adults have fewer major clinical events on aspirin, but for most, 
events prevented would be so rare that even a very small distaste for aspirin 
use would make treatment inappropriate. With minimal dislike of aspirin use 
(disutility, 0.005 QALY per year), only those with a 10-year cardiac event risk 
>6.1% would have a net benefit. A disutility of 0.01 QALY moves this benefit cut 
point to 10.6%. Multiple factors altered the absolute benefit of aspirin, but 
the strong relationship between CVD risk and magnitude of benefit was robust.
CONCLUSIONS: The benefits of aspirin therapy depend substantially on an 
individual's risk of CVD and adverse treatment effects. Understanding who 
benefits from aspirin use and how much can help clinicians and patients to 
develop a more patient-centered approach to preventive therapy.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.110.959239
PMCID: PMC4039386
PMID: 21487091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. MEDICC Rev. 2008 Jul;10(3):48. doi: 10.37757/MR2008.V10.N3.10.

Women in the Middle: Cuba's Sandwich Generation.

Artiles L.

I once met anthropologist Dolores Juliano, who wisely observed that women "don't 
live more, they just die later." Women's longer lifespan is almost mythical, but 
our longer lives are fraught with excessive morbidity. And extended life 
expectancy itself - a phenomenon that has caught health systems unprepared - has 
boosted the role of "the caregiver" needed for older persons and the chronically 
ill.

DOI: 10.37757/MR2008.V10.N3.10
PMID: 21487369


446. Radiologe. 2011 May;51(5):379-83. doi: 10.1007/s00117-010-2085-7.

[Whole-body MRI in the study of health in Pomerania].

[Article in German]

Puls R(1), Völzke H.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Community Medicine und Institut für Diagnostische Radiologie und 
Neuroradiologie, Klinikum der Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität, Greifswald, 
Deutschland. puls@uni-greifswald.de

Population-based whole-body MRI examinations have been evaluated for the first 
time within the Study of Health in Pomerania (SHIP). This ongoing cohort study 
investigates associations of overweight (57.9% of the female and 74.1% of the 
male population) and obesity (25.1% and 26.0%, respectively) with cardiovascular 
and metabolic diseases in a population with decreased life expectancy compared 
to the total German average. Whole-body MRI offers the possibility to evaluate 
parameters, such as the amount of visceral and liver fat and can contribute to 
further conclusions on these common diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-010-2085-7
PMID: 21487801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Surg Endosc. 2011 Oct;25(10):3127-34. doi: 10.1007/s00464-011-1689-y. Epub
2011  Apr 13.

Cost-effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors versus laparoscopic Nissen 
fundoplication for patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease: a systematic 
review of the literature.

Thijssen AS(1), Broeders IA, de Wit GA, Draaisma WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Meander Medical Centre, Amersfoort, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Gastroesophageal reflux disease is a common condition in Western 
countries. It is unknown whether medical or surgical treatment is more 
cost-effective. This study was conducted to determine whether laparoscopic 
Nissen fundoplication or treatment by proton pump inhibitors is the most 
cost-effective for gastroesophageal reflux disease in the long term.
METHODS: Medline, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases were searched for articles 
published between January 1990 and 2010. The search results were screened by two 
independent reviewers for economic evaluations comparing costs and effects of 
laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication and proton pump inhibitors in adults eligible 
for both treatments. Cost and effectiveness or utility data were extracted for 
both treatment modalities. The quality of the economic evaluations was scored 
using a dedicated checklist, as were the levels of evidence.
RESULTS: Four publications were included; all were based on decision analytic 
models. The economic evaluations were all of similar quality and all based on 
data with a variety of evidence levels. Surgery was more expensive than medical 
treatment in three publications. Two papers reported more quality-adjusted 
life-years for surgery. However, one of these reported more symptom-free months 
for medical treatment. In two publications surgery was considered to be the most 
cost-effective treatment, whereas the other two favored medical treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The results with regard to cost-effectiveness are inconclusive. All 
four economic models are based on high- and low-quality data. More reliable 
estimates of cost-effectiveness based on long-term trial data are needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-011-1689-y
PMID: 21487859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Risk Anal. 2011 Sep;31(9):1363-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01617.x.
Epub  2011 Apr 13.

Diminishing willingness to pay per quality-adjusted life year: valuing acute 
foodborne illness.

Haninger K(1), Hammitt JK.

Author information:
(1)U.S. EnvironmentalProtection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, 
DC 20460, USA.

We design and conduct a stated-preference survey to estimate willingness to pay 
(WTP) to reduce foodborne risk of acute illness and to test whether WTP is 
proportional to the corresponding gain in expected quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). If QALYs measure utility for health, then economic theory requires WTP 
to be nearly proportional to changes in both health quality and duration of 
illness and WTP could be estimated by multiplying the expected change in QALYs 
by an appropriate monetary value. WTP is elicited using double-bounded, 
dichotomous-choice questions in which respondents (randomly selected from the 
U.S. general adult population, n = 2,858) decide whether to purchase a more 
expensive food to reduce the risk of foodborne illness. Health risks vary by 
baseline probability of illness, reduction in probability, duration and severity 
of illness, and conditional probability of mortality. The expected gain in QALYs 
is calculated using respondent-assessed decrements in health-related quality of 
life if ill combined with the duration of illness and reduction in probability 
specified in the survey. We find sharply diminishing marginal WTP for severity 
and duration of illness prevented. Our results suggest that individuals do not 
have a constant rate of WTP per QALY, which implies that WTP cannot be 
accurately estimated by multiplying the change in QALYs by an appropriate 
monetary value.

© 2011 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01617.x
PMID: 21488924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. BJU Int. 2011 Oct;108(7):1074-85. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.10039.x.
Epub  2011 Apr 13.

Understanding the pathological features of focality, grade and tumour volume of 
early-stage prostate cancer as a foundation for parenchyma-sparing prostate 
cancer therapies: active surveillance and focal targeted therapy.

Mouraviev V(1), Villers A, Bostwick DG, Wheeler TM, Montironi R, Polascik TJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, University 
of Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

OBJECTIVE: • To better understand the biology and incidence of the cancer foci 
within the prostate through a comprehensive literature review and a review of 
our own data, to establish the current level of knowledge regarding the 
pathological foundation for active surveillance (AS) or focal therapy (FT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: • A systematic review of the literature was performed, 
searching PubMed® from January 1994 to July 2009. • Electronic searches were 
limited to the English language using the keywords 'prostate cancer', 
'histopathology', 'radical prostatectomy', 'pathological stage' and 'focal 
therapy'. • The authors' own data were also analysed and are presented.
RESULTS: • Recent data have shown a significant pathological stage migration 
towards earlier disease comprising unilateral pT2a/b prostate cancer (PCa). • 
The cancer volume of the clinically significant tumour (index lesion) has been 
proposed as a driving force of PCa progression and therefore should be 
identified and treated at an early stage. • In general, most satellite lesions 
do not appear to be life-threatening. • Other pathological features, such as 
Gleason score, extraprostatic extension and the spatial distribution of PCa 
within the prostate, remain important selective criteria for AS or FT.
CONCLUSION: • The present study reviews the current knowledge of cancer 
focality, aggression and tumour volume. Further research is needed to better 
understand the biologic behaviour of each of the tumour foci within a cancerous 
prostate, and to employ this information to selected patients for no therapy 
(AS), parenchyma-preserving approaches (FT) or whole gland radical therapy.

© 2011 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.10039.x
PMID: 21489116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. BMC Health Serv Res. 2011 Apr 13;11:75. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-75.

Burden of disease and economic evaluation of healthcare interventions: are we 
investigating what really matters?

Catalá-López F(1), García-Altés A, Alvarez-Martín E, Gènova-Maleras R, 
Morant-Ginestar C, Parada A.

Author information:
(1)Centro Superior de Investigación en Salud Pública, Valencia, Spain. 
ferran_catala@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The allocation of limited available healthcare resources demands an 
agreed rational allocation principle and the consequent priority setting. We 
assessed the association between economic evaluations of healthcare 
interventions published in Spain (1983-2008) and the disease burden in the 
population.
METHODS: Electronic databases (e.g., PubMed/MEDLINE, SCOPUS, ISI Web of 
Knowledge, CRD, IME, IBECS) and reports from health technology assessment 
agencies were systematically reviewed. For each article, multiple variables were 
recorded such as: year and journal of publication, type of study, health 
intervention targetted, perspective of analysis, type of costs and sources of 
information, first author's affiliation, explicit recommendations aimed at 
decision-making, and the main disease cause to which the intervention was 
addressed. The following disease burden measures were calculated: years of life 
lost (YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs), disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs), and mortality by cause. Correlation and linear regression models were 
fitted.
RESULTS: Four hundred and seventy-seven economic evaluations were identified. 
Cardiovascular diseases (15.7%), infectious diseases (15.3%), malignant 
neoplasms (13.2%), and neuropsychiatric diseases (9.6%) were the conditions most 
commonly addressed. Accidents and injuries, congenital anomalies, oral 
conditions, nutritional deficiencies and other neoplasms were the categories 
with a lowest number of studies (0.6% for each of them). For the main disease 
categories (n = 20), a correlation was seen with: mortality 0.67 (p = 0.001), 
DALYs 0.63 (p = 0.003), YLLs 0.54 (p = 0.014), and YLDs 0.51 (p = 0.018). By 
disease sub-categories (n = 51), the correlations were generally low and non 
statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Examining discrepancies between economic evaluations in particular 
diseases and the overall burden of disease helps shed light on whether there are 
potentially over- and under-investigated areas. The approach taken could help 
policy-makers understand whether resources for economic evaluation are being 
allocated by using summary measures of population health.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-75
PMCID: PMC3097252
PMID: 21489236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. World J Emerg Surg. 2011 Apr 13;6(1):13. doi: 10.1186/1749-7922-6-13.

Acute gallbladder torsion - a continued pre-operative diagnostic dilemma.

Mouawad NJ(1), Crofts B, Streu R, Desrochers R, Kimball BC.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Saint Joseph Mercy Health System, Suite 
R-2111, PO Box 995, Ann Arbor, MI, 48106, USA. nmouawad@gmail.com.

Acute gallbladder volvulus continues to remain a relatively uncommon process, 
manifesting itself usually during exploration for an acute surgical abdomen with 
a presumptive diagnosis of acute cholecystitis. The pathophysiology is that of 
mechanical organo-axial torsion along the gallbladder's longitudinal axis 
involving the cystic duct and cystic artery, and with a pre-requisite of local 
mesenteric redundancy. The demographic tendency is septua- and octo-genarians of 
the female sex, and its overall incidence is increasing, this being attributed 
to increasing life expectancy. We discuss two cases of elderly, fragile women 
presenting to the emergency department complaining of sudden onset right upper 
quadrant abdominal pain. Their subsequent evaluation suggested acute 
cholecystitis. Ultimately both were taken to the operating room where the 
correct diagnosis of gallbladder torsion was made. Pre-operative diagnosis 
continues to be a major challenge with only 4 cases reported in the literature 
diagnosed with pre-operative imaging; the remainder were found 
intra-operatively. Consequently, a delay in diagnosis can have devastating 
patient outcomes. Herein we propose a necessary high index of suspicion for 
gallbladder volvulus in the outlined patient demographic with symptoms and signs 
mimicking acute cholecystitis.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-7922-6-13
PMCID: PMC3083339
PMID: 21489292


452. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2011 Jun;92(3):400-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2011.03.022. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Improvements in life expectancy in adult type 2 diabetes patients in the last 
six decades.

Ioacara S(1), Guja C, Ionescu-Tirgoviste C, Fica S, Sabau S, Radu S, Micu A, Tiu 
C.

Author information:
(1)N Paulescu National Institute of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases, 
Diabetes 1, Bucharest, Romania. drsorin@yahoo.com

AIM: To investigate the historical changes in survival with diabetes in adult 
type 2 diabetes patients.
METHODS: We analyzed 9066 deaths, 54.2% males, registered at "I. Pavel" 
Bucharest Diabetes Centre, aged 40-64 years and deceased between 1943 and 2009. 
We split the analysis in three time periods according to year of death: 
1943-1965, 1966-1988 and 1989-2009.
RESULTS: The mean age at diabetes onset was 55.5 ± 6.2 years, with mean disease 
duration at death 12.7 ± 8.2 years and mean age at death 68.2 ± 8.7 years. The 
mean disease duration at death was 9.9 ± 7.3 years in 1943-1965 period, followed 
by a significant (p<0.001) rise to 12.2 ± 8.2 years in 1966-1988, and 14 ± 8.1 
years (p < 0.001) in 1989-2009. There was a significant increase for coronary 
heart diseases and cancer and a significant decrease for infections and 
end-stage renal disease as causes of death.
CONCLUSION: We found a significant increase in age at onset and survival with 
diabetes leading to a significant increase in age at death.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2011.03.022
PMID: 21489648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Proc Biol Sci. 2011 Dec 7;278(1724):3490-6. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2011.0465.
Epub  2011 Apr 13.

High activity enables life on a high-sugar diet: blood glucose regulation in 
nectar-feeding bats.

Kelm DH(1), Simon R, Kuhlow D, Voigt CC, Ristow M.

Author information:
(1)Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research, Alfred-Kowalke-Strasse 17, 
10315 Berlin, Germany. dkelm1@gmx.de

High blood glucose levels caused by excessive sugar consumption are detrimental 
to mammalian health and life expectancy. Despite consuming vast quantities of 
sugar-rich floral nectar, nectar-feeding bats are long-lived, provoking the 
question of how they regulate blood glucose. We investigated blood glucose 
levels in nectar-feeding bats (Glossophaga soricina) in experiments in which we 
varied the amount of dietary sugar or flight time. Blood glucose levels 
