the 10-year vascular risk for men aged 55 years was varied from 25% to 5%. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio slightly decreased with age after the level 
of vascular risk was specified. Results were sensitive to the costs of statin 
treatment, statin effectiveness, non-adherence, disutility of taking medication 
daily, and the time horizon of the model.
CONCLUSIONS: In daily practice, statin treatment seemed not to be cost-effective 
for primary prevention in populations at low risk of vascular disease, despite 
low costs of generic drug pills. Adherence to statin treatment needs to be 
improved to enhance the cost-effectiveness of the use of statins for primary 
prevention.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d1672
PMID: 21450800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Heritable Variation in Fat Preference.

Reed DR.

In: Montmayeur JP(1), le Coutre J(2), editors. Fat Detection: Taste, Texture, 
and Post Ingestive Effects. Boca Raton (FL): CRC Press/Taylor & Francis; 2010. 
Chapter 16.
Frontiers in Neuroscience.

Author information:
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Dijon, France
(2)Nestlé Research Center, Lausanne, Switzerland

For humans, eating is often a group rather than a solitary activity, and it is 
inevitable when eating with others that individual differences in food 
preferences become obvious. These food preferences form early in life (Mennella 
et al., 2001) and persist into adulthood (Nicklaus et al., 2004). People like to 
eat familiar foods that are safe and avoid foods associated, even indirectly, 
with illness. However, pleasant experiences and time also help to form food 
preferences. For instance, the ability to tolerate and even like bitterness 
increases as children grow to adulthood, and the liking for sweet and sour 
decreases (Desor and Beauchamp, 1987; Liem and Mennella, 2003). Over a lifetime, 
new foods are tried, rejected, or incorporated into the diet. Against this 
backdrop of development and environment, there are inborn differences in food 
likes and dislikes which may be due to genetic constitution. There is a genetic 
basis to bitter detection in humans (Bufe et al., 2005) and given that fat 
intake is moderately to highly heritable, it is likely that genotype contributes 
to food selection and, by extension, to fat preference. The focus here is on how 
individual differences in fat preference are formed and, in particular, the 
evidence that the liking for fat is influenced by genotype. The interest in 
dietary fat arises because its intake is tied to metabolic syndrome, a 
constellation of disorders that feature obesity, diabetes, and hypertension. An 
adage is that everything that tastes good is bad for you, and the liking for fat 
fits well into this viewpoint: fat is desirable and when people are given the 
opportunity to do so, many will adopt a high-fat diet. Two aspects of fat make 
it attractive, its sensory qualities (Reed et al., 1992b) and postingestive 
consequences (i.e., feelings of satiety). Fat is sensed in the mouth and 
although the texture is a key feature of its sensory properties, fat itself may 
be a legitimate taste stimulus. The evidence for this assertion is recent and 
reviewed below, but it is useful to know that fat has been considered a taste by 
some through the ages. For instance, Fernel wrote “There are nine classes of 
flavors, and the sense of taste recognizes no others: acrid, tart, fatty; salty, 
sour, and sweet; bitter, pungent, and insipid” (Fernelius, 1581). While 
controversies arise when applying the term “taste” to fat, and the issue is 
dealt with elsewhere in this book, “umami” as a taste was equally controversial 
but it was readily adopted as a fifth basic taste once the receptor(s) was 
identified (Chaudhari et al., 2000; Nelson et al., 2002). Likewise, when the 
oral receptors for fat are unequivocally identified, its place as a basic taste 
will probably become equally well accepted. What is known about fat as a taste 
is outlined below. Taste is both the gatekeeper and advance messenger of 
ingestion, keeping out bad food and warning the gastrointestinal system about 
the impending rush of nutrients. One of the effects of fat stimuli in the mouth 
is to prepare the body for calories, setting off a cephalic phase response. This 
cascade of events may be a general response to incoming dietary fat in mammals 
because it is found in rats (Ramirez, 1985) as well as people (Mattes, 2001; 
Crystal and Teff, 2006). Under normal circumstances, once fat is ingested, it is 
briefly held in the stomach and then absorbed in the intestines. From here it is 
either oxidized for energy or stored, primarily in adipose tissue. In some 
abnormal states, such as untreated diabetes, fat is more easily oxidized than 
carbohydrate and is thus preferred, at least in experiments using animal models 
(Tordoff et al., 1987). In addition to the other benefits of fat, it contains 
pharmacologically active substances, for instance, olive oil has an 
anti-inflammatory agent (Beauchamp et al., 2005). These compounds may also 
contribute to the human liking for fat.

Copyright © 2010, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

PMID: 21452470


350. Pathophysiology and Evolutionary Aspects of Dietary Fats and Long-Chain 
Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids across the Life Cycle.

Muskiet FAJ.

In: Montmayeur JP(1), le Coutre J(2), editors. Fat Detection: Taste, Texture, 
and Post Ingestive Effects. Boca Raton (FL): CRC Press/Taylor & Francis; 2010. 
Chapter 2.
Frontiers in Neuroscience.

Author information:
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Dijon, France
(2)Nestlé Research Center, Lausanne, Switzerland

Dietary fat is our second most important energy-producing macronutrient. It also 
contains fatty acids and vitamins essential for growth, development, and 
maintenance of good health. Dietary fat quantity and quality have been subject 
to tremendous change over the past 10,000 years. This has, together with other 
man-made changes in our environment, caused a conflict with our slowly adapting 
genome that is implicated in “typically Western” diseases. Rather than reducing 
our life expectancy, these diseases notably diminish our number of years in 
health. Important changes in dietary fat quality are the increased intakes of 
certain saturated fatty acids (SAFA) and linoleic acid (LA), introduction of 
industrially produced trans fatty acids, and reduced intakes of ω3 fatty acids, 
notably alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) from vegetable sources and eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) from fish. The pathophysiological 
effects of these changes are diverse, but are increasingly ascribed to induction 
of a proinflammatory state that progresses easily to chronic low-grade 
inflammation. The latter might affect virtually all organs and systems, possibly 
beginning at conception, and possibly even prior to gametogenesis through 
epigenetic alterations. Low-grade inflammation might be a common denominator of 
the metabolic syndrome and its sequelae (e.g., coronary artery disease (CAD), 
diabetes mellitus type 2, some types of cancer, and pregnancy complications), 
some psychiatric diseases (e.g., major and postpartum depression, schizophrenia, 
and autism), and neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer’s disease, 
Parkinson’s disease). The long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) 
arachidonic acid (AA), EPA, and DHA are intimately related to the initiation and 
resolution of inflammatory responses. The current balance between AA and EPA + 
DHA is however disturbed by the dominance of AA, which originates from the diet 
or synthesis from LA. LCPUFA are together with their highly potent metabolites 
(prostaglandins, thromboxanes, leukotrienes, resolvins, and (neuro)protectins) 
involved in the functioning of membrane-bound receptors, transporters, ion 
channels, and enzymes, and also in signal transduction and gene expression. 
Among their many targets are nuclear receptors which, upon ligation with LCPUFA 
and their metabolites, function as transcription factors of a variety of genes 
functioning in many pathways. For instance, the targeted peroxisome 
proliferators-activated receptors (PPARs) are strategic intermediates in the 
coordinated expression of proteins with functions in, for example, lipid and 
glucose homeostasis and inflammatory reactions. Many interventions have been 
conducted with LCPUFA, especially EPA and DHA, aiming at primary and secondary 
CAD preventions, improvement of fetal and newborn (brain) development by 
supplementation during pregnancy or early postnatal life, and in psychiatric 
diseases. Consensus has been reached that those in CAD and depression are 
positive, although more large-scale trials are needed. Many recommendations for 
the intakes of saturated fat, trans fat and EPA + DHA have been issued, notably 
for CAD prevention, and also for EPA + DHA intakes by pregnant women and for AA, 
EPA, and DHA intakes by newborns. The ultimate goal might, however, be to return 
to the fat quality of our ancient diet on which our genes have evolved during 
the past million years of evolution, while this actually applies for our entire 
dietary composition and lifestyle, as translated to the culture of the current 
society.

Copyright © 2010, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

PMID: 21452482


351. BMC Public Health. 2011 Mar 31;11:197. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-197.

Children who were vaccinated, breast fed and from low parity mothers live 
longer: a community based case-control study in Jimma, Ethiopia.

Girma B(1), Berhane Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Social Science, Addis Continental Institute 
of Public Health, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. belaineh@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Improving child survival through various health interventions has 
been one of the main preoccupations of public health programs in developing 
nations. However, efforts to understand the child death determinants and 
determine whether the health interventions are really contributing to the 
reduction of mortality were not satisfactory. The purpose of this study is to 
identify determinants and causes of child mortality.
METHODS: The study was conducted in the town of Jimma, Ethiopia, using a case 
control study design. Cases were identified through enumeration of all children 
and deaths prior to interview of the study subjects. Controls were under five 
children of the same age (+/-2 months) residing in the nearest household. Data 
was entered into EPI -info 6.4 software and analyzed using SPSS.
RESULTS: Seventy four cases and 222 controls were included in the study. The 
study found that children who never breast fed [OR = 13.74, 95%CI (3.34, 56.42]] 
and children with mothers having more than five children [OR = 3.34, 95%CI 
(1.27, 8.76)] were more likely to die than their counterparts. Vaccination 
reduced the risk of death [OR=.26, 95%CI (0.10, 0.67) significantly. Pneumonia 
was the most common immediate cause of death [29.7% (95% CI (19.66, 41.48)] 
followed by acute diarrhea and malaria each contributing for 23% [95%CI (13.99, 
34.21)] of deaths.
CONCLUSION: Immunization, breastfeeding and low parity mothers were 
independently found to be protective from childhood death. Strengthening the 
child survival initiatives, namely universal child immunization, family planning 
and breast feeding - is strongly recommended.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-197
PMCID: PMC3084172
PMID: 21453455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. BMC Public Health. 2011 Mar 31;11:203. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-203.

Cost-effectiveness of different human papillomavirus vaccines in Singapore.

Lee VJ(1), Tay SK, Teoh YL, Tok MY.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services Research, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore. vernonljm@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines are widely available and there 
have been studies exploring their potential clinical impact and 
cost-effectiveness. However, few studies have compared the cost-effectiveness 
among the 2 main vaccines available - a bivalent vaccine against HPV 16/18, and 
a quadrivalent vaccine against 6/11/16/18. We explore the cost-effectiveness of 
these two HPV vaccines in tropical Singapore.
METHODS: We developed a Markov state-transition model to represent the natural 
history of cervical cancer to predict HPV infection, cancer incidence, 
mortality, and costs. Cytologic screening and treatment of different outcomes of 
HPV infection were incorporated. Vaccination was provided to a cohort of 12-year 
old females in Singapore, followed up until death. Based on available vaccines 
on the market, the bivalent vaccine had increased effectiveness against a wider 
range of HPV types, while the quadrivalent vaccine had effectiveness against 
genital warts. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) compared vaccination 
to no-vaccination, and between the two vaccines. Sensitivity analyses explored 
differences in vaccine effectiveness and uptake, and other key input parameters.
RESULTS: For the no vaccination scenario, 229 cervical cancer cases occurred 
over the cohort's lifetime. The total discounted cost per individual due to HPV 
infection was SGD$275 with 28.54 discounted life-years. With 100% vaccine 
coverage, the quadrivalent vaccine reduced cancers by 176, and had an ICER of 
SGD$12,866 per life-year saved. For the bivalent vaccine, 197 cancers were 
prevented with an ICER of $12,827 per life-year saved. Comparing the bivalent to 
the quadrivalent vaccine, the ICER was $12,488 per life-year saved. However, the 
cost per QALY saved for the quadrivalent vaccine compared to no vaccine was 
$9,071, while it was $10,392 for the bivalent vaccine, with the quadrivalent 
vaccine dominating the bivalent vaccine due to the additional QALY effect from 
reduction in genital warts. The overall outcomes were most sensitive to vaccine 
cost and coverage.
CONCLUSION: HPV vaccination is a cost-effective strategy, and should be 
considered a possible strategy to reduce the impact of HPV infection.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-203
PMCID: PMC3082243
PMID: 21453537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2011 Jul;13(1):101-3. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2011.269365. Epub 2011 Mar 31.

Vacuum-assisted venous drainage in tricuspid valve re-replacement.

Fukuda W(1), Aoki C, Daitoku K, Fukuda I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Hirosaki University School 
of Medicine, Zaifu-cho 5, Hirosaki, Aomori 036-8562, Japan.

Comment in
    Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2011 Jul;13(1):103.

The number of reoperations for prosthetic valve replacement has increased in 
recent years due to the steady increase in life expectancy. However, 
reoperations are complex and require experience and skills. We report the case 
of a 69-year-old female with severe right heart failure who underwent tricuspid 
valve re-replacement 28 years after the initial tricuspid valve replacement. 
Cardiopulmonary bypass with vacuum-assisted venous drainage (VAVD) was used to 
achieve better perfusion flow and heart decompression with smaller venous 
cannulae. The operation was successful. The VAVD system is effective in patients 
who have a persistent elevation of central venous pressure.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2011.269365
PMID: 21454315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Europace. 2011 May;13(5):654-62. doi: 10.1093/europace/eur066. Epub 2011 Mar
31.

Determinants of geographic variations in implantation of cardiac defibrillators 
in the European Society of Cardiology member countries--data from the European 
Heart Rhythm Association White Book.

Lubinski A(1), Bissinger A, Boersma L, Leenhardt A, Merkely B, Oto A, Proclemer 
A, Brugada J, Vardas PE, Wolpert C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Interventional Cardiology, Medical University of Lodz, Poland.

AIMS: Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is a major health concern in developed 
countries. Many studies have demonstrated the efficacy of implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) therapy in the prevention of SCD and total 
mortality reduction. However, the high individual costs and the reimbursement 
policy may limit widespread ICD utilization.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This study analyzed the temporal and the geographical 
trends of the ICD implantation rate. Data were gathered from two editions of the 
European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) White Books published in 2008 and 2009. 
The analysis revealed significant differences in the rates of ICD implantation 
per million capita between the countries, but the median implantations was 
constantly increasing. The number of ICD implantations correlated with gross 
domestic product (GDP), GDP per capita, expenditure on health, life expectancy, 
and the number of implanting centres.
CONCLUSION: There are great number of differences in the ICD-implanting rates 
between EHRA member countries, consequent to the increase in the number of ICD 
implantations. The ICD implantation rates are related to national economic 
status and healthcare expenses.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eur066
PMID: 21454333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Folia Neuropathol. 2011;49(1):1-13.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - looking for pathogenesis and effective therapy.

Naganska E(1), Matyja E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Neuropathology, Medical Research 
Centre, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland. enaganska@yahoo.com

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord, brain stem and motor 
cortex which dramatically reduces life expectancy. ALS occurs either in familial 
or, more frequently, in sporadic forms. It finally results in death due to 
respiratory failure that occurs typically 2-5 years after the disease onset. 
Although the aetiology of ALS remains largely unclear, its heterogeneity 
suggests that a combination of various factors, including endogenous and/or 
environmental ones, may be implicated in progressive motor neuron stress that 
results in the activation of different cell death pathways. Interactions between 
genetic, environmental, and age-dependent risk factors have been hypothesized to 
trigger disease onset. Despite extensive neurobiological, molecular and genetic 
research, at the beginning of the 21st century ALS still remains one of the most 
devastating neurodegenerative diseases because of the lack of effective 
therapeutic strategies. It is a challenge for the clinical and scientific 
community. Better understanding of the aetiology of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis is necessary to develop effective treatment of this progressive 
neurodegenerative disease. This review presents the current state of knowledge 
in ALS research.

PMID: 21455838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Bull Am Coll Surg. 2010 Jan;95(1):66.

The health care debate: we mean well but we are too timid.

Benfield JR.

Comment on
    Bull Am Coll Surg. 2009 Jul;94(7):8-15.

PMID: 21456448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Sex Med. 2011 Apr;8(4):931-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2011.02230.x.

Love protects lover's life.

Maggi M, Corona G.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2011.02230.x
PMID: 21457464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Crit Care. 2011;15(2):R107. doi: 10.1186/cc10128. Epub 2011 Apr 1.

Life expectancies and incidence rates of patients under prolonged mechanical 
ventilation: a population-based study during 1998 to 2007 in Taiwan.

Hung MC(1), Lu HM, Chen L, Hu FC, Chan SY, Yan YH, Fan PS, Lin MS, Chen CR, Kuo 
LC, Yu CJ, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene, College of Public 
Health, National Taiwan University, No 17, Xuzhou Road, Taipei 100, Taiwan.

INTRODUCTION: The present study examined the median survival, life expectancies, 
and cumulative incidence rate (CIR) of patients undergoing prolonged mechanical 
ventilation (PMV) stratified by different underlying diseases.
METHODS: According to the National Health Insurance Research Database of Taiwan, 
there were 8,906,406 individuals who obtained respiratory care during the period 
from 1997 to 2007. A random sample of this population was performed, and 
subjects who had continuously undergone mechanical ventilation for longer than 
21 days were enrolled in the current study. Annual incidence rates and the CIR 
were calculated. After stratifying the patients according to their specific 
diagnoses, latent class analysis was performed to categorise PMV patients with 
multiple co-morbidities into several groups. The life expectancies of different 
groups were estimated using a semiparametric method with a hazard function based 
on the vital statistics of Taiwan.
RESULTS: The analysis of 50,481 PMV patients revealed that incidence rates 
increased as patients grew older and that the CIR (17 to 85 years old) increased 
from 0.103 in 1998 to 0.183 in 2004 before stabilising thereafter. The life 
expectancies of PMV patients suffering from degenerative neurological diseases, 
stroke, or injuries tended to be longer than those with chronic renal failure or 
cancer. Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease survived longer than 
did those co-morbid with other underlying diseases, especially 
septicaemia/shock.
CONCLUSIONS: PMV provides a direct means to treat respiratory tract diseases and 
to sustain respiration in individuals suffering from degenerative neurological 
diseases, and individuals with either of these types of conditions respond 
better to PMV than do those with other co-morbidities. Future research is 
required to determine the cost-effectiveness of this treatment paradigm.

DOI: 10.1186/cc10128
PMCID: PMC3219385
PMID: 21457550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Mar;32(3):264-7.

[Decomposition of life expectancy at birth by age and causes of death among 
residents of Liaoning province, 1975 - 2005].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng YP(1), Mu HJ, Liu L, Yu LY, Li YX, Zhang SJ, Yu LZ, Pan GW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Noncommunicable Chronic Disease Prevention, Liaoning Provincial 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shenyang, China. 
fyplncdc@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the impact of mortality by age and causes of death on life 
expectancy at birth among residents of Liaoning province.
METHODS: The study included mortality data of urban and rural residents in two 
periods (1973 - 1975 and 2004 - 2005). Both Abridged Life Table and Arriaga 
method were used to calculate and to decompose life expectancy changes by age 
and causes of death.
RESULTS: From 1975 - 2005, the life expectancy increased by 4.68 years in urban 
residents and 4.91 for rural residents with a higher increment among females 
than males. Most part of the increase (76.27% and 82.81% for urban and rural 
male, 58.76% and 62.13% for urban and rural female) in life expectancy within 
the last 30 years could be explained by the decrease of mortality in the 
populations at age 0 - 4 and 55 - 74. Diseases related to respiratory system and 
infectious disease were contributing the most to the gap in life expectancy 
between the two periods. Mortality of heart disease was a negative contributor 
to the changes in life expectancy among both rural and urban residents while the 
mortalities of cerebro-vascular diseases and malignant tumors were the negative 
contributors for rural residents.
CONCLUSION: The increase of life expectancy in the last 30 years was mainly 
resulted from the decrease of mortality on both respiratory and infectious 
diseases. Control of chronic diseases is the key point to increase the life 
expectancy among the residents of Liaoning province.

PMID: 21457662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Mol Genet Metab. 2011 Jun;103(2):142-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2011.03.001.
Epub  2011 Mar 5.

Pulmonary function and pathology in hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextin-treated and 
untreated Npc1⁻/⁻ mice.

Muralidhar A(1), Borbon IA, Esharif DM, Ke W, Manacheril R, Daines M, Erickson 
RP.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Pediatrics, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724, USA.

Lung dysfunction is an important part of the pathology of the neurodegenerative 
disorder, Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1). We have studied the pulmonary disease in the 
Npc1(NIH/NIH) mouse model. On histology, we find large numbers of alveolar foamy 
macrophages but no alveolar proteinosis. Lung weight as percent of body weight 
was markedly increased; using the flexiVent small animal ventilator (SCIREQ, 
Inc.), we find inspiratory capacity, elastance and hysterisivity to be increased 
while resistance was not changed. Cholesterol measurements show a doubling of 
lung cholesterol levels. Collagen is also increased. Treatment of Npc1(-/-) mice 
with hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin (HPBCD), despite efficacious effects in brain 
and liver, results in little difference from age-matched controls (using a 
CNS-expressed transgene to extend the life expectancy of the Npc1(-/-) mice) for 
these variables.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2011.03.001
PMCID: PMC3107736
PMID: 21459030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Can J Cardiol. 2011 Mar-Apr;27(2):159-66. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.01.007.

Estimating the benefits of patient and physician adherence to cardiovascular 
prevention guidelines: the MyHealthCheckup Survey.

Grover S(1), Coupal L, Kouache M, Lowensteyn I, Marchand S, Campbell N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, McGill Cardiovascular Health 
Improvement Program, Montreal, Québec, Canada. steven.grover@mcgill.ca

BACKGROUND: The management of cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension 
and dyslipidemia is poorly described in many communities, and the benefits 
associated with tighter control remain unknown. We used data from the 2007 
MyHealthCheckup survey to document the treatment gaps and estimated the 
potential benefits of better adherence to recommended guidelines.
METHODS: Cardiovascular risk factors, lifestyle habits, and prescribed 
medications were evaluated among Canadian adults recruited primarily in 
pharmacies. The Cardiovascular Life Expectancy Model was used to estimate the 
potential benefits of optimally treating hypertension or dyslipidemia (defined 
as not smoking, regular physical activity, an acceptable body weight, and 
maximal medication as needed).
RESULTS: Among 2674 screened individuals, 1266 (47%) were receiving 
pharmacotherapy for either dyslipidemia or hypertension, including 772 (61%) and 
656 (63%), respectively, who remained above treatment targets. Among those above 
lipid or blood pressure targets, 27% and 22%, respectively, were optimally 
treated. The average increased life expectancy or life-years gained associated 
with making appropriate lifestyle changes included 2.2 to 4.7 years from smoking 
cessation, 0.7 to 1.1 years from regular exercise, and 0.4 to 0.7 years from 
weight reduction. The life-years gained following better risk factor treatment 
included maximal pharmacotherapy for elevated blood pressure (0.6-0.8), 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (0.5-0.6), and the ratio of total 
cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (0.3-0.4). Years of life 
free of cardiovascular disease would be similarly increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Better treatment of cardiovascular risk factors could result in a 
substantial reduction in morbidity and mortality among Canadians. Given current 
physician prescribing and patient habits, lifestyle modification should be 
considered a priority before additional medications are prescribed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.01.007
PMID: 21459263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Can J Cardiol. 2011 Mar-Apr;27(2):222-31. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2010.12.021.

Economic evaluation of clopidogrel plus aspirin for secondary prevention of 
cardiovascular events in Canada for patients with established cardiovascular 
disease: Results from the CHARISMA trial.

Chen J(1), Shi C, Mahoney EM, Dunn ES, Rinfret S, Caro JJ, O'Brien J, El-Hadi W, 
Bhatt DL, Topol EJ, Cohen DJ.

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. 
jersey.chen@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: The Clopidogrel for High Atherothrombotic Risk and Ischemic 
Stabilization, Management, and Avoidance (CHARISMA) trial found a statistically 
significant reduction in cardiovascular events when clopidogrel was added to 
aspirin in a prespecified subgroup of patients with established cardiovascular 
disease. However, the economic implications of such a strategy for the Canadian 
health care system are unknown.
METHODS: For each patient in the CHARISMA trial with established cardiovascular 
disease, costs were estimated by multiplying resource utilization by unit costs 
derived from populations of Canadian patients in 2008 dollars. Changes in life 
expectancy due to nonfatal events were estimated with parametric regression 
models based on the Saskatchewan Health database.
RESULTS: For patients with established cardiovascular disease, a strategy of 
clopidogrel plus aspirin for median duration of 28 months was associated with a 
12.5% relative reduction in cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or 
stroke compared with aspirin alone (6.9% vs 7.9%, P =.048). Mean cost per 
patient was CAD$1,488 higher for clopidogrel plus aspirin, and life expectancy 
increased by 0.057 years. The resulting incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
adding clopidogrel was CAD$25,969 per life-year gained or CAD$21,549 per 
quality-adjusted life-year. These results were sensitive to the cost of 
clopidogrel but relatively insensitive to plausible variations in discount rate, 
costs other than clopidogrel, and the prognostic impact of nonfatal events.
CONCLUSION: Among the subgroup of patients with established cardiovascular 
disease in the CHARISMA trial, adding clopidogrel to aspirin increases life 
expectancy at a cost generally considered acceptable in Canada.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2010.12.021
PMID: 21459271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Cell Metab. 2011 Apr 6;13(4):358-360. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2011.03.012.

A CRTCal link between energy and life span.

Brunet A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 
Electronic address: anne.brunet@stanford.edu.

Comment on
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):404-8.

Cutting down calories prolongs life, but how this works remains largely unknown. 
A recent study in Nature (Mair et al., 2011) shows that life span extension 
triggered by the energy-sensing protein kinase AMPK is mediated by an 
evolutionarily conserved transcriptional circuit involving CRTC-1 and CREB.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2011.03.012
PMID: 21459320


364. J Plant Physiol. 2011 Jun 15;168(9):935-43. doi:
10.1016/j.jplph.2010.09.019.  Epub 2011 Apr 3.

A phytocyanin-related early nodulin-like gene, BcBCP1, cloned from Boea 
crassifolia enhances osmotic tolerance in transgenic tobacco.

Wu H(1), Shen Y, Hu Y, Tan S, Lin Z.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, National Key Laboratory of Protein Engineering and 
Plant Genetic Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China. 
whywu@ibcas.ac.cn

Using the mRNA differential display combined with 5' rapid amplification of cDNA 
ends (RACE) technique, an early nodulin-like protein gene (BcBCP1) (accession 
no. AY243047.1) was isolated from drought-treated Boea crassifolia leaves. The 
full-length cDNA of BcBCP1 consists of 844 bp nucleotides and has an open 
reading frame of 606 bp, encoding a putative polypeptide of 201 amino acids with 
a predicted molecular mass of 22 kDa and a pI of 5.13. The putative protein 
precursor contains four sequence domains, including a 27 amino acid hydrophobic 
N-terminal transit peptide, a 100 amino acid phytocyanin-homologous globular 
domain, a 51 amino acid hydroxyproline-rich cell wall structural protein domain, 
and a 22 amino acid hydrophobic extension domain. Sequence alignment defined the 
encoded protein as an early nodulin-like protein, and the absence of key ligands 
implies that it is unlikely to bind copper. BcBCP1 expression was strongly 
induced by dehydration, salinity and abscisic acid (ABA), slightly induced by 
moderate heat shock, and weakly inhibited by low temperature, methyl jasmonic 
acid (MeJA), and a low concentration of salicylic acid (SA). Overexpression of 
BcBCP1 in tobacco under the control of CaMV 35S promoter enhanced tolerance to 
osmotic stress, as indicated by the less impaired growth, less damaged membrane 
integrity and lower lipid peroxidation levels after osmotic stress. Transgenic 
tobacco lines overexpressing BcBCP1 showed higher photosynthetic rates, higher 
antioxidant enzyme activities and higher cytosyl ascorbic peroxidase 
transcription levels than non-transgenic tobacco plants, both under normal 
conditions and under osmotic stress.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jplph.2010.09.019
PMID: 21459474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2011 Jul;65(7):568-75. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2010.128280. Epub 2011 Apr 1.

Can we reduce health inequalities? An analysis of the English strategy 
(1997-2010).

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2011 Jul;65(7):594-5.
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2012 Jul;66(7):662.

England was the first European country to pursue a systematic policy to reduce 
socio-economic inequalities in health. This paper assesses whether this strategy 
has worked, and what lessons can be learnt. A review of documents was conducted, 
as well as an analysis of entry-points chosen, specific policies chosen, 
implementation of these policies, changes in intermediate outcomes, and changes 
in final health outcomes. Despite some partial successes, the strategy failed to 
reach its own targets, that is, a 10% reduction in inequalities in life 
expectancy and infant mortality. This is due to the fact that it did not address 
the most relevant entry-points, did not use effective policies and was not 
delivered at a large enough scale for achieving population-wide impacts. Health 
inequalities can only be reduced substantially if governments have a democratic 
mandate to make the necessary policy changes, if demonstrably effective policies 
can be developed, and if these policies are implemented on the scale needed to 
reach the overall targets.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2010.128280
PMID: 21459930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Rheumatol. 2011 Jul;38(7):1403-12. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.101025. Epub 2011
Apr  1.

Longterm therapeutic response to milnacipran treatment for fibromyalgia. A 
European 1-year extension study following a 3-month study.

Branco JC(1), Cherin P, Montagne A, Bouroubi A; Multinational Coordinator Study 
Group.

Collaborators: Airaksinen O, Bojinca M, Carbonell J, Dvorak Z, Jeka S, Mikkelsen 
K, Perrot S, Petzke F, Sarzi Puttini P, Zachrisson O.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade Ciências Médicas, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Serviço de 
Reumatologia, CHLO, EPE-Hospital Egas Moniz, Lisboa, Portugal

OBJECTIVE: This double-blind, 1-year extension study investigated the longterm 
efficacy and safety of milnacipran 100, 150, and 200 mg/day in the treatment of 
fibromyalgia (FM) in completers of a 3-month European double-blind lead-in study 
of milnacipran 200 mg/day versus placebo.
METHODS: A total of 468 patients with FM successfully completing the lead-in 
study were either blindly maintained on milnacipran 200 mg/day (MLN200:MLN200, n 
= 198) or (if previously receiving placebo) rerandomized to milnacipran 100 
mg/day (PBO:MLN100, n = 91), 150 mg/day (PBO:MLN150, n = 92), or 200 mg/day 
(PBO:MLN200, n = 87) for an additional 12 months (including a 4-week dose 
escalation). The main efficacy endpoint was a 2-measure composite responder rate 
(relative to lead-in study baseline) incorporating the weekly-recall pain score 
recorded on a visual analog scale and the Patient Global Impression of Change 
score. A panel of other assessments including the Fibromyalgia Impact 
Questionnaire explored the multidimensional aspects of FM. Descriptive analyses 
using the last observation carried forward approach were performed.
RESULTS: At the 1-year endpoint, the proportion of composite responders 
(relative to the lead-in study baseline) ranged from 27.5% (PBO:MLN100) to 35.9% 
(MLN200:MLN200), and had increased from the extension study baseline by 15.2% 
(PBO:MLN150) to 20.7% (PBO:MLN200 and MLN200:MLN200). At endpoint, an 
improvement from both baselines was shown in all groups on pain, fatigue, sleep, 
and quality of life measures. Up to 1 year, all doses of milnacipran were safe 
and well tolerated. The most common drug-related adverse events were 
hyperhidrosis and nausea.
CONCLUSION: Over 1 year, milnacipran 100, 150, and 200 mg/day exhibited 
sustained and safe therapeutic effects on predominant symptoms of FM. Registered 
as trial no. NCT00757731.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.101025
PMID: 21459941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2012 Jun;19(3):474-83. doi: 10.1177/1741826711406616.
Epub  2011 Apr 1.

Prescribing high-dose lipid-lowering therapy early to avoid subsequent 
cardiovascular events: is this a cost-effective strategy?

Ara R(1), Pandor A, Stevens J, Rafia R, Ward SE, Rees A, Durrington PN, Reynolds 
TM, Wierzbicki AS, Stevenson M.

Author information:
(1)School of Health & Related Research, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 
30 Regent Street, Sheffield, UK. r.m.ara@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: While evidence shows high-dose statins reduce cardiovascular events 
compared with moderate doses in individuals with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), 
many primary care trusts (PCT) advocate the use of generic simvastatin 40 mg/day 
for these patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Data from 28 RCTs were synthesized using a mixed treatment 
comparison model. A Markov model was used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
treatments taking into account adherence and the likely reduction in cost for 
atorvastatin when the patent expires. There is a clear dose-response: 
rosuvastatin 40 mg/day produces the greatest reduction in low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol (56%) followed by atorvastatin 80 mg/day (52%), and 
simvastatin 40 mg/day (37%). Using a threshold of £20,000 per QALY, if adherence 
levels in general practice are similar to those observed in RCTs, all three 
higher dose statins would be considered cost-effective compared to simvastatin 
40 mg/day. Using the net benefits of the treatments, rosuvastatin 40 mg/day is 
estimated to be the most cost-effective alternative. If the cost of atorvastatin 
reduces in line with that observed for simvastatin, atorvastatin 80 mg/day is 
estimated to be the most cost-effective alternative.
CONCLUSION: Our analyses show that current PCT policies intended to minimize 
primary care drug acquisition costs result in suboptimal care.

DOI: 10.1177/1741826711406616
PMID: 21460076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Autophagy. 2011 Jun;7(6):647-9. doi: 10.4161/auto.7.6.15191. Epub 2011 Jun
1.

Longevity-relevant regulation of autophagy at the level of the acetylproteome.

Mariño G(1), Morselli E, Bennetzen MV, Eisenberg T, Megalou E, Schroeder S, 
Cabrera S, Bénit P, Rustin P, Criollo A, Kepp O, Galluzzi L, Shen S, Malik SA, 
Maiuri MC, Horio Y, López-Otín C, Andersen JS, Tavernarakis N, Madeo F, Kroemer 
G.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U, Institut Gustave Roussy, Université Paris Sud, Villejuif, France.

The acetylase inhibitor, spermidine and the deacetylase activator, resveratrol, 
both induce autophagy and prolong life span of the model organism Caenorhabditis 
elegans in an autophagydependent fashion. Based on these premises, we 
investigated the differences and similarities in spermidine and 
resveratrol-induced autophagy. The deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and its 
orthologs are required for the autophagy induction by resveratrol but 
dispensable for autophagy stimulation by spermidine in human cells, 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae and C. elegans. SIRT1 is also dispensable for life-span 
extension by spermidine. Mass spectrometry analysis of the human acetylproteome 
revealed that resveratrol and/or spermidine induce changes in the acetylation of 
560 peptides corresponding to 375 different proteins. Among these, 170 proteins 
are part of the recently elucidated human autophagy protein network. 
Importantly, spermidine and resveratrol frequently affect the acetylation 
pattern in a similar fashion. In the cytoplasm, spermidine and resveratrol 
induce convergent protein de-acetylation more frequently than convergent 
acetylation, while in the nucleus, acetylation is dominantly triggered by both 
agents. We surmise that subtle and concerted alterations in the acetylproteome 
regulate autophagy at multiple levels.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.7.6.15191
PMID: 21460620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Crit Care Med. 2011 Jul;39(7):1663-9. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e3182186e98.

A randomized trial of the effect of patient race on physicians' intensive care 
unit and life-sustaining treatment decisions for an acutely unstable elder with 
end-stage cancer.

Barnato AE(1), Mohan D, Downs J, Bryce CL, Angus DC, Arnold RM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research on Health Care, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA. aeb2@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2011 Jul;39(7):1831-2.

OBJECTIVES: To test whether hospital-based physicians made different intensive 
care unit and life-sustaining treatment decisions for otherwise identical black 
and white patients with end-stage cancer and life-threatening hypoxia.
DESIGN: We conducted a randomized trial of the relationship between patient race 
and physician treatment decisions using high-fidelity simulation. We 
counterbalanced the effects of race and case by randomly alternating their order 
using a table of random permutations. Physicians completed two simulation 
encounters with black and white patient simulator patients with prognostically 
identical end-stage gastric or pancreatic cancer and life-threatening hypoxia 
and hypotension, followed by a self-administered survey of beliefs regarding 
treatment preferences by race. We conducted within-subjects analysis of each 
physician's matched-pair simulation encounters, adjusting for order and case 
effects, and between-subjects analysis of physicians' first encounter, adjusting 
for case.
SETTING: Peter M. Winter Institute for Simulation Education and Research at the 
University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
SUBJECTS: Thirty-three hospital-based attending physicians, including 12 
emergency physicians, eight hospitalists, and 13 intensivists from Allegheny 
County, Pennsylvania.
INTERVENTION: Race of patient simulator.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Measurements included physician treatment 
decisions recorded during the simulation and documented in the chart and beliefs 
about treatment preference by race. When faced with a black vs. a white patient, 
physicians did not differ in their elicitation of intubation preferences 
(within-subject comparison, 28/32 [88%] vs. 28/32 [88%]; p = .589; 
between-subject comparison, 13/17 [87%] vs. 13/17 [76%]; p = .460), intensive 
care unit admission (within-subject comparison, 14/32 [44%] vs. 12/32 [38%]; p = 
.481; between-subject comparison, 8/15 (53%) vs. 7/17 (41%); p = .456), 
intubation (within-subject comparison, 5/32 [16%] vs. 4/32 [13%]; p = .567; 
between-subject comparison: 1/15 [7%] vs. 4/17 [24%]; p = .215), or initiation 
of comfort measures only (within-subject comparison: 16/32 [50%] vs. 19/32 
[59%]; p = .681; between-subject comparison: 6/15 [40%] vs. 8/17 [47%]; p = 
.679). Physicians believed that a black patient with end-stage cancer was more 
likely than a similar white patient to prefer potentially life-prolonging 
chemotherapy over treatment focused on palliation (67% vs. 64%; z = -1.79; p = 
.07) and to want mechanical ventilation for 1 wk of life extension (43% vs. 34%; 
z = -2.93; p = .003), and less likely to want a do-not-resuscitate order if 
hospitalized (51% vs. 60%; z = 3.03; p = .003).
CONCLUSIONS: In this exploratory study, hospital-based physicians did not make 
different treatment decisions for otherwise identical terminally ill black and 
white elders despite believing that black patients are more likely to prefer 
intensive life-sustaining treatment, and they grossly overestimated the 
preference for intensive treatment for both races.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e3182186e98
PMCID: PMC3119368
PMID: 21460710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 2011 Jul;17(4):237-41. doi:
10.1097/MCP.0b013e3283463dac.

The use of tunneled pleural catheters in the treatment of pleural effusions.

Chee A(1), Tremblay A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Respirology, University of Calgary, Canada Southern Alberta 
Cancer Research Institute, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Tunneled pleural catheters (TPCs) have become a popular 
therapeutic tool for chronic pleural effusions. Although the main indication for 
a TPC has been recurrent, symptomatic, malignant pleural effusion, there are 
increasing reports of TPC usage in other medical conditions. This article will 
address the utility of TPCs in malignant pleural effusions, other reported uses, 
potential complications and catheter maintenance.
RECENT FINDINGS: The efficacy of TPCs has been well established in the setting 
of malignant pleural effusions and this option is now included in the guidelines 
addressing treatment of this condition. TPCs appear to have similar 
cost-effectiveness compared to chemical pleurodesis and are particularly useful 
in patients with trapped lung syndrome or who have shorter predicted lifespans. 
Attempts at bridging the benefits of pleurodesis and TPCs have been described by 
several groups and the recent reports have considered their use in chronic 
benign conditions including congestive heart failure, hepatic hydrothorax and 
chronic pleural infections.
SUMMARY: TPCs are an effective management strategy for symptomatic, recurrent, 
malignant pleural effusions. Their use as a first-line treatment is feasible and 
TPCs are particularly preferred for patients with trapped lung or those who are 
not considered good candidates for chemical pleurodesis because of short 
life-expectancy. There currently lacks sufficient evidence to recommend the use 
of TPCs in nonmalignant pleural diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/MCP.0b013e3283463dac
PMID: 21460729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Mol Med Rep. 2011 Jan-Feb;4(1):151-5. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2010.390. Epub 2010
Oct  27.

Resveratrol attenuates azidothymidine-induced cardiotoxicity by decreasing 
mitochondrial reactive oxygen species generation in human cardiomyocytes.

Gao RY(1), Mukhopadhyay P, Mohanraj R, Wang H, Horváth B, Yin S, Pacher P.

Author information:
(1)Section on Oxidative Stress Tissue Injury, Laboratory of Physiological 
Studies, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors, such as zidovudine (azidothymidine, 
AZT) and stavudine, represent a class of approved antiretroviral agents for 
highly active antiretroviral therapy, which prolongs the life expectancy of 
patients infected with human-immunodeficiency virus. Unfortunately, the use of 
these drugs is associated with known toxicities in the liver, skeletal muscle, 
heart and other organs, which may involve increased reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) generation, among other mechanisms. Resveratrol is a polyphenolic 
plant-derived antioxidant abundantly found in certain grapes, roots, berries, 
peanuts and red wine. This study, using primary human cardiomyocytes, evaluated 
the effects of AZT and pre-treatment with resveratrol on mitochondrial ROS 
generation and the cell death pathways. AZT induced concentration-dependent cell 
death, involving both caspase-3 and -7 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 
activation, coupled with increased mitochondrial ROS generation in human 
cardiomyocytes. These effects of AZT on mitochondrial ROS generation and cell 
death may be attenuated by resveratrol pre-treatment. The results demonstrate 
that mitochondrial ROS generation plays a pivotal role in the cardiotoxicity of 
AZT in human cardiomyocytes, and resveratrol may provide a potential strategy to 
attenuate these pathological alterations, which are associated with widely used 
antiretroviral therapy.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2010.390
PMCID: PMC3075855
PMID: 21461578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2011 Mar;161(5-6):105-8. doi:
10.1007/s10354-011-0894-6.

Editorial: Sex- and gender-based medicine: a challenging field of research.

Kautzky-Willer A.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-011-0894-6
PMID: 21461799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Urologe A. 2011 Jul;50(7):813-20. doi: 10.1007/s00120-011-2552-4.

[Ten years national research project "familial prostate cancer": problems in 
identifying risk families].

[Article in German]

Herkommer K(1), Schmidt C, Gschwend JE.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik, Klinikum rechts der Isar der TU München, Ismaningerstraße 
22, 81675 München, Deutschland. kathleen.herkommer@lrz.tum.de

BACKGROUND: The German national research project"familial prostate cancer" has 
been recruiting prostate cancer patients nationwide since 1999. In 2009, a 
comprehensive data analysis of the 25,065 families recruited was performed. Of 
these, 77.4% were identified as sporadic, 20.0% as familial and 2.6% as 
hereditary cases of prostate cancer. However, obtaining comprehensive, validated 
information about all relatives often fails.
RESULTS: The high average age of the patients, the lower life expectancy in 
further generations and the low number of first-degree male relatives hampers 
the classification of sporadic, familial and hereditary cases. Consequently we 
describe here that in our database the identification of 100 hereditary cases 
requires a recruitment of more than 5,000 patients with their families. For 100 
sporadic patients with 2 first-degree male relatives without a case history 
1,250 patients are needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-011-2552-4
PMID: 21461841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Qual Life Res. 2011 Dec;20(10):1655-62. doi: 10.1007/s11136-011-9896-5. Epub
 2011 Apr 3.

Comparison and correlates of three preference-based health-related 
quality-of-life measures among overweight and obese women with urinary 
incontinence.

Pinto AM(1), Kuppermann M, Nakagawa S, Vittinghoff E, Wing RR, Kusek JW, Herman 
WH, Subak LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Baruch College, CUNY, 55 Lexington Avenue, B8-215, 
New York, NY 10010, USA. Angela.Pinto@baruch.cuny.edu

PURPOSE: To compare three preference-based health-related quality-of-life (HRQL) 
measures and examine independent correlates of HRQL among overweight and obese 
women with urinary incontinence (UI) enrolled in a weight loss intervention 
trial.
METHODS: Participants completed baseline questionnaires, which included the 
Health Utilities Index 3 (HUI3) and Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 
(SF-36). The SF-36 was used to derive SF-6D and estimated Quality of Well-Being 
(eQWB) scores. Height, weight, medical history, incontinence measures, and level 
of physical activity also were assessed. The intraclass correlation coefficient 
(ICC) was computed, and differences in mean scores across HRQL measures were 
examined. Potential correlates of HUI3, SF-6D, and eQWB scores were evaluated 
using multivariable generalized linear models.
RESULTS: Mean ± SD scores for the HUI3, SF-6D, and eQWB were 0.81 ± 0.18, 
0.75 ± 0.10, and 0.71 ± 0.06, respectively. Significant differences were 
observed across measures (P < 0.0001), and the overall ICC was 0.36. In 
multivariable analyses, BMI was negatively associated with HUI3 (P = 0.003) and 
eQWB (P < 0.001), and UI episode frequency was negatively associated with eQWB 
(P = 0.015) and SF-6D (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences in mean utilities across the HUI3, SF-6D, 
and eQWB indicate that these measures do not assess identical dimensions of 
HRQL. Both BMI and UI episode frequency were related to HRQL in this cohort; 
however, the magnitude of the relationship depended on the preference-based 
measure used. These findings highlight the need to consider the method used to 
generate HRQL values for calculating quality-adjusted life-years in cost-utility 
analyses, since choice of method may have a substantial impact on the outcome of 
the analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-011-9896-5
