
Dietary restriction (DR), one of the most robust life-extending manipulations, 
is usually associated with reduced adiposity. This reduction is hypothesized to 
be important in the life-extending effect of DR, because excess adiposity is 
associated with metabolic and age-related disease. Previously, we described 
remarkable variation in the lifespan response of 41 recombinant inbred strains 
of mice to DR, ranging from life extension to life shortening. Here, we used 
this variation to determine the relationship of lifespan modulation under DR to 
fat loss. Across strains, DR life extension correlated inversely with fat 
reduction, measured at midlife (males, r= -0.41, P<0.05, n=38 strains; females, 
r= -0.63, P<0.001, n=33 strains) and later ages. Thus, strains with the least 
reduction in fat were more likely to show life extension, and those with the 
greatest reduction were more likely to have shortened lifespan. We identified 
two significant quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting fat mass under DR in 
males but none for lifespan, precluding the confirmation of these loci as 
coordinate modulators of adiposity and longevity. Our data also provide evidence 
for a QTL previously shown to affect fuel efficiency under DR. In summary, the 
data do not support an important role for fat reduction in life extension by DR. 
They suggest instead that factors associated with maintaining adiposity are 
important for survival and life extension under DR.

© 2011 The Authors. Aging Cell © 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00702.x
PMCID: PMC3685291
PMID: 21388497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Am J Epidemiol. 2011 Apr 15;173(8):858-65. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwq325. Epub
2011  Mar 9.

Health across the life span in the United States and England.

Martinson ML(1), Teitler JO, Reichman NE.

Author information:
(1)Office of Population Research, Princeton University, Wallace Hall, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA. martinso@princeton.edu

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2011 Apr 15;173(8):866-9; author reply 870.

This study systematically compared health indicators in the United States and 
England from childhood through old age (ages 0-80 years). Data were from the 
1999-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey for the United States 
(n = 39,849) and the 2003-2006 Health Survey for England (n = 69,084). 
Individuals in the United States have higher rates of most chronic diseases and 
markers of disease than their same-age counterparts in England. Differences at 
young ages are as large as those at older ages for most conditions, including 
obesity, low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high cholesterol ratio, high 
C-reactive protein, hypertension (for females), diabetes, asthma, heart attack 
or angina (for females), and stroke (for females). For males, heart attack or 
angina is higher in the United States only at younger ages, and hypertension is 
higher in England than in the United States at young ages. The patterns were 
similar when the sample was restricted to whites, the insured, nonobese, 
nonsmoking nondrinkers, and specific income categories and when stratified by 
normal weight, overweight, and obese weight categories. The findings from this 
study indicate that US health disadvantages compared with England arise at early 
ages and that differences in the body weight distributions of the 2 countries do 
not play a clear role.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwq325
PMCID: PMC3105255
PMID: 21389038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Am J Epidemiol. 2011 Apr 15;173(8):866-9; author reply 870. doi: 
10.1093/aje/kwq484. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

Invited commentary: the search for explanations of the American health 
disadvantage relative to the English.

Avendano M(1), Kawachi I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center, Room AE-104, 
P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, the Netherlands. mavendan@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment on
    Am J Epidemiol. 2011 Apr 15;173(8):858-65.

Although Americans make up just 5% of the world's population, they represent 
more than half of every medical dollar expended on the planet. Yet, American 
life expectancy appears near the bottom of rankings by the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development, and American adults live in poorer health 
than most Europeans. In this issue of the Journal, Martinson et al. (Am J 
Epidemiol. 2011;173(8):870) provide us with further evidence of the generality 
of this phenomenon, showing a pattern of poorer health in the United States 
relative to England across the entire life course. Recent research points at 
single risk factors such as smoking as potential explanations, but such 
hypotheses are of limited scope to explain the pervasive US health disadvantage 
across the entire life course. In this commentary, a potentially promising line 
of inquiry based upon differences in social policy contexts is proposed. Life in 
the United States can be distinguished from that of the rest of the member 
countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in terms 
of the weakness of its social safety nets, the magnitude of social inequalities, 
and the harshness of poverty. The authors argue that broadening the scope of 
their inquiry to include the social and policy contexts of nations might help to 
solve the puzzle of the US health disadvantage.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwq484
PMID: 21389039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Onkologie. 2011;34 Suppl 1:2-5. doi: 10.1159/000323063. Epub 2011 Jan 17.

[Rationalization, rationing, prioritization: terminology and ethical approaches 
to the allocation of limited resources in hematology/oncology].

[Article in German]

Winkler E(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik III, Ludwig-Maximilian-Universität, 
München, Germany. eva.winkler@med.uni-muenchen.de

The field of oncology with its numerous high-priced innovations contributes 
considerably to the fact that medical progress is expensive. Additionally, due 
to the demographic changes and the increasing life expectancy, a growing number 
of cancer patients want to profit from this progress. Since resources are 
limited also in the health system, the fair distribution of the available 
resources urgently needs to be addressed. Dealing with scarcity is a typical 
problem in the domain of justice theory; therefore, this article first discusses 
different strategies to manage limited resources: rationalization, rationing, 
and prioritization. It then presents substantive as well as procedural criteria 
that assist in the just distribution of effective health benefits. There are 
various strategies to reduce the utilization of limited resources: 
Rationalization means that efficiency reserves are being exhausted; by means of 
rationing, effective health benefits are withheld due to cost considerations. 
Rationing can occur implicitly and thus covertly, e.g. through budgeting or the 
implementation of waiting periods, or explicitly, through transparent rules or 
policies about healthcare coverage. Ranking medical treatments according to 
their importance (prioritization) is often a prerequisite for rationing 
decisions. In terms of requirements of justice, both procedural and substantive 
criteria (e.g. equality, urgency, benefit) are relevant for the acceptance and 
quality of a decision to limit access to effective health benefits.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000323063
PMID: 21389761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Transplantation. 2011 May 27;91(10):1110-3. doi:
10.1097/TP.0b013e318213df48.

Utilization of small pediatric donor kidneys: a decision analysis.

Laurence JM(1), Sandroussi C, Lam VW, Pleass HC, Eslick GD, Allen RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Sydney, Australia. 
jm_laurence@med.usyd.au

BACKGROUND: Given the disparity between static supply and increasing demand for 
organs, the greatest challenge is broadening access to the benefits of kidney 
transplantation. Organs from small deceased pediatric donors are a potentially 
underused resource. These may be transplanted as en bloc kidney transplants 
(EBKTs) to one recipient or as single kidney transplants (SKTs) to two 
recipients, albeit with an increased risk of graft failure.
METHODS: A systematic literature search identified data on transplant outcomes 
for recipients of organs from small pediatric deceased donors. A decision 
analysis model was constructed to allow the outcome in life years (LY) to be 
predicted for patients with end-stage kidney disease on the transplant waiting 
list depending on whether they received EBKT or SKT.
RESULTS: At all recipient ages, the projected LY of both recipients of an SKT 
was greater than the projected LY of an EBKT recipient. The net estimated gain 
in LY associated with the SKT technique was greatest for recipients aged 20 to 
39 years (14.3 years) and lowest for recipients aged 60 to 74 years (3.36 
years). Only for recipients of organs from donors weighing less than 10 kg, 
there was an estimated net loss of LY associated with the SKT technique across 
all recipient age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a greater gain in overall life expectancy using SKTs, 
because this technique yields two recipients per donor, which more than 
compensates for the increased risk of graft failure.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318213df48
PMID: 21389903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. PLoS Med. 2011 Mar;8(3):e1000423. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000423. Epub
2011  Mar 1.

Effectiveness and cost effectiveness of expanding harm reduction and 
antiretroviral therapy in a mixed HIV epidemic: a modeling analysis for Ukraine.

Alistar SS(1), Owens DK, Brandeau ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California, USA. sabina-alistar@stanfordalumni.org

BACKGROUND: Injection drug use (IDU) and heterosexual virus transmission both 
contribute to the growing mixed HIV epidemics in Eastern Europe and Central 
Asia. In Ukraine-chosen in this study as a representative country-IDU-related 
risk behaviors cause half of new infections, but few injection drug users (IDUs) 
receive methadone substitution therapy. Only 10% of eligible individuals receive 
antiretroviral therapy (ART). The appropriate resource allocation between these 
programs has not been studied. We estimated the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of strategies for expanding methadone substitution therapy 
programs and ART in mixed HIV epidemics, using Ukraine as a case study.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed a dynamic compartmental model of the HIV 
epidemic in a population of non-IDUs, IDUs using opiates, and IDUs on methadone 
substitution therapy, stratified by HIV status, and populated it with data from 
the Ukraine. We considered interventions expanding methadone substitution 
therapy, increasing access to ART, or both. We measured health care costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), HIV prevalence, infections averted, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness. Without incremental interventions, HIV 
prevalence reached 67.2% (IDUs) and 0.88% (non-IDUs) after 20 years. Offering 
methadone substitution therapy to 25% of IDUs reduced prevalence most 
effectively (to 53.1% IDUs, 0.80% non-IDUs), and was most cost-effective, 
averting 4,700 infections and adding 76,000 QALYs compared with no intervention 
at US$530/QALY gained. Expanding both ART (80% coverage of those eligible for 
ART according to WHO criteria) and methadone substitution therapy (25% coverage) 
was the next most cost-effective strategy, adding 105,000 QALYs at US$1,120/QALY 
gained versus the methadone substitution therapy-only strategy and averting 
8,300 infections versus no intervention. Expanding only ART (80% coverage) added 
38,000 QALYs at US$2,240/QALY gained versus the methadone substitution 
therapy-only strategy, and averted 4,080 infections versus no intervention. 
Offering ART to 80% of non-IDUs eligible for treatment by WHO criteria, but only 
10% of IDUs, averted only 1,800 infections versus no intervention and was not 
cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Methadone substitution therapy is a highly cost-effective option 
for the growing mixed HIV epidemic in Ukraine. A strategy that expands both 
methadone substitution therapy and ART to high levels is the most effective 
intervention, and is very cost effective by WHO criteria. When expanding ART, 
access to methadone substitution therapy provides additional benefit in 
infections averted. Our findings are potentially relevant to other settings with 
mixed HIV epidemics. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000423
PMCID: PMC3046988
PMID: 21390264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DKO received an honorarium from Quintiles to 
prepare a continuing medical education lecture about HIV screening. No other 
competing interests have been declared.


195. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2011 Jan-Feb;57(1):100-6. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302011000100023.

[Kidney transplantation in HIV infected patients].

[Article in Portuguese]

Moreno CN(1), Siqueira RC, Noronha IL.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP.

This review presents current considerations for renal transplantation in HIV 
patients. In the last decade, with the advent of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy (HAART), life expectancy of patients infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has significantly improved, showing a marked 
decrease in the rates of morbidity and mortality in this population. In this 
setting, the number of HIV-positive patients with end stage chronic kidney 
disease requiring dialysis is progressively growing. Kidney transplantation, 
previously considered as absolute contraindication for HIV-infected patients is 
currently, in the HAART era, considered a possible treatment alternative. 
Concerns for the effects of immunosuppressive drugs in these patients and the 
possible effects on progression of HIV disease, in addition to the risk of 
opportunistic infections and cancer development are widely discussed. Clinical 
experience in the HAART era shows that use of immunosuppressive drugs does not 
adversely affect HIV-seropositive patients. Furthermore, several transplant 
centers have reported improved patient and graft outcomes for kidney transplant 
recipients infected with HIV. In summary, results obtained so far are 
encouraging, supporting that renal transplantation, following specific selection 
criteria, can be considered an alternative of renal replacement therapy in 
HIV-infected patients.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302011000100023
PMID: 21390466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. SAR QSAR Environ Res. 2011 Mar;22(1-2):21-34. doi:
10.1080/1062936X.2010.528255.

Extension of molecular similarity analysis approach to classification of DNA 
sequences using DNA descriptors.

Jayalakshmi R(1), Natarajan R, Vivekanandan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, Bharathidasan 
University, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu, India.

Several alignment-free sequence comparison methods are available which use 
similarity, based on a particular numerical descriptor of biological sequences. 
Any loss of information incurred in the transformation of a sequence into a 
numerical descriptor affects the results. A pool of descriptors that use 
different algorithms in their computation is expected to suffer minimum loss of 
information and an attempt is made in this direction to study the similarity of 
DNA sequences. A number of descriptors based on information theory and 
connectivity were computed for DNA sequences. Principal component analysis (PCA) 
was used to extract minimum number (N) of orthogonal descriptors, principal 
components (PCs). Similarity/dissimilarity clustering of DNA sequences were 
carried out in the N-dimensional similarity space constructed using the PCs 
extracted from the DNA descriptors. The paper explains the extension of 
quantitative molecular similarity analysis (QMSA) from the prediction of 
physicochemical properties and toxicity of chemicals to bioinformatics for the 
classification of DNA sequences.

DOI: 10.1080/1062936X.2010.528255
PMID: 21391139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Arthritis Rheum. 2011 May;63(5):1182-9. doi: 10.1002/art.30277.

Life expectancy, standardized mortality ratios, and causes of death in six 
rheumatic diseases in Hong Kong, China.

Mok CC(1), Kwok CL, Ho LY, Chan PT, Yip SF.

Author information:
(1)Tuen Mun Hospital, Hong Kong, China. ccmok2005@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To examine the life expectancy, standardized mortality ratios (SMRs), 
and causes of death in 6 groups of patients from Hong Kong with different 
rheumatic diseases.
METHODS: Patients with a diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), psoriatic arthritis 
(PsA), systemic vasculitis (SV), or systemic sclerosis (SSc) registered in 37 
public hospitals between 1999 and 2008 were identified in the hospital registry. 
SMRs were calculated by comparing the mortality rate in patients with each 
disease with that in the general population. Life expectancy was calculated by 
abridged life-table analysis, and the causes of death were compared.
RESULTS: In 2008, data on 8,367 RA, 5,243 SLE, 2,154 AS, 1,636 SV, 778 PsA, and 
449 SSc patients were available in our registry. The age- and sex-adjusted SMRs 
were highest for SLE (5.25 [95% confidence interval 4.79-5.70]), SSc (3.94 [95% 
confidence interval 3.20-4.68]), and SV (2.64 [95% confidence interval 
2.36-2.93]). In female patients, the loss in life expectancy was greatest for 
SSc (34.1 years), SV (19.3 years), and SLE (19.7 years). In male patients, the 
loss in life expectancy was highest for SV (28.3 years), SLE (27 years), and SSc 
(16 years). There were 2,486 deaths during the study period (1999-2008), and the 
principal causes were infections (28%), cardiovascular complications (18%), 
cancer (16%), and disease activity (7%). Infection was the leading cause of 
death in SLE, RA, AS, and PsA, whereas deaths from disease-related activity and 
cardiovascular complications were most frequent in SSc. Cancer was the most 
common cause of death in SV.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that patients with SLE, RA, AS, PsA, SV, and 
SSc have increased mortality rates and reduced life expectancy. SLE has the 
highest adjusted SMR, and female SSc patients have the greatest loss in life 
expectancy. Infection is the leading cause of death, followed by cardiovascular 
complications and malignancies.

Copyright © 2011 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.30277
PMID: 21391198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Palliat Med. 2011 Apr;14(4):451-7. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2010.0434. Epub 2011
Mar  10.

Quality of end-of-life care for patients with advanced cancer in an academic 
medical center.

Dy SM(1), Asch SM, Lorenz KA, Weeks K, Sharma RK, Wolff AC, Malin JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy & Management, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. sdy@jhsph.edu

PURPOSE: We assessed key aspects of the quality of end-of-life care using 
validated explicit process quality measures in an academic medical center 
(hospital and cancer center) before expanding to a broader palliative care 
initiative.
METHODS: We evaluated 21 indicators most relevant to end-of-life care from the 
Cancer Quality-ASSIST supportive oncology indicator set for 238 patients with 
advanced/metastatic solid tumors who died between 2-15 months after diagnosis. 
These included outpatient and hospital indicators for cancer symptoms and 
information and care planning that met criteria for feasibility, reliability, 
and validity. We abstracted detailed information from medical records to specify 
the necessary data elements.
RESULTS: Overall adherence was 53% (95% confidence interval [CI], 50%-56%); this 
varied widely among indicators. Adherence was highest for pain indicators; in 
particular, 97% of eligible subjects' hospitalizations had documented screening 
for pain, and, after an outpatient pain medication was changed, 97% of patients 
had a pain assessment at the subsequent visit. For other symptoms, adherence 
ranged from 0% for documentation of life expectancy for patients starting 
parenteral or enteral nutrition to 87% for assessment of nausea or vomiting on 
hospital admission. For information and care planning, results ranged from 6% 
for documentation of ventilation preferences prior to intubation to 68% for 
documented communication of risks and benefits or prognosis prior to starting 
chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, Cancer Quality-ASSIST indicators are useful for 
practical quality assessment of cancer end-of-life care in an academic medical 
center. These results will serve as useful data for targeting areas for quality 
improvement and measuring progress.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2010.0434
PMCID: PMC6463980
PMID: 21391819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Diabet Med. 2011 Apr;28(4):428-35. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2010.03189.x.

Risk equations to predict life expectancy of people with Type 2 diabetes 
mellitus following major complications: a study from Western Australia.

Hayes AJ(1), Leal J, Kelman CW, Clarke PM.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
alison.hayes@sydney.edu.au

AIMS:   To develop a model for predicting life expectancy following major 
diabetes-related complications and to summarize these results by age and gender 
in the form of a simple table.
METHODS:   Equations for forecasting mortality were derived using an 
observational cohort of 12,792 patients who had one of the following 
complications of diabetes: myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, 
amputation or renal failure, recorded in administrative health and mortality 
data from the state of Western Australia between 1990 and 1999. Logistic 
regression was used to estimate mortality within the first month post-event and 
a Gompertz proportional hazards model was used to estimate survival over the 
patients' remaining lifetime. After examining the internal validity over a 
5-year period, these equations were used to estimate remaining life expectancy 
by age and sex following specific complications.
RESULTS:   Of the complications examined, renal failure had most impact on life 
expectancy at all ages, followed by heart failure; the best prognosis was 
following stroke, myocardial infarction and amputation. For a 60-year-old male, 
life expectancy immediately post-event ranged from 10.1 years (95% CI 9.4-10.8 
years) for stroke to 4.3 years (95% CI 3.1-6.1 years) for renal failure. Life 
expectancies for women at 60 and 70 years of age were significantly lower than 
men following myocardial infarction and significantly higher than men following 
heart failure and amputation at 70 and 80 years of age.
CONCLUSION:   The model allows estimation of both survival probability and life 
expectancy post-event for men and women of any age. The summary table may 
provide a useful and simple reference for clinicians and diabetes specialists.

© 2011 The Authors. Diabetic Medicine © 2011 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2010.03189.x
PMID: 21392064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. BJU Int. 2011 Mar;107(6):882-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.10032.x.

Screening for prostate cancer: an updated Cochrane systematic review.

Ilic D(1), O'Connor D, Green S, Wilt TJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Vic., Australia. dragan.ilic@med.monash.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: •To determine whether screening for prostate cancer reduces prostate 
cancer-specific mortality, impact on all-cause mortality and patient 
health-related quality of life.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: •An update to our 2006 Cochrane systematic review was 
performed by re-running an updated search of several databases, including 
MEDLINE and the Cochrane CENTRAL Register of Controlled Trials. • Articles were 
included if they were a randomized controlled trial (RCT) examining screening vs 
no screening for prostate cancer. Data was collected and analysed according to 
the methods outlined in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of 
Interventions.
RESULTS: •Five RCTs with a total of 341,351 participants were included in this 
updated Cochrane systematic review. All involved PSA testing, although the 
interval and threshold for further evaluation varied across trials. The age of 
participants was 50-74 years, with durations of patient follow-up of 7-15 years. 
•The methodological quality of three of the studies was assessed as posing a 
high risk of bias. •Meta-analysis of the five included studies indicated no 
statistically significant difference in prostate cancer-specific mortality 
between men randomized to screening and control [relative risk (RR) 0.95, 95% CI 
0.85-1.07]. Sub-group analyses indicated that prostate cancer-specific mortality 
was not affected by age at which participants were screened. A pre-planned 
analysis of a 'core' age group of men aged 55-69 years from the largest RCT 
(European Randomised Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer) reported a 
significant 20% relative reduction in prostate cancer-specific mortality; (95% 
CI 0.65-0.98; absolute risk 0.71 per 1000 men). The number of men diagnosed with 
prostate cancer was significantly greater in men randomized to screening, 
compared with those randomized to control (RR 1.35, 95% CI 1.06-1.72). •Harms of 
screening included high rates of false-positive results for the PSA test, 
over-diagnosis and adverse events associated with transrectal ultrasonography 
guided biopsies such as infection, bleeding and pain.
CONCLUSIONS: •Prostate cancer screening did not significantly decrease all-cause 
or prostate cancer-specific mortality in a combined meta-analysis of five RCTs. 
•Any benefits from prostate cancer screening may take > 10 years to accrue; 
therefore, men who have a life expectancy of < 10-15 years should be informed 
that screening for prostate cancer is not beneficial and has harms.

© 2011 THE AUTHOR. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2010.10032.x
PMID: 21392207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Integr Zool. 2010 Jun;5(2):176-184. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-4877.2010.00199.x.

Effect of ENSO-driven precipitation on population irruptions of the Yangtze vole 
Microtus fortis calamorum in the Dongting Lake region of China.

Zhang Z(1), Xu L(1), Guo C(1), Wang Y(1), Guo Y(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Integrated Pest Management in Agriculture, Institute 
of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, ChinaAgricultural Technology 
Extension Center, Ministry of Agriculture, Beijing, ChinaGraduate School of 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, ChinaInstitute of Subtropical Agriculture, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changsha, ChinaCollege of Life Science, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, China.

The Yangtze vole (Microtus fortis Buechner, 1889) is a small herbivore species 
that inhabits lake beaches in the Dongting Lake region along the Yangtze River 
in Southern China. Its population shows strong oscillations during the wet 
season due to summer precipitation-induced immigration away from the lake into 
adjacent rice fields. The effect of El Niño-Southern Oscillation-driven 
precipitation on population abundance and growth of the vole species is not 
fully understood. We undertook an analysis of the combined data of 4 time series 
covering 1981-2006 from 4 different sites and a separate analysis on a single 
time series (1981-2006) from one site. Our results demonstrate that a dual 
effect of El Niño-Southern Oscillation-driven precipitation on the population 
abundance of voles is time-dependent: precipitation in the current year has a 
positive effect, whereas precipitation in the previous year has a negative 
effect. The dual effect of precipitation on vole population is well explained by 
the unique interactions among vole population, precipitation water level and the 
lake beach habitat around Dongting Lake. We found that drier than average 
weather of the previous year benefited voles because their breeding habitats, 
lake beaches, were exposed for long stretches of time. Wet weather was found to 
increase the number of voles inhabiting rice fields because as the water level 
of the lake rose they were forced from beaches into surrounding rice fields. 
Summer precipitation in the Dongting Lake region was found to be positively 
associated with the sea surface temperature (SST) of the eastern tropical 
Pacific Ocean of the previous year and winter SST and spring SST of the current 
year. Annual rates of increase in the vole population of the reconstructed time 
series are negatively associated with the vole abundance and autumn 
precipitation of the previous year and winter precipitation of the current 
years. These results suggest that both extrinsic and density-dependent intrinsic 
factors may affect population dynamics of the Yangtze voles.

© 2010 ISZS, Blackwell Publishing and IOZ/CAS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-4877.2010.00199.x
PMID: 21392335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Integr Zool. 2011 Mar;6(1):63-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-4877.2010.00232.x.

Life history pattern and fitness of an endangered Hainan Eld's deer population.

Nie H(1), Song Y, Zeng Z, Zhang Q.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Ecology and Conservation Biology, Institute of 
Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Understanding life history patterns, individual fitness and population fitness 
can assist with conservation of endangered species. Field data on life history 
traits (i.e. age specific fecundity, age specific mortality, age at first 
reproduction, litter size and adult life expectancy) were collected from 121 
Hainan Eld's deer (Cervus eldi hainanus Thomas, 1918), an in situ herd of an 
endemic, rare and endangered cervid inhabiting Bangxi Natural Reserve of Hainan 
Island, from 1990 to 2002. First, we constructed a dynamic life table to analyze 
the life history pattern of the population, which showed that the difference 
between the average lifespan of males and females was not significant (P > 
0.05), and that the difference between the average lifespan of the whole Hainan 
Eld's deer population and that of other Eld's deer populations living in South 
Asia (P > 0.05), North America (P > 0.05) and Europe (P > 0.05) was not 
significant. Second, we used individual reproductive success or number of 
offspring of a male over its lifetime to estimate male individual fitness. 
Statistic analysis showed that male individual fitness was not significantly 
correlated with total antler velvet mass. Third, we used the population 
intrinsic rate of increase to measure population fitness, and population fitness 
of Hainan Eld's deer was compared with similar indexes of 5 other cervid 
species. Hainan Eld's deer population fitness index was 0.012, the second lowest 
value relative to other cervids. Results indicated that this rare species is 
still endangered and is in need of additional protection.

© 2011 ISZS, Blackwell Publishing and IOZ/CAS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-4877.2010.00232.x
PMID: 21392363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012 Feb;67(2):140-51. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glr038. Epub 2011 Mar 10.

Drugs, nutrients, and phytoactive principles improving the health span of rodent 
models of human age-related diseases.

Lebel M(1), Picard F, Ferland G, Gaudreau P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Medical Biochemistry, and Pathology, Centre 
de Recherche en Cancérologie de l'Université Laval, Hôpital Hôtel-Dieu de 
Québec, 9 McMahon Street, Québec City, Québec, Canada G1R 2J6. 
michel.lebel@crhdq.ulaval.ca

Rodents are often the species of choice to examine the effect of drugs on 
survival and on the progression of specific diseased tissues. This statement is 
also true for research laboratories working in the field of nutrition and aging. 
In addition to diets that can reduce the life expectancy of rodents, such as 
diabetogenic or high-fat diets, genetically modified rodents exhibiting 
different accelerated age-associated diseases also provide important biologic 
tools to decipher the impact of drugs, nutrients, or phytoactive compounds on 
their health and life span. This review covers some of the chemicals believed to 
decelerate the appearance of age-related diseases in different rodent models. 
Such chemicals include antioxidants, anti-inflammatory molecules, modulators of 
metabolic sensors, calorie restriction mimetics, and vegetal polyphenolic 
compounds that affect mitochondrial functions, cellular proliferation or 
differentiation as well as cell functionality.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glr038
PMID: 21393422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Medicina (Kaunas). 2010;46(10):707-11.

[Assessment of disability-free life expectancy in Lithuania].

[Article in Lithuanian]

Petrauskienė J(1), Ambrozaitienė D, Kalėdienė R, Starkuvienė S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management, Medical Academy, Lithuanian University of 
Health Sciences, A. Mickevičiaus 9, 44307 Kaunas, Lithuania. socmed@kmu.lt

THE AIM of the study was to evaluate disability-free life expectancy of 
Lithuanian males and females in 2001.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The data about the Lithuanian population and the deceased 
were available from the Statistics Lithuania, while information about the 
prevalence of disability was obtained from the Population and Housing Census 
performed in 2001, where the question on the registered disability was included. 
The method, presented first by Sullivan in 1971, was applied for the assessment 
of disability-free life expectancy.
RESULTS: Disability-free life expectancy of Lithuanian males and females was 
60.6 and 70.6 years, respectively, accounting for 91.9% of male and 91.0% of 
female total life expectancy. At the age of 65, disability-free life expectancy 
was 6.2 years for males and 11.7 for females (45.8% and 64.9% of total life 
expectancy for males and females, respectively). Disability-free life expectancy 
declined more intensively with increasing age, comparing to total life 
expectancy. Disability-free life expectancy of females exceeded that of males by 
10 years, while life expectancy with disability did not differ significantly.
CONCLUSION: Monitoring of disability-free life expectancy, based on officially 
registered disability and mortality statistics, should be used for the 
assessment of economic and social burden of disability for the society and 
state.

PMID: 21393990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Can Stud Popul. 2010 Jan 1;37(1-2):245-267. doi: 10.25336/p65g71.

Orphans in Three Sahelian Countries: Exploratory Analyses from Census Data.

Marcoux R(1), Noumbissi A, Zuberi T.

Author information:
(1)Université Laval, Québec City, Québec, Canada, Richard.Marcoux@soc.ulaval.ca.

Important investments in Africa have reduced slightly the levels child mortality 
but life expectancy still very low. The number of children without surviving 
biological parents is increasing and orphans are becoming an important social 
problem. Because Sahelian societies are mostly patriarchal, becoming fatherless 
or motherless will have different effects on the well being of the child. This 
paper examines the levels and trends of the survival status of the parents and 
then, living arrangements of orphans. We describe characteristics of these 
children with a special focus on education and economic activities. The paper 
uses the censuses from Chad, Niger and Senegal made available by the African 
Census Analysis Project (ACAP) held at University of Pennsylvania. These 
countries collected information on survival status of each biological parent to 
estimate adult mortality but the potential of this information for research on 
child well-being is rarely exploited.

DOI: 10.25336/p65g71
PMCID: PMC3049924
PMID: 21394220


206. Clin Lipidol. 2010 Jun 1;5(3):387-395. doi: 10.2217/clp.10.19.

Niemann-Pick type C pathogenesis and treatment: from statins to sugars.

Madra M(1), Sturley SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University Medical Center, 630 West 168th 
St, NY 10032, USA.

The isolation of the causative genes for Niemann-Pick type C disease, a 
panethnic lysosomal lipid storage disorder, has provided models of how sterols 
and other lipids such as glycosphingolipids traverse the membranes of eukaryotic 
cells. Unfortunately, these molecular advances have yet to reciprocate with a 
cure for this devastating neurodegenerative disorder where neuronal 
replenishment will most likely yield the greatest benefit. In the meantime, 
stabilizing treatment strategies based on the removal of presumably toxic 
metabolites are in place. For example, the small molecule inhibition of 
glucosylceramide synthase by miglustat limits ganglioside accumulation and is 
now the only approved treatment of Niemann-Pick type C. In addition, 
2-hydroxypropyl-B-cyclodextrin, a lipid chelator, relieves the lysosomal to 
endoplasmic reticulum blockage and markedly increases the life expectancy of the 
murine model. Ultimately, these strategies, targeting the primary biochemical 
lesion in these cells, and others will likely be combined to provide a 
synergistic cocktail approach to treating this disease.

DOI: 10.2217/clp.10.19
PMCID: PMC3050622
PMID: 21394236


207. Health Econ. 2011 Apr;20(4):471-83. doi: 10.1002/hec.1604.

Preference-based index measurement of health-related quality of life: when does 
it reflect only arbitrary settings of the researcher?

Konerding U(1).

Author information:
(1)Trimberg Research Academy, University of Bamberg, Bamberg, Germany. 
uwe.konerding@uni-bamberg.de

In health economics, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is often assessed by 
means of preference-based index measurement instruments (e.g. EQ-5D, SF-6D, 
HUI). Each instrument of this kind consists of (1) a multi-attribute 
classification system for distinguishing health states and (2) a scoring 
function which assigns a valuation to each health state distinguished within the 
classification system. Scoring functions are often produced according to the 
so-called statistical approach which consists of two steps: (1) the valuations 
of some of the health states of the classification system are empirically 
determined and (2) the scoring function values for all health states are 
estimated from the empirically determined valuations using a theoretical model, 
i.e. an index model. This approach can run into problems because the empirically 
determined valuations necessarily contain arbitrary settings. This article is 
concerned with how these arbitrary settings together with the index model affect 
the final scoring function values. It is shown that for many conceivable index 
models the final scoring function values have no empirical meaning. Only 
additive models with a free additive constant are appropriate for representing 
the information contained in the empirically determined valuation. Only these 
models should be used within the statistical approach.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1604
PMID: 21394817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Clin Exp Allergy. 2011 Apr;41(4):471-81. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2222.2011.03718.x.

Asthma and ageing: an end user's perspective--the perception and problems with 
the management of asthma in the elderly.

Jones SC(1), Iverson D, Burns P, Evers U, Caputi P, Morgan S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Initiatives, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW, 
Australia. sandraj@uow.edu.au

Despite the high prevalence of asthma in the elderly, its development, 
diagnosis, and treatment are under-researched. This paper provides a 
comprehensive review of the current state of knowledge in relation to management 
of asthma in the elderly - focusing on barriers to diagnosis and treatment and 
the central role of self-management. Asthma prevalence increases with age, as 
does the risk of dying from asthma, and with the ageing of the population and 
increasing life expectancy, the prevalence of (diagnosed and undiagnosed) asthma 
in older adults is expected to increase drastically, placing an increasing 
burden on sufferers, the community and health budgets. Asthma sufferers are more 
likely to be psychologically distressed and at a higher risk of anxiety and 
depression, more likely to experience a sense of lack of control over their 
health and to have lower self-reported quality of life. Asthma is 
under-diagnosed, and under-treated, in the elderly, further exacerbating these 
negative consequences. The review concludes, among other things, that there is a 
need to better understand the development and impact of asthma in the elderly, 
to increase community awareness of asthma in the elderly, to improve both 
'medical management' and 'self-management' in this population and to develop 
more effective tools for diagnosis and treatment of asthma in the elderly. The 
paper concludes with key recommendations for future research and practice in 
this area.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2222.2011.03718.x
PMID: 21395876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Integr Zool. 2008 Sep;3(3):166-75. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-4877.2008.00095.x.

Global potential distribution of an invasive species, the yellow crazy ant 
(Anoplolepis gracilipes) under climate change.

Chen Y(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan City, China.

Changes to the Earth's climate may affect the distribution of countless species. 
Understanding the potential distribution of known invasive species under an 
altered climate is vital to predicting impacts and developing management policy. 
The present study employs ecological niche modeling to construct the global 
potential distribution range of the yellow crazy ant (Anoplolepis gracilipes) 
using past, current and future climate scenarios. Three modeling algorithms, 
GARP, BioClim and Environmental Distance, were used in a comparative analysis. 
Output from the models suggest firstly that this insect originated from south 
Asia, expanded into Europe and then into Afrotropical regions, after which it 
formed its current distribution. Second, the invasive risk of A. gracilipes 
under future climatic change scenarios will become greater because of an 
extension of suitable environmental conditions in higher latitudes. Third, when 
compared to the GARP model, BioClim and Environmental Distance models were 
better at modeling a species' ancestral distribution. These findings are 
discussed in light of the predictive accuracy of these models.

© 2008 ISZS, Blackwell Publishing and IOZ/CAS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-4877.2008.00095.x
PMID: 21396065


210. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2011 Apr;15(4):471-7. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.09.0579.

Burden of tuberculosis among aboriginal and non-aboriginal Taiwanese, 1996-2006.

Chang YM(1), Shen CK, Chiu CH, Chiang HJ, Lu LC, Liou SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Care, Veterans Affairs Commission, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the tuberculosis (TB) burden in Taiwan from 1996 to 2006, 
based on incidence, mortality and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).
DESIGN: Data were collected from three databases: Tuberculosis Registry 
Database, National Mortality Database and Taiwan Household Registration System 
Database. Age standardisation of the incidence/mortality rates was performed by 
the direct method, using the 2000 World Health Organization world population as 
standard. Disease burden estimation used DALY, based on the Global Burden of 
Disease study.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted TB incidence/mortality rates decreased during the 
study period. The highest DALYs per 100,000 were in the ≥65 years age group 
among non-aboriginals, and in the 35-54 years and ≥65 years age groups in 
aboriginals. In general, the DALY/case increased with age among non-aboriginals, 
whereas the highest DALY/case was found in the 35-44 years age group in 
aboriginals. The DALY/100,000, DALY/case and total DALY significantly decreased 
from 1996 to 2006 for non-aboriginals, but fluctuated for aboriginals.
CONCLUSION: This analysis provided the first comprehensive evaluation of the 
burden of TB in Taiwan. The prevention and treatment of TB among aboriginals in 
all age groups should be enhanced.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.09.0579
PMID: 21396205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Am J Med. 2011 Mar;124(3):235-43. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2010.10.016.

Patterns and correlates of prostate cancer treatment in older men.

Roberts CB(1), Albertsen PC, Shao YH, Moore DF, Mehta AR, Stein MN, Lu-Yao GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, State University of New York Downstate Medical 
Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although elderly men, particularly patients with low-risk prostate 
cancer and a life expectancy less than 10 years, are unlikely to benefit from 
prostate cancer active therapy, treatment rates in this group are high.
METHODS: By using the population-based Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results program linked to Medicare data from 2004 to 2005, we examined the 
effects of clinical and nonclinical factors on the selection of prostate cancer 
active therapy (ie, radical prostatectomy, external beam radiation therapy, 
brachytherapy, or androgen deprivation therapy) in men aged≥75 years with a new 
diagnosis of localized prostate cancer. Multivariate logistic regression was 
used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for 
receiving prostate cancer active therapy.
RESULTS: The majority of men aged≥75 years were treated with prostate cancer 
active therapy (81.7%), which varied by disease risk level: low, 72.2%; 
intermediate, 83.7%; and high, 86.4%. Overall, in older men, the percentage of 
the total variance in the use of prostate cancer active therapy attributable to 
clinical and nonclinical factors was minimal, 5.1% and 2.6%, respectively. In 
men with low-risk disease, comorbidity status did not affect treatment 
selection, such that patients with 1 or 2+ comorbidities were as likely to 
receive prostate cancer active therapy as healthy men: OR=0.98; 95% CI, 
0.76-1.27 and OR=1.19; 95% CI, 0.84-1.68, respectively. Geographic location was 
the most powerful predictor of treatment selection (Northeast vs Greater 
California: OR=2.41; 95% CI, 1.75-3.32).
CONCLUSION: Clinical factors play a limited role in treatment selection among 
elderly patients with localized prostate cancer.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2010.10.016
PMCID: PMC5783556
PMID: 21396507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None to be reported.


212. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2011 Apr;59(2):107-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.respe.2010.10.010. Epub 2011 Mar 11.

[Assessment of preventive practices in primary care occurring in hospital].

[Article in French]

Lelong H(1), Casadevall M, Haus F, Levezouet CA, Regnier C, Durel B, Torchin D, 
Chicheportiche G, Boronski H, De Champs-Leger H, Blacher J.

Author information:
(1)Unité médecine générale sans rendez-vous, permanence d'accès aux soins de 
santé, centre de diagnostic et de thérapeutique, Hôtel-Dieu, AP-HP, université 
Paris Descartes, Paris, France. helene_lelong@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Preventive measures are available for most of the pathological 
conditions causing premature mortality in France. Moreover, there is a 
seven-year discrepancy in life expectancy figures between persons in the least 
favorable socio-occupational categories and the rest of the general population. 
The overall target of our study was to analyze preventive practices applied as 
part of routine primary care in the outpatient clinics of a general medicine 
hospital in Paris (Hotel-Dieu) where the majority of patients belong to 
unfavorable social categories.
METHODS: We collected and analyzed the content of all outpatient visits 
conducted during a three-week period using a questionnaire designed to gather 
information about areas of preventive care requiring particular attention.
RESULTS: Analysis of 211 outpatients visits shows that the population concerned 
was young (44±17-year-old) and that the visits lasted longer than commonly 
observed (21±8 min). Cancer screening was performed in 25 to 50% of the 
theoretical targeted population. Addictions were discussed during half of the 
visits, yet follow-up and advice on how to stop addictive behavior were 
insufficient. Blood pressure was measured during half of the visits. 
Vaccinations were checked for 60% of patients and STD status for 30%. Seventy 
percent of the patients stated they wanted to attend a preventive care 
consultation; the physician considered this type of consultation would be useful 
for 30% of patients; the opinions were in disagreement for half of the patients. 
Lack of time, heavy workload in terms of number of visits, and the current setup 
of charts prevented updating various precautionary measures, which would have 
been appropriate for each patient as a function of age, gender, past history and 
lifestyle.
CONCLUSION: This inquiry highlights many weaknesses in our preventive practices. 
Delegating some medical acts, a more adapted medical file and the implementation 
of dedicated consultations could help improve prevention in this particularly 
vulnerable population. The key to success of such measures lies in physician and 
patient awareness.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.respe.2010.10.010
PMID: 21397419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Soc Sci Med. 2011 Apr;72(7):1115-22. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.01.024.
Epub  2011 Feb 13.

Immunitary bioeconomy: the economisation of life in the international cord blood 
market.

Brown N(1), Machin L, McLeod D.

Author information:
(1)Science and Technology Studies Unit, Department of Sociology, University of 
York, United Kingdom. nik.brown@york.ac.uk

This paper examines an emerging bioeconomy centred on the international banking 
and trade in cord blood. Since the late 1980s cord blood has been used in an 
expanding range of treatments and as an alternative to the use of bone marrow 
stem cells. This is particularly the case in treating ethnic minority 
populations who have historically been under-represented in bone marrow 
registries. The paper explores the mobilisation and commercialisation of an 
increasingly important bioeconomic resource with cord blood units trading 
internationally at high prices. This is a market mediated through a 
sophisticated global network of immunologically typed and matched bodily matter 
in which immunity has become a form of 'corporeal currency'. Based on recent 
international figures we reflect upon the balance of trade between imports and 
exports across the world's cord blood bioeconomy. Theoretically, this case is, 
we suggest, an extension of what Roberto Esposito (2008) has termed an 
'immunitary paradigm' in which immunity has become the basis for new forms of 
bioeconomic flow, circulation and exchange. Esposito (2008). Bios: Biopolitics 
and Philosophy. Minnesota, MN: University of Minnesota Press.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.01.024
PMID: 21398003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2011 Nov;28(7):461-2. doi: 10.1177/1049909110398006.
 Epub 2011 Mar 10.

Critical care for patients with cancer.

Namendys-Silva SA(1), González-Herrera MO, Herrera-Gómez A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, 
Mexico City, Mexico. snamendys@incan.edu.mx

Malignancies are becoming increasingly common, especially as the population 
ages, and patients with cancer are likely to represent an increasing proportion 
of ICU populations. Advances in oncological and supportive care have led to 
improved prognosis and extension of survival time in patients with cancer. The 
National Institute Cancer located in Mexico City has an oncological ICU with 6 
beds. During the biennium 2008-2009, 573 patients with cancer were admitted to 
the ICU. The mean age was 51 ± 16.36 years and 58.6% were women. The length of 
stay in the ICU was 2 days (interquartile range; 1-5). The 71.6% were surgical 
patients. The mortality rate was 15.9%. Patients with hemato-oncological cancer 
had higher ICU mortality rate than subgroup of critically ill patients with 
solid tumors (39.5% versus 11.9%). The course of organ dysfunction over first 
days of life-sustaining treatment before admission to ICU could be useful for 
physicians who treat critically ill cancer patients to detect patients who 
should be admitted to ICU to try to avoid the progression to multiple organ 
