risk-benefit ratio of these treatments. Tools such as the Comprehensive 
Geriatric Assessment (CGA) can help estimate remaining life expectancy and can 
help predict treatment-related morbidity and mortality in older men. Application 
of CGA in older men with PCa is important to help individualize and optimize 
treatment strategies. Research that integrates multidisciplinary and 
multidimensional assessment of PCa and the patient's overall health status is 
needed.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2011.01.011
PMID: 21421119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. J Urol. 2011 May;185(5):1982; author reply 1983. doi: 
10.1016/j.juro.2010.12.090. Epub 2011 Mar 21.

Re: Prostate cancer screening in men 75 years old or older: an assessment of 
self-reported health status and life expectancy. K. E. Hoffman, P. L. Nguyen, A. 
K. Ng and A. V. D'Amico. J Urol 2010; 183: 1798-1802.

Neulander EZ.

Comment on
    J Urol. 2010 May;183(5):1798-802.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2010.12.090
PMID: 21421243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Psychopharmacol. 2011 Jun;25(6):846-7. doi: 10.1177/0269881111400653. Epub
 2011 Mar 18.

Mortality in schizophrenia.

Hasnain M, Vieweg WV, Mezuk B.

Comment in
    J Psychopharmacol. 2012 Sep;26(9):1285.

Comment on
    J Psychopharmacol. 2010 Nov;24(4 Suppl):17-25.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881111400653
PMID: 21421641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Fam Pract. 2011 Aug;28(4):393-9. doi: 10.1093/fampra/cmr006. Epub 2011 Mar
18.

Depression and explicit requests for euthanasia in end-of-life cancer patients 
in primary care in the Netherlands: a longitudinal, prospective study.

Ruijs CD(1), Kerkhof AJ, van der Wal G, Onwuteaka-Philipsen BD.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Center De Greev, Utrecht, The Netherlands. C.Ruys3@kpnplanet.nl

BACKGROUND: In the Netherlands, many (45%) cancer patients die at home, in the 
care of GPs. About 1 out of 10 end-of-life cancer deaths is hastened by GPs 
through euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide. However, the relationship 
between depression and requests for euthanasia has never been prospectively 
studied directly in primary care.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the prevalence of depression in 
end-of-life cancer patients requesting euthanasia in primary care, as well as to 
assess the relationship between depression and requesting euthanasia.
METHODS: Primary care patients with incurable cancer and an estimated life 
expectancy of half a year or shorter were interviewed every 2 months, using 
standardized psychometric instruments. Also, non-recruited eligible patients 
were monitored.
RESULTS: Out of 258 eligible patients, 76 patients were recruited, of whom 64 
patients were followed up until death. Of these, 27% (n = 17) explicitly 
requested euthanasia. One patient suffered from major depression. According to 
the depression subscale of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, 47% of the 
patients who explicitly requested euthanasia versus 28% of those without an 
euthanasia request suffered from a depressed mood at inclusion; the difference 
was not significant (P = 0.2). Corresponding figures for the last interview 
before death were 40% and 41% (P = 0.6).
CONCLUSIONS: Major depression was not a major factor in explicit requests for 
euthanasia in end-of-life cancer patients in primary care. Further depressed 
mood was not associated with explicitly requesting euthanasia in this patient 
group, although statistical underpower cannot be ruled out in this small sample.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/cmr006
PMID: 21421745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Occup Environ Med. 2011 Jul;68(7):547-9. doi: 10.1136/oem.2010.062182. Epub
2011  Mar 19.

Trends in mesothelioma mortality rates in South Africa: 1995-2007.

Kielkowski D(1), Nelson G, Bello B, Kgalamono S, Phillips JI.

Author information:
(1)Pathology Division, NIOH, PO Box 4788, Johannesburg 2000, South Africa. 
gill.nelson@nioh.nhls.ac.za

OBJECTIVE: In 1984, South Africa had one of the highest mesothelioma rates in 
the world. The objective of this analysis was to calculate mesothelioma 
mortality rates in the South African population from 1995 to 2007.
METHODS: Annual mortality data and midyear population estimates were used to 
compute mortality rates by age group and gender for each year. The WHO World 
Standard Population was used as the reference population to calculate 
age-adjusted rates. Poisson regression models were used to test for trends.
RESULTS: In total, 2509 deaths due to mesothelioma were identified in the study 
period: 1920 in men and 588 in women. There were no significant trends in 
mesothelioma mortality rates: age-adjusted mortality rates fluctuated from 11 to 
16 and from 3 to 5 per million per year for men and women, respectively.
CONCLUSION: These mortality rates are much lower than expected, given the 
historical production and use of, and high exposure to, asbestos in South 
Africa. Possible reasons for this are discussed, including the effect of HIV 
which has been instrumental in reducing the life expectancy of South Africans in 
the last two decades. Asbestos-exposed individuals may not live long enough to 
develop mesothelioma. Competing causes of death need to be taken into account 
when constructing models to predict mesothelioma mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.2010.062182
PMID: 21422006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Hum Mol Genet. 2011 Apr 15;20(R1):R79-86. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddr104. Epub 2011
Mar  21.

Genetic therapies for cystic fibrosis lung disease.

Sinn PL(1), Anthony RM, McCray PB Jr.

Author information:
(1)Program in Gene Therapy, Department of Pediatrics, Carver College of 
Medicine, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

The aim of gene therapy for cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease is to efficiently 
and safely express the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) in the 
appropriate pulmonary cell types. Although CF patients experience multi-organ 
disease, the chronic bacterial lung infections and associated inflammation are 
the primary cause of shortened life expectancy. Gene transfer-based therapeutic 
approaches are feasible, in part, because the airway epithelium is directly 
accessible by aerosol delivery or instillation. Improvements in standard 
delivery vectors and the development of novel vectors, as well as emerging 
technologies and new animal models, are propelling exciting new research 
forward. Here, we review recent developments that are advancing this field of 
investigation.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddr104
PMCID: PMC3095059
PMID: 21422098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Circulation. 2011 Apr 26;123(16):1788-830. doi:
10.1161/CIR.0b013e318214914f.  Epub 2011 Mar 21.

Management of massive and submassive pulmonary embolism, iliofemoral deep vein 
thrombosis, and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension: a scientific 
statement from the American Heart Association.

Jaff MR, McMurtry MS, Archer SL, Cushman M, Goldenberg N, Goldhaber SZ, Jenkins 
JS, Kline JA, Michaels AD, Thistlethwaite P, Vedantham S, White RJ, Zierler BK; 
American Heart Association Council on Cardiopulmonary, Critical Care, 
Perioperative and Resuscitation; American Heart Association Council on 
Peripheral Vascular Disease; American Heart Association Council on 
Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology.

Erratum in
    Circulation. 2012 Aug 14;126(7):e104.
    Circulation. 2012 Mar 20;125(11):e495.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is responsible for the hospitalization of >250 000 
Americans annually and represents a significant risk for morbidity and 
mortality. Despite the publication of evidence-based clinical practice 
guidelines to aid in the management of VTE in its acute and chronic forms, the 
clinician is frequently confronted with manifestations of VTE for which data are 
sparse and optimal management is unclear. In particular, the optimal use of 
advanced therapies for acute VTE, including thrombolysis and catheter-based 
therapies, remains uncertain. This report addresses the management of massive 
and submassive pulmonary embolism (PE), iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis 
(IFDVT),and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). The goal is 
to provide practical advice to enable the busy clinician to optimize the 
management of patients with these severe manifestations of VTE. Although this 
document makes recommendations for management, optimal medical decisions must 
incorporate other factors, including patient wishes, quality of life, and life 
expectancy based on age and comorbidities. The appropriateness of these 
recommendations for a specific patient may vary depending on these factors and 
will be best judged by the bedside clinician.

DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0b013e318214914f
PMID: 21422387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2011 Jul;20(4):283-6. doi: 10.1097/CEJ.0b013e32834572d2.

Projections for oesophageal cancer incidence in England to 2033.

Gatenby PA(1), Hainsworth A, Caygill C, Watson A, Winslet M.

Author information:
(1)UK Barrett's Oesophagus Registry, UCL Department of Surgery and 
Interventional Science, Royal Free and University College Medical School, 
University College London, London, UK. p.gatenby@ucl.ac.uk

The United Kingdom has the highest age-standardized incidence of oesophageal 
cancer in Europe. This study projects the number of cases of oesophageal cancer 
arising in England over a 25-year period. Data from National Statistics were 
used to determine the number and incidence of oesophageal cancers diagnosed 
during 2001-2007 (separated by age and sex). These data were used with 
population projections to model the number of cancers that would develop in the 
future. Variant estimates were undertaken with high/low rates of migration and 
life expectancy and by varying the rate of change in the incidence of 
oesophageal cancer. The principal projection showed that, compared with the 2007 
baseline, the number of oesophageal cancers in men is predicted to rise by 20% 
by 2014 and by 40% by 2020. In women, after an initial predicted decline, the 
number of cancers is predicted to rise above the 2007 baseline by 2012 and to be 
5% higher by 2023. The variant projections showed that only a small effect was 
likely to be caused by changes in net migration (<1% change by 2030) and life 
expectancy (1% change by 2020). The effect of a 1% increase or decrease in the 
rate of change of incidence had a more marked effect (10% change by 2017 or 
2018). None of the modelled scenarios resulted in an overall decrease in the 
number of projected cases because of the change in population demographics. The 
number of cases of oesophageal cancer in England is likely to continue to 
increase.

DOI: 10.1097/CEJ.0b013e32834572d2
PMID: 21422931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Med Care. 2011 May;49(5):451-60. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318207e9a8.

Probabilistic mapping of descriptive health status responses onto health state 
utilities using Bayesian networks: an empirical analysis converting SF-12 into 
EQ-5D utility index in a national US sample.

Le QA(1), Doctor JN.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Western University of Health Sciences, 309 E. Second 
Street, Pomona, CA 91766-1854, USA. qle@westernu.edu

BACKGROUND: As quality-adjusted life years have become the standard metric in 
health economic evaluations, mapping health-profile or disease-specific measures 
onto preference-based measures to obtain quality-adjusted life years has become 
a solution when health utilities are not directly available. However, current 
mapping methods are limited due to their predictive validity, reliability, 
and/or other methodological issues.
OBJECTIVES: We employ probability theory together with a graphical model, called 
a Bayesian network, to convert health-profile measures into preference-based 
measures and to compare the results to those estimated with current mapping 
methods.
METHODS: A sample of 19,678 adults who completed both the 12-item Short Form 
Health Survey (SF-12v2) and EuroQoL 5D (EQ-5D) questionnaires from the 2003 
Medical Expenditure Panel Survey was split into training and validation sets. 
Bayesian networks were constructed to explore the probabilistic relationships 
between each EQ-5D domain and 12 items of the SF-12v2. The EQ-5D utility scores 
were estimated on the basis of the predicted probability of each response level 
of the 5 EQ-5D domains obtained from the Bayesian inference process using the 
following methods: Monte Carlo simulation, expected utility, and most-likely 
probability. Results were then compared with current mapping methods including 
multinomial logistic regression, ordinary least squares, and censored least 
absolute deviations.
RESULTS: The Bayesian networks consistently outperformed other mapping models in 
the overall sample (mean absolute error=0.077, mean square error=0.013, and R 
overall=0.802), in different age groups, number of chronic conditions, and 
ranges of the EQ-5D index.
CONCLUSION: Bayesian networks provide a new robust and natural approach to map 
health status responses into health utility measures for health economic 
evaluations.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318207e9a8
PMID: 21422961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. J Neurosurg Sci. 2010 Dec;54(4):143-8.

Extension of echinococcal spinal infestation extra- and intradurally after a 
decade of extinction.

Samadian M(1), Alavi E, Sharifi G, Rezaee O, Faramarzi F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Loghman Hakim, Hospital Shahid Beheshti, 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Simultaneous intradural, extradural, vertebral and paravetebral invasion of 
hydatid cyst, pathologic fracture, and multiple vertebral involvement are all 
rare encountered conditions in echinococcal infestation. A 48-year-old man who 
had experienced a falling down trauma, 10 years ago, and at that time, because 
of L1 burst fracture, undergone on Harrington rod placement, admitted in our 
ward for newly started urinary retention and mild paresis of lower extremities. 
With imaging analysis and during surgery, we discovered the extension of 
echinococcal spinal infestation extra- and intradurally after a decade of 
extinction. We performed a double stage circumferential reconstruction and 
adjuvant long term chemotherapy. We closely monitor our patient neurologically 
and radiologically and believe that aggressive surgical treatment and sustained 
cyclical albendazole therapy can increase the quality of life and life 
expectancy.

PMID: 21423084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2011;52(1 Suppl):263-71.

Morphoclinical study of intracerebral hemorrhage with subarachnoid effusion.

Stancu CC(1), PleÅea IE, Enache SD, Diaconescu R, CameniÅ£Ä A, Tenovici M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 
Romania. doctorstancu@yahoo.com

AIM: The study is an integrated assessment of clinical, imagistic and 
morphological parameters in severe intracerebral hemorrhages (ICH) complicated 
with subarachnoid effusion (SAE).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The studied group had 37 cases of patients with ICH and 
SAE who were hospitalized in the Emergency County Hospital of Craiova and died 
during hospitalization. The parameters evaluated were clinical (relation with 
the seasons, age, sex, arterial blood pressure, the motor deficit, degree of 
coma and Glasgow score at admission) and morphological (the sites of the 
intraparenchymal hematoma and SAE, the size of the intraparenchymal hematoma, 
the presence of the mass effect, and the association of intraventricular 
effusion). The latter were assessed on CT films and during autopsy.
RESULTS: The presence of SAE as a complication of ICH showed a predilection for 
cold seasons, especially winter. From the 37 studied cases, 18 were men and 19 
women. 51.3% of the patients were in the fourth and fifth life decade. Almost 
73% of the patients had third stage arterial hypertension at admission, over 56% 
motor deficits and almost 49% Glasgow scores lower than 6. The hematomas had 
huge dimensions as compared to hosting encephalic structures, in lobar sites 
involving more than one lobe. Other risk factors as mass effect, perilesional 
edema and intraventricular extension (IVE) were constantly present.
CONCLUSIONS: The association of SAE with other independent risk factors such as 
hypertension, low Glasgow scores, dimensions of hemorrhagic foci, presence of 
mass effect, perilesional edema and intraventricular extension (IVE) results in 
the death of patient despite any sustained therapeutical intervention.

PMID: 21424063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Biogerontology. 2011 Oct;12(5):445-50. doi: 10.1007/s10522-011-9328-5. Epub
2011  Mar 19.

Role of prothrombotic polymorphisms in successful or unsuccessful aging.

Vaccarino L(1), Forte GI, Palmeri M, Misiano G, Porcellini E, Chiappelli M, 
Scola L, Caruso C, Licastro F, Lio D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biopathology, University of Palermo, Corso Tukory 211, 90134, 
Palermo, Italy.

The study of the genetic profile of centenarians aims to identify the genes and 
allelic variants which may influence a greater life expectancy and that can be 
considered as predisposing factors associated to the aging diseases, such as 
Alzheimer. Centenarians, that represent a cohort of selected survivors, show an 
hypercoagulability state characterised by striking signs of high coagulation 
enzyme activity, as directly assessed by the tested higher plasma level of some 
important factors involved in the haemostasis balance. Anyway, these individuals 
seem to have a reduced susceptibility to dementia, as well as to cardiovascular 
events. In this study we analyze the frequencies of Leiden Factor V polymorphism 
(G1691A), and G20210A of prothrombin (FII) in three cohorts of subjects: 
patients with Alzheimer's disease (unsuccessful aging), nonagenarians 
(successful aging) and young healthy controls, to assess whether allelic 
variants associated to the modification of haemostatic system function, may play 
a role in the protection or susceptibility to Alzheimer disease, as well as to 
reach a successful aging. No significant differences were observed in the 
frequencies of the three groups studied. These results indicate that the 
presence or absence of the gene variants examined did not influence the 
achievement of advanced age and are not risk factors for Alzheimer's disease. 
The state of hypercoagulability and the possession of these risk alleles appear 
to be compatible with the achievement of longevity and are not implied as risk 
factors in Alzheimer disease development.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-011-9328-5
PMID: 21424155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Age (Dordr). 2012 Feb;34(1):111-20. doi: 10.1007/s11357-011-9224-6. Epub
2011  Mar 22.

Review of the literature and suggestions for the design of rodent survival 
studies for the identification of compounds that increase health and life span.

Spindler SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, 
USA. spindler@ucr.edu

Much of the literature describing the search for agents that increase the life 
span of rodents was found to suffer from confounds. One-hundred-six studies, 
absent 20 contradictory melatonin studies, of compounds or combinations of 
compounds were reviewed. Only six studies reported both life span extension and 
food consumption data, thereby excluding the potential effects of caloric 
restriction. Six other studies reported life span extension without a change in 
body weight. However, weight can be an unreliable surrogate measure of caloric 
consumption. Twenty studies reported that food consumption or weight was 
unchanged, but it was unclear whether these data were anecdotal or systematic. 
Twenty-nine reported extended life span likely due to induced caloric 
restriction. Thirty-six studies reported no effect on life span, and three a 
decrease. The remaining studies suffer from more serious confounds. Though still 
widely cited, studies showing life span extension using short-lived or 
"enfeebled" rodents have not been shown to predict longevity effects in 
long-lived animals. We suggest improvements in experimental design that will 
enhance the reliability of the rodent life span literature. First, animals 
should receive measured quantities of food and its consumption monitored, 
preferably daily, and reported. Weights should be measured regularly and 
reported. Second, a genetically heterogeneous, long-lived rodent should be 
utilized. Third, chemically defined diets should be used. Fourth, a positive 
control (e.g., a calorically restricted group) is highly desirable. Fifth, drug 
dosages should be chosen based on surrogate endpoints or accepted cross-species 
scaling factors. These procedures should improve the reliability of the 
scientific literature and accelerate the identification of longevity and health 
span-enhancing agents.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-011-9224-6
PMCID: PMC3260350
PMID: 21424790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2011 Mar;7(2):205-11. doi: 10.1586/eci.10.100.

Thymus transplantation for treatment of cancer: lessons from murine models.

Ikehara S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Stem Cell Disorders, Kansai Medical University, Osaka, Japan. 
ikehara@takii.kmu.ac.jp

It is well known that tumor-bearing mammals, including humans, show decreased 
T-cell function due to involution of the thymus. This decrease results in faster 
tumor growth, susceptibility to infection and reduced life expectancy. Thus, the 
best strategy to restore T-cell function might be to transplant the thymus from 
the fetus or newborn. Based on this hypothesis, this article introduces our 
recent findings using mice and evidence is provided that, in humans, thymus 
transplantation in conjunction with bone marrow transplantation could become a 
valuable strategy for suppressing tumor growth, thereby prolonging survival.

DOI: 10.1586/eci.10.100
PMID: 21426258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Plant Physiol. 2011 May;156(1):129-43. doi: 10.1104/pp.111.175018. Epub 2011
Mar  22.

Myosin XI-dependent formation of tubular structures from endoplasmic reticulum 
isolated from tobacco cultured BY-2 cells.

Yokota E(1), Ueda H, Hashimoto K, Orii H, Shimada T, Hara-Nishimura I, Shimmen 
T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Graduate School of Life Science, University of 
Hyogo, Harima Science Park City, Hyogo 678-1297, Japan. yokota@sci.u-hyogo.ac.jp

The reticular network of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) consists of tubular and 
lamellar elements and is arranged in the cortical region of plant cells. This 
network constantly shows shape change and remodeling motion. Tubular ER 
structures were formed when GTP was added to the ER vesicles isolated from 
tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) cultured BY-2 cells expressing ER-localized green 
fluorescent protein. The hydrolysis of GTP during ER tubule formation was higher 
than that under conditions in which ER tubule formation was not induced. 
Furthermore, a shearing force, such as the flow of liquid, was needed for the 
elongation/extension of the ER tubule. The shearing force was assumed to 
correspond to the force generated by the actomyosin system in vivo. To confirm 
this hypothesis, the S12 fraction was prepared, which contained both cytosol and 
microsome fractions, including two classes of myosins, XI (175-kD myosin) and 
VIII (BY-2 myosin VIII-1), and ER-localized green fluorescent protein vesicles. 
The ER tubules and their mesh-like structures were arranged in the S12 fraction 
efficiently by the addition of ATP, GTP, and exogenous filamentous actin. The 
tubule formation was significantly inhibited by the depletion of 175-kD myosin 
from the S12 fraction but not BY-2 myosin VIII-1. Furthermore, a recombinant 
carboxyl-terminal tail region of 175-kD myosin also suppressed ER tubule 
formation. The tips of tubules moved along filamentous actin during tubule 
elongation. These results indicated that the motive force generated by the 
actomyosin system contributes to the formation of ER tubules, suggesting that 
myosin XI is responsible not only for the transport of ER in cytoplasm but also 
for the reticular organization of cortical ER.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.111.175018
PMCID: PMC3091044
PMID: 21427277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Int J Rehabil Res. 2011 Jun;34(2):141-50. doi: 10.1097/MRR.0b013e328344ae09.

Disability and profiles of functioning of patients with Parkinson's disease 
described with ICF classification.

Raggi A(1), Leonardi M, Ajovalasit D, Carella F, Soliveri P, Albanese A, Romito 
L.

Author information:
(1)Neurology, Public Health and Disability Unit, Scientific Directorate, 
Neurological Institute C. Besta, IRCCS Foundation, Milan, Italy. 
araggi@istituto-besta.it

The objective of this study was to describe the functional profiles of patients 
with Parkinson's disease (PD), and the relationships between impairment in body 
functions, limitations in activities, and environmental factors, using the World 
Health Organization's International Classification of Functioning, Disability, 
and Health (ICF). Patients were consecutively enrolled, and the ICF checklist 
was administered. Two count-based indices were developed: 'extension', 
containing ICF categories rated with qualifiers 1-4 and 'severity', containing 
ICF categories rated with qualifiers 3-4. Categories rated with qualifiers 1-4 
in at least 50% of patients are described separately. Spearman's correlation 
analysis was carried out to identify the relationships between impairments in 
body functions (BF) and body structures, activities and participation, and 
environmental factors (EF); linear regressions were performed to identify the 
best predictors of performance indices in activities and participation. A total 
of 96 patients were enrolled; 34 categories rated with qualifiers 1-4 in at 
least 50% of patients are reported, and most of them describe impairment in 
movement-related functions and limitations in mobility and self-care. 
Performance indices are significantly lower than capacity and significant 
relationships with both BF impairments and EF are observed. High difficulties in 
activities and participation performance are connected with both presence of 
severe BF symptoms and relevant barriers in EF. Both BF and EF play a relevant 
role in improving functioning of the patients with PD. The connection between EF 
barriers and severe problems in activities and participation performance 
suggests the need of fostering participation of patients with PD by promoting 
facilitators among EFs. Methodologies and tools are needed to couple information 
on symptoms, on the difficulties in executing activities, and on environmental 
features.

DOI: 10.1097/MRR.0b013e328344ae09
PMID: 21427589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2011 Feb;25(2):212-5.

[Clinical results of flap pedicled with collateral branch of descending rarus of 
lateral circumflex femoral artery for repairing lower limb soft tissue defects].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Z(1), Yu B, Qin C, Luo J, Hu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Trauma, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou Guangdong, 510515, PR China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical results of the flap pedicled with 
collateral branch of descending rarus of lateral circumflex femoral artery with 
digital three-dimensional reconstruction technique for lower limb soft tissue 
defects.
METHODS: Between March 2009 and January 2010, 7 patients with lower limb soft 
tissue defects were treated with free flap pedicled with collateral branch of 
descending rarus of lateral circumflex femoral artery. There were 6 males and 1 
female with an age range from 6 to 51 years. They were injured by traffic 
accident (4 cases), or by object hit from height (3 cases). The locations were 
foot in 2 cases, ankle in 2 cases, and anterior tibia in 3 cases. The disease 
duration was 8 hours to 40 days (mean, 20 days). All the cases complicated by 
exposure of tendons or bones. The areas of soft tissue defect ranged from 12 cm 
x 7 cm to 20 cm x 14 cm. Free flaps were transplanted at 4 to 16 days after 
symptomatic treatment. Before operation, all the flaps were designed with 
digital three-dimensional reconstruction technique. The size of flaps ranged 
from 15 cm x 9 cm to 22 cm x 16 cm. The donor sites were closed directly in all 
cases.
RESULTS: All the flaps survived. The wounds and incisions at donor sites healed 
by first intention. All the patients were followed up 6 to 12 months. The 
texture, appearance, and function of the flaps were satisfactory, and no 
complication occurred. All the flaps had protective sensation, which could meet 
the requirement of the daily life. The function of ankle was satisfactory with 
normal walk; the extension was 19-22 degrees and the flexion was 30-36 degrees. 
No obvious scar formed at donor sites.
CONCLUSION: The flap pedicled with collateral branch of descending rarus of 
lateral circumflex femoral artery has reliable blood supply, easy operation, 
little influence on the donor site, and high success rate with digital 
three-dimensional reconstruction technique. It is an excellent option for 
repairing lower limb soft tissue defects.

PMID: 21427854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Rom J Intern Med. 2010;48(2):117-20.

Malignant bone tumors: therapeutical strategies related to localization.

Burnei G(1), Nayef TE, Hodorogea D, Georgescu I, Vlad C, Gavriliu S, DrÄghic I.

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania. 
mscburnei@yahoo.com

Modular concept of reconstruction in malignant bone tumors in children and 
adolescents is trying to solve a complex problem in order to replace a certain 
bone segment of various sizes or joint, fully adjustable and fully aware 
ofmorpho-functional features related to the child's age. Given the high 
frequency of malignant bone tumors in children, occupying the third place in 
osteoarticular pathology, after injuries and malformations, due to the progress 
made in terms of knowledge and identifying certain factors (genetical, 
biological, immunological, etc.) and the increasing life expectancy of these 
sick children, paediatric orthopedics should offer the possibility of 
reconstruction of the resected segment. One of the basic concerns in this regard 
is modular endoprosthetic reconstruction of the resected area, adapted to each 
case and each bone or osteoarticular segment. Amputation is no longer the only 
option in the modern treatment in children and adolescent bone malignancies, 
being often replaced with increasing size piece resection and reconstruction 
with large massive cortical bone grafts or modular endoprosthetic replacement.

PMID: 21428175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. N Engl J Med. 2011 Apr 21;364(16):1513-22. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1011367. Epub
2011  Mar 23.

Systemic administration of PRO051 in Duchenne's muscular dystrophy.

Goemans NM(1), Tulinius M, van den Akker JT, Burm BE, Ekhart PF, Heuvelmans N, 
Holling T, Janson AA, Platenburg GJ, Sipkens JA, Sitsen JM, Aartsma-Rus A, van 
Ommen GJ, Buyse G, Darin N, Verschuuren JJ, Campion GV, de Kimpe SJ, van 
Deutekom JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Oct 6;365(14):1361.

BACKGROUND: Local intramuscular administration of the antisense oligonucleotide 
PRO051 in patients with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy with relevant mutations 
was previously reported to induce the skipping of exon 51 during pre-messenger 
RNA splicing of the dystrophin gene and to facilitate new dystrophin expression 
in muscle-fiber membranes. The present phase 1-2a study aimed to assess the 
safety, pharmacokinetics, and molecular and clinical effects of systemically 
administered PRO051.
METHODS: We administered weekly abdominal subcutaneous injections of PRO051 for 
5 weeks in 12 patients, with each of four possible doses (0.5, 2.0, 4.0, and 6.0 
mg per kilogram of body weight) given to 3 patients. Changes in RNA splicing and 
protein levels in the tibialis anterior muscle were assessed at two time points. 
All patients subsequently entered a 12-week open-label extension phase, during 
which they all received PRO051 at a dose of 6.0 mg per kilogram per week. 
Safety, pharmacokinetics, serum creatine kinase levels, and muscle strength and 
function were assessed.
RESULTS: The most common adverse events were irritation at the administration 
site and, during the extension phase, mild and variable proteinuria and 
increased urinary Î±(1)-microglobulin levels; there were no serious adverse 
events. The mean terminal half-life of PRO051 in the circulation was 29 days. 
PRO051 induced detectable, specific exon-51 skipping at doses of 2.0 mg or more 
per kilogram. New dystrophin expression was observed between approximately 60% 
and 100% of muscle fibers in 10 of the 12 patients, as measured on 
post-treatment biopsy, which increased in a dose-dependent manner to up to 15.6% 
of the expression in healthy muscle. After the 12-week extension phase, there 
was a mean (Â±SD) improvement of 35.2Â±28.7 m (from the baseline of 384Â±121 m) on 
the 6-minute walk test.
CONCLUSIONS: Systemically administered PRO051 showed dose-dependent molecular 
efficacy in patients with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, with a modest 
improvement in the 6-minute walk test after 12 weeks of extended treatment. 
(Funded by Prosensa Therapeutics; Netherlands National Trial Register number, 
NTR1241.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1011367
PMID: 21428760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. N Engl J Med. 2011 Mar 24;364(12):1104-15. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1010949.

Pioglitazone for diabetes prevention in impaired glucose tolerance.

DeFronzo RA(1), Tripathy D, Schwenke DC, Banerji M, Bray GA, Buchanan TA, 
Clement SC, Henry RR, Hodis HN, Kitabchi AE, Mack WJ, Mudaliar S, Ratner RE, 
Williams K, Stentz FB, Musi N, Reaven PD; ACT NOW Study.

Author information:
(1)Texas Diabetes Institute and University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio, TX 78229, USA. albarado@uthscsa.edu

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Jul 14;365(2):189.
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Sep 1;365(9):869.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Jul 14;365(2):183; author reply 183-4.
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Jul 14;365(2):182-3; author reply 183-4.

BACKGROUND: Impaired glucose tolerance is associated with increased rates of 
cardiovascular disease and conversion to type 2 diabetes mellitus. Interventions 
that may prevent or delay such occurrences are of great clinical importance.
METHODS: We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to 
examine whether pioglitazone can reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus in 
adults with impaired glucose tolerance. A total of 602 patients were randomly 
assigned to receive pioglitazone or placebo. The median follow-up period was 2.4 
years. Fasting glucose was measured quarterly, and oral glucose tolerance tests 
were performed annually. Conversion to diabetes was confirmed on the basis of 
the results of repeat testing.
RESULTS: Annual incidence rates for type 2 diabetes mellitus were 2.1% in the 
pioglitazone group and 7.6% in the placebo group, and the hazard ratio for 
conversion to diabetes in the pioglitazone group was 0.28 (95% confidence 
interval, 0.16 to 0.49; P<0.001). Conversion to normal glucose tolerance 
occurred in 48% of the patients in the pioglitazone group and 28% of those in 
the placebo group (P<0.001). Treatment with pioglitazone as compared with 
placebo was associated with significantly reduced levels of fasting glucose (a 
decrease of 11.7 mg per deciliter vs. 8.1 mg per deciliter [0.7 mmol per liter 
vs. 0.5 mmol per liter], P<0.001), 2-hour glucose (a decrease of 30.5 mg per 
deciliter vs. 15.6 mg per deciliter [1.6 mmol per liter vs. 0.9 mmol per liter], 
P<0.001), and HbA(1c) (a decrease of 0.04 percentage points vs. an increase of 
0.20 percentage points, P<0.001). Pioglitazone therapy was also associated with 
a decrease in diastolic blood pressure (by 2.0 mm Hg vs. 0.0 mm Hg, P=0.03), a 
reduced rate of carotid intima-media thickening (31.5%, P=0.047), and a greater 
increase in the level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (by 7.35 mg per 
deciliter vs. 4.5 mg per deciliter [0.4 mmol per liter vs. 0.3 mmol per liter], 
P=0.008). Weight gain was greater with pioglitazone than with placebo (3.9 kg 
vs. 0.77 kg, P<0.001), and edema was more frequent (12.9% vs. 6.4%, P=0.007).
CONCLUSIONS: As compared with placebo, pioglitazone reduced the risk of 
conversion of impaired glucose tolerance to type 2 diabetes mellitus by 72% but 
was associated with significant weight gain and edema. (Funded by Takeda 
Pharmaceuticals and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00220961.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1010949
PMID: 21428766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2010;154:A2834.

[Summary of the Dutch College of General Practitioners' practice guidelines on 
obesity].

[Article in Dutch]

van Avendonk MJ(1), van Binsbergen JJ, Langens FN, Boukes FS, Goudswaard AN.

Author information:
(1)Nederlands Huisartsen Genootschap, afd. Richtlijnontwikkeling & Wetenschap, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. m.vanavendonk@nhg.org

Adults with obesity have a decreased life expectancy and an increased risk of 
disease. Preferred treatment is a combination of lifestyle interventions, 
consisting of changes in diet, physical exercise and psychological support. 
Normal weight is not an achievable target in most adults, but even a 5-10% 
weight loss yields significant health gains. Obese children run a significant 
risk of mental and physical illness and often become obese adults. Indeed, the 
practice guidelines recommend an active approach by the general practitioner if 
a child appears obese at a consultation, irrespective of the reason for 
consultation.

PMID: 21429261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Neurosci. 2011 Mar 23;31(12):4613-21. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4640-10.2011.

Anterior hippocampus and goal-directed spatial decision making.

Viard A(1), Doeller CF, Hartley T, Bird CM, Burgess N.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, London 
WC1N 3AR, United Kingdom.

Planning spatial paths through our environment is an important part of everyday 
life and is supported by a neural system including the hippocampus and 
prefrontal cortex. Here we investigated the precise functional roles of the 
components of this system in humans by using fMRI as participants performed a 
simple goal-directed route-planning task. Participants had to choose the shorter 
of two routes to a goal in a visual scene that might contain a barrier blocking 
the most direct route, requiring a detour, or might be obscured by a curtain, 
requiring memory for the scene. The participant's start position was varied to 
parametrically manipulate their proximity to the goal and the difference in 
length of the two routes. Activity in medial prefrontal cortex, precuneus, and 
left posterior parietal cortex was associated with detour planning, regardless 
of difficulty, whereas activity in parahippocampal gyrus was associated with 
remembering the spatial layout of the visual scene. Activity in bilateral 
anterior hippocampal formation showed a strong increase the closer the start 
position was to the goal, together with medial prefrontal, medial and posterior 
parietal cortices. Our results are consistent with computational models in which 
goal proximity is used to guide subsequent navigation and with the association 
of anterior hippocampal areas with nonspatial functions such as arousal and 
reward expectancy. They illustrate how spatial and nonspatial functions combine 
within the anterior hippocampus, and how these functions interact with 
parahippocampal, parietal, and prefrontal areas in decision making and mnemonic 
function.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4640-10.2011
PMCID: PMC6622909
PMID: 21430161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 2011;47(1):104-8. doi: 10.4415/ANN_11_01_21.

How to cope with complexity and adapt new scenarios to patient care.

DompÃ© S(1).

Author information:
(1)Farmindustria, Rome, Italy. dompe@farmindustria.it

The last 60 years have been characterised by an increase in life expectancy and 
an improvement in the quality of patients' lives. Such advances, to a 
significant extent, can be attributed - up to 40% of the total - to the results 
of pharmaceutical research. However, many treatment needs remain unsatisfied: 
tumoral pathologies, AIDS, neurodegenerative diseases, psychiatric pathologies 
and rare diseases are only a few of the challenges facing research in its 
attempt to make new and effective therapies available. The knowledge necessary 
before a new medicinal product can be made available is becoming increasingly 
complex, in line with the rising costs of clinical development. In such a 
scenario success is the result of the commitment made by large groups, aided by 
the innovative capacity of the SMEs and the active role played by public centres 
of excellence. A fundamental passage represented by this new model is the part 
played by clinical studies, which while maintaining the highest standards of 
efficacy and safety are in a position to identify genetic characteristics and 
processes before initiating large-scale patient trials. In any case, therapeutic 
progress is closely dependent upon the choices made to fund research and, 
therefore, raises the twin question of rationalising expenditure and the 
sustainability of the NHS. In this framework, where any kind of wasteful 
spending harms the right to health, every health management inefficiency is 
intolerable and administrative optimisation undeferrable.

DOI: 10.4415/ANN_11_01_21
PMID: 21430349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Indian J Psychiatry. 2011 Jan;53(1):77-8. doi: 10.4103/0019-5545.75548.

Universal mental health program: An extension of life skills education to 
promote child mental health.

Manjunatha N(1), Saddichha S.

Author information:
(1)Senior Resident in Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore, India saddichha@gmail.com.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5545.75548
PMCID: PMC3056196
PMID: 21431015


290. Thromb Haemost. 2011 May;105(5):908-19. doi: 10.1160/TH11-02-0089. Epub 2011
Mar  22.

Cost-effectiveness of dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation: a Canadian payer perspective.

Sorensen SV(1), Kansal AR, Connolly S, Peng S, Linnehan J, Bradley-Kennedy C, 
Plumb JM.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. 
sonja.sorensen@unitedbiosource.com

Oral dabigatran etexilate is indicated for the prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) in whom anticoagulation is 
appropriate. Based on the RE-LY study we investigated the cost-effectiveness of 
Health Canada approved dabigatran etexilate dosing (150 mg bid for patients <80 
years, 110 mg bid for patients â¥80 years) versus warfarin and "real-world" 
prescribing (i.e. warfarin, aspirin, or no treatment in a cohort of 
warfarin-eligible patients) from a Canadian payer perspective. A Markov model 
simulated AF patients at moderate to high risk of stroke while tracking clinical 
events [primary and recurrent ischaemic strokes, systemic embolism, transient 
ischaemic attack, haemorrhage (intracranial, extracranial, and minor), acute 
myocardial infarction and death] and resulting functional disability. Acute 
event costs and resulting long-term follow-up costs incurred by disabled stroke 
survivors were based on a Canadian prospective study, published literature, and 
national statistics. Clinical events, summarized as events per 100 
patient-years, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), total costs, and incremental 
cost effectiveness ratios (ICER) were calculated. Over a lifetime, dabigatran 
etexilate treated patients experienced fewer intracranial haemorrhages (0.49 
dabigatran etexilate vs. 1.13 warfarin vs. 1.05 "real-world" prescribing) and 
fewer ischaemic strokes (4.40 dabigatran etexilate vs. 4.66 warfarin vs. 5.16 
"real-world" prescribing) per 100 patient-years. The ICER of dabigatran 
etexilate was $10,440/QALY versus warfarin and $3,962/QALY versus "real-world" 
prescribing. This study demonstrates that dabigatran etexilate is a highly 
cost-effective alternative to current care for the prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism among Canadian AF patients.

DOI: 10.1160/TH11-02-0089
PMID: 21431243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Adv Ther. 2011 Mar;28 Suppl 2:10-5. doi: 10.1007/s12325-010-0097-3. Epub
2011  Mar 9.

Azacytidine for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes in the elderly.

Diez Campelo M(1), Delgado RG, Molias AC, Sanchez JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hospital Universitario, Salamanca, Spain.

The management of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) in elderly patients is a 
significant clinical problem. The therapeutic options range from observation 
alone for patients with low-risk disease, lenalidomide for patients with 
5q-syndrome, to 5-azacytidine (5-AZA) for patients with higher risk of disease. 
In this paper, we summarize the clinical course of three patients with high-risk 
MDS treated with 5-AZA as well as the management and supportive care measures 
for adverse events. As expected, based on available clinical trials data, the 
agent resulted in clinical and hematological improvement in these patients with 
acceptable side effects. 5-AZA is an attractive option for elderly patients with 
high-risk MDS.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-010-0097-3
PMID: 21431505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Environ Health Prev Med. 2011 May;16(3):148-54. doi:
10.1007/s12199-010-0176-8.  Epub 2010 Sep 4.

Measuring the burden of disease using disability-adjusted life years in Shilin 
County of Yunnan Province, China.

Zhou SC(1), Cai L, Wang J, Cui SG, Chai Y, Liu B, Wan CH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Administration, Yunyang Medical College, Shiyan, 442000, 
People's Republic of China. zsc_2k@163.com

BACKGROUND: Few studies calculating burden of disease (BOD) have been carried 
out in China. Disability-adjusted life years (DALY) is one of the useful methods 
used to estimate BOD. This study aims to use DALY for evaluating BOD and to 
provide useful information for health planning for residents in Shilin Yi 
Nationality Autonomous County (Shilin County) of Yunnan Province, China.
METHODS: Methods developed for the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study by the 
World Bank and World Health Organization (WHO) were adapted and applied to 
Shilin County population health data. DALY rate per 1,000 was calculated from 
medical death certificates in 2003 in Shilin County. The geographic coordinates 
of towns or townships were determined using the geocode function of R2.3.1 
geographical information system (GIS) software.
RESULTS: Respiratory diseases were by far the leading cause of years of life 
lost (YLL) in both males and females. The four other leading causes of YLL in 
descending order were: unintentional injuries, cardiovascular diseases, 
intentional injuries, and malignant neoplasms. However, the five leading causes 
of years lived with disability (YLD) were, in descending order: neuropsychiatric 
conditions, intentional injuries, respiratory diseases, unintentional injuries, 
and cardiovascular diseases. The leading cause of total disease burden (DALY) 
was neuropsychiatric conditions. Townships of Muzhuqing, Xijiekou, and Weize 
were the areas with most serious disease burden in Shilin County.
CONCLUSIONS: Prevention and treatment of neuropsychiatric conditions and 
respiratory diseases for both females and males should be enhanced in Shilin 
County, so as to decrease injury. More preventive interventions for 
noninfectious chronic diseases should be emphasized in remote townships.

DOI: 10.1007/s12199-010-0176-8
PMCID: PMC3078293
PMID: 21431803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Environ Health Prev Med. 2011 Jan;16(1):25-35. doi:
10.1007/s12199-010-0162-1.  Epub 2010 Jul 7.

Evaluation of health-related quality of life using EQ-5D in Takamatsu, Japan.

Fujikawa A(1), Suzue T, Jitsunari F, Hirao T.

Author information:
(1)Takamatsu City Public Health Center, 10-27 Sakura-machi 1-chome, Takamatsu, 
Kagawa, 761-0074, Japan. ai_7187@city.takamatsu.lg.jp

OBJECTIVES: Healthy JapanÂ 21 (Japanese National Health Promotion in the 21st 
Century) was started in 2000 to promote extension of healthy life expectancy and 
improve health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The present study aims to 
describe HRQOL of Japanese subjects using the EuroQol questionnaire (EQ-5D) and 
investigate the influence of social background, health-related behaviors, and 
chronic conditions on HRQOL using representatives in Takamatsu, Japan.
METHODS: Data were obtained from a 2005 Takamatsu City health survey mailed to 
2,500 randomly selected Japanese individuals in Takamatsu, a medium-sized city. 
We examined data from 915 Japanese adults. The questionnaire addressed social 
background, health-related behaviors, chronic conditions, EQ-5D items, and 
self-rated health. The impact of social background, health-related behaviors, 
and chronic conditions on Japanese HRQOL was examined through multivariate 
regression, adjusting for age and sex.
RESULTS: EQ-5D scores decreased with age, particularly for respondents who were 
unemployed or retired. Adjusting for sex and age, the results showed that age, 
unemployment/retirement, feeling severe stress, and musculoskeletal and 
gastrointestinal diseases were significantly associated with decreased HRQOL. 
Conversely, sufficient sleep (7-8Â h/day) and having a hobby were significantly 
associated with increased HRQOL.
CONCLUSIONS: Information is lacking regarding HRQOL in Japanese populations. 
This study furthers our understanding of some important determinants influencing 
Japanese HRQOL, using the EQ-5D in Takamatsu, Japan. Our results also resembled 
some findings from similar studies in other countries. We hope to use the EQ-5D 
with other health survey questionnaires to gather more data about HRQOL of 
Japanese people.

DOI: 10.1007/s12199-010-0162-1
PMCID: PMC2999682
PMID: 21432214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Environ Health Prev Med. 2001 Oct;6(3):192-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02897970.

Active life expectancy for people over 65 years old in a local city in the 
northern part of Tohoku district.

Fukuda H(1), Kida K, Saito K, Asahi S, Mita R, Takusari Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Hirosaki University School of Medicine, 5 
Zaifucho, 036-8261, Hirosaki, Aomori Prefecture, Japan.

Life expectancy does not necessarily match quality of life (QOL). A cohort study 
involving a population of 10,107 in a certain city of Japan was conducted to 
evaluate active life expectancy (ALE), which has a direct relationship with QOL. 
The ALE that took functional recovery rates into account was 17.20 and 19.08 
years for males and females respectively, at the age of 65. These values 
increased by 2.98 and 3.87 years for men and women, respectively, compared with 
when functional recovery rates were not considered. ALE may serve as an 
indicator for the objective evaluation of various public health services 
provided by local governments.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02897970
PMCID: PMC2723309
PMID: 21432261

