Medicine, University of Messina, Italy.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) has a significant impact on quality of life, 
expectancy, and economic burden, with considerable costs associated with primary 
care and loss of income. The complex pathophysiology of SCI may explain the 
difficulty in finding a suitable therapy for limiting neuronal injury and 
promoting regeneration. Although innovative medical care, advances in 
pharmacotherapy have been limited. The aim of the present study was to carefully 
investigate molecular pathways and subtypes of glial cells involved in the 
protective effect of PEA on inflammatory reaction associated with an 
experimental model of SCI. The compression model induced by applying an aneurysm 
clip to the spinal cord in mice is closer to the human situation, since it 
replicates the persistence of cord compression. Spinal cord trauma was induced 
in mice by the application of vascular clips to the dura via a four-level T5-T8 
laminectomy. Repeated PEA administration (10 mg/kg i.p., 6 and 12 h after SCI) 
significantly reduced the degree of the severity of spinal cord trauma through 
the reduction of mast cell infiltration and activation. Moreover, PEA treatment 
significantly reduced the activation of microglia and astrocytes expressing 
cannabinoid CB(2) receptor after SCI. Importantly, the protective effect of PEA 
involved changes in the expression of neurotrophic factors, and in spinal cord 
dopaminergic function. Our results enhance our understanding about mechanisms 
related to the anti-inflammatory property of the PEA suggesting that this 
N-acylethanolamine may represent a crucial therapeutic intervention both 
diminishing the immune/inflammatory response and promoting the initiation of 
neurotrophic substance after SCI.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2011.02.006
PMID: 21354467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Feline Med Surg. 2011 Apr;13(4):296-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jfms.2011.01.006.
Epub  2011 Feb 26.

Feline intracranial meningioma with skull erosion and tumour extension into an 
area of skull hyperostosis.

Gutierrez-Quintana R(1), Gunn-Moore DA, Lamm CG, Penderis J.

Author information:
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, Bearsden Road, Glasgow G61 1QH, UK.

Skull hyperostosis is a frequently recognised feature of meningioma in feline 
and human patients, occurring at a frequency of around 4.5% of human cases. 
Evidence of osteolysis with extension of meningioma into, and in some cases 
through, the region of skull hyperostosis is much less commonly described in 
human patients. Here we present a 12-year-old cat with marked skull hyperostosis 
secondary to an intracranial meningioma, with magnetic resonance imaging and 
computed tomography evidence of tumour extension into the skull, centrally 
within the region of hyperostosis. Only a thin layer of bone was remaining 
between the mass and the extracranial region. Surgical resection of the region 
of skull demonstrating tumour invasion and the underlying mass resulted in good 
resolution of clinical signs and no post-surgical recurrence of meningioma 
within the 5 months follow-up period. Histopathological examination confirmed 
the mass to be fibroblastic meningioma.

Copyright © 2011 ISFM and AAFP. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfms.2011.01.006
PMID: 21354842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Br J Neurosurg. 2011 Jun;25(3):401-6. doi: 10.3109/02688697.2010.551676.
Epub  2011 Feb 28.

Influence of a latent period in QALY analysis: pilot study of intrathecal drug 
delivery systems for chronic non-malignant pain.

Biggs SA(1), Duarte RV, Raphael JH, Ashford RL.

Author information:
(1)Pain Management Department, Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Dudley, UK.

Cost effectiveness of a treatment is an important factor in decision making in 
the United Kingdom. Preceding most interventional health care treatments there 
is a waiting period between decision and procedure where health care costs may 
be lessened. Intrathecal drug delivery systems (IDDS) are a recognised pain 
management therapy for chronic non-malignant pain. To our knowledge, the period 
of time between being placed on a waiting list for IDDS and the implant (latent 
period) has not been taken into consideration for cost effectiveness analysis. A 
retrospective longitudinal analysis of all pain related costs for a period no 
less than 4 years was undertaken by assessment of medical records of 12 
consecutive patients implanted with IDDS for chronic non-malignant pain. The 
total cost of patient care for 2 years before latent, the latent period itself 
and 2 years after the implant of an IDDS was computed, according to the National 
Health Service tariff. An EQ-5D questionnaire was filled by all participants 
before and after IDDS implant. Total costs were converted to cost per day for 
comparison with latent period. The average duration of the latent period was 263 
± 176 days (range 3-489). The cost of conventional treatments during the 
pre-implant phase excluding the latent period was significantly higher (M = £ 
5,005.86, SE = £ 918.56) compared with the costs of the same phase including the 
latent period (M = £ 4,086.35, SE = £ 959.09, t(11) = 2.23, p = 0.05, r = 0.56). 
The cost per day changed significantly over the different periods (χ(2)(2) = 
24.00, p < 0.05). The variability and significantly lower costs of the latent 
period may influence cost effectiveness evaluations and consequently decision 
making, if not considered. Further studies analysing the influence of a latent 
period on the cost effectiveness of other treatments are warranted.

DOI: 10.3109/02688697.2010.551676
PMID: 21355772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Feb;15(11):iii-iv, 1-64. doi: 10.3310/hta15110.

Growth monitoring for short stature: update of a systematic review and economic 
model.

Craig D(1), Fayter D, Stirk L, Crott R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the project was to compare different screening rules 
and/or referral cut-offs for the identification of children with disorders of 
short stature. We undertook an update of a previous systematic review and 
economic model that addressed the same question.
DATA SOURCES: Sources searched included MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science Citation Index, 
Social Science Citation Index, Conference Proceedings Citation Index - 
Science/Social Science & Humanities, Cochrane Library 2009 Issue 4, Office of 
Health Economics Health Economic Evaluations Database, and the NHS Economic 
Evaluation Database.
REVIEW METHODS: The review was conducted as an update to our previous assessment 
in 2007. Searching covered January 2005 to November 2009 with no language or 
publication restrictions. Two reviewers examined full papers for relevance. Data 
extraction was conducted by one reviewer and independently checked by a second. 
In addition, searches were conducted to identify quality of life or utility 
papers to inform the economic evaluation. We developed a probabilistic decision 
analytic model to estimate the costs and quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gains 
from the perspective of the UK NHS and personal social services. The model was a 
cohort model, assuming a homogeneous population of 5-year-olds at baseline.
RESULTS: One study was included in the systematic review. The study was not UK 
based, but had been identified in the brief as relevant to the UK setting. The 
study's authors examined the performance of a number of rules to determine 
sensitivity and specificity of referral for short stature in four patient groups 
and three reference groups in the Netherlands. They derived an algorithm for 
referral based on the optimal rules. No new studies were located that provided 
appropriate quality of life or utilities data for the economic model. The model 
was based on the previous assessment which was updated to better reflect current 
UK clinical practice. We compared two alternative monitoring strategies, one of 
which was based on the study identified in our systematic review (Grote 
strategy); the other was based on UK consensus (UK strategy). We identified that 
the UK strategy was the least effective and least costly, with a mean gain of 
0.001 QALYs at a mean cost of £21. The Grote strategy was both more expensive 
and more effective, with a mean cost of £68 and a mean QALY gain of 0.042. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was £1144 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: This assessment contributes further knowledge, but does not provide 
definitive answers on how to deliver growth monitoring. In particular, we were 
unable to ascertain current practice in the UK for growth screening. Further, we 
were unable to evaluate through the use of identified studies and modelling an 
optimal referral cut-off and age at which to screen. We identified a number of 
research questions that would further inform referral strategies, which in 
summary would involve further primary and secondary data collection.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15110
PMCID: PMC4781131
PMID: 21356163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Mar;119(3):a118. doi: 10.1289/ehp.119-a118a.

U.S. lives: longer but sicker?

Freeman KS.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.119-a118a
PMCID: PMC3060013
PMID: 21356628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Adv Otorhinolaryngol. 2011;70:91-98. doi: 10.1159/000322482. Epub 2011 Feb
24.

Neurofibromatosis type 2.

Evans GR, Lloyd SKW, Ramsden RT.

Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is an autosomal-dominant inherited tumour 
predisposition syndrome caused by mutations in the NF2 gene on chromosome 22. 
Affected individuals develop schwannomas characteristically affecting both 
vestibular nerves leading to hearing loss and eventual deafness. Rehabilitation 
with brain stem implants and in some cases cochlear implants is improving this 
outcome. Schwannomas also occur on other cranial nerves, on spinal nerve roots 
and peripheral nerves. Meningiomas and ependymomas are other tumour features. In 
excess of 50% of patients represent de novo mutations and as many as 33% are 
mosaic for the underlying disease causing mutation. Truncating mutations 
(nonsense, frameshift insertions/deletions) are the most frequent germline 
events and cause the most severe disease, whilst single and multiple exon 
deletions are common and are usually associated with milder NF2. A strategy for 
detection of the latter is vital for a sensitive genetic analysis. NF2 
represents a difficult management problem with most patients facing substantial 
morbidity and reduced life expectancy. Surgery remains the focus of current 
management although watchful waiting and occasionally radiation treatment have a 
role. We are seeing the advent of tailored drug therapies aimed at the genetic 
level and these are likely to provide huge improvements for this devastating, 
life limiting condition.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000322482
PMID: 21358190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Curr Opin Urol. 2011 May;21(3):252-6. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328344e4ad.

Contemporary management of patients with T1a and T1b prostate cancer.

Capitanio U(1).

Author information:
(1)University Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy. capitanio.umberto@hsr.it

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Incidental prostate cancer (PCa) - T1a to T1b - still 
represents a non-negligible clinical entity requiring good decision-making 
skills to correctly manage patients, most of whom may have insignificant 
tumours. The aim of the current review is to summarize the available 
evidence-based information that may be helpful in daily clinical practice.
RECENT FINDINGS: Although having major clinical implications, the current TNM 
staging system for incidental PCa has not been re-evaluated for 20 years. 
Recently, many reports questioned the accuracy of T1a-T1b classification and 
strengthened the fact that the decisions to offer further treatment in cases of 
incidental cancer should be based upon the estimated probability of clinical 
progression compared to the relative risk of therapy and potential benefit to 
survival. The use of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels before and after 
transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and Gleason score at diagnosis 
may help in estimating the need for further therapy.
SUMMARY: Active surveillance should be recommended for well differentiated 
incidental cancers in patients with limited life expectancy and low PSA levels 
after TURP or, alternatively, in patients who are uncomfortable with potential 
treatment-related complications. In patients with a longer life expectancy - 
especially for poorly differentiated tumours - radical prostatectomy should be 
considered. PSA levels before and after TURP increase the accuracy in estimating 
the need for active management. Further studies focusing on biologic and 
clinical markers of progression are mandatory to identify those patients who 
require active treatment after incidental PCa diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328344e4ad
PMID: 21358335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Asian J Androl. 2011 Jul;13(4):526-33. doi: 10.1038/aja.2010.125. Epub 2011
Feb  28.

Profile of men's health in Malaysia: problems and challenges.

Tong SF(1), Low WY, Ng CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur 
56000, Malaysia. ston1073@uni.sydney.edu.au

Men's health concerns have evolved from the traditional andrology and male 
sexual health to a more holistic approach that encompasses male psychological, 
social and physical health. The poor state of health in men compared to their 
female counterparts is well documented. A review of the epidemiological data 
from Malaysia noted a similar trend in which men die at higher rates in under 1 
and above 15 years old groups and most disease categories compared to women. In 
Malaysia, the main causes of death in men are non-communicable diseases and 
injuries. Risk factors, such as risk-taking behaviour, smoking and hypertension, 
are prevalent and amenable to early interventions. Erectile dysfunction, 
premature ejaculation and prostate disorders are also prevalent. However, many 
of these morbidities go unreported and are not diagnosed early; therefore, 
opportunities for early intervention are missed. This reflects poor health 
knowledge and inadequate health-care utilisation among Malaysian men. Their 
health-seeking behaviour has been shown to be strongly influenced by family 
members and friends. However, more research is needed to identify men's unmet 
health-care needs and to develop optimal strategies for addressing them. Because 
the Malaysian population is aging and there is an increase in sedentary 
lifestyles, optimizing men's health will remain a challenge unless effective 
measures are implemented. The existing male-unfriendly health-care system and 
the negative influence of masculinity on men's health behaviour must be 
addressed. A national men's health policy based on a male-friendly approach to 
health-care delivery is urgently needed to provide a framework for addressing 
these challenges.

DOI: 10.1038/aja.2010.125
PMCID: PMC3739619
PMID: 21358664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Korean Circ J. 2011 Jan;41(1):46-50. doi: 10.4070/kcj.2011.41.1.46. Epub
2011  Jan 31.

Management of a remnant electrode in a patient with cardioverter-defibrillator 
infection after refusal of intravascular electrode removal.

Hahn S(1), Kim J, Choi JH, Lim SH, Kang TS, Park BE, Lee MY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine School of Medicine, 
Dankook University, Cheonan, Korea.

Treatments of choice for cardiac implantable electronic device (CIED) infections 
are the removal of the entire CIED system, control of infection, and new device 
implantation. Occasionally, a complete CIED removal can not be performed for 
several reasons, such as very old age, severe comobidity, limited life 
expectancy, or refusal by a patient. We encountered a male patient who developed 
traumatic CIED infection five years after cardioverter-defibrillator 
implantation. An intravenous electrode could not be removed by a simple 
transvenous extraction procedure, and he refused surgical removal of the remnant 
electrode. After control of local infection, the tips of the electrode were 
separated and buried between muscles, and the wound was closed with a local 
flap. CIED infection did not recur for 12 months even without relying on 
long-term antimicrobial treatment.

DOI: 10.4070/kcj.2011.41.1.46
PMCID: PMC3040404
PMID: 21359070

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflicts of 
interest.


143. Demography. 2011 Feb;48(1):211-39. doi: 10.1007/s13524-011-0015-6.

Losses of expected lifetime in the United States and other developed countries: 
methods and empirical analyses.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Andreev EM, Zhang Z, Oeppen J, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
Shkolnikov@demogr.mpg.de

Patterns of diversity in age at death are examined using e (†), a dispersion 
measure that equals the average expected lifetime lost at death. We apply two 
methods for decomposing differences in e (†). The first method estimates the 
contributions of average levels of mortality and mortality age structures. The 
second (and newly developed) method returns components produced by differences 
between age- and cause-specific mortality rates. The United States is close to 
England and Wales in mean life expectancy but has higher life expectancy losses 
and lacks mortality compression. The difference is determined by mortality age 
structures, whereas the role of mortality levels is minor. This is related to 
excess mortality at ages under 65 from various causes in the United States. 
Regression on 17 country-series suggests that e (†) correlates with income 
inequality across countries but not across time. This result can be attributed 
to dissimilarity between the age- and cause-of-death structures of temporal 
mortality reduction and intercountry mortality variation. It also suggests that 
factors affecting overall mortality decrease differ from those responsible for 
excess lifetime losses in the United States compared with other countries. The 
latter can be related to weaknesses of health system and other factors resulting 
in premature death from heart diseases, amenable causes, accidents and violence.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-011-0015-6
PMID: 21359621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Arch Microbiol. 2011 May;193(5):373-84. doi: 10.1007/s00203-011-0682-0. Epub
 2011 Feb 27.

Escherichia coli cold shock protein CsdA effects an increase in septation and 
the resultant formation of coccobacilli at low temperature.

Pierce A(1), Gillette D, Jones PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Winston-Salem State University, NC 27110, USA.

Bacterial shape is controlled by peptidoglycan assembly along the lateral wall 
and at the septum site. In contrast to rods at 37°C, the wild-type strain formed 
coccobacilli at 12°C, indicating a prevailing shift toward septal peptidoglycan 
synthesis at low temperature. Escherichia coli cold shock protein CsdA is a 
DEAD-box RNA helicase with an extended variable region at the carboxyl terminus. 
The csdA null mutant formed elongated cells indicating that CsdA, directly or 
indirectly, effects an increase in septation and the resultant coccobacillus 
morphology. Lipoprotein NlpI is suggested for a role in cell division. The 
presence of a plasmid encoding CsdA or NlpI increased septation and 
coccobacillus morphology of the csdA null mutant cells. Plasmid-encoded CsdAΔ445 
(lacking the C-terminal extension) in the mutant complemented the growth and 
resulted in the appearance of coccobacillus- and rod-shaped cells. In contrast, 
a plasmid encoding both NlpI and CsdAΔ445 in the wild-type or mutant resulted in 
inhibition of growth accompanied with the formation of elongated and misshapen 
cells. However, a plasmid encoding both NlpI and CsdA resulted in normal growth 
and coccobacilli. The data indicate that the addition of the C-terminal 
extension yields an increase in septation and the resultant increased formation 
of coccobacilli.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-011-0682-0
PMID: 21359956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Urban Health. 2011 Jun;88(3):556-66. doi: 10.1007/s11524-011-9552-y.

An epidemic in evolution: the need for new models of HIV care in the chronic 
disease era.

Chu C(1), Selwyn PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center/Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA. cchu@montefiore.org

Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, models of HIV care have needed to be 
invented or modified as the needs of patients and communities evolved. Early in 
the epidemic, primary care and palliative care predominated; subsequently, the 
emergence of effective therapy for HIV infection led to further specialization 
and a focus on increasingly complex antiretroviral therapy as the cornerstone of 
effective HIV care. Over the past decade, factors including (1) an aging, 
long-surviving population; (2) multiple co-morbidities; (3) polypharmacy; and 
(4) the need for chronic disease management have led to a need for further 
evolution of HIV care models. Moreover, geographic diffusion; persistent 
disparities in timely HIV diagnosis, treatment access, and outcomes; and the 
aging of the HIV provider workforce also suggest the importance of 
reincorporating primary care providers into the spectrum of HIV care in the 
current era. Although some HIV-dedicated treatment centers offer comprehensive 
medical services, other models of HIV care potentially exist and should be 
developed and evaluated. In particular, primary care- and community-based 
collaborative practices-where HIV experts or specialists are incorporated into 
existing health centers-are one approach that combines the benefits of 
HIV-specific expertise and comprehensive primary care using an integrated, 
patient-centered approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s11524-011-9552-y
PMCID: PMC3126936
PMID: 21360244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2010 Dec;18(4):215-8. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a3613.

Health differences between populations of the United States of America and the 
European Union.

Ginter E(1), Simko V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Slovakia. 
ginter.emil@mail.t-com.sk

This review documents health care outcome in relation to health expenditure in 
the US and in the European Union (EU) and it attempts to interpret the root 
cause of observed differences. In comparison with the US where the per capita 
expenditure for health care is close to 8,000 international dollars, health 
expenditure in the Western European Countries (WEC) (France, Germany, Britain, 
Italy) is approximately only half of that in the US. In the Central and Eastern 
European Countries (CEEC) it is 20 per cent or less of the US health care 
budget. Infant mortality in the US is much higher than in the WEC and some CEEC 
(Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia) countries are even better off in 
infant mortality than the US. Concerning the male life expectancy, Caucasian 
Americans rank the lowest of the WEC, representing a statistical boundary 
between the WEC and the CEEC. Like the American caucasian males, the American 
Caucasian females rank at the lowest range of the WEC. Afro-American females 
have values substantially worse, almost along the lowest ranking CEEC. European 
societies have been established for centuries, cherishing strong social values. 
The US is a much younger rapidly developing multi-ethnic community that derived 
its progress from adhering to traditions and principles of free choice. Witness 
to the rate at which the US society can resolve difficult social problems is the 
enormous progress in eliminating racial discrimination during the past fifty 
years.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a3613
PMID: 21361106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. BMC Palliat Care. 2011 Mar 2;10:2. doi: 10.1186/1472-684X-10-2.

Palliative inpatients in general hospitals: a one day observational study in 
Belgium.

Desmedt MS(1), de la Kethulle YL, Deveugele MI, Keirse EA, Paulus DJ, Menten JJ, 
Simoens SR, Vanden Berghe PJ, Beguin CM.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Soins Continus, Cliniques Universitaires Saint Luc, Université 
Catholique de Louvain, 10 avenue Hippocrate, 1200 Bruxelles, Belgique. 
marianne.desmedt@uclouvain.be.

BACKGROUND: Hospital care plays a major role at the end-of-life. But little is 
known about the overall size and characteristics of the palliative inpatient 
population. The aim of our study was to analyse these aspects.
METHODS: We conducted a one-day observational study in 14 randomly selected 
Belgian hospitals. Patients who met the definition of palliative patients were 
identified as palliative. Then, information about their socio-demographic 
characteristics, diagnoses, prognosis, and care plan were recorded and analysed.
RESULTS: There were 2639 in-patients on the day of the study; 9.4% of them were 
identified as "palliative". The mean age of the group was 72 years. The primary 
diagnosis was cancer in 51% of patients and the estimated life expectancy was 
shorter than 3 months in 33% of patients and longer than 1 year in 28% of 
patients. The professional caregivers expected for most of the patients (73%), 
that the treatment would improve patient comfort rather than prolong life. 
Antibiotics, transfusions, treatments specific to the pathology, and artificial 
nutrition were administered in 90%, 78%, 57% and 50% of the patients, 
respectively, but were generally given with a view to controlling the symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis presents a first national estimate of the palliative 
inpatient population. Our results confirm that hospitals play a major role at 
the end-of-life, with one out of ten inpatients identified as a "palliative" 
patient. These data also demonstrate the complexity of the palliative population 
and the substantial diversity of care that they can require.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-684X-10-2
PMCID: PMC3052175
PMID: 21362204


148. J Rheumatol. 2011 Mar;38(3):567-71. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.101124.

Cardiovascular comorbidities in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: pathogenesis, 
consequences for patient management, and future research agenda: a report from 
the GRAPPA 2009 annual meeting.

Boehncke WH(1), Gladman DD, Chandran V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University, Frankfurt am 
Main, Germany. boehncke@em.uni-frankfurt.de

Psoriasis is often associated with other diseases, substantially adding to the 
patient's burden of disease. Recent epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an 
increased cardiovascular morbidity among patients with psoriasis and psoriatic 
arthritis (PsA), which contributes to their reduced life expectancy. At the 
meeting of the Group for Research and Assessment of Psoriasis and Psoriatic 
Arthritis (GRAPPA) adjacent to the International Federation of Psoriasis 
Associations (IFPA) congress, members discussed the pathogenetic aspects of this 
association and resulting consequences for the management of patients with 
psoriasis and PsA. A future research agenda was considered.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.101124
PMID: 21362790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Transgenic Res. 2011 Dec;20(6):1305-20. doi: 10.1007/s11248-011-9499-5. Epub
 2011 Mar 2.

Plasma proteomic profiles of bovine growth hormone transgenic mice as they age.

Ding J(1), Berryman DE, Kopchick JJ.

Author information:
(1)Edison Biotechnology Institute, Ohio University, Athens, OH 45701, USA.

Attenuation of the growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) axis 
results in extended lifespan in many organisms including mice. Conversely, GH 
transgenic mice have excess GH action and die prematurely. We have studied 
bovine (b) GH transgenic mice (n = 9) and their wild type (WT) littermates 
(n = 8) longitudinally and have determined several age-related changes. Compared 
to WT mice, bGH mice lost fat mass, became hypoglycemic and had lower insulin 
levels at older ages despite being hyperinsulinemic when young. To examine 
plasma protein differences in bGH mice relative to controls, samples at 2, 4, 8, 
12 and 16 months of age were analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis 
followed by identification using mass spectrometry. We found several differences 
in plasma proteins of bGH mice compared to controls, including increased 
apolipoprotein E (five isoforms), haptoglobin (four isoforms) and 
mannose-binding protein-C (one out of three isoforms), and decreased 
transthyretin (six isoforms). In addition, clusterin (two out of six isoforms) 
and haptoglobin (four isoforms) were up-regulated in bGH mice as a function of 
age. Finally, alpha-2 macroglobulin (seven isoforms) was altered in an 
isoform-specific manner with two isoforms increased and two decreased in bGH 
mouse plasma compared to controls. In conclusion, identification of these 
proteins suggests that bGH mice exhibit an increased inflammatory state with an 
adverse lipid profile, possibly contributing to their diminished life 
expectancy. Also, these newly discovered plasma proteins may be indicative or 
'biomarkers' of a shortened lifespan.

DOI: 10.1007/s11248-011-9499-5
PMCID: PMC3176978
PMID: 21365322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest There is no conflict of 
interest that could be perceived as prejudicing the impartiality of the research 
reported.


150. Hawaii Med J. 2011 Mar;70(3):52-5.

The Werner's Syndrome RecQ helicase/exonuclease at the nexus of cancer and 
aging.

Chun SG(1), Shaeffer DS, Bryant-Greenwood PK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of 
Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii 96813, USA. sgschun@hawaii.edu

Werner's Syndrome (WS) or adult-onset progeria is an autosomal recessive 
disorder of accelerated aging caused by mutations of the DNA RecQ 
helicase/exonuclease (WRN). WRN is an ATP-dependent helicase with 3' to 5' DNA 
exonuclease activity that regulates the replicative potential of dividing cells, 
and WRN loss-of-function mutations promote cellular senescence and neoplastic 
transformation. These molecular findings translate clinically into adult-onset 
progeria manifested by premature hair graying, dermal atrophy, cardiovascular 
disease, and cancer predilection along with a markedly reduced life expectancy. 
Recently, a patient with WS who developed pancreatic adenocarcinoma was 
identified in Honolulu suggesting a significant prevalence of loss-of-function 
WRN mutations in Hawaii's Japanese-American population. Based upon the 
indigenous Japanese WRN loss-of-function mutation heterozygote rate of 6 per 
1,000, we speculate the possibility of approximately 1,200 heterozygotes in 
Hawaii. Our ongoing studies aim to evaluate Hawaii's true allelic prevalence of 
WRN loss-of-function mutations in the Japanese-American population, and the role 
of WRN silencing in sporadic cancers. In summary, WRN plays a nexus-like role in 
the complex interplay of cellular events that regulate aging, and analysis of 
WRN polymorphisms in Hawaii's population will generate novel insights to advance 
care for age-related pathologies.

Hawaii Medical Journal Copyright 2011.

PMCID: PMC3071901
PMID: 21365542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Musculoskeletal Care. 2011 Jun;9(2):120-3. doi: 10.1002/msc.204.

Recommendations for economic evaluations of non-pharmacological arthritis care: 
results from the CARE VI meeting 2010.

van den Hout WB(1), Bremander A, Vliet Vlieland TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. hout@lumc.nl

DOI: 10.1002/msc.204
PMID: 21365738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. N Engl J Med. 2011 Mar 3;364(9):829-841. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1008862.

Diabetes mellitus, fasting glucose, and risk of cause-specific death.

Rao Kondapally Seshasai S(1), Kaptoge S(1), Thompson A(#)(1), Di Angelantonio 
E(#)(1), Gao P(#)(1), Sarwar N(#)(1), Whincup PH(2), Mukamal KJ(3), Gillum 
RF(4), Holme I(5), Njølstad I(6), Fletcher A(7), Nilsson P(8), Lewington S(9), 
Collins R(9), Gudnason V(10), Thompson SG(11), Sattar N(12), Selvin E(13), Hu 
FB(3), Danesh J(1); Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration.

Collaborators: Tipping RW, Ford CE, Simpson LM, Folsom AR, Chambless LE, Selvin 
E, Wagenknecht LE, Panagiotakos DB, Pitsavos C, Chrysohoou C, Stefanadis C, 
Knuiman M, Goldbourt U, Benderly M, Tanne D, Whincup PH, Wannamethee SG, Morris 
RW, Kiechl S, Willeit J, Oberhollenzer F, Mayr A, Wald N, Ebrahim S, Lawlor DA, 
Yarnell JW, Gallacher J, Casiglia E, Tikhonoff V, Nietert PJ, Sutherland SE, 
Bachman DL, de Boer IH, Kizer JR, Mukamal KJ, Tybjærg-Hansen A, Nordestgaard BG, 
Benn M, Frikke-Schmidt R, Giampaoli S, Palmieri L, Panico S, Vanuzzo D, Pilotto 
L, Gómez de la Cámara A, Rubio MA, Simons L, McCallum J, Friedlander Y, Fowkes 
FG, Lee AJ, Taylor J, Guralnik JM, Phillips CL, Wallace R, Guralnik JM, Phillips 
CL, Blazer DG, Guralnik JM, Phillips CL, Phillips CL, Guralnik JM, Khaw KT, 
Brenner H, Raum E, Müller H, Rothenbacher D, Jansson JH, Wennberg P, Nissinen A, 
Donfrancesco C, Giampaoli S, Salomaa V, Harald K, Jousilahti P, Vartiainen E, 
Woodward M, D'Agostino RB Sr, Vasan RS, Fox CS, Pencina MJ, Bladbjerg E, 
Jørgensen T, Møller L, Jespersen J, Dankner R, Chetrit A, Lubin F, Wilhelmsen L, 
Eriksson H, Svärdsudd K, Welin L, Rosengren A, Wilhelmsen L, Lappas G, Eriksson 
H, Björkelund C, Lissner L, Bengtsson C, Cremer P, Nagel D, Strandberg TE, 
Salomaa V, Tilvis RS, Miettinen TA, Tilvis RS, Strandberg TE, Kiyohara Y, Arima 
H, Doi Y, Ninomiya T, Rodriguez B, Dekker JM, Nijpels G, Stehouwer CD, Hu FB, 
Sun Q, Rimm EB, Willett WC, Iso H, Kitamura A, Yamagishi K, Noda H, Goldbourt U, 
Nyyssönen K, Tuomainen TP, Salonen JT, Deeg D, Poppelaars JL, Meade TW, Cooper 
JA, Hedblad B, Nilsson P, Engström G, Verschuren WM, Blokstra A, Cushman M, 
Folsom AR, Psaty BM, Shea S, Döring A, Koenig W, Meisinger C, Verschuren WM, 
Blokstra A, Bueno-de-Mesquita HB, Wilhelmsen L, Rosengren A, Lappas G, Fletcher 
A, Hewitt J, Nitsch D, Kuller LH, Grandits G, Selmer R, Tverdal A, Nystad W, 
Gillum RF, Mussolino M, Hu FB, Sun Q, Manson JE, Hankinson SE, Salomaa V, Harald 
K, Jousilahti P, Vartiainen E, Cooper JA, Bauer KA, Davidson KW, Kirkland S, 
Shaffer JA, Korin MR, Kitamura A, Iso H, Sato S, Holme I, Selmer R, Tverdal A, 
Nystad W, Ducimetiere P, Jouven X, Bakker SJ, Gansevoort RT, Hillege HL, Crespo 
CJ, Garcia-Palmieri M, Amouyel P, Arveiler D, Evans A, Ferrières J, Schulte H, 
Assmann G, Westendorp RG, Buckley BM, Packard CJ, Sattar N, Cantin B, Lamarche 
B, Després JP, Dagenais GR, Barrett-Connor E, Wingard DL, Bettencourt R, 
Gudnason V, Aspelund T, Sigurdsson G, Thorsson B, Trevisan M, Witteman J, Kardys 
I, Tiemeier H, Hofman A, Tunstall-Pedoe H, Tavendale R, Lowe GD, Woodward M, 
Howard BV, Zhang Y, Best L, Umans J, Ben-Shlomo Y, Davey-Smith G, Onat A, 
Hergenç G, Can G, Njølstad I, Mathiesen EB, Løchen ML, Wilsgaard T, Zethelius B, 
Risérus U, Berne C, Ingelsson E, Gaziano JM, Stampfer M, Ridker P, Gaziano JM, 
Ridker P, Ulmer H, Diem G, Concin H, Tosetto A, Rodeghiero F, Manson JE, Tinker 
L, Liu S, Howard BV, Marmot M, Clarke R, Collins R, Fletcher A, Brunner E, 
Shipley M, Ridker P, Buring J, Shepherd J, Cobbe SM, Ford I, Robertson M, Marín 
Ibañez A, Feskens EJ, Kromhout D, Walker M, Watson S, Alexander M, Di 
Angelantonio E, Collins R, Gao P, Gobin R, Haycock P, Kaptoge S, Seshasai SR, 
Lewington S, Pennells L, Sarwar N, Thompson A, Thompson SG, Walker M, Watson S, 
White IR, Wood AM, Wormser D, Danesh J.

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(2)St. George's University of London, London.
(3)Harvard University, Boston.
(4)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta.
(5)Ullevål University Hospital, Oslo.
(6)University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway.
(7)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London.
(8)Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(9)University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(10)Icelandic Heart Association and the University of Iceland, Reykjavik.
(11)Medical Research Council Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(12)University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.
(13)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Mar 31;364(13):1281.

Comment in
    Natl Med J India. 2011 Jul-Aug;24(4):222-4.

BACKGROUND: The extent to which diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia is related to 
risk of death from cancer or other nonvascular conditions is uncertain.
METHODS: We calculated hazard ratios for cause-specific death, according to 
baseline diabetes status or fasting glucose level, from individual-participant 
data on 123,205 deaths among 820,900 people in 97 prospective studies.
RESULTS: After adjustment for age, sex, smoking status, and body-mass index, 
hazard ratios among persons with diabetes as compared with persons without 
diabetes were as follows: 1.80 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.71 to 1.90) for 
death from any cause, 1.25 (95% CI, 1.19 to 1.31) for death from cancer, 2.32 
(95% CI, 2.11 to 2.56) for death from vascular causes, and 1.73 (95% CI, 1.62 to 
1.85) for death from other causes. Diabetes (vs. no diabetes) was moderately 
associated with death from cancers of the liver, pancreas, ovary, colorectum, 
lung, bladder, and breast. Aside from cancer and vascular disease, diabetes (vs. 
no diabetes) was also associated with death from renal disease, liver disease, 
pneumonia and other infectious diseases, mental disorders, nonhepatic digestive 
diseases, external causes, intentional self-harm, nervous-system disorders, and 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Hazard ratios were appreciably reduced 
after further adjustment for glycemia measures, but not after adjustment for 
systolic blood pressure, lipid levels, inflammation or renal markers. Fasting 
glucose levels exceeding 100 mg per deciliter (5.6 mmol per liter), but not 
levels of 70 to 100 mg per deciliter (3.9 to 5.6 mmol per liter), were 
associated with death. A 50-year-old with diabetes died, on average, 6 years 
earlier than a counterpart without diabetes, with about 40% of the difference in 
survival attributable to excess nonvascular deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to vascular disease, diabetes is associated with 
substantial premature death from several cancers, infectious diseases, external 
causes, intentional self-harm, and degenerative disorders, independent of 
several major risk factors. (Funded by the British Heart Foundation and 
others.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1008862
PMCID: PMC4109980
PMID: 21366474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 Mar 8;108(10):4135-40. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1019581108. Epub 2011 Feb 22.

Endurance exercise rescues progeroid aging and induces systemic mitochondrial 
rejuvenation in mtDNA mutator mice.

Safdar A(1), Bourgeois JM, Ogborn DI, Little JP, Hettinga BP, Akhtar M, Thompson 
JE, Melov S, Mocellin NJ, Kujoth GC, Prolla TA, Tarnopolsky MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8N 3Z5.

Expression of concern in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Jun 19;115(25):E5834.

A causal role for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutagenesis in mammalian aging is 
supported by recent studies demonstrating that the mtDNA mutator mouse, 
harboring a defect in the proofreading-exonuclease activity of mitochondrial 
polymerase gamma, exhibits accelerated aging phenotypes characteristic of human 
aging, systemic mitochondrial dysfunction, multisystem pathology, and reduced 
lifespan. Epidemiologic studies in humans have demonstrated that endurance 
training reduces the risk of chronic diseases and extends life expectancy. 
Whether endurance exercise can attenuate the cumulative systemic decline 
observed in aging remains elusive. Here we show that 5 mo of endurance exercise 
induced systemic mitochondrial biogenesis, prevented mtDNA depletion and 
mutations, increased mitochondrial oxidative capacity and respiratory chain 
assembly, restored mitochondrial morphology, and blunted pathological levels of 
apoptosis in multiple tissues of mtDNA mutator mice. These adaptations conferred 
complete phenotypic protection, reduced multisystem pathology, and prevented 
premature mortality in these mice. The systemic mitochondrial rejuvenation 
through endurance exercise promises to be an effective therapeutic approach to 
mitigating mitochondrial dysfunction in aging and related comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1019581108
PMCID: PMC3053975
PMID: 21368114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


154. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2010 Dec;13(4):189-97.

Cost-utility estimates in depression: does the valuation method matter?

Jonkers CC(1), Lamers F, Evers SM, Bosma H, Van Eijk JT.

Author information:
(1)The Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development, PO Box 
93245, 2509 AE The Hague, The Netherlands. jonkers@zonmw.nl

BACKGROUND: Depression imposes a substantial burden on society. In view of the 
economic burden of depression, studies evaluating depression treatment 
increasingly incorporate a cost-utility analysis. Outcomes of these analyses are 
used by decision makers to prioritize healthcare. Although generic 
preference-based instruments have been recommended for measuring utility, 
depression research often uses a disease-specific method, based on 
depression-free days (DFD), to measure utilities.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: The objective of this study was to compare utility 
measurement techniques in the context of a randomized controlled trial. In 
particular, we studied the agreement between QALYs measured with the EuroQol 
(EQ-5D), the Short Form 6D (SF-6D), and the DFD method, using the EQ-5D as the 
reference method. We also studied whether the use of different techniques leads 
to different conclusions for decision makers.
METHODS: Data were derived from the Depression in Elderly with Long-Term 
Afflictions (DELTA) study. This randomized controlled trial was designed to 
study the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a minimal psychological 
intervention for chronically ill patients with co-occurring minor or mild to 
moderate major depression. The EQ-5D, SF-6D and Beck Depression Inventory (to 
estimate DFDs) were assessed at baseline, and at three, six and twelve months 
after baseline.
RESULTS: Poor agreement was found between the EQ-5D and DFD (Kendall's Tau: 
0.33; ICC: 0.21 (95% CI:-0.07-0.45)) and moderate agreement between the EQ-5D 
and SF-6D (Kendall's Tau: 0.60; ICC: 0.47 (95% CI: 0.36-0.57)). The incremental 
cost-utility ratio led to similar conclusions for decision makers across 
techniques.
DISCUSSION: In conclusion, utilities from the disease-specific DFD method should 
not be compared directly with utilities derived from the EQ-5D. Although a 
disease-specific method might yield similar cost-utility ratios as generic 
instruments, generic instruments remain the preferred option for prioritizing 
healthcare. Limitations of this study include the presence of minor depression 
and chronic illnesses in our study population.
IMPLICATIONS: Generic instruments remain preferred for cost-utility analyses, 
especially when results are used to prioritize healthcare. If the DFD method is 
a way forward, further research is required to validate utility weights assigned 
to the DFDs.

PMID: 21368342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2011 Feb;36(2):154-8. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2011.02.011.

[Effect of linear alkylbenzenesulfonate on the reproductive capacity and 
life-span of Drosophila melanogaster].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao W(1), Zhang D, Zhou C, Jiang C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu Anhui 
233030, China. zwh3104@sina.com

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of linear alkylbenzenesulfonate (LAS) on 
the reproductive capacity and life-span of Drosophila melanogaster.
METHODS: Drosophila melanogaster images within 8 h after eclosion were collected 
with ether anesthesia. The female and male of similar size and normal shape and 
behavior were selected. The Drosophila melanogasters were cultured in the 
culture medium containing LAS of different densities. We divided the Drosophila 
melanogaster into 4 groups according to LAS concentrations: a low dose group 
with LAS 150 mg/kg, a middle dose group with LAS 300 mg/kg,a high dose group 
with LAS 600 mg/kg, and a control group without LAS, respectively. The changes 
of the reproductive capacity, median lethal time, mean life-span and max mean 
life-span of drosophila melanogaster with different doses of LAS were measured 
and compared with those of the control.
RESULTS: The pupa numbers of filial generation of Drosophila melanogaster in the 
low, middle, and high dose groups (85.07%, 84.59% and 71.88%, respectively) were 
lower than those in the control group (P<0.01). The median lethal time, mean 
life-span and max mean life-span of Drosophila melanogaster in the low, middle, 
and high dose groups were shorter than those in the control group (P<0.05). The 
change of life-span of Drosophila melanogaster in the high dose group was 
remarkable: the median lethal time of female and male shortened 13 days and 15 
days, the mean life-span of female and male shortened 18 days and 14 days, and 
the max mean life-span of female and male shortened 14 days and 12 days, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: LAS has definite toxicity to Drosophila melanogaster, which can 
degrade the reproductive capacity of Drosophila melanogaster and shorten the 
life-span of Drosophila melanogaster.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2011.02.011
PMID: 21368426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Med Care. 2011 May;49(5):443-50. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318206c231.

Mortality prediction by quality-adjusted life year compatible health measures: 
findings in a nationally representative US sample.

Jerant A(1), Tancredi DJ, Franks P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Center for Healthcare Policy and 
Research, University of California Davis School of Medicine, 4860 Y St, Suite 
2300, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA. afjerant@ucdavis.edu

BACKGROUND: Responses to single-item categorical self-rated health (SRH) 
measures predict mortality, but performance of quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
compatible health measures in this regard has not been much investigated.
OBJECTIVES: To examine mortality prediction and discrimination by 4 QALY 
compatible health measures, a reference single-item categorical SRH measure, and 
1-year declines in those measures.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Cox survival and area under the curve (AUC) (discrimination) 
analyses of the 2000 to 2002 Medical Expenditures Panel Survey respondent data 
linked to the National Death Index through 2006, with and without adjustment for 
sociodemographic characteristics (age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, and 
income).
SUBJECTS: A total of 22,259 respondents aged 18 to 90.
MEASURES: EQ-5D summary index (EQ-5D); predicted EQ-5D (pEQ-5D) derived from the 
SF-12; SF-6D; EQ visual analog scale (EQ VAS); and a single-item categorical SRH 
measure.
RESULTS: Adjusted mortality hazard ratios for 0.1 point decrements in QALY 
compatible health measure scores were: EQ-5D, 1.24 [95% confidence interval 
(CI): 1.20, 1.29); pEQ-5D, 1.40 (95% CI: 1.34, 1.47); EQ VAS, 1.30 (95% CI: 
1.26, 1.35); SF-6D, 1.37 (95% CI: 1.30, 1.43)]. In adjusted AUC analyses, 
baseline scores on all study health measures discriminated mortality risk, but 
the pEQ-5D, EQ VAS, and single-item categorical SRH measures were statistically 
superior in this regard. One-year declines also predicted mortality for all 
study health measures, but only pEQ-5D decline discriminated mortality risk in 
adjusted AUC analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: For all of the study health measures, baseline scores and 1-year 
declines in scores predicted mortality. The pEQ-5D also consistently 
discriminated mortality risk in adjusted AUC analyses.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318206c231
PMID: 21368679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Med Care. 2011 Apr;49(4):385-92. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31820292b3.

Improving the quality of pressure ulcer care with prevention: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Padula WV(1), Mishra MK, Makic MB, Sullivan PW.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research Program, University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, 
USA. wvpadula@gmail.com

Comment in
    Med Care. 2012 Feb;50(2):188; author reply 188-90.

BACKGROUND: In October 2008, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
discontinued reimbursement for hospital-acquired pressure ulcers (HAPUs), thus 
placing stress on hospitals to prevent incidence of this costly condition.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether prevention methods are cost-effective compared 
with standard care in the management of HAPUs.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND SUBJECTS: A semi-Markov model simulated the admission of 
patients to an acute care hospital from the time of admission through 1 year 
using the societal perspective. The model simulated health states that could 
potentially lead to an HAPU through either the practice of "prevention" or 
"standard care." Univariate sensitivity analyses, threshold analyses, and 
Bayesian multivariate probabilistic sensitivity analysis using 10,000 Monte 
Carlo simulations were conducted.
MEASURES: Cost per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained for the prevention 
of HAPUs.
RESULTS: Prevention was cost saving and resulted in greater expected 
effectiveness compared with the standard care approach per hospitalization. The 
expected cost of prevention was $7276.35, and the expected effectiveness was 
11.241 QALYs. The expected cost for standard care was $10,053.95, and the 
expected effectiveness was 9.342 QALYs. The multivariate probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis showed that prevention resulted in cost savings in 99.99% 
of the simulations. The threshold cost of prevention was $821.53 per day per 
person, whereas the cost of prevention was estimated to be $54.66 per day per 
person.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that it is more cost effective to pay for 
prevention of HAPUs compared with standard care. Continuous preventive care of 
HAPUs in acutely ill patients could potentially reduce incidence and prevalence, 
as well as lead to lower expenditures.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31820292b3
PMID: 21368685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Methods Mol Biol. 2011;718:245-57. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-018-8_15.

Functional analysis of noncoding RNAs in trypanosomes: RNA walk, a novel 
approach to study RNA-RNA interactions between small RNA and its target.

Wachtel C(1), Michaeli S.

Author information:
(1)The Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences and the Advanced 
Materials and Nanotechnology Institute, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat-Gan, Israel.

The recent discovery of thousands of small noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs), in many 
different organisms, has led to the need for methods to study their function. 
One way to help understand their function is to determine what other RNAs 
interact with the ncRNAs. We have developed a novel method to investigate the 
RNA-RNA interactions between a small RNA and its target that we termed "RNA 
walk." The method is based on UV-induced AMT cross-linking in vivo followed by 
affinity selection of the hybrid molecules and mapping the intermolecular 
adducts by RT-PCR. Domains carrying the cross-linked adducts are less 
efficiently amplified than domains that are not cross-linked. Real-time PCR is 
used to quantify the results. Further mapping of the interactions is performed 
by primer extension to determine the exact cross-linked adduct.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-018-8_15
PMID: 21370053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2011 Apr;65(4):291-2. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2010.131078.

The fixed-effects model admittedly no quick fix, but still a step in the right 
direction and better than the suggested alternative.

Kravdal Ø(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Oslo, PO Box 1095 Blindern, 0317 Oslo, 
Norway. okravdal@econ.uio.no

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2010 Dec;64(12):1029-35.
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2010 Dec;64(12):1027-8.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2010.131078
PMID: 21372067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Health Stat Q. 2011 Spring;(49):9-51. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2011.2.

