PMCID: PMC3174313
PMID: 21461953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Psychiatr Prax. 2011 Apr;38(3):135-41. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1265956. Epub
2011  Apr 1.

[Permanent disability and death among German workers with depression].

[Article in German]

Wedegärtner F(1), Arnhold-Kerri S, Sittaro NA, Lohse R, Dietrich DE, Bleich S, 
Geyer S.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für seelische Gesundheit, Klinik für Psychiatrie, Sozialpsychiatrie 
und Psychotherapie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Hannover, Germany. 
wedegaertner.felix@mh-hannover.de

OBJECTIVE: It was the aim of this study to estimate effects of depression on 
permanent disability and death in a statutory health insurance population.
METHODS: Data from 128,001 clients were used with a mean follow up of 6.4 years. 
Excess risks were calculated with Cox regression models adjusted for age, 
gender, education and job classification.
RESULTS: Outpatient treatment for depression was associated with an elevated 
relative risk for permanent disability, but inpatient treatment even more so. 
Life table analysis suggests higher risks of early retirement for males who get 
ill early in life. Depression treated solely in an outpatient setting may be 
associated with lower mortality early in life, but this was only significant for 
women.
CONCLUSIONS: Outpatient treatment should include an emphasis on occupational 
functioning, but also a gender-specific approach is needed.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1265956
PMID: 21462095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Mov Disord. 2011 Feb 15;26(3):507-515. doi: 10.1002/mds.23474. Epub 2011 Jan
6.

Erythropoietin is neuroprotective in a transgenic mouse model of multiple system 
atrophy.

Köllensperger M(#)(1), Krismer F(#)(1), Pallua A(1), Stefanova N(1), Poewe W(1), 
Wenning GK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Neurobiology, Department of Neurology, Medical 
University, Innsbruck, Austria.
(#)Contributed equally

Multiple system atrophy is a rapidly progressive neurodegenerative disorder with 
a markedly reduced life expectancy. Failure of symptomatic treatment raises an 
urgent need for disease-modifying strategies. We have investigated the 
neuroprotective potential of erythropoietin in (proteolipid protein)-α-synuclein 
transgenic mice exposed to 3-nitropropionic acid featuring multiple system 
atrophy-like pathology including oligodendroglial α-synuclein inclusions and 
selective neuronal degeneration. Mice were treated with erythropoietin starting 
before (early erythropoietin) and after (late erythropoietin) intoxication with 
3-nitropropionic acid. Nonintoxicated animals receiving erythropoietin and 
intoxicated animals treated with saline served as control groups. Behavioral 
tests included pole test, open field activity, and motor behavior scale. 
Immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine and cyclic adenosine 
monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32) was analyzed stereologically. 
Animals receiving erythropoietin before and after 3-nitropropionic acid 
intoxication scored significantly lower on the motor behavior scale and they 
performed better in the pole test than controls with no significant difference 
between early and late erythropoietin administration. Similarly, rearing scores 
were worse in 3-nitropropionic acid-treated animals with no difference between 
the erythropoietin subgroups. Immunohistochemistry revealed significant 
attenuation of 3-nitropropionic acid-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase and 
DARPP-32 positive neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta and striatum, 
respectively, in both erythropoietin-treated groups without significant group 
difference in the substantia nigra. However, at striatal level, a significant 
difference between early and late erythropoietin administration was observed. In 
the combined (proteolipid protein)-α-synuclein 3-nitropropionic acid multiple 
system atrophy mouse model, erythropoietin appears to rescue dopaminergic and 
striatal gabaergic projection neurons. This effect is associated with improved 
motor function. Further studies are warranted to develop erythropoietin as a 
potential interventional therapy in multiple system atrophy.

Copyright © 2011 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.23474
PMCID: PMC4730556
PMID: 21462262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Hum Psychopharmacol. 2011 Mar;26(2):161-7. doi: 10.1002/hup.1190.

Poor health behaviour and reduced quality of life of people treated with 
psychotropic drugs.

Kopp M(1), Fleischhacker WW, Stürz K, Ruedl G, Kumnig M, Rumpold G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Science, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. 
Martin.Kopp@uibk.ac.at

BACKGROUND: Recent literature reports a reduced l\ife expectancy in patients 
with severe mental illness. We have investigated health behaviour, quality of 
life, and sociodemographic variables of people with psychopharmacological 
treatment using data from the most recent Austrian Health Survey.
METHODS: Quality of life (the World Health Organization quality of life, 
abbreviated version) questionnaires and items from the European Health Interview 
Survey were used in assessing health status and health behaviour of 15,474 
people living in Austria. From this sample, 882 individuals (5.7%) under 
psychopharmacological treatment were compared with respondents without mental 
illness.
RESULTS: We found significant differences in health behaviour (reduced physical 
activity, more smoking) and sociodemographic data (age, gender, education, 
income) between people treated for mental illness and respondents without 
psychopharmacological treatment. Correspondingly, more somatic illness and 
reduced quality of life were found in the former group.
CONCLUSION: These data stress the necessity of health intervention and 
antipoverty programmes taking social and somatic issues for people with moderate 
mental health problems into account.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hup.1190
PMID: 21462268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2011 Apr;35(2):180-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2010.00639.x. Epub 2010 Dec 9.

Cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination of people aged 50-64 years in 
Australia: results are inconclusive.

Mogasale V(1), Barendregt J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Burden of Disease and Cost-effectiveness, School of Population 
Health, The University of Queensland. v.mogasale@uq.edu.au

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Public Health. 2011 Dec;35(6):576; author reply 576-7.

OBJECTIVE: Influenza cost-effectiveness studies use models for influenza 
clinical evolution based on a range of assumptions. We explore the importance of 
these assumptions and its implications in policy decisions.
METHODS: An influenza model was constructed to measure the cost-effectiveness of 
universal influenza vaccination of people over 50 years compared to current 
policy to vaccinate people over 65 years in Australia using available 
epidemiological data. We explored two scenarios, one with an Australian estimate 
of influenza like illness incidence, and one with a European estimate. Further, 
we estimated uncertainty of model structure and various parameter assumptions, 
and compared with a previous study.
RESULTS: The scenario and sensitivity analysis has shown the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of the proposed compared to current policy varies from 
$112,000 to $6,000 per DALY. The model structure, parameter assumptions and 
limitations of existing epidemiological data lead to extensive unaccounted 
uncertainties in previous studies.
CONCLUSION: The lack of influenza epidemiological data makes the influenza 
cost-effectiveness studies that compare the universal influenza vaccinations of 
people over 50 years to current policy unreliable.
IMPLICATIONS: It is imperative to appraise unreliability of influenza 
cost-effectiveness studies in policy decisions. Research to acquire more data on 
influenza uncertainties in Australia should be funded.

© 2011 The Authors. ANZJPH © 2011 Public Health Association of Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2010.00639.x
PMID: 21463417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J Vet Emerg Crit Care (San Antonio). 2011 Apr;21(2):104-22. doi: 
10.1111/j.1476-4431.2011.00626.x.

Abdominal and thoracic focused assessment with sonography for trauma, triage, 
and monitoring in small animals.

Lisciandro GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Hill Country Veterinary Specialists, San Antonio, TX 78259, USA. 
woodydvm91@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: To review the nonradiologist use of ultrasound (US) in the setting 
of emergency and critical care, the development, clinical applications, and 
standardization of veterinary abdominal and thoracic focused assessment with 
sonography for trauma (FAST) techniques.
ETIOLOGY: Since the 1990s, the 4-point FAST US technique has been used for 
injury surveillance in people with blunt and penetrating trauma. FAST screens 
for free fluid in the abdominal, pleural, and pericardial cavities with high 
sensitivity and specificity. More recently, an extended FAST scan was developed 
for the rapid detection of pneumothorax. These techniques and newly created 
scans have been applied to other critically ill, nontraumatized, subsets of 
human patients. As a result, the terminology related to this field, eg, extended 
FAST, HHFAST, FFAST, FAFF, BOAST, SLOH, bedside US, '$ Approach,' protocols, and 
objectives have become convoluted despite having similar goals.
DIAGNOSIS: The importance of US in the setting of emergency medicine is 
highlighted by the fact that this diagnostic modality has become an integral 
part of the core curriculum for nonradiologists including the American College 
of Surgeons, American College of Emergency Physicians, American Board of 
Emergency Medicine, Society of Academic Emergency Medicine, and all United 
States Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education Emergency Medicine 
residency programs.
THERAPY: Veterinary applications of FAST techniques include an abdominal FAST 
technique with an abdominal FAST applied fluid scoring system, and a thoracic 
FAST technique. In an attempt to avoid the creation of numerous acronyms, 
veterinarians would be well served by making the 'T' in 'FAST' stand for 
'Trauma,''Triage,' and 'Tracking.'
PROGNOSIS: These veterinary FAST techniques provide an extension of the physical 
examination for the emergency and critical care veterinarian potentially 
expediting diagnosis, prompting life-saving maneuvers, and guiding patient 
management. Further clinical research to determine sensitivity, specificity, and 
accuracy for specific conditions is warranted.

© Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care Society 2011.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-4431.2011.00626.x
PMID: 21463438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Ugeskr Laeger. 2011 Apr 4;173(14):1047-9.

[Treatment of local recurrence of rectal cancer].

[Article in Danish]

Solomon M(1), Austin K, Lee P, Holm T, Rasmussen PC.

Author information:
(1)Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australien.

Local recurrence (LR) still occurs in 5-10% of patients after surgery for a 
primary rectal cancer and is a major clinical problem, due to severe symptoms 
and poor survival. Patients with LR must be staged with regard to local tumour 
extension and distant disease. Magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission 
tomography-computed tomography are currently used for these purposes. A complete 
resection often implies a pelvic exenteration. The postoperative complication 
rate is high and therefore the patients must be carefully selected and counseled 
before surgery. If a R0 resection the prognosis is good with a 5-year survival 
about 55%.

PMID: 21463556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Mol Biol. 2011 Jun 10;409(3):427-38. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2011.03.062. Epub
2011  Apr 2.

Conformational changes in adeno-associated virus type 1 induced by genome 
packaging.

Gerlach B(1), Kleinschmidt JA, Böttcher B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Tumor Virology, German Cancer Research Center, Im 
Neuenheimerfeld, Heidelberg, Germany.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is frequently used as a vector for gene therapy. 
The viral capsid consists of three structural proteins (VP1, VP2, and VP3) that 
have a common C-terminal core (VP3), with N-terminal extensions of increasing 
length in VP2 and VP1. The capsid encloses a single-stranded genome of up to 4.7 
kb, which is packaged into empty capsids. The N-terminal extension of VP1 
carries a phospholipase domain that becomes accessible during infection in the 
endosomal pathway. We have used cryo-electron microscopy and image 
reconstruction to determine subnanometer-resolution structures of recombinant 
AAV1 that has packaged different amounts of a 3.6-kb recombinant genome. The 
maps show that the AAV1 capsid undergoes continuous conformational changes upon 
packaging of the genome. The rearrangements occur at the inner capsid surface 
and lead to constrictions of the pores at the 5-fold symmetry axes and to subtle 
movements of the β-sheet regions of the capsid proteins. In fully packaged 
particles, the genome forms stem-like features that contact the inner capsid 
surface at the 3-fold symmetry axes. We think that the reorganization of the 
inner surface has an impact on the viral life cycle during infection, preparing 
the externalization of phospholipase domains through the pores at the 5-fold 
symmetry axes and possibly genome release.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2011.03.062
PMID: 21463638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. J Biol Chem. 2011 Jun 17;286(24):21304-14. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M110.211201.
Epub  2011 Apr 4.

Disruption of the ATP-binding cassette B7 (ABTM-1/ABCB7) induces oxidative 
stress and premature cell death in Caenorhabditis elegans.

González-Cabo P(1), Bolinches-Amorós A, Cabello J, Ros S, Moreno S, Baylis HA, 
Palau F, Vázquez-Manrique RP.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Instituto de Biomedicina de 
Valencia, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, 46010 Valencia, 
Spain.

X-linked sideroblastic anemia with ataxia (XLSA/A) is a rare inherited disorder 
characterized by mild anemia and ataxia. XLSA/A is caused by mutations in the 
ABCB7 gene, which encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette transporter 
family. Studies in yeast, mammalian cells, and mice have shown that ABCB7 
functions in the transport of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters into the cytoplasm. To 
further investigate the mechanism of this disease, we have identified and 
characterized the Caenorhabditis elegans homologue of the ABCB7 gene, abtm-1. We 
have studied the function of abtm-1 using mutants and RNAi. abtm-1-depleted 
animals produce arrested embryos that have morphogenetic defects and unusual 
premature, putative apoptotic events. abtm-1(RNAi) animals also show 
accumulation of ferric iron and increased oxidative stress. Despite the 
increased level of oxidative stress in abtm-1(RNAi) animals, they have an 
increased life span. We observed accumulation of DAF-16/FOXO in the nuclei of 
affected animals and elevation of the expression of SOD-3, a well established 
target of DAF-16, which may explain the increased life span extension of these 
animals. abtm-1 is strongly expressed in tissues with a high energy demand, and 
abtm-1(RNAi) animals have phenotypes that reflect the need for abtm-1 in these 
tissues. Finally, we show that reducing the function of other genes involved in 
Fe-S cluster production produces similar phenotypic consequences to abtm-1 loss 
of function. Therefore, ablation of abtm-1 in C. elegans provides a model in 
which to investigate the mechanism underlying XLSA/A.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M110.211201
PMCID: PMC3122190
PMID: 21464130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Jun 1;29(16):2230-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.33.7212. Epub
2011  Apr 4.

Long-term survival and late deaths after allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation.

Wingard JR(1), Majhail NS, Brazauskas R, Wang Z, Sobocinski KA, Jacobsohn D, 
Sorror ML, Horowitz MM, Bolwell B, Rizzo JD, Socié G.

Author information:
(1)Shands Hospital, University of Florida, College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL 
32610-0278, USA. wingajr@ufl.edu

PURPOSE: Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is curative but is 
associated with life-threatening complications. Most deaths occur within the 
first 2 years after transplantation. In this report, we examine long-term 
survival in 2-year survivors in the largest cohort ever studied.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Records of 10,632 patients worldwide reported to the 
Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research who were alive and 
disease free 2 years after receiving a myeloablative allogeneic HCT before 2004 
for acute myelogenous or lymphoblastic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, 
lymphoma, or severe aplastic anemia were reviewed.
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 9 years, and 3,788 patients had been observed for 
10 or more years. The probability of being alive 10 years after HCT was 85%. The 
chief risk factors for late death included older age and chronic 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). For patients who underwent transplantation for 
malignancy, relapse was the most common cause of death. The greatest risk factor 
for late relapse was advanced disease at transplantation. Principal risk factors 
for nonrelapse deaths were older age and GVHD. When compared with age, sex, and 
nationality-matched general population, late deaths remained higher than 
expected for each disease, with the possible exception of lymphoma, although the 
relative risk generally receded over time.
CONCLUSION: The prospect for long-term survival is excellent for 2-year 
survivors of allogeneic HCT. However, life expectancy remains lower than 
expected. Performance of HCT earlier in the course of disease, control of GVHD, 
enhancement of immune reconstitution, less toxic regimens, and prevention and 
early treatment of late complications are needed.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.33.7212
PMCID: PMC3107742
PMID: 21464398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


384. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Mar;3(3):325-8. doi: 10.18632/aging.100311.

Does hypothalamic SIRT1 regulate aging?

Ramadori G(1), Coppari R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hypothalamic Research, The 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, 75390, USA.

In virtually all organisms, life expectancy is profoundly affected by caloric 
intake. For example, dietary restriction (DR; a feeding regimen of fewer 
calories compared to the ad libitum level without causing malnutrition) has been 
shown to lengthen, whereas hypercaloric (HC) diet feeding to shorten, lifespan. 
Recent findings in invertebrates indicate that specialized groups of cells 
(e.g.: metabolic-sensing neurons) detect changes in caloric intake and convey 
energy-status-variation signals to other cells in the body to regulate lifespan. 
In mammals, whether metabolic-sensing neurons govern aging in a 
cell-non-autonomous fashion is unknown. Yet, this is a captivating and testable 
hypothesis.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100311
PMCID: PMC3091526
PMID: 21464518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interests to declare.


385. PLoS One. 2011 Mar 28;6(3):e18060. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018060.

A social network analysis of treatment discoveries in cancer.

Tsalatsanis A(1), Barnes L, Hozo I, Skvoretz J, Djulbegovic B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Medicine and Health Outcomes Research, University 
of South Florida, Tampa, Florida, United States of America. 
atsalats@health.usf.edu

Controlled clinical trials are widely considered to be the vehicle to treatment 
discovery in cancer that leads to significant improvements in health outcomes 
including an increase in life expectancy. We have previously shown that the 
pattern of therapeutic discovery in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) can be 
described by a power law distribution. However, the mechanism generating this 
pattern is unknown. Here, we propose an explanation in terms of the social 
relations between researchers in RCTs. We use social network analysis to study 
the impact of interactions between RCTs on treatment success. Our dataset 
consists of 280 phase III RCTs conducted by the NCI from 1955 to 2006. The RCT 
networks are formed through trial interactions formed i) at random, ii) based on 
common characteristics, or iii) based on treatment success. We analyze treatment 
success in terms of survival hazard ratio as a function of the network 
structures. Our results show that the discovery process displays power law if 
there are preferential interactions between trials that may stem from 
researchers' tendency to interact selectively with established and successful 
peers. Furthermore, the RCT networks are "small worlds": trials are connected 
through a small number of ties, yet there is much clustering among subsets of 
trials. We also find that treatment success (improved survival) is proportional 
to the network centrality measures of closeness and betweenness. Negative 
correlation exists between survival and the extent to which trials operate 
within a limited scope of information. Finally, the trials testing curative 
treatments in solid tumors showed the highest centrality and the most 
influential group was the ECOG. We conclude that the chances of discovering 
life-saving treatments are directly related to the richness of social 
interactions between researchers inherent in a preferential interaction model.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018060
PMCID: PMC3065482
PMID: 21464896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


386. Clin Exp Nephrol. 2011 Aug;15(4):450-5. doi: 10.1007/s10157-011-0439-8. Epub
 2011 Apr 5.

Role of chronic kidney disease in cardiovascular disease: are we different from 
others?

Iseki K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dialysis Unit, University Hospital of the Ryukyus, 207 Uehara, Nishihara, 
Okinawa 903-0215, Japan. chihokun@med.u-ryukyu.ac.jp

The incidence and prevalence of chronic dialysis patients in Japan is increasing 
linearly and is currently as high as 300 and 2300 per million population, 
respectively. The incidence of end-stage renal disease is closely related to 
that of chronic dialysis; findings which are captured in detail in the Japanese 
Society for Dialysis Therapy registry. Life expectancy of dialysis patients is 
poor compared to the age- and sex-matched general population, and is equivalent 
to that of an 80-year-old man or an 87-year-old woman, i.e., dialysis patients 
seem 15-18 years older than their actual age. Cardiac death is the leading cause 
of death; however, death due to stroke and acute myocardial infarction is 
decreasing. The annual mortality rate is 6.5% among the dialysis population. For 
the past 10 years, the mortality risk has remained high despite the avoidance of 
blood transfusions by the administration of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents, 
the use of renin-angiotensin system inhibitors, and improvements in general 
medical care. Several studies have confirmed the significance of chronic kidney 
disease (CKD) on the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and mortality; 
the lower the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), the higher the 
incidence of CVD. The cut-off levels for eGFR are not yet clear. CKD is an 
important predictor of CVD in Japan, similar to other parts of the world. 
Strategies for early detection of CKD are needed because, in many cases, CKD 
remains asymptomatic until late stages. Timely treatment for CKD is necessary to 
minimize costs for unnecessary care and testing. Unless CDK is properly managed, 
it will not be possible to maintain quality and longevity of life. The Japanese 
population is rapidly aging and will have the largest proportion of elderly 
people in the world. A systematic strategy for managing CKD patients is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s10157-011-0439-8
PMID: 21465119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Jun;13(3):365-74. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0309-z.
Epub  2011 Apr 5.

Cost-effectiveness of extended-release niacin/laropiprant added to a stable 
simvastatin dose in secondary prevention patients not at cholesterol goal in 
Germany.

Michailov GV(1), Davies GM, Krobot KJ.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research Department, MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH, Haar, Germany. 
galin.michailov@msd.de

Coronary heart disease (CHD) remains the leading cause of death in Germany 
despite statin use to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels; 
improving lipids beyond LDL-C may further reduce cardiovascular risk. A 
fixed-dose combination of extended-release niacin (ERN) with laropiprant (LRPT) 
provides comprehensive lipid management. We adapted a decision-analytic model to 
evaluate the economic value (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] in 
terms of costs per life-years gained [LYG]) of ERN/LRPT 2 g over a lifetime in 
secondary prevention patients in a German setting. Two scenarios were modelled: 
(1) ERN/LRPT 2 g added to simvastatin 40 mg in patients not at LDL-C goal with 
simvastatin 40 mg; (2) adding ERN/LRPT 2 g compared with titration to 
simvastatin 40 mg in patients not at LDL-C goal with simvastatin 20 mg. In both 
scenarios, adding ERN/LRPT was cost-effective relative to simvastatin 
monotherapy at a commonly accepted threshold of €30,000 per LYG; ICERs for 
ERN/LRPT were €13,331 per LYG in scenario 1 and €17,684 per LYG in scenario 2. 
Subgroup analyses showed that ERN/LRPT was cost-effective in patients with or 
without diabetes, patients aged ≤ 65 or >65 years and patients with low baseline 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels; ICERs ranged from €10,342 to 
€15,579 in scenario 1, and from €14,081 to €20,462 in scenario 2. In conclusion, 
comprehensive lipid management with ERN/LRPT 2 g is cost-effective in secondary 
prevention patients in Germany who have not achieved LDL-C goal with simvastatin 
monotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0309-z
PMCID: PMC3343242
PMID: 21465286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Curr Med Res Opin. 2011 Jun;27(6):1157-68. doi:
10.1185/03007995.2011.570745.  Epub 2011 Apr 5.

A systematic review of adherence, treatment satisfaction and costs, in 
fixed-dose combination regimens in type 2 diabetes.

Hutchins V(1), Zhang B, Fleurence RL, Krishnarajah G, Graham J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes Research, United BioSource Corporation , Bethesda, 
MD , USA. valerie.hutchins@unitedbiosource.com

Comment in
    Curr Med Res Opin. 2011 Dec;27(12):2321-2.

OBJECTIVE: Oral antidiabetics have comparable safety and efficacy when used as 
fixed-dose combination therapies (FDCT) or loose-pill combination therapies 
(LPCT) for patients with T2DM. To evaluate alternative outcomes to safety and 
efficacy with FDCT, a systematic review of literature was conducted.
METHODS: Searches of Medline/Embase databases from 1998 to 2009 used predefined 
terms: 'fixed-dose combination', 'loose-dose combination' and 'diabetes'. 
Abstracts were reviewed from ISPOR, ADA, and EASD meetings (1998-2009). T2DM 
studies reporting adherence, patient-reported outcomes, costs, resource use or 
cost effectiveness were included.
RESULTS: Seventeen studies met the search criteria. Seven studies reported 
adherence. Adherence was 10-13% higher for FDCT than LPCT in patients starting 
combination therapy. Adherence decreased 1.5% and 10.0% when switching from 
monotherapy to combination therapy for FDCT and LPCT respectively (p < 0.001). 
Switching to FDCT increased adherence 3.5%-12.4%, while remaining on LPCT 
changed adherence -1.5% to 5.0% (p < 0.005). For patients newly initiating OAD 
medication, one study found no adherence advantage for FDCT compared with 
monotherapy or LPCT. Five RCTs reported treatment satisfaction. Four 
publications reported patients preferred FDCT using the Diabetes Treatment 
Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ). One publication reported improved 
satisfaction for one DTSQ subscale. Five abstracts reported economic outcomes. 
Two abstracts determined patients on FDCT used fewer healthcare resources and 
had decreased direct monthly healthcare costs versus LPCT. Two 
cost-effectiveness analyses determined clinical benefits from clinical trials 
translate into cost savings and increased life expectancy. One budget impact 
model reported minimal budget impact.
LIMITATIONS: (1) There was limited published literature identified in this 
review. (2) FDCT are oral medications; these findings may only be relevant to 
those individuals taking an oral antidiabetic therapy. (3) Publication and 
reporting biases may exist.
CONCLUSIONS: The published literature suggested that T2DM patients treated with 
FDCT may have better adherence, improved satisfaction, and lower direct medical 
costs, compared to those treated with LPCT.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2011.570745
PMID: 21466277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Hybridoma (Larchmt). 2011 Feb;30(1):69-79. doi: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0070.

Single-chain variable fragment antibody against human aspartyl/asparaginyl 
beta-hydroxylase expressed in recombinant Escherichia coli.

Yang H(1), Wang H, Xue T, Xue XP, Huyan T, Wang W, Song K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Northwestern Polytechnical University, 127 Youyi 
West Road, Xi'an, China.

The human aspartyl beta-hydroxylase (HAAH) is a highly conserved enzyme that 
hydroxylates epidermal growth factor-like domains in transformation-associated 
proteins. Previous studies showed that the gene of HAAH was overexpressed in 
many human malignancies. In the present study, the HAAH-specific single-chain 
variable fragment (ScFv) antibody was produced in recombinant Escherichia coli. 
The variable regions of the genes of the heavy chain (VH) and light chain (VL) 
cloned from the hybridoma cells G3/F11 were connected with a flexible linker 
using an overlap extension polymerase chain reaction. Nucleotide sequence 
analysis revealed that the anti-HAAH VH was a member of the VH V gene family and 
the VL gene belonged to the Vκ gene family VI subgroup. Extensive efforts to 
express the functional ScFv antibody in E. coli have been made by using two 
different prokaryotic expression vectors-pHEN1 and pET-16b-to compare the 
expression level and solubility of the antibody. The recombinant 
pHEN1/E1-anti-HAAH vector could express soluble ScFv, although the yield was 
only 7.8% of the total cellular protein. However, the pET-16b/E2-anti-HAAH 
vector produced the ScFv as inclusion bodies inside the host cytoplasm, although 
the expression level of the antibody was quite high (28.5% of the total cellular 
protein). Soluble ScFv antibody produced by pHEN1/E1-anti-HAAH was characterized 
for its antigen-binding characteristics. Its antigen affinity as antibody was 
measured by indirect enzyme linked immunosorbent assay analysis and proved to 
have high binding activity to the antigen HAAH.

DOI: 10.1089/hyb.2010.0070
PMID: 21466288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Curr Drug Targets. 2011 Sep;12(10):1390-5. doi: 10.2174/138945011796818117.

Natural history of ulcerative colitis: current knowledge.

Kiss LS(1), Lakatos PL.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Medicine, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.

The clinical presentation at the time of diagnosis and the disease course of 
ulcerative colitis (UC) are heterogeneous and variable over time. In 
population-based epidemiological follow-up studies from the last decades, the 
extent of UC has shown only slight variation. At diagnosis, the initial extent 
is evenly distributed among proctitis, left-sided, and extensive colitis with 
some exceptions. The disease course may vary from a single attack to chronic 
symptoms that reduce the quality of life as well as lead to disease extension, 
colectomy or even to the development of colitis-associated colorectal cancer in 
some cases. Important predictive clinical factors and biomarkers of disease 
course have been under increasing scrutiny. Those identified may eventually lead 
to a more personalized, tailored therapy. In this review article, the authors 
summarize the available evidence on the natural history and predictive markers 
for evaluating the course of UC.

DOI: 10.2174/138945011796818117
PMID: 21466488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. JAMA. 2011 Apr 6;305(13):1350-1. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.404.

Goals of glycemic control in frail older patients with diabetes.

Lee SJ(1), Eng C.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco VA Medical Center, Division of Geriatrics, 4150 Clement St, 
Bldg 1, Room 211A, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA. sei.lee@ucsf.edu

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.404
PMCID: PMC3773561
PMID: 21467289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose, including relevant financial interests, activities, relationships, or 
affiliations.


392. Medicina (Kaunas). 2010;46(11):774-80.

[Inequalities in life expectancy of Lithuanian males and females and 
contribution of major causes of death].

[Article in Lithuanian]

Kalėdienė R(1), Starkuvienė S, Petrauskienė J, Kaselienė S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management, Medical Academy, Lithuanian University of 
Health Sciences, A. Mickevičiaus 9, Kaunas, Lithuania. kaleda@kaunas.omnitel.net

The aim of this study to assess inequalities in life expectancy of Lithuanian 
males and females throughout the period of 1990-2006 and to estimate the 
contribution of major causes of death to inequalities in life expectancy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Information on deaths was obtained from the Lithuanian 
Department of Statistics. Life table analysis was carried out. Analysis of 
components was applied in order to assess the contribution of the major causes 
of death to the differences in life expectancy of males and females. The joint 
point regression analysis was used to identify the critical points, wherever a 
statistically significant change in life expectancy occurred.
RESULTS: Two cut points, dividing the trends in life expectancy into three 
periods of decreasing, increasing, and again decreasing life expectancy, were 
characteristic of both males and females in 1990-2006. Changes in life 
expectancy were more pronounced for males in all three periods. Overall change 
in life expectancy was not statistically significant for males and was 
increasing by 0.2% annually for females throughout the period of investigation. 
The greatest number of years in life expectancy was lost due to cardiovascular 
diseases in both males and females. External causes contributed most to the 
difference in life expectancy of able-bodied (aged 15-64 years) males and 
females. Differences in life expectancy of males and females decreased from 12.3 
to 11.8 years throughout the period of 1994-2006; however, it remained among 
highest in Europe. Since 1991, external causes of death have become the major, 
though decreasing, contributors to inequalities in life expectancy between males 
and females. In 2006, compared to 1994, contribution of cardiovascular diseases 
and cancer increased.
CONCLUSION: Attempts to reduce demographic and social inequalities in health 
should become a priority in social and health policy formulation. The criteria 
for evaluation of the national and regional health and social programs should 
reflect aspects of equal opportunities in health for males and females.

PMID: 21467836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2011 Nov;65(11):1030-5. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2010.117705. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

Inequalities in health expectancies at older ages in the European Union: 
findings from the Survey of Health and Retirement in Europe (SHARE).

Jagger C(1), Weston C, Cambois E, Van Oyen H, Nusselder W, Doblhammer G, 
Rychtarikova J, Robine JM; EHLEIS team.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK. carol.jagger@ncl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy gaps between Eastern and Western Europe are well 
reported with even larger variations in healthy life years (HLY).
AIMS: To compare European countries with respect to a wide range of health 
expectancies based on more specific measures that cover the disablement process 
in order to better understand previous inequalities.
METHODS: Health expectancies at age 50 by gender and country using Sullivan's 
method were calculated from the Survey of Health and Retirement in Europe Wave 
2, conducted in 2006 in 13 countries, including two from Eastern Europe (Poland, 
the Czech Republic). Health measures included co-morbidity, physical functional 
limitations (PFL), activity restriction, difficulty with instrumental and basic 
activities of daily living (ADL), and self-perceived health. Cluster analysis 
was performed to compare countries with respect to life expectancy at age 50 
(LE50) and health expectancies at age 50 for men and women.
RESULTS: In 2006 the gaps in LE50 between countries were 6.1 years for men and 
4.1 years for women. Poland consistently had the lowest health expectancies, 
however measured, and Switzerland the greatest. Polish women aged 50 could 
expect 7.4 years fewer free of PFL, 6.2 years fewer HLY, 5.5 years less without 
ADL restriction and 9.5 years less in good self-perceived health than the main 
group of countries (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the 
Netherlands, Spain, Sweden).
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial inequalities between countries were evident on all 
health expectancies. However, these differed across the disablement process 
which could indicate environmental, technological, healthcare or other factors 
that may delay progression from disease to disability.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2010.117705
PMID: 21471138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2011 Apr 6;93(7):631-9. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.I.01256.

Comparison of one and two-stage revision of total hip arthroplasty complicated 
by infection: a Markov expected-utility decision analysis.

Wolf CF(1), Gu NY, Doctor JN, Manner PA, Leopold SS.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2011 Apr 6;93(7):e33.

BACKGROUND: Two-stage revisions of total hip arthroplasties complicated by 
chronic infection result in reinfection rates that are lower than those 
following single-stage revisions but may also result in increased surgical 
morbidity. Using a decision analysis, we compared single-stage and two-stage 
revisions to determine which treatment modality resulted in greater 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
METHODS: A review of the literature on the treatment of patients with an 
infection at the site of a total hip arthroplasty provided probabilities; 
utility values for common postoperative health states were determined in a 
previously published study. With these data, we conducted a Markov cohort 
simulation decision analysis. Sensitivity analysis validated the model, and 
comparisons were made in terms of QALYs.
RESULTS: The twelve-month model favored direct-exchange revision over the 
two-stage approach, regardless of whether surgeon or patient-derived utilities 
were used (0.945 versus 0.896 and 0.897 versus 0.861 QALYs for the patient and 
surgeon models, respectively). Similar results were observed in a lifetime model 
with a ten-year life expectancy (7.853 versus 7.771, and 7.438 versus 7.362 
QALYs, respectively). The findings were found to be robust in sensitivity 
analyses in which clinically relevant ranges of input variables were used.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis favored the direct-exchange arthroplasty over the 
two-stage approach. This study should be considered hypothesis-generating for 
future randomized controlled trials in which, ideally, health end points will be 
considered in addition to the eradication of infection.

© 2011 by the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, Incorporated

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.I.01256
PMID: 21471416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Health Aff (Millwood). 2011 Apr;30(4):707-15. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0074.

Despite improved quality of care in the Veterans Affairs health system, racial 
disparity persists for important clinical outcomes.

Trivedi AN(1), Grebla RC, Wright SM, Washington DL.

Author information:
(1)Providence Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Center, Warren Alpert Medical 
School, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA. Amal_Trivedi@brown.edu

Both government and private health care systems have engaged in efforts to 
improve quality, but the effect of these initiatives on racial and ethnic 
disparities has not been well studied. In the decade following an organizational 
transformation, the Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system achieved 
substantial improvements in quality of care with minimal racial disparities for 
most process-of-care measures, such as rates of cholesterol screenings. However, 
in our study we observed a striking disconnect between high levels of 
performance on widely used process measures and modest levels of improvement in 
clinical outcomes, such as control of blood pressure, blood glucose, and 
cholesterol levels. We also observed a gap in clinical outcomes of as much as 
nine percentage points between African American veterans and white veterans. 
Almost all of the disparity in outcomes in the VA was explained by 
within-facility disparity, which suggests that VA medical centers need to 
measure and address racial gaps in care for their patient populations. Moreover, 
because cardiovascular disease and diabetes are major contributors to racial 
disparities in life expectancy, the findings of this study and others underscore 
the urgency of focused efforts to improve intermediate outcomes among African 
Americans in the VA and other settings.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0074
PMID: 21471492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Int J Impot Res. 2011 Mar-Apr;23(2):81-6. doi: 10.1038/ijir.2011.8. Epub
2011  Apr 7.

Erectile dysfunction and sexual health after radical prostatectomy: impact of 
sexual motivation.

Messaoudi R(1), Menard J, Ripert T, Parquet H, Staerman F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Andrology, Robert Debré Academic Hospital, Reims, 
France. messaoudirabah@hotmail.com

The life expectancy of patients with localized prostate cancer at treatment 
initiation has increased, and post-treatment quality of life has become a key 
issue. The aim of this study is to assess the impact of Radical prostatectomy 
(RP) on patients' sexual health and satisfaction according to sexual motivation 
using a self-administered questionnaire completed by two groups of RP patients, 
with high or lower levels of sexual motivation. A total of 63 consecutive 
patients were included (mean age, 63.9 years), of whom 74.6% were being treated 
for erectile dysfunction (ED). After RP, patients reported lower sexual desire 
(52.4%), reduced intercourse frequency (79.4%), anorgasmia (39.7%), less 
satisfying orgasm (38.1%), climacturia (25.4%), greater distress (68.3%) and/or 
lower partner satisfaction (56.5%). Among the most sexually motivated patients, 
76.0% reported loss of masculine identity, 52% loss of self-esteem and 36.0% 
anxiety about performance. These rates were lower among less motivated patients 
(52.6, 28.9, and 18.4%, respectively). Mean overall satisfaction score was 4.8 ± 
2.9. The score was significantly lowered in motivated than less motivated 
patients (3.4 vs 5.8) (P = 0.001). In conclusion, RP adversely affected erectile 
and orgasmic functions but also sexual desire, self-esteem and masculinity. The 
more motivated patients experienced greater distress and were less satisfied.

DOI: 10.1038/ijir.2011.8
PMID: 21471982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Clin Interv Aging. 2011;6:27-35. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S8101. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Clinical utility of rosuvastatin and other statins for cardiovascular risk 
reduction among the elderly.

Long SB(1), Blaha MJ, Blumenthal RS, Michos ED.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Ciccarone Center for the Prevention of Heart Disease, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Age is one of the strongest predictors of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. 
Treatment with statins can significantly reduce CVD events and mortality in both 
primary and secondary prevention. Yet despite the high CVD risk among the 
elderly, there is underutilization of statins in this population (ie, the 
treatment-risk paradox). Few studies have investigated the use of statins in the 
elderly, particularly for primary prevention and, as a result, guidelines for 
treating the elderly are limited. This is likely due to: uncertainties of risk 
assessment in older individuals where the predictive value of individual risk 
factors is decreased; the need to balance the benefits of primary prevention 
with the risks of polypharmacy, health care costs, and adverse medication 
effects in a population with decreased life expectancy; the complexity of 
treating patients with many other comorbidities; and increasingly difficult 
social and economic concerns. As life expectancy increases and the total elderly 
population grows, these issues become increasingly important. JUPITER 
(Justification for the Use of statins in Prevention: an Intervention Trial 
Evaluating Rosuvastatin) is the largest primary prevention statin trial to date 
and enrolled a substantial number of elderly adults. Among the 5695 JUPITER 
participants ≥ 70 years of age, the absolute CVD risk reduction associated with 
rosuvastatin was actually greater than for younger participants. The 
implications of this JUPITER subanalysis and the broader role of statins among 
older adults is the subject of this review.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S8101
PMCID: PMC3066250
PMID: 21472089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Qual Life Res. 2011 Dec;20(10):1669-78. doi: 10.1007/s11136-011-9902-y. Epub
 2011 Apr 7.

A meta-analysis of health state valuations for people with diabetes: explaining 
the variation across methods and implications for economic evaluation.

Lung TW(1), Hayes AJ, Hayen A, Farmer A, Clarke PM.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Edward Ford Building, 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. thomas.lung@sydney.edu.au

PURPOSE: To review published studies on the effect of diabetes and its 
complications on utility scores to establish whether there is systematic 
variation across studies and to examine the implications for the estimation of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
METHODS: A systematic review was performed using studies reporting QALY measures 
elicited from people with diabetes including those with a history of 
complications. Meta-analysis was used to obtain the average utility, and 
meta-regression was employed to examine the impact of study characteristics and 
elicitation methods on these values. The effect of different utility scores on 
QALYs was examined using diabetes simulation models.
RESULTS: In the meta-analysis based on 45 studies reporting 66 values, the 
average utility score was 0.76 (95% CI 0.75-0.77). A meta-regression showed 
significant variation due to age, method of elicitation and the proportion of 
males. The average utility score for individual complications ranged from 0.48 
(95% CI 0.25, 0.71) for chronic renal disease to 0.75 (95% CI 0.73, 0.78) for 
myocardial infarction, and these differences produced meaningful changes in 
simulated QALYs. There was significant heterogeneity between studies.
CONCLUSIONS: We provide summary utility scores for diabetes and its major 
complications that could help inform economic evaluation and policy analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-011-9902-y
PMID: 21472392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. West Indian Med J. 2010 Oct;59(5):455.

Life's immunity as a normal distribution function: philosophies for the use of 
dibenzyl trisulphide in immunity enhancement and life extension.

Williams LA.

PMID: 21473388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Biomark Med. 2011 Apr;5(2):171-86. doi: 10.2217/bmm.11.15.

Biomarkers of immune dysfunction following combination antiretroviral therapy 
for HIV infection.

Lichtfuss GF(1), Hoy J, Rajasuriar R, Kramski M, Crowe SM, Lewin SR.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Virology, Burnet Institute, Melbourne, Australia.

Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has significantly reduced morbidity 
and mortality of HIV-infected patients, yet their life expectancy remains 
reduced compared with the general population. Most HIV-infected patients 
receiving cART have some persistent immune dysfunction characterized by chronic 
immune activation and premature aging of the immune system. Here we review 
biomarkers of T-cell activation (CD69, -25 and -38, HLA-DR, and soluble CD26 and 
-30); generalized immune activation (C-reactive protein, IL-6 and D-dimer); 
microbial translocation (lipopolysaccharide, 16S rDNA, 
lipopolysaccharide-binding protein and soluble CD14); and immune dysfunction of 
specific cellular subsets (T cells, natural killer cells and monocytes) in 
HIV-infected patients on cART and their relationship to adverse clinical 
outcomes including impaired CD4 T-cell recovery, as well as non-AIDS clinical 
events, such as cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.2217/bmm.11.15
PMID: 21473720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Apr;15(17):i-xii, 1-210. doi: 10.3310/hta15170.

Peginterferon alfa and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C in patients eligible 
for shortened treatment, re-treatment or in HCV/HIV co-infection: a systematic 
review and economic evaluation.

Hartwell D(1), Jones J, Baxter L, Shepherd J.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC), University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.

OBJECTIVE: to assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
peginterferon alfa and ribavirin for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c virus 
(HCV) in three specific patient subgroups affected by recent licence changes: 
those eligible for shortened treatment courses [i.e. those with low viral load 
(LVL) and who attained a rapid virological response (RVR) at 4 weeks of 
treatment], those eligible for re-treatment following previous non-response or 
relapse, and those co-infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
DATA SOURCES: Fourteen electronic bibliographic databases, including the 
Cochrane Library, MEDLINE and EMBASE, were searched up to October 2009. Key 
hepatitis C resources and symposia, bibliographies of related papers and 
manufacturer submissions to the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence were also searched and clinical experts were contacted.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review and economic evaluation were carried out. 
Titles and abstracts were screened for eligibility by one reviewer. Inclusion 
criteria were defined a priori and applied independently by two reviewers to the 
full text of retrieved references. For the clinical effectiveness review, 
studies were included if they were randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of adults 
with chronic HCV, restricted to the patient groups described above. The 
intervention was standard peginterferon and ribavirin combination therapy 
