PMID: 21292401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Spine J. 2011 Jun;11(6):545-56. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2010.12.011. Epub 2011
Feb  2.

An injectable method for noninvasive spine fusion.

Olabisi RM(1), Lazard Z, Heggeness MH, Moran KM, Hipp JA, Dewan AK, Davis AR, 
West JL, Olmsted-Davis EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Rice University, MS 142, 6100 Main St, Houston, 
TX 77005, USA.

Comment in
    Spine J. 2011 Jun;11(6):557-9.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) induce bone formation but 
are difficult to localize, and subsequent diffusion from the site of interest 
and short half-life reduce the efficacy of the protein. Currently, spine fusion 
requires stripping, decortications of the transverse processes, and an autograft 
harvest procedure. Even in combination with BMPs, clinical spinal fusion has a 
high failure rate, presumably because of difficulties in localizing sufficient 
levels of BMP.
PURPOSE: The goal was to achieve reliable spine fusion through a single 
injection of a cell-based gene therapy system without the need for any surgical 
intervention.
STUDY DESIGN: Eighty-seven immunodeficient (n=44) and immune-competent (n=43) 
mice were injected along the paraspinous musculature to achieve rapid induction 
of heterotopic ossification (HO) and ultimately spinal arthrodesis.
METHODS: Immunodeficient and immune-competent mice were injected with 
fibroblasts, transduced with an adenoviral vector to express BMP2, along the 
paraspinous musculature. Bone formation was evaluated via radiographs, 
microcomputed tomography, and biomechanical analysis.
RESULTS: ew bridging bone between the vertebrae and the fusion to adjacent 
skeletal bone was obtained as early as 2 weeks. Reduction in spine 
flexion-extension also occurred as early as 2 weeks after injection of the gene 
therapy system, with greater than 90% fusion by 4 weeks in all animals 
regardless of their genetic background.
CONCLUSIONS: Injection of our cell-based system into the paraspinous musculature 
induces spinal fusion that is dependent neither on the cell type nor on the 
immune status. These studies are the first to harness HO in an immune-competent 
model as a noninvasive injectable system for clinically relevant spinal fusion 
and may one day impact human spinal arthrodesis.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2010.12.011
PMCID: PMC3327508
PMID: 21292563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Postgrad Med. 2011 Jan;123(1):105-13. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2011.01.2251.

Active surveillance of renal cortical neoplasms: a contemporary review.

Graversen JA(1), Mues AC, Pérez-Lanzac de Lorca A, Landman J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Over the past 2 decades, there has been a significant increase in 
the number of incidentally found small renal cortical neoplasms (RCNs). As more 
RCNs are being discovered in the elderly and infirmed patient populations, there 
has been a growing interest in the role of active surveillance (AS). Active 
surveillance is recommended for high surgical-risk patients and those with a 
reduced life expectancy. It is also an option for patients wishing to avoid 
surgery. We review the current literature on AS and highlight the natural 
history of disease, the important factors to evaluate during AS, and the 
contemporary role of biopsy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The MEDLINE database was searched using PubMed. Search 
terms included active surveillance, renal mass, natural history, and renal mass 
histology. From 1966 to present, 17 AS series were identified, all of which have 
been included in this summary. A summary was performed by compiling all 
available data and performing a weighted mean where applicable.
RESULTS: Initial tumor size does not correlate with growth rate or malignancy. 
The mean growth rate in large published series is low (0.28-0.34 cm/year). 
Tumors with high growth rates usually represent malignant lesions and typically 
undergo delayed intervention. Progression to metatatic disease is a 
low-probability event for tumors on AS (1.4%); however, this is still a risk 
that patients must be willing to accept. Larger tumors (cT1b and cT2) also 
demonstrate relatively low growth (0.57 cm/year); however, these tumors should 
be monitored carefully. Tumors followed for > 5 years demonstrate a low growth 
rate (0.15 cm/year), will not likely require intervention, and have a low chance 
of progression to metastatic disease.
CONCLUSION: For highly selected patients with RCN, AS is a reasonable treatment 
option. Age, surgical risk, comorbidities, and patient opinion must all factor 
into the final decision when considering a patient for AS.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2011.01.2251
PMID: 21293090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Nephron Clin Pract. 2011;118(4):c346-54; discussion c354. doi: 
10.1159/000323666. Epub 2011 Feb 3.

Treatment of HIV-associated nephropathies.

Elewa U(1), Sandri AM, Rizza SA, Fervenza FC.

Author information:
(1)New Kasr Al-Aini Teaching Hospital, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.

In patients with HIV, the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy has 
improved life expectancy. At the same time, this increase in life expectancy has 
been associated with a higher frequency of chronic kidney disease due to factors 
other than HIV infection. Besides HIV-associated nephropathy, a number of 
different types of immune complex and non-immune complex-mediated processes have 
been identified on kidney biopsies, including vascular disease 
(nephrosclerosis), diabetes, and drug-related renal injury. In this setting, 
renal biopsy needs to be considered in order to obtain the correct diagnosis in 
individual patients with HIV and kidney impairment. Many issues regarding the 
optimal treatment of the different pathological processes affecting the kidneys 
of these patients have remained unresolved. Further research is needed in order 
to optimize treatment and renal outcomes in patients with HIV and kidney 
disease.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000323666
PMID: 21293158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. AIDS. 2011 Feb 20;25(4):479-92. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283428cbe.

First-line antiretroviral therapy after single-dose nevirapine exposure in South 
Africa: a cost-effectiveness analysis of the OCTANE trial.

Ciaranello AL(1), Lockman S, Freedberg KA, Hughes M, Chu J, Currier J, Wood R, 
Holmes CB, Pillay S, Conradie F, McIntyre J, Losina E, Walensky RP; 
CEPAC-International and OCTANE Investigators.

Collaborators: Danel C, N'Dri-Yoman T, Messou E, Moh R, Ouattara E, Seyler C, 
Touré S, Yazdanpanah Y, Anglaret X, Gabillard D, Touré H, Kumarasamy N, Ganesh 
AK, Orrell C, Wood R, Martinson N, Mohapi L, Cotich K, Goldie SJ, Kimmel AD, 
Lipsitch M, McCormick A, Rydzak C, Seage GR 3rd, Weinstein MC, Horsburgh CR, Hsu 
HE, Flanigan T, Mayer K, Paltiel AD, Ahonkhai A, Andrews J, Bassett IV, Becker 
J, Bender MA, Chiosi J, Levison J, Linas BP, Lu Z, Lorenzana S, Morris B, Pho M, 
Rhode E, Scott CA, Sloan C, Stoler A, Uhler L, Wang B, Wong A, Chaisson R, De 
Gruttola V, Eron J, Gangakhedkar RR, Kaplan J, Karim S, N'Dri-Yoman T, Owens D, 
Wong J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
02114, USA. aciaranello@partners.org

BACKGROUND: The OCTANE trial reports superior outcomes of lopinavir/ritonavir 
vs. nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) among women previously exposed 
to single-dose nevirapine to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission. However, 
lopinavir/ritonavir is 12 times costlier than nevirapine.
METHODS: We used a computer model, with OCTANE and local data, to simulate 
HIV-infected, single-dose nevirapine-exposed women in South Africa. Outcomes of 
three alternative ART sequences were projected: no ART (for comparison), 
first-line nevirapine, and first-line lopinavir/ritonavir. OCTANE data included 
mean age (31 years) and CD4 cell count (135/μl); median time since single-dose 
nevirapine (17 months); and 24-week viral suppression efficacy for first-line 
ART (nevirapine: 85%, lopinavir/ritonavir: 97%). Outcomes included life 
expectancy, per-person costs (2008 US$), and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios.
RESULTS: With no ART, projected life expectancy was 1.6 years and per-person 
cost was $2980. First-line nevirapine increased life expectancy (15.2 years) and 
cost ($13 990; cost-effectiveness ratio: $810/year of life saved versus no ART). 
First-line lopinavir/ritonavir further increased life expectancy to 16.3 years 
and cost to $15 630 (cost-effectiveness ratio: $1520/year of life saved versus 
first-line nevirapine). First-line lopinavir/ritonavir cost-effectiveness was 
sensitive to prevalence of nevirapine-resistant virus at ART initiation, time 
from single-dose nevirapine exposure to ART initiation (6-12, 12-24, or >24 
months), second-line ART efficacies, and outcomes after 24 weeks on ART.
CONCLUSIONS: First-line lopinavir/ritonavir-based ART is very cost-effective in 
single-dose nevirapine-exposed, South African women similar to OCTANE 
participants. Lopinavir/ritonavir should be initiated in women with known 
nevirapine resistance or single-dose nevirapine exposure less than 12 months 
prior, or in whom such information is unknown.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283428cbe
PMCID: PMC3068908
PMID: 21293199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: Michael Hughes is a paid 
member of Data and Safety Monitoring Boards for the following manufacturers of 
antiretroviral therapy: Boehringer Ingelheim, Pfizer, Tibotec. James McIntyre 
has received speaker’s honoraria from Abbott Pharmaceuticals, and research 
funding, travel grants and speaker’s honoraria from Boehringer Ingelheim and 
Glaxo SmithKline. All other authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.


984. Am J Clin Oncol. 2012 Feb;35(1):45-50. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3182005a8f.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a randomized study comparing radiosurgery with 
radiosurgery and whole brain radiation therapy in patients with 1 to 3 brain 
metastases.

Lal LS(1), Byfield SD, Chang EL, Franzini L, Miller LA, Arbuckle R, Reasonda L, 
Feng C, Adamus A, Swint JM.

Author information:
(1)Ingenix Consulting-Healthcare, Missouri City, TX, USA. 
lincy.lal@ingenixconsulting.com

BACKGROUND: In this study, we compare 2 treatment options and determine 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility.
METHODS: We carried out a decision analysis populated with data from patients 
with brain metastasis in a concurrent trial randomized to either stereotactic 
radiosurgery (SRS) and observation or SRS and whole brain radiation therapy. 
Outcomes included actual life years saved (LYS), quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Costs used were from 
the healthcare perspective and utilities were captured through a time-trade-off 
method, using 10-year, 5-year, and 1-year time horizons. One-way sensitivity 
analyses were carried out to determine robustness of the decision analysis 
model.
RESULTS: Compared with SRS and whole brain radiation therapy, SRS and 
observation not only had a higher average cost ($74,000 vs $119,000, 
respectively) but also a higher average effectiveness (0.60 LYS vs 1.64 LYS, 
respectively) with an ICER of $44,231/LYS or $41,783/QALY (with utilities 
captured using a 10-year horizon). Slightly higher ICER estimates were achieved 
with utilities captured using the other time horizons ($43,280/QALY and 
$44,064/QALY, respectively). Sensitivity analysis showed that the following 
variables had the highest impact on the ICER: probability of no recurrence in 
recursive-partitioning analysis class 2 after SRS and observation; probability 
of being alive after SRS and observation in recursive-partitioning analysis 
class 2 and being treated for recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with other interventions in the $50,000 to $100,000/QALY 
cost-effectiveness range, the application of SRS and observation, with 
subsequent neurosurgical management of recurrences, is shown to be a reasonable 
treatment modality for brain metastases.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3182005a8f
PMID: 21293245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Med Vet Entomol. 2011 Sep;25(3):276-88. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2915.2010.00939.x.  Epub 2011 Feb 7.

Variations in life tables of geographically isolated strains of the mosquito 
Culex quinquefasciatus.

Suman DS(1), Tikar SN, Mendki MJ, Sukumaran D, Agrawal OP, Parashar BD, Prakash 
S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Entomology, Defence Research and Development Establishment, 
Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, India.

Variations in the life tables and other biological attributes of four strains of 
Culex quinquefasciatus Say (Diptera: Culicidae) from geographically isolated 
regions of India that had been reared to the fifth generation in the laboratory 
were assessed under a standardized rearing regime under constant laboratory 
conditions. Two strains from arid habitats [Jodhpur (JD) and Bikaner (BKN)], one 
from a semi-arid inland habitat [Bathinda (BTH)], one from a semi-arid coastal 
habitat [Jamnagar (JMN)] and a standard laboratory strain (LAB) were compared. 
Horizontal life-table parameters were measured for each strain. Egg mortality 
ranged from 4.4% (JD and BTH) to 19.5% (BKN). The lowest rate of adult emergence 
and highest female : male ratio were found in BKN, and the highest rate of adult 
emergence and lowest female : male ratio were recorded in BTH. The egg-hatching 
period was longest in BTH and shortest in LAB. The duration from oviposition to 
adult emergence was longest in JD and shortest in LAB. Females lived longer than 
males in all strains. The net reproductive rates (R(0) ) of all field-derived 
strains (122.9-162.2) differed significantly between strains and were 
significantly greater than that of LAB (107.6). Similarly, both the intrinsic 
rate of increase (r(m) ) and finite rate of increase (λ) were found to be lower 
in LAB than in the field strains, but the mean generation time (T) and doubling 
time (DT) were longest in LAB. For several life-table attributes, JD and BTH 
clustered together and were more similar to JMN than to BKN and LAB. The results 
indicate that BTH, BKN and JD can be characterized as r-strategists, more so 
than JMN. Overall fecundity increased with age. Differences in annual 
temperature ranges and mean annual rainfall between locations were positively 
correlated (r = 0.46-0.97) with egg production, female life expectancy, R(0) , 
r(m) , λ and T. The results suggest that strains of Cx. quinquefasciatus from 
different geographical areas with contrasting habitats vary in their survival 
and reproductive strategies accordingly.

© 2011 The Authors. Medical and Veterinary Entomology © 2011 The Royal 
Entomological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2915.2010.00939.x
PMID: 21294759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Reprod Health. 2011 Feb 4;8:4. doi: 10.1186/1742-4755-8-4.

Severe male infertility after failed ICSI treatment--a phenomenological study of 
men's experiences.

Johansson M(1), Hellström AL, Berg M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden. marianne.ak.johansson@vgregion.se

BACKGROUND: Male-factor infertility underlies approximately 30% of infertility 
in couples seeking treatment; of which 10% is due to azoospermia. The 
development of assisted reproductive technology (ART), enabling the use of 
epididymal or testicular sperm for fertilization of the partner's oocytes, has 
made biological fatherhood possible for men with obstructive azoospermia. There 
is limited knowledge of men's experience of their own infertility. The aim of 
this study was to describe men's experiences of obstructive azoospermia 
infertility.
METHODS: Eight men with obstructive azoospermia, who had terminated Swedish 
public health system ART treatment two years previously without subsequent 
childbirth, were interviewed using a descriptive phenomenological method.
RESULTS: The essence of the phenomenon is expressed with a metaphor: climbing a 
mountain step by step with the aim of reaching the top, i.e. having a child and 
thus a family with a child. Four constituents are included (1) inadequacy 
followed by a feeling of redress (2) marginalisation, (3) chivalry (4) extension 
of life and starting a family as driving forces.
CONCLUSIONS: Knowledge of men's experiences of their own infertility is 
important as a supporting measure to increase the quality of care of infertile 
couples. By adopting this facet of gender perspective in fertility treatment 
guidelines, care can hopefully be optimized.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4755-8-4
PMCID: PMC3039538
PMID: 21294868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Exp Neurol. 2011 Jun;229(2):226-37. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2011.01.018.
Epub  2011 Feb 2.

In vitro modelling of Alzheimer's disease: degeneration and cell death induced 
by viral delivery of amyloid and tau.

Stoppelkamp S(1), Bell HS, Palacios-Filardo J, Shewan DA, Riedel G, Platt B.

Author information:
(1)School of Medical Sciences, College of Life Sciences and Medicine, University 
of Aberdeen, Institute of Medical Sciences, Foresterhill, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD 
Scotland, UK.

Comment in
    Exp Neurol. 2012 Feb;233(2):733-9.

With increasing life expectancy, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other dementias 
pose an increasing and as yet unresolved health problem. A variety of cellular 
models of AD has helped to decipher some key aspects of amyloid and tau related 
degeneration. The initial approach of extracellular applications of synthetic 
peptides has now been replaced by the introduction of amyloid precursor protein 
(APP) and tau genes. In the present study adenoviral transductions were 
exploited for gene delivery into primary rat hippocampal and dorsal root 
ganglion (DRG) cultures to enable comparative and mechanistic studies at the 
cellular level and subsequent drug testing. Time lapse experiments revealed a 
different pattern of cell death: apoptotic-like for APP whereas tau positive 
cells joined and formed clusters. Mutated human APP or tau expression caused 
accelerated neuronal damage and cell death (cf. EGFP: -50% for APP at 5 days; 
-40% for tau at 3 days). This reduction in viability was preceded by decreased 
excitability, monitored via responses to depolarising KCl-challenges in Ca(2+) 
imaging experiments. Additionally, both transgenes reduced neurite outgrowth in 
DRG neurones. Treatment studies confirmed that APP induced-damage can be 
ameliorated by β- and γ-secretase inhibitors (providing protection to 60-100% of 
control levels), clioquinol (80%) and lithium (100%); while anti-aggregation 
treatments were beneficial for tau-induced damage (60-90% recovery towards 
controls). Interestingly, caffeine was the most promising drug candidate for 
therapeutic intervention with high efficacy in both APP (77%) and tau-induced 
models (72% recovery). Overall, these cellular models offer advantages for 
mechanistic studies and target identification in AD and related disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2011.01.018
PMID: 21295028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2011 Apr;1813(4):634-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbamcr.2011.01.029. Epub 2011 Feb 2.

Mitochondrial longevity pathways.

Vendelbo MH(1), Nair KS.

Author information:
(1)Division of endocrinology, Endocrine research Unit, The Mayo Clinic, 200 1st 
Street SW Joseph 5-194, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Average lifespan has increased over the last centuries, as a consequence of 
medical and environmental factors, but maximal life span remains unchanged. 
Better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of aging and determinants of 
life span will help to reduce age-related morbidity and facilitate healthy 
aging. Extension of maximal life span is currently possible in animal models 
with measures such as genetic manipulations and caloric restriction (CR). CR 
appears to prolong life by reducing oxidative damage. Reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) have been proposed to cause deleterious effects on DNA, proteins, and 
lipids, and generation of these highly reactive molecules takes place in the 
mitochondria. But ROS is positively implicated in cellular stress defense 
mechanisms and formation of ROS a highly regulated process controlled by a 
complex network of intracellular signaling pathways. There are endogenous 
anti-oxidant defense systems that have the potential to partially counteract ROS 
impact. In this review, we will describe pathways contributing to the regulation 
of the age-related decline in mitochondrial function and their impact on 
longevity. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Mitochondria: the 
deadly organelle.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2011.01.029
PMCID: PMC3071741
PMID: 21295080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Physiotherapy. 2011 Mar;97(1):26-32. doi: 10.1016/j.physio.2010.06.008.

ICF participation restriction is common in frail, community-dwelling older 
people: an observational cross-sectional study.

Fairhall N(1), Sherrington C, Kurrle SE, Lord SR, Cameron ID.

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health, The University of Sydney, PO Box 
M201, Missenden Road, Sydney, NSW 2050, Australia. 
nfairhall@georgeinstitute.org.au

OBJECTIVES: To determine the extent of participation restriction in a sample of 
frail older people, and to identify the domains of participation that are most 
restricted. A secondary aim was to determine which health and demographic 
factors were associated with participation restriction.
DESIGN: An observational cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Adults recently discharged from an aged care and rehabilitation service 
in Australia who were enrolled in a clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred and eighty-one community-dwelling adults aged over 70 
years (mean age 84, standard deviation 5.7) who met the Cardiovascular Health 
Study criteria for frailty, had a Mini Mental State Examination score over 18 
and a predicted life expectancy exceeding 12 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Participation restriction was evaluated using the 
Reintegration to Normal Living Index.
RESULTS: Eighty percent of subjects reported participation restriction in at 
least one aspect of their life. Restricted participation was most prevalent in 
the areas of work in the home or community (114/181, 63%) and community mobility 
(92/181, 51%), and least common with regard to interpersonal relationships 
(9/181, 5%). Multivariate regression analysis showed that grip strength, mood, 
number of medical conditions and mobility were independently and significantly 
(P<0.05) associated with participation restriction, and explained 29% of the 
variance in participation restriction. Cognition and living alone were not 
significantly associated with participation restriction.
CONCLUSIONS: Participation restriction was common in this sample of frail, 
community-dwelling older people. It was associated with factors from multiple 
levels of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and 
Health. Further research is suggested to investigate the causes and treatment of 
participation restriction.

Copyright © 2010 Chartered Society of Physiotherapy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physio.2010.06.008
PMID: 21295235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Math Biosci. 2011 Apr;230(2):87-95. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2011.01.005. Epub
2011  Feb 4.

Effect of media-induced social distancing on disease transmission in a two patch 
setting.

Sun C(1), Yang W, Arino J, Khan K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada. 
cjunsun@gmail.com

We formulate an SIS epidemic model on two patches. In each patch, media coverage 
about the cases present in the local population leads individuals to limit the 
number of contacts they have with others, inducing a reduction in the rate of 
transmission of the infection. A global qualitative analysis is carried out, 
showing that the typical threshold behavior holds, with solutions either tending 
to an equilibrium without disease, or the system being persistent and solutions 
converging to an endemic equilibrium. Numerical analysis is employed to gain 
insight in both the analytically tractable and intractable cases; these 
simulations indicate that media coverage can reduce the burden of the epidemic 
and shorten the duration of the disease outbreak.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2011.01.005
PMCID: PMC7094744
PMID: 21296092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. J Arthroplasty. 2011 Dec;26(8):1570.e21-4. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2010.12.002.
Epub  2011 Feb 5.

A 17-year follow-up of modified "Harrington" reconstruction after acetabular 
resection.

Kotwal SY(1), Finn HA.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60640, USA.

Acetabular reconstruction after resection of advanced periacetabular metastatic 
lesion is a complex undertaking. Harrington (J Bone Joint Surg [Am]. 
1981;63-653) described a reconstructive technique in class III- and IV-type 
resections using threaded Steinmann pins and acrylic cement. This technique, 
although effective for pain relief and restoration of function, is traditionally 
considered when patient's life expectancy is short because of its questionable 
durability. A 17-year follow-up of our patient with plasma cell cytoma of the 
ilium and acetabulum, treated with a modification of the above technique after 
intralesional curettage, showed no mechanical failure or loosening. This 
suggests that the construct can be durable where there is no recurrence of 
disease and can also be a valuable asset in selected nontumor cases in adjunct 
to contemporary techniques.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2010.12.002
PMID: 21296550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Value Health. 2011 Mar-Apr;14(2):229-39. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.020.
Epub  2011 Feb 5.

Cost-effective psychotherapy for personality disorders in the Netherlands: the 
value of further research and active implementation.

Soeteman DI(1), Busschbach JJ, Verheul R, Hoomans T, Kim JJ.

Author information:
(1)Viersprong Institute for Studies on Personality Disorders (VISPD), Halsteren, 
The Netherlands. dsoetema@hsph.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: In a budget-constrained health care system, decisions regarding 
resource allocation towards research and implementation are critical and can be 
informed by cost-effectiveness analysis. The objective of this study was to 
assess the societal value of conducting further research to inform reimbursement 
decisions and implementation of cost-effective psychotherapy for clusters B and 
C personality disorders (PDs).
METHODS: Value of information and value of implementation analyses were 
conducted using previously developed cost-effectiveness models for clusters B 
and C PDs to evaluate the parameters that contribute to most of the decision 
uncertainty, and to calculate the population expected values of perfect 
information (pEVPI) and perfect implementation (pEVPIM).
RESULTS: The pEVPI was estimated to be €425 million for cluster B PDs and €315 
million for cluster C PDs, indicating that gathering additional evidence is 
expected to be cost-effective. The categories of parameters for which reduction 
of uncertainty would be most valuable were transition probabilities and health 
state costs. The pEVPIM was estimated to be €595 million for cluster B PDs and 
€1,372 million for cluster C PDs, suggesting that investing in implementation of 
cost-effective psychotherapy is likely to be worthwhile.
CONCLUSIONS: The societal value of additional research on psychotherapy for 
clusters B and C PDs is substantial, especially when prioritizing information on 
transition probabilities and health state costs. Active implementation of 
cost-effective treatment strategies into clinical practice is likely to improve 
the efficiency of health care provision in The Netherlands.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.020
PMID: 21296601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Value Health. 2011 Mar-Apr;14(2):282-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.004.
Epub  2011 Feb 5.

Imputing QALYs from single time point health state descriptions on the EQ-5D and 
the SF-6D: a comparison of methods for hepatitis a patients.

Luyten J(1), Marais C, Hens N, De Schrijver K, Beutels P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research & Modeling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, University of Antwerp, 
Antwerp, Belgium. Jeroen.luyten@ua.ac.be

OBJECTIVES: To explore the impact of applying different non-standardized 
analytical choices for quality of life measurement to obtain quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs). In addition to more widely discussed issues such as the 
choice of instrument (e.g. EQ-5D or SF-6D?) researchers must also choose between 
different recall periods, scoring algorithms and interpolations between points 
of measurement.
METHODS: A prospective survey was made among 114 Belgian patients with acute 
hepatitis A illness. Using non-parametric tests and generalized linear models 
(GLM's), we compared four different methods to estimate QALY losses, two based 
on the EQ-5D (administered during the period of illness without recall period) 
and two based on the SF-6D (administered after illness with 4 weeks recall 
period).
RESULTS: We found statistically significant differences between all methods, 
with the non-parametric SF-6D-based method yielding the highest median QALY 
impact (0.032 QALYs). This is more than five times as high as the EQ-5D-based 
method with linear health improvement, which yields the lowest median QALY 
impact (0.006 QALYs).
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evaluations of health care technologies predominantly use 
QALYs to quantify health benefits. Non-standardised analytical choices can have 
a decision-changing impact on cost-effectiveness results, particularly if 
morbidity takes up a substantial part of the total QALY loss. Yet these choices 
are rarely subjected to sensitivity analysis. Researchers and decision makers 
should be aware of the influence of these somewhat arbitrary choices on their 
results.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.004
PMID: 21296602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2011 Mar;66(2):195-203. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbq103. Epub 2011 Feb 4.

For better and for worse: the relationship between future expectations and 
functioning in the second half of life.

Shrira A(1), Palgi Y, Ben-Ezra M, Spalter T, Kavé G, Shmotkin D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv 69778, 
Israel. amitshar@post.tau.ac.il

OBJECTIVES: To examine age group differences in the relationship between future 
expectations about standards of living and physical, mental, and cognitive 
functioning in the second half of life.
METHOD: Data from the Survey of Health, Ageing, and Retirement in Europe 
(N=27,687, mean age=64.44).
RESULTS: First, with increasing age, the expectation to improve (ETI) and the 
expectation to worsen (ETW) in standards of living became more independent of 
each other. Second, with increasing age, ETI was less strongly correlated with 
functioning whereas ETW was more strongly correlated with it. Third, with 
increasing age, the relationship between ETI and functioning was more strongly 
moderated by ETW, so that adaptive functioning was associated with expectations 
that no major change is to occur and with expectations for both growth and 
decline.
DISCUSSION: Late-life positive and negative expectancies are less interdependent 
than they are in younger age, probably due to their stronger interaction when 
associating with functioning. Expectancies interact either to reflect an attempt 
to preserve the functional status quo (low expectancy to improve and to decline) 
or may signal a highly complex mental organization (high expectancy to improve 
and to decline).

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbq103
PMCID: PMC3041977
PMID: 21296870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2011 Feb;131(2):255-61. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.131.255.

[Exploratory study on biomarkers associated with severe cutaneous adverse 
reactions].

[Article in Japanese]

Kaniwa N(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicinal Safety Science, National Institute of Health Sciences, 
Tokyo. nkaniwa@nihs.go.jp

Most of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) occur as an extension of pharmacological 
effects. They occur dependently on their blood concentrations and can be 
potentially reduced by controlling their dose. On the other hand, ADRs 
categorized as Type B usually occur irrelevantly to their pharmacological 
effects at different organs from their target, and are often life-threatening 
and unpredictable. The incidences of Type B ADRs are very low. Severe cutaneous 
adverse reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (TEN) are delayed allergic reactions in which T-cells are involved 
and categorized as Type B ADRs. Recent progress of pharmacogenomic studies has 
revealed that particular types of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I antigens 
have strong associations with severe cutaneous adverse reactions and that the 
associations are specific to causative drugs, phenotypes of adverse reactions 
and ethnic groups. We established a research group in 2006 with professionals of 
pharmacogenomics, dermatologists, ophthalmologists and psychiatrists to explore 
genetic biomarkers associated with Japanese SJS/TEN patients. To date, we have 
collected more than 100 Japanese SJS/TEN patients through participating 
institutes and a case-collecting system covering all over Japan constructed by 
us. No carriers of HLA-B*1502 which was reported to have extremely strong 
association with carbamazepine-induced SJS/TEN in Han Chinese and south Asians, 
although a moderate association between allopurinol-induced SJS/TEN and 
HLA-B*5801 detected in Han Chinese was observed.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.131.255
PMID: 21297371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2011 Apr 15;56(5):443-52. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3182118f8c.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of alternative HIV retesting strategies in 
sub-saharan Africa.

Waters RC(1), Ostermann J, Reeves TD, Masnick MF, Thielman NM, Bartlett JA, 
Crump JA.

Author information:
(1)Duke Global Health Institute, Duke University, Durham, NC 27701, USA.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines in sub-Saharan Africa on when HIV-seronegative persons 
should retest range from never to annually for lower-risk populations and from 
annually to every 3 months for high-risk populations.
METHODS: We designed a mathematical model to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
alternative HIV retesting frequencies. Cost of HIV counseling and testing, 
linkage to care, treatment costs, disease progression, and mortality, and HIV 
transmission are modeled for three hypothetical cohorts with posited annual HIV 
incidence of 0.8%, 1.3%, and 4.0%, respectively. The model compared costs, 
quality-adjusted life-years gained, and secondary infections averted from 
testing intervals ranging from 3 months to 30 years. Input parameters from 
sub-Saharan Africa were used and explored in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Accounting for secondary infections averted, the most cost-effective 
testing frequency was every 7.5 years for 0.8% incidence, every 5 years for 1.3% 
incidence, and every 2 years for 4.0% incidence. Optimal testing strategies and 
their relative cost-effectiveness were most sensitive to assumptions about HIV 
counseling and testing and treatment costs, rates of CD4 decline, rates of HIV 
transmission, and whether tertiary infections averted were taken into account.
CONCLUSIONS: While higher risk populations merit more frequent HIV testing than 
low risk populations, regular retesting is beneficial even in low-risk 
populations. Our data demonstrate benefits of tailoring testing intervals to 
resource constraints and local HIV incidence rates.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3182118f8c
PMCID: PMC3143215
PMID: 21297484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. PLoS One. 2011 Jan 27;6(1):e14601. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014601.

Stress resistance and longevity are not directly linked to levels of enzymatic 
antioxidants in the ponerine ant Harpegnathos saltator.

Schneider SA(1), Schrader C, Wagner AE, Boesch-Saadatmandi C, Liebig J, Rimbach 
G, Roeder T.

Author information:
(1)Department Zoophysiology II, Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, Kiel, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: The molecular mechanisms of variations in individual longevity are 
not well understood, even though longevity can be increased substantially by 
means of diverse experimental manipulations. One of the factors supposed to be 
involved in the increase of longevity is a higher stress resistance. To test 
this hypothesis in a natural system, eusocial insects such as bees or ants are 
ideally suited. In contrast to most other eusocial insects, ponerine ants show a 
peculiar life history that comprises the possibility to switch during adult life 
from a normal worker to a reproductive gamergate, therewith increasing their 
life expectancy significantly.
RESULTS: We show that increased resistance against major stressors, such as 
reactive oxygen species and infection accompanies the switch from a life-history 
trait with normal lifespan to one with a longer life expectancy. A short period 
of social isolation was sufficient to enhance stress resistance of workers from 
the ponerine ant species Harpegnathos saltator significantly. All ant groups 
with increased stress resistances (reproducing gamergates and socially isolated 
workers) have lower catalase activities and glutathione levels than normal 
workers. Therewith, these ants resemble the characteristics of the youngest ants 
in the colony.
CONCLUSIONS: Social insects with their specific life history including a switch 
from normal workers to reproducing gamergates during adult life are well suited 
for ageing research. The regulation of stress resistance in gamergates seemed to 
be modified compared to foraging workers in an economic way. Interestingly, a 
switch towards more stress resistant animals can also be induced by a brief 
period of social isolation, which may already be associated with a shift to a 
reproductive trajectory. In Harpegnathos saltator, stress resistances are 
differently and potentially more economically regulated in reproductive 
individuals, highlighting the significance of reproduction for an increase in 
longevity in social insects. As already shown for other organisms with a long 
lifespan, this trait is not directly coupled to higher levels of enzymatic and 
non-enzymatic antioxidants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014601
PMCID: PMC3029284
PMID: 21298046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


998. World J Urol. 2012 Dec;30(6):725-32. doi: 10.1007/s00345-011-0649-4. Epub
2011  Feb 5.

Radical cystectomy with orthotopic neobladder for invasive bladder cancer: a 
critical analysis of long-term oncological, functional, and quality of life 
results.

Nagele U(1), Anastasiadis AG, Stenzl A, Kuczyk M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Andrology, General Hospital Hall i.T., A.ö. 
Bezirkskrankenhaus (BKH) Hall i.T., Milser Str. 10, 6060, Hall i.T., Austria. 
Udo.Nagele@bkh-hall.or.at

PURPOSE: The present contribution analyses long-term data regarding oncological, 
functional, and quality of life aspects of patients subjected to cystectomy due 
to malignancy with subsequent orthotopic bladder substitution.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted to review literature published from 
1887 until today. Oncological aspects, special considerations on female 
patients, quality of life, geriatric patients, and impact of minimally invasive 
surgery were also addressed and discussed.
RESULTS: After more than three decades, orthotopic bladder substitution 
subsequent to radical cystectomy has stood the test of time by providing 
adequate long-term survival and low local recurrence rates. Compared to radical 
cystectomy, neither radiation nor chemotherapy, nor a combination of both, offer 
similar long-term results. Orthotopic bladder substitution does not compromise 
oncological outcome and can be performed with excellent results regarding 
functional and quality of life issues. Chronological age is generally not a 
contraindication for cystectomy.
CONCLUSION: Orthotopic bladder substitution should be the diversion of choice 
both in men and in women, whenever possible. For orthotopic urinary diversion, a 
careful patient selection considering tumor extent, patient motivation, 
preoperative sphincter function, other local and systemic adverse confounding 
factors, and overall life expectancy must be taken into account. Minimally 
invasive techniques are promising concepts for the future, awaiting confirmation 
in larger patient cohorts.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-011-0649-4
PMID: 21298273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2011 Sep;268(9):1357-63. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-011-1502-5. Epub 2011 Feb 5.

Anatomical and surgical aspects of the lobes of the thyroid glands.

Ozgur Z(1), Celik S, Govsa F, Ozgur T.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, Kirikkale University, 71000, Kirikkale, Turkey.

Variation in the descent of the thyroid gland and during fetal life and 
regression of the thyroglossal duct is associated with many variations in form 
of the mature gland. The shape and morphometric details of gland, its extension 
as the pyramidal lobe (PYR-L) and attachments of the levator glandulae thyroidea 
were studied in 40 cadavers. We categorized the shape of the thyroid into 12 
types. The most frequent type was PYR-L with 22.5% which started from the left 
lobe and moved across by intercrossing the larynx. Horseshoe-shaped gland and 
the gland with separate lobes were the most frequently observed glandular 
shapes, with 17.5 and 20%, respectively. The incidences of the PYR-L and the 
levator glandulae thyroideae were 60 and 17.5%, respectively. The pyramidal lobe 
branched off more frequently from the left part of the isthmus (14 specimens) 
than from the right (5 specimens) or the midline (2 cases). Knowledge about the 
glandular landmarks and anatomic measurements around the thyroid will be helpful 
for the surgeon to constitute a simplification of the topographic anatomy, plan 
and decide on a safe approach to the thyroid gland, and to avoid postoperative 
complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-011-1502-5
PMID: 21298390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Med Lav. 2010;101 Suppl 2:57-62.

[Work and ageing].

[Article in Italian]

Costa G(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina del Lavoro Clinica del Lavoro L. Devoto, Università 
degli Studi di Milano. giovanni.costa@unimi.it

The ageing of the general population and thus of working population, too, is one 
of the crucial aspects of modern society. Consequently, more and more people 
will be active and able/willing to work after 60 years of age out of personal 
choice, in relation to prolonged healthy life expectancy, better health 
conditions and expertise, and also due to economic and political considerations 
(delayed retirement age). Therefore the main problem is how to maintain the 
aging population in good health and promote and improve their working life and 
social integration. It is assumed that maintaining good working capacity depends 
on both health and occupational status, which are in turn supported by good 
working conditions (both environmental and relational) and healthy life styles. 
This leads to better quality of life, higher productivity and, consequently, a 
more satisfactory retirement period with consequent lower social costs both for 
the individual and the society.

PMID: 21298872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2011 Jun;100(6):1015-26. doi: 10.1037/a0022403.

The influence of mortality and socioeconomic status on risk and delayed rewards: 
a life history theory approach.

Griskevicius V(1), Tybur JM, Delton AW, Robertson TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Marketing, Carlson School of Management, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. vladasg@umn.edu

Why do some people take risks and live for the present, whereas others avoid 
risks and save for the future? The evolutionary framework of life history theory 
predicts that preferences for risk and delay in gratification should be 
influenced by mortality and resource scarcity. A series of experiments examined 
how mortality cues influenced decisions involving risk preference (e.g., $10 for 
sure vs. 50% chance of $20) and temporal discounting (e.g., $5 now vs. $10 
later). The effect of mortality depended critically on whether people grew up in 
a relatively resource-scarce or resource-plentiful environment. For individuals 
who grew up relatively poor, mortality cues led them to value the present and 
gamble for big immediate rewards. Conversely, for individuals who grew up 
relatively wealthy, mortality cues led them to value the future and avoid risky 
gambles. Overall, mortality cues appear to propel individuals toward diverging 
life history strategies as a function of childhood socioeconomic status, 
suggesting important implications for how environmental factors influence 
economic decisions and risky behaviors.

2011 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0022403
PMCID: PMC3298774
PMID: 21299312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Haemophilia. 2011 May;17(3):446-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02461.x.
Epub  2011 Feb 7.

A study of reported factor IX use around the world.

Stonebraker JS(1), Bolton-Maggs PH, Brooker M, Farrugia A, Srivastava A.

Author information:
(1)North Carolina State University, College of Management, Raleigh, NC 
27695-7229, USA. jeff_stonebraker@ncsu.edu

Replacement therapy has significantly improved the life expectancy and lifestyle 
of people with haemophilia. The objectives of this article were to study the 
reported factor IX (FIX) use on a country-by-country basis and address the 
following question: Does the reported FIX use vary by national economies? We 
obtained data on the reported number of international units (IUs) of FIX used 
for 90 countries from the Marketing Research Bureau and the World Federation of 
Hemophilia. Results show that the reported FIX use varies considerably across 
national economies, even among the wealthiest of countries.Trends suggest that 
the reported FIX usage increases with increasing economic capacity and has been 
increasing over time. Trends also suggest that consumption of FIX has been 
increasing at a greater rate in high income countries. Given these trends, there 
will likely be an overall increase in the amount of FIX concentrates used in the 
treatment of haemophilia B. We also found that FIX use both in terms of IUs per 
capita and IUs per person provide a complete picture of the level of haemophilia 
care within a country. Such information is critical for planning efforts of 
national healthcare agencies to determine realistic budget priorities and 
pharmaceutical manufacturers to determine adequate production levels of FIX 
concentrates. By improving the data collection and surveillance of FIX use for 
the treatment of people with haemophilia B, we can identify trends and needs of 
patients and highlight best treatment practices among countries.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2010.02461.x
PMID: 21299742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2011 Jan-Feb;46(1):30-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2010.09.002.

[Relationship between sensory hearing loss and depression in elderly people: a 
literature review].

[Article in Spanish]

Millán-Calenti JC(1), Maseda A, Rochette S, García-Monasterio I.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación en Gerontología, Universidad de A Coruña, A Coruña, 
España.

Advances in health, social and economic conditions in the developed countries 
have increased life expectancy and the number of elderly people. However, 
although health conditions have improved, age-related diseases are still 
increasing. One of the most common ailments is the age-related hearing loss, 
which has several pathophysiological causes and may be influenced by age-related 
morpho-functional changes. Hearing loss may also have underlying conditions in 
each individual. Sensory hearing loss tends to negatively affect the quality of 
life of the elderly, interfering with their capacity to communicate and 
affecting mood and the level of participation in social life. This may be 
independent of the cognitive and physical state of individuals, which in the 
long term and in many cases may end in depression. Detection and early treatment 
of hearing loss is an important bio-psycho-social benefit to the elderly.

Copyright © 2010 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2010.09.002
PMID: 21300418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Vet Parasitol. 2011 Mar 22;176(4):295-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2011.01.012.
Epub  2011 Jan 19.

Changing climate and changing vector-borne disease distribution: the example of 
Dirofilaria in Europe.

Genchi C(1), Mortarino M, Rinaldi L, Cringoli G, Traldi G, Genchi M.

Author information:
(1)DIPAV, Facoltà di Medicina Veterinaria, Università degli Studi di Milano, Via 
Celoria 10, 20133 Milano, Italy. claudio.genchi@unimi.it

Climatic changes, together with an increase in the movement of dogs across 
Europe, have caused an increase in the geographical range of Dirofilaria 
infections. The present paper is focuses on northeastern European countries, 
where survey data have shown an increase of Dirofilaria repens infections both 
in animals and humans. A growing degree day-based forecast model has been 
developed to predict the occurrence. The model is based on evidence that there 
is a threshold of 14 °C below which Dirofilaria development will not proceed in 
mosquitoes, there is a requirement of 130 growing degree-days (GDDs) for larvae 
to reach infectivity, and there is a maximum life expectancy of 30 days for a 
mosquito vector. The output of this model predicted that the summer temperatures 
(with peaks in August) are sufficient to facilitate extrinsic incubation of 
Dirofilaria even at latitudes of 56 °N and longitudes of 39 °E. Despite the fact 
that both Dirofilaria immitis and D. repens have the same temperature 
requirement for extrinsic incubation in mosquitoes, empirical data has shown 
that D. repens is the main cause of dirofilarial infections in both humans and 
animals. Clinical signs are absent in most canine infections with D. repens. 
Furthermore, diagnosis is problematic and in-clinic serological tests, such as 
those for D. immitis, do not exist. Therefore, most infections go undiagnosed, 
allowing the infection to spread undetected.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2011.01.012
PMID: 21300439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

