(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Heart. 2012 Jan;98(2):170; author reply 170-1.

OBJECTIVES: Chest pain due to suspected myocardial infarction (MI) is 
responsible for many hospital admissions and consumes substantial health care 
resources. The Randomized Assessment of Treatment using Panel Assay of Cardiac 
markers (RATPAC) trial showed that diagnostic assessment using a point-of-care 
(POC) cardiac biomarker panel consisting of CK-MB, myoglobin, and troponin 
increased the proportion of patients successfully discharged after emergency 
department (ED) assessment. In this economic analysis, the authors aimed to 
determine whether POC biomarker panel assessment reduced health care costs and 
was likely to be cost-effective.
METHODS: The RATPAC trial was a multicenter individual patient randomized 
controlled trial comparing diagnostic assessment using a POC biomarker panel 
(CK-MB, myoglobin, and troponin, measured at baseline and 90 minutes) to 
standard care without the POC panel in patients attending six EDs with acute 
chest pain due to suspected MI (n = 2,243). Individual patient resource use data 
were collected from all participants up to 3 months after hospital attendance 
using self-completed questionnaires at 1 and 3 months and case note review. ED 
staff and POC testing costs were estimated through a microcosting study of 246 
participants. Resource use was valued using national unit costs. Health utility 
was measured using the EQ-5D self-completed questionnaire, mailed at 1 and 3 
months. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated by the trapezium 
rule using the EQ-5D tariff values at all follow-up points. Mean costs per 
patient were compared between the two treatment groups. Cost-effectiveness was 
estimated in terms of probability of dominance and incremental cost per QALY.
RESULTS: Point-of-care panel assessment was associated with higher ED costs, 
coronary care costs, and cardiac intervention costs, but lower general inpatient 
costs. Mean costs per patient were £1217.14 (standard deviation [SD] ± 3164.93), 
or $1,987.14 (SD ±$4,939.25), with POC versus £1005.91 (SD ±£1907.55), or 
$1,568.64 (SD ±$2,975.78), with standard care (p = 0.056). Mean QALYs were 0.158 
(SD ± 0.052) versus 0.161 (SD ± 0.056; p = 0.250). The probability of standard 
care being dominant (i.e., cheaper and more effective) was 0.888, while the 
probability of the POC panel being dominant was 0.004. These probabilities were 
not markedly altered by sensitivity analysis varying the costs of the POC panel 
and excluding intensive care costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Point-of-care panel assessment does not reduce costs despite 
reducing admissions and may even increase costs. It is unlikely to be considered 
a cost-effective use of health care resources.

© 2011 by the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1553-2712.2011.01068.x
PMID: 21569168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. BJU Int. 2011 Oct;108(8 Pt 2):E223-31. doi:
10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10115.x.  Epub 2011 May 13.

What is the best treatment strategy for incidentally detected small renal 
masses? A decision analysis.

Abouassaly R(1), Yang S, Finelli A, Kulkarni GS, Alibhai SM.

Author information:
(1)Urology Institute, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. robert.abouassaly@uhhospitals.org

OBJECTIVE: •To determine the optimal treatment for incidentally detected small 
renal masses between radical nephrectomy, partial nephrectomy, ablative therapy 
(AT) and active surveillance (AS) using a decision-analytic Markov model.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: •The reference case was an otherwise healthy 60-year-old 
patient. •Health utilities and probabilities for postoperative complications, 
progression to chronic renal insufficiency (CRI), local and systemic recurrence, 
disease-specific and all-cause mortality were derived from published literature. 
•Outcome measures included life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy. 
•Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed, including probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: •The mean life expectancy was 18.49 years for partial nephrectomy, 
18.09 years for laparoscopic radical nephrectomy, 17.85 years for AT and 17.70 
years for AS. •External validation of our model yielded similar cancer-specific 
survival rates to the published literature. •AS became preferred if age at 
presentation was >74 years, the probability of systemic recurrence on AS was 
<1.3%/year or when the hazard ratio of death with CRI was >1.63. •AT became 
preferred when the probability of systemic recurrence on AT was <1.2%/year, 
whereas laparoscopic radical nephrectomy was preferred when the risk of CRI with 
this treatment was <6.6%/year.
CONCLUSIONS: •Based on current literature, our model emphasizes the importance 
of balance between disease control and preserving renal function on life 
expectancy, and justifies initial active intervention with partial nephrectomy 
in younger patients. •Our results are consistent with recent American Urological 
Association guidelines for the management of this disease. •However, data used 
in the model were mostly derived from retrospective data, and thus are subject 
to selection bias, particularly with respect to AS and AT.

© 2011 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10115.x
PMID: 21569190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Food Microbiol. 2011 Aug;28(5):883-90. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2010.12.003. Epub
2010  Dec 13.

Extension of Tosèla cheese shelf-life using non-starter lactic acid bacteria.

Settanni L(1), Franciosi E, Cavazza A, Cocconcelli PS, Poznanski E.

Author information:
(1)SENFIMIZO Department, Section of Phytopathology and Agricultural 
Microbiology, University of Palermo, Viale delle Scienze 4, 90128 Palermo, 
Italy.

Six strains of non-starter lactic acid bacteria (NSLAB) were used to extend the 
shelf-life of the fresh cheese Tosèla manufactured with pasteurised cows' milk. 
The acidification kinetics of three Lactobacillus paracasei, one Lactobacillus 
rhamnosus and two Streptococcus macedonicus were studied in synthetic milk 
medium. Lb. paracasei NdP78 and NdP88 and S. macedonicus NdP1 and PB14-1 showed 
an interesting acidifying capacity and were further characterised for growth in 
UHT milk and production of antimicrobial compounds. Lb. paracasei NdP78 and S. 
macedonicus NdP1 grew more than 2 log cycles in 6 h. Lb. paracasei NdP78 was 
also found to produce a bacteriocin-like inhibitory substance (BLIS) active 
against Listeria monocytogenes. The four NSLAB strains (singly or in 
combination) were used to produce experimental pilot-scale cheeses which were 
compared by a panel. The cheese manufactured with the mixed culture Lb. 
paracasei NdP78 - S. macedonicus NdP1 was the most appreciated for its sensory 
properties. The cheeses produced at factory-scale showed higher concentrations 
of lactobacilli (7.90 log CFU/g) and streptococci (6.10 log CFU/g), but a lower 
development of coliforms (3.10 log CFU/g) and staphylococci (2.78 log CFU/g) 
than control cheese (4.86, 4.89, 4.93 and 5.00 log CFU/g of lactobacilli, 
streptococci, coliforms and staphylococci, respectively) processed without NSLAB 
addition. The food pathogens Salmonella spp. and Listeria monocytogenes were 
never detected. The dominance of the species inoculated was demonstrated by 
denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), whereas strain recognition was 
evaluated by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)-PCR. From the results 
obtained, Lb. paracasei NdP78 and S. macedonicus NdP1 were able to persist 
during the storage of Tosèla cheese and their combination influenced positively 
the sensory characteristics and shelf-life of the final product.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2010.12.003
PMID: 21569930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul;152(1):60-65.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.01.026.
Epub  2011 May 12.

Utility values associated with vitreous floaters.

Wagle AM(1), Lim WY, Yap TP, Neelam K, Au Eong KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Khoo Teck Puat Hospital, 
Singapore. wagle.ajeet.madhav@alexandrahealth.com.sg

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul;152(1):3-4.e1.

PURPOSE: To ascertain the health-related quality of life associated with 
symptomatic degenerative vitreous floaters.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional questionnaire survey.
METHODS: In this institution-based study, 311 outpatients aged 21 years and 
older who presented with symptoms of floaters were enrolled. Data from 266 
patients (85.5%) who completed the questionnaire were analyzed. Utility values 
were assessed using a standardized utility value questionnaire. The time 
trade-off (TTO) and standard gamble (SG) for death and blindness techniques were 
used to calculate the utility values. Descriptive, univariate, and multivariate 
analyses were performed using Stata Release 6.0.
RESULTS: The mean age of the study population was 52.9 ± 12.02 years (range, 
21-97). The mean utility values were 0.89, 0.89, and 0.93 for TTO, SG (death), 
and SG (blindness), respectively. Patients aged ≤55 years reported significantly 
lower SG (blindness) utility values when compared with patients above 55 years 
of age (age ≤55 = 0.92, age >55 = 0.94, P = .007). Utility measurements did not 
demonstrate significant relationship with any of the other socio-demographic 
variables examined in this study. The utility values did not demonstrate any 
significant relationship with other ocular characteristics such as duration of 
symptoms, presence of a posterior vitreous detachment, and presence or severity 
of myopia.
CONCLUSIONS: Symptomatic degenerative vitreous floaters have a negative impact 
on health-related quality of life. Younger symptomatic patients are more likely 
to take a risk of blindness to get rid of the floaters than older patients.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.01.026
PMID: 21570045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Am J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul;152(1):40-47.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.01.017.
Epub  2011 May 12.

Incremental cost-utility analysis of deep anterior lamellar keratoplasty 
compared with penetrating keratoplasty for the treatment of keratoconus.

Koo TS(1), Finkelstein E, Tan D, Mehta JS.

Author information:
(1)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE: This study sought to determine the cost effectiveness of deep anterior 
lamellar keratoplasty (DALK) compared with penetrating keratoplasty (PK) for the 
treatment of keratoconus. DALK is associated with lower rates of postoperative 
complications compared with PK, but is a more expensive procedure; whether it is 
cost effective compared with PK is unknown.
DESIGN: The study was an incremental cost-utility analysis from a health systems 
perspective using retrospective data on a cohort of patients with severe 
keratoconus.
METHODS: The analysis was conducted using 1-year cost and outcomes data from 148 
keratoconus patients, representing 102 PK and 46 DALK cases, seen for corneal 
grafts between January 1991 and January 2009 at the Singapore National Eye 
Center. The main outcome assessed was the incremental cost-utility ratios 
associated with PK and DALK for the treatment of keratoconus.
RESULTS: Over a 20-year period, PK was the lower cost procedure and had an 
incremental cost-utility ratio of $3,750 per quality-adjusted life-year compared 
with no surgical treatment. Compared with PK, DALK has an incremental 
quality-adjusted life-year gain of 0.8 and an incremental cost of $2,420, for an 
incremental cost-utility ratio of $3,025 per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with PK, DALK has a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio 
and, resources permitting, should be considered as a first-line treatment for 
keratoconus. Additional studies are needed to confirm the expected advantages of 
DALK over PK when it comes to long-term graft failure rates.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2011.01.017
PMID: 21570048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2011 Aug-Sep;29(7):502-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.eimc.2011.03.005. Epub 2011 May 12.

Extrapulmonary tuberculosis: epidemiology and risk factors.

García-Rodríguez JF(1), Álvarez-Díaz H, Lorenzo-García MV, Mariño-Callejo A, 
Fernández-Rial Á, Sesma-Sánchez P.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Unit, Internal Medicine Ward, Health Area of Ferrol, 
Sergas, La Coruña, Spain. jfgarciar@medynet.com

OBJECTIVE: To describe the epidemiology and risk factors associated with 
extra-pulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB).
METHOD: Cases of tuberculosis (TB) diagnosed from 1991 to 2008 in a Caucasian 
population were classified as EPTB or pulmonary TB (PTB). Of all cases, 63.7% 
were followed up in a specialist TB unit. A standardised protocol for data 
collection was used, including: gender, age, BCG vaccination, contact with PTB 
patient, smoking habit, alcohol abuse, diabetes mellitus, immunosuppressive 
drugs/steroids and HIV-status. These variables were compared between EPTB and 
PTB groups. Statistical analysis was based on logistic regression. Odds ratios 
(OR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated.
RESULTS: Among the 2,161 cases diagnosed, 1,186 were PTB and 705 EPTB. The 
overall TB incidence had fallen from 79.9/100,000 in 1992 to 27.1/100,000 in 
2008, P<.05. The number of EPTB cases decreased more slowly than PTB. EPTB 
increased from 30.6% of cases in 1991-1996 to 37.6% in 2003-2008 (lymphatic site 
increased 27%), by trend test P<.05. At multivariate level, being female (OR 
2.04; 95% CI: 1.56-2.66) and age (OR 1.02; 95% CI: 1.01-1.022) were associated 
with EPTB, while alcohol abuse (OR 0.33; 95% CI: 0.20-0.52), smoking habit (OR 
0.45; 95%CI: 0.34-0.59), contact with PTB patients (OR 0.57; 95% CI: 0.44-0.76) 
and BCG vaccination (OR 0.64; 95% CI: 0.44-0.92) had a protective effect. The 
proportion of female gender and age of patients increased over time, whilst 
there was a decrease in BCG vaccinated patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Whilst there has been a reduction in the overall incidence of TB, 
the proportion of EPTB increased. The proportional increase in EPTB could be 
explained by an increase in life expectancy and the predominance of women in the 
population, and by a decline in BCG vaccinated patients.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eimc.2011.03.005
PMID: 21570159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2011 Nov 15;81(4):1049-58. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.07.002. Epub 2011 May 11.

An interindividual comparison of O-(2-[18F]fluoroethyl)-L-tyrosine (FET)- and 
L-[methyl-11C]methionine (MET)-PET in patients with brain gliomas and 
metastases.

Grosu AL(1), Astner ST, Riedel E, Nieder C, Wiedenmann N, Heinemann F, Schwaiger 
M, Molls M, Wester HJ, Weber WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Albert Ludwigs Universität Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany. anca.grosu@uniklinikfreiburg.de

PURPOSE: L-[methyl-(11)C]methionine (MET)-positron emission tomography (PET) has 
a high sensitivity and specificity for imaging of gliomas and metastatic brain 
tumors. The short half-life of (11)C (20 minutes) limits the use of MET-PET to 
institutions with onsite cyclotron. O-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)-L-tyrosine (FET) is 
labeled with (18)F (half-life, 120 minutes) and could be used much more broadly. 
This study compares the uptake of FET and MET in gliomas and metastases, as well 
as treatment-induced changes. Furthermore, it evaluates the gross tumor volume 
(GTV) of gliomas defined on PET and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We examined 42 patients with pretreated gliomas (29 
patients) or brain metastases (13 patients) prospectively by FET- and MET-PET on 
the same day. Uptake of FET and MET was quantified by standardized uptake 
values. Imaging contrast was assessed by calculating lesion-to-gray matter 
ratios. Tumor extension was quantified by contouring GTV in 17 patients with 
brain gliomas. Gross tumor volume on PET was compared with GTV on MRI. 
Sensitivity and specificity of MET- and FET-PET for differentiation of viable 
tumor from benign changes were evaluated by comparing the PET result with 
histology or clinical follow-up.
RESULTS: There was a strong linear correlation between standardized uptake 
values calculated for both tracers in cortex and lesions: r = 0.78 (p = 0.001) 
and r = 0.84 (p < 0.001), respectively. Image contrast was similar for MET- and 
FET-PET (lesion-to-gray matter ratios of 2.36 ± 1.01 and 2.33 ± 0.77, 
respectively). Mean GTV in 17 glioma patients was not significantly different on 
MET- and FET-PET. Both MET- and FET-PET delineated tumor tissue outside of MRI 
changes. Both tracers provided differentiated tumor tissue and treatment-related 
changes with a sensitivity of 91% at a specificity of 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: O-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)-L-tyrosine-PET and MET-PET provide 
comparable diagnostic information on gliomas and brain metastases. Like MET-PET, 
FET-PET can be used for differentiation of residual or recurrent tumor from 
treatment-related changes/pseudoprogression, as well as for delineation of 
gliomas.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2010.07.002
PMID: 21570201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Maturitas. 2011 Jul;69(3):203-7. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.04.006. Epub
2011  May 13.

Frailty in older women.

Hubbard RE(1), Rockwood K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, School of Medicine, Cardiff University, 3rd 
Floor, Academic Centre, Llandough Hospital, Penarth, South Wales, CF64 2XX, 
United Kingdom. hubbardr@cf.ac.uk

It is a truth universally acknowledged that although men tend to have better 
health in old age, women live longer lives. Here, we briefly review the 
biological, social and behavioural factors that may contribute to women's 
greater longevity. We consider in particular factors that might result in a 
greater frailty burden in women, focusing on frailty being measured by a Frailty 
Index. The Frailty Index represents the burden of health deficits, expressed for 
an individual as the proportion of deficits present - from 0 (no deficits) to 
1.0 (the theoretical maximum, if all deficits were expressed). A greater frailty 
burden in women might first represent a male "fitness-frailty pleiotropy", 
resulting in men having lower physiological reserves in old age so that health 
deficits are more lethal. In short, the price of more optimal physiological 
functioning during youth is a lower threshold for system failure in old age. 
Conversely, a female "fertility-frailty pleiotropy" might result in greater 
physiological reserves in women. Child birth and child rearing necessitate high 
levels of energetic and nutritional investment: women who have children live 
shorter lives. Women currently are limiting the number of children they bear and 
their life expectancies may be longer than predicted by evolutionary design. 
Third, though the Frailty Index captures physical, cognitive and psychological 
vulnerability, it may not include all factors that impact life expectancy in 
older people; these factors may be present more in men than in women. While 
these hypotheses seek to explain how frailty impacts men and women in different 
ways, there is clearly much to be done to understand frailty in older people.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.04.006
PMID: 21570783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Aug;54(2):440-6; discussion 446-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.057. Epub 2011 May 14.

Sequential compression biomechanical device in patients with critical limb 
ischemia and nonreconstructible peripheral vascular disease.

Sultan S(1), Hamada N, Soylu E, Fahy A, Hynes N, Tawfick W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Western Vascular Institute, 
University College Hospital, Galway, Ireland. sherif.sultan@hse.ie

OBJECTIVES: Critical limb ischemia (CLI) patients who are unsuitable for 
intervention face the dire prospect of primary amputation. Sequential 
compression biomechanical device (SCBD) therapy provides a limb salvage option 
for these patients. This study assessed the outcome of SCBD in severe CLI 
patients who otherwise would face an amputation. Primary end points were limb 
salvage and 30-day mortality. Secondary end points were hemodynamic outcomes 
(increase in popliteal artery flow and toe pressure), ulcer healing, 
quality-adjusted time without symptoms of disease or toxicity of treatment 
(Q-TwiST), and cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: From 2004 to 2009, we assessed 4538 patients with peripheral vascular 
disease (PVD). Of these, 707 had CLI, 518 underwent intervention, and 189 were 
not suitable for any intervention. A total of 171 patients joined the SCBD 
program for 3 months.
RESULTS: All patients were Rutherford category ≥4. Median follow-up was 13 
months. Mean toe pressure increased from 39.9 to 55.42 mm Hg, with a mean 
difference in toe pressure of 15.49 mm Hg (P = .0001). Mean popliteal flow 
increased from 35.44 to 55.91 cm/s, with mean difference in popliteal flow of 
20.47 cm/s (P < .0001). Mortality at 30 days was 0.6%. Median amputation-free 
survival was 18 months. Limb salvage at 3.5 years was 94%. Freedom from major 
adverse clinical events (MACE) at 4.5 years was 62.5%. We treated 171 patients 
with SCBD at a cost of €681,948, with an estimated median per-patient cost of 
treatment with SCBD of €3988.
CONCLUSION: SCBD therapy is a cost-effective and clinically efficacious solution 
in CLI patients with no option of revascularization. It provides adequate limb 
salvage and ameliorated amputation-free survival while providing relief of rest 
pain without any intervention.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.057
PMID: 21571490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2011 Aug;45(6):514-8. doi: 10.1177/1538574411408350.
 Epub 2011 May 13.

Outcome of lower limb distal bypass in Afro-Caribbean populations.

Tiwari A(1), Slim H, Edmonds M, Ritter JC, Rashid H.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Vascular Surgery, Kings College Hospital, Denmark Hill, 
London, UK.

There is little data on outcome following lower limb bypass surgery in ethnic 
minorities in the United Kingdom. We looked at the results of distal bypass 
surgery in Afro-Caribbeans (AFCs) and compared it to caucasians (CAs). Patients 
undergoing distal bypass between 2004 and 2009 were analyzed. Life table 
analyses and log rank were used to compare graft patency and amputation-free 
survival. A total of 86 CA and 39 AFC patients, with a median age of 78 years 
and 73 years, respectively (P = .01), underwent bypass. There were more women in 
AFC groups (41.1%) compared to CA group (19.2%, P = .01). Tissue loss as 
indication for surgery was more in AFC than in CA group (92.3% vs73.9%, P = 
.03). Primary, primary-assisted and secondary patency rates, and amputation-free 
survival at 12 months for AFCs compared to CAs (51.3 vs 44.6; 85.2 vs 80.9; 91.2 
vs 84.4; and 84.9 vs 75.1). Graft patency after lower limb distal 
revascularization in AFCs is comparable to CAs.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574411408350
PMID: 21571781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Rheumatol. 2011 Aug;38(8):1593-600. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.101327. Epub 2011
May  15.

Cost-effectiveness of combination nonbiologic disease-modifying antirheumatic 
drug strategies in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis.

Tosh JC(1), Wailoo AJ, Scott DL, Deighton CM.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, England. j.tosh@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Rheumatol. 2011 Aug;38(8):1538-40.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the costs and benefits of alternative combination 
strategies of disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) and DMARD 
monotherapy in patients with early, active rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: Data were drawn from randomized controlled trials that compared DMARD 
monotherapy or any DMARD combination strategy, with or without combined steroid 
therapy. Mixed treatment comparison methods were used to estimate the relative 
effectiveness of the different strategies. A mathematical model was developed to 
compare the longterm costs and benefits of the alternative strategies, combining 
data from a variety of sources. Costs were considered from a health sector 
viewpoint and benefits were expressed in terms of quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY).
RESULTS: If decision makers use a threshold of £20,000 (US$29,000) per QALY, 
then the strategies most likely to be cost-effective are either DMARD 
combination therapy with downward titration (probability of being optimal = 
0.50) or intensive, triple DMARD combination therapy (probability of being 
optimal = 0.43). The intensive DMARD strategy generated an additional cost of 
£27,392 per additional QALY gained compared to the downward titration strategy. 
Other combination strategies were unlikely to be considered cost-effective 
compared to DMARD monotherapy. Results were robust to a range of scenario 
sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Combination DMARD therapy is likely to be cost-effective compared to 
DMARD monotherapy where treatment entails rapid downward dose titration or 
intensive, triple DMARD therapy.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.101327
PMID: 21572149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Pathol Inform. 2011 Mar 31;2:17. doi: 10.4103/2153-3539.78263.

Extending the tissue microarray data exchange specification for inclusion of 
data analysis results.

Lyttleton O(1), Wright A, Treanor D, Quirke P, Lewis P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Science, School of Medicine, University of Wales, Swansea, 
SA2 8PP, U.K.

BACKGROUND: The Tissue Microarray Data Exchange Specification (TMA DES) is an 
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) specification for encoding TMA experiment data 
in a machine-readable format that is also human readable. TMA DES defines Common 
Data Elements (CDEs) that form a basic vocabulary for describing TMA data. TMA 
data are routinely subjected to univariate and multivariate statistical analysis 
to determine differences or similarities between pathologically distinct groups 
of tumors for one or more markers or between markers for different groups. Such 
statistical analysis tests include the t-test, ANOVA, Chi-square, Mann-Whitney 
U, and Kruskal-Wallis tests. All these generate output that needs to be recorded 
and stored with TMA data.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We propose extending the TMA DES to include syntactic and 
semantic definitions of CDEs for describing the results of statistical analyses 
performed upon TMA DES data. These CDEs are described in this paper and it is 
illustrated how they can be added to the TMA DES. We created a Document Type 
Definition (DTD) file defining the syntax for these CDEs, and a set of ISO 11179 
entries providing semantic definitions for them. We describe how we wrote a 
program in R that read TMA DES data from an XML file, performed statistical 
analyses on that data, and created a new XML file containing both the original 
XML data and CDEs representing the results of our analyses. This XML file was 
submitted to XML parsers in order to confirm that they conformed to the syntax 
defined in our extended DTD file. TMA DES XML files with deliberately introduced 
errors were also parsed in order to verify that our new DTD file could perform 
error checking. Finally, we also validated an existing TMA DES XML file against 
our DTD file in order to demonstrate the backward compatibility of our DTD.
RESULTS: Our experiments demonstrated the encoding of analysis results using our 
proposed CDEs. We used XML parsers to confirm that these XML data were 
syntactically correct and conformed to the rules specified in our extended TMA 
DES DTD. We also demonstrated that this extended DTD was capable of being used 
to successfully perform error checking, and was backward compatible with 
pre-existing TMA DES data which did not use our new CDEs.
CONCLUSIONS: The TMA DES allows Tissue Microarray data to be shared. A variety 
of statistical tests are used to analyze such data. We have proposed a set of 
CDEs as an extension to the TMA DES which can be used to annotate TMA DES data 
with the results of statistical analyses performed on that data. We performed 
experiments which demonstrated the usage of TMA DES data containing our proposed 
CDEs.

DOI: 10.4103/2153-3539.78263
PMCID: PMC3073064
PMID: 21572505


654. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Aug;13(4):491-500. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0318-y.
Epub  2011 May 15.

The way that you do it? An elaborate test of procedural invariance of TTO, using 
a choice-based design.

Attema AE(1), Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA, Erasmus University, PO Box 1738, 3000, DR, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. attema@bmg.eur.nl

The time tradeoff (TTO) method is often used to derive Quality-Adjusted Life 
Year health state valuations. An important problem with this method is that 
results have been found to be responsive to the procedure used to elicit 
preferences. In particular, fixing the duration in the health state to be valued 
and inferring the duration in full health that renders an individual 
indifferent, causes valuations to be higher than when the duration in full 
health is fixed and the duration in the health state to be valued is elicited. 
This paper presents a new test of procedural invariance for a broad range of 
time horizons, while using a choice-based design and adjusting for discounting. 
As one of the known problems with the conventional procedure is the violation of 
constant proportional tradeoffs (CPTO), we also investigate CPTO for the 
alternative TTO procedure. Our findings concerning procedural invariance are 
rather supportive for the TTO procedure. We find no violations of procedural 
invariance except for the shortest gauge duration. The results for CPTO are more 
troublesome: TTO scores depend on gauge duration, reinforcing the evidence 
reported when using the conventional procedure.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0318-y
PMCID: PMC3375425
PMID: 21573934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Pol J Pathol. 2011;62(1):19-24.

Immunohistochemical study of E-cadherin and β-catenin expression in colorectal 
carcinomas.

Ozgüven BY(1), Karaçetin D, Kabukçuoğlu F, Taşkin T, Yener Ş.

Author information:
(1)Sisli Etfal Training and Research Hospital, Pathology Laboratory, Istanbul, 
Turkey.

Parameters of histological type, differentiation, lymph node metastasis and 
stage have been observed to indicate the prognosis of colorectal carcinomas. 
Immunohistochemically E-cadherin and β -catenin expression of tumour cells have 
been evaluated to define life expectancy, response to the treatment, metastatic 
disease and recurrence of tumour in correlation with these prognostic 
parameters. 60 cases diagnosed as colorectal adenocarcinoma were selected to be 
studied retrospectively. Immunohistochemistry was performed using E-cadherin and 
β -catenin primary antibodies and avidin-biotin-peroxidase. 53 of 60 
adenocarcinoma tissues were evaluated as classical type adenocarcinoma and 7 of 
them as mucinous carcinoma. 48 classical type adenocarcinoma tissues showed 
membranous staining for E-cadherin, 13 tissues showed cytoplasmic staining. All 
53 adenocarcinoma tissues expressed nuclear or membranous type β -catenin in 
different intensities. Reduced E-cadherin expression significantly correlated 
with lymph nodes metastasis (p = 0.01). E-cadherin expression significantly 
correlated with increasing histological differentiation (p = 0.04). When 
E-cadherin and β -catenin expressions were compared, there was a significant 
difference between the tumour stage, histological differentiation and the 
existence of lymph node metastasis. When both E-cadherin and β -catenin 
expressions were reduced, there was a significant unfavourable prognosis.

PMID: 21574102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Rev Gaucha Enferm. 2010 Sep;31(3):491-8. doi:
10.1590/s1983-14472010000300012.

[The life of the patient with chronic Chagas disease: possible nursing actions 
towards a healthy life].

[Article in Portuguese]

de Oliveira AP(1), Gomes LF, Casarin ST, de Siqueira HC.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Estudo e Pesquisa Gerenciamento Ecossistêmico em Enfermagem/Saúde 
(GEES), Piratini, Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil. angelporto83@hotmail.com

This study, carried out in two cities in southern Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, 
aims to get understand how people with chronic Chagas disease live in order to 
draw possible nursing actions towards a healthier life. The study has a 
descriptive and exploratory character with a qualitative approach. Data were 
collected through semi-sctructured interviews carried out with ten Chagas 
disease chronic carriers at their houses. The results showed that the sickness 
symptomatology did not appear in the acute phase of the disease; it also showed 
that most of the carriers make use of palliative medication to alleviate 
symptoms. There are great limitations to their performing daily chores, 
especially for heart-affected carriers. The support of the health team, 
especially the nurse's, is valuable to the clinical management of the patient. 
When it is started in the early stages of the disease, a better quality of life 
and a longer life expectancy can be reached.

DOI: 10.1590/s1983-14472010000300012
PMID: 21574334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Popul Health Metr. 2011 May 16;9:13. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-13.

Healthy life gains in South Australia 1999-2008: analysis of a local Burden of 
Disease series.

Banham D(1), Woollacott T, Lynch J.

Author information:
(1)Research and Ethics Policy, SA Health, 11 Hindmarsh Square, Adelaide, SA, 
5000, Australia. david.banham@health.sa.gov.au.

BACKGROUND: The analysis describes trends in the levels and social distribution 
of total life expectancy and healthy life expectancy in South Australia from 
1999 to 2008.
METHODS: South Australian Burden of Disease series for the period 1999-2001 to 
2006-2008 and across statistical local areas according to relative socioeconomic 
disadvantage were analyzed for changes in total life expectancy and healthy life 
expectancy by sex and area level disadvantage, with further decomposition of 
healthy life expectancy change by age, cause of death, and illness.
RESULTS: Total life expectancy at birth increased in South Australia for both 
sexes (2.0 years [2.6%] among males; 1.5 years [1.8%] among females). Healthy 
life expectancy also increased (1.4 years [2.1%] among males; 1.2 years [1.5%] 
among females). Total life and healthy life expectancy gains were apparent in 
all socioeconomic groups, with the largest increases in areas of most and least 
disadvantage. While the least disadvantaged areas consistently had the best 
health outcomes, they also experienced the largest increase in the amount of 
life expectancy lived with disease and injury-related illness.
CONCLUSIONS: While overall gains in both total life and healthy life expectancy 
were apparent in South Australia, gains were greater for total life expectancy. 
Additionally, the proportion of expected life lived with disease and 
injury-related illness increased as disadvantage decreased. This expansion of 
morbidity occurred in both sexes and across all socio-economic groups.This 
analysis outlines the continuing improvements to population health outcomes 
within South Australia. It also highlights the challenge of reducing population 
morbidity so that gains to healthy life match those of total life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-13
PMCID: PMC3107168
PMID: 21575171


658. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 Jun 3;409(2):308-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.05.008. Epub 2011 May 7.

Caloric restriction improves efficiency and capacity of the mitochondrial 
electron transport chain in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Choi JS(1), Choi KM, Lee CK.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 136-701, 
South Korea.

Caloric restriction (CR) is known to extend lifespan in a variety of species; 
however, the mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we found that CR 
potentiated the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) at both the 
transcriptional and translational levels. Indeed, mitochondrial membrane 
potential (MMP) was increased by CR, and, regardless of ages, overall reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) generation was decreased by CR. With these changes, overall 
growth rate of cells was maintained under various CR conditions, just like cells 
under a non-restricted condition. All of these data support increased efficiency 
and capacity of the ETC by CR, and this change might lead to extension of 
lifespan.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.05.008
PMID: 21575595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Neurodegener Dis. 2011;8(6):438-46. doi: 10.1159/000325829. Epub 2011 May
12.

Health-related quality of life in multiple system atrophy and progressive 
supranuclear palsy.

Winter Y(1), Spottke AE, Stamelou M, Cabanel N, Eggert K, Höglinger GU, 
Sixel-Doering F, Herting B, Klockgether T, Reichmann H, Oertel WH, Dodel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Multiple system atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy 
(PSP), known as atypical parkinsonian syndromes (APS), are neurodegenerative 
disorders with severe disability and decreased life expectancy. Little is known 
about the health-related quality of life (HrQoL) and its determinants in 
patients with those disorders. The objective of our cross-sectional study was to 
evaluate the HrQoL in patients with APS and to identify the determinants of 
HrQoL.
METHODS: A total of 101 consecutive patients with MSA (n = 54) and PSP (n = 47) 
were recruited in four German neurological centers. Disease severity was 
assessed using the Hoehn and Yahr stages and the Unified MSA Rating Scale. The 
HrQoL was evaluated using the EuroQol instrument (EQ-5D and EQ-VAS). Independent 
determinants of HrQoL were identified in multiple regression analyses.
RESULTS: The mean EQ-VAS score was 52% lower than that reported for the general 
population (36.9 ± 18.3 vs. 77.4 ± 19.0). Of the study participants, 63% 
reported severe problems in at least one dimension of the EQ-5D. Cerebellar 
dysfunction was associated with a more considerable reduction of HrQoL. 
Independent determinants of reduced HrQoL were female gender, <12 years of 
education, disease severity, a decreased number of persons in the household and 
depression.
CONCLUSIONS: The HrQoL in MSA and PSP is considerably reduced. While therapeutic 
options in the treatment of motor symptoms remain restricted, greater attention 
should be paid to the treatment of depression, which was identified among 
independent determinants of HrQoL. Independent determinants of HrQoL should be 
considered when developing healthcare programs aimed at improving the HrQoL in 
APS.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000325829
PMID: 21576919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Genet Med. 2011 Jun;13(6):597-605. doi: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e31821d69b8.

Genetic counseling and testing for Alzheimer disease: joint practice guidelines 
of the American College of Medical Genetics and the National Society of Genetic 
Counselors.

Goldman JS(1), Hahn SE, Catania JW, LaRusse-Eckert S, Butson MB, Rumbaugh M, 
Strecker MN, Roberts JS, Burke W, Mayeux R, Bird T; American College of Medical 
Genetics and the National Society of Genetic Counselors.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA. 
jg2673@columbia.edu [corrected]

Erratum in
    Genet Med. 2011 Aug;13(8):749.

Comment in
    Genet Med. 2019 Oct;21(10):2404.

Alzheimer disease is the most common cause of dementia. It occurs worldwide and 
affects all ethnic groups. The incidence of Alzheimer disease is increasing due, 
in part, to increased life expectancy and the aging baby boomer generation. The 
average lifetime risk of developing Alzheimer disease is 10-12%. This risk at 
least doubles with the presence of a first-degree relative with the disorder. 
Despite its limited utility, patients express concern over their risk and, in 
some instances, request testing. Furthermore, research has demonstrated that 
testing individuals for apolipoprotein E can be valuable and safe in certain 
contexts. However, because of the complicated genetic nature of the disorder, 
few clinicians are prepared to address the genetic risks of Alzheimer disease 
with their patients. Given the increased awareness in family history thanks to 
family history campaigns, the increasing incidence of Alzheimer disease, and the 
availability of direct to consumer testing, patient requests for information is 
increasing. This practice guideline provides clinicians with a framework for 
assessing their patients' genetic risk for Alzheimer disease, identifying which 
individuals may benefit from genetic testing, and providing the key elements of 
genetic counseling for AD.

DOI: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e31821d69b8
PMCID: PMC3326653
PMID: 21577118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors declare no conflict of 
interest.661. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2011 Mar;55(2):91-105. doi: 
10.1590/S0004-27302011000200001.

[Recommendations of Neuroendocrinology Department from Brazilian Society of 
Endocrinology and Metabolism for diagnosis and treatment of acromegaly in 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Vieira Neto L(1), Abucham J, Araujo LA, Boguszewski CL, Bronstein MD, 
Czepielewski M, Jallad RS, Musolino NR, Naves LA, Ribeiro-Oliveira Júnior A, 
Vilar L, Faria Mdos S, Gadelha MR.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitário Clementino Fraga Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro (UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil.

Acromegaly is a disease associated with increased morbidity and reduced life 
expectancy. Because of its insidious character and its non-recognition, the 
diagnosis is often made with delay, which, along with the complications related 
to GH/IGF-I excess, determines high morbidity and mortality. However, an early 
diagnosis and an effective treatment reduce the morbidity and normalize the 
mortality rate. In this publication, the goal of Neuroendocrinology Department 
from Brazilian Society of Endocrinology and Metabolism is to disclose which 
clinical set should arouse the suspicious of acromegaly and how to diagnose it. 
Furthermore, we discuss the most effective and safe approach to perform the 
treatment of acromegaly, emphasizing that it must be carried out in reference 
centers. Therefore, based on data published in journals with recognized 
scientific level and authors' experience, recommendations are presented for 
diagnosis and treatment of the disease.

DOI: 10.1590/S0004-27302011000200001
PMID: 21584426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Asia Pac J Clin Oncol. 2011 Jun;7 Suppl 2:22-33. doi: 
10.1111/j.1743-7563.2011.01399.x.

Cost-effectiveness of bevacizumab-based therapy versus cisplatin plus pemetrexed 
for the first-line treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC in Korea and Taiwan.

Ahn MJ(1), Tsai CM, Hsia TC, Wright E, Chang JW, Kim HT, Kim JH, Kang JH, Kim 
SW, Bae EJ, Kang M, Lister J, Walzer S.

Author information:
(1)Section of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical 
Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. 
silkahn@skku.edu

AIMS: The aim of this analysis is to investigate the mean incremental costs and 
life expectancy associated with two first-line treatments for advanced 
non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in Korea and Taiwan; bevacizumab 
plus cisplatin and gemcitabine (BevCG) and cisplatin plus pemetrexed (CP).
METHODS: A health economic (area under curve) model with three health states was 
developed to assess health outcomes (life-years gained [LYG]), direct costs, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Progression-free survival (PFS) and 
overall survival (OS) were derived from randomized clinical trials and used in 
an indirect comparison in order to estimate their cost effectiveness. A 
life-time horizon was used. Costs and outcomes were discounted yearly by 5% in 
Korea and by 3% in Taiwan.
RESULTS: The incremental LYG for the BevCG patients compared with patients 
treated with CP were 1.10 (13.2 months) in Korea and 1.19 (14.3 months) in 
Taiwan. The incremental costs were 37,439,968 ($ 33,322) in Korea and NT$ 
1,910,615 ($ 64,541) in Taiwan. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 
34,064,835 ($ 30,318) in Korea and NT$ 1,607,960 ($ 54,317) in Taiwan. The 
inputs tested in one-way sensitivity analyses had very little impact on the 
overall cost effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: This analysis shows that BevCG is more costly but is also associated 
with additional life-years in Korea and Taiwan. The ICER per LYG suggests that 
BevCG is a cost-effective therapy when compared to CP for patients with advanced 
NSCLC in Korea and Taiwan.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-7563.2011.01399.x
PMID: 21585705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. BMJ. 2011 May 17;342:d3061. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d3061.

People in richest countries live 23 years longer than those in poorest, finds 
WHO.

Zarocostas J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d3061
PMID: 21586473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2011 Oct;65(10):1148-55. doi: 10.1038/ejcn.2011.78. Epub
2011  May 18.

Health economic consequences of reducing salt intake and replacing saturated fat 
with polyunsaturated fat in the adult Finnish population: estimates based on the 
FINRISK and FINDIET studies.

Martikainen JA(1), Soini EJ, Laaksonen DE, Niskanen L.

Author information:
(1)ESiOR Oy Ltd, Kuopio, Finland. janne.martikainen@esior.fi

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: To predict the health economic consequences of modest 
reductions in the daily intake of salt (-1.0 g per day) and replacement of 
saturated fat (SFA, -1.0 energy percent (E%)) with polyunsaturated fat (PUFA, 
+1.0 E%) in the Finnish population aged 30-74 years.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: A Markov model with dynamic population structure was 
constructed to present the natural history of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) 
based on the most current information about the age- and sex-specific 
cardiovascular risk factors, dietary habits and nutrient intake. To predict the 
undiscounted future health economic consequences of the reduction of dietary 
salt and SFA, the model results were extrapolated for the years 2010-2030 by 
replacing the baseline population in the year 2007 with the extrapolated 
populations from the official Finnish statistics. Finnish costs (€2009, societal 
perspective) and EQ-5D utilities were obtained from published references.
RESULTS: During the next 20 years, a population-wide intervention directed at 
salt intake and dietary fat quality could potentially lead to 8000-13,000 
prevented CVD cases among the Finnish adults compared the situation in year 
2007. In addition, the reduced incidence of CVDs could gain 26,000-45,000 
quality-adjusted life years and save €150-225 million over the same time period.
CONCLUSION: A modest reduction of salt and replacement of SFA with PUFA in food 
products can significantly reduce the burden of CVD in the adult Finnish 
population. This impact may be even larger in the near future due to the ageing 
of Finnish population.

DOI: 10.1038/ejcn.2011.78
PMCID: PMC3189582
PMID: 21587284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Oncol Rep. 1997 Sep-Oct;4(5):1033-7. doi: 10.3892/or.4.5.1033.

Cost-effectiveness of neoadjuvant multimodal therapy in patients with esophageal 
adenocarcinoma.

Davini I(1), Becagli P, Pani M, Trippoli S, Peverini D, Messori A, Carmignani A.

Author information:
(1)AZIENDA OSPED CAREGGI,DRUG INFORMAT CTR,PHARMACEUT SERV,I-50134 
FLORENCE,ITALY.

We conducted an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis to evaluate an adjuvant 
multimodal therapy (chemotherapy + radiotherapy) in patients with esophageal 
adenocarcinoma undergoing surgery. We utilized the clinical data of a published 
controlled trial comparing preoperative chemotherapy + radiotherapy versus 
surgery alone. Information on costs was derived from local data and verified 
against reported values. Multimodal treatment was found to improve life 
expectancy by 196.9 discounted years every 100 subjects (survival gain of about 
2 years per patient). Costs of this neoadjuvant therapy were estimated as 
$780,010 per 100 patients. Our cost-effectiveness analysis showed that the cost 
per life year gained was $3,961 for the multimodal therapy in comparison with 
surgery alone. The pharmacoeconomic profile of this therapeutic modality 
compares favorably with previous economic data calculated for other types of 
health care intervention.

DOI: 10.3892/or.4.5.1033
PMID: 21590190


666. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2011 Dec;469(12):3351-5. doi:
10.1007/s11999-011-1915-x.

Function plateaus by one year in patients with surgically treated displaced 
midshaft clavicle fractures.

Schemitsch LA(1), Schemitsch EH, Veillette C, Zdero R, McKee MD.

Author information:
(1)Upper Extremity Reconstructive Service, St Michael's Hospital, University of 
Toronto, Suite 800, 55 Queen Street E, Toronto, Ontario M5C 1R6, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Based on short-term (1 year or less) followup, primary fixation of 
displaced midshaft clavicle fractures reportedly results in better function 
compared with that reported for nonoperative methods. Whether better function 
persists beyond 1 year is unclear.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: For displaced midshaft clavicle fractures, do the better 
mean Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) and Constant-Murley 
Shoulder (CSS) scores for operative versus nonoperative treatment at 1 year 
change between 1- and 2-year followup?
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We previously reported 132 patients in a randomized 
prospective trial at 1 year, and here we report a further followup of 95 of the 
132 patients (72%) at 2 years after injury. We evaluated all patients with the 
DASH and CSS scores.
RESULTS: The mean DASH and CSS scores were similar at 2 years compared with 
1 year postinjury for both the nonoperated and operated patients. The mean 
scores for the operated patients remained higher than those in the nonoperative 
group (DASH operative 4.1 ± 7.0 versus DASH nonoperative 11.4 ± 19.7, CSS 
operative 97.1 ± 4.5 versus CSS nonoperative 91.6 ± 14.1) at 2 years postinjury.
CONCLUSIONS: The improvement in DASH and CSS scores seen with primary fixation 
of displaced clavicle fractures persists at 2 years but does not differ from 
values seen after 1 year of followup, suggesting a clinical steady state has 
been reached whereby outcome is unlikely to change with time.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level I, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a 
complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-011-1915-x
PMCID: PMC3210276
PMID: 21590485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Przegl Lek. 2010;67(12):1340-1.

[Does medical practice make life shorter?].

[Article in Polish]

Zieliński J(1).

Author information:
(1)Zakład Biofizyki i Fizjologii Człowieka Warszawski Uniwersytet Medyczny. 
jziel@op.pl

In the present paper, an average age of death of medical doctors, separately for 
men and women, was compared with the average age of death across the Polish 
population. Obtained data indicate a higher mortality of women doctors in 
