PMID: 21510588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2011 Apr 21;8:35. doi: 10.1186/1479-5868-8-35.

Development of a questionnaire to assess maternal attitudes towards infant 
growth and milk feeding practices.

Lakshman RR(1), Landsbaugh JR, Schiff A, Hardeman W, Ong KK, Griffin SJ.

Author information:
(1)MRC Epidemiology Unit, Cambridge, UK. rl284@mrc-epid.cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There is increasing recognition that public health strategies to 
prevent childhood obesity need to start early in life. Any behavioural 
interventions need to target maternal attitudes and infant feeding practices, 
This paper describes the development and preliminary validation of a 
questionnaire to assess maternal attitudes towards infant growth and milk 
feeding practices.
METHODS: We designed a 57-item (19 questions), self-administered questionnaire 
to measure the following four domains- 1) type of milk feeding, decision making 
and sources of advice; 2) frequency and quantity of milk feeds; 3) attitudes to 
infant feeding and growth; and 4) theory-based beliefs about following infant 
feeding recommendations. Forty mothers completed the questionnaire on two 
occasions six days apart (to assess test-retest reliability) and then 
participated in a semi-structured, open-ended telephone interview covering the 
same domains (to assess criterion validity). Percentage agreement, Cohen's 
Kappas (for categorical variables) and Spearman's correlation coefficients (for 
continuous variables) were used to quantify reliability and validity. Internal 
consistency between theory-based constructs (self-efficacy, outcome expectancy 
and intention) was quantified by Chronbach's alpha.
RESULTS: Of the 57 questionnaire items 51 (89%) had percentage agreement above 
70% indicating good test-retest reliability, and the remaining 6 items had 
moderate or substantial levels of agreement (kappa 0.41-0.68). Comparing 
questionnaire with interview coding (validity), percentage agreement was above 
66% for 39/57 items (68%). Of the 16 items with percentage agreement below 66%, 
only five had kappa values below 0.20 (two items had insufficient interview 
responses). Internal consistency was 0.51, 0.79 and 0.90 for self-efficacy, 
outcome expectancy and intention respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This questionnaire could be a useful tool in understanding the 
determinants of infant feeding and the 'causal mechanism' of interventions that 
target infant feeding practices to prevent early obesity.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-5868-8-35
PMCID: PMC3111341
PMID: 21510900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Vaccine. 2011 Aug 18;29(36):6113-24. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.04.013.
Epub  2011 Apr 19.

The cost-effectiveness of a modestly effective HIV vaccine in the United States.

Long EF(1), Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)School of Management, Yale University, 135 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 
06520, USA. elisa.long@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: The recent RV144 clinical trial showed that an ALVAC/AIDSVAX 
prime-boost HIV vaccine regimen may confer partial immunity in recipients and 
reduce transmission by 31%. Trial data suggest that efficacy may initially 
exceed 70% but decline over the following 3.5 years. Estimating the potential 
health benefits associated with a one-time vaccination campaign, as well as the 
projected benefits of repeat booster vaccination, may inform future HIV vaccine 
research and licensing decisions.
METHODS: We developed a mathematical model to project the future course of the 
HIV epidemic in the United States under varying HIV vaccine scenarios. The model 
accounts for disease progression, infection transmission, antiretroviral 
therapy, and HIV-related morbidity and mortality. We projected HIV prevalence 
and incidence over time in multiple risk groups, and we estimated 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs over a 10-year time horizon. We 
assumed an exponentially declining efficacy curve fit to trial data, and that 
subsequent vaccine boosters confer similar immunity. Variations in vaccine 
parameters were examined in sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Under existing HIV prevention and treatment efforts, an estimated 
590,000 HIV infections occur over 10 years. One-time vaccination achieving 60% 
coverage of adults could prevent 9.8% of projected new infections over 10 years 
(and prevent 34% of new infections in the first year) and cost approximately 
$91,000/QALY gained relative to the status quo, assuming $500 per vaccination 
series. Targeted vaccination strategies result in net cost savings for vaccines 
costing less than $750. One-time vaccination of 60% of all adults coupled with 
three-year boosters only for men who have sex with men and people who inject 
drugs could prevent 21% of infections for $81,000/QALY gained relative to 
vaccination of higher risk sub-populations only. A program attaining 90% 
vaccination coverage prevents 15% of new HIV cases over 10 years (and 
approximately 50% of infections in the first year).
CONCLUSIONS: A partially effective HIV vaccine with effectiveness similar to 
that observed in the RV144 trial would provide large health benefits in the 
United States and could meet conventionally accepted cost-effectiveness 
thresholds. Strategies that prioritize key populations are most efficient, but 
broader strategies provide greater total population health benefit.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.04.013
PMCID: PMC3156325
PMID: 21510996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2011 May;37(5):803-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jcrs.2011.03.029.

Cataract surgery in the elderly and the ill.

Dupps WJ Jr.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2011.03.029
PMID: 21511147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2011 May;37(5):970-1. doi:
10.1016/j.jcrs.2011.03.009.

Cataract surgery in the very ill.

Greenberg PB, Tseng VL, Jiang L, Wu WC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2011.03.009
PMID: 21511163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Br J Radiol. 2011 May;84(1001):469-77. doi: 10.1259/bjr/59197814.

Pictorial review of mucopolysaccharidosis with emphasis on MRI features of brain 
and spine.

Rasalkar DD(1), Chu WC, Hui J, Chu CM, Paunipagar BK, Li CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Imaging and Interventional Radiology, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Ngan Shing St, Shatin, New Territories, 
Hong Kong.

Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) is an inherited metabolic disorder of childhood, 
characterised by progressive multisystem involvement predominantly affecting the 
skeletal system leading to skeletal dysplasia. Mental retardation, neuropathy 
and cardiomyopathy may occur in the most severely affected patients, leading to 
progressive disability and death in their early third to fourth decades. The 
purpose of this paper is to illustrate the typical imaging features of different 
types of MPS, in particular the MR features of the brain and spine in MPS, which 
are expected to be encountered by radiologists more frequently in their clinical 
practice as a result of prolonged life expectancy for those with MPS with recent 
advances in therapeutic interventions. The treatment options and outcomes for 
MPS patients are also briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/59197814
PMCID: PMC3473658
PMID: 21511751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Stroke. 2011 Jun;42(6):1717-21. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.600767. Epub 2011
Apr  21.

Cost effectiveness of warfarin versus aspirin in patients older than 75 years 
with atrial fibrillation.

Jowett S(1), Bryan S, Mant J, Fletcher K, Roalfe A, Fitzmaurice D, Lip GY, Hobbs 
FD.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, Public Health Building, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK. s.jowett@bham.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Oral anticoagulants are effective at reducing stroke 
compared with aspirin in atrial fibrillation patients older than 75 years. 
Although the benefits of reduced stroke risk outweigh the risks of bleeding, the 
cost effectiveness of warfarin in this patient population has not yet been 
established.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a randomized, controlled 
trial; 973 patients ≥75 years of age with atrial fibrillation were recruited 
from primary care and randomly assigned to either take warfarin or aspirin. 
Follow-up was for a mean of 2.7 years. Costs of thrombotic and hemorrhagic 
events, anticoagulation clinic visits, and primary care utilization were 
determined. Clinical benefits were expressed in terms of a primary event 
avoided: fatal/nonfatal disabling stroke, intracranial hemorrhage, or systemic 
embolism. A cost-utility analysis was performed using quality-adjusted life 
years as the benefit measure.
RESULTS: Total costs over 4 years were lower in the warfarin group (difference, 
-£165; 95% CI, -£452-£89), primarily driven by the difference in primary event 
costs. The primary event rate over 4 years was lower in the warfarin group 
(0.049 versus 0.099), and the quality-adjusted life years score was higher 
(difference, 0.02; 95% CI, -0.07-0.11). With lower costs and a higher 
quality-adjusted life years score, warfarin is the dominant treatment, but the 
differences in both costs and effects are small.
CONCLUSIONS: Warfarin is cost-effective compared with aspirin in atrial 
fibrillation patients age ≥75 years. These data support the anticoagulant 
therapy option in this high-risk patient population. However, the small 
differences in costs and effects indicate the importance of exploring patient 
preferences.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.600767
PMID: 21512184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Pneumologie. 2011 Sep;65(9):558-64. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1256364. Epub 2011
Apr  21.

[Efficacy and safety in the treatment of pleural effusions with the PleurX 
catheter: a retrospective analysis].

[Article in German]

Blaukovitsch M(1), Strassburg A, Müller E, Zabel P, Hauber HP.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Forschungszentrum Borstel.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this retrospective study was to investigate the 
efficacy and safety of an indwelling pleural device (PleurX, Denver Biomedical, 
USA) for the treatment of recurrent pleural effusions. In cases when life 
expectancy tends to be very short and also surgical decortication is not 
recommended, pleurodesis is another treatment option but requires complete 
drainage of the whole pleural fluid for optimal results which is sometimes hard 
to achieve. The PleurX catheter is an alternative therapeutic option.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We retrospectively analysed the clinical data from a total 
of 21 patients who were treated with a PleurX alone (11 patients) or who 
initially received pleurodesis and afterwards a PleurX catheter (10 patients). 
Mean survival was 25 weeks after initial diagnosis of the underlying disease. 
The mean amount of pleural effusion drained per week was 725 mL. 16 patients 
used the catheter until they died at least 1 - 2 times a week. The complication 
rate was 19 % and thus within a reasonable range when compared to other 
treatment options for recurrent pleural effusions. There was no statistically 
significant difference in clinical outcome in both groups (pleurodesis and 
subsequent PleurX vs. PleurX alone). The amount of evacuated pleural effusion 
was inversely correlated with the remaining life time.
CONCLUSION: The use of an indwelling pleural device is a safe alternative 
treatment option for patients with chronic pleural effusions and trapped lung 
signs. We should be aware of this device and propagate its use at an earlier 
stage of malignant diseases with recurrent pleural effusions, especially when 
the remaining life time is short.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1256364
PMID: 21512973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2010 Jun;194(6):1095-103.

[French national health insurance. The current situation].

[Article in French]

Huguier M(1), Lagrave M, Marcelli A, Rossignol C, Tillement JP.

Author information:
(1)L'Academie nationale de médecine.

An audit of the French national health insurance system would be justified by 
economic considerations alone, but this would risk overlooking the notions of 
solidarity and freedom to which the French are rightly attached. European 
comparisons suggest, however, that our system could be made more efficient 
without undermining public health. The national health insurance system allows 
each member of the population to receive high-quality medical care. 
Practitioners have near-total freedom of prescription and practice. Medical care 
contributes to the ongoing increase in life expectancy, which is currently 73 
years and second only to Japan. Healthcare is also a source of a million jobs. 
Macro-economic spending controls have failed, owing to medical progress and 
population aging, and also to medical consumerism favored by an unprecedented 
range of examinations and treatments, the increasing reimbursement of medical 
care, and the extension of direct payment by the insurer. Many ineffective 
measures have been implemented, such as tarification according to activity, and 
hospital certification. Health spending is also increased unnecessarily by 
bureaucratisation of healthcare spending and the transfer of professionals to 
posts for which they are not qualified. Some controversial medical prescriptions 
are not adequately controlled by the health service. Many reforms are based on 
over-optimistic economic predictions that fail to take related overheads into 
account. Lobbying by special interests groups undermines reform and the public 
interest. Too many independent administrative bodies have been created, and many 
are less efficient than the public structures they replaced. In sum, the French 
national health insurance system has become less and less efficient over the 
years.

PMID: 21513139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Semin Oncol Nurs. 2011 May;27(2):133-41. doi: 10.1016/j.soncn.2011.02.005.

Interventions to promote adherence with oral agents.

Schneider SM(1), Hess K, Gosselin T.

Author information:
(1)Duke University School of Nursing, DUMC 3322, Durham, NC 27710, USA. 
susan.schneider@duke.edu

OBJECTIVES: The advent of oral therapies has dramatically changed the landscape 
of cancer therapy. Yet the degree to which patients actually take the prescribed 
agents as ordered remains unknown. This article outlines the challenges that 
oral chemotherapy agents present to both patients and providers and suggests 
interventions for promoting adherence.
DATA SOURCES: Published articles and web resources.
CONCLUSION: Barriers and facilitators to medication adherence are reviewed and 
interventions to promote medication adherence are presented. Strategies that 
include patient education and symptom management can promote adherence.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Maximizing adherence to oral chemotherapy 
agents can have many positive outcomes, but most important is improvement in 
overall survival and life expectancy. Other outcomes include improved safety and 
quality of life. Patients risk improper dosing and an increase in disease 
recurrence when there is nonadherence with medications. Correct dosing, 
education, and symptom management are all critical to ensuring adherence. 
Nursing interventions that incorporate education, early symptom identification, 
and reminder prompts can improve outcomes.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soncn.2011.02.005
PMCID: PMC3653175
PMID: 21514482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2011 Jun;22(6):870-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jvir.2011.02.002.
 Epub 2011 Apr 22.

Ten-year retrospective study of treatment of malignant colonic obstructions with 
self-expandable stents.

de Gregorio MA(1), Laborda A, Tejero E, Miguelena JM, Carnevale FC, de Blas I, 
Gimenez M, Maynar M, D'Agostino H.

Author information:
(1)Research Group in Minimally Invasive Techniques, University of Zaragoza, Avda 
Miguel Servet 177, Zaragoza 50013, Spain.

PURPOSE: To describe the use of self-expandable metallic stents to manage 
malignant colorectal obstructions and to compare the radiation dose between 
fluoroscopic guidance of stent placement and combined endoscopic and 
fluoroscopic guidance.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From January 1998 to December 2007, 467 oncology patients 
undergoing colorectal stent placement in a single center were included in the 
study. Informed consent was obtained in all cases. All procedures were performed 
with fluoroscopic or combined fluoroscopic and endoscopic guidance. Inclusion 
criteria were total or partial colorectal obstruction of neoplastic origin. 
Exclusion criteria were life expectancy shorter than 1 month, suspicion of 
perforation, and/or severe colonic neoplastic bleeding. Procedure time and 
radiation dose were recorded, and technical and clinical success were evaluated. 
Follow-up was performed by clinical examination and simple abdominal radiographs 
at 1 day and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months.
RESULTS: Of 467 procedures, technical success was achieved in 432 (92.5%). 
Thirty-five treatments (7.5%) were technical failures, and the patients were 
advised to undergo surgery. Significant differences in radiation dose and 
clinical success were found between the fluoroscopy and combined-technique 
groups (P < .001). Total decompression was achieved in 372 cases, 29 patients 
showed remarkable improvement, 11 showed slight improvement, and 20 showed 
clinical failure. Complications were recorded in 89 patients (19%); the most 
significant were perforation (2.3%) and stent migration (6.9%). Mean 
interventional time and radiation dose were 67 minutes and 3,378 dGy·cm(2), 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of colonic obstruction with stents requires a long time 
in the interventional room and considerable radiation dose. Nevertheless, the 
clinical benefits and improvement in quality of life justify the radiation risk.

Copyright © 2011 SIR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2011.02.002
PMID: 21514839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Can J Neurol Sci. 2011 May;38(3):396-403. doi: 10.1017/s031716710001177x.

Contemporary treatment strategy for spinal metastasis: the "LMNOP" system.

Paton GR(1), Frangou E, Fourney DR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, 
Saskatchewan, Canada.

The choice of treatment for spinal metastasis is complex because (1) it depends 
on several inter-related clinical and radiologic factors, and (2) a wide range 
of management options has evolved in recent years. While radiation therapy and 
surgery remain the cornerstones of treatment, radiosurgery and percutaneous 
vertebral augmentation have also established a role. Classification systems have 
been developed to aid in the decision-making process, and each has different 
strengths and weaknesses. The comprehensive scoring systems developed to date 
provide an estimate of life expectancy, but do not provide much advice on the 
choice of treatment. We propose a new decision model that describes the key 
factors in formulating the management plan, while recognizing that the care of 
each patient remains highly individualized. The system also incorporates the 
latest changes in technology. The LMNOP system evaluates the number of spinal 
Levels involved and the Location of disease in the spine (L), Mechanical 
instability (M), Neurology (N), Oncology (O), Patient fitness, Prognosis and 
response to Prior therapy (P).

DOI: 10.1017/s031716710001177x
PMID: 21515496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Soc Biol. 2006 Spring-Summer;53(1-2):61-80. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2006.9989117.

Historical and life course timing of the male mortality disadvantage in Europe: 
epidemiologic transitions, evolution, and behavior.

Weden MM(1), Brown RA.

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA 90407-2138, USA. mweden@rand.org

This study employs vital statistics data from Sweden, England, Wales, France, 
and Spain to examine male:female mortality differentials from 1750 through 2000 
and their interrelationship with epidemiological transitions. Across all ages 
and time periods, the largest relative mortality disadvantages are to young 
adult men. When crisis mortality from the two world wars is removed, we show 
that the mortality in this young male age group is about two to three times the 
level of female mortality across all countries sampled. In addition, we show 
that the timing of this stabilization in male mortality disadvantages occurs 
during the last half of the twentieth century, at the same point that our 
measure of epidemiological change also stabilizes at a new low level. The 
findings are consistent with an interdisciplinary theoretical model that links 
social, technological and epidemiological changes that occurred through the 
first half of the 20th century with the unmasking and accentuation of mortality 
disadvantages among young adult men.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2006.9989117
PMID: 21516951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Dev Psychol. 2011 Jul;47(4):1026-41. doi: 10.1037/a0023426.

Cohort differences in cognitive aging and terminal decline in the Seattle 
Longitudinal Study.

Gerstorf D(1), Ram N, Hoppmann C, Willis SL, Schaie KW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, PA 16802, USA. gerstorf@psu.edu

Life span researchers have long been interested in how and why fundamental 
aspects of human ontogeny differ between cohorts of people who have lived 
through different historical epochs. When examined at the same age, later born 
cohorts are often cognitively and physically fitter than earlier born cohorts. 
Less is known, however, about cohort differences in the rate of cognitive aging 
and if, at the very end of life, pervasive mortality-related processes 
overshadow and minimize cohort differences. We used data on 5 primary mental 
abilities from the Seattle Longitudinal Study (Schaie, 2005) to compare both 
age-related and mortality-related changes between earlier born cohorts 
(1886-1913) and later born cohorts (1914-1948). Our models covary for several 
individual and cohort differences in central indicators of life expectancy, 
education, health, and gender. Age-related growth models corroborate and extend 
earlier findings by documenting level differences at age 70 of up to 0.50 SD and 
less steep rates of cognitive aging on all abilities between 50 and 80 years of 
age favoring the later born cohort. In contrast, mortality-related models 
provide limited support for positive cohort differences. The later born cohort 
showed steeper mortality-related declines. We discuss possible reasons why often 
reported positive secular trends in age-related processes may not generalize to 
the vulnerable segment of the population that is close to death and suggest 
routes for further inquiry.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2011 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0023426
PMCID: PMC3134559
PMID: 21517155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Am J Manag Care. 2010 Dec;16(13 Suppl):S345-51.

The case for routine HIV screening and impact of managed care.

Sullivan LE(1), Fiellin DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT 06520-8093, USA. lynn.sullivan@yale.edu

An estimated 230,000 people in the United States are unaware that they are 
infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Targeted testing 
strategies are likely to miss a significant proportion of the HIV-infected 
population, and routine screening could help identify individuals who are likely 
to experience complications or transmit the virus. Recent advances in treatment, 
including the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy, have 
dramatically extended the life expectancy of HIV-infected individuals and 
allowed many patients to have their condition managed in a manner similar to 
other chronic diseases. There are no quality of care measures, such as 
Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) measures, that pertain 
to routine HIV screening in managed care. Such measures may improve the 
identification of patients with HIV, and bring them into care earlier. Routine 
screening would provide the opportunity to identify more HIV-infected persons 
and bring them into care, a process that would be cost-effective in the long 
term. Early detection allows for the timely provision of antiretroviral 
medications, immunizations, and prophylactic antimicrobials, which substantially 
reduces mortality and hospitalizations. Given the public health impact of HIV 
infection, federal and private partnerships should be considered to establish 
routine HIV screening practices.

PMID: 21517650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2011 Jul;13(7):781-5. doi: 10.1089/dia.2010.0242.
Epub  2011 Apr 25.

An Asian Indian woman with Wolfram syndrome on insulin pump: successful 
pregnancy and beyond.

Kesavadev J(1), Kumar A, Shankar A, Gopalakrishnan G, Permutt MA, Wasson J, 
Jothydev S.

Author information:
(1)Jothydev's Diabetes and Research Center, Mudavanmugal, Trivandrum, Kerala, 
India. jothydev@gmail.com

Wolfram syndrome (WS), or DIDMOAD (diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus, optic 
atrophy, and deafness), is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder 
with a median life expectancy of 30 years and occurs in one in 770,000 live 
births. To date only five successful pregnancies have been reported among WS 
subjects worldwide. Here we describe the sixth report of successful pregnancy in 
a WS patient and the first from India. The subject is still on an insulin pump, 
now 31 years old and doing well. She developed diabetes at 5 years of age, optic 
atrophy at 14 years, and diabetes insipidus at 25 years and had a successful 
delivery in 2007 while on an insulin pump. Sequencing of exonic regions of the 
WFS1 gene showed five changes, two of which were pathogenic (exon 8). Magnetic 
resonance imaging of brain showed generalized neurodegenerative changes. The 
benefits of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion and that of tight metabolic 
control in prevention of abortions and fetal malformations in diabetes 
associated with pregnancy are well documented. The impression of probable 
pleiotropic action of insulin pumps over and above that of glycemic reduction is 
gaining momentum. Recent evidence supports use of insulin pumps in alleviating 
neuropathic pain in diabetes, probably by virtue of its action in minimizing 
mean amplitude of glycemic excursions not possible with conventional insulin 
shots. WS is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, which will probably help 
us in understanding the positive impact of continuous subcutaneous insulin 
infusion in prolonging the life span and retarding neuronal damage in WS.

DOI: 10.1089/dia.2010.0242
PMID: 21517693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Health Serv Res. 2011 Oct;46(5):1562-74. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2011.01268.x.  Epub 2011 Apr 21.

Empirical validation of patient versus population preferences in calculating 
QALYs.

Weyler EJ(1), Gandjour A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Management, Economics, and Social Sciences, University of Cologne, 
Cologne, Germany.

A fundamental assumption of the quality-adjusted life year model is mutual 
utility independence between life years and health status. However, this 
assumption may not hold for severe health states: living in a severe health 
state may cause disutility beyond a so-called maximal endurable time (MET). It 
is unknown, however, whether persons without experience of a disease, who are 
often used in health state valuation exercises, account for MET. Using data from 
159 respondents from two convenience samples in Germany who were presented a 
health state description of depression, this study shows that persons without 
experience of depression had a lower rate of MET than persons with a history of 
depression. Furthermore, they had more preference reversals in case of MET, thus 
violating a fundamental principle of rational choice theory. While these 
findings suggest that severe health states should be assessed by patients rather 
than the community, confirmation in additional studies outside Germany and based 
on other health-state valuation techniques and diseases is recommended.

© Health Research and Educational Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2011.01268.x
PMCID: PMC3207192
PMID: 21517837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Vox Sang. 2011 Oct;101(3):191-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2011.01485.x. Epub
 2011 Apr 25.

Extension of platelet shelf life from 4 to 5 days by implementation of a new 
screening strategy in Germany.

Sireis W(1), Rüster B, Daiss C, Hourfar MK, Capalbo G, Pfeiffer HU, Janetzko K, 
Goebel M, Kempf VA, Seifried E, Schmidt M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Transfusion Medicine and Immunohematology, German Red Cross, 
Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany.

Comment in
    Vox Sang. 2012 May;102(4):365.

BACKGROUND: The Paul-Ehrlich-Institute analysed all fatalities due to bacterial 
infections between 1997 and 2007. Thereafter, the platelet shelf life was 
reduced to a maximum of 4 days after blood donation because the majority of all 
cases of severe transfusion-transmitted bacterial infections occurred with day 5 
platelets. The current study compares the analytical sensitivity and the 
diagnostic specificity of four rapid bacterial detection procedures.
METHODS: Nine transfusion-relevant bacterial strains were spiked in pooled 
platelets or apheresis platelets at a low concentration (10 CFU/bag). Samples 
were collected after day 3, day 4 and day 5 and investigated by four rapid 
bacterial detection methods (modified BacT/ALERT, Bactiflow, FACS method and 16s 
DNA PCR methods).
RESULTS: Seven out of nine bacterial strains were adequately detected by 
BacT/ALERT, Bactiflow and PCR in apheresis platelets and pooled platelets after 
sample collection at day 3, day 4 and day 5. For three bacterial strains, 
analytical sensitivity was reduced for the FACS method. Two bacterial strains 
did not grow under the storage conditions in either pooled or apheresis 
platelets.
CONCLUSIONS: A late sample collection on day 3, day 4 or day 5 after blood 
donation in combination with a rapid bacterial detection method offers a new 
opportunity to improve blood safety and reduce errors due to sampling., 
BacT/ALERT, Bactiflow or 16s ID-NAT are feasible for late bacterial screening in 
platelets may provide data which support the extension of platelet shelf life in 
Germany to 5 days.

© 2011 The Author(s). Vox Sanguinis © 2011 International Society of Blood 
Transfusion.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2011.01485.x
PMID: 21517896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Int J Rheum Dis. 2011 May;14(2):206-10. doi:
10.1111/j.1756-185X.2010.01580.x.  Epub 2010 Nov 2.

Extension from inpatients to outpatients: validity and reliability of the Oxford 
Knee Score in measuring health outcomes in patients with knee osteoarthritis.

Xie F(1), Ye H, Zhang Y, Liu X, Lei T, Li SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
ON, Canada. fengxie@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVE: To validate the Oxford Knee Score (OKS) in outpatients with knee 
osteoarthritis (OA).
METHODS: Eligible patients were interviewed using a pretested questionnaire 
containing the OKS, the Short Form (SF)-6D, and the EuroQol Group 5-Dimension 
Self-Report Questionnaire score (EQ-5D). Reliability was assessed using 
Cronbach's alpha, dimensionality using principal component factor analysis and 
item-total correlations, convergent and discriminant construct validity using 
expected correlations between the OKS and the SF-6D and the EQ-5D.
RESULTS: The OKS were well accepted by patients in a pilot testing. When 
administered to a convenient sample of 187 patients with knee OA (mean age 64 
years, 74% female, mean duration of OA 7.6 years), Cronbach's alpha exceeded 0.8 
and factor analysis yielded two factors with eigenvalues > 1. Hypothesized 
item-total correlations (ρ ≥ 0.4) were observed for all items. Convergent 
construct validity was supported by the presence of hypothesized moderate to 
strong correlations between the OKS and SF-6D physical functioning, role 
limitation, social functioning and pain, EQ-5D mobility, self-care, usual 
activities, and pain/discomfort, and mobility visual analogue scale (ρ = 
0.47-0.82). Discriminant construct validity was not satisfactory. The OKS 
correlated weakly with SF-6D vitality (ρ = 0.35), but strongly with SF-6D mental 
health and EQ-5D anxiety/depression (ρ = 0.51 and 0.41, respectively).
CONCLUSION:   The OKS has demonstrated good psychometric properties and thus can 
be considered a reliable and valid measurement for outpatients with OA.

© 2010 The Authors. International Journal of Rheumatic Diseases © 2010 Asia 
Pacific League of Associations for Rheumatology and Blackwell Publishing Asia 
Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1756-185X.2010.01580.x
PMID: 21518321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Feb;32(2):146-50.

[Burden of disease on road traffic injuries in Penglai city, Shandong province, 
in 2006 - 2007].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang JY(1), Xu AQ, Guo XL, Ma JX, Ning FJ.

Author information:
(1)Shandong Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Jinan, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the burden of road traffic injury (RTI) from perspectives 
both on the health of population and on social economic status so as to provide 
scientific evidence for policy making.
METHODS: The status of mortality and disability caused by traffic accident in 
Penglai county was estimated, based on data from death registration and a 
sampling survey from 2006 to 2007. Together with the disability weights gained 
from global burden of disease (GBD), health burden (DALY) was measured with GBD 
formula. The economic burden of RTI was evaluated.
RESULTS: Average loss of the health life years (HLY) related to RTI was 31 
373.04 per year. 70.59 HLY were lost per 1000 persons. Loss among the males was 
higher than females. The loss of DALY among the age group 15 - 44 years ranked 
the first place (39 209.71 HLY) which accounted for 62.42% of the total DALY. 
79.45% of the total DALY were caused by disability. In 2006 and 2007, the 
economic loss caused by RTI was as high as 2.19 billion RMB, which accounted for 
4.89% of the total amount of GDP while the indirect economic costs (2.15 billion 
RMB) accounted for 98.45% of the total costs in Penglai city. The economic loss 
of the males was obviously higher than the females and the loss by the group 
aged 15 - 59 years old accounted for 97.65% of the total.
CONCLUSION: RTI had severely influenced the health of the residents in Penglai 
city and brought heavy burden to the individuals, families as well as the 
society.

PMID: 21518623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Am J Gastroenterol. 2011 Jul;106(7):1197-206;quiz 1207. doi: 
10.1038/ajg.2011.128. Epub 2011 Apr 26.

Colorectal cancer screening and surveillance in the elderly patient.

Day LW(1), Walter LC, Velayos F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, 
California, USA. lukejohn.day@ucsf.edu

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths in 
the United States. Older age is associated with a rise in colorectal cancer and 
adenomas, necessitating the need for CRC screening in older patients. However, 
decisions about CRC screening and surveillance in older adults are often 
difficult and challenging. The decision requires an individualized assessment 
that incorporates factors unique to performing colonoscopy in older adults in 
order to weigh the risks and benefits for each patient according to their 
overall health and preferences. This review addresses the factors unique to 
colorectal cancer and performing colonoscopy in older adults that are relevant 
in weighing the risks and benefits of screening and surveillance in this 
population.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2011.128
PMID: 21519362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Cien Saude Colet. 2011 Mar;16(3):1961-8. doi:
10.1590/s1413-81232011000300030.

[Cost per capita in outpatients by gender].

[Article in Spanish]

Villarreal-Ríos E(1), Campos Esparza M, Galicia Rodríguez L, Martínez González 
L, Vargas Daza ER, Torres Labra G, Patiño Vega A, Rivera Martínez MT, Aparicio 
Rojas R, Juárez Durán M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación Epidemiológica, Servicios de Salud Querétaro, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Querétaro de Arteaga, México. 
felibree@infosel.net.mx

The objective of this study is to identify the annual cost per capita by gender 
in first level of attention. It is a cost study in Family Physician Units in 
Mexico. The information corresponded to the year of 2004 and the study divided 
in the use profile and cost attention. USE PROFILE OF SERVICES: it was studied 
1,585 clinical registries of patients, use profile defined by average and 
attention reasons by department, gender and age group. COST ATTENTION: 
considered in American dollars it included fixed unit cost (departmentalization 
adjusted by productivity), variable unit cost (micro cost technical), department 
unite cost by type attention, and department unit cost by age and gender. The 
life expectancy was of 73 years for men and 78 for women. Three scenes were 
identified. The annual cost per capita is superior among woman [US$73.24 (IC 95% 
$11.38 - $197.49)] than in man [$ 53.11 (IC 95% 2.51 - 207.71)]. The conclusion 
found that in the first level of attention the cost per capita is greater in 
woman than in man.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-81232011000300030
PMID: 21519684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Demography. 2011 May;48(2):461-79. doi: 10.1007/s13524-011-0020-9.

Estimating the effect of smoking on slowdowns in mortality declines in developed 
countries.

Rostron BL(1), Wilmoth JR.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Health Statistics, Hyattsville, MD, USA. 
brian.rostron@fda.hhs.gov

Declines in mortality rates for females at older ages in some developed 
countries, including the United States, have slowed in recent decades even as 
decreases have steadily continued in some other countries. This study presents a 
modified version of the indirect Peto-Lopez method, which uses lung cancer 
mortality rates as a proxy for smoking exposure, to analyze this trend. The 
modified method estimates smoking-attributable mortality for more-specific age 
groups than does the Peto-Lopez method. An adjustment factor is also introduced 
to account for low mortality in the indirect method's study population. These 
modifications are shown to be useful specifically in the estimation of deaths 
attributable to smoking for females at older ages, and in the estimation of 
smoking-attributable mortality more generally. In a comparison made between the 
United States and France with the modified method, smoking is found to be 
responsible for approximately one-half the difference in life expectancy for 
females at age 65.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-011-0020-9
PMID: 21519979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Jpn J Radiol. 2011 Apr;29(3):202-6. doi: 10.1007/s11604-010-0542-x. Epub
2011  Apr 26.

Therapeutic effects of percutaneous vertebroplasty for vertebral metastases.

Mikami Y(1), Numaguchi Y, Kobayashi N, Fuwa S, Hoshikawa Y, Saida Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, St. Luke's International Hospital, 9-1 
Akashicho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8560, Japan. yumikami@luke.or.jp

PURPOSE: We have performed percutaneous vertebroplasty (PV) using 
polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) for patients with vertebral metastases since 2002. 
This study investigated the therapeutic effects of PV on vertebral metastases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective (2002-2008) review was conducted for 69 
consecutive patients with 141 metastatic vertebrae treated with PV using PMMA. 
The clinical background of the patients, visual analog scale (VAS), improvement 
rate, outcomes, and complications were evaluated.
RESULTS: The mean preoperative VAS score was 7.3 and significantly improved to 
1.9 postoperatively (at discharge), with a mean improvement rate of 73.3%. With 
regard to complications, no new fractures of adjacent vertebral bodies were 
encountered, but cement leakage was seen in 49% of the patients. Most patients 
were asymptomatic during the postoperative course, although two patients (3%) 
experienced dyspnea that was suspected to be adult respiratory distress syndrome 
or a pulmonary embolism.
CONCLUSION: PV can offer pain relief to patients with painful vertebral 
metastases and short life expectancy whose general condition makes surgery 
difficult.

DOI: 10.1007/s11604-010-0542-x
PMID: 21519994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 2011 Jan-Feb;51(1):117-33.

[The epidemiological analysis of monitoring of the immune status in liquidators 
of consequences of the Chernobyl accident for early identification of risk 
groups and diagnostics of oncological diseases. Report 2. Dependence of 
frequency and changes in the immune status on risk factors of radiation 
accident].

[Article in Russian]

Oradovskaia IV, Pashchenkova IuG, Feoktistov VV, Nikonova MF, Vikulov GKh, 
Bozheskaia NV, Smirnova NN.

Malignant neoplasms (MN) have been found to develop most frequently in the 
liquidators of entry into the ChNPP zones in 1986 (43.75%), as well as among the 
liquidators who worked for long, one quarter of whom participated in liquidation 
of the consequences of failure (LCF) in 1986. Specific features of the immune 
status depending on the timing of participation in LCF and the year of entry 
into the ChN PP zone have been established. Changes in the immune system in the 
persons with a confirmed diagnosis of MN who took both a non-permanent and 
permanent part in liquidating the consequences of the ChNPP failure in 1986 had 
the same character of deviations and differed in the magnitudes of deviations of 
immunological parameters. Continuous participation in the period of extreme 
conditions and a greater exposure to the radiation factor led to the increased 
content of CD8(+)-T-cells, CD16(+)-lymphocytes and activated T-lymphocytes, as 
well as to the reduced index of immune regulation, decreased content 
ofCD3-16/56+(NK)-cells (%) and the total IgE and to a greater deficiency of 
B-lymphocytes. Distinctions in the groups of liquidators who participated in LCF 
in 1986 and 1987 have been revealed. The greatest deviations in the IS 
indicators were found in liquidators-87. A similar effect came to light in case 
of a continuance in the ChNPP zones in 1986 and 1987; however, the degree of 
deviation of the content of CD4(+)-T-lymphocytes (41), CD8(+)-T-lymphocytes (1) 
and the immune regulation index (41) were remarkably higher in liquidators-87. A 
continuous stay in the ChNPP zones in 1987 led to the deficiency of 
CD4(+)-T-lymphocytes, increased values of CD8(+)-T-lymphocytes, a decreased 
index of CD4+/CD8+, as well as to the change in the ratio between NK-T and NK 
cells, increased numbers of CD95+, HLA-DR+ and activated T-lymphocytes, and a 
lower level of the total IgE. Long-term participation in LCF didn't cause any 
enhanced expression of cellular activation markers in liquidators-86. Specific 
features of changes in IS depending on a dose of external gamma-irradiation have 
been established. Increase in the frequency of MN among liquidators, in relation 
to the number of examinees in each age group, with age has been revealed. 
Distinctions in the age dynamics of IS in liquidators in the presence and in the 
absence of MN manifested themselves in a stable level of values of CD3+, CD4+, 
CD8(+)-T-lymphocytes, immune regulation index, CD95+, serum IgA at the age 
between 40 and 70 years old with a subsequent reduction in indicators and 
increase in the content of CD8(+)-T-lymphocytes with age in the absence of MN; 
continuous increase of CD3-16/56(+)-NK-cells in the presence of MN and decrease 
in the values after 70 in the absence of MN. Also revealed in IS of the both age 
groups of liquidators over 70 with and without MN was the deficiency of the 
T-cell component (CD3+, CD4(+)-T-lymphocytes, CD4+/CD8+ index) and the increase 
in absolute values of CD8(+)-T-lymphocytes. The growing deficiency of 
CD4(+)-T-lymphocytes during monitoring against the background of ever rising 
values of CD8(+)-T-lymphocytes leading to the weakening of the immune regulation 
due to progressing disorders of the T-lymphocyte regulatory subpopulation 
distribution can serve an indicator for the adverse prognosis of the life 
expectancy in the presence of MN.

PMID: 21520623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nihon Hinyokika Gakkai Zasshi. 2011 Jan;102(1):9-13. doi: 
10.5980/jpnjurol.102.9.

[Evaluation of utility index of quality of life (QOL) in prostate cancer 
patients: comparison of QOL utility index EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and visual analogue 
scale (VAS) with health-related QOL questionnaires SF-36 and EPIC].

[Article in Japanese]

Akakura K(1), Matsuzaki K, Kobayashi T, Kitoh H, Mizoguchi K, Tomikawa G, Takura 
T, Kawabuchi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Tokyo Kosei Nenkin Hospital.

PURPOSE: For the management of patients with localized prostate cancer, a number 
of therapeutic options are available. To compare the therapeutic modalities, it 
is important and necessary to evaluate economical aspects based on 
cost-effectiveness analysis. In addition, the survival time adjusted by quality 
of life (QOL), quality adjusted life year (QALY), is more reliable than the 
crude survival time. Thus, the usefulness of the commonly used QOL utility 
indexes, EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and visual analogue scale (VAS, 0-100 points), was 
investigated in prostate cancer patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 81 patients with prostate cancer were included. 
The patients were asked to answer the four sets of questionnaires (EQ-5D, VAS, 
SF-36 and EPIC). The QOL utility indexes (EQ-5D and VAS) were evaluated in 
relation to the general and prostate cancer-specific QOL questionnaires (SF-36 
and EPIC, respectively).
RESULTS: The results of EQ-5D and VAS were significantly correlated to all 
domains of the general QOL questionnaire (SF-36). On the contrary, no remarkable 
relationship of EQ-5D and VAS was observed with any domain (urinary, bowel, 
sexual or hormonal) of the prostate cancer-specific QOL questionnaire (EPIC). 
There was significant and close correlation between the actual values of VAS and 
the estimates of VAS calculated from SF-36 data (R = 0.53, p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The QOL utility indexes (EQ-5D and VAS) are pertinent to evaluation 
of QOL utility index in prostate cancer patients and can be utilized for 
cost-utility analysis. It is suggested that the accumulated data of SF-36 could 
be used by conversion to QOL utility index.

DOI: 10.5980/jpnjurol.102.9
PMID: 21520631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Endovasc Ther. 2011 Apr;18(2):181-96. doi: 10.1583/10-3072.1.

Clinical efficacy and cost per quality-adjusted life years of pararenal 
endovascular aortic aneurysm repair compared with open surgical repair.

Sultan S(1), Hynes N.

Author information:
(1)Western Vascular Institute, Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, 
University College Hospital Galway, Newcastle Road, Galway, Ireland. 
sherif.sultan@hse.ie

Comment in
    J Endovasc Ther. 2011 Apr;18(2):197-8.

PURPOSE: To gauge the efficacy of applying commercially-available endografts to 
pararenal endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair compared with open 
surgical repair (OSR).
METHODS: From 2001 to 2009, 1868 AAA patients were referred to our service for 
evaluation; of these, 118 patients had pararenal AAAs. Sixty-six patients (51 
men; mean age 70.8±7.6 years) had OSR and 52 (44 men; mean age 74.3±7.2 years) 
underwent pararenal endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). The pararenal EVAR 
patients were older (74.3 versus 70.8 years, p = 0.014), with higher mean 
comorbidity severity scores (p = 0.0001). Mean aneurysm diameter was larger in 
the OSR patients (6.6 versus 5.9 cm, p = 0.01). Primary endpoints were 
aneurysm-related survival and cost per quality-adjusted life years (QALY). 
Secondary endpoints included 3-year freedom from major adverse clinical events, 
all-cause mortality, and secondary intervention.
RESULTS: There was no perioperative mortality in the pararenal EVAR group versus 
3 (4.5%) deaths among the OSR patients (p = 0.122). The 15% 30-day morbidity 
with pararenal EVAR was half that of OSR (p = 0.059). Mean follow-up was 28.8 
±21.6 months for pararenal EVAR and 35.7±23.2 months for OSR. There were no 
aneurysm ruptures in either group and no conversions to open repair in the 
pararenal EVAR group. Three-year aneurysm-related survival was significantly 
higher with pararenal EVAR (100%) versus OSR (92.4%, p = 0.045), but the freedom 
from any-cause death was lower with pararenal EVAR (57.1%) than OSR (84.8%, 
p = 0.195). Three-year freedom from secondary intervention (pararenal EVAR 83.4% 
versus OSR 95.5%, p = 0.301) and all-cause survival (pararenal EVAR 57.1% versus 
OSR 84.8%, p = 0.195) were similar. Over a 3-year period, pararenal EVAR costs 
(including follow-up and reintervention) averaged €20,375 per patient to give a 
QALY value of 0.90, while mean costs for OSR were €23,928 per patient (0.86 
QALY). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for pararenal EVAR was €129,586 
saved per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Pararenal EVAR afforded patients longer quality-adjusted time 
without symptoms or toxicity and superior freedom from major adverse events up 
to 3 years. Although the relatively low 3-year survival rate reflected the 
greater comorbidity of the EVAR patients, pararenal EVAR was cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1583/10-3072.1
PMID: 21521058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Endovasc Ther. 2011 Apr;18(2):197-8. doi: 10.1583/10-3072C.1.

For what were the instructions for use intended? The case of pararenal AAA 
repair.

Upchurch GR Jr(1), Tracci MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908-0679, USA. gru6n@virginia.edu

Comment on
    J Endovasc Ther. 2011 Apr;18(2):181-96.

DOI: 10.1583/10-3072C.1
PMID: 21521059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Curr Pharm Des. 2011;17(15):1500-11. doi: 10.2174/138161211796197160.

Evidence-based medicine update on testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) in male 
hypogonadism: focus on new formulations.

Giagulli VA(1), Triggiani V, Corona G, Carbone D, Licchelli B, Tafaro E, Resta 
F, Sabbà C, Maggi M, Guastamacchia E.

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases, University of Bari Aldo Moro, Foggia, 
