the incidence of target lesion revascularization increased from 4.1 to 5.1, an 
absolute increase of 1.0 (95 confidence interval, 0.1 to 1.9; P=0.03), whereas 
total cardiovascular costs per patient decreased by $401 (95 confidence 
interval, 131 to 671; P=0.004). The risk-adjusted incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio for the liberal versus selective DES era was $16,000 per target lesion 
revascularization event avoided, $27,000 per repeat revascularization avoided, 
and $433 000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: In this prospective registry, a temporal reduction in DES use was 
associated with a small increase in target lesion revascularization and a modest 
reduction in total cardiovascular costs. These findings suggest that although 
clinical outcomes are marginally better with unrestricted DES use, this approach 
represents a relatively inefficient use of healthcare resources relative to 
several common benchmarks for cost-effective care.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.978593
PMID: 21844081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Int J Obes (Lond). 2012 Jun;36(6):843-54. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2011.158. Epub
2011  Aug 16.

Safety, tolerability and sustained weight loss over 2 years with the once-daily 
human GLP-1 analog, liraglutide.

Astrup A(1), Carraro R, Finer N, Harper A, Kunesova M, Lean ME, Niskanen L, 
Rasmussen MF, Rissanen A, Rössner S, Savolainen MJ, Van Gaal L; NN8022-1807 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Van Gaal L, Svacina S, Kunesova M, Astrup A, Richelsen B, 
Hermansen K, Madsbad S, Rissanen A, Niskanen L, Savolainen M, Al Hakim M, 
Cuatrecasas Cambra G, Sádaba B, Carraro R, Moreno B, Rössner S, Ridderstråle M, 
Lean M, Finer N, Sampson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Rolighedsvej 30, Frederiksberg C, Denmark. ast@life.ku.dk

Erratum in
    Int J Obes (Lond). 2012 Jun;36(6):890.
    Int J Obes (Lond). 2013 Feb;37(2):322.

OBJECTIVE: Having demonstrated short-term weight loss with liraglutide in this 
group of obese adults, we now evaluate safety/tolerability (primary outcome) and 
long-term efficacy for sustaining weight loss (secondary outcome) over 2 years.
DESIGN: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 20-week study with 2-year 
extension (sponsor unblinded at 20 weeks, participants/investigators at 1 year) 
in 19 European clinical research centers.
SUBJECTS: A total of 564 adults (n=90-98 per group; body mass index 
30-40 kg m(-2)) enrolled, 398 entered the extension and 268 completed the 2-year 
trial. Participants received diet (500 kcal deficit per day) and exercise 
counseling during 2-week run-in, before being randomly assigned (with a 
telephone or web-based system) to once-daily subcutaneous liraglutide (1.2, 1.8, 
2.4 or 3.0 mg, n=90-95), placebo (n=98) or open-label orlistat (120 mg × 3, 
n=95). After 1 year, liraglutide/placebo recipients switched to liraglutide 
2.4 mg, then 3.0 mg (based on 20-week and 1-year results, respectively). The 
trial ran from January 2007-April 2009 and is registered with 
Clinicaltrials.gov, number NCT00480909.
RESULTS: From randomization to year 1, liraglutide 3.0 mg recipients lost 5.8 kg 
(95% confidence interval 3.7-8.0) more weight than those on placebo and 3.8 kg 
(1.6-6.0) more than those on orlistat (P0.0001; intention-to-treat, 
last-observation-carried-forward). At year 2, participants on liraglutide 
2.4/3.0 mg for the full 2 years (pooled group, n=184) lost 3.0 kg (1.3-4.7) more 
weight than those on orlistat (n=95; P<0.001). Completers on liraglutide 
2.4/3.0 mg (n=92) maintained a 2-year weight loss of 7.8 kg from screening. With 
liraglutide 3.0 mg, 20-week body fat decreased by 15.4% and lean tissue by 2.0%. 
The most frequent drug-related side effects were mild to moderate, transient 
nausea and vomiting. With liraglutide 2.4/3.0 mg, the 2-year prevalence of 
prediabetes and metabolic syndrome decreased by 52 and 59%, with improvements in 
blood pressure and lipids.
CONCLUSION: Liraglutide is well tolerated, sustains weight loss over 2 years and 
improves cardiovascular risk factors.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2011.158
PMCID: PMC3374073
PMID: 21844879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Biodemography Soc Biol. 2011;57(1):33-52. doi: 10.1080/19485565.2011.564475.

Inflammatory gene variants in the Tsimane, an indigenous Bolivian population 
with a high infectious load.

Vasunilashorn S(1), Finch CE, Crimmins EM, Vikman SA, Stieglitz J, Gurven M, 
Kaplan H, Allayee H.

Author information:
(1)Office of Population Research, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 
08544, USA. svasunil@princetin.edu

The Tsimane of lowland Bolivia are an indigenous forager-farmer population 
living under conditions resembling pre-industrial European populations, with 
high infectious morbidity, high infection and inflammation, and shortened life 
expectancy. Analysis of 917 persons ages 5 to 60+ showed that allele frequencies 
of 9 SNPs examined in the apolipoprotein E (apoE), C-reactive protein (CRP), and 
interleukin-6 (IL-6) genes differed from some European, African, and north 
Asian-derived populations. The apoE2 allele was absent, whereas four SNPs 
related to CRP and IL-6 were monomorphic: CRP (rs1800947, rs3093061, and 
rs3093062) and IL-6 (rs1800795). No significant differences in apoE, CRP, and 
IL-6 variants across age were found CRP levels were higher in carriers of two 
CRP proinflammatory SNPs, whereas they were lower in carriers of apoE4. Taken 
together the evidence for (1) different allele frequencies between the Tsimane 
and other populations and (2) the correlations of CRP and apoE alleles with 
blood CRP may suggest that these variants are under selection in response to a 
high infection environment.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2011.564475
PMCID: PMC3529658
PMID: 21845926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Am Chem Soc. 2011 Sep 28;133(38):15036-44. doi: 10.1021/ja204326w. Epub
2011  Sep 2.

Contribution of telomere G-quadruplex stabilization to the inhibition of 
telomerase-mediated telomere extension by chemical ligands.

Chen CY(1), Wang Q, Liu JQ, Hao YH, Tan Z.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Biophysics, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan 
University, Wuhan, P R China.

Inhibition of telomerase activity through stabilizing telomere G-quadruplex with 
small chemical ligands is emerging as a novel strategy for cancer therapy. For 
the large number of ligands that have been reported to inhibit telomerase 
activity, it is difficult to validate the contribution of G-quadruplex 
stabilization to the overall inhibition. Using a modified telomere repeat 
amplification protocol (TRAP) method to differentiate the telomere G-quadruplex 
independent effect from dependent ones, we analyzed several ligands that have 
high affinity and/or selectivity to telomere G-quadruplex. Our results show that 
these ligands effectively inhibited telomerase activity in the absence of 
telomere G-quadruplex. The expected G-quadruplex-dependent inhibition was only 
obvious for the cationic ligands at low K(+) concentration, but it dramatically 
decreased at physiological concentration of K(+). These observations demonstrate 
that the ligands are much more than G-quadruplex stabilizers with a strong 
G-quadruplex-irrelevant off-target effect. They inhibit telomerase via multiple 
pathways in which stabilization of telomere G-quadruplex may only make a minor 
or neglectable contribution under physiologically relevant conditions depending 
on the stability of telomere G-quadruplex under ligand-free conditions.

DOI: 10.1021/ja204326w
PMID: 21846102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Oct;29(10):863-74. doi: 
10.2165/11589300-000000000-00000.

Years of potential life lost and indirect costs of melanoma and non-melanoma 
skin cancer: a systematic review of the literature.

Guy GP(1), Ekwueme DU.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the US, and an important public 
health concern both in the US and throughout the world. Given high incidence 
rates among young adults and the large number of deaths, skin cancer has the 
potential to result in significant years of potential life lost (YPLL) and lost 
productivity. The purpose of this study was to systematically review the 
published literature on the YPLL and the value of productivity loss from 
morbidity and premature mortality resulting from melanoma and non-melanoma skin 
cancer (NMSC). Employing pre-defined search terms and inclusion/exclusion 
criteria, systematic searches were conducted in MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and 
Econlit. We selected studies that measured the societal burden of melanoma and 
NMSC - through estimating either the YPLL and/or the indirect costs. We 
identified 16 relevant studies meeting our criteria, six were from the US and 
ten were from other industrialized countries; ten of the studies reported 
results on YPLL, eight on mortality costs and five on morbidity costs. Some 
studies reported results in more than one category. From each eligible article 
and report, we extracted detailed information on the study population/country, 
study design, data analysis methods and study results. Data abstracted for each 
eligible study included estimated number of YPLL, YPLL per death and morbidity 
and mortality costs. The average number of YPLL per death was approximately 15 
for melanoma and 10 for NMSC. We found the costs attributable to melanoma and 
NMSC ranged from $US39.2 million to $US28.9 million for morbidity and 
$US3.3 billion to $US1.0 billion for mortality, respectively. It is clear from 
the published literature that skin cancer leads to significant YPLL and indirect 
costs associated with premature mortality and morbidity. Prevention and early 
detection efforts are important in helping reduce the incidence of melanoma and 
NMSC, and the related deaths and productivity losses.

DOI: 10.2165/11589300-000000000-00000
PMID: 21846158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Appl Neuropsychol. 2011 Jul;18(3):164-7. doi: 10.1080/09084282.2011.595442.

IQ and ability across the adult life span.

Baxendale S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Epilepsy Society, Buckinghamshire, United Kingdom. 
sallieb@ion.ucl.ac.uk

The experience of cognitive decline can be a potent source of anxiety and 
concern for many people. While an IQ consistent with estimated optimal levels or 
previously recorded scores may indicate no significant change in cognitive 
function, the patient may be accurately reporting a normal age-related 
deterioration in actual ability. The aim of this article is to chart the 
age-related changes in intellectual abilities evident on the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scales-Fourth Edition (WAIS-IV). The norms from the WAIS-IV manual 
were examined to plot the age-related changes in Full-Scale IQ (FSIQ) and 
composite scores across the adult life span, while holding actual ability level 
constant across the age groups. Here we present a graphical representation of 
the normal cognitive developments and declines in FSIQ, Verbal Comprehension, 
Perceptual Reasoning, Working Memory, and Processing Speed across the adult life 
span. This graphical representation provides a rational basis for the 
identification of atypical profiles/complaints of cognitive deterioration that 
may require further specialist neuropsychological evaluation. These graphs can 
be used to provide reassurance for healthy adults with concerns of cognitive 
decline and as an educative tool for their referring agencies.

DOI: 10.1080/09084282.2011.595442
PMID: 21846215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1244-53. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60749-6.
Epub  2011 Aug 16.

Minimum amount of physical activity for reduced mortality and extended life 
expectancy: a prospective cohort study.

Wen CP(1), Wai JP, Tsai MK, Yang YC, Cheng TY, Lee MC, Chan HT, Tsao CK, Tsai 
SP, Wu X.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Science, National Health Research Institutes, Zhunan, 
Taiwan. cwengood@nhri.org.tw

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1202-3.
    Lancet. 2012 Mar 3;379(9818):799-800; author reply 800-1.
    Lancet. 2012 Mar 3;379(9818):799; author reply 800-1.
    Lancet. 2012 Mar 3;379(9818):799; author reply 800-1.
    Lancet. 2012 Mar 3;379(9818):800; author reply 800-1.

BACKGROUND: The health benefits of leisure-time physical activity are well 
known, but whether less exercise than the recommended 150 min a week can have 
life expectancy benefits is unclear. We assessed the health benefits of a range 
of volumes of physical activity in a Taiwanese population.
METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, 416,175 individuals (199,265 men and 
216,910 women) participated in a standard medical screening programme in Taiwan 
between 1996 and 2008, with an average follow-up of 8·05 years (SD 4·21). On the 
basis of the amount of weekly exercise indicated in a self-administered 
questionnaire, participants were placed into one of five categories of exercise 
volumes: inactive, or low, medium, high, or very high activity. We calculated 
hazard ratios (HR) for mortality risks for every group compared with the 
inactive group, and calculated life expectancy for every group.
FINDINGS: Compared with individuals in the inactive group, those in the 
low-volume activity group, who exercised for an average of 92 min per week (95% 
CI 71-112) or 15 min a day (SD 1·8), had a 14% reduced risk of all-cause 
mortality (0·86, 0·81-0·91), and had a 3 year longer life expectancy. Every 
additional 15 min of daily exercise beyond the minimum amount of 15 min a day 
further reduced all-cause mortality by 4% (95% CI 2·5-7·0) and all-cancer 
mortality by 1% (0·3-4·5). These benefits were applicable to all age groups and 
both sexes, and to those with cardiovascular disease risks. Individuals who were 
inactive had a 17% (HR 1·17, 95% CI 1·10-1·24) increased risk of mortality 
compared with individuals in the low-volume group.
INTERPRETATION: 15 min a day or 90 min a week of moderate-intensity exercise 
might be of benefit, even for individuals at risk of cardiovascular disease.
FUNDING: Taiwan Department of Health Clinical Trial and Research Center of 
Excellence and National Health Research Institutes.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60749-6
PMID: 21846575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1202-3. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61029-5.
Epub  2011 Aug 16.

Survival benefit associated with low-level physical activity.

Nigam A(1), Juneau M.

Author information:
(1)Montreal Heart Institute and Université de Montréal, Quebec, Canada. 
anil.nigam@icm-mhi.org

Comment on
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1244-53.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61029-5
PMID: 21846576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Public Health (Oxf). 2012 Mar;34(1):115-24. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdr057.
Epub  2011 Aug 16.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions to return employees to work following 
long-term sickness absence due to musculoskeletal disorders.

Squires H(1), Rick J, Carroll C, Hillage J.

Author information:
(1)The School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. h.squires@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Sickness absence costs the UK economy around £20 billion per year. 
This study aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of interventions to return 
employees with musculoskeletal disorders to work, one of the major causes of 
long-term sickness absence, using a mathematical model.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to assess the cost-effectiveness of three 
interventions: a workplace intervention; a physical activity and education 
intervention and a physical activity, education and workplace visit 
intervention. Extensive sensitivity analyses were undertaken to assess the 
impact of uncertainties upon the model results.
RESULTS: All interventions assessed are estimated to have a cost per 
quality-adjusted life year gained below £3000 compared with usual care within 
the UK from a National Health Service (NHS) or societal perspective. Moreover, 
any intervention which returns at least an additional 3% of employees to work 
and costs less than an additional £3000 per employee, is likely to be considered 
economically attractive compared with usual care, relative to other 
interventions routinely funded by the NHS.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first economic evaluation in this area which 
extrapolates data beyond trial follow-up and synthesizes evidence from numerous 
sources. This sort of modelling approach should be considered for informing 
other public health policy decisions.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdr057
PMID: 21846930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 2011;(6):1-4.

["Ecology and health"--priority research trend in Kazakhstan].

[Article in Russian]

Battakova ZhE.

Research works covering longevity, longer life expectancy and influence of 
ecologic conditions on health are topical among important strategic trends. The 
authors presented contemporary project of research concerning influence of 
ecologic factors on health of urban inhabitants. The project is carried out by 
National Centre of Labour Hygiene and Occupational Diseases since 2010, and the 
results will define cause-effect relationship of possible environmental hazards, 
disclose basic pathogenetic mechanisms of ecologically dependent diseases with 
evaluation of induced mutagenesis and metabolic disorders level.

PMID: 21847826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Asia Pac Viewp. 2011;52(1):85-105. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8373.2010.01436.x.

Exploring Thailand's mortality transition with the aid of life tables.

Carmichael GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian National University, Canberra.

The project Thai Health-Risk Transition: A National Cohort Study seeks to better 
understand the health implications of modernisation and globalisation forces 
impacting on Thailand. As part of its "look-back" component this paper seeks, 
using available life tables, to document the country's post-war mortality 
transition. The onset of transition through mass campaigns of the late 1940s and 
1950s is first discussed before attention turns to the life tables. They are 
predictably far from flawless, but careful analysis does permit trends that have 
seen around 30 years added to life expectancy to be traced, and age patterns of 
improved survivorship and their relation to initiatives to improve health to be 
examined. The broad benefits generated by mass campaigns, ongoing improvements 
in infant and early childhood mortality, and a phased impact of the expansion of 
primary health care in rural areas on adult survival prospects after the 
mid-1970s are demonstrated. The paper also investigates the consequences for 
mortality of a motorcycle-focused rapid increase in road fatalities in the late 
1980s and early 1990s and the HIV/AIDS epidemic that developed after 1984.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8373.2010.01436.x
PMCID: PMC3175806
PMID: 21847831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Manag Care. 2011 Jul;20(7):39-41.

Will that defibrillator really do the job? A recent report that 1 in 5 implanted 
defibrillators may not be needed raises questions about the medical evidence.

Kirkner RM(1).

Author information:
(1)RKirkner@ManagedCareMag.com

PMID: 21848198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. N Engl J Med. 2011 Aug 18;365(7):675; author reply 675-6. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc1107200.

Bending the cost curve in cancer care.

Field K, Faragher I, Gibbs P.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2011 May 26;364(21):2060-5.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc1107200
PMID: 21848477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2011 Oct;34(8):1012-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2011.04811.x. Epub 2011 Aug 17.

No difference in mortality in undetected coeliac disease compared with the 
general population: a UK cohort study.

Canavan C(1), Logan RF, Khaw KT, West J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Nottingham, 
Nottingham, UK. caz.canavan@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Studies of mortality in undetected coeliac disease compared with the 
general population give contradictory findings, suggesting it is either 
increased fourfold compared with the general population or not at all.
AIM: To establish all-cause and cause-specific mortality in undiagnosed coeliac 
disease, identified by anti-endomysial antibody (EMA) positivity, in the 
Cambridge GP Health Survey cohort.
METHOD: This cohort was recruited in 1990 from the general population aged 45-76 
years. All deaths were ascertained from the Office for National Statistics. 
Mortality rates were calculated per 1000 person years and adjusted for age, 
gender, smoking and socioeconomic group using multivariate Cox regression to 
estimate hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI).
RESULTS: There were 117,914 patient years of follow-up (median 16.8 years) from 
7527 participants. Eighty-seven had undetected coeliac disease, their all-cause 
mortality rate was 9.4 per 1000 person years (95% CI 5.4-16.1) compared with 
12.7 (95% CI 12.1-13.4) in EMA-negative participants. The adjusted all-cause 
mortality HR was 0.98 (95% CI 0.57-1.69). Death due to cancer and circulatory 
diseases was not increased, adjusted HR were 1.27 (95% CI 0.57-2.85) and 1.39 
(95% CI 0.66-2.92) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: We observed no excess overall mortality in people aged over 45 
years with undetected coeliac disease compared with the general population, nor 
any increase in deaths related to circulatory disease or cancer. Our findings do 
not support screening the general population aged over 45 years, for coeliac 
disease for the purpose of improving life expectancy.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2011.04811.x
PMID: 21848796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Health Soc Care Community. 2012 Jan;20(1):97-102. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2524.2011.01024.x. Epub 2011 Aug 16.

Can post-acute care programmes for older people reduce overall costs in the 
health system? A case study using the Australian Transition Care Programme.

Hall CJ(1), Peel NM, Comans TA, Gray LC, Scuffham PA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, School of Medicine, Griffith University, 
Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

There is an increasing demand for acute care services due in part to rising 
proportions of older people and increasing rates of chronic diseases. To reduce 
pressure and costs in the hospital system, community-based post-acute care 
discharge services for older people have evolved as one method of reducing 
length of stay in hospital and preventing readmissions. However, it is unclear 
whether they reduce overall episode cost or expenditure in the health system at 
a more general level. In this paper, we review the current evidence on the 
likely costs and benefits of these services and consider whether they are 
potentially cost-effective from a health services perspective, using the 
Australian Transition Care Programme as a case study. Evaluations of 
community-based post-acute services have demonstrated that they reduce length of 
stay, prevent some re-hospitalisations and defer nursing home placement. There 
is also evidence that they convey some additional health benefits to older 
people. An economic model was developed to identify the maximum potential 
benefits and the likely cost savings from reduced use of health services from 
earlier discharge from hospital, accelerated recovery, reduced likelihood of 
readmission to hospital and delayed entry into permanent institutional care for 
participants of the Transition Care Programme. Assuming the best case scenario, 
the Transition Care Programme is still unlikely to be cost saving to a 
healthcare system. Hence for this service to be justified, additional health 
benefits such as quality of life improvements need to be taken into account. If 
it can be demonstrated that this service also conveys additional quality of life 
improvements, community-based programmes such as Transition Care could be 
considered to be cost-effective when compared with other healthcare programmes.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2524.2011.01024.x
PMID: 21848852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Lancet Neurol. 2011 Sep;10(9):844-52. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(11)70176-4.

Cerebral palsy: clinical care and neurological rehabilitation.

Aisen ML(1), Kerkovich D, Mast J, Mulroy S, Wren TA, Kay RM, Rethlefsen SA.

Author information:
(1)Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, Downey, CA 90242, USA. 
maisen@dhs.lacounty.gov

Cerebral palsy (CP) is defined as motor impairment that limits activity, and is 
attributed to non-progressive disturbances during brain development in fetuses 
or infants. The motor disorders of CP are frequently accompanied by impaired 
cognition, communication, and sensory perception, behavioural abnormalities, 
seizure disorders, or a combination of these features. CP is thought to affect 
three to four individuals per 1000 of the general population. The incidence, 
prevalence, and most common causes of CP have varied over time because of 
changes in prenatal and paediatric care. Medical management of children and 
adults involves care from primary-care physicians with input from specialists in 
neurology, orthopaedics, and rehabilitation medicine. Physicians should also 
work in conjunction with rehabilitation therapists, educators, nurses, social 
care providers, and schoolteachers. The focus of rehabilitation treatment has 
recently shifted to neurological rehabilitation in response to increasing 
evidence for neuroplasticity. This approach aims to improve development and 
function by capitalising on the innate capacity of the brain to change and adapt 
throughout the patient's life. As the life expectancy of individuals with CP 
approaches that of the general population, therapies must be developed that 
address the needs of adults ageing with disability.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(11)70176-4
PMID: 21849165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Proc Biol Sci. 2012 Feb 22;279(1729):709-14. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2011.1291.
Epub  2011 Aug 17.

For better or worse: reduced adult lifespan following early-life stress is 
transmitted to breeding partners.

Monaghan P(1), Heidinger BJ, D'Alba L, Evans NP, Spencer KA.

Author information:
(1)College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow G12 8QQ, UK. pat.monaghan@glasgow.ac.uk

Stressful conditions early in life can give rise to exaggerated stress 
responses, which, while beneficial in the short term, chronically increase 
lifetime exposure to stress hormones and elevate disease risk later in life. 
Using zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata, we show here that individuals whose 
glucocorticoid stress hormones were experimentally increased for only a brief 
period in early post-natal life, inducing increased stress sensitivity, had 
reduced adult lifespans. Remarkably, the breeding partners of such exposed 
individuals also died at a younger age. This negative effect on partner 
longevity was the same for both sexes; it occurred irrespective of the partner's 
own early stress exposure and was in addition to any longevity reduction arising 
from this. Furthermore, this partner effect continued even after the breeding 
partnership was terminated. Only 5 per cent of control birds with control 
partners had died after 3 years, compared with over 40 per cent in early 
stress-early stress pairs. In contrast, reproductive capability appeared 
unaffected by the early stress treatment, even when breeding in stressful 
environmental circumstances. Our results clearly show that increased exposure to 
glucocorticoids early in life can markedly reduce adult life expectancy, and 
that pairing with such exposed partners carries an additional and substantial 
lifespan penalty.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2011.1291
PMCID: PMC3248736
PMID: 21849320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011 Oct;96(10):3151-9. doi: 10.1210/jc.2011-1215.
Epub  2011 Aug 17.

Does growth hormone replacement therapy reduce mortality in adults with growth 
hormone deficiency? Data from the Dutch National Registry of Growth Hormone 
Treatment in adults.

van Bunderen CC(1), van Nieuwpoort IC, Arwert LI, Heymans MW, Franken AA, 
Koppeschaar HP, van der Lely AJ, Drent ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section Endocrinology, VU University Medical 
Center, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands. c.vanbunderen@vumc.nl

CONTEXT: Adults with GH deficiency (GHD) have a decreased life expectancy. The 
effect of GH treatment on mortality remains to be established.
OBJECTIVE: This nationwide cohort study investigates the effect of GH treatment 
on all-cause and cause-specific mortality and analyzes patient characteristics 
influencing mortality in GHD adults.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: Patients in the Dutch National Registry of Growth 
Hormone Treatment in Adults were retrospectively monitored (1985-2009) and 
subdivided into treatment (n = 2229), primary (untreated, n = 109), and 
secondary control (partly treated, n = 356) groups.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Standardized mortality ratios (SMR) were calculated for 
all-cause, malignancy, and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. Expected 
mortality was obtained from cause, sex, calendar year, and age-specific death 
rates from national death and population counts.
RESULTS: In the treatment group, 95 patients died compared to 74.6 expected [SMR 
1.27 (95% confidence interval, 1.04-1.56)]. Mortality was higher in women than 
in men. After exclusion of high-risk patients, the SMR for CVD mortality 
remained increased in women. Mortality due to malignancies was not elevated. In 
the control groups mortality was not different from the background population. 
Univariate analyses demonstrated sex, GHD onset, age, and underlying diagnosis 
as influencing factors.
CONCLUSIONS: GHD men receiving GH treatment have a mortality rate not different 
from the background population. In women, after exclusion of high-risk patients, 
mortality was not different from the background population except for CVD. 
Mortality due to malignancies was not elevated in adults receiving GH treatment. 
Next to gender, the heterogeneous etiology is of influence on mortality in GHD 
adults with GH treatment.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2011-1215
PMID: 21849531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Am J Clin Nutr. 2011 Dec;94(6 Suppl):1803S-1807S. doi:
10.3945/ajcn.110.000679.  Epub 2011 Aug 17.

Long-term effects of hydrolyzed protein infant formulas on growth--extended 
follow-up to 10 y of age: results from the German Infant Nutritional 
Intervention (GINI) study.

Rzehak P(1), Sausenthaler S, Koletzko S, Reinhardt D, von Berg A, Krämer U, 
Berdel D, Bollrath C, Grübl A, Bauer CP, Wichmann HE, Heinrich J; GINI-plus 
Study Group.

Collaborators: Wichmann HE, Heinrich J, Schoetzau A, Popescu M, Mosetter M, 
Schindler J, Franke K, Laubereau B, Sausenthaler S, Thaqi A, Zirngibl A, 
Zutavern A, Filipiak B, Gehring U, Berdel D, von Berg A, Albrecht B, Baumgart A, 
Bollrath C, Büttner S, Diekamp S, Gross I, Jakob T, Klemke K, Kurpiun S, 
Möllemann M, Neusüss J, Varhelyi A, Zorn C, Koletzko S, Reinhard D, Weigand H, 
Antonie I, Bäumler-Merl B, Tasch C, Göhlert R, Sönnichsen C, Bauer CP, Grübl A, 
Bartels P, Brockow I, Hoffmann U, Lötzbeyer F, Mayrl R, Negele K, Schill EM, 
Wolf B, Krämer U, Link E, Sugiri D, Ranft U.

Author information:
(1)From Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental 
Health, Institute of Epidemiology, Neuherberg, Germany, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Previous analysis in a prospective, population-based cohort reported 
reduced weight gain in children fed extensively hydrolyzed casein (eHF-C) 
formula during the first year of life but showed no effect on growth between 1 
and 6 y of life. No studies have been conducted in children up to the age of 10 
y.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to investigate potential differences in body mass 
index (BMI) over the first 10 y of life between infants fed within the 
intervention period of the first 16 wk of life with partially hydrolyzed whey 
(pHF-W), extensively hydrolyzed whey (eHF-W), eHF-C, or cow-milk formula (CMF) 
and infants exclusively breastfed (BF) within the intervention period.
DESIGN: This was a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial in full-term 
neonates with atopic heredity in the German birth cohort German Infant 
Nutritional Intervention (GINI) followed through the first 10 y of life. 
Analyses of absolute and World Health Organization (WHO)-standardized BMI 
trajectories for 1840 infants [pHF-W (n = 253), eHF-W (n = 265), eHF-C (n = 
250), CMF (n = 276), and BF (n = 796)] were conducted according to 
intention-to-treat principles.
RESULTS: Except for the previously reported slower BMI gain in infants fed with 
eHF-C formula within the first year of life, no significant differences in 
absolute or WHO-standardized BMI trajectories were shown between the pHF-W, 
eHF-W, eHF-C, CMF, and BF groups thereafter up to the age of 10 y.
CONCLUSIONS: Extension of the follow-up period from 6 to 10 y for this 
randomized controlled trial showed no long-term consequences on BMI for the 4 
infant formulas considered. These data need to be confirmed in future studies.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.110.000679
PMID: 21849601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Leuk Lymphoma. 2011 Dec;52(12):2342-8. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2011.601474.
Epub  2011 Aug 18.

Coping styles, health status and advance care planning in patients with 
hematologic malignancies.

Loberiza FR Jr(1), Swore-Fletcher BA, Block SD, Back AL, Goldman RE, Tulsky JA, 
Lee SJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198-7689, USA. 
floberiza@unmc.edu

This study evaluated whether measures of psychological well-being, including 
coping style, are associated with advance care planning (ACP). Data were from 
the Hematology Communications Study (HEMA-COMM), a prospective observational 
study of physician-patient communication in patients with hematologic 
malignancies. ACP was defined as having a living will, having a health care 
proxy, discussing life support with family or friends and discussing life 
support with a doctor or nurse. A total of 293 patients participated: only 45 
(15%) had all the elements of ACP; 215 (73%) had at least one element of ACP, 
while 33 (11%) did not engage in ACP. In multivariate analysis, specific coping 
styles but not other measures of psychosocial well-being were associated with 
having written ACP. Verbal ACP was associated with patient-reported health and 
physician estimate of life expectancy. Our study suggests that tailoring ACP 
discussions to a patient's coping style may increase engagement in ACP.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2011.601474
PMCID: PMC3972814
PMID: 21851220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Genes Dev. 2011 Aug 15;25(16):1746-57. doi: 10.1101/gad.16722111.

Validation of MdmX as a therapeutic target for reactivating p53 in tumors.

Garcia D(1), Warr MR, Martins CP, Brown Swigart L, Passegué E, Evan GI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

MdmX, also known as Mdm4, is a critical negative regulator of p53, and its 
overexpression serves to block p53 tumor suppressor function in many cancers. 
Consequently, inhibiting MdmX has emerged as an attractive approach to restoring 
p53 function in those cancers that retain functional p53. However, the 
consequences of acute systemic MdmX inhibition in normal adult tissues remain 
unknown. To determine directly the effects of systemic MdmX inhibition in normal 
tissues and in tumors, we crossed mdmX(-/-) mice into the p53ER(TAM) knockin 
background. In place of wild-type p53, p53ER(TAM) knockin mice express a variant 
of p53, p53ER(TAM), that is completely dependent on 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen for its 
activity. MdmX inhibition was then modeled by restoring p53 function in these 
MdmX-deficient mice. We show that MdmX is continuously required to buffer p53 
activity in adult normal tissues and their stem cells. Importantly, the effects 
of transient p53 restoration in the absence of MdmX are nonlethal and 
reversible, unlike transient p53 restoration in the absence of Mdm2, which is 
ineluctably lethal. We also show that the therapeutic impact of restoring p53 in 
a tumor model is enhanced in the absence of MdmX, affording a significant 
extension of life span over p53 restoration in the presence of MdmX. Hence, 
systemic inhibition of MdmX is both a feasible therapeutic strategy for 
restoring p53 function in tumors that retain wild-type p53 and likely to be 
significantly safer than inhibition of Mdm2.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.16722111
PMCID: PMC3165938
PMID: 21852537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. PLoS One. 2011;6(8):e22309. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022309. Epub 2011 Aug
11.

Optimal control of hepatitis C antiviral treatment programme delivery for 
prevention amongst a population of injecting drug users.

Martin NK(1), Pitcher AB, Vickerman P, Vassall A, Hickman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, United 
Kingdom. natasha.martin@bristol.ac.uk

In most developed countries, HCV is primarily transmitted by injecting drug 
users (IDUs). HCV antiviral treatment is effective, and deemed cost-effective 
for those with no re-infection risk. However, few active IDUs are currently 
treated. Previous modelling studies have shown antiviral treatment for active 
IDUs could reduce HCV prevalence, and there is emerging interest in developing 
targeted IDU treatment programmes. However, the optimal timing and scale-up of 
treatment is unknown, given the real-world constraints commonly existing for 
health programmes. We explore how the optimal programme is affected by a variety 
of policy objectives, budget constraints, and prevalence settings. We develop a 
model of HCV transmission and treatment amongst active IDUs, determine the 
optimal treatment programme strategy over 10 years for two baseline chronic HCV 
prevalence scenarios (30% and 45%), a range of maximum annual budgets 
(£50,000-300,000 per 1,000 IDUs), and a variety of objectives: minimising health 
service costs and health utility losses; minimising prevalence at 10 years; 
minimising health service costs and health utility losses with a final time 
prevalence target; minimising health service costs with a final time prevalence 
target but neglecting health utility losses. The largest programme allowed for a 
given budget is the programme which minimises both prevalence at 10 years, and 
HCV health utility loss and heath service costs, with higher budgets resulting 
in greater cost-effectiveness (measured by cost per QALY gained compared to no 
treatment). However, if the objective is to achieve a 20% relative prevalence 
reduction at 10 years, while minimising both health service costs and losses in 
health utility, the optimal treatment strategy is an immediate expansion of 
coverage over 5-8 years, and is less cost-effective. By contrast, if the 
objective is only to minimise costs to the health service while attaining the 
20% prevalence reduction, the programme is deferred until the final years of the 
decade, and is the least cost-effective of the scenarios.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022309
PMCID: PMC3154900
PMID: 21853030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


340. PLoS One. 2011;6(8):e22884. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022884. Epub 2011 Aug
10.

Cost-effectiveness of opportunistic screening and minimal contact psychotherapy 
to prevent depression in primary care patients.

van den Berg M(1), Smit F, Vos T, van Baal PH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health Forecasting, National Institute of Public Health and 
the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. matthijs.van.den.berg@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: Depression causes a large burden of disease worldwide. Effective 
prevention has the potential to reduce that burden considerably. This study 
aimed to investigate the cost-effectiveness of minimal contact psychotherapy, 
based on Lewinsohn's 'Coping with depression' course, targeted at 
opportunistically screened individuals with sub-threshold depression.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using a Markov model, future health effects and costs of an 
intervention scenario and a current practice scenario were estimated. The time 
horizon was five years. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were expressed in 
euro per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) averted. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was employed to study the effect of uncertainty in the model 
parameters. From the health care perspective the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was € 1,400 per DALY, and from the societal perspective the intervention 
was cost-saving. Although the estimated incremental costs and effects were 
surrounded with large uncertainty, given a willingness to pay of € 20,000 per 
DALY, the probability that the intervention is cost-effective was around 80%.
CONCLUSION: This modelling study showed that opportunistic screening in primary 
care for sub-threshold depression in combination with minimal contact 
psychotherapy may be cost-effective in the prevention of major depression.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022884
PMCID: PMC3154255
PMID: 21853053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


341. Clin Neuroradiol. 2011 Sep;21(3):177-8. doi: 10.1007/s00062-011-0096-z.

Comment on: A cost-utility analysis of mechanical thrombectomy as an adjunct of 
intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator for acute large-vessel ischemic 
stroke: Kim AS, Nguyen-Huynh M, Johnston SC. Stroke 2011;42:2013-2018.

Kollmer J(1), Rohde S.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Neuroradiologie, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Im 
Neuenheimer Feld 400, 69120, Heidelberg, Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00062-011-0096-z
PMID: 21853305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Demography. 2011 Nov;48(4):1601-14. doi: 10.1007/s13524-011-0056-x.

Who receives food stamps during adulthood? Analyzing repeatable events with 
incomplete event histories.

Grieger LD(1), Danziger SH.

Author information:
(1)Jackson Institute for Global Affairs, Yale University, P.O. Box 208206, New 
Haven, CT 06520-8206, USA. Lloyd.grieger@yale.edu

Using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) from 1968 to 2005, we 
estimate the cumulative probability that young adults in the United States will 
receive food stamps during adulthood, and examine how that probability varies 
with an individual's income and education at age 25 as well as by race and 
gender. We find that the probability of first food stamp receipt as an adult 
declines sharply with age, indicating that most adult recipients do so by age 
40. Also, those receiving food stamps in early adulthood are likely to receive 
them again. For these reasons, and because food stamp receipt is a repeatable 
event, life table analyses that include individuals who are not observed until 
after they become exposed to the risk of food stamp receipt (whom we label "late 
entrants") are likely to overstate cumulative participation during adulthood. 
For example, one often-cited study included individuals who enter their sample 
after age 20 (late entrants) and report that 50.8% of 20-year-olds are 
recipients by age 65. In contrast, when we exclude late entrants, we find that 
39.2% of 20-year-olds and 29.7% of 25-year-olds receive benefits during 
adulthood.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-011-0056-x
PMID: 21853399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Croat Med J. 2011 Aug 15;52(4):497-504. doi: 10.3325/cmj.2011.52.497.

Stapled hemorrhoidopexy, an innovative surgical procedure for hemorrhoidal 
prolapse: cost-utility analysis.

Ribarić G(1), Kofler J, Jayne DG.

Author information:
(1)European Surgical Institute, Ethicon Endo-Surgery (Europe) GmbH, 
Johnson&Johnson, Hummelsbutteler Steindamm 71, 22851 Norderstedt, Germany. 
gribaric@its.jnj.com

AIM: To undertake full economic evaluation of stapled hemorrhoidopexy (PPH) to 
establish its cost-effectiveness and investigate whether PPH can become 
cost-saving compared to conventional excisional hemorrhoidectomy (CH).
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis in hospital and health care system (UK) was 
undertaken using a probabilistic, cohort-based decision tree to compare the use 
of PPH with CH. Sensitivity analyses allowed showing outcomes in regard to the 
variations in clinical practice of PPH procedure. The participants were patients 
undergoing initial surgical treatment of third and fourth degree hemorrhoids 
within a 1-year time-horizon. Data on clinical effectiveness were obtained from 
a systematic review of the literature. Main outcome measures were the cost per 
procedure at the hospital level, total direct costs from the health care system 
perspective, quality adjusted life years (QALY) gained and incremental cost per 
QALY gained.
RESULTS: A decrease in operating theater time and hospital stay associated with 
PPH led to a cost saving compared to CH of GBP 27 (US $43.11, €30.50) per 
procedure at the hospital level and to an incremental cost of GBP 33 (US $52.68, 
€37.29) after one year from the societal perspective. Calculation of QALYs 
induced an incremental QALY of 0.0076 and showed an incremental cost-effective 
ratio (ICER) of GBP 4316 (US $6890.47, €4878.37). Taking into consideration 
recent literature on clinical outcomes, PPH becomes cost saving compared to CH 
for the health care system.
CONCLUSIONS: PPH is a cost-effective procedure with an ICER of GBP 4136 and it 
seems that an innovative surgical procedure could be cost saving in routine 
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3325/cmj.2011.52.497
PMCID: PMC3160696
PMID: 21853544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Echocardiography. 2011 Sep;28(8):907-12. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8175.2011.01449.x.  Epub 2011 Aug 19.

Impact of obesity on left ventricular geometry and function in pediatric 
patients after successful aortic coarctation repair.

Di Salvo G(1), Gala S, Castaldi B, Baldini L, Limongelli G, D'Andrea A, 
Scognamiglio G, Sarubbi B, Caso P, Pacileo G, Giovanna Russo M, Calabrò R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Second University of Naples, Monaldi 
Hospital, Naples, Italy. giodisal@yahoo.it

AIMS: To evaluate if obesity has an additional negative impact on left 
ventricular (LV) geometry and function in normotensive pediatric patients >12 
months after successful treatment of aortic coarctation (CoA).
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied 40 CoA patients (mean age 14 ± 3 years, and male 
sex 70%), of them 10 were obese and 30 lean. Both groups were age and sex 
comparable. The entire studied sample underwent 24-ambulatory blood pressure 
(BP) monitoring, standard echocardiographic evaluation, and speckle tracking 
study. Both office and 24-hour diastolic BP were significantly increased in 
obese patients. Obese CoA patients showed increased LV mass (52 ± 13 g/m(2.7) 
vs. 43 ± 9 g/m(2.7) , P = 0.02), and significant reduction in E/A compared with 
lean CoA patients. Myocardial deformation properties were significantly reduced 
in obese CoA patients in all the three studied planes (longitudinal, radial, and 
circumferential) compared with CoA lean patients. LV twist values showed a 
significant reduction in the obese CoA group (9.9° ± 2.2° vs. 14.5° ± 2.3°, P < 
0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that obesity in successfully treated CoA children, 
has an additional negative effect on BP, LV mass, and cardiac function. These 
findings are of particular concern, since life expectancy in CoA patients is 
limited mainly by atherosclerosis, and all the obesity-associated abnormalities 
found are harbingers of higher cardiovascular risk.

© 2011, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8175.2011.01449.x
PMID: 21854423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Trials. 2011 Aug 19;12:197. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-12-197.

Promoting smoking cessation in Pakistani and Bangladeshi men in the UK: pilot 
cluster randomised controlled trial of trained community outreach workers.

Begh RA(1), Aveyard P, Upton P, Bhopal RS, White M, Amos A, Prescott RJ, Bedi R, 
Barton P, Fletcher M, Gill P, Zaidi Q, Sheikh A.

Author information:
(1)UK Centre for Tobacco Control Studies, Primary Care Clinical Sciences, 
University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.

BACKGROUND: Smoking prevalence is high among Pakistani and Bangladeshi men in 
the UK, but there are few tailored smoking cessation programmes for Pakistani 
and Bangladeshi communities. The aim of this study was to pilot a cluster 
randomised controlled trial comparing the effectiveness of Pakistani and 
Bangladeshi smoking cessation outreach workers with standard care to improve 
access to and the success of English smoking cessation services.
METHODS: A pilot cluster randomised controlled trial was conducted in 
Birmingham, UK. Geographical lower layer super output areas were used to 
identify natural communities where more than 10% of the population were of 
Pakistani and Bangladeshi origin. 16 agglomerations of super output areas were 
randomised to normal care controls vs. outreach intervention. The number of 
people setting quit dates using NHS services, validated abstinence from smoking 
at four weeks, and stated abstinence at three and six months were assessed. The 
impact of the intervention on choice and adherence to treatments, attendance at 
clinic appointments and patient satisfaction were also assessed.
RESULTS: We were able to randomise geographical areas and deliver the outreach 
worker-based services. More Pakistani and Bangladeshi men made quit attempts 
with NHS services in intervention areas compared with control areas, rate ratio 
(RR) 1.32 (95%CI: 1.03-1.69). There was a small increase in the number of 4-week 
abstinent smokers in intervention areas (RR 1.30, 95%CI: 0.82-2.06). The 
proportion of service users attending weekly appointments was lower in 
intervention areas than control areas. No difference was found between 
intervention and control areas in choice and adherence to treatments or patient 
satisfaction with the service. The total cost of the intervention was £124,000; 
an estimated cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of £8,500.
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention proved feasible and acceptable. Outreach workers 
expanded reach of smoking cessation services in diverse locations of relevance 
to Pakistani and Bangladeshi communities. The outreach worker model has the 
potential to increase community cessation rates and could prove cost-effective, 
but needs evaluating definitively in a larger, appropriately powered, randomised 
controlled trial. These future trials of outreach interventions need to be of 
sufficient duration to allow embedding of new models of service delivery.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN82127540.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-12-197
PMCID: PMC3177779
PMID: 21854596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Health Econ Policy Law. 2011 Oct;6(4):435-47. doi:
10.1017/S1744133111000181.  Epub 2011 Aug 22.

Searchers vs surveyors in estimating the monetary value of a QALY: resolving a 
