Vale L, Petty R.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

BACKGROUND: Imatinib dose escalation is advocated for gastrointestinal stromal 
tumour (GIST) treatment, but its effectiveness compared with sunitinib and best 
supportive care (BSC) after failure at the 400 mg/day dose is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of imatinib at 
escalated doses of 600 or 800 mg/day for patients with unresectable and/or 
metastatic GISTs whose disease had progressed on 400 mg/day.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases, including MEDLlNE, MEDLINE In-Process, 
EMBASE, BIOSIS, Science Citation Index, Health Management Information Consortium 
and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, were searched until September 2009.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was carried out according 
to standard methods. An economic model was constructed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of seven alternative pathways for treating patients with 
unresectable and/or metastatic GISTs.
RESULTS: Five primary studies involving 669 people were included for clinical 
effectiveness; four reported imatinib and one reported sunitinib. The data were 
essentially observational as none of the studies was designed to specifically 
assess treatment of patients whose disease had progressed on 400 mg/day 
imatinib. For 600 mg/day imatinib, between 26% and 42% of patients showed either 
a partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD). Median time to progression was 
1.7 months (range 0.7-24.9 months). For 800 mg/day imatinib, between 29% and 33% 
of patients showed either a PR or SD. Median overall survival (OS) was 19 months 
[95% confidence interval (CI) 13 to 23 months]. Progression-free survival ranged 
from 81 days to 5 months (95% CI 2 to 10 months). Median duration of response 
was 153 days (range 37-574 days). Treatment progression led to 88% 
discontinuations but between 16% and 31% of patients required a dose reduction, 
and 23% required a dose delay. There was a statistically significant increase in 
the severity of fatigue (p < 0.001) and anaemia (p = 0.015) following dose 
escalation. For sunitinib, median OS was 90 weeks (95% CI 73 to 106 weeks). For 
the cost-effectiveness review, only one full-text study and one abstract were 
identified, comparing imatinib at an escalated dose, sunitinib and BSC, although 
neither was based on a UK context. The definition of BSC was not consistent 
across the studies, and the pattern of resources (including drugs for treatment) 
and measures of effectiveness also varied. Within the model, BSC (assumed to 
include continuing medication to prevent tumour flare) was the least costly and 
least effective. It would be the care pathway most likely to be cost-effective 
when the cost per quality-adjusted life-year threshold was < £25,000. Imatinib 
at 600 mg/day was most likely to be cost-effective at a threshold between 
£25,000 and £45,000. Imatinib at 600 mg/day followed by further escalation 
followed by sunitinib was most likely to be cost-effective at a threshold > 
£45,000.
LIMITATIONS: The evidence base was sparse, data were non-randomised and 
potentially biased. The economic model results are surrounded by a considerable 
degree of uncertainty and open to biases of unknown magnitude and direction.
CONCLUSIONS: Around one-third of patients with unresectable and/or metastatic 
GIST, who fail on 400 mg/day of imatinib, may show response or SD with escalated 
doses. Between a threshold of £25,000 and £45,000, provision of an escalated 
dose of imatinib would be most likely to be cost-effective. However, these 
results should be interpreted with caution owing to the limited evidence 
available on outcomes following imatinib dose escalation or sunitinib for this 
group of patients.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15250
PMCID: PMC4781615
PMID: 21689502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Soc Sci Med. 2011 Jul;73(2):245-53. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.05.026.
Epub  2011 Jun 2.

The impact of adding an extra dimension to a preference-based measure.

Brazier J(1), Rowen D, Tsuchiya A, Yang Y, Young TA.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, UK. j.e.brazier@sheffield.ac.uk

The ability to compare incremental changes in Quality Adjusted Life Years 
(QALYs) generated by different condition-specific preference-based measures 
(CSPBMs), or indeed between generic measures, is often criticised even where the 
valuation methods and source of values are the same. A key concern is the impact 
of excluding key dimensions from a descriptive system. This study examines the 
impact of adding a generic pain/discomfort dimension to a CSPBM, the AQL-5D (an 
asthma-specific CSPBM), by valuing samples of states from the AQL-5D with and 
without the new dimension using an interviewer administered time trade-off with 
a sample of the U.K. general public. 180 respondents provided 720 valuations for 
states with and without pain/discomfort. As expected the additional 
pain/discomfort dimension was found to have a significant and relatively large 
coefficient. More importantly for comparing changes in QALYs across populations 
the addition of pain/discomfort significantly impacts on the coefficients of the 
other dimensions and the degree of impact differs by dimension and severity 
level. The net effect on the utility value depends on the severity of their 
state: the addition of pain/discomfort at level 1 (no pain/discomfort) or 2 
(moderate pain/discomfort) significantly increased the mean health state values 
in an asthma patient population; whereas level 3 pain/discomfort (extreme) 
reduced values. Comparability between measures requires that the impact of 
different dimensions on preferences is additive, whether or not they are 
included in the classification system. Our results cast doubt on this 
assumption, implying that the chosen measure must contain all important and 
relevant dimensions in its classification system.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.05.026
PMCID: PMC3566588
PMID: 21689878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Resuscitation. 2011 Oct;82(10):1318-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.resuscitation.2011.05.018. Epub 2011 Jun 1.

Health-related quality of life after a drowning incident as a child.

Suominen PK(1), Vähätalo R, Sintonen H, Haverinen A, Roine RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Children's Hospital, Helsinki 
University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland. pertti.suominen@hus.fi

AIM OF THE STUDY: To describe health-related quality of life (HRQoL), 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and school performance in subjects 
having received either bystander or emergency medical service personnel 
initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) after a drowning incident in 
childhood.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 64 children admitted to pediatric intensive care (PICU) 
after successful CPR between 1985 and 2007. Eleven died in the PICU, 9 other 
within 6 months. In 2009 all long-term survivors, except for two, lived at home. 
Of the 40 patients eligible for the study, 29 (73%) responded to a 
questionnaire. HRQoL was assessed with the generic 15D, or its versions for 
adolescents (16D) or children (17D), and compared to that of general population. 
These HRQoL scores, age-specific survival probabilities, and HRQoL scores of the 
general population were used in a Markov model to estimate the number of QALYs 
gained.
RESULTS: Median age of the respondents was 17.3 (range: 3.0-28.4) years and 62% 
were male. At the time of drowning their median age had been 3.0 (range: 
1.2-15.7) years. The drowning incident was associated with a significant loss in 
HRQoL in the oldest age group (total HRQoL total score 0.881 compared to 0.971 
in the general population, P<0.01) but not in children (HRQoL score 0.944 vs. 
0.938). When submersion time exceeded 10min mean HRQoL score was significantly 
lower than in patients with a shorter submersion (0.844 vs. 0.938, P=0.032). The 
mean undiscounted and discounted (at 3%) number of QALYs gained by treatment 
were 40.8 and 17.0, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A good HRQoL will be achieved in the majority of patients surviving 
long-term after a drowning incident in childhood, although HRQoL is affected by 
the submersion time.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resuscitation.2011.05.018
PMID: 21689879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2011 Jun;31(6):1075-7.

[Analysis of causes of death and potential years of life lost in 7 districts of 
Guangzhou].

[Article in Chinese]

Tan XH(1), Zhang Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, 
China. txh8287@sina.com

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the causes of death and potential years of life lost 
(PYLL) in 7 districts of Guangzhou from 2003 to 2005.
METHODS: The bureau of Health of Guangzhou provided the data of 70 201 cases of 
death occurring between 2003 and 2005. The top 10 causes of death were analyzed 
and the PYLL and crude death rate were calculated using mortality difference 
dissembling method.
RESULTS: Between 2003 and 2005, the top 3 causes of death in Guangzhou were 
diseases of the circulatory system, neoplasms and respiratory diseases. Aging of 
the population led to an increased death rate. The major causes of death 
affecting PYLL consisted of neoplasms, diseases of the circulatory system, 
injuries and poisoning.
CONCLUSION: Priority should be given to the control of diseases of the 
circulatory system in the health care in Guangzhou. Neoplasms, injuries and 
poisoning all contribute to a high PYLL.

PMID: 21690074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Aug 1;29(22):2993-3000. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2011.35.6956.
Epub  2011 Jun 20.

Cost-effectiveness of contralateral prophylactic mastectomy versus routine 
surveillance in patients with unilateral breast cancer.

Zendejas B(1), Moriarty JP, O'Byrne J, Degnim AC, Farley DR, Boughey JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 First St SW, Rochester MN, USA.

PURPOSE: Contralateral prophylactic mastectomy (CPM) rates in women with 
unilateral breast cancer are increasing despite controversy regarding survival 
advantage. Current scrutiny of the medical costs led us to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of CPM versus routine surveillance as an alternative 
contralateral breast cancer (CBC) risk management strategy.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, we simulated patients with breast cancer from 
mastectomy to death. Model parameters were gathered from published literature or 
national databases. Base-case analysis focused on patients with average-risk 
breast cancer, 45 years of age at treatment. Outcomes were valued in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Patients' age, risk level of breast cancer, 
and quality of life (QOL) were varied to assess their impact on results.
RESULTS: Mean costs of treatment for women age 45 years are comparable: $36,594 
for the CPM and $35,182 for surveillance. CPM provides 21.22 mean QALYs compared 
with 20.93 for surveillance, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of $4,869/QALY gained for CPM. To prevent one CBC, six CPMs would 
be needed. CPM is no longer cost-effective for patients older than 70 years 
(ICER $62,750/QALY). For BRCA-positive patients, CPM is clearly cost-effective, 
providing more QALYs while being less costly. In non-BRCA patients, 
cost-effectiveness of CPM is highly dependent on assumptions regarding QOL for 
CPM versus surveillance strategy.
CONCLUSION: CPM is cost-effective compared with surveillance for patients with 
breast cancer who are younger than 70 years. Results are sensitive to 
BRCA-positive status and assumptions of QOL differences between CPM and 
surveillance patients. This highlights the importance of tailoring treatment for 
individual patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2011.35.6956
PMCID: PMC3157962
PMID: 21690472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


963. Nat Rev Neurol. 2011 Jun 21;7(7):379-90. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2011.81.

The collagen VI-related myopathies: muscle meets its matrix.

Bönnemann CG(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institutes of Health, PO Box 5801, Bethesda, MD 20824, USA. 
carsten.bonnemann@nih.gov

The collagen VI-related myopathy known as Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy 
is an early-onset disease that combines substantial muscle weakness with 
striking joint laxity and progressive contractures. Patients might learn to walk 
in early childhood; however, this ability is subsequently lost, concomitant with 
the development of frequent nocturnal respiratory failure. Patients with 
intermediate phenotypes of collagen VI-related myopathy display a lesser degree 
of weakness and a longer period of ambulation than do individuals with Ullrich 
congenital muscular dystrophy, and the spectrum of disease finally encompasses 
mild Bethlem myopathy, in which ambulation persists into adulthood. Dominant and 
recessive autosomal mutations in the three major collagen VI genes-COL6A1, 
COL6A2, and COL6A3-can underlie this entire clinical spectrum, and result in 
deficient or dysfunctional microfibrillar collagen VI in the extracellular 
matrix of muscle and other connective tissues, such as skin and tendons. The 
potential effects on muscle include progressive dystrophic changes, fibrosis and 
evidence for increased apoptosis, which potentially open avenues for 
pharmacological intervention. Optimized respiratory management, including 
noninvasive nocturnal ventilation together with careful orthopedic management, 
are the current mainstays of treatment and have already led to a considerable 
improvement in life expectancy for children with Ullrich congenital muscular 
dystrophy.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2011.81
PMCID: PMC5210181
PMID: 21691338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2011 May;108(21):365-71. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2011.0365.
Epub  2011 May 27.

Adjuvant therapy for women over age 65 with breast cancer.

Sautter-Bihl ML(1), Souchon R, Gerber B.

Author information:
(1)Städtisches Klinikum Karlsruhe, Klinik für Radioonkologie und 
Strahlentherapie, Germany. marie-luise.sautter-bihl@klinikum-karlsruhe.de

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2012 Jan;109(4):68; author reply 68.

BACKGROUND: Women over age 65 with breast cancer are often not treated in 
accordance with current guidelines as far as adjuvant therapy is concerned, 
because of the lack of adequate scientific evidence.
METHODS: This article is based on a selective review of pertinent literature 
retrieved by a PubMed search, as well as on the German S3 guidelines for the 
diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up care of breast cancer, the treatment 
recommendations of the German Working Group on Gynecological Oncology 
(Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynäkologische Onkologie, AGO) and the German Society of 
Radiation Oncology (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Radioonkologie), US National 
Comprehensive Cancer Network, and the Cochrane database.
RESULTS: Women over age 65 are underrepresented in randomized trials of 
treatments for breast cancer. Geriatric assessment is essential for therapeutic 
decision-making. Endocrine treatment is feasible for nearly all patients with 
hormone-sensitive tumors. In selected patients over age 65, chemotherapy 
significantly improves overall survival. The best evidence regarding toxicity is 
available for anthracycline monotherapy and for combined therapy with 
doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide or taxane/doxorubicin. Women without cardiac 
disease can be given trastuzumab, which may lead to reversible cardiotoxicity. 
Adjuvant radiotherapy significantly improves local tumor control and survival. 
Adjuvant radiotherapy that is carried out with modern treatment planning, as 
recommended by the current guidelines, is no more toxic to older patients than 
to younger ones; thus, it should always be given, unless there is a special 
reason not to.
CONCLUSION: Women with breast cancer over age 65 whose life expectancy is 
greater than 5 years, and who are not otherwise too ill, should be given 
chemotherapy, trastuzumab, and radiotherapy as standard adjuvant treatment. 
Adjuvant therapy can be reduced or omitted in frail patients. Patients over age 
65 should be given the opportunity to enroll in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2011.0365
PMCID: PMC3117173
PMID: 21691560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Oct;29(10):895-911. doi: 
10.2165/11539980-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of denosumab compared with oral bisphosphonates in the 
treatment of post-menopausal osteoporotic women in Belgium.

Hiligsmann M(1), Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacoeconomics Research Unit, University of Liège, Belgium. 
m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

BACKGROUND: Denosumab has recently been shown to be well tolerated, to increase 
bone mineral density (BMD) and to significantly reduce the risk of hip, 
vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in the FREEDOM (Fracture REduction 
Evaluation of Denosumab in Osteoporosis every 6 Months) trial. It is becoming 
increasingly important to evaluate not only the therapeutic value of a new drug 
but also the cost effectiveness compared with the most relevant treatment 
alternatives.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
denosumab compared with oral bisphosphonates (branded and generic drugs) in the 
treatment of post-menopausal osteoporotic women in Belgium.
METHODS: Cost effectiveness of 3 years of treatment with denosumab was compared 
with branded risedronate and branded and generic alendronate using an updated 
version of a previously validated Markov microsimulation model. The model was 
populated with relevant cost, adherence and epidemiological data for Belgium 
from a payer perspective and the results were presented as costs per QALY gained 
(&U20AC;, year 2009 values). Analyses were performed in populations (aged ≥60 
years) in which osteoporosis medications are currently reimbursed in many 
European countries, i.e. those with BMD T-score of -2.5 or less or prevalent 
vertebral fracture. Patients receiving denosumab were assumed to have a 46% 
lower risk of discontinuation than those receiving oral bisphosphonates, and the 
effect of denosumab after treatment cessation was assumed to decline linearly to 
zero over a maximum of 1 year.
RESULTS: Denosumab was cost effective compared with all other therapies, 
assuming a willingness to pay of &U20AC;40 000 per QALY gained. In particular, 
denosumab was found to be cost effective compared with branded alendronate and 
risedronate at a threshold value of &U20AC;30 000 per QALY and denosumab was 
dominant (i.e. lower cost and greater effectiveness) compared with risedronate 
from the age of 70 years in women with a T-score of -2.5 or less and no prior 
fractures. The cost effectiveness of denosumab compared with generic alendronate 
was estimated at &U20AC;38 514, &U20AC;22 220 and &U20AC;27 862 per QALY for 
women aged 60, 70 and 80 years, respectively, with T-scores of -2.5 or less. The 
equivalent values were &U20AC;37 167, &U20AC;19 718 and &U20AC;19 638 per QALY 
for women with prevalent vertebral fractures.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests, on the basis of currently available data, that 
denosumab is a cost-effective strategy compared with oral bisphosphonates 
(including generic alendronate) for the treatment of post-menopausal 
osteoporotic women, aged ≥60 years in Belgium. Denosumab therefore appears to 
have the potential to become a first-line treatment for post-menopausal women 
with osteoporosis. However, further studies would be required to evaluate the 
long-term safety and adherence of denosumab in real-world clinical practice as 
well as head-to-head effectiveness compared with oral bisphosphonates.

DOI: 10.2165/11539980-000000000-00000
PMID: 21692551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2011 Nov;53(5):489-96. doi: 
10.1097/MPG.0b013e3182293a5e.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of adjunct VSL#3 therapy versus standard medical 
therapy in pediatric ulcerative colitis.

Park KT(1), Perez F, Tsai R, Honkanen A, Bass D, Garber A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Packard 
Children's Hospital, Stanford University Medical Center, Palo Alto, CA 94304, 
USA. ktpark@stanford.edu

Comment in
    J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2011 Nov;53(5):473.

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are costly chronic 
gastrointestinal diseases, with pediatric IBD representing increased costs per 
patient compared to adult disease. Health care expenditures for ulcerative 
colitis (UC) are >$2 billion annually. It is not clear whether the addition of 
VSL#3 to standard medical therapy in UC induction and maintenance of remission 
is a cost-effective strategy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a systematic review of the literature and 
created a Markov model simulating a cohort of 10-year-old patients with severe 
UC, studying them until 100 years of age or death. We compared 2 strategies: 
standard medical therapy versus medical therapy + VSL#3. For both strategies, we 
assumed that patients progressed through escalating therapies--mesalamine, 
azathioprine, and infliximab--before receiving a colectomy + ileal pouch anal 
anastamosis (IPAA) if the 3 medical therapy options were exhausted. The primary 
outcome measure was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), defined as 
the difference of costs between strategies for each quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained. One-way sensitivity analyses were performed on variables to 
determine the key variables affecting cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Standard medical care accrued a lifetime cost of $203,317 per patient, 
compared to $212,582 per patient for medical therapy + VSL#3. Lifetime QALYs 
gained was comparable for standard medical therapy and medical therapy + VSL#3 
at 24.93 versus 25.05, respectively. Using the definition of ICER <50,000/QALY 
as a cost-effective intervention, medical therapy + VSL#3 produced an ICER of 
$79,910 per QALY gained, making this strategy cost-ineffective. Sensitivity 
analyses showed that 4 key parameters could affect the cost-effectiveness of the 
2 strategies: cost of colectomy + IPAA, maintenance cost after surgery, 
probability of developing pouchitis after surgery, and the quality of life after 
a colectomy + IPAA. High surgical and postsurgical costs, a high probability of 
developing pouchitis, and a low quality of life after a colectomy + IPAA could 
make adjunct VSL#3 use a cost-effective strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Given present data, adjunct VSL#3 use for pediatric UC induction 
and maintenance of remission is not cost-effective, although several key 
parameters could make this strategy cost-effective. The quality of life after an 
IPAA is the single most important variable predicting whether this procedure 
benefits patients over escalating standard medical therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0b013e3182293a5e
PMID: 21694634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Nat Commun. 2011 Jun 21;2:358. doi: 10.1038/ncomms1360.

Long-term projections and acclimatization scenarios of temperature-related 
mortality in Europe.

Ballester J(1), Robine JM, Herrmann FR, Rodó X.

Author information:
(1)Institut Català de Ciències del Clima, Barcelona, Spain. 
joanballester@ic3.cat

The steady increase in greenhouse gas concentrations is inducing a detectable 
rise in global temperatures. The sensitivity of human societies to warming 
temperatures is, however, a transcendental question not comprehensively 
addressed to date. Here we show the link between temperature, humidity and daily 
numbers of deaths in nearly 200 European regions, which are subsequently used to 
infer transient projections of mortality under state-of-the-art high-resolution 
greenhouse gas scenario simulations. Our analyses point to a change in the 
seasonality of mortality, with maximum monthly incidence progressively shifting 
from winter to summer. The results also show that the rise in heat-related 
mortality will start to completely compensate the reduction of deaths from cold 
during the second half of the century, amounting to an average drop in human 
lifespan of up 3-4 months in 2070-2100. Nevertheless, projections suggest that 
human lifespan might indeed increase if a substantial degree of adaptation to 
warm temperatures takes place.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms1360
PMID: 21694706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Eur J Hum Genet. 2011 Nov;19(11):1187-91. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2011.113. Epub
2011  Jun 22.

Mortality in neurofibromatosis 1: in North West England: an assessment of 
actuarial survival in a region of the UK since 1989.

Evans DG(1), O'Hara C, Wilding A, Ingham SL, Howard E, Dawson J, Moran A, 
Scott-Kitching V, Holt F, Huson SM.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Medicine, The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health 
Science Centre, St Mary's Hospital, Central Manchester Hospitals Foundation 
Trust, Manchester, UK. gareth.evans@cmft.nhs.uk

Erratum in
    Eur J Hum Genet. 2013 Sep;21(9):1031.

Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is a comparatively common autosomal dominant disorder. 
However, relatively few studies have assessed lifetime risk; and information 
about the effect of NF1 on mortality remains uncertain. NF1 patients were 
identified using The North West regional family Genetic Register, which covers 
the 4.1 million people living in North West England, including the regions of 
Greater Manchester, Cheshire and Cumbria. Data relating to tumours and 
malignancies were obtained from The North West Cancer Intelligence Service. 
Death data for the general North West population were obtained from the Office 
of National Statistics. We identified 1186 individuals with NF1, of whom 1023 
lived within the strict regional boundaries (constituting a region of North West 
England bound by The Pennines to the east and Irish Sea to the west, but 
excluding the conurbation of Liverpool (Merseyside) and the Wirral peninsula) 
and 131 had died. MPNST and glioma were found to be the two most common causes 
of reduced life expectancy among NF1 patients. In Kaplan-Meier analyses the 
median survival for NF1 patients was shown to be 71.5 years, with women living 
∼7.4 years longer than men. On average both men and women lived ∼8 years less 
than their counterparts in the general population. Reduction in life expectancy 
for NF1 patients was found to be much lower (8 years) than the previously 
estimated 15-year decrease. Limitations relating to the underreporting of NF1 on 
death certificates were once again highlighted and should be considered in 
future investigations.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2011.113
PMCID: PMC3198144
PMID: 21694737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2011 Jul;55(4):333-342. doi: 10.1007/s10384-011-0041-3.
Epub  2011 Jun 22.

Cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery in Japan.

Eye Care Comparative Effectiveness Research Team (ECCERT).

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery through 
measurement of the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) in Japan.
METHODS: A total of 549 patients scheduled for cataract surgery at 12 clinical 
sites from November 2008 through February 2010 were included in the study. 
Prospective assessment of patient preference-based quality of life (utility) was 
performed before and after the surgery using the time tradeoff method, EuroQol, 
and Health Utilities Index Mark 3. Multiple regression analysis was used to 
determine the correlation between utility and visual acuity. The QALYs gained 
through cataract surgery were estimated, and cost-utility analysis was 
performed.
RESULTS: The utilities significantly correlated with the visual acuity in the 
better seeing eye. In all the subgroups (first eye surgery, second eye surgery, 
and bilateral surgery), mean utility improvement was statistically significant. 
Average QALYs for unilateral cataract surgery and bilateral cataract surgery 
were 2.40 and 3.40, respectively. The cost per QALY gained from surgery was 
estimated at ¥122,472 (US $1,307) for unilateral surgery and ¥145,562 (US 
$1,553) for bilateral surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine cataract surgery in Japan is highly cost-effective. Factors 
that contribute to this are the high clinical effectiveness of the surgery, the 
substantial improvement in patient-perceived quality of life, and the reasonable 
cost of the surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-011-0041-3
PMID: 21695383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2011 Sep;26(3):299-314. doi:
10.1007/s10823-011-9148-8.

The health of the "older women" in Accra, Ghana: results of the Women's Health 
Study of Accra.

Duda RB(1), Anarfi JK, Adanu RM, Seffah J, Darko R, Hill AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical 
School, 330 Brookline Avenue, Boston, MA 02215, USA. rduda@caregroup.harvard.edu

The health of women residing in the developing countries is not limited to 
reproductive health conditions or infectious diseases. While these illnesses 
remain serious threats to a healthy life, as the population ages, the prevalence 
of illnesses considered to be of significance only in industrialized nations 
also increasingly afflicts the residents of the developing worlds. The health 
and well-being of the older women was evaluated in the 2003 Women's Health Study 
of Accra. This community based survey and clinical and laboratory examination of 
1,328 women identified a significantly high prevalence of malaria and chronic, 
non-communicable diseases in all age groups without regard to education level or 
income. Hypertension, diabetes and obesity are significantly prevalent in women 
age 50 years and older. The prevalence of conditions which adversely affect 
health and quality of life, including impaired visual acuity, poor dentition, 
pain and limitations with mobility is significant in the women age 50 years and 
older. While these data are specific to Ghana, they have the potential to be 
generalizable to women in other urban areas in transition. As the life 
expectancy is increasing in developing countries, an increased awareness and 
treatment of chronic health conditions in the older women is critical to ensure 
a healthy life as they enter their golden years.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-011-9148-8
PMID: 21695397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Curr HIV/AIDS Rep. 2011 Sep;8(3):142-52. doi: 10.1007/s11904-011-0085-5.

Cancer screening in patients infected with HIV.

Sigel K(1), Dubrow R, Silverberg M, Crothers K, Braithwaite S, Justice A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, NY 10029, 
USA. keith.sigel@mssm.edu

Non-AIDS-defining cancers are a rising health concern among HIV-infected 
patients. Cancer screening is now an important component of health maintenance 
in HIV clinical practice. The decision to screen an HIV-infected patient for 
cancer should include an assessment of individualized risk for the particular 
cancer, life expectancy, and the harms and benefits associated with the 
screening test and its potential outcome. HIV-infected patients are at enhanced 
risk of several cancers compared to the general population; anal cancer, 
hepatocellular carcinoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, and lung cancer all have good 
evidence demonstrating an enhanced risk in HIV-infected persons. A number of 
cancer screening interventions have shown benefit for specific cancers in the 
general population, but data on the application of these tests to HIV-infected 
persons are limited. Here we review the epidemiology and background literature 
relating to cancer screening interventions in HIV-infected persons. We then use 
these data to inform a conceptual model for evaluating HIV-infected patients for 
cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1007/s11904-011-0085-5
PMCID: PMC3307131
PMID: 21695529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure No potential conflicts of interest 
relevant to this article were reported.


972. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Dec;13(6):769-76. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0330-2.
Epub  2011 Jun 22.

Patients whose GP knows complementary medicine tend to have lower costs and live 
longer.

Kooreman P(1), Baars EW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Tilburg University, Warandelaan 2, 5037 AB, Tilburg, 
The Netherlands. p.kooreman@uvt.nl

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Aug;14(4):703-5.

BACKGROUND: Health economists have largely ignored complementary and alternative 
medicine (CAM) as an area of research, although both clinical experiences and 
several empirical studies suggest cost-effectiveness of CAM.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the cost-effectiveness of CAM compared with conventional 
medicine.
METHODS: A dataset from a Dutch health insurer was used containing quarterly 
information on healthcare costs (care by general practitioner (GP), hospital 
care, pharmaceutical care, and paramedic care), dates of birth and death, gender 
and 6-digit postcode of all approximately 150,000 insurees, for the years 
2006-2009. Data from 1913 conventional GPs were compared with data from 79 GPs 
with additional CAM training in acupuncture (25), homeopathy (28), and 
anthroposophic medicine (26).
RESULTS: Patients whose GP has additional CAM training have 0-30% lower 
healthcare costs and mortality rates, depending on age groups and type of CAM. 
The lower costs result from fewer hospital stays and fewer prescription drugs.
DISCUSSION: Since the differences are obtained while controlling for confounders 
including neighborhood specific fixed effects at a highly detailed level, the 
lower costs and longer lives are unlikely to be related to differences in 
socioeconomic status. Possible explanations include selection (e.g. people with 
a low taste for medical interventions might be more likely to choose CAM) and 
better practices (e.g. less overtreatment, more focus on preventive and curative 
health promotion) by GPs with knowledge of complementary medicine. More 
controlled studies (replication studies, research based on more comprehensive 
data, cost-effectiveness studies on CAM for specific diagnostic categories) are 
indicated.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0330-2
PMCID: PMC3482459
PMID: 21695547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Psychooncology. 2012 Oct;21(10):1071-81. doi: 10.1002/pon.2003. Epub 2011
Jun  21.

The psychosocial impact of an abnormal cervical smear result.

Drolet M(1), Brisson M, Maunsell E, Franco EL, Coutlée F, Ferenczy A, Fisher W, 
Mansi JA.

Author information:
(1)URESP, Centre de recherche FRSQ du CHA universitaire de Québec, Quebec City, 
Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Data on the impact of abnormal cervical smear results on 
health-related quality of life (HrQoL) are scarce. We aimed to (i) prospectively 
assess the HrQoL of women who were informed of an abnormal smear result; (ii) 
identify predictors of greater negative psychosocial impact of an abnormal 
result; and (iii) prospectively estimate the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
lost following an abnormal result.
METHODS: Between 08/2006 and 08/2008, 492 women with an abnormal result and 460 
women with a normal result, frequency matched for age and clinic, were recruited 
across Canada. HrQoL was measured at recruitment and 4 and 12 weeks later with 
the EuroQol, Short Form-12, short Spielberg State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) 
and HPV Impact Profile. Three blocks of potential predictors of higher 
psychosocial impact were tested by hierarchical modeling: (i) 
socio-demographics; (ii) sexual activity; and (iii) smear result severity, 
communication, and understanding.
RESULTS: Receiving an abnormal result significantly increased anxiety (STAI mean 
difference between both groups = 8.3). Initial anxiety decreased over time for 
the majority of women. However, 35% of women had clinically meaningful anxiety 
at 12 weeks (i.e. STAI scores ≥0.5 standard deviation of the controls). These 
women reported a lower socio-economic level, did not completely understand the 
information about their result and perceived themselves at higher risk of 
cancer. QALY lost following an abnormal result were between 0.007 and 0.009.
CONCLUSIONS: Receiving an abnormal smear has a statistically significant and 
clinically meaningful negative impact on mental health. However, this negative 
impact subsides after 12 weeks for the majority of women.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.2003
PMID: 21695747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Duodecim. 2011;127(10):1027-32.

[When should a patient be tested for HIV?].

[Article in Finnish]

Sutinen J(1).

Author information:
(1)HUS/HYKS, medisiininen tulosyksikkö, infektiosairauksien klinikka, PL 348, 
00029 HUS.

Thanks to current drug therapy, the prognosis of an early diagnosed HIV-positive 
patient is almost equivalent to the life expectancy of the general population. 
Because HIV-positive persons remain typically symptomless for years, suspicion 
of the infection should be remembered not only on the basis of symptoms 
compatible with the disease, but also on the basis of mere exposure. A 
symptomatic HIV patient may be encountered in any special field. The possibility 
of a symptomless HIV infection should be always kept in mind with patients 
having a known sexually transmitted disease or chronic viral hepatitis. 
Diagnosis of HIV is based on the demonstration of antibodies and/ or HIV 
antigen.

PMID: 21696002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2011 Jun 22;11:96. doi: 10.1186/1471-2288-11-96.

Estimating and modelling cure in population-based cancer studies within the 
framework of flexible parametric survival models.

Andersson TM(1), Dickman PW, Eloranta S, Lambert PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Box 281, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden. therese.m-l.andersson@ki.se

BACKGROUND: When the mortality among a cancer patient group returns to the same 
level as in the general population, that is, the patients no longer experience 
excess mortality, the patients still alive are considered "statistically cured". 
Cure models can be used to estimate the cure proportion as well as the survival 
function of the "uncured". One limitation of parametric cure models is that the 
functional form of the survival of the "uncured" has to be specified. It can 
sometimes be hard to find a survival function flexible enough to fit the 
observed data, for example, when there is high excess hazard within a few months 
from diagnosis, which is common among older age groups. This has led to the 
exclusion of older age groups in population-based cancer studies using cure 
models.
METHODS: Here we have extended the flexible parametric survival model to 
incorporate cure as a special case to estimate the cure proportion and the 
survival of the "uncured". Flexible parametric survival models use splines to 
model the underlying hazard function, and therefore no parametric distribution 
has to be specified.
RESULTS: We have compared the fit from standard cure models to our flexible cure 
model, using data on colon cancer patients in Finland. This new method gives 
similar results to a standard cure model, when it is reliable, and better fit 
when the standard cure model gives biased estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Cure models within the framework of flexible parametric models 
enables cure modelling when standard models give biased estimates. These 
flexible cure models enable inclusion of older age groups and can give 
stage-specific estimates, which is not always possible from parametric cure 
models.

© 2011 Andersson et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2288-11-96
PMCID: PMC3145604
PMID: 21696598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Int J Nurs Stud. 2011 Nov;48(11):1357-66. doi:
10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2011.05.012.  Epub 2011 Jun 21.

Residents' experiences of interpersonal factors in nursing home care: a 
qualitative study.

Nakrem S(1), Vinsnes AG, Seim A.

Author information:
(1)Sør-Tøndelag University College, Faculty of Nursing, Trondheim, Norway. 
Sigrid.Nakrem@hist.no

BACKGROUND: With life expectancy lengthening, the number of those who will 
require care in a nursing home will increase dramatically in the next 20 years. 
Nursing home residents are frail older adults with complex needs, dependent on 
advanced nursing care. Long-term residents in nursing homes have long-term 
relationships with the nurses, which require a unique approach to the 
interpersonal aspects of nursing care. Understanding what is experienced as care 
quality, including quality of interpersonal processes, requires insight into the 
residents' perspectives for best value in care to be realized.
OBJECTIVE: Main objective was to describe the nursing home residents' experience 
with direct nursing care, related to the interpersonal aspects of quality of 
care.
DESIGN: A descriptive, exploratory design was used.
SETTINGS: Four public municipal nursing homes in Norway with long-term residents 
were purposely selected for the study.
PARTICIPANTS: Fifteen mentally lucid residents were included. The inclusion 
criteria were aged 65 and over, being a resident of the nursing home for one 
month or longer, and physical and mental capacity to participate in the 
interview.
METHOD: In-depth interviews with the residents were performed. The transcribed 
interviews were analyzed using meaning categorizing.
RESULTS: The residents emphasized the importance of nurses acknowledging their 
individual needs, which included need for general and specialized care, health 
promotion and prevention of complications, and prioritizing the individuals. The 
challenging balance between self-determination and dependency, the altered role 
from homeowner to resident, and feelings of indignity and depreciation of social 
status were key issues in which the residents perceived that their integrity was 
at risk in the patient-nurse interaction and care. Psychosocial well-being was a 
major issue, and the residents expressed an important role of the nursing staff 
helping them to balance the need for social contact and to be alone, and 
preserving a social network.
CONCLUSIONS: Quality nursing care in nursing home implies a balanced, individual 
approach to medical, physical and psychosocial care, including interpersonal 
aspects of care. The interpersonal relationship between resident and nurse 
implies long-term commitment, reciprocal relationship on a personal level and 
interpersonal competence of the nurses to understand each resident's needs.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2011.05.012
PMID: 21696735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Cardiol. 2011 Sep;58(2):191-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2011.04.006. Epub 2011
Jun  21.

Dynamic component of sports is an important determinant factor of heart rate 
recovery.

Nagashima J(1), Matsumoto N, Takagi A, Musha H, Chikaraishi K, Sagehashi M, 
Nakagawa R, Ishige N, Fujimaki R, Akaike A, Seo R, Aoki H, Murayama M.

Author information:
(1)Yokohama City Sports Medical Center, Yokohama, Japan. 
junagashima-circ@umin.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: It is usually suggested that life expectancy of top athletes 
especially in endurance sports is longer than that of sedentary people. On the 
other hand, heart rate recovery (HRR) after exercise is an independent risk 
factor for cardiovascular disease and mortality, but differences in HRR between 
various top athletes are unclear. We examined HRR in various top athletes to 
clarify a role of HRR that may affect their life expectancy.
METHODS: HRR was defined as the difference between the heart rate at peak 
exercise and that at 2 min after the finish of exercise using symptom-limited 
maximal graded bicycle ergometer exercise testing. The relationships between HRR 
with the grade of static and dynamic component of classification of sports, age, 
and body mass index (BMI) were estimated.
SUBJECTS: The subjects were 720 male athletes participating in the National 
Sports Festival Japan in 2005-2008 and age-matched 28 sedentary controls.
RESULTS: HRR was significantly correlated (p<0.0001) with the higher grade of 
dynamic component of sports, younger age, and lower BMI in both univariate and 
multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: HRR of top athletes is predicted by increased dynamic component of 
sports, younger age, and lower BMI.

Copyright © 2011 Japanese College of Cardiology. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2011.04.006
PMID: 21696921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Palliat Med. 2012 Jul;26(5):734-43. doi: 10.1177/0269216311412233. Epub 2011
Jun  22.

An uncertain future: the unchanging views of care home residents about living 
and dying.

Mathie E(1), Goodman C, Crang C, Froggatt K, Iliffe S, Manthorpe J, Barclay S.

Author information:
(1)CRIPACC, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK. E.J.Mathie@herts.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Older people living in a care home have a limited life expectancy, 
and care homes are an important setting for end-of-life care provision.
AIM: This research aimed to explore the views, experiences and expectations of 
end-of-life care among care home residents to understand if key events or living 
in a residential environment influenced their views.
DESIGN: The research used a prospective design. The paper draws on the 
qualitative interviews of 63 care home residents who were interviewed up to 
three times over a year. This was a sub-sample of the larger data set of 121 
care home residents.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: The residents were recruited from six care homes 
(providing personal care with no on-site nursing) in the UK.
RESULTS: Four main themes were identified; Living in the Past, Living in the 
Present, Thinking about the Future and Actively Engaged with planning the 
future. Many residents said they had not spoken to the care staff about 
end-of-life care; many assumed their family or General Practitioner would take 
responsibility.
CONCLUSIONS: Core to the older person's ability to discuss end-of-life care is 
their acceptance of being in a care home, the involvement of family members in 
making decisions and the extent to which they believed they could influence 
decision making within their everyday lives. Advance care plans should document 
ongoing dialogue. These findings can inform how primary health and palliative 
care services introduce, discuss and tailor existing frameworks and programmes 
of end-of-life care.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216311412233
PMID: 21697261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Palliat Med. 2012 Jan;26(1):72-9. doi: 10.1177/0269216311407694. Epub 2011
Jun  22.

End-of-life care in hospitalized adults with complex congenital heart disease: 
care delayed, care denied.

Tobler D(1), Greutmann M, Colman JM, Greutmann-Yantiri M, Librach LS, Kovacs AH.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Congenital Cardiac Centre for Adults, Peter Munk Cardiac Centre, 
University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Adults with congenital heart disease represent a growing patient population. 
Notwithstanding dramatic improvements in survival and life expectancy over 
recent decades, many of these patients remain at risk of premature death from 
progressive heart disease and would benefit from the principles of palliative 
and end-of-life care. Data on end-of-life care in this patient group are, 
however, lacking. We report a retrospective study of 48 patients with congenital 
heart disease who died while admitted to our hospital (mean age at death 37 ± 14 
years). We describe circumstances of death, end-of-life discussions, and the 
provision of end-of-life care. The majority of patients had complex congenital 
heart disease and were considered to be in the end stage of their disease. 
Despite this, only a minority of patients had documented end-of-life discussions 
prior to their terminal admission and most received continuing aggressive 
medical treatment up to their demise. Advanced palliative and end-of-life care 
strategies should be developed for and provided to this group of patients, with 
the dual aims of reduction of unwarranted therapies and enhancement of the 
quality of death and dying.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216311407694
PMID: 21697263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2011 Jul 20;103(14):1130-3. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djr207.
Epub  2011 Jun 22.

Effect of misclassified underlying cause of death on survival estimates of colon 
and rectal cancer.

Yin D(1), Morris CR, Bates JH, German RR.

Author information:
(1)California Cancer Registry, Public Health Institute, Sacramento, CA 95825, 
USA.

Inaccurate coding of patients' Underlying Cause of Death (UCOD) has constrained 
cause-specific survival estimates for colon and rectal cancers. Using California 
data from the Accuracy of Cancer Mortality study, we compared the cancer site 
data from the California Cancer Registry (CCR) with UCODs reported on death 
certificates and reclassified the UCODs based on cancer registry data when they 
disagreed. We then calculated 1-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year cause-specific survival 
for colon and rectal cancers separately, before and after the reclassification. 
Records from 26 312 colon and 10 687 rectal cancer patients were examined. UCOD 
records disagreed with CCR records for 700 (6%) of 11 404 colon cancer deaths 
and with 1958 (39%) of 5011 rectal cancer deaths, and 82% of the misclassified 
rectal cancer deaths were coded as colon cancer deaths in the UCOD. 
Reclassification decreased cause-specific survival for both colon and rectal 
cancers, but the impact was more pronounced for rectal cancer (eg, 5-year 
cause-specific survival of colon cancer decreased by 2.8% and of rectal cancer 
decreased by 20.0% relative to previous estimates; absolute rates changed from 
65.4% to 63.6%, and 81.2% to 64.9%, respectively, after reclassification). 
Interchangeable use of the terms colon cancer and colorectal cancer is likely to 
be one of the reasons for UCOD misclassification. Educational measures could 
improve the accuracy of UCOD for colon and rectal cancer deaths.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djr207
PMID: 21697545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2011 Jul;21(5):837-45. doi:
10.1097/IGC.0b013e31821bb88c.

Considering early detection of relapsed ovarian cancer: a review of the 
literature.

Geurts SM(1), de Vegt F, van Altena AM, van Dijck JA, Tjan-Heijnen VC, Verbeek 
AL, Massuger LF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and HTA, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. S.Geurts@ebh.umcn.nl

INTRODUCTION: Patients treated for ovarian cancer with curative intent receive 
an intensive follow-up program in the years after treatment. However, the aimed 
improved survival through early detection of recurrence is subject to debate. 
Theoretically, the survival benefit depends on the lead time and the preclinical 
detection rate and on the effectiveness of recurrence treatment. This systematic 
review aimed at determining the effectiveness of early detection of recurrent 
ovarian cancer.
METHODS: A systematic literature search in PubMed, EMBASE, MEDLINE, and the 
Cochrane Library was performed for articles published in 1985 to 2009 in 
English, German, or Dutch, excluding editorials, letters, and case reports.
RESULTS: In total, 67 articles were included. Of 4 observational studies and 1 
randomized controlled trial, only 1 observational study reported a better 
survival for patients who attended routine follow-up compared with those who did 
not. The sensitivity of cancer antigen 125 for a preclinical recurrence, based 
on 38 articles using 35 U/mL as a cutoff level, was 65%, with a median lead time 
of 3 months (range, 1-7 months). Seven studies showed that, on average, 67% 
(ranging from 20% to 80%) of the 798 relapsed patients had no clinical symptoms 
when recurrent ovarian cancer was diagnosed.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine follow-up may detect 2 of 3 recurrences asymptomatically 
with a lead time of 3 months. Recurrence treatment may extend survival by 
several months, but published studies did not show a survival advantage of early 
detection by routine follow-up examinations. Therefore, the content and aims of 
routine follow-up should be reconsidered, whereas routine cancer antigen 125 
testing with the aim to improve life expectancy should be omitted.

DOI: 10.1097/IGC.0b013e31821bb88c
PMID: 21697678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2011 Jun 24;60(24):814-8.

Ten great public health achievements--worldwide, 2001-2010.
