MEDLINE database and a hand search of articles written by leading researchers in 
the subject area (with follow up of the references in these articles). Key 
arguments were discussed and developed at an oncology workshop in September 2009 
at the Office of Health Economics. Three key issues emerged. First, the EQ-5D, 
NICE's preferred measure of health-related quality of life (QOL) in adults, has 
been found to be relatively insensitive to changes in health status of cancer 
patients. Second, the time trade-off, NICE's preferred technique for estimating 
the values of health states, involves making assumptions that are likely to be 
violated in end-of-life scenarios. Third, the practice of using valuations of 
members of the general population, as recommended by NICE, is problematic 
because such individuals typically display a misunderstanding of what it is 
really like for patients to live with cancer. Because of the way in which it is 
constructed, the QALY shows important limitations in terms of its ability to 
accurately capture the value of the health gains deemed important by cancer 
patients. A research agenda for addressing these limitations is proposed.

DOI: 10.2165/11588250-000000000-00000
PMID: 21599035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Int J Evid Based Healthc. 2011 Jun;9(2):184-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1744-1609.2011.00215.x.

Knowledge translation in the discourse of professional practice.

Cornelissen E(1), Mitton C, Sheps S.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia - Okanagan, Health Studies, Faculty of Health 
and Social Development, Kelowna, Canada.

Clients and practitioners desire up-to-date, safe and effective healthcare. 
Knowledge translation, a term used to describe the interchange of knowledge 
between its producers and users, aims to support this desire. Knowledge, and by 
extension knowledge translation, is subject to varying perspectives ranging from 
the objective truth-tested knowledge of empiricism, associated by some with 
academia, to knowledge in the practitioner realm. This latter knowledge is often 
based on multiple users' experiences and contexts, thus constructed to meet 
their needs. The goal of this paper is to compare and contrast knowledge and 
knowledge translation from empirical and constructivist perspectives. It then 
relates knowledge translation to professional practice discourse and concludes 
with thoughts on constructivist knowledge translation strategies, including 
practitioner-driven strategies derived from practice. For example, knowledge 
translation can be woven into processes to train/integrate new graduates into 
the healthcare system, it can be captured in practitioner-driven provision of 
continuing education, and/or it can be facilitated through practitioner 
collaboration in research via action research approaches. Regardless of the 
perspective taken, delivery of up-to-date, safe and effective care requires 
useful, relevant knowledge available when necessary and applicable to real-life 
issues as perceived, critically, by the knowledge end-user.

© 2011 The Authors. International Journal of Evidence-Based Healthcare © 2011 
The Joanna Briggs Institute.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-1609.2011.00215.x
PMID: 21599847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2011 May 21;6:29. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-6-29.

Ichthyosis follicularis, alopecia, and photophobia (IFAP) syndrome.

Mégarbané H(1), Mégarbané A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Dermatologie, Saint Georges Hospital, Beirut, Lebanon. 
megarbane@usj.edu.lb

The IFAP syndrome is a rare X-linked genetic disorder reported in nearly 40 
patients. It is characterized by the triad of Ichthyosis Follicularis, Alopecia, 
and Photophobia from birth. Other features such as short stature, intellectual 
disability, and seizures may develop in the first few years of life. Skin 
histopathology is non-specific and consists of dilated hair follicles with 
keratin plugs extending above the surface of the skin, decreased or absent 
sebaceous glands, and decreased desmosomes in number and size. The disorder 
results from mutations in the MBTPS2 gene that impairs cholesterol homeostasis 
and the ability to cope with endoplasmic reticulum stress. Follicular 
hyperkeratosis can be treated using topical keratolytics, emollients and urea 
preparations. A moderate response to acitretin therapy has been noted in some 
patients. Intensive lubrication of the ocular surface is essential. Life 
expectancy in patients with IFAP syndrome can vary from death in the neonatal 
period to normal surviving. Cardiopulmonary complications remain the major cause 
of death.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-6-29
PMCID: PMC3127745
PMID: 21600032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Theor Popul Biol. 2011 Aug;80(1):64-70. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2011.05.001. Epub
 2011 May 10.

Admissible mixing distributions for a general class of mixture survival models 
with known asymptotics.

Missov TI(1), Finkelstein M.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Str. 1, 18057 
Rostock, Germany. Missov@demogr.mpg.de

Statistical analysis of data on the longest living humans leaves room for 
speculation whether the human force of mortality is actually leveling off. Based 
on this uncertainty, we study a mixture failure model, introduced by Finkelstein 
and Esaulova (2006) that generalizes, among others, the proportional hazards and 
accelerated failure time models. In this paper we first, extend the Abelian 
theorem of these authors to mixing distributions, whose densities are functions 
of regular variation. In addition, taking into account the asymptotic behavior 
of the mixture hazard rate prescribed by this Abelian theorem, we prove three 
Tauberian-type theorems that describe the class of admissible mixing 
distributions. We illustrate our findings with examples of popular mixing 
distributions that are used to model unobserved heterogeneity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2011.05.001
PMID: 21600234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Semin Oncol. 2011 Jun;38(3):380-5. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2011.03.007.

Thinking and talking about life expectancy in incurable cancer.

Kiely BE(1), Stockler MR, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Most patients with incurable cancer want information about the impact cancer 
will have on their future, and many want specific estimates of the most likely, 
best case, and worst case scenarios for survival. With improved understanding of 
life expectancy, patients are better equipped to make appropriate treatment 
decisions and plans for the future. Although physicians acknowledge that 
patients with incurable cancer want prognostic information and benefit from 
this, most struggle to provide it and experience difficulty in making reliable 
estimates, communicating them, and tailoring the information to the individual 
patient. In this review we address some of the implications that arise from 
thinking and talking about life expectancy with people who have incurable 
cancer, particularly those considering first- or second-line chemotherapy.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2011.03.007
PMID: 21600367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Clin Ther. 2011 Mar;33(3):291-304.e8. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.04.002.

Cost-effectiveness of zoledronic acid in the management of skeletal metastases 
in patients with lung cancer in France, Germany, Portugal, the Netherlands, and 
the United kingdom.

Joshi AD(1), Carter JA, Botteman MF, Kaura S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Pharmerit International, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

BACKGROUND: Zoledronic acid (ZOL) significantly reduces the risk of new 
skeletal-related events (SREs) in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) who have bone metastases.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess the cost and 
cost-effectiveness of ZOL in the management of skeletal metastases in this 
population across 5 European countries (France, Germany, United Kingdom, 
Portugal, and the Netherlands) from the perspective of national health care.
METHODS: This cost-effectiveness analysis was based on a subset of patients with 
NSCLC who were enrolled in a Phase III trial of patients with bone metastases 
secondary to a variety of solid tumors. In this trial, patients were randomized 
to receive ZOL or placebo every 3 weeks for up to 21 months. Survival, SRE 
incidence, and number of infusions administered were derived from the clinical 
trial. Costs of SREs were estimated using hospital Diagnosis Related Group 
tariffs and published data. Drug, drug administration, and supply costs were 
obtained from published and internet sources. Quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were estimated based on the published utilities and modeled survival and 
frequency of SREs. Uncertainty surrounding outcomes was addressed via univariate 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Compared with patients receiving placebo (n = 120), patients receiving 
ZOL (n = 124) experienced an estimated 0.79 fewer SREs and gained an estimated 
0.02 QALYs. ZOL use in patients with NSCLC and bone metastases was associated 
with a reduction in SRE costs (ranging from €1547 to €1893 [2007-2008 €], 
depending on the country). After adding drug and drug administration costs, ZOL 
use resulted in a net savings of €288 per patient in Germany, €209 in the United 
Kingdom, and €113 in Portugal. In France and the Netherlands, costs increased 
(€17 and €178, respectively), but the costs per QALY gained were low (€786 and 
€8278, respectively). In univariate sensitivity analyses, the cost per QALY for 
ZOL versus placebo was ≤€50,000 for all scenarios tested. The results were most 
sensitive to assumptions regarding survival, number of ZOL infusions, and the 
costs of SREs. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that ZOL cost 
≤€50,000 per QALY in 65% to 83% of model simulations (depending on country). 
However, some degree of uncertainty remained as the 95th percentile of cost per 
QALY was high.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis is subject to the usual limitations of 
cost-effectiveness models, which combine assumptions and data from multiple 
sources. Nevertheless, based on the assumptions used herein, the present model 
suggests that ZOL increases QALYs and is cost saving and/or cost effective 
compared with placebo in patients with NSCLC in France, Germany, the United 
Kingdom, Portugal, and the Netherlands.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.04.002
PMID: 21600384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Can J Cardiol. 2011 May-Jun;27(3):319-38. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.03.011.

The 2011 Canadian Cardiovascular Society heart failure management guidelines 
update: focus on sleep apnea, renal dysfunction, mechanical circulatory support, 
and palliative care.

McKelvie RS(1), Moe GW, Cheung A, Costigan J, Ducharme A, Estrella-Holder E, 
Ezekowitz JA, Floras J, Giannetti N, Grzeslo A, Harkness K, Heckman GA, Howlett 
JG, Kouz S, Leblanc K, Mann E, O'Meara E, Rajda M, Rao V, Simon J, Swiggum E, 
Zieroth S, Arnold JM, Ashton T, D'Astous M, Dorian P, Haddad H, Isaac DL, 
Leblanc MH, Liu P, Sussex B, Ross HJ.

Author information:
(1)Hamilton Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 
robert.mckelvie@phri.ca

Comment in
    Can J Cardiol. 2011 Nov-Dec;27(6):871.e7.

The 2011 Canadian Cardiovascular Society Heart Failure (HF) Guidelines Focused 
Update reviews the recently published clinical trials that will potentially 
impact on management. Also reviewed is the less studied but clinically important 
area of sleep apnea. Finally, patients with advanced HF represent a group of 
patients who pose major difficulties to clinicians. Advanced HF therefore is 
examined from the perspectives of HF complicated by renal failure, the role of 
palliative care, and the role of mechanical circulatory support (MCS). All of 
these topics are reviewed from a perspective of practical applications. 
Important new studies have demonstrated in less symptomatic HF patients that 
cardiac resynchronization therapy will be of benefit. As well, aldosterone 
receptor antagonists can be used with benefit in less symptomatic HF patients. 
The important role of palliative care and the need to address end-of-life issues 
in advanced HF are emphasized. Physicians need to be aware of the possibility of 
sleep apnea complicating the course of HF and the role of a sleep study for the 
proper assessment and management of the conditon. Patients with either acute 
severe or chronic advanced HF with otherwise good life expectancy should be 
referred to a cardiac centre capable of providing MCS. Furthermore, patients 
awaiting heart transplantation who deteriorate or are otherwise not likely to 
survive until a donor organ is found should be referred for MCS.

Copyright © 2011 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.03.011
PMID: 21601772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2011 May;31(5):856-9.

[Familial and sporadic distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles: comparison of the 
clinical, pathological, laboratory test and follow-up data].

[Article in Chinese]

Lu XH(1), Pu CQ, Huang XS, Mao YL, Liu JX, Luo P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, General Hospital of PLA, Beijing 100853, China. 
brightxh@sina.com

OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical, pathological, laboratory test and follow-up 
data between familial and sporadic patients with distal myopathy with rimmed 
vacuoles (DMRV) and discuss the characteristics of this disorder in Chinese 
population.
METHODS: The clinical and pathological features, laboratory data and follow-up 
results of 33 sporadic and 4 familial cases of pathologically confirmed DMRV 
were summarized and compared retrospectively.
RESULTS: The patients age, onset age, or disease duration showed no significant 
difference between sporadic and familial cases; the onset pattern and affected 
muscle groups were also similar, but the sporadic cases showed more frequent 
dysmorphic features than the familial cases. The patients showed mild to 
moderate elevation of the muscle enzymes by one to three folds, and the familial 
patients had more significant elevation than the sporadic ones. No correlation 
was found between the disease duration and the level of muscle enzymes. The 
pathological findings were similar between the cases, and Gomori staining showed 
rimmed vacuoles and inclusion bodies without inflammatory cell infiltration. 
Follow-up results of 29 cases showed no significant difference between the two 
groups. The disease was slowly progressive and severely affected the quality of 
life of the patients, but did not produce obvious effect on the life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The clinical, pathological and laboratory data of Chinese DMRV 
patients are basically similar to those of Japanese cases. Sporadic cases tend 
to show more dysmorphic features than the familial ones, and occasional sporadic 
cases have early disease onset in early childhood.

PMID: 21602142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jul-Aug;31(4):662-74. doi: 10.1177/0272989X11406986.
Epub  2011 May 20.

A framework for addressing structural uncertainty in decision models.

Jackson CH(1), Bojke L(2), Thompson SG(1), Claxton K(2), Sharples LD(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK (CHJ, SGT, LDS)
(2)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK (LB, KC)

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2011 Jul-Aug;31(4):521-3.

Decision analytic models used for health technology assessment are subject to 
uncertainties. These uncertainties can be quantified probabilistically, by 
placing distributions on model parameters and simulating from these to generate 
estimates of cost-effectiveness. However, many uncertain model choices, often 
termed structural assumptions, are usually only explored informally by 
presenting estimates of cost-effectiveness under alternative scenarios. The 
authors show how 2 recent research proposals represent parts of a framework to 
formally account for all common structural uncertainties. First, the model is 
expanded to include parameters that encompass all possible structural choices. 
Uncertainty can then arise because these parameters are estimated imprecisely 
from data, for example, a treatment effect of doubtful significance. Uncertainty 
can also arise if there are no relevant data. If there are relevant data, 
uncertainty can be addressed by averaging expected costs and effects generated 
from probabilistic analysis of the models with and without the parameter. The 
weights used for averaging are related to the predictive ability of each model, 
assessed against the data. If there are no data, additional parameters can often 
be informed by eliciting expert beliefs as probability distributions. These 
ideas are illustrated in decision models for antiplatelet therapies for vascular 
disease and new biologic drugs for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X11406986
PMID: 21602487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2011 Aug 1;57(4):290-6. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e318221c56a.

Antiretroviral drugs for preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV: a 
review of potential effects on HIV-exposed but uninfected children.

Heidari S(1), Mofenson L, Cotton MF, Marlink R, Cahn P, Katabira E.

Author information:
(1)Research Promotion Department, International AIDS Society, Geneva, 
Switzerland. shirin.heidari@iasociety.org

The provision of antiretroviral drugs for the prevention of mother-to-child HIV 
transmission has been rising sharply in low- and middle-income countries. 
Changes to the World Health Organization guidelines support further extension of 
these programs. The result will be a greatly expanded population of HIV-exposed 
but uninfected children with substantial exposure to antiretroviral drugs, both 
in utero and while breastfeeding. There are limited data on possible toxicities 
in this burgeoning population, and the large number of confounding factors 
limits any conclusions. Although the evidence on birth defects and mitochondrial 
toxicity remains equivocal, considerable data link protease inhibitors to 
preterm delivery and low birth-weight. Transient hematologic toxicities are also 
likely. The drug impact later in life is an open question. Larger and longer 
cohort studies are necessary to properly balance the risks and benefits of 
large-scale infant exposure to antiretroviral agents.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e318221c56a
PMID: 21602695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e19956. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019956. Epub 2011 May
13.

Estimating survival in patients with operable skeletal metastases: an 
application of a bayesian belief network.

Forsberg JA(1), Eberhardt J, Boland PJ, Wedin R, Healey JH.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Service, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, United States of America. jaforsberg@mac.com

BACKGROUND: Accurate estimations of life expectancy are important in the 
management of patients with metastatic cancer affecting the extremities, and 
help set patient, family, and physician expectations. Clinically, the decision 
whether to operate on patients with skeletal metastases, as well as the choice 
of surgical procedure, are predicated on an individual patient's estimated 
survival. Currently, there are no reliable methods for estimating survival in 
this patient population. Bayesian classification, which includes bayesian belief 
network (BBN) modeling, is a statistical method that explores conditional, 
probabilistic relationships between variables to estimate the likelihood of an 
outcome using observed data. Thus, BBN models are being used with increasing 
frequency in a variety of diagnoses to codify complex clinical data into 
prognostic models. The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility of 
developing bayesian classifiers to estimate survival in patients undergoing 
surgery for metastases of the axial and appendicular skeleton.
METHODS: We searched an institution-owned patient management database for all 
patients who underwent surgery for skeletal metastases between 1999 and 2003. We 
then developed and trained a machine-learned BBN model to estimate survival in 
months using candidate features based on historical data. Ten-fold 
cross-validation and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis were 
performed to evaluate the BNN model's accuracy and robustness.
RESULTS: A total of 189 consecutive patients were included. First-degree 
predictors of survival differed between the 3-month and 12-month models. 
Following cross validation, the area under the ROC curve was 0.85 (95% CI: 
0.80-0.93) for 3-month probability of survival and 0.83 (95% CI: 0.77-0.90) for 
12-month probability of survival.
CONCLUSIONS: A robust, accurate, probabilistic naïve BBN model was successfully 
developed using observed clinical data to estimate individualized survival in 
patients with operable skeletal metastases. This method warrants further 
development and must be externally validated in other patient populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019956
PMCID: PMC3094405
PMID: 21603644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: John Eberhardt (JE) is an 
employee and shareholder of DecisionQ Corporation, which is the manufacturer of 
software products used in this research. Neither JE, nor DecisionQ Corporation 
received compensation in the conduct of this study or the preparation of this 
paper. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies 
on sharing data and materials.


708. Sao Paulo Med J. 2011 Mar;129(2):99-106. doi:
10.1590/s1516-31802011000200008.

Functional status change in older adults undergoing coronary artery bypass 
surgery.

Guimarães MN(1), Almada Filho Cde M.

Author information:
(1)Quinta D'Or Hospital, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. niemarcio@gmail.com

CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVE: Increased life expectancy has resulted in growing numbers 
of elderly patients undergoing heart surgery. This study aimed to identify 
changes in functional status among older adults undergoing coronary artery 
bypass grafting.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Prospective observational cohort study conducted at a level 
IV private hospital in Brazil.
METHODS: Patients were assessed using the Katz and Lawton scales and the 
Functional Independence Measure before admission, at hospital discharge and one 
month after discharge. Repeated-measurement analysis of variance was used.
RESULTS: Two patients died during hospitalization. Among the 31 patients 
included, the Functional Independence Measure ranged from 121.7 ± 7.4 
(pre-admission) to 91.1 ± 20.5 (discharge) and 109.0 ± 21.7 (one month after 
discharge); the Katz scale from 5.92 ± 0.32 to 4.18 ± 1.04 and 5.13 ± 1.30; and 
the Lawton scale from 24.3 ± 4.6 to 12.8 ± 2.0 and 16.5 ± 4.6 (P = 0.0001). When 
subgroups with (18) and without (13) complications were compared, the Functional 
Independence Measure (P = 0.085) showed a trend, although not significantly, 
toward recovery one month after discharge. Delirium and blood transfusion were 
the intercurrent events found. There was a correlation between the scales and 
age (P = 0.008), APACHE II (P = 0.051), EuroSCORE (P = 0.064), intensive care 
unit stay (P = 0.024) and overall hospital length of stay (P = 0.040).
CONCLUSION: The Functional Independence Measure proved to be a promising tool 
for monitoring the functional status of elderly patients undergoing coronary 
artery bypass grafting, especially in the subgroup with complications.

DOI: 10.1590/s1516-31802011000200008
PMID: 21603787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Biogerontology. 2011 Dec;12(6):527-36. doi: 10.1007/s10522-011-9342-7. Epub
2011  May 21.

Effects of 2-deoxyglucose and dehydroepiandrosterone on intracellular NAD(+) 
level, SIRT1 activity and replicative lifespan of human Hs68 cells.

Yang NC(1), Song TY, Chen MY, Hu ML.

Author information:
(1)School of Nutrition, Chung Shan Medical University and Department of 
Nutrition, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taiwan, ROC.

2-Deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) have been 
hypothesized to extend lifespan via mimicking calorie restriction (CR). 
Activation of sirtuins has been proposed to contribute to life extension of CR 
by increasing intercellular levels of NAD(+) in several organisms. However, it 
is unclear whether 2-DG and DHEA may affect intracellular NAD(+) levels and 
human sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activities. Here, using human fibroblast Hs68 cells we 
showed that 2-DG increased intracellular NAD(+) levels in both time- and 
concentration-dependent manners. 2-DG also dose-dependently increased SIRT1 
activities and the lifespan (measured as the cumulated growth curve of 
population doubling levels) of Hs68 cells. In contrast, DHEA at non-cytotoxic 
concentrations (≤50 μM) did not significantly affect NAD(+) levels, SIRT1 
activities or the lifespan of Hs68 cells. These results suggest that 2-DG 
extends the lifespan of Hs68 cells by increased NAD(+) levels and SIRT1 
activities, and that 2-DG has a potential as a CR mimetic.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-011-9342-7
PMID: 21604001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Popul Stud (Camb). 2011 Jul;65(2):137-55. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2011.568192.
 Epub 2011 May 27.

Differences in life expectancy by education and occupation in Italy, 1980-94: 
indirect estimates from maternal and paternal orphanhood.

Luy M(1), Di Giulio P, Caselli G.

Author information:
(1)Vienna Institute of Demography of the Austrian Academy of Sciences.

In the present study, we use the modified orphanhood method to analyse mortality 
differences by socio-economic status in Italy. This technique permits the 
indirect estimation of adult mortality from survey-based information on parents' 
survival in developed populations and helps to overcome several limitations of 
conventional studies on mortality differences by social class. We estimate a 
time series of life tables by education and occupation and analyse the 
differences in life expectancy by socio-economic status along with their changes 
between 1980-84, 1985-89, and 1990-94. Whereas mortality differences between the 
highest social class and the other socio-economic status groups increased among 
men, they decreased among women. We speculate about the reasons for these 
sex-specific trends and evaluate the application of indirect estimation 
techniques to the populations of developed countries.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2011.568192
PMID: 21604230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. MMW Fortschr Med. 2011 May 5;153(18):32-4.

[HAART-update for the general practitioner].

[Article in German]

Vogel M(1), Rockstroh JK.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik III, Universitätsklinikum Bonn. 
martin.vogel@ukb.uni-bonn.de

PMID: 21604592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Aug;29(8):641-52. doi:
10.2165/11591570-000000000-00000.

Challenges in health state valuation in paediatric economic evaluation: are 
QALYs contraindicated?

Ungar WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Child Health Evaluative Sciences, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. wendy.ungar@sickkids.ca

With the growth in the use of health economic evaluation to inform healthcare 
resource allocation decisions, the challenges in applying standard methods to 
child health have become apparent. A unique limitation is the paucity of 
child-specific preference-based measures. A single, valid, preference-based 
measure of utility that can be used in children of all ages does not exist. 
Thus, the ability to derive a QALY for use in cost-utility analysis (CUA) is 
compromised. This paper presents and discusses existing and novel options for 
deriving utilities for paediatric health states for use in CUAs. While a direct 
elicitation may be preferred, a child's ability to complete a standard gamble or 
time trade-off task is hampered by cognitive and age limitations. The abstract 
notions contained in indirect instruments such as the EQ-5D and Health Utilities 
Index may also pose challenges for young children. Novel approaches to overcome 
these challenges include the development of age-appropriate instruments such as 
the EQ-5D-Y, the development of new child-specific utility instruments such as 
the Child Health Utility-9D and the re-calibration of existing adult instruments 
to derive preference weights for health states from children themselves. For 
children aged <6 years, researchers have little choice but to use a proxy 
reporter such as parents. While parents may be reliable reporters for physical 
activity limitations and externally manifest symptoms, their ability to 
accurately report on subjective outcomes such as emotion is questionable. 
Catalogues of utility weights for a range of conditions are increasingly 
becoming available but retain many of the same limitations as valuing health 
states from children or from proxies. Given the dynamic relationship in quality 
of life (QOL) between family members when a child is ill, it seems appropriate 
to consider a 'family perspective' rather than an individual perspective in 
child health state valuation. In a collective approach, health state utilities 
derived from multiple family members may be combined mathematically. 
Alternatively, in a unitary approach, a single utility estimate may be 
determined to represent the family's perspective. This may include deriving 
utilities through parent-child dyad estimation or by using a household model 
that combines the utility weights of the patient and family members, 
incorporating reciprocal QOL effects. While these various approaches to child 
health state valuation represent novel research developments, the measurement 
challenges and threats to validity persist. Given the importance of non-health 
benefits to child health, especially in the domains of education and public 
policy, it may be worthwhile to consider an approach that allows incorporation 
of externalities to produce a cost-benefit analysis. The use of discrete-choice 
methods to assess willingness to pay for novel child health interventions holds 
promise as a means to produce meaningful economic evidence. Regardless of the 
approach taken, the highest degree of methodological rigour is essential. The 
increasing attention being paid by health economic researchers to the 
measurement challenges of paediatric health state valuation can only increase 
the value of child health economic evidence for decision making.

DOI: 10.2165/11591570-000000000-00000
PMID: 21604821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Psychol Addict Behav. 2011 Sep;25(3):511-20. doi: 10.1037/a0024013.

Gambling cognition and subjective well-being as mediators between perceived 
stress and problem gambling: a cross-cultural study on White and Chinese problem 
gamblers.

Tang CS(1), Oei TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, National University of Singapore, Block AS4, Level 
2, 9 Arts Link, Singapore 11750. tang.catherine@nus.edu.sg

This study aimed to delineate various pathways whereby cognitive and emotional 
vulnerabilities triggered by stress would lead to disruptive gambling. A 
multiple mediation framework was proposed to specify that gambling cognition and 
subjective well-being would mediate the influence of perceived stress on problem 
gambling. The cross-cultural validity of the proposed framework was examined 
with 132 White gamblers in Australia and 154 Chinese gamblers in China. They 
completed psychological scales on perceived stress, gambling expectancy bias, 
gambling refusal efficacy, negative affect, life satisfaction, and problem 
gambling. Compared to Chinese gamblers, White gamblers reported higher levels of 
perceived stress, gambling expectancy bias, and problem gambling as well as more 
pervasive negative affect and lower levels of life satisfaction. Results showed 
that the proposed multiple mediation framework fit the data better than two 
alternative plausible models. Life satisfaction and gambling refusal efficacy 
were two consistent mediators across White and Chinese gamblers.

(c) 2011 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0024013
PMID: 21604831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. BMC Cancer. 2011 May 23;11:192. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-11-192.

Cost-effectiveness of early detection of breast cancer in Catalonia (Spain).

Carles M(1), Vilaprinyo E, Cots F, Gregori A, Pla R, Román R, Sala M, Macià F, 
Castells X, Rue M.

Author information:
(1)Basic Medical Sciences Department, Biomedical Research Institut of Lleida 
(IRBLLEIDA)-University of Lleida, Catalonia, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) causes more deaths than any other cancer among 
women in Catalonia. Early detection has contributed to the observed decline in 
BC mortality. However, there is debate on the optimal screening strategy. We 
performed an economic evaluation of 20 screening strategies taking into account 
the cost over time of screening and subsequent medical costs, including 
diagnostic confirmation, initial treatment, follow-up and advanced care.
METHODS: We used a probabilistic model to estimate the effect and costs over 
time of each scenario. The effect was measured as years of life (YL), 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY), and lives extended (LE). Costs of screening 
and treatment were obtained from the Early Detection Program and hospital 
databases of the IMAS-Hospital del Mar in Barcelona. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was used to compare the relative costs and 
outcomes of different scenarios.
RESULTS: Strategies that start at ages 40 or 45 and end at 69 predominate when 
the effect is measured as YL or QALYs. Biennial strategies 50-69, 45-69 or 
annual 45-69, 40-69 and 40-74 were selected as cost-effective for both effect 
measures (YL or QALYs). The ICER increases considerably when moving from 
biennial to annual scenarios. Moving from no screening to biennial 50-69 years 
represented an ICER of 4,469€ per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: A reduced number of screening strategies have been selected for 
consideration by researchers, decision makers and policy planners. Mathematical 
models are useful to assess the impact and costs of BC screening in a specific 
geographical area.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-11-192
PMCID: PMC3125279
PMID: 21605383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. BMC Public Health. 2011 May 24;11:378. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-378.

Obesity, smoking, alcohol consumption and years lived with disability: a 
Sullivan life table approach.

Klijs B(1), Mackenbach JP, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre, PO Box 
2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. b.klijs@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: To avoid strong declines in the quality of life due to population 
ageing, and to ensure sustainability of the health care system, reductions in 
the burden of disability among elderly populations are urgently needed. Life 
style interventions may help to reduce the years lived with one or more 
disabilities, but it is not fully understood which life style factor has the 
largest potential for such reductions. Therefore, the primary aim of this paper 
is to compare the effect of BMI, smoking and alcohol consumption on life 
expectancy with disability, using the Sullivan life table method. A secondary 
aim is to assess potential improvement of the Sullivan method by using 
information on the association of disability with time to death.
METHODS: Data from the Dutch Permanent Survey of the Living Situation (POLS) 
1997-1999 with mortality follow-up until 2006 (n = 6,446) were used. Using 
estimated relative mortality risks by risk factor exposure, separate life tables 
were constructed for groups defined in terms of BMI, smoking status and alcohol 
consumption. Logistic regression models were fitted to predict the prevalence of 
ADL and mobility disabilities in relationship to age and risk factor exposure. 
Using the Sullivan method, predicted age-specific prevalence rates were included 
in the life table to calculate years lived with disability at age 55. In further 
analysis we assessed whether adding information on time to death in both the 
regression models and the life table estimates would lead to substantive changes 
in the results.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at age 55 differed by 1.4 years among groups defined in 
terms of BMI, 4.0 years by smoking status, and 3.0 years by alcohol consumption. 
Years lived with disability differed by 2.8 years according to BMI, 0.2 years by 
smoking and 1.6 by alcohol consumption. Obese persons could expect to live more 
years with disability (5.9 years) than smokers (3.8 years) and drinkers (3.1 
years). Employing information on time to death led to lower estimates of years 
lived with disability, and to smaller differences in these years according to 
BMI (2.1 years), alcohol (1.2 years), and smoking (0.1 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with smoking and drinking alcohol, obesity is most 
strongly associated with an increased risk of spending many years of life with 
disability. Although employing information on the relation of disability with 
time to death improves the precision of Sullivan life table estimates, the 
relative importance of risk factors remained unchanged.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-378
PMCID: PMC3128016
PMID: 21605473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Redox Rep. 2011;16(1):38-44. doi: 10.1179/174329211X12968219310918.

Mustard seeds (Sinapis Alba Linn) attenuate azoxymethane-induced colon 
carcinogenesis.

Yuan H(1), Zhu M, Guo W, Jin L, Chen W, Brunk UT, Zhao M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Nanfang Hospital, Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Gastroenterology, Guangzhou, P. R. China.

Mustard seeds (MS), which are consumed in considerable amounts by the Japanese 
people that, interestingly, have the longest life expectancy in the world, are 
known to contain a number of yet not fully defined but quite powerful 
anti-oxidants. A suspension of extracted MS was found to suppress 
oxidized-LDL-induced macrophage respiratory burst in vitro, to prevent growth, 
and to induce apoptotic death of SW480 cells (a human colon cancer cell line), 
while no such effects were found for normal 3T3 cells. A diet enriched with MS 
decreased plasma levels of the lipid peroxidation product malonaldehyde in mice 
exposed to the colon cancer-inducer azoxymethane (AOM). Such a diet also 
dose-dependently enhanced the activity of several anti-oxidant enzymes, such as 
superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and GSH-peroxidase and, moreover, reduced 
AOM-mediated formation of colon adenomas by about 50%. Further studies are 
required to detail and explore the beneficial effects of MS and their rich 
content of powerful anti-oxidants.

DOI: 10.1179/174329211X12968219310918
PMCID: PMC6837503
PMID: 21605497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Arch Intern Med. 2011 May 23;171(10):941-3. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2011.183.

One-hour glucose, mortality, and risk of diabetes: a 44-year prospective study 
in men.

Strandberg TE(1), Pienimäki T, Strandberg AY, Salomaa VV, Pitkälä KH, Tilvis RS, 
Miettinen TA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Sciences/Geriatrics, University of Oulu, Finland. 
timo.strandberg@oulu.fi

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2011.183
PMID: 21606099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Jan;27(1):429-34. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfr294.
Epub  2011 May 23.

Quantifying the benefit of early living-donor renal transplantation with a 
simulation model of the Dutch renal replacement therapy population.

Liem YS(1), Wong JB, Winkelmayer WC, Weimar W, Wetzels JF, de Charro FT, 
Kaandorp GC, Stijnen T, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Program for the Assessment of Radiological Technology (ART Program), 
Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Early living-donor transplantation improves patient- and 
graft-survival compared with possible cadaveric renal transplantation (RTx), but 
the magnitude of the survival gain is unknown. For patients starting renal 
replacement therapy (RRT), we aimed to quantify the survival benefit of early 
living-donor transplantation compared with dialysis and possible cadaveric 
transplantation and to estimate the population benefit from increasing the early 
transplantation rate.
METHODS: We used a decision-analytic computer-simulation model, with a lifetime 
time horizon, simulating patients starting RRT, using data from the Dutch 
End-Stage Renal Disease Registry and published data. We compared the (quality 
adjusted) life expectancy (LE) of 'early living-donor RTx' and 'dialysis' (with 
possible cadaveric RTx if available).
RESULTS: LE and quality-adjusted LE benefits of the early living-donor RTx 
compared with the dialysis strategy for 40-year-old patients ranged from 7.5 to 
9.9 life years (LYs) [6.7-8.8 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)] depending on 
the primary renal disease. For 70-year-old patients, the benefit was 4.3-6.0 LYs 
(4.3-6.0 QALYs). Increasing the early transplantation rate from currently 5.8 to 
22.2% (the highest in Europe) would increase average LE by 1.2 LYs and total LE 
for annual incident cases in the Netherlands by >1800 LYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Efforts to increase early living-donor RTx could potentially 
substantially increase LE for patients starting RRT, especially in younger 
patients.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfr294
PMID: 21606383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. J Bioenerg Biomembr. 2011 Jun;43(3):287-98. doi: 10.1007/s10863-011-9359-2.
Epub  2011 May 24.

Interaction of carbonylcyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (FCCP) with 
lipid membrane systems: a biophysical approach with relevance to mitochondrial 
uncoupling.

Monteiro JP(1), Martins AF, Lúcio M, Reis S, Geraldes CF, Oliveira PJ, Jurado 
AS.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, Department of Life Sciences, 
University of Coimbra, Apartado 3126, 3001-401, Coimbra, Portugal.

FCCP (carbonylcyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone), a classical uncoupler 
of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, is used in this study as a model to 
clarify how interactions of uncouplers with membrane lipid bilayers may 
influence membrane biophysics and their protonophoric activity itself. In order 
to disclose putative effects that may be important when considering using 
uncouplers for pharmacological purposes, an extensive characterization of FCCP 
membrane lipid interactions using accurate biophysical approaches and simple 
model lipid systems was carried out. Differential scanning calorimetry studies 
showed that FCCP molecules disturb lipid bilayers and favor lateral phase 
separation in mixed lipid systems. (31)P NMR assays indicated that FCCP alters 
the curvature elastic properties of membrane models containing non-bilayer 
lipids, favoring lamellar/H(II) transition, probably by alleviation of 
hydrocarbon-packing constraints in the inverted hexagonal phase. Taking 
advantage of FCCP quenching effects on the fluorescent probes DPH 
(1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene) and DPH-PA 
(3-(p-(6-phenyl)-1,3,5-hexatrienyl)phenylpropionic acid), it is demonstrated 
that FCCP distributes across the bilayer thickness in both a single and a 
ternary lipid system mimicking the inner mitochondrial membrane. This behavior 
is consistent with the ability of the compound to migrate through the thickness 
of the inner mitochondrial membrane, an event required for its protonophoric 
activity. Finally, the study of the membrane fluidity in different lipid 
systems, as reported by the rotational correlation time (θ) of DPH or DPH-PA, 
showed that the extension at which FCCP disturbs membrane properties associated 
with the dynamics and the order of lipid molecules depends on the lipid 
composition of the model lipid system assayed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10863-011-9359-2
PMID: 21607731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Appl Biomater Biomech. 2011 Jan-Apr;9(1):2-10. doi:
10.5301/JABB.2011.7730.

The ceramic-on-metal coupling in total hip replacements for young patients: a 
review study.

Cigada A(1), Cotogno G, Chiesa R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Materials and Chemical Engineering, Politecnico di 
Milano, Milano, Italy.

In the last two decades the performance of total hip replacements (THR) has 
constantly improved, thanks largely to advances in the field of material science 
and technology. Although contemporary devices are clinically very reliable, some 
problems still need to be addressed: the wear of ultra high molecular weight 
polyethylene components, the release of metal ions from metal-on-metal joints, 
the toughness of the ceramic cups and the possibility of squeaking for 
ceramic-on-ceramic couplings. All these drawbacks become particularly relevant 
in case of THR for young and active patients, when the life expectancy of the 
orthopedic device is very high and the possibility of mechanical shocks is not 
negligible.In the last few years an innovative ceramic-on-metal tribologic 
coupling has been introduced in clinical use. This novel configuration 
represents a very promising solution to all the aforementioned issues. 
Ceramic-on-metal offers both the strength points of ceramic and metal surfaces, 
and overcomes the limits of metal-on-metal and ceramic-on-ceramic bearings. For 
this reason, the ceramic-on-metal coupling has become the object of 
investigation for several laboratory studies and has been tested in clinical 
trials. This review study compares the scientific outcomes of the research on 
ceramic-on-metal bearings, confirming that this innovative articulation has the 
potential to be a suitable and attractive solution for young and active 
patients.

DOI: 10.5301/JABB.2011.7730
PMID: 21607934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Eur Ann Allergy Clin Immunol. 2011 Mar;43(2):45-53.

Cost-utility of add-on omalizumab in difficult-to-treat allergic asthma in 
Italy.

Dal Negro RW(1), Pradelli L, Tognella S, Micheletto C, Iannazzo S.

Author information:
(1)Lung Dept., Orlandi Gen. Hospital, Bussolengo, Verona, Italy. 
rdalnegro@ulss22.ven.it

OBJECTIVE: Omalizumab (OM), an innovative biological treatment for difficult 
asthma with perennial sensitisations, is an humanized monoclonal anti-IgE 
antibody that binds free circulating IgE; inhibits mast cell and basophil 
activation by combining free IgE, leads to IgE receptor down-regulation, thus 
blocking the inflammatory cascade.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To assess real-world cost-utility ofadd-on OM in Italy.
METHODS: changes in clinical and economical outcomes, and in quality of life 
(QoL) associated with add-on OM in adults (n=23) with severe dfficult asthma 
were compared with those recorded before OM in the same subjects. Variables 
were: lung function; IgE levels; health status; ACT score; QoL (SGRQ); n. GP and 
specialist visits; emergency visits; hospitalizations, and concomitant 
pharmacological treatments. Further indices were: changes in Health-related QoL; 
total health-care costs, and incremental cost/utility. Data were statistically 
compared (Student's T test), and p < 0.01 was accepted for statistical 
significance.
RESULTS: asthma clinical outcomes and patients' health-related quality of life 
improved significantly by adding OM, and both costs for drugs and hospital care 
dropped significantly (p < 0.01). The net economic effect was a 350 Euro 
increase in overall monthly costs; when related to health benefits, it 
corresponded to an incremental cost/utility ratio ofabout 26,000 Euro/QALY, 
which represents a quite favourable figure in terms of willingness to pay for 
health benefits in industrialised countries.
CONCLUSIONS: Omalizumab added to an optimised therapy significantly improves 
clinical outcomes in difficult-to-treat, persistent allergic asthma. Costs also 
increased, but proved justified by health benefits achieved.

PMID: 21608372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2011 Sep;124(3):214-25. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.2011.01716.x. Epub 2011 May 24.

Metabolic effects and cost-effectiveness of aripiprazole versus olanzapine in 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.

Kasteng F(1), Eriksson J, Sennfält K, Lindgren P.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. fjkasteng@yahoo.se

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of aripiprazole versus olanzapine in 
the treatment of patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder in Sweden with 
focus on the metabolic impact of the treatments.
METHOD: A Markov health-state transition model was developed. The risks of 
developing metabolic syndrome after one year of treatment with aripiprazole or 
olanzapine were derived from a pooled analysis of three randomised clinical 
trials. The subsequent risks of developing diabetes or coronary heart disease 
were based on previously published risk models. A societal perspective was 
applied, adopting a lifetime horizon. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Treatment with aripiprazole dominates over olanzapine in both 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. In schizophrenia, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained were 0.08 and cost savings Swedish kronor (SEK) 30,570 
(USD 4000); in bipolar disorder, QALYs gained were 0.09 and cost savings SEK 
28,450 (USD 3720). In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, aripiprazole resulted 
in a dominant outcome in 84% of cases in schizophrenia and in 77% of cases in 
bipolar syndrome.
CONCLUSION: The significantly lower risk of developing metabolic syndrome 
observed with aripiprazole compared with olanzapine is associated with less risk 
of diabetes and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality that translates into 
lower overall treatment cost and improved quality of life over time.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.2011.01716.x
PMID: 21609324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. BMC Public Health. 2011 May 25;11:385. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-385.

Family origin and mortality: prospective Finnish cohort study.

Saarela J(1), Finnäs F.

Author information:
(1)Åbo Akademi University, 65101 Vasa, Finland. jan.saarela@abo.fi

BACKGROUND: Death rates are notably higher in eastern Finland than in western 
Finland, and life expectancy of Finnish speakers shorter than that of Swedish 
speakers. The mortality differences correspond to recent genetic mappings of the 
population and are prominent for causes of death that are known to be associated 
with genetic risk factors.
METHODS: Using intergenerational data, we studied the impact of parental birth 
area on all-cause mortality risks of middle-aged men in Finland 1985-2003, 
assuming that geographic family origin reflects genetic predisposition to 
complex disorders. Relative death risks at ages 30-49 years were estimated by 
parental birth region and ethnicity, according to Cox regressions standardised 
for own education, family type at childhood, and year of birth.
RESULTS: The death risk of Finnish speakers born in eastern Finland was 1.13 
(95% confidence interval 1.01 to 1.26) that of Finnish speakers born in western 
Finland, whereas that of Swedish speakers was only 0.60 (0.52 to 0.71). In 
Finnish speakers, the effects of own birth area and area of residence 
disappeared when parental birth area was accounted for. The death risk of 
persons with at least one parent born in eastern Finland was 1.23 (1.09 to 1.39) 
that of people with both parents born in western Finland.
CONCLUSIONS: Parental birth area is the driving force behind the regional 
mortality difference in Finland. The findings highlight and give further support 
for the potentially important role of genetic risk factors in mortality. Close 
monitoring of persons' geographic and ethnic ancestry may promote public health 
and avoid many early deaths.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-385
PMCID: PMC3117712
PMID: 21609502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Can J Surg. 2011 Jun;54(3):154-69. doi: 10.1503/cjs.048909.

Comparison of public and private bariatric surgery services in Canada.

Martin AR(1), Klemensberg J, Klein LV, Urbach D, Bell CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ont., Canada.
