
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Worldwide, a child born in 1955 had an average life expectancy at birth of only 
48 years. By 2000, the average life expectancy at birth had increased to 66 
years and, if past trends continue, is projected to rise to 73 years by 2025. 
These improvements in longevity have resulted from improved living conditions 
overall, advances in medical science, and a number of population-level 
interventions. However, major disparities persist. During the past decade, in 
low-income countries, average life expectancy at birth increased from 55 to 57 
years (3.6%), while increasing from 78 to 80 years (2.6%) in high-income 
countries. Analogous to the recent MMWR report highlighting 10 public health 
achievements that occurred in the United States over the first 10 years of the 
new century, this report describes global public health achievements during the 
same period. Experts in global public health were asked to nominate noteworthy 
public health achievements that occurred outside of the United States during 
2001-2010. From them, 10 have been summarized in this report. As with the 
previous report, the 10 global public health achievements are not ranked in any 
order. Additional information regarding these achievements is available at 
http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm6019a5_addinfo.htm.

PMID: 21697806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Popul Health Metr. 2011 Jun 23;9(1):17. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-17.

Decomposing cross-country differences in quality adjusted life expectancy: the 
impact of value sets.

Heijink R(1), van Baal P, Oppe M, Koolman X, Westert G.

Author information:
(1)Scientific centre for care and welfare (Tranzo), Tilburg University, 
Warandelaan 2, 5037 AB Tilburg, The Netherlands. richard.heijink@rivm.nl.

BACKGROUND: The validity, reliability and cross-country comparability of summary 
measures of population health (SMPH) have been persistently debated. In this 
debate, the measurement and valuation of nonfatal health outcomes have been 
defined as key issues. Our goal was to quantify and decompose international 
differences in health expectancy based on health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL). We focused on the impact of value set choice on cross-country 
variation.
METHODS: We calculated Quality Adjusted Life Expectancy (QALE) at age 20 for 15 
countries in which EQ-5D population surveys had been conducted. We applied the 
Sullivan approach to combine the EQ-5D based HRQoL data with life tables from 
the Human Mortality Database. Mean HRQoL by country-gender-age was estimated 
using a parametric model. We used nonparametric bootstrap techniques to compute 
confidence intervals. QALE was then compared across the six country-specific 
time trade-off value sets that were available. Finally, three counterfactual 
estimates were generated in order to assess the contribution of mortality, 
health states and health-state values to cross-country differences in QALE.
RESULTS: QALE at age 20 ranged from 33 years in Armenia to almost 61 years in 
Japan, using the UK value set. The value sets of the other five countries 
generated different estimates, up to seven years higher. The relative impact of 
choosing a different value set differed across country-gender strata between 2% 
and 20%. In 50% of the country-gender strata the ranking changed by two or more 
positions across value sets. The decomposition demonstrated a varying impact of 
health states, health-state values, and mortality on QALE differences across 
countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The choice of the value set in SMPH may seriously affect 
cross-country comparisons of health expectancy, even across populations of 
similar levels of wealth and education. In our opinion, it is essential to get 
more insight into the drivers of differences in health-state values across 
populations. This will enhance the usefulness of health-expectancy measures.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-17
PMCID: PMC3146826
PMID: 21699675


984. Stroke. 2011 Aug;42(8):2126-30. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.599712. Epub 2011
Jun  23.

The decline in stroke mortality: exploration of future trends in 7 Western 
European countries.

Kunst AE(1), Amiri M, Janssen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Academic Medical Centre, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: This article aims to make projections of future trends 
in stroke mortality in the Year 2030 based on recent trends in stroke mortality 
in 7 Western European countries.
METHODS: Mortality data were obtained from national cause of death registries. 
Annual rates of decline in stroke mortality of 1980 to 2005 were determined for 
men and women in the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, and 4 Nordic 
countries on the basis of regression analysis. Estimated rates of decline were 
extrapolated until 2030. Cause-elimination life tables were used to determine 
the effect of stroke in 2030 in terms of potential gain in life expectancy. The 
absolute numbers of stroke deaths in 2030 were estimated using national 
population projections of Eurostat.
RESULTS: In all countries, stroke mortality rates declined incessantly until 
2005 among both men and women. If these trends were to continue, age-adjusted 
mortality rates would decline by approximately half between 2005 and 2030 with 
larger declines in France (approximately two thirds) and smaller declines in the 
Netherlands, Denmark, and Sweden (approximately one fourth). Similar rates of 
decline would be observed in terms of potential gain in life expectancy. Because 
of population aging, the absolute number of stroke deaths would decline slowly 
in the United Kingdom and France and stabilize or even increase in other 
countries.
CONCLUSIONS: In the near future, stroke may lose much of its effects on life 
expectancy but remain a frequent cause of death among elderly populations. The 
prevention of stroke-related disability instead of mortality may become 
increasingly more important.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.599712
PMID: 21700943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 2011 Jul;39(3):112. doi: 10.1097/JES.0b013e31821f6307.

Seeking the fountain of youth.

Thompson LV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/JES.0b013e31821f6307
PMID: 21701280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Oct;13(5):589-603. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0323-1.
Epub  2011 Jun 24.

Cost-effectiveness of lapatinib plus capecitabine in women with HER2+ metastatic 
breast cancer who have received prior therapy with trastuzumab.

Delea TE(1), Tappenden P, Sofrygin O, Browning D, Amonkar MM, Karnon J, Walker 
MD, Cameron D.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc. (PAI), Four Davis Court, Brookline, MA 02445, USA. 
tdelea@pai2.com

BACKGROUND: In a phase III trial of women with HER2+ metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC) previously treated with trastuzumab, an anthracycline, and taxanes 
(EGF100151), lapatinib plus capecitabine (L+C) improved time to progression 
(TTP) versus capecitabine monotherapy (C-only). In a trial including HER2+ MBC 
patients who had received at least one prior course of trastuzumab and no more 
than one prior course of palliative chemotherapy (GBG 26/BIG 03-05), continued 
trastuzumab plus capecitabine (T+C) also improved TTP.
METHODS: An economic model using patient-level data from EGF100151 and published 
results of GBG 26/BIG 03-05 as well as other literature were used to evaluate 
the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year [QALY] gained with L+C 
versus C-only and versus T+C in women with HER2+ MBC previously treated with 
trastuzumab from the UK National Health Service (NHS) perspective.
RESULTS: Expected costs were £28,816 with L+C, £13,985 with C-only and £28,924 
with T+C. Corresponding QALYs were 0.927, 0.737 and 0.896. In the base case, L+C 
was estimated to provide more QALYs at a lower cost compared with T+C; cost per 
QALY gained was £77,993 with L+C versus C-only. In pairwise probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses, the probability that L+C is preferred to C-only was 0.03 
given a threshold of £30,000. The probability that L+C is preferred to T+C was 
0.54 regardless of the threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: When compared against capecitabine alone, the addition of lapatinib 
has a cost-effectiveness ratio exceeding the threshold normally used by NICE. 
Compared with T+C, L+C is dominant in the base case and approximately equally 
likely to be cost-effective in probabilistic sensitivity analyses over a wide 
range of threshold values.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0323-1
PMID: 21701940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. J Hepatol. 2011 Dec;55(6):1377-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.03.028. Epub
2011  May 19.

Liver disease in adult patients with cystic fibrosis: a frequent and independent 
prognostic factor associated with death or lung transplantation.

Chryssostalis A(1), Hubert D, Coste J, Kanaan R, Burgel PR, Desmazes-Dufeu N, 
Soubrane O, Dusser D, Sogni P.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Descartes, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Increased life expectancy in patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF) allows better knowledge of non-pulmonary complications like liver disease 
(CFLD). However, few data have been published in large adult cohorts. The aim of 
this study was to estimate the prevalence and the prognosis of CFLD in adult CF 
patients.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of a monocentric cohort of adult CF patients 
prospectively followed, at least every year, was performed. CFLD was diagnosed 
using published composite criteria. If cirrhosis was suspected, upper digestive 
endoscopy was realized to assess the presence of portal hypertension.
RESULTS: A cohort of 285 adult CF patients was followed during 4.8 ± 3.6 years. 
Among them, 90 had CFLD at the beginning of follow-up and 23 a suspicion of 
cirrhosis. Factors independently associated with liver disease at baseline were 
history of meconium ileus, pancreatic insufficiency, chronic colonization with 
Burkholderia cepacia and the number of IV antibiotic courses per year. Nine 
patients developed liver decompensation during follow-up, all with a suspicion 
of cirrhosis at baseline. Six patients underwent liver transplantation alone and 
three patients combined liver and lung transplantation. Factors independently 
associated with death or lung transplantation at baseline were liver disease, 
BMI, forced expiratory volume in 1 second and number of IV antibiotic courses 
per year.
CONCLUSIONS: CFLD was present at baseline in one third of adult patients with CF 
with a marked risk of liver decompensation during follow-up. Moreover, CFLD at 
baseline appears as an independent factor associated with death or lung 
transplantation.

Copyright © 2011 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.03.028
PMID: 21703187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Hazard Mater. 2011 Aug 30;192(2):801-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jhazmat.2011.05.091.  Epub 2011 Jun 6.

Zinc recovery and waste sludge minimization from chromium passivation baths.

Diban N(1), Mediavilla R, Urtiaga A, Ortiz I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Cantabria, Av. de los 
Castros s/n. 39005 Santander, Spain.

This work reports the feasibility of applying emulsion pertraction technology 
(EPT) aiming at zinc recovery and waste minimization in the zinc electroplating 
processes that include Cr (III) passivation. The assessment consists of firstly 
the lifetime extension of the passivation baths by selective removal of the 
tramp ions zinc and iron, and secondly, the recovery of zinc for further reuse. 
Spent passivation baths from a local industry were tested, being the major 
metallic content: Cr(3+) 9000mg L(-1), Zn(2+) 12,000mg L(-1), Fe(3+) 100mg 
L(-1). Working in a Liqui-Cel hollow fiber membrane contactor and using the 
extractant bis(2,4,4-trimethylpentyl) phosphinic acid, reduction of zinc and 
iron concentrations below 60mg L(-1) and 2mg L(-1), respectively were obtained, 
while trivalent chromium, the active metal that generates the passivation layer, 
was retained in the baths. Zinc was selectively transferred to an acidic 
stripping phase that in the experimental time reached a concentration of 
157,000mg L(-1). Zinc recovery by electrowinning from the acidic stripping phase 
without any pretreatment of the electrolyte solution provided a purity of 98.5%, 
matching the lower commercial zinc grade. As a result of the extension of the 
life time of the passivation bath, significant environmental advantages are 
derived such as minimization of the volume of hazardous wastes and savings in 
the consumption of raw materials.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2011.05.091
PMID: 21704452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Behav Brain Res. 2011 Oct 31;224(2):318-25. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2011.06.010.
Epub  2011 Jun 17.

Dissociation between neonatal novelty-induced preferential maternal care and 
enhancement in cognitive, social, and emotional functions.

Reeb-Sutherland BC(1), Tang AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM 87131, 
USA.

Early life stimulation is known to produce long-lasting changes in the brain and 
behavior. One such early stimulation method is the neonatal novelty exposure 
procedure which allows the isolation of the novelty effect from several 
prominent confounding factors inherent to the neonatal handling procedure. In 
two previous studies, we found long-lasting novelty effects on different sets of 
functional measures without accompanying preferential maternal care, even when 
the observation was made immediately after the novelty manipulation, a time when 
such preferential care is most likely to be expressed. Here, within a single 
cohort of Long-Evans male rats, we demonstrate that novelty exposure leads to 
enhancements across several functional domains, including increased 
disinhibition to novelty, enhanced spatial and social memory, and reduced 
aggression, again without the accompaniment of preferential maternal care. These 
findings extend novelty exposure effects to aggression and replicate previously 
known novelty exposure effects on spatial and social memory with extension to 
new developmental stages. Most importantly, these findings do not support the 
hypothesis that preferential maternal care towards novelty-exposed pups mediates 
the observed novelty effects. We discuss the possibility that the effects of 
neonatal novelty exposure are mediated via repeated activation of the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis that serves to inoculate pups for 
future exposures to novelty and novelty-induced HPA activation and that maternal 
influence is likely to be expressed via its modulatory role-the mother sets the 
individual-family specific behavioral and hormonal context to allow the same 
early life experience to have a family-specific effect.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2011.06.010
PMID: 21704655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2011 Jul;107(1):1-9; quiz 9-11. doi: 
10.1016/j.anai.2011.05.004.

HIV: practical implications for the practicing allergist-immunologist.

Stokes SC(1), Tankersley MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Department of Medicine, Wilford Hall 
Medical Center, 2200 Bergquist Drive, Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, TX 
78236, USA. shayne.stokes@us.af.mil

Comment in
    Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2011 Jul;107(1):12-3.

OBJECTIVES: To review the effects of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) on allergic diseases and discuss the clinical, 
pathophysiologic, diagnostic, and therapeutic challenges unique to HIV-infected 
patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
DATA SOURCES: The MEDLINE and OVID databases were searched to identify pertinent 
articles using the following keywords: HIV, AIDS, IgE, allergic rhinitis, 
adverse drug reaction, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, food 
allergy, and immunization. References from the chosen articles were also 
examined.
STUDY SELECTION: Articles were selected based on their relevance to the subject 
matter and currency.
RESULTS: Human immunodeficiency virus infection causes immunologic alterations 
that ultimately lead to cell-mediated immune deficiency. In addition, the immune 
dysfunction caused by HIV also increases the likelihood of developing allergic 
and other immune-mediated diseases in many patients. HAART is associated with 
reconstitution of immune system function. While offering protection against 
infection, immune reconstitution also can provoke immunopathologic conditions. 
Patients infected with HIV show an increased prevalence of allergic rhinitis, 
adverse drug reactions, and noninfectious pulmonary complications. The 
pathophysiology of HIV infection is associated with unique clinical, diagnostic, 
and therapeutic considerations when treating allergic diseases in HIV-infected 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: With the use of HAART and the subsequent decrease in infectious 
complications, HIV-infected patients now live longer and experience common 
chronic diseases. Evaluation of HIV-infected patients with rhinitis, asthma, and 
adverse drug reactions may become more frequent as HAART continues to extend the 
life expectancy of patients living with HIV. Understanding the interactions 
between HIV and these conditions can facilitate a knowledgeable approach to 
treating an HIV-infected patient.

Copyright © 2011 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2011.05.004
PMID: 21704878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Oncologist. 2011;16(8):1144-53. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0028. Epub
2011  Jun 24.

Current targeted therapies in breast cancer: clinical applications in the 
elderly woman.

Spano JP(1), Falandry C, Chaibi P, Freyer G.

Author information:
(1)Groupe Hospitalier de la Pitié-Salpétrière, Département d’Oncologie Médicale 
du Prof. David Khayat, Paris, France. jean-philippe.spano@psl.aphp.fr

The incidence of breast cancer is two to three times higher in women aged ≥65 
years than in the whole population, whereas their mortality rate is threefold to 
fourfold higher. Targeted therapies allow significantly longer disease-free 
survival times. Nevertheless, in an elderly population, these treatments need to 
be prescribed with caution. This paper reviews the treatments of breast cancer 
in the elderly, and the issues of targeted therapies and their toxicities. 
Patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)-2(+) breast cancer 
benefit from trastuzumab; although cardiotoxic effects are observed in <5% of 
patients when given alone, they affect ~25% of patients when combined with 
anthracyclines. Bevacizumab leads to a longer progression-free survival time and 
lower risk for progression in patients with metastatic breast cancer when added 
to paclitaxel or docetaxel. Although generally well tolerated, it is associated 
with a higher risk for arterial thromboembolism and hypertension. Lapatinib is 
approved for the treatment of advanced or metastatic breast cancer in patients 
not responding to trastuzumab, combined with capecitabine chemotherapy. The most 
frequent side effects concern the gastrointestinal system and dermatologic 
symptoms. The life expectancy of breast cancer patients should be taken into 
account to determine the appropriateness of treatments. The quality of life of 
elderly cancer patients must be assessed with an appropriate tool. Older 
patients exhibit greater vulnerability, suggesting identification and exclusion 
of patients at high cardiac risk. Future recommendations for the treatment of 
elderly women with breast cancer should include a multidisciplinary approach and 
a global geriatric assessment before treatment with anti-HER-2 therapy or 
bevacizumab.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0028
PMCID: PMC3228162
PMID: 21705664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures Jean-Philippe Spano: None; Claire 
Falandry: None; Pascal Chaibi: None; Gilles Freyer: None. Section Editor Matti 
Aapro discloses no financial relationships relevant to the content of this 
article. Section Editor Arti Hurria discloses a consulting/advisory role with 
Amgen, Genentech, and GTX; and research funding received from Celgene and 
GlaxoSmithKline. Section Editor Hyman B. Muss discloses a consulting 
relationship with Pfizer, Amgen, Roche, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, Sandoz, Abraxis, and Eisai. Reviewer “A” discloses no 
financial relationships. The content of this article has been reviewed by 
independent peer reviewers to ensure that it is balanced, objective, and free 
from commercial bias. On the basis of disclosed information, all conflicts of 
interest have been resolved.


992. Pediatr Endocrinol Rev. 2011 Mar;8 Suppl 2:271-7.

The multifactorial origin of growth failure in thalassaemia.

Skordis N(1), Kyriakou A.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Endocrine Unit, Makarios Hospital, Nicosia 1474, Cyprus. 
nskordis@cytanet.com.cy

Growth failure in thalassaemia major (TM) has been recognised for many years, 
and has persisted despite major therapeutic advances. The child with TM has a 
particular growth pattern, which is relatively normal until age 9-10 years; 
after this age a slowing down of growth velocity and reduced or absent pubertal 
growth spurt are observed. The pathogenesis of growth failure is multifactorial. 
The fundamental problem is the free iron and hemosiderosis-induced damage of the 
endocrine glands. Additional factors may contribute to the aetiology of growth 
delay including chronic anaemia and hypoxia, chronic liver disease, zinc and 
folic acid and nutritional deficiencies, intensive use of chelating agents, 
emotional factors, endocrinopathies (hypogonadism, delayed puberty, 
hypothyroidism, disturbed calcium homeostasis and bone disease) and last but not 
least dysregulation of the GH-IGF-1 axis.Three phases of growth disturbances 
according to age of presentation are well recognised, and have different 
aetiologies: in the first phase growth disturbance is mainly due to hypoxia, 
anaemia, ineffective erythropoiesis and nutritional factors. During late 
childhood (second phase), growth retardation is mainly due to iron overload 
affecting GH-IGF-1 axis and other potential endocrine complications. Although 
appropriate iron chelation therapy can improve growth and development, TM 
children and adolescents treated intensively with desferrioxamine remain short 
as well, showing body disproportion between the upper and lower body segment. 
After the age of 10-11 years (third phase), delayed or arrested puberty is an 
important contributing factor to growth failure in adolescent thalassaemics, who 
do not exhibit a normal growth spurt. During the last decades therapeutic 
progress and bone marrow transplantation resulted in a prolonged life expectancy 
in TM patients. Growth retardation, however, continues to be a significant 
challenge in these individuals, often affecting their social adjustment and 
quality of life.

PMID: 21705977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Psychol Aging. 2012 Mar;27(1):181-9. doi: 10.1037/a0023965. Epub 2011 Jun
27.

Positive affect, meaning in life, and future time perspective: an application of 
socioemotional selectivity theory.

Hicks JA(1), Trent J, Davis WE, King LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Texas A&M University, TX 77843-4235, USA. 
joshua.hicks@gmail.com

Four studies tested the prediction that positive affect (PA) would relate more 
strongly to meaning in life (MIL) as a function of perceived time limitations. 
In Study 1 (N = 360), adults completed measures of PA and MIL. As predicted, PA 
related more strongly to MIL for older, compared to younger, participants. In 
Studies 2 and 3, adults (N = 514) indicated their current position in their life 
span, and rated their MIL. PA, whether naturally occurring (Study 2) or induced 
(Study 3), was a stronger predictor of MIL for individuals who perceived 
themselves as having a limited amount of time left to live. Finally, in Study 4 
(N = 98) students completed a measure of PA, MIL, and future time perspective 
(FTP). Results showed that PA was more strongly linked to MIL for those who 
believed they had fewer opportunities left to pursue their goals. Overall, these 
findings suggest that the experience of PA becomes increasingly associated with 
the experience of MIL as the perception of future time becomes limited. The 
contribution of age related processes to judgments of well-being are discussed.

DOI: 10.1037/a0023965
PMID: 21707177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2011 Jun;11(6):959-65. doi: 10.1586/era.10.230.

Potential of histone deacetylase inhibitors for bladder cancer treatment.

Tanji N(1), Ozawa A, Kikugawa T, Miura N, Sasaki T, Azuma K, Yokoyama M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine, Toon, 
Ehime 791-0295, Japan. tanji@m.ehime-u.ac.jp

Bladder cancer incidence increases with age, presumably reflecting a cumulative 
exposure to carcinogens and ever-increasing life expectancy. While aberrant 
protein expression due to DNA mutations is an essential step during oncogenesis, 
one recent interest has been the role of epigenetic changes in regulating 
bladder tumor development. Because aberrant histone acetylation has been linked 
to malignant diseases in several cases, histone deacetylase inhibitors have 
great potential as new anticancer drugs owing to their ability to modulate 
transcription and induce differentiation and apoptosis. We herein review the 
current knowledge on epigenetic issues in bladder cancer, particularly regarding 
histone acetylation, and discuss its implications for understanding the 
molecular basis and treatment of this disease.

DOI: 10.1586/era.10.230
PMID: 21707293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2011 Jul 20;103(14):1093-100. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djr218.
Epub  2011 Jun 27.

Randomized phase II trials: a long-term investment with promising returns.

Sharma MR(1), Stadler WM, Ratain MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637-1470, USA.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2011 Jul 20;103(14):1075-7.

Given the multitude of novel anticancer drugs and the limited resources 
available to study them, phase II trials should identify drugs with the highest 
probability of succeeding in subsequent phase III trials. Currently, single-arm 
phase II trial results are interpreted relative to historical control subjects, 
introducing selection bias and confounding that may limit the validity of the 
conclusions. The rate of success (defined as a statistically significant 
difference between arms) in phase III oncology trials is only 40%, suggesting 
that current phase II trials are insufficiently informative. However, simulation 
studies suggest that randomized phase II trials would have lower error rates and 
greater predictive power for phase III results. Randomized phase II trials may 
also be more informative than single-arm phase II trials because of the 
hypotheses being tested, the variety of possible endpoints, and the 
opportunities for biomarker discovery. There are a wide variety of randomized 
phase II designs that can be used, including the randomized discontinuation 
design, the delayed-start design, adaptive (Bayesian) designs, selection 
designs, and phase II/III designs. The barriers to widespread adoption of 
randomized phase II trials include time to completion, sample size 
considerations, and ethical concerns, but none are insurmountable. We conclude 
that randomized phase II trials are a worthy investment considering finite 
patient and financial resources and should be the rule rather than the exception 
for evaluating novel therapies in oncology.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djr218
PMCID: PMC3139588
PMID: 21709274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. J Alzheimers Dis. 2011;26(4):735-44. doi: 10.3233/JAD-2011-110065.

Cost-effectiveness of a health intervention program with risk reductions for 
getting demented: results of a Markov model in a Swedish/Finnish setting.

Zhang Y(1), Kivipelto M, Solomon A, Wimo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

Risk scores based on modifiable factors have recently been developed for 
dementia. This study aims to estimate the cost-effectiveness of a potential 
preventive intervention program meant to lower the score related to increased 
dementia risk. Analyses were based on a Markov model adapted to Swedish 
circumstances. Risk score categories and risk probabilities were derived from 
the Cardiovascular Risk Factors, Aging and Incidence of Dementia (CAIDE) study 
in Finland. Figures of costs, utilities, and mortality were obtained from 
literature or databases. One-way sensitivity analysis and probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis were carried out to investigate the robustness of the model 
and to identify which model inputs had most impact on the results. In the base 
case, the usual care had a cost of 621,000 SEK and utilities of 11.8438 
quality-adjusted life year (QALYs). The intervention had a cost of 599, 026 SEK 
and utilities of 11.8950 QALYs. The cost was 21,974 SEK lower in the 
intervention with 0.0511 QALYs gained over a 20 years horizon, indicating 
absolute dominance. The support for cost-effectiveness was insensitive to 
changes in the value of QALY for demented, mortality, and risk of dementia. If 
the intervention program was assumed to run every year, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio did not show absolute dominance but was still under the 
willingness-to-pay level. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated cost 
effectiveness in 67% of the samplings given a willingness-to-pay level of 
600,000 SEK/year. This is a promising outlook for future research on preventive 
interventions in dementia, emphasizing the need of conducting multi-domain 
randomized trials.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-2011-110065
PMID: 21709377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Arq Gastroenterol. 2011 Apr-Jun;48(2):146-52. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-28032011000200011.

Islet transplantation in rodents. Do encapsulated islets really work?

Souza YE(1), Chaib E, Lacerda PG, Crescenzi A, Bernal-Filho A, D'Albuquerque LA.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Nove de Julho, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

CONTEXT: Diabetes mellitus type I affects around 240 million people in the world 
and only in the USA 7.8% of the population. It has been estimated that the costs 
of its complications account for 5% to 10% of the total healthcare spending 
around the world. According to World Health Organization, 300 million people are 
expected to develop diabetes mellitus by the year 2025. The pancreatic islet 
transplantation is expected to be less invasive than a pancreas transplant, 
which is currently the most commonly used approach.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the encapsulated and free islet transplantation in 
rodents looking at sites of islet implantation, number of injected islets, 
viability and immunosuppression.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted using MEDLINE/PUBMED and SCIELO with 
terms about islet transplantation in the rodent from 2000 to 2010. We found 
2,636 articles but only 56 articles from 2000 to 2010 were selected.
RESULTS: In these 56 articles used, 34% were encapsulated and 66% were 
nonencapsulated islets. Analyzing both types of islets transplantation, the 
majority of the encapsulated islets were implanted into the peritoneal cavity 
and the nonencapsulated islets into the liver, through the portal vein. In 
addition, the great advantage of the peritoneal cavity as the site of islet 
transplantation is its blood supply. Both vascular endothelial cells and 
vascular endothelial growth factor were used to stimulate angiogenesis of the 
islet grafts, increasing the vascularization rapidly after implantation. It also 
has been proven that there is influence of the capsules, since the larger the 
capsule more chances there are of central necrosis. In some articles, the use of 
immunosuppression demonstrated to increase the life expectancy of the graft.
CONCLUSION: While significant progress has been made in the islets 
transplantation field, many obstacles remain to be overcome. Microencapsulation 
provides a means to transplant islets without immunosuppressive agents and may 
enable the performance of xenotransplantation. The use of alternative donor 
sources, fewer islets per capsule and the appropriate deployment location, such 
as the peritoneal cavity, may give a future perspective to the application of 
immunoprotective capsules and viability in clinical practice. A variety of 
strategies, such as genetic engineering, co-encapsulation, improvement in oxygen 
supply or the establishment of hypoxia resistance will also improve the islet 
transplantation performance. It remains to be determined which combination of 
strategies with encapsulation can fulfill the promise of establishing a simple 
and safe transplantation as a cure for diabetes.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-28032011000200011
PMID: 21709957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Cad Saude Publica. 2011 Jun;27(6):1175-84. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2011000600014.

Physical environment and life expectancy at birth in Mexico: an 
eco-epidemiological study.

Idrovo AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, México. 
javier.idrovo@insp.mx

The objective of this ecological study was to ascertain the effects of physical 
environment on life expectancy at birth, using data from all 32 Mexican states. 
50 environmental indicators with information about demography, housing, poverty, 
water, soils, biodiversity, forestry resources, and residues were included in 
exploratory factor analysis. Four factors were extracted: population 
vulnerability/susceptibility, and biodiversity (FC1), urbanization, 
industrialization, and environmental sustainability (FC2), ecological resilience 
(FC3), and free-plague environments (FC4). Using OLS regressions, FC2, FC3, and 
FC4 were found to be positively associated with life expectancy at birth, while 
FC1 was negatively associated. This study suggests that physical environment is 
an important macro-determinant of the health of the Mexican population, and 
highlights the usefulness of ecological concepts in epidemiological studies.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2011000600014
PMID: 21710014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Math Biol. 2012 Jun;64(7):1281-311. doi: 10.1007/s00285-011-0449-x. Epub
2011  Jun 28.

Double impact of sterilizing pathogens: added value of increased life expectancy 
on pest control effectiveness.

Berec L(1), Maxin D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Theoretical Ecology, Institute of Entomology, Biology Centre 
ASCR, Branišovská 31, 37005 České Budějovice, Czech Republic. berec@entu.cas.cz

Sterilizing pathogens are commonly assumed not to affect longevity of infected 
individuals, and if they do then negatively. Examples abound, however, of 
species in which the absence of reproduction actually increases life expectancy. 
This happens because by decreasing the energy outlay on reproduction individuals 
with lowered reproduction can live longer. Alternatively, fertile individuals 
are more susceptible to predators or parasitoids if the latter can capitalize on 
mating signals of the former. Here we develop and analyze an SI epidemiological 
model to explore whether and to what extent does such a life expectancy 
prolongation due to sterilizing pathogens affect host dynamics. In particular, 
we are interested in an added value of increased life expectancy on the 
possibility of successful pest control, that is, the effect of increased 
lifespan and hence increased potential of the infected individuals to spread the 
disease on pest control effectiveness. We show that although the parameter range 
in which we observe an effect of increased lifespan of the sterilized 
individuals is not large, the effect itself can be significant. In particular, 
the increase in pest control effectiveness can be very dramatic when disease 
transmission efficiency is close to birth rate, mortality rate of susceptibles 
is relatively high (i.e., the species is relatively short-lived), and 
sterilization efficiency is relatively high. Our results thus characterize 
pathogens that are promising candidates for an effective pest control and that 
might possibly be engineered if not occurring naturally.

DOI: 10.1007/s00285-011-0449-x
PMID: 21710138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2012 May;6(5):337-47. doi: 10.1002/term.436. Epub
2011  Jun 28.

Regenerative medicine and connective tissues: cartilage versus tendon.

Montero JA(1), Lorda-Diez CI, Hurlé JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Anatomía y Biología Celular, Universidad de Cantabria/IFIMAV, 
Santander, Spain.

Progress in medicine over recent decades has notably increased life expectancy 
in the Western world. Such advance implies that the treatment of degenerative 
processes associated with ageing has become one of the major tasks of current 
medicine and therapeutics. High expectation relies on stem cell research in 
order to apply cell therapies to ameliorate degenerative processes, remarkably 
those concerning the circulatory, locomotor and nervous systems. However, the 
skeletal connective tissues have revealed that cell plasticity is a factor of 
major importance in regenerative therapies. Most evidence indicates that 
connective tissue cells of cartilage, tendons, ligaments and fascia share common 
progenitors during their differentiation, which are regulated by a number of 
director genes and a panel of miRNAs coupled with transforming growth factor-β 
signalling. Furthermore, we know that not only stem cells but also 
differentiated cells from these tissues may dedifferentiate and redifferentiate, 
even one into another. Hence, modulation of cell plasticity might be a potential 
target for regenerative therapies in the future. In this review, we highlight 
classical concepts about the properties and differentiation of the connective 
tissues and their relation with recent advances in the study of stem cells, 
significant for regenerative medicine, paying special attention to cartilage and 
tendons.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/term.436
PMID: 21710585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. BJU Int. 2012 Feb;109(4):533-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10361.x. Epub
2011  Jun 28.

The impact of nerve sparing on incidence and location of positive surgical 
margins in radical prostatectomy.

Moore BM(1), Savdie R, PeBenito RA, Haynes AM, Matthews J, Delprado W, Rasiah 
KK, Stricker PD.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Program, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Darlinghurst, 
NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: •  To examine whether nerve-sparing surgery (NSS) is a risk factor 
for positive surgical margins (PSMs) in patients with either organ-confined 
prostate cancer or extracapsular extension (ECE).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: •  Clinicopathological outcome data on 945 consecutive 
patients treated with radical prostatectomy (RP) were prospectively collected. 
•  All patients underwent RP (bilateral, unilateral or non-NSS) by one surgeon 
between 2002 and 2007. •  Risk of PSMs and their locations with respect to NSS 
was determined by multivariate logistic regression analysis adjusting for 
preoperative risk factors for PSMs within pT2, pT3a and pT3b tumours.
RESULTS: •  Overall a PSM was identified in 19.6% of patients in an unscreened 
population with mean prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level of 8.1 ng/mL. •  
There was no significant difference in rates of PSMs between NSS groups on 
multivariate analysis (P= 0.147). •  There was no significant difference in pT2 
(P= 0.880), pT3a (P= 0.175) or pT3b (P= 0.354) tumours. •  The only significant 
predictor of PSMs was preoperative PSA level (risk ratio 1.289, P= 0.006). •  
There was no significant difference in the location of PSMs except for the pT3a 
group, where the patients that had bilateral NSS were at higher risk of a 
posterolateral PSM (P= 0.028).
CONCLUSIONS: •  With appropriate selection of patients, NSS does not increase 
the risk of PSMs, whether the cancer is organ confined or ECE is present. •  The 
adverse impact of the NSS procedure in the hands of an experienced surgeon is 
minimal and is a realistic compromise to obtain the increase in health-related 
quality of life offered by NSS.

© 2011 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10361.x
PMID: 21711436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Discov Med. 2011 Jun;11(61):505-11.

External beam radiotherapy in the management of spinal metastases: review of 
current strategies and perspectives for highly conformal irradiation modalities.

Helissey C(1), Levy A, Jacob J, Dutertre G, Tardo-Dino PE, Bauduceau O, Vedrine 
L, Chargari C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology Radiotherapy, HIA Val-de-Grâce, Paris, France.

Bone metastases are frequent in advanced metastatic solid tumors. These 
secondary lesions are responsible for significant impairment of quality of life 
of patients with onset of pain, which is frequently resistant to standard 
analgesics. The therapeutic challenge for a patient with spinal metastasis is to 
maintain a quality of life as good as possible, commensurate with its life 
expectancy. Radiotherapy can provide efficient pain relief, but it should be 
integrated into a multidisciplinary approach. In the case of epidural spinal 
cord compression, it should be performed whenever possible after surgery. New 
highly conformal irradiation modalities have emerged for treatment of spinal 
metastases with therapeutic perspectives. Stereotactic radiosurgery could be 
provided for patients with single lesions or oligometastatic disease, a good 
general condition, absence of cord compression, and a life expectancy greater 
than 6 months. It is particularly promising for the treatment of classically 
radioresistant tumors or relapsing disease. Intensity-modulated radiotherapy, 
including Helical Tomotherapy, is a new perspective for treatment of multiple 
metastases. However, if these new techniques can provide efficient pain 
sedation, hindsight is currently low to judge their therapeutic benefit and 
these techniques are hardly available in most centers. Here, we offer a quick 
review of current strategies and new modalities of radiotherapy to put into 
perspective the place of these techniques in therapy of spinal metastases.

PMID: 21712016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Res Social Adm Pharm. 2012 Mar-Apr;8(2):157-65. doi: 
10.1016/j.sapharm.2010.12.004. Epub 2011 Jun 28.

Does combining antiretroviral agents in a single dosage form enhance quality of 
life of HIV/AIDS patients? A cost-utility study.

Ganguli A(1), Wang J, Gourley DR.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and Policy Research, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
University of Tennessee College of Pharmacy, 847 Monroe Ave., Memphis, TN 38163, 
USA. arijit.gangs@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Combining various antiretroviral agents into one single dosage form 
has been a strategy to reduce pill burden and enhance medication adherence among 
human immunodeficiency virus /AIDS (HIV/AIDS) patients.
OBJECTIVES: This is a cost-utility study from a health care system's perspective 
comparing coformulated fixed dose (FXD) strategy versus multiple free dose 
combination (FRC) in antiretroviral therapy.
METHOD: The Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) was used to identify 
HIV/AIDS patients with ≥2 active antiretroviral medications. Patients on FXD 
were matched in 1:1 ratio with the FRC group using propensity scores. All 
medical costs excluding those paid by patients and families were included. 
Utility was measured using SF-6D scores from the SF-12 questionnaire. 
Incremental cost-utility ratios (ICURs) were calculated using the mean annual 
estimates. A cost-effectiveness acceptability curve was determined using a Monte 
Carlo probabilistic simulation technique.
RESULTS: Nine FXD antiretroviral formulations approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration by 2005 was included in this study. One hundred seventy HIV/AIDS 
patients with ≥2 antiretroviral agents were identified from the MEPS database, 
of which 53% (n=92) were on FXD formulation. On matching, 70 patients from FXD 
had a match from the FRC group. No differences in sociodemographic and health 
status variables were observed between the matched groups. The mean annual cost 
was $15,766.15 for FXD patients and $11,875.21 for FRC patients. The mean 
utility gained by using FXD over FRC was 0.085; however, this difference was not 
statistically significant. The ICUR for the FXD treatment over FRC treatment was 
$45,540.49/quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis showed FXD to dominate FRC (>50% probability of being cost-effective) 
above the $40,000 threshold.
CONCLUSION: Although the cost-effectiveness of a single-pill strategy was within 
the acceptable willingness-to-pay threshold, the QALY difference were minimal. 
Further research is recommended to explore the long-term impact of the strategy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sapharm.2010.12.004
PMID: 21712147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Biol Bull. 2011 Jun;220(3):174-85. doi: 10.1086/BBLv220n3p174.

Swimming of Xenopus laevis sperm exhibits multiple gears and its duration is 
extended by egg jelly constituents.

Tholl N(1), Naqvi S, McLaughlin E, Boyles S, Bieber AL, Chandler DE.

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, School of Life Sciences, Arizona 
State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287-4501, USA.

The motility of Xenopus sperm is initiated by the osmotic shock experienced when 
these cells are ejaculated into low-salinity pond water. Motility is brief and 
is required for the sperm to penetrate the jelly layers and fertilize the egg. 
In this study we demonstrate that extracts of egg jelly contain factors that 
extend the period of sperm motility as well as providing a chemoattractant 
activity as previously reported. Both activities are partially dependent on 
extracellular calcium. Time-lapse and video microscopy show that after 
activation of motility the number of motile sperm decreases rapidly, with a 
half-time of about 2 min. Addition of 10% v/v egg jelly extract ("egg water") 
increased the number of motile sperm 2-fold over controls at 20 s and about 4- 
to 10-fold over controls at 10 min after initiation of motility. Extension of 
motility lifetime was not mediated by a nonspecific protein or by allurin, the 
egg-water protein that has chemoattractant activity. The helical path of Xenopus 
sperm exhibited tight coupling between rotational and forward velocities in egg 
jelly, but coupling changed rapidly from moment to moment in low-salinity 
buffer. Our observations suggest that jelly-derived factors regulate both the 
longevity and directionality of sperm propulsion.

DOI: 10.1086/BBLv220n3p174
PMID: 21712226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2011 Sep;13(3):320-31. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2011.272401. Epub 2011 Jun 28.

Do patients with haemophilia undergoing cardiac surgery have good surgical 
outcomes?

Rossi M(1), Jayaram R, Sayeed R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford OX3 
9DU, UK. michele.r@libero.it

A best evidence topic in cardiac surgery was written according to a structured 
protocol. The question addressed was whether patients with haemophilia 
undergoing cardiac surgery have good surgical outcomes. Haemophilia A and 
haemophilia B are sex-linked recessive inherited diseases affecting males only, 
with females acting as carriers. The conditions result in various degrees of 
factor VIII or factor IX deficiency, respectively. The life expectancy of 
haemophilia patients is increasing and now approaches that of the general male 
population, and they are confronted with age-related co-morbidity, including 
ischaemic cardiovascular disease. Replacement of the deficient factor (VIII for 
haemophilia A and IX for haemophilia B) is the cornerstone of treatment; other 
therapeutic options include tranexamic acid, desmopressin and aprotinin. 
Recently, the advent of recombinant factor VIII and IX has eliminated the 
infective risk of using factor concentrates, such as prothrombin complex 
concentrate or fresh frozen plasma. A total of 84 papers were found using the 
reported search criteria, and out of this 25 papers, selected with reference to 
a more modern date range, provided the best evidence to answer the clinical 
question. The authors, journal, date and country of publication, patient group 
studied, study type, relevant outcomes and results were tabulated. We conclude 
that there is lack of good-quality evidence and that, in all probability, these 
papers are subject to publication bias as poor outcomes are unlikely to have 
been reported. However, all the reported series showed that good outcomes are 
possible in this specific subgroup of patients given the correct approach. The 
data accrued from these studies (a total of 30 adults and three children) 
suggest that routine cardiac surgery can be performed safely in patients with 
haemophilia, with minimal morbidity and mortality. We identified the following 
key points to achieve this result: a team approach, a factor replacement 
protocol and perioperative monitoring of factor levels. Intraoperative plasma 
factor levels can be easily measured before heparin and after protamine sulphate 
administration, whereas during cardiopulmonary bypass this will require a 
chromogenic method. Exposure to factor concentrates early in the life might 
predispose a patient with severe haemophilia to the development of inhibitors. 
Moreover, the absence of inhibitors should be confirmed before any surgical 
procedure.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2011.272401
PMID: 21712351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Mediterr J Hematol Infect Dis. 2011;3(1):e2011025. doi:
10.4084/MJHID.2011.025.  Epub 2011 May 25.

Thalassemia and venous thromboembolism.

Succar J(1), Musallam KM, Taher AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology-Oncology Division, American 
University of Beirut Medical Centre, Beirut, Lebanon.

Although the life expectancy of thalassemia patients has markedly improved over 
the last few decades, patients still suffer from many complications of this 
congenital disease. The presence of a high incidence of thromboembolic events, 
mainly in thalassemia intermedia, has led to the identification of a 
hypercoagulable state in these patients. In this review, the molecular and 
cellular mechanisms leading to hypercoagulability in thalassemia are 
highlighted, with a special focus on thalassemia intermedia being the group with 
the highest incidence of thrombotic events as compared to other types of 
thalassemia. Clinical experience and available clues on optimal management are 
also discussed.

DOI: 10.4084/MJHID.2011.025
PMCID: PMC3113280
PMID: 21713079


7. Rev Environ Health. 2011;26(1):17-30. doi: 10.1515/reveh.2011.004.

The status of water and sanitation among Pacific Rim nations.

Arnold RG(1), Heyworthz J, Sáez AE, Rodriguez C, Weinstein P, Ling B, Memon S.

Author information:
(1)' Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, The University of 
Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA. rga@email.arizona.edu

Analysis of relationships among national wealth, access to improved water supply 
and sanitation facilities, and population health indices suggests that the 
adequacy of water resources at the national level is a poor predictor of 
economic development--namely, that low water stress is neither necessary nor 
sufficient for economic development at the present state of water stress among 
Pacific Rim nations. Although nations differ dramatically in terms of priority 
provided to improved water and sanitation, there is some level of wealth (per 
capita GNP) at which all nations promote the development of essential 
environmental services. Among the Pacific Rim countries for which there are 
data, no nation with a per capita GNP > US$18,000 per year has failed to provide 
near universal access to improved water supply and sanitation. Below 
US$18,000/person-year, however, there are decided differences in the provision 
of sanitary services (improved water supply and sanitation) among nations with 
similar economic success. There is a fairly strong relationship between child 
mortality/life expectancy and access to improved sanitation, as expected from 
the experiences of developed nations. Here no attempt is made to produce causal 
relationships among these data. Failure to meet Millennium Development Goals for 
the extension of improved sanitation is frequently evident in nations with large 
rural populations. Under those circumstances, capital intensive water and 
sanitation facilities are infeasible, and process selection for water/wastewater 
treatment requires an adaptation to local conditions, the use of appropriate 
materials, etc., constraints that are mostly absent in the developed world. 
Exceptions to these general ideas exist in water-stressed parts of developed 
countries, where water supplies are frequently augmented by water harvesting, 
water reclamation/reuse, and the desalination of brackish water resources. Each 
of these processes involves public acceptance of water resources that are at 
