relation to the entire Polish population.

PMID: 21591366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Contemp Nurse. 2010 Dec-2011 Jan;37(1):21-30. doi:
10.5172/conu.2011.37.1.021.

Closing the Gap: cultural safety in Indigenous health education.

Rigby W(1), Duffy E, Manners J, Latham H, Lyons L, Crawford L, Eldridge R.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Indigenous Health, Charles Sturt University, 
NSW, Australia.

The challenge for the future is to embrace a new partnership aimed at closing 
the gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians on life expectancy, 
educational achievement and employment opportunities. Significant improvements 
in contemporary Indigenous health care can be achieved through culturally safe 
health education programs for Indigenous students. However, while participation 
rates of Australian Indigenous students in the higher education sector are 
increasing, attrition rates are markedly higher than those of the general 
student population. This paper focuses on a unique degree program that is 
offered exclusively to Indigenous students in the field of mental health in the 
School of Nursing, Midwifery and Indigenous Health, Charles Sturt University. 
This qualitative exploratory study aimed to identify strategies that were 
especially helpful in sustaining students in the program and to identify and 
address barriers to the retention of students, to empower students to better 
prepare for the university environment and to inform academics within the course 
about areas that could be improved to provide a more culturally safe learning 
environment. The first stage of the study utilised focus group interviews with 
36 Indigenous students across all three years of the program. The findings of 
the study addressing the issues of culturally appropriate pedagogy, curricula 
and cultural safety in the mental health degree program are discussed.

DOI: 10.5172/conu.2011.37.1.021
PMID: 21591823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. N Engl J Med. 2011 May 26;364(21):1985-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1104675. Epub
2011  May 18.

The $640 billion question--why does cost-effective care diffuse so slowly?

Fuchs VR(1), Milstein A.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp1104675
PMID: 21591938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Mar Pollut Bull. 2012;65(1-3):16-22. doi: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2011.04.034.
Epub  2011 May 17.

On North Pacific circulation and associated marine debris concentration.

Howell EA(1), Bograd SJ, Morishige C, Seki MP, Polovina JJ.

Author information:
(1)NOAA Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center, 2570 Dole Street, Honolulu, HI 
96822, USA. Evan.Howell@noaa.gov

Marine debris in the oceanic realm is an ecological concern, and many forms of 
marine debris negatively affect marine life. Previous observations and modeling 
results suggest that marine debris occurs in greater concentrations within 
specific regions in the North Pacific Ocean, such as the Subtropical Convergence 
Zone and eastern and western "Garbage Patches". Here we review the major 
circulation patterns and oceanographic convergence zones in the North Pacific, 
and discuss logical mechanisms for regional marine debris concentration, 
transport, and retention. We also present examples of meso- and large-scale 
spatial variability in the North Pacific, and discuss their relationship to 
marine debris concentration. These include mesoscale features such as eddy 
fields in the Subtropical Frontal Zone and the Kuroshio Extension Recirculation 
Gyre, and interannual to decadal climate events such as El Niño and the Pacific 
Decadal Oscillation/North Pacific Gyre Oscillation.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2011.04.034
PMID: 21592531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Maturitas. 2011 Jul;69(3):220-9. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.04.005. Epub
2011  May 18.

Economic costs of adult obesity: a review of recent European studies with a 
focus on subgroup-specific costs.

von Lengerke T(1), Krauth C.

Author information:
(1)Hannover Medical School, Centre for Public Health and Healthcare, Medical 
Psychology Unit, OE 5430, Carl-Neuberg-Str. 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. 
lengerke.thomas@mh-hannover.de

This review aims to provide an update on economic costs of obesity in Europe 
with a focus on costs in subgroups defined by relevant third variables such as 
sex, age, socio-economic status, and morbidity factors. A structured search 
using MeSH-vocabulary and Title/Abstract-searches was conducted in PubMed for 
2007 to 2010. All cost categories except intangible costs were considered. N = 
19 primary cost of illness studies on adults from Europe which had included at 
least one cost category as an outcome were identified. Nine studies reported 
costs in specific subgroups. Two studies (both from Germany) took a societal 
perspective, with total (direct and indirect) costs of obesity accounting for 
0.47-0.61% of gross domestic product. Excess per-capita direct costs ranged from 
€ 117 to € 1873, depending on cost categories and comparison group (normal 
weight, non-obese). One study estimated lower lifetime health care costs given 
obesity. Regarding subgroups, higher costs of obesity were generally found in 
men, groups with higher socio-economic status (regarding costs of severe 
obesity), and groups with co-existing abdominal obesity, diabetes (especially 
type 1), elevated HbA1c (among patients with type 2 diabetes), and physical 
co-morbidities given BMI ≥ 27 (compared to a "BMI ≥ 30 only"-group). In 
conclusion, while substantial obesity costs were found in most studies, subgroup 
analyses and lifetime perspectives call for a differentiated approach to the 
costs of obesity. Findings such as the higher health care costs in severely 
obese groups with higher socio-economic status (despite fewer co-morbidities), 
and lower lifetime long-term care costs in obese groups (due to reduced life 
expectancy), may generate hypotheses both on under- vs. overuse of services, and 
target groups for interventions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.04.005
PMID: 21592692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Schizophr Res. 2011 Aug;130(1-3):228-33. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2011.04.011.
Epub  2011 May 18.

The impact of substance use disorders on the course of schizophrenia--a 15-year 
follow-up study: dual diagnosis over 15 years.

Schmidt LM(1), Hesse M, Lykke J.

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Centre Sct. Hans, Roskilde, Denmark. lmscochrane@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: This follow-up study compared patients with schizophrenia with 
co-occurring substance use disorder to patients with schizophrenia and no 
substance use disorder.
AIMS: To investigate the prognostic significance of the effects of substance use 
disorders on the course of schizophrenia.
METHOD: Patients with schizophrenia and co-occurring substance use disorder 
(n=107), and patients with schizophrenia only (n=119) were followed over a 
15-year period through the use of national hospitalization registers, data for 
time and cause of death, and data for homelessness or institutionalization.
RESULTS: The median length of psychiatric hospitalization was 12 days for a 
patient with dual diagnosis, and 21 days for patients with schizophrenia only. 
Patients with dual diagnosis displayed a significantly elevated usage of all 
types of hospital contacts except inpatient treatment for non-psychiatric 
disorders. In three types of hospital contacts, patients with co-occurring 
substance use had approximately two to three times as many hospitalizations as 
did patients with schizophrenia only. Rates for homelessness and 
institutionalization were similar in both groups. Patients with a dual diagnosis 
were also significantly more at risk of dying during follow-up than were 
patients with schizophrenia only.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that the long-term course of schizophrenia is 
considerably more severe in patients who have a dual diagnosis compared to 
patients with schizophrenia only Substance use disorders have a substantial 
impact on the hospitalization rates of patients with schizophrenia, as well as 
on life expectancy. Patients with co-morbid substance abuse are more likely to 
be admitted for treatment during a given year although they have briefer contact 
with treatment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2011.04.011
PMID: 21592731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Arch Cardiol Mex. 2011 Jan-Mar;81(1):13-7.

[Design of a multicenter registry to evaluate rhythm versus rate control in 
atrial fibrillation: Atrial Fibrillation Mexican Registry (ReMeFA)].

[Article in Spanish]

Iturralde-Torres P(1), Lara-Vaca S, Cordero-Cabra A, Nava-Townsend S, Mendoza C, 
Márquez MF, Saucedo-Sánchez N, Martínez-Flores E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Electrocardiología. Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio 
Chávez.

Atrial fibrillation is the most common arrhythmia, predominantly affecting 
individuals older than 70 years of age. There is little information about its 
management in Mexico, for this purpose the Mexican Registry of Atrial 
Fibrillation (ReMeFa) was designed.
METHODS: ReMeFA is a prospective multicentric, observational registry concerning 
the treatment of atrial fibrillation in Mexico. It includes patients 18 years 
and older, from both genders, with documented atrial fibrillation. Patients with 
secondary atrial fibrillation from a reversible cause, previous treatment with 
pulmonary vein ablation (percutaneous or surgical), pacemakers or 
defibrillators, and with a life expectancy of less than one year, physically or 
mentally impaired for completing the protocol were excluded. Clinical and 
demographic data were collected at enrollment and in two scheduled visits at 6 
and 12 months. Information about pharmacologic treatment for rhythm or rate 
control was particularly obtained.
PRELIMINARY RESULTS: Between December 2008 to July 2009, 1201 patients from 79 
centers were enrolled.
CONCLUSION: This registry will provide valuable information about the strategy 
chosen by physicians in Mexico for the treatment of atrial fibrillation.

PMID: 21592885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Br J Psychiatry. 2011 Dec;199(6):453-8. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.110.085100. Epub
 2011 May 18.

Outcomes of Nordic mental health systems: life expectancy of patients with 
mental disorders.

Wahlbeck K(1), Westman J, Nordentoft M, Gissler M, Laursen TM.

Author information:
(1)Nordic School of Public Health, Nordic Research Academy in Mental Health, 
Gothenburg, Sweden, and National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), Vaasa, 
Finland. kristian.wahlbeck@thl.fi

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 2011 Dec;199(6):441-2.

BACKGROUND: People with mental disorders evince excess mortality due to natural 
and unnatural deaths. The relative life expectancy of people with mental 
disorders is a proxy measure of effectiveness of social policy and health 
service provision.
AIMS: To evaluate trends in health outcomes of people with serious mental 
disorders.
METHOD: We examined nationwide 5-year consecutive cohorts of people admitted to 
hospital for mental disorders in Denmark, Finland and Sweden in 1987-2006. In 
each country the risk population was identified from hospital discharge 
registers and mortality data were retrieved from cause-of-death registers. The 
main outcome measure was life expectancy at age 15 years.
RESULTS: People admitted to hospital for a mental disorder had a two- to 
threefold higher mortality than the general population in all three countries 
studied. This gap in life expectancy was more pronounced for men than for women. 
The gap decreased between 1987 and 2006 in these countries, especially for 
women. The notable exception was Swedish men with mental disorders. In spite of 
the positive general trend, men with mental disorders still live 20 years less, 
and women 15 years less, than the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: During the era of deinstitutionalisation the life expectancy gap 
for people with mental disorders has somewhat diminished in the three Nordic 
countries. Our results support further development of the Nordic welfare state 
model, i.e. tax-funded community-based public services and social protection. 
Health promotion actions, improved access to healthcare and prevention of 
suicides and violence are needed to further reduce the life expectancy gap.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.110.085100
PMID: 21593516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Zookeys. 2010 Jun 30;(50):1-16. doi: 10.3897/zookeys.50.538.

Semantic tagging of and semantic enhancements to systematics papers: ZooKeys 
working examples.

Penev L(1), Agosti D, Georgiev T, Catapano T, Miller J, Blagoderov V, Roberts D, 
Smith VS, Brake I, Ryrcroft S, Scott B, Johnson NF, Morris RA, Sautter G, Chavan 
V, Robertson T, Remsen D, Stoev P, Parr C, Knapp S, Kress WJ, Thompson CF, Erwin 
T.

Author information:
(1)Bulgarian Academy of Sciences & Pensoft Publishers, 13a Geo Milev Str., 
Sofia, Bulgaria.

The concept of semantic tagging and its potential for semantic enhancements to 
taxonomic papers is outlined and illustrated by four exemplar papers published 
in the present issue of ZooKeys. The four papers were created in different ways: 
(i) written in Microsoft Word and submitted as non-tagged manuscript (doi: 
10.3897/zookeys.50.504); (ii) generated from Scratchpads and submitted as 
XML-tagged manuscripts (doi: 10.3897/zookeys.50.505 and doi: 
10.3897/zookeys.50.506); (iii) generated from an author's database (doi: 
10.3897/zookeys.50.485) and submitted as XML-tagged manuscript. XML tagging and 
semantic enhancements were implemented during the editorial process of ZooKeys 
using the Pensoft Mark Up Tool (PMT), specially designed for this purpose. The 
XML schema used was TaxPub, an extension to the Document Type Definitions (DTD) 
of the US National Library of Medicine Journal Archiving and Interchange Tag 
Suite (NLM). The following innovative methods of tagging, layout, publishing and 
disseminating the content were tested and implemented within the ZooKeys 
editorial workflow: (1) highly automated, fine-grained XML tagging based on 
TaxPub; (2) final XML output of the paper validated against the NLM DTD for 
archiving in PubMedCentral; (3) bibliographic metadata embedded in the PDF 
through XMP (Extensible Metadata Platform); (4) PDF uploaded after publication 
to the Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL); (5) taxon treatments supplied 
through XML to Plazi; (6) semantically enhanced HTML version of the paper 
encompassing numerous internal and external links and linkouts, such as: (i) 
vizualisation of main tag elements within the text (e.g., taxon names, taxon 
treatments, localities, etc.); (ii) internal cross-linking between paper 
sections, citations, references, tables, and figures; (iii) mapping of 
localities listed in the whole paper or within separate taxon treatments; (v) 
taxon names autotagged, dynamically mapped and linked through the Pensoft Taxon 
Profile (PTP) to large international database services and indexers such as 
Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF), National Center for 
Biotechnology Information (NCBI), Barcode of Life (BOLD), Encyclopedia of Life 
(EOL), ZooBank, Wikipedia, Wikispecies, Wikimedia, and others; (vi) GenBank 
accession numbers autotagged and linked to NCBI; (vii) external links of taxon 
names to references in PubMed, Google Scholar, Biodiversity Heritage Library and 
other sources. With the launching of the working example, ZooKeys becomes the 
first taxonomic journal to provide a complete XML-based editorial, publication 
and dissemination workflow implemented as a routine and cost-efficient practice. 
It is anticipated that XML-based workflow will also soon be implemented in 
botany through PhytoKeys, a forthcoming partner journal of ZooKeys. The semantic 
markup and enhancements are expected to greatly extend and accelerate the way 
taxonomic information is published, disseminated and used.

DOI: 10.3897/zookeys.50.538
PMCID: PMC3088020
PMID: 21594113


676. Biometals. 2011 Dec;24(6):1045-57. doi: 10.1007/s10534-011-9463-0. Epub 2011
May  19.

Acute and chronic metal exposure impairs locomotion activity in Drosophila 
melanogaster: a model to study Parkinsonism.

Bonilla-Ramirez L(1), Jimenez-Del-Rio M, Velez-Pardo C.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Medical Research Institute, Neuroscience Research Group, 
University of Antioquia (UdeA), Calle 62 # 52-59, SIU, Medellin, Colombia.

The biometals iron (Fe), manganese (Mn) and copper (Cu) have been associated to 
Parkinson's disease (PD) and Parkinsonism. In this work, we report for the first 
time that acute (15 mM for up to 5 days) or chronic (0.5 mM for up to 15 days) 
Fe, Mn and Cu exposure significantly reduced life span and locomotor activity 
(i.e. climbing capabilities) in Drosophila melanogaster. It is shown that the 
concentration of those biometals dramatically increase in Drosophila's brain 
acutely or chronically fed with metal. We demonstrate that the metal 
accumulation in the fly's head is associated with the neurodegeneration of 
several dopaminergic neuronal clusters. Interestingly, it is found that the 
PPL2ab DAergic neuronal cluster was erode by the three metals in acute and 
chronic metal exposure and the PPL3 DAergic cluster was also erode by the three 
metals but in acute metal exposure only. Furthermore, we found that the chelator 
desferoxamine, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and D: -penicillamine were able 
to protect but not rescue D. melanogaster against metal intoxication. Taken 
together these data suggest that iron, manganese and copper are capable to 
destroy DAergic neurons in the fly's brain, thereby impairing their movement 
capabilities. This work provides for the first time metal-induced Parkinson-like 
symptoms in D. melanogaster. Understanding therefore the effects of biometals in 
the Drosophila model may provide insights into the toxic effect of metal ions 
and more effective therapeutic approaches to Parkinsonism.

DOI: 10.1007/s10534-011-9463-0
PMID: 21594680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. MMW Fortschr Med. 2010 Oct 14;152 Suppl 3:83-8.

[(No) chance of slowing down the biological clock? In the focus: heart and 
ageing].

[Article in German]

Blume H(1).

Author information:
(1)SocraTec CSC GmbH, Oberursel. henning.blume@socratec-pharma.de

PMID: 21595151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Nihon Rinsho. 2011 May;69(5):953-63.

[Dementia and lifestyle-related diseases in Japanese aging society].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwamoto T(1).

Author information:
(1)Toshihiko Iwamoto: Department of Geriatric Medicine, Tokyo Medical 
University.

Recently, the number of elderly patients with dementia has been increasing in 
Japan because of both the extension of average life expectancy and a 
considerable rise in the incidence of dementia with age. For these reasons, 
dementia in Japan has become common, and more than half of all cases are 
Alzheimer disease. This disease has typically been considered to be a 
degenerative disorder due to genetic abnormalities, but recent epidemiological 
studies have indicated that lifestyle-related diseases such as hypertension, 
diabetes, dyslipidemia, and obesity in midlife could accelerate the dementing 
process, via either vascular changes in cerebral infarction or Alzheimer-related 
pathological changes with plaque and tangle formations which result in dementia 
in later life. Furthermore, several studies have suggested that a high intake of 
vegetables and fish, an active daily life, and lifelong education might 
positively influence cognitive function as neuroprotective factors. Therefore, 
we should try to prevent dementia based on the clinical and hygienic management 
of the lifestyles and lifestyle-related diseases, even in the youth.

PMID: 21595287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Econ Perspect. 2011 Spring;25(2):27-46. doi: 10.1257/jep.25.2.27.

The pragmatist's guide to comparative effectiveness research.

Chandra A(1), Jena AB, Skinner JS.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, and the National 
Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. 
amitabh_chandra@harvard.edu

Following an acrimonious health care reform debate involving charges of "death 
panels," in 2010, Congress explicitly forbade the use of cost-effectiveness 
analysis in government programs of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act. In this context, comparative effectiveness research emerged as an 
alternative strategy to understand better what works in health care. Put simply, 
comparative effectiveness research compares the efficacy of two or more 
diagnostic tests, treatments, or health care delivery methods without any 
explicit consideration of costs. To economists, the omission of costs from an 
assessment might seem nonsensical, but we argue that comparative effectiveness 
research still holds promise. First, it sidesteps one problem facing 
cost-effectiveness analysis--the widespread political resistance to the idea of 
using prices in health care. Second, there is little or no evidence on 
comparative effectiveness for a vast array of treatments: for example, we don't 
know whether proton-beam therapy, a very expensive treatment for prostate cancer 
(which requires building a cyclotron and a facility the size of a football 
field) offers any advantage over conventional approaches. Most drug studies 
compare new drugs to placebos, rather than "head-to-head" with other drugs on 
the market, leaving a vacuum as to which drug works best. Finally, the 
comparative effectiveness research can prove a useful first step even in the 
absence of cost information if it provides key estimates of treatment effects. 
After all, such effects are typically expensive to determine and require years 
or even decades of data. Costs are much easier to measure, and can be appended 
at a later date as financial Armageddon draws closer.

DOI: 10.1257/jep.25.2.27
PMCID: PMC3109977
PMID: 21595324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Clin Ethics. 2011 Spring;22(1):42-53.

Attending to social vulnerability when rationing pandemic resources.

Vawter DE(1), Garrett JE, Gervais KG, Prehn AW, DeBruin DA.

Author information:
(1)Minnesota Center for Health Care Ethics, St. Paul, Minnesota, USA. 
vawter@mnhealthethics.org

Pandemic plans are increasingly attending to groups experiencing health 
disparities and other social vulnerabilities. Although some pandemic guidance is 
silent on the issue, guidance that attends to socially vulnerable groups ranges 
widely, some procedural (often calling for public engagement), and some 
substantive. Public engagement objectives vary from merely educational to 
seeking reflective input into the ethical commitments that should guide pandemic 
planning and response. Some plans that concern rationing during a severe 
pandemic recommend ways to protect socially vulnerable groups without 
prioritizing access to scarce resources based on social vulnerability per se. 
The Minnesota Pandemic Ethics Project (MPEP), a public engagement project on 
rationing scarce health resources during a severe influenza pandemic, agrees and 
recommends an integrated set of ways to attend to the needs of socially 
vulnerable people and avoid exacerbation of health disparities during a severe 
influenza pandemic. Among other things, MPEP recommends: 1. Engaging socially 
vulnerable populations to clarify unique needs and effective strategies; 2. 
Engaging socially vulnerable populations to elicit ethical values and 
perspectives on rationing; 3. Rejecting rationing based on race, socioeconomic 
class, citizenship, quality of life, length of life-extension and first-come, 
first-served; 4. Prioritizing those in the general population for access to 
resources based on combinations of risk (of death or severe complications from 
influenza, exposure to influenza, transmitting influenza to vulnerable groups) 
and the likelihood of responding well to the resource in question. 5. Protecting 
critical infrastructures on which vulnerable populations and the general public 
rely; 6. Identifying and removing access barriers during pandemic planning and 
response; and 7. Collecting and promptly analyzing data during the pandemic to 
identify groups at disproportionate risk of influenza-related mortality and 
serious morbidity and to optimize the distribution of resources.

PMID: 21595354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. World J Surg Oncol. 2011 May 19;9:53. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-9-53.

Extracranial propagation of glioblastoma with extension to pterygomaxillar 
fossa.

Tomac D(1), Chudy D, Lambaša S, Topić I, Grahovac G, Zoric A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Clinical Hospital Dubrava, Zagreb, Croatia.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma multiforme is a highly malignant primary brain tumor 
that shows marked local aggressiveness, but extracranial spread is not a common 
occurrence. We present an unusual case of recurrent glioblastoma in 54-year old 
male that spread through the scull base to the ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses, to 
the orbita, pterygomaxillar fossa, and to the neck.
METHODS: A 54-year old male underwent left temporal resection because of brain 
tumor of his left temporal lobe. Operation was followed by external beam 
radiation combined with temozolomide. The tumor recurred eight months after 
first surgery. The patient developed swelling of left temporal region, difficult 
swallowing and headache. MRI of head showed recurrent tumor, which invaded 
orbita, ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses, nasal cavity, pterygomaxillar fossa.
RESULTS: The patient died ten months after initial diagnosis of glioblastoma 
multiforme, and two months after his second operation.
CONCLUSIONS: The aggressive surgical operation helped to downsize the tumor mass 
as much as possible, but did not prolonged significantly the life or improved 
the life quality of the patient. The current literature is reviewed, and the 
diagnostic approaches as well as therapeutic options are discussed.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-9-53
PMCID: PMC3117736
PMID: 21595882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. BMC Public Health. 2011 May 19;11:345. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-345.

Childhood meat eating and inflammatory markers: the Guangzhou Biobank Cohort 
Study.

Schooling CM(1), Jiang CQ, Lam TH, Zhang WS, Cheng KK, Leung GM.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China. hrmrlth@hkucc.hku.hk.

BACKGROUND: We hypothesized that socio-economic development could, via 
nutritionally driven levels of pubertal sex-steroids, promote a pro-inflammatory 
state among men but not women in developing countries. We tested this 
hypothesis, using recalled childhood meat eating as a proxy for childhood 
nutrition, in southern China.
METHODS: We used multivariable linear regression in the Guangzhou Biobank Cohort 
Study phase 3 (2006-8) to examine the adjusted associations of recalled 
childhood meat eating, <1/week (n = 5,023), about once per week (n = 3,592) and 
almost daily (n = 1,252), with white blood cell count and its differentials 
among older (≥ 50 years) men (n = 2,498) and women (n = 7,369).
RESULTS: Adjusted for age, childhood socio-economic position, education and 
smoking, childhood meat eating had sex-specific associations with white blood 
cell count and lymphocyte count, but not granulocyte count. Men with childhood 
meat eating almost daily compared to <1/week had higher white blood cell count 
(0.33 109/L, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.10 to 0.56) and higher lymphocyte 
count (0.16 109/L, 95% CI 0.07 to 0.25). Adjustment for obesity slightly 
attenuated these associations.
CONCLUSION: If confirmed, this hypothesis implies that economic development and 
the associated improvements in nutrition at puberty may be less beneficial among 
men than women; consistent with the widening sex differentials in life 
expectancy with economic development.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-345
PMCID: PMC3121633
PMID: 21595911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2011 May-Jun;61(3):367-75. doi: 
10.1016/S0034-7094(11)70044-7.

[Anesthesia and rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Multiple languages]

Vieira EM(1), Goodman S, Tanaka PP.

Author information:
(1)Anesthesiology of Faculdade de Medicina de São José do Rio Preto. 
eneidamv@terra.com.br

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory 
disease of unknown etiology. It is known that RA patients have a reduced life 
expectancy when compared with the general population. Rheumatic diseases are 
numerous and occur with high variability; some of them develop very rapidly 
while others occur chronically provoking disability throughout life. Anesthetic 
risks in osteoarticular disorders involve not only the mechanical deformations 
caused by the disease, but also the cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, and 
digestive systems.
CONTENTS: The purpose of this review was to stress the importance of stages in 
disease process that may affect anesthesia control before, during, and after 
surgery, highlighting the authors' experience in a retrospective review of 
patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) undergoing placement of 
orthopedic prosthesis with emphasis on intubation techniques.
CONCLUSIONS: Rheumatoid arthritis patients can present a number of complex 
problems for the anesthesiologist. This requires careful preoperative 
evaluation; anesthesia requires experience with the technique; and postoperative 
care should be judiciously chosen to meet the specific needs of the patient. The 
procedure requires effective communication among surgeon, rheumatologist and 
anesthesiologist so each member of the multidisciplinary team can contribute 
with his/her expertise in order to better benefit the patient.

2011 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0034-7094(11)70044-7
PMID: 21596198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Eur Ann Otorhinolaryngol Head Neck Dis. 2011 Sep;128(4):165-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.anorl.2010.12.009. Epub 2011 May 18.

Should older head and neck patients be treated differently?

Dequanter D(1), Shahla M, Paulus P, Boutremans E, Lothaire P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Maxillofacial, CHU Charleroi, 706, rue de Gozée, 6110 
Montigny-le-Tilleul, Belgium. didier.dequanter@chu-charleroi.be

OBJECTIVES: Growing life expectancy is resulting in an increasing number of 
elderly patients with upper aero digestive tract tumor. The objective of this 
study was to assess the appropriateness of aggressive curative treatment for 
these older patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients over the age of 70 years, with head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) of the oral cavity, pharynx or larynx, primarily 
treated in our department between 2005 and 2007, were assessed retrospectively 
at 36 months' follow-up. Demographics, comorbidity and treatment strategies and 
their associated morbidity and mortality were reviewed.
RESULTS: Thirty-two males and 12 females with a median age of 77 years (range, 
70-88 yrs) were given curative treatment. The majority presented with a least 
one comorbidity. Seven had a history of myocardial ischemia, 15 of chronic 
obstructive bronchopathy, and 10 of type-2 diabetes; 17 were under treatment for 
arterial hypertension, four had chronic renal insufficiency, and two had 
cirrhosis. Nine patients received radiation therapy alone; 18, concomitant 
chemoradiotherapy; 14, surgery with adjuvant chemoradiotherapy; three were 
treated by salvage surgery after failure of radiation therapy. In the 44 
patients, there were 12 deaths: seven from recurrence, two from treatment 
complications, one from MI, one from peritonitis and one from pneumonia. At 36 
months' follow-up, 32 of the 44 patients were alive.
CONCLUSION: HNSCC is a serious disease that often necessitates aggressive 
treatment. All patients who are medically eligible should receive curative 
treatment, without age being an exclusion criterion. Taking comorbidity into 
account, on the other hand, enables treatment options to be optimized.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anorl.2010.12.009
PMID: 21596646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Brain. 2011 May;134(Pt 5):1293-314. doi: 10.1093/brain/awr074.

Endogenous regulatory T lymphocytes ameliorate amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in 
mice and correlate with disease progression in patients with amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis.

Beers DR(1), Henkel JS, Zhao W, Wang J, Huang A, Wen S, Liao B, Appel SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Methodist Neurological Institute, Suite ST-802, 6560 
Fannin Street, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a relentless and devastating adult-onset 
neurodegenerative disease with no known cure. In mice with amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, CD4+ T lymphocytes and wild-type microglia potentiate protective 
inflammatory responses and play a principal role in disease pathoprogression. 
Using this model, we demonstrate that endogenous T lymphocytes, and more 
specifically regulatory T lymphocytes, are increased at early slowly progressing 
stages, augmenting interleukin-4 expression and protective M2 microglia, and are 
decreased when the disease rapidly accelerates, possibly through the loss of 
FoxP3 expression in the regulatory T lymphocytes. Without ex vivo activation, 
the passive transfer of wild-type CD4+ T lymphocytes into amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis mice lacking functional T lymphocytes lengthened disease duration and 
prolonged survival. The passive transfer of endogenous regulatory T lymphocytes 
from early disease stage mutant Cu2+/Zn2+ superoxide dismutase mice into these 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mice, again without ex vivo activation, were 
substantially more immunotherapeutic sustaining interleukin-4 levels and M2 
microglia, and resulting in lengthened disease duration and prolonged survival; 
the stable disease phase was extended by 88% using mutant Cu2+/Zn2+ superoxide 
dismutase regulatory T lymphocytes. A potential mechanism for this enhanced life 
expectancy may be mediated by the augmented secretion of interleukin-4 from 
mutant Cu2+/Zn2+ superoxide dismutase regulatory T lymphocytes that directly 
suppressed the toxic properties of microglia; flow cytometric analyses 
determined that CD4+/CD25+/FoxP3+ T lymphocytes co-expressed interleukin-4 in 
the same cell. These observations were extended into the amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis patient population where patients with more rapidly progressing 
disease had decreased numbers of regulatory T lymphocytes; the numbers of 
regulatory T lymphocytes were inversely correlated with disease progression 
rates. These data suggest a cellular mechanism whereby endogenous regulatory T 
lymphocytes are immunocompetent and actively contribute to neuroprotection 
through their interactions with microglia. Furthermore, these data suggest that 
immunotherapeutic interventions must begin early in the pathogenic process since 
immune dysfunction occurs at later stages. Thus, the cumulative mouse and human 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis data suggest that increasing the levels of 
regulatory T lymphocytes in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis at early 
stages in the disease process may be of therapeutic value, and slow the rate of 
disease progression and stabilize patients for longer periods of time.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awr074
PMCID: PMC3097891
PMID: 21596768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. J Phys Act Health. 2011 May;8(4):503-15. doi: 10.1123/jpah.8.4.503.

Assessing cost-effectiveness in obesity: active transport program for primary 
school children--TravelSMART Schools Curriculum program.

Moodie M(1), Haby MM, Swinburn B, Carter R.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Population Health Strategic Research Centre, Deakin 
University, Burwood, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: To assess from a societal perspective the cost-effectiveness of a 
school program to increase active transport in 10- to 11-year-old Australian 
children as an obesity prevention measure.
METHODS: The TravelSMART Schools Curriculum program was modeled nationally for 
2001 in terms of its impact on Body Mass Index (BMI) and Disability-Adjusted 
Life Years (DALYs) measured against current practice. Cost offsets and DALY 
benefits were modeled until the eligible cohort reached age 100 or died. The 
intervention was qualitatively assessed against second stage filter criteria 
('equity,' 'strength of evidence,' 'acceptability to stakeholders,' 'feasibility 
of implementation,' 'sustainability,' and 'side-effects') given their potential 
impact on funding decisions.
RESULTS: The modeled intervention reached 267,700 children and cost $AUD13.3M 
(95% uncertainty interval [UI] $6.9M; $22.8M) per year. It resulted in an 
incremental saving of 890 (95%UI -540; 2,900) BMI units, which translated to 95 
(95% UI -40; 230) DALYs and a net cost per DALY saved of $AUD117,000 (95% UI 
dominated; $1.06M).
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention was not cost-effective as an obesity prevention 
measure under base-run modeling assumptions. The attribution of some costs to 
nonobesity objectives would be justified given the program's multiple benefits. 
Cost-effectiveness would be further improved by considering the wider school 
community impacts.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.8.4.503
PMID: 21597123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Gerontology. 2012;58(1):56-9. doi: 10.1159/000327656. Epub 2011 May 19.

Health care professionals underestimate the mean life expectancy of older 
people.

Wirth R(1), Sieber CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, St. Marien-Hospital Borken, 
Borken, Germany. rainer.wirth@hospital-borken.de

BACKGROUND: The estimated life expectancy of older persons is an important 
component of medical decision-making. To date, no data are available on the 
accuracy of health care professionals in estimating the remaining life 
expectancy of older subjects.
METHODS: A survey estimating the mean remaining life expectancy of Germans of 
both sexes at the ages of 0, 70, 80 and 90 years was performed from September to 
November 2010.
RESULTS: Two hundred and six health care professionals underestimated the mean 
remaining life expectancy of older persons by 10%, on average, and with great 
variance (SD = 34%). Medical doctors, especially those not specialized in 
geriatrics, estimated worst.
CONCLUSIONS: Underestimation of the remaining life expectancy of older people is 
prevalent in health care professionals and may lead to patients being managed 
inappropriately. This underscores the need for further studies and better 
training on this issue in health care education.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000327656
PMID: 21597278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Horm Res Paediatr. 2011;76(2):73-85. doi: 10.1159/000327794. Epub 2011 May
18.

Health problems in congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase 
deficiency.

Reisch N(1), Arlt W, Krone N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, School of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

Following the introduction of life-saving glucocorticoid replacement 60 years 
ago, congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) has evolved from being perceived as a 
paediatric disorder to being recognized as a lifelong, chronic condition 
affecting patients of all age groups. Increasing evidence suggests that patients 
with CAH have an increased risk to develop health problems during adult life, 
with signs and symptoms of forerunner conditions of adult disease already 
emerging during the time of paediatric care. Transition of paediatric CAH 
patients to medical care in the adult setting is an important step to ensure 
optimal lifelong treatment, aiming to achieve good health and normal life 
expectancy and quality of life. Thus, primary and secondary prevention of health 
problems has to become a task of increasing importance for those involved in the 
care of CAH patients throughout their life.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000327794
PMID: 21597280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Eur J Phys Rehabil Med. 2011 Jun;47(2):253-5.

Rehabilitation after hip fracture in older people.

Di Monaco M.

PMID: 21597434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2011 May 20;60(19):619-23.

Ten great public health achievements--United States, 2001-2010.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Collaborators: Koppaka R.

During the 20th century, life expectancy at birth among U.S. residents increased 
by 62%, from 47.3 years in 1900 to 76.8 in 2000, and unprecedented improvements 
in population health status were observed at every stage of life. In 1999, MMWR 
published a series of reports highlighting 10 public health achievements that 
contributed to those improvements. This report assesses advances in public 
health during the first 10 years of the 21st century. Public health scientists 
at CDC were asked to nominate noteworthy public health achievements that 
occurred in the United States during 2001-2010. From those nominations, 10 
achievements, not ranked in any order, have been summarized in this report.

PMID: 21597455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Aust Fam Physician. 2011 Apr;40(4):202-8.

Australians with Down syndrome--health matters.

Tracy J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Developmental Disability Health Victoria, Faculty of Medicine, 
Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Victoria. jane.tracy@monash.edu

Comment in
    Aust Fam Physician. 2011 Jun;40(6):363.

BACKGROUND: The health and life expectancy of Australians with Down syndrome has 
improved dramatically over recent decades, resulting in more people living into 
adulthood and accessing community and hospital based health and social services.
OBJECTIVE: This article presents information and resources helpful to general 
practitioners providing healthcare to patients who have Down syndrome. 
Healthcare issues through the lifespan are explored, the importance of proactive 
management is emphasised and strategies are outlined.
DISCUSSION: Australians with Down syndrome are an interesting and rewarding 
group of people with whom to work. They present us with particular challenges in 
the way we provide healthcare and, in doing so, offer us an opportunity to 
improve the way we work with other patients who have cognitive and communication 
difficulties; chronic, complex health and social needs; family or paid carers 
involved in health management and those who require health advocacy as a part of 
healthcare provision.

PMID: 21597529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Oncol Rep. 1995 May;2(3):391-5. doi: 10.3892/or.2.3.391.

Palliative radiotherapy for brain metastases.

Tombolini V, Zurlo A, Montagna A, Osti M, Banelli E, Enrici R.

Several studies have confirmed that results of different hypofractionated 
radiotherapy schedules for palliative purpose are similar to those of 
conventional higher doses. From 1992 to 1993, 56 consecutive patients with brain 
metastases were irradiated at our Institution. Three different schedules were 
used ranging between 18 and 40 Gy. Overall survival, clinical and radiological 
responses were evaluated with regard to schedules and prognostic characteristics 
of patient population. There were no significant differences between the 
treatments, even though patients with shorter estimated life expectancy were 
more likely to be irradiated with more hypofractionated radiotherapy. Short, 
cost effective treatments appear to be the best therapeutic option both for 
institution and patients in most palliative cases.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2.3.391
PMID: 21597747


693. Oncol Rep. 1995 Nov;2(6):1063-8. doi: 10.3892/or.2.6.1063.

Efficacy and tolerability of cancer neuroimmunotherapy with subcutaneous 
low-dose interleukin-2 and the pineal hormone melatonin - a progress report of 
200 patients with advanced solid neoplasms.

Lissoni P(1), Ardizzoia A, Barni S, Brivio F, Tisi E, Rovelli F, Tancini G, 
Maestroni G, Fumagalli L.

Author information:
(1)OSPED SAN GERARDO,DIV SURG,I-20052 MONZA,ITALY. OSPED SAN GERARDO,DIV THORAC 
SURG,I-20052 MONZA,ITALY. INST PATHOL,LOCARNO,SWITZERLAND. KHIRON,MILAN,ITALY.

The recent advances in psychoneuroimmunology have demonstrated the existence of 
a psychoneuroendocrine control of the antitumor immunity. Our previous 
preliminary studies indicated the possibility of amplifying the biological and 
therapeutic efficacy of IL-2 cancer immunotherapy by immunomodulating 
neurohormones, mainly the pineal indole melatonin (MLT), in most advanced solid 
tumors, including those which generally do not respond to IL-2 alone. This study 
reports on the results obtained by low-dose IL-2 plus MLT in 200 patients with 
advanced solid neoplasms, for whom no other effective standard therapy was 
available. Non-small cell lung cancer, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, 
hepatocarcinoma, colon cancer and gastric cancer were the neoplasms most 
frequently detected in our patients. In addition, all patients had a life 
expectancy less than 6 months. IL-2 was given subcutaneously at 3 million IU/day 
for 6 days/week for 4 weeks; MLT was given orally at 40 mg/day. In 
non-progressing patients, a second cycle was given after a 21-day rest period; 
then, patients underwent a maintenance period consisting of one week of therapy 
every month until progression. A complete response (CR) was achieved in 4 
patients (hepatocarcinoma 2; pancreas 1; gastric cancer 1), a partial reasponse 
(PR) was achieved in 36 patients (lung 12; liver 6; stomach 4; pancreas 3; colon 
3; breast 2; miscellaneous 6). Tumor response rate (CR+PR) was 40/200 (20%) 
patients. Longer than one year survival was achieved in 79 (39%) patients. 
Toxicity was mild in all patients, and therapy was administered as a home 
therapy. The present study confirms in a great number of patients the 
possibility to induce objective tumor regressions in most advanced solid tumor 
histotypes by low-dose IL-2 plus MLT. Thus, immunotherapy with IL-2 and MLT may 
be considered as a new well tolerated and effective therapy of almost all 
advanced solid tumors, including those which do not respond to IL-2 alone or to 
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2.6.1063
PMID: 21597854


694. Lancet Oncol. 2011 Apr;12(4):326-7. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(11)70066-3.

NICE guidance on azacitidine for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes, 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia, and acute myeloid leukaemia.

Miller W, Holden J, George E, Stein K.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(11)70066-3
PMID: 21598446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. J Econ Perspect. 2011 Winter;25(1):139-58. doi: 10.1257/jep.25.1.139.

Who pays for obesity?

Bhattacharya J(1), Sood N.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.

Adult obesity is a growing problem. From 1962 to 2006, obesity prevalence nearly 
tripled to 35.1 percent of adults. The rising prevalence of obesity is not 
limited to a particular socioeconomic group and is not unique to the United 
States. Should this widespread obesity epidemic be a cause for alarm? From a 
personal health perspective, the answer is an emphatic "yes." But when it comes 
to justifications of public policy for reducing obesity, the analysis becomes 
more complex. A common starting point is the assertion that those who are obese 
impose higher health costs on the rest of the population—a statement which is 
then taken to justify public policy interventions. But the question of who pays 
for obesity is an empirical one, and it involves analysis of how obese people 
fare in labor markets and health insurance markets. We will argue that the 
existing literature on these topics suggests that obese people on average do 
bear the costs and benefits of their eating and exercise habits. We begin by 
estimating the lifetime costs of obesity. We then discuss the extent to which 
private health insurance pools together obese and thin, whether health insurance 
causes obesity, and whether being fat might actually cause positive 
externalities for those who are not obese. If public policy to reduce obesity is 
not justified on the grounds of external costs imposed on others, then the 
remaining potential justification would need to be on the basis of helping 
people to address problems of ignorance or self-control that lead to obesity. In 
the conclusion, we offer a few thoughts about some complexities of such a 
justification.

DOI: 10.1257/jep.25.1.139
PMCID: PMC6415902
PMID: 21598459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Kennedy Inst Ethics J. 2011 Mar;21(1):1-23. doi: 10.1353/ken.2011.0000.

Impartiality and disability discrimination.

Bognar G(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty Fellow of Bioethics, New York University, USA.

Cost-effectiveness analysis is the standard analytical tool for evaluating the 
aggregate health benefits of treatments and health programs. According to a 
common objection, however, its use may lead to unfair discrimination against 
people with disabilities. Since the disability discrimination objection is 
seldom articulated in a precise way, I first provide a formulation that avoids 
some implausible implications. Then I turn to the standard defense of 
cost-effectiveness analysis and argue that it does not succeed. But this does 
not settle the question of whether the use of cost-effectiveness analysis leads 
to unfair discrimination. Rather, it shows that the controversy should be 
approached in a different way. Thus, I conclude by outlining an alternative 
strategy for answering the question.

DOI: 10.1353/ken.2011.0000
PMID: 21598844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Aug;29(8):673-85. doi:
10.2165/11588250-000000000-00000.

Using QALYs in cancer: a review of the methodological limitations.

Garau M(1), Shah KK, Mason AR, Wang Q, Towse A, Drummond MF.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK.

The objective of this paper is to examine how well the QALY captures the health 
gains generated by cancer treatments, with particular focus on the methods for 
constructing QALYs preferred by the UK National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE). Data were obtained using a keyword search of the 
