

879. Eur Urol. 2011 Sep;60(3):501-15. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.05.044. Epub
2011  Jun 1.

Contemporary management of small renal masses.

Volpe A(1), Cadeddu JA, Cestari A, Gill IS, Jewett MA, Joniau S, Kirkali Z, 
Marberger M, Patard JJ, Staehler M, Uzzo RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Eastern Piedmont, Maggiore della Carità 
Hospital, Novara, Italy. alessandro.volpe@med.unipmn.it

CONTEXT: An increasing number of small renal masses (SRMs) with heterogeneous 
histology and clinical behaviour are being detected with modern radiologic 
imaging. Although surgical removal is the standard of care for small renal 
tumours, alternative minimally invasive and conservative treatment options are 
possible in selected patients with shorter life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically review indications, techniques, and outcomes of 
surgical and conservative treatments of SRMs.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A literature search of English-language publications was 
performed using the Medline database from January 2000 to February 2011 using 
the terms renal mass and renal carcinoma in conjunction with the evaluated 
management options. The articles that provided the highest level of evidence 
were selected with the consensus of all the authors and reviewed.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Only one randomised controlled trial comparing the results 
of elective nephron-sparing surgery and radical nephrectomy for low-stage renal 
tumours is available. Few comparative studies of different treatment options for 
SRMs have been published. The assessment of oncologic outcomes is therefore 
based mainly on observational studies. Most series of nonsurgical therapies have 
strong selection biases and relatively short follow-up. Treatment selection is 
based on the clinical and histologic characteristics of SRMs, on patient age and 
comorbidities, and on personal preferences and experience of the urologist.
CONCLUSIONS: Partial nephrectomy (PN) is the standard treatment for solitary 
SRMs whenever it is technically feasible. Laparoscopic PN is an alternative to 
open PN in experienced hands. The rationale of ablative treatments is to treat 
incidental cortical SRMs in patients at high surgical risk with potentially 
reduced morbidity. Active surveillance is considered an appropriate strategy for 
the elderly or for patients with significant comorbidity who have a shorter life 
expectancy. Percutaneous biopsies are increasingly being used to establish 
histology of SRMs and support treatment decisions, especially for patients who 
are candidates for nonsurgical treatment.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.05.044
PMID: 21664040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Gac Sanit. 2011 Jul-Aug;25(4):274-81. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.03.005.

[Economic evaluation of rituximab added to fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide 
versus fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide for the treatment of chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia].

[Article in Spanish]

Casado LF(1), García Marco JA, Gilsanz F, González M, Ríos E, de la Serna J, 
Urbano A, Vicente V, Rubio-Terrés C, Castro AJ.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Virgen de la Salud, Toledo, España.

Erratum in
    Gac Sanit. 2011 Sep-Oct;25(5):444.

OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of rituximab added to the 
chemotherapy regimen of fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (R-FC) versus 
fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC) for the treatment of patients with 
previously untreated or relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
METHODS: Two Markov models were built, using published results on 
progression-free survival (PFS) in patients receiving first- or second-line 
therapy with R-FC vs FC, rates of disease progression and mortality rates in 
Spain. Patient-elicited utilities were applied to PFS and progressed health 
states. The cost of drugs, supportive care, and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) were estimated over a 10-year period. Univariate and probabilistic (Monte 
Carlo) sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The addition of rituximab to chemotherapy in first- and second-line 
therapy increased life-years gained (LYG) and QALYs compared with chemotherapy. 
The incremental cost per LYG and QALY gained was €20,703 and €19,343 for 
first-line treatment and was €23,183 and €24,781 for second-line treatment.
CONCLUSION: In patients with previously untreated or relapsed/refractory CLL, 
the addition of rituximab to the FC regimen increased life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy. In both types of patient, the treatment was 
cost-effective.

Copyright © 2010 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.03.005
PMID: 21664727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Bodyw Mov Ther. 2011 Jul;15(3):281-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2010.07.008.
Epub  2010 Sep 15.

The effects of the Bowen technique on hamstring flexibility over time: a 
randomised controlled trial.

Marr M(1), Baker J, Lambon N, Perry J.

Author information:
(1)School of Physiotherapy and Dietetics, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, 
Coventry University, Priory Street, Coventry CV1 5FB, UK. info@therapyfusion.com

The hamstring muscles are regularly implicated in recurrent injuries, movement 
dysfunction and low back pain. Links between limited flexibility and development 
of neuromusculoskeletal symptoms are frequently reported. The Bowen Technique is 
used to treat many conditions including lack of flexibility. The study set out 
to investigate the effect of the Bowen Technique on hamstring flexibility over 
time. An assessor-blind, prospective, randomised controlled trial was performed 
on 120 asymptomatic volunteers. Participants were randomly allocated into a 
control group or Bowen group. Three flexibility measurements occurred over one 
week, using an active knee extension test. The intervention group received a 
single Bowen treatment. A repeated measures univariate analysis of variance, 
across both groups for the three time periods, revealed significant 
within-subject and between-subject differences for the Bowen group. Continuing 
increases in flexibility levels were observed over one week. No significant 
change over time was noted for the control group.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2010.07.008
PMID: 21665103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. J Bodyw Mov Ther. 2011 Jul;15(3):363-74. doi: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2010.02.004.
Epub  2011 May 31.

The effect of cetylated fatty esters and physical therapy on myofascial pain 
syndrome of the neck.

Sharan D(1), Jacob BN, Ajeesh PS, Bookout JB, Barathur RR.

Author information:
(1)RECOUP Neuromusculoskeletal Rehabilitation Centre, 312, 80 Feet Road, Further 
Extension of Anjanapura Layout, 10th Block, Bangalore 560062, Karnataka, India. 
deepak.sharan@recoup.in

Participants with Myofascial Pain Syndrome (MPS) of the neck were randomly 
assigned into 2 groups of the double-blinded study: topical cetylated fatty 
ester complex (CFEC) cream application plus physical therapy (CF-PT; n=37), and 
placebo cream application plus physical therapy (PL-PT; n=35). There were 3 
visits during 4 weeks of treatment. Physical Therapy (PT), given twice/week, 
included Ischaemic Compression, Deep Pressure Trigger Point Massage and 
Myofascial Releases. Topical cream [CFEC cream (5.6%) and 1.5% menthol] or 
placebo cream [1.5% menthol, in a cream base] was applied twice/day. CF-PT 
provided the fastest and most effective study treatment modality. The addition 
of CFEC cream to PT resulted in statistically significant improvements, compared 
to PL-PT, for reduction of pain, neck disability and life quality indicators. 
Our results indicate that cetylated derivatives of fatty acids can effectively 
reduce pain and symptoms associated with neck MPS, when combined with physical 
therapy.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2010.02.004
PMID: 21665114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2011 Aug;128(2):382-9.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2011.03.052. Epub 2011 Jun 12.

Morbidity and mortality from ataxia-telangiectasia are associated with ATM 
genotype.

Micol R(1), Ben Slama L, Suarez F, Le Mignot L, Beauté J, Mahlaoui N, Dubois 
d'Enghien C, Laugé A, Hall J, Couturier J, Vallée L, Delobel B, Rivier F, Nguyen 
K, Billette de Villemeur T, Stephan JL, Bordigoni P, Bertrand Y, Aladjidi N, 
Pedespan JM, Thomas C, Pellier I, Koenig M, Hermine O, Picard C, Moshous D, 
Neven B, Lanternier F, Blanche S, Tardieu M, Debré M, Fischer A, Stoppa-Lyonnet 
D; CEREDIH Network Investigators.

Collaborators: Slama LB, Beauté J, Boileau J, Dudoit Y, Hilpert S, Mahlaoui N, 
de Vergnes N, Micol R, Obenga G, Heinz N, Korganow AS, Lutz P, Pasquali JL, 
Aladjidi N, Micheau M, Perel Y, Viallard JF, Bonnotte B, Briandet C, Couillault 
G, Legrand F, Rohrlich PS, Decaux O, Gandemer V, Grosbois B, Le Gall E, Berthou 
C, Lemoine P, Aaron L, Hoarau C, Lebranchu Y, Jaussaud R, Munzer M, 
Marie-Cardine A, Vannier JP, Jacquot S, Tron F, Fieschi C, Galicier L, 
Malphettes M, Leverger G, Ouchée-Charin M, Leblanc T, Baruchel A, Catherinot E, 
Coignard-Biehler H, Lanternier F, Chandesris O, Blanche S, Casanova JL, Debré M, 
Frange P, Moshous D, Mouy R, Neven B, Mouthon L, Amoura Z, Mathian A, Galanaud 
P, Lambotte O, Levy Y, Bernard F, Jeziorski E, Le Quellec A, Le Moing V, Jaccard 
A, Piguet C, Bordigoni P, Salmon A, Adoue D, Arlet P, Rubie H, Teira P, Hachulla 
E, Mazingue F, Barlogis V, Michel G, Schleinitz N, Deville A, Dulieu F, Monpoux 
F, Gardembas M, Pellier I, Bienvenu B, Boutard P, Hamidou M, Masseau A, Thomas 
C, Lassoued K, Marolleau JP, Pautard B, Royer B, Millot F, Roblot P, Demeocq F, 
Massot C, Sarrot-Reynauld F, Plantaz D, Bertrand Y, Kebaili K, Cozon G, Durieu 
I, Nove-Josserand R, Pavic M, Stephan JL, Donadieu J, Landais P, Lecuit M, 
Lortholary O, Picard C, Suarez F, Oksenhendler E, Hermine O, Fischer A, Kindle 
G, Gathmann B, Allani-Essid N, Altuzarra C, Alves C, Armari-Alla C, Aubourg P, 
Audic-Gerard F, Azulay JP, Barthez MA, Baumann-Morel C, Mansour LB, Bera O, 
Boespflug-Tanguy O, Borie D, Brichard B, Burglen L, Calvas P, Carriere JP, 
Cartault F, Casteleyn AS, Chabrol B, Chevalier MC, Coskun S, Croquette MF, 
Cuntz-Shadfar D, Curtillet C, Dahan K, Darteyre S, Delattre P, Delrue MA, 
Demeocq F, De La Fosse VD, Dollfus H, Dugast C, Durr A, Dusser A, Echenne B, 
Edery P, Evrard P, Ghamlouch SF, Flori E, Fraix V, Francannet C, Gautier E, 
Gerardin P, Goldenberg A, Graber D, Guillerlain G, Guillermet C, Guillot F, 
Hayat P, Heron-Longe B, Husson M, Ioos C, Vuillaume I, Jacquemont ML, Jeandidier 
E, Jonveaux P, Jouk PS, Journel H, Keren B, Lacombe D, Leguern E, Lobut JB, 
Mancini J, Martin-Coignard D, Mathieu S, Mathieu-Dramard M, Mauget M, Mellouli 
F, Moutard ML, Nguyen K, Olivier-Faivre L, Parent P, Pasquier L, Pellier F, 
Pellissier MC, Peter L, Philip N, Piette JC, Plouvier E, Prieur F, Rio M, 
Rochette J, Rohrlich PS, Roubertie A, Rousselet F, Routon MC, Sarda P, Saura R, 
Scares D, Servais L, Sicard-Mauclair C, Sigaudy S, Soares D, Sukno S, Sznajer Y, 
Thauvin-Robinet C, Thumerelle C, Till M, Toutain A, Veber F, Ville D, Ythier H, 
Zattara-Cannoni H.

Author information:
(1)CEREDIH, Hôpital Necker-Enfants Malades, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de 
Paris, 75743 Paris Cedex 15, France. romain.micol@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is a rare genetic disease caused by 
germline biallelic mutations in the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated gene (ATM) 
that result in partial or complete loss of ATM expression or activity. The 
course of the disease is characterized by neurologic manifestations, infections, 
and cancers.
OBJECTIVE: We studied A-T progression and investigated whether manifestations 
were associated with the ATM genotype.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study in France of 240 patients 
with A-T born from 1954 to 2005 and analyzed ATM mutations in 184 patients, 
along with neurologic manifestations, infections, and cancers.
RESULTS: Among patients with A-T, the Kaplan-Meier 20-year survival rate was 
53.4%; the prognosis for these patients has not changed since 1954. Life 
expectancy was lower among patients with mutations in ATM that caused total loss 
of expression or function of the gene product (null mutations) compared with 
that seen in patients with hypomorphic mutations because of earlier onset of 
cancer (mainly hematologic malignancies). Cancer (hazard ratio, 2.7; 95% CI, 
1.6-4.5) and respiratory tract infections (hazard ratio, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.4-3.8) 
were independently associated with mortality. Cancer (hazard ratio, 5.8; 95% CI, 
2.9-11.6) was a major risk factor for mortality among patients with null 
mutations, whereas respiratory tract infections (hazard ratio, 4.1; 95% CI, 
1.8-9.1) were the leading cause of death among patients with hypomorphic 
mutations.
CONCLUSION: Morbidity and mortality among patients with A-T are associated with 
ATM genotype. This information could improve our prognostic ability and lead to 
adapted therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2011 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2011.03.052
PMID: 21665257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Oncologist. 2011;16(7):1028-39. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-0358. Epub
2011  Jun 10.

Potential prognostic biomarkers for bone metastasis from hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Xiang ZL(1), Zeng ZC, Tang ZY, Fan J, He J, Zeng HY, Zhu XD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200032 China.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) most commonly develops in patients 
who have a viral infection, especially in the case of hepatitis B virus (HBV), 
and in patients with a chronic liver disease. HCC patients with bone metastasis 
(BM) suffer from pain and other symptoms that significantly reduce their quality 
of life. Identification of patients who are at high risk for BM after undergoing 
potentially curative treatment for HCC remains challenging. Here, we aimed to 
identify HCC BM-related genes and proteins to establish prediction biomarkers.
METHODS: RNA was extracted from 48 pairs of intratumoral and peritumoral 
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue from HCC patients with and without BM. 
A cDNA-mediated annealing, selection, extension and ligation assay containing 
502 cancer-related genes was used to identify novel BM-associated genes. An 
additional independent study with 350 HCC patients who had undergone hepatectomy 
was conducted to evaluate the expression of candidate genes at the protein level 
using immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays (TMAs). Of the 350 patients, 
273 (78.0%) were infected with HBV.
RESULTS: Seven intratumoral genes and 17 peritumoral genes were overexpressed in 
patients with BM, whereas 15 intratumoral genes and 28 peritumoral genes were 
underexpressed in patients with BM. We selected the following four genes for 
further analysis because they were differentially expressed in the cancer 
gene-specific microarray and were previously reported to be associated with BM: 
connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1), 
transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1), and interleukin-11 (IL-11). We assessed 
the protein expression of these selected genes using immunohistochemistry on 
TMAs including 350 HCC patient specimens. We determined that expression of 
intratumoral CTGF, intratumoral IL-11, and peritumoral MMP-1 were independent 
prognostic factors for developing BM in HCC patients. Combining intratumoral 
CTGF and IL-11 expression was also an independent risk factor for BM 
development.
CONCLUSIONS: Sixty-seven genes were differentially expressed in HCC patients 
with and without BM. High intratumoral CTGF, positive IL-11, and high 
peritumoral MMP-1 expression were associated with BM after hepatectomy. 
Intratumoral CTGF expression combined with IL-11 expression may serve as a 
useful predictive biomarker for HCC BM.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-0358
PMCID: PMC3228144
PMID: 21665914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Zuo-Lin Xiang: None; Zhao-Chong 
Zeng: None; Zhao-You Tang: None; Jia Fan: None; Jian He: None; Hai-Ying Zeng: 
None; Xiao-Dong Zhu: None. The content of this article has been reviewed by 
independent peer reviewers to ensure that it is balanced, objective, and free 
from commercial bias. No financial relationships relevant to the content of this 
article have been disclosed by the authors or independent peer reviewers.


885. Blood. 2011 Sep 1;118(9):2405-12. doi: 10.1182/blood-2011-04-343111. Epub
2011  Jun 10.

Thrombogenicity and cardiovascular effects of ambient air pollution.

Franchini M(1), Mannucci PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine and Hematology, Carlo Poma Hospital, 
Mantova, Italy.

Comment in
    Blood. 2011 Sep 1;118(9):2636-7.

Exposure to air pollution is associated with adverse effects on health. In 
particular, a strong epidemiologic association is observed between acute and 
chronic exposures to particulate matter and the occurrence of cardiovascular 
events, coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease and venous 
thromboembolism, especially among older people and people with diabetes and 
previous cardiovascular conditions. Multiple mechanisms have been postulated to 
cause the increase in atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events, including the 
activation by particulate matter of inflammatory pathways and hemostasis 
factors, production of reactive oxygen species through the oxidative stress 
pathway, alterations in vascular tone, and decreased heart rate variability (a 
marker of cardiac autonomic dysfunction and a predictor of sudden cardiac death 
and arrhythmias). Current knowledge on the biologic mechanisms and the clinical 
effect of short- and long-term exposure to particulate air pollutants is 
discussed, emphasizing that life expectancy improved significantly in sites 
where air pollutants were controlled.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2011-04-343111
PMID: 21666054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Neurorehabil Neural Repair. 2011 Nov-Dec;25(9):830-7. doi: 
10.1177/1545968311408917. Epub 2011 Jun 10.

Effectiveness of hybrid assistive neuromuscular dynamic stimulation therapy in 
patients with subacute stroke: a randomized controlled pilot trial.

Shindo K(1), Fujiwara T, Hara J, Oba H, Hotta F, Tsuji T, Hase K, Liu M.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Rehabilitation Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. 
krugreims@yahoo.co.jp

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Hybrid assistive neuromuscular dynamic stimulation 
(HANDS) therapy was devised to facilitate the use of the hemiparetic upper 
extremity in daily life by combining assistive neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation, referred to as the integrated volitional electrical stimulator 
(IVES), with a splint. The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of 
HANDS therapy for patients with subacute stroke.
METHODS: The participants were 24 inpatients receiving rehabilitation for 
hemiparetic stroke within 60 days of onset. Entry criteria included inability to 
individuate finger extension. Patients were randomly assigned to 2 groups. The 
HANDS group (n = 12) used the IVES combined with a wrist splint for 8 hours a 
day for 3 weeks, and the control group (n = 12) wore a wrist splint alone. All 
patients received the same daily dose and length of standard poststroke 
multidisciplinary rehabilitation. Outcome measures were the upper extremity 
portion of the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA), Action Research Arm Test (ARAT), and 
Motor Activity Log-14 (MAL).
RESULTS: In all, 10 patients in each group completed the interventions. Compared 
with the control group, the HANDS group showed significantly greater gains in 
distal (wrist/hand) portion of the FMA (P < .01) and improvement of the ARAT (P 
< .05). The gains in the MAL did not differ. No adverse effects occurred and the 
HANDS therapy was well accepted.
CONCLUSION: HANDS therapy in addition to conventional therapy may improve hand 
function in patients with moderate to severe hand impairment during early 
rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1177/1545968311408917
PMID: 21666139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Optom Vis Sci. 2011 Sep;88(9):1133-9. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182223683.

Subconjunctival hemorrhages: presenting sign for hereditary hemochromatosis.

Tong JW(1), Sawamura MH.

Author information:
(1)Jarnagin Primary Care Service, Chronic Care Service, Eye Care Center, 
Southern California College of Optometry, Fullerton, California 92831, USA. 
jtong@scco.edu

BACKGROUND: Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a common hereditary disorder that 
primarily afflicts patients of Northern European descent. A single mutation of 
the HFE gene results in unregulated dietary iron uptake with the potential to 
deleteriously affect multiple organ systems including the eye. If HH is 
suspected, a screening test measuring transferrin saturation is initially 
obtained. Confirmation of this disorder is accomplished with genetic testing and 
liver biopsy. Treatment should commence immediately and undergo venesection 
(phlebotomy) treatments 2 to 4 times a year for the remainder of the patient's 
life.
CASE REPORT: The following is a case of a 54-year-old male of Scottish-German 
descent who was evaluated for a subconjunctival hemorrhage (SCH). A review of 
the patient's record disclosed that he had 12 previous episodes of SCH over a 
10-year period. He was undergoing a comprehensive evaluation for HH due to the 
recent diagnosis of this condition in his older brother. Hematologic analysis 
showed that our patient had a serum ferritin level 4 to 5 times higher than 
normal (1340 μg/L) and a homozygous recessive profile of the HFE gene. Once 
under maintenance venesection therapy, the frequency of the SCH diminished.
CONCLUSIONS: HH must be considered a differential diagnosis in cases of 
recurrent SCH. Coupled with the recognition of characteristic physical signs and 
symptoms of HH, hematologic analysis and genetic testing may further aid in 
diagnosis. With early detection and treatment, the optometrist can make a 
significant impact on the life expectancy of the patient.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182223683
PMID: 21666526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Popul Res (Canberra). 2010 Dec 1;27(4):293-313. doi: 
10.1007/s12546-011-9057-2.

Population decline induced by gonorrhoea and tuberculosis transmission: 
Micronesia during the Japanese occupation, 1919-45.

Cassels S(1), Singer BH.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Epidemiology & Global Health, University of Washington, 325, 
9th Ave, Box 359931, Seattle, WA 98104, USA.

The islands of Yap in Micronesia survived a period of severe depopulation during 
the Japanese occupation from 1919 to 1945. Using data from historical documents, 
supplemented by ethnographic evidence, we calibrate a simulation model that 
accounts for this phenomenon. Our model tracks the reproduction histories of a 
synthetic cohort of women in Yap, including effects of infertility due to 
gonorrhoea as well as tuberculosis mortality, and predicts the net reproduction 
rate (NRR). In this particular case and throughout history, human migrations and 
associated social and cultural interactions have frequently been accompanied by 
dramatic changes in patterns of disease transmission and substantial demographic 
consequences. Despite the broad emphasis on mortality as a measure of 
demographic consequences in the historical and contemporary literature, there 
are important instances where life expectancy at birth, fertility rates, and 
total population size are important demographic consequences. We find that 
gonorrhoea may have significantly contributed to depopulation during the 
Japanese occupation of Micronesia, due to repeated infections and high risk of 
sterility. Results of our model suggest that gonorrhoea alone could have reduced 
the net reproduction rate by 82%, whereas deaths from tuberculosis may have 
contributed to a 17% decline.

DOI: 10.1007/s12546-011-9057-2
PMCID: PMC3109672
PMID: 21666856


889. Gastric Cancer. 2012 Jan;15(1):70-5. doi: 10.1007/s10120-011-0067-8. Epub
2011  Jun 11.

Multicenter study of the long-term outcomes of endoscopic submucosal dissection 
for early gastric cancer in patients 80 years of age or older.

Abe N(1), Gotoda T, Hirasawa T, Hoteya S, Ishido K, Ida Y, Imaeda H, Ishii E, 
Kokawa A, Kusano C, Maehata T, Ono S, Takeuchi H, Sugiyama M, Takahashi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kyorin University School of Medicine, 6-20-2 Shinkawa, 
Mitaka, Tokyo, Japan. abenbtg@ks.kyorin-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Gastric Cancer. 2012 Jan;15(1):5-6.

BACKGROUND: Little information is available on the long-term outcomes of 
endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for early gastric cancer (EGC) in 
patients of advanced age (≥80 years).
METHODS: A multicenter study was conducted at 10 Japanese institutions 
concerning their results for ESD. Data on 440 patients of advanced age 
(≥80 years) with EGC (470 lesions) were collected and reviewed. Early and 
long-term outcomes of ESD were assessed. We compared the overall survival rates 
between 3 patient groups, those with curative ESD, additional surgery after 
noncurative ESD, and nonsurgical follow-up after noncurative ESD.
RESULTS: Bleeding and perforation rates were 3.2 and 2.8%, respectively. 
Curative ESD was achieved in 366 of the 470 lesions (77.9%). Of the 104 patients 
with noncurative ESD, 12 patients (11.5%) underwent additional surgery and 91 
patients (87.5%) were followed without surgery. The 5-year survival rate in the 
patients with nonsurgical follow-up after noncurative ESD (66.7%) was 
significantly lower than that in the patients with curative ESD (80.3%, 
p = 0.0001). There was no significant difference in the 5-year survival rates 
between the patients with curative ESD and those with surgery after noncurative 
ESD (100%, p = 0.21), nor was there a difference in these rates between the 
patients with surgery after noncurative ESD and those with nonsurgical follow-up 
after noncurative ESD (p = 0.061). None of the patients developed cancer 
recurrence after curative ESD, and none developed cancer recurrence following 
the additional surgery after noncurative ESD. In the patients with curative ESD 
and in those with surgery after noncurative ESD, the cumulative observed 
survival was better than the expected survival for the general population of 
similar age and gender.
CONCLUSIONS: ESD is safe for the treatment of EGC in patients 80 years of age or 
older. Both curative ESD and additional surgery after noncurative ESD may 
contribute to the extension of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10120-011-0067-8
PMID: 21667133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Percept Mot Skills. 2011 Apr;112(2):573-80. doi: 
10.2466/06.13.15.PMS.112.2.573-580.

Physical and motor skill training for children with intellectual disabilities.

Hayakawa K(1), Kobayashi K.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Total Life Health and Sports Sciences, The University of 
Tokyo, Japan. km-hayakawa@scn.ac.jp

This study investigated the effectiveness of using special training machines for 
children with intellectual disabilities to strengthen their body's inner muscles 
and improve their ability to maintain standing posture and improve walking 
movement. The participants were 23 high school age boys with intellectual 
disabilities who had difficulties expressing greetings, and needed to be led by 
the hand when walking. Four special training machines were used for walking 
movements, for standing and walking balance, for leg-hip extension, and for 
ipsilateral movement in a sitting position. Each participant underwent 30 min. 
of training once a week over a 3-mo. period during school time. Body control 
ability required to perform each training exercise was improved over the 
training period. A significant improvement was observed in the 50-m dash, mean 
10-m walk time, and 10-m obstacle course walk. The hip joint split angle showed 
a significant increase. Legal guardians all reported their child had "improved 
and/or progressed" for each of the targeted movements.

DOI: 10.2466/06.13.15.PMS.112.2.573-580
PMID: 21667765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2011 Jun;13 Suppl 1:S65-74. doi:
10.1089/dia.2011.0019.

Overall mortality in diabetes mellitus: where do we stand today?

Dailey G(1).

Author information:
(1)Scripps Clinic Torrey Pines, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. 
Dailey.George@scrippshealth.org

Life expectancy for a patient with type 2 diabetes remains substantially shorter 
than an equivalent individual without diabetes, largely because of a greater 
risk of cardiovascular disease. Diabetes is also associated with an increased 
incidence of many types of cancer, suggesting that malignancy may also 
contribute to higher rates of mortality. Hyperglycemia is one of the key risk 
factors for diabetes-associated macro- and microvascular disease, and as such, 
intensive glycemic control is associated with improved outcomes for patients, 
including a reduction in this risk of death from any cause, when initiated early 
in the disease course. Recent trials in patients with more advanced disease have 
failed to demonstrate a mortality benefit with intensive glycemic control, 
although this may reflect their short observation period. Intensive 
multifactorial therapy, including lifestyle intervention and control of 
hyperglycemia, hypertension, lipids, thrombosis, and microalbuminuria, is likely 
to be the best strategy against diabetes-associated macrovascular mortality. 
However, analysis of the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes 
(ACCORD) trial indicates that there may be a subpopulation of patients who are 
unable to achieve glycemic targets with intensive therapy and that aggressive 
intensification of treatment in this group may increase mortality risk. It 
remains to be determined whether the relationship between diabetes and 
malignancy is causal or whether they share common risk factors. Current 
recommendations for a healthy lifestyle based on good diet, physical exercise, 
and weight management in order to control diabetes-related complications are 
likely to apply in reducing the risk of many forms of cancer and should be 
advocated for all patients.

DOI: 10.1089/dia.2011.0019
PMID: 21668339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Clin Genet. 2012 Aug;82(2):147-56. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2011.01734.x.
Epub  2011 Jul 18.

Clinical and molecular analysis of UAE fibrochondrogenesis patients expands the 
phenotype and reveals two COL11A1 homozygous null mutations.

Akawi NA(1), Al-Gazali L, Ali BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, United Arab 
Emirates University, Al-Ain, Abu Dhabi, UAE.

Fibrochondrogenesis is documented to be a neonatally lethal rare recessively 
inherited disorder characterized by short-limbed skeletal dysplasia. Here we 
report two patients from two unrelated consanguineous Emirati families who have 
unexpectedly survived till the ages of 3 and 6 years. These patients show 
additional symptoms which include developmental delay, profound sensory-neural 
deafness, severe myopia and progressive severe skeletal abnormalities. Linkage 
of fibrochondrogenesis in the Emirati families to chromosome 1 has been 
established using homozygosity mapping confirming recent findings by Tompson et 
al. in 2010. Screening of the COL11A1 gene revealed two null homozygous 
mutations [c.4084C>T (p.R1362X) and c.3708+437T>G] in the aforementioned two 
families. The c.4084C>T mutation is predicted to introduce a stop codon at 
position Arg1362, whereas the c.3708+437T>G mutation causes the activation of an 
intronic pseudoexon between exons 48 and 49. This resulted in the insertion of 
50 nucleotides into the mRNA. The carriers of these mutations display ocular 
defects with normal hearing. In conclusion, our data shall improve the overall 
understanding of fibrochondrogenesis especially in surviving homozygous patients 
and, at least partly, explain the phenotypic variability associated with COL11A1 
gene mutations.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2011.01734.x
PMID: 21668896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Arthritis Res Ther. 2011 Jun 13;13(3):R86. doi: 10.1186/ar3359.

Improvement in multiple dimensions of fatigue in patients with fibromyalgia 
treated with duloxetine: secondary analysis of a randomized, placebo-controlled 
trial.

Arnold LM(1), Wang F, Ahl J, Gaynor PJ, Wohlreich MM.

Author information:
(1)Women's Health Research Program, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Neuroscience, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 222 Piedmont Avenue, 
Suite 8200, Cincinnati, OH 45219, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Fatigue is one of the most disabling symptoms associated with 
fibromyalgia that greatly impacts quality of life. Fatigue was assessed as a 
secondary objective in a 2-phase, 24-week study in outpatients with American 
College of Rheumatology-defined fibromyalgia.
METHODS: Patients were randomized to duloxetine 60-120 mg/d (N = 263) or placebo 
(N = 267) for the 12-week acute phase. At Week 12, all placebo-treated patients 
were switched to double-blind treatment with duloxetine for the extension phase. 
Fatigue was assessed at baseline and every 4 weeks with the Multidimensional 
Fatigue Inventory (MFI) scales: General Fatigue, Physical Fatigue, Mental 
Fatigue, Reduced Activity, and Reduced Motivation. Other assessments that may be 
associated with fatigue included Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) average pain, 
numerical scales to rate anxiety, depressed mood, bothered by sleep 
difficulties, and musculoskeletal stiffness. Treatment-emergent fatigue-related 
events were also assessed. Changes from baseline to Week 12, and from Week 12 to 
Week 24, were analyzed by mixed-effects model repeated measures analysis.
RESULTS: At Week 12, duloxetine versus placebo significantly (all p < .05) 
reduced ratings on each MFI scale, BPI pain, anxiety, depressed mood, and 
stiffness. Improvement in ratings of being bothered by sleep difficulties was 
significant only at Weeks 4 and 8. At Week 24, mean changes in all measures 
indicated improvement was maintained for patients who received duloxetine for 
all 24 weeks (n = 176). Placebo-treated patients switched to duloxetine (n = 
187) had significant within-group improvement in Physical Fatigue (Weeks 16, 20, 
and 24); General Fatigue (Weeks 20 and 24); Mental Fatigue (Week 20); and 
Reduced Activity (Weeks 20 and 24). These patients also experienced significant 
within-group improvement in BPI pain, anxiety, depressed mood, bothered by sleep 
difficulties, and stiffness. Overall, the most common (> 5% incidence) 
fatigue-related treatment-emergent adverse events were fatigue, somnolence, and 
insomnia.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with duloxetine significantly improved multiple 
dimensions of fatigue in patients with fibromyalgia, and improvement was 
maintained for up to 24 weeks.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov registry NCT00673452.

DOI: 10.1186/ar3359
PMCID: PMC3218901
PMID: 21668963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Value Health. 2011 Jun;14(4):458-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.039.

The use of quality-adjusted life-years in the economic evaluation of health 
technologies in Spain: a review of the 1990-2009 literature.

Rodriguez JM(1), Paz S, Lizan L, Gonzalez P.

Author information:
(1)Johnson & Johnson, Madrid, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To appraise economic evaluations of health technologies that included 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) as an outcome measure conducted over the 
past 20 years in Spain.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was conducted. Economic 
evaluations that included QALYs as an outcome measure, conducted in Spain and 
published between January 1990 and December 2009 were identified. Primary and 
gray literature sources were reviewed.
RESULTS: A total of 60 articles and 4 health technology assessment reports were 
included. Key findings were 1) the vast majority of articles (77.1%) referred to 
therapeutic interventions; 2) 63.2% dealt with pharmaceutical products and much 
fewer with preventive strategies, medical devices, or diagnostic interventions; 
3) most evaluations referred to cardiovascular- (19.8%), respiratory- (16.3%), 
and cancer- (13.0%) related processes; 4) 80.3% were based on a theoretical 
model, most commonly Markov models (71.4%); 5) 67.3% adopted the National Health 
System perspective; 6) information on the methods used to describe the health 
states was given in 45.1% of studies; 7) 40.3% used the EuroQoL-5D to elicit 
preferences, whereas 66.1% gave no details on the methods applied to determine 
patients' choices; 8) it was possible to state who completed the questionnaires 
in only 17.7% of studies; 9) 77.1% of the interventions assessed were below the 
€30,000/QALY suggested affordable threshold in Spain.
CONCLUSIONS: An increasing number of economic evaluations using QALYs had been 
conducted. Most of them relied on theoretical models. Several methodological 
issues remain unsolved. Great disparity exists regarding the reporting of the 
methods used to determine health states and utility values.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2010.10.039
PMID: 21669370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Mutagenesis. 2011 Sep;26(5):643-50. doi: 10.1093/mutage/ger027. Epub 2011
Jun  13.

Micronucleus frequencies in peripheral blood lymphocytes of children with 
chronic kidney disease.

Cakmak Demircigil G(1), Aykanat B, Fidan K, Gulleroglu K, Bayrakci US, Sepici A, 
Buyukkaragoz B, Karakayali H, Haberal M, Baskin E, Buyan N, Burgaz S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, 06330 Ankara, 
Turkey. goncacd@gmail.com

One of the crucial adverse effects of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and its 
treatment is an elevated cancer risk. There are no data on cytogenetic effects 
in children with CKD or children undergoing dialysis or those who have received 
a transplant. In this study, cytogenetic effects in children with CKD in 
pre-dialysis (PreD) stage, on regular haemodialysis (HD) and transplanted (Tx) 
compared with a control group of healthy children has been investigated using 
the cytokinesis-blocked micronucleus (CBMN) assay and fluorescence in situ 
hybridisation (FISH) combined with CBMN (CBMN-FISH) in peripheral blood 
lymphocytes. The results revealed a significant increase (P < 0.001) in 
micronucleus (MN) frequencies [mean ± SD (n)] in the PreD, HD and Tx groups 
versus the control group [CBMN assay; 9.19 ± 2.61 (16), 9.07 ± 4.86 (15), 6.12 ± 
5.33 (17) versus 1.60 ± 0.99 (20), respectively]. Moreover, centromere negative 
micronucleus (C- MN) and centromere positive micronucleus (C+ MN) frequencies 
were significantly higher in each subgroup children (PreD, HD and Tx) than in 
the control group (P < 0.01) although children in Tx group had lower C- MN 
frequencies than PreD and lower C+ MN frequencies than PreD and HD groups (P < 
0.05). Additionally, MN frequencies in mononuclear cells, nucleoplasmic bridges 
and nuclear buds in binucleated cells were increased in children with CKD (P < 
0.001, P < 0.001, P > 0.05, respectively). The nuclear division index 
significantly decreased in Tx group relative to the control, PreD and HD groups 
(P < 0.001). Associations between cytogenetic parameters and creatinine or blood 
urea nitrogen were found (P < 0.05). To provide longer and better life 
expectancy of children with CKD and treatment modes, further research is needed 
to better understand and avoid these effects.

DOI: 10.1093/mutage/ger027
PMID: 21669938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Oct;29(10):839-61. doi: 
10.2165/11588390-000000000-00000.

A review of the costs and cost effectiveness of interventions in chronic kidney 
disease: implications for policy.

Menzin J(1), Lines LM, Weiner DE, Neumann PJ, Nichols C, Rodriguez L, Agodoa I, 
Mayne T.

Author information:
(1)Boston Health Economics, Inc., Waltham, MA, USA. jmenzin@bhei.com

Given rising healthcare costs and a growing population of patients with chronic 
kidney disease (CKD), there is an urgent need to identify health interventions 
that provide good value for money. For this review, the English-language 
literature was searched for studies of interventions in CKD reporting an 
original incremental cost-utility (cost per QALY) or cost-effectiveness (cost 
per life-year) ratio. Published cost studies that did not report 
cost-effectiveness or cost-utility ratios were also reviewed. League tables were 
then created for both cost-utility and cost-effectiveness ratios to assess 
interventions in patients with stage 1-4 CKD, waitlist and transplant patients 
and those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). In addition, the percentage of 
cost-saving or dominant interventions (those that save money and improve health) 
was compared across these three disease categories. A total of 84 studies were 
included, contributing 72 cost-utility ratios, 20 cost-effectiveness ratios and 
42 other cost measures. Many of the interventions were dominant over the 
comparator, indicating better health outcomes and lower costs. For the three 
disease categories, the greatest number of dominant or cost-saving interventions 
was reported for stage 1-4 CKD patients, followed by waitlist and transplant 
recipients and those with ESRD (91%, 87% and 55% of studies reporting a dominant 
or cost-saving intervention, respectively). There is evidence of opportunities 
to lower costs in the treatment of patients with CKD, while either improving or 
maintaining the quality of care. In order to realize these cost savings, efforts 
will be required to promote and effectively implement changes in treatment 
practices.

DOI: 10.2165/11588390-000000000-00000
PMID: 21671688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2011 Jun;11(3):253-63. doi: 
10.1586/erp.11.26.

Pharmacoeconomic evidence of bosentan for pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Strange G(1), Keogh A, Dalton B, Gabbay E.

Author information:
(1)Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

In this article, we review randomized controlled trials, open-label trials and 
pharmacoeconomic models of bosentan for the management of patients with 
pulmonary arterial hypertension. Bosentan consistently improves WHO functional 
class and quality of life, slows clinical worsening and is associated with 
improved survival compared with historical treatment. Although head-to-head 
trials are scarce, data directly comparing bosentan with sildenafil indicate no 
clinically significant differences between treatments as measured by the 6-min 
walk distance alone. Compared with historical care, bosentan treatment, over a 
15-30-year period, increases the number of quality-adjusted life years (3.49 
years). Economic modeling suggests that the cost-effectiveness of bosentan is 
similar to that of ambrisentan (US$43,725-57,778 per quality-adjusted life 
year), not as cost effective as sildenafil (at 20 mg three-times daily) and more 
cost effective than iloprost. More randomized controlled trials of longer 
duration are required to confirm the results from these economic models.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.11.26
PMID: 21671693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Diabet Med. 2011 Jul;28(7):757-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2011.03335.x.

A call for action in diabetes care for older people.

Rodriguez-Manas L.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2011.03335.x
PMID: 21671999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Australas J Ageing. 2011 Jun;30(2):89-92. doi:
10.1111/j.1741-6612.2010.00448.x.  Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Association between sarcopenia and mortality in healthy older people.

Bunout D(1), de la Maza MP, Barrera G, Leiva L, Hirsch S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology, University of Chile, Santiago, 
Chile. dbunout@inta.cl

Comment in
    Australas J Ageing. 2011 Jun;30(2):61-2.

AIM: To evaluate the association between loss of fat-free mass and mortality 
among older people.
METHODS: Information of healthy Chilean older people evaluated by dual energy 
X-ray absorptiometry was used, identifying those who died in a period of 12 
years. A Cox proportional hazards model was used to identify mortality 
predictors. Life tables were constructed calculating survival using predictive 
variables.
RESULTS: Information from 1413 participants aged 74.3 ± 5.6 years (1001 women), 
was obtained. During the follow-up (median 1594 days), 221 participants died. 
The Cox model identified age and appendicular fat-free mass as predictors of 
death (hazard ratios 1.08 and 0.85, respectively). According to life tables, 
participants in the lower sex-specific quartile for appendicular fat-free 
mass/height had significantly higher mortality. This association was significant 
among participants aged over 73 years.
CONCLUSION: A low fat-free mass was predictive of mortality in older people.

© 2011 The Authors. Australasian Journal on Ageing © 2011 ACOTA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-6612.2010.00448.x
PMID: 21672118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Popul Health Metr. 2011 Jun 15;9(1):16. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-16.

Falling behind: life expectancy in US counties from 2000 to 2007 in an 
international context.

Kulkarni SC(1), Levin-Rector A, Ezzati M, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, USA. cjlm@u.washington.edu.

BACKGROUND: The United States health care debate has focused on the nation's 
uniquely high rates of lack of insurance and poor health outcomes relative to 
other high-income countries. Large disparities in health outcomes are 
well-documented in the US, but the most recent assessment of county disparities 
in mortality is from 1999. It is critical to tracking progress of health reform 
legislation to have an up-to-date assessment of disparities in life expectancy 
across counties. US disparities can be seen more clearly in the context of how 
progress in each county compares to international trends.
METHODS: We use newly released mortality data by age, sex, and county for the US 
from 2000 to 2007 to compute life tables separately for each sex, for all races 
combined, for whites, and for blacks. We propose, validate, and apply novel 
methods to estimate recent life tables for small areas to generate up-to-date 
estimates. Life expectancy rates and changes in life expectancy for counties are 
compared to the life expectancies across nations in 2000 and 2007. We calculate 
the number of calendar years behind each county is in 2000 and 2007 compared to 
an international life expectancy time series.
RESULTS: Across US counties, life expectancy in 2007 ranged from 65.9 to 81.1 
years for men and 73.5 to 86.0 years for women. When compared against a time 
series of life expectancy in the 10 nations with the lowest mortality, US 
counties range from being 15 calendar years ahead to over 50 calendar years 
behind for men and 16 calendar years ahead to over 50 calendar years behind for 
women. County life expectancy for black men ranges from 59.4 to 77.2 years, with 
counties ranging from seven to over 50 calendar years behind the international 
frontier; for black women, the range is 69.6 to 82.6 years, with counties 
ranging from eight to over 50 calendar years behind. Between 2000 and 2007, 80% 
(men) and 91% (women) of American counties fell in standing against this 
international life expectancy standard.
CONCLUSIONS: The US has extremely large geographic and racial disparities, with 
some communities having life expectancies already well behind those of the 
best-performing nations. At the same time, relative performance for most 
communities continues to drop. Efforts to address these issues will need to 
tackle the leading preventable causes of death.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-9-16
PMCID: PMC3141397
PMID: 21672269901. Prev Chronic Dis. 2011 Jul;8(4):A80. Epub 2011 Jun 15.

Forecasting diabetes prevalence in California: a microsimulation.

Shi L(1), van Meijgaard J, Fielding J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA 90095-1772, USA. lshi@ph.ucla.edu

INTRODUCTION: Setting a goal for controlling type 2 diabetes is important for 
planning health interventions. The purpose of this study was to explore what may 
be a feasible goal for type 2 diabetes prevention in California.
METHODS: We used the UCLA Health Forecasting Tool, a microsimulation model that 
simulates individual life courses in the population, to forecast the prevalence 
of type 2 diabetes in California's adult population in 2020. The first scenario 
assumes no further increases in average body mass index (BMI) for cohorts 
entering adolescence after 2003. The second scenario assumes a gradual BMI 
decrease for children entering adolescence after 2010. The third scenario builds 
on the second by extending the same BMI decrease to people aged 12 to 65 years. 
The fourth scenario builds on the third by eliminating racial/ethnic disparities 
in physical activity.
RESULTS: We found the predicted diabetes prevalence of the first, second, third, 
and fourth scenarios in 2020 to be 9.93%, 9.91%, 9.76%, and 9.77%, respectively. 
We found obesity prevalence for type 2 diabetes patients in 2020 to be 34.2%, 
34.0%, 25.7%, and 25.6% for the 4 scenarios. Life expectancy in the third (80.56 
y) and fourth (80.94 y) scenarios compared favorably with that of the first 
(80.32 y) and second (80.32 y) scenarios.
CONCLUSION: For the next 10 years, behavioral risk factor modifications are more 
likely to affect obesity prevalence and life expectancy in the general 
population and obesity prevalence among diabetic patients than to alter type 2 
diabetes prevalence in the general population. We suggest setting more specific 
goals for reducing the prevalence of diabetes, such as reducing obesity-related 
diabetes complications, which may be more feasible and easier to evaluate than 
the omnibus goal of lowering overall type 2 diabetes prevalence by 2020.

PMCID: PMC3136987
PMID: 21672404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Prev Chronic Dis. 2011 Jul;8(4):A84. Epub 2011 Jun 15.

Smoking and visual impairment among older adults with age-related eye diseases.

Zhang X(1), Kahende J, Fan AZ, Barker L, Thompson TJ, Mokdad AH, Li Y, Saaddine 
JB.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, 4770 Buford Hwy. NE, Atlanta, GA 30341-3727, 
USA. XZhang4@cdc.gov

INTRODUCTION: Tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of death in the 
United States. Visual impairment, a common cause of disability in the United 
States, is associated with shorter life expectancy and lower quality of life. 
The relationship between smoking and visual impairment is not clearly 
understood. We assessed the association between smoking and visual impairment 
among older adults with age-related eye diseases.
METHODS: We analyzed Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System data from 2005 
through 2008 on older adults with age-related eye diseases (cataract, glaucoma, 
age-related macular degeneration, and diabetic retinopathy; age ≥50 y, N = 
36,522). Visual impairment was defined by self-reported difficulty in 
recognizing a friend across the street or difficulty in reading print or 
numbers. Current smokers were respondents who reported having smoked at least 
100 cigarettes ever and still smoked at the time of interview. Former smokers 
were respondents who reported having ever smoked at least 100 cigarettes but 
currently did not smoke. We used multivariate logistic regressions to examine 
the association and to adjust for potential confounders.
RESULTS: Among respondents with age-related eye diseases, the estimated 
prevalence of visual impairment was higher among current smokers (48%) than 
among former smokers (41%, P < .05) and respondents who had never smoked (42%, P 
< .05). After adjustment for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, and general 
health status, current smokers with age-related eye diseases were more likely to 
have visual impairment than respondents with age-related eye diseases who had 
never smoked (odds ratio, 1.16, P < .05). Furthermore, respondents with cataract 
who were current smokers were more likely to have visual impairment than 
respondents with cataract who had never smoked (predictive margin, 44% vs 40%, P 
= .03), and the same was true for respondents with age-related macular 
degeneration (65% of current smokers vs 57% of never smokers, P = .02). This 
association did not hold true among respondents with glaucoma or diabetic 
retinopathy.
CONCLUSION: Smoking is linked to self-reported visual impairment among older 
adults with age-related eye diseases, particularly cataract and age-related 
macular degeneration. Longitudinal evaluation is needed to assess smoking 
cessation's effect on vision preservation.

PMCID: PMC3136979
PMID: 21672408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Acta Trop. 2011 Aug;119(2-3):183-7. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.05.015.
Epub  2011 Jun 6.

Influence of the quality and quantity of blood ingested on reproductive 
parameters and life-span in Triatoma infestans (Klug).

Nattero J(1), Leonhard G, Rodríguez CS, Crocco L.

