136. J BUON. 2011 Apr-Jun;16(2):233-40.

Results of hypofractionated whole brain radiotherapy (2×8 Gy) for patients with 
brain metastases from lung cancer.

Ozkok S(1), Bolukbasi Y, Akay Akcay C, Yalman D.

Author information:
(1)Ege University Medical School, Department of Radiation Oncology, Izmir, 
Turkey.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical and radiologic response rates, toxicity and 
tolerability of 2×8 Gy whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) in lung cancer patients 
with brain metastases (BM).
METHODS: WBRT was delivered to 126 lung cancer patients with BM during 
2002-2006. External beam RT was delivered with a fraction dose of 8 Gy on the 
same day of each consecutive week. Tumor and symptom response and toxicity were 
recorded at every follow-up. Recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) and the new 
Graded Prognostic Assessment (GPA) were used for analysis of overall survival 
(OS).
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients had small cell (SCLC) and 103 had non small cell 
lung cancer. Pretreatment median Karnofsky performance score (KPS) was 70 (range 
20-90). Clinical response rates were as follows: complete 31%; good partial 
30.2%; partial 21.4%; stable 7.9%; and progressive 5.6%;. Median palliation and 
survival duration was 57 and 80 days, respectively. Two- and 6-month survival 
rates (SR) were 59.5% and 25.4%, respectively. According to recursive 
partitioning analysis (RPA) 6- month SR for groups 1, 2 and 3 were 61.5, 41.6 
and 33.9%, respectively (p=0.002). Six-month SR for the new Graded Prognostic 
Assessment (GPA) were: GPA 0-1, 7%; GPA 1.5- 2.5, 34.2%; GPA 3, 25%; and GPA 
3.5-4.0, 66.6% (p=0.0003).
CONCLUSION: 2×8 Gy WBRT was found to be feasible. However, the late morbidity of 
this schedule is unknown so its use could be restricted to patients with poor 
performance status, with a short life expectancy and/or social problems, 
unlikely to tolerate more protracted radiotherapy regimens.

PMID: 21766491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Anal Chem. 2011 Sep 1;83(17):6689-97. doi: 10.1021/ac2012224. Epub 2011 Aug
2.

Is serum or plasma more appropriate for intersubject comparisons in metabolomic 
studies? An assessment in patients with small-cell lung cancer.

Wedge DC(1), Allwood JW, Dunn W, Vaughan AA, Simpson K, Brown M, Priest L, 
Blackhall FH, Whetton AD, Dive C, Goodacre R.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Manchester, 131 Princess Street, 
Manchester, M1 7DN, UK.

In clinical analyses, the most appropriate biofluid should be analyzed for 
optimal assay performance. For biological fluids, the most readily accessible is 
blood, and metabolomic analyses can be performed either on plasma or serum. To 
determine the optimal agent for analysis, metabolic profiles of matched human 
serum and plasma were assessed by gas chromatography/time-of-flight mass 
spectrometry and ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry 
(in positive and negative electrospray ionization modes). Comparison of the two 
metabolomes, in terms of reproducibility, discriminative ability and coverage, 
indicated that they offered similar analytical opportunities. An analysis of the 
variation between 29 small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients revealed that the 
differences between individuals are markedly similar for the two biofluids. 
However, significant differences between the levels of some specific metabolites 
were identified, as were differences in the intersubject variability of some 
metabolite levels. Glycerophosphocholines, erythritol, creatinine, hexadecanoic 
acid, and glutamine in plasma, but not in serum, were shown to correlate with 
life expectancy for SCLC patients, indicating the utility of metabolomic 
analyses in clinical prognosis and the particular utility of plasma in relation 
to the clinical management of SCLC.

DOI: 10.1021/ac2012224
PMID: 21766834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Pediatrics. 2011 Aug;128(2):e299-307. doi: 10.1542/peds.2010-2801. Epub 2011
Jul  18.

Low weight, morbidity, and mortality in children with cerebral palsy: new 
clinical growth charts.

Brooks J(1), Day S, Shavelle R, Strauss D.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA 94122, USA. 
brooks@lifeexpectancy.org

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2011 Aug;128(2):e436-7.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the percentiles of weight for age in cerebral palsy 
according to gender and Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) level 
and to identify weights associated with negative health outcomes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study consists of a total of 102 163 measurements of 
weight from 25 545 children with cerebral palsy who were clients of the 
California Department of Developmental Services from 1988 through 2002. 
Percentiles were estimated using generalized additive models for location, 
scale, and shape. Numbers of comorbidities were compared using t tests. The 
effect of low weight on mortality was estimated with proportional hazards 
regression.
RESULTS: Weight-for-age percentiles in children with cerebral palsy varied with 
gender and GMFCS level. Comorbidities were more common among those with weights 
below the 20th percentile in GMFCS levels I through IV and level V without 
feeding tubes (P < .01). For GMFCS levels I and II, weights below the 5th 
percentile were associated with a hazard ratio of 2.2 (95% confidence interval: 
1.3-3.7). For children in GMFCS levels III through V, weights below the 20th 
percentile were associated with a mortality hazard ratio of 1.5 (95% confidence 
interval: 1.4-1.7).
CONCLUSIONS: Children with cerebral palsy who have very low weights have more 
major medical conditions and are at increased risk of death. The weight-for-age 
charts presented here may assist in the early detection of nutritional issues or 
other health risks in these children.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2010-2801
PMID: 21768315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Ann Intern Med. 2011 Aug 16;155(4):209-16. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-155-4-201108160-00358. Epub 2011 Jul 18.

Life expectancy of persons receiving combination antiretroviral therapy in 
low-income countries: a cohort analysis from Uganda.

Mills EJ(1), Bakanda C, Birungi J, Chan K, Ford N, Cooper CL, Nachega JB, Dybul 
M, Hogg RS.

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. emills@cfenet.ubc.ca

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Aug 16;155(4):265-6.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the effect of combination antiretroviral 
therapy (cART) on life expectancy in sub-Saharan Africa.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate life expectancy of patients once they initiate cART in 
Uganda.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Public sector HIV and AIDS disease-management program in Uganda.
PATIENTS: 22 315 eligible patients initiated cART during the study period, of 
whom 1943 were considered to have died.
MEASUREMENTS: All-cause mortality rates were calculated and abridged life tables 
were constructed and stratified by sex and baseline CD4 cell count status to 
estimate life expectancies for patients receiving cART. The average number of 
years remaining to be lived by patients who received cART at varying age 
categories was estimated.
RESULTS: After adjustment for loss to follow-up, crude mortality rates (deaths 
per 1000 person-years) ranged from 26.9 (95% CI, 25.4 to 28.5) in women to 43.9 
(CI, 40.7 to 47.0) in men. For patients with a baseline CD4 cell count less than 
0.050 × 10(9) cells/L, the mortality rate was 67.3 (CI, 62.1 to 72.9) deaths per 
1000 person-years, whereas among persons with a baseline CD4 cell count of 0.250 
× 10(9) cells/L or more, the mortality rate was 19.1 (CI, 16.0 to 22.7) deaths 
per 1000 person-years. Life expectancy at age 20 years for the overall cohort 
was 26.7 (CI, 25.0 to 28.4) additional years and at age 35 years was 27.9 (CI, 
26.7 to 29.1) additional years. Life expectancy increased substantially with 
increasing baseline CD4 cell count. Similar trends are observed for older age 
groups.
LIMITATIONS: A small (6.4%) proportion of patients were lost to follow-up, and 
it was imputed that 30% of these patients had died. Few patients with a CD4 cell 
count greater than 0.250 × 10(9) cells/L initiated cART.
CONCLUSION: Ugandan patients receiving cART can expect an almost normal life 
expectancy, although there is considerable variability among subgroups of 
patients.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Canadian Institutes of Health Research.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-155-4-201108160-00358
PMID: 21768555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Ann Intern Med. 2011 Aug 16;155(4):265-6. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-155-4-201108160-00359. Epub 2011 Jul 18.

Life expectancy in Africa: back to the future?

Cotton D.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Aug 16;155(4):209-16.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-155-4-201108160-00359
PMID: 21768556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Ann Intern Med. 2011 Jul 19;155(2):69-79. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-155-2-201107190-00002.

Strategies to identify the Lynch syndrome among patients with colorectal cancer: 
a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ladabaum U(1), Wang G, Terdiman J, Blanco A, Kuppermann M, Boland CR, Ford J, 
Elkin E, Phillips KA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California, USA. uri.ladabaum@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Jul 19;155(2):127-8.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2011 Jul 19;155(2):I36.

BACKGROUND: Testing has been advocated for all persons with newly diagnosed 
colorectal cancer to identify families with the Lynch syndrome, an autosomal 
dominant cancer-predisposition syndrome that is a paradigm for personalized 
medicine.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of strategies to 
identify the Lynch syndrome, with attention to sex, age at screening, and 
differential effects for probands and relatives.
DESIGN: Markov model that incorporated risk for colorectal, endometrial, and 
ovarian cancers.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature.
TARGET POPULATION: All persons with newly diagnosed colorectal cancer and their 
relatives.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Third-party payer.
INTERVENTION: Strategies based on clinical criteria, prediction algorithms, 
tumor testing, or up-front germline mutation testing, followed by tailored 
screening and risk-reducing surgery.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life-years, cancer cases and deaths, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: The benefit of all strategies accrued primarily 
to relatives with a mutation associated with the Lynch syndrome, particularly 
women, whose life expectancy could increase by approximately 4 years with 
hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy and adherence to colorectal cancer 
screening recommendations. At current rates of germline testing, screening, and 
prophylactic surgery, the strategies reduced deaths from colorectal cancer by 7% 
to 42% and deaths from endometrial and ovarian cancer by 1% to 6%. Among 
tumor-testing strategies, immunohistochemistry followed by BRAF mutation testing 
was preferred, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $36,200 per 
life-year gained.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The number of relatives tested per proband was 
a critical determinant of both effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, with 
testing of 3 to 4 relatives required for most strategies to meet a threshold of 
$50,000 per life-year gained. Immunohistochemistry followed by BRAF mutation 
testing was preferred in 59% of iterations in probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
at a threshold of $100,000 per life-year gained. Screening for the Lynch 
syndrome with immunohistochemistry followed by BRAF mutation testing only up to 
age 70 years cost $44,000 per incremental life-year gained compared with 
screening only up to age 60 years, and screening without an upper age limit cost 
$88,700 per incremental life-year gained compared with screening only up to age 
70 years.
LIMITATION: Other types of cancer, uncertain family pedigrees, and genetic 
variants of unknown significance were not considered.
CONCLUSION: Widespread colorectal tumor testing to identify families with the 
Lynch syndrome could yield substantial benefits at acceptable costs, 
particularly for women with a mutation associated with the Lynch syndrome who 
begin regular screening and have risk-reducing surgery. The cost-effectiveness 
of such testing depends on the participation rate among relatives at risk for 
the Lynch syndrome.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-155-2-201107190-00002
PMCID: PMC3793257
PMID: 21768580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflicts of Interest: Dr. Ladabaum: 
Grant: National Institutes of Health; Consultancy: Epigenomics, Quest 
Diagnostics, Abbott Molecular, Given Imaging, Roche Diagnostics, GE Healthcare; 
Grants/ grants pending: Epigenomics, Abbott Molecular; Stock/stock options: 
GeneNews. Dr. Wang: Grant: National Institutes of Health; Grants/ grants 
pending: National Cancer Institute. Dr. Kuppermann: Grant: University of 
California, San Francisco. Dr. Boland: Grant: National Cancer Institute; Support 
for travel to meetings for study or other purposes: University of California, 
San Francisco; Consultancy: Archimedes. Dr. Elkin: Grant: National Cancer 
Institute. Disclosures can also be viewed at 
www.acponline.org/authors/icmje/ConflictOfInterestForms.do?msNum=M11-0137.


142. Rare Tumors. 2011 Apr 4;3(2):e22. doi: 10.4081/rt.2011.e22.

Is radical cystectomy mandatory in every patient with variant histology of 
bladder cancer.

Shapur NK(1), Katz R, Pode D, Shapiro A, Yutkin V, Pizov G, Appelbaum L, Zorn 
KC, Duvdevani M, Landau EH, Gofrit ON.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hadassah Hebrew University Hospital, Ein Kerem, 
Jerusalem, Israel;

Urothelial carcinomas have an established propensity for divergent 
differentiation. Most of these variant tumors are muscle invasive but not all. 
The response of non muscle invasive variant tumors to intravesical immunotherapy 
with BCG is not established in the literature, and is reported here. Between 
June 1995 and December 2007, 760 patients (mean age of 67.5 years) underwent 
transurethral resection of first time bladder tumors in our institution. 
Histologically variant tumors were found in 79 patients (10.4%). Of these 57 
patients (72%) of them had muscle-invasive disease or extensive non-muscle 
invasive tumors and remaining 22 patients (28%) were treated with BCG 
immunotherapy. These included 7 patients with squamous differentiation, 4 with 
glandular, 6 with nested, 4 with micropapillary and 1 patient with sarcomatoid 
variant. The response of these patients to immunotherapy was compared with that 
of 144 patients having high-grade conventional urothelial carcinomas. Median 
follow-up was 46 months. The 2 and 5-year progression (muscle-invasion) free 
survival rates were 92% and 84.24% for patients with conventional carcinoma 
compared to 81.06% and 63.16% for patients with variant disease (P=0.02). The 2 
and 5-year disease specific survival rates were 97% and 91.43% for patients with 
conventional carcinoma compared to 94.74 % and 82% for patients with variant 
disease (P=0.33). 5 patients (22.7%) of variant group and 13 patients (9.03%) of 
conventional group underwent cystectomy during follow-up (P=0.068).Patients with 
non-muscle invasive variants of bladder cancers can be managed with intravesical 
immunotherapy if tumor is not bulky (>4 cm). Although progression to muscle 
invasive disease is more common than in conventional group and occurs in about 
40% of the patients, life expectancy is similar to patients with conventional 
high-grade urothelial carcinomas provided that follow-up is meticulous.

DOI: 10.4081/rt.2011.e22
PMCID: PMC3132126
PMID: 21769321


143. Liver Transpl. 2011 Nov;17(11):1333-43. doi: 10.1002/lt.22388.

Cost of a quality-adjusted life year in liver transplantation: the influence of 
the indication and the model for end-stage liver disease score.

Åberg F(1), Mäklin S, Räsänen P, Roine RP, Sintonen H, Koivusalo AM, Höckerstedt 
K, Isoniemi H.

Author information:
(1)Transplantation and Liver Surgery Clinic, Helsinki University Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland. fredrik.aberg@helsinki.fi

Cost issues in liver transplantation (LT) have received increasing attention, 
but the cost-utility is rarely calculated. We compared costs per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) from the time of placement on the LT waiting 
list to 1 year after transplantation for 252 LT patients and to 5 years after 
transplantation for 81 patients. We performed separate calculations for chronic 
liver disease (CLD), acute liver failure (ALF), and different Model for 
End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scores. For the estimation of QALYs, the 
health-related quality of life was measured with the 15D instrument. The median 
costs and QALYs after LT were €141,768 and 0.895 for 1 year and €177,618 and 
3.960 for 5 years, respectively. The costs of the first year were 80% of the 
5-year costs. The main cost during years 2 to 5 was immunosuppression drugs (59% 
of the annual costs). The cost/QALY ratio improved from €158,400/QALY at 1 year 
to €44,854/QALY at 5 years, and the ratio was more beneficial for CLD patients 
(€42,500/QALY) versus ALF patients (€63,957/QALY) and for patients with low MELD 
scores versus patients with high MELD scores. Although patients with CLD and 
MELD scores > 25 demonstrated markedly higher 5-year costs (€228,434) than 
patients with MELD scores < 15 (€169,541), the cost/QALY difference was less 
pronounced (€59,894/QALY and €41,769/QALY, respectively). The cost/QALY ratio 
for LT appears favorable, but it is dependent on the assessed time period and 
the severity of the liver disease.

Copyright © 2011 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.22388
PMID: 21770017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2011 Nov;20(6):769-75. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2011.01262.x. Epub 2011 Jul 19.

The impact of cancer and its treatment on sexual desire, satisfaction and 
functioning: findings from an exploratory study in rural Turkey.

Eker F(1), Acikgoz F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, School of Health Sciences, Duzce University, Duzce, 
Turkey. fatmaeker@duzce.edu.tr

As a result of improvements in biomedical science and health care in general, 
the life expectancy of cancer patients is significantly prolonged. However, as a 
result, new and enduring problems may of this period be experienced more 
frequently. This descriptive study was carried out to determine changes in the 
sexual functioning of cancer patients in the city of Duzce, Turkey and their 
psychosexual counselling needs. The study sample consists of 40 patients (24 
men, 16 women) with various cancers and disease stages. To assess patients' 
sexual functioning, changes in four parameters related sexuality (desire, 
attractiveness, satisfaction and frequency) were measured, with patients 
comparing their conditions before and after the diagnosis of cancer. Data were 
collected using face-to-face interviews. In evaluating the data, mean, 
percentage and Fisher exact chi-squared tests were used. The importance of 
sexuality declined for the majority of patients following their illness. It was 
found that cancer patients with Stage III-IV and over 50 years of age 
experienced decrease in the frequency of their sexual relationships and sexual 
desire. Our study shows that 85% of patients were not provided with information 
concerning sexual activity during their illness, and needed counselling about 
changes in sexual functioning caused by the illness.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2011.01262.x
PMID: 21771128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nephrology (Carlton). 2011 Nov;16(8):715-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1797.2011.01504.x.

Life expectancy of Chinese patients with chronic kidney disease without 
dialysis.

Szeto CC(1), Kwan BC, Chow KM, Pang WF, Kwong VW, Leung CB, Li PK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Prince of Wales Hospital, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, China. ccszeto@cuhk.edu.hk

AIM: Long term dialysis is life-saving for patients with end stage renal disease 
(ESRD). However, in ESRD patients with multiple comorbid conditions, dialysis 
may actually be futile, and conservative management is advisable. We studied the 
life expectancy of Chinese ESRD patients treated conservatively.
METHODS: We reviewed 63 consecutive ESRD patients who were treated 
conservatively in our centre. Duration of survival was calculated from the date 
of initial assessment for dialysis, as well as the expected date of needing 
dialysis based on previous trend of renal function decline.
RESULTS: At the end of the observation period, 55 patients died. Twelve patients 
died before the expected date of needing dialysis because of unrelated reasons, 
while 36 deaths were directly attributed to uraemia. The median overall survival 
after initial assessment for dialysis was 41.3 months (95% confidence interval 
(CI), 33.2 to 49.4 months). The median overall survival was 6.58 months 
(inter-quartile range, 0.92 to 9.33 months) from the theoretical date of needing 
dialysis. The survival from the theoretical date of needing dialysis did not 
correlate with patient age, sex, diabetic status, or baseline renal function.
CONCLUSIONS: In Chinese ESRD patients treated conservatively, the median 
survival is around 6 months after the theoretical date of needing dialysis. Our 
result provides an important piece of information for the decision of dialysis 
and patient counselling.

© 2011 The Authors. Nephrology © 2011 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1797.2011.01504.x
PMID: 21771178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. G Chir. 2011 Jun-Jul;32(6-7):320-1.

Laparoscopic cholecystectomy in a patient with Steinert myotonic dystrophy. Case 
report.

Agrusa A(1), Mularo S, Alessi R, Di Paola P, Mularo A, Amato G, Romano G.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Emergency Surgery and Organ Transplants, 
Univeresity of Palermo, Italy.

Myotonic dystrophy (MD) is a serious multi-systemic autosomal dominant disease. 
The estimated incidence is 1 in every 8000 births, with an estimated prevalence 
of between 2.1 and 14.3 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Signs and symptoms vary 
from a severe form of congenital myopathy, present from birth and often fatal, 
to a classic form and a delayed form, which generally presents after the age of 
50 and in which the only sign is a cataract and life expectancy is completely 
normal. We describe the clinical case of a 40-year-old woman with Steinert 
myotonic dystrophy who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy (under general 
anesthesia) for symptomatic gallbladder stones. The conduct of anesthesia in 
such patients must be carefully considered, as hypothermia, shivering, 
electrical and mechanical stimulation, and the drugs used can all trigger 
myotonia.

PMID: 21771400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Mech Ageing Dev. 2011 Jun-Jul;132(6-7):348-52. doi:
10.1016/j.mad.2011.07.001.  Epub 2011 Jul 13.

Trinations aging symposium.

Kaeberlein M(1), Kennedy BK, Liu X, Suh Y, Zhou Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, United 
States. kaeber@uw.edu

The "Trinations Aging Symposium" was held on the campus of Guangdong Medical 
College in Dongguan, China from April 28 to 30, 2011. The goal was to promote 
interaction, collaboration, and exchange of ideas between scientists in the 
field of aging research from Japan, South Korea, and China. Aging research is on 
the rise in Asia. This represents an important development, since Korea and 
Japan are the two longest-lived countries in the world, and life expectancy is 
increasing rapidly in China and other Asian countries. The world will see a 
greater percentage of people over age 65 in coming years than any period in 
human history. Developing therapeutic approaches to increase healthspan has the 
potential not only to enhance quality of life, but would also help stem the 
looming economic crisis associated with a high percentage of elderly. The focus 
of the Trinations Aging Symposium was on the basic biology of aging, and topics 
discussed included genome maintenance, metabolism and aging, longevity genes and 
interventions, and new therapies for age-related diseases. The meeting finished 
with a commitment for another symposium next year that will include additional 
Asian countries and the formation of a new scientific organization, the Asian 
Association for Aging Research.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2011.07.001
PMID: 21771608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Radiology. 2011 Oct;261(1):193-8. doi: 10.1148/radiol.11102452. Epub 2011
Jul  19.

Impact of reduced patient life expectancy on potential cancer risks from 
radiologic imaging.

Brenner DJ(1), Shuryak I, Einstein AJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Radiological Research and Department of Medicine and Radiology, 
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University Medical Center, New 
York, NY 10032, USA. djb3@columbia.edu

Comment in
    Radiology. 2011 Oct;261(1):5-8.
    Radiology. 2012 Apr;263(1):306-7; author reply 307.

PURPOSE: To quantify the effect of reduced life expectancy on cancer risk by 
comparing estimated lifetime risks of lung cancer attributable to radiation from 
commonly used computed tomographic (CT) examinations in patients with and those 
without cancer or cardiac disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With the use of clinically determined life tables, 
reductions in radiation-attributable lung cancer risks were estimated for 
coronary CT angiographic examinations in patients with multivessel coronary 
artery disease who underwent coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery and for 
surveillance CT examinations in patients treated for colon cancer. Statistical 
uncertainties were estimated for the risk ratios in patients who underwent CABG 
surgery and patients with colon cancer versus the general population.
RESULTS: Patients with decreased life expectancy had decreased 
radiation-associated cancer risks. For example, for a 70-year-old patient with 
colon cancer, the estimated reduction in lifetime radiation-associated lung 
cancer risk was approximately 92% for stage IV disease, versus 8% for stage 0 or 
I disease. For a patient who had been treated with CABG surgery, the estimated 
reduction in lifetime radiation-associated lung cancer risk was approximately 
57% for a 55-year-old patient, versus 12% for a 75-year-old patient.
CONCLUSION: The importance of radiation exposure in determining optimal imaging 
usage is much reduced for patients with markedly reduced life expectancies: 
Imaging justification and optimization criteria for patients with substantially 
reduced life expectancies should not necessarily be the same as for those with 
normal life expectancies.

© RSNA, 2011.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.11102452
PMID: 21771956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2011 Oct;52(5):629-35. Epub 2011 Jul 20.

AnacondaTM: the Italian Registry. Study protocol and preliminary perioperative 
results.

Freyrie A(1), Gargiulo M, Fargion A, Gallitto E, Pratesi C, Stella A; 
Anaconda(TM) Italian Registry Participating Physicians.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. 
antonio.freyrie@unibo.it

AIM: AnacondaTM is an infrarenal stent-graft for the endovascular treatment 
(EVAR) of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA). The AnacondaTM Italian Registry is 
an observational multicentre registry that started in Italy on March 2009. The 
aim of this study is to present the registry protocol and to evaluate the 
interim perioperative results.
METHODS: Patient data collected covered both retrospective and new cases. The 
case record forms are divided into preoperative data (population characteristics 
and clinical data), preoperative morphological data, intraoperative data, 
perioperative data (30-days from AnacondaTM implant) and follow-up record forms. 
The inclusion criteria are: AAA with a maximum sac diameter ≥ 5 cm, AAA with 
rapid expansion, symptomatic AAA or with a contained rupture, aorto-iliac 
aneurysms, proximal neck length ≥ 15 mm and diameter of the proximal aortic neck 
between 16 and 31.5 mm. No exclusion criteria were considered regarding 
aorto-iliac tortuosity, wall calcification or thrombosis and no exclusion 
criteria were considered regarding the patients age, comorbidities or life 
expectancy. Seven postoperative follow-up controls (visit and imaging) were 
required: at 30-days from the AnacondaTM implant, 6 months, 1 year and then 
annually up to 5 years. The registry is still open to new case enrollment.
RESULTS: The reported results reflect the registry cases as at March 15, 2011. 
At this date, 787 cases were present in the database: 722 (91.7%) were male and 
65 (8.3%) female. The mean patient age was 76.6 years with a range between 50 
and 94 years. The ASA class was ≥ 3 in 635 patients (80.6%). The mean aneurysmal 
sac diameter was 55.73 ± 9.5 mm. The mean proximal aortic neck length was 26.52 
± 12.31 mm. Of the 787 patients treated, 11 cases of immediate surgical 
conversion were reported (1.3%). The overall 30-day mortality rate was 1.2% (10 
cases): but 30-day death occurred in 0.9% of successful endograft implants and 
in 27.2% of surgical conversions (p<0.001). In fourteen cases (1.7%) an iliac 
leg thrombosis occurred and a native iliac artery thrombosis occurred in only 
five cases (0.5%). The 30-day overall occurrence of endoleaks was observed in 95 
cases (12%): 5 cases of type I proximal endoleak (0.6%), 89 cases of type II 
endoleak (11.3%) and 1 case of type III endoleak (0.1%). No cases of endograft 
dislocation were reported.
CONCLUSION: This is an interim report on the study protocol and on the 
preliminary early results. Presently there are no definitive conclusions, 
however the perioperative results show that the AnacondaTM endograft seems to be 
safe and effective in the treatment of AAA, even in a high risk cohort of 
patients. Definitive and long-term results are needed.

PMID: 21772244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Indian J Orthop. 2011 Jul;45(4):307-13. doi: 10.4103/0019-5413.82333.

Predictors of survival in surgically treated patients of spinal metastasis.

Padalkar P(1), Tow B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, MGM University of Health Sciences, Navi 
Mumbai, India.

BACKGROUND: The spinal metastasis occurs in up to 40% of cancer patient. We 
compared the Tokuhashi and Tomita scoring systems, two commonly used scoring 
systems for prognosis in spinal metastases. We also assessed the different 
variables separately with respect to their value in predicting postsurgical life 
expectancy. Finally, we suggest criteria for selecting patients for surgery 
based on the postoperative survival pattern.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 102 patients who had been 
operated for metastatic disease of the spine. Predictive scoring was done 
according to the scoring systems proposed by Tokuhashi and Tomita. Overall 
survival was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Using the log rank 
test and Cox regression model we assessed the value of the individual components 
of each scoring system for predicting survival in these patients.
RESULT: The factors that were most significantly associated with survival were 
the general condition score (Karnofsky Performance Scale) (P=.000, log rank 
test), metastasis to internal organs (P=.0002 log rank test), and number of 
extraspinal bone metastases (P=.0058). Type of primary tumor was not found to be 
significantly associated with survival according to the revised Tokuhashi 
scoring system (P=.9131, log rank test). Stepwise logistic regression revealed 
that the Tomita score correlated more closely with survival than the Tokuhashi 
score.
CONCLUSION: The patient's performance status, extent of visceral metastasis, and 
extent of bone metastases are significant predictors of survival in patients 
with metastatic disease. Both revised Tokuhashi and Tomita scores were 
significantly correlated with survival. A revised Tokuhashi score of 7 or more 
and a Tomita score of 6 or less indicated >50% chance of surviving 6 months 
postoperatively. We recommend that the Tomita score be used for prognostication 
in patients who are contemplating surgery, as it is simpler to score and has a 
higher strength of correlation with survival than the Tokuhashi score.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5413.82333
PMCID: PMC3134014
PMID: 21772622

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


151. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2011 Aug;25(4):277-9. doi: 10.1007/s10557-011-6316-6.

Inhibition of the cerebral renin-angiotensin system to limit cognitive decline 
in elderly hypertensive persons.

Opie LH.

Inhibition of then renin-angiotensin system (RAS) ranks among the best 
established and most used cardiovascular therapies. By providing protection 
against hypertension and heart failure, and also the microvascular complications 
of diabetes, RAS inhibitors have contributed to the longer life-expectancy now 
found in higher income populations throughout the world. However, longevity 
propels aging persons closer to the inevitable cognitive decline. It is here 
that the RAS-inhibitors may also have a special role, especially in the many 
elderly persons with hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s10557-011-6316-6
PMID: 21773690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Cancer. 2012 Feb 15;118(4):1119-29. doi: 10.1002/cncr.26365. Epub 2011 Jul
19.

Cost-effectiveness of modern radiotherapy techniques in locally advanced 
pancreatic cancer.

Murphy JD(1), Chang DT, Abelson J, Daly ME, Yeung HN, Nelson LM, Koong AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, California 94305-5847, USA. jdmurphy@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Radiotherapy may improve the outcome of patients with pancreatic 
cancer but at an increased cost. In this study, the authors evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of modern radiotherapy techniques in the treatment of locally 
advanced pancreatic cancer.
METHODS: A Markov decision-analytic model was constructed to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of 4 treatment regimens: gemcitabine alone, gemcitabine plus 
conventional radiotherapy, gemcitabine plus intensity-modulated radiotherapy 
(IMRT); and gemcitabine with stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT). Patients 
transitioned between the following 5 health states: stable disease, local 
progression, distant failure, local and distant failure, and death. Health 
utility tolls were assessed for radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatments and for 
radiation toxicity.
RESULTS: SBRT increased life expectancy by 0.20 quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) at an increased cost of $13,700 compared with gemcitabine alone 
(incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] = $69,500 per QALY). SBRT was more 
effective and less costly than conventional radiotherapy and IMRT. An analysis 
that excluded SBRT demonstrated that conventional radiotherapy had an ICER of 
$126,800 per QALY compared with gemcitabine alone, and IMRT had an ICER of 
$1,584,100 per QALY compared with conventional radiotherapy. A probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the probability of cost-effectiveness at 
a willingness to pay of $50,000 per QALY was 78% for gemcitabine alone, 21% for 
SBRT, 1.4% for conventional radiotherapy, and 0.01% for IMRT. At a willingness 
to pay of $200,000 per QALY, the probability of cost-effectiveness was 73% for 
SBRT, 20% for conventional radiotherapy, 7% for gemcitabine alone, and 0.7% for 
IMRT.
CONCLUSIONS: The current results indicated that IMRT in locally advanced 
pancreatic cancer exceeds what society considers cost-effective. In contrast, 
combining gemcitabine with SBRT increased clinical effectiveness beyond that of 
gemcitabine alone at a cost potentially acceptable by today's standards.

Copyright © 2011 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.26365
PMID: 21773972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Leuk Lymphoma. 2011 Dec;52(12):2207-16. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2011.606386.
Epub  2011 Sep 13.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia in less fit patients: "slow-go".

Del Giudice I(1), Mauro FR, Foà R.

Author information:
(1)Hematology, Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology, Sapienza 
University, Rome, Italy.

The management of "slow-go" patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) 
remains a primary unmet clinical need. This subgroup of patients, 
underrepresented in clinical trials, represents the burden of patients with CLL 
that will progressively increase in future years. Diagnostic tools to identify 
this patient population are emerging: the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale and 
reproducible geriatric functionality tests should be included, in addition to 
the traditional performance status assessment, in the work-up of elderly 
patients prior to treatment, in order to use a common language and better focus 
the aims of therapy. Quality of life has to be preserved and evaluated with 
dedicated tests. Evidence-based therapeutic strategies for "slow-go" patients 
with CLL are still lacking. Therefore, monotherapy with chlorambucil ± rituximab 
and possibly fludarabine or bendamustine remains a first-line option outside 
clinical trials. Bendamustine + rituximab, 
pentostatin+rituximab±cyclophosphamide, fludarabine + cyclophosphamide at 
reduced doses, and chlorambucil plus new anti-CD20 antibodies can be options to 
be assessed within clinical trials, as their claimed acceptable toxicity is 
formally unproven. Clinical trials specifically designed for "slow-go" CLL are 
strongly needed, and the enrollment of patients in dedicated trials is 
recommended. New non-chemotherapeutic drugs could be also explored in this 
setting.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2011.606386
PMID: 21774745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. BMC Biotechnol. 2011 Jul 21;11:75. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-11-75.

Target-selective joint polymerase chain reaction: a robust and rapid method for 
high-throughput production of recombinant monoclonal antibodies from single 
cells.

Yoshioka M(1), Kurosawa N, Isobe M.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Innovative Life Science, University of Toyama, Toyama-shi, 
Toyama 930-8555, Japan.

BACKGROUND: During the development of a therapeutic antibody, large numbers of 
monoclonal antibodies are required to screen for those that are best suited for 
the desired activity. Although the single cell-based immunoglobulin variable 
gene cloning technique is a powerful tool, the current methods remain an 
obstacle to the rapid production of large numbers of recombinant antibodies.
RESULTS: We have developed a novel overlap extension polymerase chain reaction, 
the target-selective joint polymerase chain reaction (TS-jPCR), and applied it 
to the generation of linear immunoglobulin gene expression constructs. TS-jPCR 
is conducted using a PCR-amplified immunoglobulin variable gene and an 
immunoglobulin gene-selective cassette (Ig-cassette) that contains all essential 
elements for antibody expression and overlapping areas of immunoglobulin 
gene-specific homology. The TS-jPCR technique is simple and specific; the 
3'-random nucleotide-tailed immunoglobulin variable gene fragment and the 
Ig-cassette are assembled into a linear immunoglobulin expression construct, 
even in the presence of nonspecifically amplified DNA. We also developed a 
robotic magnetic beads handling instrument for single cell-based cDNA synthesis 
to amplify immunoglobulin variable genes by rapid amplification of 5' cDNA ends 
PCR. Using these methods, we were able to produce recombinant monoclonal 
antibodies from large numbers of single plasma cells within four days.
CONCLUSION: Our system reduces the burden of antibody discovery and engineering 
by rapidly producing large numbers of recombinant monoclonal antibodies in a 
short period of time.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-11-75
PMCID: PMC3155496
PMID: 21774833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. J Hosp Infect. 2011 Oct;79(2):119-24. doi: 10.1016/j.jhin.2011.05.015. Epub
2011  Jul 19.

Automating the monitoring of surgical site infections using variable 
life-adjusted display charts.

Vasilakis C(1), Wilson AP, Haddad FS.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Operational Research Unit, University College London, London, UK. 
c.vasilakis@ucl.ac.uk

We describe a software tool specifically developed to support the monitoring and 
reporting of the occurrence of surgical site infections (SSI) in hospitals. The 
tool uses data collected routinely by a London teaching hospital as part of its 
infection surveillance system, which includes post-discharge follow-up. Based on 
these data, the tool is used to generate graphs showing cumulative infections 
over time and variable life-adjusted display (VLAD) charts that account for the 
expected specialty average infection risk. The user can select, along with other 
options, the definition of infection used in the preparation of the graphs. 
Using an illustrative example of SSI monitoring in orthopaedic surgery, we 
demonstrate the tool and its intended use to trigger further scrutiny rather 
than draw firm conclusions. We show that the tool has the ability to generate 
departmental debate, which should ultimately lead to the increased safety of 
surgical patients. We recommend adopting the tool and VLAD charts wherever 
surgical site surveillance is continuous.

Copyright © 2011 The Healthcare Infection Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhin.2011.05.015
PMID: 21775015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2012 May;149(4):403-9. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncr311. Epub
2011  Jul 20.

Radiation doses to Norwegian heart-transplanted patients undergoing annual 
coronary angiography.

Seierstad T(1), Friberg EG, Lervåg C, Widmark A, Wilhelmsen N, Stranden E.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Buskerud University College, Kongsberg, PO Box 
7053, N-3007 Drammen, Norway. therese.seierstad@hibu.no

Heart-transplanted patients in Norway undergo annual coronary angiography (CA). 
The aims of this study were to establish a conversion factor between dose-area 
product and effective dose for these examinations and to use this to evaluate 
the accumulated radiation dose and risks associated with annual CA. An 
experienced cardiac interventionist performed a simulated examination on an 
Alderson phantom loaded with thermoluminescence dosemeters. The simulated CA 
examination yielded a dose-area product of 17 Gy cm(2) and an effective dose of 
3.4 mSv: the conversion factor between dose-area product and effective dose was 
0.20 mSv Gy cm(-2). Dose-area product values from 200 heart-transplanted 
patients that had undergone 906 CA examinations between 2001 and 2008 were 
retrieved from the institutional database. Mean dose-area product from annual CA 
was 25 Gy cm(2), ranging from 2 to 140 Gy cm(2). Mean number of CA procedure was 
8 (range, 1-23). Mean accumulated effective dose for Norwegian 
heart-transplanted patients between 2001 and 2008 was 34 mSv (range, 5-113 mSv). 
Doses and radiation risks for heart-transplanted patients are generally low, 
because most heart transplantations are performed on middle-aged patients with 
limited life expectancy. Special concern should however be taken to reduce doses 
for young heart-transplanted patients who are committed to lifelong follow-up of 
their transplanted heart.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/ncr311
PMID: 21775318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Integr Comp Biol. 2011 Nov;51(5):703-18. doi: 10.1093/icb/icr027. Epub 2011
Jul  20.

Thermal genetic adaptation in the water flea Daphnia and its impact: an evolving 
metacommunity approach.

De Meester L(1), Van Doorslaer W, Geerts A, Orsini L, Stoks R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Ch. Deberiotstraat 32, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
luc.demeester@bio.kuleuven.be

Genetic adaptation to temperature change can impact responses of populations and 
communities to global warming. Here we integrate previously published results on 
experimental evolution trials with follow-up experiments involving the water 
flea Daphnia as a model system. Our research shows (1) the capacity of natural 
populations of this species to genetically adapt to changes in temperature in a 
time span of months to years, (2) the context-dependence of these genetic 
changes, emphasizing the role of ecology and community composition on 
evolutionary responses to climatic change, and (3) the impact of 
micro-evolutionary changes on immigration success of preadapted genotypes. Our 
study involves (1) experimental evolution trials in the absence and presence of 
the community of competitors, predators, and parasites, (2) life-table and 
competition experiments to assess the fitness consequences of micro-evolution, 
and (3) competition experiments with putative immigrant genotypes. We use these 
observations as building blocks of an evolving metacommunity to understand 
biological responses to climatic change. This approach integrates both local and 
regional responses at both the population and community levels. Finally, we 
provide an outline of current gaps in knowledge and suggest fruitful avenues for 
future research.

© The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Integrative and Comparative Biology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/icb/icr027
PMID: 21775388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Neurology. 2011 Jul 26;77(4):355-63. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182270402. Epub
 2011 Jul 20.

Cost-effectiveness of disease-modifying therapy for multiple sclerosis: a 
population-based study.

Noyes K(1), Bajorska A, Chappel A, Schwid SR, Mehta LR, Weinstock-Guttman B, 
Holloway RG, Dick AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester, 601 
Elmwood Ave., Box 644, Rochester, NY 14620, USA. katia_noyes@urmc.rochester.edu

Comment in
    Neurology. 2011 Jul 26;77(4):317-8.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of disease-modifying therapies 
(DMTs) in the United States compared to basic supportive therapy without DMT for 
patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS).
METHODS: Using data from a longitudinal MS survey, we generated 10-year disease 
progression paths for an MS cohort. We used first-order annual Markov models to 
estimate transitional probabilities. Costs associated with losses of employment 
were obtained from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Medical costs were estimated 
using the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reimbursement rates and 
other sources. Outcomes were measured as gains in quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY) and relapse-free years. Monte Carlo simulations, resampling methods, and 
sensitivity analyses were conducted to evaluate model uncertainty.
RESULTS: Using DMT for 10 years resulted in modest health gains for all DMTs 
compared to treatment without DMT (0.082 QALY or <1 quality-adjusted month gain 
for glatiramer acetate, and 0.126-0.192 QALY gain for interferons). The 
cost-effectiveness of all DMTs far exceeded $800,000/QALY. Reducing the cost of 
DMTs had by far the greatest impact on the cost-effectiveness of these 
treatments (e.g., cost reduction by 67% would improve the probability of Avonex 
being cost-effective at $164,000/QALY to 50%). Compared to treating patients 
with all levels of disease, starting DMT earlier was associated with a lower 
(more favorable) incremental cost-effectiveness ratio compared to initiating 
treatment at any disease state.
CONCLUSION: Use of DMT in MS results in health gains that come at a very high 
cost.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182270402
PMCID: PMC3140799
PMID: 21775734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Med Life. 2011 May 15;4(2):207-9. Epub 2011 May 25.

Two implant overdenture--the first alternative treatment for patients with 
complete edentulous mandible.

Melescanu Imre M(1), Marin M, Preoteasa E, Tancu AM, Preoteasa CT.

Author information:
(1)Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Faculty of Dentistry, 
Bucharest, Romania. melim.marina@gmail.com

Given the increasing life expectancy in the coming years, dental practitioners, 
as other specialists from different medical fields, will encounter an increasing 
number of complete edentulous patients. These patients, with a longer active 
life and higher standards of life quality, will have different expectations for 
their complete dentures, higher than the standard treatment that uses 
conventional complete dentures. Two-implant overdenture is considered the first 
alternative treatment in complete edentulous mandible, according to current 
medical standards established by a team of specialists in prosthodontics and 
implantology, and globally known as the McGill Consensus from McGill University, 
Montreal, Canada. The Consensus was established during a-day-and-a-half session 
of presentations done by experts who presented data, scientific information on 
the subject, and, not less significant, personal experiences of participants and 
patients. Overdenture on implants, as an alternative treatment for complete 
edentulous mandible, has multiple benefits in achieving better conditions of 
prosthesis: balance and effectiveness, with positive effects on oral structures, 
aesthetics, and quality of life. Mandibular two-implant overdenture, established 
as a standard treatment by the highest international forum, should gradually 
become the first choice of treatment in complete edentulous mandible.

PMCID: PMC3124262
PMID: 21776308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Contemp Clin Trials. 2011 Nov;32(6):909-15. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2011.07.006.
Epub  2011 Jul 18.

IMProving Adherence using Combination Therapy (IMPACT): design and protocol of a 
randomised controlled trial in primary care.

Selak V(1), Elley CR, Crengle S, Harwood M, Doughty R, Arroll B, Bryant L, 
Rafter N, Hoorn SV, Wadham A, Wells S, Milne R, Jackson R, Bramley D, Rodgers A.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Research Unit, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, 
Auckland Mail Centre, Auckland 1142, New Zealand. v.selak@ctru.auckland.ac.nz

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death, and 
principal reason for the large difference in life expectancy between indigenous 
Māori and the non-indigenous population in New Zealand. CVD guidelines recommend 
that people who are at high risk or who have had previous CVD should be offered 
aspirin, blood pressure lowering and lipid lowering therapies. However, 
prescribing and adherence rates are low and CVD events remain high.
AIM: To assess whether a medication strategy using a fixed dose combination pill 
('polypill') could improve prescribing and adherence to recommended medications, 
lower blood pressure and improve lipids compared with current care over 12 
months.
METHODS: IMProving Adherence using Combination Therapy (IMPACT) is an open-label 
randomised controlled trial comparing a once-daily polypill containing four 
preventive medications with usual care. Six hundred participants who have had 
previous CVD events or are at high risk of CVD will be enrolled, including 300 
Māori. Participants are identified, enrolled and prescribed either the polypill 
or current medications at their usual primary health care practice, with 
medications (including the polypill) dispensed through local community 
pharmacies. The polypill contains 75 mg aspirin, 40 mg simvastatin, 10mg 
lisinopril and either 12.5mg hydrochlorothiazide or 50mg atenolol. Primary 
outcomes are adherence to guidelines-recommended medications and changes in 
systolic blood pressure and low density lipoprotein at 12 months. Secondary 
outcomes include other lipids, medication dispensing, barriers to adherence, CVD 
