End-of-life pharmacotherapy is sometimes perceived to be complex and 
challenging, probably unnecessarily. This relates in part to the poorly 
developed evidence base and lack of high-quality research in this area. In this 
article, we deal with some of the key issues relating to pharmacotherapy in 
end-of-life patients, namely (i) the guiding principles of drug selection, (ii) 
the main drugs and drug classes that are best avoided, (iii) the benefits of 
'oligopharmacy' (i.e. deliberate avoidance of polypharmacy) in end-of-life 
patients.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afr059
PMID: 21622981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Indian J Med Res. 2011 May;133(5):461-3.

Research on social inequalities in health in India.

Subramanyam MA(1), Subramanian SV.

Author information:
(1)Center for Integrative Approaches to Health Disparities, School of Public 
Health, University of Michigan, USA.

Comment on
    Indian J Med Res. 2011 May;133:479-86.

PMCID: PMC3121273
PMID: 21623027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Indian J Med Res. 2011 May;133(5):479-86.

Socio-economic factors & longevity in a cohort of Kerala State, India.

Sauvaget C(1), Ramadas K, Fayette JM, Thomas G, Thara S, Sankaranarayanan R.

Author information:
(1)Screening Group, Section of Early Detection & Prevention, International 
Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France. sauvagetc@iarc.fr

Comment in
    Indian J Med Res. 2011 May;133:461-3.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Even though Kerala State is well-known for its 
egalitarian policies in terms of healthcare, redistributive actions and social 
reforms, and its health indicators close to those of high-resource countries 
despite a poor per-capita income, it is not clear whether socio-economic 
disparities in terms of life expectancy are observed. This study was therefore 
carried out to study the impact of socio-economic level on life expectancy in 
individuals living in Kerala.
METHODS: A cohort of 1,67,331 participants aged 34 years and above in 
Thiruvananthapuram district, having completed a lifestyle questionnaire at 
baseline in 1995, was followed up for mortality and cause of death until 2005. 
Survival estimates were based on the participants' vital status and death rates 
were calculated separately for men and women and for several socio-economic 
factors, stratified by age.
RESULTS: At 40 years, men and women were expected to live another 34 and 37 
years, respectively. Life expectancy varied across the participants' different 
socio-economic categories: those from high income households with good housing 
conditions, materially privileged households and small households, had a 2-3 
years longer life expectancy as compared to the deprived persons. Also, those 
who went to college lived longer than the illiterates. The gaps between 
categories were wider in men than in women.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: Socio-economic disparity in longevity was 
observed: wealthy people from Kerala State presented a longer life expectancy.

PMCID: PMC3121277
PMID: 21623031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Neurosurgery. 2011 Oct;69(4):829-35; discussion 835-6. doi: 
10.1227/NEU.0b013e31822578f6.

Tubular diskectomy vs conventional microdiskectomy for the treatment of lumbar 
disk-related sciatica: cost utility analysis alongside a double-blind randomized 
controlled trial.

van den Akker ME(1), Arts MP, van den Hout WB, Brand R, Koes BW, Peul WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, the Netherlands. vandenakker@lumc.nl

BACKGROUND: Conventional microdiskectomy is the most frequently performed 
surgery for patients with sciatica caused by lumbar disk herniation. 
Transmuscular tubular diskectomy has been introduced to increase the rate of 
recovery, although evidence of its efficacy is lacking.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a favorable cost-effectiveness for tubular 
diskectomy compared with conventional microdiskectomy is attained.
METHODS: Cost utility analysis was performed alongside a double-blind randomized 
controlled trial conducted among 325 patients with lumbar disk related sciatica 
lasting >6 to 8 weeks at 7 Dutch hospitals comparing tubular diskectomy with 
conventional microdiskectomy. Main outcome measures were quality-adjusted 
life-years at 1 year and societal costs, estimated from patient reported 
utilities (US and Netherlands EuroQol, Short Form Health Survey-6D, and Visual 
Analog Scale) and diaries on costs (health care, patient costs, and 
productivity).
RESULTS: Quality-adjusted life-years during all 4 quarters and according to all 
utility measures were not statistically different between tubular diskectomy and 
conventional microdiskectomy (difference for US EuroQol, -0.012; 95% confidence 
interval, -0.046 to 0.021). From the healthcare perspective, tubular diskectomy 
resulted in nonsignificantly higher costs (difference US $460; 95% confidence 
interval, -243 to 1163). From the societal perspective, a nonsignificant 
difference of US $1491 (95% confidence interval, -1335 to 4318) in favor of 
conventional microdiskectomy was found. The nonsignificant differences in costs 
and quality-adjusted life-years in favor of conventional microdiskectomy result 
in a low probability that tubular diskectomy is more cost-effective than 
conventional microdiskectomy.
CONCLUSION: Tubular diskectomy is unlikely to be cost-effective compared with 
conventional microdiskectomy.

DOI: 10.1227/NEU.0b013e31822578f6
PMID: 21623248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2011 Dec;39(6):481-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0528.2011.00623.x. Epub 2011 May 30.

Equity, social determinants and public health programmes--the case of oral 
health.

Petersen PE(1), Kwan S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chronic Disease and Health Promotion, Global Oral Health 
Programme, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. petersenpe@who.int

The WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health issued the 2008 report 
'Closing the gap within a generation - health equity through action on the 
social determinants of health' in response to the widening gaps, within and 
between countries, in income levels, opportunities, life expectancy, health 
status, and access to health care. Most individuals and societies, irrespective 
of their philosophical and ideological stance, have limits as to how much 
unfairness is acceptable. In 2010, WHO published another important report on 
'Equity, Social Determinants and Public Health Programmes', with the aim of 
translating knowledge into concrete, workable actions. Poor oral health was 
flagged as a severe public health problem. Oral disease and illness remain 
global problems and widening inequities in oral health status exist among 
different social groupings between and within countries. The good news is that 
means are available for breaking poverty and reduce if not eliminate social 
inequalities in oral health. Whether public health actions are initiated simply 
depends on the political will. The Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion (1986) 
and subsequent charters have emphasized the importance of policy for health, 
healthy environments, healthy lifestyles, and the need for orientation of health 
services towards health promotion and disease prevention. This report advocates 
that oral health for all can be promoted effectively by applying this philosophy 
and some major public health actions are outlined.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0528.2011.00623.x
PMID: 21623864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. J Physiol. 2011 Jul 15;589(Pt 14):3659-70. doi:
10.1113/jphysiol.2011.208629.  Epub 2011 May 30.

Dietary composition programmes placental phenotype in mice.

Coan PM(1), Vaughan OR, McCarthy J, Mactier C, Burton GJ, Constância M, Fowden 
AL.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Trophoblast Research, Department of Physiology, Development and 
Neuroscience, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EG, UK. 
p.m.coan.02@cantab.net

Dietary composition during pregnancy influences fetal and adult phenotype but 
its effects on placental phenotype remain largely unknown. Using molecular, 
morphological and functional analyses, placental nutrient transfer capacity was 
examined in mice fed isocaloric diets containing 23%, 18% or 9% casein (C) 
during pregnancy. At day 16, placental transfer of glucose, but not 
methyl-aminoisobutyric acid (MeAIB), was greater in C18 and C9 than C23 mice, in 
association with increased placental expression of the glucose transporter 
Slc2a1/GLUT1, and the growth factor Igf2. At day 19, placental glucose transport 
remained high in C9 mice while MeAIB transfer was less in C18 than C23 mice, 
despite greater placental weights in C18 and C9 than C23 mice. Placental System 
A amino acid transporter expression correlated with protein intake at day 19. 
Relative growth of transport verses endocrine zones of the placenta was 
influenced by diet at both ages without changing the absolute volume of the 
transport surface. Fetal weight was unaffected by diet at day 16 but was reduced 
in C9 animals by day 19. Morphological and functional adaptations in placental 
phenotype, therefore, occur to optimise nutrient transfer when dietary 
composition is varied, even subtly. This has important implications for the 
intrauterine programming of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.208629
PMCID: PMC3167124
PMID: 21624969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e19936. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019936. Epub 2011 May
20.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV screening in STD clinics, emergency departments, and 
inpatient units: a model-based analysis.

Prabhu VS(1), Farnham PG, Hutchinson AB, Soorapanth S, Heffelfinger JD, Golden 
MR, Brooks JT, Rimland D, Sansom SL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Global HIV/AIDS, Center for Global Health, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Identifying and treating persons with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection early in their disease stage is considered an effective means of 
reducing the impact of the disease. We compared the cost-effectiveness of HIV 
screening in three settings, sexually transmitted disease (STD) clinics serving 
men who have sex with men, hospital emergency departments (EDs), settings where 
patients are likely to be diagnosed early, and inpatient diagnosis based on 
clinical manifestations.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed the Progression and Transmission of HIV/AIDS 
model, a health state transition model that tracks index patients and their 
infected partners from HIV infection to death. We used program characteristics 
for each setting to compare the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year 
gained from early versus late diagnosis and treatment. We ran the model for 
10,000 index patients for each setting, examining alternative scenarios, 
excluding and including transmission to partners, and assuming HAART was 
initiated at a CD4 count of either 350 or 500 cells/µL. Screening in STD clinics 
and EDs was cost-effective compared with diagnosing inpatients, even when 
including only the benefits to the index patients. Screening patients in STD 
clinics, who have less-advanced disease, was cost-effective compared with ED 
screening when treatment with HAART was initiated at a CD4 count of 500 
cells/µL. When the benefits of reduced transmission to partners from early 
diagnosis were included, screening in settings with less-advanced disease stages 
was cost-saving compared with screening later in the course of infection. The 
study was limited by a small number of observations on CD4 count at diagnosis 
and by including transmission only to first generation partners of the index 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: HIV prevention efforts can be advanced by screening in settings 
where patients present with less-advanced stages of HIV infection and by 
initiating treatment with HAART earlier in the course of infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019936
PMCID: PMC3098845
PMID: 21625489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


779. Rev Bras Reumatol. 2011 May-Jun;51(3):260-8.

Rheumatoid arthritis and metabolic syndrome.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

da Cunha VR(1), Brenol CV, Brenol JC, Xavier RM.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul – UFRGS, Brazil.

Erratum in
    Rev Bras Reumatol. 2011 Aug;51(4). doi:10.1590/S0482-50042011000400013.

In the past 20 years, the life expectancy of patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA) has been shown to be reduced by three to ten years as compared to that of 
the general population. Currently, cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the major 
cause of death in patients with RA, and acute myocardial infarction can be up to 
four times more frequent in these patients. The autoimmune systemic inflammatory 
response, along with the presence of metabolic syndrome (MetS), doubles the risk 
for fatal or non-fatal CVD and coronary atherosclerosis, regardless of age and 
sex. Rheumatoid arthritis has been associated with increased prevalence of MetS, 
but its role in the different characteristics of the disease, such as disease 
duration, activity, and treatment with glucocorticoids, is not well defined. 
This study aimed at reviewing the prevalence of MetS and the factors implicated 
in the development of atherosclerosis in RA patients, assessing the clinical 
aspects of RA and its association with the development of MetS.

PMID: 21625814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Chirurg. 2011 Jun;82(6):484, 486-9. doi: 10.1007/s00104-010-2037-9.

[Zenker's diverticulum: pro operation].

[Article in German]

Feussner H(1).

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, Klinikum rechts der Isar TU München, 
Deutschland. feussner@chir.med.tu-muenchen.de

In case of Zenker's diverticulum, treatment is indicated as soon as the 
diagnosis is established. Therapy should aim at the elimination of dysphagia and 
the symptoms of food retention and should reliably prevent recurrence. 
Currently, three different therapeutic approaches are applied: the classical 
option is open transcervical myotomy and diverticulectomy/diverticulopexy and 
alternatively stapled diverticulostomy with a linear stapler or flexible 
endoscopic diverticulostomy is propagated. As compared to the surgical (open) 
approach, rigid or flexible endotherapy is less invasive. However, endotherapy 
is not always feasible for all types of Zenker's diverticulum and the recurrence 
rate is high. Accordingly, open diverticulectomy is recommended in patients with 
an adequate life expectancy and good general operability.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-010-2037-9
PMID: 21625869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Neurocrit Care. 2011 Dec;15(3):559-76. doi: 10.1007/s12028-011-9538-3.

Antihypertensive Treatment of Acute Cerebral Hemorrhage (ATACH) II: design, 
methods, and rationale.

Qureshi AI(1), Palesch YY.

Author information:
(1)Zeenat Qureshi Stroke Research Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
MN, USA. aiqureshi@hotmail.com

The December 2003 report from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders 
and Stroke (NINDS) Workshop on priorities for clinical research in intracerebral 
hemorrhage (ICH) recommended clinical trials for evaluation of blood pressure 
management in acute ICH as a leading priority. The Special Writing Group of the 
Stroke Council of the American Heart Association in 1999 and 2007 emphasized the 
need for clinical trials to ensure evidence-based treatment of acute 
hypertensive response in ICH. To address important gaps in knowledge, we 
conducted a pilot study funded by the NINDS, Antihypertensive Treatment of Acute 
Cerebral Hemorrhage (ATACH) I Trial, during 2004-2008 to determine the 
appropriate level of systolic blood pressure (SBP) reduction. We now have 
initiated a multi-center, randomized Phase III trial, the ATACH II Trial, to 
definitively determine the efficacy of early, intensive, antihypertensive 
treatment using intravenous (IV) nicardipine initiated within 3 h of onset of 
ICH and continued for the next 24 h in subjects with spontaneous supratentorial 
ICH. The primary hypothesis of this large (N = 1,280), streamlined, and focused 
trial is that SBP reduction to ≤140 mm Hg reduces the likelihood of death or 
disability at 3 months after ICH, defined by modified Rankin scale score of 4-6, 
by at least 10% absolute compared to standard SBP reduction to ≤180 mm Hg. The 
ATACH II trial is a natural extension of numerous case series, the subsequent 
ATACH I pilot trial, and a preliminary, randomized, and controlled trial in this 
patient population funded by the Australian National Health and Medical Research 
Council. Both trials recently confirmed the safety and tolerability of both the 
regimen and goals of antihypertensive treatment in acutely hypertensive patients 
with ICH, as proposed in the present trial. The underlying mechanism for this 
expected beneficial effect of intensive treatment is presumably mediated through 
reduction of the rate and magnitude of hematoma expansion observed in 
approximately 73% of the patients with acute ICH. The Australian trial provided 
preliminary evidence of attenuation of hematoma expansion with intensive SBP 
reduction. The ATACH II trial will have important public health implications by 
providing evidence of, or lack thereof, regarding the efficacy and safety of 
acute antihypertensive treatment in subjects with ICH. This treatment represents 
a strategy that can be made widely available without the need for specialized 
equipment and personnel, and therefore, can make a major impact upon clinical 
practice for treating patients with ICH.

DOI: 10.1007/s12028-011-9538-3
PMCID: PMC3340125
PMID: 21626077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Immigr Minor Health. 2011 Dec;13(6):975-81. doi:
10.1007/s10903-011-9483-4.

Acculturation and cardiovascular behaviors among Latinos in California by 
country/region of origin.

Van Wieren AJ(1), Roberts MB, Arellano N, Feller ER, Diaz JA.

Author information:
(1)Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA. 
andrew_van_wieren@brown.edu

Despite generally lower socioeconomic status and worse access to healthcare, 
Latinos have better overall health outcomes and longer life expectancy than 
non-Latino Whites. This "Latino Health Paradox" has been partially attributed to 
healthier cardiovascular (CV) behaviors among Latinos. However, as Latinos 
become more acculturated, differences in some CV behaviors disappear. This study 
aimed to explore how associations between acculturation and CV behaviors among 
Latinos vary by country of origin. Combined weighted data from the 2005 and 2007 
California Health Interview Survey (CHIS) were used to investigate associations 
between acculturation level and CV behaviors among Latinos by country of origin. 
Among all Latinos, increased acculturation was associated with more smoking, 
increased leisure-time physical activity, and greater consumption of fast foods, 
but no change in fruit/vegetable and less soda intake. These trends varied, 
however, by Latino sub-groups from different countries of origin. Country of 
origin appears to impact associations between acculturation and CV behaviors 
among Latinos in complex ways.

DOI: 10.1007/s10903-011-9483-4
PMCID: PMC3564577
PMID: 21626297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Youth Adolesc. 2012 Jan;41(1):98-104. doi: 10.1007/s10964-011-9677-z. Epub
 2011 May 31.

Invited commentary: childhood and adolescent obesity: psychological and 
behavioral issues in weight loss treatment.

Sarwer DB, Dilks RJ.

The prevalence of childhood and adolescent obesity has tripled in the past three 
decades. This increase has been accompanied by a dramatic rise in 
obesity-related health complications among American youth. Thus, many obese 
youth are now experiencing illnesses that will threaten their life expectancy in 
the absence of significant weight loss. Despite these concerns, a relatively 
modest body of research has focused on the treatment of adolescent obesity. 
Results from trials investigating the efficacy of behavioral and pharmacological 
treatments, like studies of these interventions with adults, suggest that 
individuals typically lose 5-10% of their initial weight. Unfortunately, weight 
regain is common. Given the increase in the number of obese adolescents, coupled 
with the modest results from more conservative treatment approaches, it is not 
surprising that bariatric surgery for adolescents who suffer from extreme 
obesity has grown in popularity. The weight losses after surgery are impressive 
and many adolescents, like adults, experience significant improvements in their 
physical and mental health postoperatively. However, only a small fraction of 
adolescents and adults who are heavy enough for bariatric surgery present for 
surgical treatment. Among those who undergo surgery, a significant minority 
appear to struggle with a number of behavioral and psychosocial issues that 
threaten their lifelong success. With all of this in mind, the current obesity 
problem in the United States and other Westernized countries likely will present 
a significant challenge to both current and future medical and mental health 
professionals who work with adolescents and young adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s10964-011-9677-z
PMID: 21626434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Health Econ. 2012 Jun;21(6):715-29. doi: 10.1002/hec.1740. Epub 2011 May 27.

Valuing states from multiple measures on the same visual analogue sale: a 
feasibility study.

Rowen D(1), Brazier J, Tsuchiya A, Alava MH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research 
(ScHARR), University of Sheffield, Sheffield, South Yorkshire S1 4DA, UK. 
d.rowen@sheffield.ac.uk

Previous methods of empirical mapping involve using regressions on patient or 
general population self-reported data from datasets involving two or more 
measures. This approach relies on overlap in the descriptive systems of the 
measures and assumes it is appropriate to use different measures on the same 
population, which may not always be the case. This paper presents a feasibility 
study for a new approach to mapping between preference-based measures (PBM) 
using general population visual analogue scale (VAS) values as a common 
yardstick. We use data from a valuation study of 502 members of the UK general 
population, where, using ranking and VAS tasks, interviewees simultaneously 
valued health states defined by three of six PBM: EQ-5D (generic), SF-6D 
(generic), HUI2 (generic for children and adults), AQL-5D (asthma specific), 
OPUS (social care specific) and ICECAP (capabilities). Regression techniques are 
used to estimate the relationship between these VAS values and the original 
value set (i.e. 'tariff'). These results are subsequently used to estimate the 
relationship between all six PBM to enable 'value-based mapping' between 
measures. This new method of mapping potentially has a useful role in evidence 
synthesis and cross programme comparisons in studies using different measures.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1740
PMID: 21626608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2011 Nov;46(11):1085-92. doi: 10.1002/ppul.21477. Epub
2011  May 27.

Body satisfaction, nutritional adherence, and quality of life in youth with 
cystic fibrosis.

Simon SL(1), Duncan CL, Horky SC, Nick TG, Castro MM, Riekert KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical & Health Psychology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida.

Children with cystic fibrosis (CF) typically have similar nutritional intake as 
healthy peers, despite recommendations to consume more calories and fat. Body 
satisfaction may play a role in nutritional intake: females may be content with 
their smaller size despite recommendations for weight gain, while males may 
desire to be larger and more muscular, which is more congruent with medical 
advice. Females are especially at risk, given their propensity to desire a 
smaller body size, tendency for lower HRQOL, steeper trajectory of health 
decline and shorter life expectancy than males. This study evaluated body 
satisfaction in relation to nutritional adherence and HRQOL in youth with CF. 
Fifty-four individuals with CF (age 9-17) completed the Cystic Fibrosis 
Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R), the Figure Rating Scale, and a 24-hr diet recall 
interview with their caregiver. Twenty-four percent of youth were non-adherent 
with caloric goals, and 40.7% did not obtain the minimum recommendation for fat 
intake. Youth were classified as inconsistent with treatment goals (TI) if they 
desired a smaller body size or were content with their current size despite a 
BMI less than the 50th percentile; 44.8% of females were classified as TI, 
compared to only 8% of males. Statistical analyses were performed to evaluate 
the impact of gender and body satisfaction on HRQOL in youth with CF. Linear 
multiple regression models were fit; TI females had Emotional HRQOL scores 23 
points lower than males. Results suggest that improving body satisfaction, 
especially for females, may help to improve overall quality of life and 
potentially impact nutritional adherence.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.21477
PMID: 21626713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Clin Drug Investig. 2011;31(7):493-505. doi:
10.2165/11587120-000000000-00000.

Iron-chelating therapies in a transfusion-dependent thalassaemia population in 
Thailand: a cost-effectiveness study.

Luangasanatip N(1), Chaiyakunapruk N, Upakdee N, Wong P.

Author information:
(1)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: β-Thalassaemia is a major public health problem in 
Thailand. Use of appropriate iron-chelating agents could prevent 
thalassaemia-related complications, which are costly to the healthcare system. 
This study aimed to evaluate the cost effectiveness of deferoxamine (DFO), 
deferiprone (DFP) and deferasirox (DFX) in Thai transfusion-dependent 
β-thalassaemia patients from the societal perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to project the life-time costs and outcomes 
represented as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Data on the clinical 
efficacy and safety of all therapeutic options were obtained from a systematic 
review and clinical trials. Transition probabilities were derived from published 
studies. Costs were obtained from the Thai Drug and Medical Supply Information 
Center, Thai national reimbursement rate information and other Thai literature 
sources. A discount rate of 3% was used. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) were presented as year 2009 values. A base-case analysis was performed 
for thalassaemia patients requiring regular blood transfusion therapy, while a 
separate analysis was performed for patients requiring low (i.e. 
symptom-dependent, less frequent) blood transfusion therapy. A series of 
sensitivity analysis and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were 
constructed.
RESULTS: Compared with DFO, using DFP was dominant with lifetime cost savings of 
$US91 117. Comparing DFX with DFO, the incremental cost was $US522 863 and 
incremental QALY was 5.77 with an ICER of $US90 648 per QALY. When compared with 
DFP, the ICER of DFX was $US106 445 per QALY. A cost-effectiveness analysis 
curve showed the probability of DFX being cost effective was 0% when compared 
with either DFO or DFP, based on the cost-effectiveness cut-off value of $US2902 
per QALY. When compared with DFP, DFX was cost effective only if the DFX cost 
was as low as $US1.68 per 250 mg tablet. The results of the analysis in patients 
requiring low blood transfusion therapy were not different from those of the 
base-case analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that using DFP is cost saving when compared 
with conventional therapy, while using DFX is not cost effective compared with 
either DFO or DFP in Thai patients with transfusion-dependent β-thalassaemia. 
Policy-makers and clinicians may consider using such information in their 
decision-making process in Thailand.

DOI: 10.2165/11587120-000000000-00000
PMID: 21627338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Risk Anal. 2012 Jan;32(1):81-95. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01630.x. Epub
 2011 May 31.

Estimating the national public health burden associated with exposure to ambient 
PM2.5 and ozone.

Fann N(1), Lamson AD, Anenberg SC, Wesson K, Risley D, Hubbell BJ.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and 
Standards, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. fann.neal@epa.gov

Comment in
    Risk Anal. 2012 May;32(5):765-7; author reply 768-70.

Ground-level ozone (O(3)) and fine particulate matter (PM(2.5)) are associated 
with increased risk of mortality. We quantify the burden of modeled 2005 
concentrations of O(3) and PM(2.5) on health in the United States. We use the 
photochemical Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) model in conjunction with 
ambient monitored data to create fused surfaces of summer season average 8-hour 
ozone and annual mean PM(2.5) levels at a 12 km grid resolution across the 
continental United States. Employing spatially resolved demographic and 
concentration data, we assess the spatial and age distribution of 
air-pollution-related mortality and morbidity. For both PM(2.5) and O(3) we also 
estimate: the percentage of total deaths due to each pollutant; the reduction in 
life years and life expectancy; and the deaths avoided according to hypothetical 
air quality improvements. Using PM(2.5) and O(3) mortality risk coefficients 
drawn from the long-term American Cancer Society (ACS) cohort study and National 
Mortality and Morbidity Air Pollution Study (NMMAPS), respectively, we estimate 
130,000 PM(2.5) -related deaths and 4,700 ozone-related deaths to result from 
2005 air quality levels. Among populations aged 65-99, we estimate nearly 1.1 
million life years lost from PM(2.5) exposure and approximately 36,000 life 
years lost from ozone exposure. Among the 10 most populous counties, the 
percentage of deaths attributable to PM(2.5) and ozone ranges from 3.5% in San 
Jose to 10% in Los Angeles. These results show that despite significant 
improvements in air quality in recent decades, recent levels of PM(2.5) and 
ozone still pose a nontrivial risk to public health.

© 2011 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01630.x
PMID: 21627672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Int J Equity Health. 2011 May 31;10:23. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-10-23.

Social inequalities, regional disparities and health inequity in North African 
countries.

Boutayeb A(1), Helmert U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Sciences, Boulevard Mohamed VI, BP: 717 
Oujda, Morocco. x.boutayeb@menara.ma.

BACKGROUND: During the last decades, North African countries have substantially 
improved economic, social and health conditions of their populations in average. 
In all countries, human development in general and life expectancy, literacy and 
per capita income in particular have increased. However, improvement was not 
equally shared between groups of different milieu, regions or level of income. 
Social inequalities and health inequity have persisted or even worsened. Data 
are generally scarce and few studies were devoted to this topic in North Africa 
as a region. In this paper, we carry out a comparative study on the achievements 
of these countries, not only in terms of human development and its components 
but also in terms of inequalities' reduction and health equity.
METHOD: This study is based on data available for comparison between North 
African countries. The main data sources are provided by reports released by the 
World Health Organisation (WHO), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), 
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the World Bank, surveys such as 
Demographic Health Surveys (DHS) and Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) 
and finally recent papers published on equity in different countries of the 
region.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: There is no doubt that education, health and human 
development in general have improved in North Africa during the last decades. 
Improvement was, however, uneven and unequally enjoyed by different 
socioeconomic groups. Indeed, each country included in this study shows large 
urban-rural disparities, discrepancies between advantaged and disadvantaged 
regions and cities; and unacceptable differences between rich and poor. Health 
inequity is particularly seen through access to health services and infant 
mortality.
CONCLUSION: During the last decades, North African decision makers have 
endeavoured to improve social and economic conditions of their populations. 
Globally, health, education and living standard in general have substantially 
improved in average. However, North African countries have still a long way to 
go to reduce social inequalities and health inequity at different levels: 
rural-urban, advantaged-marginalised regions and cities, between groups of 
different level of income and wealth. The challenge for the next decade is not 
only to improve economic, social and health conditions in average but also and 
mainly to reduce avoidable inequalities in parallel.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-10-23
PMCID: PMC3120653
PMID: 21627818


789. Acta Med Port. 2010 Nov-Dec;23(6):1025-34. Epub 2010 Dec 28.

[Economic analysis of rituximab in combination with cyclophosphamide, 
vincristine and prednisolone in the treatment of patients with advanced 
follicular lymphoma in Portugal].

[Article in Portuguese]

Braga P(1), Carvalho S, Gomes M, Guerra L, Lúcio P, Marques H, Negreiro F, 
Pereira C, Silva C, Teixeira A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento Médico-Oncologia. Roche Farmacêutica Química, Ltd., Lisbon.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluate costs and benefits of rituximab in combination with 
cyclophosphamide/vincristine/prednisolone chemotherapy regimen (R-CVP), in 
previously untreated patients with indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), compared 
to CVP alone from a Portuguese National Health System (NHS) perspective.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness (Life Years Gained--LYG) and cost-utility analysis 
(Quality Adjusted Life Years--QALYs) were performed for a time horizon of 10 
years, according to a Markov economic model with three health states 
(progression free survival, progression and death) and monthly cycles for a 
population of previously untreated patients with indolent NHL. Data from a phase 
III clinical trial was used and expanded to include unpublished 53-month median 
follow-up data. Survival after first-line therapy was estimated from the 
Scotland and Newcastle Lymphoma Group registry data and utilities were derived 
from a study in the UK performed in patients with follicular lymphoma. Resource 
consumption was estimated by a Portuguese expert panel (Delbecq Panel). Costs 
were calculated from the Portuguese NHS perspective through official data with 
prices updated to 2008. Only direct medical costs were considered. Costs and 
clinical outcomes were discounted at 5% per annum. Deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis were performed around assumptions on the time 
horizon, costs, utilities and excess mortality rate due to progression applied 
in the base-case analysis.
RESULTS: The 10-year base-case analysis showed a lower total cost per patient 
with CVP alone (€ 85,838) in comparison with R-CVP (€ 87,774). Life expectancy 
and Quality adjusted life expectancy per patient were higher with R-CVP (6.361 
and 4.166, respectively) than with CVP alone (5.557 and 3.438, respectively), 
representing increases of 0.804 in LYG and 0.728 (8.7 months) in QALYs gained. 
The incremental cost per LYG was € 2,407 and the incremental cost per QALY 
gained was € 2,661. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis confirmed the 
robustness of the base-case analysis results.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that the combination R-CVP in previously 
untreated indolent NHL patients improves life expectancy and is a cost-effective 
alternative to CVP in Portugal.

PMID: 21627880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Ugeskr Laeger. 2011 May 30;173(22):1570-3.

[Malignant tumours of the hand].

[Article in Danish]

Knudsen BM(1), Rasmussen PJ, Lausten GS, Jensen NV, Søe NH.

Author information:
(1)Håndkirurgisk Afdeling, Gentofte Hospital, 2900 Hellerup, Denmark. 
brmekn01@heh.regionh.dk

Malignant tumours of the hand are rare and are often misdiagnosed. A painful 
swelling of the hand or digits are often diagnosed with an infection, benign 
tumours such as ganglion cysts, or arthritis. Wounds that do not heal despite 
adequate treatment should be biopsied to rule out malignancy. A correct 
diagnosis without delay is important because the life expectancy, due to a 
metastasis on the hand or fingers is approximately six months.

PMID: 21627901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Prim Care. 2011 Jun;38(2):159-71, vii. doi: 10.1016/j.pop.2011.03.001.

Palliative care: an evolving field in medicine.

Eti S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care, Beth Israel Medical Center, 
First Avenue at 16th Street, New York, NY 10003, USA. seti@chpnet.org

Palliative care is an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and 
their families facing the problems associated with life-threatening illness, 
through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early identification 
and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems: physical, 
psychosocial, and spiritual. This article discusses illness trajectories and 
prognostic estimates, prognostic tools, educating physicians and nurses in 
palliative care, research in palliative medicine, and palliative care in 
hospitals and the community.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pop.2011.03.001
PMID: 21628032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Consult Pharm. 2011 Jun;26(6):390-9. doi: 10.4140/TCP.n.2011.390.

Care of the elderly patient with prostate cancer: what's new and what's the 
same.

Johnson TM(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Management Branch, Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis, 
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, 6130 Executive Blvd 
Room 7149, MSC 7422, Rockville, MD 20852.

As the number of men in the United States 65 years of age or older 
increases--from 12% in 2000 to 20% in 2030--the burden of prostate cancer also 
is increasing. Standard therapy is appropriate for healthy men with a life 
expectancy of more than 10 years; however, clinicians may fear either 
overtreating frail patients or undertreating patients who are physically fit. 
Evidence suggests the best approach is to conduct a comprehensive geriatric 
assessment using available measures and published guidelines to individualize 
treatment plans. Recent Food and Drug Administration approval of cabazitaxel, 
sipuleucel-T, and denosumab has expanded available treatment options. Managing 
symptoms related to disease complications and side effects of treatment is 
increasingly more complicated with the addition of these new regimens and 
extended life expectancy. Pharmacists' participation in patient assessment and 
supportive care are necessary components of comprehensive care for cancer 
patients.

DOI: 10.4140/TCP.n.2011.390
PMID: 21628138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Neurorehabil Neural Repair. 2011 Oct;25(8):774-80. doi: 
10.1177/1545968310397200. Epub 2011 May 31.

Accelerometer-triggered electrical stimulation for reach and grasp in chronic 
stroke patients: a pilot study.

Mann G(1), Taylor P, Lane R.

Author information:
(1)National Clinical FES Centre, Salisbury District Hospital, Salisbury, 
Wiltshire, UK. g.mann@salisburyfes.com

BACKGROUND: Electrical stimulation of the upper extremity may reduce impairment 
in patients following stroke. Stimulation triggered on demand combined with task 
practice may be an effective means of promoting recovery of function.
OBJECTIVE: The authors investigated the feasibility of using 
accelerometer-controlled electrical stimulation for the elbow, wrist, and finger 
extensors to enable functional task practice in patients with chronic 
hemiparesis.
METHODS: Following a 4-week baseline, participants received 2 weeks of cyclic 
stimulation exercise to elbow and forearm extensor muscles, followed by 10 weeks 
of triggered stimulation to practice functional reaching. Participants were 
reassessed 12 weeks later as well. Outcome measures were the Action Research Arm 
Test (ARAT), Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), Canadian Occupational Performance 
Measure (COPM), Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices Scale (PIADS), and Use 
of Device Questionnaire (UDQ).
RESULTS: Fifteen volunteers who had at least 45° of forward shoulder flexion and 
could initiate elbow extension and grasp completed the study. The ARAT score 
improved from 19 to 32 (P = .002); the MAS score for elbow, wrist, and finger 
flexor spasticity was reduced from 2 each to 1, 0, and 1 (P < .05); the COPM 
performance and satisfaction scores improved (P = .001); and the PIADS became 
positive for competence (P = .005), adaptability (P = .008), and self-esteem (P 
= .008). Gains were maintained 12 weeks later.
CONCLUSIONS: Accelerometer-triggered electrical stimulation to augment task 
training for the hemiplegic arm is feasible and may improve functional ability 
and quality of life which may be maintained 12 weeks after treatment. A 
randomized trial design is required to evaluate efficacy and cost benefit.

DOI: 10.1177/1545968310397200
PMID: 21628605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. J Epidemiol. 2011;21(4):309-12. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20110017. Epub 2011 May
28.

Disability-adjusted life years (DALY) for cancer in Japan in 2000.

Pham TM(1), Kubo T, Fujino Y, Ozasa K, Matsuda S, Yoshimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Japan, 5-2 
Hijiyama Park, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 732-0815, Japan. ptrminh@rerf.or.jp

BACKGROUND: We used disability-adjusted life years (DALY) to estimate the cancer 
burden in Japan for the year 2000.
METHODS: We estimated years of life lost (YLL) by using mortality data and years 
lived with disability (YLD) by using incidence data. The DALY for cancer was 
calculated as the sum of YLL and YLD.
RESULTS: For all cancers combined, 2 733 884 years of DALY were estimated in men 
and 2 091 874 years were estimated in women. Among men, stomach and lung cancers 
accounted for the largest proportions of DALY, followed by liver cancer and 
colorectal cancer. Among women, the greatest contributors to DALY were stomach, 
colorectal, breast, and lung cancers.
CONCLUSIONS: The national cancer burden in Japan was expressed in terms of DALY, 
which might be useful in assessing future changes with respect to mortality and 
morbidity in Japan.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20110017
PMCID: PMC3899425
PMID: 21628841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Am J Med Sci. 2011 Nov;342(5):409-15. doi: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e3182121131.

Systemic mastocytosis.

Ozdemir D(1), Dagdelen S, Erbas T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hacettepe University Medical School, Ankara, 
Turkey. sendidem2002@yahoo.com

Systemic mastocytosis (SM) is a clonal disorder of hematopoietic system 
characterized by abnormal growth and accumulation of mast cells in various 
tissues. Its clinical spectrum ranges from mild disease to an aggressive course 
with life-threatening conditions. Some of the clinical signs or symptoms of SM 
(hyperhidrosis, syncope and hypotensive/tachycardiac attacks) require 
consideration of pheochromocytoma and carcinoid syndrome in the differential 
diagnosis. The diagnosis relies on the demonstration of mast cell aggregates in 
bone marrow or extracutaneous tissues. The World Health Organization categorizes 
SM into 6 variants: indolent SM, SM with associated clonal hematological nonmast 
cell lineage disease, aggressive SM, mast cell leukemia, mast cell sarcoma and 
extracutaneous mastocytosis. Patients with indolent SM have a favorable 
prognosis with a life expectancy comparable with the healthy population, and 
symptomatic treatment is usually sufficient. However, more aggressive forms may 
be life threatening, and cytoreductive treatment is indicated in most cases.

DOI: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e3182121131
PMID: 21629042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Aug 1;36(17):1359-66. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318222d4ad.

Kinematics of cervical total disc replacement adjacent to a two-level, straight 
versus lordotic fusion.

Martin S(1), Ghanayem AJ, Tzermiadianos MN, Voronov LI, Havey RM, Renner SM, 
Carandang G, Abjornson C, Patwardhan AG.

Author information:
(1)Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine, Maywood, IL, USA.

STUDY DESIGN: In vitro biomechanical study.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize cervical total disc replacement (TDR) kinematics 
above two-level fusion, and to determine the effect of fusion alignment on TDR 
response.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Cervical TDR may be a promising alternative for a 
symptomatic adjacent level after prior multilevel cervical fusion. However, 
little is known about the TDR kinematics in this setting.
METHODS: Eight human cadaveric cervical spines (C2-T1, age: 59 ± 8.6 years) were 
tested intact, after simulated two-level fusion (C4-C6) in lordotic alignment 
and then in straight alignment, and after C3-C4 TDR above the C4-C6 fusion in 
lordotic and straight alignments. Fusion was simulated using an external fixator 
apparatus, allowing easy adjustment of C4-C6 fusion alignment, and restoration 
to intact state upon disassembly. Specimens were tested in flexion-extension 
using hybrid testing protocols.
RESULTS: The external fixator device significantly reduced range of motion (ROM) 
at C4-C6 to 2.0 ± 0.6°, a reduction of 89 ± 3.0% (P < 0.05). Removal of the 
fusion construct restored the motion response of the spinal segments to their 
intact state. The C3-C4 TDR resulted in less motion as compared to the intact 
segment when the disc prosthesis was implanted either as a stand-alone procedure 
or above a two-level fusion. The decrease in motion of C3-C4 TDR was significant 
for both lordotic and straight fusions across C4-C6 (P < 0.05). Flexion and 
extension moments needed to bring the cervical spine to similar C2 motion 
endpoints significantly increased for the TDR above a two-level fusion compared 
to TDR alone (P < 0.05). Lordotic fusion required significantly greater flexion 
moment, whereas straight fusion required significantly greater extension moment 
(P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: TDR placed adjacent to a two-level fusion is subjected to a more 
challenging biomechanical environment as compared to a stand-alone TDR. An 
artificial disc used in such a clinical scenario should be able to accommodate 
the increased moment loads without causing impingement of its endplates or undue 
wear during the expected life of the prosthesis.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318222d4ad
PMID: 21629170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Sleep. 2011 Jun 1;34(6):695-709. doi: 10.5665/SLEEP.1030.

An integrated health-economic analysis of diagnostic and therapeutic strategies 
in the treatment of moderate-to-severe obstructive sleep apnea.

Pietzsch JB(1), Garner A, Cipriano LE, Linehan JH.

Author information:
(1)Wing Tech Inc., Menlo Park, CA, USA.

Comment in
    Sleep. 2011 Jun;34(6):691-2.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder associated 
with substantially increased cardiovascular risks, reduced quality of life, and 
increased risk of motor vehicle collisions due to daytime sleepiness. This study 
evaluates the cost-effectiveness of three commonly used diagnostic strategies 
(full-night polysomnography, split-night polysomnography, unattended portable 
home-monitoring) in conjunction with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) 
therapy in patients with moderate-to-severe OSA.
DESIGN: A Markov model was created to compare costs and effectiveness of 
different diagnostic and therapeutic strategies over a 10-year interval and the 
expected lifetime of the patient. The primary measure of cost-effectiveness was 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
PATIENTS OR PARTICIPANTS: Baseline computations were performed for a 
hypothetical average cohort of 50-year-old males with a 50% pretest probability 
of having moderate-to-severe OSA (apnea-hypopnea index [AHI] ≥ 15 events per 
hour).
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: For a patient with moderate-to-severe OSA, CPAP 
therapy has an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $15,915 per QALY 
gained for the lifetime horizon. Over the lifetime horizon in a population with 
50% prevalence of OSA, full-night polysomnography in conjunction with CPAP 
therapy is the most economically efficient strategy at any willingness-to-pay 
greater than $17,131 per-QALY gained because it dominates all other strategies 
in comparative analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Full-night polysomnography (PSG) is cost-effective and is the 
preferred diagnostic strategy for adults suspected to have moderate-to-severe 
OSA when all diagnostic options are available. Split-night PSG and unattended 
home monitoring can be considered cost-effective alternatives when full-night 
PSG is not available.

DOI: 10.5665/SLEEP.1030
PMCID: PMC3098944
PMID: 21629357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Aging Res. 2011;2011:160490. doi: 10.4061/2011/160490. Epub 2011 May 12.

Rapid assessment of age-related differences in standing balance.

Kalisch T(1), Kattenstroth JC, Noth S, Tegenthoff M, Dinse HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, BG-Kliniken Bergmannsheil, Ruhr-University Bochum, 
44789 Bochum, Germany.

As life expectancy continues to rise, in the future there will be an increasing 
number of older people prone to falling. Accordingly, there is an urgent need 
for comprehensive testing of older individuals to collect data and to identify 
possible risk factors for falling. Here we use a low-cost force platform to 
rapidly assess deficits in balance under various conditions. We tested 21 
healthy older adults and 24 young adults during static stance, unidirectional 
and rotational displacement of their centre of pressure (COP). We found an 
age-related increase in postural sway during quiet standing and a reduction of 
maximal COP displacement in unidirectional and rotational displacement tests. 
Our data show that even low-cost computerized assessment tools allow for the 
comprehensive testing of balance performance in older subjects.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/160490
PMCID: PMC3100560
PMID: 21629742


799. Case Rep Med. 2011;2011:397646. doi: 10.1155/2011/397646. Epub 2011 May 14.

Tophaceous gout and renal insufficiency: a new solution for an old therapeutic 
dilemma.

Tausche AK(1), Wunderlich C, Aringer M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University Clinic 
"Carl Gustav Carus" of the Technical University of Dresden, Fetscherstrasse 74, 
01307 Dresden, Germany.

