Norbury M.

Comment in
    Br J Gen Pract. 61:293.
    Br J Gen Pract. 61:66.
    Br J Gen Pract. 59:e273.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp11X572643
PMCID: PMC3103677
PMID: 21801526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Hum Mov Sci. 2011 Dec;30(6):1260-71. doi: 10.1016/j.humov.2010.08.006. Epub
2011  Jul 28.

Coordination modes in sensorimotor synchronization of whole-body movement: a 
study of street dancers and non-dancers.

Miura A(1), Kudo K, Ohtsuki T, Kanehisa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Japan. akito.miura@gmail.com

This study investigated whole-body sensorimotor synchronization (SMS) in street 
dancers and non-dancers. Two kinds of knee bending movement in a standing 
position to a metronome beat were explored in terms of stability under different 
movement frequencies: down-movement condition (knee flexion on the beat) and 
up-movement condition (knee extension on the beat). Analyses of phase relation 
between movement and beat revealed several distinct differences between the 
down- and up-movement conditions, and between dancers and non-dancers. In both 
groups under the up-movement condition, deviation from intended phase relation 
at higher beat rates, and enhanced fluctuations were observed. The deviation 
from intended phase relation under up-movement condition, and movement 
fluctuations were greater in non-dancers than in dancers. Moreover, subjective 
difficulty rating revealed that both groups felt that the up-movement condition 
was more difficult at higher beat rates. These findings suggest that down and up 
movements are two distinguishable coordination modes in whole-body coordination, 
and that street dancers have superior whole-body SMS ability.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humov.2010.08.006
PMID: 21802159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Cell Metab. 2011 Aug 3;14(2):154-60. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2011.06.013.

Dietary restriction and aging: a unifying perspective.

Piper MD(1), Partridge L, Raubenheimer D, Simpson SJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, Department of Genetics, Evolution and 
Environment, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK. m.piper@ucl.ac.uk

Dietary restriction (DR) and mutations in nutrient signaling pathways can extend 
healthy life span in diverse organisms. Studying the interaction between these 
interventions should reveal mechanisms of aging, but has yielded some apparently 
contradictory results. A multidimensional representation of nutrition, called 
the geometric framework, can better describe the responses of life span and 
other traits, including metabolism, and can reconcile these apparent 
contradictions. We provide examples showing that it is more informative to 
analyze DR in terms of dietary balance and that dietary optimization for life 
span is critical for studies examining the biology of aging and other traits.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2011.06.013
PMCID: PMC4445606
PMID: 21803286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Water Res. 2011 Oct 15;45(16):4983-94. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2011.07.008.
Epub  2011 Jul 13.

Network condition simulator for benchmarking sewer deterioration models.

Scheidegger A(1), Hug T, Rieckermann J, Maurer M.

Author information:
(1)Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology, 
Überlandstrasse 133, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland.

An accurate description of aging and deterioration of urban drainage systems is 
necessary for optimal investment and rehabilitation planning. Due to a general 
lack of suitable datasets, network condition models are rarely validated, and if 
so with varying levels of success. We therefore propose a novel network 
condition simulator (NetCoS) that produces a synthetic population of sewer 
sections with a given condition-class distribution. NetCoS can be used to 
benchmark deterioration models and guide utilities in the selection of 
appropriate models and data management strategies. The underlying probabilistic 
model considers three main processes: a) deterioration, b) replacement policy, 
and c) expansions of the sewer network. The deterioration model features a 
semi-Markov chain that uses transition probabilities based on user-defined 
survival functions. The replacement policy is approximated with a 
condition-class dependent probability of replacing a sewer pipe. The model then 
simulates the course of the sewer sections from the installation of the first 
line to the present, adding new pipes based on the defined replacement and 
expansion program. We demonstrate the usefulness of NetCoS in two examples where 
we quantify the influence of incomplete data and inspection frequency on the 
parameter estimation of a cohort survival model and a Markov deterioration 
model. Our results show that typical available sewer inventory data with 
discarded historical data overestimate the average life expectancy by up to 200 
years. Although NetCoS cannot prove the validity of a particular deterioration 
model, it is useful to reveal its possible limitations and shortcomings and 
quantifies the effects of missing or uncertain data. Future developments should 
include additional processes, for example to investigate the long-term effect of 
pipe rehabilitation measures, such as inliners.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2011.07.008
PMID: 21803394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Eur Urol. 2012 Feb;61(2):356-62. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.07.041. Epub
2011  Jul 21.

The risk of upstaged disease increases with body mass index in low-risk prostate 
cancer patients eligible for active surveillance.

Ploussard G(1), de la Taille A, Bayoud Y, Durand X, Terry S, Xylinas E, Allory 
Y, Vacherot F, Abbou CC, Salomon L.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U955 eq07 Department of Urology, APHP, CHU Henri Mondor, Créteil, 
France. g.ploussard@gmail.com

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2012 Feb;61(2):e8; author reply e9-10.

BACKGROUND: Obese patients have a greater risk of adverse pathologic features 
and biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy (RP). The impact of body 
mass index (BMI) on the risk of reclassification and deferred treatment in 
active surveillance (AS) programs has not been thoroughly assessed.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of BMI on the risk of reclassification for AS 
eligibility.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We assessed 230 men who underwent an 
immediate RP and were eligible for AS according to the following criteria: 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) ≤ 10 ng/ml, clinical stage T1c, Gleason score ≤ 
6, fewer than three positive cores, extent of cancer in any core <50%, and life 
expectancy >10 yr.
INTERVENTION: All patients underwent a standardised 21-core biopsy and RP at our 
department between January 2001 and December 2010.
MEASUREMENTS: Reclassification was defined as upstaged disease (pathologic stage 
>pT2) and/or upgraded disease (Gleason score ≥ 7; primary Gleason pattern 4) in 
RP specimens. PSA outcomes were also recorded.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Mean BMI was 26.4 kg/m(2), and 13% of patients were 
obese (BMI >30). Mean BMI was the only preoperative factor significantly 
associated with the risk of upstaged disease. In multivariate analysis, BMI >30 
remained an independent predictive factor for upstaged disease (p=0.003; odds 
ratio: 4.2). The risk of upgraded disease (primary Gleason pattern 4) was 
significantly decreased 4.5-fold in large prostate glands (>50 ml; p=0.008). The 
biochemical recurrence-free survival curves were not significantly different 
between men who were or were not overweight (p=0.950).
CONCLUSIONS: Obese men are at higher risk of upstaged disease, with a proportion 
of 30% of pT3 disease in RP specimens. BMI should be taken into account for 
inclusion of low-risk prostate cancer patients in AS programs, and our results 
may help urologists better inform their obese patients eligible for AS about 
this risk of reclassification and improve treatment decision making.

Copyright © 2011 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.07.041
PMID: 21803484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Dec;54(6):1713-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.06.030. Epub
2011  Jul 31.

Basilic vein transposition versus biosynthetic prosthesis as vascular access for 
hemodialysis.

Morosetti M(1), Cipriani S, Dominijanni S, Pisani G, Frattarelli D, Bruno F.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology and Dialysis Department, GB Grassi Hospital, Rome, Italy. 
morosetti@med.uniroma2.it

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2012 Mar;55(3):892; author reply 892-3.

BACKGROUND: Vascular access (VA) complications account for a significant number 
of hospital admissions in dialysis and have substantial costs. A native 
arteriovenous fistula (AVF) cannot be successfully obtained in all patients. At 
our center, we established an autogenous brachial-basilic AVF (BBAVF) in the 
upper arm in patients with a failed forearm fistula or with superficial vessels 
that were unsuitable for preparing a good site for VA. In most of these 
patients, we resort to prosthetic materials for creating a functioning VA as the 
last strategy. The present study compared the outcomes of BBAVF and AV graft 
(AVG) in patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis in whom there was no other 
possibility of creating a VA.
METHODS: We analyzed 57 complex patients, 27 randomized to receive AVG and 30 
randomized to BBAVF, between 2002 and 2008. The Omniflow II Vascular Prosthesis 
(Bio Nova International Pty Ltd, North Melbourne, VIC, Australia), the 
latest-generation collagen-polyester composite, was used to create the 
prosthetic VA. Primary patency (PP) and secondary patency (SP) rates were 
calculated using the Kaplan-Meier test. The log-rank test was used to compare PP 
and SP rates of the single VA.
RESULTS: Length of hospital admission time, total intervention time, and mean 
interval to the first venipuncture for dialysis were longer for BBAVF. In the 
early postoperative period, patients who received BBAVF had a complication rate 
similar to those who received AVG; however, patients who received AVG showed a 
higher rate of long-term adverse events. PP and SP rates were higher for BBAVF 
than for AVG, although this was not statistically significant for SP.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that BBAVF should be the first choice in patients 
with a good life expectancy and who can rely on an available temporary VA. 
However, given the shorter time to use, AVG could be an alternative in patients 
with compromised clinical conditions and in whom a temporary VA is not reliable, 
considering that the long-term outcome may be considered beneficial regardless.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.06.030
PMID: 21803519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Gerontologist. 2011 Aug;51(4):425-32. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnr067.

Japan: super-aging society preparing for the future.

Muramatsu N(1), Akiyama H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Community Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of 
Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. naoko@uic.edu

Japan has the highest proportion of older adults in the world. Aging is not only 
an immediate personal issue but also a salient factor in crucial public 
policies, such as pensions, health, and long-term care. The Great East Japan 
Earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear power plant disaster of March 2011 has 
highlighted current and emerging issues of a "super-aging" society, especially 
the need for community-based support systems.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnr067
PMID: 21804114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Med Sci Monit. 2011 Aug;17(8):CS103-107. doi: 10.12659/msm.881891.

Metastatic insulinoma - prolonged survival after multimodal approach.

Hagel AF(1), Hagel WH, Lindner AS, Kammerer FJ, Neurath MF, Konturek PC, Harsch 
IA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine 1, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, 
Germany. Alexander.Hagel@uk-erlangen.de

BACKGROUND: Metastatic insulinoma is a disease associated with a poor life 
expectancy.
CASE REPORT: The case of a presently 68 year old female with malignant, 
metastatic insulinoma is reported. Due to severe clinical symptoms surgical 
tumor mass reduction was conducted. Furthermore the patient underwent a 
chemotherapy using streptozotocine and fluorouracil. After two years without any 
symptoms, the remaining hepatic metastases increased in size and again 
hypoglycemias occurred. To reachieve an asymptomatic state and further reduction 
in tumor mass, the decision was made for transarterial chemoembolization with 
streptozotocine. After the first treatment the patient was hypoglycemia - free 
for 3 months, after another more extensive chemoembolization the patient is 
presently symptom free for 8 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Since the diagnosis of extended disease was established, the 
patient has survived for 36 months. We regard this as the result of a multimodal 
approach and the extensive use of local tumor therapy. The different therapeutic 
options for local tumor therapy are reported and discussed.

DOI: 10.12659/msm.881891
PMCID: PMC3539604
PMID: 21804467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Environ Toxicol Chem. 2011 Oct;30(10):2372-83. doi: 10.1002/etc.636. Epub
2011  Aug 24.

An approach for developing simple generic models for ecological risk assessments 
of fish populations.

Hanson N(1), Stark JD.

Author information:
(1)Washington State University, Puyallup Research and Extension Center, 
Puyallup, Washington, USA. niklas.hanson@dpes.gu.se

It has been argued that current approaches for ecological risk assessment (ERA) 
do not provide value relevance for risk managers and that the uncertainty in the 
predictions is large. One important reason for this is that current approaches 
are based on individual-level endpoints, but the environmental protection goals 
are defined on the population level. Population models may be useful tools to 
link the individual to the population and thus increase value relevance and 
reduce uncertainty. However, this requires that simple models and guidance on 
how to use them are made available for risk assessors. In the present study, an 
approach for developing simple generic models for the ERA of fish populations is 
presented. Fish have high ecological and economic value and are frequently used 
in ERA. It is, therefore, highly desirable to develop better methods for ERA of 
fish populations. The models were based on five types of life histories, and 
they were set up to be useful in a number of different management scenarios 
based on different environmental protection goals. A decision framework was set 
up for three levels of models (continuous, time limited, and varying exposure) 
and three levels of environmental protection. Data from previously published 
studies were tested for two of the environmental protection levels. The models 
provided maximum acceptable concentrations (MAC) that fell between the MACs of 
traditional ERA based on acute or chronic data, respectively.

Copyright © 2011 SETAC.

DOI: 10.1002/etc.636
PMID: 21805500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2011 Nov 1;78(5):710-7. doi: 10.1002/ccd.23062.
Epub  2011 Jul 29.

A comparative analysis of major clinical outcomes using drug-eluting stents 
versus bare metal stents in diabetic versus nondiabetic patients.

Minha S(1), Bental T, Assali A, Vaknin-Assa H, Lev EI, Rechavia E, Battler A, 
Kornowski R.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Assaf-Harofeh Medical Center, Zerifin, and Sackler 
School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.

Comment in
    Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2011 Nov 1;78(5):718-9.

OBJECTIVES: We aim to explore the clinical outcome of drug-eluting stents (DES) 
versus bare-metal stents (BMS) implantation in diabetics versus nondiabetic 
patients.
BACKGROUND: Diabetic patients sustain worse long-term clinical outcomes after 
percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) when compared with nondiabetics. The 
use of DES decreases the rate of repeat revascularization in this population but 
data concerning long-term clinical benefits, such as myocardial infarction (MI) 
or mortality is scant.
METHODS: We analyzed data from a comprehensive registry of 6,583 consecutive 
patients undergoing PCI at our center. A propensity score was used for analysis 
of outcomes and for matching (DES vs. BMS). Outcome parameters were total 
mortality, MI, repeat target vessel revascularization (TVR) rates, and 
risk-adjusted event-free survival. Within this cohort, we identified 2,571 
nondiabetic patients and these were compared with 1,826 diabetic coronary 
patients.
RESULTS: Mean and median follow up time was 3 and 3.25 years, respectively. 
Overall, diabetics had higher rates of major-adverse cardiovascular events 
(MACE) at 4 years compared with nondiabetics (23.03 vs. 31.96 P > 0.001). DES 
use was associated with lower rates of TVR in both groups [diabetics hazard 
ratio (HR) = 0.56, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.42-0.76, P < 0.001, 
nondiabetics HR = 0.73, 95% CI: 0.55-0.97, P = 0.03] while sustained decreased 
rates of both mortality and MI were evident solely among diabetics (HR = 0.71, 
95% CI: 0.56-0.89, P = 0.004 in diabetic vs. HR = 0.88, 95% CI: 0.69-1.13, P = 
0.3).
CONCLUSIONS: In a "real-world," unselected population and extended clinical use, 
DES in diabetics was associated with sustained decreased rates of MI, death, 
TVR, and MACE while this benefit was attenuated in the nondiabetic population.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ccd.23062
PMID: 21805561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Palliat Care. 2011 Summer;27(2):89-97.

Prognosticating in palliative care: a survey of Canadian palliative care 
physicians.

Corkum M(1), Viola R, Veenema C, Kruszelnicki D, Shadd J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, Dalhousie University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine how palliative care physicians view the accuracy and 
importance of prognostication, what information they consider, and what 
processes they use.
METHODS: A questionnaire was sent to members of the Canadian Society of 
Palliative Care Physicians (CSPCP). Respondents recorded their perceptions about 
prognostication and the factors they considered when predicting survival. A 
patient scenario was described in which a prognosis was requested by two 
different people: a patient's daughter and a palliative care admissions 
coordinator.
RESULTS: 90 responses were received from 219 CSPCP members (41.1 percent). There 
was moderate agreement between respondents' perceptions of their own accuracy 
and that of other physicians (K = 0.549). Of all the respondents, 89.9 percent 
believed that prognosticating was somewhat or very important. They considered 
clinical factors most commonly when prognosticating. A range of predictions was 
given for the scenario; often, the same physician gave different answers to the 
two people requesting a prognosis.
CONCLUSION: Palliative care physicians believe that prognostication is important 
and use clinical factors to estimate survival. They often give different 
estimates to different information recipients.

PMID: 21805943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2011 Dec;101(6):1278-90. doi: 10.1037/a0024402. Epub
2011  Aug 1.

The religion paradox: if religion makes people happy, why are so many dropping 
out?

Diener E(1), Tay L, Myers DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, 
Champaign, IL 61820, USA. ediener@illinois.edu

As we estimate here, 68% of human beings--4.6 billion people--would say that 
religion is important in their daily lives. Past studies have found that the 
religious, on average, have higher subjective well-being (SWB). Yet, people are 
rapidly leaving organized religion in economically developed nations where 
religious freedom is high. Why would people leave religion if it enhances their 
happiness? After controlling for circumstances in both the United States and 
world samples, we found that religiosity is associated with slightly higher SWB, 
and similarly so across four major world religions. The associations of 
religiosity and SWB were mediated by social support, feeling respected, and 
purpose or meaning in life. However, there was an interaction underlying the 
general trend such that the association of religion and well-being is 
conditional on societal circumstances. Nations and states with more difficult 
life conditions (e.g., widespread hunger and low life expectancy) were much more 
likely to be highly religious. In these nations, religiosity was associated with 
greater social support, respect, purpose or meaning, and all three types of SWB. 
In societies with more favorable circumstances, religiosity is less prevalent 
and religious and nonreligious individuals experience similar levels of SWB. 
There was also a person-culture fit effect such that religious people had higher 
SWB in religious nations but not in nonreligious nations. Thus, it appears that 
the benefits of religion for social relationships and SWB depend on the 
characteristics of the society.

DOI: 10.1037/a0024402
PMID: 21806304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Aug;15(27):1-202. doi: 10.3310/hta15270.

Diagnostic management strategies for adults and children with minor head injury: 
a systematic review and an economic evaluation.

Pandor A(1), Goodacre S, Harnan S, Holmes M, Pickering A, Fitzgerald P, Rees A, 
Stevenson M.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2012 Feb;17(1):28-9.

BACKGROUND: Patients with minor head injury [Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score 
13-15] have a small but important risk of intracranial injury (ICI) that 
requires early identification and neurosurgical treatment. Diagnostic assessment 
can use either a clinical decision rule or unstructured assessment of individual 
clinical features to identify those who are at risk of ICI and in need of 
computerised tomography (CT) scanning and/or hospital admission. Selective use 
of CT investigations helps minimise unnecessary radiation exposure and resource 
use, but can lead to missed opportunities to provide early treatment for ICI.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the diagnostic accuracy of decision rules, individual 
clinical characteristics, skull radiography and biomarkers, and the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of diagnostic management strategies for 
minor head injury (MHI).
DATA SOURCES: Several electronic databases [including MEDLINE, MEDLINE 
In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied 
Health Literature (CINAHL), EMBASE and The Cochrane Library] were searched from 
inception to April 2009 (updated searches to March 2010 were conducted on the 
MEDLINE databases only). Searches were supplemented by hand-searching relevant 
articles (including citation searching) and contacting experts in the field. For 
each of the systematic reviews the following studies were included (1) cohort 
studies of patients with MHI in which a clinical decision rule or individual 
clinical characteristics (including biomarkers and skull radiography) were 
compared with a reference standard test for ICI or need for neurosurgical 
intervention and (2) controlled trials comparing alternative management 
strategies for MHI.
REVIEW METHODS: Study quality was assessed using the Quality Assessment of 
Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) tool (for the assessment of diagnostic 
accuracy) or criteria recommended by the Effective Practice and Organisation of 
Care Review Group (for the assessment of management practices). Where sufficient 
data existed, a meta-analysis was undertaken to generate pooled estimates of 
diagnostic parameters. A decision-analysis model was developed using Simul8 2008 
Professional software (Simul8 Corporation, Boston, MA, USA) to estimate the 
costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) accrued by management strategies 
for MHI. The model took a lifetime horizon and NHS perspective. Estimates of the 
benefits of early treatment, harm of radiation exposure and long-term costs were 
obtained through literature reviews. Initial analysis was deterministic, but 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis was also performed. Secondary analyses were 
undertaken to explore the trade-off between sensitivity and specificity in 
diagnostic strategies and to determine the cost-effectiveness of scenarios 
involving hospital admission.
RESULTS: The literature searches identified 8003 citations. Of these, 93 
full-text papers were included for the assessment of diagnostic accuracy and one 
for the assessment of management practices. The quality of studies and reporting 
was generally poor. The Canadian CT Head Rule (CCHR) was the most widely 
validated adult rule, with sensitivity of 99-100% and 80-100% for neurosurgical 
and any ICI, respectively (high- or medium-risk criteria), and specificity of 
39-51%. Rules for children had high sensitivity and acceptable specificity in 
derivation cohorts, but limited validation. Depressed, basal or radiological 
skull fracture and post-traumatic seizure (PTS) [positive likelihood ratio (PLR) 
> 10]; focal neurological deficit, persistent vomiting, decrease in GCS and 
previous neurosurgery (PLR 5-10); and fall from a height, coagulopathy, chronic 
alcohol use, age > 60 years, pedestrian motor vehicle accident (MVA), any 
seizure, undefined vomiting, amnesia, GCS < 14 and GCS < 15 (PLR 2-5) increased 
the likelihood of ICI in adults. Depressed or basal skull fracture and focal 
neurological deficit (PLR > 10), coagulopathy, PTS and previous neurosurgery 
(PLR 5-10), visual symptoms, bicycle and pedestrian MVA, any seizure, loss of 
consciousness, vomiting, severe or persistent headache, amnesia, GCS < 14, GCS < 
15, intoxication and radiological skull fracture (PLR 2-5) increased the 
likelihood of ICI in children. S100 calcium-binding protein B had pooled 
sensitivity of 96.8% [95% highest-density region (HDR) 93.8% to 98.6%] and 
specificity of 42.5% (95% HDR 31.0% to 54.2%). The only controlled trial showed 
that early CT and discharge is cheaper and at least as effective as hospital 
admission. Economic analysis showed that selective CT use dominated 'CT all' and 
'discharge all' strategies. The optimal strategies were the CCHR (adults) and 
the CHALICE (Children's Head injury Algorithm for the prediction of Important 
Clinical Events) or NEXUS II (National Emergency X-Radiography Utilization Study 
II) rule (children). The sensitivity and specificity of the CCHR (99% and 47%, 
respectively) represented an appropriate trade-off of these parameters. Hospital 
admission dominated discharge home for patients with non-neurosurgical injury, 
but cost £39 M per QALY for clinically normal patients with a normal CT.
CONCLUSIONS: The CCHR is widely validated and cost-effective for adults. 
Decision rules for children appear cost-effective, but need further validation. 
Hospital admission is cost-effective for patients with abnormal, but not normal, 
CT. The main research priorities are to (1) validate decision rules for 
children; (2) determine the prognosis and treatment benefit for 
non-neurosurgical injuries; (3) evaluate the use of S100B alongside a validated 
decision rule; (4) evaluate the diagnosis and outcomes of anticoagulated 
patients with MHI; and (5) evaluate the implementation of guidelines, clinical 
decision rules and diagnostic strategies. Formal expected value of sample 
information analysis would be recommended to appraise the cost-effectiveness of 
future studies.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15270
PMCID: PMC4781048
PMID: 21806873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2011 Jul;64 Suppl 2:34-43. doi:
10.1016/j.recesp.2011.01.022.

[Epidemiology of acute coronary syndrome and heart failure in Latin America].

[Article in Spanish]

Hernández-Leiva E(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cardiología, Instituto de Cardiología-Fundación 
Cardioinfantil, Universidad de Rosario, Bogotá, Colombia. 
ehernandezl@cardioinfantil.org

Cardiovascular disease is the principle cause of death in Latin America. Data 
from the World Health Organization indicate that the region is currently 
experiencing a large-scale epidemic of cardiovascular disease. This could be 
attributable to demographic and lifestyle changes inherent in the epidemiologic 
transition: one consequence of increased life-expectancy is longer exposure to 
cardiovascular risk factors, which results in a higher probability of adverse 
events. Latin America is one of the regions of the world with the highest burden 
of cardiovascular risk factors, particularly overweight, dyslipidemia and 
diabetes mellitus. These factors will have a significant impact on the incidence 
of coronary events and heart failure in the near future. In addition, infectious 
conditions, especially Chagas disease and rheumatic fever, affect large sections 
of the population in the region. Unless preventive measures are introduced in 
the next three to four decades, the number of deaths due to cardiovascular 
disease in the region will increase by more than 200%. Data currently available 
indicate that mortality in patients with acute coronary syndrome is greater in 
Latin America than in developed countries. Among the possible factors that could 
explain this finding are the underuse of therapies that have been shown to be 
effective and the more conservative and later use of surgical and percutaneous 
interventions. In Latin America, heart failure occurs in younger subjects than 
in the rest of the world and is most frequently related to ischemic heart 
disease. However, Chagas disease is close to hypertension as the second most 
common cause. There is an urgent need for well-designed epidemiologic studies to 
guide the implementation of preventive measures and appropriate treatment.

Copyright © 2011 Sociedad Española de Cardiología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.recesp.2011.01.022
PMID: 21807285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Rheumatol. 2011 Aug;38(8):1728-34. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.110393.

OMERACT 10 Patient Perspective Virtual Campus: valuing health; measuring 
outcomes in rheumatoid arthritis fatigue, RA sleep, arthroplasty, and systemic 
sclerosis; and clinical significance of changes in health.

Kirwan JR(1), Boonen A, Harrison MJ, Hewlett SE, Wells GA, Singh JA, Furst DE, 
Dworkin RH.

Author information:
(1)Academic Rheumatology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol Royal Infirmary, 
Bristol, UK. john.kirwan@bristol.ac.uk

This workshop reviewed progress in a number of areas related to patient 
perspective outcomes that were not specifically included within other areas of 
the program. A substantial review of the work of the valuing health outcomes 
group (the "QALY" working group) with participation and feedback from the 
plenary audience resulted in guidance to refocus on the use of patient 
preferences in the elaboration of more robust outcome measures for 
patient-reported outcomes and life impact measures. Progress and developments in 
the areas of fatigue and sleep in rheumatoid arthritis, outcome measures in hip 
and knee arthroplasty clinical trials, and scleroderma were outlined, and the 
challenge of truly understanding the nature of clinically important improvement 
was reviewed.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.110393
PMID: 21807793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. J Rheumatol. 2011 Aug;38(8):1770-5. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.110404.

Valuing health for clinical and economic decisions: directions relevant for 
rheumatologists.

Harrison MJ(1), Bansback NJ, Marra CA, Drummond M, Tugwell PS, Boonen A.

Author information:
(1)Arthritis Research UK Epidemiology Unit, Manchester Academic Health Sciences 
Centre, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

The quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is a construct that integrates the value 
or preference for a health state over the period of time in that health state. 
The main use of QALY is in cost-utility analysis, to help make resource 
allocation decisions when faced with choices. Although the concept of the QALY 
is appealing, there is ongoing debate regarding their usefulness and approaches 
to deriving QALY. In 2008, OMERACT engaged in an effort to agree on QALY 
approaches that can be used in rheumatology. Based on a Web questionnaire and a 
subsequent meeting, rheumatologists questioned whether it was relevant for 
OMERACT (1) to investigate use of a QALY that represents the patients' 
perspective, (2) to explore the validity of the visual analog scale (VAS) to 
value health, and (3) to understand the validity of mapping health-specific 
instruments on existing preference instruments. This article discusses the pros 
and cons of these points in light of current insight from the point of view of 
health economics and decision-making theory. It also considers the further 
research agenda toward a QALY approach in rheumatology.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.110404
PMID: 21807800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Urban Health. 2011 Dec;88(6):1091-104. doi: 10.1007/s11524-011-9602-5.

The impact of shelter use and housing placement on mortality hazard for 
unaccompanied adults and adults in family households entering New York City 
shelters: 1990-2002.

Metraux S(1), Eng N, Bainbridge J, Culhane DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Public Health, University of the Sciences in 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA. s.metraux@usp.edu

This study examines mortality among New York City (NYC) homeless shelter users, 
assessing the relationships between mortality hazard and time in shelter, 
patterns of homelessness, and subsequent housing exits for both adults in 
families and single adults. Administrative records from the NYC shelter system 
were matched with death records from the Social Security Administration for 
160,525 persons. Crude mortality rates and life tables were calculated, and 
survival analyses were undertaken using these data. Life expectancy was 64.2 and 
68.6 years for single adult males and single adult females, respectively, and 
among adults in families, life expectancy was 67.2 and 70.1 years for males and 
females, respectively. For both groups, exits to stable housing (subsidized or 
non-subsidized) were associated with reduced mortality hazard. And while 
mortality hazard was substantially reduced for the time adults were in shelters, 
extended shelter use patterns were associated with increased mortality hazard. 
Differences between single homelessness and family homelessness extend to 
disparities in mortality rates. Although causal links cannot be established 
here, results suggest that, for both subgroups of the homeless population, 
prompt resolution of homelessness and availability of housing interventions may 
contribute to reduced mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s11524-011-9602-5
PMCID: PMC3232418
PMID: 21809153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2011 Jul;34(7):234-44; quiz 245-6.

[Infections with human immunodeficiency viruses. Part II: Antiretroviral drugs, 
therapeutic options, and diagnostics].

[Article in German]

Stock I(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Mikrobiologie, Immunologie und Parasitologie, 
Abteilung Pharmazeutische Mikrobiologie, Universität Bonn, Meckenheimer Allee 
168, 53115 Bonn. Ingo_Stock@web.de

Infections with the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV- 1) lead to the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), resulting in the establishment of a wide range 
of severe opportunistic infections. Since the introduction of the highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) into the treatment of HIV infections, in many 
cases a delayed appearance of AIDS-defining diseases is achievable. Life 
expectancy of antiretrovirally treated HIV-infected people applying HAART could 
be considerably extended and now resembles that of several other chronic 
diseases. For the initial treatment of HIV-1 infection, an adjunction with three 
antiretroviral agents is generally used. In most cases, the application of two 
nucleoside or nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) together with a 
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI), a protease inhibitor 
(PI) or an integrase inhibitor (II) is recommended. Before and during 
antiretroviral treatment, antiretroviral drug resistances, individual tolerance 
profiles and the needs of the individual patient, as well as several 
interactions with other drugs have to be considered. Diagnostics of HIV 
infection is based upon the proof of specific antibodies.

PMID: 21809598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Adv Gerontol. 2011;24(1):11-23.

[Gerontology crisis: to a question about primary health in the XXth century].

[Article in Russian]

Odin VI.

Last decades the phenomenon of ageing population at the expense of reduction of 
birth rate and continuous growth of life expectancy is observed and moreover the 
life expectancy increase has almost linear character. In our opinion, this 
growth will stop the next years and there will be a considerable reduction of 
life expectancy. Roughly it should occur after 2010 year when the persons born 
in second half of the XXth century, i.e. after 1950 year, will start to enter 
advanced age. The reason of this drama consist in our opinion in catastrophic 
deterioration of primary health at persons born in second half of XXth century 
owing to action of "stop-evolution" factors and inhabitancy crisis. "Primary 
health" as definition in this text means combination of congenital 
predisposition to diseases (pathogenicity) with congenital possibility to 
autorecovery (sanogenicity). So the quality of primary health depends on 
features of the person genome and features of the person antenatal period of 
life including the delivery. Among factors of "stop-evolution" breaking natural 
selection consequently of sharp decrease in number of birth and fertility in 
population and as consequence worsening quality of congenital sanogenicity we 
consider first of all social factors. Among factors operating due to crisis of 
an inhabitancy and as consequence increase of congenital pathogenicity we 
consider anthropogenic factors (success of medicine, changes of food, 
technogenic factors). The analysis of own data of diabetic patients born during 
various periods of the XXth century (before 1908, in 1909-1923, 1924-1938, 
1939-1953 yrs) has demonstrated the essential reduction of number of long-livers 
in a family (30,7; 35,0; 25,4; 27,8% accordingly), and on the other hand the 
sharp increase in frequency of cases of a family diabetes during the century 
(20,0; 5,9; 36,8; 64,7% accordingly). Thus, the action of some factors described 
by us has been already shown in first half of XXth century. To overcome the 
given "gerontology crisis" apparently, the interdisciplinary approach including 
joint researches with the subsequent development of recommendations, with 
participation not only gerontologists/geriatrists, but also pediatrists, 
andrologists/gynecologists, endocrinologists, genetics, ecologists and 
sociologists is necessary.

PMID: 21809615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Tissue Eng Part B Rev. 2011 Oct;17(5):331-47. doi:
10.1089/ten.teb.2010.0704.  Epub 2011 Aug 2.

Scaffolds based bone tissue engineering: the role of chitosan.

Costa-Pinto AR(1), Reis RL, Neves NM.

Author information:
(1)3B's Research Group-Biomaterials, Biodegradables and Biomimetics, Department 
of Polymer Engineering, Headquarters of the European Institute of Excellence on 
Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine University of Minho, Guimarães, 
Portugal.

As life expectancy increases, malfunction or loss of tissue caused by injury or 
disease leads to reduced quality of life in many patients at significant 
socioeconomic cost. Even though major progress has been made in the field of 
bone tissue engineering, present therapies, such as bone grafts, still have 
limitations. Current research on biodegradable polymers is emerging, combining 
these structures with osteogenic cells, as an alternative to autologous bone 
grafts. Different types of biodegradable materials have been proposed for the 
preparation of three-dimensional porous scaffolds for bone tissue engineering. 
Among them, natural polymers are one of the most attractive options, mainly due 
to their similarities with extracellular matrix, chemical versatility, good 
biological performance, and inherent cellular interactions. In this review, 
special attention is given to chitosan as a biomaterial for bone tissue 
engineering applications. An extensive literature survey was performed on the 
preparation of chitosan scaffolds and their in vitro biological performance as 
well as their potential to facilitate in vivo bone regeneration. The present 
review also aims to offer the reader a general overview of all components needed 
to engineer new bone tissue. It gives a brief background on bone biology, 
followed by an explanation of all components in bone tissue engineering, as well 
as describing different tissue engineering strategies. Moreover, also discussed 
are the typical models used to evaluate in vitro functionality of a 
tissue-engineered construct and in vivo models to assess the potential to 
regenerate bone tissue are discussed.

© Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.teb.2010.0704
PMID: 21810029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Am J Surg. 2011 Aug;202(2):184-7. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2010.06.037.

Modified two-stage basilic vein transposition for hemodialysis access.

Paulson KA(1), Gordon V, Flynn L, Lorelli D.

Author information:
(1)St. John Hospital & Medical Center, Detroit, MI, USA. kari.paulson@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Various techniques for basilic vein transposition have been 
described, including endovascular, 1-stage, and 2-stage transposition. However, 
none of these 2-stage techniques include a new arteriovenous anastomosis during 
the second stage. This study adds to the current literature as well as 
introducing a new and innovative technique for hemodialysis access.
METHODS: Forty-nine basilic vein transpositions were performed. Data were 
collected retrospectively. Primary and secondary patency was calculated using 
life table methods. Complications and interventions were recorded.
RESULTS: Primary patency was 72% at 1 year, 54% at 2 years, and 54% at 3 years. 
Secondary patency was 95%, 80% and 65% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. 
Twenty-nine patients experienced complications related to the fistula, and 15 
required intervention to maintain patency. Patency was achieved in 100% of the 
procedures using percutaneous techniques.
CONCLUSIONS: This 2-stage procedure should be strongly considered when planning 
brachial basilic fistulas for hemodialysis access.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2010.06.037
PMID: 21810498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Mol Genet Metab. 2011 Nov;104(3):383-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2011.07.007.
Epub  2011 Jul 12.

A Markov model to analyze cost-effectiveness of screening for severe combined 
immunodeficiency (SCID).

Chan K(1), Davis J, Pai SY, Bonilla FA, Puck JM, Apkon M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, College of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences: 
Sargent College, Boston University, Boston, MA 02215, USA. keechan@bu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of universal neonatal screening 
for T cell lymphocytopenia in enhancing quality of life and life expectancy for 
children with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID).
METHODS: Decision trees were created and analyzed to estimate the cost, life 
years, and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) across a population when 
universal screening for lack of T cells is used to detect SCID, as implemented 
in five states, compared to detection based on recognizing symptoms and signs of 
disease. Terminal values of each tree limb were derived through Markov models 
simulating the natural history of three cohorts: unaffected subjects; those 
diagnosed with SCID as neonates (early diagnosis); and those diagnosed after 
becoming symptomatic and arousing clinical suspicion (late diagnosis). Models 
considered the costs of screening and of care including hematopoietic cell 
transplantation for affected individuals. Key decision variables were derived 
from the literature and from a survey of families with children affected by 
SCID, which was used to describe the clinical history and healthcare utilization 
for affected subjects. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to explore the 
influence of these decision variables.
RESULTS: Over a 70-year time horizon, the average cost per infant was $8.89 
without screening and $14.33 with universal screening. The model predicted that 
universal screening in the U.S. would cost approximately $22.4 million/year with 
a gain of 880 life years and 802 QALYs. Sensitivity analyses showed that 
screening test specificity and disease incidence were critical driving forces 
affecting the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Assuming a SCID 
incidence of 1/75,000 births and test specificity and sensitivity each at 0.99, 
screening remained cost-effective up to a maximum cost of $15 per infant 
screened.
CONCLUSION: At our current estimated screening cost of $4.22/infant, universal 
screening for SCID would be a cost effective means to improve quality and 
duration of life for children with SCID.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2011.07.007
PMCID: PMC3205197
PMID: 21810544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Dec;119(12):1691-9. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1003369.
Epub  2011 Aug 2.

Black carbon as an additional indicator of the adverse health effects of 
airborne particles compared with PM10 and PM2.5.

Janssen NA(1), Hoek G, Simic-Lawson M, Fischer P, van Bree L, ten Brink H, 
Keuken M, Atkinson RW, Anderson HR, Brunekreef B, Cassee FR.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands. nicole.janssen@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: Current air quality standards for particulate matter (PM) use the PM 
mass concentration [PM with aerodynamic diameters ≤ 10 μm (PM(10)) or ≤ 2.5 μm 
(PM(2.5))] as a metric. It has been suggested that particles from combustion 
sources are more relevant to human health than are particles from other sources, 
but the impact of policies directed at reducing PM from combustion processes is 
usually relatively small when effects are estimated for a reduction in the total 
mass concentration.
OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the value of black carbon particles (BCP) as an 
additional indicator in air quality management.
METHODS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of health effects of 
BCP compared with PM mass based on data from time-series studies and cohort 
studies that measured both exposures. We compared the potential health benefits 
of a hypothetical traffic abatement measure, using near-roadway concentration 
increments of BCP and PM(2.5) based on data from prior studies.
RESULTS: Estimated health effects of a 1-μg/m3 increase in exposure were greater 
for BCP than for PM(10) or PM(2.5), but estimated effects of an interquartile 
range increase were similar. Two-pollutant models in time-series studies 
suggested that the effect of BCP was more robust than the effect of PM mass. The 
estimated increase in life expectancy associated with a hypothetical traffic 
abatement measure was four to nine times higher when expressed in BCP compared 
with an equivalent change in PM(2.5) mass.
CONCLUSION: BCP is a valuable additional air quality indicator to evaluate the 
health risks of air quality dominated by primary combustion particles.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1003369
PMCID: PMC3261976
PMID: 21810552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


240. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2011 Aug;165(8):756-62. doi: 
10.1001/archpediatrics.2011.105.

The economic effect of Planet Health on preventing bulimia nervosa.

Wang LY(1), Nichols LP, Austin SB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
4770 Buford Highway, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. lgw0@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVES: To assess the economic effect of the school-based obesity prevention 
program Planet Health on preventing disordered weight control behaviors and to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of the intervention in terms of its combined 
effect on prevention of obesity and disordered weight control behaviors.
DESIGN: On the basis of the intervention's short-term effect on disordered 
weight control behaviors prevention, we projected the number of girls who were 
prevented from developing bulimia nervosa by age 17 years. We further estimated 
medical costs saved and quality-adjusted life years gained by the intervention 
over 10 years. As a final step, we compared the intervention costs with the 
combined intervention benefits from both obesity prevention (reported 
previously) and prevention of disordered weight control behaviors to determine 
the overall cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
SETTING: Middle schools.
PARTICIPANTS: A sample of 254 intervention girls aged 10 to 14 years.
INTERVENTION: The Planet Health program was implemented during the school years 
from 1995 to 1997 and was designed to promote healthful nutrition and physical 
activity among youth.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intervention costs, medical costs saved, quality-adjusted 
life years gained, and cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: An estimated 1 case of bulimia nervosa would have been prevented. As a 
result, an estimated $33 999 in medical costs and 0.7 quality-adjusted life 
years would be saved. At an intervention cost of $46 803, the combined 
prevention of obesity and disordered weight control behaviors would yield a net 
savings of $14 238 and a gain of 4.8 quality-adjusted life years.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary prevention programs, such as Planet Health, warrant careful 
consideration by policy makers and program planners. The findings of this study 
provide additional argument for integrated prevention of obesity and eating 
disorders.

DOI: 10.1001/archpediatrics.2011.105
PMID: 21810638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. BMJ. 2011 Aug 2;343:d4885. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d4885.

Challenge of ageing populations. Ageing alongside and outside EU borders.

Kowal P, Williams SR, Chatterji S.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d4885
PMID: 21810875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Psychiatr Prax. 2011 Oct;38(7):352-4. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1276861. Epub 2011
Aug  2.

[Fatal aspiration following polydipsia in schizophrenia].

[Article in German]

Gaigalat TK(1), Bopp FT, Zinkler M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Psychiatrie, Psychotherapie und Psychosomatik, Klinikum 
Heidenheim.

OBJECTIVE AND METHODS: Polydipsia with hyponatraemia commonly occurs with 
chronic psychosis and is associated with a reduced life expectancy for 
individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia. We describe a 51 years old man who 
presented with polydipsia during a relapse of paranoid schizophrenia. While 
treated with Clozapine, and despite regular observation and daily control of 
creatinine and electrolytes, the man suddenly collapsed and died after drinking 
huge amounts of water. No sedation from psychotropic medication or drugs and 
alcohol was present in this case. Sodium levels on the day of death and the day 
before were within normal range. A post-mortem revealed aspiration of water and 
gastric content as the cause of asphyxiation and death. A literature search in 
Medline and Embase did not yield a description of a similar case.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the risk of aspiration associated 
with polydipsia in chronic schizophrenia. Daily control of electrolytes to 
