and other serious adverse events, quality of life and prescriber acceptability. 
The trial is registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry 
(ACTRN12606000067572).

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2011.07.006
PMID: 21777702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2011 Jul;4(7):721-32. doi:
10.1016/j.jcin.2011.03.016.

Transcatheter aortic valve implantation for failing surgical aortic 
bioprosthetic valve: from concept to clinical application and evaluation (part 
1).

Piazza N(1), Bleiziffer S, Brockmann G, Hendrick R, Deutsch MA, Opitz A, 
Mazzitelli D, Tassani-Prell P, Schreiber C, Lange R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, German Heart Center, Munich, Germany. 
nicolopiazza@mac.com

With an aging population, improvement in life expectancy, and significant 
increase in the use of bioprosthetic valves, structural valve deterioration will 
become more and more prevalent. The operative mortality for an elective redo 
aortic valve surgery is reported to range from 2% to 7%, but this percentage can 
increase to more than 30% in high-risk and nonelective patients. Because 
transcatheter aortic valve (TAV)-in-surgical aortic valve (SAV) implantation 
represents a minimally invasive alternative to conventional redo surgery, it may 
prove to be safer and just as effective as redo surgery. Of course, prospective 
comparisons with a large number of patients and long-term follow-up are required 
to confirm these potential advantages. It is axiomatic that knowledge of the 
basic construction and dimensions, radiographic identification, and potential 
failure modes of SAV bioprostheses is fundamental in understanding key 
principles involved in TAV-in-SAV implantation. The goals of this paper are: 1) 
to review the classification, physical characteristics, and potential failure 
modes of surgical bioprosthetic aortic valves; and 2) to discuss patient 
selection and procedural techniques relevant to TAV-in-SAV implantation.

Copyright © 2011 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcin.2011.03.016
PMID: 21777879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. J Contam Hydrol. 2012 Jan 1;127(1-4):76-87. doi:
10.1016/j.jconhyd.2011.06.001.  Epub 2011 Jun 23.

On the use of mean groundwater age, life expectancy and capture probability for 
defining aquifer vulnerability and time-of-travel zones for source water 
protection.

Molson JW(1), Frind EO.

Author information:
(1)Canada Research Chair in Quantitative Hydrogeology of Fractured Porous Media, 
Université Laval, Dept. of Geology & Geological Engineering, Québec City, Québec 
Canada. john.molson@ggl.ulaval.ca

Protection and sustainability of water supply wells requires the assessment of 
vulnerability to contamination and the delineation of well capture zones. 
Capture zones, or more generally, time-of-travel zones corresponding to specific 
contaminant travel times, are most commonly delineated using advective particle 
tracking. More recently, the capture probability approach has been used in which 
a probability of capture of P=1 is assigned to the well and the growth of a 
probability-of-capture plume is tracked backward in time using an 
advective-dispersive transport model. This approach accounts for uncertainty due 
to local-scale heterogeneities through the use of macrodispersion. In this 
paper, we develop an alternative approach to capture zone delineation by 
applying the concept of mean life expectancy E (time remaining before being 
captured by the well), and we show how life expectancy E is related to capture 
probability P. Either approach can be used to delineate time-of-travel zones 
corresponding to specific travel times, as well as the ultimate capture zone. 
The related concept of mean groundwater age A (time since recharge) can also be 
applied in the context of defining the vulnerability of a pumped aquifer. In the 
same way as capture probability, mean life expectancy and groundwater age 
account for local-scale uncertainty or unresolved heterogeneities through 
macrodispersion, which standard particle tracking neglects. The approach is 
tested on 2D and 3D idealized systems, as well as on several watershed-scale 
well fields within the Regional Municipality of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconhyd.2011.06.001
PMID: 21777991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Am J Public Health. 2011 Sep;101(9):1729-34. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300173.
Epub  2011 Jul 21.

Arthritis, occupational class, and the aging US workforce.

Caban-Martinez AJ(1), Lee DJ, Fleming LE, Tancredi DJ, Arheart KL, LeBlanc WG, 
McCollister KE, Christ SL, Louie GH, Muennig PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Miami, Miller 
School of Medicine, FL 33136, USA. acaban@med.miami.edu

OBJECTIVES: The working poor sometimes delay retirement to survive. However, 
their higher risk of disease and disability threatens both their financial 
survival and their ability to work through the retirement years. We used the 
burden of disease attributable to arthritis by occupational class to illustrate 
the challenges faced by the older poor.
METHODS: We merged data from the National Health Interview Survey, Medical 
Expenditure Panel Survey, and the National Death Index into a single database. 
We then calculated and compared age- and occupational class-specific 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) between workers with and without arthritis 
by using unabridged life tables.
RESULTS: White-collar workers have a higher overall health-related quality of 
life than do other workers, and suffer fewer QALYs lost to arthritis at all 
ages. For instance, whereas 65-year-old white-collar workers without arthritis 
look forward to 17 QALYs of future life, blue-collar workers with arthritis 
experience only 11, and are much less likely to remain in the workforce than are 
those in service, farming, or white-collar jobs.
CONCLUSIONS: To meet the needs of the aging workforce, more extensive health and 
disability insurance will be needed.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300173
PMCID: PMC3154222
PMID: 21778483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nat Chem. 2011 Jul 10;3(8):603-8. doi: 10.1038/nchem.1086.

Efficient enzyme-free copying of all four nucleobases templated by immobilized 
RNA.

Deck C(1), Jauker M, Richert C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Organic Chemistry, University of Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 55, 
70569 Stuttgart, Germany.

The transition from inanimate materials to the earliest forms of life must have 
involved multiplication of a catalytically active polymer that is able to 
replicate. The semiconservative replication that is characteristic of genetic 
information transfer requires strands that contain more than one type of 
nucleobase. Short strands of RNA can act as catalysts, but attempts to induce 
efficient self-copying of mixed sequences (containing four different 
nucleobases) have been unsuccessful with ribonucleotides. Here we show that 
inhibition by spent monomers, formed by the hydrolysis of the activated 
nucleotides, is the cause for incomplete extension of growing daughter strands 
on RNA templates. Immobilization of strands and periodic displacement of the 
solution containing the activated monomers overcome this inhibition. Any of the 
four nucleobases (A/C/G/U) is successfully copied in the absence of enzymes. We 
conclude therefore that in a prebiotic world, oligoribonucleotides may have 
formed and undergone self-copying on surfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/nchem.1086
PMID: 21778979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Z Rheumatol. 2011 Aug;70(6):486-92. doi: 10.1007/s00393-011-0756-z.

[Development of morbidity and mortality in ANCA-associated vasculitis].

[Article in German]

Reinhold-Keller E(1), Moosig F.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Rheumatologie und klinische Immunologie Klinikum Bad Bramstedt und 
Poliklinik für Rheumatologie, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Campus 
Lübeck, Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538, Lübeck, Deutschland. 
reinhold-keller@rheuma-spezialisten.de

The outcome of ANCA (antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody)-associated vasculitis 
(AAV) has been significantly improved due to the combined use of 
cyclophosphamide (CYC) and glucocorticosteroids. Recent studies demonstrated a 
normalization of life expectancy for several subgroups of AAV patients. 
Mortality is highest in the first year after diagnosis and infections are the 
most frequent cause of death. Older age and renal failure are associated with 
worse outcome. The use of Pneumocystis jiroveci prophylaxis and subsequent 
activity-adapted GC dose reduction (target: below 10 mg per day) can 
substantially reduce the risk of severe infections. Late sequelae of CYC 
medication, such as cystitis and malignancy should be recognized and can be 
minimized by the usage of uroprotection with mesna and avoidance of high 
cumulative CYC doses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-011-0756-z
PMID: 21779878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Mech Behav Biomed Mater. 2011 Oct;4(7):1504-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmbbm.2011.05.020. Epub 2011 May 17.

Effect of aging on the transverse toughness of human cortical bone: evaluation 
by R-curves.

Koester KJ(1), Barth HD, Ritchie RO.

Author information:
(1)Materials Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, United 
States.

The age-related deterioration in the quality (e.g., strength and fracture 
resistance) and quantity (e.g., bone-mineral density) of human bone, together 
with increased life expectancy, is responsible for increasing incidence of bone 
fracture in the elderly. The present study describes ex vivo fracture 
experiments to quantitatively assess the effect of aging on the fracture 
toughness properties of human cortical bone specifically in the transverse 
(breaking) orientation. Because bone exhibits rising crack-growth resistance 
with crack extension, the aging-related transverse toughness is evaluated in 
terms of resistance-curve (R-curve) behavior, measured for bone taken from a 
wide range of age groups (25-74 years). Using this approach, both the ex vivo 
crack-initiation and crack-growth toughness are determined and are found to 
deteriorate with age; however, the effect is far smaller than that reported for 
the longitudinal toughness of cortical bone. Whereas the longitudinal 
crack-growth toughness has been reported to be reduced by almost an order of 
magnitude for human cortical bone over this age range, the corresponding 
age-related decrease in transverse toughness is merely ~14%. Similar to that 
reported for X-ray irradiated bone, with aging cracks in the transverse 
direction are subjected to an increasing incidence of crack deflection, 
principally along the cement lines, but the deflections are smaller and result 
in a generally less tortuous crack path.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmbbm.2011.05.020
PMID: 21783160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Mutat Res. 2011 Oct 9;725(1-2):22-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mrgentox.2011.07.005.
Epub  2011 Jul 18.

Basal damage and oxidative DNA damage in children with chronic kidney disease 
measured by use of the comet assay.

Aykanat B(1), Demircigil GC, Fidan K, Buyan N, Gulleroglu K, Baskin E, Bayrakci 
US, Sepici A, Buyukkaragoz B, Karakayali H, Haberal M, Burgaz S.

Author information:
(1)Gazi University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Toxicology, Ankara, 
Turkey.

One consequence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an elevated risk for cancer. 
There is sufficient evidence to conclude that there is an increased incidence of 
at least some cancers in kidney-dialysis patients. Cancer risk after kidney 
transplantation has mainly been attributed to immunosuppressive therapy. There 
are no data evaluating DNA damage in children with CKD, in dialysis patients, or 
following kidney transplantation. In this study, the comet assay and the 
enzyme-modified comet assay - with the use of endonuclease III (Endo III) and 
formamidopyrimidine glycosylase (FPG) enzymes - were conducted to investigate 
the basal damage and the oxidative DNA damage as a result of treatment in 
peripheral blood lymphocytes of children. Children at various stages of 
treatment for kidney disease, including pre-dialysis patients (PreD) (n=17), 
regular hemodialysis patients (HD) (n=15), and those that received kidney 
transplants (Tx) (n=17), comprised the study group. They were compared with age- 
and gender-matched healthy children (n=20) as a control group. Our results show 
that the %DNA intensity, a measure of basal damage, was significantly increased 
in children with CKD (mean ± SD) (5.22 ± 1.57) and also in each of the PreD, HD, 
and Tx groups [(4.92 ± 1.23), (4.91 ± 1.35), and (5.79 ± 1.94), respectively, vs 
the healthy children (2.74 ± 2.91) (p<0.001). Significant increases in oxidative 
DNA damage were only found in the FPG-sensitive sites for the PreD and Tx 
groups, compared with control and HD groups (p<0.05), suggesting that basal DNA 
damage was more evident for the PreD, HD, and Tx groups. The findings of the 
present study indicate a critical need for further research on genomic damage 
with different endpoints and also for preventive measures and improvements in 
treatment of pediatric patients, in order to improve their life expectancy.

2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mrgentox.2011.07.005
PMID: 21784169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Trends Ecol Evol. 2011 Oct;26(10):533-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tree.2011.06.002.
Epub  2011 Jul 23.

The evolution of human parental care and recruitment of juvenile help.

Kramer KL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 
02138, USA. kkramer@fas.harvard.edu

Provisioning of juveniles is a defining characteristic of human life history. 
Human children are also unusual in cooperating with their siblings, mothers and 
other adults in the exchange of resources and labor. This article highlights 
this distinctly human and twofold nature of juvenility within the context of 
life history evolution and cooperative breeding. Juveniles benefit from 
continued investment and from helping to support their siblings during a life 
stage when they cannot contribute to their own reproduction. Rather than 
juvenile dependence signifying a costly extension of parental care, juvenile 
provisioning and help are suggested to develop in tandem with the broader 
pattern of food sharing and division of labor that characterizes human 
subsistence and sociality.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tree.2011.06.002
PMID: 21784548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Ann Rheum Dis. 2011 Oct;70(10):1788-92. doi: 10.1136/ard.2010.144360. Epub
2011  Jul 21.

Clinical prediction of 5-year survival in systemic sclerosis: validation of a 
simple prognostic model in EUSTAR centres.

Fransen J(1), Popa-Diaconu D, Hesselstrand R, Carreira P, Valentini G, Beretta 
L, Airo P, Inanc M, Ullman S, Balbir-Gurman A, Sierakowski S, Allanore Y, 
Czirjak L, Riccieri V, Giacomelli R, Gabrielli A, Riemekasten G, Matucci-Cerinic 
M, Farge D, Hunzelmann N, Van den Hoogen FH, Vonk MC.

Author information:
(1)Correspondence to J Fransen, Department of Rheumatology, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. j.fransen@reuma.umcn.nl

OBJECTIVE: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is associated with a significant reduction 
in life expectancy. A simple prognostic model to predict 5-year survival in SSc 
was developed in 1999 in 280 patients, but it has not been validated in other 
patients. The predictions of a prognostic model are usually less accurate in 
other patients, especially from other centres or countries. A study was 
undertaken to validate the prognostic model to predict 5-year survival in SSc in 
other centres throughout Europe.
METHODS: A European multicentre cohort of patients with SSc diagnosed before 
2002 was established. Patients with SSc according to the preliminary American 
College of Rheumatology classification criteria were eligible for the study when 
they were followed for at least 5 years or shorter if they died. The primary 
outcome was 5-year survival after diagnosis of SSc. The predefined prognostic 
model uses the following baseline variables: age, gender, presence of urine 
protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and carbon monoxide diffusing 
capacity (DLCO).
RESULTS: Data were available for 1049 patients, 119 (11%) of whom died within 5 
years after diagnosis. Of the patients, 85% were female, the mean (SD) age at 
diagnosis was 50 (14) years and 30% were classified as having diffuse cutaneous 
SSc. The prognostic model with age (OR 1.03), male gender (OR 1.93), urine 
protein (OR 2.29), elevated ESR (1.89) and low DLCO (OR 1.94) had an area under 
the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.78. Death occurred in 12 (2.2%) 
of 509 patients with no risk factors, 45 (13%) of 349 patients with one risk 
factor, 55 (33%) of 168 patients with two risk factors and 7 (30%) of 23 
patients with three risk factors.
CONCLUSION: A simple prognostic model using three disease factors to predict 
5-year survival at diagnosis in SSc showed reasonable performance upon 
validation in a European multicentre study.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2010.144360
PMID: 21784727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Urologia. 2011 Jul-Sep;78(3):206-9. doi: 10.5301/RU.2011.8526.

[Sporadic case of desmoid tumor in outcomes of lombotomic nephrectomy].

[Article in Italian]

Tonini G(1), Kalantary F, Teppa A, Rosini R, Aulenti V, Tosana M, Zorzi F, 
Bianchi D.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Urologia, Fondazione Poliambulanza, Brescia, Italy. 
gerolamotonini@libero.it

The desmoid tumor is a rare tumor with an incidence of 2-4 cases per million 
people each year, and represents 0.03% of all cancers. The tumor is composed of 
fibrous tissue that produces masses of well-differentiated hard elastic 
consistency. According to their site of onset, the desmoid tumors are classified 
in abdominal, intra-abdominal, and extra-abdominal. The abdominal cases develop 
inside the abdominal muscles of the abdominal wall upright, especially in women 
in their 2nd - 4th decade of life, particularly in those who have been pregnant.
METHODS: A 66-year-old patient underwent nephrectomy in 2006 for the detection 
of a massive tumor in the right kidney (EI: pT1bNx). The patient came to our 
observation for the radiological tracking (CT) of a solid lesion of 4 cm below 
the right arch, 2 years after surgery. For this reason it was decided to refer 
the patient to a series of percutaneous biopsies. The report describes a 
histologic lesion of fibromatosis. After one year a new CT exam showed a 
significant increase of the size of the lesion, with a diameter of 11.6 x 7.9 
cm, and abdominal involvement to ascending colon. Given the discrepancy between 
the CT data and the histological report, it was decided to refer the patient to 
a lombotomic exploration and the subsequent removal of the lesion, which 
appeared of hard, elastic consistency and well capsulated. The final histology 
test confirmed the fibromatosis lesion.
CONCLUSIONS: The desmoid tumor is a rare tumor characterized by the 
proliferation of fibrotic tissue. The tumor is composed of well-differentiated 
fibrous tissue and has a hard-elastic consistency. Regarding the development of 
dermoid tumors, several risk factors were identified, including extra-abdominal 
fibromatosis, genetic factors, endocrine factors. Other causes may arise from 
trauma or abdominal injury in surgical outcomes of appendectomy, laparotomy and 
other surgical scars (scar fibromatosis) or genetic predisposing factors. The 
surgical resection of dermoid tumors should be the therapy of choice, complete 
and radical, to cover the possible excision of a wide margin of surrounding 
structures concerned, and those arrangements should ensure a low rate of 
relapse. However, in cases of inoperable cancer due to extension, anti-estrogen 
therapy may have an important therapeutic and well-tolerated effect, besides 
being relatively non-toxic, even at high doses. A close follow-up is indicated, 
however, and warmly recommended.

DOI: 10.5301/RU.2011.8526
PMID: 21786229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Ann Neurol. 2011 Jul;70(1):9-21. doi: 10.1002/ana.22425.

Current concepts and management of glioblastoma.

Preusser M(1), de Ribaupierre S, Wöhrer A, Erridge SC, Hegi M, Weller M, Stupp 
R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I/Oncology, Comprehensive Cancer Center Central 
Nervous System Tumors Unit, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Glioblastoma is the most common malignant primary brain tumor in adults. Its 
often rapid clinical course, with many medical and psychosocial challenges, 
requires a multidisciplinary management. Modern multimodality treatment and care 
improve patients' life expectancy and quality of life. This review covers major 
aspects of care of glioblastoma patients with a focus on the management of 
common symptoms and complications. We aim to provide a guide for clinicians 
confronted with glioblastoma patients in their everyday practice.

Copyright © 2011 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.22425
PMID: 21786296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2011;(6):27-36.

[Biological therapy in pediatric rheumatology].

[Article in Russian]

Baranov AA, Alekseeva EI, Valieva SI, Bzarova TM, Denisova RV, Lisitsyn AO, 
Chistiakova EG, Sleptsova TV, Mitenko EV.

This article presents the unique experience of Research Centre of Children's 
Health in the treatment of 438 children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis using 
biological preparations, viz. infliximab (270), adalimumab (55), ethanercept 
(25), rituximab (74), and tocilizumab (34). It is shown that differential 
biological therapy, unlike treatment with classical immunodepressants 
(methotrexate, cyclosporine, leflunomide, etc.), permits to achieve 
clinico-laboratory remission in 70% and markedly decrease activity of the 
disease in 20% of the patients within 1 year after the onset. It is concluded 
that treatment with gene-engineered drugs improves the quality of life of the 
children and their families, normal growth and development of the patients and 
affects prognosis of this formerly incurable chronic autoimmune disease.

PMID: 21786602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Sante Publique. 2011 Jan-Feb;23(1):31-40.

[Mortality from cancer in Tunisia: calculating years of life lost].

[Article in French]

Lazaar-Ben Gobrane H(1), Hajjem S, Aounallah-Skhiri H, Achour N, Hsairi M.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé Publique, 5-7, rue Khartoum, Belvédère 1002, 
Tunis, Tunisie.

This work, conducted in Tunisia, aimed to calculate the number of years of life 
lost due to premature death caused by cancer. The data were based on mortality 
statistics (2006) provided by the national surveillance system of causes of 
death and involved calculations proposed by the World Health Organization. A 
total of 105,205 deaths due to cancer were recorded, 61,550 for males and 43,655 
for females. The cancers were mostly of the lung and upper respiratory-digestive 
tract for men and breast and cervix for women. These results should prompt the 
health care system to emphasize tobacco control, the promotion of healthy eating 
and physical activity, as well as screening for breast and cervical cancer.

PMID: 21786737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. J Manag Care Pharm. 2011 Jul-Aug;17(6):463-8. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2011.17.6.463.

The pursuit of transparency and quality improvement in cost-effectiveness 
analysis - a case study in disease-modifying drugs for the treatment of multiple 
sclerosis.

Bell CF.

Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) can be a powerful analytic tool for assessing 
the value of health care interventions when used in conjunction with efficacy, 
safety, and other supporting data in an evidence-based decision making 
environment. CEA is commonly defined in terms of the comparison of costs, 
expressed in monetary units, with outcomes that may be expressed in a variety of 
ways. One of the most common forms of CEA compares costs in monetary units with 
outcomes quantified in nonmonetary units (e.g., cancer avoided, death avoided, 
or successfully treated patient). Cost-utility analysis (CUA) is a form of CEA 
that compares costs in monetary units with outcomes quantified as a 
multidimensional measure of effectiveness (e.g., utilities that are used to 
estimate quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]). Cost benefit analysis (CBA), 
another form of CEA that is used less frequently, compares costs and benefits 
(i.e., outcomes) both of which are quantified in monetary units. Overall, there 
has been an increasing trend in the use of CEA (CEA, CUA, and CBA) to inform 
decision making. This trend can be implicitly measured by the frequency of 
published CEAs over time.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2011.17.6.463
PMCID: PMC10438292
PMID: 21787032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Clin Ther. 2011 Aug;33(8):1084-1095.e4. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.06.012.  Epub 2011 Jul 23.

Time trade-off procedure for measuring health utilities loss with human 
papillomavirus-induced diseases: a multicenter, retrospective, observational 
pilot study in Italy.

Mennini FS(1), Panatto D, Marcellusi A, Cristoforoni P, De Vincenzo R, Di Capua 
E, Ferrandina G, Petrillo M, Sasso T, Ricci C, Trivellizzi N, Capone A, Scambia 
G, Gasparini R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Economics and Management, University Tor Vergata, Rome, 
Italy. f.mennini@uniroma2.it

BACKGROUND: The economic evaluation of any human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccination strategy requires the measurement of clinical benefits 
(quality-adjusted life-years [QALY]) gained to reflect both the increase in life 
expectancy and the economic benefits associated with an effective intervention.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this pilot study was to investigate the feasibility of 
a standardized time trade-off (TTO) procedure to quantify utilities loss in 
health states affected by HPV-induced pathologies in Italy.
METHODS: This multicenter, retrospective, observational, cross-sectional study 
was designed to elicit data on utilities in a cohort of women with a 
histologically confirmed diagnosis of high-grade cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasias (CIN2-3). An algorithm for the computerized administration of a TTO 
questionnaire was developed for the standardized elicitation of data on health 
utilities in CIN2-3, anogenital warts, and invasive cervical cancer. The 
European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) questionnaire was used to assess 
the respondents' baseline perception of their health conditions. The correlation 
between utilities and age, time from conization to questionnaire administration, 
and EQ-5D score, was tested using the Spearman rank correlation coefficient (ρ) 
as a measure of validity.
RESULTS: Of 42 enrolled patients, 36 responded (85.7%) (mean [SD] age, 37.2 
[9.0] years). The women's perception of their health state was high (mean [SD] 
EQ-5D score, 0.93 [0.10]). The mean utility values were 0.73 (0.22), 0.71 
(0.35), and 0.02 (0.08) for CIN2-3, anogenital warts, and invasive cervical 
cancer, respectively. Based on ρ values, none of the 3 HPV-induced pathologies 
considered was significantly correlated with utility. Nonsignificant variability 
was found among utilities elicited for anogenital warts (range, 0.54 [0.47] to 
0.79 [0.27]); this variability was a limitation of this pilot study and was 
likely the result of the limited sample size.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings from this pilot study, a TTO standardized 
procedure is expected to be feasible and appropriate for assessing utilities in 
patients affected by HPV-related diseases and for cost-effectiveness analyses of 
cervical cancer prevention in Italy.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.06.012
PMID: 21788076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Jpn J Infect Dis. 2011;64(4):277-83.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a universal rotavirus immunization program in 
Japan.

Sato T(1), Nakagomi T, Nakagomi O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences, and Global Center of Excellence, Nagasaki University, 
Nagasaki 852-8523, Japan.

In anticipation of the imminent licensure of rotavirus vaccine, we evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of rotavirus vaccine in Japan by taking into account the 
considerable variations in the incidence of rotavirus-associated 
hospitalizations previously reported in the literature. We assumed that the 
variation was due to local differences in healthcare utilization practices 
rather than a true difference in the incidence of severe rotavirus 
gastroenteritis. Thus, a Markov model was constructed such that the sum of 
rotavirus-associated hospitalizations and outpatient visits was set a constant 
value of 129 cases per 1,000 child-years. We calculated the direct medical cost, 
the indirect cost, and the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) loss in children 
aged less than 5 years. For the base case scenario, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per QALY gained was 9.8 million Japanese yen 
from the healthcare perspective, but it was 900,000 Japanese yen from the 
societal perspective, making the program of universal immunization against 
rotavirus highly cost-effective. Furthermore, the universal immunization program 
was found to be cost-effective from the societal perspective for any of the 
previously reported incidence rates of rotavirus-associated hospitalization. 
Thus, the introduction of the rotavirus vaccine into the childhood immunization 
schedule and its co-administration with other childhood vaccines will be a 
cost-effective public health intervention in Japan.

PMID: 21788701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2011 Sep-Oct;17(5):401-5. doi: 
10.1097/PHH.0b013e318205413c.

Health ranking of the largest US counties using the Community Health Status 
Indicators peer strata and database.

Kanarek N(1), Tsai HL, Stanley J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School 
of Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. nkanarek@jhsph.edu

OBJECTIVE: Using the structure of the Community Health Status Indicators (CHSI) 
report, we embarked on analysis of population health data with the aim to 
validate the CHSI modules as overarching themes and to rank county health within 
peer strata.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS: Ranking was conducted for the largest (>100 000), 
nonfrontier counties (county aggregates) (N = 508) in the United States for many 
aspects of population health. Factor analysis was used to assess CHSI modularity 
and analyses of variance confirmed peer strata homogeneity.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Ten factors were identified. They were life stage, 
injury, cancer, adult behaviors, preventive services, environment-food, and 
health care access. Because they did not contribute to a factor, 4 CHSI summary 
health measures (all-cause mortality, average life expectancy, health status, 
and unhealthy days) were also ranked.
RESULTS: No single factor emerged as reflecting overall county health.
CONCLUSIONS: Further summary of county health will be challenging. We present 
the ranks for CHSI peer strata #1, local jurisdictions of 1 million or greater 
population. County factor content and data availability may differ when counties 
of smaller size are considered. Ranking may be utilized by community leaders for 
community health assessment and local priority setting, and ultimately 
incorporated into CHSI Web-based reports.

DOI: 10.1097/PHH.0b013e318205413c
PMID: 21788776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Spinal Cord. 2011 Dec;49(12):1188-92. doi: 10.1038/sc.2011.72. Epub 2011 Jul
26.

Iatrogenic spinal cord injury: an observational study.

Alcanyis-Alberola M(1), Giner-Pascual M, Salinas-Huertas S, Gutiérrez-Delgado M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Rehabilitacion, Hospital Universitari I Politècnic La Fe from 
Valencia. Spinal Cord Injury Unit, Valencia, Spain. moalal@alumni.uv.es

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective descriptive observational study.
OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of this study was to quantify the incidence of 
iatrogenic spinal cord injury (SCI) at our SCI unit (SCIU). The secondary 
objective was to discover the surgical and medical procedures that cause 
iatrogenic SCI and to estimate the incidence with each procedure.
SUBJECTS: Patients admitted to or seen at outpatient services of the SCIU at a 
university hospital.
METHODS: Histories were compiled from 1 July 2005 to 30 June 2009. We included 
patients with SCI caused by any medical or surgical procedure. We collected age, 
sex, diagnosis leading to medical intervention, predominant clinical 
manifestations, medical-surgical procedure and level and grade of injury upon 
admission and discharge.
RESULTS: Out of 250 patients admitted to the SCIU, 32 (14.7%) patients presented 
iatrogenic SCI. Average age was 56.2 (s.d. 17.3), ranging from 0 to 82 years 
old. The most frequent clinical manifestation was pain. The most common 
diagnosis was channel stenosis. Lumbar level grade C of American Spine Injury 
Association (ASIA) was the most frequently observed.
CONCLUSION: The rise in the population's life expectancy entails an increase in 
elderly patients with vascular risk factors, who underwent invasive 
interventions leading to spinal cord iatrogenia.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2011.72
PMID: 21788958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Am J Gastroenterol. 2011 Nov;106(11):2009-17. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2011.237.
Epub  2011 Jul 26.

Strategies for the prevention of postoperative recurrence in Crohn's disease: 
results of a decision analysis.

Ananthakrishnan AN(1), Hur C, Juillerat P, Korzenik JR.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 
02114, USA. aananthakrishnan@partners.org

OBJECTIVES: Nearly 70% of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) undergo surgical 
resection, with one-quarter subsequently developing clinical recurrence within 
12 months. Several options exist for the prevention of postoperative recurrence 
in CD, but the comparative cost effectiveness of these competing strategies has 
not been previously analyzed.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic model comprising five strategies--No 
Treatment, azathioprine (AZA), antibiotics (ABX), upfront infliximab (IFX), and 
tailored IFX that consisted of no upfront therapy with initiation of IFX in 
patients with severe endoscopic recurrence at 6 months. The base-case 1-year 
clinical recurrence rate was 24% with reduction in recurrence by 41%, 77%, and 
99% for AZA, ABX, and IFX, respectively. A 1-year time horizon was used and 
sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: At the base-case analysis, the ABX (0.82 quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs)) and AZA (0.81 QALYs) arms were more effective and less expensive than 
the No Treatment strategy (0.80 QALYs). The most effective strategy was upfront 
IFX (0.83 QALYs); however, this was also the most expensive and resulted in a 
high incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) ($777,732/QALY) compared with 
no treatment. The tailored IFX arm was less effective than upfront use but had a 
more acceptable ICER. On increasing the recurrence rate to 78% (high-risk 
patients), upfront IFX resulted in 0.07 QALYs (ICER $130,580/QALY) gained 
compared with No Treatment, whereas ABX, AZA, and tailored IFX arms dominated No 
Treatment.
CONCLUSION: Antibiotics are the most cost-effective option for preventing 
postoperative recurrence, but they have been associated with high rates of 
intolerance precluding widespread use. Upfront IFX is the most efficacious 
strategy but is not cost effective even in high-risk patients. Reserving IFX use 
for high-risk patients with early endoscopic recurrence is more cost effective 
than upfront use in all patients.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2011.237
PMID: 21788991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Cad Saude Publica. 2011;27 Suppl 2:S222-36. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2011001400010.

Mortality among Guarani Indians in Southeastern and Southern Brazil.

Cardoso AM(1), Coimbra CE Jr, Barreto CT, Werneck GL, Santos RV.

Author information:
(1)Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública Sergio Arouca, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil. andrey@ensp.fiocruz.br

Worldwide, indigenous peoples display a high burden of disease, expressed by 
profound health inequalities in comparison to non-indigenous populations. This 
study describes mortality patterns among the Guarani in Southern and 
Southeastern Brazil, with a focus on health inequalities. The Guarani population 
structure is indicative of high birth and death rates, low median age and low 
life expectancy at birth. The crude mortality rate (crude MR = 5.0/1,000) was 
similar to the Brazilian national rate, but the under-five MR (44.5/1,000) and 
the infant mortality rate (29.6/1,000) were twice the corresponding MR in the 
South and Southeast of Brazil. The proportion of post-neonatal infant deaths was 
83.3%, 2.4 times higher than general population. The proportions of ill-defined 
(15.8%) and preventable causes (51.6%) were high. The principal causes of death 
were respiratory (40.6%) and infectious and parasitic diseases (18.8%), 
suggesting precarious living conditions and deficient health services. There is 
a need for greater investment in primary care and interventions in social 
determinants of health in order to reduce the health inequalities.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2011001400010
PMID: 21789415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2011 Sep;153(9):1787-96. doi:
10.1007/s00701-011-1094-2.  Epub 2011 Jul 26.

Surgical treatment of rare cauda equina tumours.

Hénaux PL(1), Zemmoura I, Riffaud L, François P, Hamlat A, Brassier G, Morandi 
X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Pontchaillou University Hospital, Rennes, France. 
pierre-louis.henaux@chu-rennes.fr

BACKGROUND: Cauda equina tumours (CET) are rare and usually benign. Treatment of 
schwannomas and benign ependymomas, which are the most frequent 
histopathological types of CET, is now well established. However, management of 
other presumed histopathological types of CET is still a matter of debate. The 
aim of this study was to assess the incidence and the surgical treatment of rare 
CET.
METHOD: A retrospective study was carried out on 176 adult patients surgically 
treated for CET in our two departments from 1994 to 2010. We reviewed pre- and 
postoperative symptoms, magnetic resonance imaging aspects, surgical findings, 
outcome including operative neurological morbidity, local recurrence rate and 
operative mortality, and incidence of rare CET.
FINDINGS: Seventeen percent (30 patients) of CETs operated on were neither 
schwannomas nor benign ependymomas. Half of these cases were benign tumours, 
with paragangliomas being the most common. Two patients were in poorer clinical 
condition after surgery, one patient experienced a local recurrence, and one 
died following surgery, from the progress of his disease (Von Hippel-Lindau 
disease). The other half were malignant tumours, with metastases being the most 
common. One third of the patients were worsened by surgery, and the mortality 
rate was 1/3 at 8 months (1-27 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Roughly one in six CET were neither schwannomas nor benign 
ependymomas. This study demonstrated the efficiency of surgery for rare benign 
CET with a low local recurrence rate. Surgical treatment of rare malignant CET 
led to a high rate of increased postoperative neurological deficit in patients 
with a reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-011-1094-2
PMID: 21789588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. CNS Drugs. 2011 Aug;25(8):699-719. doi: 10.2165/11206750-000000000-00000.

Rotigotine transdermal patch: a review of its use in the treatment of 
Parkinson's disease.

Sanford M(1), Scott LJ.

Author information:
(1)Adis, a Wolters Kluwer Business, Auckland, New Zealand.

A transdermal patch formulation of the non-ergolinic dopamine agonist rotigotine 
(Neupro®) is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of early Parkinson's 
disease and as combination therapy with levodopa throughout the course of the 
disease. Daily application of the rotigotine transdermal patch (referred to here 
as rotigotine) provided predictable release and absorption of rotigotine, with 
steady-state rotigotine concentrations reached within 1-2 days. In six large, 
well designed clinical trials, rotigotine was an efficacious treatment for 
Parkinson's disease. In early Parkinson's disease, rotigotine initiated without 
levodopa produced significantly greater improvements than placebo in the Unified 
Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) summed motor and activities of daily 
living (ADL) scores, as well as significantly higher response rates. In a 
comparison with oral ropinirole, rotigotine did not meet a prespecified 
response-rate noninferiority criterion, although this may reflect the dosages 
used, which may not have been directly comparable. In advanced Parkinson's 
disease, rotigotine in combination with levodopa reduced 'off' time and improved 
motor functioning and ADL significantly more than levodopa plus placebo. 
Rotigotine was noninferior to oral pramipexole in reducing 'off' time, although 
it did not meet a response-rate noninferiority criterion. A recent trial focused 
on both motor and non-motor endpoints in patients with inadequate early morning 
motor control despite antiparkinsonian treatment (most received levodopa). 
Rotigotine improved morning motor functioning and reduced sleep disturbances, 
night-time motor symptoms, depressive symptoms, pain and functioning, and 
quality of life to a significantly greater extent than placebo. Rotigotine was 
generally well tolerated across the trials and in longer-term extension studies, 
with the most common treatment-emergent adverse events being application-site 
reactions, gastrointestinal disturbances, somnolence and headache. 
Application-site reactions were generally mild to moderate in severity; where 
reported, up to 3% of patients had severe skin reactions. Thus, rotigotine 
offers a novel approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease and, given its 
ease of administration, efficacy in reducing disabling motor and non-motor 
symptoms, and acceptable tolerability profile, it has the potential to be an 
attractive treatment option for this highly debilitating disease.

DOI: 10.2165/11206750-000000000-00000
PMID: 21790211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2011;12(4):901-7.

Multivariate analysis of prognostic factors in gastric cancer patients using 
additive hazards regression models.

Maroufizadeh S(1), Hajizadeh E, Baghestani AR, Fatemi SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Medical Science, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer 
death worldwide and is the most common type of cancer in Iran. The objective of 
this research was to apply additive hazards models to the study of survival of 
patients with gastric cancer and to compare with results obtained using the Cox 
model.
METHODS: We retrospectively studied 213 patients with gastric cancer who were 
registered in one referral cancer registry center in Tehran, Iran. Age at 
diagnosis, sex, presence of metastasis, tumor size, histology type, lymph node 
metastasis, and pathologic stages were entered into analysis using the Cox model 
and additive hazard models. To visualize a covariate effect over time, the 
estimated cumulative regression function by the Aalen's model was examined.
RESULTS: The five-year survival rate and the median life expectancy in the 
studied patients were 14.6% and 29.6 months, respectively. Multivariate Cox and 
Additive hazards models analysis identified age at diagnosis, tumor size and 
pathologic stage as independent prognostic factors for the survival of patients 
with gastric cancer. Moreover, pathologic stage had a late or delayed effect 
according to the Aalen's plot. Other clinicopathological characteristics were 
not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Since Cox and Aalen models give different aspects of the association 
between risk factors and the study outcome, it seems desirable to use then 
together to give a more comprehensive understanding of data. Our results also 
suggest that early detection of patients at younger age and in primary stages is 
important to increase survival of patients with gastric cancer.

PMID: 21790223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Breast J. 2011 Sep-Oct;17(5):485-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2011.01117.x.
Epub  2011 Jul 25.

Adenoid cystic breast carcinoma: is axillary staging necessary in all cases? 
Results from the California Cancer Registry.

Thompson K(1), Grabowski J, Saltzstein SL, Sadler GR, Blair SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UCSD, School of Medicine, La Jolla, California, USA.

Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is an uncommon type of breast cancer. There are 
limited data about its epidemiology, tumor characteristics, and outcomes. Using 
a large, population-based data base, this study aimed to identify specific 
characteristics of patients with adenoid cystic breast cancer, investigate its 
natural history, and determine its long-term prognosis. The California Cancer 
Registry, a population-based registry, was reviewed from the years 1988 to 2006. 
The data were analyzed with relation to patient age, tumor size and stage, and 
overall survival. Relative cumulative actuarial survival was determined using 
the Berkson-Gage life table method. A total of 244 cases of invasive adenoid 
cystic cancer were identified in women during this time period. The patients' 
median age was 61.9 years. Most cases were diagnosed in non-Hispanic White women 
(82%, n = 200), followed by African American (6%, n = 15), 
Asian/Pacific-Islander (5.7%, n = 14) and Hispanic women (4.4%, n = 12). The 
remainder of the patients was of unknown or other ethnicity. Tumors were between 
1 and 140 mm in size. At the time of diagnosis, 92% (n = 225) of patients had 
localized disease, 5% (n = 12) of patients had regional disease, and even fewer 
(n = 7) had either distant or unknown staged disease. Lymph node involvement was 
not present in any tumors smaller than 1.4 cm. The relative cumulative survival 
of patients with adenoid cystic breast carcinoma was 95.6% at 5 years and 94.9% 
at 10 years. ACC of the breast is a rare disease with an overall good prognosis. 
Knowing that this cancer usually presents as localized disease, with lymph node 
involvement seen only with larger tumors, can help clinicians plan the operative 
management of these tumors.

© 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2011.01117.x
PMCID: PMC3721506
PMID: 21790841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Breast J. 2011 Sep-Oct;17(5):548-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2011.01135.x.
Epub  2011 Jul 25.

Reducing disparities in breast cancer survival--the effect of large-scale 
screening of the uninsured.

Baeten SA, Baltussen RM, Uyl-de Groot CA, Bridges JF, Niessen LW.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2011.01135.x
PMID: 21790843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Clin Cancer Res. 2011 Aug 1;17(15):4930-5. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2510.  Epub 2011 Jul 26.

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence and its role in 
assessing the value of new cancer treatments in England and Wales.

Trowman R(1), Chung H, Longson C, Littlejohns P, Clark P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, Manchester; and 
Clatterbridge Center for Oncology, Wirral, Merseyside, United Kingdom. 
rebecca.trowman@nice.org.uk

The boundaries of medical science in the treatment of cancer are constantly 
extending. Developments of existing treatments, innovative approaches, new 
discoveries, and more targeted therapeutic options are translating into 
practice. With advances come increasing costs, often of a magnitude that 
stretches finite financial resources. When decisions about funding are made on 
behalf of a population, standardized processes and methods are needed in order 
to produce robust guidance in a fair, consistent, and transparent way. The 
challenges of making these difficult decisions are brought into particularly 
stark relief when potentially life-extending treatments for patients with a 
short life expectancy are appraised. The National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE) produces guidance on the clinical- and 
cost-effectiveness of medicines compared with current standard practice. 
Approximately 40% of the technologies appraised by NICE are indicated for 
cancer, and the majority of these are pharmaceuticals, mostly biological agents. 
This article provides an overview of the current role of NICE in making new 
technologies for cancer available in England and Wales. This includes a summary 
of experiences with end-of-life treatments and the supplementary advice 
regarding such treatments that was issued by NICE to its decision-making 
committees in 2009.

©2011 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2510
PMID: 21791636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. JAMA. 2011 Jul 27;306(4):432-3. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1021.

Facts, facts, facts: what is a physician to do?

Brook RH(1).

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation and David Geffen UCLA School of Medicine, 1776 Main St, 
Santa Monica, CA 90401, USA. robert_brook@rand.org

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1021
PMID: 21791693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2011 Jul 20;93(14):e83. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.K.00541.

Innovations to speed treatment may be cost-effective for hip fracture: 
commentary on an article by Christopher J. Dy, MD, MSPH, et al.: "An economic 
evaluation of a systems-based strategy to expedite surgical treatment of hip 
fractures".

Kocher MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Boston, Harvard Medical School, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment on
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2011 Jul 20;93(14):1326-34.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.K.00541
PMID: 21792486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2011 Jul 20;93(14):1326-34. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.I.01132.

An economic evaluation of a systems-based strategy to expedite surgical 
treatment of hip fractures.

Dy CJ(1), McCollister KE, Lubarsky DA, Lane JM.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Special Surgery, 535 East 70th Street, New York, NY 10021, USA. 
dyc@hss.edu
