over the last six decades biological crystallography has produced a constantly 
growing number of structures, some of which were considered formidable. This 
remarkable advance yielded numerous new insights into intricate functional 
aspects. Owing to space limitation this article focuses on selected studies 
performed recently and highlights some recent exciting developments.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sbi.2011.07.005
PMID: 21824762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2011 Sep;24(5):387-97. doi:
10.1097/YCO.0b013e328349bb77.

Fragile X syndrome: lifespan developmental implications for those without as 
well as with intellectual disability.

Turk J(1).

Author information:
(1)St. George's & Institute of Psychiatry, University of London, Child & 
Adolescent Mental Health Services, South London & Maudsley Foundation NHS Trust, 
UK National Autistic Society, London, UK. jeremy.turk@slam.nhs.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Advances in developmental neuropsychiatry and the mental 
health needs of people with intellectual disability are creating ever greater 
understanding of the critical associations between human genome variations and 
psychological functioning throughout lifespan and across the entire intellectual 
ability spectrum. This review highlights the recent developments and their 
clinical implications for people with fragile X syndrome.
RECENT FINDINGS: There is substantial evidence for individuals of all ages and 
intellectual abilities being prone to psychological profiles determined not only 
by having a fragile X gene full mutation, but also by having premutations and 
intermediate alleles. The importance of these genetic contributors to mental 
life, if anything, increases with age. Premutation carriers are prone to 
neurodegenerative mid-life fragile X tremor-ataxia syndrome. Women with 
premutations experience premature ovarian insufficiency. Imbalances in the 
(gamma amino butyrie acid)-glutamate mediated postsynaptic cascade central 
neuronal pathways are a current focus of psychopharmacological enquiry, giving 
the hope of syndrome-specific medical treatments.
SUMMARY: Findings from genetic, neurological, biochemical, psychological and 
pharmacological research are combining to revolutionize understanding of the 
pathogenesis of developmental and psychological disabilities affecting 
individuals with fragile X syndrome irrespective of age, intelligence level and 
gene mutation status. Results of syndrome-specific medication trials are 
awaited.

DOI: 10.1097/YCO.0b013e328349bb77
PMID: 21825875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Rev Urol. 2011;13(1):6-13.

Postprostatectomy erectile dysfunction: the role of penile rehabilitation.

Defade BP, Carson CC 3rd, Kennelly MJ.

Radical prostatectomy has become the gold standard for the treatment of prostate 
cancer in patients who have a longer than 10-year life expectancy. Surgical 
treatment has led to severe quality-of-life issues in these patients, especially 
urinary incontinence and erectile dysfunction (ED). This article reviews the 
etiology and pathophysiology of postprostatectomy ED, and current management 
strategies for these patients.

PMCID: PMC3151582
PMID: 21826123


269. Rev Prat. 2011 Jun;61(6):820-2.

[Practitioners facing balance disorders in older subjects].

[Article in French]

Huy PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Service ORL adultes, hôpital Lariboisière, AP-HP 75475 Paris Cedex 10. 
patrice.tran-ba-huy@lrb.aphp.fr

As life expectancy keeps increasing, balance disorders in older patients 
represent a major medical and public health issue, mostly because they are the 
most important risk factor for repeated falls. The inevitable deterioration of 
the physiological mechanisms which control balance explains their important 
prevalence and their often multifactor nature. A multidisciplinary approach 
should thus be adopted. However, during physical examination, practitioners can 
and must identify the general causes (polymedication, metabolic or 
cardiovascular diseases, etc.), take certain simple environmental actions and, 
most importantly, look for risk factors for falls. Falls are indeed the first 
complication of balance disorders and represent a frequent cause of mortality, 
loss of independence and high institutionalization and, as such, have serious 
socioeconomic consequences. Any balance disorder in older subjects thus requires 
in-depth examination and quick medical management.

PMID: 21826935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Rev Med Liege. 2011 May-Jun;66(5-6):400-8.

[Breast cancer in the elderly patient].

[Article in French]

Martin M(1), Collignon J, Rorive A, André C, Bourhaba M, Allepaerts S, Coucke P, 
Lifrange E, Jerusalem G.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Oncologie médicale, CHU de Liège, Belgique.

There is no standard of care for breast cancer treatment in the elderly patient. 
Given the heterogeneity of this population, the treatment of both localized and 
metastatic disease, requires to take into account not only the characteristics 
of this cancer but also factors related to the patient such as co-morbidities, 
life expectancy and the social environment.

PMID: 21826984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Eur Respir J. 2012 Mar;39(3):626-34. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00065311. Epub
2011  Aug 4.

The impact and cost-effectiveness of strategies to detect drug-resistant 
tuberculosis.

Oxlade O(1), Falzon D, Menzies D.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Epidemiology and Clinical Research Unit, Montreal Chest 
Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.

Drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) is a serious emerging problem in many 
low-resource countries. TB control programmes are uncertain of which drug 
susceptibility tests (DSTs) to use and when to test patients. We predicted the 
potential cost-effectiveness of different DST strategies, in settings with 
varying prevalence of drug resistance. Using decision analysis, we assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of conventional and rapid DSTs for previously diagnosed 
smear-positive TB cases. Five different time-points were considered for 
administering DSTs. Different initial drug resistance and HIV scenarios were 
also considered. All DST scenarios in the wide range of settings considered were 
found to be cost-effective. The strategy of performing a rapid DST that detects 
any form of isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RIF) resistance for all patients 
before the initiation of treatment was predicted to be the most cost-effective 
strategy. In a setting with moderate drug resistance, the cost per 
disability-adjusted life year gained was as low as US$744. Our findings support 
the roll-out of rapid drug susceptibility testing at the moment of diagnosis to 
detect any form of INH and RIF resistance in all countries with moderate or 
greater burdens of drug-resistant TB.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00065311
PMID: 21828030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Child Health Care. 2011 Dec;15(4):287-98. doi: 10.1177/1367493510397709.
Epub  2011 Aug 9.

Weight loss surgery for morbidly obese adolescents: a review.

Pfeil M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing Sciences, University of East Anglia, UK. m.pfeil@uea.ac.uk

Obesity is common among adolescents resulting in substantial comorbidities and 
reduced life expectancy. Conservative treatments normally fail to ensure 
significant and sustained weight loss and suitable adolescents should be offered 
weight loss surgery. Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding and Roux-en-Y 
Gastric Bypass are commonly used in adolescents. Complications in RYGB tend to 
be more severe, but the procedure leads to more immediate results. LAGB 
complications are often device-related and less severe. Dietary adherence, 
eating behaviour and unrealistic patient expectations often cause problems. 
Significant and sustained weight loss of 50-70 per cent of excess weight is 
achievable, comorbidities and psychological problems improve. Meticulous patient 
selection and preparation and good post-operative care are vital for successful 
weight loss surgery. Weight loss surgery is safe, effective and economically 
viable with nurses playing a vital role at all stages of its application.

DOI: 10.1177/1367493510397709
PMID: 21828170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. JAMA. 2011 Aug 10;306(6):608; author reply 609-10. doi:
10.1001/jama.2011.1106.

Exercise interventions and glycemic control in patients with diabetes.

Williamson DF.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2011 May 4;305(17):1808-9.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1106
PMID: 21828320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. JAMA. 2011 Aug 10;306(6):650-1. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1136.

The role of physicians in controlling medical care costs and reducing waste.

Brook RH(1).

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation and David Geffen University of California Los Angeles School 
of Medicine, 1776 Main St, Santa Monica, CA 90401, USA. brook@rand.org

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1136
PMID: 21828329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Eur J Hum Genet. 2012 Feb;20(2):236-9. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2011.152. Epub 2011
Aug  10.

Peutz-Jeghers syndrome and family planning: the attitude towards prenatal 
diagnosis and pre-implantation genetic diagnosis.

van Lier MG(1), Korsse SE, Mathus-Vliegen EM, Kuipers EJ, van den Ouweland AM, 
Vanheusden K, van Leerdam ME, Wagner A.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus University Medical 
Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is a hereditary disorder caused by LKB1 gene 
mutations, and is associated with considerable morbidity and decreased life 
expectancy. This study was conducted to assess the attitude of PJS patients 
towards family planning, prenatal diagnosis (PND) and pregnancy termination, and 
pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD). In a cross-sectional study, 61 adult 
PJS patients were asked to complete a questionnaire concerning genetic testing, 
family planning, PND and PGD. The questionnaire was completed by 52 patients 
(85% response rate, 44% males) with a median age of 44 (range 18-74) years. A 
total of 37 (71%) respondents had undergone genetic testing. In all, 24 
respondents (46%, 75% males) had children. A total of 15 (29%) respondents 
reported that their diagnosis of PJS had influenced their decisions regarding 
family planning, including 10 patients (19%, 9/10 females) who did not want to 
have children because of their disease. Termination of pregnancy after PND in 
case of a foetus with PJS was considered 'acceptable' for 15% of the 
respondents, whereas 52% considered PGD acceptable. In conclusion, the diagnosis 
of PJS influences the decisions regarding family planning in one third of PJS 
patients, especially in women. Most patients have a negative attitude towards 
pregnancy termination after PND, while PGD in case of PJS is judged more 
acceptable. These results emphasise the importance of discussing aspects 
regarding family planning with PJS patients, including PND and PGD.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2011.152
PMCID: PMC3260925
PMID: 21829227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. PLoS One. 2011;6(7):e22308. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022308. Epub 2011 Jul
29.

Cost-effectiveness of 2009 pandemic influenza A(H1N1) vaccination in the United 
States.

Prosser LA(1), Lavelle TA, Fiore AE, Bridges CB, Reed C, Jain S, Dunham KM, 
Meltzer MI.

Author information:
(1)Child Health Evaluation and Research Unit, Division of General Pediatrics, 
University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States of 
America. lisapros@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Pandemic influenza A(H1N1) (pH1N1) was first identified in North 
America in April 2009. Vaccination against pH1N1 commenced in the U.S. in 
October 2009 and continued through January 2010. The objective of this study was 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pH1N1 vaccination.
METHODOLOGY: A computer simulation model was developed to predict costs and 
health outcomes for a pH1N1 vaccination program using inactivated vaccine 
compared to no vaccination. Probabilities, costs and quality-of-life weights 
were derived from emerging primary data on pH1N1 infections in the US, published 
and unpublished data for seasonal and pH1N1 illnesses, supplemented by expert 
opinion. The modeled target population included hypothetical cohorts of persons 
aged 6 months and older stratified by age and risk. The analysis used a one-year 
time horizon for most endpoints but also includes longer-term costs and 
consequences of long-term sequelae deaths. A societal perspective was used. 
Indirect effects (i.e., herd effects) were not included in the primary analysis. 
The main endpoint was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in dollars per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: For vaccination initiated prior to the outbreak, pH1N1 vaccination was 
cost-saving for persons 6 months to 64 years under many assumptions. For those 
without high risk conditions, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from 
$8,000-$52,000/QALY depending on age and risk status. Results were sensitive to 
the number of vaccine doses needed, costs of vaccination, illness rates, and 
timing of vaccine delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: Vaccination for pH1N1 for children and working-age adults is 
cost-effective compared to other preventive health interventions under a wide 
range of scenarios. The economic evidence was consistent with target 
recommendations that were in place for pH1N1 vaccination. We also found that the 
delays in vaccine availability had a substantial impact on the 
cost-effectiveness of vaccination.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022308
PMCID: PMC3146485
PMID: 21829456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


277. PLoS One. 2011;6(7):e22426. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022426. Epub 2011 Jul
28.

A systems biology-based classifier for hepatocellular carcinoma diagnosis.

Zhang Y(1), Wang S, Li D, Zhnag J, Gu D, Zhu Y, He F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

AIM: The diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the early stage is 
crucial to the application of curative treatments which are the only hope for 
increasing the life expectancy of patients. Recently, several large-scale 
studies have shed light on this problem through analysis of gene expression 
profiles to identify markers correlated with HCC progression. However, those 
marker sets shared few genes in common and were poorly validated using 
independent data. Therefore, we developed a systems biology based classifier by 
combining the differential gene expression with topological features of human 
protein interaction networks to enhance the ability of HCC diagnosis.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In the Oncomine platform, genes differentially expressed in 
HCC tissues relative to their corresponding normal tissues were filtered by a 
corrected Q value cut-off and Concept filters. The identified genes that are 
common to different microarray datasets were chosen as the candidate markers. 
Then, their networks were analyzed by GeneGO Meta-Core software and the hub 
genes were chosen. After that, an HCC diagnostic classifier was constructed by 
Partial Least Squares modeling based on the microarray gene expression data of 
the hub genes. Validations of diagnostic performance showed that this classifier 
had high predictive accuracy (85.88∼92.71%) and area under ROC curve 
(approximating 1.0), and that the network topological features integrated into 
this classifier contribute greatly to improving the predictive performance. 
Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that this modeling strategy is not only 
applicable to HCC, but also to other cancers.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis suggests that the systems biology-based classifier that 
combines the differential gene expression and topological features of human 
protein interaction network may enhance the diagnostic performance of HCC 
classifier.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022426
PMCID: PMC3145651
PMID: 21829460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


278. Placenta. 2011 Oct;32(10):783-7. doi: 10.1016/j.placenta.2011.07.031. Epub
2011  Aug 9.

The lifespan of men and the shape of their placental surface at birth.

Barker DJ(1), Osmond C, Thornburg KL, Kajantie E, Eriksson JG.

Author information:
(1)Heart Research Center, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR 
97201-3098, USA. djpbarker@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Tall men generally lead longer lives than short men. Within the 
Helsinki Birth Cohort, however, there is a group of boys among whom being tall 
when they entered school was associated with reduced lifespan. These boys had 
birthweights and maternal heights above the median for the cohort; but they 
tended to be lighter at birth than their mother's body mass index 
(weight/height(2)) in pregnancy predicted. We suggested that, while they had 
grown rapidly in utero, their growth had faltered at some point; and their 
tallness at age seven was the result of a resumption during infancy of their 
rapid growth trajectory. We here examine the size and shape of their placentas 
at birth to gain further insight into their path of fetal growth.
METHODS: We examined all cause mortality in the 1217 men who had birthweights 
and maternal heights above the median for the cohort. Their birth measurements 
included placental weight and the length and breadth of the placental surface.
RESULTS: Shorter length of the placental surface was associated with increased 
mortality (p = 0.002). There was no similar trend with the breadth. Mortality 
rose as the difference between the length and breadth decreased, that is as the 
surface became rounder. The hazard ratio was 1.10 (1.03-1.18, p = 0.007) for 
every cm decrease in the difference. Among men with a round placental surface 
(length-breadth difference 2 cm or less) increased mortality was associated with 
lower birthweight (p = 0.03 or 0.005 allowing for mother's body mass index) and 
shorter gestation, but not with lower head circumference or length.
CONCLUSION: Reduced lifespan among men is associated with a particular path of 
early growth. After rapid growth in early gestation, associated with tall 
maternal stature, soft tissue growth falters in mid-gestation. Rapid growth 
resumes in late gestation and continues through infancy.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.placenta.2011.07.031
PMCID: PMC4280009
PMID: 21831424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None declared.


279. Nephron Clin Pract. 2011;119 Suppl 1:c14-8. doi: 10.1159/000328020. Epub
2011  Aug 10.

Cautious renal transplantation for the elderly is realistic.

Friedman AL(1).

Author information:
(1)SUNY Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, NY 13210, USA. friedmaa @ 
upstate.edu

Excellent results of transplantation in elderly recipients, together with 
regulatory requirements encourage continued consideration of this modality. The 
organ shortage compels the use of deceased-donor kidneys and may be a suboptimal 
therapy. However, the elderly patient may not tolerate the prolonged wait for an 
optimal organ. While individual comorbidities can be evaluated, patient 
selection requires the transplantation team to render a judgment based on the 
candidate's overall condition, which is best correlated with the ability to 
accomplish activities of daily living and to perform moderate exercise. 
Psychosocial considerations are complex in the elderly patient because of 
frequent dementia, absence of a sufficient support mechanism and the need for 
more resources than those required by younger patients. After transplantation, 
appropriate management of immunosuppression typically entails lower doses in 
elderly patients, a logical consequence of immunosenescence. Transplantation 
should not be considered an acceptable exercise in futility when the ability to 
offer this life-saving therapy to other patients will be adversely affected by 
doing so.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000328020
PMID: 21832851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2012 Jun;27(6):573-82. doi: 10.1002/gps.2755. Epub
 2011 Aug 10.

Cost-effectiveness of memantine in moderate and severe Alzheimer's disease in 
Norway.

Rive B(1), Aarsland D, Grishchenko M, Cochran J, Lamure M, Toumi M.

Author information:
(1)University of Lyon I, Lyon, France. berv@lundbeck.com

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of memantine for the treatment of moderate 
and severe Alzheimer's disease has been assessed in several European countries. 
Objective of the study was to assess it in Norwegian settings.
METHODS: This cost-utility analysis used a Markov modelling approach to simulate 
the evolution of patients until their need for full-time care (FTC) over a 
5-year period. FTC was defined as a patient becoming either dependent or 
institutionalised. Transition probabilities were estimated using a newly 
developed predictive equation of time to FTC. Health resource use and utilities 
were obtained from the Scandinavian Study of Cost and Quality of Life in 
Alzheimer's Disease study, and mortality was obtained from the Oslo study. 
Memantine efficacy was based on a meta-analysis of six large trials. The model 
compared memantine with its alternative in this population, that is no 
pharmacological treatment or background therapy with acetylcholinesterase 
inhibitors. The model underwent extensive sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In Norway, memantine was found to delay the need for FTC by 4.4 weeks 
compared with standard care and was associated with increased quality-adjusted 
life years. Memantine was the dominant strategy with cost savings of €3739 
(30 041 NOK) per patient. The probability of being the dominant strategy was 
98.8%. This result was confirmed across multiple sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: The model suggests that memantine prolongs time to FTC for no 
additional cost to the healthcare system and society. It can be regarded as a 
cost-effective choice in the management of moderate and severe Alzheimer's 
disease.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.2755
PMID: 21834130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Aging Cell. 2011 Dec;10(6):972-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00737.x.
Epub  2011 Sep 16.

Ovariectomy in grasshoppers increases somatic storage, but proportional 
allocation of ingested nutrients to somatic tissues is unchanged.

Judd ET(1), Wessels FJ, Drewry MD, Grove M, Wright K, Hahn DA, Hatle JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Florida, 1 UNF Drive, 
Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.

Reduced reproduction increases storage and extends lifespan in several animal 
species. The disposable soma hypothesis suggests this life extension occurs by 
shifting allocation of ingested nutrients from reproduction to the soma. A great 
deal of circumstantial evidence supports this hypothesis, but no direct tracking 
of nutrients has been performed in animals that are long-lived because of direct 
reduction in reproduction. Here, we use the stable isotopes to track carbon and 
nitrogen from ingestion to somatic organs in long-lived, ovariectomized 
grasshoppers. Three estimates of somatic storage (viz., quantity of hemolymph 
storage proteins, amount of femur muscle carbohydrates, and size of the fat 
body) all doubled upon ovariectomy. In stark contrast, ovariectomy did not 
increase the proportion of these tissues that were made from recently ingested 
foods. In other words, the physiology underlying relative allocation to these 
somatic tissues was not affected by ovariectomy. Thus, at the level of whole 
tissue storage, these results are consistent with a trade-off between 
reproduction and longevity. In contrast, our stable isotope data are 
inconsistent with the prediction that enhanced storage in ovariectomized females 
results from a physiological shift in allocation of ingested nutrients.

© 2011 The Authors. Aging Cell © 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00737.x
PMCID: PMC3215815
PMID: 21834847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Injury. 2012 Sep;43(9):1423-31. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2011.07.017. Epub 2011
Aug  10.

The cost-effectiveness of diagnostic management strategies for adults with minor 
head injury.

Holmes MW(1), Goodacre S, Stevenson MD, Pandor A, Pickering A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, United 
Kingdom. m.w.holmes@shef.ac.uk

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of diagnostic management 
strategies for adults with minor head injury.
METHODS: A mathematical model was constructed to evaluate the incremental costs 
and effectiveness (Quality Adjusted Life years Gained, QALYs) of ten diagnostic 
management strategies for adults with minor head injuries. Secondary analyses 
were undertaken to determine the cost-effectiveness of hospital admission 
compared to discharge home and to explore the cost-effectiveness of strategies 
when no responsible adult was available to observe the patient after discharge.
RESULTS: The apparent optimal strategy was based on the high and medium risk 
Canadian CT Head Rule (CCHRhm), although the costs and outcomes associated with 
each strategy were broadly similar. Hospital admission for patients with 
non-neurosurgical injury on CT dominated discharge home, whilst hospital 
admission for clinically normal patients with a normal CT was not cost-effective 
compared to discharge home with or without a responsible adult at £39 and £2.5 
million per QALY, respectively. A selective CT strategy with discharge home if 
the CT scan was normal remained optimal compared to not investigating or CT 
scanning all patients when there was no responsible adult available to observe 
them after discharge.
CONCLUSION: Our economic analysis confirms that the recent extension of access 
to CT scanning for minor head injury is appropriate. Liberal use of CT scanning 
based on a high sensitivity decision rule is not only effective but also 
cost-saving. The cost of CT scanning is very small compared to the estimated 
cost of caring for patients with brain injury worsened by delayed treatment. It 
is recommended therefore that all hospitals receiving patients with minor head 
injury should have unrestricted access to CT scanning for use in conjunction 
with evidence based guidelines. Provisionally the CCHRhm decision rule appears 
to be the best strategy although there is considerable uncertainty around the 
optimal decision rule. However, the CCHRhm rule appears to be the most widely 
validated and it therefore seems appropriate to conclude that the CCHRhm rule 
has the best evidence to support its use.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2011.07.017
PMID: 21835403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. J Health Econ. 2011 Sep;30(5):1057-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.07.009.
Epub  2011 Jul 21.

Revisiting United States valuation of EQ-5D states.

Craig BM(1), Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes & Behavior Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, 12902 Magnolia 
Drive, MRC-CANCONT, Tampa, FL 33612-9416, USA. benjamin.craig@moffitt.org

In the original US valuation study of EQ-5D states, all worse-than-dead time 
trade-off responses (26% of the sample) were divided by 39 to increase the QALY 
estimates. This transformation has no theoretical justification and motivates 
this re-examination. Using the publically available dataset, we compared three 
alternative random utility models: instant (IRUM), angular (ARUM), and episodic 
(ERUM) models. Each leads to a distinct econometric estimator: mean ratio, ratio 
of means, and coefficient, respectively. IRUM suggests that 203 of the 243 EQ-5D 
states are worse-than-dead, which has little face validity compared to ARUM and 
ERUM (42 and 3 WTD states). ARUM and ERUM estimates are proportionally related 
such that losses in QALYs are approximately 37% larger under ARUM than ERUM. 
Compared to ERUM, economic evaluations using ARUM estimates emphasize quality of 
life, and this difference may influence policy decisions. Either ERUM or ARUM 
values sets are recommended over the original, transformed set.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.07.009
PMCID: PMC3188390
PMID: 21835477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2012 Apr;66(4):563-70. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2011.02.022.
Epub  2011 Aug 11.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a patient-centered care model for management of 
psoriasis.

Parsi K(1), Chambers CJ, Armstrong AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, 
California 95816, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Cost-effectiveness analyses help policymakers make informed 
decisions regarding funding allocation of health care resources. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis of technology-enabled models of health care delivery 
is necessary to assess sustainability of novel online, patient-centered health 
care models.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare cost-effectiveness of conventional in-office 
care with a patient-centered, online model for follow-up treatment of patients 
with psoriasis.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed from a societal perspective 
on a randomized controlled trial comparing a patient-centered online model with 
in-office visits for treatment of patients with psoriasis during a 24-week 
period. Quality-adjusted life expectancy was calculated using the life table 
method. Costs were generated from the original study parameters and national 
averages for salaries and services.
RESULTS: No significant difference existed in the mean change in Dermatology 
Life Quality Index scores between the two groups (online: 3.51 ± 4.48 and 
in-office: 3.88 ± 6.65, P value = .79). Mean improvement in quality-adjusted 
life expectancy was not significantly different between the groups (P value = 
.93), with a gain of 0.447 ± 0.48 quality-adjusted life years for the online 
group and a gain of 0.463 ± 0.815 quality-adjusted life years for the in-office 
group. The cost of follow-up psoriasis care with online visits was 1.7 times 
less than the cost of in-person visits ($315 vs $576).
LIMITATIONS: Variations in travel time existed among patients depending on their 
distance from the dermatologist's office.
CONCLUSION: From a societal perspective, the patient-centered online care model 
appears to be cost saving, while maintaining similar effectiveness to standard 
in-office care.

Copyright © 2011 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Mosby, Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2011.02.022
PMID: 21835497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2011 Nov;111(5):1497-504. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00420.2011. Epub 2011 Aug 11.

Lifetime sedentary living accelerates some aspects of secondary aging.

Booth FW(1), Laye MJ, Roberts MD.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Biomedical Sciences, Univ. of Missouri, Columbia MO 65203, USA. 
boothf@missouri.edu

Lifetime physical inactivity interacts with secondary aging (i.e., aging caused 
by diseases and environmental factors) in three patterns of response. First, 
lifetime physical inactivity confers no apparent effects on a given set of 
physiological functions. Second, lifetime physical inactivity accelerates 
secondary aging (e.g., speeding the reduction in bone mineral density, maximal 
oxygen consumption, and skeletal muscle strength and power), but does not alter 
the primary aging of these systems. Third, a lifetime of physical activity to 
the age of ∼60-70 yr old totally prevents decrements in some age-associated risk 
factors for major chronic diseases, such as endothelial dysfunction and insulin 
resistance. The present review provides ample and compelling evidence that 
physical inactivity has a large impact in shortening average life expectancy. In 
summary, physical inactivity plays a major role in the secondary aging of many 
essential physiological functions, and this aging can be prevented through a 
lifetime of physical activity.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00420.2011
PMID: 21836048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Ayurveda Integr Med. 2010 Apr;1(2):114-9. doi: 10.4103/0975-9476.65085.

Increase in Drosophila melanogaster longevity due to rasayana diet: Preliminary 
results.

Priyadarshini S(1), Ashadevi JS, Nagarjun V, Prasanna KS.

Author information:
(1)Government Ayurveda Medical College, Mysore, Karnataka, India.

We report preliminary results from an ongoing series of experiments on lifespan 
extension by appropriately modified Ayurvedic rasayanas in animal models. Here 
data are presented indicating lifespan extensions of 51-55% (up to 70-95% in the 
pilot experiment) in a standard strain of Drosophila melanogaster (Oregon-K) 
using a standard rasayana (Ayurvedic herbal formulation for life-extension) 
suitably adapted for insects. In a first experiment, two groups of 20 unmated D. 
melanogaster strain Oregon-K kept at 22°C received either rasayana or standard 
yeast diet; days of death were recorded. Another experiment investigated 
possible sex differences; equal sized (N = 30) groups of similar males, females, 
and controls were compared. Life lengths of all controls were in the strain's 
usual range: in Experiment 1, control life lengths were minimum 40 to maximum 53 
days; experimental group figures were 81-91 days; groups were completely 
separated, experimental group minimum life length being 28 days more than 
control group maximum life length, i.e., about 2.5 full distribution widths - a 
sign test for the null hypothesis yields p < 2(-20), i.e., 10(-6) as maximum p. 
Experiment 2 found no differences between life lengths of males and females; but 
the maximum life length of 30 controls (60 days in males and 66 days in females) 
was once again far shorter than the minimum life length of the 60 in the two 
experimental groups, strengthening the findings of Experiment 1. Despite group 
sizes being relatively small, results are conclusive: the rasayanas in question 
increase D. melanogaster strain Oregon-K life length. The complexity of the 
formulation suggests that multiple mechanisms are involved - worth further 
investigation.

DOI: 10.4103/0975-9476.65085
PMCID: PMC3151378
PMID: 21836798

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


287. Qual Life Res. 2012 May;21(4):717-25. doi: 10.1007/s11136-011-9971-y. Epub
2011  Aug 12.

An assessment of the construct validity of the CHU9D in the Australian 
adolescent general population.

Ratcliffe J(1), Stevens K, Flynn T, Brazier J, Sawyer M.

Author information:
(1)Flinders Clinical Effectiveness, Flinders University, Bedford Park, SA, 
Australia. julie.ratcliffe@flinders.edu.au

PURPOSE: To assess the construct validity of the CHU9D in an adolescent general 
population sample. The CHU9D is a new generic preference-based measure of 
health-related quality of life developed specifically for application in the 
economic evaluation of health care treatments and interventions for young 
people.
METHODS: A web-based survey was developed including the CHU9D and HUI2 
instruments and administered to a community-based sample of consenting 
adolescents (n = 710) aged 11-17 years. The practicality, face and construct 
validity of the CHU9D was examined. The relationship between the CHU9D and HUI2 
instruments was assessed by a comparison of responses to similar dimensions and 
the utility scores derived from the two instruments.
RESULTS: The CHU9D demonstrated high completion rates. CHU9D was able to 
discriminate between respondents according to their self-reported general health 
(Kruskal-Wallis P value <0.001). The mean CHU9D adolescent population utilities 
were similar to those generated from the HUI2 [Mean (SD) CHU9D utility 0.844 
(0.102) and HUI2 utility 0.872 (0.138)], and the intra-class correlation 
coefficient indicated good levels of agreement overall (ICC = 0.742).
CONCLUSION: The findings from this study provide support for the practicality, 
face and construct validity of the CHU9D for application with adolescents aged 
11-17 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-011-9971-y
PMID: 21837445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. J Healthc Manag. 2011 Jul-Aug;56(4):229-33.

Medicare: will it last?

Petasnich WD(1).

Author information:
(1)Froedtert Health, Milwaukee, USA. WPETASNI@froedterthealth.org

PMID: 21838021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Sep;29(9):781-806. doi: 
10.2165/11586560-000000000-00000.

Economic evaluation of policy options for prevention and control of cervical 
cancer in Thailand.

Praditsitthikorn N(1), Teerawattananon Y, Tantivess S, Limwattananon S, 
Riewpaiboon A, Chichareon S, Ieumwananonthachai N, Tangcharoensathien V.

Author information:
(1)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program, Ministry of Public 
Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand. naiyana.p@hitap.net

BACKGROUND: The Thai healthcare setting has seen patients with cervical cancer 
experience an increasing burden of morbidity and mortality, a stagnation in the 
performance of cervical screening programmes and the introduction of a vaccine 
for the prevention of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to identify the optimum mix of interventions that are 
cost effective, from societal and healthcare provider perspectives, for the 
prevention and control of cervical cancer.
METHODS: A computer-based Markov model of the natural history of cervical cancer 
was used to simulate an age-stratified cohort of women in Thailand. The strategy 
comparators, including both control and prevention programmes, were (i) 
conventional cytology screening (Pap smears); (ii) screening by visual 
inspection with acetic acid (VIA); and (iii) HPV-16, -18 vaccination. Input 
parameters (e.g. age-specific incidence of HPV infection, progression and 
regression of the infection, test performance of screening methods and efficacy 
of vaccine) were synthesized from a systematic review and meta-analysis. Costs 
(year 2007 values) and outcomes were evaluated separately, and compared for each 
combination. The screening strategies were started from the age of 30-40 years 
and repeated at 5- and 10-year intervals. In addition, HPV vaccines were 
introduced at age 15-60 years.
RESULTS: All of the screening strategies showed certain benefits due to a 
decreased number of women developing cervical cancer versus 'no intervention'. 
Moreover, the most cost-effective strategy from the societal perspective was the 
combination of VIA and sequential Pap smear (i.e., VIA every 5 years for women 
aged 30-45 years, followed by Pap smear every 5 years for women aged 50-60 
years). This strategy was dominant, with a QALY gain of 0.01 and a total cost 
saving of Baht (Bt) 800, compared with doing nothing. From the societal 
perspective, universal HPV vaccination for girls aged 15 years without screening 
resulted in a QALY gain of 0.06 at an additional cost of Bt 8,800, based on the 
cost of Bt 15,000 for a full immunization schedule. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio, comparing HPV vaccinations for girls aged 15 years 
with the current national policy of Pap smears for women aged 35-60 years every 
5 years, was approximately Bt 18,1000 per QALY gained. This figure was 
relatively high for the Thai setting.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that controlling cervical cancer by increasing 
the numbers of women accepting the VIA and Pap smear screening as routine and by 
improving the performance of the existing screening programmes is the most 
cost-effective policy option in Thailand.

DOI: 10.2165/11586560-000000000-00000
PMID: 21838332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. BMC Public Health. 2011 Aug 13;11:646. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-646.

Estimating the lifetime economic burden of stroke according to the age of onset 
in South Korea: a cost of illness study.

Kang HY(1), Lim SJ, Suh HS, Liew D.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Yonsei Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Yonsei 
University, Incheon, Republic of Korea. haesun.suh@yonsei.ac.kr

BACKGROUND: The recently-observed trend towards younger stroke patients in Korea 
raises economic concerns, including erosion of the workforce. We compared 
per-person lifetime costs of stroke according to the age of stroke onset from 
the Korean societal perspective.
METHODS: A state-transition Markov model consisted of three health states ('post 
primary stroke event', 'alive post stroke', and 'dead') was developed to 
simulate the natural history of stroke. The transition probabilities for fatal 
and non-fatal recurrent stroke by age and gender and for non-stroke causes of 
death were derived from the national epidemiologic data of the Korean Health 
Insurance Review and Assessment Services and data from the Danish Monitoring 
Trends in Cardiovascular Disease study. We used an incidence-based approach to 
estimate the long-term costs of stroke. The model captured stroke-related costs 
including costs within the health sector, patients' out-of-pocket costs outside 
the health sector, and costs resulting from loss of productivity due to 
morbidity and premature death using a human capital approach. Average 
insurance-covered costs occurring within the health sector were estimated from 
the National Health Insurance claims database. Other costs were estimated based 
on the national epidemiologic data and literature. All costs are presented in 
2008 Korean currency values (Korean won = KRW).
RESULTS: The lifetime costs of stroke were estimated to be: 200.7, 81.9, and 
16.4 million Korean won (1,200 KRW is approximately equal to one US dollar) for 
men who suffered a first stroke at age 45, 55 and 65 years, respectively, and 
75.7, 39.2, and 19.3 million KRW for women at the same age. While stroke 
occurring among Koreans aged 45 to 64 years accounted for only 30% of the total 
disease incidence, this age group incurred 75% of the total national lifetime 
costs of stroke.
CONCLUSIONS: A higher lifetime burden and increasing incidence of stroke among 
younger Koreans highlight the need for more effective strategies for the 
prevention and management of stroke especially for people between 40 and 60 
years of ages.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-646
PMCID: PMC3171726
PMID: 21838919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Palliat Support Care. 2011 Sep;9(3):305-13. doi: 10.1017/S1478951511000253.

"How do you live without a stomach?": a multiple case study examination of total 
gastrectomy for palliation or prophylaxis.

Garland SN(1), Lounsberry J, Pelletier G, Bathe OF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
sngarlan@ucalgary.ca

OBJECTIVE: The number of diagnosed cases of stomach cancer in Western countries 
is relatively small compared to prevalence rates in Eastern populations. This 
disparity creates a general lack of information and understanding of the 
experience of patients treated for this disease in North America. Surgical 
removal of the stomach, also called total gastrectomy (TG), is presently the 
only curative treatment available to patients with stomach cancer. Considering 
the impact such a procedure may have, very little is known about what factors 
influence an individual's postsurgical quality of life (QL).
METHOD: This article reviews current literature and examines three unique case 
studies. Semi-structured interviews were analyzed using content analysis, a 
qualitative analytic approach for reporting combined subject responses.
RESULTS: Participants included one 37-year-old man with multiple polyps in his 
stomach and a family history of stomach cancer, one 18 year-old man with a 
confirmed CDH1 mutation and a family history of stomach cancer, and one 
33-year-old man with confirmed metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma. Subjective 
patient experience was categorized into: (1) making the decision, (2) treatment 
impact, and (3) life after TG. Prior to surgery, all patients carefully 
evaluated their perceived risk compared to the treatment consequences and 
indicated that a certain event triggered their decision. The largest treatment 
impacts were learning to eat again and adjusting to the physical changes. Each 
patient endorsed that their experience made them appreciate and make the most of 
life.
SIGNIFICANCE OF RESULTS: This currently represents the only study to investigate 
the lived experience of TG for prophylaxis or palliation in individuals with and 
without genetic risk for stomach cancer. Understanding this process will allow 
all members of the cancer care team, and the patients themselves, to better 
understand the factors involved in decision making and postoperative adjustment. 
Fruitful avenues for future research are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/S1478951511000253
PMID: 21838951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Transplant Proc. 2011 Jul-Aug;43(6):2151-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2011.05.013.

Is age a limiting factor for access to transplantation?

Almenar-Bonet L(1), Sánchez-Lázaro IJ, Martínez-Dolz L.

Author information:
(1)Heart Failure and Transplantation Unit, Cardiology Department, Hospital 
Universitari i Politècnic La Fe, Valencia, Spain. lualmenar@gmail.com

As a result of increased life expectancy and quality of life, there is an 
increasing number of patients older than 65 years of age who require the 
possibility of heart transplantation (HTx). Traditionally, recipient age older 
than 65 years has been considered a contraindication for performing a HTx 
because these patients have more comorbidities, are more affected by the adverse 
effects of immunosuppressive drugs, and obtain a smaller benefit in the medium 
and long term. Therefore, given the shortage of donors, priority was given to 
younger recipients. In recent years, studies have been published demonstrating 
that HTx in this population segment is possible. These results indicate that 
despite suffering more infections and having longer hospital stays, these 
patients have fewer rejections, with an overall survival in the medium and long 
term similar to that of HTx in younger patients. These results have been 
achieved partly as a result of appropriate selection of recipients and emergence 
of new immunosuppressive agents that has allowed their use to be individualized 
to the characteristics and comorbidities of each patient. Despite the latest 
advances, longer-term multicenter studies are required to clarify the role of 
alternate lists and the impact of new ventricular assist devices in this 
population segment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2011.05.013
PMID: 21839218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Transplant Proc. 2011 Jul-Aug;43(6):2300-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2011.06.006.

Cost-benefit estimation of cadaveric kidney transplantation: the case of a 
developing country.

Domínguez J(1), Harrison R, Atal R.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina, Departamento de Urología, Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile. javierdomi@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: In this paper we have estimated the cost savings for the health care 
system and quality-of-life improvement for patients from an increased number of 
kidney transplants in Chile. We compared the present value of dialysis and 
transplantation costs and quality of life over a 20-year horizon.
METHODS: We used Markov models and introduced some degree of uncertainty in the 
value of some of the parameters that built the model. Using Monte Carlo 
simulations, we estimated the confidence intervals for our results.
RESULTS: Our estimates suggested that a kidney transplant showed an expected 
savings value of US$28,000 for the health care system. If the quality-of-life 
improvement was also considered, the expected savings rise to US$ 102,000. These 
results imply that increasing donation rate by 1 donor per million population 
would achieve an estimated cost saving of US$827,000 per year, or near US$3 
million per year considering the effect on the quality of life.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrated that kidney transplantation along with a 
better quality of life for patients are a cost-saving decision for developing 
countries.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2011.06.006
PMID: 21839259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5):640-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.008.
Epub  2011 May 31.

Survival time outcomes in randomized, controlled trials and meta-analyses: the 
parallel universes of efficacy and cost-effectiveness.

Guyot P(1), Welton NJ, Ouwens MJ, Ades AE.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, UK. 
epxpg@bristol.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Many regulatory agencies require that manufacturers establish both 
efficacy and cost-effectiveness. The statistical analysis of the randomized, 
controlled trial (RCT) outcomes should be the same for both purposes. The 
question addressed by this article is the following: for survival outcomes, what 
is the relationship between the statistical analyses used to support inference 
and the statistical model used to support decision making based on 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA)?
METHODS: We performed a review of CEAs alongside trials and CEAs based on a 
synthesis of RCT results, which were submitted to the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) Technology Appraisal program and included 
survival outcomes. We recorded the summary statistics and the statistical models 
used in both efficacy and cost-effectiveness analyses as well as procedures for 
model diagnosis and selection.
RESULTS: In no case was the statistical model for efficacy and CEA the same. For 
efficacy, relative risks or Cox regression was used. For CEA, the common 
practice was to fit a parametric model to the control arm, then to apply the 
hazard ratio from the efficacy analysis to predict the treatment arm. The 
proportional hazards assumption was seldom checked; the choice of model was 
seldom based on formal criteria, and uncertainty in model choice was seldom 
