Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics and Informatics, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland. 
goref@who.int

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2011 Aug 6;378(9790):486.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Jun 18;377(9783):2058-60.
    Lancet. 2011 Jun 18;377(9783):2056.
    Lancet. 2012 Jan 7;379(9810):27-8; author reply 28.
    Lancet. 2012 Jan 7;379(9810):29.

BACKGROUND: Young people aged 10-24 years represent 27% of the world's 
population. Although important health problems and risk factors for disease in 
later life emerge in these years, the contribution to the global burden of 
disease is unknown. We describe the global burden of disease arising in young 
people and the contribution of risk factors to that burden.
METHODS: We used data from WHO's 2004 Global Burden of Disease study. 
Cause-specific disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for young people aged 
10-24 years were estimated by WHO region on the basis of available data for 
incidence, prevalence, severity, and mortality. WHO member states were 
classified into low-income, middle-income, and high-income countries, and into 
WHO regions. We estimated DALYs attributable to specific global health risk 
factors using the comparative risk assessment method. DALYs were divided into 
years of life lost because of premature mortality (YLLs) and years lost because 
of disability (YLDs), and are presented for regions by sex and by 5-year age 
groups.
FINDINGS: The total number of incident DALYs in those aged 10-24 years was about 
236 million, representing 15·5% of total DALYs for all age groups. Africa had 
the highest rate of DALYs for this age group, which was 2·5 times greater than 
in high-income countries (208 vs 82 DALYs per 1000 population). Across regions, 
DALY rates were 12% higher in girls than in boys between 15 and 19 years (137 vs 
153). Worldwide, the three main causes of YLDs for 10-24-year-olds were 
neuropsychiatric disorders (45%), unintentional injuries (12%), and infectious 
and parasitic diseases (10%). The main risk factors for incident DALYs in 
10-24-year-olds were alcohol (7% of DALYs), unsafe sex (4%), iron deficiency 
(3%), lack of contraception (2%), and illicit drug use (2%).
INTERPRETATION: The health of young people has been largely neglected in global 
public health because this age group is perceived as healthy. However, 
opportunities for prevention of disease and injury in this age group are not 
fully exploited. The findings from this study suggest that adolescent health 
would benefit from increased public health attention.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60512-6
PMID: 21652063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Lancet. 2011 Jun 18;377(9783):2058-60. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60618-1.
Epub  2011 Jun 7.

The global burden of disease in 10-24-year-olds.

Santelli JS(1), Galea S.

Author information:
(1)Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health, Mailman School of 
Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA. js2637@columbia.edu

Comment on
    Lancet. 2011 Jun 18;377(9783):2093-102.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60618-1
PMID: 21652064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Eur J Cancer. 2011 Oct;47(15):2291-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2011.05.014. Epub
2011  Jun 7.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of peri-operative versus post-operative 
chemotherapy for resectable colorectal liver metastases.

Ercolani G(1), Cucchetti A, Cescon M, Peri E, Brandi G, Del Gaudio M, Ravaioli 
M, Zanello M, Pinna AD.

Author information:
(1)Liver and Multiorgan Transplant Unit, University of Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The role of neo-adjuvant chemotherapy prior to hepatectomy in 
patients with resectable colorectal liver metastases is currently a matter of 
debate. The aim of the present study was to analyse life-expectancy, quality 
adjusted life-expectancy and cost-effectiveness of the two chemotherapeutic 
strategies.
METHODS: A Markov decision model was developed, on the basis of parameters 
derived from an extensive literature search of the last ten years, to compare 
outcomes of peri-operative versus post-operative chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Life-expectancy observed for peri-operative chemotherapy was 
54.56months and 52.62months with post-operative chemotherapy only; the 
quality-adjusted life-expectancy with peri-operative chemotherapy was 39.33 
quality-adjusted life-months (QALMs) and 37.84 QALMs with post-operative 
chemotherapy. Peri-operative chemotherapy results in an increase in total costs 
of 1180€ over ten years and in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
791.9€/QALM. The model was more sensitive to the expected 3-year recurrence-free 
survival (RFS) and cost of hepatic resection: with respect to an expected 3-year 
RFS⩽25% the peri-operative approach was more cost-effective than post-operative 
strategy but differences in average cost-effectiveness were small. The 
relationship between ICER and cost of hepatic resection was inverse because the 
higher the cost of hepatic resection, the higher the cost saving due to patients 
becoming unresectable during neo-adjuvant therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: In the treatment of resectable colorectal liver metastases, the 
addition of neo-adjuvant chemotherapy could be cost-effective because it makes 
it possible to avoid hepatic resection in patients who do not respond to the 
neo-adjuvant approach; however, the life-expectancy of the two strategies is 
very similar.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2011.05.014
PMID: 21652204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Cell Sci. 2011 Jul 1;124(Pt 13):2287-97. doi: 10.1242/jcs.083311. Epub
2011  Jun 7.

Transgenic overexpression of the α7 integrin reduces muscle pathology and 
improves viability in the dy(W) mouse model of merosin-deficient congenital 
muscular dystrophy type 1A.

Doe JA(1), Wuebbles RD, Allred ET, Rooney JE, Elorza M, Burkin DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Nevada School of Medicine, Reno, NV 
89557, USA.

Merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy 1A (MDC1A) is a devastating 
neuromuscular disease that results in children being confined to a wheelchair, 
requiring ventilator assistance to breathe and premature death. MDC1A is caused 
by mutations in the LAMA2 gene, which results in the partial or complete loss of 
laminin-211 and laminin-221, the major laminin isoforms found in the basal 
lamina of skeletal muscle. MDC1A patients exhibit reduced α7β1 integrin; 
however, it is unclear how the secondary loss of α7β1 integrin contributes to 
MDC1A disease progression. To investigate whether restoring α7 integrin 
expression can alleviate the myopathic phenotype observed in MDC1A, we produced 
transgenic mice that overexpressed the α7 integrin in the skeletal muscle of the 
dy(W⁻/⁻) mouse model of MDC1A. Enhanced expression of the α7 integrin restored 
sarcolemmal localization of the α7β1 integrin to laminin-α2-deficient myofibers, 
changed the composition of the muscle extracellular matrix, reduced muscle 
pathology, maintained muscle strength and function and improved the life 
expectancy of dy(W⁻/⁻) mice. Taken together, these results indicate that 
enhanced expression of α7 integrin prevents muscle disease progression through 
augmentation and/or stabilization of the existing extracellular matrix in 
laminin-α2-deficient mice, and strategies that increase α7 integrin in muscle 
might provide an innovative approach for the treatment of MDC1A.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.083311
PMCID: PMC3113674
PMID: 21652631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2011 Jun;8(3):275-81. doi: 10.1513/pats.201009-059WR.

HIV-associated lung infections and complications in the era of combination 
antiretroviral therapy.

Crothers K(1), Thompson BW, Burkhardt K, Morris A, Flores SC, Diaz PT, Chaisson 
RE, Kirk GD, Rom WN, Huang L; Lung HIV Study.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

The spectrum of lung diseases associated with HIV is broad, and many infectious 
and noninfectious complications of HIV infection have been recognized. The 
nature and prevalence of lung complications have not been fully characterized 
since the Pulmonary Complications of HIV Infection Study more than 15 years ago, 
before antiretroviral therapy (ART) increased life expectancy. Our understanding 
of the global epidemiology of these diseases in the current ART era is limited, 
and the mechanisms for the increases in the noninfectious conditions, in 
particular, are not well understood. The Longitudinal Studies of HIV-Associated 
Lung Infections and Complications (Lung HIV) Study (ClinicalTrials.gov number 
NCT00933595) is a collaborative multi-R01 consortium of research projects 
established by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute to examine a 
diverse range of infectious and noninfectious pulmonary diseases in HIV-infected 
persons. This article reviews our current state of knowledge of the impact of 
HIV on lung health and the development of pulmonary diseases, and highlights 
ongoing research within the Lung HIV Study.

DOI: 10.1513/pats.201009-059WR
PMCID: PMC3132785
PMID: 21653528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2011 Aug;18(8):1326-35. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00062-11.
Epub  2011 Jun 8.

Temporal development of the infant gut microbiota in immunoglobulin E-sensitized 
and nonsensitized children determined by the GA-map infant array.

Vebø HC(1), Sekelja M, Nestestog R, Storrø O, Johnsen R, Øien T, Rudi K.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Analysis AS, Frederik A Dahlsvei 20, N-1432, Ås, Norway.

At birth, the human infant gut is sterile, but it becomes fully colonized within 
a few days. This initial colonization process has a major impact on immune 
development. Our knowledge about the correlations between aberrant colonization 
patterns and immunological diseases, however, is limited. The aim of the present 
work was to develop the GA-map (Genetic Analysis microbiota array platform) 
infant array and to use this array to compare the temporal development of the 
gut microbiota in IgE-sensitized and nonsensitized children during the first 2 
years of life. The GA-map infant array is composed of highly specific 16S rRNA 
gene-targeted single nucleotide primer extension (SNuPE) probes, which were 
designed based on extensive infant 16S rRNA gene sequence libraries. For the 
clinical screening, we analyzed 216 fecal samples collected from a cohort of 47 
infants (16 sensitized and 31 nonsensitized) from 1 day to 2 years of age. The 
results showed that at a high taxonomic level, Actinobacteria was significantly 
overrepresented at 4 months while Firmicutes was significantly overrepresented 
at 1 year for the sensitized children. At a lower taxonomic level, for the 
sensitized group, we found that Bifidobacterium longum was significantly 
overrepresented at the age of 1 year and Enterococcus at the age of 4 months. 
For most phyla, however, there were consistent differences in composition 
between age groups, irrespective of the sensitization state. The main age 
patterns were a rapid decrease in staphylococci from 10 days to 4 months and a 
peak of bifidobacteria and bacteroides at 4 months. In conclusion, our analyses 
showed consistent microbiota colonization and IgE sensitization patterns that 
can be important for understanding both normal and diseased immunological 
development in infants.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00062-11
PMCID: PMC3147353
PMID: 21653746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Aging Health. 2011 Dec;23(8):1285-308. doi: 10.1177/0898264311408417. Epub
 2011 Jun 8.

Gender differentials in disability and mortality transitions: the case of older 
adults in Japan.

Chan A(1), Zimmer Z, Saito Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology & Health Systems, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore. socchana@nus.edu.sg

OBJECTIVE: This study has two aims: (a) to examine gender differentials in 
disability transitions and active life expectancies among older adults in Japan 
and (b) to determine whether these gender differentials vary by age, 
socioeconomic characteristics, and disease profile.
METHOD: Active and inactive states are defined as living with and without 
disabilities using activities of daily living. Expected years of life and active 
life are examined by constructing multistate life-tables, which employ 
probabilities of health and mortality transitions derived from hazard models.
RESULTS: Results indicate that older women in Japan live longer than older men 
and spend a proportion of these extra years with and without disability.
DISCUSSION: The discussion highlights a projected increase in the number of 
years that individuals, in particular women, will need long-term care. Policy 
implications include the need to bolster long-term care services in Japan.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264311408417
PMID: 21653794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Dev Behav Pediatr. 2011 Jul-Aug;32(6):476-81. doi: 
10.1097/DBP.0b013e318221b8c5.

Priorities for early childhood development in low-income countries.

Olusanya BO(1).

Author information:
(1)Maternal and Child Health Unit, Department of Community Health and Primary 
Care, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Idiaraba, Surulere, Lagos, 
Nigeria. boolusanya@aol.com

The remarkable progress in reducing child mortality in low-income countries is 
now accompanied with a rapidly expanding population of child survivors and 
increased life expectancy. However, many have special health care needs in the 
early foundational years for optimal health and educational and vocational 
status. Investment in early childhood development (ECD) is therefore crucial but 
likely to be constrained by lack of adequate resources making priority-setting 
inevitable. A review of current ECD approaches in sub-Saharan Africa and South 
Asia shows that concerted multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral initiatives 
targeted at children with developmental disabilities across all crucial domains 
of ECD and guided by available evidence on optimal timing for interventions are 
urgently required. This focus would necessitate appropriate national ECD 
policies, modifications to the current global ECD programs in the developing 
world, and a more active collaboration between pediatricians and other related 
service providers.

DOI: 10.1097/DBP.0b013e318221b8c5
PMID: 21654509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Int J Yoga. 2011 Jan;4(1):33-8. doi: 10.4103/0973-6131.78181.

The importance of spirituality in supportive care.

Messina G(1), Anania S, Bonomo C, Veneroni L, Andreoli A, Mameli F, Ortolina C, 
De Fabritiis P, Gaffuri M, Imbesi F, Moja E.

Author information:
(1)Psychological Service, Foundation IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: It has been shown that the pineal gland plays a fundamental role in 
mediating either the spiritual perception or the anticancer immunity by 
stimulating the endogenous production of anticancer cytokine interleukin (IL)-2.
OBJECTIVE: The present study was performed to evaluate the impact of a spiritual 
approach consisting of Kriya Yoga program alone or in association with melatonin 
(MLT) or low-dose IL-2 plus MLT on the survival time in a group of metastatic 
cancer patients with life expectancy less than 1 year.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A case-control study was carried out in 240 patients 
(M/F: 146/94; median age: 62 years, range: 34-71, suffering from non-small-cell 
lung cancer or gastrointestinal tumors) who were subdivided into 6 groups of 40 
patients, treated with supportive care alone as a control group, supportive care 
plus Yoga, MLT alone, MLT plus Yoga, inteleukin-2 plus MLT, or IL-2 plus MLT 
plus Yoga.
RESULTS: The best results in terms of increased survival time were obtained by 
the association between neuroimmunotherapy with MLT plus IL-2 and Yoga program 
(2 years), which was significantly longer with respect to that achieved by 
supportive care alone, Yoga alone, or IL-2 plus MLT alone (1 year).
CONCLUSIONS: This study would suggest that a spiritual therapeutic approach may 
improve the survival time of untreatable metastatic solid tumor patients.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-6131.78181
PMCID: PMC3099100
PMID: 21654973

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


861. PLoS One. 2011;6(6):e20224. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020224. Epub 2011 Jun
2.

WHO 2010 guidelines for prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission in 
Zimbabwe: modeling clinical outcomes in infants and mothers.

Ciaranello AL(1), Perez F, Maruva M, Chu J, Engelsmann B, Keatinge J, Walensky 
RP, Mushavi A, Mugwagwa R, Dabis F, Freedberg KA; CEPAC-International 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Danel C, N'Dri-Yoman T, Messou E, Moh R, Ouattara E, Seyler C, 
Touré S, Yazdanpanah Y, Anglaret X, Gabillard D, Touré H, Kumarasamy N, Ganesh 
AK, Martinson N, Mohapi L, Cotich K, Goldie SJ, Kimmel AD, Lipsitch M, McCormick 
A, Rydzak C, Seage GR 3rd, Weinstein MC, Horsburgh CR, Hsu HE, Flanigan T, Mayer 
K, Paltiel AD, Ahonkhai A, Andrews J, Bassett IV, Bender MA, Levison J, Linas 
BP, Losina E, Lu Z, Lorenzana S, Morris B, Pho M, Ramirez L, Rusu C, Scott CA, 
Sloan C, Sypek A, Uhler L, Wang B, Wong A, Chaisson R, De Gruttola V, Eron J, 
Gangakhedkar RR, Kaplan J, Karim S, N'Dri-Yoman T, Owens D, Wong J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America. aciaranello@partners.org

BACKGROUND: The Zimbabwean national prevention of mother-to-child HIV 
transmission (PMTCT) program provided primarily single-dose nevirapine (sdNVP) 
from 2002-2009 and is currently replacing sdNVP with more effective 
antiretroviral (ARV) regimens.
METHODS: Published HIV and PMTCT models, with local trial and programmatic data, 
were used to simulate a cohort of HIV-infected, pregnant/breastfeeding women in 
Zimbabwe (mean age 24.0 years, mean CD4 451 cells/µL). We compared five PMTCT 
regimens at a fixed level of PMTCT medication uptake: 1) no antenatal ARVs 
(comparator); 2) sdNVP; 3) WHO 2010 guidelines using "Option A" (zidovudine 
during pregnancy/infant NVP during breastfeeding for women without advanced HIV 
disease; lifelong 3-drug antiretroviral therapy (ART) for women with advanced 
disease); 4) WHO "Option B" (ART during pregnancy/breastfeeding without advanced 
disease; lifelong ART with advanced disease); and 5) "Option B+:" lifelong ART 
for all pregnant/breastfeeding, HIV-infected women. Pediatric (4-6 week and 
18-month infection risk, 2-year survival) and maternal (2- and 5-year survival, 
life expectancy from delivery) outcomes were projected.
RESULTS: Eighteen-month pediatric infection risks ranged from 25.8% (no 
antenatal ARVs) to 10.9% (Options B/B+). Although maternal short-term outcomes 
(2- and 5-year survival) varied only slightly by regimen, maternal life 
expectancy was reduced after receipt of sdNVP (13.8 years) or Option B (13.9 
years) compared to no antenatal ARVs (14.0 years), Option A (14.0 years), or 
Option B+ (14.5 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Replacement of sdNVP with currently recommended regimens for PMTCT 
(WHO Options A, B, or B+) is necessary to reduce infant HIV infection risk in 
Zimbabwe. The planned transition to Option A may also improve both pediatric and 
maternal outcomes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020224
PMCID: PMC3107213
PMID: 21655097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


862. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e20441. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020441. Epub 2011 May
31.

Repression of mitochondrial translation, respiration and a metabolic 
cycle-regulated gene, SLF1, by the yeast Pumilio-family protein Puf3p.

Chatenay-Lapointe M(1), Shadel GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, United States of America.

Synthesis and assembly of the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) 
system requires genes located both in the nuclear and mitochondrial genomes, but 
how gene expression is coordinated between these two compartments is not fully 
understood. One level of control is through regulated expression mitochondrial 
ribosomal proteins and other factors required for mitochondrial translation and 
OXPHOS assembly, which are all products of nuclear genes that are subsequently 
imported into mitochondria. Interestingly, this cadre of genes in budding yeast 
has in common a 3'-UTR element that is bound by the Pumilio family protein, 
Puf3p, and is coordinately regulated under many conditions, including during the 
yeast metabolic cycle. Multiple functions have been assigned to Puf3p, including 
promoting mRNA degradation, localizing nucleus-encoded mitochondrial transcripts 
to the outer mitochondrial membrane, and facilitating mitochondria-cytoskeletal 
interactions and motility. Here we show that Puf3p has a general repressive 
effect on mitochondrial OXPHOS abundance, translation, and respiration that does 
not involve changes in overall mitochondrial biogenesis and largely independent 
of TORC1-mitochondrial signaling. We also identified the cytoplasmic translation 
factor Slf1p as yeast metabolic cycle-regulated gene that is repressed by Puf3p 
at the post-transcriptional level and promotes respiration and extension of 
yeast chronological life span when over-expressed. Altogether, these results 
should facilitate future studies on which of the many functions of Puf3p is most 
relevant for regulating mitochondrial gene expression and the role of 
nuclear-mitochondrial communication in aging and longevity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0020441
PMCID: PMC3105058
PMID: 21655263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


863. Cien Saude Colet. 2011 May;16(5):2643-52. doi:
10.1590/s1413-81232011000500034.

Validation study of a scale of life quality evaluation in a group of pediatric 
patients infected by HIV.

Ferreira Dde C(1), Passos MR, Rubini Nde P, Knupp RR, Curvelo JA, dos Reis HL, 
Herdy GV.

Author information:
(1)Setor de Doenças Sexualmente Transmissíveis, Universidade Federal Fluminense. 
Outeiro de São João Batista s/nº, Campus do Valonguinho, Centro. 24210-150. 
Niterói RJ. carvalhoferr@yahoo.com.br

With the advent of potent antiretroviral therapy and the increase in life 
expectancy of pediatric patients infected with HIV, the quest for the promotion 
of enhanced quality of life should currently be the main focus in care of 
children with HIV/Aids. The scope of this study was to validate the Scale of 
Children's Quality of Life in a group of children infected with HIV receiving 
clinical care in Aids Service Units in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This scale 
consists of 26 questions and was tested on 100 children, with ages varying 
between 4 and 12, and their respective parents or guardians. Statistical 
analysis was conducted using canonical correlation and confidence interval 
analysis and the X² test. The results showed that the cut-off point obtained was 
49; the internal consistency with Cronbach's alpha was 0.73 for the children and 
0.67 for parents or guardians. The response profile revealed marked satisfaction 
with aspects such as vacations and birthdays, though less satisfaction with 
items including hospitalization and playing alone. The conclusion was that the 
scale revealed satisfactory psychometric measurements, proving to be a reliable, 
consistent, valid and recommended instrument for measuring the quality of life 
of children infected with HIV.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-81232011000500034
PMID: 21655738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Cad Saude Publica. 2011 May;27(5):877-87. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2011000500006.

[Life expectancy at birth: impact of variation in mortality by age group and 
cause of death in Campinas, São Paulo State, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Belon AP(1), Barros MB.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Brasil. 
paulabelon@gmail.com

This study investigated the impact of variation in mortality by age group and 
cause of death on gains in life expectancy at birth in the city of Campinas, São 
Paulo State, Brazil, in 1991, 2000, and 2005. Life tables were constructed. 
Pollard's method was used to estimate the contributions by age group and cause 
of death on gains in life expectancy. In 1991-2000, the age group that most 
contributed was 0-1 year (31.1% for males and 22.9% for females). In 2000-2005, 
79% of the gain for males was the result of mortality improvements in the 
15-44-year bracket. Cardiovascular diseases made the largest contribution in 
1991-2000 (66.1% for males and 43.5% for females). A loss in longevity was seen 
in men (1.1 year) resulting from increased mortality from external causes. In 
2000-2005, the substantial gain (2.3 year) in male life expectancy was due to a 
reduction in mortality from external causes. Neoplasms had a negative effect on 
the gain (0.11 year for males and 0.15 for females). These findings should help 
support public health policies to reduce mortality risks and increase life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2011000500006
PMID: 21655839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2011 Sep;12(3):253-62. doi:
10.1007/s11864-011-0158-0.

Treatment of glioblastoma in "elderly" patients.

Yovino S(1), Grossman SA.

Author information:
(1)The Brain Cancer Program, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns 
Hopkins, Orleans Street, Baltimore, MD 21232, USA. sbatkoy2@jhmi.edu

The number of patients over 65 with newly diagnosed glioblastoma is anticipated 
to increase significantly in coming decades as a result of demographic shifts in 
the United States. Older patients with this disease have a significantly worse 
life expectancy compared with patients under 65. Mounting clinical evidence 
suggests that fit elderly patients with glioblastoma benefit from the addition 
of temozolomide to standard surgery and radiation. As a result, for healthy 
patients over 65 we recommend maximal surgical debulking followed by 
involved-field radiotherapy (60 Gy in 30 fractions) with concurrent temozolomide 
(75 mg/m(2)/day) and 6 months of adjuvant temozolomide (150-200 mg/m(2)/day for 
five consecutive days/month). Patients over 65 with newly diagnosed or recurrent 
glioblastoma should also be considered for inclusion in clinical trials. MGMT is 
a validated prognostic marker in patients over 65 and may be useful in clinical 
decision-making in frail elderly patients. Age alone should not be a factor in 
deciding how patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma should be treated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-011-0158-0
PMID: 21655911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Qual Life Res. 2012 Mar;21(2):247-56. doi: 10.1007/s11136-011-9944-1. Epub
2011  Jun 8.

Patient education methods to support quality of life and functional ability 
among patients with schizophrenia: a randomised clinical trial.

Pitkänen A(1), Välimäki M, Kuosmanen L, Katajisto J, Koivunen M, Hätönen H, 
Patel A, Knapp M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing Science, University of Turku, Turku, Finland. 
anneli.pitkanen@pshp.fi

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to estimate the effectiveness of patient 
education methods on quality of life and functional impairment of patients with 
schizophrenia.
METHODS: A multicentre, randomized controlled trial was carried out in two 
psychiatric hospitals in Finland from March 2005 to October 2007. A total of 311 
patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia, schizotypal disorder or delusional 
disorder were randomly allocated to computer-based patient education (n = 100), 
conventional education with standard leaflets (n = 106) and standard treatment 
(n = 105). Participants were followed up 12 months later. Primary outcome was 
quality of life (Q-LES-Q-SF) and secondary outcome was functional disability 
(SDS). Analysis was performed by intention-to-treat. This study is registered, 
number ISRCTN74919979.
RESULTS: Patients' global quality of life improved and functional disability 
decreased significantly in all education groups over the follow-up time. There 
were no significant differences between groups in these outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: In light of the findings there is no evidence to support a 
particular education method as the best way to improve patients' quality of life 
or improve functional ability. On the other hand, no intervention was found to 
be harmful. Thus computer-based patient education may be a suitable alternative 
for some patients. While information technology will be more widely used in 
societies, computer-based intervention may be beneficial for some patients with 
serious mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-011-9944-1
PMID: 21655934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Urol J. 2011 Spring;8(2):83-7.

Elderly and prostate cancer screening.

Stamatiou KN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Tzaneion Hospital, Piraeus, Attica, Greece. 
stamatiouk@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To discuss the issue of screening for prostate cancer in elderly 
individuals. The impact of life expectancy on the choice of treatment in both 
patients and health care providers has been investigated as well.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We identified studies published from 1990 onwards by 
searching the MEDLINE database of the National Library of Medicine. Initial 
search terms were "localized prostate cancer" and "early stage prostate cancer" 
combined with "elderly patients, life expectancy, palliative, curative, quality 
of life, watchful waiting, radical prostatectomy, brachytherapy, and external 
beam radiotherapy".
RESULTS: Despite the decrease in prostate carcinoma-specific mortality, the use 
of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) has been shown to increase the prostate 
cancer detection rate with a shift to detection at earlier and less invasive 
pathological stages, overriding concerns about over-diagnosis and over treating. 
However, PSA screening is mainly offered to younger individuals, and older 
patients are more likely to have progressive disease and high-risk prostate 
cancer at diagnosis. Given that PSA screening diagnoses mainly curable, early 
prostate cancer, screening decision could be offered to otherwise healthy 
elderly patients who are likely to benefit from aggressive treatment.
CONCLUSION: Prostate-specific antigen screening is not officially recommended 
and most scientific associations promote shared decision making. While PSA 
screening decision is currently based on physician's judgment, it is clear that 
a strict age cut-off of 75 years reduces over-screening, but also prohibits 
screening in healthy older men with a long life expectancy.

PMID: 21656465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Br J Surg. 2011 Apr;98(4):565-71; discussion 571-2. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7365.
Epub  2010 Dec 15.

Long-term global quality of life in patients treated for colorectal liver 
metastases.

Wiering B(1), Oyen WJ, Adang EM, van der Sijp JR, Roumen RM, de Jong KP, Ruers 
TJ, Krabbe PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Surgical Oncology, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. b.wiering@chir.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Surgical treatment of colorectal liver metastases has become 
increasingly aggressive. The influence of this more active surgical approach on 
patients' health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has hardly been evaluated. This 
study investigated the impact of surgical and systemic treatment on HRQoL in 
patients undergoing hepatic resection for colorectal metastases.
METHODS: A total of 145 patients with colorectal liver metastases were entered 
prospectively into the study. Based on HRQoL values derived from the EuroQol-5D, 
health summary measures were calculated to express the overall impact on four 
distinct clinical states. The HRQoL instrument was used at baseline, 3 and 6 
weeks after surgery, and every 3 months thereafter for up to 3 years.
RESULTS: Patients showed a clear deterioration in HRQoL in the first weeks after 
surgery, followed by a recovery to baseline levels at 3 months after potentially 
curative surgery. In contrast, a sustained decline was noted when initial 
surgery for colorectal liver metastases was considered futile and palliative 
chemotherapy was started immediately. Three years after initial surgery, there 
were distinct differences in HRQoL between patients with or without recurrence. 
The latter group still had HRQoL scores at baseline levels, whereas patients 
with tumour recurrence showed a significant deterioration in HRQoL. Remarkably, 
there was no decline in HRQoL in patients with recurrent disease who could be 
treated by secondary surgical intervention.
CONCLUSION: Superior overall HRQoL in the first 3 years after initial successful 
surgical intervention merits an aggressive surgical approach and intensive 
follow-up to detect recurrence early.

Copyright © 2010 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7365
PMID: 21656721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Ann Ital Chir. 2011 Jan-Feb;82(1):79-82.

An uncommon association between skin lesions and LEOPARD syndrome affected an 
old patient. Case report.

Onesti MG(1), Fioramonti P, Fino P, Carella S, Spinelli G, Miraglia E, Giustini 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, La Sapienza 
University of Rome, Policlinico Umberto I, Rome, Italy.

LEOPARD syndrome (LS) is a rare inherited autosomal dominant disease with high 
penetrance and markedly variable expression characterized by a spectrum of 
somatic abnormalities. In 1971, Gorlin proposed the well-known acronym LEOPARD 
(lentigines, electrocardiographic abnormalities, ocular hypertelorism, pulmonary 
stenosis, abnormalities of the genitalia, retardation of growth, deafness). The 
nature and clinical importance of cardiovascular phenotypes associated with LS 
remain uncertain, because few patients with the disease have undergone 
comprehensive cardiac evaluations. To date, 200 cases have been described and 
one review has been published. We emphasize that this case is exceptional 
insofar as life expectancy was longer than other LEOPARD syndrome cases 
described in previous reports; these have had an early mortality due to 
cardiopathies. The aim of our study is to report a rare case of a patient 
affected with LEOPARD syndrome, survived until 67 years with cutaneous 
associations never described in literature.

PMID: 21657161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Genome Med. 2011 Jun 8;3(6):37. doi: 10.1186/gm253.

Biomarkers in solid organ transplantation: establishing personalized 
transplantation medicine.

Roedder S(1), Vitalone M, Khatri P, Sarwal MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Immunology, Stanford University, G306 300 
Pasteur Drive, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA. msarwal@stanford.edu.

Technological advances in molecular and in silico research have enabled 
significant progress towards personalized transplantation medicine. It is now 
possible to conduct comprehensive biomarker development studies of transplant 
organ pathologies, correlating genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic information 
from donor and recipient with clinical and histological phenotypes. Translation 
of these advances to the clinical setting will allow assessment of an individual 
patient's risk of allograft damage or accommodation. Transplantation biomarkers 
are needed for active monitoring of immunosuppression, to reduce patient 
morbidity, and to improve long-term allograft function and life expectancy. 
Here, we highlight recent pre- and post-transplantation biomarkers of acute and 
chronic allograft damage or adaptation, focusing on peripheral blood-based 
methodologies for non-invasive application. We then critically discuss current 
findings with respect to their future application in routine clinical 
transplantation medicine. Complement-system-associated SNPs present potential 
biomarkers that may be used to indicate the baseline risk for allograft damage 
prior to transplantation. The detection of antibodies against novel, non-HLA, 
MICA antigens, and the expression of cytokine genes and proteins and 
cytotoxicity-related genes have been correlated with allograft damage and are 
potential post-transplantation biomarkers indicating allograft damage at the 
molecular level, although these do not have clinical relevance yet. Several 
multi-gene expression-based biomarker panels have been identified that 
accurately predicted graft accommodation in liver transplant recipients and may 
be developed into a predictive biomarker assay.

DOI: 10.1186/gm253
PMCID: PMC3218811
PMID: 21658299


871. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2011 Sep;30(5):285-95. doi: 
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2011.05.003. Epub 2011 May 30.

Estimating prognosis for survival after treatment of choroidal melanoma.

Damato B(1), Eleuteri A, Taktak AF, Coupland SE.

Author information:
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Royal Liverpool University Hospital, Prescot St, 
Liverpool L7 8XP, UK. Bertil@damato.co.uk

Choroidal melanoma is fatal in about 50% of patients. This is because of 
metastatic disease, which usually involves the liver. Kaplan-Meier survival 
curves based only on tumor size and extent do not give a true indication of 
prognosis. This is because the survival prognosis of choroidal melanoma 
correlates not only with clinical stage but also with histologic grade, genetic 
type, and competing causes of death. We have developed an online tool that 
predicts survival using all these data also taking normal life-expectancy into 
account. The estimated prognosis is accurate enough to be relevant to individual 
patients. Such personalized prognostication improves the well-being of patients 
having an excellent survival probability, not least because it spares them from 
unnecessary screening tests. Such screening can be targeted at high-risk 
patients, so that metastases are detected sooner, thereby enhancing any 
opportunities for treatment. Concerns about psychological harm have proved 
exaggerated. At least in Britain, patients want to know their prognosis, even if 
this is poor. The ability to select patients with a high risk of metastasis 
improves prospects for randomised studies evaluating systemic adjuvant therapy 
aimed at preventing or delaying metastatic disease. Furthermore, categorization 
of tissue samples according to survival prognosis enables laboratory studies to 
be undertaken without waiting many years for survival to be measured. As a 
result of advances in histologic and genetic studies, biopsy techniques and 
statistics, prognostication has become established as a routine procedure in our 
clinical practice, thereby enhancing the care of patients with uveal melanoma.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2011.05.003
PMID: 21658465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Eur J Public Health. 2012 Aug;22(4):604-6. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr068. Epub
2011  Jun 9.

Successful deinstitutionalization of mental health care: increased life 
expectancy among people with mental disorders in Finland.

Westman J(1), Gissler M, Wahlbeck K.

Author information:
(1)Nordic School of Public Health, Gothenburg, Sweden.

To assess impact of deinstitutionalization of mental health care, we studied 
life expectancy for 341 630 people with hospitalization or early retirement 
pension for mental disorders in 1981-2003 in Finland. Life expectancy at the age 
of 15 years was significantly shorter for men/women with serious mental disorder 
(59.0/70.8 years) than in the general population (75.3/82.1 years) in 2001-03. 
Life expectancy increased for people with schizophrenia and other psychoses, 
mood disorders and neurotic disorders, but decreased for people with substance 
use disorders. Deinstitutionalization and decentralization of mental health 
services did not affect life expectancy negatively. Policy measures to control 
adverse effects of alcohol and substance abuse have failed.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr068
PMID: 21659387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. J Biol Chem. 2011 Aug 5;286(31):27255-65. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M111.225318. Epub
 2011 Jun 9.

Distribution and biochemical properties of an M1-family aminopeptidase in 
Plasmodium falciparum indicate a role in vacuolar hemoglobin catabolism.

Ragheb D(1), Dalal S, Bompiani KM, Ray WK, Klemba M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State 
University, Blacksburg, Virginia 24061, USA.

Aminopeptidases catalyze N-terminal peptide bond hydrolysis and occupy many 
diverse roles across all domains of life. Here we present evidence that an 
M1-family aminopeptidase, PfA-M1, has been recruited to specialized roles in the 
human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. PfA-M1 is abundant in two 
subcellular compartments in asexual intraerythrocytic parasites; that is, the 
food vacuole, where the catabolism of host hemoglobin takes place, and the 
nucleus. A unique N-terminal extension contributes to the observed dual 
targeting by providing a signal peptide and putative alternate translation 
initiation sites. PfA-M1 exists as two major isoforms, a nuclear 120-kDa species 
and a processed species consisting of a complex of 68- and 35-kDa fragments. 
PfA-M1 is both stable and active at the acidic pH of the food vacuole lumen. 
Determination of steady-state kinetic parameters for both 
aminoacyl-β-naphthylamide and unmodified dipeptide substrates over the pH range 
5.0-8.5 reveals that k(cat) is relatively insensitive to pH, whereas K(m) 
increases at pH values below 6.5. At the pH of the food vacuole lumen (5.0-5.5), 
the catalytic efficiency of PfA-M1 remains high. Consistent with the kinetic 
data, the affinity of peptidic competitive inhibitors is diminished at acidic 
pH. Together, these results support a catalytic role for PfA-M1 in the food 
vacuole and indicate the importance of evaluating the potency of peptidic 
inhibitors at physiologically relevant pH values. They also suggest a second, 
distinct function for this enzyme in the parasite nucleus.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M111.225318
PMCID: PMC3149319
PMID: 21659511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2011 Aug;24(4):389-94. doi: 
10.1097/ACO.0b013e32834871c5.

Anesthetic modulation of neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease.

Tang JX(1), Eckenhoff MF, Eckenhoff RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, University of Pennsylvania 
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To summarize key studies and recent thought on the role of 
neuroinflammation in chronic neurodegeneration, and whether it can be modulated 
by anesthesia and surgery.
RECENT FINDINGS: A large and growing body of evidence shows that 
neuroinflammation participates in the development of neurodegeneration 
associated with Alzheimer's disease. Modulation may be possible early in the 
pathogenesis, and less so when cognitive symptoms appear. A dysfunctional 
hypoinflammatory response may permit accelerated damage due to other mechanisms 
in late disease. The peripheral inflammatory response elicited by surgery itself 
appears to provoke a muted neuroinflammatory response, which enhances ongoing 
neurodegeneration in some models. Anesthetics have both anti-inflammatory and 
proinflammatory effects depending on the drug and concentration, but in general, 
appear to play a small role in neuroinflammation. Human studies at the 
intersection of chronic neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation, and 
surgery/anesthesia are rare.
SUMMARY: The perioperative period has the potential to modulate the progression 
of chronic neurodegenerative diseases. The growing number of elderly having 
surgery, combined with the expanding life expectancy, indicates the potential 
for this interaction to have considerable public health implications, and call 
for further research, especially in humans.

DOI: 10.1097/ACO.0b013e32834871c5
PMCID: PMC3289136
PMID: 21659873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest


875. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Dec;13(6):723-40. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0326-y.
Epub  2011 Jun 10.

The use of cost per life year gained as a measurement of cost-effectiveness in 
Spain: a systematic review of recent publications.

Rodríguez Barrios JM(1), Pérez Alcántara F, Crespo Palomo C, González García P, 
Antón De Las Heras E, Brosa Riestra M.

Author information:
(1)Medtronic Iberica, Madrid, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to evaluate the methodological 
characteristics of cost-effectiveness evaluations carried out in Spain, since 
1990, which include LYG as an outcome to measure the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
METHODS: A systematic review of published studies was conducted describing their 
characteristics and methodological quality. We analyse the cost per LYG results 
in relation with a commonly accepted Spanish cost-effectiveness threshold and 
the possible relation with the cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained 
when they both were calculated for the same economic evaluation.
RESULTS: A total of 62 economic evaluations fulfilled the selection criteria, 24 
of them including the cost per QALY gained result as well. The methodological 
quality of the studies was good (55%) or very good (26%). A total of 124 cost 
per LYG results were obtained with a mean ratio of 49,529<euro> and a median of 
11,490<euro> (standard deviation of 183,080). Since 2003, a commonly accepted 
Spanish threshold has been referenced by 66% of studies. A significant 
correlation was found between the cost per LYG and cost per QALY gained results 
(0.89 Spearman-Rho, 0.91 Pearson).
CONCLUSIONS: There is an increasing interest for economic health care 
evaluations in Spain, and the quality of the studies is also improving. Although 
a commonly accepted threshold exists, further information is needed for 
decision-making as well as to identify the relationship between the costs per 
LYG and per QALY gained.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0326-y
PMID: 21660565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Cardiol J. 2011;18(3):322-5.

Progressive conduction disturbance in myotonic dystrophy.

Palazzolo J(1), Trucco E, Arce M, Riera AR, Femenía F.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Arritmias, Departamento de Cardiología, Hospital Español de 
Mendoza, Argentina.

Myotonic dystrophy (DM), the commonest dystrophy in adults, is an autosomal 
dominant disease characterized by a variety of multisystemic features. Two main 
genetically distinct forms of DM have been identified: type 1 (DM1), the classic 
form first described by Steinert, and type 2 (DM2), identified by Ricker. DM1 is 
caused by trinucleotide expansion of cytosine- -thymine-guanine (CTG) in the 
myotonic dystrophy protein kinase gene, whereas in DM2 the expansion of 
tetranucleotide repeats (CCTG) in the zinc finger protein 9 gene was identified. 
Both mutations are dynamic and are located in non-coding parts of the genes. 
Phenotype variability of DM1 and DM2 is caused by a molecular mechanism due to 
mutated RNA toxicity. DM1 is characterized by myotonia and multi-organ damage 
with major cardiac involvement. The disease is usually slowly progressive and 
life expectancy is reduced by the increased mortality associated with 
cardiopulmonary complications. Sudden death can occur as a consequence of 
cardiac-conduction abnormalities. We present the ECG of a 26 year-old male with 
DM1 and progressive conduction system disturbance characterized by syncopal 
episodes.

PMID: 21660927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Physiol Behav. 2012 Apr 12;106(1):51-7. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.05.030.
Epub  2011 Jun 2.

Longevity. The allostatic load of dietary restriction.

Pijl H(1).

Author information:
(1)Leiden University Medical Center, Dept of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology 
Section, Leiden, The Netherlands. h.pijl@lumc.nl

Restriction of food intake by 10-50% of ad libitum on a per unit of weight or 
energy content basis can extend the lifespan of a wide variety of species and 
prevent or delay age-related disease. This review first briefly summarizes the 
data delineating mortality trajectories of various species' populations 
maintained on restricted diets to provide insight into the effects of nutrient 
deprivation on distinct components of the aging process. Next, I discuss a 
number of important studies that have addressed the question whether it is the 
lack of calories and/or specific nutrients that determines the longevity 
response to dietary restriction. Finally, I review the evidence for hormesis as 
a proximate mechanism underpinning the impact of dietary restriction on 
lifespan. In aggregate, the currently available demographic data suggest that 
dietary restriction can both slow the age-related progressive accumulation of 
cellular damage and also enhance the ability of organisms to cope with 
irreversible injury. Restriction of essential nutrients as well as calories may 
affect life expectancy, perhaps in a species specific fashion. Hormesis, i.e. an 
evolutionary conserved stress response routine providing protection against a 
wide variety of (other) hazards in response to low levels of stress, is very 
likely to contribute to the beneficial health effects of dietary restriction.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.05.030
PMID: 21663754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Clin Lung Cancer. 2011 May;12(3):161-5. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2011.03.013.
Epub  2011 Apr 27.

A phase II study of carboplatin and irinotecan in extensive stage small-cell 
lung cancer.

Horn L(1), Zhao Z, Sandler A, Johnson D, Shyr Y, Wolff S, Devore RF, Laskin J.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, TN, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Our study set out to determine the antitumor efficacy of carboplatin 
and irinotecan as assessed by response rate in persons with chemotherapy-naive 
extensive-disease, small-cell lung cancer (ED-SCLC). Secondary objectives 
included progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival, and toxicity 
findings.
METHODS: Patients with previously untreated ED-SCLC, Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) of 0-2, life expectancy ≥ 3 
months, and adequate organ function were eligible. Patients were treated with 
carboplatin AUC 5 intravenously over 30-60 minutes on day 1, followed by 
CPT-11(irinotecan) 50 mg/m(2) intravenously over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 8 
every 3 weeks for 4-6 cycles at the discretion of the treating physician.
RESULTS: Fifty-six patients were enrolled, and 50 patients were eligible. The 
median age of patients was 60.1 years. The most common toxicities were 
neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, nausea/vomiting, and dehydration. The overall 
response rate was 58%. Median PFS was 5.3 months, median overall survival was 
9.7 months, and 1-year overall survival was 28.7%.
CONCLUSIONS: Carboplatin and irinotecan is a safe and reasonable combination for 
the treatment of patients with ED-SCLC.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2011.03.013
PMID: 21663858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
