population aging features such as the increasing mean age of the population, 
share of the population in the oldest age groups, and life expectancy would be 
reflected in SCI population demographics. Although the mean age and share of the 
SCI population older than 65 yrs are increasing, data from the National Spinal 
Cord Injury Statistical Center suggest that life expectancy increases in the SCI 
population have not kept the same pace as those without SCI in the last 15 yrs. 
The reasons for this disparity are likely multifactorial and include the 
changing demographics of the SCI population with more older people being 
injured; susceptibility of people with SCI to numerous medical conditions that 
impart a health hazard; risky behaviors leading to a disproportionate percentage 
of deaths as a result of preventable causes, including septicemia; changes in 
the delivery of health services during the first year after injury when the 
greatest resources are available; and other unknown factors. The purposes of 
this paper are (1) to define and differentiate general population aging and 
aging in people with SCI, (2) to briefly present the state of the science on 
health conditions in those aging with SCI, and finally, (3) to present 
recommendations for future research in the area of aging with SCI.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0b013e31821f70bc
PMID: 21681060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Curr Opin Oncol. 2011 Sep;23(5):421-8. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e328348c6c1.

How we treat elderly patients with Hodgkin lymphoma.

Björkholm M(1), Svedmyr E, Sjöberg J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Karolinska University 
Hospital Solna, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
magnus.bjorkholm@karolinska.se

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review Hodgkin lymphoma in older adults with regard to 
epidemiology, disease characteristics, prognosis, treatment, and future 
developments.
RECENT FINDINGS: Older Hodgkin lymphoma patients defined by chronological age 
represent a heterogeneous population in terms of life expectancy, morbidities, 
and functional status. Twenty-one percent of Swedish Hodgkin lymphoma patients 
are greater than 65 years (5%, >81 years) at diagnosis. In general, less than 
10% of patients included in broad clinical trials are greater than 60 years. The 
proportion of mixed cellularity histopathology and EBV-genome-positive tumors is 
higher in older adults. Five-year relative survival of Swedish patients 66-80 
and greater than 81 years is 0.58 and 0.26, respectively. Older patients have 
lower remission rates, but relapse-free survival is less impaired. No standard 
treatment recommendations exist. In older fit patients less than 65-70 years--go 
for 'young' treatment. Estimate thoroughly the individual patient's 
frailness/comorbidities in order to properly adjust treatment, thus saving 
patients from over/undertreatment. The use of early PET should be optimized in 
clinical practice. Representativeness of large clinical trials including 
evaluation of functional status and comorbidity remains crucial.
SUMMARY: Elderly Hodgkin lymphoma patients still do poorly and improved 
prognostics, personalized and targeted treatment options associated with fewer 
side-effects will hopefully advance the clinical Hodgkin lymphoma field.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e328348c6c1
PMID: 21681093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. N Z Med J. 2011 Mar 4;124(1330):66-73.

Limitations of the scientific basis for the management of air quality in urban 
New Zealand.

Hoare JL(1).

Author information:
(1)johnlh@xtra.co.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 2011 May 13;124(1334):109-10.
    N Z Med J. 2011 May 27;124(1335):93-4.

As enumerated by Ministry for the Environment, planned reductions in levels of 
air pollution in New Zealand sufficient to allow compliance with the National 
Environmental Standards for Air Quality will save, in a cost-effective manner, 
numerous lives per year. However, as indicated by careful study of the 
literature and of the methods employed to perform the relevant calculations, 
such claims are flawed. Instead of a precise number of deaths avoided, small 
changes in regional life expectancy are a more likely tangible consequence of 
compliance and, as such, are better suited to assisting calculation of the 
associated benefits and costs. Some basic data relevant to communities and 
regions potentially susceptible to the effects of 'poor quality' or inclement 
air are provided. These support the view that urban air pollution as officially 
measured and normally encountered in New Zealand nowadays probably has 
comparatively small substantive mortality consequences.

PMID: 21681254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Heart Vessels. 2012 Mar;27(2):227-30. doi: 10.1007/s00380-011-0164-y. Epub
2011  Jun 17.

Successful deployment of an iliac limb graft to repair acute aortic rupture 
after balloon aortoplasty of recoarctation in a child with Turner syndrome.

Wu IH(1), Wu MH, Chen SJ, Wang SS, Chang CI.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University 
Hospital, No. 7 Chung-Shan S. Road, Taipei, Taiwan.

Aortic rupture is a rare but potentially catastrophic complication following a 
balloon aortoplasty for recoarctation. The treatment of aortic ruptures remains 
challenging. We present here a 9-year-old girl with Turner syndrome who 
experienced a life-threatening rupture in her aorta after a balloon aortoplasty 
for recoarctation. She was successfully rescued by the antegrade deployment of a 
commercially available iliac limb extension stent-graft via an ascending aortic 
conduit. Prudent balloon aortoplasty for recoarctation in patients with Turner 
syndrome is important due to their inherent aortopathy and previous surgical 
repairs. Possible reasons for an aortic rupture are oversized ballooning and the 
choice of balloon diameter based only on an angiographic measurement. In 
agreement with earlier reports, our case also confirms the importance of keeping 
a commercially available stent graft available to treat this complication that 
has potentially fatal consequences.

DOI: 10.1007/s00380-011-0164-y
PMID: 21681538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Health Serv J. 2011 May 5;121(6255):22-3.

Healthcare rationing. Decision time.

Moore A.

PMID: 21682223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2011 Oct;8(10):1095-102. doi: 10.1089/fpd.2011.0841.
Epub  2011 Jun 17.

Proteomic analysis of the mode of antibacterial action of trans-cinnamaldehyde 
against Cronobacter sakazakii 415.

Amalaradjou MA(1), Venkitanarayanan K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, University of Connecticut, 3636 Horsebarn Hill 
Road Extension, Storrs, CT 06269, USA.

Cronobacter sakazakii is an opportunistic foodborne pathogen that contaminates 
powdered infant formula, causing a rare but life-threatening infection in 
neonates and infants. Contaminated powdered infant formula represents the only 
known source of infection in infants. We previously reported that 
trans-cinnamaldehyde (TC), an ingredient in cinnamon, inactivated C. sakazakii 
in powdered infant formula. Although the antimicrobial properties of TC have 
been well established, only limited information is available on its 
antimicrobial mechanisms, especially at the molecular level. Therefore, we 
performed a proteomic analysis of the outer membrane and whole cell proteins 
from TC-treated C. sakazakii to investigate its potential antimicrobial 
mechanisms against C. sakazakii. The proteomic data revealed that TC exerts 
antimicrobial effects by several mechanisms, including disruption of 
carbohydrate, amino acid, and lipid metabolism. Additionally, TC compromises 
motility, attachment, and invasion ability and cellular defenses of C. sakazakii 
against oxidative stress, thereby reducing its virulence. The results of this 
study suggest that TC could be potentially used for controlling C. sakazakii.

DOI: 10.1089/fpd.2011.0841
PMID: 21682589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2011 Aug;11(8):1039-53. doi: 
10.1517/14712598.2011.570006. Epub 2011 Jun 20.

Pharmacotherapy of haemophilia A.

Gringeri A(1), Muça-Perja M, Mangiafico L, von Mackensen S.

Author information:
(1)Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Haemophilia and Thrombosis Centre, Milan, Italy. 
alessandro.gringeri@unimi.it

INTRODUCTION: Haemophilia A is due to factor VIII (FVIII) deficiency. The main 
treatment is replacement therapy with FVIII concentrates. However, these 
concentrates carried a high risk of blood-borne viral infections and still have 
a high risk of inducing anti-FVIII inhibitors.
AREAS COVERED: An overview of products available and therapeutic options for 
haemophilia A management in order to help in decision making. A literature 
search using Medline with the keywords: 'haemophilia', 'factor VIII', 'therapy', 
'inhibitor', 'concentrate', 'bleeding', 'prophylaxis', 'on demand', 
'plasma-derived', 'recombinant', 'coagulation factors', 'immunotolerance' was 
performed. The years 1960 - 2010 are included.
EXPERT OPINION: Progress in management of patients with haemophilia A has 
allowed increased life expectancy and quality of life. There is evidence that 
prophylaxis prevents or, at least, slows down arthropathy development when 
started early in childhood. FVIII concentrates have achieved high levels of 
blood-borne pathogen safety. However, treatment is frequently complicated by 
development of FVIII-neutralizing inhibitors, which prevent control of bleeding 
and predispose to a high morbidity and mortality risk. Bypassing agents are 
effective in bleeding treatment in a high percentage of cases. Prophylaxis with 
bypassing agents and their use in combination are offering opportunities in 
management of inhibitor patients. More evidence is necessary to understand how 
to prevent and manage this complication.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.2011.570006
PMID: 21682657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2011 Aug;12(12):1959-66. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.2011.591380. Epub 2011 Jun 20.

Brivaracetam for the treatment of epilepsy.

Schulze-Bonhage A(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Freiburg, Epilepsy Center, Breisacher Strasse 64, 
Freiburg, Germany. andreas.schulze-bonhage@uniklinik-freiburg.de

INTRODUCTION: Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological disorders, 
affecting about 1% of the population worldwide. With currently available 
antiepileptic drugs, one-third of patients continue to suffer from seizures even 
when treated at maximally tolerated dosages, either in monotherapy or in various 
drug combinations. Pharmacoresistance is associated with physical risks, reduced 
life expectancy, reduced quality of life and impairments in social 
opportunities. The acetamide derivate levetiracetam (LEV) that primarily targets 
the synaptic vesicle protein 2A has been one of the most successful 
second-generation antiepileptic drugs.
AREAS COVERED: This article reviews a rationally designed LEV derivative, 
brivaracetam (BRV), which has an increased affinity to the LEV-binding site. BRV 
has shown some efficacy in the treatment of progressive myoclonus epilepsy and 
is under development to be used as an add-on treatment of focal epilepsy. 
Evidence is given for possible advantages related to the higher intrinsic 
antiepileptic efficacy of BRV and its antiepileptic potential in relation to a 
wide spectrum of epilepsy forms and for possible disadvantages related to 
hepatic metabolism and to a lower therapeutic index related to additional 
intrinsic activity at the sodium channel. An update on pharmacodynamic, 
pharmacokinetic and study data published until 2010 on BRV is given.
EXPERT OPINION: BRV is a rationally developed third-generation antiepileptic 
drug with higher binding to SV2A and additional mechanisms of actions. Animal 
studies are promising regarding its efficacy in a wide spectrum of epilepsy 
models. Clinical studies have shown good tolerability at dosages of up to 50 
mg/day but have yet to identify the optimal dose range and to prove an 
additional value of the drug in terms of seizure control.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2011.591380
PMID: 21682662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Ann Epidemiol. 2011 Oct;21(10):749-54. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2011.04.010.
 Epub 2011 Jun 16.

Combined impact of lifestyle factors on cancer mortality in men.

Lee CD(1), Sui X, Hooker SP, Hébert JR, Blair SN.

Author information:
(1)Exercise and Wellness Program, Healthy Lifestyles Research Center, Arizona 
State University, Mesa, AZ 85212, USA. Chong.Lee@asu.edu

PURPOSE: The impact of lifestyle factors on cancer mortality in the U.S. 
population has not been thoroughly explored. We examined the combined effects of 
cardiorespiratory fitness, never smoking, and normal waist girth on total cancer 
mortality in men.
METHODS: We followed a total of 24,731 men ages 20-82 years who participated in 
the Aerobics Center Longitudinal Study. A low-risk profile was defined as never 
smoking, moderate or high fitness, and normal waist girth, and they were further 
categorized as having 0, 1, 2, or 3 combined low-risk factors.
RESULTS: Over an average of 14.5 years of follow-up, there were a total of 384 
cancer deaths. After adjustment for age, examination year, and multiple risk 
factors, men who were physically fit, never smoked, and had a normal waist girth 
had a 62% lower risk of total cancer mortality (95% confidence interval [CI], 
45%-73%) compared with men with no low-risk factors. Men with all 3 low-risk 
factors had a 12-year (95% CI, 8.6-14.6) longer life expectancy compared with 
men with no low-risk factors. Approximately 37% (95% CI, 17%-52%) of total 
cancer deaths might have been avoided if the men had maintained all 3 low-risk 
factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Being physically fit, never smoking, and maintaining a normal waist 
girth is associated with lower risk of total cancer mortality in men.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2011.04.010
PMCID: PMC3166420
PMID: 21683616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: none


939. Surgery. 2011 Jul;150(1):122-32. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2011.03.002.

Support surfaces for intraoperative prevention of pressure ulcers in patients 
undergoing surgery: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Pham B(1), Teague L, Mahoney J, Goodman L, Paulden M, Poss J, Li J, Sikich NJ, 
Lourenco R, Ieraci L, Carcone S, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment Collaborative, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Patients who undergo prolonged surgical procedures are at risk of 
developing pressure ulcers. Recent systematic reviews suggest that pressure 
redistribution overlays on operating tables significantly decrease the 
associated risk. Little is known about the cost effectiveness of using these 
overlays in a prevention program for surgical patients.
METHODS: Using a Markov cohort model, we evaluated the cost effectiveness of an 
intraoperative prevention strategy with operating table overlays made of dry, 
viscoelastic polymer from the perspective of a health care payer over a 1-year 
period. We simulated patients undergoing scheduled surgical procedures lasting 
≥90 min in the supine or lithotomy position.
RESULTS: Compared with the current practice of using standard mattresses on 
operating tables, the intraoperative prevention strategy decreased the estimated 
intraoperative incidence of pressure ulcers by 0.51%, corresponding to a 
number-needed-to-treat of 196 patients. The average cost of using the operating 
table overlay was $1.66 per patient. Compared with current practice, this 
intraoperative prevention strategy would increase slightly the quality-adjusted 
life days of patients and by decreasing the incidence of pressure ulcers, this 
strategy would decrease both hospital and home care costs for treating fewer 
pressure ulcers originated intraoperatively. The cost savings was $46 per 
patient, which ranged from $13 to $116 by different surgical populations. 
Intraoperative prevention was 99% likely to be more cost effective than the 
current practice.
CONCLUSION: In patients who undergo scheduled surgical procedures lasting ≥90 
min, this intraoperative prevention strategy could improve patients' health and 
save hospital costs. The clinical and economic evidence support the 
implementation of this prevention strategy in settings where it has yet to 
become current practice.

Copyright © 2011 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2011.03.002
PMID: 21683861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Eur Urol. 2011 Sep;60(3):516-26. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.05.055. Epub
2011  Jun 12.

Sequelae of treatment in long-term survivors of testis cancer.

Abouassaly R(1), Fossa SD, Giwercman A, Kollmannsberger C, Motzer RJ, Schmoll 
HJ, Sternberg CN.

Author information:
(1)Urological Institute, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. robert.abouassaly@UHhospitals.org

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Nov;188(5):1771.

CONTEXT: Testicular cancer patients are often diagnosed at a young age, and 
because of the advances in the treatment of this disease, the vast majority have 
a normal life expectancy after therapy. Thus, recognition of the long-term 
sequelae of treatment (ie, surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy) is 
particularly important in these patients.
OBJECTIVE: To review the adverse effects and the risk of secondary malignancy in 
long-term survivors of testicular cancer.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: We conducted a Medline search to identify original 
articles and reviews on the long-term effects of testicular cancer treatment. 
Although the search included articles from January 1948 to February 2011, the 
majority of the included articles were published in the last two decades.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: All studies examining the long-term sequelae of treatment in 
testicular cancer are retrospective in nature, with most classified as cohort, 
case-control, and/or epidemiologic studies. Given that no standardized method of 
reporting long-term complications exists, evidence synthesis is limited.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent evidence suggests an increased risk of cardiovascular 
disease, neurotoxicity, and mild reductions in renal function in survivors of 
testicular cancer. Treatment of testicular malignancy can also negatively affect 
gonadal function and fertility and has been shown to result in an increased risk 
of solid malignancy and leukemia.

Copyright © 2011 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2011.05.055
PMID: 21684072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Lancet Oncol. 2011 Jul;12(7):654-62. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(11)70144-9.
Epub  2011 Jun 16.

Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer staging and transplant survival benefit for 
patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: a multicentre, cohort study.

Vitale A(1), Morales RR, Zanus G, Farinati F, Burra P, Angeli P, Frigo AC, Del 
Poggio P, Rapaccini G, Di Nolfo MA, Benvegnù L, Zoli M, Borzio F, Giannini EG, 
Caturelli E, Chiaramonte M, Trevisani F, Cillo U; Italian Liver Cancer group.

Collaborators: Buccione D, Caraceni P, Domenicali M, Fatti G, Frigerio M, Santi 
V, Magalotti D, Balsamo C, Di Marco M, Vavassori E, Gilardoni L, Mattiello M, 
Alberti A, Gatta A, Gios M, Giacomin A, Sergio A, Vanin V, Cazzagon N, Pozzan C, 
Cucchetti A, Ravaioli M, Giampalma E, Golfieri R, Ghittoni G, Roselli P, Bodini 
G, Corbo M, Savarino V.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Chirurgia Epatobiliare e Trapianto Epatico, Azienda Ospedaliera, 
Università di Padova, Padova, Italy. alessandro.vitale@unipd.it

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2011 Jul;12(7):611-2.

BACKGROUND: Allocation of deceased-donor livers to patients with chronic liver 
failure is improved by prioritising patients by 5-year liver transplantation 
survival benefit. The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging has been 
proposed as the standard means to assess for prognosis of patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma. We aimed to create a prediction model linking the BCLC 
stage of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma to their 5-year liver transplant 
benefit.
METHODS: A large cohort of consecutive patients with hepatocellular carcinoma 
(n=1328) from the ITA.LI.CA database (n=2951) were judged as potentially 
eligible for liver transplantation according to the following criteria: absence 
of macroscopic vascular invasion or metastases, age 70 years or younger, and 
absence of relevant extra-hepatic comorbidities. To assess the correlation 
between BCLC staging and non-liver transplantation survival, we did Cox 
univariate and multivariate analyses including the following covariates: BCLC 
stage, year of diagnosis, age, sex, cause of cirrhosis, model for end-stage 
liver disease score, α-fetoprotein concentrations, and treatment. 
Liver-transplantation survival benefit for patients was calculated, using Monte 
Carlo simulation analysis, as the patient's 5-year life expectancy with liver 
transplantation (estimated by the Metroticket model) minus the 5-year life 
expectancy without liver transplantation according to BCLC stage.
FINDINGS: 83 (6%) of 1328 patients had BCLC 0 stage disease, 614 (46%) had BCLC 
A, 500 (38%) had BCLC B-C, and 131 (10%) had BCLC D. In the Cox non-liver 
transplantation survival multivariate model, hazard ratios associated with 
increasing BCLC stages were 1.530 (95% CI 1.107-2.116) for BCLC A versus BCLC 0, 
1.572 (1.350-1.830) for BCLC B-C versus BCLC A, and 1.470 (1.164-1.856) for BCLC 
D versus BCLC B-C. Results of the Monte Carlo simulation analysis confirmed the 
significant effect of BCLC classification on transplant benefit; in the adjusted 
model, a median 5-year transplant benefit of 11.19 months (IQR 10.73-11.67) for 
BCLC 0, 13.49 months (11.51-15.57) for BCLC A, 17.36 months (15.06-19.28) for 
BCLC B-C, and 28.46 months (26.38-30.34) for BCLC D.
INTERPRETATION: Liver transplantation could result in survival benefit for 
patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and advanced liver cirrhosis (BCLC stage 
D) and in those with intermediate tumours (BCLC stages B-C), regardless of the 
nodule number-size criteria (ie, Milan criteria), provided that macroscopic 
vascular invasion and extra-hepatic disease are absent.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(11)70144-9
PMID: 21684210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Lancet. 2011 Jun 18;377(9783):2075. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60908-2.

Leonard Hayflick and the limits of ageing.

Watts G(1).

Author information:
(1)geoff@scileg.freeserve.co.uk

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60908-2
PMID: 21684371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2011 Jul;21(3):389-403, vii-viii. doi: 
10.1016/j.giec.2011.04.002.

Enteral stents for malignant gastric outlet obstruction.

Brimhall B(1), Adler DG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA.

Malignant gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) is a commonly encountered entity, 
defined as the inability of the stomach to empty because of mechanical 
obstruction at the level of either the stomach or the proximal small bowel. In 
this article, current literature on GOO is reviewed with a focus on enteral 
stents to include symptoms and diagnosis, stent and nonstent treatment, types of 
enteral stents, indications and contraindications to stent placement, and 
technical and clinical success rates. In comparison with gastrojejunostomy, 
enteral stent placement is better suited for patients with a shorter life 
expectancy and/or those who are poor surgical candidates.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.giec.2011.04.002
PMID: 21684461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Can J Cardiol. 2011 Jul-Aug;27(4):481-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.04.008.

The challenges and benefits of cardiovascular risk assessment in clinical 
practice.

[Article in English, French]

Grover SA(1), Lowensteyn I.

Author information:
(1)McGill Cardiovascular Health Improvement Program, Montreal, Québec, Canada. 
steven.grover@mcgill.ca

Current expert guidelines for the treatment of hypertension or dyslipidemia 
recommend the use of cardiovascular risk assessment to identify high-risk 
individuals most likely to benefit from risk factor management. The potential 
uses of risk assessment include reassuring low-risk individuals, motivating 
high-risk individuals to modify their lifestyles or adhere to medical therapy, 
and track an individual's progress as risk factors come under better control. 
Despite the potential usefulness of cardiovascular risk assessment in clinical 
practice, the vast majority of patients have never had their cardiovascular risk 
assessed. This review describes the strengths and weaknesses of the currently 
available risk engines and suggests an approach, based on the currently 
available evidence, that can be used to maximize the clinical impact of risk 
assessment in daily clinical practice.

Copyright © 2011 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.04.008
PMID: 21684717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. HIV Clin Trials. 2011 May-Jun;12(3):121-30. doi: 10.1310/hct1203-121.

Potential strategies for an HIV infection cure.

Lafeuillade A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, General Hospital, Toulon, France. 
alain.lafeuillade@ch-toulon.fr

Despite long-term viral suppression with antiretroviral therapy (ART), HIV 
persists in reservoirs and sanctuary sites. Lifelong therapy is therefore 
necessary, leading to problems of compliance, toxicity, and cost. Over the last 
few years, important advances have been made in our understanding of the 
composition and the maintenance mechanisms of the HIV reservoir. Although 
complete viral eradication is currently out of reach, a growing number of 
scientists think that a "functional" cure is achievable. This situation would 
combine no disease progression, no virus transmission, and a life expectancy 
close to uninfected individuals in the absence of ART. At acute HIV infection, 
ART increases the frequency of sustained viremia control after its 
discontinuation, compared with the natural history of untreated disease. For 
patients at the chronic stage of HIV infection, ART alone is insufficient to 
clear viral reservoirs and new molecules intended to purge this reservoir or 
gene therapy approaches are warranted. This search for a cure needs innovation, 
audaciousness, and coordination. It also needs political, institutional, and 
private commitments for funding, which by now are severely lacking.

DOI: 10.1310/hct1203-121
PMID: 21684852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2011 Jul;6(7):1663-7. doi: 10.2215/CJN.05830710. Epub
 2011 Jun 16.

Re-evaluating the Fistula First Initiative in Octogenarians on Hemodialysis.

Vachharajani TJ(1), Moossavi S, Jordan JR, Vachharajani V, Freedman BI, Burkart 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Dialysis Access Group of Wake Forest University, Department of Internal 
Medicine/Nephrology and Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. tvachhar@wfubmc.edu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Octogenarians frequently require maintenance 
hemodialysis (HD) for treatment of stage renal disease ESRD. Although the 
Fistula First Initiative recommends creating an arteriovenous fistula as the 
preferred dialysis access method, vascular access selection should be based on 
life expectancy and functional status at treatment initiation.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: This is a retrospective analysis 
of 4-year outpatient data (January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2007) of 
incident octogenarian dialysis population in an academic institution. 
Thirty-nine of 268 patients were octogenarians with a mean (± SD) age of 83.4 ± 
3.4 years, and 25 were men. Kaplan-Meier survival and Fisher's post hoc 
statistical analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven octogenarian patients selected HD and two selected 
peritoneal dialysis. Among the 37 HD patients, 29 initiated dialysis with a 
tunneled cuffed catheter, 6 with an arteriovenous fistula, and 2 with an 
arteriovenous graft. Three patients regained renal function after an average 112 
days and one was lost to follow-up. Of the 33 remaining on HD, 8 required 
nursing home admission and 25 were discharged home after initiating HD. Among 
these 33, 19 died and 14 remained on HD at the end of study period. Days on 
dialysis (mean ± SEM) before death in those discharged to a nursing facility 
versus home were 52.6 ± 14.7 versus 386.1 ± 90.7 (P < 0.05), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Vascular access planning should include assessment of functional 
status and life expectancy in octogenarian HD patients.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.05830710
PMID: 21685023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Heart. 2011 Jul;97(14):1175-81. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2010.213975.

Probabilistic cost-effectiveness analysis of cascade screening for familial 
hypercholesterolaemia using alternative diagnostic and identification 
strategies.

Nherera L(1), Marks D, Minhas R, Thorogood M, Humphries SE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cardiovascular Genetics, British Heart Foundation Laboratories, 
Royal Free and University College London Medicine School, London WC1E 6JF, UK. 
rmhaseh@ucl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the probabilistic cost-effectiveness of cascade screening 
methods in familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) from the UK NHS perspective.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation (cost utility analysis) comparing four cascade 
screening strategies for FH: Using low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 
measurements to diagnose affected relatives (cholesterol method); cascading only 
in patients with a causative mutation identified and using DNA tests to diagnose 
relatives (DNA method); DNA testing combined with LDL-cholesterol testing in 
families with no mutation identified, only in patients with clinically defined 
'definite' FH (DNA+DFH method); DNA testing combined with LDL-cholesterol 
testing in no-mutation families of both 'definite' and 'probable' FH patients 
(DNA+DFH+PFH). A probabilistic model was constructed to estimate the treatment 
benefit from statins, with all diagnosed individuals receiving high-intensity 
statin treatment.
POPULATION: A cohort of 1000 people suspected of having FH aged 50 years for 
index cases and 30 years for relatives, followed for a lifetime.
MAIN OUTCOMES: Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER).
RESULTS: The DNA+DFH+PFH method was the most cost-effective cascade screening 
strategy. The ICER was estimated at £3666/QALY. Using this strategy, of the 
tested relatives 30.6% will be true positives, 6.3% false positives, 61.9% true 
negatives and 1.1% false negatives. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed 
that this approach is 100% cost-effective using the conventional benchmark for 
cost-effective treatments in the NHS of between £20,000 and £30,000 per QALY 
gained.
CONCLUSION: Cascade testing of relatives of patients with DFH and PFH is 
cost-effective when using a combination of DNA testing for known family 
mutations and LDL-cholesterol levels in the remaining families. The approach is 
more cost-effective than current primary prevention screening strategies.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2010.213975
PMID: 21685482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Trans Am Clin Climatol Assoc. 2011;122:124-36.

Consequences of frequent hemodialysis: comparison to conventional hemodialysis 
and transplantation.

Stokes JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, E300 GH, 200 Hawkins 
Drive, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. john-stokes@uiowa.edu

The average life expectancy of a person on hemodialysis is less than 3 years and 
hasn't changed in 20 years. The Hemodialysis (HEMO) trial, a randomized trial to 
determine whether increasing urea removal to the maximum practical degree 
through a 3-times-a-week schedule, showed no difference in mortality in the 
treatment and control groups. Investigators speculated that the increment in 
functional waste removal in the HEMO study was too small to produce improvements 
in mortality. To test this hypothesis, the NIDDK funded the Frequent 
Hemodialysis Network, a consortium of centers testing whether patients 
randomized to intensive dialysis would demonstrate improved (reduced) left 
ventricular LV mass and quality of life. The trial has two arms: the daily 
(in-center) and the home (nocturnal) arms. Each arm has patients randomized to 
conventional dialysis or 6 days (or nights) of dialysis. The results of the HEMO 
trial will be reported in the fall of 2010.

PMCID: PMC3116337
PMID: 21686215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflicts of Interest: None disclosed.


949. BMJ Case Rep. 2009;2009:bcr06.2008.0200. doi: 10.1136/bcr.06.2008.0200. Epub
 2009 Feb 20.

An important clinical lesson from a patient infected with HIV with diabetic 
nephropathy and retinopathy.

Martinelli P(1), Agangi A, Sansone M, Napolitano R, Maruotti GM.

Author information:
(1)University of Naples Federico II, Obstetrics and Gynecology, via Pansini, 5, 
Naples, 80131, Italy.

In resource-rich settings, advances in antiretroviral therapy have reduced the 
morbidity and increased the life expectancy of patients infected with HIV and 
consequently increased the likelihood of observing other non-HIV-related 
diseases in this group of patients. We report a high-risk pregnancy in a 
26-year-old woman infected with HIV with complicated insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus. Because of maternal concomitant disease and concerns regarding 
potential antiretroviral toxicity on maternal disease, an abbreviated regimen of 
zidovudine prophylaxis was offered to prevent neonatal infection. After the 
iatrogenic preterm delivery of a healthy and uninfected baby, the patient 
experienced vulvar oedema and she is now waiting for renal transplantation.In 
conclusion, our case is one of a range of possible scenarios that may develop in 
pregnant women who are infected with HIV, reflecting the highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART)-associated improvements in survival and health.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr.06.2008.0200
PMCID: PMC3029002
PMID: 21686901


950. Front Psychol. 2011 May 2;2:77. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2011.00077. eCollection
2011.

Organization, maturation, and plasticity of multisensory integration: insights 
from computational modeling studies.

Cuppini C(1), Magosso E, Ursino M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronics, Computer Science and Systems, University of 
Bologna Bologna, Italy.

In this paper, we present two neural network models - devoted to two specific 
and widely investigated aspects of multisensory integration - in order to 
evidence the potentialities of computational models to gain insight into the 
neural mechanisms underlying organization, development, and plasticity of 
multisensory integration in the brain. The first model considers visual-auditory 
interaction in a midbrain structure named superior colliculus (SC). The model is 
able to reproduce and explain the main physiological features of multisensory 
integration in SC neurons and to describe how SC integrative capability - not 
present at birth - develops gradually during postnatal life depending on sensory 
experience with cross-modal stimuli. The second model tackles the problem of how 
tactile stimuli on a body part and visual (or auditory) stimuli close to the 
same body part are integrated in multimodal parietal neurons to form the 
perception of peripersonal (i.e., near) space. The model investigates how the 
extension of peripersonal space - where multimodal integration occurs - may be 
modified by experience such as use of a tool to interact with the far space. The 
utility of the modeling approach relies on several aspects: (i) The two models, 
although devoted to different problems and simulating different brain regions, 
share some common mechanisms (lateral inhibition and excitation, non-linear 
neuron characteristics, recurrent connections, competition, Hebbian rules of 
potentiation and depression) that may govern more generally the fusion of senses 
in the brain, and the learning and plasticity of multisensory integration. (ii) 
The models may help interpretation of behavioral and psychophysical responses in 
terms of neural activity and synaptic connections. (iii) The models can make 
testable predictions that can help guiding future experiments in order to 
validate, reject, or modify the main assumptions.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2011.00077
PMCID: PMC3110383
PMID: 21687448


951. Adv Ther. 2011 Jun;28 Suppl 4:6-11. doi: 10.1007/s12325-011-0024-2. Epub
2011  May 12.

Azacitidine adverse effects in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.

San Miguel Amigo L(1), Franco Osorio R, Mercadal Vilchez S, Martínez-Francés A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, ICO-Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Azacitidine is now considered one of the standard-of-care agents for patients 
with high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes who are not candidates for high-dose 
chemotherapy. Considering the mechanism of action of the agent, it is critical 
to maintain adequate dose intensities for prolonged periods of time in order for 
treatment to be effective. Therefore, aggressive prevention as well as treatment 
of side effects is critical. The drug mainly causes hematological toxicity that 
is managed with growth factor support, blood transfusions, and dose and schedule 
adjustment. Nonhematological side effects are mainly gastrointestinal and 
cutaneous in nature, and can be easily managed with symptomatic treatment and 
correct administration techniques.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-011-0024-2
PMID: 21688207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Vasc Access. 2012 Jan-Mar;13(1):29-35. doi: 10.5301/JVA.2011.8425.

Independent prediction factors for primary patency loss in arteriovenous grafts 
within six months.

Monroy-Cuadros M(1), Yilmaz S, Salazar-Bañuelos A, Doig C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Calgary, Calgary AB, Foothills Medical Center, Calgary, AB, 
Canada. mauricio.monroy@albertahealthservices.ca

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to explore the association between loss 
of primary functional patency within 6 months of first use and demographic and 
clinical characteristics in patients with arteriovenous grafts (AVGs) receiving 
chronic hemodialysis. The knowledge and management of these characteristics will 
minimize the proportion of catheterdependent dialysis patients for whom AVGs are 
the best choice.
METHODS: This was a retrospective study of all chronic hemodialysis patients 
with AVGs followed by the Southern Alberta Renal Program from January 2005 to 
June 2008. Demographic and clinical variables and initial intra-access blood 
flow (IABF) were compared between those with and without loss of primary 
functional patency. To determine the contribution of independent variables to 
the dependant variable of loss of primary functional patency, a multivariable 
analysis using logistic regression was performed.
RESULTS: The incidence of primary failure was 30% (107/359). Multivariable 
analysis found that low initial IABF (<650 mL/ min, odds ratio [OR] 31, P < 
0.001), presence of diabetes (OR 3.5, P = 0.001), older age (>65 years OR 3.2, 
P< 0.001), and presence of peripheral vascular disease (OR 2.5, P< 0.005) were 
independently associated with loss of primary patency.
CONCLUSIONS: AVGs are sometimes a better choice for those patients in which the 
time to and probability of successful fistula maturation may be a concern. Close 
monitoring of AVGs in patients with the identified risk factors associated with 
loss of primary patency may improve the life expectancy of the access.

DOI: 10.5301/JVA.2011.8425
PMID: 21688243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Biometrics. 2012 Mar;68(1):113-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2011.01640.x.
Epub  2011 Jun 20.

On estimation in relative survival.

Perme MP(1), Stare J, Estève J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University of Ljubljana, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia. maja.pohar@mf.uni-lj.si

Estimation of relative survival has become the first and the most basic step 
when reporting cancer survival statistics. Standard estimators are in routine 
use by all cancer registries. However, it has been recently noted that these 
estimators do not provide information on cancer mortality that is independent of 
the national general population mortality. Thus they are not suitable for 
comparison between countries. Furthermore, the commonly used interpretation of 
the relative survival curve is vague and misleading. The present article 
attempts to remedy these basic problems. The population quantities of the 
traditional estimators are carefully described and their interpretation 
discussed. We then propose a new estimator of net survival probability that 
enables the desired comparability between countries. The new estimator requires 
no modeling and is accompanied with a straightforward variance estimate. The 
methods are described on real as well as simulated data.

© 2011, The International Biometric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2011.01640.x
PMID: 21689081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Appl Microbiol. 2011 Sep;111(3):582-92. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2011.05081.x.  Epub 2011 Jul 20.

The effect of temperature on the bacterial load and microbial composition in 
Norway lobster (Nephrops norvegicus) tail meat during storage.

Gornik SG(1), Albalat A, Macpherson H, Birkbeck H, Neil DM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Division of Ecology and Evolutionary 
Biology, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to update and extend our knowledge of the 
bacterial load and microbial composition in Norway lobster (Nephrops norvegicus) 
under commercially relevant storage conditions to optimize handling procedures.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Total viable counts were performed at different storage 
temperatures (0, 4, 8, 10, 12 or 16°C) and after different storage times (1-7 
days). Storage at 16°C was found to be most detrimental, and storage at 0°C was 
found to be optimal. 16S-rRNA sequencing was utilized to determine the 
composition of the bacteria within the microflora. In this way, Photobacterium 
isolates, especially Photobacterium phosphoreum, were identified as the main 
specific spoilage organisms. The abilities to reduce trimethylamineoxide (TMAO) 
and to produce H(2)S were analysed in a selection of bacterial isolates. The 
higher the incubation temperature during storage, the more isolates were found 
to reduce TMAO and produce H(2)S.
CONCLUSIONS: Nephrops norvegicus possesses an unusually high initial microbial 
load when fresh. Storage temperature is the most crucial factor affecting 
microbial growth, microbial activity and spoilage potential in N. norvegicus 
produce. Spoilage can be attributed mainly to P. phosphoreum.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This study presents significant new 
findings with regard to the progression and causative agents of spoilage in N. 
norvegicus. Based on the results, we can recommend that N. norvegicus tails 
should be stored in a 0°C environment immediately after catch. Stored this way, 
the growth and spoilage activity of the microflora may be reduced significantly 
and an extension of shelf life might be attained.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Applied Microbiology © 2011 The Society for 
Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2011.05081.x
PMID: 21689222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Colorectal Dis. 2012 Feb;14(2):200-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2011.02568.x.

Sacral nerve stimulation in the elderly.

George AT(1), Kalmar K, Goncalves J, Nicholls RJ, Vaizey CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, St Mark's Hospital, Harrow, London, UK.

AIM: Increasing life expectancy will increase the number of elderly patients 
with faecal incontinence. The study aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of 
sacral nerve stimulation (SNS) in patients over the age of 65 years.
METHOD: Patients aged over 65 years, who underwent temporary SNS from 1996 for 
faecal incontinence unresponsive to conservative treatment, were followed 
prospectively.
RESULTS: Between January 1996 and December 2009, 30 patients [mean age 69.3 
years (SD, 3.4)] underwent temporary SNS. Twenty-three (77%) had a >50% 
improvement in the St Mark's Continence Score and progressed to permanent SNS 
implantation. Their mean (±SD) score increased from 19 (3.2) at baseline to 8 
(3.4) during temporary SNS and to 9 (3.4) 3 months after permanent SNS and 10 
(3.7) at the latest median follow up (IQR) of 44 (20-150) months. The 
corresponding values at the same intervals for urgency [mean (±SD) min] were 1 
(1.4), 8 (5.2), 8 (5) and 8 (5.4) and for incontinence episodes per 2 weeks 
[median (±IQR)] were 10 (7-14), 1 (0-5), 2 (0-5) and 0 (0-6).
CONCLUSION: SNS is an effective treatment for faecal incontinence in patients 
over 65 years.

© 2011 The Authors. Colorectal Disease © 2011 The Association of Coloproctology 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2011.02568.x
PMID: 21689281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Colorectal Dis. 2012 Mar;14(3):331-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2011.02613.x.

Self-reported depressive symptoms and suicidal feelings in perianal Crohn's 
disease.

Mahadev S(1), Young JM, Selby W, Solomon MJ.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

AIM: Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory condition that has been 
associated with high rates of mental illness. Perianal lesions are prevalent; 
however, their specific impact on depression has not been studied. The aim of 
our study was to investigate the prevalence and associations of self-reported 
depressive symptoms in the subset of Crohn's patients with perianal disease.
METHOD: Patients with perianal Crohn's disease from one institution were 
surveyed to elicit the frequency of self-reported depressive symptoms. Patients 
completed a questionnaire and consented to medical records audit.
RESULTS: Of the 130 patients invited, 69 (53%) returned a survey. Depressive 
symptoms were self-reported at very high rates, with 73% reporting feeling 
depressed and 13% reporting feeling suicidal at some point. Associations were 
found between depressive symptoms and duration of disease, prior surgery, past 
or present stoma, and anal stenosis. Patients who self-reported depressive 
symptoms had lower overall utilities, and were willing to trade very significant 
proportions (upwards of 15%) of their life expectancy for disease cure.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that many patients with perianal Crohn's disease 
experience significant emotional distress that impairs their overall quality of 
life. Further controlled studies are required to assess the impact of perianal 
disease and to address the need to target interventions to meet the mental 
health needs of this population.

© 2011 The Authors. Colorectal Disease © 2011 The Association of Coloproctology 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2011.02613.x
PMID: 21689304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. BMC Public Health. 2011 Jun 21;11:483. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-483.

The societal benefits of reducing six behavioural risk factors: an economic 
modelling study from Australia.

Cadilhac DA(1), Magnus A, Sheppard L, Cumming TB, Pearce DC, Carter R.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Deakin University, Burwood 3125, Victoria, 
Australia. cadilhac@unimelb.edu.au

BACKGROUND: A large proportion of disease burden is attributed to behavioural 
risk factors. However, funding for public health programs in Australia remains 
limited. Government and non-government organisations are interested in the 
productivity effects on society from reducing chronic diseases. We aimed to 
estimate the potential health status and economic benefits to society following 
a feasible reduction in the prevalence of six behavioural risk factors: tobacco 
smoking; inadequate fruit and vegetable consumption; high risk alcohol 
consumption; high body mass index; physical inactivity; and intimate partner 
violence.
METHODS: Simulation models were developed for the 2008 Australian population. A 
realistic reduction in current risk factor prevalence using best available 
evidence with expert consensus was determined. Avoidable disease, deaths, 
Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) and health sector costs were estimated. 
Productivity gains included workforce (friction cost method), household 
production and leisure time. Multivariable uncertainty analyses and correction 
for the joint effects of risk factors on health status were undertaken. 
Consistent methods and data sources were used.
RESULTS: Over the lifetime of the 2008 Australian adult population, total 
opportunity cost savings of AUD2,334 million (95% Uncertainty Interval AUD1,395 
to AUD3,347; 64% in the health sector) were found if feasible reductions in the 
risk factors were achieved. There would be 95,000 fewer DALYs (a reduction of 
about 3.6% in total DALYs for Australia); 161,000 less new cases of disease; 
6,000 fewer deaths; a reduction of 5 million days in workforce absenteeism; and 
529,000 increased days of leisure time.
CONCLUSIONS: Reductions in common behavioural risk factors may provide 
substantial benefits to society. For example, the total potential annual cost 
savings in the health sector represent approximately 2% of total annual health 
expenditure in Australia. Our findings contribute important new knowledge about 
productivity effects, including the potential for increased household and 
leisure activities, associated with chronic disease prevention. The selection of 
targets for risk factor prevalence reduction is an important policy decision and 
a useful approach for future analyses. Similar approaches could be applied in 
other countries if the data are available.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-483
PMCID: PMC3146859
PMID: 21689461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Jun;15(25):1-178. doi: 10.3310/hta15250.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of imatinib dose escalation for 
the treatment of unresectable and/or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumours 
that have progressed on treatment at a dose of 400 mg/day: a systematic review 
and economic evaluation.

Hislop J(1), Quayyum Z, Elders A, Fraser C, Jenkinson D, Mowatt G, Sharma P, 
