Author information:
(1)Cátedra de Introducción a la Biología, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas, Físicas 
y Naturales, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Argentina. jnattero@efn.uncor.edu

In Triatominae, female fecundity and fertility may be affected by age, adult 
nutritional status (i.e., blood meal source and amount of blood ingested) and 
number of matings. Triatoma infestans (Klug) is the main vector of Chagas 
disease in southern South America and considering that reproductive success is 
intimately associated with the potential for colonizing or re-colonizing new 
ecotopes in endemic areas, we studied whether the blood meal source and the 
amount of blood ingested have influence on reproductive parameters. We 
constitute two groups: couples feeding regularly on guinea pigs and couples 
feeding regularly on pigeons. We registered quantity of blood ingested, 
fecundity, fertility, number of matings, days between the first feeding and 
mating, copula initiation, oviposition initiation and adult life-span. Results 
showed that females that fed on guinea pigs exhibited high fecundity and 
fertility, higher number of matings and they needed a lower amount of blood to 
form an egg. The number of matings and fecundity increased linearly and 
significantly with the quantity of blood ingested for both meal sources. Results 
from lineal regression between life-span and fecundity showed a positive and 
significant relation for both meal sources. The number of matings showed a 
positive relation with fecundity for both meal sources but significant only for 
guinea pigs. In T. infestans, the quantity of blood ingested could be a 
determinant of their reproductive efficiency. This species is mainly adapted to 
human dwelling and peridomestic structures where there is low host diversity. 
Considering that this species is in contact with mammals over other food 
sources, a greater reproductive success may result from an adaptation to this 
environment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2011.05.015
PMID: 21672510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Integr Comp Biol. 2006 Dec;46(6):713-8. doi: 10.1093/icb/icl009. Epub 2006
Jun  12.

Applying the concept of metamorphosis to the crustose-to-erect thallus 
transition of macroalgae.

Santelices B(1), Alvarado J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Advanced Studies in Ecology and Biodiversity Santiago, Chile.

Metamorphosis is broadly defined as a more or less radical morphological change 
between 2 multicellular life stages within an organism's life phase, often 
marking the transition from pre-reproductive to reproductive stages. It involves 
structural reorganization and major physiological changes, generally under the 
control of endogenous and exogenous factors and often resulting in changes in 
habitat use. This concept has been applied to the crustose-to-erect thallus 
transition of some red algae and the present study evaluates the validity of 
such hypotheses. Available literature suggests that the crustose-to-erect 
thallus transition involves significant morphological and habitat changes, 
separating pre-reproductive and reproductive stages. The onset of the 
morphological changes (for example axis differentiation) appears regulated by 
endogenous signals (growth factors) and growth is modified by environmental 
factors. The algae do not exhibit structural reorganization, however, probably 
due to their simple morphological structure and the lack of several cell and 
tissue mechanisms involving cell motility. The presence of cell walls in the 
algae impairs cell motility and maintains the cell in a fixed position within 
the plant. These are important differences restricting the extension of the 
definition of metamorphosis to the crust-to-erect thallus transition. The above 
restrictions also seem to apply to other macroalgae, fungi, and terrestrial 
plants.

DOI: 10.1093/icb/icl009
PMID: 21672780


905. Mol Cancer Ther. 2011 Aug;10(8):1311-6. doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-11-0233.
Epub  2011 Jun 14.

A pilot clinical study of treatment guided by personalized tumorgrafts in 
patients with advanced cancer.

Hidalgo M(1), Bruckheimer E, Rajeshkumar NV, Garrido-Laguna I, De Oliveira E, 
Rubio-Viqueira B, Strawn S, Wick MJ, Martell J, Sidransky D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA. mhidalgo@cnio.es

Patients with many advanced solid cancers have very poor prognosis, and 
improvements in life expectancy are measured only in months. We have recently 
reported the remarkable clinical outcome of a patient with advanced, 
gemcitabine-resistant, pancreatic cancer who was later treated with DNA-damaging 
agents, on the basis of the observation of significant activity of this class of 
drugs against a personalized tumorgraft generated from the patient's surgically 
resected tumor. Here, we extend the approach to patients with other advanced 
cancers. Tumors resected from 14 patients with refractory advanced cancers were 
propagated in immunodeficient mice and treated with 63 drugs in 232 treatment 
regimens. An effective treatment regimen in the xenograft model was identified 
for 12 patients. One patient died before receiving treatment, and the remaining 
11 patients received 17 prospectively guided treatments. Fifteen of these 
treatments resulted in durable partial remissions. In 2 subjects, no effective 
treatments were found. Overall, there was a remarkable correlation between drug 
activity in the model and clinical outcome, both in terms of resistance and 
sensitivity. The data support the use of the personalized tumorgraft model as a 
powerful investigational platform for therapeutic decision making and to 
efficiently guide cancer treatment in the clinic.

©2011 AACR

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-11-0233
PMCID: PMC4629061
PMID: 21673092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest D. 
Sidransky is a consultant to Champions Biotechnology, Inc. (CBI) and chairman of 
the company’s board of directors. The terms of this arrangement are being 
managed by the Johns Hopkins University in accordance with its conflict of 
interest policies. M. Hidalgo and J. Martell are consultants and stock holders 
in CBI. E. Bruckheimer and S. Strawn are employees of CBI. The other authors 
declare no potential conflicts of interest.


906. Hong Kong Med J. 2011 Jun;17(3 Suppl 3):20-4.

Cervical cancer prevention through cytologic and human papillomavirus DNA 
screening in Hong Kong Chinese women.

Wu J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong. joewu@hku.hk

PMID: 21673355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Bull World Health Organ. 2011 Jun 1;89(6):394. doi: 10.2471/BLT.11.088229.

Surgery as a public health intervention: common misconceptions versus the truth.

Bae JY, Groen RS, Kushner AL.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.11.088229
PMCID: PMC3099562
PMID: 21673852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Anesth. 2011 Oct;25(5):745-8. doi: 10.1007/s00540-011-1181-9. Epub 2011
Jun  16.

Tracheomalacia after reoperation for an adenomatous goiter located in a unique 
position.

Nakadate Y(1), Fukuda T, Hara H, Tanaka M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Yamanashi, 
1110 Shimogato, Chuo, Yamanashi, 409-3898, Japan.

Tracheomalacia after thyroidectomy is a life-threatening situation. However, it 
is difficult to predict postoperative tracheal obstruction with certainty. A 
case of a 74-year-old woman with a long-standing adenomatous goiter (98 g) is 
reported. She had undergone partial right lobe thyroidectomy 54 years earlier. 
After total thyroidectomy, she was reintubated and required a tracheostomy 
because of tracheomalacia. The right residual thyroid tumor weighed only 5 g, 
but it extended to the retrotracheal space. Because the right lobe had stretched 
the membranous wall of the trachea over a long period of time, the tracheal 
lumen was thought to have collapsed because of loss of the foundation of the 
tracheal cartilage (the residual right lobe) along with the supportive 
surrounding tissue (the left lobe) after surgery. The present case suggests that 
the occurrence of tracheomalacia could be attributed to reoperation and 
retrotracheal extension. Thus far, six preoperative predictive factors for the 
development of severe postoperative respiratory obstruction have been reported: 
goiter for more than 5 years, preoperative recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy, 
significant tracheal narrowing and/or deviation, retrosternal extension, 
difficult endotracheal intubation, and thyroid cancer. Two more factors, 
reoperation and retrotracheal extension of tumor, may also be risks for airway 
obstruction after thyroidectomy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00540-011-1181-9
PMID: 21674300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Psychol Rep. 2011 Apr;108(2):477-86. doi:
10.2466/04.09.21.PR0.108.2.477-486.

Executive functioning and positive psychological characteristics: a replication 
and extension.

Kruger GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Johannesburg, P.O. Box 524, Auckland 
Park 2006, Johannesburg, South Africa . gkruger@uj.ac.za

Positive psychological characteristics and executive function are correlated 
with gratitude, satisfaction with life, and forgiveness. The goal of this study 
was to replicate these findings while examining two additional constructs, 
namely, hope and optimism. 113 students (25 men, 88 women) between the ages of 
17 to 24 years (M = 19.4, SD = 1.5) volunteered to participate. Positive 
correlations between executive function and gratitude were found but mixed 
results were obtained for forgiveness and satisfaction with life. Hope and 
optimism correlated positively with executive function and hierarchical multiple 
regression analysis indicated that they contributed significantly to the 
explanation of executive functioning. Further investigation into relationships 
between executive functioning, its neurobiological substrates, and positive 
psychological attributes is recommended.

DOI: 10.2466/04.09.21.PR0.108.2.477-486
PMID: 21675562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Lancet. 2011 Jun 25;377(9784):2205-14. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60747-2.
Epub  2011 Jun 14.

Psychiatric disorders and mortality among people in homeless shelters in 
Denmark: a nationwide register-based cohort study.

Nielsen SF(1), Hjorthøj CR, Erlangsen A, Nordentoft M.

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Centre Copenhagen and Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. frkfeodor@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Jun 25;377(9784):2156-7.
    Ups J Med Sci. 2012 Mar;117(1):78-9.

BACKGROUND: The increased mortality of homeless people compared with 
non-homeless people might be linked to psychiatric disorders. However, homeless 
people are, because of their insufficient accommodation, difficult to sample and 
monitor, which has limited previous studies. We aimed to assess registered 
psychiatric disorders, mortality, and predictors of mortality in the homeless 
shelter population in Denmark.
METHODS: We did a nationwide, prospective, register-based cohort study of 
homeless people aged 16 years and older who were registered in the Danish 
Homeless Register between Jan 1, 1999, and Dec 31, 2009. We calculated the 
proportion of registered psychiatric disorders, overall and cause-specific 
standardised mortality ratio (SMR), and life expectancy. Hazard ratios (HRs) 
were used to assess predictors of death.
FINDINGS: 32,711 homeless people (23,040 men and 9671 women) were included in 
the study population. 14,381 men (62·4%) and 5632 women (58·2%) had registered 
psychiatric disorders, and 11,286 men (49·0%) and 3564 women (36·9%) had a 
substance abuse diagnosis. During the study period, 3839 men (16·7%) and 951 
women (9·8%) died. The overall SMR for men was 5·6 (95% CI 5·4-5·8) and for 
women was 6·7 (6·2-7·1), and external causes accounted for 1161 (27·9%) of 4161 
deaths for which information on the cause was available. Remaining life 
expectancy at age 15-24 years was 21·6 years (95% CI 21·2-22·1) and 17·4 years 
(16·4-18·5) lower for homeless men and women, respectively, than the general 
population. Registered substance abuse disorder was associated with the highest 
mortality risk compared with no psychiatric contact registered (adjusted HR 1·4, 
95% CI 1·3-1·5 for men; 1·7, 1·4-2·1 for women).
INTERPRETATION: Health problems are extensive in the homeless shelter population 
and there is an urgent need for more sustained efforts to reduce the high 
morbidity and mortality, especially from external causes. Register data is an 
important resource to supplement existing knowledge on homeless people with more 
valid and detailed information.
FUNDING: The Danish Council for Independent Research.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60747-2
PMID: 21676456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2011 Oct;113(8):654-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.clineuro.2011.05.011. Epub 2011 Jun 14.

Characteristics of first ever ischemic stroke in the very elderly: profile of 
vascular risk factors and clinical outcome.

Auriel E(1), Gur AY, Uralev O, Brill S, Shopin L, Karni A, Tsarfaty SS, 
Bornstein NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center and The Sackler 
Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Israel. eitanman1@gmail.com

PURPOSE: Age is the most significant non-modifiable risk factor for ischemic 
stroke (IS). With increasing expectancy of life, the majority of IS patients 
will be elderly subjects. We studied the epidemiological, clinical and 
rehabilitation features of patients aged ≥85 years with first-ever IS.
METHODS: Demographic data, prevalence of risk factors, etiology of stroke, 
severity of neurological deficit, major complications and mortality rates were 
collected from a hospital-based stroke registry and compared between patients at 
the age of 65-84 and ≥85. Clinical assessment was performed by means of the 
National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and Modified Rankin Scale 
(mRS).
RESULTS: Among 216 patients aged ≥85 years there was significantly higher 
proportion of a history of atrial fibrillation than in 128 patients at the age 
of 65-84 years and lower prevalence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, 
hyperlipidemia and smoking. Large artery atherosclerosis was more frequently 
identified in the older patients (49% vs. 32%, p=0.002). Although NIHSS scores 
on admission were lower in the older patients they were more disabled at 
discharge.
CONCLUSIONS: With respect to the patients aged <85 years very old IS patients 
showed different vascular risk factors profile, clinical and rehabilitation 
course. These findings suggest specializing stroke care in the very elderly.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2011.05.011
PMID: 21676534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Neuroepidemiology. 2011;36(4):230-9. doi: 10.1159/000327752. Epub 2011 Jun
16.

Conditional survival of all primary brain tumor patients by age, behavior, and 
histology.

Porter KR(1), McCarthy BJ, Berbaum ML, Davis FG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, USA.

BACKGROUND: Survival statistics commonly reflect survival from the time of 
diagnosis but do not take into account survival already achieved after a 
diagnosis. The objective of this study was to provide conditional survival 
estimates for brain tumor patients as a more accurate measure of survival for 
those who have already survived for a specified amount of time after diagnosis.
METHODS: Data on primary malignant and nonmalignant brain tumor cases diagnosed 
from 1985-2005 from selected SEER state cancer registries were obtained. 
Relative survival up to 15 years postdiagnosis and varying relative conditional 
survival rates were computed using the life-table method.
RESULTS: The overall 1-year relative survival estimate derived from time of 
diagnosis was 67.8% compared to the 6-month relative conditional survival rate 
of 85.7% for 6-month survivors (the probability of surviving to 1 year given 
survival to 6 months). The 10-year overall relative survival rate was 49.5% from 
time of diagnosis compared to the 8-year relative conditional survival rate of 
79.2% for 2-year survivors. Conditional survival estimates and standard survival 
estimates varied by histology, behavior, and age at diagnosis. The 5-year 
relative survival estimate derived from time of diagnosis for glioblastoma was 
3.6% compared to the 3-year relative conditional survival rate of 36.4% for 
2-year survivors. For most nonmalignant tumors, the difference between relative 
survival and the corresponding conditional survival estimates were minimal. 
Older age groups had greater numeric gains in survival but lower conditional 
survival estimates than other age groups. Similar findings were seen for other 
conditional survival intervals.
CONCLUSIONS: Conditional survival is a useful disease surveillance measure for 
clinicians and brain tumor survivors to provide them with better 'real-time' 
estimates and hope.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000327752
PMCID: PMC3665939
PMID: 21677447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Chirurg. 2011 Jul;82(7):591-7. doi: 10.1007/s00104-011-2070-3.

[Extent of resection for neuroendocrine tumors of the small intestine].

[Article in German]

Musholt TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Endokrine Chirurgie, Klinik für Allgemein- und Abdominalchirurgie, 
Universitätsmedizin der Johannes Gutenberg Universität Mainz, Langenbeckstrasse 
1, Mainz, Germany. Musholt@uni-mainz.de

Neuroendocrine tumors of the small intestine have been diagnosed with increasing 
frequency over the past 35 years and presently account for approximately 2% of 
all gastrointestinal neoplasms. While most of these tumors are discovered 
incidentally during emergency laparotomy or in the clinical setting of unknown 
primary cancer with hepatic metastases, the growing awareness of this rare 
entity and improved diagnostic methods promote earlier diagnosis. The classical 
carcinoid syndrome with flush, diarrhea and cardiac strain is observed only in 
20-30% of patients. The clinical symptoms necessitate a special preoperative 
preparation of the patient including evaluation of cardiac function.Prospective 
studies assessing the efficacy of surgical treatment strategies for 
neuroendocrine neoplasms of the small intestine do not exist. However, 
retrospective studies have demonstrated that curative as well as palliative 
resection of the primary tumor improves the prognosis and the quality of life of 
patients. Besides limited resection of the small bowel in order to avoid 
postoperative short bowel syndrome an effective clearance of the regional lymph 
nodes is essential. A primary tumor site in the terminal ileum requires 
dissection of the lymph nodes on the right side of the ileocolic artery which 
usually implies an additional resection of the right colon. In cases of a 
primary tumor site located in the lower ileum up to the distal jejunum, a 
cone-shaped resection of the mesenterium of the small bowel with extension of 
lymphadenectomy into adjacent segments with preservation of vascularization is 
performed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-011-2070-3
PMID: 21678105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Psychol Health. 2012;27(3):347-61. doi: 10.1080/08870446.2011.569714. Epub
2011  Jul 7.

Distress and emotional well-being in breast cancer patients prior to 
radiotherapy: an expectancy-based model.

Sohl SJ(1), Schnur JB, Sucala M, David D, Winkel G, Montgomery GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences and Health Policy, Wake Forest University 
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA. ssohl@wfubmc.edu

Understanding precursors to distress and emotional well-being (EWB) experienced 
in anticipation of radiotherapy would facilitate the ability to intervene with 
this emotional upset (i.e. higher distress, lower EWB). Thus, this study tested 
an expectancy-based model for explaining emotional upset in breast cancer 
patients prior to radiotherapy. Women affected by breast cancer (N = 106) were 
recruited and participants completed questionnaires prior to commencing 
radiotherapy. Structural equation modelling was used to test a cross-sectional 
model, which assessed the ability of dispositional optimism (Life Orientation 
Test-Revised - two factors), response expectancies (Visual Analog Scale items), 
medical (type of surgery, cancer stage and chemotherapy history) and demographic 
(age, race, ethnicity, education and marital status) variables to predict both 
EWB (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Emotional Well-being 
Subscale) and distress (Profile of Mood States - short version). The model 
represented a good fit to the data accounting for 65% of the variance in EWB and 
69% in distress. Significant predictors of emotional upset were pessimism, 
response expectancies, Latina ethnicity, cancer stage and having had a 
mastectomy. These variables explained a large portion of emotional upset 
experienced prior to radiotherapy for breast cancer and are important to 
consider when aiming to reduce distress and improve EWB in this context.

DOI: 10.1080/08870446.2011.569714
PMCID: PMC3299868
PMID: 21678183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011 Jun 15;(6):CD006429. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006429.pub2.

Symptomatic oxygen for non-hypoxaemic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Uronis H(1), McCrory DC, Samsa G, Currow D, Abernethy A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical 
Center, Box 3841, Durham, NC, USA, 27710.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Nov 25;11:CD006429.

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2012 Apr;17(2):40-1.
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2012 Feb;137(8):355.

BACKGROUND: Dyspnoea is a common symptom in chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD). People who are hypoxaemic may be given long-term oxygen relief 
therapy (LTOT) to improve their life expectancy and quality of life. However, 
the symptomatic benefit of home oxygen therapy in mildly or non-hypoxaemic 
people with COPD with dyspnoea who do not meet international funding criteria 
for LTOT (PaO(2)< 55 mmHg or other special cases) is unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy of oxygen versus medical air for relief of 
subjective dyspnoea in mildly or non-hypoxaemic people with COPD who would not 
otherwise qualify for home oxygen therapy. The main outcome was patient-reported 
dyspnoea and secondary outcome was exercise tolerance.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Register, Cochrane 
Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE and EMBASE, to November 
2009, to identify randomised controlled trials. We handsearched reference lists 
of included articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We only included randomised controlled trials of oxygen 
versus medical air in mildly or non-hypoxaemic people with COPD. Two review 
authors independently assessed articles for inclusion.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One review author completed data extraction and 
methodological quality assessment. A second review author then over-read 
evidence tables to assess for accuracy.
MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-eight trials on 702 patients met the criteria for 
inclusion; 18 trials (431 participants) were included in the meta-analysis. 
Oxygen reduced dyspnoea with a standardised mean difference (SMD) of -0.37 (95% 
confidence interval (CI) -0.50 to -0.24, P < 0.00001). We observed significant 
heterogeneity.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Oxygen can relieve dyspnoea in mildly and non-hypoxaemic 
people with COPD who would not otherwise qualify for home oxygen therapy. Given 
the significant heterogeneity among the included studies, clinicians should 
continue to evaluate patients on an individual basis until supporting data from 
ongoing, large randomised controlled trials are available.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006429.pub2
PMID: 21678356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Am J Primatol. 2011 Oct;73(10):1041-50. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20970. Epub 2011
Jun  15.

Demography of squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) in captive environments and 
its effect on population growth.

Zimbler-Delorenzo HS(1), Dobson FS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology, Alfred University, New York, USA. zimbler@alfred.edu

Understanding which life-history variables have the greatest influence on 
population growth rate has great ecological and conservation importance. 
Applying models of population regulation and demographic mechanisms can aid 
management and conservation of both wild and captive populations. By comparisons 
of sensitivity, elasticity, and life-table response analyses, we identified 
demographic processes that were most likely to produce changes in population 
size (via prospective analyses) and the traits that actually influenced 
population changes (via retrospective analyses) among sexes, zoological 
facilities, and generations of captive squirrel monkey populations (Saimiri 
sciureus). Variation in life-history traits occurs within each group analyzed. 
Those traits that vary the most include age at maturity, age at last 
reproduction, and fertility. Zoos with increasing population growth rates 
maintain earlier ages of maturity, later ages of last reproduction, high rates 
of juvenile and adult survival, and most importantly greater fertility, 
reflecting shorter inter-birth intervals. Using prospective analyses, juvenile 
and adult survivals were predicted to be demographic traits with the greatest 
effect on population growth. Surprisingly, and despite predictions, 
retrospective analyses revealed that fertility was the life-history 
characteristic trait that contributed the most to changes in population size.

© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20970
PMID: 21678461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Microsc Res Tech. 2012 Jan;75(1):81-8. doi: 10.1002/jemt.21028. Epub 2011
Jun  15.

Neurotrophin Trk receptors in the brain of a teleost fish, Nothobranchius 
furzeri.

D'Angelo L(1), de Girolamo P, Cellerino A, Tozzini ET, Castaldo L, Lucini C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Structures, Functions and Technology, University of 
Naples Federico II, Via Veterinaria 1, Naples, Italy.

Trk neurotrophin receptors are transmembrane tyrosine kinase proteins known as 
TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC. TrkA is the high affinity receptor for nerve growth 
factor, TrkB is the one for both brain-derived neurotrophic factor and 
neurotrophin-4, and TrkC is the preferred receptor for neurotrophin-3. In the 
adult mammalian brain, neurotrophins are important regulators of neuronal 
function and plasticity. This study is based on Nothobranchius furzeri, a 
teleost fish that is becoming an ideal candidate as animal model for aging 
studies because its life expectancy in captivity is of just 3 months. In adult 
N. furzeri, all three investigated neurotrophin Trk receptors were 
immunohistochemically detected in each brain region. TrkA positive neuronal 
perikarya were localized in the dorsal and ventral areas of the telencephalon 
and in the cortical nucleus; TrkB immunoreactivity was observed in neuronal 
perikarya of the dorsal and ventral areas of the telencephalon, the diffuse 
inferior lobe of the hypothalamus, and Purkinje cells; TrkC positive neuronal 
perikarya were detected in the most aboral region of the telencephalon, in the 
magnocellular preoptic nucleus and in few neurons dispersed in the hypothalamus. 
Numerous positive fibers were widely distributed throughout the brain. Radial 
glial cells lining the mesencephalic and rhombencephalic ventricles showed 
immunoreactivity to all three Trks. These findings suggest an involvement of 
neurotrophins in many aspects of biology of adult N. furzeri.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.21028
PMID: 21678525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Identification and Management of Familial Hypercholesterolaemia (FH)
[Internet].

National Collaborating Centre for Primary Care (UK).

London: Royal College of General Practitioners (UK); 2008 Aug.
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence: Guidance.

While the NHS in England and Wales has made spectacular progress in improving 
the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, we now need to work harder 
to identify those who are at particularly high risk of myocardial infarction. 
This group includes those with familial hypercholesterolaemia who, because of 
their high risk of premature coronary heart disease, merit specific attention. 
The condition is seriously under-diagnosed so that perhaps only one in six 
patients is known to the NHS and, for those in whom the diagnosis is made, it is 
often made too late restricting the effect of the treatments available. Since 
this condition is genetically determined, families must become the focus of 
attention so that cascade testing can identify those individuals who will 
benefit from early treatment and the near-normal life expectancy that can 
result. The innovative use of DNA testing allied with cholesterol testing will 
help to ensure that children, young people and adults with this condition are 
identified and offered timely advice and treatment.

Copyright © 2008, Royal College of General Practitioners.

PMID: 21678627


919. Type 2 Diabetes: National Clinical Guideline for Management in Primary and 
Secondary Care (Update).

National Collaborating Centre for Chronic Conditions (UK).

London: Royal College of Physicians (UK); 2008.
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence: Guidance.

Over 90% of people with diabetes have Type 2 diabetes. This is still perceived 
as the milder form, and while this may be true in some respects, such as the 
risk of ketoacidosis, the causation of Type 2 diabetes is more complex and the 
management is not necessarily easier. Type 2 diabetes can cause severe 
complications, affecting the eye, the nervous system and the kidney. The overall 
risk of cardiovascular disease is more than doubled, and life expectancy is 
reduced by an average 7 years. In 2002, NICE published a suite of five 
guidelines dealing with different aspects of the care of Type 2 diabetes. The 
rising prevalence of the disease, and the range of complications which can 
arise, reinforce the importance of up-to-date guidance and accordingly NICE have 
asked the National Collaborating Centre for Chronic Conditions (NCC-CC) to 
produce this guideline, amalgamating and updating the previously published work. 
This is an update of the following NICE (inherited) clinical guidelines on Type 
2 diabetes which were published in 2002: E – retinopathy; F – renal disease; G – 
blood glucose; H – management of blood pressure and blood lipids The 
recommendations in this guideline on thiazolidinediones (R40 to R43, chapter 
10), GLP-1 mimetic (exenatide) (R44 to R46, chapter 10) and insulin therapy (R49 
to R55), chapter 11) have been updated and replaced by NICE short clinical 
guideline 87 ‘Type 2 diabetes: newer agents for blood glucose control in type 2 
diabetes’ (available at www.nice.org.uk/CG87shortguideline). This short 
guideline contains details of the methods and evidence used to develop the 
updated recommendations. Chapter 10 and 11 should be read in conjunction with 
the short clinical guideline 87.

Copyright © 2008, Royal College of Physicians of London.

PMID: 21678628


920. Harefuah. 2011 May;150(5):441-2, 491.

[Cutaneous metastases from epithelial ovarian cancer].

[Article in Hebrew]

Vitner D(1), Amit A, Kerner H, Mayer E, Lowenstein L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa, 
Israel. d_vitner@rambam.health.gov.il

Cutaneous involvement is a rare presentation of ovarian cancer. There are only a 
few such case reports in the literature, most of them in surgical scars or 
subcutaneous nodules. This is a rare case of a patient presenting with skin 
metastases originating from primary ovarian carcinoma, which appeared 8 months 
following a disease-free interval. Based on this case report and a review of the 
literature, it is concluded that cutaneous involvement in ovarian cancer is a 
poor prognostic sign. Life expectancy of these patients is only a few months 
from the time of diagnosis of skin metastases. Thus, one should consider merely 
a palliative approach in these cases.

PMID: 21678638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. N Y State Dent J. 2011 Mar;77(2):33-5.

A wake-up call: people with HIV and AIDS live longer.

Waldman HB(1), Cannella D.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Dentistry, Stony Brook University School of Dental 
Medicine, USA. hwaldman@notes.cc.sunysb.edu

A national survey found that Americans' sense of urgency about HIV/AIDS as a 
national health problem has fallen dramatically. A review of government and 
foundation reports is used to emphasize the continuing extent of the epidemic in 
New York State and the United States. The emphasis is on the need for dentists 
to consider modifications for dental services, given the reality that many 
individuals with HIV/AIDS are living longer.

PMID: 21678869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Endovasc Ther. 2011 Jun;18(3):308-13. doi: 10.1583/10-3371.1.

The rationale for lowering the size threshold in elective endovascular repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Paraskevas KI(1), Mikhailidis DP, Veith FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Red Cross Hospital, Athens, Greece. 
paraskevask@hotmail.com

The current size threshold for elective abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair 
is 5.5 cm. Over this diameter limit, the AAA rupture rate exceeds the 
perioperative mortality of open surgical repair. Endovascular aneurysm repair 
(EVAR) is associated with lower perioperative mortality rates, so it seems 
logical to hypothesize that the size threshold for endovascular AAA repair 
should be lowered. The arguments supporting this proposal are: (1) the 
EVAR-associated mortality rises several fold with increasing age, (2) larger 
AAAs have more complex anatomy that may not be suitable for EVAR, and (3) 
smaller AAAs treated with EVAR have lower perioperative and long-term mortality 
and fewer secondary interventions. Future guidelines may need to consider 
lowering the size threshold for elective AAA repair in the endovascular era in 
certain patient subgroups. The reduction of the size threshold should be 
counterbalanced against the cost of the procedures, as well as the age, life 
expectancy, and general condition of the patient.

DOI: 10.1583/10-3371.1
PMID: 21679066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Eval Clin Pract. 2011 Aug;17(4):594-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2011.01709.x.  Epub 2011 Jun 16.

A P5 cancer medicine approach: why personalized medicine cannot ignore 
psychology.

Pravettoni G(1), Gorini A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Studi Sociali e Politici, Università degli Studi di Milano, 
Milan, Italy. gabriella.pravettoni@unimi.it

A system approach termed P4 medicine has recently been proposed in the field of 
oncology. This approach has been advanced as an extension of what is usually 
called 'personalized' or 'genomic medicine'. P4 medicine creates effective 
predictive, personalized, preventive and participatory models to treat patients. 
In order to give more relevance to the behavioural component that impinges on 
the way individuals act to prevent, cope and react to illnesses, how they decide 
between different therapeutic options and interact with physicians and adhere to 
treatment, we propose that P4 medicine should be transformed into P5 medicine. 
The fifth P represents the psycho-cognitive aspects to be considered in order to 
empower the patient, increase his/her quality of life and transform him/her from 
a passive recipient into an active decision-maker in the treatment process.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2011.01709.x
PMID: 21679280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Pain Pract. 2011 Sep-Oct;11(5):453-75. doi:
10.1111/j.1533-2500.2011.00473.x.  Epub 2011 Jun 17.

23. Pain in patients with cancer.

Vissers KC(1), Besse K, Wagemans M, Zuurmond W, Giezeman MJ, Lataster A, Mekhail 
N, Burton AW, van Kleef M, Huygen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology Pain Palliative Medicine, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. k.vissers@anes.umcn.nl

Pain in patients with cancer can be refractory to pharmacological treatment or 
intolerable side effects of pharmacological treatment may seriously disturb 
patients' quality of life. Specific interventional pain management techniques 
can be an effective alternative for those patients. The appropriate application 
of these interventional techniques provides better pain control, allows the 
reduction of analgesics and hence improves quality of life. Until recently, the 
majority of these techniques are considered to be a fourth consecutive step 
following the World Health Organization's pain treatment ladder. However, in 
cancer patients, earlier application of interventional pain management 
techniques can be recommended even before considering the use of strong opioids. 
Epidural and intrathecal medication administration allow the reduction of the 
daily oral or transdermal opioid dose, while maintaining or even improving the 
pain relief and reducing the side effects. Cervical cordotomy may be considered 
for patients suffering with unilateral pain at the level below the dermatome C5. 
This technique should only be applied in patients with a life expectancy of less 
than 1 year. Plexus coeliacus block or nervus splanchnicus block are recommended 
for the management of upper abdominal pain due to cancer. Pelvic pain due to 
cancer can be managed with plexus hypogastricus block and the saddle or lower 
end block may be a last resort for patients suffering with perineal pain. Back 
pain due to vertebral compression fractures with or without pathological tumor 
invasion may be managed with percutaneous vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty. All 
these interventional techniques should be a part of multidisciplinary patient 
program.

© 2011 The Authors. Pain Practice © 2011 World Institute of Pain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1533-2500.2011.00473.x
PMID: 21679293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2011 Jun 16;11:41. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-11-41.

The chronic kidney disease model: a general purpose model of disease progression 
and treatment.

Orlando LA(1), Belasco EJ, Patel UD, Matchar DB.

Author information:
(1)Duke University, 3475 Erwin Rd, Wallace Clinic Ste #204, Durham, NC 27705, 
USA. lorlando@notes.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is the focus of recent national policy 
efforts; however, decision makers must account for multiple therapeutic options, 
comorbidities and complications. The objective of the Chronic Kidney Disease 
model is to provide guidance to decision makers. We describe this model and give 
an example of how it can inform clinical and policy decisions.
METHODS: Monte Carlo simulation of CKD natural history and treatment. Health 
states include myocardial infarction, stroke with and without disability, 
congestive heart failure, CKD stages 1-5, bone disease, dialysis, transplant and 
death. Each cycle is 1 month. Projections account for race, age, gender, 
diabetes, proteinuria, hypertension, cardiac disease, and CKD stage. Treatment 
strategies include hypertension control, diabetes control, use of HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors, use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, 
nephrology specialty care, CKD screening, and a combination of these. The model 
architecture is flexible permitting updates as new data become available. The 
primary outcome is quality adjusted life years (QALYs). Secondary outcomes 
include health state events and CKD progression rate.
RESULTS: The model was validated for GFR change/year -3.0 ± 1.9 vs. -1.7 ± 3.4 
(in the AASK trial), and annual myocardial infarction and mortality rates 3.6 ± 
0.9% and 1.6 ± 0.5% vs. 4.4% and 1.6% in the Go study. To illustrate the model's 
utility we estimated lifetime impact of a hypothetical treatment for primary 
prevention of vascular disease. As vascular risk declined, QALY improved but 
risk of dialysis increased. At baseline, 20% and 60% reduction: QALYs = 17.6, 
18.2, and 19.0 and dialysis = 7.7%, 8.1%, and 10.4%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The CKD Model is a valid, general purpose model intended as a 
resource to inform clinical and policy decisions improving CKD care. Its value 
as a tool is illustrated in our example which projects a relationship between 
decreasing cardiac disease and increasing ESRD.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-11-41
PMCID: PMC3132702
PMID: 21679455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Urol. 2011 Aug;186(2):500-5. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2011.03.116. Epub 2011
Jun  15.

Can we stop prostate specific antigen testing 10 years after radical 
prostatectomy?

Loeb S(1), Feng Z, Ross A, Trock BJ, Humphreys EB, Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Medical 
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA. stacyloeb@gmail.com

PURPOSE: The risk of biochemical recurrence is inversely related to the 
relapse-free interval after radical prostatectomy. We examined predictors of 
late biochemical recurrence, and the relationship between timing of biochemical 
recurrence and long-term survival outcomes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Of 10,609 men treated with radical prostatectomy 1,684 
had biochemical recurrence. We examined predictors of late biochemical 
recurrence (more than 10 years after radical prostatectomy), and calculated 
metastasis-free and cancer specific survival rates from the time of biochemical 
recurrence. In the subset of 1,583 men with an undetectable prostate specific 
antigen at 10 years we calculated actuarial metastasis-free and cancer specific 
survival estimates at 20 years after radical prostatectomy.
RESULTS: Of the biochemical recurrence studied 77.0%, 16.6%, 4.9% and 1.5% 
occurred at 5 or less, greater than 5 to 10, greater than 10 to 15 and more than 
15 years postoperatively. Late recurrence was associated with more favorable 
pathological features, as well as higher metastasis-free and cancer specific 
survival rates. For men with an undetectable prostate specific antigen at 10 
years the actuarial probability of biochemical recurrence and metastasis at 20 
years varied by stage and grade, with no metastases in patients with a 
prostatectomy Gleason score 6 or less. A single patient with an undetectable 
prostate specific antigen at 10 years died of prostate cancer within 20 years 
after radical prostatectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Men with an undetectable prostate specific antigen for more than 10 
years have a low risk of subsequent biochemical recurrence, with correspondingly 
lower rates of metastasis and death. These patients should be counseled that 
their risk of subsequent cancer related morbidity and mortality is low. 
Furthermore, these results suggest that annual prostate specific antigen testing 
may be safely discontinued after 10 years for men with a prostatectomy Gleason 
score 6 or less and/or limited life expectancy.

Copyright © 2011 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2011.03.116
PMCID: PMC4750470
PMID: 21679999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2011 Jul 15;879(22):2034-42.
doi:  10.1016/j.jchromb.2011.05.034. Epub 2011 May 30.

Screening and quantitation of multiclass drugs of abuse and pharmaceuticals in 
hair by fast liquid chromatography electrospray time-of-flight mass 
spectrometry.

Domínguez-Romero JC(1), García-Reyes JF, Molina-Díaz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical and Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Experimental 
Sciences, University of Jaén, Jaén, Spain.

In this work, an automated screening method for the simultaneous identification 
and quantitation of 30 representative multiclass drugs (including opiates, 
cocaine and its main metabolite, cannabinoids, amphetamines and other stimulants 
in hair samples) has been developed using fast liquid-chromatography 
time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC-TOFMS). The identification and quantitation 
of the drugs were carried out by liquid chromatography using a C(18) column 
(4.6×50 mm) with 1.8 μm particle size. Accurate mass measurements of ions of 
interest (typically [M+H](+)) by electrospray time-of-flight mass spectrometry 
in the positive ionization mode were used for unambiguous confirmation of the 
targeted species. Three sample preparation methodologies were evaluated: (a) 
direct methanolic extraction by sonication, (b) acidic extraction, and (c) 
alkaline digestion. Direct methanolic extraction showed better recoveries and 
cleaner extracts. The limits of detection obtained in hair matrix were as low as 
5 pg mg(-1) for cocaine and cannabidiol, ranging from 5 to 75 pg mg(-1) for the 
studied species while the LOQ ranged from 15 to 250 pg mg(-1). The method has 
been applied to six hair samples from drug consumer volunteers, where the 
presence of at least one drug was confirmed by accurate mass measurements within 
2 ppm (mass error) in most cases. The present study demonstrates the usefulness 
of LC-TOFMS for both screening and quantitation purposes in drug testing in 
hair. In addition, the possibility of non-target or a posteriori data analysis 
of samples or the extension of the procedure for testing for additional 
compounds offers interesting features for forensic analysis.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2011.05.034
PMID: 21680266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Clin Transl Oncol. 2011 Jun;13(6):426-9. doi: 10.1007/s12094-011-0677-y.

Limited impact of palliative chemotherapy on survival in advanced solid tumours 
in patients with poor performance status.

Sánchez-Muñoz A(1), Pérez-Ruiz E, Sáez MI, Trigo JM, Galindo MM, Manzaneque L, 
Jiménez B, Muros B, Alba E.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Victoria, 
Málaga, Spain. asmoncomed@yahoo.es

AIM: Oncologists should carefully weigh up the risks and benefits of palliative 
chemotherapy in patients with advanced solid tumours (AST) and poor general 
status from the standpoint both of medical and ethical issues and of healthcare 
resources required. This study is intended to assess the impact on overall 
survival of palliative chemotherapy in patients with AST and admitted to 
hospital as a result of their poor ECOG status.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of 92 hospitalised 
patients with AST, ECOG 3-4, who were treated with palliative chemotherapy. Uni- 
and multivariate statistical analyses were conducted to determine the impact of 
clinical and disease variables (number of previous chemotherapy lines, presence 
of comorbidities, presentation of anorexia-cachexia syndrome, delirium, 
dyspnoea, ascitis, brain metastases, T-cell count, albumin, haemoglobin and LDH) 
on survival in this patient population.
RESULTS: Mean age was 54 years (range 15-80). No chemotherapy had been given for 
advanced disease in 74%, 13% had received one line, 6% 2 lines and 7% ≥3 lines. 
Median survival, i.e., after initiation of chemotherapy to death, in these 
patients was 33 days (range 1-1390). The median of chemotherapy cycles was 1. In 
the multivariate analysis, no previous chemotherapy, and absence of 
anorexia-cachexia syndrome and of comorbidities was associated with 
significantly improved survival in patients. Forty-nine percent of patients died 
within 30 days of therapy, 28% died between days 30 and 90, and only 23% of 
patients lived longer than 90 days. Grade 3-4 toxicities mainly entailed blood 
disorders, namely anaemia 8%, neutropenia 13% and thrombocytopenia 8%. Six 
patients (5%) developed sepsis after therapy; of these, 3 died from this 
toxicity, 1 patient suffered cardiac toxicity, one patient leukoencephalopathy 
and 1 patient acute pulmonary thromboembolism.
CONCLUSION: Palliative chemotherapy given to patients with AST and ECOG 3-4 with 
short life expectancy provided no benefit for survival. As a result, we may be 
over-treating these patients and contributing to poor-quality care.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-011-0677-y
PMID: 21680304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Blood. 2011 Aug 18;118(7):1885-98. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-06-289959. Epub
2011  Jun 16.

KIT-D816V-independent oncogenic signaling in neoplastic cells in systemic 
mastocytosis: role of Lyn and Btk activation and disruption by dasatinib and 
bosutinib.

Gleixner KV(1), Mayerhofer M, Cerny-Reiterer S, Hörmann G, Rix U, Bennett KL, 
Hadzijusufovic E, Meyer RA, Pickl WF, Gotlib J, Horny HP, Reiter A, 
Mitterbauer-Hohendanner G, Superti-Furga G, Valent P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Division of Hematology & Hemostaseology, 
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Systemic mastocytosis (SM) either presents as a malignant neoplasm with short 
survival or as an indolent disease with normal life expectancy. In both 
instances, neoplastic mast cells (MCs) harbor D816V-mutated KIT, suggesting that 
additional oncogenic mechanisms are involved in malignant transformation. We 
here describe that Lyn and Btk are phosphorylated in a KIT-independent manner in 
neoplastic MCs in advanced SM and in the MC leukemia cell line HMC-1. Lyn and 
Btk activation was not only detected in KIT D816V-positive HMC-1.2 cells, but 
also in the KIT D816V-negative HMC-1.1 subclone. Moreover, KIT D816V did not 
induce Lyn/Btk activation in Ba/F3 cells, and deactivation of KIT D816V by 
midostaurin did not alter Lyn/Btk activation. siRNAs against Btk and Lyn were 
found to block survival in neoplastic MCs and to cooperate with midostaurin in 
producing growth inhibition. Growth inhibitory effects were also obtained with 2 
targeted drugs, dasatinib which blocks KIT, Lyn, and Btk activation in MCs, and 
bosutinib, a drug that deactivates Lyn and Btk without blocking KIT activity. 
Together, KIT-independent signaling via Lyn/Btk contributes to growth of 
neoplastic MCs in advanced SM. Dasatinib and bosutinib disrupt Lyn/Btk-driven 
oncogenic signaling in neoplastic MC, which may have clinical implications and 
explain synergistic drug interactions.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2010-06-289959
PMID: 21680801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2012 Jan;91(1):80-93. doi:
10.1097/PHM.0b013e31821f70bc.

Spinal cord injury and aging: challenges and recommendations for future 
research.

Groah SL(1), Charlifue S, Tate D, Jensen MP, Molton IR, Forchheimer M, Krause 
JS, Lammertse DP, Campbell M.

Author information:
(1)National Rehabilitation Hospital, Washington, DC, USA.

Population aging, caused by reductions in fertility and increasing longevity, 
varies by country and is anticipated to continue and to reach global proportions 
during the 21st century. Although the effects of population aging have been well 
documented for decades, the impact of aging on people with spinal cord injury 
(SCI) has not received similar attention. It is reasonable to expect that 
