addressed and never propagated through the model.
CONCLUSIONS: Both inference and decisions based on CEAs should be based on the 
same statistical model. This article shows that for survival outcomes, this is 
not the case. In the interests of transparency, trial protocols should specify a 
common procedure for model choice for both purposes. Further, the sufficient 
statistics and the life tables for each arm should be reported to improve 
transparency and to facilitate secondary analyses of results of RCTs.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.008
PMID: 21839400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5):647-51. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.010.
Epub  2011 Jun 22.

Pharmacoeconomic analysis of capecitabine versus 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin as 
adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer in Taiwan.

Hsu TC(1), Chen HH, Yang MC, Wang HM, Chuang JH, Jao SW, Chiang HC, Wen CY, 
Tseng JH, Chen LT.

Author information:
(1)Mackay Memorial Hospital and Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of oral capecitabine compared with 
intravenous bolus 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (5-FU/LV) in the adjuvant treatment 
of stage III colon cancer in Taiwan from payer (Bureau of National Health 
Insurance [BNHI]) perspectives.
METHODS: A health state-transition model was developed to estimate the 
incremental costs and effectiveness of capecitabine versus 5-FU/LV. The time 
horizons studied were: treatment duration (24 weeks) plus 36 months, 48 months, 
60 months, 120 months, and lifetime. Costs were expressed in Taiwanese new 
dollars (NT$). Clinical outcomes, medical resource use, and utilities were 
extracted from published sources. Unit costs were estimated from BNHI fee 
schedules, published sources, and local expert opinion. Outcomes and future 
costs were discounted at 3%. Cost-effectiveness was expressed as cost per 
quality-adjusted life-month (QALM). The effects of uncertainty were explored 
through a one-way sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: For the 24-week time period, drug acquisition costs were higher for 
capecitabine than 5-FU/LV (NT$114,405 vs. NT$4,904 per patient); however, these 
were offset by the higher administration costs of 5-FU/LV (NT$2,573 vs. 
NT$204,201 per patient). Overall direct costs for the 24-week treatment period 
were less with capecitabine than 5-FU/LV (NT$129,327 vs. NT$233,873 per 
patient). Cost savings with capecitabine were also evident when longer time 
horizons were considered. Over a lifetime, the projected survival benefit for 
capecitabine was 7 QALMs.
CONCLUSIONS: From the perspectives of the BNHI and society in Taiwan, 
capecitabine not only saves costs but also improves health outcomes compared 
with 5-FU/LV in the adjuvant treatment of stage III colon cancer.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.010
PMID: 21839401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5):657-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.009.
Epub  2011 Jun 12.

Cost-effectiveness of nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor pairs in 
efavirenz-based regimens for treatment-naïve adults with HIV infection in the 
United States.

Brogan AJ(1), Talbird SE, Cohen C.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA. abrogan@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of once-daily 
tenofovir/emtricitabine compared with twice-daily zidovudine/lamivudine and 
once-daily abacavir/lamivudine in treatment-naïve adults with HIV-1 infection in 
the United States.
METHODS: A Markov model with four therapy lines and six health states based on 
CD4(+) cell-count ranges was developed to estimate lifetime costs and health 
outcomes. Efficacy data (virologic response and CD4(+) cell-count changes) for 
first-line therapy were from 144-week results of Study 934 comparing 
tenofovir/emtricitabine with zidovudine/lamivudine and 48-week results of Study 
CNA30024 comparing abacavir/lamivudine with zidovudine/lamivudine, all in 
combination with efavirenz. Data from Study CNA30024 for abacavir/lamivudine 
were adjusted to allow for an indirect comparison with tenofovir/emtricitabine. 
Subsequent therapy lines were based on likely baskets of antiretroviral therapy 
recommended by US treatment guidelines. Utility values, mortality rates, and 
costs (2009 US dollars) were obtained from published sources. Base-case results 
were tested in sensitivity and variability analyses.
RESULTS: Average discounted results showed that individuals using 
tenofovir/emtricitabine were predicted to remain on first-line therapy for 7.7 
years, accrue lifetime costs of $747,327, and experience 15.75 quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), compared with 6.0 years, $777,090, and 15.68 QALYs for 
individuals using abacavir/lamivudine and 5.8 years, $778,287, and 15.44 QALYs 
for individuals using zidovudine/lamivudine. Tenofovir/emtricitabine was 
cost-effective compared with the other two first-line regimens in more than 75% 
of all probabilistic sensitivity analysis simulation runs for every 
willingness-to-pay threshold between $0 and $250,000 per QALY gained. Results 
were robust in variability and one-way sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Tenofovir/emtricitabine was predicted to be more effective and 
cost-saving compared with abacavir/lamivudine and zidovudine/lamivudine in 
treatment-naïve adults with HIV-1 infection in the United States.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.009
PMID: 21839403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5):721-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.004.

Deriving a preference-based measure for cancer using the EORTC QLQ-C30.

Rowen D(1), Brazier J, Young T, Gaugris S, Craig BM, King MT, Velikova G.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK. d.rowen@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core 
Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) is one of the most commonly used 
measures in cancer care but in its current form cannot be used in economic 
evaluation because it does not incorporate preferences. We address this gap by 
estimating a preference-based measure for cancer from the EORTC QLQ-C30.
METHODS: Factor analysis, Rasch analysis, and other psychometric analyses were 
undertaken on a clinical trial dataset of 655 patients with multiple myeloma to 
derive a health state classification system amenable to valuation. Second a 
valuation study was conducted of 350 members of the UK general population using 
time trade-off. Mean and individual-level multivariate regression models were 
fitted to derive preference weights for the classification system.
RESULTS: The health state classification system has eight dimensions (physical 
functioning, role functioning, social functioning, emotional functioning, pain, 
fatigue and sleep disturbance, nausea, constipation, and diarrhea) with four or 
five levels each. Regression models have few inconsistencies (0 to 2) in 
estimated preference weights and small mean absolute error ranges (0.046 to 
0.054).
CONCLUSIONS: It is feasible to derive a preference-based measure from the EORTC 
QLQ-C30 for use in economic evaluation. Future research will extend this to 
other countries and replicate across other patient groups.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.01.004
PMCID: PMC3811066
PMID: 21839411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The article has not been published elsewhere and 
there are no conflicts of interest.


298. J Clin Densitom. 2011 Oct-Dec;14(4):384-94. doi: 10.1016/j.jocd.2011.03.009.
 Epub 2011 Aug 11.

Osteoporotic fractures, DXA, and fracture risk assessment: meeting future 
challenges in the Eastern Mediterranean Region.

Baddoura R(1), Hoteit M, El-Hajj Fuleihan G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Hotel Dieu de France Hospital, Beirut, Lebanon. 
rbaddoura@usj.edu.lb

The purpose was to report on the burden of osteoporotic fractures in the Eastern 
Mediterranean Region (EMR) and the use of bone mineral density (BMD) dual-energy 
X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) databases for osteoporosis diagnosis. PubMed 
electronic database was reviewed using the following MeSH terms: "Hip 
fractures," "Fractures, Compression," "Radius Fractures," "Osteoporosis," "Bone 
density," and "Middle East" up to July 2009. Incidence of hip fractures varied 
across the EMR between 100 and 295 per 100,000 person-years in women and 71 and 
200 per 100,000 person-years in men. No data were found on other nonvertebral 
osteoporotic fractures. Prevalence of radiographic vertebral fractures older 
than 65 yr ranged between 15% and 25% in women and 7.3% and 18% in men. By 2020, 
the number of hip fractures older than 50 yr would increase by 20%. DXA 
manufacturer's reference curves for the spine were higher than 
population-specific ones. At the hip, National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey (NHANES) and population-based curves were comparable. Estimates of the 
relative risk of vertebral fracture per SD decrease in BMD using NHANES and 
local data set were similar, that is, 1.61 (1.17-2.23) and 1.49 (1.14-1.95), 
respectively. The EMR is similar to southern Europe regarding incidence rates of 
hip fracture, suggesting the health burden to be significant. Using DXA at the 
hip, population-specific reference databases did not perform better than NHANES 
on which the FRAX model has been developed highlighting the need for reviewing 
fracture risk assessment strategies in the EMR.

Copyright Â© 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocd.2011.03.009
PMID: 21839659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Free Radic Biol Med. 2011 Oct 15;51(8):1575-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.07.020. Epub 2011 Jul 31.

Increased life span from overexpression of superoxide dismutase in 
Caenorhabditis elegans is not caused by decreased oxidative damage.

Cabreiro F(1), Ackerman D, Doonan R, Araiz C, Back P, Papp D, Braeckman BP, Gems 
D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing and Research Department of Genetics, Evolution 
and Environment, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

The superoxide free radical (O(2)(•-)) has been viewed as a likely major 
contributor to aging. If this is correct, then superoxide dismutase (SOD), which 
removes O(2)(•-), should contribute to longevity assurance. In Caenorhabditis 
elegans, overexpression (OE) of the major cytosolic Cu/Zn-SOD, sod-1, increases 
life span. But is this increase caused by enhanced antioxidant defense? sod-1 OE 
did not reduce measures of lipid oxidation or glycation and actually increased 
levels of protein oxidation. The effect of sod-1 OE on life span was dependent 
on the DAF-16/FoxO transcription factor (TF) and, partially, on the heat shock 
TF HSF-1. Similarly, overexpression of sod-2 (major mitochondrial Mn-SOD) 
resulted in life-span extension that was daf-16 dependent. sod-1 OE increased 
steady-state hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) levels in vivo. However, 
co-overexpression of catalase did not suppress the life-span extension, arguing 
against H(2)O(2) as a cause of longevity. sod-1 OE increased hsp-4 expression, 
suggesting increased endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Moreover, longevity was 
partially suppressed by inactivation of ire-1 and xbp-1, mediators of the ER 
stress response. This suggests that high levels of SOD-1 protein may challenge 
protein-folding homeostasis, triggering a daf-16- and hsf-1-dependent stress 
response that extends life span. These findings imply that SOD overexpression 
increases C. elegans life span, not by removal of O(2)(•-), but instead by 
activating longevity-promoting transcription factors.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.07.020
PMCID: PMC3202636
PMID: 21839827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5 Suppl 1):S100-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.006.

Cost-effectiveness of supervised exercise therapy in heart failure patients.

Kühr EM(1), Ribeiro RA, Rohde LE, Polanczyk CA.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Department of 
Medicine and Graduate Program of Cardiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do 
Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: Exercise therapy in heart failure (HF) patients is considered safe 
and has demonstrated modest reduction in hospitalization rates and death in 
recent trials. Previous cost-effectiveness analysis described favorable results 
considering long-term supervised exercise intervention and significant 
effectiveness of exercise therapy; however, these evidences are now no longer 
supported. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of supervised exercise therapy in 
HF patients under the perspective of the Brazilian Public Healthcare System.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of supervised exercise therapy compared to standard 
treatment in patients with New York Heart Association HF class II and III. 
Effectiveness was evaluated in quality-adjusted life years in a 10-year time 
horizon. We searched PUBMED for published clinical trials to estimate 
effectiveness, mortality, hospitalization, and utilities data. Treatment costs 
were obtained from published cohort updated to 2008 values. Exercise therapy 
intervention costs were obtained from a rehabilitation center. Model robustness 
was assessed through Monte Carlo simulation and sensitivity analysis. Cost were 
expressed as international dollars, applying the purchasing-power-parity 
conversion rate.
RESULTS: Exercise therapy showed small reduction in hospitalization and 
mortality at a low cost, an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
Int$26,462/quality-adjusted life year. Results were more sensitive to exercise 
therapy costs, standard treatment total costs, exercise therapy effectiveness, 
and medications costs. Considering a willingness-to-pay of Int$27,500, 55% of 
the trials fell below this value in the Monte Carlo simulation.
CONCLUSIONS: In a Brazilian scenario, exercise therapy shows reasonable 
cost-effectiveness ratio, despite current evidence of limited benefit of this 
intervention.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.006
PMID: 21839879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5 Suppl 1):S108-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.012.

Estimating the SF-6D value set for a population-based sample of Brazilians.

Cruz LN(1), Camey SA, Hoffmann JF, Rowen D, Brazier JE, Fleck MP, Polanczyk CA.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Studies Program in Epidemiology, Health Technology Assessment 
Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil. 
lncruz@terra.com.br

OBJECTIVES: SF-6D is a preference-based measure of health developed to estimate 
utility values from the SF-36. The aim of this study was to estimate a weighting 
system for the SF-6D health states representing the preferences of a sample of 
the Southern Brazilian general population.
METHODS: A sample of 248 health states defined by the SF-6D was valued by a 
sample of the southern Brazilian population using the standard gamble. Mean and 
individual level multivariate regression models were fitted to the standard 
gamble valuation data to estimate preference weights for all SF-6D health 
states. The models were compared with those estimated in the UK study.
RESULTS: Five hundred twenty-eight participants were interviewed, but 58 (11%) 
were excluded for failing to value the worst state. Data from 469 subjects 
producing 2696 health states valuations were used in the regression analysis. In 
contrast to the best performing model for the UK data, the best performing model 
for the Brazilian data was a random effects model using only the main effects 
variables, highlighting the importance of adopting a country-specific algorithm 
to derive SF-6D health states values. Inconsistent coefficients were merged to 
produce the final recommended model, which has all significant coefficients and 
a mean absolute difference between observed and predicted standard gamble values 
of 0.07.
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide the first population-based value set for Brazil 
for SF-6D health states, making it possible to generate quality-adjusted life 
years for cost-utility studies using regional data. Besides, utility weights 
derived using the preferences of a sample from a southern Brazilian population 
can be derived from existing SF-36 data sets.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.012
PMID: 21839880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5 Suppl 1):S39-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.032.

[Cost effectiveness of posaconazole versus fluconazole/itraconazole in the 
prophylactic treatment of invasive fungal infections in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Rely K(1), Alexandre PK, Escudero GS.

Author information:
(1)Economista de la salud, CEAHealthTech, México.

Cost effectiveness of posaconazole versus fluconazole/itraconazole therapy in 
the prophylaxis against invasive fungal Infections among high-risk neutropenic 
patients in Mexico.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness and long-term combined effects of 
Posaconazole versus fluconazole/itraconazole (standard azole) therapy in the 
prophylaxis against invasive fungal Infections among high-risk neutropenic 
patients in Mexico.
METHODS: A previously validated Markov model was used to compare the projected 
lifetime costs and effects of two theoretical groups of patients, one receiving 
Posaconazole and the other receiving standard azole. The model estimates total 
costs, numbers of IFIs, and QALY per patient in each prophylaxis group. To 
extrapolate trial results to a lifetime horizon, the model was extended with 
one-month Markov cycles in which mortality risk is specific to the underlying 
disease. Data on the probabilities of IFI were obtained from Study Protocol 
PO1899. Drug costs were taken from average wholesale drug reports for 2009. Cost 
and health effects were discounted at 5% according to the Mexican guideline. The 
analysis was conducted from the Mexican healthcare perspective using 2008 unit 
cost prices.
RESULTS: Our model projects an accumulated cost to the Mexican healthcare system 
per patient receiving the Posaconazol regimen of $US 5,634 compared to $US 7,463 
for the standard azole regimen. The accumulated discounted effect is 3.13 LY or 
2.25 QALYs per patient receiving Posaconazol, compared to 2.96 LY or 2.13 QALYs 
per patient receiving standard azole. Posaconazol remained the dominant strategy 
across each scenario. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis tested numerous 
assumptions about the model cost and efficacy parameters and found that the 
results were robust to most changes.
CONCLUSION: Posaconazole provides modest incremental benefits compared with 
standard azole therapy in the prophylaxis against IFIs among high-risk 
neutropenic patients. Routine Posaconazole use appears a cost saving when the 
likelihood of IFIs or the cost of treatment medications is high.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.032
PMID: 21839897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5 Suppl 1):S60-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.007.

Estimation and comparison of EQ-5D health states' utility weights for 
pneumococcal and human papillomavirus diseases in Argentina, Chile, and the 
United Kingdom.

Galante J(1), Augustovski F, Colantonio L, Bardach A, Caporale J, Marti SG, Kind 
P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Effectiveness and Health Policy, Ciudad Autónoma de 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Comment in
    Value Health. 2012 May;15(3):592; author reply 591-2.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate and compare EuroQol instrument (EQ-5D) health states' 
values for pneumococcal and human papillomavirus (HPV) diseases in Argentina, 
Chile, and the United Kingdom.
METHODS: Twelve vignettes were designed, pilot-tested, and administered to a 
convenience sample in a cross-sectional design to elicit descriptive EQ-5D state 
data. Country-specific EQ-5D time-trade-off-based weights were used to map these 
descriptive health states into local country preference weights. Descriptive 
analysis is reported and intercountry differences for each condition were 
compared using repeated measures analysis of variance.
RESULTS: Seventy-three subjects completed the survey. Pneumococcal 
disease-related health states mean values ranged from -0.331 (sepsis, Chile) to 
0.727 (auditive sequelae, Argentina). HPV-related conditions ranged from 0.152 
(cervical cancer, United Kingdom) to 0.848 (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 
1, Argentina). Chile had consistently the lowest mean values in pneumococcal 
states and in one HPV state, whereas those of the United Kingdom were the lowest 
in most HPV states. Argentina had the highest mean values in both diseases. 
Differences in country-specific values for each health state were statistically 
(P < 0.001) significant except for six health states in which differences 
between Chilean and United Kingdom weights were nonsignificant.
CONCLUSIONS: Utility values for most conditions differed statistically 
relevantly among analyzed countries, even though the same health states' 
descriptive set was valued for each. These results reflect the difference in 
social weights among different countries, which could be attributed to either 
different population values or valuation study methodologies. They stress the 
importance of using local preference weights for context-specific decision 
making.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.007
PMID: 21839901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5 Suppl 1):S65-70. doi: 
10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.025.

[Economic evaluation of an infant immunization program in Mexico, based on 
13-valent pneumococcal conjugated vaccines].

[Article in Spanish]

Muciño-Ortega E(1), Mould-Quevedo JF, Farkouh R, Strutton D.

Author information:
(1)Pfizer S.A. de C.V., México D.F., México. emilio.mucino@pfizer.com

OBJECTIVES: Vaccination is an effective intervention for reduce child morbidity 
and mortality associated to pneumococcus. The availability of new 
anti-pneumococcal vaccines makes it necessary to evaluate its potential impact 
on public health and costs related to their implementation. The aim of this 
study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of immunization 
strategies based on pneumococcal conjugated vaccines (PCV's) currently available 
in Mexico from a third payer perspective.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A decision tree model was developed to assess both, 
economic and health impact, of anti-pneumococcal vaccination in children <2 
years (lifetime time horizon, discount rate: 5% annual). Comparators were: 
no-vaccination (reference) and strategies based on 7, 10 and 13-valent PCV's. 
Effectiveness measures were: child deaths avoided, life-years gained (LYG) and 
quality adjusted life years (QALY's) gained. Effectiveness, utility, local 
epidemiology and cost of treating pneumococcal diseases were extracted from 
published sources. Univariate sensitivity analysis were performed.
RESULTS: Immunization dominates no-vaccination: strategy based on 13-valent 
vaccine prevented 16.205 deaths, gained 331.230 LY's and 332.006 QALY's and 
saved US$1.307/child vaccinated. Strategies based on 7 and 10-valent PCV's 
prevented 13.806 and 5.589 deaths, gained 282.193 and 114.251 LY's, 282.969 and 
114.972 QALY's and saved US$1.084 and US$731/child vaccinated, respectively. 
These results were robust to variations in herd immunity and lower 
immunogenicity of 10-valent vaccine.
CONCLUSIONS: In Mexico, immunization strategies based on 7, 10 and 13-valent 
PCV's would be cost-saving interventions, however, health outcomes and savings 
of the strategy based on 13-valent vaccine are greater than those estimated for 
7 and 10-valent PCV's.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.025
PMID: 21839902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Value Health. 2011 Jul-Aug;14(5 Suppl 1):S93-5. doi:
10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.008.

The burden of moderate/severe premenstrual syndrome and premenstrual dysphoric 
disorder in a cohort of Latin American women.

Schiola A(1), Lowin J, Lindemann M, Patel R, Endicott J.

Author information:
(1)Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, São Paolo, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between 
symptom severity, cost, and impairment in women with moderate/severe 
premenstrual syndrome (PMS) or premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) in a Latin 
American setting.
METHODS: A model was constructed based on analysis of an observational dataset. 
Data were included from four Latin American countries. Responder-level data were 
analysed according to four categories of symptom severity: Category 1 comprised 
Daily Record of Severity of Problems score 21 to 41.9, Category 2 score was 42 
to 62.9, Category 3 score was 63 to 83.9, and Category 4 was a score of 84 or 
higher. Burden was estimated in terms of impact on job and activities using the 
modified work productivity and impairment questionnaire and affect on quality of 
life using the SF-12 questionnaire. Costs were estimated in Brazilian reals from 
a Brazilian private health care and societal perspective. The outputs of the 
analysis were estimates of burden, mean annual cost and affect on quality of 
life (as measured by quality adjusted life years) by symptom severity. 
Confidence intervals around key outcomes were generated through nonparametric 
bootstrapping.
RESULTS: Analysis suggests a significant cost burden associated with 
moderate/severe PMS and PMDD with mean per patient annual costs estimated at 
1618 BRL (95% confidence interval 957-2,481). Although the relationship between 
cost, quality of life, and severity was not clear, analysis showed a consistent 
relationship between disease severity and measures of disease burden (job and 
daily activity). Burden on activities increased with disease severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis, conducted from a Latin American perspective, suggests 
a significant burden and an increasing impairment associated with 
moderate/severe PMS and PMDD.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.008
PMID: 21839909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Clin Ther. 2011 Sep;33(9):1289-305. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.07.009.
Epub  2011 Aug 12.

Cost-effectiveness of aspirin, celecoxib, and calcium chemoprevention for 
colorectal cancer.

Squires H(1), Tappenden P, Cooper K, Carroll C, Logan R, Hind D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and 
Related Research, University of Sheffield, United Kingdom. 
h.squires@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Studies have indicated that aspirin chemoprevention may be effective 
in preventing colorectal cancer within the general population, and aspirin, 
celecoxib, and calcium may be effective in preventing adenomas within those 
people who have previously undergone polypectomy.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of aspirin, celecoxib, and calcium 
chemoprevention in the context of the fecal occult blood test screening program.
METHODS: An existing state transition model developed to assess colorectal 
cancer screening options was modified to incorporate the costs and outcomes 
associated with chemoprevention. Relative risks of disease progression were 
incorporated based on the effectiveness of the chemopreventive agents. 
Additional benefits and harms associated with chemoprevention were included. 
Sensitivity analyses were undertaken.
RESULTS: Aspirin chemoprevention plus screening within the general population 
aged 50 to 60 years is estimated to cost £23,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained compared with screening alone (based on 2008 prices). For 
individuals who have undergone polypectomy, calcium is estimated to cost between 
£8000 and £30,000 per QALY gained depending on the starting and stopping age of 
the chemoprevention policy. Based on current evidence, calcium has a higher 
probability than aspirin of providing value for money within this population, 
although the long-term benefits and harms are subject to considerable 
uncertainty. Celecoxib chemoprevention is unlikely to be considered to be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Calcium chemoprevention is likely to be a cost-effective option for 
individuals who have undergone polypectomy. Further research is required to 
assess the long-term benefits and harms of calcium compared with aspirin 
chemoprevention. Chemoprevention appears less economically attractive within the 
general population.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by EM Inc USA. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.07.009
PMID: 21840057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Am J Cardiol. 2011 Sep 1;108(5):691-7. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2011.04.019.

Estimating health and economic benefits from using prescription omega-3 fatty 
acids in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia.

Samuel S(1), Peskin B, Arondekar B, Alperin P, Johnson S, Blumenfeld I, Stone G, 
Jacobson TA.

Author information:
(1)Archimedes, Inc., San Francisco, California, USA. 
stuart.samuel@archimedesmodel.com

Patients with increased triglyceride levels compared to those with normal levels 
are at higher risk for coronary heart disease. In patients with severe (≥500 
mg/dl) hypertriglyceridemia (SHTG), clinical trials have demonstrated that 
prescription ω-3 fatty acids (P-OM3s) 4 g/day can decrease triglyceride levels 
by 45%. However, the precise health and economic benefits of decreasing SHTG 
with P-OM3 are unknown. We used the previously validated Archimedes model to 
simulate a 20-year trial involving subjects 45 to 75 years old with SHTG. The 
trial consisted of an intervention arm (P-OM3 4 g/day) and a control arm. 
Simulation results for the control arm indicated that subjects with SHTG are at 
about 2 times higher risk for myocardial infarction than those with normal 
triglyceride levels. Using estimates from previous epidemiologic studies and 
meta-analyses with OM3s, the model predicted 29% to 36% decreases in various 
measurements of adverse cardiac events for the intervention arm. The model also 
predicted a decrease in ischemic stroke of 24% (95% confidence interval 15 to 
33). For the 20-year simulated trial, the cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained for the currently available P-OM3 approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration was $47,000. Results remained robust under different clinical 
assumptions. In our model P-OM3 was effective in decreasing triglyceride levels 
and cardiovascular disease risk in patients with SHTG. In conclusion, P-OM3 
medication is cost effective in our simulated trial and comparable to other 
cost-effective cardiovascular interventions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2011.04.019
PMID: 21840433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Psychiatry Res. 2011 Sep 30;189(2):318-20. doi:
10.1016/j.psychres.2011.07.015.  Epub 2011 Aug 15.

Cumulative life stress in chronic fatigue syndrome.

Nater UM(1), Maloney E, Heim C, Reeves WC.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, Centers for 
Disease Control & Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA.

We studied the impact of cumulative life stress on CFS in a population-based 
study. We found that exposure to stressors was significantly more common in 
persons with CFS compared to NF controls; those with CFS reported experiencing 
significantly higher levels of psychological distress. Also, post-traumatic 
stress disorder was significantly more common in people with CFS. These results 
not only corroborate findings from other studies but, importantly, extend those 
by: a) measuring a comprehensive spectrum of stress variables, b) for the first 
time presenting data on stress in a population-based study, thus minimizing the 
effects of recruitment bias, and c) diagnosing CFS by means of standardized, 
validated scales, thus allowing replication and extension of our findings. 
Stress may be an important factor in the pathophysiology of CFS. Consequently, 
future studies should provide a more detailed understanding of the processes 
that lead from stress to CFS using longitudinal designs.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2011.07.015
PMID: 21840607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Chronic Illn. 2011 Dec;7(4):279-90. doi: 10.1177/1742395311407532. Epub 2011
Aug  12.

Long-term effects of a community-based lifestyle intervention to prevent type 2 
diabetes: the DEPLOY extension pilot study.

Ackermann RT(1), Finch EA, Caffrey HM, Lipscomb ER, Hays LM, Saha C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
IN 46202, USA. rtackerm@iupui.edu

OBJECTIVE: The US Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) and other large trials 
internationally have shown that an intensive lifestyle intervention can reduce 
the development of type 2 diabetes. We evaluated long-term effects of a lower 
cost, group-based adaption of the DPP lifestyle intervention offered by the 
YMCA.
METHODS: Participants were adults with BMI ≥24 kg/m(2) and random capillary 
blood glucose 6.1-11.1 mmol/L who had been previously enrolled in a 
cluster-randomized trial comparing a group-based DPP lifestyle intervention 
versus brief advice alone. Four to 12 months after completion of the initial 
trial, 72% of 92 participants enrolled in an extension study, and all were 
offered a group lifestyle maintenance program at the YMCA. Paired t-tests were 
used to assess within-group changes; ANCOVA with adjustment was used for 
between-group comparisons.
RESULTS: At 28 months, after both arms were offered the same 8-month lifestyle 
maintenance intervention, both arms had statistically significant weight losses 
compared to baseline (brief advice controls: -3.6%; 95% CI: -5.8 to -1.4; 
intensive lifestyle: -6.0%; 95% CI: -8.8 to -3.2). Participants initially 
assigned to the DPP also experienced significant improvements in blood pressure 
and total cholesterol.
DISCUSSION: The YMCA is a promising channel for dissemination of a low-cost 
model for lifestyle diabetes prevention. Future studies are needed to verify 
these findings.

DOI: 10.1177/1742395311407532
PMID: 21840914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Physiology (Bethesda). 2011 Aug;26(4):225-35. doi:
10.1152/physiol.00012.2011.

Circadian rhythms, aging, and life span in mammals.

Froy O(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Food Science and Nutrition, Robert H. Smith 
Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environment, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Rehovot, Israel. froy@agri.huji.ac.il

Resetting the circadian clock leads to well being and increased life span, 
whereas clock disruption is associated with aging and morbidity. Increased 
longevity and improved health can be achieved by different feeding regimens that 
reset circadian rhythms and may lead to better synchrony in metabolism and 
physiology. This review focuses on recent findings concerning the relationships 
between circadian rhythms, aging attenuation, and life-span extension in 
mammals.

DOI: 10.1152/physiol.00012.2011
PMID: 21841071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. J Pediatr Orthop. 2011 Sep;31(6):668-73. doi: 10.1097/BPO.0b013e318221093c.

Changes in health-related quality of life after spinal fusion and scoliosis 
correction in patients with cerebral palsy.

Bohtz C(1), Meyer-Heim A, Min K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, University Children's Hospital Zurich, 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The literature is scarce on the impact of spinal fusion for 
scoliosis in patients with cerebral palsy (CP) regarding the health-related 
quality of life (HRQL). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcome of 
surgical scoliosis correction measured by the subjective change in the HRQL and 
the objective radiologic changes. Factors that could influence the subjective 
outcome were examined to investigate their correlation to the results of HRQL.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 50 consecutive patients with CP, who had 
spinal fusion for scoliosis with minimal 2-year follow-up was carried out. 
Radiographic data were obtained from preoperative, postoperative, and last 
follow-up examinations. The assessment of the HRQL was done through a modified 
version of the "Caregiver Priorities and Child Health Index of Life with 
Disabilities" questionnaire, assessed by the caregivers of the patients.
RESULTS: There was a significant improvement (P = 0.001) of HRQL after the 
operation. The satisfaction rate of the patients with the outcome of the 
operation was 91.7%. There was an average of 64.3% scoliosis correction, 57.7% 
pelvic tilt correction, 53% improvement of apical vertebral rotation, and 67.2% 
improvement of apical vertebral translation. At the last follow-up, the average 
scoliosis angle was 32.0 degrees and pelvic tilt was 8.8 degrees. Weak but not 
significant correlation between the amount of scoliosis correction and the 
subjective change in the HRQL could be established (R = 0.321, P = 0.078). No 
correlation between the occurrence of complications and changes in the HRQL (P = 
0.122) or the satisfaction rate with the outcome of the operation (P = 0.764) 
was found. Extension of spinal fusion to sacropelvis had no influence on the 
occurrence of complications (P = 0.42) or on the changes in HRQL (P = 0.71).
CONCLUSIONS: Life quality improved after surgical scoliosis correction in 
patients with CP. There is a high satisfaction rate of patients and their 
caregivers. Subjective changes in HRQL after the operation do not correlate with 
objective radiographic changes brought about by the operation, which indicates 
that the present operation indications and achieved correction are adequate to 
achieve an improvement of the subjective HRQL in this patient group.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic level IV, retrospective study.

DOI: 10.1097/BPO.0b013e318221093c
PMID: 21841443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Acta Ethol. 2010 May;13(1):23-31. doi: 10.1007/s10211-010-0069-2. Epub 2010
May  4.

Temporal polyethism, life expectancy, and entropy of workers of the ant 
Ectatomma vizottoi Almeida, 1987 (Formicidae: Ectatomminae).

Santana Vieira A, Desidério Fernandes W, Fernando Antonialli-Junior W.

We investigated the changes in the behavioral repertoire over the course of life 
and determined the life expectancy and entropy of workers of the ant Ectatomma 
vizottoi. Newly emerged ants were individually marked with model airplane paint 
for observation of behaviors and determination of the age and life expectancy. 
Ants were divided into two groups: young and old workers. The 36 behaviors 
observed were divided into eight categories. Workers exhibit a clear division of 
tasks throughout their lives, with young workers performing more tasks inside 
the colony and old workers, outside, unlike species that have small colonies. 
This species also exhibits an intermediate life expectancy compared to workers 
of other species that are also intermediary in size. This supports the 
hypothesis of a relationship between size and maximum life expectancy, but it 
also suggests that other factors may also be acting in concert. Entropy value 
shows a high mortality rate during the first life intervals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10211-010-0069-2
PMCID: PMC3150818
PMID: 21841891


313. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2012 Apr;470(4):1079-89. doi:
10.1007/s11999-011-2023-7.

Is hip arthroscopy cost-effective for femoroacetabular impingement?

Shearer DW(1), Kramer J, Bozic KJ, Feeley BT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
500 Parnassus Avenue, MU 320-W, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

BACKGROUND: The impact of hip arthroscopy on health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) among younger patients with symptomatic femoroacetabular impingement 
(FAI) is unknown, but with increasing recognition of the condition there is 
likely to be increasing demand for arthroscopy.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We describe an approach to determine the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of hip arthroscopy compared with observation in patients with 
FAI; we also identified variables that influence its cost-effectiveness.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We constructed a Markov model including possible health 
states for 36-year-old patients with FAI using decision analysis software and 
compared two strategies: (1) observation and (2) hip arthroscopy, followed by 
THA with disease progression. We estimated the ratio of the incremental cost to 
the incremental benefit (reflected by HRQoL) of both strategies. We identified 
studies reporting Harris hip scores and complications after arthroscopy to 
estimate health state preferences and their probabilities. We performed 
sensitivity analyses on 30 input variables over a plausible range of estimates 
to determine the influence of uncertainty on the ICER with particular emphasis 
on the magnitude and duration of benefit.
RESULTS: Among patients with FAI but no radiographic evidence of arthritis, the 
estimated ICER of hip arthroscopy was $21,700/QALY while the ICER for patients 
with preoperative arthritis was $79,500/QALY. Alteration of the natural history 
of arthritis by hip arthroscopy improved the ICER to $19,200/QALY and resulted 
in cost savings if THA was not performed until at least 16 years after 
arthroscopy.
CONCLUSIONS: Although limited by available data, our model suggests hip 
arthroscopy in patients with FAI without arthritis may result in a favorable 
ICER compared with other health interventions considered cost-effective. Further 
studies of hip arthroscopy are needed to determine the impact on quality of 
life, duration of symptomatic relief, and the effect on the need for subsequent 
THA.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-011-2023-7
PMCID: PMC3293959
PMID: 21842295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Gen Intern Med. 2011 Dec;26(12):1441-9. doi: 10.1007/s11606-011-1816-4.
Epub  2011 Aug 13.

Assessing the impact of screening colonoscopy on mortality in the medicare 
population.

Gross CP(1), Soulos PR, Ross JS, Cramer LD, Guerrero C, Tinetti ME, Braithwaite 
RS.

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Medicine, Section of General Internal Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06520, USA. cary.gross@yale.edu

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2012 Mar;142(3):672-3.

BACKGROUND: Some have recommended against routine screening for colorectal 
cancer (CRC) among patients ≥75 years of age, while others have suggested that 
screening colonoscopy (SC) is less beneficial for women than men. We estimated 
the expected benefits (decreased mortality from CRC) and harms (SC-related 
mortality) of SC based on sex, age, and comorbidity.
OBJECTIVE: To stratify older patients according to expected benefits and harms 
of SC based on sex, age, and comorbidity.
DESIGN: Retrospective study using Medicare claims data.
PARTICIPANTS: Medicare beneficiaries 67-94 years old with and without CRC.
MAIN MEASURES: Life expectancy, CRC- and colonoscopy-attributable mortality 
rates across strata of sex, age, and comorbidity, pay-off time (i.e. the minimum 
time until benefits from SC exceeded harms), and life-years saved for every 
100,000 SC.
KEY RESULTS: Increasing age and comorbidity were associated with lower 
CRC-attributable mortality. Due to shorter life expectancy and CRC-attributable 
mortality, the benefits associated with SC were substantially lower among 
patients with greater comorbidity. Among men aged 75-79 years with no 
comorbidity, the number of life-years saved was 459 per 100,000 SC, while men 
aged 67-69 with ≥3 comorbidities had 81 life-years saved per 100,000 SC. There 
was no evidence that SC was less effective in women. Among men and women 75-79 
with no comorbidity, number of life-years saved was 459 and 509 per 100,000 SC, 
respectively; among patients with ≥3 comorbidities, there was no benefit for 
either men or women.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the effectiveness of SC was equivalent for men and women, 
there was substantial variation in SC effectiveness within age groups, arguing 
against screening recommendations based solely on age.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-011-1816-4
PMCID: PMC3235614
PMID: 21842323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2011 Aug;44(4):250-5. doi: 10.1007/s00391-011-0224-z.

The LUCAS* consortium: objectives of interdisciplinary research on selected 
aspects of ageing and health care for older people in an urban community.

von Renteln-Kruse W(1), Dapp U, Anders J, Pröfener F, Schmidt S, Deneke C, 
Fertmann R, Hasford J, Minder C.

Author information:
(1)Forschungsabteilung und Medizinisch-Geriatrische Klinik, Albertinen-Haus 
Zentrum für Geriatrie und Gerontologie, Wissenschaftliche Einrichtung an der 
Universität Hamburg, Sellhopsweg 18-22, 22459, Hamburg, Deutschland. 
w.renteln-kruse@albertinen.de

BACKGROUND: Decline in functional competence is a major determinant of older 
persons' needs, the development of dependency, use of care, clinical outcome and 
mortality. The interactions between rising life expectancy and changes in 
morbidity and disability warrant interdisciplinary research on functional 
disability, health promotion and prevention. The LUCAS (Longitudinal Urban 
Cohort Ageing Study) research consortium was established to study particular 
aspects of functional competence, its changes with ageing, to detect preclinical 
signs of functional decline, and to address questions on how to maintain 
functional competence and to prevent adverse outcome. The questions originate 
from problems encountered in practical health care provision in different 
settings, i.e. community, hospital and nursing home.
METHODS: The subprojects apply a longitudinal cohort follow-up study, an 
embedded randomised controlled intervention, cross-sectional comparative, and 
prospective intervention studies.
CONCLUSION: The results will provide instruments to screen for preclinical signs 
of functional decline and concrete recommendations to sustain independence and 
prevent adverse outcomes in older age in daily practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-011-0224-z
PMID: 21842352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Am Fam Physician. 2011 Aug 15;84(4):413-20.

Treatment options for localized prostate cancer.

Mohan R(1), Schellhammer PF.

Author information:
(1)Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, VA 23507, USA. docmohaan@gmail.com

Summary for patients in
    Am Fam Physician. 2011 Aug 15;84(4):424.

In the United States, more than 90 percent of prostate cancers are detected by 
serum prostate-specific antigen testing. Most patients are found to have 
localized prostate cancer, and most of these patients undergo surgery or 
radiotherapy. However, many patients have low-risk cancer and can follow an 
active surveillance protocol instead of undergoing invasive treatments. Active 
surveillance is a new concept in which low-risk patients are closely followed 
and proceed to intervention only if their cancer progresses. Clinical guidelines 
can help in selecting between treatment or active surveillance based on the 
cancer's stage and grade, the patient's prostate-specific antigen level, and the 
comorbidity-adjusted life expectancy. Radical prostatectomy or external beam 
radiation therapy is recommended for higher-risk patients. These treatments are 
almost equivalent in effectiveness, but have different adverse effect profiles. 
Brachytherapy is an option for low- and moderate-risk patients. Evidence is 
insufficient to determine whether laparoscopic or robotic surgery or cryotherapy 
is superior to open radical prostatectomy.

PMID: 21842788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Pediatrics. 2011 Sep;128(3):e591-9. doi: 10.1542/peds.2010-0796. Epub 2011
Aug  15.

Use of models to identify cost-effective interventions: pertussis vaccination 
for pediatric health care workers.

Greer AL(1), Fisman DN.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Agency of Canada, 180 Queen St W, 11th floor, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada M5V 3L7. amy.greer@phac.aspc.gc.ca

OBJECTIVE: Acellular pertussis vaccine is safe and effective in adults. An 
explicit recommendation for pertussis booster vaccination in pediatric health 
care workers is based on the importance of health care workers as a potential 
source of infection for patients. However, limited information is available on 
the economic attractiveness of this intervention. We sought to evaluate the 
health-economic attractiveness of a diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis 
booster vaccination program for health care workers in a pediatric intensive 
care setting.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to calculate the cost-effectiveness of 
vaccinating NICU health care workers in different proportions ranging from the 
current strategy of no pertussis booster vaccination program to a vaccination 
program that achieves between 25% and 95% vaccine coverage.
RESULTS: Implementation of a vaccination program that achieves 25% coverage was 
projected to be cost-saving compared with no vaccine program. At all coverage 
levels the intervention reduced costs, increased life expectancy, and was 
cost-effective. Projections were most sensitive to the risk of a pertussis 
introduction via an infected health care worker. Once the monthly risk of an 
introduction exceeded ∼0.3%, implementation of an immunization program with at 
least 25% coverage provided both greater health and greater economic benefits 
than having no vaccine program.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of a hospital-based and funded 
diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis vaccine program administered through an 
occupational health program is cost-effective or cost-saving in the context of 
pediatric health care facilities in which many of the patients are at risk of 
serious morbidity and mortality should they acquire pertussis while 
hospitalized.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2010-0796
PMID: 21844056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Circulation. 2011 Aug 30;124(9):1028-37. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.978593.  Epub 2011 Aug 15.

Clinical and economic outcomes of liberal versus selective drug-eluting stent 
use: insights from temporal analysis of the multicenter Evaluation of Drug 
Eluting Stents and Ischemic Events (EVENT) registry.

Venkitachalam L(1), Lei Y, Stolker JM, Mahoney EM, Amin AP, Lindsey JB, Kennedy 
KF, Pencina MJ, Lopez JJ, Kleiman NS, Cohen DJ; EVENT Registry Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, University of Missouri-Kansas City, 
School of Medicine, 4401 Wornall Rd, Kansas City, MO 64111, USA. 
dcohen@saint-lukes.org

BACKGROUND: Although the benefits of drug-eluting stents (DES) for reducing 
restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention are well established, the 
impact of alternative rates of DES use on population-level outcomes is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used data from the Evaluation of Drug Eluting Stents and 
Ischemic Events (EVENT) registry to examine the clinical impact and 
cost-effectiveness of varying DES use rates in routine care. Between 2004 and 
2007, 10,144 patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention were 
enrolled in the EVENT registry at 55 US centers. Clinical outcomes and 
cardiovascular-specific costs were assessed prospectively over 1 year of 
follow-up. Use of DES decreased from 92 in 2004 to 2006 (liberal use era; 
n=7587) to 68 in 2007 (selective use era; n=2557; P<0.001). One-year rates of 
death or myocardial infarction were similar in both eras. Over this time period, 
