identify hyponatremia and regular observation are recommended but may not be 
sufficient to prevent sudden death from drinking huge amounts of water.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1276861
PMID: 21811958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2011 May;22(5):1287-94.

[Effects of temperature on Keratella quadrata life table demography and 
morphometric characteristics].

[Article in Chinese]

Ge YL(1), Xi YL, Ma J, Xu DD.

Author information:
(1)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Biotic Environment and Ecological 
Safety/Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Conservation and Utilization for 
Important Biological Resource, College of Life Science, Anhui Normal University, 
Wuhu 241000, Anhui, China. geyali98@163.com

By the method of individual culture, this paper studied the effects of 
temperature (10 degrees C, 15 degrees C, 20 degrees C, and 25 degrees C) on the 
life table demography (net reproductive rate, intrinsic rate of population 
increase, generation time, average lifespan, and proportion of mictic offspring) 
and the offspring morphometric characteristics (body length, body width, 
antero-median spine length, left and right antero-lateral spine lengths, left 
and right posterior-spine lengths, and posterior spine number) of two 
posterior-spined, single posterior-spined, and zero posterior-spined morphotypes 
of Keratella quadrata. All the test life table demographic parameters and 
offspring morphometric parameters differed with morphotype and temperature, and 
their responses to elevated temperature differed with morphotype. Temperature 
had significant effects on the intrinsic rate of population increase, generation 
time, average lifespan, and the offspring morphometric parameters (P < 0.05); 
morphotype had significant effects on the offspring body length, antero-median 
spine length, and left and right posterior-spine lengths (P < 0.05) but less 
effects on the life table demography (P > 0.05); and the interaction of 
temperature and morphotype had significant effects on the generation time and 
all the offspring morphometric parameters (P < 0.05). Among the three 
morphotypes, the two posterior-spined morphotype had shorter offspring body 
length (122.1+/- 0.6 microm) than the zero and single posterior-spined 
morphotypes (126.3 +/- 0.7 microm and 125.1 +/- 0.7 microm, respectively). The 
offspring antero-median spine length (32.5 +/- 0.3 microm) of the two 
posterior-spined morphotype was longer than that of the zero and single 
posterior-spined morphotypes (31.1 +/- 0.3 microm and 30.8 +/- 0.3 microm, 
respectively). The offspring left and right posterior-spine lengths of the two 
posterior-spined morphotype (31.2 +/- 1.0 microm and 32.3 +/- 0.9 microm, 
respectively) were similar to those of the single posterior-spined morphotype 
(29.5 +/-0.8 microm and 31.5 +/- 0.6 microm, respectively), but shorter than 
those of the zero posterior-spin ed morphotype (36.7 +/- 1.5 microm and 37.3 +/- 
1.6 microm, respectively). The relationships between the offspring spine length, 
body width, and body length were also affected by temperature and morphotype.

PMID: 21812308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Drugs Aging. 2011 Aug 1;28(8):651-66. doi: 10.2165/11592500-000000000-00000.

Polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell arteritis in older patients: diagnosis and 
pharmacological management.

Schmidt J(1), Warrington KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and RECIF, Amiens University Hospital, 
France.

Comment in
    Drugs Aging. 2011 Oct 1;28(10):847.

Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is an inflammatory vasculopathy that involves large- 
and medium-sized arteries and can cause vision loss, stroke and aneurysms. GCA 
occurs in people aged >50 years and is more common in women. A higher incidence 
of the disease is observed in populations from Northern European countries. 
Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a periarticular inflammatory process manifesting 
as pain and stiffness in the neck, shoulders and pelvic girdle. PMR shares the 
same pattern of age and sex distribution as GCA. The pathophysiology of PMR and 
GCA is not completely understood, but the two conditions may be related and 
often occur concurrently. A delay in the diagnosis should be avoided because of 
the risk of vascular ischaemic complications due to GCA. The diagnosis should be 
considered in patients aged >50 years presenting with symptoms such as new 
headache, visual disturbances, jaw claudication or symptoms of PMR. GCA can also 
present as a systemic inflammatory syndrome with fever of unknown origin. Marked 
elevation of acute-phase reactants, recognizable in higher erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, is often seen in 
both PMR and GCA. However, some patients can present with a normal ESR. 
Confirmation of the diagnosis of GCA by temporal artery biopsy is important 
because clinical findings and laboratory tests are not specific, and because a 
diagnosis of GCA commits patients to long-term treatment with corticosteroids. 
The role of imaging techniques for the diagnosis of GCA remains unclear, but 
these modalities can be helpful in assessing the extent of vascular involvement, 
especially when extra-cranial disease is present. In PMR, subdeltoid and 
subacromial bursitis can be identified by imaging techniques, especially 
ultrasound or MRI. The clinical manifestations of GCA and PMR respond 
dramatically within 12-48 hours of starting corticosteroid treatment. The 
initial corticosteroid dosage commonly used in GCA is oral prednisone 
40-60 mg/day, and for patients with PMR a dosage of 15-20 mg/day is often 
sufficient. A prolonged course of treatment is necessary, and corticosteroids 
are gradually tapered, guided by regular clinical evaluation and ESR (and/or 
CRP) measurement. Methotrexate is the best studied corticosteroid-sparing agent 
in GCA, and may be useful for patients with frequent disease relapses and/or 
corticosteroid-related toxicity. Retrospective studies favour aspirin 
(acetylsalicylic acid) as an effective adjuvant treatment for reducing the 
ischaemic complications of GCA. The long-term course of corticosteroid therapy 
frequently exposes elderly patients with PMR/GCA to various adverse effects, 
which can be attenuated with appropriate prophylactic measures. Co-morbid 
diseases and polypharmacy can pose particular challenges in the geriatric 
population. In general, the life expectancy of patients with GCA does not appear 
to be shortened, whereas the morbidity associated with the disease and its 
treatment is well recognized.

DOI: 10.2165/11592500-000000000-00000
PMID: 21812500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Drugs Aging. 2011 Aug 1;28(8):667-77. doi: 10.2165/11591990-000000000-00000.

Exclusion of older people from clinical trials: professional views from nine 
European countries participating in the PREDICT study.

Crome P(1), Lally F, Cherubini A, Oristrell J, Beswick AD, Clarfield AM, Hertogh 
C, Lesauskaite V, Prada GI, Szczerbińska K, Topinkova E, Sinclair-Cohen J, 
Edbrooke D, Mills G.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Life Course Studies, Keele University, Staffordshire, UK. 
p.crome@med.keele.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There has been concern about under-representation of older people in 
clinical trials. The PREDICT study reported that older people and those with 
co-morbidity continue to be excluded unjustifiably from clinical trials. 
However, there is no information about differences of opinion on these issues 
between EU countries. The results of a survey of health-related professionals 
from nine EU countries that participated in the PREDICT study are presented in 
this study.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to identify and examine any differences of 
opinion between EU countries on the inclusion of older patients in clinical 
trials.
METHODS: A questionnaire using a Likert scale and free text was completed by 521 
general practitioners, geriatricians, clinical researchers, ethicists, nurses 
and industry pharmacologists/pharmacists. The questions explored the impact of 
the present situation, possible reasons for under-representation and potential 
methods of improving participation. Countries participating were the Czech 
Republic, Israel, Italy, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Spain and 
the UK.
RESULTS: There was agreement that exclusion from clinical trials on age grounds 
alone was unjustified (87%) and that under-representation of older people in 
trials caused difficulties for prescribers (79%) and patients (73%). There were 
national differences between professionals. All but the Lithuanians believed 
that older people were disadvantaged because of under-representation. The Czech, 
Lithuanian and Romanian professionals felt that it was justified to have age 
limits based on co-morbidity (61-83%) and polypharmacy (63-85%). Romanians also 
thought that having age limits on trial participation was justified because of 
reduced life expectancy (62%) and physical disability (58%) in older people. All 
but the Romanian professionals felt that the present arrangements for clinical 
trials were satisfactory (62%). All but the Israelis (56%) and Lithuanians (70%) 
agreed that regulation of clinical trials needed alteration.
CONCLUSIONS: Although respondent selection bias cannot be excluded, the 
differences that emerged between countries may be the result of the political 
and healthcare-system differences between older and newer members of the EU. 
These differences may influence decision making about clinical trial regulations 
and practice in older people.

DOI: 10.2165/11591990-000000000-00000
PMID: 21812501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2012 Apr;37(2):182-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2710.2011.01277.x.  Epub 2011 Aug 4.

What is the value for money of medicines? A registry study.

Simoens S(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Pharmaceutical Care and Pharmaco-economics, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. steven.simoens@pharm.kuleuven.be

WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Economic evaluation is used to assess the value for 
money of medicines and inform pharmaceutical pricing/reimbursement decisions in 
many countries. This paper aims to report on estimates of the value for money of 
medicines in Europe.
METHODS: Estimated cost-utilities were derived from studies included in the 
Tufts Medical Center Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry between 2000 and 2007. 
For each study, the following variables were examined: publication year, target 
population, intervention type, country of patient sample, disease 
classification, prevention stage, funding source, study perspective, 
discounting, sensitivity analysis, incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) and 
methodological quality.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Six hundred and eight ICURs were reported in 231 
cost-utility analyses. Around 17·1% of ratios related to medicines that were 
more effective and less expensive than the comparator; 76·5% related to 
medicines that improved outcomes, but increased costs; and 6·4% related to 
medicines that were less effective and more expensive than the comparator. The 
median ratio was 12,238 € per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Using threshold 
values of 20,000 and 50,000 € per QALY, the probability that medicines provided 
value for money was 58% and 81%, respectively. Preventive medicines studied 
provided more value for money than curative medicines (P=0·002). Studies 
sponsored by industry generated more favourable results than studies sponsored 
from other sources (P<0·001). However, no association was observed between the 
funding source and the methodological quality of economic evaluations.
WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: The evidence base suggests that the majority of 
medicines provided value for money. Such information informs policy decisions 
relating to the allocation of scarce health care resources in Europe.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.2011.01277.x
PMID: 21812796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Hong Kong Med J. 2011 Aug;17(4):261-6.

A synopsis of current care of thalassaemia major patients in Hong Kong.

Au WY(1), Lee V, Lau CW, Yau J, Chan D, Chan EY, Cheung WW, Ha SY, Kho B, Lee 
CY, Li RC, Li CK, Lin SY, Ling AS, Mak V, Sun L, Wong KH, Wong R, Yuen HL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong. auwing@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To provide a synopsis of current thalassaemia major patient care in 
Hong Kong.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: All haematology units of the Hospital Authority in Hong Kong.
PATIENTS: All patients with thalassaemia major with regular transfusion.
RESULTS: To date, there were 363 thalassaemia major patients under the care of 
the Hospital Authority. Prenatal diagnosis has helped to reduce the number of 
indigenous new cases, but in recent years immigrant cases are appearing. The 
patients have a mean age of 23 (range, 1-52) years, and 78% of them are adults. 
In 2009, they received 18 782 units of blood. This accounted for 9.5% of all 
blood consumption from the Hong Kong Red Cross. In the past, cardiac iron 
overload was the major cause of death (65%) and few patients survived beyond the 
age of 45 years. The availability of cardiac iron assessment by magnetic 
resonance imaging (T2 MRI) to direct the use of oral deferiprone chelation has 
reduced the prevalence of heart failure and cardiac haemosiderosis, which should 
reduce mortality and improve life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The future for thalassaemia care in Hong Kong is bright. With better 
transfusion and chelation, it should be possible to avoid growth and endocrine 
deficiencies in younger patients.

PMID: 21813892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Curr Opin Urol. 2011 Sep;21(5):415-9. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e3283490582.

Cost-effectiveness of open versus laparoscopic versus robotic-assisted 
laparoscopic cystectomy and urinary diversion.

Zehnder P(1), Gill IS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To provide insight into the recently published cost 
comparisons in the context of open, laparoscopic, and robotic-assisted 
laparoscopic radical cystectomy and to demonstrate the complexity of such 
economic analyses.
RECENT FINDINGS: Most economic evaluations are from a hospital perspective and 
summarize short-term perioperative therapeutic costs. However, the contributing 
factors (e.g. study design, included variables, robotic amortization plan, 
supply contract, surgical volume, surgeons' experience, etc.) vary substantially 
between the institutions. In addition, a real cost-effective analysis 
considering cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained is not feasible because 
of the lack of long-term oncologic and functional outcome data with the robotic 
procedure. On the basis of a modeled cost analysis using results from published 
series, robotic-assisted cystectomy was - with few exceptions - found to be more 
expensive when compared with the open approach. Immediate costs are affected 
most by operative time, followed by length of hospital stay, robotic supply, 
case volume, robotic cost, and transfusion rate. Any complication substantially 
impacts overall costs.
SUMMARY: Economic cost evaluations are complex analyses influenced by numerous 
factors that hardly allow an interinstitutional comparison. Robotic-assisted 
cystectomy is constantly refined with many institutions being somewhere on their 
learning curve. Transparent reports of oncologic and functional outcome data 
from centers of expertise applying standardized methods will help to properly 
analyze the real long-term benefits of robotic surgery and successor 
technologies and prevent us from becoming slaves of successful marketing 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e3283490582
PMID: 21814054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Rev Med Suisse. 2011 Jun 29;7(301):1436-7.

[Advocacy for genetically modified human].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 21815503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Clin Genet. 2012 Aug;82(2):140-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2011.01756.x.
Epub  2011 Aug 28.

Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type I with biallelic 
mutations in the RNU4ATAC gene.

Nagy R(1), Wang H, Albrecht B, Wieczorek D, Gillessen-Kaesbach G, Haan E, 
Meinecke P, de la Chapelle A, Westman JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Genetics, Department of Internal Medicine, The Ohio State 
University Comprehensive Cancer Center, 2001 Polaris Parkway Columbus, OH 43240, 
USA. rebecca.nagy@osumc.edu

Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type I (MOPD I) is a rare 
autosomal recessive developmental disorder characterized by extreme intrauterine 
growth retardation, severe microcephaly, central nervous system abnormalities, 
dysmorphic facial features, skin abnormalities, skeletal changes, limb 
deformations, and early death. Recently, mutations in the RNU4ATAC gene, which 
encodes U4atac, a small nuclear RNA that is a crucial component of the minor 
spliceosome, were found to cause MOPD I. MOPD I is the first disease known to be 
associated with a defect in small nuclear RNAs. We describe here the clinical 
and molecular data for 17 cases of MOPD I, including 15 previously unreported 
cases, all carrying biallelic mutations in the RNU4ATAC gene.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.2011.01756.x
PMCID: PMC3816635
PMID: 21815888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of interest.


251. Exp Eye Res. 2011 Nov;93(5):592-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.07.005. Epub
2011  Jul 27.

The association between macular pigment optical density and CFH, ARMS2, C2/BF, 
and C3 genotype.

Loane E(1), Nolan JM, McKay GJ, Beatty S.

Author information:
(1)Macular Pigment Research Group, Department of Chemical and Life Sciences, 
Waterford Institute of Technology, Waterford, Ireland. edwardloane@yahoo.com

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the most common cause of blindness in 
older people in developed countries, and risk for this condition may be 
classified as genetic or environmental, with an interaction between such factors 
predisposing to this disease. This study investigated the relationship between 
AMD risk genes, macular pigment optical density (MPOD), which may protect 
against AMD, and serum concentrations of the macular carotenoids, lutein (L) and 
zeaxanthin (Z). This was a cross-sectional study of 302 healthy adult subjects. 
Dietary intake of L and Z was assessed by food frequency questionnaire, and MPOD 
was measured by customized heterochromatic flicker photometry. We also 
calculated MPOD Area as the area of MP under the spatial profile curve, to 
reflect MP across the macula. Serum L and Z were measured by HPLC. Genotyping of 
tag SNPs in the genes CFH, ARMS2, C3, C2 and BF was undertaken with multiplex 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and primer extension methodology (ABI Snapshot, 
ABI Warrington UK) on DNA extracted from peripheral blood. The mean ± SD (range) 
age of the subjects in this study was 48 ± 11 (21-66) years. There was a 
statistically significant association between CFH genotype and family history of 
AMD, with subjects having two non-risk CFH haplotypes (n = 35), or one non-risk 
and one protective CFH haplotype (n = 33), being significantly more likely to 
have a negative family history of AMD (Pearson Chi square: p = 0.001). There was 
no significant association between the AMD risk genes investigated and either 
MPOD (One way ANOVA: p > 0.05) or serum concentrations of L or Z (One way ANOVA: 
p > 0.05, for both). Subjects who were homozygous for risk alleles of both CFH 
and ARMS2 (n = 4) had significantly lower MPOD at 0.5° and 1° retinal 
eccentricity (Independent samples t test: p < 0.05) and lower MPOD Area which 
approached statistical significance (Independent samples t test: p = 0.058), 
compared to other subjects (n = 291). In conclusion, this study did not detect 
an association between individual AMD risk genotypes and the putatively 
protective MP, or serum concentrations of its constituent carotenoids. However, 
the combination of homozygous risk alleles at both CFH and ARMS2 loci was 
associated with significantly lower MPOD centrally, despite comparable serum 
concentrations of the macular carotenoids. These findings suggest that the 
maculae of subjects at very high genetic risk of AMD represent a hostile 
environment for accumulation and/or stabilization of MP.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2011.07.005
PMID: 21816153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Can J Ophthalmol. 2011 Aug;46(4):310-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2011.07.001.
Epub  2011 Jul 19.

The cost of vision loss in Canada. 1. Methodology.

Gordon KD(1), Cruess AF, Bellan L, Mitchell S, Pezzullo ML.

Author information:
(1)Canadian National Institute for the Blind, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
keith.gordon@cnib.ca

OBJECTIVE: This paper outlines the methodology used to estimate the cost of 
vision loss in Canada. The results of this study will be presented in a second 
paper.
DESIGN: The cost of vision loss (VL) in Canada was estimated using a 
prevalence-based approach. This was done by estimating the number of people with 
VL in a base period (2007) and the costs associated with treating them. The cost 
estimates included direct health system expenditures on eye conditions that 
cause VL, as well as other indirect financial costs such as productivity losses. 
Estimates were also made of the value of the loss of healthy life, measured in 
Disability Adjusted Life Years or DALY's. To estimate the number of cases of VL 
in the population, epidemiological data on prevalence rates were applied to 
population data. The number of cases of VL was stratified by gender, age, 
ethnicity, severity and cause. The following sources were used for estimating 
prevalence: Population-based eye studies; Canadian Surveys; Canadian journal 
articles and research studies; and International Population Based Eye Studies. 
Direct health costs were obtained primarily from Health Canada and Canadian 
Institute for Health Information (CIHI) sources, while costs associated with 
productivity losses were based on employment information compiled by Statistics 
Canada and on economic theory of productivity loss. Costs related to vision 
rehabilitation (VR) were obtained from Canadian VR organizations.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that it is possible to estimate the costs for VL 
for a country in the absence of ongoing local epidemiological studies.

Copyright © 2011 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2011.07.001
PMID: 21816248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Can J Ophthalmol. 2011 Aug;46(4):315-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2011.06.006.
Epub  2011 Jul 7.

The cost of vision loss in Canada. 2. Results.

Cruess AF(1), Gordon KD, Bellan L, Mitchell S, Pezzullo ML.

Author information:
(1)Dalhousie University, Halifax Nova Scotia, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to provide the financial underpinnings 
necessary for effective planning for the provision of eye health services in 
Canada. Canada is facing an aging demographic and all the major eye diseases are 
diseases associated with aging. It is essential that we have information based 
on the best available data to support national and provincial vision health 
plans.
DESIGN: The design associated with the prevalence-based approach used in this 
study was outlined previously in detail in The Cost of Vision Loss in Canada: 
Methodology.
METHODS: The methods associated with the prevalence-based approach used in this 
study were previously outlined in detail in The Cost of Vision Loss in Canada: 
Methodology.
RESULTS: The financial cost of VL in Canada in 2007 was estimated to be $15.8 
billion per annum: $8.6 billion (54.6%) represents direct health system 
expenditure; $4.4 billion (28.0%) was productivity lost due to lower employment, 
higher absenteeism, and premature death of Canadians with VL; $1.8 billion 
(11.1%) was the dead weight losses (DWL) from transfers including welfare 
payments and taxation forgone; $0.7 billion (4.4%) was the value of the care for 
people with VL; $305 million (1.9%) was other indirect costs such as aids and 
home modifications and the bring forward of funeral costs. Additionally, the 
value of the lost well-being (disability and premature death) was estimated at a 
further $11.7 billion. In per capita terms, this amounts to a financial cost of 
$19370 per person with VL per annum. Including the value of lost well-being, the 
cost is $33704 per person per annum.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a growing awareness in Canada and around the world of the 
impact of VL on health costs and on the economy in general. This awareness is 
supported by the growing number of independent studies on the cost of vision 
loss both nationally and globally. Because most of these studies are limited by 
the minimal amount of available data, the overall cost of vision loss is likely 
underestimated. Nevertheless, this study reports the cost of vision loss in 
Canada as being greater than previously reported, making the problem even more 
urgent to address. A comprehensive national vision health plan, that is a 
coordinated federal, provincial and territorial initiative dealing with all 
aspects of vision loss prevention, sight restoration, and vision rehabilitation 
is called for.

Copyright © 2011 Canadian Ophthalmological Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2011.06.006
PMID: 21816249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Clin Epidemiol. 2012 Jan;65(1):42-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2011.04.009.
Epub  2011 Aug 4.

Number needed to treat is incorrect without proper time-related considerations.

Suissa D(1), Brassard P, Smiechowski B, Suissa S.

Author information:
(1)Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Hôpital Notre-Dame, Quebec, 
Canada.

The number needed to treat (NNT) is a simple measure of a treatment's impact, 
increasingly reported in randomized trials and observational studies. Its 
calculation in studies involving varying follow-up times or recurrent outcomes 
has been criticized. We discuss the NNT in these contexts, illustrating using 
several published studies. The computation of the NNT is founded on the 
cumulative incidence of the outcome. Instead, several published studies use 
simple proportions that do not account for varying follow-up times, or use 
incidence rates per person-time. We show that these approaches can lead to 
erroneous values of the NNT and misleading interpretations. For example, after 
converting the incidence rate to a cumulative incidence, we show that a trial 
reporting a NNT of 4 "to prevent one exacerbation in 1 year" should have 
reported a NNT of 9. A survey of all papers reporting NNT, published in four 
major medical journals in 2009, found that 6 out of all 10 papers involving 
varying follow-up times did not correctly estimate the NNT. As the "number 
needed to treat" becomes increasingly used in complex studies and in the 
comparative effectiveness of therapies, its accurate estimation and 
interpretation become crucial to avoid erroneous clinical and public health 
decisions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2011.04.009
PMID: 21816576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Am J Sports Med. 2011 Oct;39(10):2199-205. doi: 10.1177/0363546511416198.
Epub  2011 Aug 4.

Acute injuries to the posterolateral corner of the knee in children: a case 
series of 6 patients.

von Heideken J(1), Mikkelsson C, Boström Windhamre H, Janarv PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden. johan.von.heideken@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Isolated avulsion fractures of the posterolateral structures (the 
popliteus tendon, the lateral collateral ligament, and the popliteofibular 
ligament) of the knee are rare.
PURPOSE: To describe the outcome after an isolated avulsion fracture at the 
femoral attachment of the posterolateral structures in skeletally immature 
patients and to communicate our clinical experience concerning diagnosis and 
treatment.
STUDY DESIGN: Case series; Level of evidence, 4.
METHODS: Six skeletally immature patients (mean age, 13.3 years; range, 
12.6-13.7 years; 5 boys, 1 girl) with an avulsion fracture of the femoral 
attachment of the posterolateral structures were evaluated on average 5.1 years 
(range, 2.7-8.3 years) after the injury. Five patients were treated with open 
reduction and fixation of the fragment. The sixth patient was treated 
nonoperatively with cast immobilization. The evaluation was based on 
reassessment of radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI scans), 
registration of activity level, and examination of objective and subjective knee 
function.
RESULTS: The injury involved both the popliteus tendon and the lateral 
collateral ligament in 5 of the 6 cases. In the operated patients, the mean 
Lysholm knee score was 98 (range, 94-100) (0-100, with higher scores indicating 
a better outcome). The mean Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) 
quality of life (QOL) was 80 (range, 50-100) (0-100, with higher scores 
indicating a better outcome). The range of motion and the KT-1000 arthrometer 
anterior laxity measurements were normal. The nonoperatively treated patient 
with involvement of both the popliteus tendon and the lateral collateral 
ligament suffered a bone bridge in the periphery of the femoral physis, causing 
a valgus deformity of the knee. An open wedge femoral osteotomy was performed. 
The Lysholm knee score was 80, and KOOS QOL was 25 at follow-up. The patient 
also had an extension deficit of 5° and a flexion deficit of 10°.
CONCLUSION: An avulsion of the femoral attachment of the posterolateral 
structures in skeletally immature patients may involve both the popliteus tendon 
and the lateral collateral ligament. Open reduction and fixation of the fragment 
gave a satisfactory outcome.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546511416198
PMID: 21816984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Neurol. 2012 Mar;259(3):462-8. doi: 10.1007/s00415-011-6202-y. Epub 2011
Aug  5.

The impact of motor and non motor symptoms on health state values in newly 
diagnosed idiopathic Parkinson's disease.

Shearer J(1), Green C, Counsell CE, Zajicek JP.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, 
University of Exeter, Veysey Building, Salmon Pool Lane, Exeter, EX2 4SG, UK. 
james.shearer@pms.ac.uk

The aim of the study was to estimate health state utility values in newly 
diagnosed idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) for use in the assessment of 
health-related quality-of-life (HRQL), and in the estimation of quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). Data from 162 patients enrolled in a community-based 
incidence study of PD were used to estimate health state utility values. 
Self-report data from the EQ-5D, a generic measure of HRQL, were used to derive 
preference-based health state utility values. The impact of motor and non motor 
symptoms, and other clinical and demographic factors, on the derived EQ-5D 
health state values was examined in univariate and multivariate analyses. The 
mean health state utility value for recently diagnosed PD patients was estimated 
at 0.65 ± 0.27. Significant reductions in health state values were attributable 
to pain (-0.18), motor functioning (-0.16), depression (-0.12), and insomnia 
(-0.11). Depression had its greatest impact (-0.19) in patients in the less 
severe stages of PD (i.e. Hoehn Yahr stages ≤2.5). This study shows, through the 
presentation of QALY values, that there is scope to achieve significant health 
gains in newly diagnosed idiopathic PD patients via improved management of pain, 
depression and insomnia, alongside the treatment of primary motor symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-011-6202-y
PMID: 21818689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 2012;355:217-32. doi: 10.1007/82_2011_166.

Adjuvant trials of targeted agents: the newest battleground in the war on 
cancer.

Cohen RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Genentech Inc, South San Francisco, CA, USA. cohen.robert@gene.com

Two of the great successes in the many decades-long 'war on cancer' are the 
emergence of adjuvant chemotherapy regimens with lifesaving potential and the 
subsequent wave of 'targeted' therapies addressing the unique vulnerabilities of 
particular tumor types. The first intersection of adjuvant treatment and 
targeted treatment resulted in a spectacularly positive outcome as the addition 
of the anti-HER2 humanized monoclonal antibody trastuzumab to the standard 
adjuvant chemotherapy essentially halved the relapse rate among women with 
HER2+ tumors. Subsequent studies of adjuvant trastuzumab have confirmed its 
dramatic efficacy in a variety of chemotherapeutic contexts and have been 
instructive in elucidating some of the challenges ahead for newer targeted 
agents. The recent negative experience with bevacizumab in the adjuvant colon 
cancer setting suggests pitfalls and limitations of the current approach to 
developing adjuvant regimens. A change in thinking may be required to gain the 
substantial benefits implied by the trastuzumab experience in the broader 
context of the targeted treatments. The case for a revitalized 
industry/academia/government partnership to address these challenges is 
compelling, with the potential for enormous patient and societal benefit. In 
order to bring potentially lifesaving benefits of this new generation of cancer 
drugs to patients more rapidly, changes to our 'war strategy' appear necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/82_2011_166
PMID: 21818704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Addiction. 2011 Oct;106(10):1718-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2011.03605.x.

Alcohol consumption and non-communicable diseases: epidemiology and policy 
implications.

Parry CD(1), Patra J, Rehm J.

Author information:
(1)Alcohol and Drug Abuse Research Unit, Medical Research Council, South Africa. 
cparry@mrc.ac.za

AIMS: This paper summarizes the relationships between different patterns of 
alcohol consumption and various on non-communicable disease (NCD) outcomes and 
estimates the percentage of NCD burden that is attributable to alcohol.
METHODS: A narrative review, based on published meta-analyses of alcohol 
consumption-disease relations, together with an examination of the Comparative 
Risk Assessment estimates applied to the latest available revision of Global 
Burden of Disease study.
RESULTS: Alcohol is causally linked (to varying degrees) to eight different 
cancers, with the risk increasing with the volume consumed. Similarly, alcohol 
use is related detrimentally to many cardiovascular outcomes, including 
hypertension, haemorrhagic stroke and atrial fibrillation. For other 
cardiovascular outcomes the relationship is more complex. Alcohol is furthermore 
linked to various forms of liver disease (particularly with fatty liver, 
alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis) and pancreatitis. For diabetes the 
relationship is also complex. Conservatively, of the global NCD-related burden 
of deaths, net years of life lost (YLL) and net disability adjusted life years 
(DALYs), 3.4%, 5.0% and 2.4%, respectively, can be attributed to alcohol 
consumption, with the burden being particularly high for cancer and liver 
cirrhosis. This burden is especially pronounced in countries of the former 
Soviet Union.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a strong link between alcohol and non-communicable 
diseases, particularly cancer, cardiovascular disease, liver disease, 
pancreatitis and diabetes, and these findings support calls by the World Health 
Organization to implement evidence-based strategies to reduce harmful use of 
alcohol.

© 2011 The Authors, Addiction © 2011 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2011.03605.x
PMCID: PMC3174337
PMID: 21819471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests: none


259. BMC Public Health. 2011 Aug 5;11:627. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-627.

Rationale and methods of the multicenter randomised trial of a heart failure 
management programme among geriatric patients (HF-Geriatrics).

Pascual CR(1), Galán EP, Guerrero JL, Colino RM, Soler PA, Calvo MH, Jaurieta 
JJ, Arambarri JM, Casado JM, Rodríguez-Artalejo F.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Geriatría, Hospital Meixoeiro, Complejo Hospitalario 
Universitario de Vigo, Departamento de Medicina, Universidad de Santiago de 
Compostela, Meixoeiro s.n. 36200 Vigo (Pontevedra), SPAIN. 
carlos.rodriguez.pascual@sergas.es

BACKGROUND: Disease management programmes (DMPs) have been shown to reduce 
hospital readmissions and mortality in adults with heart failure (HF), but their 
effectiveness in elderly patients or in those with major comorbidity is unknown. 
The Multicenter Randomised Trial of a Heart Failure Management Programme among 
Geriatric Patients (HF-Geriatrics) assesses the effectiveness of a DMP in 
elderly patients with HF and major comorbidity.
METHODS/DESIGN: Clinical trial in 700 patients aged ≥ 75 years admitted with a 
primary diagnosis of HF in the acute care unit of eight geriatric services in 
Spain. Each patient should meet at least one of the following comorbidty 
criteria: Charlson index ≥ 3, dependence in ≥ 2 activities of daily living, 
treatment with ≥ 5 drugs, active treatment for ≥ 3 diseases, recent emergency 
hospitalization, severe visual or hearing loss, cognitive impairment, 
Parkinson's disease, diabetes mellitus, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD), anaemia, or constitutional syndrome. Half of the patients will be 
randomly assigned to a 1-year DMP led by a case manager and the other half to 
usual care. The DMP consists of an educational programme for patients and 
caregivers on the management of HF, COPD (knowledge of the disease, smoking 
cessation, immunizations, use of inhaled medication, recognition of 
exacerbations), diabetes (knowledge of the disease, symptoms of hyperglycaemia 
and hypoglycaemia, self-adjustment of insulin, foot care) and depression 
(knowledge of the disease, diagnosis and treatment). It also includes close 
monitoring of the symptoms of decompensation and optimisation of treatment 
compliance. The main outcome variables are quality of life, hospital 
readmissions, and overall mortality during a 12-month follow-up.
DISCUSSION: The physiological changes, lower life expectancy, comorbidity and 
low health literacy associated with aging may influence the effectiveness of 
DMPs in HF. The HF-Geriatrics study will provide direct evidence on the effect 
of a DMP in elderly patients with HF and high comorbidty, and will reduce the 
need to extrapolate the results of clinical trials in adults to elderly 
patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01076465).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-627
PMCID: PMC3176217
PMID: 21819564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Neurobiol Dis. 2012 Jan;45(1):137-44. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2011.07.015. Epub
2011  Jul 28.

Diapocynin and apocynin administration fails to significantly extend survival in 
G93A SOD1 ALS mice.

Trumbull KA(1), McAllister D, Gandelman MM, Fung WY, Lew T, Brennan L, Lopez N, 
Morré J, Kalyanaraman B, Beckman JS.

Author information:
(1)Linus Pauling Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Oregon 
State University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA.

NADPH oxidase has recently been identified as a promising new therapeutic target 
in ALS. Genetic deletion of NADPH oxidase (Nox2) in the transgenic SOD1(G93A) 
mutant mouse model of ALS was reported to increase survival remarkably by 97 
days. Furthermore, apocynin, a widely used inhibitor of NADPH oxidase, was 
observed to dramatically extend the survival of the SOD1(G93A) ALS mice even 
longer to 113 days (Harraz et al. J Clin Invest 118: 474, 2008). Diapocynin, the 
covalent dimer of apocynin, has been reported to be a more potent inhibitor of 
NADPH oxidase. We compared the protection of diapocynin to apocynin in primary 
cultures of SOD1(G93A)-expressing motor neurons against nitric oxide-mediated 
death. Diapocynin, 10 μM, provided significantly greater protection compared to 
apocynin, 200 μM, at the lowest statistically significant concentrations. 
However, administration of diapocynin starting at 21 days of age in the 
SOD1(G93A)-ALS mouse model did not extend lifespan. Repeated parallel 
experiments with apocynin failed to yield protection greater than a 5-day life 
extension in multiple trials conducted at two separate institutions. The maximum 
protection observed was an 8-day extension in survival when diapocynin was 
administered at 100 days of age at disease onset. HPLC with selective ion 
monitoring by mass spectrometry revealed that both apocynin and diapocynin 
accumulated in the brain and spinal cord tissue to low micromolar 
concentrations. Diapocynin was also detected in the CNS of apocynin-treated 
mice. The failure to achieve significant protection with either apocynin or 
diapocynin raises questions about the utility for treating ALS patients.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2011.07.015
PMCID: PMC3710723
PMID: 21820513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Oct;54(4):938-46. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.03.264. Epub
2011  Aug 6.

An economic evaluation of an abdominal aortic aneurysm screening program in 
Italy.

Giardina S(1), Pane B, Spinella G, Cafueri G, Corbo M, Brasseur P, Orengo G, 
Palombo D.

Author information:
(1)Medtronic Italia S.p.A., Sesto San Giovanni (MI), Italy. 
stefano.giardina@medtronic.com

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2011 Oct;54(4):946.

OBJECTIVES: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is defined as a localized dilatation 
of an aortic vessel. Though predominantly asymptomatic, it is a chronic 
degenerative condition associated with life-threatening risk of rupture. The 
early diagnosis of AAA, ie, before it ruptures, is therefore important; a 
simple, effective diagnostic method is ultrasound examination. To assess the 
benefit of screening in Italy, we developed a cost-effective Markov model 
comparing screening vs nonscreening scenarios.
METHODS: A 13-health-states Markov model was developed to compare two cohorts of 
65- to 75-year-old men: the first group undergoing screening for AAA by means of 
ultrasound (US), the second following the current practice of incidental 
detection. The following health states were distinguished: no AAA, unknown small 
AAA (3-3.9 cm), followed-up small AAA (1 year), unknown medium-sized AAA (4-4.9 
cm), followed-up medium-sized AAA (6 months), unknown large AAA (>5 cm), 
elective repair, emergency repair, postelective-repair AAA, postemergency-repair 
AAA, rejected large AAA, and death. Transitions between health states were 
simulated by using 6-month cycles. Transition probabilities were derived from a 
literature review of relevant randomized controlled trial and from a screening 
program that is currently ongoing at San Martino Hospital in Genoa, Italy. The 
Italian National Health Service (NHS) perspective was adopted and incremental 
cost per life-year saved was calculated with a lifetime horizon; costs and 
health benefits were discounted at an annual rate of 3% from year 2 onward. 
Uncertainty surrounding the model inputs was tested by means of univariate, 
multivariate, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Considering an attendance rate of 62%, the individual cost per invited 
subject was €60 (US $83.2); 0.011 additional quality adjusted life years (QALY) 
were gained per patient in the screened cohort, corresponding to an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of €5673/QALY (US $7870/QALY). The results were 
sensitive to some parameter variations but consistent with the base case 
scenario. They suggest that on the basis of a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
€50,000/QALY, screening for AAA is cost-effective, with a probability 
approaching 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: As in economic evaluations developed in other countries, such as 
the UK, Canada, and The Netherlands, setting up a screening program for AAA can 
be considered cost-effective from the Italian NHS perspective.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.03.264
PMID: 21820837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Health Aff (Millwood). 2011 Aug;30(8):1478-87. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2010.1055.

Survey in sub-Saharan Africa shows substantial support for government efforts to 
improve health services.

Abiola SE(1), Gonzales R, Blendon RJ, Benson J.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. 
sabiola@hsph.harvard.edu

Public opinion can play an important role in shaping health policy alternatives 
and outcomes. However, little is known about how citizens in developing 
countries evaluate government performance in the health sector. Through a survey 
conducted in 2008 in twenty sub-Saharan African countries, we examined public 
priorities and perceptions of government efforts to improve health services. In 
sixteen of these countries, health was one of the top five priorities the public 
thought the government should address. A staggering proportion of citizens in 
most of the sampled countries reported having gone without medicines or medical 
treatment in the previous year, and going without health care was most strongly 
correlated with views on health services. By contrast, greater access to health 
care was associated with more positive impressions of government efforts to 
improve health services. Population health indicators, such as life expectancy 
and childhood mortality, were not correlated with citizens' evaluation of 
government efforts. Results suggest that improving access to health care will be 
a key factor in improving perceptions of government performance.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2010.1055
PMID: 21821564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Europace. 2011 Nov;13(11):1597-603. doi: 10.1093/europace/eur188. Epub 2011
Aug  6.

Cost effectiveness of cardiac resynchronization therapy in Greece: an analysis 
based on the CArdiac REsychronization in Heart Failure trial.

Maniadakis N(1), Ekman M, Calvert MJ, Freemantle N, Karamalis M, Vardas P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Management, National School of Public Health, 
Athens, Greece. nmaniadakis@esdy.edu.gr

AIMS: Health economic considerations have become increasingly important in 
healthcare. The aim of this study was to investigate the incremental cost 
effectiveness of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) plus medical therapy 
compared with medical therapy alone in the Greek health-care system.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The health economic analysis was based on the CARE-HF 
trial, a randomized clinical trial estimating the efficacy of adding CRT (n = 
409) to optimal pharmacological treatment (n = 404) in patients with 
moderate-to-severe heart failure with markers of cardiac dyssynchrony. Health 
care resource use from CArdiac REsychronization in Heart Failure was combined 
with costs for CRT implantation and hospitalization from publicly available 
sources. The analysis was based on a lifetime perspective, with the life 
expectancy estimated from the clinical trial data. Shorter time horizons were 
explored in the sensitivity analysis. The cost per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained with CRT was €6,045 in Greece, with a 95% confidence interval for 
the cost-effectiveness ratio of €4,292-9,411 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the economic evaluation of CRT in Greek health-care 
setting indicate that it is a cost-effective treatment compared with traditional 
pharmacological therapy. Cardiac resynchronization therapy can therefore be 
recommended for routine use in patients with moderate-to-severe heart failure 
and markers of dyssynchrony.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eur188
PMID: 21821852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Am J Ther. 2013 Nov-Dec;20(6):596-601. doi: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e3182211a01.

Cost effectiveness of drug-eluting stents as compared with bare metal stents in 
patients with coronary artery disease.

Wisløff T(1), Atar D, Sønbø Kristiansen I.

Author information:
(1)1Health Economics and Drug Unit, Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health 
Services; 2Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of 
Health and Society, University of Oslo, Norway; 3Department of Cardiology B, 
Oslo University Hospital Ullevål; and 4Faculty of Medicine, Institute of 
Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway.

The aim of this study was to estimate the incremental cost effectiveness of 
replacing bare metal stents (BMS) by drug-eluting stents (DES) when using trial 
data and registry data. We developed a Markov model (model of cost effectiveness 
of coronary artery disease) in which 60-year-old patients started by undergoing 
percutaneous coronary intervention for acute or subacute coronary artery 
disease. The patients are followed until death or 100 years of age. Data on the 
occurrence of events (revascularization, acute myocardial infarction, and death) 
were based on Scandinavian registry data. Separate analyses were conducted with 
data on effectiveness based on randomized controlled trials and patient 
registries. On using trial data, it was found that sirolimus-eluting stents 
(SES) yield 0.003 greater life expectancy and $3300 lower costs than do BMS 
(dominant strategy). Paclitaxel-eluting stents (PES) yield 0.148 more life years 
than do SES at additional lifetime costs of $2800 ($21,400 per life year 
gained). On using registry data, the cost per life year gained was found to be 
$4900 when replacing BMS with DES. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses, on the 
other hand, indicate that PES only has a 50%-75% probability of being cost 
effective, regardless of the type of effectiveness data. DESs are cost effective 
with current willingness to pay for life year gains. Whether PES or SES is the 
most effective DES remains uncertain.

DOI: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e3182211a01
PMID: 21822114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Leuk Lymphoma. 2012 Feb;53(2):225-34. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2011.605918.
Epub  2011 Sep 19.

Cost-effectiveness of adding rituximab to fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for 
the treatment of previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Hornberger J(1), Reyes C, Shewade A, Lerner S, Friedmann M, Han L, Gutierrez H, 
Satram-Hoang S, Keating MJ.

Author information:
(1)Cedar Associates LLC, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA. jhornberger@cedarecon.com

A recent phase III trial demonstrated improved progression-free survival (PFS) 
and overall survival (OS) associated with adding rituximab to fludarabine and 
cyclophosphamide (R-FC) compared to FC in treatment of previously untreated 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A cost-effectiveness analysis of R-FC over 
FC was performed from a US third-party payer perspective over a lifetime horizon 
in the base case. One-way, two-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
conducted to assess the robustness of the results. A secondary analysis was 
performed by also considering a societal perspective. R-FC was associated with 
an incremental 1.15 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) compared to FC and 
resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $23 530 per QALY in the 
base case and $31 513 per QALY considering a societal perspective. Results were 
most sensitive to time horizon, discount rate and unit drug cost for rituximab. 
Within the limitations of modeling long-term outcomes, R-FC is cost-effective 
for previously untreated CLL.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2011.605918
PMID: 21824050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Curr Opin Struct Biol. 2011 Oct;21(5):622-6. doi: 10.1016/j.sbi.2011.07.005.
 Epub 2011 Aug 6.

X-ray crystallography at the heart of life science.

Yonath A(1).

Author information:
(1)Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. 
ada.yonath@weizmann.ac.il

X-ray crystallography is the fundamental research tool that shaped our notion on 
biological structure & function at the molecular level. It generates the 
information vital to understand life processes by providing the information 
required for creating accurate three-dimensional models (namely mapping the 
position of each and every atom that makes up the studied object). The use of 
this method begun in the middle of last century following Max von Laue discovery 
of the phenomenon of diffraction of X-rays by crystals, and the successful 
application of this discovery for the determination of the electronic 
distribution within simple inorganic molecules by Sir William Henry Bragg and 
his son, William Lawrence Bragg. The idea of extension of this method to 
biological molecules met initially with considerable skepticism. For over two 
decades many respected scientists doubted whether it could be done. Yet, despite 
its bottlenecks (some of which are described below), the superiority of X-ray 
crystallography over all other approaches for shedding light on functional 
aspects at the molecular level became evident once the first structure was 
determined. The power of this method inspired continuous efforts and spectacular 
innovations, which vastly accelerated its incredible expansion. Consequently, 
