The prevalence of gout is increasing with increased life expectancy. 
Approximately half of the patients with gout have some degree of renal 
impairment. If both conditions persistently coexist, and in severe tophaceous 
gout, in particular, treatment has been difficult. We here report on the case of 
an 87-year-old woman, who had been suffering from recurrent gouty arthritis over 
4 years. Monthly polyarthritis attacks were accompanied by subcutaneous tophi. 
Serum uric acid levels were constantly above 600 μmol/L (10 mg/dL). Allopurinol 
was no option because of intolerance, while benzbromarone was ineffective 
because of renal impairment. Therefore, the novel xanthin oxidase inhibitor 
febuxostat was started, achieving rapid control of serum urate levels 
(<360 μmol/L). After initial worsening of inflammation in the first weeks, gouty 
attacks stopped and all tophi resolved within the following 10 months. Renal 
function remained stable.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/397646
PMCID: PMC3099210
PMID: 21629805


800. Int J Hypertens. 2011;2011:196518. doi: 10.4061/2011/196518. Epub 2011 Mar
30.

Renal Sympathetic Denervation for the Treatment of Difficult-to-Control or 
Resistant Hypertension.

Papademetriou V(1), Doumas M, Tsioufis K.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs and Georgetown University Medical Centers, 50 Irving Street, 
Washington, DC 20422, USA.

Hypertension represents a major health problem with an appalling annual toll. 
Despite the plethora of antihypertensive drugs, hypertension remains resistant 
in a considerable number of patients, thus creating the need for alternative 
strategies, including interventional approaches. Recently, catheter-based renal 
sympathetic denervation has been shown to be fairly safe and effective in 
patients with resistant hypertension. Pathophysiology of kidney function, 
interaction and crosstalk between the kidney and the brain, justifies the use of 
renal sympathetic denervation in the treatment of hypertension. Data from older 
studies have shown that sympathectomy has effectively lowered blood pressure and 
prolonged life expectancy of hypertensive patients, but at considerable cost. 
Renal sympathetic denervation is devoid of the adverse effects of surgical 
sympathectomy, due to its localized nature, is minimally invasive, and provides 
short procedural and recovery times. This paper outlines the pathophysiological 
background for renal sympathetic denervation, describes the past and the present 
of this interventional approach, and considers several future potential 
applications.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/196518
PMCID: PMC3095896
PMID: 21629864


801. Neurosurg Focus. 2011 Jun;30(6):E2. doi: 10.3171/2011.3.FOCUS1143.

Evidence-based treatment of carotid artery stenosis.

Young KC(1), Jain A, Jain M, Replogle RE, Benesch CG, Jahromi BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, 
New York 14620, USA.

Comment in
    Neurosurg Focus. 2011 Jun;30(6):E3.

Carotid atheromatous disease is an important cause of stroke. Carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA) is a well-established option for reducing the risk of 
subsequent stroke due to symptomatic stenosis (> 50%). With adequately low 
perioperative risk (< 3%) and sufficient life expectancy, CEA may be used for 
asymptomatic stenosis (> 60%). Recently, carotid angioplasty and stent placement 
(CAS) has emerged as an alternative revascularization technique. Trial design 
considerations are discussed in relation to trial results to provide an 
understanding of why some trials were considered positive whereas others were 
not. This review then addresses both the original randomized studies showing 
that CEA is superior to best medical management and the newer studies comparing 
the procedure to stent insertion in both symptomatic and asymptomatic 
populations. Additionally, recent population-based studies show that 
improvements in best medical management may be lowering the stroke risk for 
asymptomatic stenosis. Finally, the choice of revascularization technique is 
discussed with respect to symptom status. Based on current evidence, CAS should 
remain limited to specific indications.

DOI: 10.3171/2011.3.FOCUS1143
PMID: 21631221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Curr HIV Res. 2011 Jun;9(4):247-52. doi: 10.2174/157016211796320360.

The burden of metabolic diseases amongst HIV positive patients on HAART 
attending The Johannesburg Hospital.

Julius H(1), Basu D, Ricci E, Wing J, Basu JK, Pocaterra D, Bonfanti P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease, Azienda Ospendaliera di Lecco, Italy.

South Africa has the highest prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection in the world. The improved life expectancy, due to the recent 
introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), may lead to an 
increased health burden related to metabolic disorders, resulting in an 
increased pressure on health-care services. The main objective of this study was 
to determine the prevalence of hypertension, diabetes, obesity and dyslipidemia 
in a sample of HAART-treated HIV infected patients, attending an HIV clinic in 
the Gauteng province. This was a cross-sectional study of 304 HIV positive 
patients enrolled between January 2009 and March 2009, including patients aged 
18 to 45 years, on HAART for more than one year. Hypertension prevalence was 
19.1% (95% confidence interval (CI) 14.7-23.5): 23.9% in men and 17.7% in women 
(P=0.10). Diabetes was diagnosed in 4 women. Hypercholesterolemia (total 
cholesterol >5.00 mmol/mL) was found in 32.2% (95% CI 27.0-37.5), low HDL 
cholesterol (<1.20 mmol/mL) in 45.7% (95% CI 40.1-51.3) and elevated LDL 
cholesterol (>4.10 mmol/mL) in 9.5% (95% CI 6.2-12.8); these prevalences were 
not different between sexes, whereas hypertriglyceridemia (>2.25 mmol(mL) 
(15.8%, 95% CI 11.7-19.9) was significantly more frequent in men (28.4% versus 
12.2%, P=0.002). TC and LDL-C were positively correlated with CD4+ cell count 
(r=0.13, P=0.03 and r=0.12, P=0.03). In this sample, the traditional risk 
factors for cardiovascular disease had a high prevalence, despite the young age 
of our patients. Women seemed to be at higher risk than man, unlike other HIV 
populations where these comparisons were made (Uganda, Italy and Norway). 
Obesity and lipid abnormalities, highly prevalent in the general population, 
also appeared related to HIV-infection and CD4+ cell count, presumably as a 
consequence of ART exposure. Further studies are needed in order to survey a 
population where HIV infection is turning into a chronic disease, with its 
complications.

DOI: 10.2174/157016211796320360
PMID: 21631427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Br J Sociol. 2011 Jun;62(2):262-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-4446.2011.01364.x.

Ageing in a spectacular 'youth culture': continuity, change and community 
amongst older goths.

Hodkinson P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Surrey, UK. p.hodkinson@surrey.ac.uk

This article explores the continuing involvement in youth music and style 
cultures of older participants through examination of the case study of the goth 
scene. It does so in the context of a widespread neglect, until recently, of 
what happens to participants of 'youth cultures' as they move beyond adolescence 
and also of a growing consensus about the broadening of youth itself as a life 
course period. Drawing on recent work on older participants in other music and 
style related groupings, the article uses original qualitative research to 
examine the developing lives and identities of goths as they become older. 
Rather than regarding continuing participation as a simple extension of youth, 
the focus is on the ways participation accompanied and was reconciled with 
material, domestic and physical elements of developing adult lives. Through 
reference to the case study, I emphasize the ways the experience of ageing for 
long-term music and style culture participants can constitute a collective 
experience.

© London School of Economics and Political Science 2011.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-4446.2011.01364.x
PMID: 21631458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2011 Sep-Oct;39(7):623-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02530.x. Epub 2011 Jun 9.

Economic impact of primary open-angle glaucoma in Australia.

Dirani M(1), Crowston JG, Taylor PS, Moore PT, Rogers S, Pezzullo ML, Keeffe JE, 
Taylor HR.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne Royal Victorian 
Eye & Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria Access Economics Pty Limited, Canberra, 
ACT, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is the World's leading cause of irreversible blindness, and 
poses serious public health and economic concerns.
DESIGN:   Review.
SAMPLES: Published randomized trials and population-based studies since 1985.
METHODS: We report the economic impact of primary open-angle glaucoma and model 
the effect of changes in detection rates and management strategies.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The cost-effectiveness of different interventions to 
prevent vision loss from primary open-angle glaucoma was measured in terms of 
financial cost (Australian dollars) and disability-adjusted life years.
RESULTS: The prevalence of glaucoma in Australia is expected to increase from 
208 000 in 2005 to 379 000 in 2025 because of the aging population. Health 
system costs over the same time period are estimated to increase from $AU355 
million to $AU784 million. Total costs (health system costs, indirect costs and 
costs of loss of well-being) will increase from $AU1.9 billion to $AU4.3 billion 
in Australia.
CONCLUSION: Primary open-angle glaucoma poses a significant economic burden, 
which will increase substantially by 2025. This dynamic model provides a 
valuable tool for ongoing policy formulation and determining the economic impact 
of interventions to better prevent visual impairment and blindness from 
glaucoma.

© 2011 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology © 2011 Royal 
Australian and New Zealand College of Ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2011.02530.x
PMID: 21631669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Vet Emerg Crit Care (San Antonio). 2011 Jun;21(3):279-84. doi: 
10.1111/j.1476-4431.2011.00637.x. Epub 2011 May 17.

Uveitis associated with septic peritonitis in a cat.

Pumphrey SA(1), Pirie CG, Rozanski EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Tufts Cummings School of Veterinary 
Medicine, North Grafton, MA 01536, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To report a case of bilateral uveitis believed to be a consequence of 
septic peritonitis in a 19-month-old cat.
CASE SUMMARY: Bilateral anterior uveitis with suspicion of extension to the 
posterior segment was documented in a previously healthy young cat during 
hospitalization for severe septic peritonitis. Based on medical history and 
other findings uveitis was believed to result from concurrent abdominal sepsis, 
due either to metastatic seeding of bacterial organisms or to effects of 
bacterial toxins and inflammatory mediators on the blood-aqueous barrier. The 
cat was surgically and medically managed, and made a full recovery with respect 
to both his ocular and his abdominal disease.
NEW OR UNIQUE INFORMATION PROVIDED: Ocular complications secondary to systemic 
sepsis are well documented in people but seldom reported in the veterinary 
literature. To the authors' knowledge this is the first report of uveitis linked 
to septic peritonitis in any veterinary species and the first to report 
sepsis-related uveitis in a cat. Ocular inflammatory disease in the context of 
critical illness deserves attention as a potential significant source of 
morbidity. The development of ocular inflammatory disease may serve as a 
sentinel lesion for systemic sepsis and other life-threatening conditions.

© Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care Society 2011.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-4431.2011.00637.x
PMID: 21631715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Bioresour Technol. 2011 Aug;102(16):7538-47. doi: 
10.1016/j.biortech.2011.04.070. Epub 2011 May 5.

A thermotolerant and cold-active mannan endo-1,4-β-mannosidase from Aspergillus 
niger CBS 513.88: Constitutive overexpression and high-density fermentation in 
Pichia pastoris.

Zhao W(1), Zheng J, Zhou HB.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Biometallurgy of Ministry of Education, Central South 
University, Changsha 410083, China. wei.zhao.csu@gmail.com

The mannan endo-1,4-β-mannosidase gene man26A from Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88 
was optimized according to the codon usage bias in Pichia pastoris and 
synthesized by splicing overlap extension PCR. It was successfully expressed in 
P. pastoris using constitutive expression vector pGAPzαA. The recombinant 
endo-beta-1,4-mannanase could work in an extremely board temperature range and 
over 30% relative activity were retained in the temperature range of 5-60°C. The 
optimal pH value and temperature for activity were 5.0 and 45°C, respectively. 
It was highly thermotolerant with a half-life time of 15min at 90°C. A novel 
fed-batch strategy was developed successfully for high cell-density fermentation 
and mannanase activity reached 5069U/mL after cultivation for 56h in 50L 
fermenter. The broad working temperature range, high thermotolerance and 
efficient expression made this enzyme possible to be applied in food, animal 
feed and the production of biofuels.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2011.04.070
PMID: 21632240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Am J Bot. 2008 Jul;95(7):833-42. doi: 10.3732/ajb.2007354.

To grow or to seed: ecotypic variation in reproductive allocation and cone 
production by young female Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis, Pinaceae).

Climent J(1), Prada MA, Calama R, Chambel MR, de Ron DS, Alía R.

Author information:
(1)CIFOR, Instituto Nacional de Investigación y Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria 
(INIA), Apto. 8111, 28080 Madrid, Spain.

Age and size at the first reproduction and the reproductive allocation of plants 
are linked to different life history strategies. Aleppo pine only reproduces 
through seed, and, as such, early female reproduction confers high fitness in 
its infertile highly fire-prone habitats along the Mediterranean coast because 
life expectancy is short. We investigated the extent of ecotypic differentiation 
in female reproductive allocation and examined the relation between early female 
reproduction and vegetative growth. In a common-garden experiment, the threshold 
age and size at first female reproduction and female reproductive allocation at 
age seven differed significantly among Aleppo pine provenances of ecologically 
distinct origin. Significant correlations among reproductive features of the 
provenances and the ecological traits of origin were found using different 
analytical tools. In nonlinear models of cone counts vs. stem volume, 
medium-sized trees (not the largest trees) produced the highest cone yield, 
confirming that, at the individual level, early female reproduction is 
incompatible with fast vegetative growth. The contribution of founder effects 
and adaptation to contrasting fire regimes may be confounding factors. But 
considering all traits analyzed, the geographical patterns of resource 
allocation by Aleppo pine suggest ecotypic specialization for either 
resource-poor (favoring early reproduction) or resource-rich (favoring 
vegetative growth) habitats.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.2007354
PMID: 21632409


808. Perit Dial Int. 2011 Sep-Oct;31(5):529-36. doi: 10.3747/pdi.2010.00232. Epub
 2011 May 31.

The fluid study protocol: a randomized controlled study on the effects of 
bioimpedance analysis and vitamin D on left ventricular mass in peritoneal 
dialysis patients.

Su WS(1), Gangji AS, Margetts PM, Bosch J, Yusuf S, Clase CM, Ganame J, 
Noseworthy M, Lonn E, Jain AK, McCormick B, Brimble KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: We will evaluate the effects of bioimpedance analysis-guided fluid 
management to reduce volume expansion, of vitamin D(3) supplementation, and of 
the combination of those techniques on decrease of left ventricular mass in 
peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients.
DESIGN: This multicenter randomized controlled trial, with a 2 × 2 factorial 
design, will be conducted at PD clinics affiliated with 3 Canadian teaching 
hospitals. Consenting PD patients 18 years of age or older will be included. 
Patients will be excluded if they have contraindications to bioimpedance or 
magnetic resonance imaging, life or technique expectancy of less than 1 year, 
peritonitis within the preceding 3 months, or serum calcium above 2.55 mmol/L.
INTERVENTION: The study will randomize 70 patients to bio-impedance-guided 
volume management or to usual care and to vitamin D(3) 50,000 U weekly for 8 
doses, and then 10,000 U weekly or to matching placebo.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome will be change in left ventricular 
mass at 1 year as determined by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. The 
secondary outcome will be a composite endpoint of death, nonfatal cardiovascular 
event, and transfer to hemodialysis for dialysis inadequacy or ultrafiltration 
failure. Other outcome measures will include blood pressure, quality of life, 
6-minute walk test, inflammatory and fibrotic markers and their association with 
peritoneal membrane transport properties, and residual renal function. Patients 
will be followed for clinical outcomes for up to 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: This study will assess whether bioimpedance-directed volume 
management and vitamin D(3) supplementation can improve left ventricular mass in 
PD patients.

DOI: 10.3747/pdi.2010.00232
PMID: 21632446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Oncologist. 2011;16(6):896-903. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-0340. Epub
2011  May 31.

Cutaneous melanoma in situ: translational evidence from a large population-based 
study.

Mocellin S(1), Nitti D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological Sciences, University of Padova, Padova, Italy. 
simone.mocellin@unipd.it

BACKGROUND: Cutaneous melanoma in situ (CMIS) is a nosologic entity surrounded 
by health concerns and unsolved debates. We aimed to shed some light on CMIS by 
means of a large population-based study.
METHODS: Patients with histologic diagnosis of CMIS were identified from the 
Surveillance Epidemiology End Results (SEER) database.
RESULTS: The records of 93,863 cases of CMIS were available for analysis. CMIS 
incidence has been steadily increasing over the past 3 decades at a rate higher 
than any other in situ or invasive tumor, including invasive skin melanoma 
(annual percentage change [APC]: 9.5% versus 3.6%, respectively). Despite its 
noninvasive nature, CMIS is treated with excision margins wider than 1 cm in 
more than one third of cases. CMIS is associated with an increased risk of 
invasive melanoma (standardized incidence ratio [SIR]: 8.08; 95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 7.66-8.57), with an estimated 3:5 invasive/in situ ratio; 
surprisingly, it is also associated with a reduced risk of gastrointestinal 
(SIR: 0.78, CI: 0.72-0.84) and lung (SIR: 0.65, CI: 0.59-0.71) cancers. Relative 
survival analysis shows that persons with CMIS have a life expectancy equal to 
that of the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: CMIS is increasingly diagnosed and is often overtreated, although 
it does not affect the life expectancy of its carriers. Patients with CMIS have 
an increased risk of developing invasive melanoma (which warrants their 
enrollment in screening programs) but also a reduced risk of some epithelial 
cancers, which raises the intriguing hypothesis that genetic/environmental risk 
factors for some tumors may oppose the pathogenesis of others.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-0340
PMCID: PMC3228223
PMID: 21632457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Simone Mocellin: None; Donato 
Nitti: None. The content of this article has been reviewed by independent peer 
reviewers to ensure that it is balanced, objective, and free from commercial 
bias. No financial relationships relevant to the content of this article have 
been disclosed by the authors or independent peer reviewers.


810. J Clin Oncol. 2011 Jul 10;29(20):2795-800. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.33.0134.
Epub  2011 May 31.

Changes in prostate cancer grade on serial biopsy in men undergoing active 
surveillance.

Porten SP(1), Whitson JM, Cowan JE, Cooperberg MR, Shinohara K, Perez N, Greene 
KL, Meng MV, Carroll PR.

Author information:
(1)Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, 
San Francisco, 1600 Divisadero St, Box 1695, San Francisco, CA 94143-1695, USA. 
sporten@urology.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Urol. 2011 Aug;8(8):410.

PURPOSE: Active surveillance is now considered a viable treatment option for men 
with low-risk prostate cancer. However, little is known regarding changes in 
Gleason grade on serial biopsies over an extended period of time.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Men diagnosed with prostate cancer between 1998 and 2009 
who elected active surveillance as initial treatment, with 6 or more months of 
follow-up and a minimum of six cores at biopsy, were included in analysis. 
Upgrading and downgrading were defined as an increase or decrease in primary or 
secondary Gleason score. Means and frequency tables were used to describe 
patient characteristics, and treatment-free survival rates were determined by 
life-table product limit estimates.
RESULTS: Three hundred seventy-seven men met inclusion criteria. Mean age at 
diagnosis was 61.9 years. Fifty-three percent of men had prostate-specific 
antigen of 6 ng/mL or less, and 94% had Gleason score of 6 or less. A majority 
of men were cT1 (62%), had less than 33% of biopsy cores involved (80%), and 
were low risk (77%) at diagnosis. Median number of cores taken at diagnostic 
biopsy was 13, mean time to follow-up was 18.5 months, and 29% of men had three 
or more repeat biopsies. Overall, 34% (129 men) were found to have an increase 
in Gleason grade. The majority of men who experienced an upgrade (81%) did so by 
their second repeat biopsy.
CONCLUSION: A proportion of men experience an upgrade in Gleason score while 
undergoing active surveillance. Men who experience early upgrading likely 
represent initial sampling error, whereas later upgrading may reflect tumor 
dedifferentiation.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2010.33.0134
PMID: 21632511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Br J Surg. 2011 Aug;98(8):1107-11. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7542. Epub 2011 Jun 1.

Five-year results of a randomized clinical trial comparing endovenous laser 
ablation with cryostripping for great saphenous varicose veins.

Disselhoff BC(1), der Kinderen DJ, Kelder JC, Moll FL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Bergman Clinics, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
disselhoff@planet.nl

BACKGROUND: This was the long-term follow-up of a previously reported randomized 
clinical trial comparing endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) with cryostripping for 
great saphenous varicose veins.
METHODS: A total of 120 patients with great saphenous varicose veins were 
randomized 1:1 to EVLA or cryostripping. Principal outcome measures were freedom 
from incompetence or neovascularization on duplex imaging, and improvement in 
Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS) and Aberdeen Varicose Vein Severity Score 
(AVVSS) 5 years after treatment.
RESULTS: Life-table analysis showed freedom from duplex-derived incompetence and 
neovascularization at 5 years in 62 (95 per cent confidence interval 50 to 76) 
per cent after EVLA and in 51 (39 to 66) per cent after cryostripping (P = 
0.246). Neovascularization was more common after cryostripping, but incompetent 
tributaries were more common after EVLA. VCSS and AVVSS values improved 
significantly after treatment in both groups, and were maintained for 5 years, 
but with no significant difference between the groups.
CONCLUSION: In this study, no significant difference was demonstrated in late 
outcome after EVLA or cryostripping in patients with great saphenous varicose 
veins.

Copyright © 2011 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7542
PMID: 21633948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Health Econ. 2012 Jun;21(6):695-714. doi: 10.1002/hec.1748. Epub 2011 Jun 2.

A matching method for improving covariate balance in cost-effectiveness 
analyses.

Sekhon JS(1), Grieve RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Political Science, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720–1950, USA. 
sekhon@berkeley.edu

In cost-effectiveness analyses (CEA) that use randomized controlled trials 
(RCTs), covariates of prognostic importance may be imbalanced and warrant 
adjustment. In CEA that use non-randomized studies (NRS), the selection on 
observables assumption must hold for regression and matching methods to be 
unbiased. Even in restricted circumstances when this assumption is plausible, a 
key concern is how to adjust for imbalances in observed confounders. If the 
propensity score is misspecified, the covariates in the matched sample will be 
imbalanced, which can lead to conditional bias. To address covariate imbalance 
in CEA based on RCTs and NRS, this paper considers Genetic Matching. This 
matching method uses a search algorithm to directly maximize covariate balance. 
We compare Genetic and propensity score matching in Monte Carlo simulations and 
two case studies, CEA of pulmonary artery catheterization, based on an RCT and 
an NRS. The simulations show that Genetic Matching reduces the conditional bias 
and root mean squared error compared with propensity score matching. Genetic 
Matching achieves better covariate balance than the unadjusted analyses of the 
RCT data. In the NRS, Genetic Matching improves on the balance obtained from 
propensity score matching and gives substantively different estimates of 
incremental cost-effectiveness. We conclude that Genetic Matching can improve 
balance on measured covariates in CEA that use RCTs and NRS, but with NRS, this 
will be insufficient to reduce bias; the selection on observables assumption 
must also hold.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1748
PMID: 21633989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. J Vector Ecol. 2011 Jun;36(1):135-46. doi: 10.1111/j.1948-7134.2011.00150.x.

Meteorological indicators for Amblyomma cajennense and population dynamics in 
the Tamaulipan Biotic Province in Texas.

Beck DL(1), Zavala J, Montalvo EO, Quintana FG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Chemistry, Texas A&M International University, 
Laredo, TX 78043, USA.

We studied the population dynamics of free-living ticks in the Tamaulipan Biotic 
Province in south Texas from March, 2005 to November, 2008. We collected 70,873 
ticks using carbon dioxide traps. Amblyomma cajennense represented 93.6% of the 
ticks identified. A. cajennense is distributed from northern Argentina to south 
Texas in the Tamaulipan Biotic Province. Emergence of larval A. cajennense ticks 
was observed two to five weeks after significant rain events (p<0.0001) and had 
a strong negative correlation with temperature (p<0.0001). More larvae were 
observed under humid conditions (p<0.05). Fewer larvae were observed during 
windy and warmer conditions (p<0.05). This observation indicates high 
sensitivity of larvae to desiccating conditions. Peaks in nymphal activity were 
observed after peaks of larval emergence. Activity of nymphs was negatively 
correlated with temperature (p<0.05). Adult activity was negatively correlated 
with humidity (p<0.05) and negatively correlated with total rain from three to 
six weeks prior to observation (p<0.05). Adult A. cajennense are particularly 
tolerant to drier conditions relative to other closely related ticks. Adult 
female activity was positively correlated with temperature (p<0.05). Peaks in 
rain activity and a summer behavioral diapause appear to be the dominant factors 
controlling emergence of larvae, and by extension, the life cycle of A. 
cajennense in the Tamaulipan Biotic Province.

© 2011 The Society for Vector Ecology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1948-7134.2011.00150.x
PMID: 21635651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Environ Health. 2011 Jun 2;10:53. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-10-53.

Health impact assessment of waste management facilities in three European 
countries.

Forastiere F(1), Badaloni C, de Hoogh K, von Kraus MK, Martuzzi M, Mitis F, 
Palkovicova L, Porta D, Preiss P, Ranzi A, Perucci CA, Briggs D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Regional Health Service, Lazio, Via Santa 
Costanza 53, 00198, Rome, Italy. forastiere@asplazio.it

BACKGROUND: Policies on waste disposal in Europe are heterogeneous and rapidly 
changing, with potential health implications that are largely unknown. We 
conducted a health impact assessment of landfilling and incineration in three 
European countries: Italy, Slovakia and England.
METHODS: A total of 49 (Italy), 2 (Slovakia), and 11 (England) incinerators were 
operating in 2001 while for landfills the figures were 619, 121 and 232, 
respectively. The study population consisted of residents living within 3 km of 
an incinerator and 2 km of a landfill. Excess risk estimates from 
epidemiological studies were used, combined with air pollution dispersion 
modelling for particulate matter (PM10) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2). For 
incinerators, we estimated attributable cancer incidence and years of life lost 
(YoLL), while for landfills we estimated attributable cases of congenital 
anomalies and low birth weight infants.
RESULTS: About 1,000,000, 16,000, and 1,200,000 subjects lived close to 
incinerators in Italy, Slovakia and England, respectively. The additional 
contribution to NO2 levels within a 3 km radius was 0.23, 0.15, and 0.14 μg/m3, 
respectively. Lower values were found for PM10. Assuming that the incinerators 
continue to operate until 2020, we are moderately confident that the annual 
number of cancer cases due to exposure in 2001-2020 will reach 11, 0, and 7 in 
2020 and then decline to 0 in the three countries in 2050. We are moderately 
confident that by 2050, the attributable impact on the 2001 cohort of residents 
will be 3,621 (Italy), 37 (Slovakia) and 3,966 (England) YoLL. The total exposed 
population to landfills was 1,350,000, 329,000, and 1,425,000 subjects, 
respectively. We are moderately confident that the annual additional cases of 
congenital anomalies up to 2030 will be approximately 2, 2, and 3 whereas there 
will be 42, 13, and 59 additional low-birth weight newborns, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The current health impacts of landfilling and incineration can be 
characterized as moderate when compared to other sources of environmental 
pollution, e.g. traffic or industrial emissions, that have an impact on public 
health. There are several uncertainties and critical assumptions in the 
assessment model, but it provides insight into the relative health impact 
attributable to waste management.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-10-53
PMCID: PMC3129292
PMID: 21635784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Soc Sci Med. 2011 Jun;72(12):1986-92. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.04.019.
Epub  2011 May 18.

Socioeconomic inequalities in old-age mortality: a comparison of Denmark and the 
USA.

Hoffmann R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Dr Molewaterplein 50, 
3015 GE Rotterdam, Germany. r.hoffmann@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2011 Dec;73(11):1569-72.

Previous studies have reported important variations in the magnitude of health 
inequalities between countries that belong to different welfare systems. This 
suggests that there is scope for reducing health inequalities by means of 
country-level interventions. The present study adds to this literature by 
exploring whether the magnitude of socioeconomic inequalities in mortality is 
associated with social inequality levels. Denmark and the USA belong to 
fundamentally different welfare systems (social democratic and liberal) and our 
study thereby contributes to the ongoing debate on whether welfare systems are 
linked to health inequalities. We analyze Denmark and the USA in terms of 
socioeconomic differences in mortality above age 58. The data sources were 
Danish register data from 1980 to 2002 (n = 2,029,324), and survey data from the 
US Health and Retirement Study (HRS) from 1992 to 2006 (n = 9374). Survival 
analysis was used to study the impact of socioeconomic status on mortality and 
the magnitude of mortality differences between the two countries was compared. 
The results showed surprisingly that mortality differentials were larger in 
Denmark than in the USA even after controlling for a number of covariates: The 
poorest 10 percent of the Danish elderly population have a mortality rate ratio 
of 3.32 (men) and 3.70 (women) compared to the richest 25 percent. In the USA 
the corresponding rate ratios are 1.67 and 1.56. Low income seems to be a more 
powerful risk factor for mortality than low education. A number of possible 
explanations for higher mortality differences in Denmark are discussed: 
unintended positive correlation between generous health services and health 
inequality, early life influences, mortality selection, and relative 
deprivation.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.04.019
PMID: 21636194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2012 Sep;66(9):782-90. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2009.099754. Epub 2011 Jun 2.

Effectiveness of a lifestyle intervention in promoting the well-being of 
independently living older people: results of the Well Elderly 2 Randomised 
Controlled Trial.

Clark F(1), Jackson J, Carlson M, Chou CP, Cherry BJ, Jordan-Marsh M, Knight BG, 
Mandel D, Blanchard J, Granger DA, Wilcox RR, Lai MY, White B, Hay J, Lam C, 
Marterella A, Azen SP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy, School of 
Dentistry, University of Southern California, 1540 Alcazar Street, CHP 133, Los 
Angeles, CA 90089-9003, USA. fclark@usc.edu

Erratum in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2012 Nov;66(11):1082.

BACKGROUND: Older people are at risk for health decline and loss of 
independence. Lifestyle interventions offer potential for reducing such negative 
outcomes. The aim of this study was to determine the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of a preventive lifestyle-based occupational therapy 
intervention, administered in a variety of community-based sites, in improving 
mental and physical well-being and cognitive functioning in ethnically diverse 
older people.
METHODS: A randomised controlled trial was conducted comparing an occupational 
therapy intervention and a no-treatment control condition over a 6-month 
experimental phase. Participants included 460 men and women aged 60-95 years 
(mean age 74.9 ± 7.7 years; 53% <$12000 annual income) recruited from 21 sites 
in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area.
RESULTS: Intervention participants, relative to untreated controls, showed more 
favourable change scores on indices of bodily pain, vitality, social 
functioning, mental health, composite mental functioning, life satisfaction and 
depressive symptomatology (ps<0.05). The intervention group had a significantly 
greater increment in quality-adjusted life years (p<0.02), which was achieved 
cost-effectively (US $41218/UK £24868 per unit). No intervention effect was 
found for cognitive functioning outcome measures.
CONCLUSIONS: A lifestyle-oriented occupational therapy intervention has 
beneficial effects for ethnically diverse older people recruited from a wide 
array of community settings. Because the intervention is cost-effective and is 
applicable on a wide-scale basis, it has the potential to help reduce health 
decline and promote well-being in older people. Trial Registration 
clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT0078634.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2009.099754
PMCID: PMC3412049
PMID: 21636614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


817. Sex Transm Infect. 2011 Oct;87(6):458-63. doi: 10.1136/sextrans-2011-050073.
 Epub 2011 Jun 2.

The impact of genital warts: loss of quality of life and cost of treatment in 
eight sexual health clinics in the UK.

Woodhall SC(1), Jit M, Soldan K, Kinghorn G, Gilson R, Nathan M, Ross JD, Lacey 
CJ; QOLIGEN study group.

Author information:
(1)Hull York Medical School, University of York, York, UK. 
sarah.woodhall@hpa.org.uk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the loss of quality of life and cost of treatment 
associated with genital warts seen in sexual health clinics.
METHODS: A cross-sectional questionnaire study and case note review of 
individuals with genital warts, carried out in eight sexual health clinics in 
England and Northern Ireland. Individuals with genital warts attending the 
participating clinics were invited to take part in the questionnaire study. 895 
participants were recruited. A separate sample of 370 participants who had 
attended a participating clinic with a first visit for a first or recurrent 
episode of genital warts between April and June 2007 was included in the case 
note review. Quality of life was measured using the EQ-5D questionnaire and the 
cost of an episode of care was derived from the case note review.
RESULTS: The weighted mean EQ-5D index score was 0.87 (95% CI 0.85 to 0.89). The 
weighted mean disutility was 0.056 (95% CI 0.038 to 0.074). The estimated mean 
loss of quality-adjusted life-years associated with an episode of genital warts 
was 0.018 (95% CI 0.0079 to 0.031), equivalent to 6.6&emsp14;days of healthy 
life lost per episode. The weighted mean cost per episode of care was £94 (95% 
CI £84 to £104), not including the cost of a sexually transmitted infection 
screen.
CONCLUSIONS: Genital warts have a substantial impact on the health service and 
the individual. This information can be utilised for economic evaluation of 
human papillomavirus vaccination.

DOI: 10.1136/sextrans-2011-050073
PMCID: PMC3253069
PMID: 21636616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: CJNL and JDR have received 
travel/accommodation costs from GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Sanofi Pasteur MSD 
(SPMSD); MN has received payment from GSK for delivering a lecture and 
associated travel; JDR has received payment from GSK and SPMSD for delivering 
educational lectures and consultancy. KS's institution has received grants 
from/has funding arrangements with GSK for projects outside of this study.


818. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jul-Aug;31(4):559-70. doi: 10.1177/0272989X11409049.
Epub  2011 Jun 2.

Simulation of quality-adjusted survival in chronic diseases: an application in 
type 2 diabetes.

Hayes AJ(1), Clarke PM(1), Voysey M(2), Keech A(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia (AJH, PMC)
(2)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia (MV, AK)

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have demonstrated that measures of health-related 
quality of life can predict complications and mortality in patients with 
diabetes, even after adjustment for clinical risk factors.
METHODS: The authors developed a simulation model of disease progression in type 
2 diabetes to investigate the impact of patient quality of life on lifetime 
outcomes and its potential response to therapy. Changes in health utility over 
time are captured as a result of complications and aging. All risk equations, 
model parameter estimates, and input data were derived from patient-level data 
from the Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) trial.
RESULTS: Healthier patients with type 2 diabetes enjoy more life years, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and more life years free of complications. 
A 65-year-old patient at full health (utility = 1) can expect to live 
approximately 2 years longer and achieve 6 more QALYs than a patient at average 
health (utility = 0.8), given similar clinical risk factors. For patients with 
higher EQ-5D utility, the additional years lived without complications 
contribute more to longer life expectancy than years lived with complications.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors have developed a model for progression of disease in 
diabetes that has a number of novel features; it captures the observed 
relationships between measures of quality of life and future outcomes, the 
number of states have been minimized, and it can be parameterized with just 4 
risk equations. Underlying the simple model structure is important patient-level 
heterogeneity in health and outcomes. The simulations suggest that differences 
in patients' EQ-5D utility can account for large differences in QALYs, which 
could be relevant in cost-utility analyses.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X11409049
PMID: 21636740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Hong Kong Med J. 2011 Jun;17(3):189-94.

A synopsis of current haemophilia care in Hong Kong.

Au WY(1), Lee V, Kho B, Ling AS, Chan D, Chan EY, Chan GC, Cheung WW, Lau CW, 
Lee CY, Li RC, Li CK, Lin SY, Mak V, Sun L, Wong KH, Wong R, Yau J, Yuen HL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong. auwing@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To provide a synopsis of current haemophilia care in Hong Kong.
DESIGN: Retrospective survey.
SETTING: All haematology units of the Hospital Authority in Hong Kong.
PATIENTS: All patients with haemophilia A and haemophilia B.
RESULTS: To date, there were 222 mild-to-severe haemophilia patients (192 type 
A, 30 type B) under regular public care in Hong Kong (43% were considered 
severe, 33% moderate, and 24% mild), which gave a crude prevalence of 6.8/100 
000 male inhabitants. A total of 12.8 million units of Factor VIII and 3 million 
units of Factor IX were prescribed annually. This amounts to 1.83 units of FVIII 
per capita of the population, which is comparable to that of other developed 
countries. Leading causes of mortality were human immunodeficiency virus-related 
complications (10 cases) and cerebral bleeding (2 cases). The life expectancy of 
patients with severe haemophilia in Hong Kong is improving; currently the oldest 
patient is 60 years old. Such improved survival may be due to enhanced factor 
availability, prompt treatment of bleeding episodes at home, safer factor 
products, and better antiviral treatment. Primary prophylaxis is the accepted 
standard of care for severe and moderate cases, and "Factor First" has become 
hospital policy. However, 12 patients continue to present treatment challenges, 
due to the documented presence of factor inhibitors. In all, 28, 100, and 14 
cases respectively were positive for human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis C 
virus, and hepatitis B virus; the youngest patients with the corresponding 
infections being 28, 13, and 22 years old. Comprehensive care with dedicated 
physiotherapy, surgical support, and radionucleotide synovectomy may reduce 
morbidity further.
CONCLUSION: A multidisciplinary approach can further improve the future care for 
haemophilia patients in Hong Kong.

PMID: 21636866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Genet Med. 2011 Aug;13(8):717-22. doi: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3182180c89.

COL3A1 haploinsufficiency results in a variety of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV 
with delayed onset of complications and longer life expectancy.

Leistritz DF(1), Pepin MG, Schwarze U, Byers PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195-7470, USA.

PURPOSE: To characterize the clinical outcome of heterozygosity for COL3A1 null 
mutations in Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV, the vascular type.
METHODS: We identified mutations that produced premature termination codons and 
resulted in nonsense-mediated messenger RNA decay in 19 families. We reviewed 
the clinical and family histories and medical complications in 54 individuals 
from these families with COL3A1 null mutations.
RESULTS: Compared with individuals with missense or exon-skipping mutations, we 
found that life span was extended, the age of first complication was delayed by 
almost 15 years, and major complications were limited to vascular events. The 
families were ascertained after a complication in a single individual, but only 
28% of relatives, some of whom had reached their seventies or eighties without 
incidents, had a complication and only 30% had minor clinical features of 
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV CONCLUSION: Null mutations have reduced 
penetrance compared with missense and splicing mutations, and the phenotype 
seems to be limited almost entirely to vascular events.

DOI: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3182180c89
PMID: 21637106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e14815. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014815. Epub 2011 May
26.

Cost-effectiveness of preoperative screening and eradication of Staphylococcus 
aureus carriage.

Wassenberg MW(1), de Wit GA, Bonten MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University Medical Center, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Preoperative screening for nasal S. aureus carriage, followed by 
eradication treatment of identified carriers with nasal mupirocine ointment and 
chlorhexidine soap was highly effective in preventing deep-seated S. aureus 
infections. It is unknown how cost-effectiveness of this intervention is 
affected by suboptimal S. aureus screening. We determined cost-effectiveness of 
different preoperative S. aureus screening regimes.
METHODS: We compared different screening scenarios (ranging from treating all 
patients without screening to treating only identified S. aureus carriers) to 
the base case scenario without any screening and treatment. Screening and 
treatment costs as well as costs and mortality due to deep-seated S. aureus 
infection were derived from hospital databases and prospectively collected data, 
respectively.
RESULTS: As compared to the base case scenario, all scenarios are associated 
with improved health care outcomes at reduced costs. Treating all patients 
without screening is most cost-beneficial, saving €7339 per life year gained, as 
compared to €3330 when only identified carriers are treated. In sensitivity 
analysis, outcomes are susceptible to the sensitivity of the screening test and 
the efficacy of treatment. Reductions in these parameters would reduce the 
cost-effectiveness of scenarios in which treatment is based on screening. When 
only identified S. aureus carriers are treated costs of screening should be less 
than €6.23 to become the dominant strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative screening and eradication of S. aureus carriage to 
prevent deep-seated S. aureus infections saves both life years and medical costs 
at the same time, although treating all patients without screening is the 
dominant strategy, resulting in most health gains and largest savings.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014815
PMCID: PMC3102653
PMID: 21637333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: M.J.M.B. reports receiving 
advisory board fees from Ipsat Therapies, 3M, Cepheid and Novartis; consulting 
fees from Novartis, 3M and Bayer; lecture fees from Cepheid, Kimberly-Clark and 
Pfizer. All other authors: none to declare.


822. PLoS One. 2011;6(5):e19976. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019976. Epub 2011 May
27.

Polyhydroxy fullerenes (fullerols or fullerenols): beneficial effects on growth 
and lifespan in diverse biological models.

Gao J(1), Wang Y, Folta KM, Krishna V, Bai W, Indeglia P, Georgieva A, Nakamura 
H, Koopman B, Moudgil B.

Author information:
(1)Particle Engineering Research Center, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida, United States of America. dencyl@ufl.edu

Recent toxicological studies on carbon nanomaterials, including fullerenes, have 
led to concerns about their safety. Functionalized fullerenes, such as 
polyhydroxy fullerenes (PHF, fullerols, or fullerenols), have attracted 
particular attention due to their water solubility and toxicity. Here, we report 
surprisingly beneficial and/or specific effects of PHF on model organisms 
representing four kingdoms, including the green algae Pseudokirchneriella 
subcapitata, the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the fungus Aspergillus niger, and 
the invertebrate Ceriodaphnia dubia. The results showed that PHF had no acute or 
chronic negative effects on the freshwater organisms. Conversely, PHF could 
surprisingly increase the algal culture density over controls at higher 
concentrations (i.e., 72% increase by 1 and 5 mg/L of PHF) and extend the 
lifespan and stimulate the reproduction of Daphnia (e.g. about 38% by 20 mg/L of 
PHF). We also show that at certain PHF concentrations fungal growth can be 
enhanced and Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings exhibit longer hypocotyls, while 
other complex physiological processes remain unaffected. These findings may open 
new research fields in the potential applications of PHF, e.g., in biofuel 
production and aquaculture. These results will form the basis of further 
research into the mechanisms of growth stimulation and life extension by PHF.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0019976
PMCID: PMC3103525
PMID: 21637768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


823. Integr Psychol Behav Sci. 2011 Dec;45(4):389-96. doi:
10.1007/s12124-011-9171-x.

Toward poetic science.

Freeman M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA 01610, 
USA. mfreeman@holycross.edu

This article is an extension of earlier discussion in the present journal 
regarding feelings in literature and, more broadly, the distinction between 
literary and scientific discourse. Valid though this distinction may be on some 
level, it is argued herein that it owes its very existence, in part, to a 
problematically narrow view of what constitutes science, one that not only 
eschews the life of feeling but that fails to abide by the primary obligation of 
the scientific endeavor-namely, to practice fidelity to the phenomena of 
concern. In this respect, it might plausibly be said that much of contemporary 
psychological science is not scientific enough and that, consequently, a more 
open and capacious conception is called for. More specifically, it is suggested 
that a portion of the discipline move in the direction of what might be called 
poetic science, a form of science that, in its very art-fulness, can do justice 
to the ambiguity, complexity, and depth that characterizes lived experience.

DOI: 10.1007/s12124-011-9171-x
PMID: 21637934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2011 Sep;12(3):286-301. doi: 
10.1007/s11864-011-0159-z.

Adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer in older women: emerging evidence to aid 
in decision making.

Kimmick G(1).

Author information:
(1)Multidisciplinary Breast Program, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. gretchen.kimmick@duke.edu

To prevent breast cancer-related recurrence and death, adjuvant therapy, 
including chemotherapy, is given. The decision to deliver chemotherapy requires 
careful weighing of the risk of toxicity versus the estimated benefit. The risk 
and benefit are based on information from clinical trials, statistical models, 
and past clinical experience . Compared to younger patients, it is perceived 
that older patients have cancers that are lower risk, gain less benefit from 
chemotherapy, and are at higher risk of toxicity. There is now strong evidence 
that healthy older women tolerate treatment and stand to gain the same benefits 
from treatment as do younger women. Numeric age alone, therefore, does not 
justify withholding adjuvant chemotherapy. New tools to aid in the decision are 
needed. Fortunately, the expected great increase in the size of the geriatric 
