

745. Transpl Int. 2011 Aug;24(8):787-96. doi: 10.1111/j.1432-2277.2011.01276.x.
Epub  2011 May 26.

Comparison between observed survival after resection of transplantable 
hepatocellular carcinoma and predicted survival after listing through a Markov 
model simulation.

Cucchetti A(1), Cescon M, Ercolani G, Morelli MC, Del Gaudio M, Zanello M, Pinna 
AD.

Author information:
(1)Liver and Multiorgan Transplant Unit, Department of General Surgery of the 
S.Orsola Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. aleqko@libero.it

There is still some debate on whether hepatic resection or liver transplantation 
should be the initial treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in 
compensated cirrhosis. Clinical data and observed survivals of 150 
transplantable patients (within Milan criteria) resected for HCC were reviewed 
and their predicted survival after listing for liver transplantation was 
calculated using a Markov model simulation. Differences between observed and 
predicted survival estimates were explored by standardized differences (d). The 
mean observed survival within 5 years after surgery was 45.35 months, and the 
predicted survival after listing was 49.18 months (d = 0.265). The largest gain 
in life-expectancy with liver transplantation would be obtained in patients with 
Model for End-stage Liver Disease (MELD) score >9 (d = 0.403); conversely, 
observed and predicted survivals were similar in HCV+ patients (d = -0.002) and 
in patients with MELD ≤9 (d = -0.057). For T1 tumors, the observed mean estimate 
of survival after hepatic resection was higher than that predicted by the 
simulation (d = -0.606). In conclusion, in HCV patients and in those with very 
well compensated cirrhosis, hepatic resection could lead to results similar to 
those of transplantation strategy for HCC within Milan criteria; HCC T1 patients 
are probably best served by resection as first-line therapy rather than listing 
for transplantation.

© 2011 The Authors. Transplant International © 2011 European Society for Organ 
Transplantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-2277.2011.01276.x
PMID: 21615549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. J Clin Nurs. 2011 Jul;20(13-14):1923-35. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03690.x.  Epub 2011 May 25.

Predictors of exercise frequency in breast cancer survivors in Taiwan.

Hsu HT(1), Dodd MJ, Guo SE, Lee KA, Hwang SL, Lai YH.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

AIM: To apply social cognitive theory to elucidate factors that motivate change 
in exercise frequency in breast cancer survivors during the six months after 
completing cancer treatment.
BACKGROUND: Exercise is now a well-recognised quality-of-life intervention in 
breast cancer survivors. However, only regular exercise yields long-term 
benefits. Motivations for exercise have not been analysed in Taiwan patients 
with cancer.
DESIGN: A prospective, longitudinal and repeated measures design was used.
METHODS: A convenience sample of 196 breast cancer survivors was recruited from 
hospitals in metropolitan areas of north and south Taiwan. Study participants 
were allowed to select their preferred exercised activities. Exercise behaviour 
and other factors were then recorded using various standardised instruments. 
Medical charts were also reviewed. Data were analysed by a linear mixed model 
and by hierarchical multiple regression equations.
RESULTS: Exercise frequency significantly changed over time. Explained variance 
in exercise frequency change was modest. Baseline exercise frequency was the 
best significant predictor of exercise frequency during the six-month study. The 
study also identified possible age-related differences in the effect of social 
support on exercise. The effect of social support for exercise on exercise 
frequency was apparently larger in older subjects, especially those over 40 
years old, than in younger subjects. Mental health, exercise barriers and 
exercise outcome expectancy significantly contributed to change in exercise 
frequency during the six-month study.
CONCLUSIONS: The analytical results revealed several ways to increase exercise 
frequency in breast cancer survivors: (1) encourage exercise as early as 
possible; (2) improve health status and provide social support for exercise, 
especially in women aged 40 years or older; (3) reduce exercise barriers and 
promote mental health; (4) reinforce self-efficacy and positive expectations of 
exercise outcomes and (5) provide strategies for minimising fatigue in early 
stages of rehabilitation. Relevance to clinical practice.  Social cognitive 
theory provides a useful framework for understanding the motivation to exercise 
in breast cancer survivors.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2010.03690.x
PMID: 21615573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Health Technol Assess. 2011 May;15(23):iii-xi, 1-102. doi: 10.3310/hta15230.

The RATPAC (Randomised Assessment of Treatment using Panel Assay of Cardiac 
markers) trial: a randomised controlled trial of point-of-care cardiac markers 
in the emergency department.

Goodacre S(1), Bradburn M, Fitzgerald P, Cross E, Collinson P, Gray A, Hall AS.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
using a point-of-care cardiac marker panel in patients presenting to the 
emergency department (ED) with suspected but not proven acute myocardial 
infarction (AMI).
DESIGN: Multicentre pragmatic open randomised controlled trial and economic 
evaluation.
SETTING: Six acute hospital EDs in the UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults presenting to hospital with chest pain due to suspected but 
not proven myocardial infarction, and no other potentially serious alternative 
pathology or comorbidity.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were allocated using an online randomisation system 
to receive either (1) diagnostic assessment using the point-of-care biochemical 
marker panel or (2) conventional diagnostic assessment without the panel. All 
tests and treatments other than the panel were provided at the discretion of the 
clinician.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the proportion of patients 
successfully discharged home after ED assessment, defined as patients who had 
(1) either left the hospital or were awaiting transport home with a discharge 
decision having been made at 4 hours after initial presentation and (2) suffered 
no major adverse event (as defined below) during the following 3 months. 
Secondary outcomes included length of initial hospital stay and total inpatient 
days over 3 months, and major adverse events (death, non-fatal AMI, 
life-threatening arrhythmia, emergency revascularisation or hospitalisation for 
myocardial ischaemia). Economic analysis estimated mean costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and then estimated the probability of 
cost-effectiveness assuming willingness to pay of £20,000 per QALY gained.
RESULTS: We randomised 1132 participants to point of care and 1131 to standard 
care, and analysed 1125 and 1118, respectively [mean age 54.5 years, 1307/2243 
(58%) male and 269/2243 (12%) with known coronary heart disease (CHD)]. In the 
point-of-care group 358/1125 (32%) were successfully discharged compared with 
146/1118 (13%) in the standard-care group [odds ratio (OR) adjusted for age, 
gender and history of CHD 3.81; 95% confidence interval (CI) 3.01 to 4.82, p < 
0.001]. Mean length of the initial hospital stay was 29.6 hours versus 31.8 
hours (mean difference = 2.1 hours; 95% CI -3.7 to 8.0 hours, p = 0.462), while 
median length of initial hospital stay was 8.8 hours versus 14.2 hours (p < 
0.001). More patients in the point-of-care group had no inpatient days recorded 
during follow-up (54% vs 40%, p < 0.001), but mean inpatient days did not differ 
between the two groups (1.8 vs 1.7, p = 0.815). More patients in the 
point-of-care group were managed on coronary care [50/1125 (4%) vs 31/1118 (3%), 
p = 0.041]. There were 36 (3%) patients with major adverse events in the 
point-of-care group and 26 (2%) in the standard-care group (adjusted OR 1.31; 
95% CI 0.78 to 2.20, p = 0.313). Mean costs per patient were £1217 with 
point-of-care versus £1006 with standard care (p = 0.056), while mean QALYs were 
0.158 versus 0.161 (p = 0.250). The probability of standard care being dominant 
(i.e. cheaper and more effective) was 0.888.
CONCLUSIONS: Point-of-care testing increases the proportion of patients 
successfully discharged home and reduces the median (but not mean) length of 
hospital stay. It is more expensive than standard care and unlikely to be 
considered cost-effective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN37823923.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
15, No. 23. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15230
PMID: 21616014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Aust J Prim Health. 2011;17(1):2-3. doi: 10.1071/PY10052.

Prescribing for the elderly: ethical considerations.

Khalil H.

This article reports on a few ethical considerations associated with prescribing 
for the elderly. A large number of elderly people are on several medications for 
the treatment of various chronic conditions that develop with age. Most of these 
treatments involve symptom management and prevention of symptoms likely to occur 
from untreated diseases. Serious consideration should be given when prescribing 
for the elderly. These include: allowing the elderly and their families to be 
involved in their treatment; social support; and cost-benefit considerations. A 
lack of clear therapeutic guidelines exists for prescribing in this group of 
people that is confounded by factors such as quality of life and life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1071/PY10052
PMID: 21616016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Arthroscopy. 2011 Jul;27(7):1014-7. doi: 10.1016/j.arthro.2010.12.008. Epub
2011  May 25.

Subcutaneous emphysema of the upper extremity after elbow arthroscopy.

Dexel J(1), Schneiders W, Kasten P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Carl Gustav Carus University of Dresden, 
Dresden, Germany.

Subcutaneous emphysema of the upper extremity is rare. Crepitation on physical 
examination and visible gas on radiographs raise the concern of gas gangrene due 
to gas-producing bacteria. Rapid establishment of a differential diagnosis is 
necessary to initiate proper treatment. We present a case of subcutaneous 
emphysema after elbow arthroscopy caused by a noninfectious genesis. A 
59-year-old woman with loose bodies in her left elbow due to mild degenerative 
joint disease and restricted range of motion was offered an elbow arthroscopy 
with removal of loose bodies and arthrolysis. Postoperatively, the elbow was 
actively put alternatively in maximum extension and flexion. On the first 
postoperative day, rapidly ascending swelling and subcutaneous crepitation 
starting from the hand to the forearm were noted. There was no clinical evidence 
of infection. Radiographs showed subcutaneous air. Frequent blood tests and 
clinical evaluation ruled out a potentially life-threatening bacterial 
infection, and the signs resolved after 1 week without surgical treatment. 
Presumably, the intensive postoperative range-of-motion exercises led to a 
sucking in of air into the wound during each movement. This case illustrates 
that it is important to differentiate nonbacterial from bacterial causes of 
soft-tissue gas formation to initiate the appropriate treatment.

Copyright © 2011 Arthroscopy Association of North America. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arthro.2010.12.008
PMID: 21616628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Crisis. 2011;32(3):152-9. doi: 10.1027/0227-5910/a000070.

The economic and potential years of life lost from suicide in Taiwan, 1997-2007.

Law CK(1), Yip PS, Chen YY.

Author information:
(1)Hong Kong Institute of Asia-Pacific Studies, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong

BACKGROUND: Taiwan has experienced a marked increase in the suicide rate in the 
last decade. However, the socioeconomic burden and impact to the community has 
not been adequately assessed.
AIMS: This study aimed to estimate the social and economic burden of premature 
mortality from suicide in Taiwan in 1997-2007.
METHODS: The suicide rate, potential years of life lost (PYLL), and present 
value of lifetime earnings (PVLE) by sex and age groups in 1997-2007 were 
calculated. The contribution of each suicide method to PYLL for each age group 
was also assessed.
RESULTS: Using the PYLL calculations, suicide had become the third leading cause 
of death in Taiwan in 2007, compared to its ninth position in terms of absolute 
numbers. Furthermore, the PYLL was associated with an estimated NTD (New Taiwan 
Dollars) 32.5 billion of lost earnings in 2007. The increase in PYLL and PVLE 
from suicide was highest in middle-aged men (aged 25-59 years). Charcoal burning 
suicide accounted for most of the increase in PYLL in the middle-aged group in 
the past decade.
CONCLUSIONS: The loss of life in middle-aged males contributes 
disproportionately to the social and economic burden of suicide in Taiwan. 
Suicide intervention effort should target this high-risk population.

DOI: 10.1027/0227-5910/a000070
PMID: 21616764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Age Ageing. 2011 Sep;40(5):589-95. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afr058. Epub 2011 May
26.

Lifestyle behaviours and quality-adjusted life years in middle and older age.

Myint PK(1), Smith RD, Luben RN, Surtees PG, Wainwright NW, Wareham NJ, Khaw KT.

Author information:
(1)Norwich Medical School, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University 
of East Anglia, Norwich, Norfolk NR4 7TJ, UK. phyo.k.myint@uea.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: to examine the relationship between combined lifestyle behaviours and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in a general population.
METHODS: a population-based study was conducted in 13,358 men and women who 
participated in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer 
(EPIC)-Norfolk (baseline 1993-97). A score of 1 was given to each of 
non-smoking, physically not inactive, moderate alcohol consumption (1-14 units) 
and consumption of at least five portions of fruit and vegetables (vitamin C 
level ≥50 µmol/l). Short-Form Six-Dimension (SF-6D) health utility index scores 
were derived from the SF-36. QALYs were estimated up to follow-up (July 2007).
RESULTS: a total of 13,358 men and women were eligible to be included in the 
study (aged 40-79 years at baseline). A total of 12,921 people were alive at 
follow-up (117, 784 person-years). Mean follow-up period was ∼11.5 years. 437 
(4.4% of men and 2.4% of women) died. The death rate was 6.5 times higher in 
people with health behaviour score 0 compared with those who scored 4 (8.4 
versus 1.3%). People with higher scores had significantly higher QALYs.
CONCLUSION: our findings support the view that modifiable lifestyle factors are 
an important component in health improvement.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afr058
PMID: 21616956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Eur J Public Health. 2012 Aug;22(4):602-4. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr065. Epub
2011  May 26.

Change in marital status structure as an obstacle for health improvement: 
evidence from six developed countries.

Jasilionis D(1), Andreev EM, Kharkova TL, Ward Kingkade W.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
jasilionis@demogr.mpg.de

The aim of this study is to estimate the contributions of changes in population 
distribution by marital status to the changes in adult mortality in six 
developed countries. The change in total mortality was decomposed into the 
contributions of: (i) mortality changes within each marital status category; and 
(ii) changes in population composition by marital status. The study provides 
evidence that changes in population composition contributed to increases in male 
mortality in Russia and Lithuania, whereas in the remaining male populations 
this was a significant obstacle for faster health improvements. The 
compositional changes had only small impacts on female mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr065
PMID: 21616990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2011 Jun;6(6):1248-57. doi: 10.2215/CJN.07180810.
Epub  2011 May 26.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a randomized trial comparing care models for 
chronic kidney disease.

Hopkins RB(1), Garg AX, Levin A, Molzahn A, Rigatto C, Singer J, Soltys G, 
Soroka S, Parfrey PS, Barrett BJ, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)PATH Research Institute, St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada. hopkinr@mcmaster.ca

Comment in
    Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2011 Jun;6(6):1229-31.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Potential cost and effectiveness of a 
nephrologist/nurse-based multifaceted intervention for stage 3 to 4 chronic 
kidney disease are not known. This study examines the cost-effectiveness of a 
chronic disease management model for chronic kidney disease.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: Cost and cost-effectiveness were 
prospectively gathered alongside a multicenter trial. The Canadian Prevention of 
Renal and Cardiovascular Endpoints Trial (CanPREVENT) randomized 236 patients to 
receive usual care (controls) and another 238 patients to multifaceted 
nurse/nephrologist-supported care that targeted factors associated with 
development of kidney and cardiovascular disease (intervention). Cost and 
outcomes over 2 years were examined to determine the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of the intervention. Base-case analysis included 
disease-related costs, and sensitivity analysis included all costs.
RESULTS: Consideration of all costs produced statistically significant 
differences. A lower number of days in hospital explained most of the cost 
difference. For both base-case and sensitivity analyses with all costs included, 
the intervention group required fewer resources and had higher quality of life. 
The direction of the results was unchanged to inclusion of various types of 
costs, consideration of payer or societal perspective, changes to the discount 
rate, and levels of GFR.
CONCLUSIONS: The nephrologist/nurse-based multifaceted intervention represents 
good value for money because it reduces costs without reducing quality of life 
for patients with chronic kidney disease.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.07180810
PMCID: PMC3109919
PMID: 21617091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Georgian Med News. 2011 Apr;(193):11-6.

Public health research on rare diseases.

Alonso V(1), Villaverde-Hueso A, Hens M, Morales-Piga A, Abaitua I, Posada de la 
Paz M.

Author information:
(1)Rare Diseases Research Institute, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain.

Despite the low prevalence of Rare Diseases (RD), over 30 million EU citizens 
suffer from these conditions. This paper summarizes some aspects of these 
life-threatening chronic and debilitating diseases that usually require long 
term specialist care and costly formal and informal surveillance. Epidemiology 
does have an important role to play in the field of RD, since it provides 
appropriate methods and tools for assessing exposures and health outcomes. In 
this regard, the utility of registries, biobanks and population-based 
surveillance systems are discussed. The lack of effective diagnoses and 
treatments in RD patients often underlies their shortened life expectancy and 
quality of life. Due to the limited number of patients and the scarcity of 
relevant knowledge and expertise, coordination at European level is probably the 
best way of pooling the very limited resources available and provides a very 
high added-value. RD require the combined efforts of health and social care 
professionals, politicians, managers and researchers to increase the 
availability of effective disease management tools to improve care and to extend 
both life expectancy and Health Related Quality of Life.

PMID: 21617266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Osteoporos Int. 2011 Oct;22(10):2565-73. doi: 10.1007/s00198-011-1668-0.
Epub  2011 May 27.

Partial adherence: a new perspective on health economic assessment in 
osteoporosis.

Kanis JA(1), Cooper C, Hiligsmann M, Rabenda V, Reginster JY, Rizzoli R.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Centre for Metabolic Bone Diseases, University of Sheffield 
Medical School, Beech Hill Road, Sheffield S10 2RX, UK. 
w.j.Pontefract@shef.ac.uk

Partial adherence in osteoporosis increases the risk for fragility fracture and 
has considerable impact on cost-effectiveness. This review highlights a number 
of avenues for further research, such as improved definition of thresholds of 
compliance and persistence, as well as gap length, offset times, and fraction of 
benefit.
INTRODUCTION: A number of economic models have been developed to evaluate 
osteoporosis therapies and support decisions regarding efficient allocation of 
health care resources. Adherence to treatment is seldom incorporated in these 
models, which may reduce their validity for decision-making since adherence is 
poor in real-world clinical practice.
METHODS: An ad hoc working group of the European Society for Clinical and 
Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis met to review key issues 
concerning the incorporation of partial adherence in health economic models.
RESULTS: Observational data have shown that poor adherence is associated with an 
increase in the risk for fragility fracture. Health economic modelling indicates 
that full adherence is associated with more quality-adjusted life years gained 
than partial adherence, as well as higher treatment costs and lower 
fracture-related costs. Although adherence appears as an important driver of 
cost-effectiveness, the effect is dependent on a range of other variables, such 
as offset time, fraction of benefit, fracture risk, fracture efficacy, 
fracture-related costs, and drug cost, some of which are poorly defined. Current 
models used to evaluate cost-effectiveness in osteoporosis may oversimplify the 
contributions of compliance and persistence.
CONCLUSION: Partial adherence has a significant impact on cost-effectiveness. 
Further research is required to optimise thresholds of compliance and 
persistence, the impact of gap length, offset times, and fraction of benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-011-1668-0
PMID: 21617992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Ophthalmologe. 2011 Jul;108(7):618-23. doi: 10.1007/s00347-010-2292-7.

[Glaucoma surgery in childhood].

[Article in German]

Klink T(1), Grehn F.

Author information:
(1)Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg, Josef-Schneider-Str. 11, 97080, 
Würzburg, Deutschland. klink_t@klinik.uni-wuerzburg.de

Technical characteristics and a long-term therapeutic strategy due to a long 
life expectancy play a key role in pediatric glaucoma surgery. The 
well-established angle surgery (goniotomy and trabeculotomy) achieves successful 
results in primary childhood glaucoma. Trabeculectomy seems to have been 
displaced as a secondary approach by glaucoma drainage devices (GDD) in primary 
childhood glaucoma due to inferior results, especially for children under 3 
years of age. Even for secondary childhood glaucoma the results of GDD are 
encouraging, especially for therapy refractory aphakic glaucoma. In the first 2 
years after GDD surgery success rates are about 80% for pediatric glaucoma and 
the results appear to be independent of the type of glaucoma and implant used. 
The complications of GDD are balanced to the faster intraocular pressure (IOP) 
control during the phase of visual acuity development. Cyclodestructive 
procedures may be applied as a secondary adjuvant approach but they increase the 
risk of conjunctival scarring and hypotony for subsequent procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-010-2292-7
PMID: 21618019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Arch Sex Behav. 2011 Oct;40(5):853-5. doi: 10.1007/s10508-011-9779-4.

Mean age of first sex: do they know what we mean?

de Irala J, Osorio A, Carlos S, Ruiz-Canela M, López-del Burgo C.

DOI: 10.1007/s10508-011-9779-4
PMCID: PMC3180636
PMID: 21618046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Genet Couns. 2011 Oct;20(5):432-41. doi: 10.1007/s10897-011-9375-8. Epub
2011  May 27.

Practice guidelines for communicating a prenatal or postnatal diagnosis of Down 
syndrome: recommendations of the national society of genetic counselors.

Sheets KB(1), Crissman BG, Feist CD, Sell SL, Johnson LR, Donahue KC, 
Masser-Frye D, Brookshire GS, Carre AM, Lagrave D, Brasington CK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Genetics, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. Katie.Sheets@duke.edu

Down syndrome is one of the most common conditions encountered in the genetics 
clinic. Due to improvements in healthcare, educational opportunities, and 
community inclusion over the past 30 years, the life expectancy and quality of 
life for individuals with Down syndrome have significantly improved. As prenatal 
screening and diagnostic techniques have become more enhanced and widely 
available, genetic counselors can expect to frequently provide information and 
support following a new diagnosis of Down syndrome. This guideline was written 
for genetic counselors and other healthcare providers regarding the 
communication of a diagnosis of Down syndrome to ensure that families are 
consistently given up-to-date and balanced information about the condition, 
delivered in a supportive and respectful manner.

DOI: 10.1007/s10897-011-9375-8
PMID: 21618060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Demography. 2011 Aug;48(3):1081-104. doi: 10.1007/s13524-011-0036-1.

Understanding the "Russian mortality paradox" in Central Asia: evidence from 
Kyrgyzstan.

Guillot M(1), Gavrilova N, Pudrovska T.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104, USA. miguillo@sas.upenn.edu

In the former Soviet republics of central Asia, ethnic Russians have exhibited 
higher adult mortality than native ethnic groups (e.g., Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Uzbek) 
in spite of the higher socioeconomic status of ethnic Russians. The mortality 
disadvantage of ethnic Russians at adult ages appears to have even increased 
since the breakup of the Soviet Union. The most common explanation for this 
"Russian mortality paradox," is that deaths are better reported among ethnic 
Russians. In this study, we use detailed mortality data from Kyrgyzstan between 
1959 and 1999 to evaluate various explanations for the Russian mortality 
paradox: data artifacts, migration effects, and cultural effects. We find that 
the most plausible explanation is the cultural hypothesis because the personal 
behaviors that appear to generate a large part of the observed mortality 
differences (alcohol consumption, in particular) seem to be closely tied to 
cultural practices. We examine the implications of this finding for 
understanding the health crisis in post-Soviet states.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-011-0036-1
PMCID: PMC3315848
PMID: 21618068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. IUBMB Life. 2011 May;63(5):287-94. doi: 10.1002/iub.484.

Structural heterogeneity and ligand gating in ferric Methanosarcina acetivorans 
protoglobin mutants.

Pesce A(1), Tilleman L, Dewilde S, Ascenzi P, Coletta M, Ciaccio C, Bruno S, 
Moens L, Bolognesi M, Nardini M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, University of Genova, Genova, Italy.

Protoglobin from Methanosarcina acetivorans C2A (MaPgb), a strictly anaerobic 
methanogenic Archaea, displays peculiar structural and functional properties 
within members of the hemoglobin superfamily. In fact, MaPgb-specific loops and 
a N-terminal extension (20 amino acid residues) completely bury the heme within 
the protein matrix. Therefore, the access of diatomic gaseous molecules to the 
heme is granted by two apolar tunnels reaching the heme distal site from 
locations at the B/G and B/E helix interfaces. The presence of two tunnels 
within the protein matrix could be partly responsible for the slightly biphasic 
ligand binding behavior. Unusually, MaPgb oxygenation is favored with respect to 
carbonylation. Here, the crucial role of Tyr(B10)61 and Ile(G11)149 residues, 
located in the heme distal site and lining the protein matrix tunnels 1 and 2, 
respectively, on ligand binding to the heme-Fe-atom and on distal site 
structural organization is reported. In particular, tunnel 1 accessibility is 
modulated by a complex reorganization of the Trp(B9)60 and Phe(E11)93 
side-chains, triggered by mutations of the Tyr(B10)61 and Ile(G11)149 residues, 
and affected by the presence and type of the distal heme-bound ligand.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.484
PMID: 21618401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Psychiatr Rehabil J. 2011 Spring;34(4):271-336.

Critical condition: integrated health care to increase quality of life and life 
expectancy. Proceedings of an integrated health care conference. Chicago, 
Illinois, USA. 2009.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 21618738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Rev Prat. 2011 Feb;61(2):269-76.

[Normal aging: biological, functional and relational aspects. Epidemiological 
and sociological data. Prevention of pathological aging].

[Article in French]

Duron E(1), Spivac Y, Hanon O, Rigaud AS.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Broca, université Paris-Descartes, 75013 Paris, France. 
emmanuelle.duron@brc.aphp.fr

PMID: 21618784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Ann Thorac Surg. 2011 Jul;92(1):372-9. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.04.018.  Epub 2011 May 28.

Current evidence for perioperative statins in cardiac surgery.

Kuhn EW(1), Liakopoulos OJ, Choi YH, Wahlers T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Heart Center, University of Cologne, 
Cologne, Germany.

Cardiac surgery improves life expectancy and quality of life for the constantly 
ageing population in developed countries. Mediated by their lipid-dependent and 
lipid-independent mechanisms, statins are sought to provide benefit with regard 
to better outcomes after cardiac surgery. Current guidelines recommend statin 
use in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting, while less evidence 
is available for patients referred to heart valve surgery. Optimal selection of 
statin drug and dosage including perioperative timing of statin therapy remains 
largely unknown, but results of ongoing meta-analyses and future randomized 
trials will add important evidence to guide perioperative statin treatment of 
cardiac surgery patients.

Copyright © 2011 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.04.018
PMID: 21620371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Radiother Oncol. 2011 May;99(2):161-5. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2011.04.005.
Epub  2011 May 26.

Withholding stereotactic radiotherapy in elderly patients with stage I non-small 
cell lung cancer and co-existing COPD is not justified: outcomes of a Markov 
model analysis.

Louie AV(1), Rodrigues G, Hannouf M, Lagerwaard F, Palma D, Zaric GS, Haasbeek 
C, Senan S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, London Regional Cancer Program, London, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To model outcomes of SBRT versus best supportive care 
(BSC) in elderly COPD patients with stage I NSCLC.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to simulate the 
quality-adjusted and overall survival (OS) in patients ⩾75years undergoing 
either SBRT or BSC for a five-year timeframe. SBRT rates of local, regional and 
distant recurrences were obtained from 247 patients treated at the VUMC, 
Amsterdam. Recurrence rates were converted into transition probabilities and 
stratified into four groups according to T stage (1, 2) and COPD GOLD score 
(I-II, III-IV). Data for untreated patients were obtained from the California 
Cancer Registry. Tumor stage and GOLD score utilities were adapted from the 
literature.
RESULTS: Our model correlated closely with the source OS data for SBRT treated 
and untreated patients. After SBRT, our model predicted for 6.8-47.2% five-year 
OS and 14.9-27.4 quality adjusted life months (QALMs). The model predicted for 
9.0% and 2.8% five-year OS, and 10.1 and 6.1 QALMs for untreated T1 and T2 
patients, respectively. The benefit of SBRT was the least for T2, GOLD III-IV 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Our model indicates that SBRT should be considered in elderly stage 
I NSCLC patients with COPD.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2011.04.005
PMID: 21620503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Aug;54(2):448-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.033. Epub
2011  May 28.

Inflow thrombosis does not adversely affect thrombolysis outcomes of symptomatic 
iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis.

Jeyabalan G(1), Marone L, Rhee R, Hirsch S, Makaroun MS, Cho J, Chaer RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The presence of popliteal or tibial vein clot is thought to adversely 
affect thrombolysis for iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis (DVT). We examined the 
effect of inflow thrombosis on functional and anatomic outcomes.
METHODS: Data for 44 patients treated for symptomatic iliofemoral DVT between 
2006 and 2009 were retrospectively reviewed. All patients were treated by 
pharmacomechanical thrombectomy with local lytic therapy. Catheter-directed 
lysis and vena cava filters were used sparingly. Univariate and multivariate 
logistic regression analyses were used. The independent variable used in the 
logistic regression model was symptom relief.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients (mean age, 52.1 ± 15.8 years) presented with 
symptoms averaging 13.4 ± 9.9 days in duration. Twenty (45.4%) had symptoms for 
>14 days. Seventeen patients were treated in one session, but 27 patients 
required lytic infusion for residual thrombus. Iliac stenting was required in 
49% of limbs. Successful lysis (>50%) was achieved in 91% of patients, and 
symptom resolution or improvement in 91%. All patients became ambulatory, with 
no or minimal limitation. No major systemic bleeding complications occurred. 
Freedom from DVT recurrence and reintervention was 84% at 24 months by 
life-table analysis. Preoperative ultrasound imaging showed 89% had popliteal 
and tibial clots. A thrombosed popliteal vein was accessed for treatment and was 
corroborated by venographic findings. One patient required simultaneous tibial 
lysis. At a mean follow up of 8.7 ± 6.3 months, 41 patients (93%) had no symptom 
recurrence, 82% had preserved valve function and no reflux on duplex imaging, 
with a mean CEAP class of 1.4 and Villalta score of 3.3. Inflow thrombus had no 
adverse effect on symptom relief, treatment duration, patency, CEAP class, or 
valve reflux. Interestingly, 90% of patients with initial popliteal thrombus had 
a patent popliteal vein on postlysis ultrasound imaging, and the presence of 
tibial thrombus on presentation was predictive of symptom relief with 
thrombolysis (odds ratio, 13.03; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-165.58; P = 
.048).
CONCLUSIONS: Inflow thrombosis is common and does not preclude successful 
thrombolysis of iliofemoral DVT. Valve function is preserved on midterm 
follow-up, with maintained CEAP class and symptom relief.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.033
PMID: 21620617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Sep;54(3):628-36. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.055. Epub
2011  May 28.

Cost-effectiveness of intensive smoking cessation therapy among patients with 
small abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Mani K(1), Wanhainen A, Lundkvist J, Lindström D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Vascular Surgery, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, Sweden. kevin.mani@surgsci.uu.se

INTRODUCTION: Smoking cessation is one of the few available strategies to 
decrease the risk for expansion and rupture of small abdominal aortic aneurysms 
(AAAs). The cost-effectiveness of an intensive smoking cessation therapy in 
patients with small AAAs identified at screening was evaluated.
METHODS: A Markov cohort simulation model was used to compare an 8-week smoking 
cessation intervention with adjuvant pharmacotherapy and annual revisits vs 
nonintervention among 65-year-old male smokers with a small AAA identified at 
screening. The smoking cessation rate was tested in one-way sensitivity analyses 
in the intervention group (range, 22%-57%) and in the nonintervention group 
(range, 3%-30%). Literature data on the effect of smoking on AAA expansion and 
rupture was factored into the model.
RESULTS: The intervention was cost-effective in all tested scenarios and 
sensitivity analyses. The smoking cessation intervention was cost-effective due 
to a decreased need for AAA repair and decreased rupture rate even when 
disregarding the positive effects of smoking cessation on long-term survival. 
The incremental cost/effectiveness ratio reached the willingness-to-pay 
threshold value of €25,000 per life-year gained when assuming an intervention 
cost of > €3250 or an effect of ≤ 1% difference in long-term smoking cessation 
between the intervention and nonintervention groups. Smoking cessation resulted 
in a relative risk reduction for elective AAA repair by 9% and for rupture by 
38% over 10 years of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: An adequate smoking cessation intervention in patients with small 
AAAs identified at screening can cost-effectively increase long-term survival 
and decrease the need for AAA repair.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.055
PMID: 21620630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Sep;54(3):609-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.053. Epub
2011  May 28.

One-year multicenter results of 100 abdominal aortic aneurysm patients treated 
with the Endurant stent graft.

van Keulen JW(1), de Vries JP, Dekker H, Gonçalves FB, Moll FL, Verhagen HJ, van 
Herwaarden JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The Endurant (Medtronic, Minneapolis, Minn) is a new stent graft 
specifically designed to make more patients anatomically eligible for 
endovascular aneurysm (EVAR). This study presents the 1-year results of 100 
consecutive patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) treated with the 
Endurant stent graft in real-life practice.
METHODS: All clinical preoperative, operative, postoperative, and 1-year 
follow-up data of patients with the Endurant stent graft from three tertiary 
centers were prospectively collected. Patients underwent computed tomographic 
angiography (CTA) preoperatively, at 1 month, and at 1-year post-EVAR. The first 
100 patients with an implantation date at least 1 year before our date of 
analysis and complete information were included. Clinical data, AAA 
characteristics, presence of endoleaks, graft migration, and other EVAR-related 
complications were noted. All values are stated as mean ± SD (range).
RESULTS: This study included 100 patients with AAAs (88 men) with a mean age of 
73 ± 8 years (47 to 87 years), an AAA size of 61 ± 10 mm (31 to 93 mm), an AAA 
volume of 210 ± 122 mL (69 to 934 mL), a proximal neck length of 33 ± 14 mm (9 
to 82 mm), and an infrarenal angulation of 44 ± 25° (0°-108°). Nineteen of the 
100 included patients had at least one anatomic characteristic that was 
considered a violation of the instructions for use (IFU) of the Endurant stent 
graft. A primary technical success was achieved in 98% of the patients (one 
additional stent placement in renal artery was required; one unplanned 
aorto-uni-iliac device placed), with no primary type I or III endoleaks or 
conversions. A secondary technical success was achieved in all cases. The 30-day 
mortality was 2% and the first postoperative CTA documented 16 endoleaks (16%; 
16 type II). One-year follow-up showed three iliac limb occlusions (3%), one 
infected stent graft (causing a type Ia endoleak), and five endovascular 
reinterventions (5%; three to treat iliac limb occlusions, one proximal 
extension cuff; and one stent in the renal artery). The 1-year all-cause 
mortality rate was 12% (12 patients) and the AAA-related mortality was 3%. The 
mean AAA size was significantly smaller after 1 year (diameter, 54 ± 11.8 
[32-80] mm; P < .01; volume, 173 ± 119 [42-1028] mL; P < .01), and one graft 
migration >5 mm and 13 endoleaks were noted (12 type II, 1 type I [neck 
dilatation]).
CONCLUSION: The treatment of patients with AAAs with the Endurant stent graft 
seems to be successful and durable during the first year after EVAR. Despite the 
wider inclusion criteria for the Endurant, and with 19% of our patients treated 
outside the IFU, the AAA-related mortality, number of type I or III endoleaks, 
and reintervention rates are comparable to the results of other stent grafts.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.02.053
PMID: 21620631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2012 Mar;13(3):303-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2011.04.015.
Epub  2011 May 31.

Prevention of venous thromboembolism in long term care: results of a multicenter 
educational intervention using clinical practice guidelines: part 2 of 2 (an 
AMDA Foundation project).

Dharmarajan TS(1), Nanda A, Agarwal B, Agnihotri P, Doxsie GL, Gokula M, 
Javaheri A, Kanagala M, Lebelt AS, Madireddy P, Mahapatra S, Murakonda P, 
Muthavarapu SR, Patel M, Patterson C, Soch K, Troncales A, Yaokim K, Kroft R, 
Norkus EP.

Author information:
(1)New York Medical College and Montefiore Medical Center North, Bronx, NY, USA. 
dharmarajants@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: Implementation of prophylaxis for venous thomboembolism (VTE) 
through risk assessment based on clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) is variably 
adopted in long term care facilities (LTCF). Current guidelines recommend venous 
thromboembolism prophylaxis (VTE-P) following risk assessment, individualized to 
patient status. In LTCF, differing comorbidity, life-expectancy, ethical, and 
quality-of-life issues may warrant a unique approach. This article examines 
VTE-P practices in LTCF before and after educational intervention to bring 
practice patterns consistent with CPGs.
METHODS: Phase 1 (preceding article in this issue) identified current practice 
to assess risk and implement VTE-P (17 geographically diverse LTCFs, 3260 total 
beds). Phase 2 (educational intervention using CPGs) and Phase 3 (outcomes) 
reexamined VTE-P at the same 17 centers.
RESULTS: The frequency of indications for VTE-P and contraindications to 
anticoagulation were similar during Phases 1 and 3 (all P > .05). In Phase 3, 
use of aspirin alone decreased more than 50% (P < .0005), whereas use of 
compression devices increased (P < .0005). Regression models predicted no 
relationship between any indication or contraindication and VTE-P in Phase 1 
(all P > .05) but identified significant relationships between indication and 
contraindications and VTE-P in Phase 3 (P = .022 to P < .0005), suggesting 
adequate understanding of current CPGs following education as the basis for 
improved VTE-P.
CONCLUSIONS: The study confirms the presence of significant comorbidity in LTC 
residents, many with indications for VTE-P, some with contraindications for 
anticoagulation. Following educational intervention, more residents received 
VTE-P, influenced by risk-benefit ratio favoring treatment. These findings 
suggest that even a modest educational intervention significantly improves 
provider knowledge pertinent to risk assessment consistent with CPG and more 
appropriate VTE-P.

Copyright Â© 2012 American Medical Directors Association, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2011.04.015
PMID: 21621477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2011 Jun;92(6):866-72. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2010.12.038.

Evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of electrical stimulation therapy for 
pressure ulcers in spinal cord injury.

Mittmann N(1), Chan BC, Craven BC, Isogai PK, Houghton P.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and PharmacoEconomics Research Centre, Division of Clinical 
Pharmacology, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada. nicole.mittmann@sunnybrook.ca

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness of electrical 
stimulation (ES) plus standard wound care (SWC) as compared with SWC only in a 
spinal cord injury (SCI) population with grade III/IV pressure ulcers (PUs) from 
the public payer perspective.
DESIGN: A decision analytic model was constructed for a 1-year time horizon to 
determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of ES plus SWC to SWC in a cohort 
of participants with SCI and grade III/IV PUs. Model inputs for clinical 
probabilities were based on published literature. Model inputs, namely clinical 
probabilities and direct health system and medical resources were based on a 
randomized controlled trial of ES plus SWC versus SWC. Costs (Can $) included 
outpatient (clinic, home care, health professional) and inpatient management 
(surgery, complications). One way and probabilistic sensitivity (1000 Monte 
Carlo iterations) analyses were conducted.
SETTING: The perspective of this analysis is from a Canadian public health 
system payer.
PARTICIPANTS: Model target population was an SCI cohort with grade III/IV PUs.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost per PU healed.
RESULTS: ES plus SWC were associated with better outcomes and lower costs. There 
was a 16.4% increase in the PUs healed and a cost savings of $224 at 1 year. ES 
plus SWC were thus considered a dominant economic comparator. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis resulted in economic dominance for ES plus SWC in 62%, with 
another 35% having incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of $50,000 or less per 
PU healed. The largest driver of the economic model was the percentage of PU 
healed with ES plus SWC.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of ES to SWC improved healing in grade III/IV PU and 
reduced costs in an SCI population.

Copyright © 2011 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2010.12.038
PMID: 21621661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2012 Nov;24(6):915-22. doi:
10.1177/1010539511409923.  Epub 2011 May 26.

Changes in active life expectancy among older thais: results from the 1997 and 
2004 national health examination surveys.

Jiawiwatkul U(1), Aekplakorn W, Vapattanawong P, Prasartkul P, Porapakkham Y.

Author information:
(1)Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.

This study aims to determine the disability prevalence and changes in active 
life expectancy of the Thai older people between 1997 and 2004. Data on 
disability of older people aged ≥60 years were obtained from the National Health 
Examination Surveys. Disability refers to one or more restrictions on the 
activities of daily living. The Sullivan method was used to calculate active 
life expectancy. A total of 4048 older people in 1997 and 19 372 older people in 
2004 were included in the analysis. Active life expectancy at age 60 of men was 
16.5 years in 1997 and 17.6 years in 2004, whereas that of women was 17.9 and 
19.9 years, respectively. Women spent a greater proportion of the remaining life 
with disability. The proportion of active life for both genders also increased 
during the 7-year period suggesting an evidence of the compression of morbidity 
in Thai older people.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539511409923
PMID: 21622481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. RNA. 2011 Jul;17(7):1274-81. doi: 10.1261/rna.2726811. Epub 2011 May 27.

Polymerase ribozyme efficiency increased by G/T-rich DNA oligonucleotides.

Yao C(1), Müller UF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

The RNA world hypothesis states that the early evolution of life went through a 
stage where RNA served as genome and as catalyst. The replication of RNA world 
organisms would have been facilitated by ribozymes that catalyze RNA 
polymerization. To recapitulate an RNA world in the laboratory, a series of RNA 
polymerase ribozymes was developed previously. However, these ribozymes have a 
polymerization efficiency that is too low for self-replication, and the most 
efficient ribozymes prefer one specific template sequence. The limiting factor 
for polymerization efficiency is the weak sequence-independent binding to its 
primer/template substrate. Most of the known polymerase ribozymes bind an RNA 
heptanucleotide to form the P2 duplex on the ribozyme. By modifying this 
heptanucleotide, we were able to significantly increase polymerization 
efficiency. Truncations at the 3'-terminus of this heptanucleotide increased 
full-length primer extension by 10-fold, on a specific template sequence. In 
contrast, polymerization on several different template sequences was improved 
dramatically by replacing the RNA heptanucleotide with DNA oligomers containing 
randomized sequences of 15 nt. The presence of G and T in the random sequences 
was sufficient for this effect, with an optimal composition of 60% G and 40% T. 
Our results indicate that these DNA sequences function by establishing many weak 
and nonspecific base-pairing interactions to the single-stranded portion of the 
template. Such low-specificity interactions could have had important functions 
in an RNA world.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.2726811
PMCID: PMC3138564
PMID: 21622900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Age Ageing. 2011 Jul;40(4):419-22. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afr059. Epub 2011 May
28.

Pharmacotherapy at the end-of-life.

O'Mahony D(1), O'Connor MN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University College Cork, University Hospital, Wilton, 
Ireland. denis.omahony@hse.ie

Older people reaching end-of-life status are particularly at risk from 
inter-related adverse effects of pharmacotherapy, including polypharmacy, 
inappropriate medications and adverse drug events. These adverse effects of 
pharmacotherapy may be highly detrimental, as well as highly expensive. 
