
Shibuya K(1), Hashimoto H, Ikegami N, Nishi A, Tanimoto T, Miyata H, Takemi K, 
Reich MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health Policy, Graduate School of Medicine, University 
of Tokyo, Japan. shibuyak@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Comment on
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1051-3.
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1206-7.

Japan's premier health accomplishment in the past 50 years has been the 
achievement of good population health at low cost and increased equity between 
different population groups. The development of Japan's policies for universal 
coverage are similar to the policy debates that many countries are having in 
their own contexts. The financial sustainability of Japan's universal coverage 
is under threat from demographic, economic, and political factors. Furthermore, 
a series of crises-both natural and nuclear-after the magnitude 9·0 Great East 
Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, has shaken up the entire Japanese social 
system that was developed and built after World War 2, and shown existing 
structural problems in the Japanese health system. Here, we propose four major 
reforms to assure the sustainability and equity of Japan's health 
accomplishments in the past 50 years-implement a human-security value-based 
reform; redefine the role of the central and local governments; improve the 
quality of health care; and commit to global health. Now is the time for rebirth 
of Japan and its health system.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61098-2
PMID: 21885100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1051-3. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60274-2.
Epub  2011 Aug 30.

50 years of pursuing a healthy society in Japan.

Reich MR(1), Ikegami N, Shibuya K, Takemi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. michael_reich@harvard.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 24;378(9797):1174-82.
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1265-73.
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1049.
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1065.
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1064.
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1106-15.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60274-2
PMID: 21885101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1094-105. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61055-6.
Epub  2011 Aug 30.

What has made the population of Japan healthy?

Ikeda N(1), Saito E, Kondo N, Inoue M, Ikeda S, Satoh T, Wada K, Stickley A, 
Katanoda K, Mizoue T, Noda M, Iso H, Fujino Y, Sobue T, Tsugane S, Naghavi M, 
Ezzati M, Shibuya K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health Policy, Graduate School of Medicine, University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1206-7.
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 24;378(9797):1124-5.

People in Japan have the longest life expectancy at birth in the world. Here, we 
compile the best available evidence about population health in Japan to 
investigate what has made the Japanese people healthy in the past 50 years. The 
Japanese population achieved longevity in a fairly short time through a rapid 
reduction in mortality rates for communicable diseases from the 1950s to the 
early 1960s, followed by a large reduction in stroke mortality rates. Japan had 
moderate mortality rates for non-communicable diseases, with the exception of 
stroke, in the 1950s. The improvement in population health continued after the 
mid-1960s through the implementation of primary and secondary preventive 
community public health measures for adult mortality from non-communicable 
diseases and an increased use of advanced medical technologies through the 
universal insurance scheme. Reduction in health inequalities with improved 
average population health was partly attributable to equal educational 
opportunities and financial access to care. With the achievement of success 
during the health transition since World War 2, Japan now needs to tackle major 
health challenges that are emanating from a rapidly ageing population, causes 
that are not amenable to health technologies, and the effects of increasing 
social disparities to sustain the improvement in population health.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61055-6
PMID: 21885105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1206-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61189-6.
Epub  2011 Aug 30.

Education for health professionals in Japan--time to change.

Ban N(1), Fetters MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine/Family and Community Medicine, Nagoya 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Aichi, Japan. nobuban@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1265-73.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1094-105.
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 24;378(9797):1124-5.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61189-6
PMID: 21885111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Lancet. 2011 Sep 24;378(9797):1124-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61221-X.
Epub  2011 Aug 30.

Why is Japanese life expectancy so high?

Murray CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA 98121, USA. cjlm@uw.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 24;378(9797):1183-92.
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1049.
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1205-6.
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1206-7.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2011 Sep 17;378(9796):1094-105.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61221-X
PMID: 21885112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Cancer Radiother. 2011 Oct;15(6-7):495-503. doi:
10.1016/j.canrad.2011.06.003.  Epub 2011 Aug 31.

[Radiation-related heart toxicity].

[Article in French]

Mège A(1), Ziouèche A, Pourel N, Chauvet B.

Author information:
(1)Radiothérapie, institut Sainte-Catherine, 1750, chemin du Lavarin, 84000 
Avignon, France. a.mege@isc84.org

The radiotherapy of thoracic cancers exposes the heart to late radiation-induced 
complications. The physiopathological and clinical consequences of heart 
irradiation have been mostly studied in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma and 
breast cancer. The main cause of cardiac morbidity is radiation-induced 
coronaropathy with a relative risk estimated between 2 and 3 in earlier studies. 
Preexisting factors of cardiovascular risk, including chemotherapy, potentalize 
the cardiotoxicity of radiotherapy. Conformational radiotherapy, adapting the 
ballistics and the energy to the delineated volumes while carefully evaluating 
the dose-volume distribution in the organs at risk, allowed a drastic reduction 
in cardiac mortality. This toxicity no longer seems to be significant if the 
cardiac volume has received less than 30 Gy. Nevertheless, the prolonged life 
expectancy of cancer patients and the expanding use of new cardiotoxic 
anticancer drugs underline the persistent need to further reduce the dose 
delivered to the heart. Indeed, 1 Gy added to the mean heart dose would increase 
the cardiotoxic risk by 4% (IC 95%: 2-6%, P=0.0002). A strengthened 
collaboration between the radiation oncologist and the cardiologist aims at 
detecting and treating long-term complications after thoracic radiotherapy.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2011.06.003
PMID: 21885320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. PLoS One. 2011;6(8):e23562. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023562. Epub 2011 Aug
19.

Functional insight into the C-terminal extension of halolysin SptA from 
haloarchaeon Natrinema sp. J7.

Xu Z(1), Du X, Li T, Gan F, Tang B, Tang XF.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China.

Halolysin SptA from haloarchaeon Natrinema sp. J7 consists of a subtilisin-like 
catalytic domain and a C-terminal extension (CTE) containing two cysteine 
residues. In this report, we have investigated the function of the CTE using 
recombinant enzymes expressed in Haloferax volcanii WFD11. Deletion of the CTE 
greatly reduced but did not abolish protease activity, which suggests that the 
CTE is not essential for enzyme folding. Mutational analysis suggests that 
residues Cys303 and Cys338 within the CTE form a disulfide bond that make this 
domain resistant to autocleavage and proteolysis under hypotonic conditions. 
Characterization of full-length and CTE-truncation enzymes indicates the CTE not 
only confers extra stability to the enzyme but also assists enzyme activity on 
protein substrates by facilitating binding at high salinities. Interestingly, 
homology modeling of the CTE yields a β-jelly roll-like structure similar to 
those seen in Claudin-binding domain of Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin 
(clostridial C-CPE) and collagen binding domain (CBD), and the CTE also 
possesses collagen-binding activity, making it a potential candidate as an 
anchoring unit in drug delivery systems.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023562
PMCID: PMC3158780
PMID: 21886797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


433. PLoS One. 2011;6(8):e23792. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023792. Epub 2011 Aug
24.

Sex ratio at birth and mortality rates are negatively related in humans.

Dama MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Rural Veterinary Dispensary, Rajola, Bidar, India. madhukar262@gmail.com

Evolutionary theory posits that resource availability and parental investment 
ability could signal offspring sex selection, in order to maximize reproductive 
returns. Non-human studies have provided evidence for this phenomenon, and 
maternal condition around the time of conception has been identified as most 
important factor that influence offspring sex selection. However, studies on 
humans have reported inconsistent results, mostly due to use of disparate 
measures as indicators of maternal condition. In the present study, the 
cross-cultural differences in human natal sex ratio were analyzed with respect 
to indirect measures of condition namely, life expectancy and mortality rate. 
Multiple regression modeling suggested that mortality rates have distinct 
predictive power independent of cross-cultural differences in fertility, wealth 
and latitude that were earlier shown to predict sex ratio at birth. These 
findings suggest that sex ratio variation in humans may relate to differences in 
parental and environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023792
PMCID: PMC3161077
PMID: 21887320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


434. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2011 Jun;49(6):329-33. doi:
10.3340/jkns.2011.49.6.329.  Epub 2011 Jun 30.

Surgical results of unruptured intracranial aneurysms in the elderly : single 
center experience in the past ten years.

Jung YJ(1), Ahn JS, Park ES, Kwon DH, Kwun BD, Kim CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: As medical advances have increased life expectancy, it has become 
imperative to develop specific treatment strategies for intracranial aneurysms 
in the elderly. We therefore analyzed the clinical characteristics and outcomes 
of the treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms in patients older than 70 
years.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records and results of 
neuroimaging modalities on 54 aneurysms of 48 consecutive patients with 
unruptured intracranial aneurysms. (mean±SD age, 72.11±1.96 years; range, 70-78 
years) who underwent surgical clipping over 10 years (May 1999 to June 2010).
RESULTS: Of the 54 aneurysms, 22 were located in the internal carotid artery, 19 
in the middle cerebral artery, 12 in the anterior cerebral artery, and 1 in the 
superior cerebellar artery. Six patients had multiple aneurysms. Aneurysm size 
ranged from 3 mm to 17 mm (mean±SD, 6.82±3.07 mm). Fifty of the 54 aneurysms 
(92.6%) were completely clipped. Three-month outcomes were excellent in 50 
(92.6%) aneurysms and good and poor in 2 each (3.7%), with 1 death (2.0%). 
Procedure-related complications occurred in 7 aneurysms (13.0%), with 2 (3.7%) 
resulting in permanent neurological deficits, including death. No postoperative 
subarachnoid hemorrhage occurred during follow-up. The cumulative rates of 
stroke- or death-free survival at 5 and 10 years were 100% and 78%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Surgical clipping of unruptured intracranial aneurysms in elderly 
group could get it as a favorable outcome in well selected cases.

DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2011.49.6.329
PMCID: PMC3158474
PMID: 21887389


435. Br J Surg. 2011 Oct;98(10):1422-9. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7640.

Cost-utility of bariatric surgery for morbid obesity in Finland.

Mäklin S(1), Malmivaara A, Linna M, Victorzon M, Koivukangas V, Sintonen H.

Author information:
(1)Finnish Office for Health Technology Assessment, National Institute for 
Health and Welfare, Helsinki, Finland. suvi.maklin@thl.fi

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2011 Oct;98(10):1430.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-utility of bariatric 
surgery (gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy and gastric banding) compared with 
ordinary treatment in the Finnish healthcare system.
METHODS: Analysis was done from a healthcare provider's perspective using a 
combination of a decision tree and a Markov model, with a time horizon of 10 
years. Health-related quality of life was estimated from a representative 
population survey, and other parameter values were based on registers, 
systematic reviews, controlled studies and expert opinion.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, bariatric surgery was both more effective 
and less costly than the ordinary treatment. The mean costs were €33,870 and 
€50,495, and the mean number of quality-adjusted life-years 7·63 and 7·05, for 
bariatric surgery and ordinary treatment respectively. Uncertainty around the 
parameter values was tested comprehensively in sensitivity analyses, and the 
results were robust.
CONCLUSION: Surgery for morbid obesity increases health-related quality of life, 
and reduces the need for further treatments and total healthcare costs. 
According to this analysis, non-operative care would be more costly for the 
Finnish healthcare system on average after 5 years following surgery.

Copyright © 2011 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7640
PMID: 21887777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. J Insur Med. 2011;42(2-4):78-84.

Effect of increasing body weight on morbidity and mortality in South Korea.

Pokorski R(1).

Author information:
(1)Hartford Life, 500 Bielenberg Drive, Woodbury, MN 55125, USA.

The number of overweight and obese people in South Korea is increasing due to 
changes in exercise and dietary habits. The World Health Organization estimated 
that 45% of Korean men and 54% of women were overweight in 2005, and the 
percentages are expected to increase to 66% and 67%, respectively, by 2015. 
Studies have also found that more than 10% of Korean children and adolescents 
are now obese. These trends are important from both a public health and an 
insurance perspective because weight gain increases the likelihood of diabetes, 
cardiovascular disease, cancer, and other disorders that affect morbidity and 
mortality.

PMID: 21888193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Insur Med. 2011;42(2-4):85-91.

Do I hear what you hear? Two cases and discussion.

Coates R(1).

Author information:
(1)RGA, 1370 Timberlake Manor Parkway, Chesterfield, MO 63017, USA.

It is fascinating to note the astute observations of clinicians almost a century 
ago. Familial hematuria was described in 1902 by Dr. Leonard Guthrie. Dr. Cecil 
Alport refined the disease description in 1927. (Both papers are still available 
online.) Applications for life insurance were recently received on two women who 
had Alport syndrome as a known diagnosis. The cases will be presented and used 
as a springboard to discuss Alport syndrome and benign familial hematuria (BFH).

PMID: 21888194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Environ Biol. 2011 Jan;32(1):17-22.

Effect of butyl benzyl phthalate on life table-demography of two successive 
generations of cladoceran Moina macrocopa Straus.

Wang JX(1), Xi YL, Hu K, Liu XB.

Author information:
(1)Provincial Key Laboratories of Conservation and Utilization for Important 
Biological Resource in Anhui and Biotic Environment and Ecological Safety, 
College of Life Sciences, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu, Anhui 241000, China.

In this study, the acute toxicity of butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP) to freshwater 
cladoceran Moina macrocopa was tested, and its chronic effects on survival and 
reproduction of two successive generations of the cladoceran were studied using 
life-table demographic method. The results showed that the 48-hr LC50 of BBP for 
M. macrocopa was 3.69 mg l(-1). Compared to the blank controls, BBP at 125, 500, 
1000 and 2000 microg l(-1) significantly shortened the life expectancy at birth, 
BBP at 125-2000 microg l(-1) decreased the net reproductive rate, and BBP at 500 
and 1000 microg I(-1) shortened the generation time but increased the intrinsic 
rate of population increase of the parental M. macrocopa. BBP at 62.5,125, 
500,1000 and 2000 microg l(-1) increased the intrinsic rate of population 
increase of the F1 generation. A significant dose-effect relationship existed 
between BBP concentration and life expectancy at birth, net reproductive rate as 
well as intrinsic rate of population increase of the parental M. macrocopa. The 
parental M. macrocopa were more sensitive in survival, development and 
reproduction to BBP than the F1 generation, but the reverse was also true in the 
population growth. Extending chronic toxicity tests to the second generation of 
M. macrocopa increased the cost-effectiveness of the assays.

PMID: 21888226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Sep;15(31):1-178. doi: 10.3310/hta15310.

Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole for the prevention of occlusive 
vascular events (review of Technology Appraisal No. 90): a systematic review and 
economic analysis.

Greenhalgh J(1), Bagust A, Boland A, Martin Saborido C, Oyee J, Blundell M, 
Dundar Y, Dickson R, Proudlove C, Fisher M.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group (LRiG), University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK.

BACKGROUND: Occlusive vascular events such as myocardial infarction (MI), 
ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attack (TIA) are the result of a 
reduction in blood flow associated with an artery becoming narrow or blocked 
through atherosclerosis and atherothrombosis. Peripheral arterial disease is the 
result of narrowing of the arteries that supply blood to the muscles and other 
tissues, usually in the lower extremities. The primary objective in the 
treatment of all patients with a history of occlusive vascular events and 
peripheral arterial disease is to prevent the occurrence of new occlusive 
vascular events.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole (MRD) alone or with aspirin (ASA) 
compared with ASA (and each other where appropriate) in the prevention of 
occlusive vascular events in patients with a history of MI, ischaemic stroke/TIA 
or established peripheral arterial disease. To consider the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel in patients with 
multivascular disease. This review is an update of the evidence base for the 
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidance Technology 
Appraisal No. 90 (TA90) entitled Clopidogrel and modified-release dipyridamole 
for the prevention of occlusive vascular events (2005).
DATA SOURCES: Four electronic databases (EMBASE, MEDLINE, Web of Science and The 
Cochrane Library) were searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and 
economic evaluations. Submissions to NICE by the manufacturers of the 
interventions were also considered.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness was conducted. To manage heterogeneity between trials, 
indirect analysis (using a mixed-treatment methodology) was performed on 
selected clinical outcomes. A new economic model was developed to assess 
incremental costs per life-year gained [quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)].
RESULTS: For evidence of clinical effectiveness, four RCTs were identified: 
CAPRIE (Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischaemic Events), 
ESPRIT (European/Australasian Stroke Prevention in Reversible Ischaemia Trial), 
PRoFESS (Prevention Regimen For Effectively avoiding Second Strokes) and ESPS-2 
(Second European Stroke Prevention Study). In CAPRIE (patients with MI, 
ischaemic stroke or peripheral arterial disease), statistically significant 
outcomes in favour of clopidogrel were noted for the primary outcome (first 
occurrence of ischaemic stroke, MI or vascular death) compared with ASA 
[relative risk reduction 8.7%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.3% to 16.5%; p = 
0.043]. In ESPRIT (patients with ischaemic stroke/TIA) for the primary outcome 
(first occurrence of death from all vascular causes, non-fatal stroke, non-fatal 
MI or major bleeding complication), the risk of event occurrence was 
statistically significantly lower in the MRD + ASA arm than in the ASA arm 
[hazard ratio (HR) 0.80; 95% CI 0.66 to 0.98], with no statistically significant 
difference in bleeding events between the two arms. In PRoFESS (patients with 
ischaemic stroke) the rate of recurrent stroke of any type (primary outcome) was 
similar in the MRD + ASA and clopidogrel groups, and the null hypothesis (that 
MRD + ASA was inferior to clopidogrel) could not be rejected. In ESPS-2 
(patients with ischaemic stroke/TIA), on the primary outcome of stroke, 
statistically significant differences in favour of MRD + ASA were observed 
compared with ASA and MRD alone (relative risk 0.76; 95% CI 0.63 to 0.93). The 
outcomes addressed in the mixed-treatment comparisons (limited by the available 
data) for the ischaemic stroke/TIA population confirmed the results of the 
direct comparisons. The 11 economic evaluations included in the review of 
cost-effectiveness indicated that for patients with previous peripheral arterial 
disease, ischaemic stroke or MI, clopidogrel is cost-effective compared with 
ASA, and for patients with previous ischaemic stroke/TIA, treatment with MRD + 
ASA is cost-effective compared with any other treatment in patients in the 
secondary prevention of occlusive vascular events. The relevance of the review 
was limited as the economic evaluations were not based on the most current 
clinical data. Cost-effectiveness results generated from the Assessment Group's 
de novo economic model suggested that the most cost-effective approach for 
patients with ischaemic stroke/TIA is clopidogrel followed by MRD + ASA then 
ASA. For patients with MI, the most cost-effective approach is ASA followed by 
clopidogrel. For patients with established peripheral arterial disease, the most 
cost-effective approach is clopidogrel followed by ASA. For patients with 
multivascular disease, clopidogrel followed by ASA is the most cost-effective 
approach. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were also calculated for 
patients who are intolerant to ASA. Assuming that the branded price for 
clopidogrel is used and TA90 guidance is not applied, all of the ICERs range 
between £2189 and £13,558 per QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were fully consistent with these findings.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence suggests that the most cost-effective treatment for 
patients with ischaemic stroke/TIA is clopidogrel followed by MRD + ASA followed 
by ASA; for patients with MI, ASA followed by clopidogrel; and for patients with 
established peripheral arterial disease or multivascular disease, clopidogrel 
followed by ASA.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15310
PMCID: PMC4781064
PMID: 21888837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. FEBS Lett. 2011 Oct 3;585(19):3079-85. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2011.08.034.
Epub  2011 Aug 30.

The endogenous siRNA pathway in Drosophila impacts stress resistance and 
lifespan by regulating metabolic homeostasis.

Lim DH(1), Oh CT, Lee L, Hong JS, Noh SH, Hwang S, Kim S, Han SJ, Lee YS.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul, South 
Korea.

Small non-coding RNAs regulate gene expression in a sequence-specific manner. In 
Drosophila, Dicer-2 (Dcr-2) functions in the biogenesis of endogenous small 
interfering RNAs (endo-siRNAs). We identified 21 distinct proteins that 
exhibited a ≥ 1.5-fold change as a consequence of loss of dcr-2 function. Most 
of these were metabolic genes implicated in stress resistance and aging. dcr-2 
Mutants had reduced lifespan and were hypersensitive to oxidative, endoplasmic 
reticulum, starvation, and cold stresses. Furthermore, loss of dcr-2 function 
led to abnormal lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. Our results suggest roles for 
the endo-siRNA pathway in metabolic regulation and defense against stress and 
aging in Drosophila.

Copyright © 2011 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2011.08.034
PMID: 21889502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Sep;54(3):e1-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.07.031.

Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines for management of extracranial 
carotid disease.

Ricotta JJ(1), Aburahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P, Lal BK; Society for 
Vascular Surgery.

Author information:
(1)Washington Hospital Center, Georgetown University School of Medicine, 
Washington, DC 20010, USA. john.j.ricotta@medstar.net

Erratum in
    J Vasc Surg. 2012 Mar;55(3):894.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2018 Mar;67(3):993-994.

Management of carotid bifurcation stenosis is a cornerstone of stroke prevention 
and has been the subject of extensive clinical investigation, including multiple 
controlled randomized trials. The appropriate treatment of patients with carotid 
bifurcation disease is of major interest to the community of vascular surgeons. 
In 2008, the Society for Vascular Surgery published guidelines for treatment of 
carotid artery disease. At the time, only one randomized trial, comparing 
carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid stenting (CAS), had been published. 
Since that publication, four major randomized trials comparing CEA and CAS have 
been published, and the role of medical management has been re-emphasized. The 
current publication updates and expands the 2008 guidelines with specific 
emphasis on six areas: imaging in identification and characterization of carotid 
stenosis, medical therapy (as stand-alone management and also in conjunction 
with intervention in patients with carotid bifurcation stenosis), risk 
stratification to select patients for appropriate interventional management (CEA 
or CAS), technical standards for performing CEA and CAS, the relative roles of 
CEA and CAS, and management of unusual conditions associated with extracranial 
carotid pathology. Recommendations are made using the GRADE (Grades of 
Recommendation Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system, as has been done 
with other Society for Vascular Surgery guideline documents.[corrected] The 
perioperative risk of stroke and death in asymptomatic patients must be <3% to 
ensure benefit for the patient. CAS should be reserved for symptomatic patients 
with stenosis of 50% to 99% at high risk for CEA for anatomic or medical 
reasons. CAS is not recommended for asymptomatic patients at this time. 
Asymptomatic patients at high risk for intervention or with <3 years life 
expectancy should be considered for medical management as the first-line 
therapy.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.07.031
PMID: 21889701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Sep;54(3):832-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.07.004.

Updated Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines for management of extracranial 
carotid disease: executive summary.

Ricotta JJ(1), Aburahma A, Ascher E, Eskandari M, Faries P, Lal BK; Society for 
Vascular Surgery.

Author information:
(1)Washington Hospital Center, Georgetown University School of Medicine, 
Washington, DC 20010, USA. John.J.Ricotta@medstar.net

Erratum in
    J Vasc Surg. 2012 Mar;55(3):894.

In 2008, the Society for Vascular Surgery published guidelines for the treatment 
of carotid bifurcation stenosis. Since that time, a number of prospective 
randomized trials have been completed and have shed additional light on the best 
treatment of extracranial carotid disease. This has prompted the Society for 
Vascular Surgery to form a committee to update and expand guidelines in this 
area. The review was done using the GRADE methodology.[corrected] The 
perioperative risk of stroke and death in asymptomatic patients must be below 3% 
to ensure benefit for the patient. Carotid artery stenting (CAS) should be 
reserved for symptomatic patients with stenosis 50% to 99% at high risk for CEA 
for anatomic or medical reasons. CAS is not recommended for asymptomatic 
patients at this time. Asymptomatic patients at high risk for intervention or 
with <3 years life expectancy should be considered for medical management as 
first line therapy. In this Executive Summary, we only outline the specifics of 
the recommendations made in the six areas evaluated. The full text of these 
guidelines can be found on the on-line version of the Journal of Vascular 
Surgery at http://journals.elsevierhealth.com/periodicals/ymva.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.07.004
PMID: 21889705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. J Vasc Surg. 2011 Dec;54(6):1637-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.06.025. Epub
2011  Sep 3.

The results of a simplified technique for safe carotid stenting in the elderly.

Christopoulos D(1), Philippov E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, B'Surgical Unit, Genimmatas General Hospital, 
University of Thessaloniki Medical School, Thessaloniki, Greece. 
dechrist@otenet.gr

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to report the preliminary experience of a 
modified transcervical carotid angioplasty and stenting (CAS) technique with 
filter protection and flow reversal only during filter placement in patients 
unsuitable for transfemoral CAS and at high risk for carotid endarterectomy 
(CEA).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-five of 132 patients, aged 75 to 86 years old, with 
severe carotid stenosis had been selected. Eighteen patients had transient 
ischemic attacks (TIAs) in the last month and seven patients were asymptomatic. 
Patients with limited life expectancy were not included. The common carotid 
artery (CCA) was mobilized and cannulated. The flow in the internal carotid 
artery (ICA) was reversed by occluding the proximal CCA and connecting the 
introducing sheath to a blood transfusion bag positioned close to the floor, 
instead of returning it directly to the venous system. This produced retrograde 
flow in the ICA in all patients as a result of greater pressure gradient. The 
carotid filter was inserted to the distal ICA under retrograde flow and then 
antegrade flow was resumed and CAS was performed. All patients were 
autotransfused except for four patients who had severe renal insufficiency to 
avoid readministration of contrast media.
RESULTS: All procedures were successful except in one patient converted to open 
endarterectomy because of CCA dissection (technical success rate 97.5%) and one 
patient who had a TIA involving the right hand 10 hours after CAS and recovered 
completely after 3 hours (event rate 2.5%). Reversed flow was visualized with 
intraoperative angiography in the ICA in all patients. Twenty-two patients were 
discharged the next morning and three (12%) on the following day because of 
hypotension. The duration of reversed flow was 1 to 4 minutes (mean, 1.5 
minutes), the amount of blood collected was 100 to 400 mL (mean, 250 mL), and 
none of these patients had any hemodynamic disturbance during the procedure. 
Creatinine levels showed no increase postoperatively in either patient. The 
patients were followed-up clinically and with color Duplex scan for 3 to 24 
months, so far, and they are free of symptoms or significant restenosis.
CONCLUSION: The results of this preliminary study indicate that the 
transcervical approach with flow reversal during the insertion of the protecting 
filter allows CAS with minimal interruption of cerebral circulation and is 
simple and safe in patients unsuitable for CEA and transfemoral CAS for anatomic 
reasons. Further research with randomization and with pre-procedure and 
post-procedure diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) is 
required in order to expand the indications of this method.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.06.025
PMID: 21890307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. J Thorac Oncol. 2011 Nov;6(11):1841-8. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31822e59b3.

Cost-effectiveness of computed tomography screening for lung cancer in the 
United States.

McMahon PM(1), Kong CY, Bouzan C, Weinstein MC, Cipriano LE, Tramontano AC, 
Johnson BE, Weeks JC, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. pamela@mgh-ita.org

Comment in
    J Thorac Oncol. 2011 Nov;6(11):1781-3.

INTRODUCTION: A randomized trial has demonstrated that lung cancer screening 
reduces mortality. Identifying participant and program characteristics that 
influence the cost-effectiveness of screening will help translate trial results 
into benefits at the population level.
METHODS: Six U.S. cohorts (men and women aged 50, 60, or 70 years) were 
simulated in an existing patient-level lung cancer model. Smoking histories 
reflected observed U.S. patterns. We simulated lifetime histories of 500,000 
identical individuals per cohort in each scenario. Costs per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained ($/QALY) were estimated for each program: computed tomography 
screening; stand-alone smoking cessation therapies (4-30% 1-year abstinence); 
and combined programs.
RESULTS: Annual screening of current and former smokers aged 50 to 74 years 
costs between $126,000 and $169,000/QALY (minimum 20 pack-years of smoking) or 
$110,000 and $166,000/QALY (40 pack-year minimum), when compared with no 
screening and assuming background quit rates. Screening was beneficial but had a 
higher cost per QALY when the model included radiation-induced lung cancers. If 
screen participation doubled background quit rates, the cost of annual screening 
(at age 50 years, 20 pack-year minimum) was below $75,000/QALY. If screen 
participation halved background quit rates, benefits from screening were nearly 
erased. If screening had no effect on quit rates, annual screening costs more 
but provided fewer QALYs than annual cessation therapies. Annual combined 
screening/cessation therapy programs at age 50 years costs $130,500 to 
$159,700/QALY, when compared with annual stand-alone cessation.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of computed tomography screening will likely 
be strongly linked to achievable smoking cessation rates. Trials and further 
modeling should explore the consequences of relationships between smoking 
behaviors and screen participation.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31822e59b3
PMCID: PMC3202298
PMID: 21892105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Prim Health Care. 2011 Sep 1;3(3):192-6.

New Zealand health disparities-pharmacists' knowledge gaps and training needs.

Aspden T(1), Butler C, Moore B, Sheridan J.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, The University of 
Auckland, PB 92019, Auckland 1142, New Zealand. t.aspden@auckland.ac.nz

INTRODUCTION: Reducing health disparities is a priority for the New Zealand (NZ) 
Government and the health care sector and, although not mandatory until 2012, 
Competence Standard 1 for NZ pharmacists has been revised to reflect this.
AIM: The main aim was to understand the information needs of pharmacists in the 
context of reducing health inequalities in NZ through undertaking a baseline 
study of pharmacists' knowledge of health status disparities, identifying 
relevant resources most commonly read by pharmacists, soliciting ideas on how 
the profession can contribute to reducing health disparities and gauging 
pharmacists' willingness to undergo further training.
METHOD: An anonymous, semi-structured questionnaire was posted out to 500 
randomly selected practising pharmacists registered in NZ.
RESULTS: A 27% response rate was achieved. In general, responding pharmacists 
had good health disparity knowledge about asthma and the prevalence of 
cardiovascular disease, but were less knowledgeable about differences in life 
expectancies and some mortality rates. Responding pharmacists made a variety of 
achievable suggestions where pharmacists can contribute to decreasing health 
disparities. Eighty percent of respondents indicated they were interested in 
learning more about cultural competence and health disparities in their 
community.
DISCUSSION: Our results indicate a need for pharmacists to up-skill in the area 
of health disparities and cultural competence and for more effective promotion 
of the resources available to pharmacists to improve their knowledge in this 
area. The pharmacists in this study appear willing to undertake such study; 
however, due to the low response rate generalisations to all pharmacists 
practising in New Zealand cannot be made.

PMID: 21892420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Abnorm Child Psychol. 2012 Feb;40(2):277-87. doi:
10.1007/s10802-011-9563-x.

Multi-wave prospective examination of the stress-reactivity extension of 
response styles theory of depression in high-risk children and early 
adolescents.

Abela JR(1), Hankin BL, Sheshko DM, Fishman MB, Stolow D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Rutgers University, Tillett Hall, Piscataway, NJ 
08854-8040, USA. abelalab@gmail.com

The current study tested the stress-reactivity extension of response styles 
theory of depression (Nolen-Hoeksema Journal of Abnormal Psychology 100:569-582, 
1991) in a sample of high-risk children and early adolescents from a 
vulnerability-stress perspective using a multi-wave longitudinal design. In 
addition, we examined whether obtained results varied as a function of either 
age or sex. During an initial assessment, 56 high-risk children (offspring of 
depressed parents; ages 7-14) completed measures assessing rumination and 
depressive symptoms. Children were subsequently given a handheld personal 
computer which signalled them to complete measures assessing depressive symptoms 
and negative events at six randomly selected times over an 8-week follow-up 
interval. In line with hypotheses, higher levels of rumination were associated 
with prospective elevations in depressive symptoms following the occurrence of 
negative events. Sex, but not age, moderated this association. Rumination was 
more strongly associated with elevations in depressive symptoms following the 
occurrence of negative events in girls than in boys.

DOI: 10.1007/s10802-011-9563-x
PMCID: PMC3266472
PMID: 21892595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. J Med Econ. 2011;14(6):690-7. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.611841. Epub 2011
Sep  5.

Cost-effectiveness of novel relapsed-refractory multiple myeloma therapies in 
Norway: lenalidomide plus dexamethasone vs bortezomib.

Möller J(1), Nicklasson L, Murthy A.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, London, UK. jorgen.moller@unitedbiosource.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness (cost per additional life-year 
[LY] and quality-adjusted life-year [QALY] gained) of lenalidomide plus 
dexamethasone (LEN/DEX) compared with bortezomib for the treatment of 
relapsed-refractory multiple myeloma (rrMM) in Norway.
METHODS: A discrete-event simulation model was developed to predict patients? 
disease course using patient data, best response, and efficacy levels obtained 
from LEN/DEX MM-009/-010 trials and the bortezomib (APEX) published clinical 
trial. Predictive equations for time-to-progression (TTP) and post-progression 
survival (PPS) were developed by identifying the best fitting parametric 
survival distributions and selecting the most significant predictors. Disease 
and adverse event management was obtained via survey from Norwegian experts. 
Costs, derived from official Norwegian pricing data bases, included drug, 
administration, monitoring, and adverse event management costs.
RESULTS: Complete or partial responders were 65% for LEN/DEX compared to 43% for 
bortezomib. Derived median TTP was 11.45 months for LEN/DEX compared to 5.15 
months for bortezomib. LYs and QALYs were higher for LEN/DEX (4.06 and 2.95, 
respectively) than for bortezomib (3.11 and 2.19, respectively). The incremental 
costs per QALY and LY gained from LEN/DEX were NOK 247,978 and NOK 198,714, 
respectively, compared to bortezomib. Multiple sensitivity analyses indicated 
the findings were stable. The parameters with the greatest impact were 4-year 
time horizon (NOK 441,457/QALY) and higher bound confidence intervals for PPS 
(NOK 118,392).
LIMITATIONS: The model analyzed two therapies not compared in head-to-head 
trials, and predicted results using an equation incorporating patient-level 
characteristics. It is a limited estimation of the costs and outcomes in a 
Norwegian setting.
CONCLUSIONS: The simulation model showed that treatment with LEN/DEX leads to 
greater LYs and QALYs when compared to bortezomib in the treatment of rrMM 
patients. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio indicated treatment with 
LEN/DEX to be cost-effective and was the basis of the reimbursement approval of 
LEN/DEX in Norway.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.611841
PMID: 21892856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nutr J. 2011 Sep 5;10:89. doi: 10.1186/1475-2891-10-89.

Fermented wheat germ extract--nutritional supplement or anticancer drug?

Mueller T(1), Voigt W.

Author information:
(1)University of Halle, Department of Internal Medicine, Oncology/Hematology and 
Hemostaseology, Halle/Saale, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Fermented wheat germ extract (FWGE) is a multisubstance composition 
and, besides others, contains 2-methoxy benzoquinone and 2, 6-dimethoxy 
benzoquinone which are likely to exert some of its biological effects. FWGE 
interferes with anaerobic glycolysis, pentose cycle and ribonucleotide 
reductase. It has significant antiproliferative effects and kills tumor cells by 
the induction of apoptosis via the caspase-poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase-pathway. 
FWGE interacts synergistically with a variety of different anticancer drugs and 
exerted antimetastatic properties in mouse models. In addition, FWGE modulates 
immune response by downregulation of MHC-I complex and the induction of TNF-α 
and various interleukins. Data in the F-344 rat model provide evidence for a 
colon cancer preventing effect of FWGE.Clinical data from a randomized phase II 
trial in melanoma patients indicate a significant benefit for patients treated 
with dacarbazine in combination with FWGE in terms of progression free survival 
(PFS) and overall survival (OS). Similarly, data from studies in colorectal 
cancer suggested a benefit of FWGE treatment. Besides extension of OS and PFS, 
FWGE improved the quality of life in several studies.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, available data so far, justify the use of FWGE as a 
non-prescription medical nutriment for cancer patients. Further randomized, 
controlled and large scale clinical studies are mandatory, to further clarify 
the value of FWGE as a drug component of future chemotherapy regimens.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2891-10-89
PMCID: PMC3179707
PMID: 21892933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. AIDS Res Ther. 2011 Sep 5;8:31. doi: 10.1186/1742-6405-8-31.

Trends in reported AIDS defining illnesses (ADIs) among participants in a 
universal antiretroviral therapy program: an observational study.

Jafari S(1), Chan K, Aboulhosn K, Yip B, Lima VD, Hogg RS, Montaner J, Moore DM.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St, Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, Canada. dmoore@cfenet.ubc.ca.

BACKGROUND: We examined trends in AIDS-defining illnesses (ADIs) among 
individuals receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in British 
Columbia (BC), Canada to determine whether declines in ADIs could be 
contributing to previously observed improvements in life-expectancy among HAART 
patients in BC since 1996.
METHODS: HAART-naïve individuals aged ≥ 18 years who initiated treatment in BC 
each of the following time-periods 1996 - 1998; 1999 - 2001; 2002 - 2004; 2005 - 
2007 were included. The proportion of participants with reported ADIs were 
examined for each time period and trends were analyzed using the 
Cochran-Armitage Trend Test. Cox proportional hazards models were used to 
examine factors associated with ADIs.
RESULTS: A total of 3721 individuals (81% male) initiated HAART during the study 
period. A total of 251 reports of ADIs were received from 214 unique patients. 
These occurred in a median of 4 months (IQR = 1-19 months) from HAART 
initiation. The proportion of individuals with a reported ADI did not change 
significantly from 4.6% in the earliest time period to 5.8% in the latest period 
(p = 0.181 for test of trend). There were no significant declines in any 
specific ADI over the study period. Multivariable Cox models found that 
individuals initiating HAART during 2002-04 were at an increased risk of ADIs 
(AHR = 1.55; 95% CI 1.04-2.32) in comparison to 1996 - 98, but there were no 
significant differences in other time periods.
CONCLUSIONS: Trends in reported ADIs among individuals receiving HAART since 
1996 in BC do not appear to parallel improvements in life-expectancy over the 
same period.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-6405-8-31
PMCID: PMC3180248
PMID: 21892955


450. Heart Rhythm. 2012 Jan;9(1):42-6. doi: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2011.08.031. Epub
2011  Sep 3.

Development and validation of a risk score to predict early mortality in 
recipients of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators.

Kramer DB(1), Friedman PA, Kallinen LM, Morrison TB, Crusan DJ, Hodge DO, 
Reynolds MR, Hauser RG.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02446, USA. 
daniel.kramer@alumni.brown.edu

Comment in
    Heart Rhythm. 2012 Jan;9(1):47-8.

BACKGROUND: Current guidelines do not recommend implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) implantation in patients with a life expectancy 
of <1 year. Better methods are needed for identifying patients at high risk for 
early mortality despite ICD therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To develop and validate a risk prediction score to identify patients 
at high risk for death within 1 year despite ICD therapy.
DESIGN: Detailed clinical data were collected on a large observational cohort of 
ICD patients from 3 tertiary care centers. One-third of the patients were 
randomly selected to form the prediction group (PG) from which a risk score was 
developed using logistic regression. This score was then applied to the 
remaining two-thirds of the cohort (validation group [VG]) to assess the risk 
score's predictive accuracy.
RESULTS: The total cohort included 2717 ICD patients (mean age = 64.6 ± 14.5, 
male = 77.2%, primary prevention = 74.7%). A simple risk score incorporating 
peripheral arterial disease, age ≥ 70 years, creatinine ≥ 2.0 mg/dL, and 
ejection fraction ≤20% (PACE) accurately predicted 1-year mortality in the VG. 
Patients with a risk score of ≥3 had a >4-fold excess 1-year mortality compared 
with patients with a risk score of <3 (16.5% vs 3.5%; P <.0001).
LIMITATION: Risk reduction provided by ICD therapy in this cohort is not known 
given the lack of a control group.
CONCLUSIONS: A simple risk score accurately predicts 1-year mortality in ICD 
patients, as patients with a PACE risk score of ≥3 are at high risk despite ICD 
therapy.

Copyright © 2012 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hrthm.2011.08.031
PMID: 21893137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Lung Cancer. 2011 Dec;74(3):364-8. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2011.06.006. Epub
2011  Sep 3.

Chemotherapy in elderly patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Quoix E(1), Westeel V, Zalcman G, Milleron B.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital, Strasbourg cedex, France. 
elisabeth.quoix@chru-strasbourg.fr

Because of increasing life expectancy and of higher risk of cancer with ageing, 
lung cancer in elderly is a frequent disease. For a long time nihilism 
influenced treatment decisions in elderly patients with advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer. Since the beginning of the last decade single agent chemotherapy 
has been accepted as standard of care, vinorelbine and gemcitabine being the 
most frequently used drugs in Europe and US, docetaxel in Japan. Platinum-based 
doublets have been shown to be superior to monotherapy in young and fit patients 
with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Although there were some indications 
from subgroup analyses of clinical trials not specifically dedicated to elderly 
patients that a platinum-based doublet might also benefit to older patients, 
there was no definitive proof of concept until ASCO meeting 2010. At this 
meeting results of a phase 3 trial showed that PS 0-2 patients, aged 70-89 years 
drove a significant benefit from a treatment with carboplatin associated to 
weekly paclitaxel compared to a monotherapy. Thus, the paradigm of treatment in 
elderly patients should perhaps be modified from a single agent to doublet 
chemotherapy. Whether other platinum-based doublets would provide the same 
benefit as the specific one studied remains to be evaluated.

