humans. Furthermore, our findings suggest that the duration and severity of the 
caloric restriction intervention are important for the outcome on the growth 
hormone/IGF-I axis in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glr149
PMID: 21865155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011 Nov;96(11):E1719-26. doi:
10.1210/jc.2011-0459.  Epub 2011 Aug 24.

Cost-effectiveness of a novel molecular test for cytologically indeterminate 
thyroid nodules.

Li H(1), Robinson KA, Anton B, Saldanha IJ, Ladenson PW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences Informatics, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Aug;101(8):L76-7.
    J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016 Aug;101(8):L78-9.

CONTEXT: Determining which patients with thyroid nodules require surgery is 
limited by cytologically indeterminate findings. A new approach for preoperative 
molecular classification of cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodules has a 
reported sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 75%; however, its 
cost-effectiveness has yet to be assessed.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate the 5-yr cost-effectiveness of routine 
use of a molecular test in adult patients with indeterminate fine-needle 
aspiration biopsy results from a societal perspective.
DESIGN: A 16-state Markov decision model was developed. Probabilities, costs, 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) were estimated from literature review, 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services data, Medicare reimbursement 
schedules, and expert opinion.
SETTING AND SUBJECTS: Decision analysis of a hypothetical group of adult 
patients with cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodules was conducted.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated as 
incremental cost (measured in U.S. dollars) divided by incremental effectiveness 
(measured in QALY).
RESULTS: Modifying current practice with use of the molecular test resulted in 
74% fewer surgeries for benign nodules with no greater number of untreated 
cancers. Over 5 yr, mean discounted cost estimates were $12,172 for current 
practice and $10,719 with the molecular test. Current practice and molecular 
test use produced 4.50 and 4.57 QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of this novel molecular test for differential diagnosis of 
cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodules can potentially avoid almost three 
fourths of currently performed surgeries in patients with benign nodules. 
Compared with current practice based on cytological findings alone, use of this 
test may result in lower overall costs and modestly improved quality of life for 
patients with indeterminate thyroid nodules.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2011-0459
PMID: 21865367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. J Gen Virol. 2011 Dec;92(Pt 12):2792-2796. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.034975-0. Epub
 2011 Aug 24.

The large Rep protein of adeno-associated virus type 2 is polyubiquitinated.

Sukhu L(1), Pintel D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Bond Life Sciences 
Center, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, USA.

Five adenovirus (Ad) gene products are required for efficient replication of 
co-infecting adeno-associated virus (AAV); however, the combined net enhancement 
by these factors is composed of both positive and negative effects. Similar to 
previous results with AAV Rep52, AAV2 large Rep was targeted for ubiquitination 
and degradation by the Ad E4orf6/E1b 55 kDa, cullin 5-containing, E3-ubiquitin 
ligase. Additionally, large Rep was targeted for ubiquitination via extension of 
ubiquitin lysine K48 and K63 both in the presence and absence of E4orf6.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.034975-0
PMCID: PMC3352567
PMID: 21865444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2011;32(1):63-9. doi: 10.1159/000330472. Epub
2011  Aug 24.

Influence of variation in the follicle-stimulating hormone receptor gene (FSHR) 
and age at menopause on the development of Alzheimer's disease in women.

Corbo RM(1), Gambina G, Broggio E, Scacchi R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Biotechnology, La Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. 
rosamaria.corbo @ uniroma1.it

BACKGROUND: The higher prevalence of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) in women 
may be explained by their longer life expectancy, but also by biological 
gender-specific factors such as a woman's past fertility.
METHODS: We investigated the relationship between fertility and susceptibility 
to AD in women by studying two polymorphisms at codons 307 and 680 of the 
follicle-stimulating hormone receptor gene (FSHR) involved in determining human 
fertility. The role of age at menopause (AM) as a gender-specific AD 
susceptibility determinant was also examined. The study population comprised 291 
AD patients (70.1% women) and 134 controls (63.4% women).
RESULTS: Logistic regression analysis showed that only among the women the FSHR 
AS/AS genotype was associated with a significantly lower risk of AD (OR = 0.36, 
95% CI: 0.15-0.85), suggesting a gender-specific protective role of the FSHR 
genotype against AD susceptibility. A lower age at natural menopause was 
observed in the AD patients (49.7 ± 2.53) than in the controls (50.7 ± 2.53, p = 
0.02) and on linear regression analysis an association emerged between an 
earlier AM and an earlier AD onset (p = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: Genetic and non-genetic gender-specific factors may contribute to 
the AD pathogenesis in women, although further investigations are required to 
clarify their actual role.

2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000330472
PMID: 21865747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Ann Surg. 2011 Sep;254(3):465-73; discussion 473-5. doi: 
10.1097/SLA.0b013e31822c5fc1.

Five hundred patients with Merkel cell carcinoma evaluated at a single 
institution.

Fields RC(1), Busam KJ, Chou JF, Panageas KS, Pulitzer MP, Allen PJ, Kraus DH, 
Brady MS, Coit DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, Washington University School 
of Medicine, Louis, MO, USA.

Erratum in
    Ann Surg. 2012 Feb;255(2):404.

OBJECTIVE: To identify factors associated with survival in Merkel cell carcinoma 
(MCC).
BACKGROUND: Merkel cell carcinoma is a rare cutaneous neoplasm. Staging and 
treatment are based on studies, which incompletely characterize the disease.
METHODS: Review of a prospective database was performed. Overall survival (OS) 
was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease-specific death (DSD) was 
analyzed by the competing risks method. Factors associated with OS and DSD were 
determined by the log-rank test and Gray's test, respectively.
RESULTS: A total of 500 patients with MCC treated at our institution from 1969 
to 2010 were identified. Eighty-eight patients presented older than 6 months 
after diagnosis and were excluded from further analysis. Of the remaining 412 
patients, the median age at diagnosis was 71 years. Median follow-up was 3 
years. Fifty percent of patients died during follow-up: 25% died of disease, 24% 
died of other causes. Five-year OS and DSD were 56% and 30%, respectively. 
Pathologic stage and lymphovascular invasion were independent predictors of DSD. 
Patients with metastatic disease (stage 4) or clinically positive lymph nodes 
(stage 3b) had increased DSD compared with patients with microscopically 
positive (stage 3a) or negative lymph nodes (stage 1 and 2). There was no 
difference in DSD between stage 3a or 2 compared with stage 1. Importantly, only 
1 of 132 patients without lymphovascular invasion died of MCC.
CONCLUSIONS: OS is a poor measure of the influence of MCC on life expectancy. 
The presence of lymphovascular invasion and clinically, but not microscopically, 
positive lymph nodes were associated with increased DSD. These factors should be 
incorporated into MCC staging and treatment recommendations.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e31822c5fc1
PMID: 21865945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Water Sci Technol. 2011;63(8):1739-43. doi: 10.2166/wst.2011.323.

Is modeling of biological wastewater treatment a mature technology?

Gujer W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Engineering, ETH, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland. 
gujer@eawag.ch

Based on three case studies it is demonstrated that the application of 
mathematical models in biological wastewater treatment has not yet reached its 
full potential. Model structure uncertainty and correlation of uncertain 
parameter values make up the first case. The combination of biokinetic and 
hydraulic models relates to the second case. The evolution of a full scale plant 
over its life expectancy is the frame for the third case. This paper was 
initially presented as a discussion starter and thus is raising questions rather 
than providing answers.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2011.323
PMID: 21866775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Recent Pat Cardiovasc Drug Discov. 2011 Sep;6(3):215-21. doi: 
10.2174/157489011797377103.

Effects of ranolazine on cardiovascular system.

Bonadei I(1), Vizzardi E, Quinzani F, Piovanelli B, Rovetta R, D'Aloia A, Cas 
LD.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiovascular diseases, Department of Experimental and Applied 
Medicine, University of Study of Brescia.

Chronic stable angina affects 6-7 million Americans and contributes to a 
significant reduction in quality of life and life expectancy. Current 
pharmacotherapy for reducing episodes of exertional angina includes β-blockers, 
calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates. Patients may have 
contraindications to the use of one or more of these agents or be unable to 
tolerate initial or larger therapeutic doses. As a result of the inability of 
current management strategies to optimally control episodes of chronic angina, 
new therapies have been investigated that do not have some of the limitations of 
current therapies. New therapies for chronic stable angina are based on a 
mechanism involving membrane current such as the funny current and the late Na 
current. Ranolazine (Ran) is an antianginal drug acting on I(Na). After its 
current indication in the chronic stable angina, the role of this molecule is 
still being studied for prophylaxis of certain arrhythmias and treatment of 
heart failure. Moreover, have been recently developed new interesting patents of 
novel pharmaceutical effects and derivates of Ran.

DOI: 10.2174/157489011797377103
PMID: 21867482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Ann Gen Psychiatry. 2011 Aug 25;10:20. doi: 10.1186/1744-859X-10-20.

Cognitive function among hemodialysis patients in Japan.

Odagiri G(1), Sugawara N, Kikuchi A, Takahashi I, Umeda T, Saitoh H, 
Yasui-Furukori N, Kaneko S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Hirosaki University School of Medicine, 
Hirosaki, Japan. nsuga3@yahoo.co.jp.

BACKGROUND: Over 290,000 patients are undergoing hemodialysis (HD) in Japan. 
With old age, the odds of undergoing HD treatment sharply increase, as does the 
prevalence of cognitive impairment. The aim of the present work was to assess 
cognitive impairment in HD patients and its relation to clinical 
characteristics.
METHODS: Using a cross-sectional design, we administered the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) to 154 HD outpatients and 852 participants from the Iwaki 
Health Promotion Project 2010, representing the general population.
RESULTS: The prevalence of cognitive impairment based on the MMSE was 18.8% in 
HD patients. HD patients showed a higher prevalence of cognitive impairment in 
older groups (50 years and older). In a logistic regression model with age, 
gender and amount of education as covariates, undergoing HD was a significant 
independent factor (OR = 2.28, 95% CI 1.33 to 3.94) associated with a lower MMSE 
score. Among HD patients, we found that level of education was associated with 
MMSE score.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a high prevalence of cognitive impairment among HD 
patients that has adverse implications for hospitalization and shortens their 
life expectancy. HD treatment was an independent risk factor for cognitive 
impairment. Clinicians should carefully monitor and treat cognitive impairment 
in HD patients. Further studies are required to determine the reasons for 
cognitive impairment in HD patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-859X-10-20
PMCID: PMC3171713
PMID: 21867512


380. Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1219-30. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61184-7.
Epub  2011 Aug 23.

Cost-effectiveness of options for the diagnosis of high blood pressure in 
primary care: a modelling study.

Lovibond K(1), Jowett S, Barton P, Caulfield M, Heneghan C, Hobbs FD, Hodgkinson 
J, Mant J, Martin U, Williams B, Wonderling D, McManus RJ.

Author information:
(1)National Clinical Guideline Centre, Royal College of Physicians, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1218.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Oct 1;378(9798):1199-200.
    Lancet. 2012 Feb 25;379(9817):709-10; author reply 710.
    Rev Clin Esp. 2012 Apr;212(4):206.

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis of hypertension has traditionally been based on 
blood-pressure measurements in the clinic, but home and ambulatory measurements 
better correlate with cardiovascular outcome, and ambulatory monitoring is more 
accurate than both clinic and home monitoring in diagnosing hypertension. We 
aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness of different diagnostic strategies for 
hypertension.
METHODS: We did a Markov model-based probabilistic cost-effectiveness analysis. 
We used a hypothetical primary-care population aged 40 years or older with a 
screening blood-pressure measurement greater than 140/90 mm Hg and risk-factor 
prevalence equivalent to the general population. We compared three diagnostic 
strategies-further blood pressure measurement in the clinic, at home, and with 
an ambulatory monitor-in terms of lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life years, 
and cost-effectiveness.
FINDINGS: Ambulatory monitoring was the most cost-effective strategy for the 
diagnosis of hypertension for men and women of all ages. It was cost-saving for 
all groups (from -£56 [95% CI -105 to -10] in men aged 75 years to -£323 [-389 
to -222] in women aged 40 years) and resulted in more quality-adjusted life 
years for men and women older than 50 years (from 0·006 [0·000 to 0·015] for 
women aged 60 years to 0·022 [0·012 to 0·035] for men aged 70 years). This 
finding was robust when assessed with a wide range of deterministic sensitivity 
analyses around the base case, but was sensitive if home monitoring was judged 
to have equal test performance to ambulatory monitoring or if treatment was 
judged effective irrespective of whether an individual was hypertensive.
INTERPRETATION: Ambulatory monitoring as a diagnostic strategy for hypertension 
after an initial raised reading in the clinic would reduce misdiagnosis and save 
costs. Additional costs from ambulatory monitoring are counterbalanced by cost 
savings from better targeted treatment. Ambulatory monitoring is recommended for 
most patients before the start of antihypertensive drugs.
FUNDING: National Institute for Health Research and the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61184-7
PMID: 21868086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Biol Chem. 2011 Oct 21;286(42):36340-51. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M111.259135.
Epub  2011 Aug 25.

LIM kinase has a dual role in regulating lamellipodium extension by decelerating 
the rate of actin retrograde flow and the rate of actin polymerization.

Ohashi K(1), Fujiwara S, Watanabe T, Kondo H, Kiuchi T, Sato M, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, Graduate School of Life Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan. kohashi@biology.tohoku.ac.jp

Lamellipodium extension is crucial for cell migration and spreading. The rate of 
lamellipodium extension is determined by the balance between the rate of actin 
polymerization and the rate of actin retrograde flow. LIM kinase 1 (LIMK1) 
regulates actin dynamics by phosphorylating and inactivating cofilin, an 
actin-depolymerizing protein. We examined the role of LIMK1 in lamellipodium 
extension by measuring the rates of actin polymerization, actin retrograde flow, 
and lamellipodium extension using time-lapse imaging of fluorescence recovery 
after photobleaching. In the non-extending lamellipodia of active Rac-expressing 
N1E-115 cells, LIMK1 expression decelerated and LIMK1 knockdown accelerated 
actin retrograde flow. In the extending lamellipodia of neuregulin-stimulated 
MCF-7 cells, LIMK1 knockdown accelerated both the rate of actin polymerization 
and the rate of actin retrograde flow, but the accelerating effect on retrograde 
flow was greater than the effect on polymerization, thus resulting in a 
decreased rate of lamellipodium extension. These results indicate that LIMK1 has 
a dual role in regulating lamellipodium extension by decelerating actin 
retrograde flow and polymerization, and in MCF-7 cells endogenous LIMK1 
contributes to lamellipodium extension by decelerating actin retrograde flow 
more effectively than decelerating actin polymerization.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M111.259135
PMCID: PMC3196069
PMID: 21868383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011 Dec 1;184(11):1289-98. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201106-1059OC. Epub 2011 Aug 25.

Screening and prevention of venous thromboembolism in critically ill patients: a 
decision analysis and economic evaluation.

Sud S(1), Mittmann N, Cook DJ, Geerts W, Chan B, Dodek P, Gould MK, Guyatt G, 
Arabi Y, Fowler RA; Canadian Critical Care Trials Group; E-PROTECT 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Chan B, Cook D, Dodek P, Doig C, Ferguson N, Fowler R, Geerts W, 
Guyatt G, Hall R, Jacka M, Marshall J, McIntyre L, Mehta S, Mittmann N, 
Muscedere J, Skrobik Y, Sud S, Cade J, Cooper J, Finfer S, Oxford N, Seppelt I, 
Gould MK, Klinger J, Vlahakis N, Arabi Y, Qushmaq I, Rocha MG.

Author information:
(1)Trillium Health Center, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011 Dec 1;184(11):1227-9.

RATIONALE: Venous thromboembolism is difficult to diagnose in critically ill 
patients and may increase morbidity and mortality.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of strategies to reduce morbidity 
from venous thromboembolism in critically ill patients.
METHODS: A Markov decision analytic model to compare weekly compression 
ultrasound screening (screening) plus investigation for clinically suspected 
deep vein thrombosis (DVT) (case finding) versus case finding alone; and a 
hypothetical program to increase adherence to DVT prevention. Probabilities were 
derived from a systematic review of venous thromboembolism in medical-surgical 
intensive care unit patients. Costs (in 2010 $US) were obtained from hospitals 
in Canada, Australia, and the United States, and the medical literature. 
Analyses were conducted from a societal perspective over a lifetime horizon. 
Outcomes included costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In the base case, the rate of proximal DVT was 85 
per 1,000 patients. Screening resulted in three fewer pulmonary emboli than 
case-finding alone but also two additional bleeding episodes, and cost $223,801 
per QALY gained. In sensitivity analyses, screening cost less than $50,000 per 
QALY only if the probability of proximal DVT increased from a baseline of 
8.5-16%. By comparison, increasing adherence to appropriate pharmacologic 
thromboprophylaxis by 10% resulted in 16 fewer DVTs, one fewer pulmonary emboli, 
and one additional heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and bleeding event, and cost 
$27,953 per QALY gained. Programs achieving increased adherence to best-practice 
venous thromboembolism prevention were cost-effective over a wide range of 
program costs and were robust in probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Appropriate prophylaxis provides better value in terms of costs and 
health gains than routine screening for DVT. Resources should be targeted at 
optimizing thromboprophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201106-1059OC
PMID: 21868500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Mediterr J Hematol Infect Dis. 2011;3(1):e2011032. doi:
10.4084/MJHID.2011.032.  Epub 2011 Jul 8.

Prognosis and therapy when acute promyelocytic leukemia and other "good risk" 
acute myeloid leukemias occur as a therapy-related myeloid neoplasm.

Larson RA(1), Le Beau MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of 
Chicago, Chicago IL, USA.

Treatment for a pre-existing condition using chemotherapy, radiation therapy, 
immunosuppressive therapy, or a combination of these modalities may lead to the 
devastating complication of therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome or acute 
myeloid leukemia (t-MDS/t-AML), collectively known as therapy-related myeloid 
neoplasm (t-MN). This disorder arises as a direct consequence of mutational 
events induced by the primary treatment. The outcomes for these patients have 
been historically poor compared to people who develop AML de novo. Currently 
comprising 10-20% of all cases of AML, t-MN is relatively resistant to 
conventional leukemia therapies, and is associated with s ort survival times. 
Median life expectancy from diagnosis is about 8-10 months in most series. 
Although the spectrum of cytogenetic abnormalities in t-AML is similar to AML de 
novo, the frequency of unfavorable cytogenetics, such as a complex karyotype or 
deletion or loss of chromosomes 5 and/or 7, is considerably higher in t-MN. Two 
distinct groups of patients with t-MN have been described. The more common 
subtype, seen in about 75% of patients, typically occurs 5-7 years after first 
exposure to alkylating agents or radiation, is often preceded by a 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and is frequently accompanied by clonal 
cytogenetic abnormalities such as the loss of all or part of chromosomes 5 or 7. 
Mutations of the P53 tumor suppressor gene are also common. The risk is related 
to total cumulative exposure over time to alkylating agents. In contrast, among 
individuals who develop t-AML after treatment with topoisomerase II inhibitors, 
the latency period to the development of t-AML is often only 1-3 years, 
antecedent MDS is rare, and gene rearrangements involving MLL at 11q23 or 
RUNX1/AML1 at 21q22 are common. It is now well recognized that APL and other 
subtypes of AML with balanced translocations sometimes occur as therapy-related 
myeloid neoplasms (t-MN) in patients who have previously received cytotoxic 
therapy or ionizing radiation therapy (RT). The most of this review will focus 
on these "good risk" leukemias, i.e. those with APL or inv(16)/t(16;16) or 
t(8;21).

DOI: 10.4084/MJHID.2011.032
PMCID: PMC3152454
PMID: 21869918


384. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Feb;14(1):107-15. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0346-7.
Epub  2011 Aug 26.

Balancing equity and efficiency in the Dutch basic benefits package using the 
principle of proportional shortfall.

van de Wetering EJ(1), Stolk EA, van Exel NJ, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment and Institute of Health Policy 
and Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. vandewetering@bmg.eur.nl

Economic evaluations are increasingly used to inform decisions regarding the 
allocation of scarce health care resources. To systematically incorporate 
societal preferences into these evaluations, quality-adjusted life year gains 
could be weighted according to some equity principle, the most suitable of which 
is a matter of frequent debate. While many countries still struggle with equity 
concerns for priority setting in health care, the Netherlands has reached a 
broad consensus to use the concept of proportional shortfall. Our study 
evaluates the concept and its support in the Dutch health care context. We 
discuss arguments in the Netherlands for using proportional shortfall and 
difficulties in transitioning from principle to practice. In doing so, we 
address universal issues leading to a systematic consideration of equity 
concerns for priority setting in health care. The article thus has relevance to 
all countries struggling with the formalization of equity concerns for priority 
setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0346-7
PMCID: PMC3535361
PMID: 21870179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Indian J Exp Biol. 2011 Aug;49(8):565-73.

Ethno biological usage of zoo products in rheumatoid arthritis.

Gomes A(1), Alam MA, Bhattacharya S, Dasgupta SC, Mukherjee S, Bhattacharya S, 
Gomes A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Toxinology and Experimental Pharmacodynamics Department of 
Physiology, University of Calcutta 92, Acharya Prafulla Chandra Road Kolkata 700 
009, India. gomes_aparna@yahoo.com

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is one of the most common autoimmune disorder which 
causes swelling, redness, pain, stiffness, restriction of limb movements, 
decreases life expectancy and early death of the patients. Available drugs 
include non steroidal anti-inflammatory and analgesics, disease modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs and steroids (glucocorticoids etc). All these drugs have 
their own limitations such as gastrointestinal irritations, cardiovascular 
problems, and drug dependency. Search for alternative therapy from natural 
products are being ventured throughout the world. Zoo therapy in arthritis, a 
common practice of the ancient times that have been mentioned in traditional and 
folk medicine. The scientific basis of some of the zoo products are being 
explored and have been showing promising results in experimental rheumatoid 
arthritis. These therapies have minimum side effects and many of them have 
potential to give rise to drug development clues against rheumatoid arthritis. 
The present review is an effort to establish the folk and traditional treatment 
of rheumatoid arthritis using zoo products.

PMID: 21870424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2011 Apr-Jun;115(2):341-8.

[Pierre Marie-Sainton cleidocranial dysplasia].

[Article in Romanian]

Diaconescu S(1), Păduraru G, Vâscu AM, Burlea M.

Author information:
(1)Universitatea de Medicină şi Farmacie Gr. T. Popa Iaşi, Facultatea de 
Medicină, Clinica a V-a Pediatrie-Gastroenterologie.

The paper presents a family with hereditary transmitted Marie-Sainton dysplasia 
affecting the father and his both children. This is a rare syndrome presenting 
an autosomal pattern of inheritance, characterized by a generalized defect in 
both membranous and endochondral bone formation resulting in clavicular aplasia, 
delayed ossification of the fontanelles and the sutures of the skull and 
prolonged retention of deciduous dentition with delayed eruption of the 
permanent teeth. The diagnosis is suggested by more or less complete clinical 
picture and confirmed by multiple radiological explorations (skull, thorax, 
spinal column, pelvis) and genetical examination. The genetic mutation for 
cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD) is found on chromosome six and is called CBFA1 
(short for core biding factor al or RUNX2) and is the only gene known to be 
associated with CCD. The normal version of CBFA1 acts to induce osteoblasts 
which are the type of cells that lay down bone. Although associated psychosocial 
disorders can occur, the prognosis and life expectancy of this condition are 
favorable being conditioned however by the complexity of orthodontic procedures 
which are determinant for these patients life quality.

PMID: 21870721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Int J Equity Health. 2011 Aug 26;10:36. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-10-36.

Reduction of social inequalities in life expectancy in a city of Southeastern 
Brazil.

Belon AP(1), Barros MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, School of Medical Sciences, 
State University of Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil. paulabelon@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Around the world the life expectancy at birth has risen steadily 
over time. However, this increase in life years is not equally distributed among 
different social segments of the population. Studies have demonstrated that 
social groups living in deprived areas have a shorter life expectancy at birth 
in comparison to affluent ones. The aim of this study was to evaluate 
inequalities in life expectancy by socioeconomic strata in a city with one 
million inhabitants in Southeastern Brazil, in 2000 and 2005.
METHODS: Through an ecological approach, the 49 areas of health care units of 
the city were classified into three socioeconomic strata, defined according to 
variables of income and educational level of the heads of household obtained 
from the 2000 Census. Life tables were constructed by sex for each of the three 
socioeconomic strata in 2000 and 2005.
RESULTS: The life expectancy at birth for men and women living in poor areas was 
6.9 and 5.5 years lower in comparison to the affluent ones in 2000. Between 2000 
and 2005, these social inequalities in life expectancy at birth reduced, since 
the groups with lower socioeconomic level had gained more life years. The 
increase in life expectancy at birth experienced by areas with worse living 
conditions was 3 times higher than the increment estimated for prosperous areas 
for both sexes. Males had the greatest gain in life years, leading to a 
narrowing of gender differentials in life expectancy between 2000 and 2005.
CONCLUSIONS: The reduction of social inequalities in life expectancy suggests 
that living and health conditions have improved over time, due to social and 
health policies. The expansion of both health care coverage and cash transfer 
policies could have had positive effects on mortality reduction and on the 
consequent increase in the life expectancy, especially for the poor population.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-10-36
PMCID: PMC3178474
PMID: 21871100


388. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2012 Mar-Apr;54(2):e63-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2011.06.023. Epub 2011 Aug 25.

The risk for nursing home admission (NHA) did not change in ten years--a 
prospective cohort study with five-year follow-up.

Braunseis F(1), Deutsch T, Frese T, Sandholzer H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care, Leipzig Medical School, Philipp-Rosenthal-Straße 
55, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany.

In an aging population the burden on health care systems depends on the 
proportion of lifetime spent in good or poor health. The objective of this study 
was to examine the effect of a ten-year cohort difference on NHA, indicating 
changes in lifetime spent without severe disabilities. Additionally, important 
risk factors for NHA were identified. The data were obtained from two cohort 
studies of elderly people. Cohort A (1991-1993) comprised 74+ patients from 20 
German general practices and cohort B (2002-2003) 70+ patients from 14 general 
practices. The merged sample consisted of 2301 community dwelling patients that 
contacted their general practitioner within a 12-month period during the 
respective enquiry period. After an initial assessment at study entry, 
participants were monitored over a five-year period respective NHA and death. 
The Cox proportional hazards model was used including socio-epidemic data, state 
of health, chronic diseases, dementia, health system usage, and social support. 
The ten-year cohort-difference was no predictor of NHA within a 5-year period. 
Significant influencing variables were: age (OR 1.10), living with others (OR 
0.59), no auxiliary person (OR 1.69), mild forgetfulness (OR 2.12), clear 
cognitive impairment (OR 3.74), severe cognitive disturbance (3.61), loss of 
memory (11.83), walking difficulties (OR 1.53), impaired vision (OR 1.90), and 
cancer (OR 0.22). This study could not find a cohort effect on NHA. With regard 
to increased life expectancy the findings do not support the compression of 
morbidity hypothesis. The identified influencing variables contribute to the 
understanding of NHA risk factors.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2011.06.023
PMID: 21871672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Surg Res. 2012 May 1;174(1):20-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2011.06.051. Epub
2011  Jul 22.

Prognosis of metastatic carcinoma of the lung in the bevacizumab era: comparison 
between the major histologic types of lung cancer.

Wachtel MS(1), Jumper CA, Halldorsson AO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, TX 79430-8312, USA.

BACKGROUND: In October 2006, bevacizumab was approved for treatment for patients 
with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer other than squamous carcinoma. Our 
hypothesis was that the change in survival after approval of bevacizumab for 
metastatic adenocarcinoma would show differences from that of small-cell 
carcinoma and squamous carcinoma.
METHODS: Data was obtained from the National Cancer Institute Surveillance 
Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) registry for patients with lung cancer 
diagnosed between January 2004 and November 2007. In addition to known 
characteristics predicting survival differences (histotype, age, gender, and 
race) we compared 1-year survival experience in those diagnosed before (January 
2004-September 2006) and after (October 2006-November 2007) introduction of 
bevacizumab.
RESULTS: Of 24,575 patients meeting criteria, 16,081 (65.4%) died within 1 y. 
Adjusted for age, gender, and race, patients with squamous carcinoma showed a 
13% decline (95% CI 7%-20%) in survival times. By contrast, the 1% increment for 
adenocarcinoma and the 1% decrement for small cell carcinoma might well have 
been due to chance (P > 0.05 for each analysis).
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy for metastatic adenocarcinoma (for which 
bevacizumab is approved) and metastatic small-cell carcinoma (bevacizumab not 
approved) did not change statistically. On the other hand, life expectancy for 
patients with metastatic squamous carcinoma (bevacizumab not approved) of the 
lung has declined since the approval of bevacizumab. This likely reflects 
increased classification of tumors previously diagnosed as poorly differentiated 
non-small-cell carcinoma as poorly differentiated squamous carcinoma. Hence, 
life expectancy of metastatic adeno, squamous, and small-cell-lung cancer has 
not improved after introduction of bevacizumab.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2011.06.051
PMID: 21872272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Immunobiology. 2011 Dec;216(12):1331-7. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2011.05.008.
Epub  2011 May 23.

Antiphospholipid antibodies and atherosclerosis: insights from rheumatoid 
arthritis--a five-year follow-up study.

Holc I(1), Hojs R, Cikeš N, Ambrožič A, Cučnik S, Kveder T, Rozman B, Pahor A.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Rheumatology, University Medical Centre Maribor, Slovenia. 
iztok.holc@guest.arnes.si

OBJECTIVES: Life expectancy in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients is reduced by 
3-10 years, probably due to cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases 
associated with atherosclerosis. In the present study, we wanted to verify if 
previously reported IgA anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I (2GPI) antibodies possibly 
represented an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis in RA patients during 
a longer period of follow up.
METHODS: The follow-up study (after 5.5 years) comprised all initially included 
patients and controls (premenopausal women, non-diabetic, normotensive at the 
start of the study), except for two RA patients (one died and one not 
available). The same clinical, laboratory and ultrasound assessments were 
performed.
RESULTS: Patients and controls were divided into three categories: Intima-media 
thickness (IMT) progressors, plaque progressors, IMT and plaque progressors. In 
controls, 55% represented IMT progressors and 5% IMT and plaque progressors. No 
statistically significant differences were detected comparing the progressors 
with delta (Δ=difference between follow-up and baseline study for each group in 
a time span of 5.5 years) LDL cholesterol, homocysteine and IgA anti-β2GPI. In 
patients, there were 48.5% IMT progressors, 5.8% plaque progressors and 19.1% 
IMT and plaque progressors. The progression was statistically significant 
associated with the levels of Δ homocysteine and Δ apolipoprotein B but not with 
LDL cholesterol and IgA anti-β2GPI.
CONCLUSIONS: The follow-up study showed advanced atherosclerosis in RA patients 
compared to sex and age matched controls. However, we were not able to confirm 
our initial impression that IgA anti-β2GPI might represent an independent risk 
factor for atherosclerosis.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2011.05.008
PMID: 21872357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Lancet. 2011 Aug 27;378(9793):815-25. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60814-3.

Health and economic burden of the projected obesity trends in the USA and the 
UK.

Wang YC(1), McPherson K, Marsh T, Gortmaker SL, Brown M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. ycw2102@columbia.edu

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2011 Nov 19;378(9805):1778.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2011 Nov 19;378(9805):e8.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2011 Aug 27;378(9793):741.
    Lancet. 2011 Aug 27;378(9793):743-4.
    Lancet. 2011 Aug 27;378(9793):744-6.
    Lancet. 2011 Aug 27;378(9793):746-7.

Rising prevalence of obesity is a worldwide health concern because excess weight 
gain within populations forecasts an increased burden from several diseases, 
most notably cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and cancers. In this report, we 
used a simulation model to project the probable health and economic consequences 
in the next two decades from a continued rise in obesity in two ageing 
populations--the USA and the UK. These trends project 65 million more obese 
adults in the USA and 11 million more obese adults in the UK by 2030, 
consequently accruing an additional 6-8·5 million cases of diabetes, 5·7-7·3 
million cases of heart disease and stroke, 492,000-669,000 additional cases of 
cancer, and 26-55 million quality-adjusted life years forgone for USA and UK 
combined. The combined medical costs associated with treatment of these 
preventable diseases are estimated to increase by $48-66 billion/year in the USA 
and by £1·9-2 billion/year in the UK by 2030. Hence, effective policies to 
promote healthier weight also have economic benefits.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60814-3
PMID: 21872750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2012 Mar-Apr;18(2):181-4. doi: 
10.1177/1076029611416642. Epub 2011 Aug 25.

Hospital budget implications of substituting dabigatran for warfarin in an 
anticoagulation service.

Atay JK(1), Fiumara K, Piazza G, Fanikos J, Goldhaber SZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA.

The aim of our study was to assess hospital budget implications of substituting 
dabigatran for warfarin in patients enrolled in a large anticoagulation service. 
The study population was identified using criteria from randomized controlled 
trials of dabigatran. We obtained labor costs ($483 per patient) from the 
hospital's anticoagulation service budget, laboratory costs of international 
normalized ratio (INR) tests ($267 per patient), and wholesale costs of warfarin 
5 mg tablets ($31 per patient) and dabigatran 150 mg capsules ($2464 per 
patient). A total of 1774 (93.5%) of 1898 patients were eligible to substitute 
dabigatran for warfarin. The annual projected hospital expense for 
anticoagulation with dabigatran was $4,371,136, attributable to drug cost alone. 
The annual projected cost of warfarin management was $1,385,494. This was 
comprised of $856,842 for labor, $473,658 for INR testing, and $54,994 for the 
drug cost of warfarin. Substitution will result in increased expense due to drug 
cost.

DOI: 10.1177/1076029611416642
PMID: 21873358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2011 Dec;66(12):1286-99. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glr125. Epub 2011 Aug 26.

Thioredoxin 1 overexpression extends mainly the earlier part of life span in 
mice.

Pérez VI(1), Cortez LA, Lew CM, Rodriguez M, Webb CR, Van Remmen H, Chaudhuri A, 
Qi W, Lee S, Bokov A, Fok W, Jones D, Richardson A, Yodoi J, Zhang Y, Tominaga 
K, Hubbard GB, Ikeno Y.

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, 15355 Lambda Drive, San Antonio, TX 78245-3207, 
USA.

We examined the effects of increased levels of thioredoxin 1 (Trx1) on 
resistance to oxidative stress and aging in transgenic mice overexpressing Trx1 
[Tg(TRX1)(+/0)]. The Tg(TRX1)(+/0) mice showed significantly higher Trx1 protein 
levels in all the tissues examined compared with the wild-type littermates. 
Oxidative damage to proteins and levels of lipid peroxidation were significantly 
lower in the livers of Tg(TRX1)(+/0) mice compared with wild-type littermates. 
The survival study demonstrated that male Tg(TRX1)(+/0) mice significantly 
extended the earlier part of life span compared with wild-type littermates, but 
no significant life extension was observed in females. Neither male nor female 
Tg(TRX1)(+/0) mice showed changes in maximum life span. Our findings suggested 
that the increased levels of Trx1 in the Tg(TRX1)(+/0) mice were correlated to 
increased resistance to oxidative stress, which could be beneficial in the 
earlier part of life span but not the maximum life span in the C57BL/6 mice.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glr125
PMCID: PMC3210956
PMID: 21873593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2011 Sep-Oct;54(2):86-96. doi:
10.1016/j.pcad.2011.03.003.

Establishing prognosis in heart failure: a multimarker approach.

Ketchum ES(1), Levy WC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

As a leading cause of death worldwide, predicting the progression of heart 
failure is important from the perspectives of facilitating patient and physician 
understanding of disease course and of determining the appropriate timing of the 
increasing number of medications and invasive interventions available to the 
advanced heart failure patient. Many features of a patient's history, laboratory 
findings, and imaging evaluation correlate with prognosis. This article begins 
with a review of individual markers that contribute to the risk of adverse 
events. These individual variables can be combined into multivariate models of 
outcome, most commonly expressed as life expectancy or probability of death 
within a certain time period. A representative sample of the better-validated 
models in the heart failure patient is then summarized and compared. The value 
in applying these predictors to several specific points in medical decision 
making is highlighted.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcad.2011.03.003
PMID: 21875508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Med Decis Making. 2012 Mar-Apr;32(2):259-65. doi: 10.1177/0272989X11418521.
Epub  2011 Aug 29.

How to aggregate health? Separability and the effect of framing.

Turpcu A(1), Bleichrodt H(2), Le QA(3), Doctor JN(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA (AT, JND)
(2)Erasmus University, Rotterdam, the Netherlands (HB)
(3)Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, CA (QAL)

BACKGROUND: Unweighted summation or quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
utilitarianism is the most common way to aggregate health benefits in a 
cost-effectiveness analysis. A key qualitative principle underlying QALY 
utilitarianism is separability: those individuals unaffected by a policy choice 
should not influence the policy choice. Separability also underlies several of 
the alternatives for QALY utilitarianism that have been proposed.
OBJECTIVES: To test separability and to test whether the support for 
separability is affected by the framing of the choice questions.
METHODS: In 2 experiments, 345 student subjects (162 in the first experiment, 
and 183 in the second experiment) were asked to select 1 of 2 possible 
treatments, with each treatment resulting in a different distribution of health 
across individuals. The only aspect that varied across choice questions was the 
state of the patients whose health was unaffected by the act of choosing a 
policy. In each experiment, we used 2 frames. In the implicit frame, it was 
implied but not plainly expressed what outcomes the treatments had in common. In 
the explicit frame, common outcomes of the 2 treatments were directly stated. 
The 2 experiments differed in the way the explicit frame was presented (verbal 
v. numerical).
RESULTS: The support for separability was significantly greater in the explicit 
frame. The proportion of violations in the implicit frame was 44% in Experiment 
1 and 31% in Experiment 2, while in the explicit frame, the proportion of 
violations was 28% in Experiment 1 and 8% in Experiment 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Framing affected the support for separability, raising issues as to 
whether it is possible to achieve a canonical representation of social choices.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X11418521
PMID: 21875951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Neuroreport. 2011 Oct 26;22(15):749-52. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e32834acb3a.

Effect of intensity accents on the detection of interonset interval variations.

Lai Y(1), Yao D.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for NeuroInformation of Ministry of Education, School of Life 
Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of 
China, Chengdu, P.R. China.

Intensity effect on interonset interval (IOI) timing perception was investigated 
in an event-related potential experiment by manipulating the onset and intensity 
of one tone in an isochronous sequence. The results revealed that lengthened IOI 
elicited a larger P3 than the shortened or standard IOI, suggesting that more 
attention should be focused because of an additional stimulation of temporally 
driven expectancy induced by an onset delay. Furthermore, P3 latency for IOI 
occurred later when preceding softer tones than when preceding louder or 
standard tones, implicating that softer tone might introduce a disturbance and 
impede the entrainment of high-level processing in the temporal perception. 
Importantly, louder accents reduced the sensitivity of shortened and standard 
IOIs, supporting the prediction of compensation hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e32834acb3a
PMID: 21876466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Salud Publica Mex. 2011;53 Suppl 2:s72-7.

[Burden of disease in Latin America].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez Dantés H(1), Castro MV, Franco-Marina F, Bedregal P, Rodríguez García J, 
Espinoza A, Valdez Huarcaya W, Lozano R; Red de Investigación sobre Carga de 
Enfermedad del Observatorio de Salud. Iniciativa para América.

Collaborators: Lozano R, Mendes Schramm Andrade J, Goncalves Valente J, Bedregal 
P, Margozzini P, Zitko P, Peñaloza Quintero RE, Rodríguez J, Espinoza A, Zacca 
Peña E, Séuc A, Domínguez E, Gómez Dantés H, Castro V, Méndez O, Franco Marina 
F, Rodríguez Ábrego G, Valdez W, Antonio Miranda Monzón J.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, México. hgdantes@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To describe the burden of disease studies made in the region, 
identify the main priorities in health from the indicator Disability Adjusted 
Life Years (DALYs).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: By the use of DALYs identify the burden of disease in the 
countries in the network.
RESULTS: DALYs emphasize the emergency of mental disorders, diabetes mellitus in 
women and the disorders associated with alcohol consumption and injuries in men.
CONCLUSIONS: Latin America is the region with more national studies of burden of 
disease, using a standardized methodology, that allows identifying new health 
priorities which are pressing to the health services; for that reason these 
results constitute an element to take into account in the establishment of 
public policies in each country.

PMID: 21877095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Eur J Epidemiol. 2011 Aug;26(8):657-86. doi: 10.1007/s10654-011-9610-5. Epub
 2011 Aug 30.

The Rotterdam Study: 2012 objectives and design update.

Hofman A(1), van Duijn CM, Franco OH, Ikram MA, Janssen HL, Klaver CC, Kuipers 
EJ, Nijsten TE, Stricker BH, Tiemeier H, Uitterlinden AG, Vernooij MW, Witteman 
JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. a.hofman@erasmusmc.nl

The Rotterdam Study is a prospective cohort study ongoing since 1990 in the city 
of Rotterdam in The Netherlands. The study targets cardiovascular, endocrine, 
hepatic, neurological, ophthalmic, psychiatric, dermatological, oncological, and 
respiratory diseases. As of 2008, 14,926 subjects aged 45 years or over comprise 
the Rotterdam Study cohort. The findings of the Rotterdam Study have been 
presented in over a 1,000 research articles and reports (see 
www.erasmus-epidemiology.nl/rotterdamstudy ). This article gives the rationale 
of the study and its design. It also presents a summary of the major findings 
and an update of the objectives and methods.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-011-9610-5
PMCID: PMC3168750
PMID: 21877163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Fam Health Care. 2011 May-Jun;21(3):4.

Crisis at home. How we can all make a difference.

Hosie P.

PMID: 21877389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2012 May-Jun;49(3):146-55; quiz 145, 156.
doi:  10.3928/01913913-20110823-02. Epub 2011 Aug 30.

