analysis showed reduced freedom from reintervention for aortouniiliac and tube 
stent grafts. Type I endoleaks were observed in 25% of patients with 
endovascular aortic tube grafts for proximal anastomotic aneurysms.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that endovascular repair of 
para-anastomotic aortic and iliac aneurysms after initial prosthetic aortic 
surgery is safe and durable in patients with an appropriate anatomy. The 
long-term follow-up showed fewer complications occurred after procedures with 
bifurcated stent grafts compared with procedures with tube grafts, 
aortouniiliac, or iliac extension stent grafts.

Copyright © 2011 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.04.072
PMID: 21944919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Vaccine. 2011 Nov 3;29(47):8564-74. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.09.025. Epub
 2011 Sep 21.

Economic evaluation of second generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines in 
Norway.

Robberstad B(1), Frostad CR, Akselsen PE, Kværner KJ, Berstad AK.

Author information:
(1)University of Bergen, Centre for International Health, Bergen, Norway. 
bjarne.robberstad@cih.uib.no

Comment in
    Vaccine. 2013 Jan 7;31(3):439-41.
    Vaccine. 2013 Jan 7;31(3):442-3.

BACKGROUND: A seven valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) was introduced 
in the Norwegian childhood immunization programme in 2006, and since then the 
incidence of invasive pneumococcal disease has declined substantially. Recently, 
two new second generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines have become available, 
and an update of the economic evidence is needed. The aim of this study was to 
estimate incremental costs, health effects and cost-effectiveness of the 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccines PCV7, PCV13 and PHiD-CV in Norway.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to estimate costs and epidemiological burden of 
pneumococcal- and NTHi-related diseases (invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD), 
Community Acquired Pneumonia (CAP) and acute otitis media (AOM)) for a specific 
birth cohort. Using the most relevant evidence and assumptions for a Norwegian 
setting, we calculated incremental costs, health effects and cost-effectiveness 
for different vaccination strategies. In addition we performed sensitivity 
analyses for key parameters, tested key assumptions in scenario analyses and 
explored overall model uncertainty using probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The model predicts that both PCV13 and PHiD-CV provide more health 
gains at a lower cost than PCV7. Differences in health gains between the two 
second generation vaccines are small for invasive pneumococcal disease but 
larger for acute otitis media and myringotomy procedures. Consequently, PHiD-CV 
saves more disease treatment costs and indirect costs than PCV13.
CONCLUSION: This study predicts that, compared to PVC13, PHiD-CV entails lower 
costs and greater benefits if the latter is measured in terms of quality 
adjusted life years. PVC13 entails more life years gained than PHiD-CV, but 
those come at a cost of NOK 3.1 million (∼€0.4 million) per life year. The 
results indicate that PHiD-CV is cost-effective compared to PCV13 in the 
Norwegian setting.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.09.025
PMID: 21945264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2012 Sep;64(12):1341-57. doi:
10.1016/j.addr.2011.09.002.  Epub 2011 Sep 10.

RNA therapeutics targeting osteoclast-mediated excessive bone resorption.

Wang Y(1), Grainger DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of Utah, 
Salt Lake City, UT 84112-5820, USA. luckwangyuwei@gmail.com

RNA interference (RNAi) is a sequence-specific post-transcriptional gene 
silencing technique developed with dramatically increasing utility for both 
scientific and therapeutic purposes. Short interfering RNA (siRNA) is currently 
exploited to regulate protein expression relevant to many therapeutic 
applications, and commonly used as a tool for elucidating disease-associated 
genes. Osteoporosis and their associated osteoporotic fragility fractures in 
both men and women are rapidly becoming a global healthcare crisis as average 
life expectancy increases worldwide. New therapeutics are needed for this 
increasing patient population. This review describes the diversity of molecular 
targets suitable for RNAi-based gene knock down in osteoclasts to control 
osteoclast-mediated excessive bone resorption. We identify strategies for 
developing targeted siRNA delivery and efficient gene silencing, and describe 
opportunities and challenges of introducing siRNA as a therapeutic approach to 
hard and connective tissue disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addr.2011.09.002
PMCID: PMC3293106
PMID: 21945356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Vaccine. 2011 Nov 8;29(48):8929-36. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.09.055. Epub
 2011 Sep 22.

The clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus vaccination 
for adult women in the Netherlands.

Bogaards JA(1), Coupé VM, Meijer CJ, Berkhof J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, VU University Medical Centre, 
P.O. Box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands. j.bogaards@vumc.nl

BACKGROUND: The use of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines has been universally 
approved for women from age 12 to 25 years, but those older than 16 years 
receive no reimbursement for the cost of the vaccine in the Netherlands. 
Reductions in the vaccine price as well as new insights in the efficacy of HPV 
vaccines offer renewed arguments to consider HPV vaccination in adult women. We 
calculated the clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness of vaccinating women aged 
17-25 years in 2010.
METHODS: The calculations were based on an individual-based simulation model for 
cervical carcinogenesis, with HPV infection risks obtained from a type-specific 
HPV transmission model. The indirect protective effect from vaccinating 12 to 16 
year-old girls was adjusted for. Cervical screening in the model was 
incorporated according Dutch screening guidelines, i.e. 7 cytology-based rounds 
at 5-year intervals from the age of 30. As base-case, we assumed the vaccine to 
offer full protection against HPV16/18 only if no prior exposure to that type 
had occurred before vaccination. In sensitivity analyses, we considered partial 
cross-protection against types 31/33/45/58 and efficacy against all future 
infections, irrespective of previous or current infection status.
RESULTS: In base-case analyses, vaccinating 17 year-olds reduced their lifetime 
risk of treatment for precancerous lesions from 7.77% to 3.48% and their 
lifetime cervical cancer risk from 0.52% to 0.24%. These risks were 6.12% and 
0.45%, respectively, for a 25 year-old vaccinee. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for vaccinating 17-25 year-olds was €22,526 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) at a vaccine price of €65 per dose, a 50% 
reduction of the 2010 pharmacy price in the Netherlands. If cross-protection 
against types 31/33/45/58 was included, the ICER decreased to €14,734 per QALY. 
Results were robust to efficacy assumptions with respect to previous or current 
infection status.
CONCLUSION: The clinical benefit of HPV vaccination of women up to 25 years 
moderately depends on cross-protection to non-vaccine types. Refunding the cost 
of the vaccine to 17-25 year-old women in the Netherlands can be considered 
cost-effective at anticipated price reductions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.09.055
PMID: 21945961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2011 Nov;20(6):605-9. doi: 
10.1097/MNH.0b013e32834bd72b.

Long-term outcomes of kidney donors.

Morgan BR(1), Ibrahim HN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Renal Diseases and Hypertension, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN 55414, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Living kidney donors face a unique decision of self-sacrifice 
that is not without potential risk. The purpose of this review is to highlight 
existing research regarding the perioperative morbidity, mortality and long-term 
outcomes of living kidney donors.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent studies of long-term donor survival have affirmed that 
the life expectancy for living kidney donors is excellent and their risk of 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is not increased. Long-term health outcomes for 
living donors representing minority groups, however, may not be as favorable. 
Recent studies conclude that African-American and Hispanic donors, similarly to 
nondonors of the same race, are at higher risk of developing chronic kidney 
disease (CKD), hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. Outcomes in medically 
complex donors have also generated considerable attention, and the evidence on 
outcomes among otherwise healthy obese and older donors appears to be 
reassuring.
SUMMARY: Living kidney donation is a superior transplantation option for many 
individuals with ESRD. The survival and health consequences of living donation 
have proven to be excellent. These favorable outcomes stem from careful 
screening measures, and further research endeavors are needed to ensure 
long-term living donor safety in high-risk donors.

DOI: 10.1097/MNH.0b013e32834bd72b
PMID: 21946164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Fly (Austin). 2011 Oct-Dec;5(4):345-51. doi: 10.4161/fly.5.4.17808. Epub
2011  Oct 1.

Roles of young serine-endopeptidase genes in survival and reproduction revealed 
rapid evolution of phenotypic effects at adult stages.

Chen S(1), Yang H, Krinsky BH, Zhang A, Long M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, and Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA USA.

Our recent study found that 30% of young genes were essential for viability that 
determines development through stages from embryo to pupae in Drosophila 
melanogaster, revealing rapidly evolving genetic components involved in the 
evolution of development. Meanwhile, many young genes did not produce complete 
lethal phenotype upon constitutive knockdown, suggesting that they may not be 
essential for viability. These genes, nevertheless, were fixed by natural 
selection, and might play an important functional role in their adult stage. 
Here we present a detailed demonstration that a newly duplicated serine-type 
endopeptidase gene that originated in the common ancestor in the D. melanogaster 
subgroup 6~11 million years ago, named Slfc, revealing a strong effect in 
post-eclosion. Although animals survived constitutive knockdown of Slfc to adult 
stage, however, their life span reduced significantly by two-thirds compared to 
wildtype. Furthermore, the Slfc-RNAi males dropped their fertility to less than 
10% of the wildtype level, with over 80% of these males being sterile. The 
Slfc-RNAi females, on the other hand, showed a slight reduction in fertility. 
This case study demonstrates that a young gene can contribute to fitness on the 
three important traits of life history in adults, including the life expectancy, 
male fertility and female fertility, suggesting that new genes can quickly 
evolve and impact multiple phenotypes.

DOI: 10.4161/fly.5.4.17808
PMCID: PMC3266076
PMID: 21946255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Int J Mol Med. 2012 Jan;29(1):61-4. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2011.798. Epub 2011
Sep  22.

Remarkable extension of PAI-1 half-life surprisingly brings no changes to its 
structure.

Jankun J(1), Yang J, Zheng H, Han FQ, Al-Senaidy A, Skrzypczak-Jankun E.

Author information:
(1)Urology Research Center, Department of Urology, The University of Toledo, 
Toledo, OH 43614, USA. jerzy.jankun@utoledo.edu

Plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) is a serpin protein, a natural 
inhibitor of urokinase (uPA) and tissue plasminogen activators (tPA). By 
inhibiting uPA it can block growth of the cancer tumors by suppressing 
angiogenesis, while when acting on tPA in the blood it can avert conversion of 
plasminogen to plasmin preventing lysis of the clot. Furthermore, blocking PAI-1 
activity can protect against thrombosis. Thus PAI-1 makes great impact on human 
homeostasis and is desirable for clinical application. Wild-type PAI-1 
(wt-PAI-1) has a short span of activity with a t1/2 of ~2 h, being spontaneously 
converted into a latent form. An enormous effort has been made to create a more 
stable molecule with >600 PAI-1 variants constructed to study its 
structure-function relationship. In the present study, we evaluate the structure 
of the active recombinant VLHL-PAI-1 (very long half life, active >700 h) which 
is glycosylated similarly to wt-PAI-1 at N232 and N288, with the extended 
reactive center loop, intact engineered -S-S-bridge (Q174C, G323C) that 
precludes latency without affecting structure, and can be controlled by a 
reducing agent to terminate activity at will. We have already proven its 
usefulness to control cancer in human cancer cells, as well as preventing clot 
lysis in human whole blood and plasma and in a mouse model. Our results 
demonstrate the potential therapeutic applications (topical or systemic) of this 
protein in the treatment of cancer, for the trauma patients to ward off an 
excessive blood loss, or for people with the PAI-1 deficiency, especially during 
surgery.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2011.798
PMID: 21947232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Support Care Cancer. 2011 Dec;19(12):1909-19. doi:
10.1007/s00520-011-1261-2.  Epub 2011 Sep 23.

Prevention of ovarian damage and infertility in young female cancer patients 
awaiting chemotherapy--clinical approach and unsolved issues.

Hancke K(1), Isachenko V, Isachenko E, Weiss JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Ulm, Prittwitzstr 43, 
89075 Ulm, Germany. ka_hancke@yahoo.de

Great advances in the oncological therapy of childhood and adolescent cancer 
patients lead to an increase of young cancer survivors with a normal expectancy 
of life. The aggressive chemotherapy and/or radiation often compromises 
endocrine function with consecutive menopausal symptoms and sterility. Recently, 
new approaches were developed to preserve fertility with different methods to 
restore the ovarian function. The present review gives an overview of the 
current possibilities, which may be offered to these young cancer patients, as 
well as the chances of success and risks and the unsolved issues in special 
situations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-011-1261-2
PMID: 21947410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Support Care Cancer. 2012 Aug;20(8):1771-7. doi: 10.1007/s00520-011-1274-x.
Epub  2011 Sep 25.

Perspectives toward oral mucositis prevention from parents and health care 
professionals in pediatric cancer.

Ethier MC(1), Regier DA, Tomlinson D, Judd P, Doyle J, Gassas A, Naqvi A, Sung 
L.

Author information:
(1)Program in Child Health Evaluative Sciences, The Hospital for Sick Children, 
555 University Avenue, Toronto, ON, Canada.

PURPOSE: The objectives of this study were: (1) to describe parents and health 
care professionals (HCPs) perceived importance of oral mucositis prevention in 
children with cancer; (2) To describe utilities and willingness-to-pay (WTP) to 
prevent mucositis.
METHODS: Respondents included parents of children receiving intensive 
chemotherapy for leukemia/lymphoma or undergoing stem cell transplantation and 
HCPs caring for children with cancer. Importance of mild and severe oral 
mucositis was estimated using a visual analogue scale (VAS). 
Mucositis-associated utilities were elicited using the time trade-off technique 
(TTO). WTP to avoid mucositis was obtained using contingent valuation. These 
techniques quantify how much time or money the participant is willing to 
relinquish in order to prevent mucositis.
RESULTS: Eighty-two parents and 60 HCPs were included. Parents and HCPs believed 
mild mucositis to be of similar importance (median VAS 2.5 versus 3.6; P = 
0.357) while parents considered severe mucositis less important than HCPs 
(median VAS 8.3 versus 9.0; P < 0.0001). No differences in parent versus HCP 
responses were seen with TTO (mild or severe mucositis) and most parents were 
not willing to trade any survival time to prevent severe mucositis. Parents were 
willing to pay significantly more than HCPs to prevent mild mucositis (average 
median WTP $1,371 CAN vs. $684 CAN, P = 0.031). No differences were seen in WTP 
to prevent severe mucositis.
CONCLUSIONS: Parents and HCP believe severe mucositis to be important, although 
it is more important to HCPs. Parents would not be willing to reduce life 
expectancy to eliminate mucositis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-011-1274-x
PMID: 21947490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Br J Psychiatry. 2011 Dec;199(6):510-1. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.110.090266. Epub
 2011 Sep 22.

Cost utility of behavioural activation delivered by the non-specialist.

Ekers D(1), Godfrey C, Gilbody S, Parrott S, Richards DA, Hammond D, Hayes A.

Author information:
(1)Tees Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust/Mental Health Research Centre, 
Durham University, Durham, UK. david.ekers@tewv.nhs.uk

Behavioural activation by non-specialists appears effective in the treatment of 
depression. We examined incremental cost-effectiveness of behavioural activation 
(n = 24) v. treatment as usual (n = 23) in a randomised controlled trial. 
Intention-to-treat analyses indicated a quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
difference in favour of behavioural activation of 0.20 (95% CI 0.01-0.39, P = 
0.042), incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £5756 per QALY and a 97% 
probability that behavioural activation is more cost-effective at a threshold 
value of £20,000. Results are promising for dissemination of behavioural 
activation but require replication in a larger study.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.110.090266
PMID: 21947655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. J Med Ethics. 2011 Dec;37(12):739-42. doi: 10.1136/jme.2011.042556. Epub
2011  Sep 24.

A fair trial? Assessment of liver transplant candidates with psychiatric 
illnesses.

Cherkassky L(1).

Author information:
(1)Bradford University Law School, The University of Bradford, Emm Lane, 
Bradford BD9 4JL, UK. l.cherkassky@bradford.ac.uk

Allocating scarce organs to transplant candidates is only one stage in the long 
process of organ transplantation. Before being listed, all candidates must 
undergo a rigorous assessment by a multidisciplinary transplant team. The 
Department of Health and NHS Blood and Transplant (NHSBT) are responsible for 
the development of detailed strategies to ensure a fair and objective assessment 
experience for all transplant candidates. Difficulties arise when particularly 
vulnerable candidates, such as candidates with psychiatric illnesses, are 
assessed. NHSBT has already developed unique assessment guidelines for alcoholic 
and substance-abusing liver transplant candidates to allow for a more 
comprehensive evaluation, but candidates with psychiatric illnesses are still 
assessed against general criteria. Should these candidates be assessed against 
their own criteria? On what clinical grounds do transplant teams justify 
excluding such candidates from transplantation? Is redress available for 
candidates who feel they have been unfairly refused a liver transplant simply 
because of their psychiatric illness? This essay will critically examine the 
provisions published by the Department of Health and NHSBT for the assessment of 
liver transplant candidates with psychiatric illnesses, and will provide a 
commentary as to whether enough is being done to protect these particularly 
vulnerable candidates from inconsistent assessment decisions.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2011.042556
PMID: 21947809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Oncologist. 2011;16(11):1649-57. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0133. Epub
2011  Sep 26.

Physical exercise for cancer patients with advanced disease: a randomized 
controlled trial.

Oldervoll LM(1), Loge JH, Lydersen S, Paltiel H, Asp MB, Nygaard UV, Oredalen E, 
Frantzen TL, Lesteberg I, Amundsen L, Hjermstad MJ, Haugen DF, Paulsen Ø, Kaasa 
S.

Author information:
(1)European Palliative Care Research Centre, Department of Cancer Research and 
Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology, Trondheim, Norway. line.oldervoll@ntnu.no

BACKGROUND: Physical exercise can improve cancer patients' functioning and 
reduce their symptom levels. A randomized, controlled trial was launched to test 
the hypothesis that physical exercise reduces fatigue and improves physical 
performance in cancer patients with advanced and incurable disease.
METHODS: Cancer patients (n = 231) with a life expectancy ≤2 years were 
randomized to a physical exercise group (PEG, n = 121) or a control usual care 
group (UCG, n = 110). The PEG exercised under supervision 60 minutes twice a 
week for 8 weeks. Assessments were performed before and after the intervention. 
The primary outcome was physical fatigue (PF) measured by the Fatigue 
Questionnaire. Physical performance was a secondary outcome measured by the 
Shuttle Walk Test (SWT) and hand grip strength (HGS) test. Analyses were 
performed after multiple imputations for missing data. The trial is registered 
with ClinicalTrials.gov (identifier, NCT00397774).
FINDINGS: Thirty-six percent of the PEG were lost to follow-up compared with 23% 
of the UCG, primarily as a result of disease progression. Seventy-eight PEG and 
85 UCG patients completed the intervention. Analyses showed no significant 
between-group effects in PF. However, clinically and statistically significant 
between-group effects were found for the SWT and HGS test.
INTERPRETATION: Fatigue was not reduced but physical performance (SWT and HGS 
test) was significantly improved after 8 weeks of physical exercise. Physical 
exercise might therefore be a suitable approach for maintaining physical 
capacity in cancer patients with incurable and advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0133
PMCID: PMC3233301
PMID: 21948693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Line M. Oldervoll: None; Jon H. 
Loge: None; Stian Lydersen: None; Hanna Paltiel: None; May B. Asp: None; Unni V. 
Nygaard: None; Elisabeth Oredalen: None; Tone L. Frantzen: None; Ingvild 
Lesteberg: None; Lise Amundsen: None; Marianne J. Hjermstad: None; Dagny F. 
Haugen: None; Ørnulf Paulsen: None; Stein Kaasa: None. Section editors Eduardo 
Bruera: None; Russell K. Portenoy: Cephalon, CNS Bio, Grupo Ferrer, Purdue 
Pharma, Xenon (financial relationships); Ameritox, Archimedes Pharmaceuticals, 
Cephalon, Covidien Mallinckrodt Inc., Endo Pharmaceuticals, Forest Labs, Meda 
Pharmaceuticals, Ortho-McNeil Janssen Scientific Affairs LLD, Otsuka Pharma, 
Purdue Pharma, Tempur-Pedic Corporation (RF). Reviewer “A”: None. Reviewer “B”: 
Boehringer Ingelheim, KangLaiTe USA (C/A).


596. Ann Oncol. 2012 May;23(5):1280-1286. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdr411. Epub 2011
Sep  23.

Two sides of the medallion: poor treatment tolerance but better survival by 
standard chemotherapy in elderly patients with advanced-stage diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma.

van de Schans SAM(1), Wymenga ANM(2), van Spronsen DJ(3), Schouten HC(4), 
Coebergh JWW(5), Janssen-Heijnen MLG(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research, Eindhoven Cancer Registry, Comprehensive Cancer 
Centre South, Eindhoven.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Canisius-Wilhelmina Hospital, Nijmegen; 
Department of Medical Oncology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, 
Nijmegen.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Maastricht, Maastricht.
(5)Department of Research, Eindhoven Cancer Registry, Comprehensive Cancer 
Centre South, Eindhoven; Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Research, Eindhoven Cancer Registry, Comprehensive Cancer 
Centre South, Eindhoven; Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
research@ikz.nl.

BACKGROUND: We investigated treatment of unselected elderly patients with 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and its subsequent impact on treatment 
tolerance and survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data from all 419 advanced-stage DLBCL patients, aged 75 
or older and newly diagnosed between 1997 and 2004, were included from five 
regional population-based cancer registries in The Netherlands. Subsequent data 
on comorbidity, performance status, treatment, motives for adaptations or 
refraining from chemotherapy and toxic effects was collected from the medical 
records. Follow-up was completed until 1st January 2009.
RESULTS: Only 46% of patients received the standard therapy [aggressive 
chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone 
(CHOP)-like chemotherapy]. Motives for withholding chemotherapy were refusal by 
patient/family, poor performance status or estimated short life expectancy. Of 
all patients receiving CHOP-like chemotherapy, only 56% could complete at least 
six cycles. Grade 3 or 4 toxicity occurred in 67% of patients receiving standard 
therapy. The independent effect of therapy on survival remained after correction 
for the age-adjusted International Prognostic Index.
CONCLUSIONS: Standard therapy was applied less often in elderly patients with a 
subsequent independent negative impact on survival. Furthermore, high toxicity 
rate and the impossibility of the majority of patients to complete treatment 
were seen. This implies that better treatment strategies should be devised 
including a proper selection of senior patients for this aggressive 
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdr411
PMID: 21948810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Arch Intern Med. 2011 Nov 14;171(20):1839-47. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2011.473. Epub 2011 Sep 26.

Preventing pressure ulcers in long-term care: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Pham B(1), Stern A, Chen W, Sander B, John-Baptiste A, Thein HH, Gomes T, 
Wodchis WP, Bayoumi A, Machado M, Carcone S, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)TorontoHealth Economics and Technology Assessment Collaborative,Department of 
Health Policy Management andEvaluation, University of Toronto, 144 College 
Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. ba.pham@theta.utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: Pressure ulcers are common in many care settings, with adverse 
health outcomes and high treatment costs. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
evidence-based strategies to improve current prevention practice in long-term 
care facilities.
METHODS: We used a validated Markov model to compare current prevention practice 
with the following 4 quality improvement strategies: (1) pressure redistribution 
mattresses for all residents, (2) oral nutritional supplements for high-risk 
residents with recent weight loss, (3) skin emollients for high-risk residents 
with dry skin, and (4) foam cleansing for high-risk residents requiring 
incontinence care. Primary outcomes included lifetime risk of stage 2 to 4 
pressure ulcers, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and lifetime costs, 
calculated according to a single health care payer's perspective and expressed 
in 2009 Canadian dollars (Can$1 = US$0.84).
RESULTS: Strategies cost on average $11.66 per resident per week. They reduced 
lifetime risk; the associated number needed to treat was 45 (strategy 1), 63 
(strategy 4), 158 (strategy 3), and 333 (strategy 2). Strategy 1 and 4 minimally 
improved QALYs and reduced the mean lifetime cost by $115 and $179 per resident, 
respectively. The cost per QALY gained was approximately $78 000 for strategy 3 
and $7.8 million for strategy 2. If decision makers are willing to pay up to 
$50 000 for 1 QALY gained, the probability that improving prevention is 
cost-effective is 94% (strategy 4), 82% (strategy 1), 43% (strategy 3), and 1% 
(strategy 2).
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical and economic evidence supports pressure redistribution 
mattresses for all long-term care residents. Improving prevention with perineal 
foam cleansers and dry skin emollients appears to be cost-effective, but firm 
conclusions are limited by the available clinical evidence.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2011.473
PMID: 21949031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Diabetes Care. 2011 Oct;34(10):2225-30. doi: 10.2337/dc11-0462.

Decreases in diabetes-free life expectancy in the U.S. and the role of obesity.

Cunningham SA(1), Riosmena F, Wang J, Boyle JP, Rolka DB, Geiss LS.

Author information:
(1)Hubert Department of Global Health, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. 
sargese@sph.emory.edu

OBJECTIVE: With increasing life expectancy in the U.S., it is important to know 
whether a longer life expectancy means a longer healthy life span or a prolonged 
period of later-life morbidity. This study examines changes in lifetime without 
diabetes, a leading cause of morbidity in later life.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Using demographic methods and nationally 
representative data, we estimated changes in diabetes-free life expectancy 
between 1980-1989 and 2000-2004 for adult men and women in the U.S., estimated 
the contribution of changes in age-specific diabetes rates, and examined the 
changing effects of weight status on diabetes risks.
RESULTS: While life expectancy at age 18 for men and women increased between the 
1980s and the 2000s, diabetes-free life expectancy at age 18 decreased by 1.7 
years for men and 1.5 years for women. The proportion of 18-year-olds who would 
develop diabetes in their lifetimes increased by almost 50% among women and 
almost doubled among men. Obese individuals experienced the greatest losses in 
diabetes-free life expectancy during this period, estimated at 5.6 years for men 
and 2.5 years for women.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes-free life expectancy decreased for both men and women 
between 1980-1989 and 2000-2004, and these decreases are almost entirely 
attributable to large increases in diabetes incidence among obese individuals.

DOI: 10.2337/dc11-0462
PMCID: PMC3177736
PMID: 21949220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. PLoS Med. 2011 Sep;8(9):e1001095. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001095. Epub
2011  Sep 20.

Cost-effectiveness of early versus standard antiretroviral therapy in 
HIV-infected adults in Haiti.

Koenig SP(1), Bang H, Severe P, Jean Juste MA, Ambroise A, Edwards A, Hippolyte 
J, Fitzgerald DW, McGreevy J, Riviere C, Marcelin S, Secours R, Johnson WD, Pape 
JW, Schackman BR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Global Health Equity, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: In a randomized clinical trial of early versus standard 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) in HIV-infected adults with a CD4 cell count 
between 200 and 350 cells/mm³ in Haiti, early ART decreased mortality by 75%. We 
assessed the cost-effectiveness of early versus standard ART in this trial.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Trial data included use of ART and other medications, 
laboratory tests, outpatient visits, radiographic studies, procedures, and 
hospital services. Medication, laboratory, radiograph, labor, and overhead costs 
were from the study clinic, and hospital and procedure costs were from local 
providers. We evaluated cost per year of life saved (YLS), including patient and 
caregiver costs, with a median of 21 months and maximum of 36 months of 
follow-up, and with costs and life expectancy discounted at 3% per annum. 
Between 2005 and 2008, 816 participants were enrolled and followed for a median 
of 21 months. Mean total costs per patient during the trial were US$1,381 for 
early ART and US$1,033 for standard ART. After excluding research-related 
laboratory tests without clinical benefit, costs were US$1,158 (early ART) and 
US$979 (standard ART). Early ART patients had higher mean costs for ART (US$398 
versus US$81) but lower costs for non-ART medications, CD4 cell counts, 
clinically indicated tests, and radiographs (US$275 versus US$384). The 
cost-effectiveness ratio after a maximum of 3 years for early versus standard 
ART was US$3,975/YLS (95% CI US$2,129/YLS-US$9,979/YLS) including 
research-related tests, and US$2,050/YLS excluding research-related tests (95% 
CI US$722/YLS-US$5,537/YLS).
CONCLUSIONS: Initiating ART in HIV-infected adults with a CD4 cell count between 
200 and 350 cells/mm³ in Haiti, consistent with World Health Organization 
advice, was cost-effective (US$/YLS <3 times gross domestic product per capita) 
after a maximum of 3 years, after excluding research-related laboratory tests.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00120510.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001095
PMCID: PMC3176754
PMID: 21949643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


600. PLoS One. 2011;6(9):e24870. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024870. Epub 2011 Sep
14.

Simulation-based estimates of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of smoking 
cessation in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Atsou K(1), Chouaid C, Hejblum G.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U707, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: The medico-economic impact of smoking cessation considering a 
smoking patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is poorly 
documented.
OBJECTIVE: Here, considering a COPD smoking patient, the specific burden of 
continuous smoking was estimated, as well as the effectiveness and the 
cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation.
METHODS: A multi-state Markov model adopting society's perspective was 
developed. Simulated cohorts of English COPD patients who are active smokers 
(all severity stages combined or patients with the same initial severity stage) 
were compared to identical cohorts of patients who quit smoking at cohort 
initialization. Life expectancy, quality adjusted life-years (QALY), 
disease-related costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER: £/QALY) 
were estimated, considering smoking cessation programs with various possible 
scenarios of success rates and costs. Sensitivity analyses included the 
variation of model key parameters.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: At the horizon of a smoking COPD patient's remaining 
lifetime, smoking cessation at cohort intitialization, relapses being allowed as 
observed in practice, would result in gains (mean) of 1.27 life-years and 0.68 
QALY, and induce savings of -1824 £/patient in the disease-related costs. The 
corresponding ICER was -2686 £/QALY. Smoking cessation resulted in 0.72, 0.69, 
0.64 and 0.42 QALY respectively gained per mild, moderate, severe, and very 
severe COPD patient, but was nevertheless cost-effective for mild to severe COPD 
patients in most scenarios, even when hypothesizing expensive smoking cessation 
intervention programmes associated with low success rates. Considering a 
ten-year time horizon, the burden of continuous smoking in English COPD patients 
was estimated to cost a total of 1657 M£ while 452516 QALY would be 
simultaneously lost.
CONCLUSIONS: The study results are a useful support for the setting of smoking 
cessation programmes specifically targeted to COPD patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024870
PMCID: PMC3173494
PMID: 21949774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.601. Int J Hypertens. 2012;2012:590683. doi: 10.1155/2012/590683. Epub 2011 Sep
22.

Antihypertensive Treatment in the Elderly and Very Elderly: Always "the Lower, 
the Better?".

Mazza A(1), Ramazzina E, Cuppini S, Armigliato M, Schiavon L, Rossetti C, 
Marzolo M, Santoro G, Ravenni R, Zuin M, Zorzan S, Rubello D, Casiglia E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, "Santa Maria della Misericordia" Hospital, 
45100 Rovigo, Italy.

Arterial hypertension (HT) is age dependent and, with the prolongation of life 
expectancy, affects more and more elderly people. In the elderly, HT is a risk 
factor for organ damage and cardiovascular (CV) events. Both pharmacologic and 
nonpharmacologic reduction of blood pressure (BP) is associated with a 
corresponding decrease in systolic-diastolic or isolated systolic HT. Clinical 
trials have shown that BP lowering is associated with a decrease in stroke and 
other CV events. Therefore, BP reduction per se appears more important than a 
particular class of antihypertensive drugs. The benefit of antihypertensive 
treatment has been confirmed up to the age of 80 years, remaining unclear in the 
octogenarians. The benefit in lowering diastolic BP between 80 and 90 mmHg is 
well established, while that of lowering systolic BP below 140 mmHg requires 
further confirmations.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/590683
PMCID: PMC3178108
PMID: 21949902


602. Masui. 2011 Sep;60(9):1010-7.

[Mechanisms underlying generation of cancer pain].

[Article in Japanese]

Kawamata T(1), Yamamoto K, Fuseya S, Hirabayashi T, Sakamoto A, Kawamata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology & Resuscitology, Shinshu University School of 
Medicine, Matsumoto 390-8621.

As advances in cancer detection and treatment have increased the life expectancy 
of cancer patients, more attention to improving patient's quality of life (QOL) 
is needed. Among symptoms accompanying cancer, pain has strong impact on QOL. 
Most of cancer patients will experience moderate to severe pain and/or 
neuropathy during the course of their disease. Cancer pain can arise from 
different processes, either by direct tumor infiltration/involvement, or 
toxicity relating to chemotherapy used to treat cancer. The World Health 
Organization (WHO) has proposed a structured approach to drug selection for 
cancer pain, known as the "WHO analgesic ladder". However, several types of pain 
including bone cancer pain and chemotherapy-induced painful peripheral 
neuropathy are difficult to treat. The development of optimal analgesics for 
cancer pain has been hampered by the lack of understanding basic mechanisms that 
contribute to cancer pain. Recently, preclinical models of bone cancer pain and 
paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy have been developed. These 
models have begun to provide insight into the mechanisms by which cancer pain is 
induced and how cancer pain-related sensory information is processed. In this 
paper, we review mechanism of cancer pain.

PMID: 21950031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 2011 Jul-Aug;51(4):464-70.

[Effect of indometofen on the survival and bone marrow hemopoiesis of mice 
exposed to acute external gamma- or X-ray irradiation].

[Article in Russian]

Grebeniuk AN, Bykov VN, Miasnikov VA, Zatsepin VV, Aksenova NV, Drachev IS, 
Suprunova EB.

The purpose of the study is evaluation of radioprotective effectiveness of 
indometofen at its prophylactic administration in conditions of acute 
irradiation. Evaluation of radioprotective efficiency was performed by studying 
the 30-day survival rate, life expectancy, structure of deathly irradiated mice, 
and bone marrow hemopoiesis using methods of endogenous and exogenous colony 
formation. The prophylactic application of indometofen at doses 30 mg/kg for 5 
days before irradiation has been observed to protect mice against radiation 
death induced by gamma or X-ray exposures at doses LD(50-70/30), increasing 
their survival rate by 16-44%, and reduce severity of post radiation disorders 
of bone marrow hemopoiesis.

PMID: 21950104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2011 Sep;53 Suppl 4:68-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2011.04068.x.

Family and quality of life: key elements in intervention in children with 
cerebral palsy.

Rosenbaum P(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Institute for Applied Health Sciences, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. rosenbau@mcmaster.ca

Modern thinking about children's health, as embodied in the framework of the 
World Health Organization's International Classification of Functioning, 
Disability and Health - Child and Youth Version, requires that we be attentive 
to the 'context' of children's lives, namely their families and the well-being 
of their families. Family-centred services provide both a guide to the 
'processes' of service by service providers and measurable evidence-based 
outcomes that link better 'processes' with better parental 'outcomes'. This 
brief paper provides an overview of these topics, arguing that the themes we 
address in services, and the way we do that, can have important effects on 
families, and by extension, on their children.

© The Author. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology © 2011 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2011.04068.x
PMID: 21950398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Diabet Med. 2012 Mar;29(3):303-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2011.03461.x.

Evaluating the cost-effectiveness of reduced mild hypoglycaemia in subjects with 
Type 1 diabetes treated with insulin detemir or NPH insulin in Denmark, Sweden, 
Finland and the Netherlands.

Valentine WJ(1), Jendle J, Saraheimo M, Thorsteinsson B, Pollock RF, Lammert M.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications GmbH, Basel, Switzerland. 
valentine@ossianconsulting.com

AIMS: To estimate short-term cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir vs. NPH 
insulin based on the incidence of mild hypoglycaemia in subjects with Type 1 
diabetes in Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands.
METHODS: A model was developed to evaluate cost-effectiveness based on mild 
(self-treated) hypoglycaemia and pharmacy costs over 1 year. Published rates of 
mild hypoglycaemia were used for NPH insulin and insulin detemir. Effectiveness 
was calculated in terms of quality-adjusted life expectancy. Pharmacy costs were 
accounted using published prices and defined daily doses for both insulins. 
Costs were expressed in 2010 euros (€).
RESULTS: Treatment with insulin detemir was associated with fewer mild 
hypoglycaemic events than NPH insulin (mean rates of 26.3 vs. 35.5 events per 
person-year), leading to an improvement in mean quality-adjusted life expectancy 
of approximately 0.019 (0.030) quality-adjusted life years (standard deviation). 
Annual costs were € 573.55 (110.42) vs. € 332.76 (62.18) in Denmark for insulin 
detemir and NPH insulin, respectively. These values were € 545.79 (106.54) vs. € 
306.12 (57.78) in Sweden, € 720.10 (140.74) vs. € 408.73 (78.61) in Finland and 
€ 584.01 (109.47) vs. € 359.60 (64.84) in the Netherlands. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were approximately € 12,644 (Denmark), € 12,612 
(Sweden), € 16,568 (Finland) and € 12,216 (the Netherlands) per quality-adjusted 
life year gained for insulin detemir vs. NPH insulin.
CONCLUSIONS: Insulin detemir is likely to be cost-effective vs. NPH insulin in 
subjects with Type 1 diabetes in Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands. 
Increased pharmacy costs with insulin detemir should not be a barrier to therapy 
based on these findings.

© 2011 The Authors. Diabetic Medicine © 2011 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2011.03461.x
PMID: 21951030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. BMC Public Health. 2011 Sep 27;11:737. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-737.

A multilevel analysis on the relationship between neighbourhood poverty and 
public hospital utilization: is the high Indigenous morbidity avoidable?

Zhao Y(1), You J, Guthridge SL, Lee AH.

Author information:
(1)Health Gains Planning Branch, Northern Territory Department of Health, PO Box 
40596, Casuarina NT 0811, Australia. yuejen.zhao@nt.gov.au

BACKGROUND: The estimated life expectancy at birth for Indigenous Australians is 
10-11 years less than the general Australian population. The mean family income 
for Indigenous people is also significantly lower than for non-Indigenous 
people. In this paper we examine poverty or socioeconomic disadvantage as an 
explanation for the Indigenous health gap in hospital morbidity in Australia.
METHODS: We utilised a cross-sectional and ecological design using the Northern 
Territory public hospitalisation data from 1 July 2004 to 30 June 2008 and 
socio-economic indexes for areas (SEIFA) from the 2006 census. Multilevel 
logistic regression models were used to estimate odds ratios and confidence 
intervals. Both total and potentially avoidable hospitalisations were 
investigated.
RESULTS: This study indicated that lifting SEIFA scores for family income and 
education/occupation by two quintile categories for low socio-economic 
Indigenous groups was sufficient to overcome the excess hospital utilisation 
among the Indigenous population compared with the non-Indigenous population. The 
results support a reframing of the Indigenous health gap as being a consequence 
of poverty and not simplistically of ethnicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Socio-economic disadvantage is a likely explanation for a 
substantial proportion of the hospital morbidity gap between Indigenous and 
non-Indigenous populations. Efforts to improve Indigenous health outcomes should 
recognise poverty as an underlying determinant of the health gap.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-737
PMCID: PMC3203263
PMID: 21951514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Sep;15(34):v-vi, 1-322. doi: 10.3310/hta15340.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of different surveillance 
mammography regimens after the treatment for primary breast cancer: systematic 
reviews registry database analyses and economic evaluation.

Robertson C(1), Arcot Ragupathy SK, Boachie C, Dixon JM, Fraser C, Hernández R, 
Heys S, Jack W, Kerr GR, Lawrence G, MacLennan G, Maxwell A, McGregor J, Mowatt 
G, Pinder S, Ternent L, Thomas RE, Vale L, Wilson R, Zhu S, Gilbert FJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

BACKGROUND: Following primary breast cancer treatment, the early detection of 
ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence (IBTR) or ipsilateral secondary cancer in 
the treated breast and detection of new primary cancers in the contralateral 
breast is beneficial for survival. Surveillance mammography is used to detect 
these cancers, but the optimal frequency of surveillance and the length of 
follow-up are unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To identify feasible management strategies for surveillance and 
follow-up of women after treatment for primary breast cancer in a UK setting, 
and to determine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of differing regimens.
METHODS: A survey of UK breast surgeons and radiologists to identify current 
surveillance mammography regimens and inform feasible alternatives; two discrete 
systematic reviews of evidence published from 1990 to mid 2009 to determine (i) 
the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of differing surveillance 
mammography regimens for patient health outcomes and (ii) the test performance 
of surveillance mammography in the detection of IBTR and metachronous 
contralateral breast cancer (MCBC); statistical analysis of individual patient 
data (West Midlands Cancer Intelligence Unit Breast Cancer Registry and 
Edinburgh data sets); and economic modelling using the systematic reviews 
results, existing data sets, and focused searches for specific data analysis to 
determine the effectiveness and cost-utility of differing surveillance regimens.
RESULTS: The majority of survey respondents initiate surveillance mammography 12 
months after breast-conserving surgery (BCS) (87%) or mastectomy (79%). Annual 
surveillance mammography was most commonly reported for women after BCS or after 
mastectomy (72% and 53%, respectively). Most (74%) discharge women from 
surveillance mammography, most frequently 10 years after surgery. The majority 
(82%) discharge from clinical follow-up, most frequently at 5 years. Combining 
initiation, frequency and duration of surveillance mammography resulted in 54 
differing surveillance regimens for women after BCS and 56 for women following 
mastectomy. The eight studies included in the clinical effectiveness systematic 
review suggest surveillance mammography offers a survival benefit compared with 
a surveillance regimen that does not include surveillance mammography. Nine 
studies were included in the test performance systematic review. For routine 
IBTR detection, surveillance mammography sensitivity ranged from 64% to 67% and 
specificity ranged from 85% to 97%. For magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 
sensitivity ranged from 86% to 100% and specificity was 93%. For non-routine 
IBTR detection, sensitivity and specificity for surveillance mammography ranged 
from 50% to 83% and from 57% to 75%, respectively, and for MRI from 93% to 100% 
and from 88% to 96%, respectively. For routine MCBC detection, one study 
reported sensitivity of 67% and specificity of 50% for both surveillance 
mammography and MRI, although this was a highly select population. Data set 
analysis showed that IBTR has an adverse effect on survival. Furthermore, women 
experiencing a second tumour measuring >20 mm in diameter were at a 
significantly greater risk of death than those with no recurrence or those whose 
tumour was <10 mm in diameter. In the base-case analysis, the strategy with the 
highest net benefit, and most likely to be considered cost-effective, was 
surveillance mammography alone, provided every 12 months at a societal 
willingness to pay for a quality-adjusted life-year of either £20,000 or 
£30,000. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for surveillance mammography 
alone every 12 months compared with no surveillance was £4727.
LIMITATIONS: Few studies met the review inclusion criteria and none of the 
studies was a randomised controlled trial. The limited and variable nature of 
the data available precluded any quantitative analysis. There was no useable 
evidence contained in the Breast Cancer Registry database to assess the 
effectiveness of surveillance mammography directly. The results of the economic 
model should be considered exploratory and interpreted with caution given the 
paucity of data available to inform the economic model.
CONCLUSIONS: Surveillance is likely to improve survival and patients should gain 
maximum benefit through optimal use of resources, with those women with a 
greater likelihood of developing IBTR or MCBC being offered more comprehensive 
and more frequent surveillance. Further evidence is required to make a robust 
and informed judgement on the effectiveness of surveillance mammography and 
follow-up. The utility of national data sets could be improved and there is a 
need for high-quality, direct head-to-head studies comparing the diagnostic 
accuracy of tests used in the surveillance population.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

© Queen’s Printer and Controller of HMSO 2011.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15340
PMCID: PMC4781542
PMID: 21951942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. J Wound Ostomy Continence Nurs. 2011 Nov-Dec;38(6):648-54. doi: 
10.1097/WON.0b013e31822efc86.

Post-thrombotic syndrome patient education based on the health belief model: 
self-reported intention to comply with recommendations.

Carolyn C(1).

Author information:
(1)St Mary's Medical Center, Blue Springs, Missouri, USA. 
ccrumley@carondelet.com

PURPOSE: This study was designed to evaluate patient responses to a patient 
education handout on post-thrombotic syndrome prevention based on the Health 
Belief Model.
DESIGN: This quasi-experimental pilot study involved a patient survey to be 
completed after reviewing a patient education handout.
PARTICIPANTS AND SETTING: A convenience sample of 25 patients with deep vein 
thrombosis confirmed by venous Doppler assessment with a lower extremity deep 
vein thrombosis admitted to a Midwestern community hospital was identified. 
Seven patients were excluded and 5 declined participation; 13 completed the 
survey patients. Subjects were older than 18 years and able to read and 
understand English. Patients with hospice or palliative care service or life 
expectancy less than 6 months were excluded.
METHODS: Subjects were provided with the post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS), patient 
education handout, and the PTS patient education survey. The PTS patient 
education handout consisted of a 1-page informational sheet based on PTS and 
Health Belief Model literature. The 24-item PTS Patient Education Survey 
required approximately 15 minutes to complete; items included demographic 
information, questions regarding previous deep vein thrombosis and Likert scale 
opinion statements regarding PTS based on Health Belief Model components. 
Patients meeting inclusion criteria were approached by the investigator, invited 
to participate in the study, and offered the option of having the investigator 
collect the survey or return in an addressed, stamped envelope.
RESULTS: Respondents tended to agree that PTS was a serious condition and that 
it would negatively affect their life, primarily in relation to comfort and the 
ability to engage in leisure activities. Ten participants (76.9%) acknowledged 
that they were susceptible to PTS, and that elastic graduated compression 
stockings were effective. The most commonly cited barrier to wearing the 
stockings was difficulty with application. Five patients (38.5%) agreed that 
they had the ability to prevent PTS and 9 (69.2%) indicated that they intended 
to wear the stockings.
