System, Division of Vital Statistics, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents complete period life tables by race, Hispanic 
origin, and sex for the United States based on age-specific death rates in 2007.
METHODS: Data used to prepare the 2007 life tables are 2007 final mortality 
statistics, July 1, 2007, population estimates based on the 2000 decennial 
census, and 2007 Medicare data for ages 66-100. The methods used to estimate the 
life tables for the total, white, and black populations were first used in 
annual life tables in 2005 and have been in use since that time (1). The methods 
used to estimate the life tables for the Hispanic, non-Hispanic white, and 
non-Hispanic black populations were first used to estimate U.S. life tables by 
Hispanic origin for data year 2006 (2).
RESULTS: In 2007, the overall expectation of life at birth was 77.9 years, 
representing an increase of 0.2 years from life expectancy in 2006. From 2006 to 
2007, life expectancy at birth increased for all groups considered. It increased 
for males (from 75.1 to 75.4) and females (from 80.2 to 80.4), the white (from 
78.2 to 78.4) and black (from 73.2 to 73.6) populations, the Hispanic population 
(from 80.6 to 80.9), the non-Hispanic white population (from 78.1 to 78.2), and 
the non-Hispanic black population (from 72.9 to 73.2).

PMID: 22070012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jan;30(1):63-80. doi:
10.2165/11595340-000000000-00000.

A systematic review of the cost and cost effectiveness of treatment for 
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.

Fitzpatrick C(1), Floyd K.

Author information:
(1)Stop TB Department, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. 
fitzpatrickc@who.int

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jan;30(1):81.

BACKGROUND: Around 0.4 million cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis 
(MDR-TB) occur each year. Only a small fraction of these cases are treated 
according to international guidelines. Evidence relevant to decisions about 
whether to scale-up treatment for MDR-TB includes cost and cost-effectiveness 
data. Up to 2010, no systematic review of this evidence has been available.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to conduct a systematic review of the cost and cost 
effectiveness of treatment for MDR-TB and synthesize the available data.
METHODS: We searched for papers published or prepared for publication in 
peer-review journals and grey literature using search terms in five languages: 
English, French, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish. From an initial set of 420 
studies, four were included, from Peru, the Philippines, Estonia and Tomsk 
Oblast in the Russian Federation. Results on costs, effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness were extracted. Assessment of the quality of each economic 
evaluation was guided by two existing checklists around which there is broad 
consensus. Costs were adjusted to a common year of value (2005) to remove 
distortions caused by inflation, and calculated in two common currencies: $US 
and international dollars (I$), to standardize for purchasing power parity. Data 
from the four identified studies were then synthesized using probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, to appraise the likely cost and cost effectiveness of 
MDR-TB treatment in other settings, relative to WHO benchmarks for assessing 
whether or not an intervention is cost effective. Best estimates are provided as 
means, with 5th and 95th percentiles of the distributions.
RESULTS: The cost per patient for MDR-TB treatment in Estonia, Peru, the 
Philippines and Tomsk was $US10 880, $US2423, $US3613 and $US14 657, 
respectively. Best estimates of the cost per disability-adjusted life-year 
(DALY) averted were $US598 (I$960), $US163 (I$291), $US143 (I$255) and $US745 
(I$1059), respectively. The main influences on costs were (i) the model of care 
chosen (the extent to which hospitalization or ambulatory care were relied upon) 
and (ii) the second-line drugs included in the treatment regimen. When 
extrapolated to other settings, the best estimate of the cost of treatment 
varied from US3401 to US195 078, depending on the region and model of care. The 
cost per DALY averted was lower than GDP per capita in all 14 WHO sub-regions 
considered, with better cost effectiveness for outpatient versus inpatient 
models of care.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment for MDR-TB can be cost effective in low- and 
middle-income countries. Evidence about the relative cost effectiveness of 
outpatient versus inpatient models of care is limited and more data are needed 
from Africa and Asia--especially India and China, which have the largest number 
of cases. Unless there is strong evidence that hospitalization is necessary to 
achieve high rates of adherence to treatment, patients with MDR-TB should be 
treated using mainly ambulatory care.

DOI: 10.2165/11595340-000000000-00000
PMID: 22070215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2011 Sep;205(3):282.e1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2011.06.051.  Epub 2011 Jun 21.

Treating mild gestational diabetes mellitus: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ohno MS(1), Sparks TN, Cheng YW, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, University of California, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the cost-effectiveness of treating mild 
gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM).
STUDY DESIGN: A decision analytic model was built to compare treating vs not 
treating mild GDM. The primary outcome was the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). All probabilities, costs, and benefits were 
derived from the literature. Base case, sensitivity analyses, and a Monte Carlo 
simulation were performed.
RESULTS: Treating mild GDM was more expensive, more effective, and 
cost-effective at $20,412 per QALY. Treatment remained cost-effective when the 
incremental cost to treat GDM was less than $3555 or if treatment met at least 
49% of its reported efficacy at the baseline cost to treat of $1786.
CONCLUSION: Treating mild GDM is cost-effective in terms of improving maternal 
and neonatal outcomes including decreased rates of preeclampsia, cesarean 
sections, macrosomia, shoulder dystocia, permanent and transient brachial plexus 
injury, neonatal hypoglycemia, neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, and neonatal 
intensive care unit admissions.

Copyright © 2011 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2011.06.051
PMCID: PMC3443977
PMID: 22071065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Clin Ther. 2011 Nov;33(11):1713-25. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.09.014.
Epub  2011 Nov 8.

The economic impact and cost-effectiveness of urinary neutrophil 
gelatinase-associated lipocalin after cardiac surgery.

Shaw AD(1), Chalfin DB, Kleintjens J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA.

BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is common after cardiac surgery, and 
expeditious recognition with specific biomarkers may help improve outcome.
OBJECTIVE: Because the economic impact of a biomarker-based diagnostic strategy 
is unknown, we assessed the cost-effectiveness of using urinary neutrophil 
gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) for the diagnosis of AKI after cardiac 
surgery compared with current diagnostic methods.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was developed using the societal perspective 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of NGAL. Cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) was determined for NGAL and standard strategies. The base case was a 
67-year-old male patient undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery in the 
United Kingdom. Multiple sensitivity analyses were performed to determine how 
cost-effectiveness would vary with changes in the underlying clinical and 
economic variables.
RESULTS: The base case yielded expected costs of £4244 and 11.86 QALYs for the 
NGAL strategy compared with £4672 and 11.79 QALYs for the standard therapy. The 
cost-effectiveness ratio for the NGAL strategy was £358/QALY compared with 
£396/QALY for the standard regimen. Cost-effectiveness increased as the 
treatment effect-defined as the ability to prevent progression of established 
AKI (kidney injury or failure)-for the therapy triggered by an elevated NGAL 
level rose. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the model was most responsive 
to the probability of developing AKI and least sensitive to the test cost for 
NGAL. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis supported the NGAL strategy as the most 
cost-effective option. Because this study was a decision analysis model 
incorporating a nonspecific treatment for AKI (as opposed to an observational 
study or controlled trial), model structural assumptions may therefore have 
underestimated mortality and the likelihood of developing AKI, although these 
were tested in multiple sensitivity analyses. Indirect costs were also not 
explicitly factored.
CONCLUSION: The use of urinary NGAL after cardiac surgery appears to be 
cost-effective in the early diagnosis of AKI.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.09.014
PMID: 22071237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Clin Nutr. 2012 Apr;31(2):183-90. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2011.10.009. Epub 2011
Nov  8.

Oral nutritional support in malnourished elderly decreases functional 
limitations with no extra costs.

Neelemaat F(1), Bosmans JE, Thijs A, Seidell JC, van Bokhorst-de van der 
Schueren MA.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Nutrition and Dietetics, Internal Medicine and EMGO Institute 
for Health and Care Research, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. f.neelemaat@vumc.nl

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Older people are vulnerable to malnutrition which leads to 
increased health care costs. The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of nutritional supplementation from a societal perspective.
DESIGN: This randomized controlled trial included hospital admitted malnourished 
elderly (≥ 60 y) patients. Patients in the intervention group received 
nutritional supplementation (energy and protein enriched diet, oral nutritional 
support, calcium-vitamin D supplement, telephone counselling by a dietician) 
until three months after discharge from hospital. Patients in the control group 
received usual care (control). Primary outcomes were Quality Adjusted Life Years 
(QALYs), physical activities and functional limitations. Measurements were 
performed at hospital admission and three months after discharge. Data were 
analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle and multiple imputation 
was used to impute missing data. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were 
calculated and bootstrapping was applied to evaluate cost-effectiveness. 
Cost-effectiveness was expressed by cost-effectiveness planes and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: 210 patients were included, 105 in each group. After three months, no 
statistically significant differences in quality of life and physical activities 
were observed between groups. Functional limitations decreased significantly 
more in the intervention group (mean difference -0.72, 95% CI-1.15; -0.28). 
There were no differences in costs between groups. Cost-effectiveness for QALYs 
and physical activities could not be demonstrated. For functional limitations we 
found a 0.95 probability that the intervention is cost-effective in comparison 
with usual care for ceiling ratios > €6500.
CONCLUSIONS: A multi-component nutritional intervention to malnourished elderly 
patients for three months after hospital discharge leads to significant 
improvement in functional limitations and is neutral in costs. A follow-up of 
three months is probably too short to detect changes in QALYs or physical 
activities.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and 
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2011.10.009
PMID: 22071290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Neuromuscul Disord. 2012 Mar;22(3):263-76. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2011.09.007.
Epub  2011 Nov 8.

A critical smn threshold in mice dictates onset of an intermediate spinal 
muscular atrophy phenotype associated with a distinct neuromuscular junction 
pathology.

Bowerman M(1), Murray LM, Beauvais A, Pinheiro B, Kothary R.

Author information:
(1)Regenerative Medicine Program, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, 
ON, Canada K1H 8L6.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by mutations/deletions within the SMN1 
gene and characterized by loss of lower motor neurons and skeletal muscle 
atrophy. SMA is clinically heterogeneous, with disease ranging from severe to 
mild. Here, we identify a critical threshold of Smn that dictates onset of SMA 
in the intermediate Smn(2B/-) mouse model. With about 15% normal level of Smn 
protein, Smn(2B/-) mice display reduced body weight, motor neuron loss and motor 
defects. Importantly, these mice are phenotype-free until P10 with a median life 
expectancy of 28 days. They show neuromuscular junction (NMJ) pathology with an 
inter-muscular differential vulnerability and an association between pre- and 
post-synaptic defects. Our work suggests that increasing Smn protein levels only 
minimally could be of significant benefit since Smn(2B/2B) mice are 
phenotypically normal. Further, the finding that NMJ pathology varies between 
severe and intermediate SMA mouse models, suggests that future therapies be 
adapted to the severity of SMA.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2011.09.007
PMID: 22071333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Europace. 2012 Mar;14(3):402-9. doi: 10.1093/europace/eur343. Epub 2011 Nov
8.

Implantable loop recorders are cost-effective when used to investigate transient 
loss of consciousness which is either suspected to be arrhythmic or remains 
unexplained.

Davis S(1), Westby M, Pitcher D, Petkar S.

Author information:
(1)The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. s.davis@shef.ac.uk

AIMS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of implantable loop recorders (ILRs) in 
people with transient loss of consciousness (TLoC), which, after initial 
assessment and specialist cardiovascular assessment, is either suspected to be 
arrhythmic in origin or remains unexplained. This analysis was conducted to 
inform clinical guideline recommendations made by the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) on the management of TLoC.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Decision analytic modelling was used to estimate the costs 
and benefits of using ILRs compared with a strategy of no further diagnostic 
testing. Diagnostic outcomes were estimated from a systematic review and used to 
populate a decision tree model. To capture the main consequences of diagnosis, 
the costs and benefits of treatment for several clinically significant 
arrhythmias were estimated within the model. We used a cost-utility approach, in 
which benefits are measured using quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and took 
a UK National Health Service (NHS) and personal social services perspective. The 
cost per QALY was £17,400 in patients with unexplained syncope and £16,400 in 
patients with suspected arrhythmic syncope. Sensitivity analysis found that the 
cost-effectiveness estimates are fairly robust despite the areas of uncertainty 
identified in the evidence and assumptions used to inform the model.
CONCLUSIONS: Implantable loop recorder monitoring is likely to be a 
cost-effective strategy in people presenting to the UK NHS who are experiencing 
infrequent episodes of TLoC which either remain unexplained or are suspected to 
be arrhythmic after initial assessment and specialist cardiovascular assessment. 
Implantable loop recorder monitoring has been recommended by NICE for these 
populations.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eur343
PMID: 22071383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Med Health Care Philos. 2012 Nov;15(4):411-6. doi:
10.1007/s11019-011-9364-6.

Palliative care for the terminally ill in America: the consideration of QALYs, 
costs, and ethical issues.

Yang YT(1), Mahon MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration and Policy, George Mason University, MS: 
1J3, 4400 University Drive, Fairfax, VA 22030-4444, USA. ytyang@gmu.edu

The drive for cost-effective use of medical interventions has advantages, but 
can also be challenging in the context of end-of-life palliative treatments. A 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) provides a common currency to assess the 
extent of the benefits gained from a variety of interventions in terms of 
health-related quality of life and survival for the patient. However, since it 
is in the nature of end-of-life palliative care that the benefits it brings to 
its patients are of short duration, it fares poorly under a policy of 
QALY-maximization. Nevertheless, we argue that the goals of palliative care and 
QALY are not incompatible, and optimal integration of palliative care into the 
calculation of QALY may reveal a mechanism to modify considerations of how 
optimal quality of life can be achieved, even in the face of terminal illness. 
The use of QALYs in resource allocation means that palliative care will always 
compete with alternative uses of the same money. More research should be 
conducted to evaluate choices between palliative care and more aggressive 
therapies for the terminally ill. However, current limited data show that 
investing in palliative care makes more sense not only ethically, but also 
financially.

DOI: 10.1007/s11019-011-9364-6
PMID: 22071573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Health Econ. 2012 Dec;21(12):1416-26. doi: 10.1002/hec.1799. Epub 2011 Nov
10.

Public preferences for responsibility versus public preferences for reducing 
inequalities.

Edlin R(1), Tsuchiya A, Dolan P.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9LJ, UK. r.p.edlin@leeds.ac.uk

In cost-utility analysis, the numbers of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained are aggregated by placing the same weight on each QALY. Deviations from 
this rubric have been proposed on a number of grounds, including the degree to 
which persons might be deemed responsible for the illness faced, and inequality 
in lifetime health between groups. Most research has looked at these factors in 
isolation. This paper analyses public preferences about the relative importance 
of these factors. Over 500 members of the general public in the UK are 
interviewed in their homes. Where "blameworthy" groups experience a moderate 
drop in quality of life due to their behaviour, they appear to receive higher 
priority than an otherwise "trustworthy" group if they also experience poorer 
health prospects because the latter is weighted more heavily than the former.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1799
PMID: 22072569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. World J Gastroenterol. 2011 Oct 7;17(37):4174-83. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v17.i37.4174.

Barrett's esophagus with high-grade dysplasia: focus on current treatment 
options.

Lekakos L(1), Karidis NP, Dimitroulis D, Tsigris C, Kouraklis G, Nikiteas N.

Author information:
(1)Second Propedeutic Department of Surgery, Medical School, University of 
Athens, General Hospital Laiko, Athens 11527, Greece.

High-grade dysplasia (HGD) in Barrett's esophagus (BE) is the critical step 
before invasive esophageal adenocarcinoma. Although its natural history remains 
unclear, an aggressive therapeutic approach is usually indicated. Esophagectomy 
represents the only treatment able to reliably eradicate the neoplastic 
epithelium. In healthy patients with reasonable life expectancy, vagal-sparing 
esophagectomy, with associated low mortality and low early and late 
postoperative morbidity, is considered the treatment of choice for BE with HGD. 
Patients unfit for surgery should be managed in a less aggressive manner, using 
endoscopic ablation or endoscopic mucosal resection of the entire BE segment, 
followed by lifelong surveillance. Patients eligible for surgery who present 
with a long BE segment, multifocal dysplastic lesions, severe reflux symptoms, a 
large fixed hiatal hernia or dysphagia comprise a challenging group with regard 
to the appropriate treatment, either surgical or endoscopic.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v17.i37.4174
PMCID: PMC3208361
PMID: 22072848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e26921. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026921. Epub 2011
Nov 3.

Excess circulating alternatively activated myeloid (M2) cells accelerate ALS 
progression while inhibiting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Vaknin I(1), Kunis G, Miller O, Butovsky O, Bukshpan S, Beers DR, Henkel JS, 
Yoles E, Appel SH, Schwartz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 
Israel.

BACKGROUND: Circulating immune cells including autoreactive T cells and 
monocytes have been documented as key players in maintaining, protecting and 
repairing the central nervous system (CNS) in health and disease. Here, we 
hypothesized that neurodegenerative diseases might be associated, similarly to 
tumors, with increased levels of circulating peripheral myeloid derived 
suppressor cells (MDSCs), representing a subset of suppressor cells that often 
expand under pathological conditions and inhibit possible recruitment of helper 
T cells needed for fighting off the disease.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We tested this working hypothesis in amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS) and its mouse model, which are characterized by a rapid 
progression once clinical symptoms are evident. Adaptive transfer of 
alternatively activated myeloid (M2) cells, which homed to the spleen and 
exhibited immune suppressive activity in G93A mutant superoxide dismutase-1 
(mSOD1) mice at a stage before emergence of disease symptoms, resulted in 
earlier appearance of disease symptoms and shorter life expectancy. The same 
protocol mitigated the inflammation-induced disease model of multiple sclerosis, 
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), which requires circulating T 
cells for disease induction. Analysis of whole peripheral blood samples obtained 
from 28 patients suffering from sporadic ALS (sALS), revealed a two-fold 
increase in the percentage of circulating MDSCs (LIN(-/Low)HLA-DR(-)CD33(+)) 
compared to controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results emphasize the distinct requirements 
for fighting the inflammatory neurodegenerative disease, multiple sclerosis, and 
the neurodegenerative disease, ALS, though both share a local inflammatory 
component. Moreover, the increased levels of circulating MDSCs in ALS patients 
indicates the operation of systemic mechanisms that might lead to an impairment 
of T cell reactivity needed to overcome the disease conditions within the CNS. 
This high level of suppressive immune cells might represent a risk factor and a 
novel target for therapeutic intervention in ALS at least at the early stage.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026921
PMCID: PMC3207825
PMID: 22073221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and have the following conflicts: E.Y. was an employee of 
NeuroQuest Ltd. (Misgav Venture Accelerator, Misgav Business Park 20179, Israel) 
during the research period. There are no other relevant declarations relating to 
employment, consultancy, patents and products in development. This does not 
alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and 
materials.


910. Int J Psychiatry Med. 2011;41(3):245-51. doi: 10.2190/PM.41.3.c.

Schizophrenia: medical illness, mortality, and aging.

Casey DA(1), Rodriguez M, Northcott C, Vickar G, Shihabuddin L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Louisville 
School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 40202, USA. david.casey@louisville.edu

OBJECTIVE: Schizophrenia is a devastating and common psychiatric disorder which 
is associated with a high degree of medical morbidity and reduced life span in 
addition to psychosis. In this article, these problems will be discussed in the 
context of schizophrenia and aging.
METHOD: The recent literature was reviewed using Pubmed, Medline, and Google 
scholar with the search terms "schizophrenia, aging, medical problems."
RESULTS: Schizophrenia is associated with significant medical morbidity and 
mortality. Diabètes and cardiovascular disease, along with smoking and obesity, 
are over-represented and contribute to reduced quality of life and life span. 
Schizophrenics often receive poor medical care.
CONCLUSIONS: The impacts of schizophrenia on physical health and successful 
aging have been underestimated. Psychiatrists and primary care physicians need 
to address the overlapping medical and psychiatric aspects of the disorder while 
the medical care system for these patients requires a much higher degree of 
coordination than is currently available.

DOI: 10.2190/PM.41.3.c
PMID: 22073763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Popul Stud (Camb). 1972 Jul;26(2):317. doi: 10.1080/00324728.1972.10405553.

Comment on 'expectancy of life at birth in 36 nationalities of the Soviet Union: 
1958-60'.

Grandstaff PJ.

Abstract In D. Peter Mazur's recent article, 'Expectancy of Life at Birth in 36 
Nationalities of the Soviet Union: 1958-1960', crude rates of death and 
expectancies of life for nationalities are derived from a scant base of data 
that includes crude rates of natural increase for administrative units and 
various ratios of composition of the populations of both administrative units 
and nationalities. Students of Soviet demography genuinely appreciate Mazur's 
attempt to derive rich results from meagre data. Of course, to do this strong 
assumptions are required and Mazur warns that 'the quantitative results ... are 
valid only to the extent that the underlying methodology is theoretically 
sound'. One way to test the quantitative results is to examine how well the 
crude death rates for the nationalities calculated by Mazur reproduce the crude 
death rates for administrative units with which Mazur started. Mazur feels that 
the estimated death rates for nationalities closely agree with the death rates 
for administrative areas. The present author is sceptical. Application of the 
method described below does not show close correspondence, and this matter, 
which is crucial in the evaluation of Mazur's results, seems problematical.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1972.10405553
PMID: 22074167


912. Popul Stud (Camb). 1973 Mar;27(1):135-58. doi:
10.1080/00324728.1973.10410320.

The influence of cause-specific mortality conditions on the age pattern of 
mortality with special reference to Taiwan.

Sullivan JM.

Abstract This paper discusses the relationship between the level of mortality at 
ages one to four, on one hand, and five to 34 on the other. This relationship 
has been observed to vary considerably among mortality schedules at different 
levels of mortality and even among schedules at the same general level of 
mortality. This variation is shown among the modem life table systems of the 
Regional Model Life Tables and the United Nations Model Life Tables. Controlling 
for the leyel ofmortality from age five to age 34, the West Tables and the 
United Nations Tables embody approximately the same 'average' relationship 
between early childhood and adult mortality. Relatively to this average 
relationship, the South and East Tables consistently display higher childhood 
mortality rates for a given level of adult mortality. Indeed, the childhood 
rates of the South Table are twice those of the West Tables over a range of life 
expectancy at birth from 40 to 70 years. The relationship between childhood and 
adult mortality from 1957 to 1968, a period of rapid mortality decline, was 
investigated in Taiwan. In 1957, the Taiwanese data reflected the severe 
childhood mortality of the South Model Tables. However, by 1968, due to an 
especially large decline in childhood mortality, this relationship was more 
moderate and resembled the mortality pattern of the West or East Model Tables. 
An analysis of the decline in cause-specific mortality during the period 
revealed that a dramatic decline in childhood mortality from gastro-enteritis 
was primarily responsible for the shift in the relationship between childhood 
and adult mortality in Taiwan. It is asserted that, while any of several 
diseases which result in fatalities primarily among children of pre-school ages, 
could cause relatively severe childhood mortality, gastro-enteritis is likely to 
be a primary contributor to such an age pattern. This assertion is based on the 
fact that, especially in the developing areas of the world, malnutrition and 
gastro-enteritis are usually precipitating and complicating factors of other 
childhood diseases. A limited test of this hypothesis was provided by 
considering the causal components of childhood mortality rates in two 
populations known, for certain periods, to have exhibited relatively severe 
childhood mortality conditions; Spain and Portugal. For the years in which those 
populations were characterized by the South mortality pattern, gastro-enteritis 
was a principal cause of mortality in childhood. Moreover, with the decline in 
mortality from gastro-enteritis, the mortality pattern in Spain and Portugal no 
longer exhibited childhood mortality rates which were severe relative to those 
of adult life. The implications of these findings for the analysis of mortality 
conditions in many areas of the developing world, where the gastro-enteritis 
malnutrition syndrome annually claims a heavy toll of life in early childhood, 
are not clear. In those areas, the effect of this syndrome on the age pattern of 
mortality could be offset by special conditions inflating adult mortality rates. 
Nevertheless, in circumstances where there is evidence indicating substantial 
childhood mortality from this syndrome and no evidence indicating compensating 
severe adult mortality, there is reason to suspect that the existing mortality 
pattern reflects the relatively severe childhood mortality conditions of the 
South Model Tables. Additionally, where mortality from the gastro-enteritis 
malnutrition syndrome has been severe in past years, but has been reduced to low 
levels in recent years, it is probable that the relationship between childhood 
and adult mortality will shift in favour of the former - quite possibly, in the 
manner of Taiwan, from a South to an East or West age pattern.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1973.10410320
PMID: 22074203


913. Popul Stud (Camb). 1974 Mar;28(1):19-51. doi:
10.1080/00324728.1974.10404577.

Structure and change in causes of death: An international summary.

Preston SH, Nelson VE.

Abstract Model patterns of the cause structure of mortality at different levels 
were established for males and females, based on data for 165 national 
populations. These patterns suggest that the cause of death most responsible for 
mortality variation is influenza/bronchitis, followed by 'other infectious and 
parasitic diseases', respiratory tuberculosis, and diarrhoeal disease. Together, 
these causes typically account for about 60 per cent of the change in level of 
mortality from all causes combined. Their respective contributions have not 
depended in an important way on the initial level of mortality. These results - 
especially tbe importance of the respiratory and diarrhoeal diseases - imply 
that past accounts may have over-emphasized the role in mortality decline of 
specific and well-defined infectious diseases and their corresponding methods of 
control. There is strong statistical support for the suggestion that most of the 
remainder of mortality variation should be ascribed to changes in 
cardio-vascular diseases, but that methods of cause-of-death assignment in 
high-mortality populations have often obscured the importance of these diseases. 
When death rates from 'other and unknown' causes are held constant, changes in 
cardio-vascular disease account for about one-quarter of the decline in 
mortality from 'all causes'.Although the causal factors are poorly established, 
corroborative results have been demonstrated cross-sectionally in the United 
States. The composition of the group of populations most deviant from the 
structural norms is apparently dominated by differentials in the mode of 
assigning deaths to cardio-vascular disease. However, when broad groups of 
regions or periods are distinguished, more subtle differences emerge. 
Controlling mortality level for all causes combined, diarrhoeal diseases are 
significantly higher in non-Western populations and southern/eastern Europe than 
in overseas Europe or northern/western Europe. These differences are probably 
related to standards of nutrition and personal hygiene, but may also reflect 
climatic factors. Much higher cardio-vascular mortality in overseas European 
populations than in non-Western populations at similar overall levels probably 
reflects variation in habits of life. Regional differences in death rates from 
violence, maternal mortality, respiratory tuberculosis and 
influenza/pneumonia/bronchitis are briefly noted and commented upon. 
Cause-of-death structures at a particular level of mortality display some 
important changes over time. Respiratory tuberculosis and 'other infectious and 
parasitic diseases' have tended to contribute less and less to a certain level 
of mortality. They have in part been 'replaced' by diarrhoeal disease, 
specifically in non-Western populations. These developments reflect an 
accelerating rate of medical and public health progress against the specific 
infectious diseases, and a disappointing rate of progress against diarrhoeal 
disease. Western and non-western populations have shared to approximately the 
same extent in the accelerating progress against infectious diseases, and 
developments during the post-war period are more appropriately viewed as an 
extension of prior trends rather than as radical departures therefrom. For 
males, cardio-vascular disease and cancer have significantly increased their 
contribution to a particular level of mortality, while no such tendency is 
apparent for females. These developments may be related to changes in personal 
behaviour and in environmental influences whose differential impact on the sexes 
has been demonstrated in epidemiological studies. Although we have avoided an 
explicit treatment of age by having recourse at the outset to standardization, 
certain of the results are apparently reflected in studies of age patterns of 
mortality. The joint occurrence in non-Western populations and Southern/Eastern 
populations of exceptionally high death rates from diarrhoeal disease may 
explain why the 'South' age-pattern, with it high death rates between ages one 
and five, is often the most accurate referent for use in Latin America and Asia. 
The fact that the list of populations with the least deviation cause structure 
is almost exclusively confined to members of the 'West' group of Coale and 
Demeny may account for the lack of persistent deviation in this group's age 
patterns. Finally, tbe increasing importance of cardio-vascular disease and 
neoplasms in cause-of-death structures for males but not females is probably 
associated with the changing age patterns of male mortality noted by Coale and 
Demeny.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1974.10404577
PMID: 22074240


914. Popul Stud (Camb). 1974 Mar;28(1):107-26. doi:
10.1080/00324728.1974.10404581.

The island-wide family planning programme in Taiwan: Analysis of the 
accomplishments of the past eight years.

Chow LP.

Abstract Taiwan's island-wide family planning programme is the showcase of 
similar programmes in the developing world. In the past eight years, between 
1964 and 1971, a cumulative total of 935,000 married women accepted the Lippes 
loop, 236,000 accepted the pill, and 116,000 couples accepted condoms. The 
prevalence rates of loop and pill users at the end of 1971 are estimated at 18·7 
per cent and 3-6 per cent respectively. The programme had been recruiting more 
younger women of lower parity to practise family planning which is desirable, 
but a fact of concern is that a large proportion of the acceptors had had at 
least one son, and had accepted the methods to stop, rather than to space 
births. The 'life expectancy' of loop and pill, the two major contraceptives 
recommended in the programme, have been shorter than expected, 31·4 months 
without and 49·9 months with re-insertion for the loop, and only 10·5 months 
without re-taking for the pill. The concepts of 'half-life (retention)' and 
'half-life (impact)', developed by the author, were applied in the analysis to 
obtain the values of 18·6 months and 25·7 months respectively for the loop, and 
5·8 months and 9·2 months respectively for the pill all for the first segment. 
Only nine per cent of the total current loop wearers were aged 40-44 in 1964, 
but the proportion had increased substantially, to 20·5 per cent, in 1971. This 
'ageing' of current users tends to minimize the demographic impact of the 
programme which is a factor of concern. Methods to overcome this and other 
problems should be explored for the final success of the programme.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1974.10404581
PMID: 22074243


915. Environ Health. 2011 Nov 10;10:98. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-10-98.

Injuries associated with housing conditions in Europe: a burden of disease study 
based on 2004 injury data.

Keall MD(1), Ormandy D, Baker MG.

Author information:
(1)He Kainga Oranga/Housing and Health Research Programme, University of Otago, 
PO Box 7343, Wellington South, New Zealand. michael.keall@otago.ac.nz

BACKGROUND: The authors recently undertook a study for the World Health 
Organization estimating the European burden of injuries that can be attributed 
to remediable structural hazards in the home. Such estimates are essential for 
motivating injury prevention efforts as they quantify potential health gains, in 
terms of injuries prevented, via specific environmental interventions.
METHODS: We combined exposure estimates from existing surveys and scenarios with 
estimates of the exposure-risk relationship obtained from a structured review of 
the literature on injury in the home and housing conditions. The resulting 
attributable fractions were applied to burden of injury data for the WHO 
European Region.
RESULTS: This analysis estimated that two specific hazards, lack of window 
guards at second level and higher, and lack of domestic smoke detectors resulted 
in an estimated 7,500 deaths and 200,000 disability adjusted life years (DALYs) 
per year. In estimating the environmental burden of injury associated with 
housing, important deficiencies in injury surveillance data and related 
limitations in studies of injury risk attributable to the home environment were 
apparent. The ability to attribute proportions of the home injury burden to 
features of the home were correspondingly limited, leading to probable severe 
underestimates of the burden.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of injury from modifiable home injury exposures is 
substantial. Estimating this burden in a comprehensive and accurate manner 
requires improvements to the scope of injury surveillance data and the evidence 
base regarding the effectiveness of interventions.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-10-98
PMCID: PMC3305900
PMID: 22074463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. BMJ. 2011 Nov 9;343:d6884. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d6884.

CD4 cell count and viral load monitoring in patients undergoing antiretroviral 
therapy in Uganda: cost effectiveness study.

Kahn JG(1), Marseille E, Moore D, Bunnell R, Were W, Degerman R, Tappero JW, 
Ekwaru P, Kaharuza F, Mermin J.

Author information:
(1)Philip R Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies and Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco, CA, 
USA. jgkahn@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    BMJ. 2011;343:d6853.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost and cost effectiveness of quarterly CD4 cell 
count and viral load monitoring among patients taking antiretroviral therapy 
(ART).
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness study.
SETTING: A randomised trial in a home based ART programme in Tororo, Uganda.
PARTICIPANTS: People with HIV who were members of the AIDS Support Organisation 
and had CD4 cell counts <250 × 10(6) cells/L or World Health Organization stage 
3 or 4 disease.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcomes calculated for the study period and projected 15 
years into the future included costs, disability adjusted life years (DALYs), 
and incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICER; $ per DALY averted). Cost 
inputs were based on the trial and other sources. Clinical inputs derived from 
the trial; in the base case, we assumed that point estimates reflected true 
differences even if non-significant. We conducted univariate and multivariate 
sensitivity analyses.
INTERVENTIONS: Three monitoring strategies: clinical monitoring with quarterly 
CD4 cell counts and viral load measurement (clinical/CD4/viral load); clinical 
monitoring and quarterly CD4 counts (clinical/CD4); and clinical monitoring 
alone.
RESULTS: With the intention to treat (ITT) results per 100 individuals starting 
ART, we found that clinical/CD4 monitoring compared with clinical monitoring 
alone increases costs by $20,458 (£12,780, €14,707) and averts 117.3 DALYs (ICER 
= $174 per DALY). Clinical/CD4/viral load monitoring compared with clinical/CD4 
monitoring adds $142,458, and averts 27.5 DALYs ($5181 per DALY). The superior 
ICER for clinical/CD4 monitoring is robust to uncertainties in input values, and 
that strategy is dominant (less expensive and more effective) compared with 
clinical/CD4/viral load monitoring in one quarter of simulations. If clinical 
inputs are based on the as treated analysis starting at 90 days (after 
laboratory monitoring was initiated), then clinical/CD4/viral load monitoring is 
dominated by other strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this trial, compared with clinical monitoring alone, 
monitoring of routine CD4 cell count is considerably more cost effective than 
additionally including routine viral load testing in the monitoring strategy and 
is more cost effective than ART.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d6884
PMCID: PMC3213243
PMID: 22074713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support from any 
organisation for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any 
organisations that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 
three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


917. Dev Cell. 2011 Nov 15;21(5):920-33. doi: 10.1016/j.devcel.2011.09.006.

Kinetochore-dependent microtubule rescue ensures their efficient and sustained 
interactions in early mitosis.

Gandhi SR(1), Gierliński M, Mino A, Tanaka K, Kitamura E, Clayton L, Tanaka TU.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Gene Regulation & Expression, College of Life 
Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

How kinetochores regulate microtubule dynamics to ensure proper 
kinetochore-microtubule interactions is unknown. Here, we studied this during 
early mitosis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. When a microtubule shrinks and its 
plus end reaches a kinetochore bound to its lateral surface, the microtubule end 
attempts to tether the kinetochore. This process often fails and, responding to 
this failure, microtubule rescue (conversion from shrinkage to growth) occurs, 
preventing kinetochore detachment from the microtubule end. This rescue is 
promoted by Stu2 transfer (ortholog of vertebrate XMAP215/ch-TOG) from the 
kinetochore to the microtubule end. Meanwhile, microtubule rescue distal to the 
kinetochore is also promoted by Stu2, which is transported by a kinesin-8 motor 
Kip3 along the microtubule from the kinetochore. Microtubule extension following 
rescue facilitates interaction with other widely scattered kinetochores, 
diminishing long delays in collecting the complete set of kinetochores by 
microtubules. Thus, kinetochore-dependent microtubule rescue ensures efficient 
and sustained kinetochore-microtubule interactions in early mitosis.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.devcel.2011.09.006
PMCID: PMC3277888
PMID: 22075150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Acad Pediatr. 2012 May-Jun;12(3):219-28. doi: 10.1016/j.acap.2011.09.003.
Epub  2011 Nov 10.

Application of classic utilities to published pediatric cost-utility studies.

Finnell SM(1), Carroll AE, Downs SM.

Author information:
(1)Children’s Health Services Research, Department of Pediatrics, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, HITS Building, Rm 1020N, 410 West 10th St., 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. sfinnell@iupui.edu

OBJECTIVE: Economic analyses, such as cost-utility analyses (CUAs), are 
dependent on the quality of the data used. Our objective was to test how health 
utility values (measurements of patient preference) assessed by recommended 
methods (classic utilities) would impact the conclusions in published pediatric 
CUAs.
METHODS: Classic utilities for pediatric health states were obtained by 
recommended utility assessment methods, time trade-off, and standard gamble in 
4016 parent interviews. To test the impact of these utilities on published 
studies, we obtained a sample of published pediatric CUAs by searching Medline, 
EMBASE, EconLit, Health Technology Assessment Database, Cochrane Database on 
Systematic Reviews, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, and the Cost 
Effective Analysis (CEA) Registry at Tufts Medical Center, using search terms 
for cost-utility analysis. Articles were included when results were presented as 
cost per quality adjusted life-years (QALYs), the interventions were for 
children <18 years of age and included at least one of the following health 
states: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, asthma, gastroenteritis, 
hearing loss, mental retardation, otitis media, seizure disorder, or vision 
loss. Studies that did not include these or equivalent health states were 
excluded. For each CUA, we determined utilities (values for patient preference), 
the utility assessment method used, and presence of one-way sensitivity analyses 
(SAs) on utilities. When one-way SAs were conducted, we determined if using our 
classic utilities would change the result of the CUA. When an SA was not 
presented, we determined if using our classic utilities would tend to support or 
not support the published conclusions.
RESULTS: We evaluated 39 articles. Eighteen articles presented results of 
one-way SAs on utilities. Seven articles presented SAs over a range that 
included our classic utilities. In 4 of the 7, using classic utilities would 
change the conclusion of the study. For the 32 articles where no one-way SA were 
presented (n = 21), or where the classic utilities fell outside the range tested 
(n =11), a change to classic utility would tend against the study conclusion in 
12 articles (31%).
CONCLUSIONS: More than a third of published CUA studies could change if 
pediatric utilities obtained by recommended, classic methods were used. One-way 
SAs on utilities are often not presented, making comparison between studies 
challenging.

Copyright © 2012 Academic Pediatric Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acap.2011.09.003
PMID: 22075466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Stroke. 2012 Jan;43(1):79-85. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.636233. Epub 2011
Nov  10.

Relative survival after transient ischaemic attack: results from the Program of 
Research Informing Stroke Management (PRISM) study.

Gattellari M(1), Goumas C, Garden F, Worthington JM.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, The University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, Australia. Melina.Gattellari@sswahs.nsw.gov.au

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: There is a lack of modern-day data quantifying the 
effect of transient ischemic attack (TIA) on survival, and recent data do not 
take into account expected survival.
METHODS: Data for 22 157 adults hospitalized with a TIA from July 1, 2000, to 
June 30, 2007, in New South Wales, Australia, were linked with registered deaths 
to June 30, 2009. We estimated survival relative to the age- and sex-matched 
general population up to 9-years after hospitalization for TIA comparing 
relative risk of excess death between selected subgroups.
RESULTS: At 1 year, 91.5% of hospitalized patients with TIA survived compared 
with 95.0% expected survival in the general population. After 5 years, observed 
survival was 13.2% lower than expected in relative terms. By 9 years, observed 
survival was 20% lower than expected. Females had higher relative survival than 
males (relative risk, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.69-0.90; P<0.001). Increasing age was 
associated with an increasing risk of excess death compared with the age-matched 
population. Prior hospitalization for stroke (relative risk, 2.63; 95% CI, 
1.98-3.49) but not TIA (relative risk, 1.42; 95% CI, 0.86-2.35) significantly 
increased the risk of excess death. Of all risk factors assessed, congestive 
heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and prior hospitalization for stroke most 
strongly impacted survival.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to quantify the long-term effect of 
hospitalized TIA on relative survival according to age, sex, and medical 
history. TIA reduces survival by 4% in the first year and by 20% within 9 years. 
TIA has a minimal effect on mortality in patients <50 years but heralds 
significant reduction in life expectancy in those >65 years.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.636233
PMID: 22076008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Heart. 2012 Mar;98(5):370-6. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-300444. Epub 2011
Nov  10.

Cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve replacement in patients 
ineligible for conventional aortic valve replacement.

Watt M(1), Mealing S, Eaton J, Piazza N, Moat N, Brasseur P, Palmer S, Busca R, 
Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Ltd, West Way, Botley, Oxford OX2 0JJ, UK. 
maureen.watt@oxfordoutcomes.com

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2012 Apr;9(4):188.
    Heart. 2012 Jul;98(13):1031-3; author reply 1033-4.
    Heart. 2012 Aug;98(15):1182; author reply 1182.
    Heart. 2012 Aug;98(16):1258; author reply 1258.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI) compared with medical management in patients with severe 
aortic stenosis who are ineligible for conventional aortic valve replacement 
(SAVR) from the perspective of the UK National Health Service.
DESIGN: Probabilistic decision analytical model.
METHODS: A decision analytical model was developed to assess the costs and 
benefits associated with both interventions over a 10-year time horizon. A 
literature review was performed to identify relevant clinical evidence. 
Health-related quality of life and mortality were included using data from the 
PARTNER clinical trial (cohort B). Unit costs were taken from national 
databases. Costs and benefits were discounted at 3.5% per year, and extensive 
sensitivity analyses (probabilistic and deterministic) were performed to explore 
the impact of uncertainty on the cost-effectiveness estimates.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) with benefits 
expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The base case ICER was approximately £16,100 per QALY gained. At a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained, the probability that 
TAVI was cost-effective compared with medical management was 1.00. The results 
were robust to changes in key clinical parameters as well as choice of baseline 
survival data. The observed PARTNER survival data only have to be extrapolated 
for 2 years to generate an ICER below £30 000 per QALY gained, which is the 
upper value of the threshold range used by the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence in the UK.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVI is highly likely to be a cost-effective treatment for patients 
with severe aortic stenosis who are currently ineligible for SAVR.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-300444
PMID: 22076021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Plant Cell Rep. 2012 Apr;31(4):671-85. doi: 10.1007/s00299-011-1185-9. Epub
2011  Nov 11.

Expansins are involved in cell growth mediated by abscisic acid and 
indole-3-acetic acid under drought stress in wheat.

Zhao MR(1), Han YY, Feng YN, Li F, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Biology, College of Life Science, Shandong 
Agricultural University, Tai'an 271018, Shandong, People's Republic of China.

Expansin protein is a component of the cell wall generally accepted to be the 
key regulator of cell wall extension during plant growth. Plant hormones 
regulate expansin gene expression as well as plant growth during drought stress. 
However, the relationship between expansin and plant hormone is far from clear. 
Here, we studied the involvement of expansin in plant cell growth mediated by 
the hormones indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and abscisic acid (ABA) under osmotic 
stress which was induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG)-6000. Wheat coleoptiles 
from a drought-resistant cultivar HF9703 and a drought-sensitive cultivar 921842 
were used to evaluate cell growth and expansin activity. Osmotic stress induced 
the accumulation of ABA. ABA induced expansin activity mainly by enhancing 
expansin expression, since ABA induced cell wall basification via decreasing 
plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase activity, which was unfavorable for expansin 
activity. Although ABA induced expansin activity and cell wall extension, 
treatment with exogenous ABA and/or fluridone (FLU, an ABA inhibitor) suggested 
that ABA was involved in the coleoptile growth inhibition during osmotic stress. 
IAA application to detached coleoptiles also enhanced coleoptile growth and 
increased expansin activity, but unlike ABA, IAA-induced expansin activity was 
mainly due to the decrease of cell wall pH by increasing plasma membrane 
H(+)-ATPase activity. Compared with drought-sensitive cultivar, the 
drought-resistant cultivar could maintain greater expansin activity and cell 
wall extension, which was contributive to its resultant faster growth under 
water stress.

© Springer-Verlag 2011

DOI: 10.1007/s00299-011-1185-9
PMID: 22076248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Popul Stud (Camb). 1983;37(1):91-104. doi: 10.1080/00324728.1983.10405926.

A census-based method for estimating adult mortality.

Preston SH(1), Bennett NG.

Author information:
(1)a Population Studies Center , University of Pennsylvania , Philadelphia , 
