Washington, Seattle, WA, USA) for statistical analysis of the data of Fig. 1. 
Supported in part by NIH grants R24CA078088, P01AG001751 and R01AG019711.


845. Ann R Australas Coll Dent Surg. 2010 Mar;20:59-63.

Aspects of wear and tear of tooth structure.

Kahler B(1).

Author information:
(1)Dental School, University of Queensland, Brisbane. w.kahler@uq.edu.au

Lifestyle factors and the increased longevity of the dentition due to greater 
life expectancy have resulted in greater wear and tear (cracking) of teeth. 
Often there exists interplay between damage and repair. An understanding of 
these mechanisms of damage and repair will assist the clinician in correct 
diagnosis and treatment planning. Preventive strategies as well as 
interdisciplinary measures are required for optimal outcomes. However, are some 
of our restorative interventions causing further damage to tooth structure?

PMID: 22046738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Eur J Emerg Med. 2011 Dec;18(6):328-33. doi: 10.1097/MEJ.0b013e32834624e8.

The impact of an emergency motorcycle response vehicle on prehospital care in an 
urban area.

van der Pols H(1), Mencl F, de Vos R.

Author information:
(1)Research and Development, The Orange Cross, The Hague, The Netherlands. 
hansvanderpols@hetnet.nl

INTRODUCTION: Faster emergency response times are generally considered to have a 
positive effect on life expectancy of patients with a life-threatening event, 
leading many communities to determine response time intervals. However, 
worldwide, increasing urbanization and traffic congestion threatens ambulance 
response times. An emergency motorcycle response vehicle (MRV) can overcome 
these hurdles more easily than a larger ambulance. It also offers dispatch 
flexibility in responding to calls estimated to have a low likelihood of a 
patient who needs transport. The first aim of this study was to determine 
whether an MRV can shorten response times and impact on resuscitation outcomes 
in a heavily urbanized and densely populated region in the Netherlands. The 
second aim was to evaluate differences in dispatch and transport between MRV and 
ambulance.
METHODS: This was a nonrandomized, prospective cohort study comparing an MRV 
unit with regular ambulances in a Dutch city of 265 000 people. Included were 
all 'urgent patient' cases within operating time of the MRV between January 2003 
and August 2003.
RESULTS: A total of 1664 patients was evaluated, including 468 motorcycle and 
1196 ambulance responses. Use of MRVs led to a decrease in response time of 54 s 
(Pâ‰¤0.01). We could not show a decrease in mortality risk in cases of 
resuscitation [relative risk (RR): 2.50, confidence interval (CI): 0.17-36.21]. 
There was a slightly improved 1-year survival in other life-threatening cases 
(RR: 1.13, CI: 1.03-1.24). However, this is most likely because of differences 
in dispatch decisions (the MRV is sent to 'lighter' cases) and not because of 
faster assistance. The MRV paramedic was more likely to treat and release the 
patient (RR: 2.21, CI: 1.80-2.73) or refer them to a general practitioner (RR: 
2.11, CI: 1.73-2.58) and much less likely to refer them to the hospital 
emergency department (41.2 vs. 72.6%). Referrals to the hospital by the MRV were 
mostly by the patient's own means of transportation (RR: 13.14, CI: 5.89-29.32) 
rather than by ambulance.
CONCLUSION: Using motorcycles in a Dutch setting lead to better emergency 
medical service response times. The MRV serves a different population. Resulting 
in a higher treat and release rate and less transportation to hospital.

DOI: 10.1097/MEJ.0b013e32834624e8
PMID: 22048417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Ayu. 2010 Oct;31(4):516-9. doi: 10.4103/0974-8520.82030.

A critical review of concept of aging in Ayurveda.

Devi D(1), Srivastava R, Dwivedi BK.

Author information:
(1)Lecturer, Department of Swasthavritta and Yoga, National Institute of 
Ayurveda, Jaipur, Rajasthan, India.

Ayurveda has a holistic approach toward all the miseries of man and aging is one 
of these. It is classified as one of the natural and Yapya (palliative) 
diseases. It is the process of becoming old and decaying. As age advances, 
several changes take place in the body, in the external appearance, in the 
condition of Dosha, Dhatu, Mala, Agni, Oja, and so on, as well as in the mental 
and cognitive functions. Elderly people are susceptible to several chronic 
diseases also. The problems of the elderly are becoming a matter of great 
concern as increased life expectancy due to better medical services and improved 
technology is resulting in an increasing population of the aged. By the year 
2020, the World will have more than one billion people aged 60 and over, and 
more than two-thirds of them will be living in the developing countries. A major 
concern related to the rapid increase in the population of the aged is that 
there will be an increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases and 
disabilities, both being conditions that tend to accompany the aging process. 
This burden is increasing day by day. In the Ayurvedic texts, a comprehensive 
description has been given of aging. The aim of this conceptual article is to 
compile and re-evaluate the various principles related to different aspects of 
aging.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-8520.82030
PMCID: PMC3202253
PMID: 22048551


848. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Nov 15;36(24):2061-8. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318235457b.

Comparative effectiveness evidence from the spine patient outcomes research 
trial: surgical versus nonoperative care for spinal stenosis, degenerative 
spondylolisthesis, and intervertebral disc herniation.

Tosteson AN(1), Tosteson TD, Lurie JD, Abdu W, Herkowitz H, Andersson G, Albert 
T, Bridwell K, Zhao W, Grove MR, Weinstein MC, Weinstein JN.

Author information:
(1)The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, Dartmouth 
Medical School, Lebanon, NH 03756, USA. anna.tosteson@dartmouth.edu

STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis of a randomized plus observational 
cohort trial.
OBJECTIVE: Analyze cost-effectiveness of Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial 
data over 4 years comparing surgery with nonoperative care for three common 
diagnoses: spinal stenosis (SPS), degenerative spondylolisthesis (DS), and 
intervertebral disc herniation (IDH).
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Spine surgery rates continue to rise in the United 
States, but the safety and economic value of these procedures remain uncertain.
METHODS: Patients with image-confirmed diagnoses were followed in randomized or 
observational cohorts with data on resource use, productivity, and EuroQol EQ-5D 
health state values measured at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 months. For 
each diagnosis, cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained in 2004 US 
dollars was estimated for surgery relative to nonoperative care using a societal 
perspective, with costs and QALYs discounted at 3% per year.
RESULTS: Surgery was performed initially or during the 4-year follow-up among 
414 of 634 (65.3%) SPS, 391 of 601 (65.1%) DS, and 789 of 1192 (66.2%) IDH 
patients. Surgery improved health, with persistent QALY differences observed 
through 4 years (SPS QALY gain 0.22; 95% confidence interval, CI: 0.15, 0.34; DS 
QALY gain 0.34, 95% CI: 0.30, 0.47; and IDH QALY gain 0.34, 95% CI: 0.31, 0.38). 
Costs per QALY gained decreased for SPS from $77,600 at 2 years to $59,400 (95% 
CI: $37,059, $125,162) at 4 years, for DS from $115,600 to $64,300 per QALY (95% 
CI: $32,864, $83,117), and for IDH from $34,355 to $20,600 per QALY (95% CI: 
$4,539, $33,088).
CONCLUSION: Comparative effectiveness evidence for clearly defined diagnostic 
groups from Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial shows good value for surgery 
compared with nonoperative care over 4 years.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318235457b
PMCID: PMC3472956
PMID: 22048651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Psychiatr Prax. 2011 Nov;38(8):363-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1276954. Epub 2011
Nov  2.

[Social inequalites, mental health and service provision].

[Article in German]

Bramesfeld A.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1276954
PMID: 22048880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Health Psychol. 2000 Jul;5(4):561-5. doi: 10.1177/135910530000500412.

Handedness and age of death: new evidence on a puzzling relationship.

Ellis L(1), Engh T.

Author information:
(1)Minot State University, Minot, USA.

Based on 5743 deaths in the United States and Canada, the present study was 
undertaken to verify and extend results suggesting that left handers have a 
shorter life expectancy than right handers. Unlike previous studies, which have 
merely dichotomized handedness, this study used a 5-point scale to measure 
handedness (extremely right handed, generally right handed, ambidextrous, 
generally left handed and extremely left handed). We found a significant 
tendency for one of the five handedness categories-those classified as generally 
left handers-to die at a significantly younger age than was true for the other 
four handedness groups. Our findings add to the controversy over links between 
handedness and age of death by suggesting that only a portion of left handers 
are at risk of premature death.

DOI: 10.1177/135910530000500412
PMID: 22049196


851. Iran J Nurs Midwifery Res. 2010 Fall;15(4):202-7.

A comparative study on the effects of Hypericum Perforatum and passion flower on 
the menopausal symptoms of women referring to Isfahan city health care centers.

Fahami F(1), Asali Z, Aslani A, Fathizadeh N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Midwifery, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Isfahan University 
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: With regard to an increase in the life expectancy for women and the 
consistency of the menopause age, a significant portion of women's age is passed 
after the menopause. Menopause is considered as a critical and sensitive period 
due to the changes and the disorders that are involved in it. Vasomotor 
symptoms, sleep disorders and psycho-mental changes are among the most prevalent 
symptoms of this period. Hormone therapy is a common treatment and it involves 
some problems for most individuals. The purpose of this study was to 
comparatively examine the effects of two herbal medications, Hypericum 
Perforatum and Passion Flower, on menopause symptoms.
METHODS: This study was of a clinical-experimental type which was done in 1388 
in Isfahan. The sample included 59 menopausal women who had the conditions for 
entering into the study. The individuals were selected via simple sampling and 
were assigned randomly into two groups of Hypericum Perforatum treatment group 
(30 women) and Passion Flower group (29 women). The required data were filled 
out through interview, Personal Characteristics Questionnaire, and Cooperman's 
Index for menopause symptoms in three stages of pre-intervention, the third week 
of intervention, and the sixth week of intervention. The results were analyzed 
by descriptive and inferential statistical methods and the statistical software 
of SPSS.
RESULTS: The findings showed that the average score of menopause symptoms in two 
treatment groups of Hypericum Perforatum and Passion Flower had a significant 
decrease throughout the third and the sixth weeks of study (p < 0.05). In 
addition, there was no statistically significant difference between the two 
groups and both herbs equally resulted in a decrease in the menopause symptoms 
scores (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: With regard to the effects of Hypericum Perforatum and Passion 
Flower on treating menopause precocious symptoms (vasomotor signs, insomnia, 
depression, anger, headache, etc.), these two herbs can be used as an 
alternative treatment for individuals who cannot, whatsoever, use hormone 
therapy.

PMCID: PMC3203277
PMID: 22049281


852. Risk Anal. 2012 May;32(5):816-29. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01698.x.
Epub  2011 Nov 2.

Reassessing the human health benefits from cleaner air.

Cox LA Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Cox Associates, Denver, CO 80218, USA. tcoxdenver@aol.com

Recent proposals to further reduce permitted levels of air pollution emissions 
are supported by high projected values of resulting public health benefits. For 
example, the Environmental Protection Agency recently estimated that the 1990 
Clean Air Act Amendment (CAAA) will produce human health benefits in 2020, from 
reduced mortality rates, valued at nearly $2 trillion per year, compared to 
compliance costs of $65 billion ($0.065 trillion). However, while compliance 
costs can be measured, health benefits are unproved: they depend on a series of 
uncertain assumptions. Among these are that additional life expectancy gained by 
a beneficiary (with median age of about 80 years) should be valued at about 
$80,000 per month; that there is a 100% probability that a positive, linear, 
no-threshold, causal relation exists between PM(2.5) concentration and mortality 
risk; and that progress in medicine and disease prevention will not greatly 
diminish this relationship. We present an alternative uncertainty analysis that 
assigns a positive probability of error to each assumption. This discrete 
uncertainty analysis suggests (with probability >90% under plausible alternative 
assumptions) that the costs of CAAA exceed its benefits. Thus, instead of 
suggesting to policymakers that CAAA benefits are almost certainly far larger 
than its costs, we believe that accuracy requires acknowledging that the costs 
purchase a relatively uncertain, possibly much smaller, benefit. The difference 
between these contrasting conclusions is driven by different approaches to 
uncertainty analysis, that is, excluding or including discrete uncertainties 
about the main assumptions required for nonzero health benefits to exist at all.

Â© 2011 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01698.x
PMID: 22050234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. J Palliat Med. 2011 Nov;14(11):1197. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0158.

Considerations of quality-adjusted life-year in palliative care for the 
terminally ill.

Yang YT, Mahon MM.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0158
PMID: 22050582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. J Stud Alcohol Drugs. 2011 Nov;72(6):892-902. doi:
10.15288/jsad.2011.72.892.

Heavy alcohol use and premature death from hepatocellular carcinoma in the 
United States, 1999-2006.

Dong C(1), Yoon YH, Chen CM, Yi HY.

Author information:
(1)Alcohol Epidemiologic Data System, CSR Incorporated, 2107 Wilson Boulevard, 
Suite 1000, Arlington, Virginia 22201-3085, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The incidence rate of hepatocellular carcinoma has been rising in the 
United States during the last 2 decades. Heavy alcohol use has been widely 
recognized as one of the major etiological factors of hepatocellular carcinoma. 
This study sought to assess the extent to which heavy alcohol use contributed to 
premature death from hepatocellular carcinoma on a population scale in the 
United States.
METHOD: We analyzed the Multiple Cause of Death public-use data sets. Using 
codes from the International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision, 
hepatocellular carcinoma death was defined based on the underlying cause of 
death, and heavy alcohol use was indicated by the presence of any 
alcohol-induced medical conditions among the contributing causes of death. 
During 1999-2006 in the United States, 51,400 hepatocellular carcinoma deaths 
were identified from 17,727,245 natural deaths of persons age 25 or older. We 
conducted Poisson regression, life table, and multiple linear regression 
analyses to compare prevalence ratios, cumulative probabilities, and mean ages 
of death, respectively, from hepatocellular carcinoma by heavy alcohol use 
status across sex and race/ethnicity.
RESULTS: Heavy alcohol use decedents had higher prevalence ratios of dying from 
hepatocellular carcinoma than from non-chronic liver diseases compared with 
those decedents without heavy alcohol use. Heavy alcohol use was associated with 
decreased mean ages and increased cumulative probabilities of death among 
hepatocellular carcinoma decedents across racial/ethnic groups in both sexes. 
This association was stronger among women than men and stronger among 
non-Hispanic Whites than non-Hispanic Blacks.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides mortality-based empirical evidence to further 
establish heavy alcohol consumption as one of the key risk factors contributing 
to premature deaths from hepatocellular carcinoma in the United States, and its 
effect appears more prominent among women and non-Hispanic Whites.

DOI: 10.15288/jsad.2011.72.892
PMCID: PMC3211960
PMID: 22051203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2012 Jan;206(1):49.e1-49.e10. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajog.2011.09.026. Epub 2011 Sep 24.

Resuscitation of likely nonviable infants: a cost-utility analysis after the 
Born-Alive Infant Protection Act.

Partridge JC(1), Sendowski MD, Martinez AM, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, University of California, 
School of Medicine, San Francisco, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of universal vs 
selective resuscitation on maternal utilities, perinatal costs, and outcomes of 
preterm delivery and termination of pregnancy at 20-23 weeks 6 days' gestation.
STUDY DESIGN: We used studies on medical practices, prematurity outcomes, costs, 
and maternal utilities to construct decision-analytic models for a cohort of 
annual US deliveries after preterm delivery or induced termination. Outcome 
measures were (1) the numbers of infants who survived intact or with mild, 
moderate, or severe sequelae; (2) maternal quality-adjusted life years (QALYs); 
and (3) incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Universal resuscitation of spontaneously delivered infants between 
20-23 weeks 6 days' gestation increases costs by $313.1 million and decreases 
QALYs by 329.3 QALYs; after a termination, universal resuscitation increases 
costs by $15.6 million and decreases QALYs by 19.2 QALYs. With universal 
resuscitation, 153 more infants survive: 44 infants are intact or mildly 
affected; 36 infants are moderately impaired, and 73 infants are severely 
disabled.
CONCLUSION: Selective intervention constitutes the highest utility and least 
costly treatment for infants at the margin of viability.

Copyright Â© 2012 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2011.09.026
PMID: 22051817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Nov 4;11(12):865-72. doi: 10.1038/nri3085.

Vaccines for the twenty-first century society.

Rappuoli R(1), Mandl CW, Black S, De Gregorio E.

Author information:
(1)Novartis Vaccines & Diagnostics Srl, Via Fiorentina 5, 53100 Siena, Italy. 
rino.rappuoli@novartis.com

Erratum in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Mar;12(3):225.

Vaccines have been one of the major revolutions in the history of mankind and, 
during the twentieth century, they eliminated most of the childhood diseases 
that used to cause millions of deaths. In the twenty-first century, vaccines 
will also play a major part in safeguarding people's health. Supported by the 
innovations derived from new technologies, vaccines will address the new needs 
of a twenty-first century society characterized by increased life expectancy, 
emerging infections and poverty in low-income countries.

DOI: 10.1038/nri3085
PMCID: PMC7098427
PMID: 22051890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors are employed by or have a 
consultancy contract with Novartis Vaccines.


857. Stat Med. 2012 Feb 10;31(3):269-86. doi: 10.1002/sim.4392. Epub 2011 Nov 3.

Relative survival multistate Markov model.

Huszti E(1), Abrahamowicz M, Alioum A, Binquet C, Quantin C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Canada.

Prognostic studies often have to deal with two important challenges: (i) 
separating effects of predictions on different 'competing' events and (ii) 
uncertainty about cause of death. Multistate Markov models permit multivariable 
analyses of competing risks of, for example, mortality versus disease 
recurrence. On the other hand, relative survival methods help estimate 
disease-specific mortality risks even in the absence of data on causes of death. 
In this paper, we propose a new Markov relative survival (MRS) model that 
attempts to combine these two methodologies. Our MRS model extends the existing 
multistate Markov piecewise constant intensities model to relative survival 
modeling. The intensity of transitions leading to death in the MRS model is 
modeled as the sum of an estimable excess hazard of mortality from the disease 
of interest and an 'offset' defined as the expected hazard of all-cause 
'natural' mortality obtained from relevant life-tables. We evaluate the new MRS 
model through simulations, with a design based on registry-based prognostic 
studies of colon cancer. Simulation results show almost unbiased estimates of 
prognostic factor effects for the MRS model. We also applied the new MRS model 
to reassess the role of prognostic factors for mortality in a study of 
colorectal cancer. The MRS model considerably reduces the bias observed with the 
conventional Markov model that does not permit accounting for unknown causes of 
death, especially if the 'true' effects of a prognostic factor on the two types 
of mortality differ substantially.

Copyright Â© 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4392
PMID: 22052528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Swiss Med Wkly. 2011 Nov 1;141:w13293. doi: 10.4414/smw.2011.13293.
eCollection  2011.

Parkinsonism: heterogeneity of a common neurological syndrome.

Bohlhalter S(1), Kaegi G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Restorative and Behavioral Neurology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Luerner Kantonsspital, 6000 Luzern 16, Switzerland. 
stephan.bohlhalter@luks.ch

Parkinsonism refers to a neurological syndrome embracing bradykinesia, muscle 
rigidity, tremor at rest and impaired postural reflexes, and involving a broad 
differential diagnosis. Having ruled out secondary causes (most importantly 
drugs), distinguishing levodopa-responsive idiopathic parkinson's disease (PD) 
from chiefly treatment-resistant and hence atypical parkinsonism is essential. 
Recent clinico-pathological studies using data-driven approaches have refined 
the traditional classifications of parkinsonism by identifying a spectrum of 
subtypes with different prognoses. For example, progressive supranuclear palsy 
(PSP), characterised by early vertical gaze limitation and falls, probably has a 
milder variant with predominant parkinsonism (PSP-P) which may respond quite 
well to levodopa before converting to the classical disease, relabelled 
Richardson syndrome (PSP-RS). Analysis of PD subcategories has shown that 
tremor-dominant forms are probably less benign than was hitherto thought and 
that in mild cases dystonia should rather be considered. In addition, life 
expectancy in early onset PD may be shortened. Despite the clinical and 
pathological overlap of the various subtypes, appreciating the heterogeneity of 
parkinsonism also includes identifying non-motor features such as early 
autonomous or cognitive problems which are potentially amenable to 
pharmacological treatment. Not least, non-motor symptoms, along with postural 
instability, render the patient particularly vulnerable to side effects, and 
hence avoiding unnecessary treatment is equally important in the management of 
parkinsonian disorders.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2011.13293
PMID: 22052571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2012 May-Jun;19(3):341-5. doi: 
10.1136/amiajnl-2011-000371. Epub 2011 Nov 3.

Cost-effectiveness of a shared computerized decision support system for diabetes 
linked to electronic medical records.

O'Reilly D(1), Holbrook A, Blackhouse G, Troyan S, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health-PATH Research Institute-St. 
Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. oreilld@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Computerized decision support systems (CDSSs) are believed to 
enhance patient care and reduce healthcare costs; however the current evidence 
is limited and the cost-effectiveness remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the long-term cost-effectiveness of a CDSS linked to 
evidence-based treatment recommendations for type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: Using the Ontario Diabetes Economic Model, changes in factors (eg, 
HbA1c) from a randomized controlled trial were used to estimate 
cost-effectiveness. The cost of implementation, development, and maintenance of 
the core dataset, and projected diabetes-related complications were included. 
The base case assumed a 1-year treatment effect, 5% discount rate, and 40-year 
time horizon. Univariate, one-way sensitivity analyses were carried out by 
altering different parameter values. The perspective was the Ontario Ministry of 
Health and costs were in 2010 Canadian dollars.
RESULTS: The cost of implementing the intervention was $483,699. The one-year 
intervention reduced HbA1c by 0.2 and systolic blood pressure by 3.95 mm Hg, but 
increased body mass index by 0.02 kg/mÂ², resulting in a relative risk reduction 
of 14% in the occurrence of amputation. The model estimated that the 
intervention resulted in an additional 0.0117 quality-adjusted life year; the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $160,845 per quality-adjusted 
life-year.
CONCLUSION: The web-based prototype decision support system slightly improved 
short-term risk factors. The model predicted moderate improvements in long-term 
health outcomes. This disease management program will need to develop 
considerable efficiencies in terms of costs and processes or improved 
effectiveness to be considered a cost-effective intervention for treating 
patients with type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1136/amiajnl-2011-000371
PMCID: PMC3341787
PMID: 22052900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors had full 
autonomy over the conduct of this study. This economic evaluation was not 
supported by any funding source. DO'R holds an Ontario Ministry of Health and 
Long-term Care Career Scientist Award.


860. Circ Heart Fail. 2012 Jan;5(1):10-6. doi:
10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.111.962951.  Epub 2011 Nov 3.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of continuous-flow left ventricular assist devices 
as destination therapy.

Rogers JG(1), Bostic RR, Tong KB, Adamson R, Russo M, Slaughter MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Heart Fail. 2012 Mar 1;5(2):e50.

BACKGROUND: Continuous-flow left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) have become 
the dominant devices for mechanical circulatory support, but their 
cost-effectiveness is undetermined. This study assessed the cost-effectiveness 
of continuous-flow devices for destination therapy versus optimal medical 
management in advanced heart failure and compared the results with previous 
estimates for pulsatile devices.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov model was developed to assess cost-effectiveness. 
Survival, hospitalization rates, quality of life, and cost data were obtained 
for advanced heart failure patients treated medically or with a continuous-flow 
LVAD. Rates of clinical outcomes for all patients were obtained from clinical 
trial databases. Medicare prospective payments were used to estimate the cost of 
heart failure admissions. The cost of LVAD implantation was obtained 
prospectively from hospital claims within a clinical trial. Compared with 
medically managed patients, continuous-flow LVAD patients had higher 5-year 
costs ($360 407 versus $62 856), quality-adjusted life years (1.87 versus 0.37), 
and life years (2.42 versus 0.64). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
the continuous-flow device was $198 184 per quality-adjusted life year and $167 
208 per life year. This equates to a 75% reduction in incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio compared with the $802 700 per quality-adjusted life 
year for the pulsatile-flow device. The results were most sensitive to the cost 
of device implantation, long-term survival, cost per rehospitalization, and 
utility associated with patients' functional status.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness associated with continuous-flow LVADs for 
destination therapy has improved significantly relative to the pulsatile flow 
devices. This change is explained by significant improvements in survival and 
functional status and reduction in implantation costs.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.111.962951
PMID: 22052901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2011 Aug;50(2):99-102. doi:
10.3340/jkns.2011.50.2.99.  Epub 2011 Aug 31.

The role of radiosurgery in patients with brain metastasis from small cell lung 
carcinoma.

Jo KW(1), Kong DS, Lim DH, Ahn YC, Nam DH, Lee JI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Catholic University of Korea College of 
Medicine, Bucheon St. Mary's Hospital, Bucheon, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the outcome 
of gamma knife radiosurgery (GKRS) and/or whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) 
for the treatment of small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) metastasis to the brain.
METHODS: From 2000 to 2010, 50 patients underwent GKRS for metastatic brain 
lesions originating from SCLC. Among these patients, 11 received prophylactic 
cranial irradiation (PCI) before the development of metastatic lesions (PCI 
group), and GKRS was performed as an initial treatment for newly diagnosed 
lesions in 12 patients who had not received PCI (primary GKRS group). In 
addition, GKRS was performed as a salvage treatment for progressive lesions 
after WBRT in 27 patients (salvage GKRS group). The medical records and imaging 
data of all patients were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: The overall survival of the 50 patients was 20.8 months (range 1-53) 
after the diagnosis of primary tumor and 12.0 months (range 1-47) after the 
development of cerebral metastasis. Median survival after GKRS was 4.8 months 
(range 1-15) in the PCI group, 4.6 months (range 0-18) in the primary GKRS 
group, and 7.6 months (range 0-33) in the salvage GKRS group. Further treatment 
for progressive lesions after GKRS was necessary in 15 patients, after a mean 
interval of 3.8 months. Causes of death were systemic organ failure in 15 
patients, deterioration of neurological state in 13 patients, and unknown or 
combined causes in 16 patients. The local control rate of the lesions treated 
with GKRS was 76.4% (decreased in 13 patients and stable in 16 patients at the 
final imaging follow-up (mean 5.60 months).
CONCLUSION: GKRS is an effective local treatment for brain metastasis from SCLC 
both as an initial treatment for newly diagnosed lesions after PCI and as a 
salvage treatment for recurrent or progressive lesions. However, the survival 
benefit is not significant because most patients die of systemic multi-organ 
failure with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2011.50.2.99
PMCID: PMC3206286
PMID: 22053227


862. Trials. 2011 Nov 4;12:238. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-12-238.

The efficacy of a brief intervention in reducing hazardous drinking in working 
age men in Russia: the HIM (Health for Izhevsk men) individually randomised 
parallel group exploratory trial.

Allen E(1), Polikina O, Saburova L, McCambridge J, Elbourne D, Pakriev S, 
Nekrasova N, Vasilyev M, Tomlin K, Oralov A, Gil A, McKee M, Kiryanov N, Leon 
DA.

Author information:
(1)Medical Statistics Department, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, 
Keppel Street, London, WC1E 7HT, UK. elizabeth.allen@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Russia has particularly low life expectancy for an industrialised 
country, with mortality at working ages having fluctuated dramatically over the 
past few decades, particularly among men. Alcohol has been identified as the 
most likely cause of these temporal variations. One approach to reducing the 
alcohol problem in Russia is 'brief interventions' which seek to change views of 
the personal acceptability of excessive drinking and to encourage self-directed 
behaviour change. Very few studies to evaluate the efficacy of brief 
interventions in Russia have been conducted. Motivational Interviewing (MI) is a 
person-centred counselling style which can be adapted to brief interventions in 
which help is offered in thinking through behaviour in the context of values and 
goals, to decide whether change is needed, and if so, how it may best be 
achieved.
METHODS: This paper reports on an individually randomised two-armed parallel 
group exploratory trial. The primary hypothesis is that a brief adaptation of MI 
will be effective in reducing self-reported hazardous and harmful drinking at 3 
months. Participants were drawn from the Izhevsk Family Study II, with 
eligibility determined based on proxy reports of hazardous and harmful drinking 
in the past year. All participants underwent a health check, with MI 
subsequently delivered to those in the intervention arm. Signed consent was 
obtained from those in the intervention arm only at this point. Both groups were 
then invited for 3 and 12 month follow ups. The control group did not receive 
any additional intervention.
RESULTS: 441 men were randomised. Of these 61 did not have a health check 
leaving 190 in each trial arm. Follow up at 3 months was high (97% of those 
having a health check), and very similar in the two trial arms (183 in the 
intervention and 187 in the control). No significant differences were detected 
between the randomised groups in either the primary or the secondary outcomes at 
three months in the intention to treat analyses. The unadjusted odds ratio (95% 
CI) for the effect of MI on hazardous and harmful drinking was 0.77 (0.51, 
1.16). An adjusted odds ratio of 0.52 (0.28, 0.94) was obtained in the 
pre-specified per protocol analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: This trial demonstrates that it is possible to engage Russian men 
who drink hazardously in a brief intervention aimed at reducing alcohol related 
harm. However the results with respect to the efficacy are equivocal and 
further, larger-scale trials are warranted.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN: ISRCTN82405938.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-12-238
PMCID: PMC3222605
PMID: 22053775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Drugs Aging. 2011 Nov 1;28(11):885-94. doi:
10.2165/11595100-000000000-00000.

Optimal pharmacotherapeutic strategies for elderly patients with advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer.

Quoix E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chest Diseases, University Hospital of Strasbourg, Strasbourg, 
France. elisabeth.quoix@chru-strasbourg.fr

Increases in both life expectancy and cancer incidence with age result in a 
significant rise in lung cancer rates among elderly patients, with a median age 
at diagnosis of between 63 and 70 years. However, elderly patients are 
under-represented in clinical trials and generally receive suboptimal treatment, 
mainly because of fears about increased toxicity of chemotherapy. Indeed, 
physiological modification of renal and haematopoietic functions with age 
together with co-morbidity and associated polypharmacy may alter the metabolism 
of chemotherapy drugs, resulting in greater toxicity. Moreover, performance 
status (PS), the main prognostic factor in younger patients, does not correlate 
well with geriatric indexes such as activities of daily living, cognition and 
physical performance, and comprehensive geriatric assessment is important in 
elderly patients. Until 2010, based on the small number of clinical trials 
designed for elderly patients, monotherapy was the recommended treatment for 
those with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), whereas for fit younger 
patients, a platinum-based doublet was and continues to be the recommended 
first-line therapy. However, at the plenary session of the 2010 Annual Meeting 
of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, results were presented from a 
randomized controlled trial conducted by the French Intergroup of Thoracic 
Oncology that demonstrated that in PS 0-2 patients agedâ‰¥70 years with advanced 
NSCLC, monthly carboplatin with weekly paclitaxel resulted in significantly 
longer survival than single-agent therapy (vinorelbine or gemcitabine). It 
should be noted that even in a priori unfavourable prognostic subgroups 
(patients with a PS score of 2, those aged>80 years or those with an activities 
of daily living scale score of <6), doublet therapy was associated with a 
survival advantage over monotherapy. Thus, the new paradigm of treatment of 
elderly patients with advanced NSCLC and a PS score of 0-2 should now be monthly 
carboplatin with weekly paclitaxel. While there have been no trials of 
second-line therapy for NSCLC specifically in elderly patients, exploratory 
subgroup analyses indicate that docetaxel, pemetrexed and erlotinib may provide 
outcomes in elderly patients similar to those reported in younger patients. 
However, specific second-line therapy trials in elderly patients are required as 
the elderly patients in trials conducted to date were probably highly selected 
to fit the inclusion criteria. There is no more room for nihilism in the 
treatment of elderly patients with advanced NSCLC. Such patients should be 
evaluated carefully by geriatric indexes and, if they have a PS score of 0-2, 
may be treated with platinum-based (mostly carboplatin) doublet therapy in the 
same manner as their younger counterparts. The optimal second line treatment 
remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.2165/11595100-000000000-00000
PMID: 22054229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Feb;16(2):141-6. doi: 10.3171/2011.9.SPINE11419.
Epub  2011 Nov 4.

Cost per quality-adjusted life year gained of laminectomy and extension of 
instrumented fusion for adjacent-segment disease: defining the value of surgical 
intervention.

Adogwa O(1), Parker SL, Shau DN, Mendenhall SK, Devin CJ, Cheng JS, McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee 37232, USA.

OBJECT: Over the past decade, there has been a dramatic increase in the number 
of spinal fusions performed in the US and a corresponding increase in the 
incidence of adjacent-segment disease (ASD). Surgical management of symptomatic 
ASD consists of decompression of neural elements and extension of fusion. It has 
been shown to have favorable long-term outcomes, but the cost-effectiveness 
remains unclear. In this study, the authors set out to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of revision surgery in the treatment of ASD over a 2-year 
period.
METHODS: Fifty patients undergoing neural decompression and extension of fusion 
construct for ASD-associated back and leg pain were included in the study. 
Two-year total back-related medical resource utilization, missed work, and 
health state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], calculated from the 
EQ-5D with US valuation) were assessed. Two-year resource use was multiplied by 
unit costs based on Medicare national allowable payment amounts (direct cost), 
and patient and caregiver workday losses were multiplied by the self-reported 
gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). Mean total 2-year cost per QALY gained 
after revision surgery was assessed.
RESULTS: The mean (Â± SD) interval between prior fusion and revision surgery for 
ASD was 3.07 Â± 2.02 years. A mean cumulative 2-year gain of 0.76 QALYs was 
observed after revision surgery. The mean total 2-year cost of extension of 
fusion constructs was $47,846 Â± $32,712 (surgery cost: $24,063 Â± $300; 
outpatient resource utilization cost: $4175 Â± $3368; indirect cost: $19,607 Â± 
$32,187). Revision decompression and extension of fusion was associated with a 
mean 2-year cost per QALY gained of $62,955.
CONCLUSIONS: In the authors' practice, revision decompression and extension of 
fusion provided a significant gain in health state utility for patients with 
symptomatic ASD, with a 2-year cost per QALY gained of $62,995. When indicated, 
revision surgery for ASD is a valuable treatment option for patients 
experiencing back and leg pain secondary to ASD. The findings provide a value 
measure of surgery that can be compared with future cost-per-QALY-gained studies 
of medical management or alternative surgical approaches.

DOI: 10.3171/2011.9.SPINE11419
PMID: 22054637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Feb;16(2):135-40. doi: 10.3171/2011.9.SPINE11308.
Epub  2011 Nov 4.

Cost per quality-adjusted life year gained of revision neural decompression and 
instrumented fusion for same-level recurrent lumbar stenosis: defining the value 
of surgical intervention.

Adogwa O(1), Parker SL, Shau DN, Mendenhall SK, Aaronson O, Cheng JS, Devin CJ, 
McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee 37232, USA.

OBJECT: Despite advances in technology and understanding in spinal physiology, 
reoperation for symptomatic same-level recurrent stenosis continues to occur. 
Although revision lumbar surgery is effective, attention has turned to the 
question of the utility and value of revision decompression and fusion 
procedures. To date, an analysis of cost and heath state gain associated with 
revision lumbar surgery for recurrent same-level lumbar stenosis has yet to be 
described. The authors set out to assess the 2-year comprehensive cost of 
revision surgery and determine its value in the treatment of same-level 
recurrent stenosis.
METHODS: Forty-two patients undergoing revision decompression and instrumented 
fusion for same-level recurrent stenosis-associated leg and back pain were 
included in this study. Two-year total back-related medical resource 
utilization, missed work, and health state values (quality-adjusted life years 
[QALYs], calculated from the EQ-5D with US valuation) were assessed. Two-year 
resource use was multiplied by unit costs based on Medicare national allowable 
payment amounts (direct cost), and patient and caregiver workday losses were 
multiplied by the self-reported gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). Mean 
total 2-year cost per QALY gained after revision surgery was assessed.
RESULTS: The mean (Â± SD) interval between prior and revision surgery was 4.16 Â± 
4.64 years. Bone morphogenetic protein was used in 7 cases of revision 
arthrodesis (16.7%). A mean cumulative 2-year gain of 0.84 QALY was observed 
after revision surgery. The mean total 2-year cost of revision fusion was 
$49,431 Â± $7583 (surgery cost $21,060 Â± $4459; outpatient resource utilization 
cost $9748 Â± $5292; indirect cost $18,623 Â± $9098). Revision decompression and 
extension of fusion was associated with a mean 2-year cost per QALY gained of 
$58,846.
CONCLUSIONS: In the authors' practice, revision decompression and fusion 
provided a significant gain in health state utility for patients with 
symptomatic same-level recurrent stenosis, with a 2-year cost per QALY gained of 
$58,846. When indicated, revision surgery for same-level recurrent stenosis is a 
valuable treatment option for patients experiencing back and leg pain secondary 
to this disease. The authors' findings provide a value measure of surgery that 
can be compared with the results of future cost-per-QALY-gained studies of 
medical management or alternative surgical approaches.

DOI: 10.3171/2011.9.SPINE11308
PMID: 22054639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Acad Radiol. 2012 Jan;19(1):3-7. doi: 10.1016/j.acra.2011.09.012. Epub 2011
Nov  3.

Impact of ultra-early coiling on clinical outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid 
hemorrhage in elderly patients.

Gu DQ(1), Zhang X, Luo B, Long XA, Duan CZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Southern Medical University, Zhujiang Hospital, 
253 Industry Road, 510282 Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.

Comment in
    Acad Radiol. 2012 Jan;19(1):1-2.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: The incidence of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage is 
increasing in the elderly as life expectancy increases. The purpose of this 
study was to analyze whether ultra-early coiling of ruptured intracranial 
aneurysms improves clinical outcomes in elderly patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Records of patients (aged â‰¥ 70 years) with aneurysmal 
subarachnoid hemorrhage treated with endovascular coiling were retrieved. 
Patients were classified into two groups: group A (patients coiled within 24 
hours of subarachnoid hemorrhage) and group B (patients coiled â‰¥24 hours after 
subarachnoid hemorrhage). For each group, patient demographics, World Federation 
of Neurological Surgeons clinical grade, Fisher computed tomographic grade, 
aneurysm characteristics, and clinical outcomes were recorded. Outcomes were 
measured using the Modified Rankin Scale at 6 months.
RESULTS: Fifty-six patients were coiled within 24 hours of subarachnoid 
hemorrhage (group A) and 40 patients at â‰¥24 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage 
(group B). Groups A and B had similar clinical and angiographic characteristics. 
Clinical outcomes showed that a total of 87.5% of patient (49 of 56) in group A 
were independent (Modified Rankin Scale score 0-2) compared with 70.0% of 
patients (28 of 40) in group B (P = .034). In multivariate logistic regression 
analysis, ultra-early coiling (odds ratio, 3.860; 95% confidence interval, 
1.125-13.249; P = .032) proved to be an independent predictor of better clinical 
outcome (Modified Rankin Scale score 0-2).
CONCLUSIONS: Ultra-early (<24 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage) coiling of 
ruptured aneurysms was marginally associated with improved clinical outcomes 
compared to coiling at â‰¥24 hours in elderly patients. Larger, prospective 
studies are required to adequately assess outcome differences between these two 
groups.

Copyright Â© 2012 AUR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acra.2011.09.012
PMID: 22054799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2011 Dec;30(12):1327-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2011.08.019.

Long-term effects of inhaled treprostinil in patients with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension: the Treprostinil Sodium Inhalation Used in the Management of 
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (TRIUMPH) study open-label extension.

Benza RL(1), Seeger W, McLaughlin VV, Channick RN, Voswinckel R, Tapson VF, 
Robbins IM, Olschewski H, Rubin LJ.

Author information:
(1)Allegheny General Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. rbenza@wpahs.org

BACKGROUND: Inhaled treprostinil improved functional capacity as add-on therapy 
in the short-term management of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension 
(PAH). This study investigated the long-term effects of inhaled treprostinil in 
patients concurrently receiving oral background therapy.
METHODS: A total of 206 patients (81% women) completing the 12-week double-blind 
phase of the Treprostinil Sodium Inhalation Used in the Management of Pulmonary 
Arterial Hypertension (TRIUMPH) study transitioned into an open-label extension. 
Patients were assessed every 3 months for changes in 6-minute walk distance 
(6MWD), Borg dyspnea score, New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class, 
quality of life (QOL) scores, and signs and symptoms of PAH.
RESULTS: Patients were primarily NYHA class III (86%), with a mean baseline 6MWD 
of 349 Â± 81 meters. A median change in 6MWD of 28, 31, 32, and 18 meters in 
patients continuing therapy was observed at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months, 
respectively. This effect was more prominent in those patients originally 
allocated to active therapy in the double-blind phase. Survival rates for 
patients remaining on therapy were 97%, 94%, and 91% at 12, 18, and 24 months, 
respectively. In addition, 82%, 74%, and 69% of patients maintained treatment 
benefit as evidenced by lack of clinical worsening at 12, 18, and 24 months. The 
most common adverse events were known effects of prostanoid therapy (headache 
[34%], nausea [21%], and vomiting [10%]) or were due to the route of 
administration (cough [53%], pharyngolaryngeal pain [13%], and chest pain 
[13%]).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term therapy with inhaled treprostinil demonstrated persistent 
benefit for PAH patients who remained on therapy for up to 24 months.

Copyright Ã‚Â© 2011 International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2011.08.019
PMID: 22055098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Mol Cell. 2011 Nov 4;44(3):385-96. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.08.036.

The structural basis for substrate recognition by mammalian polynucleotide 
kinase 3' phosphatase.

Garces F(1), Pearl LH, Oliver AW.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK DNA Repair Enzymes Group, Genome Damage and Stability 
Centre, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex, Falmer BN1 9QG, UK.

Mammalian polynucleotide kinase 3' phosphatase (PNK) plays a key role in the 
repair of DNA damage, functioning as part of both the nonhomologous end-joining 
(NHEJ) and base excision repair (BER) pathways. Through its two catalytic 
activities, PNK ensures that DNA termini are compatible with extension and 
ligation by either removing 3'-phosphates from, or by phosphorylating 
5'-hydroxyl groups on, the ribose sugar of the DNA backbone. We have now 
determined crystal structures of murine PNK with DNA molecules bound to both of 
its active sites. The structure of ssDNA engaged with the 3'-phosphatase domain 
suggests a mechanism of substrate interaction that assists DNA end seeking. The 
structure of dsDNA bound to the 5'-kinase domain reveals a mechanism of DNA 
bending that facilitates recognition of DNA ends in the context of single-strand 
and double-strand breaks and suggests a close functional cooperation in 
substrate recognition between the kinase and phosphatase active sites.

Copyright Ã‚Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.08.036
PMCID: PMC4820033
PMID: 22055185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Meat Sci. 1980 Apr;4(2):89-94. doi: 10.1016/0309-1740(80)90034-0.

Effect of oxygen- and carbon dioxide-enriched atmospheres on shelf-life 
extension of refrigerated ground pork.

Lopez-Lorenzo P(1), Hernandez P, Sanz-Perez B, OrdoÃ±ez JA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Higiene y TecnologÃ­a de los Alimentos, Facultad de 
Veterinaria, Universidad Complutense, Madrid 3, Spain.

The oxidation of the lipids and myoglobin of ground pork meat stored in oxygen- 
and carbon dioxide-enriched atmospheres at 1 Â°C has been studied. Elevated 
oxygen levels (80-100%) depressed myoglobin oxidation, increasing the time to 
50% metmyoglobin formation from four to about thirteen days. Twenty per cent 
carbon dioxide greatly reduced the rate of lipid oxidation, extending the time 
to reach a TBA number of 5 from five to about twelve days. Tocopherol and 
ascorbic acids were efficient inhibitors of lipid oxidation but citric acid was 
not.

Copyright Â© 1980. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/0309-1740(80)90034-0
PMID: 22055616


870. Meat Sci. 1985;14(1):43-60. doi: 10.1016/0309-1740(85)90045-2.

Modification of in-pack conditions to extend the storage life of vacuum packaged 
lamb.

Gill CO(1), Penney N.

Author information:
(1)Meat Industry Research Institute of New Zealand (Inc.), PO Box 617, Hamilton, 
New Zealand.

High pH (>5Â·9) lamb loins from a research abattoir were subjected to differing 
packaging treatments to determine whether package modification could reliably 
extend the storage life of chilled lamb cuts beyond that attained by cuts 
vacuum-packaged in film of low gas permeability, as in current commercial 
practice. Treatments applied were carbon dioxide flushing or addition of a 
citrate buffer (pH 4Â·8), a 5% lactic acid solution or a Lactobacillus inoculum 
(plastic packs only) and packaging in a plastic film of moderately low oxygen 
permeability (140 cc/m(2)/24 h at 25Â°C and 90% relative humidity) or in a foil 
laminate of immeasurably low oxygen permeability. After 12 weeks' storage at 
-0.5Â°C, the cuts packaged in the plastic film were spoiled by off-odours 
produced by enterobacteria, except for inoculated cuts, which, instead, had 
