focal eccentric area more hypointense to thrombus in a dilated torcular 
Herophili with extension into the SSS on T2-W images corresponds to the majority 
of cases of this rare type of DST in the medical literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-011-2287-9
PMID: 22033858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Br J Surg. 2011 Dec;98(12):1713-8. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7658. Epub 2011 Aug 23.

Open repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in patients aged 80 years and 
older.

Biancari F(1), Venermo M; Finnish Arterial Disease Investigators.

Collaborators: Dahlbacka S, Ilo A, Pokela M, Romsi P, Hakovirta H, Mäkinen K, 
Aho P, Lepäntalo M, Weselius E-.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland. 
faustobiancari@yahoo.it

BACKGROUND: Open repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (RAAA) in patients 
aged 80 years and older may be questioned owing to the patients' high operative 
risk and short life expectancy.
METHODS: Data on patients aged at least 80 years, admitted for RAAA at four 
Finnish university hospitals, were collected and analysed retrospectively.
RESULTS: Three hundred and ten consecutive patients aged 80 years and older with 
RAAA reached hospital alive; 200 (64·5 per cent) underwent open repair. The 
number of open repairs increased during the last 5 years (49·0 per cent of the 
whole series), with no significant increase in the number of patients treated 
conservatively. The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 72·9 per cent. The 
operative mortality rate was 59·0 per cent and decreased from 66 to 52 per cent 
during the last 5 years (P = 0·050). On multivariable analysis, shock was the 
only independent predictor of immediate postoperative death (odds ratio 4·97, 95 
per cent confidence interval 2·09 to7·94; P < 0·001). Classification and 
regression tree analysis showed that preoperative haemoglobin level and presence 
of shock were predictive of immediate postoperative death; 19 (95 per cent) of 
20 patients with shock and a haemoglobin level below 68 g/l died immediately 
after surgery. Among the 82 survivors of surgery, survival rates at 1, 3 and 5 
years were 90, 68 and 45 per cent respectively. These values were not 
significantly different from those of the age-, sex- and year-matched general 
population (P = 0·885).
CONCLUSION: Survival after open repair of RAAA among patients aged 80 years and 
older is sufficient to justify the procedure, particularly in patients in a 
stable haemodynamic condition.

Copyright © 2011 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7658
PMID: 22034180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Rev Med Brux. 2011 Sep;32(4):267-78.

[Management of patients with HIV/AIDS by the general practitioner].

[Article in French]

Semaille P(1).

Author information:
(1)D.M.G.-ULB. psema@ulb.ac.be

Dealing with HIV/AIDS in primary care encompasses preventive, curative, social 
and psychological aspects within a framework of a person-centred approach. 
Antiretroviral treatments enable the control of HIV infection, prevent 
opportunistic infections, reduce the risk of the sexual transmission and allow 
patients to "live their life" with an increased life expectancy, active 
sexuality and need to procreate. The holistic care of patients should always be 
the primary concern. An increased involvement of GP's in HIV care can raise the 
quality of care, reduce the stigma and prejudice surrounding HIV. Medical care 
providers can substantially affect HIV transmission by positively reinforcing 
changes to safe behavior, by referring patients for specialized services and 
working in direct collaboration with them, by facilitating partner counselling 
and testing. It might be considered to create a "path of HIV care" in the 
perspective of an optimal collaboration between primary care and specialists. 
However, providers must interweave the" half-baked "science about drug 
therapies, side effects and drug interactions with the psychosocial and 
lifestyle factors of the patient. Sometimes it's not easy to find adequate and 
relevant information about HIV in primary care. This document will provide 
primary care givers the keys for improvement, increase their basic HIV-related 
skills (and strengthen their role in HIV/AIDS prevention and follow-up) and make 
them more confident in their assessments.

PMID: 22034756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Drugs. 2011 Nov 12;71(16):2179-92. doi: 10.2165/11202830-000000000-00000.

Pegloticase: in treatment-refractory chronic gout.

Lyseng-Williamson KA(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, a Wolters Kluwer Business, Auckland, New Zealand.

Intravenous pegloticase offers a novel approach to treating chronic gout 
refractory to conventional therapy. Pegloticase is a recombinant polyethylene 
glycol-conjugated form of uricase (a uric acid-specific enzyme lacking in 
humans) that catalyses the oxidation of uric acid to allantoin. In randomized, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, 6-month, phase III trials, intravenous 
pegloticase 8 mg every 2 or 4 weeks provided sustained reductions in plasma uric 
acid levels to less than the therapeutic target of 6 mg/dL in a substantial 
proportion of patients with chronic gout who were refractory to, or intolerant 
of, conventional urate-lowering therapy. Pegloticase 8 mg every 2 weeks was 
associated with disease-modifying benefits relative to placebo, as shown by 
significant improvements from baseline in tophi resolution, frequency of gout 
flares and tender joint count, and clinically relevant and statistically 
significant improvements from baseline in health-related quality-of-life 
parameters related to disability, pain and physical function. Pegloticase 8 mg 
every 4 weeks was also significantly more effective than placebo with regard to 
most, but not all, of these endpoints. Preliminary data from an open-label 
extension of the phase III trials indicate that long-term treatment with 
pegloticase 8 mg every 2 or 4 weeks may maintain plasma uric acid normalization 
in patients who experienced a sustained uric acid response during the phase III 
trials. The most common serious adverse events associated with pegloticase are 
gout flares, infusion reactions and anaphylaxis. In addition, exacerbation of 
pre-existing congestive heart failure was reported in 2% of patients receiving 
pegloticase 8 mg every 2 weeks in the phase III trials.

DOI: 10.2165/11202830-000000000-00000
PMID: 22035516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Lancet Infect Dis. 2011 Nov;11(11):801. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(11)70296-1.

7 billion of us.

The Lancet Infectious Diseases.

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2012 Jan;12(1):12.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(11)70296-1
PMID: 22035609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Brain Stimul. 2012 Jul;5(3):422-429. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2011.04.005. Epub
2011  May 11.

Novel attempts to optimize vagus nerve stimulation parameters on serotonin 
neuronal firing activity in the rat brain.

Manta S(1), El Mansari M(2), Blier P(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa Institute of Mental Health Research, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada. Electronic address: stella.manta@rohcg.on.ca.
(2)University of Ottawa Institute of Mental Health Research, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)University of Ottawa Institute of Mental Health Research, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada; Department of Cellular and Molecular Medecine, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is indicated for treatment-resistant 
epilepsy and depression. Electrophysiologic recordings in the rat brain have 
shown that VNS promptly increases the firing rate of NE neurons and subsequently 
that of 5-HT neurons. Thus far, it appears that the standard stimulation 
parameters currently used in depressed patients produce an optimal activation of 
5-HT neurons.
OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: This study was therefore aimed at investigating additional 
alterations of stimulation parameters to optimize VNS efficacy to further 
increase 5-HT neuronal activity.
METHODS: Rats were implanted with a VNS device and stimulated for 14 days using 
standard (0.25 mA/20 Hz/500 microseconds/30 seconds ON-5 minutes OFF, 
continuously) or various stimulation parameters: extension of the OFF period (30 
seconds ON every 10 to 30 minutes), the OFF and ON periods, discontinuous 
stimulation (12 hours per day using standard parameters), and burst stimulation 
modes. Rat dorsal raphe 5-HT neurons were recorded under chloral hydrate 
anesthesia.
RESULTS: Both 12-hour stimulation periods for 14 days, and the 30-second 
stimulation every 10 or 15 minutes significantly increased the firing activity 
of 5-HT neurons to the same extent as standard parameters while the 30-minute 
intervals were ineffective. Stimulations in a burst mode and the 
pseudo-one-pulse stimulations also significantly increased 5-HT neuronal 
activity.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that less stimulation is sufficient to 
achieve the same VNS efficacy on 5-HT neuronal firing. These data may be 
relevant for patients using VNS because these new parameters could minimize or 
prevent side effects and increase battery life of the stimulator.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2011.04.005
PMID: 22037140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2012 Sep-Oct;55(2):283-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2011.10.002. Epub 2011 Oct 28.

Adjuvant radiotherapy on older and oldest breast cancer patients after 
conservative surgery: a retrospective analysis.

Fiorica F(1), Berretta M, Ursino S, Fisichella R, Lleshi A, Fiorica G, 
Stefanelli A, Zini G, Tirelli U, Zanghi A, Cappellani A, Berretta S, Cartei F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Arcispedale S. Anna Universitary Hospital, 
C. so Giovecca 203, I-44100 Ferrara, Italy. francesco.fiorica@unife.it

Purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of adjuvant radiotherapy, in 
terms of feasibility and activity, in women aged ≥ 75 years with early (stage) 
breast cancer. From January 2000 to December 2007, 131 consecutive patients aged 
75 years or older received adjuvant radiotherapy after breast conserving 
surgery. Eighty-two patients received radiotherapy in combination with 5 years 
of hormone therapy with tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitor. Thirty out of 131 
received chemotherapy. Variables considered were age, stage, co-morbidity, 
performance status, radiation dose (boost), hormone therapy and chemotherapy. 
The mean age was 78.3 years (range 75-88 years). A total of 19.1% of the 
patients had no co-morbidity, 57.38% mild, 19.8% moderate, and 3.8% had severe 
co-morbidities. All patients but one completed the planned radiation schedule. 
At a median follow-up of 56 months, the 5-year overall survival rate was 78.8%. 
There was a better survival for patients with no or mild co-morbidities 
(p<0.0001). The disease-free survival at 5 years was 89.6%. No difference in 
acute and late toxicity rates was found between patients with different ACE-27 
(Adult Comorbidity Evaluation-27) indexes and for different age. We conclude 
that compliance with adjuvant radiotherapy is good and rate of toxicity is 
acceptable in elderly patients. Patients with no or mild co-morbidities have a 
significantly better survival. Increasing severity of co-morbidity may 
sufficiently shorten remaining life expectancy to cancel gains with adjuvant 
radiotherapy. Further prospective trials are needed to confirm these results.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2011.10.002
PMID: 22037244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Eur J Heart Fail. 2012 Jan;14(1):45-53. doi: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfr142. Epub
2011  Oct 27.

Link between decisions regarding resuscitation and preferences for quality over 
length of life with heart failure.

Dev S(1), Clare RM, Felker GM, Fiuzat M, Warner Stevenson L, O'Connor CM.

Author information:
(1)Phoenix VA Health Care System, 650 E. Indian School Road, Phoenix, AZ 85012, 
USA. Sandesh.Dev@va.gov

AIMS: Survival preferences, ascertained from time-trade-off utilities, have not 
been studied in heart failure patients who designate a 'do not resuscitate' 
(DNR) status. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the association 
of heart failure patients' resuscitation preferences with survival preferences 
and mortality in the ESCAPE trial.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We analysed the association of resuscitation orders at 1 
month with time-trade-off utilities and 6-month mortality. There were 26 and 349 
patients with a DNR order and Full Code order, respectively. DNR patients were 
older, had more coronary artery disease, hypertension, renal impairment, and 
poorer exercise capacity than Full Code patients. DNR patients also experienced 
longer hospitalization and higher 6-month mortality. In multivariate analysis, 
DNR preference was associated with 10-fold higher odds of willingness to trade 
survival time (lower time-trade-off utility) in favour of improved quality of 
life [odds ratio 10.33, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.65-64.80]. DNR preference 
was the best predictor of mortality (χ(2) 26.12, P < 0.0001, hazard ratio 6.88, 
95% CI 3.28-14.41), despite adjustment for known predictors including brain 
natriuretic peptide.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart failure patients' requests to forego resuscitation may 
signify more than simply 'what-if' directives for emergency care. DNR decisions 
may reflect preferences for intervention to enhance quality rather than prolong 
survival, which is particularly important as these patients have high early 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfr142
PMCID: PMC3276239
PMID: 22037389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Infez Med. 2011 Sep;19(3):166-75.

Socio-economic modelling of rotavirus vaccination in Castilla y Leon, Spain.

Pérez-Rubio A(1), Luquero FJ, Eiros Bouza JM, Castrodeza Sanz JJ, Bachiller 
Luque MR, de Lejarazu RO, Sánchez Porto A.

Author information:
(1)Regional Office for Public Health in Castilla y Leon, Spain.

Rotavirus is one of the main causes of acute gastroenteritis in infants and 
young children. Furthermore, rotavirus is the leading cause of hospitalization 
and death from acute gastroenteritis among infants and young children worldwide. 
Although death due to rotavirus is rare in industrialized regions such as Spain, 
the rotavirus disease burden and its economic impact is severe. This study aims 
to assess systematic vaccination against rotavirus economically and socially in 
a Spanish region. Economic cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit assessment 
through a choice tree was designed. We estimated health provider costs, economic 
costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost due to rotavirus infections. 
The study includes a fictitious cohort of 100,000 children from Castilla y Leon 
who were also administered the rotavirus vaccine together with diphtheria and 
tetanus toxoids and pertussis (DTP) . The study adopted a society and health 
care system perspective. A sensitivity analysis was developed to assess the 
uncertainty of some variables. According to the estimated incidence rate for 
children in Castilla y Leon, rotavirus immunization is projected to prevent 45% 
of cases with RotaTeq and 57% with Rotarix. The respective cost per QALY is 
about Euro 75,000 and 50,000 from the perspective of the health care system. 
Routine infant vaccination in Castilla y Leon using either rotavirus vaccine is 
not profitable from the payer's perspective and is not cost-effective under 
basic case assumptions unless the vaccine is available at a lower cost.

PMID: 22037437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2012 Mar;35(2):227-43. doi: 10.1007/s10545-011-9400-y.
Epub  2011 Oct 25.

Fabry disease, enzyme replacement therapy and the significance of antibody 
responses.

Deegan PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, CB2 2QQ, UK. 
patrick.deegan@addenbrookes.nhs.uk

Fabry disease is an X-linked disorder caused by a deficiency of α-galactosidase 
A. This leads to a progressive accumulation of globotriaosylceramide in tissues 
throughout the body. Cardiac, renal and neurological manifestations are common 
and life expectancy is significantly reduced relative to the general population. 
Management of Fabry disease involves the administration of intravenous enzyme 
replacement therapy (ERT). Two forms - agalsidase alfa and agalsidase beta - 
have been licensed in certain jurisdictions and are generally well tolerated; 
however, some patients develop antibodies to the infused enzyme, which may 
impair the efficacy and safety of treatment. Agalsidase alfa and agalsidase beta 
are produced in different systems; this leads to certain differences in 
post-translational modification that may affect immunogenicity. Immunoglobulin 
(Ig) G antibodies have frequently been reported in patients with Fabry disease 
receiving ERT; IgG responses are reported in a greater proportion of patients 
receiving agalsidase beta than in patients receiving agalsidase alfa. IgE 
antibodies are less common than IgG antibodies, and have not been observed in 
patients receiving agalsidase alfa. However, these data are difficult to 
interpret due to methodological differences in the assessment of seropositivity, 
and in the doses of enzyme used. The clinical impact of the development of IgG 
antibodies to ERT in patients with Fabry disease remains unclear, due to lack of 
data and to the marked heterogeneity of patients both in terms of disease 
manifestations and response to therapy. Further studies that examine the 
development of antibodies in patients with Fabry disease and the potential 
impact of such antibodies on the outcome of ERT are necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-011-9400-y
PMID: 22037707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. FASEB J. 2012 Feb;26(2):668-77. doi: 10.1096/fj.11-182162. Epub 2011 Oct 28.

Allele-specific siRNA knockdown as a personalized treatment strategy for 
vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome in human fibroblasts.

Müller GA(1), Hansen U, Xu Z, Griswold B, Talan MI, McDonnell NB, Briest W.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cardiovascular Sciences, National Institute on Aging, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

The vascular type of the Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (vEDS) is caused by 
dominant-negative mutations in the procollagen type III (COL3A1) gene. Patients 
with this autosomal dominant disorder have a shortened life expectancy due to 
complications from ruptured vessels or hollow organs. We tested the 
effectiveness of allele-specific RNA interference (RNAi) to reduce the mutated 
phenotype in fibroblasts. Small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs) discriminating between 
wild-type and mutant COL3A1 allele were identified by a luciferase reporter gene 
assay and in primary fibroblasts from a normal donor and a patient with vEDS. 
The best discriminative siRNA with the mutation at position 10 resulted in >90% 
silencing of the mutant allele without affecting the wild-type allele. 
Transmission and immunogold electron microscopy of extracted extracellular 
matrices from untreated fibroblasts of the patient with vEDS revealed 
structurally abnormal fibrils. After siRNA treatment, collagen fibrils became 
similar to fibrils from fibroblasts of normal and COL3A1 haploinsufficient 
donors. In addition, it was shown that expression of mutated COL3A1 activates 
the unfolded protein response and that reduction of the amount of mutated 
protein by siRNA reduces cellular stress. Taken together, the results provide 
evidence that allele-specific siRNAs are able to reduce negative effects of 
mutated COL3A1 proteins. Thus, the application of allele-specific RNAi may be a 
promising direction for future personalized therapies to reduce the severity of 
vEDS.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.11-182162
PMCID: PMC3290443
PMID: 22038052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Gerontologist. 2011 Dec;51(6):734-8. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnr104. Epub 2011
Oct  30.

International spotlight: Israel.

Glicksman A(1), Litwin H.

Author information:
(1)Planning Department, Philadelphia Corporation for Aging, Pennsylvania, PA 
19130, USA. aglicksman@pcaphl.org

The State of Israel provides significant opportunities to study social processes 
that can enhance our understanding of the aging experience. It has high life 
expectancy and rapid growth of its older population. With an older cohort that 
is composed largely of former immigrants and includes a minority Arab 
population, Israel provides much diversity for gerontological study. Among the 
unique issues facing older Israelis are the aging of Holocaust survivors, 
modernization in the Arab sector, and privatization in the kibbutzim. New 
legislation related to pensions and universal health care is expected to affect 
aging processes. The development of "supportive communities" offers a new 
service model. The article notes 2 longitudinal studies of importance-the 
Israeli component of the Survey of Health, Ageing, and Retirement in Europe and 
the Jerusalem Longitudinal Cohort Study.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnr104
PMCID: PMC4751223
PMID: 22038339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Ir J Med Sci. 2012 Mar;181(1):73-6. doi: 10.1007/s11845-011-0779-0. Epub
2011  Oct 29.

An analysis of vascular surgery in elderly patients to determine whether age 
affects treatment strategy.

O'Brien G(1), Martin Z, Haider N, Colgan M, O'Neill S, Moore D, Madhavan P.

Author information:
(1)St. James Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. gavinobrien@rcsi.ie

OBJECTIVES: The incidence of arterial disease increases with age. Increasing 
life expectancy in the western world will intensify demands on vascular surgeons 
with regard to increasing caseload, expanding patient selection criteria, and 
more complex and minimally-invasive treatment options. We analysed our arterial 
cases over the past 31 years (n = 6,144) and compared our methods of 
intervention and complication rates in the elderly population (>75) with the 
younger cohort, in order to determine whether age should influence our 
management strategies.
METHODS: Data were collected prospectively on all arterial cases from 1978 to 
2009. Methods of intervention and corresponding complication rates in the over 
and under 75-year-old cohorts were analyzed utilizing Fisher's exact test to 
calculate two-sided p values, relative risks and 95% confidence intervals.
RESULTS: Endovascular management has evolved to become the first line approach 
for all arterial cases (except carotid disease). Age was a significant risk 
factor for death and MI for the open procedures of AAA repair (p = 0.049 and p = 
0.007, respectively), aorto-bifemoral reconstruction (p < 0.0001 and p = 0.006) 
and lower limb bypass (p = 0.01 and p < 0.001). For endovascular procedures, age 
did not impact on MI rate for EVAR (p = 0.78) or death rates for EVAR (p = 
0.46), iliac angioplasty (p = 0.62) or lower limb angioplasty (p = 0.29).
CONCLUSION: A paradigm shift has occurred towards endovascular management of 
aortic, iliac and femoral arterial disease. Whilst patient age >75 significantly 
impacts on complication rates from index open vascular procedures, age does not 
impact upon complication rates of corresponding endovascular procedures. We, 
therefore, recommend an endovascular approach be adopted as first line for all 
patients, regardless of patient age.

DOI: 10.1007/s11845-011-0779-0
PMID: 22038752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Chin Med J (Engl). 2011 Sep;124(17):2569-77.

Current status of cerebral glioma surgery in China.

Wu JS(1), Zhang J, Zhuang DX, Yao CJ, Qiu TM, Lu JF, Zhu FP, Mao Y, Zhou LF.

Author information:
(1)Glioma Surgery Division, Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, 
Shanghai Medical School, Fudan University, Shanghai 200040, China.

The treatment of gliomas is highly individualized. Surgery for gliomas is 
essentially for histological diagnosis, to alleviate mass effect, and most 
importantly, to favor longer survival expectancy. During the past two decades, 
many surgical techniques and adjuvants have been applied to glioma surgery in 
China, which lead to a rapid development in the field of cerebral glioma 
surgery. This article broadly and critically reviewed the existing studies on 
cerebral glioma surgery and to portrait the current status of glioma surgery in 
China. A literature search was conducted covering major innovative surgical 
techniques and adjuvants for glioma surgery in China. The following databases 
were searched: the Pubmed (January 1995 to date); China Knowledge Resource 
Integrated Database (January 1995 to date) and VIP Database for Chinese 
Technical Periodicals (January 1995 to date). A selection criterion was 
established to exclude duplicates and irrelevant studies. The outcome measures 
were extracted from included studies. A total of 3307 articles were initially 
searched. After excluded by abstracts and full texts, 69 studies conducted in 
the mainland of China were included and went through further analysis. The 
philosophy of surgical strategies for cerebral gliomas in China is undergoing 
tremendous change. Nowadays Chinese neurosurgeons pay more attention to the 
postoperative neurofunctional status of the patients. The aim of the glioma 
surgery is not only the more extensive tumor resection but also the maximal 
safety of intervention. The well balance of longer overall survival and higher 
quality of life should be judged with respect to each individual patient.

PMID: 22040405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Thorac Surg Clin. 2011 Nov;21(4):575-87. doi:
10.1016/j.thorsurg.2011.09.004.

The natural history and complications of eosinophilic esophagitis.

Straumann A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Basel, Roemerstrasse 7, 
4600 Olten, Switzerland. alex.straumann@hin.ch

Eosinophilic esophagitis is a chronic disease limited to the esophagus and has a 
persistent or spontaneously fluctuating course. So far it does not seem to limit 
life expectancy, but it often substantially impairs the quality of life. To 
date, there has been no association with malignant conditions, but there is 
concern that the chronic, uncontrolled inflammation will evoke irreversible 
structural alterations of the esophagus, leading to tissue fibrosis, stricture 
formation, and impaired function. This esophageal remodeling may result in 
several disease-inherent and procedure-related complications.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2011.09.004
PMID: 22040638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Fly (Austin). 2011 Oct-Dec;5(4):307-9. doi: 10.4161/fly.5.4.18414. Epub 2011
Oct  1.

Extension of life span of Drosophila melanogaster by the inhibitors of 
tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism.

Oxenkrug GF(1), Navrotskaya V, Voroboyva L, Summergrad P.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry and Inflammation Program, Department of Psychiatry, Tufts 
University, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA USA. 
goxenkrug@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

Upregulation of kynurenine (KYN) formation from tryptophan (TRY) was associated 
with aging in animal and human studies. TRY - KYN metabolism is affected by the 
activities of TRY 2,3-dioxygenase 2 (TDO) and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) 
transporter regulating TRY access to intracellular TDO. We studied the effects 
of TDO inhibitor, alpha-methyl tryptophan (aMT), and ABC transported inhibitor, 
5-methyl tryptophan (5MT), on the life span of wild strain female Drosophila 
flies (Oregon-R). aMT and 5MT prolonged mean and maximum life span (by 27% and 
43%, and 21% and 23%, resp.). The present results are the first observation of 
the extension of life span of Drosophila melanogaster by inhibitors of TRY - KYN 
metabolism, and in line with literature and previous studies on prolonged life 
span of TDO- and ABC-deficient female Drosophila mutants. Inhibition of TDO and 
ABC transporter activity might offer the new target for anti-aging and 
anti-AAMPD interventions.

DOI: 10.4161/fly.5.4.18414
PMCID: PMC3266072
PMID: 22041575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2011 Dec;294(12):2193-206. doi: 10.1002/ar.21503. Epub
2011  Nov 1.

Life-history correlates of enamel microstructure in cebidae (Platyrrhini, 
Primates).

Hogg RT(1), Walker RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy and Human Performance, Florida Gulf Coast 
University, Fort Myers, 33965, USA. rhogg@fgcu.edu

Previous studies have examined tooth eruption as it relates intrinsically to 
body mass, brain mass, and other life history variables, and extrinsically to 
ecological factors (e.g., age at foraging independence, environmental risk 
aversion, and maternal investment). Different models have been explored wherein 
each of these variables impacts ontogeny. However, anthropoid and strepsirhine 
primates exhibit interesting differences in the relationships of these 
ecological and life history variables with tooth eruption. Moreover, 
interactions between ecological variables and dental tissue growth have only 
been explored in the lemurs. This study examines dental microstructure of the 
New World monkey family, Cebidae, to provide further insight into forces 
influencing the evolution of primate dental ontogeny. The Cebidae were chosen 
because they are a diverse group which is distinct in ecology and phylogeny from 
the better known catarrhines of the Old World. Using phylogenetic generalized 
least squares analyses (PGLS), we test whether brain mass, body mass, or the 
three above-mentioned ecological variables have stronger correlations with 
enamel growth. Results show that ecological factors have stronger relationships 
with cebid dental growth rates than brain or body mass. Foraging independence 
has the most impact on overall enamel growth as it has the strongest correlation 
with enamel extension rates. However, another estimate of enamel growth, rate of 
secretion, has the highest correlation with maternal investment. Our results 
suggest that an overarching ecological model encompassing the three current 
ecological hypotheses is needed to further understand the evolution of dental 
ontogeny within primates.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21503
PMID: 22042709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. BMJ. 2011 Oct 31;343:d6333. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d6333.

Dabigatran etexilate versus warfarin in management of non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation in UK context: quantitative benefit-harm and economic analyses.

Pink J(1), Lane S, Pirmohamed M, Hughes DA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Institute of Medical 
and Social Care Research, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd LL57 1UT, UK.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2011;343:d6980.
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2012 Jan;9(1):3.
    BMJ. 2011;343:d7716; author reply d7718.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the incremental net health benefits of dabigatran 
etexilate 110 mg and 150 mg twice daily and warfarin in patients with 
non-valvular atrial fibrillation and to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
dabigatran in the United Kingdom.
DESIGN: Quantitative benefit-harm and economic analyses using a discrete event 
simulation model to extrapolate the findings of the RE-LY (Randomized Evaluation 
of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy) study to a lifetime horizon.
SETTING: UK National Health Service. Population Cohorts of 50,000 simulated 
patients at moderate to high risk of stroke with a mean baseline CHADS(2) 
(Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age ≥ 75 years, Diabetes mellitus, 
previous Stroke/transient ischaemic attack) score of 2.1.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and 
incremental cost per QALY of dabigatran compared with warfarin.
RESULTS: Compared with warfarin, low dose and high dose dabigatran were 
associated with positive incremental net benefits of 0.094 (95% central range 
-0.083 to 0.267) and 0.146 (-0.029 to 0.322) QALYs. Positive incremental net 
benefits resulted for high dose dabigatran in 94% of simulations versus warfarin 
and in 76% of those versus low dose dabigatran. In the economic analysis, high 
dose dabigatran dominated the low dose, had an incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio of £23,082 (€26,700; $35,800) per QALY gained versus warfarin, and was 
more cost effective in patients with a baseline CHADS(2) score of 3 or above. 
However, at centres that achieved good control of international normalised 
ratio, such as those in the UK, dabigatran 150 mg was not cost effective, at 
£42,386 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis supports regulatory decisions that dabigatran offers 
a positive benefit to harm ratio when compared with warfarin. However, no 
subgroup for which dabigatran 110 mg offered any clinical or economic advantage 
over 150 mg was identified. High dose dabigatran will be cost effective only for 
patients at increased risk of stroke or for whom international normalised ratio 
is likely to be less well controlled.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d6333
PMCID: PMC3204867
PMID: 22042753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the Unified Competing Interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare: JP and DAH 
have support from the Medical Research Council for the submitted work; no 
relationships that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 
three years; no non-financial interests that may be relevant to the submitted 
work.


836. Oncologist. 2011;16(11):1572-81. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0214. Epub
2011  Oct 31.

Second malignancies among elderly survivors of cancer.

VanderWalde AM(1), Hurria A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation, City of Hope 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Duarte, California 91010, USA. arivanderw@gmail.com

The U.S. population is aging, life expectancy is increasing, and cancer is a 
disease associated with aging. Advances in screening and therapeutics have led 
to a growing number of cancer survivors who are at risk for the development of 
secondary malignancies. Although the risks for the development of second 
malignancies following a first diagnosis of cancer are well described for 
survivors of childhood malignancies, there are fewer data for malignancies 
common in older adults. With the aging of the U.S. population, and with 
improving survival statistics in many adult malignancies, there is an increasing 
need to identify those second malignancies that might develop in the older adult 
survivor of cancer. In this paper, we describe the types and rates of second 
malignancies following cancers commonly seen in older adults and review the 
literature on these malignancies. Comparisons are made between older and younger 
adults with regard to the risks for developing treatment-related cancers with 
different modalities. Recommendations for early detection of second malignancies 
are summarized, though there remains an unmet need for evidence-based guidelines 
for screening for second malignancies in the older adult in particular.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0214
PMCID: PMC3233292
PMID: 22042787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Ari M. VanderWalde: Amgen (E, OI); 
Arti Hurria: GTX (C/A); GlaxoSmithKline, Celgene (prior Abraxis) (R/F).


837. Curr Genomics. 2011 May;12(3):225-35. doi: 10.2174/138920211795677912.

Alström syndrome: genetics and clinical overview.

Marshall JD(1), Maffei P, Collin GB, Naggert JK.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, USA.

Alström syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by 
cone-rod dystrophy, hearing loss, childhood truncal obesity, insulin resistance 
and hyperinsulinemia, type 2 diabetes, hypertriglyceridemia, short stature in 
adulthood, cardiomyopathy, and progressive pulmonary, hepatic, and renal 
dysfunction. Symptoms first appear in infancy and progressive development of 
multi-organ pathology leads to a reduced life expectancy. Variability in age of 
onset and severity of clinical symptoms, even within families, is likely due to 
genetic background.Alström syndrome is caused by mutations in ALMS1, a large 
gene comprised of 23 exons and coding for a protein of 4,169 amino acids. In 
general, ALMS1 gene defects include insertions, deletions, and nonsense 
mutations leading to protein truncations and found primarily in exons 8, 10 and 
16. Multiple alternate splice forms exist. ALMS1 protein is found in 
centrosomes, basal bodies, and cytosol of all tissues affected by the disease. 
The identification of ALMS1 as a ciliary protein explains the range of observed 
phenotypes and their similarity to those of other ciliopathies such as 
Bardet-Biedl syndrome.Studies involving murine and cellular models of Alström 
syndrome have provided insight into the pathogenic mechanisms underlying obesity 
and type 2 diabetes, and other clinical problems. Ultimately, research into the 
pathogenesis of Alström syndrome should lead to better management and treatments 
for individuals, and have potentially important ramifications for other rare 
ciliopathies, as well as more common causes of obesity and diabetes, and other 
conditions common in the general population.

DOI: 10.2174/138920211795677912
PMCID: PMC3137007
PMID: 22043170


838. Neurosurg Focus. 2011 Nov;31(5):E2. doi: 10.3171/2011.8.FOCUS11182.

Sports-related chronic repetitive head trauma as a cause of pituitary 
dysfunction.

Dubourg J(1), Messerer M.

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Investigation Clinique 201, Epidemiologie Pharmacologie 
Investigation Clinique Information medicale Mere Enfant, Université Claude 
Bernard Lyon 1, Groupement Hospitalier Est, Hospices Civils de Lyon, France.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is recognized as a cause of hypopituitarism even 
after mild TBI. Although over the past decade, a growing body of research has 
detailed neuroendocrine changes induced by TBI, the mechanisms and risk factors 
responsible for this pituitary dysfunction are still unclear. Around the world, 
sports-especially combative sports-are very popular. However, sports are not 
generally considered as a cause of TBI in most epidemiological studies, and the 
link between sports-related head trauma and hypopituitarism has not been 
investigated until recently. Thus, there is a paucity of data regarding this 
important concern. Because of the large number of young sports participants with 
near-normal life expectancy, the implications of undiagnosed or untreated 
postconcussion pituitary dysfunction can be dramatic. Understanding the 
pathophysiological mechanisms and risk factors of hypopituitarism caused by 
sports injuries is thus an important issue that concerns both medical staff and 
sponsors of sports. The aim of this paper was to summarize the best evidence for 
understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms and to discuss the current data 
and recommendations on sports-related head trauma as a cause of hypopituitarism.

DOI: 10.3171/2011.8.FOCUS11182
PMID: 22044101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2011 Nov;8(5):509-21. doi: 10.3171/2011.8.PEDS11163.

Costs and benefits of neurosurgical intervention for infant hydrocephalus in 
sub-Saharan Africa.

Warf BC(1), Alkire BC, Bhai S, Hughes C, Schiff SJ, Vincent JR, Meara JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Children’s Hospital Boston, Boston, MA, USA. 
benjamin.warf@childrens.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2012 Jan;9(1):109.

OBJECT: Evidence from the CURE Children's Hospital of Uganda (CCHU) suggests 
that treatment for hydrocephalus in infants can be effective and sustainable in 
a developing country. This model has not been broadly supported or implemented 
due in part to the absence of data on the economic burden of disease or any 
assessment of the cost and benefit of treatment. The authors used economic 
modeling to estimate the annual cost and benefit of treating hydrocephalus in 
infants at CCHU. These results were then extrapolated to the potential economic 
impact of treating all cases of hydrocephalus in infants in sub-Saharan Africa 
(SSA).
METHODS: The authors conducted a retrospective review of all children initially 
treated for hydrocephalus at CCHU via endoscopic third ventriculostomy or shunt 
placement in 2005. A combination of data and explicit assumptions was used to 
determine the number of times each procedure was performed, the cost of 
performing each procedure, the number of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
averted with neurosurgical intervention, and the economic benefit of the 
treatment. For CCHU and SSA, the cost per DALY averted and the benefit-cost 
ratio of 1 year's treatment of hydrocephalus in infants were determined.
RESULTS: In 2005, 297 patients (median age 4 months) were treated at CCHU. The 
total cost of neurosurgical intervention was $350,410, and the cost per DALY 
averted ranged from $59 to $126. The CCHU's economic benefit to Uganda was 
estimated to be between $3.1 million and $5.2 million using a human capital 
approach and $4.6 million-$188 million using a value of a statistical life (VSL) 
approach. The total economic benefit of treating the conservatively estimated 
82,000 annual cases of hydrocephalus in infants in SSA ranged from $930 million 
to $1.6 billion using a human capital approach and $1.4 billion-$56 billion 
using a VSL approach. The minimum benefit-cost ratio of treating hydrocephalus 
in infants was estimated to be 7:1.
CONCLUSIONS: Untreated hydrocephalus in infants exacts an enormous price from 
SSA. The results of this study suggest that neurosurgical intervention has a 
cost/DALY averted comparable to other surgical interventions that have been 
evaluated, as well as a favorable benefit-cost ratio. The prevention and 
treatment of hydrocephalus in SSA should be recognized as a major public health 
priority.

DOI: 10.3171/2011.8.PEDS11163
PMID: 22044378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. BJU Int. 2012 Jul;110(2):206-10. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10693.x. Epub
 2011 Nov 1.

Which patients are at the highest risk of dying from competing causes ≤ 10 years 
after radical prostatectomy?

Froehner M(1), Koch R, Litz RJ, Hakenberg OW, Wirth MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technical 
University of Dresden, Dresden, Germany. michael.froehner@uniklinikumdresden.de

Study Type - Outcomes (cohort). Level of Evidence 2b. What's known on the 
subject? and What does the study add? Several comorbidity classifications have 
been investigated for their suitability to assist treatment decision-making in 
men with early prostate cancer. In unselected patients, some serious 
comorbidities have been shown to be associated with a 10-year competing 
mortality rate clearly superseding the 50% level. The present study shows that 
it is hardly possible to discern meaningful subsets of patients with a 10-year 
risk of competing mortality of >50% by using comorbidity classifications. This 
finding suggests that the selecting clinicians did well in estimating the 
medium-term survival probability in men referred for radical prostatectomy.
OBJECTIVE: • To identify subsets of patients who are most likely to die from 
competing causes ≤ 10 years after radical prostatectomy (RP).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: • In all, 2205 consecutive patients who underwent RP for 
clinically localized prostate cancer between 1992 and 2005 were studied. The 
10-year cumulative competing mortality rates were determined in several 
worst-case scenarios formed by using comorbidity classifications and 
combinations of them.
RESULTS: • In this sample of men selected for RP, even those with the most 
severe comorbidity level had a competing mortality risk of <50% ≤ 10 years after 
RP. • Depending on the comorbidity classification used, the 10-year cumulative 
competing mortality rates differed between 16 and 39% in the whole sample and 
between 18 and 48% in men aged ≥ 65 years.
CONCLUSION: • Clinicians do well in estimating the further life span in 
candidates for RP. Comorbidity classifications may assist treatment choice in 
this population but are not able to discern meaningful subsets to be excluded 
from curative treatment because of a life expectancy falling below a limit of 10 
years.

© 2011 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10693.x
PMID: 22044591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Haemophilia. 2012 May;18(3):332-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2011.02677.x.
Epub  2011 Nov 2.

Healthcare resource utilization among haemophilia A patients in the United 
States.

Valentino LA(1), Pipe SW, Tarantino MD, Ye X, Xiong Y, Luo MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Rush Hemoplilia and Thrombophilia Center, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

Advances in therapy have improved life expectancy and quality of life of 
patients with haemophilia A. Due to the chronic and complex management of this 
disease, particularly, the development of inhibitors, little is known about 
their health resource utilization in the real-life setting over time. The aim 
was to assess the distribution and trend of healthcare resource utilization 
among US haemophilia A patients with and without inhibitors. The MarketScan® 
Database, was queried to identify individuals with ≥1 year continuous enrolment, 
two medical diagnoses of haemophilia A and claims for factor VIII or bypassing 
agent (to infer inhibitor status) during 2001-2007. Haemophilia-related cost was 
estimated from inpatient, outpatient and pharmacy claims. Annual cost 
differences were assessed by age and over a 4-year period for those with 
continuous enrolment. Among 51 million covered lives, 1044 haemophilia patients 
were identified, of whom 981 (94%; mean age = 21.2 years) did not have an 
inhibitor. The median haemophilia-related cost for these patients was $63,935 
per patient per year. When normalized by weight, annual cost was stable (no 
statistically significant differences) among 312 non-inhibitor patients (mean 
age = 21.8 years) with 4-year continuous data. While there was a wide 
distribution of haemophilia-related cost among the 63 individuals with an 
inhibitor (mean age = 15.4 years), only 0.6% of the total haemophilia patients 
had costs exceeding $1 million per patient per year. This study indicated that 
most haemophilia A patients were inhibitor-free with relatively stable annual 
costs over time. There was a wide distribution of haemophilia-related cost for 
inhibitor patients, while the proportion of patients who incurred extreme high 
cost was low.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2011.02677.x
PMID: 22044662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2011 Oct;121(10):345-50.

Economic analysis of the implementation of guidelines for type 2 diabetes 
control developed by Diabetes Poland: what increase in costs is justified by 
clinical results?

Szmurło D(1), Schubert A, Kostrzewska K, Ryś P, Skrzekowska-Baran I.

Author information:
(1)HTA Consulting, Kraków, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Diabetes Poland has recently published guidelines for the 
treatment of type 2 diabetes. Treatment according to these guidelines is more 
expensive and requires more involvement of the patient than is the case in 
current clinical practice.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to assess to what extent the cost of type 2 
diabetes treatment according to the Diabetes Poland guidelines may be increased 
when compared with the cost of the current treatment, so that the introduction 
of the guidelines remains cost-effective in the Polish setting.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hypothetical patients were defined, John and Peter, 
representing the population of newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients. The 
disease progression was simulated assuming that John is treated according to the 
current practice and Peter is treated to achieve and maintain the goals defined 
by Diabetes Poland. The simulation was performed using the CORE model, which has 
been constructed based on the published scientific evidence and includes more 
than a dozen of diabetes complications. The model has been widely validated by 
numerous studies and is broadly used; it enables a reliable estimation of costs 
and clinical effects associated with diabetes. The parameters of the model were 
adapted to the Polish conditions. The analysis was conducted in a life-long 
perspective, discounting of costs/effects was included, and the acceptability 
threshold was set at 25,511 EUR per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: The quality-adjusted life expectancy of John will be 0.3 QALY lower 
than the life expectancy of Peter. The treatment of diabetic complications will 
be 400 EUR more expensive in the case of John compared with that of Peter. 
Assuming the willingness to pay at the level of 7500 EUR/QALY, the cost of 
diabetes treatment of Peter may be 250 EUR higher than that of John's treatment. 
For the threshold level of 15,000 EUR/QALY, the difference in cost may be 450 
EUR, and for the threshold level of 25,000 EUR/QALY - 725 EUR per year.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment according to the guidelines of Diabetes Poland may be 
cost-effective provided that the additional costs associated with 
intensification of therapy will not exceed 725 EUR per year.

PMID: 22045095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Ther Umsch. 2011 Nov;68(11):650-4. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000225.

[Erythropoiesis stimulating agents].

[Article in German]

Hoffmann M(1), Schwenger V.

Author information:
(1)Sektion Nephrologie, Medizinisches Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg. 
moritz.hoffman@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Since the 90's, human erythropoietin is produced recombinantly and used 
clinically. There are various products from different suppliers, which differ 
primarily in their production but not in their half-life or effectiveness. 2001 
genetically modified darbepoetin alpha was launched, which is characterized by 
an approximately three times longer half-life. A further extension of the 
half-life to 130 hours is achieved with the current continuous erythropoietin 
receptor activator (CERA), which therefore must be applied only once or twice a 
month. The indication for epoetin therapy is primarily for the symptomatic renal 
anemia and chemotherapy-associated anemia. Corrections of low hemoglobin levels 
in asymptomatic patients are not allowed. The generally recommended hemoglobin 
target range is 10-12 g/dl. Hb values > 13 g/dl should be avoided because they 
are associated with significant adverse effects and do not improve patient 
survival.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000225
PMID: 22045527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. FASEB J. 2011 Nov;25(11):3756-62. doi: 10.1096/fj.11-1102.ufm.

The biology of aging: 1985-2010 and beyond.

Martin GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology and Genome Sciences, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, 98195-7470, USA. gmmartin@uw.edu

Erratum in
    FASEB J. 2012 Oct;26(10):4384.

In this contribution to the series of reflective essays celebrating the 25th 
anniversary of The FASEB Journal, our task is to assess the growth of research 
on the biology of aging during this period and to suggest where we might be 
heading during the next 25 yr. A review of the literature suggests a healthy 
acceleration of progress during the past decade, perhaps largely due to progress 
on the genetics of longevity of model organisms. Progress on the genetics of 
health span in these model organisms has lagged, however. Research on the 
genetic basis of the remarkable interspecific variations in life span has only 
recently begun to be seriously addressed. The spectacular advances in genomics 
should greatly accelerate progress. Research on environmental effects on life 
span and health span needs to be accelerated. Stochastic variations in gene 
expression in aging have only recently been addressed. These can lead to random 
departures from homeostasis during aging.-Martin, G. M. The biology of aging: 
1985-2010 and beyond.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.11-1102.ufm
PMCID: PMC4050331
PMID: 22046003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author thanks Mr. Brian Park for PubMed 
searches and Dr. Mary Emond (Department of Biostatistics, University of 
