
PMID: 21972190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2011 Nov 2;103(21):1613-20. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djr388.
Epub  2011 Oct 4.

Development and validation of a prognostic nomogram for terminally ill cancer 
patients.

Feliu J(1), Jiménez-Gordo AM, Madero R, Rodríguez-Aizcorbe JR, Espinosa E, 
Castro J, Acedo JD, Martínez B, Alonso-Babarro A, Molina R, Cámara JC, 
García-Paredes ML, González-Barón M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital La Paz, Paseo de la 
Castellana, Madrid 261-28046, Spain. jfeliu.hulp@salud.madrid.org

BACKGROUND: Determining life expectancy in terminally ill cancer patients is a 
difficult task. We aimed to develop and validate a nomogram to predict the 
length of survival in patients with terminal disease.
METHODS: From February 1, 2003, to December 31, 2005, 406 consecutive terminally 
ill patients were entered into the study. We analyzed 38 features prognostic of 
life expectancy among terminally ill patients by multivariable Cox regression 
and identified the most accurate and parsimonious model by backward variable 
elimination according to the Akaike information criterion. Five clinical and 
laboratory variables were built into a nomogram to estimate the probability of 
patient survival at 15, 30, and 60 days. We validated and calibrated the 
nomogram with an external validation cohort of 474 patients who were treated 
from June 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007.
RESULTS: The median overall survival was 29.1 days for the training set and 18.3 
days for the validation set. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance 
status, lactate dehydrogenase levels, lymphocyte levels, albumin levels, and 
time from initial diagnosis to diagnosis of terminal disease were retained in 
the multivariable Cox proportional hazards model as independent prognostic 
factors of survival and formed the basis of the nomogram. The nomogram had high 
predictive performance, with a bootstrapped corrected concordance index of 0.70, 
and it showed good calibration. External independent validation revealed 68% 
predictive accuracy.
CONCLUSIONS: We developed a highly accurate tool that uses basic clinical and 
analytical information to predict the probability of survival at 15, 30, and 60 
days in terminally ill cancer patients. This tool can help physicians making 
decisions on clinical care at the end of life.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djr388
PMID: 21972226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. JAMA. 2011 Oct 5;306(13):1481-2. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1418.

Quality indicators for older adults: preventing unintended harms.

Lee SJ(1), Walter LC.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Division of Geriatrics, 
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA. 
sei.lee@ucsf.edu

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1418
PMCID: PMC3285267
PMID: 21972311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Rev Med Suisse. 2011 Aug 31;7(306):1652-5.

[AIDS mortality in Switzerland: its characteristics and its impact on overall 
mortality].

[Article in French]

Valdes B(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut national d'études démographique et chercheuse associée à l'Institut 
d'études démographiques de l'Université de Bordeaux, 133, bd. Davout, F-75020 
Paris. beatrice.valdes@ined.fr

The AIDS epidemic has transformed not only the mortality at some younger ages, 
but also the perception of the needs in health that we may have, since the rapid 
spread of HIV/AIDS, coupled with a prognosis fatal disease until the mid-1990s. 
The eyes of demography, here allows to highlight the characteristics of AIDS 
mortality in Switzerland, and changes the pattern of mortality that Switzerland 
experienced by AIDS. The author also suggests, drawing on traditional 
demographic tools, a method to attempt to measure the impact of AIDS mortality 
on life expectancy at birth in Switzerland. A parallel with the analysis of 
mortality from tumors reinforces the importance of the impact of AIDS mortality.

PMID: 21972732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Rev Med Suisse. 2011 Aug 31;7(306):1660-1.

[AIDS and its progression in homosexuals of the Middle East and North Africa].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 21972735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2011 Oct;35(5):412-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2011.00740.x. Epub 2011 Sep 12.

Mortality trends in Fiji.

Carter K(1), Cornelius M, Taylor R, Ali SS, Rao C, Lopez AD, Lewai V, Goundar R, 
Mowry C.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland.

OBJECTIVES: Mortality level and cause of death trends are evaluated to chart the 
epidemiological transition in Fiji. IMPLICATIONS for current health policy are 
discussed.
METHODS: Published data for infant mortality rate (IMR), life expectancy (LE) 
and causes of death for 1940-2008 were assessed for quality, and compared with 
mortality indices generated from recent Ministry of Health death recording. 
Trends in credible mortality estimates are compared with trends in proportional 
mortality for cause of death.
RESULTS: IMR declined from 60 deaths (per 1,000) in 1945 to below 20 by 2000. 
IMR for 2006-08 is estimated at 18-20 deaths per 1,000 live births. Excessive LE 
estimates arise by imputing from the IMR using inappropriate models. LE 
increased, but has been stable at 64 years for males and 69 years for females 
since the late 1980s and early 1990s respectively. Proportional mortality from 
diseases of the circulatory system has increased from around 20% in the 1960s to 
more than 45%. Extensive variation in published mortality estimates was 
indentified, including clearly incompatible ranges of IMR and LE.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality decline has stagnated. Relatively low IMR and 
proportional mortality trends suggest this is largely due to chronic diseases 
(especially cardiovascular) in adults.
IMPLICATIONS: Reconciliation of mortality data in Fiji to reduce uncertainty is 
urgently needed. Fiji's health services and donor partners should place 
continued and increased emphasis on effective control strategies for 
cardiovascular disease.

© 2011 The Authors. ANZJPH © 2011 Public Health Association of Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2011.00740.x
PMID: 21973247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Biol Psychiatry. 2012 May 1;71(9):767-73. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2011.08.020.  Epub 2011 Oct 5.

Hostility and cellular aging in men from the Whitehall II cohort.

Brydon L(1), Lin J, Butcher L, Hamer M, Erusalimsky JD, Blackburn EH, Steptoe A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
United Kingdom. l.brydon@ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Hostility is associated with a significantly increased risk of 
age-related disease and mortality, yet the pathophysiological mechanisms 
involved remain unclear. Here we investigated the hypothesis that hostility 
might impact health by promoting cellular aging.
METHODS: We tested the relationship between cynical hostility and two known 
markers of cellular aging, leukocyte telomere length (TL) and leukocyte 
telomerase activity (TA), in 434 men and women from the Whitehall II cohort.
RESULTS: High-hostile men had significantly shorter leukocyte TL than their 
low-hostile counterparts. They also had elevated leukocyte TA, with a 
significantly increased likelihood of having both short TL and high TA, compared 
with low-hostile individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: Because telomerase is known to counteract telomere shortening by 
synthesizing telomeric DNA repeats, particularly in the context of shortened 
telomeres, heightened TA might represent a compensatory response in high-hostile 
individuals. The relationship between hostility and disease is stronger in men 
than in women, and men generally have a shorter life expectancy than women. Our 
findings suggest that telomere attrition might represent a novel mechanism 
mediating the detrimental effects of hostility on men's health.

Copyright © 2012 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2011.08.020
PMCID: PMC3657139
PMID: 21974787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Am J Clin Nutr. 2011 Dec;94(6 Suppl):2030S-2035S. doi:
10.3945/ajcn.110.001479.  Epub 2011 Oct 5.

Health economic potential of early nutrition programming: a model calculation of 
long-term reduction in blood pressure and related morbidity costs by use of 
long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid-supplemented formula.

Straub N(1), Grunert P, von Kries R, Koletzko B.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Market Research, Strategy and Planning, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The reported effect sizes of early nutrition programming on 
long-term health outcomes are often small, and it has been questioned whether 
early interventions would be worthwhile in enhancing public health.
OBJECTIVE: We explored the possible health economic consequences of early 
nutrition programming by performing a model calculation, based on the only 
published study currently available for analysis, to evaluate the effects of 
supplementing infant formula with long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids 
(LC-PUFAs) on lowering blood pressure and lowering the risk of 
hypertension-related diseases in later life.
DESIGN: The costs and health effects of LC-PUFA-enriched and standard infant 
formulas were compared by using a Markov model, including all relevant direct 
and indirect costs based on German statistics. We assessed the effect size of 
blood pressure reduction from LC-PUFA-supplemented formula, the long-term 
persistence of the effect, and the effect of lowered blood pressure on 
hypertension-related morbidity.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness analysis showed an increased life expectancy of 
1.2 quality-adjusted life-years and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
-630 Euros (discounted to present value) for the LC-PUFA formula in comparison 
with standard formula. LC-PUFA nutrition was the superior strategy even when the 
blood pressure-lowering effect was reduced to the lower 95% CI.
CONCLUSIONS: Breastfeeding is the recommended feeding practice, but infants who 
are not breastfed should receive an appropriate infant formula. Following this 
model calculation, LC-PUFA supplementation of infant formula represents an 
economically worthwhile prevention strategy, based on the costs derived from 
hypertension-linked diseases in later life. However, because our analysis was 
based on a single randomized controlled trial, further studies are required to 
verify the validity of this thesis.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.110.001479
PMID: 21974892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. BMC Cancer. 2011 Oct 5;11:426. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-11-426.

Early mortality and overall survival in oncology phase I trial participants: can 
we improve patient selection?

Chau NG(1), Florescu A, Chan KK, Wang L, Chen EX, Bedard P, Oza AM, Siu LL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Hospital, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Patient selection for phase I trials (PIT) in oncology is 
challenging. A typical inclusion criterion for PIT is 'life expectancy > 3 
months', however the 90 day mortality (90DM) and overall survival (OS) of 
patients with advanced solid malignancies are difficult to predict.
METHODS: We analyzed 233 patients who were enrolled in PIT at Princess Margaret 
Hospital. We assessed the relationship between 17 clinical characteristics and 
90DM using univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses to create a 
risk score (PMHI). We also applied the Royal Marsden Hospital risk score (RMI), 
which consists of 3 markers (albumin < 35g/L, > 2 metastatic sites, LDH > ULN).
RESULTS: Median age was 57 years (range 21-88). The 90DM rate was 14%; median OS 
was 320 days. Predictors of 90DM were albumin < 35g/L (OR = 8.2, p = 0.01), > 2 
metastatic sites (OR = 2.6, p = 0.02), and ECOG > 0 (OR = 6.3, p = 0.001); all 3 
factors constitute the PMHI. To predict 90DM, the PMHI performed better than the 
RMI (AUC = 0.78 vs 0.69). To predict OS, the RMI performed slightly better (RMI 
≥ 2, HR = 2.2, p = 0.002 vs PMHI ≥ 2, HR = 1.6, p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: To predict 90DM, the PMHI is helpful. To predict OS, risk models 
should include ECOG > 0, > 2 metastatic sites, and LDH > ULN. Prospective 
validation of the PMHI is warranted.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-11-426
PMCID: PMC3199018
PMID: 21975023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2011 Dec;66(12):1300-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glr143. Epub 2011 Oct 5.

Experimental evolution reveals antagonistic pleiotropy in reproductive timing 
but not life span in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Anderson JL(1), Reynolds RM, Morran LT, Tolman-Thompson J, Phillips PC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ecology and Evolution, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403, 
USA.

Many mutations that dramatically extend life span in model organisms come with 
substantial fitness costs. Although these genetic manipulations provide valuable 
insight into molecular modulators of life span, it is currently unclear whether 
life-span extension is unavoidably linked to fitness costs. To examine this 
relationship, we evolved a genetically heterogeneous population of 
Caenorhabditis elegans for 47 generations, selecting for early fecundity. We 
asked whether an increase in early fecundity would necessitate a decrease in 
longevity or late fecundity (antagonistic pleiotropy). Caenorhabditis elegans 
experimentally evolved for increased early reproduction and decreased late 
reproduction but suffered no total fitness or life-span costs. Given that 
antagonistic pleiotropy among these traits has been previously demonstrated in 
some cases, we conclude that the genetic constraint is not absolute, that is, it 
is possible to uncouple longevity from early fecundity using genetic variation 
segregating within and among natural populations.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glr143
PMCID: PMC3210959
PMID: 21975091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. BMC Psychiatry. 2011 Oct 5;11:160. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-11-160.

Prolonged-release melatonin versus placebo for benzodiazepine discontinuation in 
patients with schizophrenia: a randomized clinical trial - the SMART trial 
protocol.

Baandrup L(1), Fagerlund B, Jennum P, Lublin H, Hansen JL, Winkel P, Gluud C, 
Oranje B, Glenthoj BY.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuropsychiatric Schizophrenia Research (CNSR) & Center for 
Clinical Intervention and Neuropsychiatric Schizophrenia Research (CINS), 
University of Copenhagen, Mental Health Centre Glostrup, Mental Health Services 
- Capital Region of Denmark, Glostrup, Denmark. lone.baandrup@regionh.dk

BACKGROUND: Treatment of schizophrenia frequently includes prolonged 
benzodiazepine administration despite a lack of evidence of its use. It is often 
difficult to discontinue benzodiazepines because of the development of 
dependence. We aim to assess if melatonin can facilitate the withdrawal of 
prolonged benzodiazepine administration in patients with schizophrenia. 
Furthermore, we aim to investigate the association of benzodiazepine dose 
reduction with the following clinically important variables: sleep, 
psychophysiology, cognition, social function, and quality of life.
METHODS/DESIGN: Randomized, blinded, two-armed, parallel superiority trial. We 
plan to include 80 consenting outpatients diagnosed with schizophrenia or 
schizoaffective disorder, 18-55 years of age, treated with antipsychotic drug(s) 
and at least one benzodiazepine derivative for the last three months before 
inclusion.
EXCLUSION CRITERIA: currently under treatment for alcohol or drug abuse, 
aggressive or violent behavior, known mental retardation, pervasive 
developmental disorder, dementia, epilepsy, terminal illness, severe co 
morbidity, inability to understand Danish, allergy to melatonin, lactose, 
starch, gelatin, or talc, hepatic impairment, pregnancy or nursing, or lack of 
informed consent. After being randomized to prolonged-release melatonin 
(Circadin®) 2 mg daily or matching placebo, participants are required to slowly 
taper off their benzodiazepine dose. The primary outcome measure is 
benzodiazepine dose at 6 months follow-up. Secondary outcome measures include 
sleep, psychophysiological, and neurocognitive measures. Data are collected at 
baseline and at 6 months follow-up regarding medical treatment, cognition, 
psychophysiology, sleep, laboratory tests, adverse events, psychopathology, 
social function, and quality of life. Data on medical treatment, cognition, 
psychophysiology, adverse events, social function, and quality of life are also 
collected at 2 and 4 months follow-up.
DISCUSSION: The results from this trial will examine whether melatonin has a 
role in withdrawing long-term benzodiazepine administration in schizophrenia 
patients. This group of patients is difficult to treat and therefore often 
subject to polypharmacy which may play a role in the reduced life expectancy of 
patients compared to the background population. The results will also provide 
new information on the association of chronic benzodiazepine treatment with 
sleep, psychophysiology, cognition, social function, and quality of life. 
Knowledge of these important clinical aspects is lacking in this group of 
patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials NCT01431092.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-11-160
PMCID: PMC3213077
PMID: 21975110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Scand J Public Health. 2011 Dec;39(8):785-96. doi: 10.1177/1403494811421416.
 Epub 2011 Oct 5.

The potential of smoking cessation programmes and a smoking ban in public 
places: comparing gain in life expectancy and cost effectiveness.

Højgaard B(1), Olsen KR, Pisinger C, Tønnesen H, Gyrd-Hansen D.

Author information:
(1)Danish Institute for Health Services Research, Dampfaergevej 27-29, 
Copenhagen Ø, Denmark. beh@dsi.dk

BACKGROUND: Interventions aimed at reducing the number of smokers are generally 
believed to be cost effective. However as the cost of the interventions should 
be paid up front whereas the gains in life years only appear in the future--the 
budgetary consequences might be a barrier to implementing such interventions.
AIMS: The aim of the present paper was to assess the long-term cost 
effectiveness as well as the short-term (10 years) budget consequences of 
cessation programmes and a smoking ban in enclosed public places.
METHODS: We develop a population-based Markov model capable of analyzing both 
interventions and assess long-term costs effectiveness as well as short-term 
budgetary consequences and outcome gains. The smoking cessation programme model 
was based on data from the Danish National Smoking Cessation Database (SCDB), 
while the model of the smoking ban was based on effect estimates found in the 
literature.
RESULTS: On a population level the effect of a smoking ban has the largest 
potential compared with the effect of smoking cessation programmes. Our results 
suggest that smoking cessation programmes are cost saving and generate 
life-years, whereas the costs per life-year gained by a smoking ban are 40,645 
to 64,462 DKK (100 DKK = €13.4). These results are conservative as they do not 
include the healthcare cost saving related to reduced passive smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that smoking cessation programmes and a 
smoking ban in enclosed public places both in the short term and the long term 
are cost-effective strategies compared with the status quo.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494811421416
PMID: 21976052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Protein Cell. 2011 Sep;2(9):726-38. doi: 10.1007/s13238-011-1093-3. Epub
2011  Oct 6.

Molecular regulation of telomerase activity in aging.

Nicholls C(1), Li H, Wang JQ, Liu JP.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Signalling Laboratory, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, 
Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia.

The process of aging is mitigated by the maintenance and repair of chromosome 
ends (telomeres), resulting in extended lifespan. This review examines the 
molecular mechanisms underlying the actions and regulation of the enzyme 
telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT), which functions as the primary 
mechanism of telomere maintenance and regulates cellular life expectancy. 
Underpinning increased cell proliferation, telomerase is also a key factor in 
facilitating cancer cell immortalization. The review focuses on aspects of 
hormonal regulations of telomerase, and the intracellular pathways that converge 
to regulate telomerase activity with an emphasis on molecular interactions at 
protein and gene levels. In addition, the basic structure and function of two 
key telomerase enzyme components-the catalytic subunit TERT and the template RNA 
(TERC) are discussed briefly.

DOI: 10.1007/s13238-011-1093-3
PMCID: PMC4875265
PMID: 21976062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Health Aff (Millwood). 2011 Oct;30(10):1860-7. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0702.

Awareness of racial and ethnic health disparities has improved only modestly 
over a decade.

Benz JK(1), Espinosa O, Welsh V, Fontes A.

Author information:
(1)NORC at the University of Chicago, Illinois, USA. benz-jennifer@norc.org

Documented disparities exist in the United States between the majority white 
population and various racial and ethnic minority populations on several health 
and health care indicators, including access to and quality of care, disease 
prevalence, infant mortality, and life expectancy. However, awareness of these 
disparities-a necessary first step toward changing behavior and compelling 
action-remains limited. Our survey of 3,159 adults age eighteen or older found 
that 59 percent of Americans in 2010 were aware of racial and ethnic disparities 
that disproportionately affect African Americans and Hispanics or Latinos. That 
number represents a modest increase over the 55 percent recorded in a 1999 
survey. Meanwhile, in our survey, 89 percent of African American respondents 
were aware of African American and white disparities, versus 55 percent of 
whites. Yet the survey also revealed low levels of awareness among racial and 
ethnic minority groups about disparities that disproportionately affect their 
own communities. For example, only 54 percent of African Americans were aware of 
disparities in the rate of HIV/AIDS between African Americans and whites, and 
only 21 percent of Hispanics or Latinos were aware of those disparities between 
their group and whites. Policy makers must increase the availability and quality 
of data on racial and ethnic health disparities and create multisectoral 
partnerships to develop targeted educational campaigns to increase awareness of 
health disparities.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2010.0702
PMID: 21976327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Health Aff (Millwood). 2011 Oct;30(10):1872-9. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0668.

Higher risk of death in rural blacks and whites than urbanites is related to 
lower incomes, education, and health coverage.

Probst JC(1), Bellinger JD, Walsemann KM, Hardin J, Glover SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Policy and Management in the Arnold School of 
Public Health, University of South Carolina, USA. JPROBST@mailbox.sc.edu

Health outcomes among rural minority populations are seldom examined. Our 
research studied mortality among urban and rural white, black, and Hispanic 
adults ages 45-64, comparing outcomes for each group. We found the mortality 
risk to be higher among both rural white and rural minority populations compared 
to urban whites; rural blacks were at higher risk of death than urban blacks. 
When personal characteristics and circumstances of these populations-such as 
level of education, presence of health insurance, and income above or below the 
poverty line-were held statistically equal, disparities were reduced or 
eliminated. Our study suggests that policies directed toward reducing 
differences related to education, poverty, and health insurance would go a long 
way toward eliminating the disparities in health status between urban and rural 
populations.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0668
PMID: 21976329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Health Aff (Millwood). 2011 Oct;30(10):1965-73. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0630.

Indian health service innovations have helped reduce health disparities 
affecting american Indian and alaska native people.

Sequist TD(1), Cullen T, Acton KJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women' s Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

The Indian Health Service (IHS), a federal health system, cares for 2 million of 
the country's 5.2 million American Indian and Alaska Native people. This system 
has increasingly focused on innovative uses of health information technology and 
telemedicine, as well as comprehensive, locally tailored prevention and disease 
management programs, to promote health equity in a population facing multiple 
health disparities. Important recent achievements include a reduction in the 
life-expectancy gap between American Indian and Alaska Native people and whites 
(from eight years to five years) and improved measures of diabetes control 
(including 20 percent and 10 percent reductions in the levels of low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol and hemoglobin A1c, respectively). However, disparities 
persist between American Indian and Alaska Native people and the overall US 
population. Continued innovation and increased funding are required to further 
improve health and achieve equity.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0630
PMID: 21976341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Clin Infect Dis. 2011 Nov;53(10):985-93. doi: 10.1093/cid/cir644. Epub 2011
Oct  5.

Mortality burden of the A/H1N1 pandemic in Mexico: a comparison of deaths and 
years of life lost to seasonal influenza.

Charu V(1), Chowell G, Palacio Mejia LS, Echevarría-Zuno S, Borja-Aburto VH, 
Simonsen L, Miller MA, Viboud C.

Author information:
(1)Division of International Epidemiology and Population Studies, Fogarty 
International Center, National Institutes of Health, 16 Center Drive, Bethesda, 
MD 20892, USA.

BACKGROUND: The mortality burden of the 2009 A/H1N1 influenza pandemic remains 
controversial, in part because of delays in reporting of vital statistics that 
are traditionally used to measure influenza-related excess mortality. Here, we 
compare excess mortality rates and years of life lost (YLL) for pandemic and 
seasonal influenza in Mexico and evaluate laboratory-confirmed death reports.
METHODS: Monthly age- and cause-specific death rates from January 2000 through 
April 2010 and population-based surveillance of influenza virus activity were 
used to estimate excess mortality and YLL in Mexico. Age-stratified 
laboratory-confirmed A/H1N1 death reports were obtained from an active 
surveillance system covering 40% of the population.
RESULTS: The A/H1N1 pandemic was associated with 11.1 excess all-cause deaths 
per 100,000 population and 445,000 YLL during the 3 waves of virus activity in 
Mexico, April-December 2009. The pandemic mortality burden was 0.6-2.6 times 
that of a typical influenza season and lower than that of the severe 2003-2004 
influenza epidemic. Individuals aged 5-19 and 20-59 years were 
disproportionately affected relative to their experience with seasonal 
influenza. Laboratory-confirmed deaths captured 1 of 7 pandemic excess deaths 
overall but only 1 of 41 deaths in persons >60 years of age in 2009. A 
recrudescence of excess mortality was observed in older persons during winter 
2010, in a period when influenza and respiratory syncytial virus cocirculated.
CONCLUSIONS: Mexico experienced higher 2009 A/H1N1 pandemic mortality burden 
than other countries for which estimates are available. Further analyses of 
detailed vital statistics are required to assess geographical variation in the 
mortality patterns of this pandemic.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cir644
PMCID: PMC3202315
PMID: 21976464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. International Differences in Mortality at Older Ages: Dimensions and
Sources.

National Research Council (US) Panel on Understanding Divergent Trends in 
Longevity in High-Income Countries; Crimmins EM, Preston SH, Cohen B, editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2010.
The National Academies Collection: Reports funded by National Institutes of 
Health.

Clearly, there is a need to continue to conduct research to better understand 
the factors underlying international differences in life expectancy at older 
ages. For the most part, the papers in this volume focus on the behavioral 
factors that are commonly believed to contribute to those differences. Because 
of the interaction and the multiple causal pathways between these various 
factors (e.g., obesity can lead to lack of physical exercise and poor health but 
poor health can also lead to lack of physical exercise and obesity), the exact 
amount that each factor contributes to the observed health differentials remains 
unknown. Yet one finding seems clear: having the highest level of cigarette 
consumption per capita in the developed world over a 40-year period (up to the 
mid-1980s) has left a very visible and continuing imprint on U.S. mortality.

Copyright © 2010, National Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.17226/12945
PMID: 21977541


675. Explaining Divergent Levels of Longevity in High-Income Countries.

National Research Council (US) Panel on Understanding Divergent Trends in 
Longevity in High-Income Countries; Crimmins EM, Preston SH, Cohen B, editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2011.
The National Academies Collection: Reports funded by National Institutes of 
Health.

Over the past 25 years, life expectancy has been rising in the United States at 
a slower pace than has been achieved in many other high-income countries. 
Consequently, the United States has been falling steadily in the world rankings 
for level of life expectancy, and the gap between the United States and 
countries with the highest achieved life expectancies has been widening. 
International comparisons of various measures of self-reported health and 
biological markers of disease reveal similar patterns of U.S. disadvantage. The 
relatively poor performance of the United States with respect to achieved life 
expectancy over the recent past is surprising given that it spends far more on 
health care than any other nation in the world, both absolutely and as a 
percentage of gross national product. Motivated by these concerns, the National 
Institute on Aging requested that the National Research Council convene a panel 
of leading experts to clarify patterns in the levels and trends in life 
expectancy across nations, to examine the evidence on competing explanations for 
the divergent trends, and to identify strategic opportunities for health-related 
interventions to narrow this gap.

Copyright © 2011, National Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.17226/13089
PMID: 21977544


676. Med J Aust. 2011 Oct 3;195(7):370-1. doi: 10.5694/mja11.11111.

Long-term outcomes for patients with cystic fibrosis in Australia.

Gaskin KJ, Wilcken B.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 2011 Oct 3;195(7):392-5.
    Med J Aust. 2011 Oct 3;195(7):396-400.

DOI: 10.5694/mja11.11111
PMID: 21978329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Med J Aust. 2011 Oct 3;195(7):392-5. doi: 10.5694/mja10.11229.

Changes in cystic fibrosis mortality in Australia, 1979-2005.

Reid DW(1), Blizzard CL, Shugg DM, Flowers C, Cash C, Greville HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Medicine, The Prince Charles Hospital, Brisbane, QLD. 
David.Reid@qimr.edu.au

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 2011 Oct 3;195(7):370-1.

OBJECTIVE: To assess mortality trends among people with cystic fibrosis (CF) in 
Australia.
DESIGN AND SETTING: We augmented Australian summary data for deaths from CF 
registered during 1979-2005 with information from Australian transplant centres 
on lung transplantation among CF patients for 1989-2005 to allow us to follow 
trends in all "mortality events" (death or lung transplantation).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Age at death or lung transplantation.
RESULTS: Between 1979 and 2005, the mean age at death increased from 12.2 years 
to 27.9 years for males and from 14.8 years to 25.3 years for females. Overall, 
female deaths in childhood (0-14 years) occurred at an age-standardised rate of 
0.40 per 100,000 (95% CI, 0.34-0.45) during 1979-2005, which exceeded the 
corresponding rate for males of 0.24 (95% CI, 0.20-0.28) per 100,000. Among 
0-14-year-old boys, event rates declined markedly after 1989, but they declined 
later and more gradually for girls, with the result that the age-standardised 
rate for girls was 2.38 times that of boys during 1989-2005 (95% CI, 1.69-3.36).
CONCLUSIONS: The pattern of CF mortality in Australia has changed substantially. 
Mortality rates continue to be higher for girls than for boys, but death in 
childhood has become uncommon. Survival has increased since 1979, but females 
continue to have reduced length of life.

DOI: 10.5694/mja10.11229
PMID: 21978346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Arthropod Struct Dev. 2011 Nov;40(6):549-58. doi: 10.1016/j.asd.2011.06.002.
 Epub 2011 Oct 5.

Rostrum structure and development in the rice weevil Sitophilus oryzae 
(Coleoptera: Curculionoidea: Dryophthoridae).

Davis SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Division of Entomology, Natural 
History Museum, Univ. of Kansas, 1501 Crestline Dr., Suite #140, Lawrence, KS 
66049, USA. steved@ku.edu

A documentation and review of weevil rostrum growth is made through examination 
of the developmental life stages in the rice weevil Sitophilus oryzae 
(Linnaeus). Histological and morphological examinations are made utilizing 
light, fluorescent, and electron microscopy. In S. oryzae, rostral tissue begins 
proliferating in the late 4th instar larva and continues through to the pupal 
stage, with the majority of rostrum growth taking place in the prepupa. Adult 
cranial and rostral morphology is also reviewed, focusing on structures that may 
be pertinent to phylogeny reconstruction. The weevil rostrum is essentially an 
extension of various head sclerites that are basal to the mouthparts. Therefore, 
while the mouthparts are fairly similar to other Coleoptera in basic form, the 
head is markedly different due to its anterior extension. By understanding the 
more noticeable details of rostrum growth and structure, this study may serve as 
a foundation for comparative studies of a similar nature and as a basis for 
beginning research on the genetic nature of rostrum formation and evolution 
throughout the weevil clade.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.asd.2011.06.002
PMID: 21978823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Exp Gerontol. 2011 Dec;46(12):1003-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.09.006. Epub
 2011 Sep 28.

Medical, psychological and socioeconomic aspects of aging in Poland: assumptions 
and objectives of the PolSenior project.

Bledowski P(1), Mossakowska M, Chudek J, Grodzicki T, Milewicz A, Szybalska A, 
Wieczorowska-Tobis K, Wiecek A, Bartoszek A, Dabrowski A, Zdrojewski T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social Economy, Warsaw School of Economics, Poland.

Both descriptive and longitudinal studies of aging are nowadays a subject of 
growing interest in different countries worldwide. However, in Poland and other 
Central-Eastern European countries, such comprehensive, nationally 
representative, multidimensional studies were never performed in the past in 
elderly population. The present paper describes the PolSenior project including 
its objectives, sample selection and structure, methods, fieldwork procedures 
and study flow. The aim of the project was to examine medical, psychological and 
socioeconomic aspects of aging in Poland. The research sample included 5695 
respondents (2899 males and 2796 females) split into six equally sized age 
groups of elderly individuals (65-69 years, 70-74 years, 75-79 years, 80-84 
years, 85-89 years, 90+years) and one group of subjects just about to enter old 
age (55-59 years). Subjects were recruited using three stage stratified, 
proportional draw. The response rate was 42% and ranged from 32% to 61% between 
provinces. The study consisted of three visits performed by trained nurses 
including questionnaire survey, comprehensive geriatric assessment and blood and 
urine sampling. The questionnaire consisted of medical and specific 
socioeconomic questions. The comprehensive geriatric assessment included blood 
pressure and anthropometric measurements, as well as selected scales and tests 
routinely used in the examination of elderly subjects. Blood and urine samples 
were collected from 4737 and 4526 individuals, respectively. More than 50 
biochemical parameters were measured, and DNA was isolated and banked. In a 
selected group of 1018 subjects, a medical examination by a physician was 
performed. The self-rated health was lower in females than in males in age 
groups 70-84, but similar in individuals of both sexes aged 65-69 and 85 years. 
Besides providing data on health and functioning of elderly population, the 
PolSenior project aims to analyze interrelationships between different elements 
of health and social status, and between genetics and health status in advanced 
age. The results of the PolSenior project will facilitate prioritizing the 
state's public health and social policies in elderly population. Such a program 
provides also an excellent starting point for longitudinal studies and a basis 
for comparative analysis between Poland and other European countries or regions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.09.006
PMID: 21979452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Oecologia. 2012 Mar;168(3):639-49. doi: 10.1007/s00442-011-2145-3. Epub 2011
Oct  7.

Effects of early postnatal environment on phenotype and survival of a lizard.

Hare KM(1), Caldwell AJ, Cree A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand. 
kelly.hare@gmail.com

Nutritional and thermal regimes experienced early in life can strongly influence 
offspring quality and ultimately adult life histories, especially in ectotherms. 
However, the importance of the interaction between diet and temperature during 
postnatal development and the effect on offspring quality are unknown. We 
compared offspring quality (size, shape, speed, behavior, and survival) of 
juvenile McCann's skinks (Oligosoma maccanni) housed outdoors under variable 
thermal conditions (under shelter, but exposed to daily and seasonal variations 
in light and temperature) with those housed indoors under more stable thermal 
conditions (controlled temperatures providing 30-40% more basking opportunity) 
and with a control group (open field conditions). For those caged in captivity 
(indoors and outdoors), we also compared outcomes between those fed a restricted 
diet and those fed ad libitum. By comparing individuals raised under different 
environmental regimes, we aimed to determine whether direct effects of 
temperature or indirect effects of food supply are more important for offspring 
quality. Individuals provided with food ad libitum grew faster, and attained 
larger sizes than those raised on a restricted diet or in the field. Activity 
rates were higher in individuals exposed to stable rather than variable thermal 
conditions. Survival post release in the field was highest for larger neonates, 
and lowest in individuals raised under stable thermal conditions and a 
restricted diet. We found little evidence for effects of an interaction between 
feeding and thermal regimes on most factors measured. However, the conditions 
experienced by young animals (especially diet) do influence important traits for 
population persistence, such as survival, and may influence key reproductive 
parameters (e.g., age and size at maturity), which could have implications for 
conservation management. Further research, including the ultimate influence of 
early environmental conditions on fecundity and life expectancy, is urgently 
needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-011-2145-3
PMID: 21979822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. PLoS One. 2011;6(9):e24716. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024716. Epub 2011 Sep
29.

pubmed2ensembl: a resource for mining the biological literature on genes.

Baran J(1), Gerner M, Haeussler M, Nenadic G, Bergman CM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The last two decades have witnessed a dramatic acceleration in the 
production of genomic sequence information and publication of biomedical 
articles. Despite the fact that genome sequence data and publications are two of 
the most heavily relied-upon sources of information for many biologists, very 
little effort has been made to systematically integrate data from genomic 
sequences directly with the biological literature. For a limited number of model 
organisms dedicated teams manually curate publications about genes; however for 
species with no such dedicated staff many thousands of articles are never mapped 
to genes or genomic regions.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To overcome the lack of integration between 
genomic data and biological literature, we have developed pubmed2ensembl 
(http://www.pubmed2ensembl.org), an extension to the BioMart system that links 
over 2,000,000 articles in PubMed to nearly 150,000 genes in Ensembl from 50 
species. We use several sources of curated (e.g., Entrez Gene) and automatically 
generated (e.g., gene names extracted through text-mining on MEDLINE records) 
sources of gene-publication links, allowing users to filter and combine 
different data sources to suit their individual needs for information extraction 
and biological discovery. In addition to extending the Ensembl BioMart database 
to include published information on genes, we also implemented a scripting 
language for automated BioMart construction and a novel BioMart interface that 
allows text-based queries to be performed against PubMed and PubMed Central 
documents in conjunction with constraints on genomic features. Finally, we 
illustrate the potential of pubmed2ensembl through typical use cases that 
involve integrated queries across the biomedical literature and genomic data.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: By allowing biologists to find the relevant literature 
on specific genomic regions or sets of functionally related genes more easily, 
pubmed2ensembl offers a much-needed genome informatics inspired solution to 
accessing the ever-increasing biomedical literature.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024716
PMCID: PMC3183000
PMID: 21980353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


682. J Hand Surg Am. 2011 Nov;36(11):1826-1834.e32. doi:
10.1016/j.jhsa.2011.08.004.  Epub 2011 Oct 5.

Cost-effectiveness of open partial fasciectomy, needle aponeurotomy, and 
collagenase injection for dupuytren contracture.

Chen NC(1), Shauver MJ, Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and the Section of Plastic Surgery, 
University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. nealchen@yahoo.com

Comment in
    J Hand Surg Am. 2012 Feb;37(2):394; author reply 394-5.

PURPOSE: We undertook a cost-utility analysis to compare traditional fasciectomy 
for Dupuytren with 2 new treatments, needle aponeurotomy and collagenase 
injection.
METHODS: We constructed an expected-value decision analysis model with an arm 
representing each treatment. A survey was administered to a cohort of 50 
consecutive subjects to determine utilities of different interventions. We 
conducted multiple sensitivity analyses to assess the impact of varying the rate 
of disease recurrence in each arm of the analysis as well as the cost of the 
collagenase injection. The threshold for a cost-effective treatment is based on 
the traditional willingness-to-pay of $50,000 per quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) gained.
RESULTS: The cost of open partial fasciectomy was $820,114 per QALY gained over 
no treatment. The cost of needle aponeurotomy was $96,474 per QALY gained versus 
no treatment. When we performed a sensitivity analysis and set the success rate 
at 100%, the cost of needle aponeurotomy was $49,631. When needle aponeurotomy 
was performed without surgical center or anesthesia costs and with reduced hand 
therapy, the cost was $36,570. When a complete collagenase injection series was 
priced at $250, the cost was $31,856 per QALY gained. When the injection series 
was priced at $945, the cost was $49,995 per QALY gained. At the market price of 
$5,400 per injection, the cost was $166,268 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current model, open partial fasciectomy is not 
cost-effective. Needle aponeurotomy is cost-effective if the success rate is 
high. Collagenase injection is cost-effective when priced under $945.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and Decision Analysis II.

Copyright © 2011 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2011.08.004
PMID: 21981831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nutr J. 2011 Oct 7;10:107. doi: 10.1186/1475-2891-10-107.

Impact of caloric and dietary restriction regimens on markers of health and 
longevity in humans and animals: a summary of available findings.

Trepanowski JF(1), Canale RE, Marshall KE, Kabir MM, Bloomer RJ.

Author information:
(1)Cardiorespiratory/Metabolic Laboratory, The University of Memphis, Memphis, 
TN 38152, USA.

Considerable interest has been shown in the ability of caloric restriction (CR) 
to improve multiple parameters of health and to extend lifespan. CR is the 
reduction of caloric intake - typically by 20 - 40% of ad libitum consumption - 
while maintaining adequate nutrient intake. Several alternatives to CR exist. CR 
combined with exercise (CE) consists of both decreased caloric intake and 
increased caloric expenditure. Alternate-day fasting (ADF) consists of two 
interchanging days; one day, subjects may consume food ad libitum (sometimes 
equaling twice the normal intake); on the other day, food is reduced or withheld 
altogether. Dietary restriction (DR) - restriction of one or more components of 
intake (typically macronutrients) with minimal to no reduction in total caloric 
intake - is another alternative to CR. Many religions incorporate one or more 
forms of food restriction. The following religious fasting periods are featured 
in this review: 1) Islamic Ramadan; 2) the three principal fasting periods of 
Greek Orthodox Christianity (Nativity, Lent, and the Assumption); and 3) the 
Biblical-based Daniel Fast. This review provides a summary of the current state 
of knowledge related to CR and DR. A specific section is provided that 
illustrates related work pertaining to religious forms of food restriction. 
Where available, studies involving both humans and animals are presented. The 
review includes suggestions for future research pertaining to the topics of 
discussion.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2891-10-107
PMCID: PMC3200169
PMID: 21981968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Ann Thorac Surg. 2011 Dec;92(6):1951-7. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.06.082.  Epub 2011 Oct 7.

Lobectomy in octogenarians with non-small cell lung cancer: ramifications of 
increasing life expectancy and the benefits of minimally invasive surgery.

Port JL(1), Mirza FM, Lee PC, Paul S, Stiles BM, Altorki NK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, New York 
Presbyterian Hospital, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, 
New York 10021, USA. jlp2002@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: As the population ages, clinicians are increasingly confronted with 
octogenarians with resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We reviewed 
the outcomes of octogenarians who underwent lobectomy for NSCLC by 
video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) versus open thoracotomy, to determine if 
there was a benefit to the VATS approach in this group.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective single-institution review of patients age 
80 years or greater who underwent a lobectomy for NSCLC from 1998 to 2009. 
Outcomes including complication rates, length of stay, disposition, and 
long-term survival were analyzed.
RESULTS: One hundred twenty-one octogenarians underwent lobectomy: 40 VATS and 
81 through open thoracotomy. Compared with thoracotomy, VATS patients had fewer 
complications (35.0% vs 63.0%, p = 0.004), shorter length of stay (5 vs 6 days, 
p = 0.001), and were less likely to require admission to the intensive care unit 
(2.5% vs 14.8%, p = 0.038) or rehabilitation after discharge (5% vs 22.5%, p = 
0.015). In multivariate analysis, VATS was an independent predictor of reduced 
complications (odds ratio, 0.35; 95% confidence interval, 0.15 to 0.84; p = 
0.019). Survival comparisons demonstrated no significant difference between the 
two techniques, either in univariate analysis of stage I patients (5-year VATS, 
76.0%; thoracotomy, 65.3%; p = 0.111) or multivariate analysis of the entire 
cohort (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.59; 95% confidence interval, 0.27 to 1.28; p = 
0.183).
CONCLUSIONS: Octogenarians with NSCLC can undergo resection with low mortality 
and survival among stage I patients, which is comparable with the general lung 
cancer population. The VATS approach to resection reduces morbidity in this age 
demographic, resulting in shorter, less intensive hospitalization, and less 
frequent need for postoperative rehabilitation.

Copyright © 2011 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.06.082
PMID: 21982148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Angiol Sosud Khir. 2011;17(2):31-5.

[The nearest and remote results in treatment aneurysms of the abdominal aorta 
and the main arteries].

[Article in Russian]

Cherviakov IuV, Staroverov IN, Smurov SIu, Lavlinskiĭ SN, Lonchakova OM.

In the modern literature are taken widely up questions of medical tactics at an 
aneurysm of abdominal aorta (AA) depending on its sizes, presence of signs and 
presence of risk factors. The purpose of work was studying current aneurysm 
illnesses in various arterial parts, developments of optimum tactics of 
conducting patients and its influence on the remote results of operative 
treatment. Into research have entered 51 patient, suffering aneurism of an 
aorta, it branches and other main arteries. The nearest and remote results of 
dynamic supervision and operative treatment have been studied. The age of 
patients was within the limits of from 50 till 88 years, and has on the average 
made 71,8 ± 6,16. A parity men and women 8:1. Diameter AA changed from 3 up to 
12 sm. Aneurysms combination met in an ascending part of an aorta, subclavian 
arteries, brachiochephalic trunk, carotid, iliofemoral, popliteal and limb 
arteries. All patients had accompanying cardial pathology. Patients have been 
divided into 2 groups. The first was made by 34 patients by whom resection AA 
has been made. Patients of the second group (17 patients) has been executed by 
