979. BMC Health Serv Res. 2011 Nov 19;11:317. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-317.

Reconstruction versus conservative treatment after rupture of the anterior 
cruciate ligament: cost effectiveness analysis.

Farshad M(1), Gerber C, Meyer DC, Schwab A, Blank PR, Szucs T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of Zürich, Balgrist University 
Hospital, Zürich, Switzerland. mazda.farshad@balgrist.ch

BACKGROUND: The decision whether to treat conservatively or reconstruct 
surgically a torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is an ongoing subject of 
debate. The high prevalence and associated public health burden of torn ACL has 
led to continuous efforts to determine the best therapeutic approach. A critical 
evaluation of benefits and expenditures of both treatment options as in a cost 
effectiveness analysis seems well-suited to provide valuable information for 
treating physicians and healthcare policymakers.
METHODS: A literature review identified four of 7410 searched articles providing 
sufficient outcome probabilities for the two treatment options for modeling. A 
transformation key based on the expert opinions of 25 orthopedic surgeons was 
used to derive utilities from available evidence. The cost data for both 
treatment strategies were based on average figures compiled by Orthopaedic 
University Hospital Balgrist and reinforced by Swiss national statistics. A 
decision tree was constructed to derive the cost-effectiveness of each strategy, 
which was then tested for robustness using Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Decision tree analysis revealed a cost effectiveness of 16,038 USD/0.78 
QALY for ACL reconstruction and 15,466 USD/0.66 QALY for conservative treatment, 
implying an incremental cost effectiveness of 4,890 USD/QALY for ACL 
reconstruction. Sensitivity analysis of utilities did not change the trend.
CONCLUSION: ACL reconstruction for reestablishment of knee stability seems cost 
effective in the Swiss setting based on currently available evidence. This, 
however, should be reinforced with randomized controlled trials comparing the 
two treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-317
PMCID: PMC3236993
PMID: 22098703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Med Hypotheses. 2012 Feb;78(2):235-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.10.034. Epub
2011  Nov 17.

Ciprofloxacin as a prophylactic agent against prostate cancer: a "two hit" 
hypothesis.

Kloskowski T(1), Gurtowska N, Bajek A, Drewa T.

Author information:
(1)Tissue Engineering Department, Chair of Medical Biology, Collegium Medicum, 
Nicolaus Copernicus University in Bydgoszcz, Poland. tomaszkloskowski@op.pl

More evidence indicate that prostate inflammation can lead to prostate cancer 
development. Prostate cancer affects elderly men. Prostate cancer prophylaxis is 
an important issue because life expectancy is very long now. Ciprofloxacin is an 
antibacterial agent used mainly in urinary tract infections and prostate 
inflammation. This drug acts also against cancer cells by the inhibition of 
topoisomerase II. These properties should allow it to inhibit the development of 
prostate cancer. Firstly, ciprofloxacin can stop the acute and chronic prostate 
inflammation which can lead to cancer development. Secondly, ciprofloxacin can 
potentially kill prostate cancer cells in their early stage of development. 
Ciprofloxacin accumulates mainly in the prostate after oral intake thus 
ciprofloxacin seems to be a perfect candidate as a prophylactic agent.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.10.034
PMID: 22098728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Mech Behav Biomed Mater. 2011 Nov;4(8):1990-2001. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmbbm.2011.06.018. Epub 2011 Jul 3.

Life expectancy of modular Ti6Al4V hip implants: influence of stress and 
environment.

Chandra A(1), Ryu JJ, Karra P, Shrotriya P, Tvergaard V, Gaisser M, Weik T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, USA. 
achandra@iastate.edu

Stress dependent electrochemical dissolution is identified as one of the key 
mechanisms governing surface degradation in fretting and crevice corrosion of 
biomedical implants. The present study focuses on delineating the roles of 
mechanical stress and chemical conditions on the life expectancy of modular hip 
implants. First, material removal on a stressed surface of Ti6Al4V subjected to 
single asperity contact is investigated experimentally to identify the influence 
of contact load, in-plane stress and chemical environment on mean wear rates. A 
range of known stress levels are applied to the specimen while its surface is 
mechanically stimulated in different non-reactive to oxidizing aqueous 
environments. Evolution of surface degradation is monitored, and its mechanism 
is elucidated. This phase allows estimation of Preston Constant which is later 
used in the analysis. Second phase of the work is semi-analytical and 
computational, where, based on the estimated Preston constant and other material 
and process parameters, the scratch propensity (consisting of magnitude of 
scratch depth and their frequency per unit area) due to micro-motion in modular 
hip implants is estimated. The third phase views these scratches as initial 
notches and utilizes a mixed-mode fatigue crack propagation model to estimate 
the critical crack length for onset of instability. The number of loading cycles 
needed to reach this critical crack length is then labeled as the expected life 
of the implant under given mechanical and chemical conditions. Implications of 
different material and process conditions to life expectancy of orthopedic 
implants are discussed. It is observed that transverse micro-motion, compared to 
longitudinal micro-motion, plays a far more critical role in determining the 
implant life. Patient body weight, as well as proximity of the joint fluid to 
its iso-electric point play key roles in determining wear rates and associated 
life expectancies of modular hip implants. Sustained aeration of joint fluid, as 
well as proper tolerancing of mating surfaces, along with a proper choice of 
material microstructure may be utilized to extend implant life.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmbbm.2011.06.018
PMID: 22098898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Child Abuse Negl. 2011 Nov;35(11):937-45. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2011.06.005.
 Epub 2011 Nov 17.

The disease burden of childhood adversities in adults: a population-based study.

Cuijpers P(1), Smit F, Unger F, Stikkelbroek Y, Ten Have M, de Graaf R.

Author information:
(1)EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, VU University and VU University 
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: There is much evidence showing that childhood adversities have 
considerable effects on the mental and physical health of adults. It could be 
assumed therefore, that the disease burden of childhood adversities is high. It 
has not yet been examined, however, whether this is true.
METHOD: We used data of a large representative sample (N=7,076) of the general 
population in the Netherlands. We calculated the disability weight (DW) for each 
respondent. The DW is a weight factor that reflects the severity of a disease or 
condition on a scale from 0 (perfect health) to 1 (equivalent to death). We used 
an algorithm based on the SF-6D to estimate DW. Because the DW indicates the 
proportion of a healthy life year that is reduced by the specific health state 
of the individual, it also possible to calculate the total number of years lost 
due to disability (YLD) in the population. We calculated the years lived with 
disability (YLD) for 9 different childhood adversities (in the areas of parental 
psychopathology; abuse and neglect; major life events), as well as for major 
categories of mental disorders and general medical disorders.
RESULTS: All 9 adversities resulted in a significantly increased DW, except 
death of a parent before the age of 16. Adversities in the category of abuse and 
neglect are associated with the highest DWs (0.057), followed by parental 
psychopathology (0.031) and life events during childhood (0.012). All 
adversities (46.4% of the population reports one or more adversity) are 
associated with 20.7 YLD/1,000, which is more than all mental disorders together 
(12.9 YLD/1,000). The category of abuse/neglect has the highest YLD/1,000 
(15.8), which is also higher than all mental disorders together. Adjustment for 
the presence of mental and general medical disorders resulted in comparable 
outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Childhood adversities are more important from a public health point 
of view than all common mental disorders together, and should be a priority for 
public health interventions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2011.06.005
PMID: 22099144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Aquat Toxicol. 2011 Oct;105(3-4 Suppl):50-5. doi:
10.1016/j.aquatox.2011.06.016.  Epub 2011 Jun 28.

Moving beyond a descriptive aquatic toxicology: the value of biological process 
and trait information.

Segner H(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Fish and Wildlife Health, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Bern, 
PO Box 8466, CH-3001 Bern, Switzerland. Helmut.Segner@vetsuisse.unibe.ch

In order to improve the ability to link chemical exposure to toxicological and 
ecological effects, aquatic toxicology will have to move from observing what 
chemical concentrations induce adverse effects to more explanatory approaches, 
that are concepts which build on knowledge of biological processes and pathways 
leading from exposure to adverse effects, as well as on knowledge on stressor 
vulnerability as given by the genetic, physiological and ecological (e.g., life 
history) traits of biota. Developing aquatic toxicology in this direction faces 
a number of challenges, including (i) taking into account species differences in 
toxicant responses on the basis of the evolutionarily developed diversity of 
phenotypic vulnerability to environmental stressors, (ii) utilizing diversified 
biological response profiles to serve as biological read across for prioritizing 
chemicals, categorizing them according to modes of action, and for guiding 
targeted toxicity evaluation; (iii) prediction of ecological consequences of 
toxic exposure from knowledge of how biological processes and phenotypic traits 
lead to effect propagation across the levels of biological hierarchy; and (iv) 
the search for concepts to assess the cumulative impact of multiple stressors. 
An underlying theme in these challenges is that, in addition to the question of 
what the chemical does to the biological receptor, we should give increasing 
emphasis to the question how the biological receptor handles the chemicals, 
i.e., through which pathways the initial chemical-biological interaction extends 
to the adverse effects, how this extension is modulated by adaptive or 
compensatory processes as well as by phenotypic traits of the biological 
receptor.

2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2011.06.016
PMID: 22099344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Am J Prev Med. 2011 Dec;41(6 Suppl 4):S369-75. doi: 
10.1016/j.amepre.2011.09.008.

Overweight and obesity in hemophilia: a systematic review of the literature.

Wong TE(1), Majumdar S, Adams E, Bergman S, Damiano ML, Deutsche J, Recht M; 
Healthy Weight Working Group.

Collaborators: McAlister S, Byams V, Casto L, Droze K, Dumas M, Kapica S, 
Lampman S, Meldau J, Withycombe J, Roach K, Willis T.

Author information:
(1)Puget Sound Blood Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. 
trishaw@psbc.org

CONTEXT: As life expectancy in individuals with congenital hemophilia approaches 
that of the general population, we hypothesize that public health risks, 
including overweight and obesity, also follow a similar trend.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A search of the literature included terms relating to 
overweight, sequelae of being overweight, and hemophilia. Studies were included 
if they reported the frequency or clinical significance of known complications 
of overweight and obesity, including musculoskeletal disease, aerobic capacity, 
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, decreased quality of life, and 
change in pharmacokinetics of infused clotting factor in hemophilia. 
Recommendations from medical organizations were searched for preventive and 
management strategies applicable to this population.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Overweight and obesity are now more prevalent in the 
hemophilia population than previous generations, with rates similar to and, in 
certain subsets even higher, than that of the general population. Increased BMI 
leads to limitations in joint range of motion in the general population and even 
more so in persons with hemophilia.
CONCLUSIONS: Overweight and obesity in hemophilia are an increasing problem. 
Simple steps can be taken to encourage patients to decrease caloric intake and 
increase physical activity. Prevention and management of overweight, obesity, 
and their sequelae must be addressed in clinical practice in order to maximize 
the overall health of the hemophilia population.

Copyright © 2011 American Journal of Preventive Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2011.09.008
PMID: 22099360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Thromb Haemost. 2012 Jan;10(1):90-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1538-7836.2011.04566.x.

Cancers in patients with hemophilia: a retrospective study from the Italian 
Association of Hemophilia Centers.

Tagliaferri A(1), Di Perna C, Santoro C, Schinco P, Santoro R, Rossetti G, 
Coppola A, Morfini M, Franchini M; Italian Association of Hemophilia Centers.

Collaborators: Mazzucconi MG, Castaman G, Scaraggi FA, Macchi S, Pasca S, Valdrè 
L, Zanon E, Radossi P, Serino ML, Cantori I, Napolitano M, Lapecorella M, 
Giuffrida AC, Dragani A, Delios G, Arbasi MC.

Author information:
(1)Regional Reference Center for Inherited Bleeding Disorders, University 
Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy.

Comment in
    J Thromb Haemost. 2012 Jun;10(6):1200-1;author reply 1201-2.

BACKGROUND: The increased life expectancy of the hemophilia population, 
primarily as a result of advances in factor replacement therapy, has enabled 
hemophiliacs to reach an older age. Consequently, age-related diseases, such as 
cardiovascular disorders and cancers, are being increasingly recognized in such 
patients. However, only few data are available on such co-morbidities, their 
management and impact on the primary bleeding disorders.
OBJECTIVES: With the aim of investigating several still unclear issues regarding 
cancers in hemophilia patients, we conducted, on behalf the Italian Association 
of Hemophilia Centers (AICE), a study on cancers among Italian hemophiliacs.
PATIENTS: Data pertaining to 122 hemophiliacs with 127 cancers between 1980 and 
2010 were retrospectively collected in 21 centers of the AICE which chose to 
participate.
RESULTS: Sixty-nine percent of cancers were recorded during the decade 
2001–2010. Eighty-three percent of patients were infected with hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) and 22% of them were also co-infected with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). Forty-three percent of cancers were HCV-related, whereas 9%were HIV 
related. Virus-related cancers were more frequent and non-virus-related cancers 
less frequent in patients with severe hemophilia than in those with 
mild/moderate forms (P = 0.0004). The non-virus-related standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) was 0.3. Hemorrhagic complications occurred more frequently in 
patients undergoing chemotherapy (14%) or radiotherapy (19%).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study confirm that cancers have become a 
new challenge for physicians working in hemophilia centers and underline the 
need for prospective trials to better assess the epidemiology and to optimize 
the management of hemophiliacs with cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1538-7836.2011.04566.x
PMID: 22099424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2011 Nov;115 Suppl 1:S20-5. doi: 
10.1016/S0020-7292(11)60007-6.

Development of a model to assess the cost-effectiveness of gestational diabetes 
mellitus screening and lifestyle change for the prevention of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus.

Lohse N(1), Marseille E, Kahn JG.

Author information:
(1)Global Health Partnerships, Novo Nordisk A/S, Bagsværd, Denmark. 
nilh@novonordisk.com

Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is increasingly recognized as an opportunity 
for early prevention of diabetes and other diseases over the lifespan, and may 
be responsible for up to 30% of cases of type 2 diabetes. A newly developed 
mathematical model (the GDModel) provides provisional estimates of the cost and 
health impact of various GDM screening and management choices, and calculates 
averted disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs). The model was piloted in 5 
different healthcare facilities in India and Israel. Universal screening of 
pregnant women followed by postpartum lifestyle management yielded net savings 
of US$78 per woman with GDM in India and US$1945 per woman in Israel. The 
estimated DALYs averted were 2.33 in India and 3.10 in Israel. With lower GDM 
prevalence, intervention efficacy, and type 2 diabetes incidence, the 
intervention had a net cost in India, with a cost per DALY averted of US$11.32. 
This was far below the WHO definition of "very cost-effective," set at annual 
GDP per capita. The intervention in Israel remained cost-saving. GDM screening 
and postpartum lifestyle management are either cost-saving or have a net cost 
but an attractive cost-effectiveness ratio. Some input values are currently 
being refined. Nevertheless, the current findings of cost-savings or favorable 
cost-effectiveness are robust to a wide range of plausible input values, 
including highly unfavorable values. The GDModel will be further developed into 
a user-friendly tool that can guide policy-makers on decisions regarding GDM 
screening strategies and guidelines.

Copyright © 2011 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics. 
Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0020-7292(11)60007-6
PMID: 22099435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2012 Mar-Apr;54(2):e175-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2011.10.012. Epub 2011 Nov 17.

The validity of an assessment of maximum angular velocity of knee extension (KE) 
using a gyroscope.

Arai T(1), Obuchi S, Shiba Y, Omuro K, Inaba Y, Kojima M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Mejiro University, 320 Ukiya, Iwatuki-ku, 
Saitama-shi, Saitama 339-8501, Japan. arait@tmig.or.jp

Although it is more important to assess the muscular power of the lower 
extremities than the strength, no simplified method for doing so has been found. 
The aim of this study was to assess the validity of the assessment of the 
angular velocity of KE using a gyroscope. Participants included 105 
community-dwelling older people (55 women, 50 men, age ± standard deviation (SD) 
75±5.3). Pearson correlation coefficients and Spearman rank-correlation 
coefficients were used to examine the relationships between the angular velocity 
of KE and functional performance measurements, a self-efficacy scale and 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The data from the gyroscope were 
significantly correlated with some physical functions such as muscle strength 
(r=0.304, p<0.01), and walking velocity (r=0.543, p<0.001). In addition, the 
joint angular velocity was significantly correlated with self-efficacy 
(r=0.219-0.329, p<0.01-0.05) and HRQOL (r=0.207-0.359, p<0.01-0.05). The 
absolute value of the correlation coefficient of angular velocity tended to be 
greater than that of the muscle strength for mobility functions such as walking 
velocity and the timed-up-and-go (TUG) test. In conclusion, it was found that 
the assessment of the angular velocity of the knee joint using a gyroscope could 
be a feasible and meaningful measurement in the geriatrics field.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2011.10.012
PMID: 22100108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Acta Biomater. 2012 Feb;8(2):461-73. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2011.11.005. Epub
 2011 Nov 11.

Critical review and perspective of macromolecularly imprinted polymers.

Kryscio DR(1), Peppas NA.

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas at Austin, Cockrell School of Engineering, Department 
of Chemical Engineering, Austin, TX 78712, USA.

Molecular recognition is a fundamental and ubiquitous process that is the 
driving force behind life. Natural recognition elements - including antibodies, 
enzymes, nucleic acids, and cells - exploit non-covalent interactions to bind to 
their targets with exceptionally strong affinities. Due to this unparalleled 
proficiency, scientists have long sought to mimic natural recognition pathways. 
One promising approach is molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs), which are fully 
synthetic systems formed via the crosslinking of organic polymers in the 
presence of a template molecule, which results in stereo-specific binding sites 
for this analyte of interest. Macromolecularly imprinted polymers, those 
synthesized in the presence of macromolecule templates (>1500 Da), are of 
particular importance because they open up the field for a whole new set of 
robust diagnostic tools. Although the specific recognition of 
small-molecular-weight analytes is now considered routine, extension of these 
efficacious procedures to the protein regime has, thus far, proved challenging. 
This paper reviews the main approaches employed, highlights studies of interest 
with an emphasis on recent work, and offers suggestions for future success in 
the field of macromolecularly imprinted polymers.

Copyright © 2011 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2011.11.005
PMID: 22100344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Ann Epidemiol. 2012 Feb;22(2):94-103. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2011.06.006.
Epub  2011 Nov 18.

Change of sex gaps in total and cause-specific mortality over the life span in 
the United States.

Yang Y(1), Kozloski M.

Author information:
(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Sociology, and Carolina 
Population Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 
27517, USA. yangy@unc.edu

PURPOSE: Previous research has led to the expectation that the gap in mortality 
between sexes narrows in older ages as sex differences in fecundity decrease. 
However, the patterns and explanations of variations in sex disparities in 
mortality across the life span and underlying causes of death are not well 
understood. We conducted a population-based study to further test this 
hypothesis.
METHODS: By using a nationally representative sample of adults (N = 25,254) with 
mortality follow-ups for 18 years, we modeled age variations in sex differences 
in risks of mortality from leading causes of death.
RESULTS: Male excesses in mortality decrease at older ages significantly for 
some but not all causes. Differential exposures to social, physiological, and 
morbidity risk factors account for the late life reductions of the sex mortality 
gaps completely in circulatory diseases, partially or minimally in the other 
causes of death. Social status and relationship are more important risk factors 
for mortality in younger ages, health behaviors are significant for all ages, 
and physiological dysregulation is more predictive of mortality in older ages.
CONCLUSIONS: Sex differences in the risk of mortality have strong age variations 
and are cause specific. Additional studies of age acceleration of cancer 
mortality risk are needed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2011.06.006
PMCID: PMC3337035
PMID: 22100543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2011 Dec 7;103(23):1736. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djr502. Epub
2011  Nov 18.

Radiation example and cancer: the Japanese example.

Goozner M.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djr502
PMID: 22100585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Med Decis Making. 2012 May-Jun;32(3):488-97. doi: 10.1177/0272989X11427958.
Epub  2011 Nov 18.

Endogenous patient responses and the consistency principle in cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Liu L(1), Rettenmaier AJ(1), Saving TR(1).

Author information:
(1)Texas A&M University, College Station, TX (LL, AJR, TRS)

In addition to incurring direct treatment costs and generating direct health 
benefits that improve longevity and/or health-related quality of life, medical 
interventions often have further or "unrelated" financial and health impacts, 
raising the issue of what costs and effects should be included in calculating 
the cost-effectiveness ratio of an intervention. The "consistency principle" in 
medical cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) requires that one include both the 
cost and the utility benefit of a change (in medical expenditures, consumption, 
or leisure) caused by an intervention or neither of them. By distinguishing 
between exogenous changes directly brought about by an intervention and 
endogenous patient responses to the exogenous changes, and within a lifetime 
utility maximization framework, this article addresses 2 questions related to 
the consistency principle: 1) how to choose among alternative internally 
consistent exclusion/inclusion rules, and 2) what to do with survival 
consumption costs and earnings. It finds that, for an endogenous change, 
excluding or including both the cost and the utility benefit of the change does 
not alter cost-effectiveness results. Further, in agreement with the consistency 
principle, welfare maximization implies that consumption costs and earnings 
during the extended life directly caused by an intervention should be included 
in CEA.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X11427958
PMID: 22101019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Neuro Endocrinol Lett. 2011;32 Suppl 2:51-4.

APOE polymorphism as a potential determinant of functional fitness in the 
elderly regardless of nutritional status.

Snejdrlova M(1), Kalvach Z, Topinkova E, Vrablik M, Prochazkova R, Kvasilova M, 
Lanska V, Zlatohlavek L, Prusikova M, Ceska R.

Author information:
(1)3rd Department of Internal Medicine, 1st Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University Prague, Czech Republic. Michaela.Snejdrlova@vfn.cz

OBJECTIVES: Life expectancy is determined by a combination of genetic 
predisposition (~25%) and environmental influences (~75%). Nevertheless a 
stronger genetic influence is anticipated in long-living individuals. 
Apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene belongs among the most studied candidate genes of 
longevity. We evaluated the relation of APOE polymorphism and fitness status in 
the elderly.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We examined a total number of 128 subjects, over 80 years 
of age. Using a battery of functional tests their fitness status was assessed 
and the subjects were stratified into 5 functional categories according to 
Spirduso´s classification. Biochemistry analysis was performed by enzymatic 
method using automated analyzers. APOE gene polymorphism was analysed performed 
using PCR-RFLP.
RESULTS: APOE4 allele carriers had significantly worse fitness status compared 
to non-carriers (p=0.025). Multiple logistic regression analysis showed the 
APOE4 carriers had higher risk (p=0.05) of functional unfitness compared to 
APOE2/E3 individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: APOE gene polymorphism seems be an important genetic contributor to 
frailty development in the elderly. While APOE2 carriers tend to remain 
functionally fit till higher age, the functional status of APOE4 carriers 
deteriorates more rapidly.

© 2011 Neuroendocrinology Letters

PMID: 22101883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Korean Soc Coloproctol. 2011 Oct;27(5):226-30. doi: 
10.3393/jksc.2011.27.5.226. Epub 2011 Oct 31.

Colorectal cancer with multiple metastases: is palliative surgery needed?

Choi HJ(1), Shin JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Dong-A University College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.

In patients with symptomatic incurable metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), the 
goal of resection of the primary lesion is to palliate cancer-related morbidity, 
including obstruction, bleeding, or perforation. In patients with asymptomatic 
primary tumors and incurable metastatic disease, however, the necessity of 
primary tumor resection is less clear. Although several retrospective analyses 
suggest survival benefit in patients who undergo resection of the primary tumor, 
applying this older evidence to modern patients is out of date for several 
reasons. Modern chemotherapy regimens incorporating the novel cytotoxic agents 
oxaliplatin and irinotecan, as well as the target agents bevacizumab and 
cetuximab, have improved median survival from less than 1 year with the only 
available single-agent 5-fluorouracil until the mid-1990s to over 2 years. In 
addition to significant prolongation of overall survival, combinations of novel 
chemotherapeutic and target agents have allowed improved local and distant tumor 
control, decreasing the likelihood of local tumor-related complications 
requiring surgical resection. Resection of an asymptomatic primary tumor risks 
surgical complications and may postpone the administration of chemotherapy that 
may offer both systemic and local control. In conclusion, the morbidity and the 
mortality of unnecessary surgery or surgery that does not improve quality of 
life or survival in patients with mCRC of a limited life expectancy should be 
carefully evaluated. With the availability of effective combinations of 
chemotherapy and target agents, systemic therapy for the treatment of 
life-threatening metastases would be a preferable treatment strategy for 
unresectable asymptomatic patients with mCRC.

DOI: 10.3393/jksc.2011.27.5.226
PMCID: PMC3218125
PMID: 22102971

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


994. Br J Neurosurg. 2012 Jun;26(3):336-9. doi: 10.3109/02688697.2011.629696.
Epub  2011 Nov 21.

Study of effectiveness of mifepristone for glioma cell line growth suppression.

Ramaswamy R(1), Ashton K, Lea R, Roberts P, Davis CH, Golash A, Dawson T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Royal Preston Hospital, Preston, UK. 
ramaswamy_mr@yahoo.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: Glioblastoma multiforme is a malignant primary brain tumour with very 
limited treatment options. Any addition to existing treatment options which can 
improve prognosis and life expectancy is useful. In our study, we look at the 
usefulness of anti-progestogen mifepristone in causing growth suppression of 
glioma cell lines in the laboratory.
METHODS: We cultured five cell lines in the lab and exposed them to mifepristone 
in different doses for a total of 96 h. Five different doses of mifepristone 
were used. Progesterone and dexamethasone were also used as growth stimulants. 
Immunostaining was used to identify progesterone receptors (PRs) in the cell 
lines.
RESULTS: U257/7 and IN1265 showed statistically significant growth suppression 
(36% and 11%, P = 0.001 and 0.03 respectively), maximal at 96 h. Growth 
suppression in U257/7 showed a dose response progression except with the lowest 
dose which was not explicable. The response of IN1265 was seen only with the 
highest dose of mifepristone. There was no significant growth stimulation with 
either dexamethasone or progesterone. None of the cell lines showed any 
significant positivity for PRs.
CONCLUSION: We were able to produce enough growth suppression of glioma cell 
lines using mifepristone. This is in keeping with some of the published results 
in literature. This raises the possibility of using mifepristone in treating 
GBMs which have very limited treatment options. This, however, needs further 
work probably on primary glioma cultures first followed by in vivo studies 
before it can be used in patients.

DOI: 10.3109/02688697.2011.629696
PMID: 22103566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Int J Food Microbiol. 2012 Feb 1;153(1-2):92-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2011.10.021. Epub 2011 Nov 4.

Effects of microencapsulated Allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) on the extension of the 
shelf-life of Kimchi.

Ko JA(1), Kim WY, Park HJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul, 136-701, 
Republic of Korea.

Allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) is a well-recognized antimicrobial agent but, 
application of AITC to food systems is limited due to its high volatility and 
strong odor. This study was performed to overcome the volatility of AITC by 
encapsulation using gum Arabic and chitosan and to investigate the effect of 
microencapsulated AITC as a natural additive on the shelf-life and quality of 
Kimchi. AITC loaded microparticles were prepared using gum Arabic and chitosan 
and were added to Kimchi at various concentrations (0-0.02%, w/w). The 
titratable acidity, pH, microbial changes, and sensory test of Kimchi were 
examined for 15days at different fermentation temperatures (4 and 10°C). The pH 
of Kimchi containing AITC microparticles was significantly higher than that of 
control and the higher the quantity of added AITC, the higher the pH became. The 
titratable acidity of Kimchi increased during storage especially, titratable 
acidity of control increased significantly higher than those of Kimchi with 
added AITC microparticles. The number of Leuconostoc and Lactobacillus species 
in Kimchi decreased with an increase in the concentration of AITC. The addition 
of AITC induced reduction of sour taste and improvement of the texture of Kimchi 
during fermentation. However, as the content of AITC increased, the scores of 
overall acceptability decreased due to the odor of AITC. These results indicate 
that addition of AITC (less than 0.1%) to Kimchi is an effective way of 
enhancing the shelf-life of Kimchi without reducing quality.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2011.10.021
PMID: 22104119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Ann Oncol. 2012 Jul;23(7):1825-32. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdr545. Epub 2011 Nov
21.

Adding docetaxel to cisplatin and fluorouracil in patients with unresectable 
head and neck cancer: a cost-utility analysis.

Liberato NL(1), Rognoni C, Rubrichi S, Quaglini S, Marchetti M, Gorlia T, 
Licitra L, Vermorken JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Azienda Ospedaliera della Provincia di 
Pavia, Casorate Primo, Italy. lucio_liberato@ospedali.pavia.it

BACKGROUND: Adding docetaxel (Taxotere, T) to induction chemotherapy with 
platinum/infusional 5-FU (PF) has been shown to improve overall survival of 
patients with head and neck cancer. The aim of the study was to analyze the 
cost-utility of TPF in patients with unresectable disease.
DESIGN: We developed a Markov model to represent patient's weekly transitions 
among different health states, related to treatment or disease status. 
Transition probabilities were obtained from the TAX 324 clinical trial report 
and from the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 
24971/TAX 323 raw data. Costs were estimated in Italy from a Regional Healthcare 
System perspective. A 5-year temporal horizon was adopted and a 3.5% yearly 
discount rate was applied.
RESULTS: When compared with PF, TPF treatment increases life expectancy by 0.33 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) in TAX 323 and 0.41 QALYs in TAX 324. The 
benefit was achieved at a cost of €11,822/QALY for TAX 323 and €6757/QALY for 
TAX 324. Monte Carlo sensitivity analysis showed that 69% (TAX 323) and 99% (TAX 
324) of the results lie below the threshold of €50,000/QALY saved.
CONCLUSIONS: In our analysis, TPF induction chemotherapy proved to be 
cost-effective when compared with PF, having a cost-utility ratio comparable to 
other widely accepted healthcare interventions.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdr545
PMID: 22104577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Ann Adv Automot Med. 2011;55:365-77.

Quality-adjusted life years lost to road crash injury: updating the injury 
impairment index.

Spicer RS(1), Miller TR, Hendrie D, Blincoe LJ.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation Centre for Population Health 
Research, School of Public Health, Curtin University of Technology National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation.

The Injury Impairment Index (III) has long been used internationally to estimate 
the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) losses associated with crash injuries. The 
III has major limitations, notably its lack of detailed validation, but it is 
widely used and estimates from it are regularly published. It is based on 
physician estimates of typical impairment on 6 dimensions of functioning 
(cognitive, mobility, bending/grasping/lifting, sensory, pain and cosmetic), 
supplemented with data on work-related disability. This paper reports on a 
literature synthesis used to update the III scoring algorithm that converts 
impairment levels by dimension into a combined QALY loss score. An extensive 
international literature search identified 13 health status scales, some of them 
with multiple scorings. From the scorings, we extracted utility scores for each 
level of each dimension of the III. We also searched for direct utility 
estimates for III dimension endpoints (e.g., blindness, deafness). Median and 
inter-quartile ranges were computed by scale point to represent the uncertainty 
range of preference weights within each III dimension and level. Average QALY 
losses per injury by MAIS were computed using the updated preference weight 
ranges applied to 2000-2006 U.S. crash data. The updated QALY loss estimates are 
lower than those computed with the QALY weights developed in 1990. This paper's 
tables of estimated average QALY losses by MAIS, injury type, and body region 
injured can be applied to future and existing injury data in order to estimate 
the impact of injury on quality of life and measure health status.

PMCID: PMC3256815
PMID: 22105411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2011 Nov 22;9(3):133-46. doi: 10.1038/nrcardio.2011.169.

Treatment and management of mitral regurgitation.

De Bonis M(1), Maisano F, La Canna G, Alfieri O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, San Raffaele University Hospital, Via 
Olgettina 60, 20132 Milan, Italy. debonis.michele@hsr.it

Mitral regurgitation (MR) is the most-common valvular heart disease in the 
western world. From an etiologic point of view, MR can be either organic (mainly 
degenerative in western countries) or functional (secondary to left ventricular 
remodeling in the context of ischemic or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy). 
Degenerative and functional MR are completely different disease entities that 
pose specific decision-making problems and require different management. The 
natural history of severe degenerative MR is clearly unfavorable. However, the 
appropriate and timely correction of degenerative MR is associated with a life 
expectancy similar to that of the normal population. By contrast, the prognostic 
impact of the correction of functional MR is still a matter of debate. In this 
Review, we discuss the optimal treatment of both degenerative and functional MR, 
taking into account all presently available therapeutic options, including novel 
percutaneous methods. Since a clear understanding of the etiology and mechanisms 
of valvular dysfunction is important to guide the timing and choice of 
treatment, the role of echocardiography in the management of MR is also 
addressed.

DOI: 10.1038/nrcardio.2011.169
PMID: 22105677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Biomed Environ Sci. 2011 Aug;24(4):329-34. doi:
10.3967/0895-3988.2011.04.002.

Health inequalities during 20 years of rapid economic development in China 
(1980-2000): a mortality analysis.

Zheng X(1), Song X, Chen G, You Y, Ren Q, Liu J, Zhang L, Tan L, Wei J, Chen Q.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Center on Reproductive Health and Population Science, 
Peking University, Beijing, China. xyzheng@pku.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To examine the influence of China's economic reforms on population 
health and regional mortality rates.
METHODS: Longitudinal study measuring the mortality trends and their regional 
variations. Using data from the three most recent national censuses, we used the 
model life table to adjust the mortality levels within the population for each 
census, and to calculate life expectancy. We then examined the variation in 
patterns of mortality and population health by economic status, region and 
gender from 1980-2000.
RESULTS: Life expectancy varied with economic status, province, and gender. 
Results showed that, although life expectancy in China had increased overall 
since the early 1980s, regional differences became more pronounced. Life 
expectancy for populations who live in the eastern coastal provinces are greater 
than those in the western regions.
CONCLUSION: Differences in life expectancy are primarily related to differences 
in regional economic development, which in turn exacerbate regional health 
inequalities. Therefore, it is necessary to improve economic development in less 
developed regions and to improve health policies and the public health system 
that address the needs of everyone.

Copyright © 2011 The Editorial Board of Biomedical and Environmental Sciences. 
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3967/0895-3988.2011.04.002
PMID: 22108320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2011;155(46):A3621.

[Nocturnal stridor in multiple system atrophy].

[Article in Dutch]

Louter M(1), Pelleboer RH, van den Broek GB, Post B, Pevernagie DA, Overeem S.

Author information:
(1)UMC St Radboud, Afd. Neurologie, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Multiple system atrophy is a neurodegenerative disorder with 
parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia and autonomic dysfunction. The occurrence of 
nocturnal stridor in patients with multiple system atrophy is associated with a 
decreased life expectancy. This is what makes adequate treatment so important. 
Nevertheless, stridor goes often unrecognized and there is frequent uncertainty 
about the therapeutic options.
CASE: We present a 58-year-old woman with multiple system atrophy and nocturnal 
stridor. Direct laryngoscopy showed bilateral paresis of the vocal cords and 
glottic stenosis. Since the outcome of treatment with continuous positive airway 
pressure (CPAP) was unsatisfactory, a tracheotomy was performed after which the 
stridor disappeared.
CONCLUSION: Polysomnography and laryngoscopy are the important diagnostic tools 
for this condition, after the clinical interview. Tracheotomy used to be the 
only therapeutic option for stridor. However, recent studies show a comparable 
effectiveness of non-invasive treatment with CPAP, provided there is a correct 
indication. The choice of therapy is a multidisciplinary process in which the 
neurologist, the sleep medicine specialist, the otolaryngologist, and the 
patient are involved.

PMID: 22108461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Plant Physiol. 2012 Jan;158(1):283-98. doi: 10.1104/pp.111.186866. Epub 2011
Nov  22.

Suppression of 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase, which encodes a key enzyme in 
abscisic acid biosynthesis, alters fruit texture in transgenic tomato.

Sun L(1), Sun Y, Zhang M, Wang L, Ren J, Cui M, Wang Y, Ji K, Li P, Li Q, Chen 
P, Dai S, Duan C, Wu Y, Leng P.

Author information:
(1)College of Agriculture and Biotechnology, China Agricultural University, 
Beijing 100193, China.

Cell wall catabolism during fruit ripening is under complex control and is key 
for fruit quality and shelf life. To examine the role of abscisic acid (ABA) in 
tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) fruit ripening, we suppressed SlNCED1, which 
encodes 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED), a key enzyme in the 
biosynthesis of ABA. To suppress SlNCED1 specifically in tomato fruits, and thus 
avoid the pleiotropic phenotypes associated with ABA deficiency, we used an RNA 
interference construct driven by the fruit-specific E8 promoter. ABA 
accumulation and SlNCED1 transcript levels in the transgenic fruit were 
down-regulated to between 20% and 50% of the levels measured in the control 
fruit. This significant reduction in NCED activity led to a down-regulation in 
the transcription of genes encoding major cell wall catabolic enzymes, 
specifically polygalacturonase (SlPG), pectin methyl esterase (SlPME), 
β-galactosidase precursor mRNA (SlTBG), xyloglucan endotransglycosylase (SlXET), 
endo-1,4-β-cellulose (SlCels), and expansin (SlExp). This resulted in an 
increased accumulation of pectin during ripening. In turn, this led to a 
significant extension of the shelf life to 15 to 29 d compared with a shelf life 
of only 7 d for the control fruit and an enhancement of fruit firmness at the 
mature stage by 30% to 45%. In conclusion, ABA affects cell wall catabolism 
during tomato fruit ripening via down-regulation of the expression of major 
catabolic genes (SlPG, SlPME, SlTBG, SlXET, SlCels, and SlExp).

DOI: 10.1104/pp.111.186866
PMCID: PMC3252109
PMID: 22108525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Thorac Surg Clin. 2012 Feb;22(1):1-12, v. doi: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2011.09.006.

Perioperative smoking cessation.

de Hoyos A(1), Southard C, DeCamp MM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Northwestern 
University Feinberg School of Medicine, 676 North Saint Clair Street, Suite 650, 
Chicago, IL 60611, USA. mdecamp@nmh.org

Smoking is the leading cause of preventable death worldwide. Smoking cessation 
programs that include counseling and pharmacotherapy have been proved to be 
effective in achieving long-standing abstinence. Smoking cessation is associated 
with significant improvements in quality of life, mortality, life expectancy, 
and postsurgical complication rates. Contrary to general belief, smoking 
cessation close to the time of elective surgery does not increase the risk of 
pulmonary complications. Longer-term quit rates are generally higher in cohorts 
who quit in anticipation of surgery compared with those quitting for general 
health considerations. A team approach and adherence to the guidelines for 
smoking cessation improves long-term chances of success.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2011.09.006
PMID: 22108683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Lancet Infect Dis. 2012 Mar;12(3):210-21. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(11)70294-8. 
Epub 2011 Nov 20.

Global burden of human food-borne trematodiasis: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Fürst T(1), Keiser J, Utzinger J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Swiss Tropical and Public 
Health Institute, Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2012 Mar;12(3):171-2.

BACKGROUND: Food-borne trematodiases are a group of neglected tropical diseases 
caused by liver, lung, and intestinal parasitic fluke infections. As part of the 
Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD 2010 study) and 
a WHO initiative, we assessed the global burden of human food-borne 
trematodiasis, as expressed in disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) for the 
year 2005.
METHODS: We systematically searched electronic databases for reports about human 
food-borne trematodiasis without language restriction, between Jan 1, 1980, and 
Dec 31, 2008. We used a broad search strategy with a combination of search terms 
and parasite and disease names. The initial search results were then screened on 
the basis of title, abstract, and, finally, full text. Relevant quantitative and 
qualitative data on human prevalence, morbidity, and mortality of food-borne 
trematodiasis were extracted. On the basis of available information on 
pathological and clinical appearance, we developed simplified disease models and 
did meta-analyses on the proportions and odds ratios of specified sequelae and 
estimated the global burden of human food-borne trematodiasis.
FINDINGS: We screened 33,921 articles and identified 181 eligible studies 
containing quantitative information for inclusion in the meta-analyses. About 
56·2 million people were infected with food-borne trematodes in 2005: 7·9 
million had severe sequelae and 7158 died, most from cholangiocarcinoma and 
cerebral infection. Taken together, we estimate that the global burden of 
food-borne trematodiasis was 665,352 DALYs (lower estimate 479,496 DALYs; upper 
estimate 859,051 DALYs). Furthermore, knowledge gaps in crucial epidemiological 
disease parameters and methodological features for estimating the global burden 
of parasitic diseases that are characterised by highly focal spatial occurrence 
and scarce and patchy information were highlighted.
INTERPRETATION: Despite making conservative estimates, we found that food-borne 
trematodiases are an important cluster of neglected diseases.
FUNDING: Swiss National Science Foundation; Institute for Health Metrics and 
Evaluation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(11)70294-8
PMID: 22108757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Mult Scler. 2012 Jun;18(6):853-61. doi: 10.1177/1352458511429319. Epub 2011
Nov  22.

The use of multiple sclerosis condition-specific measures to inform health 
policy decision-making: mapping from the MSWS-12 to the EQ-5D.

Hawton A(1), Green C, Telford CJ, Wright DE, Zajicek JP.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, PenCLAHRC, Peninsula College of Medicine and 
Dentistry, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK. annie.hawton@pms.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Walking impairment has a major influence on the quality of life of 
people with multiple sclerosis (MS). The Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale 
(MSWS-12) assesses the impact of MS on walking ability from the patient's 
perspective, but in its current form, is not amenable for use in many policy 
decision-making settings.
OBJECTIVES: Statistical 'mapping' methods were used to convert MSWS-12 scores to 
EQ-5D health state values.
METHODS: The relationship between the measures was estimated using cohort data 
from people with MS in South West England. Regression analyses were conducted, 
estimation errors assessed, and predictive performance of the best models tested 
using longitudinal data.
RESULTS: Model performance was in line with that of other mapping studies, with 
the best-performing models being an ordinary least squares (OLS) model using 
MSWS-12 item scores, and an OLS model using the total MSWS-12 score and its 
squared term.
CONCLUSIONS: A process has been described whereby data from a patient-reported 
outcome measure (MSWS-12) can be converted to (EQ-5D) health state values. These 
values may be used to consider the health-related quality of life of people with 
MS, to estimate quality adjusted life-years for use in effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness analyses, and to inform health policy decisions.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458511429319
PMID: 22108867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Age (Dordr). 2013 Feb;35(1):103-15. doi: 10.1007/s11357-011-9336-z. Epub 2011 
Nov 23.

Aging and vascular dysfunction: beneficial melatonin effects.

Rodella LF(1), Favero G, Rossini C, Foglio E, Bonomini F, Reiter RJ, Rezzani R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Biotechnologies, Section of Human 
Anatomy, University of Brescia, Viale Europa 11, Brescia, Italy.

