Aging is characterized by a progressive deterioration of physiological functions 
and metabolic processes. In aging and in diseases associated with the elderly, 
the loss of cells in vital structures or organs may be related to several 
factors. Sirtuin1 (SIRT1) is a member of the sirtuin family of protein 
deacetylases involved in life span extension; however, its involvement in the 
aging is not yet completely defined. Recently, melatonin, a pleiotropic 
molecule, shown to activate SIRT1 in primary neurons of young animals, as well 
as in aged neurons of a murine model of senescence. Melatonin is known to 
modulate oxidative stress-induced senescence and pro-survival pathways. We 
treated 6- and 15-week-old apolipoprotein E (APOE)-deficient mice (APOE 6w and 
15w) with two melatonin formulations (FAST and RETARD) to evaluate their 
anti-aging effect. Morphological changes in vessels (aortic arch) of APOE mice 
were evaluated SIRT1, p53, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), and 
endothelin-1 (ET-1) markers. We demonstrate that SIRT1 and eNOS decresed in APOE 
mice between 6 and 15 weeks and that aging induced an elevated expression of p53 
and ET-1 in APOE animals. Melatonin improved the impairment of endothelial 
damage and reduced loss of SIRT1 and eNOS decreasing p53 and ET-1 expression. 
The RETARD melatonin preparation caused a greater improvement of vessel 
cytoarchitecture. In summary, we indicate that SIRT1-p53-eNOS axis as one of the 
important marker of advanced vascular dysfunctions linked to aging. Finally, we 
suggest that extended-release melatonin (RETARD) provides a more appropriate 
option for contrasting these dysfunctions compared with rapid release melatonin 
(FAST) administration.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-011-9336-z
PMCID: PMC3543744
PMID: 22109832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Health Econ. 2013 Jan;22(1):22-34. doi: 10.1002/hec.1812. Epub 2011 Nov 22.

Cost-minimisation analysis versus cost-effectiveness analysis, revisited.

Dakin H(1), Wordsworth S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, UK. 
helen.dakin@dph.ox.ac.uk

We aim to establish whether it is ever appropriate to conduct cost-minimisation 
analysis (CMA) rather than cost-effectiveness analysis.We perform a literature 
review to examine how the use of CMA has changed since Briggs & O'Brien 
announced its death in 2001. Examples of simulated and trial data are presented: 
firstly to illustrate the advantages and disadvantages of CMA in the context of 
non-inferiority trials and those finding no significant difference in efficacy 
and secondly to assess whether CMA gives biased results.We show that CMA is 
still used and will bias measures of uncertainty, causing overestimation or 
underestimation of the value of information and the probability that treatment 
is cost-effective. Although bias will be negligible for non-inferiority studies 
comparing treatments that differ enormously in cost, it is generally necessary 
to collect and analyse data on costs and efficacy (including utilities) to 
assess this bias. Cost-effectiveness analysis (including evaluation of the joint 
distribution of costs and benefits) is almost always required to avoid biased 
estimation of uncertainty. The remit of CMA in trial-based economic evaluation 
is therefore even narrower than previously thought, suggesting that CMA is not 
only dead but should also be buried.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1812
PMID: 22109960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Popul Dev Rev. 2011;37(3):435-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2011.00429.x.

Secular declines in the association between obesity and mortality in the United 
States.

Mehta NK(1), Chang VW.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor.

Recent research suggests that rising obesity will restrain future gains in US 
life expectancy and that obesity is an important contributor to the current 
shortfall in us longevity compared to other high-income countries. Estimates of 
the contribution of obesity to current and future national-level mortality 
patterns are sensitive to estimates of the magnitude of the association between 
obesity and mortality at the individual level. We assessed secular trends in the 
obesity/mortality association among cohorts of middle-aged adults between 1948 
and 2006 using three long-running US data sources: the Framingham Heart Study, 
the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, and the National Health 
Interview Survey. We find substantial declines over time in the magnitude of the 
association between obesity and overall mortality and, in certain instances, 
cardiovascular-specific mortality. We conclude that estimates of the 
contribution of obesity to current national-level mortality patterns should take 
into account recent reductions in the magnitude of the obesity and mortality 
association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2011.00429.x
PMCID: PMC3220918
PMID: 22110257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Hippokratia. 2011 Apr;15(2):167-9.

Allocation of renal grafts to older recipients does not result in loss of 
functioning graft-years.

Vrochides D(1), Hassanain M, Metrakos P, Tchervenkov J, Chaudhury P, Chan G, 
Paraskevas S.

Author information:
(1)Multi-Organ Transplant Program, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Most deceased donor kidney allocation protocols are based on waiting 
time and do not take into account either recipient's life expectancy. This study 
investigates whether graft survival is affected by patient life expectancy.
METHODS: A total of 640 adult kidney transplants were performed. Recipients were 
divided in group A (patients ≤ 50 years) and group B (patients > 50 years). The 
status of graft+recipient combination was characterized as: a) deceased 
recipient with functional graft, b) alive recipient with functional graft and c) 
deceased or alive recipient with nonfunctional graft.
RESULTS: Mean kidney recipient survival was 15.15 (95% CI: 14.54, 15.77) and 
12.40 (95% CI: 11.47, 13.33) years for groups A and B respectively (p < 0.0001). 
Mean graft survival was 13.62 (95% CI: 12.81, 14.43) and 12.42 (95% CI: 11.59, 
13.25) years for groups A and B respectively (p=0.6516). Non-functional grafts 
were identified in 18.4% (n=57) and 16.4% (n=54) of group A and B respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Allocation of renal grafts to older patients does not result in 
significant loss of graft-years. Recipients' life expectancy has a small impact 
on graft survival. We should not deviate from the basic principles of equality, 
when kidney allocation systems are designed.

PMCID: PMC3209682
PMID: 22110301


9. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2013 Jan;24(1):96-103. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2011.02368.x. Epub 2011 Nov 24.

A comparison of implant-retained mandibular overdentures and conventional 
dentures on quality of life in edentulous patients: a randomized, prospective, 
within-subject controlled clinical trial.

Harris D(1), Höfer S, O'Boyle CA, Sheridan S, Marley J, Benington IC, Clifford 
T, Houston F, O'Connell B.

Author information:
(1)Dublin Dental School & Hospital, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. 
david@drdavidharris.com

Comment in
    Evid Based Dent. 2013 Mar;14(1):19-20.
    J Evid Based Dent Pract. 2013 Sep;13(3):94-6.

OBJECTIVES: To determine any difference in patient response to implant 
overdentures compared with conventional complete dentures alone.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a randomized, prospective, controlled study, 122 
edentulous patients (Mean age 64; 39 men, 83 women) underwent baseline 
assessment of denture satisfaction and quality of life using the Oral Health 
Impact Profile-49 (OHIP-49) and a Denture Satisfaction Questionnaire. All 
patients were provided with new conventional complete dentures (CCDs) that they 
wore for 3 months, at which point they were reassessed using the same measures. 
Patients were randomly assigned either to continue with CCDs (CC group) or to 
have implant-retained overdentures (IODs) made (CI group). The CC group was 
assessed after a further 3 months (6 months after receiving CCDs). The CI group 
was assessed 3 months after receiving IODs.
RESULTS: Significant improvements in satisfaction and quality of life were found 
in the patients 3 months after receiving CCDs (P < 0.05). No further 
improvements were found in the CC group at 6 months on any of the measures. The 
CI group showed significant additional improvements at 3 months following IODs 
on the functional limitation, physical pain, psychological discomfort, physical 
disability, social disability, psychological disability and handicap scales of 
the OHIP and on 10 of the 11 scales of the Denture Satisfaction Questionnaire 
(P < 0.05, ANOVA).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings show that, controlling for expectancy bias and 
variability in baseline levels, IODs significantly increase patient 
satisfaction, dental function and quality of life over and above those achieved 
with good quality CCDs.

© 2011 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2011.02368.x
PMID: 22111872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2011 Dec;97(8):785-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2011.07.012. Epub 2011 Nov 22.

Free Gracilis muscle transfer to restore elbow flexion in brachial plexus 
injuries.

Coulet B(1), Boch C, Boretto J, Lazerges C, Chammas M.

Author information:
(1)Hand and Upper Extremity Surgery Department, Lapeyronie Teaching Regional 
Hospital Center, 371, avenue du Doyen-Gaston-Giraud, Montpellier cedex 5, 
France. Bertrand-coulet@wanadoo.fr

INTRODUCTION: Restoration of elbow flexion is an important step in managing 
brachial plexus injuries. After more than one year of functional denervation, 
the muscle atrophy is significant enough that transferring a free muscle to act 
as a new effector becomes a treatment option. The goal of this study was to 
evaluate the effectiveness of transferring a gracilis free muscle, innervated by 
three intercostal nerves, to restore elbow flexion.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This was a retrospective study of a series of gracilis 
transfer procedures in 12 men having an average age of 25.6 years (23-37) and 
average follow-up of 112 months (28-260). The patients were operated on average 
at 42 months (14-153) following their motor vehicle accident; five had a partial 
paralysis (C5C6C7) and seven had a complete paralysis (C5-T1). The surgical 
technique and rehabilitation protocol were the same for all the patients.
RESULTS: There were two cases of acute arterial thrombosis (17%) that led to 
functional failure. When these two cases were excluded from the analysis, all 
the remaining patients had a useful result (British Medical Research Council 
score ≥ M4) and 2.5 kg of elbow flexion strength measured on a dynamometer. The 
strength was 3.8 kg (2.7 to 55) for partial plexus injuries and 1.6 kg (0.3 to 
1.5) for complete plexus injuries. For partial injuries, active elbow flexion 
was 128° and extension -38°, versus 103° and -23° for complete injuries. The 
average DASH score was 42 for partial injuries and 32 for complete injuries.
DISCUSSION: Free Gracilis muscle transfer is a challenging technique that leads 
to reproducible and encouraging results, but has vascular failure rate that 
cannot be ignored. When compared to published results, our series provides 
similar results to primary suturing performed within 6 months for cases of 
complete paralysis and within 12 months for cases of C5C6C7 partial paralysis; 
our series was better for cases beyond 12 months.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2011.07.012
PMID: 22112464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Cancer Biomark. 2010;9(1-6):101-11. doi: 10.3233/CBM-2011-0184.

DNA methylation in early neoplasia.

Carmona FJ(1), Esteller M.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Epigenetics and Biology Program (PEBC), Bellvitge Institute for 
Biomedical Research (IDIBELL), 08907 L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, 
Catalonia, Spain.

Life expectancy rises steeply when a tumor is diagnosed at an early stage. 
Therefore, diagnosing cancer before it turns into an aggressive, barely curable 
disease is one of the main goals of oncological research in the 21st century. 
This is of vital importance for certain types of cancer for which survival rates 
drastically drop as primary tumors are detected by currently available screening 
procedures. Aberrant DNA methylation is a common hallmark of human cancer. This 
epigenetic mark is altered in instructive ways in the distinct stages of 
multistep tumorigenesis from the early onset of malignant transformation. 
Therefore, the possibility of detecting precise methylation signatures 
associated with particular cancers and the development of methodologies 
increasingly sensitive at detecting them, makes DNA methylation biomarkers 
attractive predictors for the development of effective diagnostic tests for the 
early detection of human neoplasia.

DOI: 10.3233/CBM-2011-0184
PMID: 22112471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Feb;55(2):421-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.09.006. Epub 2011
Nov  23.

Short- and long-term outcomes of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty/stenting 
of renal fibromuscular dysplasia over a ten-year period.

Mousa AY(1), Campbell JE, Stone PA, Broce M, Bates MC, AbuRahma AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center, West 
Virginia University, Charleston, WV 25304, USA. amousa@hsc.wvu.edu

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate short and long-term 
outcomes of percutaneous transluminal intervention in patients with symptomatic 
renal artery stenosis due to fibromuscular dysplasia (RAFMD) and/or the 
combination of RAFMD with aorto-ostial atherosclerotic disease.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of all patients with renal artery RAFMD who 
underwent transcatheter therapy between January 1999 and December 2009 was 
performed. Blood pressure (BP) measurement, number of BP medications, and 
hypertension defined by a systolic BP >140 ± diastolic BP >90 were recorded. 
Renal function was defined by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). 
Restenosis was defined by stenosis >60% and was determined by renal artery 
duplex and/or angiography. Freedom from event (restenosis, renal failure, or 
recurrent hypertension) was performed using life table analysis.
RESULTS: Forty-three procedures were performed on 35 patients with RAFMD. 
Thirty-two patients (91%) were women, with mean age of 61.9 years old. Technical 
success was 100% with adjunctive stent placement required in the FMD segment for 
dissection in 1 patient (2.3%) and in the non-FMD aorto-ostial atherosclerotic 
lesion in 4 patients (9.3%). Short-term outcomes: the majority (69%) had an 
immediate clinical benefit for hypertension, 6% were cured without BP 
medications, and 63% improved with less than or equal to preoperative BP 
medications. Postintervention, 17% remained at moderately reduced renal function 
(<60), whereas the percent above >60 mL/minute eGFR increased significantly 
(from 51% to 69%; P = .002). For the entire cohort, renal function (mean eGFR) 
significantly increased from 71.9 mL/minute + 5.8 to 80.8 mL/minute + 5.2 (P = 
.007). Long-term outcomes: freedom from recurrent or worsening hypertension 
(>140 systolic blood pressure [SBP] and >90 diastolic blood pressure [DBP]) was 
(93%, 75%, and 41%) and freedom from reduced renal function (eGFR <30 mL/minute) 
was (100%, 95%, and 64%) at 1, 5, and 8 years, respectively. Patients with 
reduced baseline renal function (<60 mL/minute) and combined atherosclerotic 
disease were more likely to experience long-term reduced renal function (eGFR 
<30 mL/minute; P = .003). Primary and assisted primary patency was (95%, 71%, 
and 50%) and (100%, 100%, and 100%) at 1, 5, and 9 years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Renal angioplasty is a safe and durable modality for treating RAFMD 
with favorable short and long-term clinical outcomes. Patients with combined 
atherosclerotic disease and FMD were older and were more likely to have 
declining renal function over time. Early intervention may be imperative to 
achieve possible cure of hypertension.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.09.006
PMID: 22112553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Aust J Prim Health. 2011;17(4):309-19. doi: 10.1071/PY11034.

An equity-effectiveness framework linking health programs and healthy life 
expectancy.

Banham D(1), Lynch J, Karnon J.

Author information:
(1)Research and Ethics Policy Unit, SA Health, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia. 
david.banham@health.sa.gov.au

South Australia's Strategic Plan includes a target to improve the population's 
healthy life expectancy. A common question among health policy and service 
planners is: 'How do health programs and services in the community relate to 
healthy life expectancy?' In response, this paper outlines an effectiveness and 
equity framework (EEF) for evaluating health interventions in applied settings. 
Using the example of coronary heart disease (CHD) management in general practice 
in South Australia, the EEF: (1) applies an internally consistent approach to 
accounting for population healthy life expectancy at state and smaller 
geographic levels; (2) estimates average population health gains from health 
programs, and gains across different socioeconomic subgroups within the 
community; (3) conducts economic evaluation by equating health gains against 
health system costs in population subgroups; (4) summarises relevant information 
about candidate intervention programs within a multi-criteria performance matrix 
for presentation to decision makers; (5) reassesses outcomes (and processes) 
following the implementation of a program and iteratively adds to the relevant 
knowledge and evidence base. The EEF offers a practical approach to selecting 
and evaluating intervention programs. The challenge is to develop system culture 
and data capture methods clearly focussed on linking health system activities to 
population health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1071/PY11034
PMID: 22112699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2012 Sep;20(9):1781-6. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-011-1766-8. Epub 2011 Nov 24.

Total knee arthroplasty in severe haemophilic patients under continuous infusion 
of clotting factors.

Rahmé M(1), Ehlinger M, Faradji A, Gengenwin N, Lecocq J, Sibilia J, Bonnomet F.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Orthopédique et de Traumatologie, CHU Hautepierre, 
Hôpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, 1 Avenue Molière, 67098 Strasbourg Cedex, 
France. dr.mrahme@gmail.com

PURPOSE: Haemophilic arthropathy is painful, invalidating and destructive. 
Authors report a prospective study of total knee arthroplasties in patients with 
severe haemophilia under continuous infusion of clotting factors. The purpose is 
to evaluate the benefits of continuous infusion of clotting factors regarding 
long-term functional improvement and radio-clinical results.
METHODS: From 1998 to 2009, 20 total knee arthroplasties were implanted in 14 
patients with a mean age of 36.5 years (24-56). A continuous infusion of 
anti-haemophilic factors was used and supervised by the physician of the 
Regional Haemophilia Treatment Centre (CRTH). Evaluation was clinical using the 
HSS and Oxford scores and radiological.
RESULTS: One patient was lost to follow-up. Median follow-up is 66.5 months 
(6-134). Oxford score at latest follow-up is 42 (37-46). On revision, HSS score 
is 91 (84-96). Median flexion gain is 32.5° (-20; 75°). There is a median 
flexion contracture of 5° (0-15°) and a median extension improvement of 22.5°. 
We report 2 secondary infectious complications, concerning the same operated 
knee of a single patient. No post-operative haematoma was reported in our study.
CONCLUSION: Total knee arthroplasty in haemophilic arthropathy improves both the 
function and quality of life of this group of patients. Continuous infusion of 
clotting factors contributes significantly to these results, by allowing early 
and intensive rehabilitation, and offers security regarding haemorrhagic 
complications commonly described in the literature and that we have not 
encountered in our study.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic study, Level IV.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-011-1766-8
PMID: 22113216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Epidemiol Rev. 2012;34:17-31. doi: 10.1093/epirev/mxr022. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

Measuring the population burden of fatal and nonfatal injury.

Polinder S(1), Haagsma JA, Lyons RA, Gabbe BJ, Ameratunga S, Cryer C, Derrett S, 
Harrison JE, Segui-Gomez M, van Beeck EF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. s.polinder@erasmusmc.nl

The value of measuring the population burden of fatal and nonfatal injury is 
well established. Population health metrics are important for assessing health 
status and health-related quality of life after injury and for integrating 
mortality, disability, and quality-of-life consequences. A frequently used 
population health metric is the disability-adjusted life-year. This metric was 
launched in 1996 in the original Global Burden of Disease and Injury study and 
has been widely adopted by countries and health development agencies alike to 
identify the relative magnitude of different health problems. Apart from its 
obvious advantages and wide adherence, a number of challenges are encountered 
when the disability-adjusted life-year is applied to injuries. Validation of 
disability-adjusted life-year estimates for injury has been largely absent. This 
paper provides an overview of methods and existing knowledge regarding the 
population burden of injury measurement. The review of studies that measured 
burden of injury shows that estimates of the population burden remain uncertain 
because of a weak epidemiologic foundation; limited information on incidence, 
outcomes, and duration of disability; and a range of methodological problems, 
including definition and selection of incident and fatal cases, choices in 
selection of assessment instruments and timings of use for nonfatal injury 
outcomes, and the underlying concepts of valuation of disability. 
Recommendations are given for methodological refinements to improve the validity 
and comparability of future burden of injury studies.

DOI: 10.1093/epirev/mxr022
PMID: 22113244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Can J Gastroenterol. 2011 Oct;25 Suppl B(Suppl B):11B-15B. doi: 
10.1155/2011/974573.

Epidemiology and burden of chronic constipation.

Sanchez MI(1), Bercik P.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Chronic constipation is an important component of clinical gastroenterology 
practice worldwide. Based on the definition, either self-reported or using Rome 
criteria, chronic constipation can affect from 2% to 27% of the population. 
Constipation is physically and mentally troublesome for many patients, and can 
significantly interfere with their daily living and well-being. Although only a 
proportion of patients with constipation seek medical care, most of them use 
prescribed or over-the-counter medication to improve their condition. The health 
care costs of constipation are significant as evidenced by the hundreds of 
million dollars spent yearly on laxatives alone. Because constipation is more 
common in older patients and life expectancy is increasing, an increase in the 
prevalence of constipation is expected in the years to come, with the associated 
impact on quality of life and socioeconomic burden.

La constipation chronique est un élément important de la pratique clinique de la 
gastroentérologie dans le monde. D’après la définition, autoévaluée ou tirée des 
critères de Rome, la constipation chronique peut toucher de 2 % à 27 % de la 
population. La constipation est perturbante sur le plan physique et mental pour 
de nombreux patients et peut nuire considérablement à leur vie quotidienne et à 
leur bien-être. Même si seule une proportion de patients atteints de 
constipation demandent des soins médicaux, la plupart recourent à des 
médicaments prescrits ou en vente libre afin d’améliorer leur état. Les coûts de 
santé de la constipation sont importants, tel que le démontrent les centaines de 
millions de dollars dépensés chaque année pour l’achat des seuls laxatifs. 
Puisque la constipation est plus courante chez les patients plus âgés et que 
l’espérance de vie augmente, on prévoit une augmentation de la prévalence de 
constipation au cours des prochaines années, sans compter les effets connexes 
sur la qualité de vie et le fardeau socioéconomique.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/974573
PMCID: PMC3206560
PMID: 22114752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. BMC Pulm Med. 2011 Nov 24;11:53. doi: 10.1186/1471-2466-11-53.

Asthma control cost-utility randomized trial evaluation (ACCURATE): the goals of 
asthma treatment.

Honkoop PJ(1), Loymans RJ, Termeer EH, Snoeck-Stroband JB, Bakker MJ, Assendelft 
WJ, Sterk PJ, Ter Riet G, Schermer TR, Sont JK.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Medical Decision Making Leiden University Medical Center, PO Box 
9600, 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands. p.j.honkoop@lumc.nl

BACKGROUND: Despite the availability of effective therapies, asthma remains a 
source of significant morbidity and use of health care resources. The central 
research question of the ACCURATE trial is whether maximal doses of 
(combination) therapy should be used for long periods in an attempt to achieve 
complete control of all features of asthma. An additional question is whether 
patients and society value the potential incremental benefit, if any, 
sufficiently to concur with such a treatment approach. We assessed patient 
preferences and cost-effectiveness of three treatment strategies aimed at 
achieving different levels of clinical control:1. sufficiently controlled 
asthma2. strictly controlled asthma3. strictly controlled asthma based on 
exhaled nitric oxide as an additional disease marker
DESIGN: 720 Patients with mild to moderate persistent asthma from general 
practices with a practice nurse, age 18-50 yr, daily treatment with inhaled 
corticosteroids (more then 3 months usage of inhaled corticosteroids in the 
previous year), will be identified via patient registries of general practices 
in the Leiden, Nijmegen, and Amsterdam areas in The Netherlands. The design is a 
12-month cluster-randomised parallel trial with 40 general practices in each of 
the three arms. The patients will visit the general practice at baseline, 3, 6, 
9, and 12 months. At each planned and unplanned visit to the general practice 
treatment will be adjusted with support of an internet-based asthma monitoring 
system supervised by a central coordinating specialist nurse. Patient 
preferences and utilities will be assessed by questionnaire and interview. Data 
on asthma control, treatment step, adherence to treatment, utilities and costs 
will be obtained every 3 months and at each unplanned visit. Differences in 
societal costs (medication, other (health) care and productivity) will be 
compared to differences in the number of limited activity days and in quality 
adjusted life years (Dutch EQ5D, SF6D, e-TTO, VAS). This is the first study to 
assess patient preferences and cost-effectiveness of asthma treatment strategies 
driven by different target levels of asthma control.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register (NTR): NTR1756.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2466-11-53
PMCID: PMC3295696
PMID: 22114896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Ann Thorac Surg. 2011 Dec;92(6):2028-32; discussion 2032-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.08.033.

Esophageal stenting for malignant and benign disease: 133 cases on a thoracic 
surgical service.

Dubecz A(1), Watson TJ, Raymond DP, Jones CE, Matousek A, Allen J, Salvador R, 
Polomsky M, Peters JH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Foregut, Department of Surgery, University of 
Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester, New York, USA. 
dubeczattila@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Esophageal stenting is increasingly being utilized to treat a 
variety of benign and malignant esophageal conditions. The aim of our study was 
to review our experience with self-expanding metal, plastic, and hybrid stents 
in the treatment of esophageal disease on a thoracic surgical service.
METHODS: The study population consisted of 126 patients undergoing placement of 
133 stents at a single institution from 2000 to 2008. Data were reviewed 
retrospectively for patient characteristics, indications, complications, 
reinterventions, and efficacy.
RESULTS: Most stents were placed for palliation of dysphagia due to advanced 
esophageal cancer (90 of 133; 68%) or extrinsic compression from lung cancer (13 
of 133; 9.8%). A total of 123 self-expanding metal stents (SEMS), 7 
self-expanding plastic stents (SEPS), and 3 hybrid stents were placed. Of the 
SEMS, 57 were uncovered and 66 were covered. Malignant obstruction was typically 
palliated with SEMS, while covered stents were chosen for perforations or 
anastomotic leaks. The median length of stay was 1 day. Complications occurred 
in 38.3% of stent placements, with a single perioperative mortality resulting 
from massive hemorrhage on postoperative day 4. Most complications resulted from 
stent impaction (12.8%), migration (9.7%), or tumor ingrowth (5.3%). Tumor 
ingrowth was uncommon with uncovered stents (2 of 57; 3.5%). Stent migration was 
common with SEPS (4 of 7; 57%), or hybrid stents (2 of 3; 67%). Survival was 
short in patients with underlying malignancy (median 104 days for esophageal 
cancer and 48 days for lung cancer), with 20% of patients surviving less than 1 
month.
CONCLUSIONS: Esophageal stent placement is safe and reliable. The goals of 
therapy are typically met with a single intervention. The majority of patients 
require no further interventions, though life expectancy often is short and 
patient selection may be difficult. Most complications are due to stent 
obstruction, though stent migration is an issue particularly with SEPS and 
hybrid stents. Esophageal surgeons should be adept at stent placement.

Copyright © 2011 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.08.033
PMID: 22115214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Med Econ. 2012;15(2):293-304. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.644407. Epub 2011
Dec  16.

Historical clinical and economic consequences of anemia management in patients 
with end-stage renal disease on dialysis using erythropoietin stimulating agents 
versus routine blood transfusions: a retrospective cost-effectiveness analysis.

Naci H(1), de Lissovoy G, Hollenbeak C, Custer B, Hofmann A, McClellan W, Gitlin 
M.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics & Political Science, London, UK. h.naci@lse.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether Medicare's decision to cover routine 
administration of erythropoietin stimulating agents (ESAs) to treat anemia of 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) has been a cost-effective policy relative to 
standard of care at the time.
METHODS: The authors used summary statistics from the actual cohort of ESRD 
patients receiving ESAs between 1995 and 2004 to create a simulated patient 
cohort, which was compared with a comparable simulated cohort assumed to rely 
solely on blood transfusions. Outcomes modeled from the Medicare perspective 
included estimated treatment costs, life-years gained, and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated 
relative to the hypothetical reference case of no ESA use in the transfusion 
cohort. Sensitivity of the results to model assumptions was tested using one-way 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Estimated total costs incurred by the ESRD population were $155.47B for 
the cohort receiving ESAs and $155.22B for the cohort receiving routine blood 
transfusions. Estimated QALYs were 2.56M and 2.29M, respectively, for the two 
groups. The ICER of ESAs compared to routine blood transfusions was estimated as 
$873 per QALY gained. The model was sensitive to a number of parameters 
according to one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
LIMITATIONS: This model was counter-factual as the actual comparison group, 
whose anemia was managed via transfusion and iron supplements, rapidly 
disappeared following introduction of ESAs. In addition, a large number of model 
parameters were obtained from observational studies due to the lack of 
randomized trial evidence in the literature.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that Medicare's coverage of ESAs appears to 
have been cost effective based on commonly accepted levels of 
willingness-to-pay. The ESRD population achieved substantial clinical benefit at 
a reasonable cost to society.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.644407
PMID: 22115328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. BMC Health Serv Res. 2011 Nov 24;11:323. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-323.

A multi-region assessment of population rates of cardiac catheterization and 
yield of high-risk coronary artery disease.

Clement FM(1), Manns BJ, Brownell B, Faris PD, Graham MM, Humphries K, Love M, 
Knudtson ML, Ghali WA; APPROACH Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Foothills 
Medical Centre-North Tower, 9th Floor, 1403 29th Street NW, Calgary, AB T2N 2T9, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: There is variation in cardiac catheterization utilization across 
jurisdictions. Previous work from Alberta, Canada, showed no evidence of a 
plateau in the yield of high-risk disease at cardiac catheterization rates as 
high as 600 per 100,000 population suggesting that the optimal rate is higher. 
This work aims 1) To determine if a previously demonstrated linear relationship 
between the yield of high-risk coronary disease and cardiac catheterization 
rates persists with contemporary data and 2) to explore whether the linear 
relationship exists in other jurisdictions.
METHODS: Detailed clinical information on all patients undergoing cardiac 
catheterization in 3 Canadian provinces was available through the Alberta 
Provincial Project for Outcomes Assessment in Coronary Heart (APPROACH) disease 
and partner initiatives in British Columbia and Nova Scotia. Population rates of 
catheterization and high-risk coronary disease detection for each health region 
in these three provinces, and age-adjusted rates produced using direct 
standardization. A mixed effects regression analysis was performed to assess the 
relationship between catheterization rate and high-risk coronary disease 
detection.
RESULTS: In the contemporary Alberta data, we found a linear relationship 
between the population catheterization rate and the high-risk yield. Although 
the yield was slightly less in time period 2 (2002-2006) than in time period 
1(1995-2001), there was no statistical evidence of a plateau. The linear 
relationship between catheterization rate and high-risk yield was similarly 
demonstrated in British Columbia and Nova Scotia and appears to extend, without 
a plateau in yield, to rates over 800 procedures per 100,000 population.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates a consistent finding, over time and across 
jurisdictions, of linearly increasing detection of high-risk CAD as population 
rates of cardiac catheterization increase. This internationally-relevant finding 
can inform country-level planning of invasive cardiac care services.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-323
PMCID: PMC3252261
PMID: 22115358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2012 May;31(5):450-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2011.10.017. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

Cost-effectiveness of the implantable HeartMate II left ventricular assist 
device for patients awaiting heart transplantation.

Moreno SG(1), Novielli N, Cooper NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evaluation of Innovation & New Technologies, Fundació Clínic, 
Barcelona, Spain. sgmoreno@clinic.ub.es

Comment in
    J Heart Lung Transplant. 2012 May;31(5):448-9.

BACKGROUND: Left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) are being proposed as a 
life-saving therapeutic alternative to conventional medical management for 
people with end-stage heart failure awaiting transplantation. However, 
cost-effectiveness assessments of first-generation LVADs have not been 
encouraging. The cost-effectiveness of the enhanced second-generation LVAD 
HeartMate II (Thoratec, Pleasanton, CA) is estimated here.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was developed to extrapolate survival, 
utility, and resource use over the total lifetime of a hypothetic cohort of 
patients with end-stage heart failure under the 2 competing therapeutic 
strategies, using the most robust and recently published evidence about their 
performance. Cost data are based on UK activity to consider reimbursement in the 
UK National Health Service setting.
RESULTS: HeartMate II had a mean cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of 
£258,922 ($414,275). The sensitivity analysis showed that 2 factors mainly 
explain why HeartMate II is not a cost-effectiveness strategy as a 
bridge-to-transplant: (1) the survival of heart transplant candidates treated 
conventionally while on the waiting list has significantly improved in recent 
years, and (2) the high acquisition cost of the device, £94,200 ($150,720).
CONCLUSIONS: Although HeartMate II LVAD implantation significantly increases 
survival compared with conventional medical management, it does not provide good 
value for the money spent according to established thresholds of 
cost-effectiveness in the UK. HeartMate II is unlikely to become cost-effective 
unless the additional survival gained by its use raises and/or the device is 
given free of charge. Therefore, its implantation to transplant candidates lacks 
justification in terms of cost-effectiveness.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2011.10.017
PMID: 22115674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Int J Sports Med. 2011 Dec;32(12):924-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1283177. Epub
2011  Nov 24.

Body mass-based exercise in middle-aged and older women.

Yoshitake Y(1), Takai Y, Kitamura T, Kawanishi M, Kanehisa H.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Fitness and Sports in Kanoya, Sports and Life Science, 
Kanoya-shi, Japan.

The present study examined whether the degree to which muscle strength is 
improved by a body mass-based home exercise program in middle-aged and older 
women depends on the force-generating capabilities of the muscles prior to the 
intervention. 75 women (53-76 years) voluntarily participated in a circuit 
training program consisting of 5 exercises (16 repetitions/exercise, 2 or 3 
circuits/day) using only body mass as resistance for 3 months. The subjects 
performed the training program 6 days a week in their own home and once a week 
in a local gym. Before and after intervention, isometric torques during maximal 
voluntary knee extension (KET) and plantar flexion (PFT) were determined and 
expressed relative to body mass (KET/BM and PFT/BM, respectively). KET/BM and 
PFT/BM increased significantly after intervention, and their relative changes 
were negatively correlated to the absolute values before intervention. Most of 
the subjects whose KET/BM and PFT/BM values before intervention were greater 
than 2.8 Nm/kg and 1.7 Nm/kg, respectively, did not show increases in strength 
after intervention. Thus, although body mass-based exercise at home is effective 
in improving lower limb strength in middle-aged and older women, the magnitude 
of the improvement is influenced by the force-generating capability before 
intervention.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1283177
PMID: 22116634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Drugs Aging. 2011 Dec 1;28(12):945-60. doi: 10.2165/11594750-000000000-00000.

Choosing targets for glycaemia, blood pressure and low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol in elderly individuals with diabetes mellitus.

Kirsh SR(1), Aron DC.

Author information:
(1)Louis Stokes Cleveland Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, OH, 
USA.

Diabetes mellitus in the 'elderly' poses unique management challenges that 
contribute to conflicting priorities. Individualized management requires taking 
into account each patient's medical history, functional ability, home care 
situation, life expectancy and his/her health beliefs; individuals value 
trade-offs (e.g. quantity versus quality of life, and side effects as well as 
risks versus long-term benefits) differently. Moreover, this decision making 
relies on imperfect evidence. Target goals for three intermediate outcomes - 
glycaemic control (glycosylated haemoglobin [HbA(1c)]), blood pressure control 
and lipid control (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C]) - help keep 
management on track. Of these, glycaemic control is usually the most complex. 
Glycaemic control alleviates symptoms of hyperglycaemia and can improve micro- 
and macrovascular outcomes. Tight glycaemic control (HbA(1c) <7%) clearly 
improves microvascular outcomes. However, hypoglycaemia and polypharmacy are the 
main drawbacks of tight control. Factors that influence the benefits and 
drawbacks include age, longevity and co-morbidities, including the geriatric 
'syndromes' of frailty and falls. We favour the explicit risk-stratified 
approach of the Department of Veterans Affairs/Department of Defense (VA/DoD) 
guidelines, which set HbA(1c) target ranges based on physiological age or the 
presence/severity of major co-morbidities and microvascular complications. There 
are clear benefits of blood pressure and cholesterol control (primarily 
reduction of macrovascular events, but also microvascular events), and their 
overall cost effectiveness exceeds that of glycaemic control. Issues with 
treatment for hypertension include potential side effects of drugs, a potential 
increased risk of falls and risks of polypharmacy. Nevertheless, the evidence 
for a blood pressure target of <140/80 mmHg is reasonably strong if it can be 
achieved safely. In general, we recommend use of an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor 
(statin) and an LDL-C target of <100 mg/dL, especially if an individual cannot 
tolerate a moderate dose of a statin.

DOI: 10.2165/11594750-000000000-00000
PMID: 22117094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Drugs Aging. 2011 Dec 1;28(12):1015-7. doi: 10.2165/11207780-000000000-00000.

Spotlight on rotigotine transdermal patch in Parkinson's disease.

Sanford M(1), Scott LJ.

Author information:
(1)Adis, a Wolters Kluwer Business, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Rotigotine transdermal patch (Neupro(®)) [referred to here as rotigotine] is a 
non-ergolinic dopamine agonist that is available in the EU as monotherapy for 
the treatment of early Parkinson's disease and as combination therapy with 
levodopa throughout the course of the disease. Daily application of the 
rotigotine patch provided predictable release and absorption of rotigotine, with 
steady-state rotigotine concentrations reached within 1-2 days. In early 
Parkinson's disease, compared with placebo, rotigotine monotherapy produced 
significantly greater improvements in the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating 
Scale summed motor and activities of daily living (ADL) scores (primary 
endpoint), as well as significantly higher response rates. In advanced 
Parkinson's disease, rotigotine in combination with levodopa reduced 'off' time 
(primary endpoint) and improved motor functioning and ADL significantly more 
than levodopa plus placebo. In patients with inadequate early morning motor 
control despite antiparkinsonian treatment, rotigotine improved morning motor 
functioning and reduced sleep disturbances, night-time motor symptoms, 
depressive symptoms, pain and functioning, and quality of life to a 
significantly greater extent than placebo. The efficacy of rotigotine relative 
to other treatments requires further evaluation, as there were inconsistent 
results in noninferiority analyses that compared rotigotine to other dopamine 
agonists. Rotigotine was generally well tolerated across the trials, with the 
most common treatment-emergent adverse events being application-site reactions, 
gastrointestinal disturbances, somnolence and headache. No unexpected adverse 
effects were observed in extension studies of up to 6 years. Thus, rotigotine 
offers a novel approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease and, given its 
ease of administration, efficacy in reducing disabling motor and non-motor 
symptoms, and acceptable tolerability profile, it has the potential to be an 
attractive treatment option for this highly debilitating disease.

DOI: 10.2165/11207780-000000000-00000
PMID: 22117099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2011 Dec;11(12):1863-70. doi: 10.1586/era.11.188.

The dilemma of cystectomy in old-old and oldest-old patients.

Pycha A(1), Comploj E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, General Hospital of Bolzano, Bolzano, Italy.

Bladder cancer (BC) is a disease of the elderly, with a peak incidence at 85 
years. If life expectancy continues to increase in such a way that it is, in 20 
years nearly half of the population will be considered elderly. The incidence of 
BC will also dramatically increase in proportion to this and, subsequently, a 
cure is needed. Currently, only 4-11% of elderly individuals with 
muscle-invasive BC undergo radical extirpative surgery; a number that is 
evidently too low when we consider that the cancer-specific mortality rate is 
highest in the octo- and nona-genarian groups. Advanced age should not in itself 
be a reason for avoiding radical surgery. Comorbidity is much more important and 
incisive on complication and mortality rate than age alone. Nevertheless, a 
complication rate of 24-60% is a realistic expectation, as is a 90-day mortality 
rate of approximately 10%. Due to the restricted physiological reserve, there is 
little place for surgical mistakes. This review evaluates all aspects of radical 
cystectomy in the elderly and gives an overview of upcoming challenges.

DOI: 10.1586/era.11.188
PMID: 22117154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2011 Dec;11(12):1923-33. doi: 10.1586/era.11.169.

Stereotactic body radiotherapy is an effective treatment in reirradiating spinal 
metastases: current status and practical considerations for safe practice.

Masucci GL(1), Yu E, Ma L, Chang EL, Letourneau D, Lo S, Leung E, Chao S, Hyde 
D, Gorgulho A, Muacevic A, Larson DA, Fehlings MG, Sahgal A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Princess Margaret Hospital, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Spinal metastases are a relatively common manifestation in advanced cancer 
patients. Low-dose conventional radiotherapy has long been the mainstay of 
treatment under the assumption that patients have a limited life expectancy in 
the order of 3-6 months. However, with new developments in systemic therapies, 
patients are surviving longer than expected. As the spinal retreatment rates, 
secondary to conventional radiation, can approach 20-50%, retreatments are 
likely to be more frequent. Rather than a second course of even lower-dose 
conventional radiation, spine stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) has been 
developed predominantly to overcome the limitations of conventional 
reirradiation. Spine SBRT permits a second course of high-dose radiation aimed 
at local tumor control while sparing the spinal cord, and other surrounding 
normal tissues, of a toxic dose. The focus of this review is to provide an 
overview of reirradiation spine SBRT, and address key issues surrounding safe 
and effective practice.

DOI: 10.1586/era.11.169
PMID: 22117159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. EMBO J. 2011 Nov 25;30(24):5010-20. doi: 10.1038/emboj.2011.427.

Structure of the Shq1-Cbf5-Nop10-Gar1 complex and implications for H/ACA RNP 
biogenesis and dyskeratosis congenita.

Li S(1), Duan J, Li D, Ma S, Ye K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Life Sciences, 
Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China.

Shq1 is a conserved protein required for the biogenesis of eukaryotic H/ACA 
ribonucleoproteins (RNPs), including human telomerase. We report the structure 
of the Shq1-specific domain alone and in complex with H/ACA RNP proteins Cbf5, 
Nop10 and Gar1. The Shq1-specific domain adopts a novel helical fold and 
primarily contacts the PUA domain and the otherwise disordered C-terminal 
extension (CTE) of Cbf5. The structure shows that dyskeratosis congenita 
mutations found in the CTE of human Cbf5 likely interfere with Shq1 binding. 
However, most mutations in the PUA domain are not located at the Shq1-binding 
surface and also have little effect on the yeast Cbf5-Shq1 interaction. Shq1 
binds Cbf5 independently of the H/ACA RNP proteins Nop10, Gar1 and Nhp2 and the 
assembly factor Naf1, but shares an overlapping binding surface with H/ACA RNA. 
Shq1 point mutations that disrupt Cbf5 interaction suppress yeast growth 
particularly at elevated temperatures. Our results suggest that Shq1 functions 
as an assembly chaperone that protects the Cbf5 protein complexes from 
non-specific RNA binding and aggregation before assembly of H/ACA RNA.

DOI: 10.1038/emboj.2011.427
PMCID: PMC3242979
PMID: 22117216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


28. Rev Port Cardiol. 2011 Oct;30(10):789-93. doi: 10.1016/S0870-2551(11)70027-0.

[Description of a new mutation in a female patient with Fabry disease].

[Article in Portuguese]

Correia E(1), Vidinha J, Rodrigues B, Santos L, Moreira D, Garrido J, Clara Sá 
Miranda M, Cabral C, Santos O.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Cardiologia, Centro Hospitalar Tondela Viseu, Portugal. 
emanuelbaptista@gmail.com

Fabry disease is caused by intracellular accumulation of glycosphingolipids in 
various tissues, secondary to mutations in the GLA gene (Xq22). Classically 
described as affecting hemizygous males with no residual alpha-galactosidase A 
activity, it is now known to affect both sexes, with later and less severe 
manifestations in females. The manifestations of this disease are systemic: 
neurological, cutaneous (angiokeratomas), renal, cardiovascular (left 
ventricular hypertrophy, valve thickening or rhythm disturbances), 
cochlear-vestibular, and cerebrovascular. In the absence of treatment there is 
progressive damage to vital organs with renal failure, stroke, heart failure or 
rhythm perturbations, leading to severe impairment of quality of life as well as 
reduced life expectancy. We describe the case of a female patient with a history 
of cryptogenic ischemic stroke at the age of 38 years and chronic renal failure 
with proteinuria, who presented to the emergency room with atrial fibrillation. 
The echocardiogram revealed concentric left ventricular hypertrophy, diastolic 
dysfunction and decreased longitudinal strain in the basal septum. In the 
context of a screening protocol, she was diagnosed with Fabry disease and a 
previously undescribed mutation was identified.

Copyright © 2011 Sociedade Portuguesa de Cardiologia. Published by Elsevier 
España. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0870-2551(11)70027-0
PMID: 22118130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Spinal Cord Med. 2011;34(5):482-7. doi: 10.1179/2045772311Y.0000000022.

Mortality in patients with traumatic spinal cord injury: descriptive analysis of 
62 deceased subjects.

Thietje R(1), Pouw MH, Schulz AP, Kienast B, Hirschfeld S.

Author information:
(1)BG Trauma Hospital Hamburg, Germany. thietje@buk-hamburg.de

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the causes of death in patients who were ≤ 50 years at 
the time of traumatic spinal cord injury (tSCI).
SETTING: Convenience sample of a tertiary rehabilitation center.
METHODS: All deceased patients with tSCI who survived a minimum of 10 years 
post-injury, were included. In addition, causes of death were compared between 
subjects surviving <10 years and ≥ 10 years. Neurological assessments were 
performed according to the American Spinal Injury Association scale. Data on 
causes of death were analyzed using the ICD-10 classifications. Differences were 
calculated using the Mann-Whitney and chi-square tests.
RESULTS: A total of 100 patients, with 38 and 62 surviving <10 and ≥ 10 years, 
respectively, were included. No significant differences in causes of death were 
identified between these two groups. In patients surviving ≥ 10 years, 
paraplegia was associated with a higher life expectancy compared with 
tetraplegia, 34 and 25 years (p = 0.008), respectively, and the leading causes 
of death were septicemia (n = 14), ischemic heart disease (n = 10), neoplasms (n 
= 9), cerebrovascular diseases (n = 5), and other forms of heart diseases (n = 
5). Septicemia, influenza/pneumonia, and suicide were the leading causes of 
death in tetraplegics, whereas ischemic heart disease, neoplasms, and septicemia 
were the leading causes of death in paraplegia.
CONCLUSION: Our monocentric study showed that in 62 deceased patients with SCI, 
the leading causes of death were septicemia, cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, 
and cerebrovascular diseases. In addition, no significant differences were 
identified between causes of death among patients surviving <10 years and ≥ 10 
years post-injury.

DOI: 10.1179/2045772311Y.0000000022
PMCID: PMC3184485
PMID: 22118255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Med Hypotheses. 2012 Feb;78(2):244-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.10.036. Epub
2011  Nov 26.

