CONCLUSIONS: Patient education for post-thrombotic syndrome prevention based on 
the Health Belief Model resulted in self-reported intention to comply with 
recommendations to wear graduated elastic compression stockings. Compliance may 
be enhanced by specifically addressing individual risk factors and barriers to 
stocking application.

DOI: 10.1097/WON.0b013e31822efc86
PMID: 21952345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Gerontology. 2012;58(3):282-8. doi: 10.1159/000329483. Epub 2011 Sep 24.

The eldercare factory.

Sharkey N(1), Sharkey A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. 
N.Sharkey@dcs.shef.ac.uk

Rapid advances in service robotics together with dramatic shifts in population 
demographics have led to the notion that technology may be the answer to our 
eldercare problems. Robots are being developed for feeding, washing, lifting, 
carrying and mobilising the elderly as well as monitoring their health. They are 
also being proposed as a substitute for companionship. While these technologies 
could accrue major benefits for society and empower the elderly, we must balance 
their use with the ethical costs. These include a potential reduction in human 
contact, increased feeling of objectification and loss of control, loss of 
privacy and personal freedom as well as deception and infantilisation. With 
appropriate guidelines in place before the introduction of robots en masse into 
the care system, robots could improve the lives of the elderly, reducing their 
dependence and creating more opportunities for social interaction. Without 
forethought, the elderly may find themselves in a barren world of machines, a 
world of automated care: a factory for the elderly.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000329483
PMID: 21952502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Cad Saude Publica. 2011;27 Suppl 3:S324-6. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2011001500001.

The Bambuí Cohort Study of Aging (1997-2008).

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Lima-Costa MF.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2011001500001
PMID: 21952852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Rev Saude Publica. 2011 Dec;45(6):1001-8. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102011005000070.  Epub 2011 Sep 23.

Years of potential life lost and hospitalization costs associated with 
leptospirosis in Brazil.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Souza VM(1), Arsky Mde L, Castro AP, Araujo WN.

Author information:
(1)Secretaria de Vigilância em Saúde, Ministério da Saúde, Brasília, DF, Brasil. 
verena.vet@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate costs of hospitalization and years of potential life lost 
associated with leptospirosis.
METHODS: Databases of the Brazilian Ministry of Health's information system were 
used to carry out probabilistic linkage of cases and hospitalizations leading to 
death by leptospirosis in 2007. Within the Information System for Notifiable 
Diseases, confirmed cases were subdivided into hospitalization and death. These 
were then linked to the Hospital Information System (records with primary 
diagnosis) and the Mortality Information System (underlying cause of death 
A27.0, A27.8, and A27.9) databases. The partial cost of hospitalization, deaths 
by disease, and years of potential life and work lost, were estimated.
RESULTS: Most hospitalizations leading to death occurred among males aged 18-49 
years, of white ethnicity, living in urban areas, and with incomplete elementary 
education. Years of potential life lost amounted to 6,490, 75% of which were in 
the 20-49 years age group. When adjusted for the population, this loss 
represented 15 days of life/thousand persons. The ratio of years of potential 
life lost to number of deaths was on average 30 years per death. The estimated 
financial impact amounted to R$ 22.9 million in non-earned wages. 
Hospitalization costs totaled R$ 831.5 thousand. Estimated days of wages lost 
per admission period (median: 6 days) amounted to R$ 103.0 thousand.
CONCLUSIONS: There was a high social cost in terms of years of potential life 
lost and partial hospital costs associated with leptospirosis when compared to 
the possibility of early treatment or prevention of infection, both of which 
could minimize the impact of the disease on the Brazilian population.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102011005000070
PMID: 21953079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Feb;14(1):41-56. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0349-4.
Epub  2011 Sep 28.

The impact of new (orphan) drug approvals on premature mortality from rare 
diseases in the United States and France, 1999-2007.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA. 
frank.lichtenberg@columbia.edu

This paper investigates the impact of the introduction of new orphan drugs on 
premature mortality from rare diseases using longitudinal, disease-level data 
obtained from a number of major databases. The analysis is performed using data 
from two countries: the United States (during the period 1999-2006) and France 
(during the period 2000-2007). For both countries, we estimate models using two 
alternative definitions of premature mortality, several alternative criteria for 
inclusion in the set of rare diseases, and several values of the potential lag 
between new drug approvals and premature mortality reduction. Both the United 
States and French estimates indicate that, overall, premature mortality from 
rare diseases is unrelated to the cumulative number of drugs approved 0-2 years 
earlier but is significantly inversely related to the cumulative number of drugs 
approved 3-4 years earlier. This delay is not surprising, since most patients 
probably do not have access to a drug until several years after it has been 
launched. Although the estimates for the two countries are qualitatively 
similar, the estimated magnitudes of the US coefficients are about four times as 
large as the magnitudes of the French coefficients. This may be partly due to 
greater errors in measuring dates of drug introduction in France. Also, access 
to new drugs may be more restricted in France than it is in the United States. 
Our estimates indicate that, in the United States, potential years of life lost 
to rare diseases before age 65 (PYLL65) declined at an average annual rate of 
3.3% and that, in the absence of lagged new drug approvals, PYLL65 would have 
increased at a rate of 0.9%. Since the US population aged 0-64 was increasing at 
the rate of 1.0% per year, this means that PYLL65 per person under 65 would have 
remained approximately constant. The reduction in the US growth rate of PYLL65 
attributable to lagged new drug approvals was 4.2%. In France, PYLL65 declined 
at an average annual rate of 1.8%. The estimates imply that, in the absence of 
lagged new drug approvals, it would have declined at a rate of 0.6%. The 
reduction in the French growth rate of PYLL65 attributable to lagged new drug 
approvals was 1.1%. Earlier access to orphan drugs could result in earlier 
reductions in premature mortality from rare diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0349-4
PMID: 21953319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Stat Med. 2012 May 20;31(11-12):1089-97. doi: 10.1002/sim.4384. Epub 2011
Sep  23.

Competing risks and the clinical community: irrelevance or ignorance?

Koller MT(1), Raatz H, Steyerberg EW, Wolbers M.

Author information:
(1)Basel Institute for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University 
Hospital Basel, Switzerland. kollerm@uhbs.ch

Life expectancy has dramatically increased in industrialized nations over the 
last 200 hundred years. The aging of populations carries over to clinical 
research and leads to an increasing representation of elderly and multimorbid 
individuals in study populations. Clinical research in these populations is 
complicated by the fact that individuals are likely to experience several 
potential disease endpoints that prevent some disease-specific endpoint of 
interest from occurrence. Large developments in competing risks methodology have 
been achieved over the last decades, but we assume that recognition of competing 
risks in the clinical community is still marginal. It is the aim of this article 
to address translational aspects of competing risks to the clinical community. 
We describe clinical populations where competing risks issues may arise. We then 
discuss the importance of agreement between the competing risks methodology and 
the study aim, in particular the distinction between etiologic and prognostic 
research questions. In a review of 50 clinical studies performed in individuals 
susceptible to competing risks published in high-impact clinical journals, we 
found competing risks issues in 70% of all articles. Better recognition of 
issues related to competing risks and of statistical methods that deal with 
competing risks in accordance with the aim of the study is needed.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4384
PMCID: PMC3575691
PMID: 21953401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Biol Chem. 2011 Nov 25;286(47):40433-42. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M111.289850.
Epub  2011 Sep 26.

Mechanism of HIV reverse transcriptase inhibition by zinc: formation of a highly 
stable enzyme-(primer-template) complex with profoundly diminished catalytic 
activity.

Fenstermacher KJ(1), DeStefano JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland, 
College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.

Several physiologically relevant cations including Ca(2+), Mn(2+), and Zn(2+) 
have been shown to inhibit HIV reverse transcriptase (RT), presumably by 
competitively displacing one or more Mg(2+) ions bound to RT. We analyzed the 
effects of Zn(2+) on reverse transcription and compared them to Ca(2+) and 
Mn(2+). Using nucleotide extension efficiency as a readout, Zn(2+) showed 
significant inhibition of reactions with 2 mM Mg(2+), even when present at only 
∼5 μM. Mn(2+) and Ca(2+) were also inhibitory but at higher concentrations. Both 
Mn(2+) and Zn(2+) (but not Ca(2+)) supported RT incorporation in the absence of 
Mg(2+) with Mn(2+) being much more efficient. The maximum extension rates with 
Zn(2+), Mn(2+), and Mg(2+) were ∼0.1, 1, and 3.5 nucleotides per second, 
respectively. Zinc supported optimal RNase H activity at ∼25 μM, similar to the 
optimal for nucleotide addition in the presence of low dNTP concentrations. 
Surprisingly, processivity (average number of nucleotides incorporated in a 
single binding event with enzyme) during reverse transcription was comparable 
with Zn(2+) and Mg(2+), and single RT molecules were able to continue extension 
in the presence of Zn(2+) for several hours on the same template. Consistent 
with this result, the half-life for RT-Zn(2+)-(primer-template) complexes was 
220 ± 60 min and only 1.7 ± 1 min with Mg(2+), indicating ∼130-fold more stable 
binding with Zn(2+). Essentially, the presence of Zn(2+) promotes the formation 
of a highly stable slowly progressing RT-(primer-template) complex.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M111.289850
PMCID: PMC3220506
PMID: 21953456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Osteoporos Int. 2012 Jan;23(1):97-107. doi: 10.1007/s00198-011-1802-z. Epub
2011  Sep 28.

Cost-effectiveness of the Concord Minimal Trauma Fracture Liaison service, a 
prospective, controlled fracture prevention study.

Cooper MS(1), Palmer AJ, Seibel MJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. m.s.cooper@bham.ac.uk

We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of a fracture liaison service prospectively 
designed to have a parallel control group treated by standard care. The clinical 
effectiveness of this service was associated with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio versus standard care of Australian dollars (AUD) 17,291 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
INTRODUCTION: Osteoporotic fractures are a major burden for national health 
services. The risk of re-fracture following an osteoporotic fracture is 
particularly high. In a study unique in prospectively having a control group 
treated by standard care, we recently demonstrated that a Minimal Trauma 
Fracture Liaison (MTFL) service significantly reduces the risk of re-fracture by 
80%. Since the service involves greater use of resources, we have now evaluated 
whether it is cost-effective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed that incorporated fracture probabilities 
and resource utilization data (expressed in AUD) obtained directly from the 
4-year MTFL service clinical study. Resource utilization, local cost and 
mortality data and fracture-related health utility data were used to calculate 
QALYs with the MTFL service and standard care. Main outcome measures were: 
additional costs of the MTFL service over standard care, the financial savings 
achieved through reduced fractures and changes in QALYs associated with reduced 
fractures calculated over a 10-year simulation period. Costs and QALYs were 
discounted at 5% annually. Sensitivity analyses quantified the effects of 
different assumptions of effectiveness and resource utilization associated with 
the MTFL service.
RESULTS: The MTFL service improved QALYs by 0.089 years and led to increased 
costs of AUD 1,486 per patient versus standard care over the 10-year simulation 
period. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio versus standard care was AUD 
17,291 per QALY gained. Results were robust under all plausible assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The MTFL service is a cost-effective intervention to reduce 
recurrent osteoporotic fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-011-1802-z
PMID: 21953475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2012 Jan;21(1):3-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2011.01294.x. Epub 2011 Sep 29.

Chemotherapy treatment decision making by professionals and older patients with 
cancer: a narrative review of the literature.

Johnson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Whipps Cross University Hospital, London, UK. matthew.johnson@whippsx.nhs.uk

This narrative review of the literature examines the issues influencing 
chemotherapy treatment of older patients with cancer. Increasing age is 
associated with physical, social and psychological changes, but the rate of 
change differs widely between people, such that chronological age is not a good 
determinant of fitness for treatment. Changes in old age can affect disease 
processes and treatments that are offered. Clinical trials suggest that older 
patients gain benefits from chemotherapy, but with increased toxicity profile. 
Dose reductions may be required, but the effect on outcome is not known. 
Adjuvant chemotherapy is likely to benefit patients with a life expectancy over 
5 years, although mortality benefits become less pronounced with increasing age. 
Older patients want chemotherapy, as long as side effects do not reduce quality 
of life or ability to function independently. Older patients face barriers to 
communication with professionals, including sensory and memory problems and 
poorer health literacy. Patients should be assessed covering functional, 
physiological and socio-economic domains that identify significant comorbid 
disease and frailty, to ensure that planned chemotherapy is appropriate. 
Successful treatment of older patients with chemotherapy may require 
interventions to support them to ensure all patients who may derive benefit can 
undergo treatment, if they so wish.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2011.01294.x
PMID: 21955060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Discov Med. 2011 Sep;12(64):177-85.

Physical activity and aging: a life-long story.

Charansonney OL(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de Cardiologie, Centre Médical de Bligny, Briis sous Forges, 
France.

The benefits of physical activity in preventing premature mortality have been 
established by a large set of epidemiological studies. These benefits have been 
shown both in middle-aged and elderly individuals. Furthermore, the reduction of 
acute events such as myocardial infarction observed with higher levels of 
physical activity together with the increase in disease-free life expectancy 
among the most active individuals supports physical activity's anti-aging 
effect. This review highlights two models supporting this effect. The first 
model describes the path to frailty and the second explains that immobilization 
is a stressor which triggers stress-responses responsible for many chronic 
diseases. Aging reduces the physiological reserve and can lead to frailty when 
this reserve cannot allow an appropriate adaptation of the aging body to 
environmental challenges. The components of this physiological reserve can 
easily be measured by cardiorespiratory testing. Among them are heart rate 
reserve and VO(2max), the maximal body oxygen consumption. The opposite effects 
of exercise training and aging on the physiological reserve are detailed. 
Underlying mechanisms of both exercise training and aging are described. 
Sedentary lifestyle accelerates the effects of aging in susceptible individuals. 
Sedentary lifestyle induces mechanisms which lead to risk factors of chronic 
diseases and, eventually, to premature death. These pathological mechanisms and 
their consequences constitute the sedentary lifestyle syndrome.

PMID: 21955845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Clin Ther. 2011 Oct;33(10):1433-43. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.08.014.
Epub  2011 Sep 28.

The value of atorvastatin over the product life cycle in the United States.

Grabner M(1), Johnson W, Abdulhalim AM, Kuznik A, Mullins CD.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Pharmacy; Baltimore, Maryland, USA. 
mjgrabner@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: US health care reform mandates the reduction of wasteful health care 
spending while maintaining quality of care. Introducing new drugs into crowded 
therapeutic classes may be viewed as offering "me-too" (new drugs with a similar 
mechanism of action compared to existing drugs) drugs without incremental 
benefit. This article presents an analysis of the incremental costs and benefits 
of atorvastatin, a lipid-lowering agent.
OBJECTIVE: This analysis models the cost-effectiveness of atorvastatin over the 
product life cycle.
METHODS: The yearly cost-effectiveness of atorvastatin compared to simvastatin 
was modeled from 1997 to 2030 from the point of view of a US third-party payer. 
Estimates for incremental costs (in US $) and effects (in quality-adjusted 
life-years [QALYs]) for the primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular 
events were taken from previously published literature and adjusted for changes 
in drug prices over time. Estimates of total statin use were derived using the 
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Sensitivity analyses were 
conducted to examine variations in study parameters, including drug prices, 
indications, and discount rates.
RESULTS: Assuming increasing statin use over time (with a mean of 1.07 million 
new users per year) and a 3% discount rate, the cumulative incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of atorvastatin versus simvastatin ranged from 
cost-savings at release to a maximum of $45,066/QALY after 6 years of generic 
simvastatin use in 2012. Over the full modeled life cycle (1997-2030), the 
cumulative ICER of atorvastatin was $20,331/QALY. The incremental value of 
atorvastatin to US payers (after subtracting costs) was estimated at $44.57 to 
$194.78 billion, depending on willingness to pay. Findings from the sensitivity 
analyses were similar. A hypothetical situation in which atorvastatin did not 
exist was associated with a reduction in total expenditures but also a loss of 
QALYs gained.
CONCLUSION: The cumulative ICER of atorvastatin varied across the product life 
cycle, increasing during the period between generic simvastatin entry and 
generic atorvastatin entry, and decreasing thereafter.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.08.014
PMID: 21955936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Orthopedics. 2011 Oct 5;34(10):e598-601. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20110826-17.

Cost-effectiveness of teaching hospitals for the operative management of hip 
fractures.

McGuire KJ(1), Chacko AT, Bernstein J.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Spine Center, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.

Hospitals with lower costs are not necessarily superior to those that are more 
expensive, because the more costly institutions might offer better outcomes. The 
purpose of this study was to consider prices and outcomes in an integrated model 
and thereby determine if teaching hospitals are cost-effective for the care of 
hip fractures. We analyzed the claims data of a sample of 18,908 Medicare 
patients who were admitted to one of 190 acute care hospitals for surgical 
treatment of a hip fracture. For each hospital, we assessed the relationship 
between the total per capita Medicare payments over a 6-month period following 
admission and the 30-day and 6-month mortality. The data were analyzed as a 
function of hospital type: teaching vs nonteaching. The mean adjusted costs were 
$5910 per patient higher at teaching hospitals compared to nonteaching hospitals 
(approximately $24,000 vs $18,000) However, the adjusted 6-month mortality was 
1.4% lower at major teaching hospitals. The adjusted incremental 
cost-effectiveness for teaching hospitals was $422,143 per life saved. By that 
measure, each life saved would have to yield nearly 8.5 additional 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) to attain the $50,000/QALY standard thought 
to represent cost-effective spending, an unlikely target given the age of the 
typical hip fracture patient. Nonetheless, because teaching hospitals are more 
expensive than non-teaching hospitals, a relatively small cut in the overall 
cost of care at teaching hospitals could dramatically decrease the marginal cost 
of each life saved. The elements of teaching hospital care that improve survival 
might be identified in further studies and instituted, perhaps, at non-teaching 
hospitals without greatly increasing their cost structure.

Copyright 2011, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20110826-17
PMID: 21956051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Natl Bur Econ Res Bull Aging Health. 2011;(2):1-2.

Technology growth and expenditure growth in health care.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 21957511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Opioid Manag. 2011 Jul-Aug;7(4):287-96. doi: 10.5055/jom.2011.0070.

Economic evaluation of OROS hydromorphone for chronic pain: a Pan-European 
perspective.

Hauber AB(1), Fleischmann J, Lothgren M, Wilson M, Lam A, Dubois D, Sabatowski 
R.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVES: OROS hydromorphone (osmotic extended-release oral delivery system 
[OROS] hydromorphone) is a long-acting opioid analgesic, which is approved in 
Europe for the management of severe pain. The authors aimed to estimate the 
economic value of this product relative to other widely used oral opioids, 
including sustained-release morphine, extended-release (ER) oxycodone, and 
twice-daily (bid) hydromorphone.
DESIGN: An adaptable, decision-analytic cost-utility model was developed. 
Separate versions of the model were developed for five European countries: 
Germany, Denmark, Slovakia, Portugal, and Italy.
RESULTS: OROS hydromorphone represents a cost-effective alternative to other 
strong oral opioids in the treatment of both nonmalignant and malignant pain in 
all five countries. In the treatment of chronic severe nonmalignant pain, OROS 
hydromorphone was dominant (ie, lower cost and incremental quality-adjusted life 
years gains) when compared with ER oxycodone in Denmark and bid hydromorphone in 
Germany. Likewise, OROS hydromorphone was dominant in the treatment of chronic 
severe malignant pain when compared with ER oxycodone in both Germany and 
Denmark and when compared with bid hydromorphone in all markets where 
hydromorphone was marketed.
CONCLUSIONS: This model demonstrates the cost effectiveness of OROS 
hydromorphone relative to other strong oral opioids in the treatment of chronic 
severe malignant and nonmalignant pain.

DOI: 10.5055/jom.2011.0070
PMID: 21957828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Risk Anal. 2011 Sep;31(9):1330-3. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01686.x.

Introduction to part 2 of the special series on risk regulation.

Robinson LA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01686.x
PMID: 21957945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Sep;15(35):1-192, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta15350.

The value of FDG positron emission tomography/computerised tomography (PET/CT) 
in pre-operative staging of colorectal cancer: a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Brush J(1), Boyd K, Chappell F, Crawford F, Dozier M, Fenwick E, Glanville J, 
McIntosh H, Renehan A, Weller D, Dunlop M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.

OBJECTIVES: In the UK, colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common 
malignancy (behind lung and breast cancer) with 37,514 cases registered in 2006: 
around two-thirds (23,384) in the colon and one-third (14,130) in the rectum. 
Treatment of cancers of the colon can vary considerably, but surgical resection 
is the mainstay of treatment for curative intent. Following surgical resection, 
there is a comprehensive assessment of the tumour, it's invasion characteristics 
and spread (tumour staging). A number of imaging modalities are used in the 
pre-operative staging of CRCs including; computerised tomography (CT), magnetic 
resonance imaging, ultrasound imaging and positron emission tomography (PET). 
This report examines the role of CT in combination with PET scanning (PET/CT 
'hybrid' scan). The research objectives are: to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy 
and therapeutic impact of fluorine-18-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET/CT for the 
pre-operative staging of primary, recurrent and metastatic cancer using 
systematic review methods; undertake probabilistic decision-analytic modelling 
(using Monte Carlo simulation); and conduct a value of information analysis to 
help inform whether or not there is potential worth in undertaking further 
research.
DATA SOURCES: For each aspect of the research - the systematic review, the 
handsearch study and the economic evaluation - a database was assembled from a 
comprehensive search for published and unpublished studies, which included 
database searches, reference lists search and contact with experts. In the 
systematic review prospective and retrospective patient series (diagnostic 
cohort) and randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were eligible for inclusion. 
Both consecutive series and series that are not explicitly reported as 
consecutive were included.
REVIEW METHODS: Two reviewers extracted all data and applied the criteria 
independently and resolved disagreements by discussion. Data to populate 2 × 2 
contingency tables consisting of the number of true positives, true negatives, 
false positives and false negatives using the studies' own definitions were 
extracted, as were data relating to changes in management. Fourteen items from 
the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies checklist were used to 
assess the methodological quality of the included studies. Patient-level data 
were used to calculate sensitivity and specificity with confidence intervals 
(CIs). Data were plotted graphically in forest plots. For the economic 
evaluation, economic models were designed for each of the disease states: 
primary, recurrent and metastatic. These were developed and populated based on a 
variety of information sources (in particular from published data sources) and 
literature, and in consultation with clinical experts.
RESULTS: The review found 30 studies that met the eligibility criteria. Only two 
small studies evaluated the use of FDG PET/CT in primary CRC, and there is 
insufficient evidence to support its routine use at this time. The use of FDG 
PET/CT for the detection of recurrent disease identified data from five 
retrospective studies from which a pooled sensitivity of 91% (95% CI 0.87% to 
0.95%) and specificity of 91% (95% CI 0.85% to 0.95%) were observed. Pooled 
accuracy data from patients undergoing staging for suspected metastatic disease 
showed FDG PET/CT to have a pooled sensitivity of 91% (95% CI 87% to 94%) and a 
specificity of 76% (95% CI 58% to 88%), but the poor quality of the studies 
means the validity of the data may be compromised by several biases. The 
separate handsearch study did not yield any additional unique studies relevant 
to FDG PET/CT. Models for recurrent disease demonstrated an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of £ 21,409 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for 
rectal cancer, £ 6189 per QALY for colon cancer and £ 21,434 per QALY for 
metastatic disease. The value of handsearching to identify studies of less 
clearly defined or reported diagnostic tests is still to be investigated.
CONCLUSIONS: The systematic review found insufficient evidence to support the 
routine use of FDG PET/CT in primary CRC and only a small amount of evidence 
supporting its use in the pre-operative staging of recurrent and metastatic CRC, 
and, although FDG PET/CT was shown to change patient management, the data are 
divergent and the quality of research is generally poor. The handsearch to 
identify studies of less clearly defined or reported diagnostic tests did not 
find additional studies. The primary limitations in the economic evaluations 
were due to uncertainty and lack of available evidence from the systematic 
reviews for key parameters in each of the five models. In order to address this, 
a conservative approach was adopted in choosing DTA estimates for the model 
parameters. Probabilistic analyses were undertaken for each of the models, 
incorporating wide levels of uncertainty particularly for the DTA estimates. 
None of the economic models reported cost-savings, but the approach adopted was 
conservative in order to determine more reliable results given the lack of 
current information. The economic evaluations conclude that FDG PET/CT as an 
add-on imaging device is cost-effective in the pre-operative staging of 
recurrent colon, recurrent rectal and metastatic disease but not in primary 
colon or rectal cancers. There would be value in undertaking an RCT with a 
concurrent economic evaluation to evaluate the therapeutic impact and 
cost-effectiveness of FDG PET/CT compared with conventional imaging (without 
PET) for the pre-operative staging of recurrent and metastatic CRC.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15350
PMCID: PMC4781061
PMID: 21958472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2011 Dec;22(12):1674-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jvir.2011.08.015.  Epub 2011 Sep 29.

Endoleaks with the AneuRx graft: a longer-term, single-center study.

Martin EC(1), Todd GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, St Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, New York, NY 
10019, USA. emartin@chpnet.org

PURPOSE: To report the frequency of endoleaks after endovascular aneurysm repair 
(EVAR) with the AneuRx graft.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study group included 121 consecutive patients treated 
with the first-generation AneuRx graft before December 2005, which ensured a 
potential minimum follow-up of 5 years.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven patients (31%) had 45 different endoleaks at varying times 
in their follow-up. There were 18 type I endoleaks (15%), 56% of which developed 
more than 5 years after EVAR. All 12 type Ia endoleaks were associated with 
dilation of the neck of the aneurysm by a mean of 8.5 mm at a median follow-up 
of 4 years. Ten of the 12 type Ia endoleaks were judged to have very favorable 
necks for EVAR. Five additional patients being followed had documented neck 
dilation and/or migration without evidence of endoleak or aneurysm enlargement. 
All type II endoleaks were noted in the first 2 years, and one persisted 
untreated for 9 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Type I endoleaks continue to appear over time, and 56% occurred at 
5 years or later after EVAR. All were associated with dilation at the attachment 
site, and all type Ia endoleaks had migration. As type Ia endoleaks may not 
always be amenable to endovascular repair, EVAR should be considered a less 
attractive option for some patients whose life expectancy is predicted to exceed 
10 years.

Copyright © 2011 SIR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2011.08.015
PMID: 21959056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Aten Primaria. 2012 Apr;44(4):223-31. doi: 10.1016/j.aprim.2011.04.004. Epub
 2011 Sep 28.

[Ebrictus study. Functional results, survival, and potential years of life lost 
after the first stroke].

[Article in Spanish]

Clua-Espuny JL(1), Piñol-Moreso JL, Panisello-Tafalla A, Lucas-Noll J, 
Gil-Guillen VF, Orozco-Beltran D, Queralt-Tomas ML.

Author information:
(1)Especialista en Medicina de Familia y Comunitaria, Equipo de Atención 
Primaria Tortosa, Servicio de Atención Primaria Terres de l'Ebre, Institut 
Català de la Salut, España. jlclua@telefonica.net

AIM: To determine the mortality, degree of dependence, survival, and years of 
life lost (YLL) after first episode of stroke.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
LOCATION: Community based register.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 553 subjects between 15-90 years with a first episode 
of definitive or transitory stroke were recruited between 01/04/2006 and 
31/03/2008.
MEASUREMENTS: The analyses were performed with the use of time-to-event methods, 
according to the intention-to-treat principle. The level of dependency was 
assessed according to the Barthel Scale one year after stroke; YLL (1-70 years) 
from the mean life expectancies at birth; survival analysis by Kaplan-Meier's 
curves, bivariate analysis comparing the variables between patients who had 
survived and those who died, and Cox's multivariate.
RESULTS: The mean age was 73.3 (±11.6 years. The mean time of follow-up was 29.7 
± 13,4 months, during which 26.6% of the patients died. The mean Barthel score 
fell by >20%, particularly among women. There was moderate or greater dependence 
in 41.5% (95%CI 30.6-52.8%) of the subjects. The overall accumulative 
probability of survival was 0.96 (95% CI 0.94-0.97) in the first month and 0.69 
(95% CI 0.65-0.72) in the fourth year. The thrombolytic treatment showed a 
protective effect on mortality, particularly among the women. The main 
predictive variables were, history of recurrent cardiovascular event (RR 6.7, 
95% CI 2.2-21.7) and aging (RR 1.08, 95% CI 1.01-1.2). The average YLL was 
11.5/10000/year SD7.2, and higher among men.
CONCLUSION: There are differences in functional outcome, mortality, and 
potential years of life lost by gender. A new cardiovascular event is an 
independent prognostic factor of survival.

OBJETIVO: Conocer la mortalidad, el grado de dependencia, la supervivencia y los 
años potenciales de vida perdidos (APVP) después de un primer episodio de ictus.
DISEÑO: Estudio de cohorte fija.
EMPLAZAMIENTO: Base comunitaria.
PARTICIPANTES: Entre el 1/4/2006 y el 31/3/2008 fueron incluidas 553 personas 
entre 15-90 años, con un primer episodio de ictus definitivo o transitorio.
MEDICIONES PRINCIPALES: Grado de dependencia según la escala de Barthel (EB) al 
año, APVP (1-70 años) a partir de las medias de las esperanzas de vida al nacer, 
análisis de supervivencia por curvas de Kaplan-Meier, bivariante entre pacientes 
fallecidos y supervivientes, y multivariante de Cox.
RESULTADOS: Edad media, 73,3; DE: 11,6 años. El tiempo medio de seguimiento fue 
29,7; DE:13,4 meses, en el que un 26,6% de los pacientes fallecieron. El valor 
medio EB descendió > 20%, especialmente entre las mujeres. El 41,5% (IC 95% 
30,6-52,8%) tenía una dependencia moderada o más. La probabilidad de 
supervivencia global acumulada fue de 0,96 (IC 95% 0,94-0,97) el primer mes y 
0,69 (IC 95% 0,65-0,72) al final. La fibrinólisis mejoró significativamente la 
curva de supervivencia a los 3 años post-episodio, en particular entre las 
mujeres. Los factores pronósticos independientes para la supervivencia global 
fueron la edad (riesgo relativo [RR] 1,08, IC 95% 1,001-1,179) y la incidencia 
de un nuevo episodio cardiovascular (RR 6,97, IC 95% 2,23-21,7). La tasa de APVP 
fue 11,5/104, DE 7,2, significativamente mayor en los hombres.
CONCLUSIONES: La evolución funcional, la mortalidad y la tasa de APVP son 
diferentes por género. La incidencia de un nuevo episodio cardiovascular es un 
factor pronóstico independiente de la supervivencia.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aprim.2011.04.004
PMCID: PMC7025231
PMID: 21959094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Health Policy. 2011 Nov;103(1):83-91. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2011.08.011.
Epub  2011 Sep 28.

Current and future avoidable cost of smoking--estimates for Sweden 2007.

Bolin K(1), Borgman B, Gip C, Wilson K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
kristian.bolin@nek.lu.se

OBJECTIVE: To estimate current and future avoidable smoking-attributable costs 
in Sweden for the year 2007.
DESIGN: Disease specific smoking-attributable proportions were calculated for 
Swedish smoking patterns and applied to estimate costs for smoking-related 
diseases based on data from public registers. Avoidable future effects of 
smoking were calculated employing a Markov simulation model.
RESULTS: The estimated total cost in 2007 was USD 1.6 billion, or USD 181 per 
capita. Healthcare (direct) cost accounted for 30% of the total cost. The number 
of deaths was 97 per 100,000 inhabitants (79 in 2001); the number of years of 
potential life lost 1,227 per 100,000 inhabitants (1012 in 2001); and the number 
of years of potential productive life lost 226 (185 in 2001) per 100,000 
inhabitants. Avoidable future lifetime costs, per 100,000 inhabitants, amounted 
to USD 19 million (healthcare), 14,000 years of potential life lost, 
corresponding to a present value of USD 158 million. Total avoidable cost of 
current smoking amounted to USD 16 billion.
CONCLUSION: In spite of declining smoking-prevalence rates during the last 30 
years, smoking-attributable deaths increased between 2001 and 2007. The number 
of life years lost per death decreased somewhat, indicating that the age 
distribution of those dying shifted further towards older age. Simulations 
indicate that smoking-cessation among young smokers yields considerable more 
benefits each year than smoking-cessation among older smokers. The health 
benefits that accrued in 2007, as a result of declining smoking prevalence since 
1980, correspond to more than the total cost of smoking in that year.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2011.08.011
PMID: 21959339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Oct;13(5):575-87. doi: 10.1007/s10198-011-0352-9.
Epub  2011 Sep 30.

Comparison of health state utility values derived using time trade-off, rank and 
discrete choice data anchored on the full health-dead scale.

Brazier J(1), Rowen D, Yang Y, Tsuchiya A.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research 
(ScHARR), University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 
4DA, UK.

Recent years have seen increasing interest in the use of ordinal methods to 
elicit health state utility values as an alternative to conventional methods 
such as standard gamble and time trade-off (TTO). However, in order to use these 
ordinal methods to produce health state values for use in cost-effectiveness 
analysis using cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) analysis, these values 
must be anchored on the full health-dead scale. The paper reports on two 
feasibility studies that use two approaches to anchor health state utility 
values derived from discrete choice data on the full health-dead scale: 
normalising using (1) the TTO value of the worst state and (2) the coefficient 
on the 'dead' dummy variable. Health state utility values obtained using rank 
and discrete choice data are compared to more commonly used TTO utility values 
for two condition-specific preference-based measures; asthma and overactive 
bladder. Ordinal methods were found to offer a promising alternative to 
conventional cardinal methods of standard gamble and TTO. There remains a large 
and important research agenda to address.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-011-0352-9
PMID: 21959651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Br J Cancer. 2011 Oct 25;105(9):1273-8. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2011.390. Epub 2011
Sep  29.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of trastuzumab to treat HER2-positive advanced 
gastric cancer based on the randomised ToGA trial.

Shiroiwa T(1), Fukuda T, Shimozuma K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Life Sciences, Ritsumeikan 
University, Kusatsu, Shiga 525-8577, Japan. t.shiroiwa@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of trastuzumab plus 
chemotherapy for human epidermal growth factor type-2 (HER2)-positive advanced 
gastric cancer (GC) based on data obtained from the Trastuzumab for Gastric 
Cancer (ToGA) trial from a Japanese perspective.
METHODS: The following Japanese and Korean populations of the ToGA trial were 
analysed to obtain mean overall and progression-free survival times: (1) all 
HER2-positive populations, (2) immunohistochemical (IHC) 2+/fluorescence in situ 
hybridisation (FISH)+ or IHC 3+ populations, and (3) IHC 3+ only population. The 
effect of trastuzumab treatment on mean survival time was estimated by fitting a 
Weibull parametric function. Costs were calculated from the perspective of 
health-care payer. Neither costs nor outcomes were discounted because of short 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 
(1) JPY 12 million (€110,000) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained and 
JPY 8.9 million (€81,000) per life-year gained (LYG) for all HER2-positive 
populations, (2) JPY 9.1 million (€83,000) per QALY gained and JPY 6.6 million 
(€60,000) per LYG for the IHC 2+/FISH+ or IHC 3+ population, and (3) JPY 6.1 
million (€55,000) per QALY gained and JPY 4.3 million (€39,000) per LYG for the 
IHC 3+ population.
CONCLUSION: Trastuzumab treatment for IHC 3+ populations is cost effective. Our 
analysis can find a cost-effective subgroup when advanced GC is treated by 
trastuzumab.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2011.390
PMCID: PMC3241558
PMID: 21959871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


629. J Surg Oncol. 2012 Jun 1;105(7):731-8. doi: 10.1002/jso.22100. Epub 2011 Sep
29.

Multidisciplinary management of malignant pleural effusion.

Kaifi JT(1), Toth JW, Gusani NJ, Kimchi ET, Staveley-O'Carroll KF, Belani CP, 
Reed MF.

Author information:
(1)Section of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Penn State Hershey 
Cancer Institute, Penn State College of Medicine, Hershey, Pennsylvania, USA. 
jkaifi@hmc.psu.edu

Approximately 50% of patients with metastatic disease develop a malignant 
pleural effusion (MPE). Prompt clinical evaluation and treatment to achieve 
successful palliation are the main goals of management of MPE. Optimal treatment 
is still controversial and there is no universal standard approach. Management 
options include observation, thoracentesis, indwelling pleural catheter (IPC) or 
chest tube placement, pleurodesis, and surgical pleurectomy. The treatment for 
each patient should be based on symptoms, general condition, and life 
expectancy.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.22100
PMID: 21960207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Top Spinal Cord Inj Rehabil. 2010 Fall;16(2):53-60. doi: 10.1310/sci1602-53.

Risk of Mortality and Life Expectancy After Spinal Cord Injury: The Role of 
Health Behaviors and Participation.

Krause JS(1), Saunders LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Research, College of Health Professions, 
Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina.

PURPOSE: To identify the relationships between health behaviors and 
participation and life expectancy after spinal cord injury (SCI), while 
controlling for biographic and injury factors. METHODS: Data for this 
prospective cohort study were collected by mailed survey. Participants included 
1,361 adults with traumatic SCI, 1 or more years post injury. Participants were 
enrolled an average of 9.7 years after injury, and mortality was determined at 
the end of 2007. There were 294 deaths by follow-up. Life expectancy was 
calculated utilizing person-years and logistic regression. RESULTS: When 
evaluating each factor while controlling for biographic and injury 
characteristics, it was found that smoking history, binge drinking, number of 
drinks consumed, and psychotropic prescription medication use were related to 
increased mortality risk, whereas exercise and weekly outings were associated 
with a lower mortality risk. In the final model, only smoking history, binge 
drinking, psychotropic prescription medication use, and weekly outings were 
predictive of mortality and life expectancy. CONCLUSION: Several behaviors 
identified may become targets of prevention strategies to promote longevity, 
including smoking cessation, stopping binge drinking, avoiding overreliance on 
psychotropic prescription medications, and promoting daily activities away from 
home.

DOI: 10.1310/sci1602-53
PMCID: PMC3181073
PMID: 21960734


631. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2011 Sep;20(3):293-8.

Response to standard of care antiviral treatment in patients with HCV liver 
cirrhosis - a systematic review.

Bota S(1), Sporea I, Popescu A, Sirli R, Neghina AM, Danila M, Strain M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Victor Babes University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Timisoara, Romania.

Comment in
    J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2011 Dec;20(4):445; author reply 445-6.

BACKGROUND: Patients with HCV liver cirrhosis are a category difficult to treat. 
The aim of this study was to establish the sustained virological response (SVR) 
rates in HCV patients with liver cirrhosis treated with standard of care therapy 
(Pegylated Interferon and Ribavirin for 48 weeks in genotypes 1 and 4 and 24 
weeks in genotypes 2 and 3).
METHODS: Searching the PubMed, Medline, Lilacs, Scopus, Ovid and Medscape 
databases we identified all the articles published until February 2011 that 
included only HCV cirrhotic patients. These studies evaluated the SVR after 
standard of care treatment: Pegylated Interferon alpha 2a (doses ranging between 
135-180 µg/week) or Pegylated Interferon alpha 2b (1 or 1.5 µg/kg/week) and 
Ribavirin (doses ranging between 800-1200 mg/day). We used the following key 
words: HCV, liver cirrhosis, sustained virological response (SVR).
RESULTS: The overall SVR rate was 33.3% (95%CI-confidence interval=30.6-36.2%). 
SVR was significantly higher in patients with genotypes 2 and 3 (422 patients) 
as compared to those with genotypes 1 and 4 (692 patients): 55.4% 
(95%CI=50.7-60.1) versus 21.7% (95%CI=18.7-25), p < 0.0001.
CONCLUSION: The overall SVR rate in cirrhotic patients treated with standard of 
care therapy is 33.3%, but lower in cases affected by genotypes 1 and 4 (21.6%) 
which makes them a priority regarding the development of more potent drugs for 
effective treatment.

PMID: 21961098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2011 Dec;11(6):641-55. doi: 
10.1586/erp.11.73. Epub 2011 Oct 3.

Cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir: a systematic review.

Suh DC(1), Aagren M.

Author information:
(1)Chung-Ang University College of Pharmacy, 221 Heukseok-dong, Dongjak-gu, 
Seoul, South Korea. dongsuh75@gmail.com

The prevalence of diabetes and cost of associated treatment are steadily 
increasing, as is the resulting burden on healthcare systems worldwide. Current 
treatment recommendations for Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes advise a prominent role 
for basal insulin. We examined the published health-economic literature 
pertaining to the basal insulin analog insulin detemir (IDet) to determine 
whether IDet is a cost-saving and/or cost-effective treatment for suboptimally 
controlled Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes. A total of 15 modeling studies were 
assessed, most of which found IDet to be cost effective compared with neutral 
protamine Hagedorn and as cost effective as insulin glargine. Those that did not 
find IDet to be cost effective set the disutility of hypoglycemic events to 
almost zero or assumed a higher dose of IDet with no difference in treatment 
effect, ignoring the clinical benefits and cost savings associated with IDet in 
studies demonstrating comparable or superior glycemic control with less 
hypoglycemia versus other basal insulins. The evidence suggests that IDet is 
cost effective versus neutral protamine Hagedorn and at least as cost effective 
as insulin glargine in the treatment of patients with suboptimally controlled 
Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.11.73
PMID: 21961796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Jan;16(1):61-7. doi: 10.3171/2011.8.SPINE1194. Epub
2011  Sep 30.

Determination of minimum clinically important difference in pain, disability, 
and quality of life after extension of fusion for adjacent-segment disease.

Parker SL(1), Mendenhall SK, Shau D, Adogwa O, Cheng JS, Anderson WN, Devin CJ, 
McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurosurgery and Orthopedic Surgery, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

OBJECT: Spinal surgical outcome studies rely on patient-reported outcome (PRO) 
measurements to assess treatment effect. A shortcoming of these questionnaires 
is that the extent of improvement in their numerical scores lack a direct 
clinical meaning. As a result, the concept of minimum clinical important 
difference (MCID) has been used to measure the critical threshold needed to 
achieve clinically relevant treatment effectiveness. As utilization of spinal 
fusion has increased over the past decade, so has the incidence of 
adjacent-segment degeneration following index lumbar fusion, which commonly 
requires revision laminectomy and extension of fusion. The MCID remains 
uninvestigated for any PROs in the setting of revision lumbar surgery for 
adjacent-segment disease (ASD).
METHODS: In 50 consecutive patients undergoing revision surgery for 
ASD-associated back and leg pain, PRO measures of back and leg pain on a visual 
analog scale (BP-VAS and LP-VAS, respectively), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), 
12-Item Short Form Health Survey Physical and Mental Component Summaries (SF-12 
PCS and MCS, respectively), and EuroQol-5D health survey (EQ-5D) were assessed 
preoperatively and 2 years postoperatively. The following 4 well-established 
anchor-based MCID calculation methods were used to calculate MCID: average 
change; minimum detectable change (MDC); change difference; and receiver 
operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis for the following 2 separate 
anchors: health transition item (HTI) of the SF-36 and satisfaction index.
RESULTS: All patients were available for 2-year PRO assessment. Two years after 
surgery, a statistically significant improvement was observed for all PROs (mean 
changes: BP-VAS score [4.80 ± 3.25], LP-VAS score [3.28 ± 3.25], ODI [10.24 ± 
13.49], SF-12 PCS [8.69 ± 12.55] and MCS [8.49 ± 11.45] scores, and EQ-5D [0.38 
± 0.45]; all p < 0.001). The 4 MCID calculation methods generated a range of 
MCID values for each of the PROs (BP-VAS score, 2.3-6.5; LP-VAS score, 1.7-4.3; 
ODI, 6.8-16.9; SF-12 PCS, 6.1-12.6; SF-12 MCS, 2.4-10.8; and EQ-5D, 0.27-0.54). 
The area under the ROC curve was consistently greater for the HTI anchor than 
the satisfaction anchor, suggesting this as a more accurate anchor for MCID.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjacent-segment disease revision surgery-specific MCID is highly 
variable based on calculation technique. The MDC approach with HTI anchor 
appears to be most appropriate for calculation of MCID after revision lumbar 
fusion for ASD because it provided a threshold above the 95% CI of the 
unimproved cohort (greater than the measurement error), was closest to the mean 
change score reported by improved and satisfied patients, and was not 
significantly affected by choice of anchor. Based on this method, MCID following 
ASD revision lumbar surgery is 3.8 points for BP-VAS score, 2.4 points for 
LP-VAS score, 6.8 points for ODI, 8.8 points for SF-12 PCS, 9.3 points for SF-12 
MCS, and 0.35 quality-adjusted life-years for EQ-5D.

DOI: 10.3171/2011.8.SPINE1194
PMID: 21962034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Endeavour. 2011 Jun;35(2-3):91-8. doi: 10.1016/j.endeavour.2011.06.001. Epub
 2011 Oct 1.

'So few fat ones grow old': diet, health, and virtue in the golden age of rising 
