Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2011.06.006
PMID: 21893363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2011 Oct 12;366(1579):2756-8. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2011.0075.

Twenty-first century vaccines.

Rappuoli R(1).

Author information:
(1)Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Via Fiorentina 1, 53100 Siena, Italy. 
rino.rappuoli@novartis.com

In the twentieth century, vaccination has been possibly the greatest revolution 
in health. Together with hygiene and antibiotics, vaccination led to the 
elimination of many childhood infectious diseases and contributed to the 
increase in disability-free life expectancy that in Western societies rose from 
50 to 78-85 years (Crimmins, E. M. & Finch, C. E. 2006 Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 
103, 498-503; Kirkwood, T. B. 2008 Nat. Med 10, 1177-1185). In the twenty-first 
century, vaccination will be expected to eliminate the remaining childhood 
infectious diseases, such as meningococcal meningitis, respiratory syncytial 
virus, group A streptococcus, and will address the health challenges of this 
century such as those associated with ageing, antibiotic resistance, emerging 
infectious diseases and poverty. However, for this to happen, we need to 
increase the public trust in vaccination so that vaccines can be perceived as 
the best insurance against most diseases across all ages.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2011.0075
PMCID: PMC3146774
PMID: 21893537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Ann Rheum Dis. 2011 Oct;70(10):1826-30. doi: 10.1136/ard.2010.139345.

Long-term safety, efficacy and inhibition of radiographic progression with 
abatacept treatment in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and an inadequate 
response to methotrexate: 3-year results from the AIM trial.

Kremer JM(1), Russell AS, Emery P, Abud-Mendoza C, Szechinski J, Westhovens R, 
Li T, Zhou X, Becker JC, Aranda R, Peterfy C, Genant HK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Rheumatology, Albany Medical College, 1367 Washington Ave, Albany, 
NY 12206, USA. jkremer@joint-docs.com

Comment in
    Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2012 Mar;8(3):231-4.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate abatacept treatment over 3 years in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) refractory to methotrexate (MTX).
METHODS: Patients randomised to abatacept or placebo (+MTX) during the 1-year 
double-blind period of the Abatacept in Inadequate responders to Methotrexate 
(AIM) trial received open-label abatacept (+MTX) in the long-term extension 
(LTE). Safety was assessed for patients who received ≥ 1 dose of abatacept, 
regardless of randomisation group. Efficacy was assessed for patients randomised 
to abatacept who entered the LTE.
RESULTS: 433 and 219 patients were randomised and treated with abatacept or 
placebo, respectively; 378 and 161 entered the LTE. At year 3, 440/539 patients 
were ongoing. No unexpected safety events were observed in the LTE. By year 3, 
incidence rates of adverse event and serious adverse events were 249.8/100 and 
15.1/100 patient-years, respectively. Incidence rates were generally stable over 
time. At year 3, 84.8%, 63.4% and 37.5% of patients achieved American College of 
Rheumatology (ACR) criteria of 20, 50 and 70, respectively, compared with 82.3%, 
54.3% and 32.4% of patients at year 1. Mean changes in Genant-modified Sharp 
scores were reduced progressively over 3 years, with significantly greater 
inhibition during year 3 compared with year 2 (p=0.022 for total score).
CONCLUSION: In MTX-inadequate responders with RA, abatacept provided consistent 
safety and sustained efficacy over 3 years. The data suggest an increasing 
inhibitory disease-modifying effect on radiographic progression.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2010.139345
PMCID: PMC3171107
PMID: 21893583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests JMK has received research 
grants from Abbott, Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Centocor, Genentech, Merck, 
Pfizer, Roche and Human Genome Sciences and consulting fees from Abbott, Amgen, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Centocor, Genentech, Merck, Pfizer and Roche. ASR has 
received corporate funding and honoraria and has served on a speaker's bureau 
for Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pfizer, Hoffman-La Roche, Amgen/Wyeth and UCB Canada. 
PE provided expert advice and has undertaken clinical trials for Amgen, 
Schering-Plough, Centocor, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Roche. CA-M has nothing to 
disclose. JS has received consulting fees, speaking fees and/or honoraria (less 
than $10 000 each) from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, Wyeth and Sanofi-Aventis. 
RW has received consulting fees from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Schering-Plough and 
Roche, has served on a speaker's bureau for Bristol-Myers Squibb and 
Schering-Plough and has received research support from UCB. TL is a full-time 
employee of and stockholder in Bristol-Myers Squibb. XZ is a full-time employee 
of Bristol-Myers Squibb. J-CB is a full-time employee of and stockholder in 
Bristol-Myers Squibb. RA is a full-time employee of and stockholder in 
Bristol-Myers Squibb. CP is the founder and CEO of Spire Sciences which provides 
imaging services to multiple pharmaceutical companies. HKG has received research 
grants from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, Genentech, Amgen, Merck, Pfizer, 
Servier and Biogen Idec, has received consulting fees from Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Roche, Genentech, Amgen, Merck and Synarc and owns stock options in Synarc.


454. Gerontology. 2012;58(3):221-3; discussion 224-6. doi: 10.1159/000329894.
Epub  2011 Aug 31.

Comments on dietary restriction, Okinawa diet and longevity.

Gavrilova NS(1), Gavrilov LA.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging, NORC and the University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
gavrilova@longevity-science.org

Comment on
    Gerontology. 2012;58(2):126-8.

Longevity in Okinawa is considered to be a result of traditional low calorie 
diet. Le Bourg suggests that Okinawa is an example of severe malnutrition, which 
is harmful for later generations. We believe that current loss of longevity 
advantage in Okinawa is a result of diet westernization and that the dietary 
restriction is a valid way of life extension in humans.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000329894
PMCID: PMC3362219
PMID: 21893946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Soins. 2011 Jul-Aug;(757):29-31.

[The role of nurses in a care, training and research network].

[Article in French]

Rabieczynski A(1), Perron MA, Porcheret L, Tupinier S, Morelière C, Hérail E, 
Patte A, Osseby GV, Giroud M.

Author information:
(1)Unité de soins intensifs neurovasculaires, CHU Dijon.

A care network devoted to strokes within a region can be effective on condition 
that the separations between medical practices are removed and a measurement 
tool is made available. It enables the immediate mortality and the rate of 
recurrence to be reduced. It also helps to prolong life expectancy without a 
stroke.

PMID: 21894863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2012 Apr;36(4):693-704. doi: 
10.1111/j.1530-0277.2011.01630.x. Epub 2011 Sep 6.

The effects of age at drinking onset and stressful life events on alcohol use in 
adulthood: a replication and extension using a population-based twin sample.

Lee LO(1), Young-Wolff KC, Kendler KS, Prescott CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California 90089-1061, USA.

Erratum in
    Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2012 Jun;36(6):1116. Wolff, Kelly C Young [corrected 
to Young-Wolff, Kelly C].

BACKGROUND: A study by Dawson and colleagues (Alcohol Clin Exp Res 2007; 31:69) 
using data from National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Condition 
found earlier drinking onset age, and higher levels of past-year stressful life 
events (SLE) were associated with higher past-year alcohol consumption. The aims 
of our study were as follows: (i) to attempt to replicate this interaction; (ii) 
to extend it by examining sex and event dependence as potential moderators of 
the effect; and (iii) to estimate the roles of genetic and environmental factors 
in mediating the overlap of early drinking onset and SLE in their relations with 
alcohol consumption.
METHODS: Data were from 1,382 female and 2,218 male drinkers interviewed as part 
of the Virginia Adult Twin Study of Psychiatric and Substance Use Disorders. 
Regression models were used to evaluate the main and interactive effects of 
early drinking onset and moderate or severe past-year SLE on past-year drinking 
density (PYDD), a weighted quantity-frequency measure of alcohol consumption. 
Analyses adjusted for demographic covariates and were stratified by sex and 
whether SLE were independent or dependent on the person's actions, as rated by 
interviewers. Structural twin models were used to estimate the degree to which 
early drinking onset, SLE, and their interaction accounted for additive genetic, 
common environmental and individual-specific variance in PYDD.
RESULTS: We replicated the prior finding of a main effect of higher alcohol 
consumption among individuals reporting earlier drinking onset. Age at drinking 
onset accounted for about 5% of the variation in PYDD, and this association was 
mostly attributable to overlapping genetic influences. Evidence for an 
interaction between onset age and SLE was generally weak, possibly because of 
lower power and other methodological differences from Dawson and colleagues' 
study. However, there was some evidence consistent with an interaction of higher 
PYDD among early drinking men who experienced independent SLE and early drinking 
women with dependent SLE.
CONCLUSIONS: We confirmed prior findings of an association between early age at 
drinking onset with higher past-year drinking among young- and middle-aged 
adults and found limited evidence supporting a replication for higher 
stress-related drinking among early-onset drinkers. The association is 
consistent with early onset and stress-related drinking being attributable to 
overlapping genetic liability. Among early drinkers, our results suggest sex 
differences in consumption with regard to event dependence.

Copyright © 2011 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.2011.01630.x
PMCID: PMC3319316
PMID: 21895722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Vaccine. 2011 Sep 14;29 Suppl 3:C35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.06.095.

The pharmacoeconomics of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines in Latin America.

Giglio N(1), Micone P, Gentile A.

Author information:
(1)Ricardo Gutierrez Children's Hospital, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
norbergiglio@gmail.com

Streptococcus pneumoniae continues to be the most important causative agent of 
invasive bacterial infections in children and is the most common cause of 
vaccine-preventable deaths in children less than 5 years of age. Due to some 
conditions in the Latin America region, economic assessments of pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccines (PCVs) have unique characteristics. First, distribution of S. 
pneumoniae serotypes, and thus coverage by vaccines that incorporate certain 
serotypes, varies within the region and compared with other parts of the world. 
Second, the mortality rate of pneumococcal infections in developing countries is 
significantly higher than in the US and Europe. Third, the economies of the 
Latin American region are very different from those of developed countries. For 
these reasons, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) is promoting the need 
for economic valuation studies of the impact of pneumococcal vaccines Latin 
America. Given the importance of pneumonia in the burden of pneumococcal disease 
in Latin America, the number of pneumonia cases prevented by the vaccine has a 
large impact on the economic valuation of PCVs, due to a strong correlation with 
numbers of deaths averted, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained or 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) avoided. In terms of cost, analysis of 
impact on acute otitis media (short-term) and sequelae (long-term) show a 
significant and important expenditure avoided by vaccination. Cost-effectiveness 
is significantly modified by vaccine cost, mortality due to pneumonia, vaccine 
efficacy/effectiveness and herd immunity. Finally the validity of certain 
assumptions based on the uncertainty of the data should be considered in 
economic assessments of new PCVs. These include assumptions related to the 
impact on otitis media, estimates of efficacy/effectiveness based on measured 
antibody levels and the extrapolation to PCV10 and PCV13 of previous experience 
with PCV7.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.06.095
PMID: 21896351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Epileptic Disord. 2011 Sep;13(3):277-83. doi: 10.1684/epd.2011.0458.

Lamotrigine is favourable for startle-induced seizures.

Ikeda H(1), Imai K, Ikeda H, Shigematsu H, Shishido T, Takayama R, Fujiwara T, 
Takahashi Y, Inoue Y.

Author information:
(1)National Epilepsy Center, Shizuoka Institute of Epilepsy and Neurological 
Disorders, Shizuoka, Japan. hirikeda@szec.hosp.go.jp

Falling due to startle-induced seizures (SISs) often leads to injury. The 
triggers of SIS are mostly unexpected auditory stimuli, which are too common to 
avoid in daily life. As SISs are often refractory to conventional medications, 
effective therapeutic options have to be established. We report a small series 
of six patients treated with lamotrigine (LTG) as add-on therapy. Seizure 
control was improved greatly in three of the six patients, resulting in less 
restricted daily life, but no effect was observed in two and a skin rash 
developed in one. Patient 1 was a 19-year-old man. His seizure comprised of a 
sudden tonic extension of the extremities induced by auditory or visual 
stimulus. He fell down due to SISs, five to ten times a day, with frequent 
injuries. After adding LTG to treatment with valproate (VPA) and clobazam (CLB), 
SISs were reduced to once a month. Patient 2 was a 51-year-old woman. Sudden 
tonic extension of all limbs induced by unexpected sounds frequently threw her 
down onto the floor. Addition of LTG to treatment with CLB, zonisamide and 
phenytoin reduced her SISs from several to less than once a day. Patient 3 was a 
seven-year-old girl with post-encephalitic epilepsy. After adjunctive treatment 
of LTG to VPA, the severity of SISs became milder thus avoiding injury, although 
seizure frequency did not decrease. LTG is potentially effective for the 
treatment of SISs and may prevent falling. The addition of LTG treatment 
dramatically improved the lives of the patients presented here and should be 
considered as an option for startle-induced seizures.

DOI: 10.1684/epd.2011.0458
PMID: 21896426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Geriatr Psychol Neuropsychiatr Vieil. 2011 Sep;9(3):337-44. doi: 
10.1684/pnv.2011.0284.

[Cognitive aging in schizophrenia].

[Article in French]

Bazin N(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de psychiatrie, Centre hospitalier de Versailles, Le Chesnay. 
nbazin@ch-versailles.fr

The development of studies of aging patients with schizophrenia results from 
their increasing life expectancy in accordance with that of the general 
population, but remains far below that one. Studies devoted to cognitive 
deficits in these patients globally show various complex cognitive deficits, 
which usually remain stable in their evolution. However, some patients develop a 
severe cognitive decline after 65 years, following a long institutionalization. 
Complex cognitive functions particularly deserve to be systematically explored 
in patients presenting with cognitive complaints and/or communication 
difficulties. As an example, we present the case report of a patient showing a 
theory of mind deficit.

DOI: 10.1684/pnv.2011.0284
PMID: 21896436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. BMJ. 2011 Sep 6;343:d5620. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d5620.

Curiousness of increasing obesity and longer life expectancy.

Miller B.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2011;343:d5093.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d5620
PMID: 21896596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. BMJ. 2011 Sep 6;343:d5667. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d5667.

Life expectancy varies across WHO Europe region by 16 years.

Zarocostas J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d5667
PMID: 21896605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Br J Cancer. 2011 Sep 27;105(7):1039-41. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2011.356. Epub
2011  Sep 6.

Geographic remoteness and risk of advanced colorectal cancer at diagnosis in 
Queensland: a multilevel study.

Baade PD(1), Dasgupta P, Aitken J, Turrell G.

Author information:
(1)Viertel Centre for Research in Cancer Control, Cancer Council Queensland, 
Spring Hill, Brisbane, QLD 4004, Australia. peterbaade@cancerqld.org.au

BACKGROUND: We examine the relationships between geographic remoteness, area 
disadvantage and risk of advanced colorectal cancer.
METHODS: Multilevel models were used to assess the area- and individual-level 
contributions to the risk of advanced disease among people aged 20-79 years 
diagnosed with colorectal cancer in Queensland, Australia between 1997 and 2007 
(n=18,561).
RESULTS: Multilevel analysis showed that colorectal cancer patients living in 
inner regional (OR=1.09, 1.01-1.19) and outer regional (OR=1.11, 1.01-1.22) 
areas were significantly more likely to be diagnosed with advanced cancer than 
those in major cities (P=0.045) after adjusting for individual-level variables. 
The best-fitting final model did not include area disadvantage. Stratified 
analysis suggested this remoteness effect was limited to people diagnosed with 
colon cancer (P=0.048) and not significant for rectal cancer patients (P=0.873).
CONCLUSION: Given the relationship between stage and survival outcomes, it is 
imperative that the reasons for these rurality inequities in advanced disease be 
identified and addressed.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2011.356
PMCID: PMC3185960
PMID: 21897391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


463. J Anaesthesiol Clin Pharmacol. 2011 Jul;27(3):315-22. doi: 
10.4103/0970-9185.83673.

Anesthesia for joint replacement surgery: Issues with coexisting diseases.

Kakar PN(1), Roy PM, Pant V, Das J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology Pain management and Perioperative care, Fortis 
Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, New Delhi, India.

The first joint replacement surgery was performed in 1919. Since then, joint 
replacement surgery has undergone tremendous development in terms of surgical 
technique and anesthetic management. In this era of nuclear family and 
independent survival, physical mobility is of paramount importance. In recent 
years, with an increase in life expectancy, advances in geriatric medicine and 
better insurance coverage, the scenario of joint replacement surgery has changed 
significantly. Increasing number of young patients are undergoing joint 
replacement for pathologies like rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing 
spondylitis. The diverse pathologies and wide range of patient population brings 
unique challenges for the anesthesiologist. This article deals with anesthetic 
issues in joint replacement surgery in patients with comorbidities.

DOI: 10.4103/0970-9185.83673
PMCID: PMC3161453
PMID: 21897499

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


464. Hippokratia. 2011 Jan;15(Suppl 1):16-21.

The effect of the expenditure increase in the morbidity and the mortality of 
patients with end stage renal disease: the USA case.

Letsios A(1).

Author information:
(1)Technological Educational Institute of Athens, Faculty of Health and Caring 
Professions, Department of Public Health, Athens, Greece.

The worldwide incidence of kidney failure is on the rise and treatment is 
costly. Kidney failure patients require either a kidney transplant or dialysis 
to maintain life. This review focuses on the economics of alternative dialysis 
modalities such as haemodialysis (HD) and peritoneal dialysis (PD). Important 
economic factors influencing dialysis modality selection include financing, 
reimbursement and resource availability. Modality selection is also influenced 
by employment status, with an association between being employed and PD as the 
modality choice.In the United States, there were 101,688 incident HD patients 
and 6,506 incident PD patients in 2007. Due to the fact that the worldwide 
incidence of kidney failure continues to rise placing USA in the second position 
right after Taiwan, the accumulated experience from USA could be used as a 
characteristic prototype for the analysis of the economics related with modality 
choices and their influence in the quality of life and life expectancy of end 
stage renal disease (ESRD) patients.In the present work we discuss the effect of 
the expenditure increase in the morbidity and the mortality of patients with end 
stage renal disease. Data coming from the USA case concerning the economic 
factors which play a vital role in the sequence of events that leads to the 
choice between different modalities such as HD and PD, will be used as a 
distinctive example in our study. The relationship between the modality used and 
employment status is investigated. The cost effectiveness of alternative 
modalities is reviewed. Examples of statistical models and simulation 
approaches, studying the increase of the life expectancy in terms of the quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) and the incremental cost paid are also presented. 
Corresponding results originated from different regions of the world are also 
briefly shown.

PMCID: PMC3139673
PMID: 21897753


465. Int J Cancer. 2012 Jul 15;131(2):438-45. doi: 10.1002/ijc.26400. Epub 2012
Jan  3.

Cost-effectiveness of KRAS testing in metastatic colorectal cancer patients in 
the United States and Germany.

Vijayaraghavan A(1), Efrusy MB, Göke B, Kirchner T, Santas CC, Goldberg RM.

Author information:
(1)McKesson Corporation, San Francisco, CA 94587, USA. 
vijayaraghavan_arthi@yahoo.com

The objective of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of testing 
for KRAS mutations before administering EGFR inhibitors such as cetuximab and 
panitumumab for patients with advanced metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) in 
the United States and Germany. We developed a lifetime Markov model of costs and 
survival associated with treating mCRC patients to assess the impact of KRAS 
testing before administering EGFR inhibitor-containing chemotherapy regimens. 
Overall, combination therapies involving cetuximab plus irinotecan/FOLFIRI had a 
better life expectancy (25.83 weeks) than cetuximab or panitumumab alone. Use of 
KRAS testing (assuming KRAS mutant patients receive only irinotecan) was equally 
effective and saved $12,428 per patient in the United States. When KRAS mutant 
patients received best supportive care, the life expectancy decreased slightly 
(24.26 weeks vs. 25.83 weeks) and the costs decreased by $13,501 in the United 
States and €9,560 in Germany. For patients treated with cetuximab alone, use of 
KRAS testing to identify mutations lowered costs by $8,040 per patient in the 
U.S. analysis and €3,856 per patient in the German analysis. For patients 
treated with panitumumab alone, use of KRAS testing to identify mutations 
lowered costs by $7,546 per patient in the U.S. analysis and €4,612 per patient 
in the German analysis. Model results were sensitive to the cost of chemotherapy 
regimens and the prevalence of KRAS mutations in the population. Under most 
scenarios, using KRAS testing to select patients for EGFR inhibitor therapy 
saved $7,500-$12,400 per patient in the United States and €3,900-€9,600 per 
patient in Germany with equivalent clinical outcomes.

Copyright © 2011 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.26400
PMID: 21898389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. New Dir Child Adolesc Dev. 2011 Fall;2011(133):1-9. doi: 10.1002/cd.300.

Self-regulation processes and thriving in childhood and adolescence: a view of 
the issues.

Lerner RM(1), Lerner JV, Bowers EP, Lewin-Bizan S, Gestsdottir S, Urban JB.

Author information:
(1)Eliot-Pearson Department of Child Development, Institute for Applied Research 
in Youth Development, Tufts University, USA.

Both organismic and intentional self-regulation processes must be integrated 
across childhood and adolescence for adaptive developmental regulations to exist 
and for the developing person to thrive, both during the first two decades of 
life and through the adult years. To date, such an integrated, life-span 
approach to self-regulation during childhood and adolescence has not been fully 
formulated. The purpose of this monograph is to provide such integration; in 
this introduction, the editors of the monograph explain the purposes of the 
volume and provide a brief overview of the work of the contributing scholars.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/cd.300
PMID: 21898895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. New Dir Child Adolesc Dev. 2011 Fall;2011(133):77-86. doi: 10.1002/cd.305.

A life-span, relational, public health model of self-regulation: impact on 
individual and community health.

Maniar S(1), Zaff JF.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, USA.

In this chapter, the authors extend the ideas around the development of 
self-regulation and its impact on development by proposing a life-span, 
relational, public health model. They propose that the role of self-regulation 
should be understood across transitions from childhood to adulthood and through 
an individual and community perspective, including the relational process 
between the individual, the community, and contextual factors, such as the 
social determinants of health. These contextual factors may mediate or moderate 
the development of self-regulatory capacity across one's life span, influencing 
both individual and community health. Therefore, to ensure proper 
self-regulatory development, we must address the myriad external factors that 
undermine the development of self-regulation across the life span.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/cd.305
PMID: 21898900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Vopr Virusol. 2011 Jul-Aug;56(4):45-7.

[Efficiency of coadministration of immunomodulators and vaccine in an experiment 
on tick-borne encephalitis].

[Article in Russian]

Barinskiĭ IF, Lazarenko AA, Alimbarova LM, Davydova AA.

Experiments on a tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) model in CBA and BALB/c mice 
demonstrated that immunomodulators (ridostin, polyribonate, and 
peptidoglycan-160) and a specific vaccine against TBE were significantly 
effective in increasing the level of a protective effect and life expectancy in 
the experimental group as compared to the control group. The findings allow one 
to recommend the immunomodulator ridostin in combination with the inactivated 
vaccine for the emergency prophylaxis of TBE in its virus-infected subjects in 
the foci of infection.

PMID: 21899071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2011;(7):26-30.

[Improvement of the organization of oncological aid under conditions of specific 
technogenic load on the population].

[Article in Russian]

Shchepin VO, Kudriavtsev IIu.

Social and economic disbenifits due to mortality from malignant neoplasms were 
estimated taking into account the losses of man-years of work, mean life 
expectancy for the sick, losses from temporary disablement and invalidization 
caused by malignancies, and the cost of oncological aid. The study was based at 
an area in Uzbekistan subjected to pollution by industrial wastes from an 
uranium-extracting enterprise. A special purpose-oriented program has been 
elaborated for the correction of oncological aid currently provided to the 
workers of the Navoi mining and metallurgical works and the local population. 
Its implementation resulted in a 13% reduction of standardized mortality from 
malignant neoplasm in 2004 compared with 1999 and another 24% in 2009. The 
disbenefit prevented by the reduction of mortality at active ages is estimated 
at 60,6 mln rubles.

PMID: 21899088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2011 Sep 7;11:55. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-11-55.

Evaluating risk factor assumptions: a simulation-based approach.

Rutter CM(1), Miglioretti DL, Savarino JE.

Author information:
(1)Biostatistics Unit, Group Health Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA. 
rutter.c@ghc.org

BACKGROUND: Microsimulation models are an important tool for estimating the 
comparative effectiveness of interventions through prediction of 
individual-level disease outcomes for a hypothetical population. To estimate the 
effectiveness of interventions targeted toward high risk groups, the mechanism 
by which risk factors influence the natural history of disease must be 
specified. We propose a method for evaluating these risk factor assumptions as 
part of model-building.
METHODS: We used simulation studies to examine the impact of risk factor 
assumptions on the relative rate (RR) of colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and 
mortality for a cohort with a risk factor compared to a cohort without the risk 
factor using an extension of the CRC-SPIN model for colorectal cancer. We also 
compared the impact of changing age at initiation of screening colonoscopy for 
different risk mechanisms.
RESULTS: Across CRC-specific risk factor mechanisms, the RR of CRC incidence and 
mortality decreased (towards one) with increasing age. The rate of change in RRs 
across age groups depended on both the risk factor mechanism and the strength of 
the risk factor effect. Increased non-CRC mortality attenuated the effect of 
CRC-specific risk factors on the RR of CRC when both were present. For each risk 
factor mechanism, earlier initiation of screening resulted in more life years 
gained, though the magnitude of life years gained varied across risk mechanisms.
CONCLUSIONS: Simulation studies can provide insight into both the effect of risk 
factor assumptions on model predictions and the type of data needed to calibrate 
risk factor models.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-11-55
PMCID: PMC3182875
PMID: 21899767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2011 Sep 21;103(18):1373-86. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djr303.
Epub  2011 Sep 6.

Model-based analyses to compare health and economic outcomes of cancer control: 
inclusion of disparities.

Goldie SJ(1), Daniels N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Center for Health Decision 
Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard Global Health Institute, 
Harvard University, 718 Huntington Ave, 2nd floor, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
sue_goldie@harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Disease simulation models of the health and economic consequences of 
different prevention and treatment strategies can guide policy decisions about 
cancer control. However, models that also consider health disparities can 
identify strategies that improve both population health and its equitable 
distribution.
METHODS: We devised a typology of cancer disparities that considers types of 
inequalities among black, white, and Hispanic populations across different 
cancers and characteristics important for near-term policy discussions. We 
illustrated the typology in the specific example of cervical cancer using an 
existing disease simulation model calibrated to clinical, epidemiological, and 
cost data for the United States. We calculated average reduction in cancer 
incidence overall and for black, white, and Hispanic women under five different 
prevention strategies (Strategies A1, A2, A3, B, and C) and estimated average 
costs and life expectancy per woman, and the cost-effectiveness ratio for each 
strategy.
RESULTS: Strategies that may provide greater aggregate health benefit than 
existing options may also exacerbate disparities. Combining human papillomavirus 
vaccination (Strategy A2) with current cervical cancer screening patterns 
(Strategy A1) resulted in an average reduction of 69% in cancer incidence 
overall but a 71.6% reduction for white women, 68.3% for black women, and 63.9% 
for Hispanic women. Other strategies targeting risk-based screening to racial 
and ethnic minorities reduced disparities among racial subgroups and resulted in 
more equitable distribution of benefits among subgroups (reduction in cervical 
cancer incidence, white vs. Hispanic women, 69.7% vs. 70.1%). Strategies that 
employ targeted risk-based screening and new screening algorithms, with or 
without vaccination (Strategies B and C), provide excellent value. The most 
effective strategy (Strategy C) had a cost-effectiveness ratio of $28,200 per 
year of life saved when compared with the same strategy without vaccination.
CONCLUSIONS: We identify screening strategies for cervical cancer that provide 
greater aggregate health benefit than existing options, offer excellent 
cost-effectiveness, and have the biggest positive impact in worst-off groups. 
The typology proposed here may also be useful in research and policy decisions 
when trade-offs between fairness and cost-effectiveness are unavoidable.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djr303
PMCID: PMC3176779
PMID: 21900120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 Mar;96(3):438-43. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300402.  Epub 2011 Sep 6.

Cost-effectiveness of internal limiting membrane peeling versus no peeling for 
patients with an idiopathic full-thickness macular hole: results from a 
randomised controlled trial.

Ternent L(1), Vale L, Boachie C, Burr JM, Lois N; Full-Thickness Macular Hole 
and Internal Limiting Membrane Peeling Study (FILMS) Group.

Collaborators: Atta H, Beatty S, Cleary C, Dick A, Ellis J, Forrester J, 
Groenewald C, Haynes R, Heimann H, Khan MI, Kilmartin D, Lois N, Orakzai A, 
Patel CK, Pearce I, Saddik T, Steel D, Wong D, Cottriall C, Daly C, Duncan L, 
McEwing K, Muir S, Murphy A, Keys S, Lindsell L, Tompkin V, Ainley T, Beatty V, 
Bennerson G, Bolton A, Brett J, Farrow A, Jackson R, Johnston T, Kinsella M, 
Neilson S, Nolan H, Stanley S, Talbot J, Manivannan A, Murray G, Aylward B, 
Williamson T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health & Society, Newcastle University, Baddiley-Clarke 
Building, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK. laura.ternent@ncl.ac.uk

AIM: To determine whether internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling is 
cost-effective compared with no peeling for patients with an idiopathic stage 2 
or 3 full-thickness macular hole.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed alongside a randomised 
controlled trial. 141 participants were randomly allocated to receive 
macular-hole surgery, with either ILM peeling or no peeling. Health-service 
resource use, costs and quality of life were calculated for each participant. 
The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained was calculated 
at 6 months.
RESULTS: At 6 months, the total costs were on average higher (£424, 95% CI -182 
to 1045) in the No Peel arm, primarily owing to the higher reoperation rate in 
the No Peel arm. The mean additional QALYs from ILM peel at 6 months were 0.002 
(95% CI 0.01 to 0.013), adjusting for baseline EQ-5D and other minimisation 
factors. A mean incremental cost per QALY was not computed, as Peeling was on 
average less costly and slightly more effective. A stochastic analysis suggested 
that there was more than a 90% probability that Peeling would be cost-effective 
at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Although there is no evidence of a statistically significant 
difference in either costs or QALYs between macular hole surgery with or without 
ILM peeling, the balance of probabilities is that ILM Peeling is likely to be a 
cost-effective option for the treatment of macular holes. Further long-term 
follow-up data are needed to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300402
PMID: 21900224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2011 Oct;90(10):868-70. doi: 
10.1097/PHM.0b013e318228bc5d.

Forty-eight years with duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Bach JR(1), Decicco A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Medicine 
and Dentistry of New Jersey, New Jersey Medical School, Newark, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0b013e318228bc5d
PMID: 21900759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Kidney Int. 2012 Jan;81(2):179-89. doi: 10.1038/ki.2011.277. Epub 2011 Sep
7.

Cysteamine therapy delays the progression of nephropathic cystinosis in late 
adolescents and adults.

Brodin-Sartorius A(1), Tête MJ, Niaudet P, Antignac C, Guest G, Ottolenghi C, 
Charbit M, Moyse D, Legendre C, Lesavre P, Cochat P, Servais A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital, Paris, France. 
albanesarto@yahoo.fr

Nephropathic cystinosis is a multisystem autosomal recessive disease caused by 
cystine accumulation, which is usually treated by oral cysteamine. In order to 
determine long-term effects of this therapy, we enrolled 86 adult patients (mean 
age 26.7 years) diagnosed with nephropathic cystinosis, 75 of whom received 
cysteamine. Therapy was initiated at a mean age of 9.9 years with a mean 
duration of 17.4 years. By last follow-up, 78 patients had end-stage renal 
disease (mean age 11.1 years), 62 had hypothyroidism (mean age 13.4), 48 
developed diabetes (mean age 17.1 years), and 32 had neuromuscular disorders 
(mean age 23.3 years). Initiating cysteamine therapy before 5 years of age 
significantly decreased the incidence and delayed the onset of end-stage renal 
disease, and significantly delayed the onset of hypothyroidism, diabetes, and 
neuromuscular disorders. The development of diabetes and hypothyroidism was 
still significantly delayed, however, in patients in whom therapy was initiated 
after 5 years of age, compared with untreated patients. The life expectancy was 
significantly improved in cysteamine-treated versus untreated patients. Thus, 
cysteamine decreases and delays the onset of complications and improves life 
expectancy in cystinosis. Hence, cysteamine therapy should be introduced as 
early as possible during childhood and maintained lifelong.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2011.277
PMID: 21900880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7363):132. doi: 10.1038/477132a.

Brain burdens.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 27;478(7370):459.

DOI: 10.1038/477132a
PMID: 21900971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Curr Genet. 2011 Dec;57(6):409-20. doi: 10.1007/s00294-011-0355-1. Epub 2011
Sep  8.

MoDUO1, a Duo1-like gene, is required for full virulence of the rice blast 
fungus Magnaporthe oryzae.

Peng H(1), Feng Y, Zhu X, Lan X, Tang M, Wang J, Dong H, Chen B.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical 
Agro-bioresources and Key Laboratory for Microbial and Plant Genetic 
Engineering, Ministry of Education, College of Life Science and Technology, 
Guangxi University, Nanning 530004, People's Republic of China.

Duo1, a major component of the Dam1 complex which has been found in two species 
of yeast (the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisae and the fission yeast 
Schizosaccharomyces pombe), is involved in mitosis-related chromosome 
segregation, while its relevance to pathogenicity in filamentous fungi remains 
unclear. This report elucidated this very fact in the case of the rice blast 
fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. A gene designated MoDUO1 that encodes a Duo1-like 
homolog (MoDuo1) was discovered in the M. oryzae genome. Two types of MoDUO1 
mutants were obtained using genetic approaches of Agrobacterium-mediated gene 
disruption and homologous recombination. Both disruption and deletion of MoDUO1 
can exert profound effects on the formation pattern of conidiophores and 
conidial morphology, such as abnormal nucleic numbers in conidia and delayed 
extension of infectious hyphae. Intriguingly, plant infection assays 
demonstrated that inactivation of MoDUO1 significantly attenuates the virulence 
in its natural host rice leaves, and functional complementation can restore it. 
Subcellular localization assays showed that MoDuo1 is mainly distributed in the 
cytosol of fungal cells. Proteomics-based investigation revealed that the 
expression of four mitosis-related proteins is shut down in the MoDUO1 mutant, 
suggesting that MoDuo1 may have a function in mitosis. In light of the fact that 
Duo1 orthologs are widespread in plant and human fungal pathogens, our finding 
may represent a common mechanism underlying fungal virulence. To the best of our 
knowledge, this is the first example of linking a Duo1-like homolog to the 
pathogenesis of a pathogenic fungus, which might provide clues to additional 
studies on the role of Dam1 complex in M. oryzae and its interaction with rice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00294-011-0355-1
PMID: 21901484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Common Syndromes in Older Adults Related to Primary and Secondary Prevention
 [Internet].

Kane RL(1), Talley KMC(1), Shamliyan T(1), Pacala JT(1).

Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2011 Jul. 
Report No.: 11-05157-EF-1.
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic 
Evidence Reviews.

Author information:
(1)Minnesota Evidence-Based Practice Center

OBJECTIVES: To create a systematic synthesis of the published evidence about the 
prevalence of eight geriatric syndromes and their association with survival and 
institutionalization, and to provide a review of models that report survival in 
elderly populations.
DATA SOURCES: Original epidemiologic studies were sought from several databases 
to identify articles published in English from January 1, 1990 to April 25, 
2010.
REVIEW METHODS: We identified studies of multiple morbidities, mild cognitive 
impairment, frailty, disability, sarcopenia, malnutrition, homeostenosis (i.e., 
impaired homeostasis), and chronic inflammation in the general elderly 
population and age, race, and sex subgroups. We developed standardized forms 
using different definitions of these syndromes and abstracted prevalence of the 
syndromes. Multivariate adjusted risks of mortality and institutionalization for 
elderly patients with syndromes were abstracted to calculate remaining life 
expectancy. Pooled analyses were conducted with random effects models. 
Statistical and decisionmaking models were appraised for content, simplicity, 
and validation.
RESULTS: Of the 2,377 publications retrieved, 509 publications of 123 studies 
were eligible for review. Definitions varied within each syndrome and overlapped 
across all syndromes. Prevalence estimates increased with age. African Americans 
had higher prevalence of multiple morbidities, frailty, malnutrition, and 
disability when compared to Caucasians. Evidence on other minority subgroups was 
sparse. All syndromes were associated with increased risk of death and 
institutionalization. A negative association between prevalence of a syndrome 
and its effect on survival was evident across all syndromes. Impaired 
homeostasis and dementia were associated with the lowest survival among elderly 
persons when compared to the general population. In the young-old, ages 65–74 
years, those with homeostenosis, poor health, or advanced dementia suffered 
significant decreases in predicted life expectancy. The syndromes affected the 
likelihood of death more among the young-old. In those older than age 90 years, 
the added value of factoring in conditions and syndromes to evaluate the link to 
mortality beyond 1 year was minimal. Complexity was not associated with better 
mortality models in elderly persons.
CONCLUSIONS: Syndromes are not independent; definitions and prevalence estimates 
overlap substantially. Some minority subpopulations had higher prevalence of the 
syndromes. Less inclusive definitions had lower prevalence but were better 
predictors of outcomes. Complex mortality models added less benefit to simpler 
models that included age, specific diseases, and impact on overall health and 
functioning. For younger old persons, syndromes most strongly linked to 
mortality were homeostenosis, poor health, and dementia.

PMID: 21901865


478. ABNF J. 2011 Summer;22(3):58-63.

Life stories of older adults with sickle cell disease.

Jenerette CM(1), Leak AN, Sandelowski M.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Nursing, Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina 27599, USA. coretta.jenerette@unc.edu

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a chronic disease with acute, painful exacerbations 
that often results in a shortened life expectancy. We explored the life stories 
of middle-age and older adults with SCD to ascertain how they explain their 
longevity and how they see the place of SCD in their lives. Data were gathered 
using semi-structured interviews with 12 individuals living with SCD--seven 
women and five men. Respondents offered four main reasons for their longevity: 
self-care, supportive family/friends, a higher power, and medical care. 
Respondents reported life satisfactions of family, employment/education, and 
religious activities. The life stories reflect challenges of often living with a 
disease prior to diagnosis and without modern advances and the unpredictable 
nature of the disease. Their stories provide healthcare providers with insight 
into the supports SCD patients need to improve their health outcomes as they 
move through the life course.

PMID: 21901994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Aging Cell. 2011 Dec;10(6):913-21. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00741.x.
Epub  2011 Sep 28.

Sex differences in telomeres and lifespan.

Barrett EL(1), Richardson DS.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research 
Park, Norfolk, UK. emma.barrett@uea.ac.uk

Males and females often age at different rates resulting in longevity 'gender 
gaps', where one sex outlives the other. Why the sexes have different lifespans 
is an age-old question, still fiercely debated today. One cellular process 
related to lifespan, which is known to differ according to sex, is the rate at 
which the protective telomere chromosome caps are lost. In humans, men have 
shorter lifespans and greater telomere shortening. This has led to speculation 
in the medical literature that sex-specific telomere shortening is one cause of 
sex-specific mortality. However, telomere shortening may be a cause for and/or a 
consequence of the processes that govern survival, and to infer general 
principles from single-taxon studies may be misleading. Here, we review recent 
work on telomeres in a variety of animal taxa, including those with reverse 
sexual lifespan dimorphism (i.e., where males live longer), to establish whether 
sex-specific survival is generally associated with sex differences in telomere 
dynamics. By doing this, we attempt to tease apart the potential underlying 
causes for sex differences in telomere lengths in humans and highlight targets 
for future research across all taxa.

© 2011 The Authors. Aging Cell © 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2011.00741.x
PMID: 21902801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Hematology. 2011 Sep;16(5):274-7. doi: 10.1179/102453311X13025568942005.

Reduced corticosteroid use in adult patients with primary immune 
thrombocytopenia receiving romiplostim.

Michel M(1), te Boekhorst PA, Janssens A, Pabinger-Fasching I, Sanz MA, Nie K, 
Kreuzbauer G.

Author information:
(1)CHU Henri Mondor AP-HP, Université Paris, 51 Av du Mal de Lattre de Tassigny, 
Créteil, France. marc.michel@hmn.aphp.fr

<title/> Adult patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia requiring 
first-line treatment typically receive corticosteroids, which are associated 
with low response rates and many potential side effects. In a retrospective 
analysis of two 6-month, placebo-controlled, phase III trials, corticosteroid 
use decreased from 30 to 26% among patients treated with the novel 
thrombopoietin-mimetic romiplostim (n = 83) and remained above 30% for 
placebo-treated patients (n = 42). Moreover, compared to placebo, patients were 
spared 7 weeks of corticosteroid treatment for every 100 weeks of romiplostim 
treatment. Thereafter, corticosteroid use continued to decrease significantly, 
from 35 to 20%, in patients treated with romiplostim for up to 3 years in an 
open-label extension study (n = 101), and patients were spared a further 8 weeks 
of corticosteroid treatment for each additional 100 weeks of romiplostim 
treatment. Such reductions in corticosteroids may improve health-related quality 
of life in patients with primary immune thrombocytopenia.

DOI: 10.1179/102453311X13025568942005
PMCID: PMC3178451
PMID: 21902890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Eye (Lond). 2011 Dec;25(12):1575-80. doi: 10.1038/eye.2011.213. Epub 2011
Sep 9.

Incorporating life expectancy in glaucoma care.

Wesselink C(1), Stoutenbeek R, Jansonius NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

AIM: To calculate for which combinations of age and perimetric disease stage 
glaucoma patients are unlikely to become visually impaired during their 
lifetime.
METHODS: We used residual life expectancy data (life expectancy adjusted for the 
age already reached) as provided by Statistics Netherlands and rates of 
progression as derived from published studies. We calculated the baseline mean 
deviation (MD) for which an individual would reach a MD of -20 dB at the end of 
