Khleif AA(1), Rodriguez N, Brown D, Escobar MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Gulf States Hemophilia & Thrombophilia Center, 
The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX 77030, 
USA.

Introduction. Advances in hemophilia care and treatment have led to increases in 
the life expectancy among hemophiliacs. As a result, persons with hemophilia are 
reaching an older age and experiencing various age-related health conditions 
never seen before in this population. Aim. To determine the prevalence of 
comorbidities among middle-aged and elderly hemophilia A and hemophilia B 
patients. Methods. Retrospective chart review among all hemophilia patients, who 
attended the Gulf States Hemophilia and Thrombophilia Center. Results. All 
patients had at least one comorbid condition other than hemophilia, and the 
majority had between 3 and 6 comorbidities. The most common conditions 
identified were chronic hepatitis C, hypertension, HIV, chronic arthropathy, and 
overweight/obesity. Conclusions. Since persons with comorbidities are more 
likely to have poorer health outcomes and require greater care in managing their 
health needs, caring for aging hemophiliacs is likely to pose various social and 
economic challenges for both patients and providers.

DOI: 10.4061/2011/985703
PMCID: PMC3168380
PMID: 21912745


507. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2012 Jan;38(1):70-7. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.3194.
Epub  2011 Sep 12.

Estimation of life expectancies and loss-of-life expectancies for workers with 
permanent occupational disabilities of the extremities--a 21-year follow-up 
study.

Lin SH(1), Lee HY, Chang YY, Jang Y, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to estimate the life expectancies and loss-of-life 
expectancies of workers with permanent occupational disabilities of the upper 
and lower limbs in Taiwan.
METHODS: We collected all cases of permanent occupational disability in the 
upper and lower limbs from the Bureau of Labor Insurance database of 
compensation claims between 1986-2006; these data were linked with the national 
mortality registry to obtain a survival function. Workers were divided into 
eight groups according to their injury types, three of which fulfilled the 
condition of constant excess hazard and the survival functions were extrapolated 
to 50 years using a semi-parametric method.
RESULTS: Of the subjects involved in the study, 1016 with toe amputations, 995 
with foot or leg amputations, and 4339 with foot or leg non-amputations showed a 
life expectancy of 1.8 [95% confidence interval (95% CI) -1.3- -4.9], 4.9 (95% 
CI 2.2- -7.6), and 4.5 (95% CI 2.1- -6.9) years, respectively. The above method 
was validated by extrapolating partial cohorts based on the first 10 years of 
follow-up data to 21-year and comparing actual survival rates using the Kaplan 
Meier method. The relative bias of three groups was <8%.
CONCLUSIONS: The semi-parametric extrapolation method is a feasible and accurate 
approach for projecting life expectancy and expected years of life lost for 
groups with occupational amputations of the lower extremities. The value of life 
lost among these groups should be considered when determining compensation for 
these workers and assessing the cost-effectiveness of preventive occupational 
health services.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.3194
PMID: 21912828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Insect Physiol. 2011 Dec;57(12):1670-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jinsphys.2011.08.020.  Epub 2011 Sep 5.

Discriminating between energetic content and dietary composition as an 
explanation for dietary restriction effects.

Ellers J(1), Ruhe B, Visser B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecological Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
jacintha.ellers@falw.vu.nl

A reduction in dietary calories has been shown to prolong life span in a wide 
variety of taxa, but there has been much debate about confounding factors such 
as nutritional composition of the diet, or reallocation of nutrients from 
reduced reproduction. To disentangle the contribution of these different 
mechanisms to extension of life span, we study the effect of caloric restriction 
on longevity and fecundity in two species of sugar-feeding parasitoid wasps. 
They have a simple diet that consists of carbohydrates only, and they do not 
resorb eggs, which rules out the proposed alternative explanations for 
beneficial effects of caloric restriction. Two caloric restriction treatments 
were applied: first, dietary dilution to investigate the effect of carbohydrate 
concentration in the diet; and second, intermittent feeding to examine the 
effect of feeding frequency on longevity and fecundity. Only the dietary 
dilution treatment showed an effect of caloric restriction with the highest 
longevity recorded at 80% sucrose (w/v). No effect of dietary regime was found 
on fecundity. We also measured the weight increase of the parasitoids after 
feeding to obtain an estimate of consumption. A constant quantity of the sugar 
solution was consumed in all dietary dilution treatments, hence caloric intake 
was proportional to sucrose concentrations. Although the present study does not 
disqualify the relevance of nutrient composition in other species, our data 
unequivocally demonstrate that caloric restriction alone is sufficient to extend 
life span and invalidate alternative explanations.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinsphys.2011.08.020
PMID: 21914451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):793-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.007.
Epub  2011 Jun 25.

Modelling correlated clinical outcomes in health technology appraisal.

Epstein D(1), Sutton A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. 
david.epstein@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Many clinical treatments have multiple effects that can only be 
effectively captured on multiple outcome scales. It might be important to 
understand how these outcomes are correlated to evaluate the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of treatments in decision models.
METHODS: The probabilities are estimated that both, one, or neither outcome 
occurs, given estimates of the marginal probability for each outcome and 
information about the correlation between them. Methods are shown for different 
measures of association. Lower and upper bounds for the correlation coefficient 
are calculated for given values of the marginal probabilities. The approach is 
illustrated using a simplified decision model based on a recent evaluation of 
adalimumab, a biologic drug for psoriatic arthritis.
RESULTS: Assuming the outcomes are positively correlated, the probability of 
both a skin and arthritis response after adalimumab was estimated to be 0.387 
(95% confidence interval 0.210-0.570). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of adalimumab versus no biologic is £18,500 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY). The ICER increases to £19,500 per QALY if the responses are 
independent.
CONCLUSION: Estimates of ICERs can be sensitive to assumptions about how 
multiple outcomes are correlated. These assumptions should be explored in 
univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.007
PMID: 21914498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):800-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.03.005.

Cost-effectiveness of a recommendation of universal mass vaccination for 
seasonal influenza in the United States.

Clements KM(1), Chancellor J, Nichol K, DeLong K, Thompson D.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Medford, MA 02155, USA. karen.clements@i3innovus.com

OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of universal mass vaccination 
(UMV) against influenza compared with a targeted vaccine program (TVP) for 
selected age and risk groups in the United States.
METHODS: We modeled costs and outcomes of seasonal influenza with UMV and TVP, 
taking a societal perspective. The US population was stratified to model 
age-specific (< 5, 5-17, 18-49, 50-64, and 65+ years) vaccine coverage and 
efficacy. Probability of influenza-related illness (ILI) and complications, 
health-care utilization, costs, and survival were estimated. For a season's 
intervention, ILI cases in that year, lifetime costs (2008 US$), and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost (both discounted at 3% per annum) were 
calculated for each policy and used to derive incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios. A range of sensitivity and alternative-scenario analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: In base-case analyses, TVP resulted in 63 million ILI cases, 859,000 
QALYs lost, and $114.5 billion in direct and indirect costs; corresponding 
estimates for UMV were 61 million cases, 825,000 QALYs lost, and $111.4 billion. 
UMV was therefore estimated to dominate TVP, saving $3.1 billion and 34,000 
QALYs. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, UMV was dominant in 82% and 
dominated in 0% of iterations. In alternative-scenario analyses, UMV dominated 
TVP when lower estimates of vaccine coverage were used. Lower estimates of ILI 
risk among unvaccinated, vaccine effectiveness, and risk of complications 
resulted in ICERs of $2800, $8100, and $15,900 per QALY gained, respectively, 
for UMV compared with TVP.
CONCLUSIONS: UMV against seasonal influenza is cost saving in the United States 
under reasonable assumptions for coverage, cost, and efficacy.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.03.005
PMID: 21914499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):812-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.02.1180.

Cost-effectiveness of implantable defibrillators after myocardial infarction 
based on 8-year follow-up data (MADIT II).

Gandjour A(1), Holler A, Dipl-Ges-Ök, Adarkwah CC.

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center/Louisiana State University, Baton 
Rouge, LA 70808, USA. afschin.gandjour@pbrc.edu

OBJECTIVES: About 190,000 Germans experience a myocardial infarction each year. 
Of these, 25% may be eligible for an implantable cardioverter defibrillator 
(ICD) due to low left ventricular ejection fraction. Given the high costs of 
implantation, the purpose of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
ICDs compared to conventional therapy in patients with an ejection fraction 30% 
or less after MI in Germany.
METHODS: The economic evaluation was performed from the perspective of the 
German statutory health insurance. To simulate costs and effectiveness over 
lifetime, a Markov model was constructed with seven health states. The model was 
based on 8-year follow-up data for ICD implantation after myocardial infarction 
(MADIT II), which was published recently.
RESULTS: The analysis shows that ICD implantation compared to conventional 
therapy in patients fulfilling MADIT-II criteria has a cost-effectiveness ratio 
of €44,736 per quality-adjusted life year gained. If every patient insured by 
the statutory health insurance and fulfilling the MADIT-II criteria would 
receive an ICD, the model suggests expenditures between €173 million and €1.7 
billion per year.
CONCLUSIONS: ICD therapy cannot be considered clearly cost-effective when 
compared to many well-accepted interventions. If policy makers decide to 
reimburse ICDs in the MADIT-II population, they will need to either raise 
premiums or abandon coverage for other currently funded medical interventions.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.02.1180
PMID: 21914500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):818-26. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.02.1176.

Esophageal Doppler monitoring during colorectal resection offers cost-effective 
improvement of hemodynamic control.

Maeso S(1), Callejo D, Hernández R, Blasco JA, Andradas E.

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Assessment Unit, Agencia Laín Entralgo, Madrid, Spain. 
smaemar@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: Hemodynamic control can improve the outcome of surgery. Esophageal 
Doppler monitoring measures blood flow by ultrasound waves. This work 
investigates the cost-effectiveness of this procedure during colorectal 
resection.
METHODS: Meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials of esophageal Doppler 
monitoring used in colorectal resection were conducted to help determine its 
cost-effectiveness. An analytical decision model was used to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of strategies involving conventional clinical assessment with 
or without the measurement of central venous pressure, with or without 
esophageal Doppler monitoring. Avoided mortality and avoided major complications 
were used as measures of clinical effectiveness.
RESULTS: In the meta-analyses comparing conventional clinical assessment plus 
central venous pressure monitoring with or without esophageal Doppler 
monitoring, statistically significant differences in total and major 
complications favoring the use of Doppler were found. No differences were seen 
in mortality. The use of esophageal Doppler monitoring was associated with lower 
costs, mainly due to fewer complications, shorter hospital stays and shorter 
surgery times.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the information regarding the clinical effectiveness of 
esophageal Doppler monitoring in colorectal resection is limited, strategies 
including this form of blood flow monitoring may be cost-effective. Further 
comparisons of Doppler monitoring against other hemodynamic monitoring systems 
should be undertaken.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.02.1176
PMID: 21914501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):827-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.005.
Epub  2011 Jun 25.

Costs of care for dementia patients in community setting: an analysis for mild 
and moderate disease stage.

Schwarzkopf L(1), Menn P, Kunz S, Holle R, Lauterberg J, Marx P, Mehlig H, 
Wunder S, Leidl R, Donath C, Graessel E.

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Zentrum München/Institute of Health Economics and Health Care 
Management, Neuherberg, Germany. l.schwarzkopf@helmholtz-muenchen.de

OBJECTIVE: Rising life expectancy is associated with higher prevalence rates of 
dementia disorders. When disease progresses the patients' call on formal health 
care services and on social support grows which imposes increasing costs of 
care. The aim of this study was to investigate the costs for patients with mild 
and moderate dementia in community setting in Germany.
METHODS: We assessed total costs of care and individual cost components for 383 
community-living dementia patients alongside a cluster-randomized trial from 
societal and health insurance perspective. Utilization of formal health care 
services was based on insurance claims data and time dedicated to informal care 
was assessed within caregiver interviews. We estimated costs using a two-part 
regression model adjusting for age, gender and cluster-effects.
RESULTS: Costs of care equal €47,747 (Euros) from societal perspective which is 
almost the 4.7-fold of health insurance expenditures. Valued informal care 
covers 80.2% of societal costs and increases disproportionally when disease 
progresses. In moderate dementia the corresponding amount exceeds the one in 
mild dementia by 69.9%, whereas costs for formal health care services differ by 
14.3%.
CONCLUSION: Due to valued informal care, costs of care for community-living 
patients with moderate dementia are significantly higher than for patients with 
mild dementia. Informal care is a non-cash item saving expenditures for 
professional care. To relieve social security system and family caregivers as 
well as to allow dementia patients to stay at home as long as possible, concepts 
fostering community-based dementia care and support to family caregivers need to 
be further developed.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.005
PMID: 21914502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):836-45. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.004.
Epub  2011 Jun 24.

A trial-based assessment of the cost-utility of bevacizumab and chemotherapy 
versus chemotherapy alone for advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Goulart B(1), Ramsey S.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA. bgoulart@fhcrc.org

OBJECTIVES: Bevacizumab is approved for treatment of advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) in combination with chemotherapy based on a 2-month median 
survival benefit demonstrated in one randomized trial. The cost-utility of 
adding bevacizumab to chemotherapy in advanced NSCLC remains unknown. We 
evaluated the cost-utility of bevacizumab added to chemotherapy in patients with 
advanced NSCLC.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to estimate quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and direct medical costs from the US payer perspective in patients 
treated with bevacizumab plus chemotherapy and compared these outcomes with 
patients treated with chemotherapy alone. We populated the model with survival 
and toxicity data from the clinical trial that compared the two strategies. We 
obtained utilities from a literature search and unit costs from Medicare. We 
discounted QALYs and costs at 3% per year. We addressed uncertainty with one-way 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyzes.
RESULTS: Compared with chemotherapy alone, bevacizumab and chemotherapy 
increased mean QALYs by 0.13, at an incremental life-time cost of US$72,000 per 
patient. The incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) was US$560,000/QALY. The ICUR 
was most sensitive to the survival on bevacizumab treatment, the drug costs of 
bevacizumab, and the utility of stable disease on treatment. At a threshold of 
US$100,000/QALY, the addition of bevacizumab had a 0.2% probability of being 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Bevacizumab does not appear to be cost-effective when added to 
chemotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC, based on approximate 
cost-effectiveness thresholds that have been identified in the United States. 
These results may inform decision-makers about resource allocation for NSCLC 
care.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.004
PMID: 21914503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):846-51. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.008.
Epub  2011 Jul 28.

Economic evaluation of everolimus versus sorafenib for the treatment of 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma after failure of first-line sunitinib.

Casciano R(1), Chulikavit M, Di Lorenzo G, Liu Z, Baladi JF, Wang X, Robertson 
J, Garrison L.

Author information:
(1)Analytica International, New York, NY 10018, USA. rcasciano@analyticaintl.com

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Jul;188(1):68-9.

BACKGROUND: A recent indirect comparison study showed that sunitinib-refractory 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) patients treated with everolimus are 
expected to have improved overall survival outcomes compared to patients treated 
with sorafenib. This analysis examines the likely cost-effectiveness of 
everolimus versus sorafenib in this setting from a US payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate a cohort of 
sunitinib-refractory mRCC patients and to estimate the cost per incremental 
life-years gained (LYG) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained. Markov 
states included are stable disease without adverse events, stable disease with 
adverse events, disease progression, and death. Transition probabilities were 
estimated using a subset of the RECORD-1 patient population receiving everolimus 
after sunitinib, and a comparable population receiving sorafenib in a single-arm 
phase II study. Costs of antitumor therapies were based on wholesale acquisition 
cost. Health state costs accounted for physician visits, tests, adverse events, 
postprogression therapy, and end-of-life care. The model extrapolated beyond the 
trial time horizon for up to 6 years based on published trial data. 
Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The estimated gain over sorafenib treatment was 1.273 LYs (0.916 QALYs) 
at an incremental cost of $81,643. The deterministic analysis resulted in an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $64,155/LYG ($89,160/QALY). The 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis demonstrated that results were highly 
consistent across simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: As the ICER fell within the cost per QALY range for many other 
widely used oncology medicines, everolimus is projected to be a cost-effective 
treatment relative to sorafenib for sunitinib-refractory mRCC.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.04.008
PMID: 21914504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Value Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;14(6):852-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.005.
Epub  2011 Jun 23.

Cost-effectiveness of lanthanum carbonate in the treatment of hyperphosphatemia 
in chronic kidney disease before and during dialysis.

Vegter S(1), Tolley K, Keith MS, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology and PharmacoEconomics 
(PE(2)), University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. s.vegter@rug.nl

OBJECTIVES: Hyperphosphatemia is a common and harmful condition in patients with 
chronic kidney disease (CKD). We determined the cost-effectiveness of the 
noncalcium-based phosphate binder lanthanum carbonate (LC) as second-line 
treatment of hyperphosphatemia after therapy failure with calcium-based binders 
(CB).
METHODS: Two CKD populations were modeled: 1) predialysis CKD patients and 2) 
incident dialysis patients. Patients not responding to CB with a serum phosphate 
(SP) level >5.5 mg/dl received a trial with LC. Patients not responding to LC 
(SP >4.6 mg/dl) returned to CB treatment. Patient-level data were obtained from 
clinical trials in predialysis and dialysis. Time-dependent, life-long Markov 
models (discounting at 3.5% annually) were developed, using a UK National Health 
Service perspective.
RESULTS: The health gains with second-line LC treatment compared to CB treatment 
were 44 and 56 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for the predialysis and 
incident dialysis populations, respectively. Second-line LC was a cost-saving 
strategy in the predialysis population because of the cost-savings of delayed 
CKD progression. Second-line LC was cost-effective at £6900 (90% probability 
interval: £5800-£8300) per QALY gained in the dialysis population. Results were 
robust to plausible variations in other model parameters; inclusion of future 
unrelated dialysis costs had a large influence on cost-effectiveness estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Second-line treatment with LC is associated with considerable 
clinical benefits and good value for money in CKD, irrespective of dialysis 
status. These results support Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative 
guidelines to treat CKD patients with hyperphosphatemia irrespective of dialysis 
status.

Copyright © 2011 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.05.005
PMID: 21914505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Bull Cancer. 2011 Oct;98(9):1071-81. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2011.1432.

[Renal carcinoma and fatigue: which challenge in the era of antiangiogenic 
drugs?].

[Article in French]

Joly F(1).

Author information:
(1)Département d'oncologie médicale, centre François-Baclesse, Caen Cedex, 
France. f.joly@baclesse.fr

The perspectives of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) treatment have improved with the 
development of targeted molecular therapies against VEGFR/VEGF-mediated 
angiogenesis and mTOR. Antiangiogenic drugs, including bevacizumab (in 
association with IFN-α), sorafenib, sunitinib and pazopanib have demonstrated 
benefits for patients in terms of life expectancy, with progression free 
survival and overall survival exceeding 10 and 24 months, respectively. 
Long-term administration of these drugs, over several months or several years, 
requires the compliance of patients. Phase II/III studies on 
antiangiogenic-based therapy in RCC showed a high prevalence of fatigue (20 to 
56%), whatever the drug assessed, but with the lowest rates observed with 
sorafenib or pazopanib. Fatigue is considered by cancer patients as the most 
important secondary effect regarding the impact on their quality of life and, 
consequently, is expected to compromise the protocol and the efficacy of the 
treatment. Management of fatigue induced by therapy or the disease is based on 
patient information, identification and treatment of causal aetiologies, 
anti-inflammatory therapy when needed and education and psychological support. 
Anticipating the risk and level of fatigue expected to be associated with cancer 
therapy by using both reliable and simple tools remains a challenge in oncology 
practice. The expected overall benefits of these targeted therapies, coupled 
with daily assessment and management of fatigue induced by the disease or the 
treatment, will offer new perspectives for patients with RCC. In this purpose, 
studies in oncology on the reliability of simple tools based on patient 
reporting and adapted to clinical practice, as well as interventional studies on 
fatigue management are needed.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2011.1432
PMID: 21914577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2011 Sep;136(38):1913-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1286363.
Epub  2011 Sep 13.

[From cardiovascular prevention to anti-aging medicine: influence on telomere 
and cell aging].

[Article in German]

Gleichmann U(1), Gleichmann US, Gleichmann S.

Author information:
(1)Kardiologischen Klinik, Herz- und Diabeteszentrum NRW, Bad Oeynhausen, 
Universitätsklinik der Ruhr-Universität Bochum. ugleich33@aol.com

The most important cardiovascular risk factors (hypercholesterolemia , 
hypertension, diabetes, chronic stress, physical inactivity, smoking, 
adipositas) were evaluated in the second half of the last century using placebo 
controlled trials. The mechanismen of action was not fully understood or 
remained unclear. In some studies not only the risk of atherosclerosis was 
reduced but life expectancy was improved. The length of telomeres is influenced 
by many of the cardiovascular risk factors and is a biomarker of age. Reduced 
telomere length are found in higher age, atherosclerosis, hypertension, 
adipositas, diabetes, smoking, physical inactivity, heart failure, maltreatment 
in childhood, exposure to traffic pollution, chronic infection, single life and 
dementia. A positive effect on telomerase and telomere length is found with 
increased physical activity, statins for treatment of hypercholesterolemia, and 
higher blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids. The probable mechanismen for this is 
an activation of telomerase activity. Many of the cardiovascular risk factors 
influence the cellular DNA by telomere shortening. These effects could be 
reduced by life style measures with prudent diet and drugs for good somatic 
fitness and healthy aging. By this mechanism cardiovascular prevention not only 
reduces the risk of atherosclerosis but also improves life exspectancy by 
anti-aging effects.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1286363
PMID: 21915807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Harefuah. 2010 Dec;149(12):784-8, 811.

[Critical limb ischemia--update].

[Article in Hebrew]

Melamed E(1), Kotyba B, Galili O, Karmeli R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Carmel Medical Center, Haifa, Israel. 
Eitanme2000@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Harefuah. 2010 Dec;149(12):782-3, 811.

Critical limb ischemia (CLI) is the most severe manifestation of peripheral 
artery occlusive disease. Without timely diagnosis and revascularization, 
patients with CLI are at risk of devastating complications including loss of 
limb and life. Therapeutic goals in treating patients with CLI include reducing 
cardiovascular risk factors, relieving ischemic pain, heating ulcers, preventing 
major amputation, improving quality of life and increasing survival. These aims 
may be achieved through medical therapy, revascularization or amputation. The 
past decade has seen substantial growth in endovascular therapies and options 
now exist for treating long segment occlusive disease, but surgical bypass may 
still yield more durable results. Patients who are younger, more active, and at 
low risk for surgery, may have better outcomes undergoing an operation. This is 
also indicated for endovascular failures, which may include technical failures 
or late occlusions after stents or other procedures. In contrast, frail patients 
with a limited life expectancy may experience better outcomes with endovascular 
therapy. For patients who are non-ambulatory, demented, or unfit to undergo 
revascularization, an amputation should be considered.

PMID: 21916102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Neurology. 2011 Oct 25;77(17):1590-8. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e318234332d.
Epub  2011 Sep 14.

The cost-effectiveness of telestroke in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke.

Nelson RE(1), Saltzman GM, Skalabrin EJ, Demaerschalk BM, Majersik JJ.

Author information:
(1)VA Salt Lake City Health Care System, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2011 Oct 25;77(17):1584-5.
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2012 Feb;12(1):15-8.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of telestroke--a 2-way, 
audiovisual technology that links stroke specialists to remote emergency 
department physicians and their stroke patients--compared to usual care (i.e., 
remote emergency departments without telestroke consultation or stroke experts).
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed for both 90-day and lifetime 
horizons. Model inputs were taken from published literature where available and 
supplemented with western states' telestroke experiences. Costs were gathered 
using a societal perspective and converted to 2008 US dollars. Quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained were combined with costs to generate incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). In the lifetime horizon model, both costs and 
QALYs were discounted at 3% annually. Both one-way sensitivity analyses and 
Monte Carlo simulations were performed.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, compared to usual care, telestroke results 
in an ICER of $108,363/QALY in the 90-day horizon and $2,449/QALY in the 
lifetime horizon. For the 90-day and lifetime horizons, 37.5% and 99.7% of 
10,000 Monte Carlo simulations yielded ICERs <$50,000/QALY, a ratio commonly 
considered acceptable in the United States.
CONCLUSION: When a lifetime perspective is taken, telestroke appears 
cost-effective compared to usual care, since telestroke costs are upfront but 
benefits of improved stroke care are lifelong. If barriers to use such as low 
reimbursement rates and high equipment costs are reduced, telestroke has the 
potential to diminish the striking geographic disparities of acute stroke care 
in the United States.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e318234332d
PMCID: PMC3198982
PMID: 21917781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Ann Surg. 2012 Jan;255(1):181-6. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e31822f4e9b.

Synthetic vascular hemodialysis access versus native arteriovenous fistula: a 
cost-utility analysis.

Rosas SE(1), Feldman HI.

Author information:
(1)Renal, Electrolyte and Hypertension Division, Department of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Sylvia.rosas@uphs.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of 2 different vascular access 
strategies among incident dialysis patients.
BACKGROUND: Vascular access is a principal cause of morbidity and cost in 
hemodialysis patients. Recent guidelines and initiatives are intended to 
increase the proportion of patients with a fistula. However, there is growing 
awareness of the high prevalence of fistula failures and attendant 
complications.
METHODS: A decision analysis using a Markov model was implemented to compare 2 
different vascular access strategies among incident dialysis patients: (1) 
placing an arteriovenous fistula (AVF1st) as the initial access followed by a 
synthetic vascular access if the AVF did not mature compared to (2) placing a 
synthetic vascular access (SVA1st) as the initial access device. The 
cost-utility was evaluated across a range of the risk of complications from 
temporary catheters and SVA.
RESULTS: Under base case assumptions, the AVF1st strategy yielded 2.19 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) compared with 2.06 QALYs from the SVA1st 
strategy. The incremental cost-effectiveness was $9389 per QALY for AVF1st 
compared to SVA1st and was less than $50,000 per QALY as long as the probability 
of maturation is 36% or greater. AVF1st was the dominant strategy when the AVF 
maturation rate was 69% or greater.
CONCLUSION: The high risk of complications of temporary catheters and the 
overall low AVF maturation rate explain why a universal policy of AVF1st for all 
incident dialysis patients may not optimize clinical outcomes. Strong 
consideration should be given to a more patient-centered approach taking into 
account the likelihood of AVF maturation.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e31822f4e9b
PMCID: PMC3243807
PMID: 21918428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2011 Nov;22(6):489-95. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834bdfe2.

Ocular manifestations of systemic disease: antineutrophil cytoplasmic 
antibody-associated vasculitis.

Schmidt J(1), Pulido JS, Matteson EL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated 
vasculitides (AAV) may be localized or systemic, and can involve the eyes. This 
review presents the major disease features and treatments of these forms of 
systemic vasculitis.
RECENT FINDINGS: It is increasingly recognized that ocular disease in AAV can 
occur in the absence of systemic disease, and that in limited eye disease the 
ANCA is frequently undetected. Ocular disease in AAV can take many forms, from 
orbital pseudotumor to scleritis, keratitis, and retinitis. Management of eye 
disease in ANCA-associated vasculitis includes local anti-inflammatory and 
moisturizing therapies, local and systemic glucocorticosteroid therapies. 
Systemic therapies are highly effective for the management of organ involvement 
of AAV including eye disease, and include the chemotherapies cyclophosphamide, 
azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil, and methotrexate. The results of recent, 
randomized, clinical trials have demonstrated the efficacy of a new tool in the 
therapeutic armamentarium for AAV, the use of B-cell-depleting therapy with 
rituximab.
SUMMARY: Ocular disease in AAV can occur in isolation or more commonly as a 
manifestation of systemic disease. With recent advances in treatment, the organ 
and overall life expectancy of patients suffering from AAV has markedly 
improved.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834bdfe2
PMID: 21918443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Surg Neurol Int. 2011;2:121. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.84392. Epub 2011 Aug 30.

Nerve transfers in tetraplegia I: Background and technique.

Brown JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Center for Nerve Injury and Paralysis, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

BACKGROUND: The recovery of hand function is consistently rated as the highest 
priority for persons with tetraplegia. Recovering even partial arm and hand 
function can have an enormous impact on independence and quality of life of an 
individual. Currently, tendon transfers are the accepted modality for improving 
hand function. In this procedure, the distal end of a functional muscle is cut 
and reattached at the insertion site of a nonfunctional muscle. The tendon 
transfer sacrifices the function at a lesser location to provide function at a 
more important location. Nerve transfers are conceptually similar to tendon 
transfers and involve cutting and connecting a healthy but less critical nerve 
to a more important but paralyzed nerve to restore its function.
METHODS: We present a case of a 28-year-old patient with a C5-level ASIA B 
(international classification level 1) injury who underwent nerve transfers to 
restore arm and hand function. Intact peripheral innervation was confirmed in 
the paralyzed muscle groups corresponding to finger flexors and extensors, wrist 
flexors and extensors, and triceps bilaterally. Volitional control and good 
strength were present in the biceps and brachialis muscles, the deltoid, and the 
trapezius. The patient underwent nerve transfers to restore finger flexion and 
extension, wrist flexion and extension, and elbow extension. Intraoperative 
motor-evoked potentials and direct nerve stimulation were used to identify donor 
and recipient nerve branches.
RESULTS: The patient tolerated the procedure well, with a preserved function in 
both elbow flexion and shoulder abduction.
CONCLUSIONS: Nerve transfers are a technically feasible means of restoring the 
upper extremity function in tetraplegia in cases that may not be amenable to 
tendon transfers.

DOI: 10.4103/2152-7806.84392
PMCID: PMC3172032
PMID: 21918736


524. Am J Hematol. 2011 Dec;86(12):985-92. doi: 10.1002/ajh.22160. Epub 2011 Sep
14.

Survival trends among 1,325 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia seen over 
the past 40 years in Israel.

Shvidel L(1), Braester A, Bairey O, Rahimi-Levene N, Klepfish A, Herishanu Y, 
Shtalrid M, Polliack A, Berrebi A; Israeli CLL Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Kaplan Medical Center, Rehovot, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical School, 
Jerusalem, Israel. levsh@clalit.org.il

In the light of recent data showing survival improvement of patients with 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we investigated clinical characteristics and 
survival patterns of patients with CLL over the last 40 years in Israel. 
Demographic and clinical data collected in the database of the Israeli CLL Study 
Group were analyzed. Of the 1,325 patients, 221 were diagnosed during the time 
period 1968-1989, 456 during 1990-1999, and 639 during 2000-2010. There was 
shift toward older age (median, 71 vs. 68 vs. 66 years) and a higher proportion 
of patients at Binet stage A at diagnosis (77.6% vs. 66.7% vs. 60.3%) in the 
more recent time periods. Median survival for the entire cohort was 10.9 years; 
12.2 years for patients diagnosed at Binet stage A, 8.5 years for stage B, and 
6.4 years for stage C patients. Older age, high-beta 2-microglobulin level, and 
expression of ZAP-70 predicted shorter survival. There were no apparent changes 
over time regarding gender, age or different clinical stages. Young patients 
with Binet stage A had lower life expectancy than the general population; but, 
in older ages, the survival rates were comparable. There were increased 
proportions of CLL patients diagnosed in early stages, and, at older age, during 
the last decades, however, survival rates according to sex, age, or stage 
remained stable. CLL continues to be an incurable disease affecting survival 
even in patients diagnosed at early stages. Survival benefit shown in recent 
trials using chemoimmunotherapy has still to be proven in wider general 
practice.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.22160
PMID: 21919037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Popul Stud (Camb). 2011 Nov;65(3):319-34. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2011.603428.
 Epub 2011 Sep 15.

Long-term trends in the longevity of scientific elites: evidence from the 
British and the Russian academies of science.

Andreev EM(1), Jdanov D, Shkolnikov VM, Leon DA.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse Strasse 1, Rostock 
18057, Germany.

National science academies represent intellectual elites and vanguard groups in 
the achievement of longevity. We estimated life expectancy (LE) at age 50 of 
members of the British Royal Society (RS) for the years 1670-2007 and of members 
of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS) for the years 1750-2006. The longevity 
of academicians was higher than that of their corresponding national 
populations, with the gap widening from the 1950s. Since the 1980s, LE in the RS 
has been higher than the maximum LE among all high-income countries. In each 
period, LE in the RS was greater than in the RAS, although since the 1950s it 
has risen in parallel in the two academies. This steep increase shared by 
academicians in Britain and Russia suggests that general populations have the 
potential for a substantial increase in survival to high ages.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2011.603428
PMID: 21919630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. J Med Econ. 2011;14(6):748-58. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.614303. Epub 2011
Sep  15.

Cost-effectiveness of a pentavalent human-bovine reassortant rotavirus vaccine 
for children ≤5 years of age in Taiwan.

Itzler RF(1), Chen PY, Lac C, El Khoury AC, Cook JR.

Author information:
(1)Merck & Co., Inc, North Wales, PA 19454-2505, USA. robbin_itzler@merck.com

OBJECTIVE: A Markov model was used to assess the impact of RV5, a pentavalent 
(G1, G2, G3, G4, P1A[8]) human bovine (WC3 strain) reassortant rotavirus 
vaccine, on reducing the healthcare burden and cost associated with rotavirus 
gastroenteritis (RGE) in Taiwan. Other cost-effectiveness analyses for rotavirus 
vaccination in industrialized countries have produced varying results depending 
on the input parameters assumed.
METHODS: Vaccination with RV5 is compared to no vaccination in a hypothetical 
cohort of Taiwanese children during their first 5 years of life to determine the 
per dose prices at which vaccination would be cost neutral or provide good value 
based on established standards from the healthcare (direct medical care costs 
only) and societal (all RGE-related costs) perspectives. The effects of 
vaccination on RGE healthcare utilization and days of parental work loss missed 
are based on results from the Rotavirus Efficacy and Safety Trial.
RESULTS: Without vaccination there would be 122,526 symptomatic episodes of RGE. 
Universal vaccination would reduce RGE-related deaths, hospitalizations, 
emergency department, and outpatient visits by 91.7%, 92.1%, 83.7%, and 73.4%, 
respectively. The price per dose at which vaccination would be cost-neutral is 
US$ 21.80 (688 NTD) and US$ 26.20 (827 NTD) from the healthcare and societal 
perspectives, respectively. At $25 per dose, the cost per QALY gained is US$ 
2261 (71,335 NTD) from the healthcare perspective and cost saving from the 
societal perspective. KEY LIMITATION: The model only assesses the effect of RV5 
on vaccinated children and does not account for herd immunity. However, given 
that high levels of coverage are anticipated in Taiwan, the effects of herd 
immunity are likely to be short-term.
CONCLUSION: A pentavalent rotavirus vaccination program is likely to 
substantially reduce the healthcare burden associated with rotavirus 
gastroenteritis at a cost per QALY ratio within the range defined as 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.614303
PMID: 21919673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Addiction. 2012 Mar;107(3):624-34. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2011.03656.x.

Deep brain stimulation compared with methadone maintenance for the treatment of 
heroin dependence: a threshold and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Stephen JH(1), Halpern CH, Barrios CJ, Balmuri U, Pisapia JM, Wolf JA, Kampman 
KM, Baltuch GH, Caplan AL, Stein SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Centers for Functional and Restorative 
Neurosurgery, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104, USA.

Comment in
    Addiction. 2012 Jul;107(7):1360; author reply 1361.

AIMS: To determine the success threshold at which a theoretical course of deep 
brain stimulation (DBS) would provide the same quality of life (QoL) and 
cost-effectiveness for heroin dependence as methadone maintenance treatment 
(MMT).
DESIGN: We constructed a decision analysis model to calculate QoL after 6 months 
of MMT and compared it to a theoretical course of DBS. We also performed a 
cost-effectiveness analysis using societal costs of heroin dependence, MMT and 
DBS.
SETTING: Systematic literature review and meta-analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients (n = 1191) from 15 trials administering 6 months of MMT 
and patients (n = 2937) from 45 trials of DBS for movement disorders.
MEASUREMENTS: Data on QoL before and after MMT, retention in MMT at 6 months, as 
well as complications of DBS and their impact on QoL in movement disorders.
FINDINGS: We found a QoL of 0.633 (perfect health = 1) in heroin addicts 
initiating MMT. Sixty-six per cent of patients completed MMT, but only 47% of 
them had opiate-free urine samples, resulting in an average QoL of 0.7148 
(0.3574 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) over 6 months). A trial of DBS is 
less expensive ($81,000) than untreated (or relapsed) heroin dependence 
($100,000), but more expensive than MMT ($58,000). A theoretical course of DBS 
would need a success rate of 36.5% to match MMT, but a success rate of 49% to be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The success rate, defined as the percentage of patients remaining 
heroin-free after 6 months of treatment, at which deep brain stimulation would 
be similarly cost-effective in treating opiate addiction to methadone 
maintenance treatment, is estimated at 49%.

© 2011 The Authors, Addiction © 2011 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2011.03656.x
PMID: 21919988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. S Afr Med J. 2011 Sep 5;101(9):642-4.

Should baseline PSA testing be performed in men aged 40 to detect those aged 50 
or less who are at risk of aggressive prostate cancer?

Heyns CF(1), Fisher M, Lecuona A, Van der Merwe A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Stellenbosch University and Tygerberg Hospital. 
cfh2@sun.ac.za

Comment in
    S Afr Med J. 2011 Sep;101(9):634.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the presenting features and treatment outcome of 
prostate cancer in men aged <50 years, in a region where prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) screening is not readily available and most men present with 
symptoms.
METHODS: We analysed the data of 1 571 men with prostatic adenocarcinoma treated 
between January 1997 and December 2008 at out institution, a tertiary level 
public secotr hospital serving a largely indigent population. Statistical 
analysis was performed using Student's, the Mann-Whitney and Fisher's exact 
tests where appropriate (p<0.05 accepted as statistically significant).
RESULTS: Of 1 571 men, 47 (3%) were aged < 50 years. The group aged <50 years 
compared with that aged >50 years, had a siginificantly greater proportion with 
poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (53%), locally advanced (stage T3-4) 
tumours (56%), haematogenous metastases (75%), significantly higher serum PSA at 
diagnosis (mean 621, median 74 ng/ml) and shorter survival.
CONCLUSION: Men aged <50 years presenting with symptoms owing to prostate cancer 
had significantly higher risk disease, higher mean PSA, and poorer prognosis 
than men aged >50 years. To diagnose prostate cancer at a potentially curable 
stage in men aged <50 years, it is necessary to initiate asleine PSA testing at 
age 40 and 45 years, and to select high-risk men for PSA surveillance in order 
to diagnose potentially curable cancer in those with a life expectancy >20-25 
years.

PMID: 21920156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Health Econ. 2011 Dec;30(6):1280-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.07.013.
Epub  2011 Aug 26.

Inverse probability weighted estimation of social tariffs: an illustration using 
the SF-6D value sets.

Méndez I(1), Abellán Perpiñán JM, Sánchez Martínez FI, Martínez Pérez JE.

Author information:
(1)University of Murcia, Spain.

This paper presents a novel approach to model health state valuations using 
inverse probability weighting techniques. Our approach makes no assumption on 
the distribution of health state values, accommodates covariates in a flexible 
way, eschews parametric assumptions on the relationship between the outcome and 
the covariates, allows for an undetermined amount of heterogeneity in the 
estimates and it formally tests and corrects for sample selection biases. The 
proposed model is semi-parametrically estimated and it is illustrated with 
health state valuation data collected for Spain using the SF-6D descriptive 
system. Estimation results indicate that the standard regression model 
underestimates the utility loss that the Spanish general population assigns to 
departures from full health, particularly so for severe departures.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.07.013
PMID: 21920617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. EMBO Rep. 2011 Sep 30;12(10):1000-2. doi: 10.1038/embor.2011.183.

The cost of living longer. Fertility trades with immunity and life expectancy.

Hunter P.

DOI: 10.1038/embor.2011.183
PMCID: PMC3185352
PMID: 21921938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that he has no conflict of 
interest.


531. Vienna Yearb Popul Res. 2007;2007:107-131. doi: 
10.1553/populationyearbook2007s107.

On the age dynamics of learned societies-taking the example of the Austrian 
Academy of Sciences.

Feichtinger G(1), Winkler-Dworak M, Freund I, Prskawetz A, Riosmena F.

Author information:
(1)Vienna Institute of Demography, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Austria 
and Institute of Mathematical Methods in Economics, Vienna University of 
Technology, Vienna, Austria.

In a hierarchical organisation of stable size the annual intake is strictly 
determined by the number of deaths and a statutory retirement age (if there is 
one). In this paper we reconstruct the population of the Austrian Academy of 
Sciences from 1847 to 2005. For the Austrian Academy of Sciences we observe a 
shift of its age distribution towards older ages, which on the one hand is due 
to rising life expectancy, i.e., a rising age at death, as well as to an 
increased age at entry on the other hand. Therefore the number of new entrants 
has been fluctuating considerably-especially reflecting several statutory 
changes-and the length of tenure before reaching the age limit has declined 
during the second half of the last century.Based on alternative scenarios of the 
