clusters, imbalanced cluster sizes, and skewed costs. Performance was reported 
as bias, root mean squared error (rMSE), and confidence interval (CI) coverage 
for estimating incremental net benefits (INBs). We also compared the methods in 
a case study.
RESULTS: Each method reported low levels of bias. Without the robust SE, SUR 
gave poor CI coverage (base case: 0.89 v. nominal level: 0.95). The MLM and TSB 
performed well in each scenario (CI coverage, 0.92-0.95). With few clusters, the 
GEE and SUR (with robust SE) had coverage below 0.90. In the case study, the 
mean INBs were similar across all methods, but ignoring clustering 
underestimated statistical uncertainty and the value of further research.
CONCLUSIONS: MLMs and the TSB are appropriate analytical methods for CEAs of 
CRTs with the characteristics described. SUR and GEE are not recommended for 
studies with few clusters.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X11418372
PMCID: PMC3757919
PMID: 22016450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Int J Ther Massage Bodywork. 2011;4(3):1-7. doi: 10.3822/ijtmb.v4i3.137.
Epub  2011 Sep 30.

A novel massage therapy technique for management of chronic cervical pain: a 
case series.

Thompson WR(1), Carter R, Rohe B, Duncan RL, Cooper CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark.

BACKGROUND: Neck pain is a generalized condition resulting from a complex 
etiology with presentation of a wide variety of symptoms. Neck pain is most 
often accompanied by decreased range of motion (ROM), muscle and joint 
stiffness, and limitations in functional capabilities. This condition may result 
in significant personal and societal burden.
PURPOSE: We evaluated the effectiveness of a novel massage therapy intervention 
by following the treatment regimen and outcomes of two patients experiencing 
chronic neck pain.
PARTICIPANTS: Two patients (46 and 53 years old) experienced chronic (>5 years) 
neck pain. Both patients reported pain, limited ROM, and muscle and joint 
stiffness. Additionally, the first patient reported a lack of sleep, and both 
patients stated their pain interfered with their quality of life and activities 
of daily living.
INTERVENTION: Patients received the Integrative Muscular Movement Technique 
(IMMT) intervention approximately twice a week for a total of eight treatments, 
each approximately 20 minutes in duration.
RESULTS: Both patients experienced a reduction in pain and an increase in 
cervical ROM in flexion, extension, rotation, and sidebending. The first patient 
also reported an increased ability to sleep. Both patients reported an increased 
ability to perform activities of daily living, including work-related 
responsibilities.
CONCLUSIONS: For the two patients included in this report, therapist 
observations and patient reports indicate that inclusion of the IMMT treatment 
in a treatment regimen for chronic neck pain may lead to decreased pain and 
increased cervical ROM. These positive effects of the IMMT intervention may have 
a role in enhancing functional outcomes of these patients.

DOI: 10.3822/ijtmb.v4i3.137
PMCID: PMC3184474
PMID: 22016757


768. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2011 Jul;27(7):990-7.

[Cloning of Blakeslea trispora carRA gene by PCR-driven overlap extension and 
construction of an activity detection system].

[Article in Chinese]

Tang H(1), Shi N, Yu M, Liu L, Liu J, Jia Y, Niu H, Zhang L.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Microbial Diversity Research and Application of Hebei 
Province, College of Life Sciences, Hebei University, Baoding 071002, China.

Blakeslea trispora CarRA has both lycopene cyclase and phytoene synthase 
activity. In order to analyze the double functional activity of CarRA proteins 
and to detect the active sites of lycopene cyclase, we constructed two detection 
systems in Escherichia coli by color complementary. Through PCR-driven overlap 
extension we got carRA gene cDNA, then constructed prokaryotes expression vector 
pET28a-carRA. pET28a-carRA with plasmid pAC-LYC carrying crtl/crtB/crtE gene 
clusters were co-transformed to BL21(DE3) to validate lycopene cyclase activity. 
We constructed the plasmid pAC-LYC delta (crtB) carrying crtl/crtE gene 
clusters, then co-transtormed them with pET28a-carRA to BL21(DE3) to validate 
phytoene synthase activity. Based on color complementary, and HPLC analysis of 
metabolites, we confirmed that the CarRA protein activity detection system was 
reliable. Our study provides a screening model for specific mutation of lycopene 
cyclase without affecting phytoene synthase activity.

PMID: 22016982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Med Econ. 2012;15(2):207-18. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.632797. Epub 2011
Nov  17.

A cost-utility study of the use of pregabalin in treatment-refractory 
neuropathic pain.

Gordon J(1), Lister S, Prettyjohns M, McEwan P, Tetlow A, Gabriel Z.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health and Clinical Practice, The University of Adelaide 
, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. jason.gordon@adelaide.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: A small but significant proportion of patients with peripheral 
neuropathic pain (NeP) are refractory to the typical treatments applied in 
clinical practice, including amitriptyline and gabapentin. Thus, they continue 
to suffer the debilitating effects of NeP. This study aimed to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of pregabalin in comparison to usual care, in patients with 
refractory NeP, from a third party payer's perspective (NHS).
METHODS: A stochastic simulation model was constructed, using clinical data from 
four non-randomized studies, to generate pain pathways of patients receiving 
usual care and pregabalin. Treatment effect (pain reduction) was converted to 
quality-of-life (QoL) data, using a regression analysis based on new utility 
data, collected from a survey of refractory NeP patients presenting to pain 
clinics in Cardiff, Wales. All relevant direct costs were estimated using 
resource use from the survey data (where available) and unit costs from the 
British National Formulary (BNF). The analysis was run over a 5-year time 
horizon, with costs and benefits discounted at 3.5%.
STUDY LIMITATIONS: The use of non-randomized (observational) data to 
characterize the effectiveness of treatments for NeP. Exclusion of productivity 
costs and consequences from the analysis.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of £10,803 per quality adjusted life year (QALY) was attained. This 
result was found to be reasonably insensitive to variations in the key input 
parameters, with ICERs ranging from £8505 to £22,845 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis shows that pregabalin is a cost-effective alternative 
to usual care in patients with refractory NeP, with an ICER well below the 
threshold typically adopted by UK health technology assessment groups, such as 
NICE.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.632797
PMID: 22017236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Transl Med. 2011 Oct 21;9:181. doi: 10.1186/1479-5876-9-181.

Stem cell treatment for patients with autoimmune disease by systemic infusion of 
culture-expanded autologous adipose tissue derived mesenchymal stem cells.

Ra JC(1), Kang SK, Shin IS, Park HG, Joo SA, Kim JG, Kang BC, Lee YS, Nakama K, 
Piao M, Sohl B, Kurtz A.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Research Center, RNL BIO, Seoul, 153-768, Republic of Korea. 
jcra@rnl.co.kr

Prolonged life expectancy, life style and environmental changes have caused a 
changing disease pattern in developed countries towards an increase of 
degenerative and autoimmune diseases. Stem cells have become a promising tool 
for their treatment by promoting tissue repair and protection from immune-attack 
associated damage. Patient-derived autologous stem cells present a safe option 
for this treatment since these will not induce immune rejection and thus 
multiple treatments are possible without any risk for allogenic sensitization, 
which may arise from allogenic stem cell transplantations. Here we report the 
outcome of treatments with culture expanded human adipose-derived mesenchymal 
stem cells (hAdMSCs) of 10 patients with autoimmune associated tissue damage and 
exhausted therapeutic options, including autoimmune hearing loss, multiple 
sclerosis, polymyotitis, atopic dermatitis and rheumatoid arthritis. For 
treatment, we developed a standardized culture-expansion protocol for hAdMSCs 
from minimal amounts of fat tissue, providing sufficient number of cells for 
repetitive injections. High expansion efficiencies were routinely achieved from 
autoimmune patients and from elderly donors without measurable loss in safety 
profile, genetic stability, vitality and differentiation potency, migration and 
homing characteristics. Although the conclusions that can be drawn from the 
compassionate use treatments in terms of therapeutic efficacy are only 
preliminary, the data provide convincing evidence for safety and therapeutic 
properties of systemically administered AdMSC in human patients with no other 
treatment options. The authors believe that ex-vivo-expanded autologous AdMSCs 
provide a promising alternative for treating autoimmune diseases. Further 
clinical studies are needed that take into account the results obtained from 
case studies as those presented here.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-5876-9-181
PMCID: PMC3222617
PMID: 22017805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2011 Nov;12(9):627-632.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.jamda.2011.02.010.  Epub 2011 Mar 30.

Update on diabetes in the elderly and in nursing home residents.

Migdal A(1), Yarandi SS, Smiley D, Umpierrez GE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology at Emory University, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.

Diabetes is common in the elderly population and in nursing home residents. More 
than 20% of adults aged 65 to 75 years and 40% of adults older than 80 years 
suffer from diabetes. Physiological changes in elderly individuals, such as 
decreased physical activity, abdominal obesity, and increased inflammatory 
state, increase insulin resistance in peripheral tissue and reduce 
glucose-dependent insulin release, leading to carbohydrate intolerance and 
diabetes. The clinical presentation in the elderly and nursing home residents is 
frequently guided by the high rate of comorbidities such as hypertension, 
depression, and cardiovascular diseases. Treatment recommendations for glycemic 
control in elderly ambulatory patients are similar to those in long-term care 
facilities. Healthy patients with diabetes should aim for near-normal fasting 
plasma glucose and an HbA1C of about 7%; however, treatment goals must be 
individualized in patients with impaired cognitive and physical ability, reduced 
life expectancy, and heavy burden of comorbid disease. Elderly individuals and 
nursing home residents are at increased risk of hypoglycemia during 
pharmacological treatment. In general, a conservative and stepwise approach to 
the treatment of the elderly patient with diabetes is suggested. Treatment may 
be initiated with dietary and physical activity modification and with a single 
oral agent, followed by a combination of oral agents and insulin therapy if 
needed. Evidence from clinical trials indicates that improving glycemic control, 
as well as cardiovascular risk factors, reduces morbidity and mortality in older 
individuals with diabetes.

Copyright © 2011 American Medical Directors Association. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2011.02.010
PMID: 22018016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2012 Sep-Oct;55(2):279-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2011.09.010. Epub 2011 Oct 20.

Age-specific incidence ratios of colorectal cancer (CRC) in Turkey: CRC in older 
people is increasing.

Tas F(1), Keskin S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Oncology, University of Istanbul, Capa, 34390 Istanbul, Turkey. 
faruktas2002@yahoo.com

Life expectancy has greatly increased in the last century. In the last decades, 
cancer in the older people has become an increasingly common problem owing to 
the prolonged life-expectancy of the general population and to the improved 
management of common cancers. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the 
age-specific incidence ratios in patients with CRC. Data were collected from 
hospital-based registries from 1988 to 2007. A total of 4209 patients were 
assessed. The median age at diagnosis was 58 years. When compared to 
Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) data, these values were found 
to be 13 years younger than American patients. Trends consist of the median ages 
of patients were increased during years (p<0.001). Along the years, especially 
in the last years, the ratios of cancer patients of older than 70 years were 
significantly increased among the cancer patient populations. CRC in older 
person has become an increasingly common problem in the last years.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2011.09.010
PMID: 22018466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. J Health Econ. 2012 Jan;31(1):158-68. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.09.004.
Epub  2011 Oct 1.

GET MORE, PAY MORE? An elaborate test of construct validity of willingness to 
pay per QALY estimates obtained through contingent valuation.

Bobinac A(1), van Exel NJ, Rutten FF, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy & Management and Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. bobinac@bmg.eur.nl

Estimates of WTP per QALY can be taken as an indication of the monetary value of 
health gains, which may carry information regarding the appropriate height of 
the cost-effectiveness threshold. Given the far-reaching consequences choosing a 
particular threshold, and thus the potential relevance of WTP per QALY 
estimates, it is important to address the validity of these estimates. This 
study addresses this issue. Our findings offer little support to the validity of 
WTP per QALY estimates obtained in this study. Implications for general WTP per 
QALY estimates and further research are discussed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.09.004
PMID: 22018622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Clin Ther. 2011 Nov;33(11):1698-712. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.09.022.
Epub  2011 Oct 21.

Evaluating the long-term cost-effectiveness of liraglutide versus exenatide BID 
in patients with type 2 diabetes who fail to improve with oral antidiabetic 
agents.

Valentine WJ(1), Palmer AJ, Lammert M, Langer J, Brändle M.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications GmbH, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The global clinical and economic burden of type 2 diabetes is 
substantial. Recently, clinical trials with glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
receptor agonists (liraglutide and exenatide) have shown a multifactorial 
clinical profile with the potential to address many of the clinical needs of 
patients and reduce the burden of disease.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to evaluate the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of once-daily liraglutide versus exenatide BID in patients 
with type 2 diabetes who failed to improve with metformin and/or sulfonylurea, 
based on the results of a previous clinical trial in 6 European countries 
(Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Finland, the Netherlands, and Austria).
METHODS: A validated computer simulation model of diabetes was used to predict 
life expectancy, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incidence of 
diabetes-related complications in patients receiving liraglutide (1.8 mg once 
daily) or exenatide (10 μg BID). Baseline cohort characteristics and treatment 
effects were derived from the Liraglutide Effect and Action in Diabetes 6 trial. 
Country-specific complication costs were taken from published sources. 
Simulations were run over 40 years from third-party payer perspectives. Future 
costs and clinical benefits were discounted at country-specific discount rates. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Liraglutide was associated with improvements of 0.12 to 0.17 QALY and a 
reduced incidence of most diabetes-related complications versus exenatide in all 
settings. Evaluation of total direct medical costs (treatment plus complication 
costs) suggest that liraglutide was likely to cost between Euro (€) 1023 and 
€1866 more than exenatide over patients' lifetimes, leading to incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios per QALY gained versus exenatide of: Switzerland, CHF 
(Swiss francs) 10,950 (€6902); Denmark, Danish krone [kr] 88,160 (€11,805); 
Norway, Norwegian krone [kr], 111,916 (€13,546); Finland, €8459; the 
Netherlands, €8119; and Austria, €8516.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term projections indicated that liraglutide was associated 
with benefits in life expectancy, QALYs, and reduced complication rates versus 
exenatide. Liraglutide was cost-effective from a health care payer perspective 
in Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Finland, the Netherlands, and Austria.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.09.022
PMID: 22018679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Enferm Clin. 2012 Mar-Apr;22(2):100-4. doi: 10.1016/j.enfcli.2011.05.007.
Epub  2011 Oct 21.

[Home nursing care of a woman with a malignant wound in a primary health care 
setting].

[Article in Spanish]

Romero-Collado A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departament d'Infermeria, Facultat d'Infermeria, Universitat de Girona, 
España. angel.romero@udg.edu

The gradual increase in life expectancy in the Spanish population has led to an 
increase cancer episodes (the second leading cause of mortality in Spain), and 
an increase in wounds of neoplastic origin, which have a different healing time 
from other wounds. This article describes the case of an 85 year-old woman with 
a malignant wound, due to a recurrent skin lymphangiosarcoma, and her inclusion 
in the Primary Care home care program with the home care support team (PADES). 
The overall assessment of the person and not just "the wound", and an 
individualised nursing care plan led to pain control, wound healing and 
prevention of complications (constipation, worsening of the injury). Tumour 
wound care using the process of moist wound healing has been effective even in a 
fragile tissue. Monitoring and surrounding skin care is essential for the wound 
not to deteriorate further. In addition, hospitalisation of the patient, with 
the negative impact it could have on the quality of life of both the patient and 
her family, was avoided.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enfcli.2011.05.007
PMID: 22018774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Minerva Endocrinol. 2011 Sep;36(3):181-5.

Role of the IGF/insulin system in longevity.

Mari D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. 
daniela.mari@unimi.it

Human life expectancy is influenced by multiple determinants, including various 
environmental and genetic factors. Though the non-genetic factors are important, 
it is estimated that approximately 25-32% of the overall difference in human 
lifespan for survival after the age of 60 years depends on for by genetic 
polymorphisms among individuals. In addition, there are human homologues to many 
genes that affect lifespan in model organisms. In people, longevity genes might 
slow the rate of age-related changes in cells, increase resistance to 
environmental stresses like infection and injury, and reduce the risk of many 
age-related conditions. The best studied longevity pathway is probably the one 
involving insulin/IGF-1 signaling. The important role of IGF and insulin-related 
signaling pathways in the control of longevity of worms and insects is very well 
documented. In the mouse, several spontaneous or experimentally induced 
mutations that interfere with GH/IGF axis modulation lead to extended longevity. 
Increases in the average life span in these mutants range from approximately 
20-70% depending on the nature of the endocrine defect, gender, diet, and/or 
genetic background. All the data in animals models and in the population studies 
support the evidence that this pathway drives an evolutionarily conserved 
network that regulates lifespan and affects longevity across species. Results 
obtained in humans are still controversial and further extensive studies are 
required to firmly establish a role of the IGF1 axis in modulation of human 
longevity. A better knowledge of the role of this pathway in humans may assist 
in the design of improved treatment methods for age-related diseases, delay the 
aging process and prolong the human lifespan.

PMID: 22019749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Mol Aspects Med. 2011 Aug;32(4-6):279-304. doi: 10.1016/j.mam.2011.10.007.
Epub  2011 Oct 15.

Hormesis, cellular stress response and vitagenes as critical determinants in 
aging and longevity.

Calabrese V(1), Cornelius C, Cuzzocrea S, Iavicoli I, Rizzarelli E, Calabrese 
EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Catania, Viale Andrea Doria, 95100 
Catania, Italy. calabres@unict.it

Understanding mechanisms of aging and determinants of life span will help to 
reduce age-related morbidity and facilitate healthy aging. Average lifespan has 
increased over the last centuries, as a consequence of medical and environmental 
factors, but maximal life span remains unchanged. Extension of maximal life span 
is currently possible in animal models with measures such as genetic 
manipulations and caloric restriction (CR). CR appears to prolong life by 
reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated oxidative damage. But ROS 
formation, which is positively implicated in cellular stress response 
mechanisms, is a highly regulated process controlled by a complex network of 
intracellular signaling pathways. By sensing the intracellular nutrient and 
energy status, the functional state of mitochondria, and the concentration of 
ROS produced in mitochondria, the longevity network regulates life span across 
species by co-ordinating information flow along its convergent, divergent and 
multiply branched signaling pathways, including vitagenes which are genes 
involved in preserving cellular homeostasis during stressful conditions. 
Vitagenes encode for heat shock proteins (Hsp) Hsp32, Hsp70, the thioredoxin and 
the sirtuin protein systems. Dietary antioxidants, such as carnosine, carnitines 
or polyphenols, have recently been demonstrated to be neuroprotective through 
the activation of hormetic pathways, including vitagenes. The hormetic 
dose-response, challenges long-standing beliefs about the nature of the 
dose-response in a lowdose zone, having the potential to affect significantly 
the design of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials as well as strategies for 
optimal patient dosing in the treatment of numerous diseases. Given the broad 
cytoprotective properties of the heat shock response there is now strong 
interest in discovering and developing pharmacological agents capable of 
inducing stress responses. In this review we discuss the most current and up to 
date understanding of the possible signaling mechanisms by which caloric 
restriction, as well hormetic caloric restriction-mimetics compounds by 
activating vitagenes can enhance defensive systems involved in bioenergetic and 
stress resistance homeostasis with consequent impact on longevity processes.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mam.2011.10.007
PMID: 22020114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Cancer. 2012 Jun 1;118(11):2962-70. doi: 10.1002/cncr.26611. Epub 2011 Oct
21.

Stereotactic body radiotherapy for multisite extracranial oligometastases: final 
report of a dose escalation trial in patients with 1 to 5 sites of metastatic 
disease.

Salama JK(1), Hasselle MD, Chmura SJ, Malik R, Mehta N, Yenice KM, Villaflor VM, 
Stadler WM, Hoffman PC, Cohen EE, Connell PP, Haraf DJ, Vokes EE, Hellman S, 
Weichselbaum RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
27710, USA. joseph.salama@duke.edu

BACKGROUND: A subset of patients with metastatic cancer in limited organs may 
benefit from metastasis-directed therapy. The authors investigated whether 
patients with limited metastases could be safely treated with 
metastasis-directed radiotherapy.
METHODS: Patients with 1 to 5 metastatic cancer sites with a life expectancy of 
>3 months received escalating stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) doses to all 
known cancer sites. Patients were followed radiographically with CT scans of the 
chest, abdomen, and pelvis and metabolically with fluorodeoxyglucose-positron 
emission tomography, 1 month after treatment, and then every 3 months. Acute 
toxicities were scored using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology 
Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0, and late toxicities were scored using 
the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group late toxicity scoring system.
RESULTS: Sixty-one patients with 113 metastases were enrolled from November 2004 
to November 2009 on a prospective radiation dose escalation study. Median 
follow-up was 20.9 months. Patients tolerated treatment well; the maximal 
tolerated dose was not reached in any cohort. Eleven patients (18.3%) have not 
progressed. One and 2-year progression-free survival are 33.3% (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 22.8-46.1) and 22.0% (95% CI, 12.8-34.4); 1-year and 2-year 
overall survival are 81.5% (95% CI, 71.1-91.1) and 56.7% (95% CI, 43.9-68.9). 
Seventy-two percent of patients whose tumors progressed did so in limited (1-3) 
metastatic sites.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with 1 to 5 metastases can be safely treated to multiple 
body sites and may benefit from SBRT. Further investigation should focus on 
patient selection.

Copyright © 2011 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.26611
PMID: 22020702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Cancer. 2012 Jun 15;118(12):3173-81. doi: 10.1002/cncr.26613. Epub 2011 Oct
21.

Comparative and cost-effectiveness of oxaliplatin-based or irinotecan-based 
regimens compared with 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin alone among US elderly stage IV 
colon cancer patients.

Mullins CD(1), Hsiao FY, Onukwugha E, Pandya NB, Hanna N.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Health Services Research Department, University of Maryland 
School of Pharmacy, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA. dmullins@rx.umaryland.edu

BACKGROUND: Clinical trials have shown a statistically significant disease-free 
survival benefit of oxaliplatin-based or irinotecan-based combination regimens 
for stage IV colon cancer. Less is known regarding the comparative effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of these agents among elderly patients. Whether the 
benefits of these agents justify the additional costs for elderly Medicare 
recipients is particularly policy relevant after US health care reform.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis of oxaliplatin-based or irinotecan-based 
combination therapy versus 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin alone in elderly stage IV 
colon cancer patients was performed from a US Medicare perspective. Survival and 
direct medical costs were estimated using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results-Medicare data sets for patients diagnosed from 2002 to 2005 with 
follow-up through 2007. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
calculated as costs per life-year gained, with sensitivity analysis estimating 
the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: Median improved overall survival with 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin alone, 
or irinotecan-based or oxaliplatin-based combination therapy was 0.99, 1.07, and 
1.47 life-years, respectively. Costs per life-year gained for oxaliplatin-based 
or irinotecan-based combination regimens compared with 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin 
alone were $78,181 and $267,938, respectively. ICERs comparing oxaliplatin-based 
to irinotecan-based regimens were $40,230 per life-year gained or $160,920 per 
QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Oxaliplatin-based or irinotecan-based combination therapy improves 
overall survival but also substantially increases direct medical costs compared 
with 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin alone when used in elderly US patients with stage 
IV colon cancer. Oxaliplatin-based regimens are more cost-effective than 
irinotecan-based regimens for treatment of elderly stage IV colon cancer 
patients in terms of cost per life-year gained, but not in terms of cost per 
QALY.

Copyright © 2011 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.26613
PMID: 22020739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Mov Disord. 2011 Oct;26(12):2286-90. doi: 10.1002/mds.23878.

Projected numbers of people with movement disorders in the years 2030 and 2050.

Bach JP(1), Ziegler U, Deuschl G, Dodel R, Doblhammer-Reiter G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Philipps-University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2012 Aug;27(9):1204-5; author reply 1207.

BACKGROUND: Movement disorders are chronic diseases with an increasing 
prevalence in old age. Because these disorders pose a major challenge to 
patients, families, and health care systems, there is a need for reliable data 
about the future number of affected people.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We searched the literature to identify epidemiological 
studies to obtain age-specific prevalence data of movement disorders. We 
combined the age-specific prevalence data with population projections for 
Europe, the United States, and Canada.
RESULTS: Movement disorders will increase considerably between 2010 and 2050. 
The highest increase will be for dementia with Lewy bodies. In several 
countries, we project a near doubling of patients with PD.
CONCLUSIONS: There will be a strong increase in the number of people affected by 
most movement disorders between 2010 and 2050. This increase will mostly depend 
on the future aging of populations in terms of their age structure and future 
life expectancy.

Copyright © 2011 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.23878
PMID: 22021158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Am J Public Health. 2011 Dec;101(12):e9-15. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300361.
Epub  2011 Oct 20.

Mortality risk associated with disability: a population-based record linkage 
study.

Majer IM(1), Nusselder WJ, Mackenbach JP, Klijs B, van Baal PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
i.majer@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVES: We assessed the association between mortality and disability and 
quantified the effect of disability-associated risk factors.
METHODS: We linked data from cross-sectional health surveys in the Netherlands 
to the population registry to create a large data set comprising baseline 
covariates and an indicator of death. We used Cox regression models to estimate 
the hazard ratio of disability on mortality.
RESULTS: Among men, the unadjusted hazard ratio for activities of daily living, 
mobility, or mild disability defined by the Organization for Economic 
Co-operation and Development at age 55 years was 7.85 (95% confidence interval 
[CI] = 4.36, 14.13), 5.21 (95% CI = 3.19, 8.51), and 1.87 (95% CI = 1.58, 2.22), 
respectively. People with disability in activities of daily living and mobility 
had a 10-year shorter life expectancy than nondisabled people had, of which 6 
years could be explained by differences in lifestyle, sociodemographics, and 
major chronic diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Disabled people face a higher mortality risk than nondisabled 
people do. Although the difference can be explained by diseases and other risk 
factors for those with mild disability, we cannot rule out that more severe 
disabilities have an independent effect on mortality.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300361
PMCID: PMC3222426
PMID: 22021307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Eur J Public Health. 2012 Dec;22(6):756-60. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr136. Epub
 2011 Oct 22.

Has Scotland always been the 'sick man' of Europe? An observational study from 
1855 to 2006.

McCartney G(1), Walsh D, Whyte B, Collins C.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Science Directorate, NHS Health Scotland, Glasgow, UK. 
gmccartney@nhs.net

Comment in
    Eur J Public Health. 2012 Dec;22(6):751.

BACKGROUND: Scotland has been dubbed 'the sick man of Europe' on account of its 
higher mortality rates compared with other western European countries. It is not 
clear the length of time for which Scotland has had higher mortality rates. The 
root causes of the higher mortality in Scotland remain elusive.
METHODS: Life expectancy data from the Human Mortality Database were tabulated 
and graphed for a selection of wealthy, mainly European countries from around 
1850 onwards.
RESULTS: Scotland had a life expectancy in the mid-range of countries included 
in the Human Mortality Database from the mid-19th century until around 1950. 
After 1950, Scottish life expectancy improved at a slower rate than in 
comparably wealthy nations before further faltering during the last 30 years. 
Scottish life expectancy now lies between that of western European and eastern 
European nations. The USA also displays a marked faltering in its life 
expectancy trend after 1981. There is an inverse association between life 
expectancy and the Index of Economic Freedom such that greater neoliberalism is 
associated with a smaller increase, or a decrease, in life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy in Scotland has only been relatively low since 
around 1950. From 1980, life expectancy in Scotland, the USA and, to a greater 
extent, the former USSR displays a further relative faltering. It has been 
suggested that Scotland suffered disproportionately from the adoption of 
neoliberalism across the nations of the UK, and the evidence here both supports 
this suggestion and highlights other countries which may have suffered 
similarly.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr136
PMCID: PMC3505444
PMID: 22021374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. BMJ. 2011 Oct 21;343:d6822. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d6822.

No excuses for 36 year gap in life expectancy across the world, says WHO.

Moszynski P.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d6822
PMID: 22021470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. QJM. 2012 Mar;105(3):241-6. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcr204. Epub 2011 Oct 22.

Sex hormones and cause-specific mortality in the male veterans: the Vietnam 
Experience Study.

Phillips AC(1), Gale CR, Batty GD.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham 
B15 2TT, UK. A.C.Phillips@bham.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Testosterone levels have been linked to life expectancy in men, less 
is known about the sex hormones follicular stimulating hormone and luteinizing 
hormone.
AIM: To examine the association of testosterone, follicular stimulating hormone, 
luteinizing hormone with mortality.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort analysis.
METHODS: Participants were 4255 Vietnam-era US army veterans with a mean age of 
38.3 years. From military service files, telephone interviews and a medical 
examination, socio-demographic and health data were collected. Contemporary 
morning fasted hormone concentrations were determined. All-cause, 
cardiovascular, cancer, external and 'other' cause mortality was ascertained 
over the subsequent 15 years. Hazard ratios were calculated, first with 
adjustment for age and then, additionally, for a range of confounders.
RESULTS: Individuals within the highest tertiles of follicle stimulating hormone 
(FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels were at increased risk of all-cause 
mortality following adjustment for a range of risk factors. However, with mutual 
adjustment, neither FSH nor LH significantly predicted mortality. Testosterone 
levels did not show an association with all-cause mortality, and none of the 
hormones were significantly associated with CVD, cancer, 'other' or 
external-cause mortality in fully adjusted models.
CONCLUSION: Greater FSH and LH levels are associated with all-cause mortality, 
but not independently of one another.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcr204
PMID: 22021570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. BMJ Open. 2011 Jul 29;1(1):e000128. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2011-000128.

Life expectancy and disparity: an international comparison of life table data.

Vaupel JW(1), Zhang Z, van Raalte AA.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
jwv@demogr.mpg.de

OBJECTIVES: To determine the contribution of progress in averting premature 
deaths to the increase in life expectancy and the decline in lifespan variation.
DESIGN: International comparison of national life table data from the Human 
Mortality Database.
SETTING: 40 developed countries and regions, 1840-2009.
POPULATION: Men and women of all ages.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: We use two summary measures of mortality: life expectancy 
and life disparity. Life disparity is a measure of how much lifespans differ 
among individuals. We define a death as premature if postponing it to a later 
age would decrease life disparity.
RESULTS: In 89 of the 170 years from 1840 to 2009, the country with the highest 
male life expectancy also had the lowest male life disparity. This was true in 
86 years for female life expectancy and disparity. In all years, the top several 
life expectancy leaders were also the top life disparity leaders. Although only 
38% of deaths were premature, fully 84% of the increase in life expectancy 
resulted from averting premature deaths. The reduction in life disparity 
resulted from reductions in early-life disparity, that is, disparity caused by 
premature deaths; late-life disparity levels remained roughly constant.
CONCLUSIONS: The countries that have been the most successful in averting 
premature deaths have consistently been the life expectancy leaders. Greater 
longevity and greater equality of individuals' lifespans are not incompatible 
goals. Countries can achieve both by reducing premature deaths.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2011-000128
PMCID: PMC3191439
PMID: 22021770

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


786. J Anim Sci. 2012 Jul;90(7):2301-7. doi: 10.2527/jas.2011-4568. Epub 2011 Oct
21.

Alpharma Beef Cattle Nutrition Symposium: implications of nutritional management 
for beef cow-calf systems.

Funston RN(1), Summers AF, Roberts AJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska West Central Research and Extension Center, North 
Platte 69101. rfunston2@unl.edu

The beef cattle industry relies on the use of high-forage diets to develop 
replacement females, maintain the cow herd, and sustain stocker operations 
Forage quantity and quality fluctuate with season and environmental conditions 
Depending on class and physiological state of the animal, a forage diet may not 
always meet nutritional requirements, resulting in reduced ADG or BW loss if 
supplemental nutrients are not provided It is important to understand the 
consequences of such BW loss and the economics of providing supplementation to 
the beef production system Periods of limited or insufficient nutrient 
availability can be followed by periods of compensatory BW gain once dietary 
conditions improve This may have less impact on breeding animals, provided 
reproductive efficiency is not compromised, where actual BW is not as important 
as it is in animals destined for the feedlot A rapidly evolving body of 
literature is also demonstrating that nutritional status of cows during 
pregnancy can affect subsequent offspring development and production 
characteristics later in life The concept of fetal programming is that maternal 
stimuli during critical periods of fetal development have long-term implications 
for offspring Depending on timing, magnitude, and duration of nutrient 
limitation or supplementation, it is possible that early measures in life, such 
as calf birth BW, may be unaffected, whereas measures later in life, such as 
weaning BW, carcass characteristics, and reproductive traits, may be influenced 
This body of research provides compelling evidence of a fetal programming 
response to maternal nutrition in beef cattle Future competitiveness of the US 
beef industry will continue to be dependent on the use of high-forage diets to 
meet the majority of nutrient requirements Consequences of nutrient restriction 
or supplementation must be considered not only on individual animal performance 
but also the developing fetus and its subsequent performance throughout life.

DOI: 10.2527/jas.2011-4568
PMID: 22021812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. BMJ Open. 2011 Jan 1;1(2):e000240. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2011-000240.

Impact of walking on life expectancy and lifetime medical expenditure: the 
Ohsaki Cohort Study.

Nagai M(1), Kuriyama S, Kakizaki M, Ohmori-Matsuda K, Sone T, Hozawa A, Kawado 
M, Hashimoto S, Tsuji I.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Public Health and Forensic Medicine, 
Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. 
m-nagai@med.tohoku.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: People who spend a longer time walking have lower demands for medical 
care. However, in view of their longer life expectancy, it is unclear whether 
their lifetime medical expenditure increases or decreases. The present study 
examined the association between time spent walking, life expectancy and 
lifetime medical expenditure.
METHOD: The authors followed up 27,738 participants aged 40-79 years and 
prospectively collected data on their medical expenditure and survival covering 
a 13-year-period. Participants were classified into those walking <1 and ≥1 h 
per day. The authors constructed life tables and estimated the life expectancy 
and lifetime medical expenditure from 40 years of age using estimate of 
multiadjusted mortality and medical expenditure using a Poisson regression model 
and linear regression model, respectively.
RESULTS: Participants who walked ≥1 h per day have a longer life expectancy from 
40 years of age than participants who walked <1 h per day. The multiadjusted 
life expectancy for those who walked ≥1 h per day was 44.81 years, significantly 
lower by 1.38 years in men (p=0.0073) in men and 57.78 years in women, 
non-significantly lower by 1.16 years in women (p=0.2351). In addition to their 
longer life expectancy, participants who walked ≥1 h per day required a lower 
lifetime medical expenditure from 40 years of age than participants who walked 
<1 h per day. The multiadjusted lifetime medical expenditure for those who 
walked ≥1 h per day was £99 423.6, significantly lower by 7.6% in men (p=0.0048) 
and £128 161.2, non-significantly lower by 2.7% in women (p=0.2559).
DISCUSSION: Increased longevity resulting from a healthier lifestyle does not 
necessarily translate into an increased amount of medical expenditure throughout 
life. Encouraging people to walk may extend life expectancy and decrease 
lifetime medical expenditure, especially for men.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2011-000240
PMCID: PMC3191604
PMID: 22021866

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest: None.


788. PLoS One. 2011;6(10):e26139. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026139. Epub 2011
Oct  11.

Cost-effectiveness of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors for the 
prevention of diabetic nephropathy in The Netherlands--a Markov model.

Adarkwah CC(1), Gandjour A, Akkerman M, Evers SM.

Author information:
(1)CAPHRI School of Public Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Type 2 diabetes is the main cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
in Europe and the USA. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have a 
potential to slow down the progression of renal disease and therefore provide a 
renal-protective effect. The aim of our study was to assess the most 
cost-effective time to start an ACE inhibitor (or an angiotensin II receptor 
blocker [ARB] if coughing as a side effect occurs) in patients with newly 
diagnosed type 2 diabetes in The Netherlands.
METHODS: A lifetime Markov decision model with simulated 50-year-old patients 
with newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus was developed using published data on 
costs and health outcomes and simulating the progression of renal disease. A 
health insurance perspective was adopted. Three strategies were compared: 
treating all patients at the time of diagnosing type 2 diabetes, screening for 
microalbuminuria, and screening for macroalbuminuria.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the treat-all strategy is associated with 
the lowest costs and highest benefit and therefore dominates screening both for 
macroalbuminuria and microalbuminuria. A multivariate sensitivity analysis shows 
that the probability of savings is 70%.
CONCLUSIONS: In The Netherlands for patients with type 2 diabetes prescription 
of an ACE inhibitor immediately after diagnosis should be considered if they do 
not have contraindications. An ARB should be considered for those patients 
developing a dry cough under ACE inhibitor therapy. The potential for cost 
savings would be even larger if the prevention of cardiovascular events were 
considered.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026139
PMCID: PMC3191181
PMID: 22022539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


789. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2011 Oct;1235:30-43. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06201.x.

Future self-continuity: how conceptions of the future self transform 
intertemporal choice.

Hershfield HE(1).

Author information:
(1)New York University, USA. h-ersnerhershfield@kellogg.northwestern.edu

With life expectancy dramatically increasing throughout much of the world, 
people have to make choices with a longer future in mind than they ever had to 
before. Yet, many indicators suggest that undersaving for the long term often 
occurs: in America, for instance, many individuals will not be able to maintain 
their preretirement standard of living in retirement. Previous research has 
tried to understand problems with intertemporal choice by focusing on the ways 
in which people treat present and future rewards. In this paper, the author 
reviews a burgeoning body of theoretical and empirical work that takes a 
different viewpoint, one that focuses on how perceptions of the self over time 
can dramatically affect decision making. Specifically, when the future self 
shares similarities with the present self, when it is viewed in vivid and 
realistic terms, and when it is seen in a positive light, people are more 
willing to make choices today that may benefit them at some point in the years 
to come.

© 2011 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06201.x
PMCID: PMC3764505
PMID: 22023566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The author declares no 
conflicts of interest.


790. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2011 Oct;1235:57-74. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06208.x.

Decision-making heuristics and biases across the life span.

Strough J(1), Karns TE, Schlosnagle L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, West Virginia University, Morgantown, USA. 
jonell.strough@mail.wvu.edu

We outline a contextual and motivational model of judgment and decision-making 
(JDM) biases across the life span. Our model focuses on abilities and skills 
that correspond to deliberative, experiential, and affective decision-making 
processes. We review research that addresses links between JDM biases and these 
processes as represented by individual differences in specific abilities and 
skills (e.g., fluid and crystallized intelligence, executive functioning, 
emotion regulation, personality traits). We focus on two JDM biases-the 
sunk-cost fallacy (SCF) and the framing effect. We trace the developmental 
trajectory of each bias from preschool through middle childhood, adolescence, 
early adulthood, and later adulthood. We conclude that life-span developmental 
trajectories differ depending on the bias investigated. Existing research 
suggests relative stability in the framing effect across the life span and 
decreases in the SCF with age, including in later life. We highlight directions 
for future research on JDM biases across the life span, emphasizing the need for 
process-oriented research and research that increases our understanding of JDM 
biases in people's everyday lives.

© 2011 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06208.x
PMCID: PMC3755606
PMID: 22023568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


791. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2011 Oct;1235:75-85. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06207.x.

Everyday problem solving across the adult life span: solution diversity and 
efficacy.

Mienaltowski A(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Lifespan Development, Psychology Department, Western 
Kentucky University, Bowling Green, Kentucky, USA. andrew.mienaltowski@wku.edu

Everyday problem solving involves examining the solutions that individuals 
generate when faced with problems that take place in their everyday experiences. 
Problems can range from medication adherence and meal preparation to disagreeing 
with a physician over a recommended medical procedure or compromising with 
extended family members over where to host Thanksgiving dinner. Across the life 
span, research has demonstrated divergent patterns of change in performance 
based on the type of everyday problems used as well as based on the way that 
problem-solving efficacy is operationally defined. Advancing age is associated 
with worsening performance when tasks involve single-solution or fluency-based 
definitions of effectiveness. However, when efficacy is defined in terms of the 
diversity of strategies used, as well as by the social and emotional impact of 
solution choice on the individual, performance is remarkably stable and 
sometimes even improves in the latter half of life. This article discusses how 
both of these approaches to everyday problem solving inform research on the 
influence that aging has on everyday functioning.

© 2011 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06207.x
PMCID: PMC3746011
PMID: 22023569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2011 Oct;1235:v-vi. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06252.x.

Introduction to decision making over the life span.

Samanez-Larkin GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06252.x
PMID: 22023570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

