Italian randomized clinical trial. 64 patients were enrolled following emergency 
surgery for intra-abdominal infection in 10 tertiary care ICUs from December 
2004 to December 2007. Direct medical costs analyzed in the study included the 
consumption of hospital days, ICU days, catecholamine treatment days, renal 
replacement therapy days, mechanical ventilation treatment days, and the use of 
the PMX-F device. Resources were valued using published 2010 tariffs and market 
values. All-cause hospital mortality was extrapolated to survival as expected 
life years (LY) per patient/arm: for each survivor, average age-gender-related 
years of life expectancy were retrieved from national life tables; for deceased 
patients, only the number of CRF reported survival days was retained. Baseline 
expected years of survival were weighed by the severity of sepsis, according to 
individual Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (Apache) II scores, 
showing that age/disease severity were comparable in the two groups before 
treatment initiation. Life expectancy per patient in each treatment group was 
thus calculated as the combination of life expectancy from Italian National 
Statistics Institute life tables and intra-hospital mortality detected in the 
Early Use of Polymyxin B Hemoperfusion in Abdominal Septic Shock (EUPHAS) study. 
After all costs and 3% discounted survival years were calculated per patient per 
treatment arm, the incremental CEA was run to obtain the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Univariate sensitivity analyses and 2,000 
bootstrap replications were run to test the robustness of the study results.
RESULTS: Based on the expected survival years (mean discounted PMX-F-CT 9.37 
LY/patient, CT 4.92 LY/patient; difference for PMX-F-CT 4.45 LY/patient; mean 
undiscounted PMX-F-CT 13.92 LY/patient, CT 7.19 LY/patient; difference +6.73 
LY/patient), and the expected mean cost (PMX-F-CT mean 59,922 EUR/patient, CT 
mean 42,712 EUR/patient; difference for PMX-F-CT 17,211 EUR/patient), the mean 
ICER for PMX- F-CT resulted in 3,864 EUR/life year gained (LYG; ICER 
2,558/undiscounted LYG). Results of the base-case CEA were confirmed by all 
sensitivity analyses, with ICER values always well below commonly accepted value 
thresholds.
CONCLUSION: PMX-F-CT versus CT is a cost-effective intervention for treatment of 
severe sepsis/septic shock of abdominal origin and could be considered for use 
in the Italian National Health System hospital setting.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000333826
PMID: 22086346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e27245. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027245. Epub 2011
Nov 8.

Parental age and lifespan influence offspring recruitment: a long-term study in 
a seabird.

Torres R(1), Drummond H, Velando A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ecología Evolutiva, Instituto de Ecología, UNAM, México DF, 
México.

Recent studies of wild populations provide compelling evidence that survival and 
reproduction decrease with age because of senescence, a decline in functional 
capacities at old ages. However, in the wild, little is known about effects of 
parental senescence on offspring quality. We used data from a 21-year study to 
examine the role of parental age on offspring probability of recruitment in a 
long-lived bird, the blue-footed booby (Sula nebouxii). Offspring probability of 
recruiting into the breeding population varied over the life of parents and 
effects age were similar in mothers and fathers. Offspring recruitment was high 
when parents were roughly 6-12 years old and low before and after then. Effects 
of parental age on offspring recruitment varied with lifespan (parental age at 
last reproduction) and previous breeding experience. Offspring recruitment from 
young and old parents with long reproductive lifespans was greater than that of 
offspring from parents with short lifespans at young and old ages. For parents 
with little previous breeding experience recruitment of offspring decreased with 
their hatch date, but experienced parents were no similarly affected. We found 
evidence of terminal effects on offspring recruitment in young parents but not 
in older parents, suggesting that senescence is more likely a gradual process of 
deterioration than a process of terminal illness. Failure to recruit probably 
reflects mortality during the first years after independence but also during the 
fledgling transition to full independence. Our results show effects of parental 
age and quality on offspring viability in a long-lived wild vertebrate and 
support the idea that wild populations are composed of individuals of different 
quality, and that this individual heterogeneity can influence the dynamics of 
age-structured populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027245
PMCID: PMC3210767
PMID: 22087271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


952. Am J Manag Care. 2011 Oct;17 Suppl 12:S315-21.

Advanced strategies for treatment of Parkinson's disease: the role of early 
treatment.

Jann MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, 
Mercer University, Atlanta, GA, USA. jann_mw@mercer.edu

Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with significant patient disability and 
costs to the healthcare system. It is questioned whether early treatment may 
improve outcomes and delay disability. Early treatment relies on early 
diagnosis, which can be difficult to achieve because the diagnosis of PD is 
based on motor symptoms, is clinical in nature, and is complicated by potential 
presentation of nonmotor symptoms prior to motor symptoms. Economic analyses 
demonstrate that treatments other than levodopa may be cost-effective. The lack 
of correlation between Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS) outcomes and imaging 
studies of dopamine uptake may reflect the inappropriate selection of study end 
points, since activities of daily living scores may be more applicable than 
motor function scores. Levodopa, the standard therapy for motor control of PD 
and one of the most effective options, is associated with complications (a 
wearing-off effect) when used long term. Other therapies, including dopamine 
agonists and monoamine oxidase type-B (MAO-B) inhibitors, may limit the rate of 
dyskinesia relative to levodopa-based regimens. It appears that early treatment 
with the MAO-B inhibitor rasagiline (1 mg), as compared with late treatment, 
delays the onset of worsened UPDRS score, especially the nonmotor activities of 
daily living subscore.

PMID: 22087552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Urology. 2012 Jan;79(1):133-8. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2011.08.045. Epub 2011
Nov  16.

Long-term biochemical recurrence rates after robot-assisted radical 
prostatectomy: analysis of a single-center series of patients with a minimum 
follow-up of 5 years.

Suardi N(1), Ficarra V, Willemsen P, De Wil P, Gallina A, De Naeyer G, 
Schatteman P, Montorsi F, Carpentier P, Mottrie A.

Author information:
(1)OLV Robotic Surgery Institute, Aalst, Belgium. suardi.nazareno@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To address the long-term biochemical recurrence (BCR)-free survival 
rates of patients treated with robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy 
(RALP) with a minimum follow-up of 5 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Prospectively collected data of 184 patients treated with 
RALP at a single institution were analyzed. Kaplan-Meier and life tables 
analyses targeted the rates of BCR according to pathologic parameters. Cox 
regression analyses addressed predictors of BCR.
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 67.5 months. One and 10 patients died of prostate 
cancer (PCa) and other causes, respectively. Mean time to BCR was 83.8 months. 
The 3-, 5-, and 7-year BCR-free survival rates were 94%, 86%, and 81%, 
respectively. These rates were 97%, 93%, and 85% for pT2 disease; 94%, 84%, and 
84% for pT3a; and 69%, 43%, and 43% for pT3b (P<.001). The same figures were 
97%, 90%, and 88% for Gleason sum 6 or lower; 90%, 86%, and 75% for Gleason sum 
7; and 85%, 65%, and 65% for Gleason sum 8-10 (P=.01). At univariable analyses, 
prostate-specific antigen, pathologic Gleason score, and presence of 
extracapsular extension, seminal vesicle invasion, and adjuvant radiotherapy 
were significantly associated with BCR. At multivariable analysis, the presence 
of seminal vesicle invasion and the presence of Gleason sum 8-10 represented 
independent predictors of BCR (HR=5.14; P=.004 and HR=3.04; P=.04, 
respectively).
CONCLUSION: We report the longest available follow-up in RALP patients. RALP 
represents an oncologically effective procedure. Our oncological results support 
the increasing diffusion of RALP for the treatment of organ-confined PCa.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2011.08.045
PMID: 22088567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Scott Med J. 2011 Nov;56(4):220-2. doi: 10.1258/smj.2011.011183.

Effect of socioeconomic deprivation and the appointment of Welfare Attorneys.

Booth MG(1), O'Neil E, Haddow C, Cook B, Kinsella J.

Author information:
(1)Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, UK. malcolm.booth@nhs.net

Most patients in intensive care unit (ICU) lack decision-making ability. The 
Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000 allows someone to appoint a Welfare 
Attorney (WA) to act on their behalf should they lose capacity. Scotland has 
areas of major socioeconomic deprivation associated with lower life-expectancy 
and with a lack of knowledge about and consequently difficulty accessing 
services. The effect of socioeconomic deprivation on WA registration was 
investigated. A complete list of registered WAs was categorized by deprivation. 
The Public Guardian, Scotland indicated whether patients admitted to ICU at 
Glasgow Royal (April 2006-May 2009) had a WA registered. All Scottish ICU 
admissions (2004-2008) were categorized by deprivation. Twelve of 1152 ICU 
patients at Glasgow Royal had a WA. Of 165,997 WAs registered, 5984 were in the 
most deprived and 27,970 in the most affluent areas. Overall, 3.9% of the 
Scottish population had a WA (1.4% in the most, 6.5% in the least deprived 
population decile). In conclusion, the uptake of WAs was low, especially in 
deprived areas. The reasons could include a lack of knowledge, not anticipating 
the need for a WA or not being confident in the process. Any educational package 
needs to target the most socioeconomically disadvantaged.

DOI: 10.1258/smj.2011.011183
PMID: 22089044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. AIDS. 2012 Jan 28;26(3):335-43. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32834dcec9.

Projected life expectancy of people with HIV according to timing of diagnosis.

Nakagawa F(1), Lodwick RK, Smith CJ, Smith R, Cambiano V, Lundgren JD, Delpech 
V, Phillips AN.

Author information:
(1)HIV Epidemiology and Biostatistics Group, Research Department of Infection 
and Population Health, University College London, UK. f.nakagawa@ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) has 
contributed greatly toward survival for people with HIV, yet many remain 
undiagnosed until very late. Our aims were to estimate the life expectancy of an 
HIV-infected MSM living in a developed country with extensive access to ART and 
healthcare, and to assess the effect of late diagnosis on life expectancy.
METHODS: A stochastic computer simulation model of HIV infection and the effect 
of ART was used to estimate life expectancy and determine the distribution of 
potential lifetime outcomes of an MSM, aged 30 years, who becomes HIV positive 
in 2010. The effect of altering the diagnosis rate was investigated.
RESULTS: Assuming a high rate of HIV diagnosis (median CD4 cell count at 
diagnosis, 432  cells/μl), projected median age at death (life expectancy) was 
75.0 years. This implies 7.0 years of life were lost on average due to HIV. 
Cumulative risks of death by 5 and 10 years after infection were 2.3 and 5.2%, 
respectively. The 95% uncertainty bound for life expectancy was (68.0,77.3) 
years. When a low diagnosis rate was assumed (diagnosis only when symptomatic, 
median CD4 cell count 140  cells/μl), life expectancy was 71.5 years, implying 
an average 10.5 years of life lost due to HIV.
CONCLUSION: If low rates of virologic failure observed in treated patients 
continue, predicted life expectancy is relatively high in people with HIV who 
can access a wide range of antiretrovirals. The greatest risk of excess 
mortality is due to delays in HIV diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32834dcec9
PMID: 22089374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. AIDS. 2012 Jan 28;26(3):355-64. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32834e87e6.

Cost-effectiveness of combination therapy with etravirine in 
treatment-experienced adults with HIV-1 infection.

Mauskopf J(1), Brogan AJ, Talbird SE, Martin S.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA. 
jmauskopf@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of etravirine (INTELENCE), a novel 
nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, used in combination with a 
background regimen that included darunavir/ritonavir, from a Canadian Provincial 
Ministry of Health perspective.
DESIGN: A Markov model with a 3-month cycle time and six health states based on 
CD4 cell count ranges was developed to follow a hypothetical cohort of 
treatment-experienced adults with HIV-1 infection through initial and subsequent 
treatment regimens.
METHODS: Costs (in 2009 Canadian dollars), utilities, and HIV-related mortality 
data for each health state as well as non-HIV-related mortality data were 
estimated from Canadian sources and published literature. Transition 
probabilities between health states and first-year hospitalization and mortality 
rates were derived from clinical trial data. Incremental 1-year costs per 
additional adult with viral load less than 50 copies/ml at 48 weeks and 
incremental lifetime costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained were 
estimated using a 5% discount rate. Sensitivity and variability analyses and 
model validation were performed.
RESULTS: Etravirine was associated with an increased probability of achieving 
less than 50 copies/ml at 48 weeks of 0.205 and an estimated gain of 0.66 
discounted (1.48 undiscounted) QALYs over a lifetime. The incremental 1-year 
cost per additional person with viral load less than 50 copies/ml was $23,862. 
The lifetime incremental cost per QALY gained was $49,120. For the uncertainty 
ranges and variability scenarios tested for the lifetime horizon, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio was between $28,859 and 66,249.
CONCLUSION: When compared with optimized standard of care including 
darunavir/ritonavir, adding etravirine represents a cost-effective option for 
treatment-experienced adults in Canada.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32834e87e6
PMID: 22089378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Am J Clin Nutr. 2011 Dec;94(6):1690S-1696S. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.111.019075.
Epub  2011 Nov 16.

Chronic noncommunicable diseases and HIV-AIDS on a collision course: relevance 
for health care delivery, particularly in low-resource settings--insights from 
South Africa.

Levitt NS(1), Steyn K, Dave J, Bradshaw D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Department of Medicine, University of 
Cape Town, South Africa. naomi.levitt@uct.ac.za

Sub-Saharan Africa is experiencing a multiple disease burden. Noncommunicable 
diseases (NCDs) are emerging, and their risk factors are becoming more common as 
lifestyles change and rates of urbanization increase. Simultaneously, epidemics 
of infectious diseases persist, and HIV/AIDS has taken hold in the region, 
although recent data indicate a decrease in new HIV infection rates. With the 
use of diabetes as a marker for NCDs, it was estimated that the number of people 
with diabetes would rise between 2000 and 2010 despite the HIV/AIDS epidemic, 
largely because of the aging of the population and the increase in risk factors 
for diabetes in South Africa. These numbers are likely to increase further, 
given the declining HIV/AIDS mortality rates and longer life expectancy due to 
the up-scaling of antiretroviral therapy (ART), with its concomitant metabolic 
complications. Given that treated HIV/AIDS has become a chronic disease, and the 
health care needs of people on ART resemble those of people with NCDs, and given 
that vertical programs are difficult to sustain when health systems are 
underresourced and strained, there is a powerful argument to integrate the 
primary level care for people with chronic diseases, whether they be NCDs or 
infectious diseases. Pilot studies are required to test the feasibility of an 
integrated service that extends from health facilities into the community in a 
reciprocal manner based on the WHO Innovative Care for Chronic Conditions model 
of care. These will begin to provide the evidence that policy makers need to 
change the mode of health care delivery.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.111.019075
PMCID: PMC3226022
PMID: 22089433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. JAMA. 2011 Nov 16;306(19):2145-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1669.

Cardiovascular science in the service of national strength.

Lauer MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Sciences, National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute, 6701 Rockledge Dr, Room 8128, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. 
lauerm@nhlbi.nih.gov

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1669
PMID: 22089722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2013 Feb;20(1):121-6. doi: 10.1177/1741826711430384.
Epub  2011 Nov 16.

Is it worth offering cardiovascular disease prevention to the elderly?

Gohlke H(1).

Author information:
(1)Herz-Zentrum, Bad Krozingen, Germany. H.gohlke@t-online.de

The question whether prevention in the elderly or in the old is still worthwhile 
arises frequently in clinical practice. The life expectancy (LE) of elderly 
persons is often underestimated and ranges for a 65-year-old European person 
from 17 to 23 years and for an 80-year-old from 8 and 11 years. In the elderly 
patients with cardiovascular disease, preventive measures are of great benefit. 
Smoking cessation results in substantial gains in LE and is more effective than 
most other interventions. Lipid lowering with statins is cost effective and the 
intensity of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering correlates with the 
risk reduction of cardiac events and stroke without increasing the risk of 
cancer. A quality-adjusted life year costs US $ 18,800, less than the costs of a 
nursing home for 1 year. Exercise training decreases cardiovascular events and 
improves quality of life. The benefits of the Mediterranean diet are based on a 
small randomized trial, which is supplemented by a large observational database. 
A reduction in all-cause, cardiovascular disease, and cancer mortality is highly 
likely. Blood pressure lowering reduces stroke and all-cause mortality above the 
age of 80; however, the target blood pressure should be around 150/80 mmHg or 
slightly lower. Annual vaccination against influenza is one of the most 
cost-effective methods to prolong life and should not be forgotten in patients 
with cardiovascular disease above the age of 65. Thus a number of options are 
available to add quality-adjusted life years in the elderly by adhering to the 
general guidelines for cardiovascular prevention.

DOI: 10.1177/1741826711430384
PMID: 22089892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Kidney Int. 2012 Aug;82(3):261-9. doi: 10.1038/ki.2011.384. Epub 2011 Nov
16.

Optimizing renal replacement therapy in older adults: a framework for making 
individualized decisions.

Tamura MK(1), Tan JC, O'Hare AM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, 
California 94304, USA. mktamura@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2012 Dec;82(12):1340-1.

It is often difficult to synthesize information about the risks and benefits of 
recommended management strategies in older patients with end-stage renal disease 
since they may have more comorbidity and lower life expectancy than patients 
described in clinical trials or practice guidelines. In this review, we outline 
a framework for individualizing end-stage renal disease management decisions in 
older patients. The framework considers three factors: life expectancy, the 
risks and benefits of competing treatment strategies, and patient preferences. 
We illustrate the use of this framework by applying it to three key end-stage 
renal disease decisions in older patients with varying life expectancy: choice 
of dialysis modality, choice of vascular access for hemodialysis, and referral 
for kidney transplantation. In several instances, this approach might provide 
support for treatment decisions that directly contradict available practice 
guidelines, illustrating circumstances when strict application of guidelines may 
be inappropriate for certain patients. By combining quantitative estimates of 
benefits and harms with qualitative assessments of patient preferences, 
clinicians may be better able to tailor treatment recommendations to individual 
older patients, thereby improving the overall quality of end-stage renal disease 
care.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2011.384
PMCID: PMC3396777
PMID: 22089945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Pharmacol Rev. 2012 Jan;64(1):88-101. doi: 10.1124/pr.110.004499. Epub 2011
Nov  16.

Genome-environment interactions that modulate aging: powerful targets for drug 
discovery.

de Magalhães JP(1), Wuttke D, Wood SH, Plank M, Vora C.

Author information:
(1)Integrative Genomics of Ageing Group, Institute of Integrative Biology, 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom. jp@senescence.info

Aging is the major biomedical challenge of this century. The percentage of 
elderly people, and consequently the incidence of age-related diseases such as 
heart disease, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases, is projected to increase 
considerably in the coming decades. Findings from model organisms have revealed 
that aging is a surprisingly plastic process that can be manipulated by both 
genetic and environmental factors. Here we review a broad range of findings in 
model organisms, from environmental to genetic manipulations of aging, with a 
focus on those with underlying gene-environment interactions with potential for 
drug discovery and development. One well-studied dietary manipulation of aging 
is caloric restriction, which consists of restricting the food intake of 
organisms without triggering malnutrition and has been shown to retard aging in 
model organisms. Caloric restriction is already being used as a paradigm for 
developing compounds that mimic its life-extension effects and might therefore 
have therapeutic value. The potential for further advances in this field is 
immense; hundreds of genes in several pathways have recently emerged as 
regulators of aging and caloric restriction in model organisms. Some of these 
genes, such as IGF1R and FOXO3, have also been associated with human longevity 
in genetic association studies. The parallel emergence of network approaches 
offers prospects to develop multitarget drugs and combinatorial therapies. 
Understanding how the environment modulates aging-related genes may lead to 
human applications and disease therapies through diet, lifestyle, or 
pharmacological interventions. Unlocking the capacity to manipulate human aging 
would result in unprecedented health benefits.

DOI: 10.1124/pr.110.004499
PMCID: PMC3250080
PMID: 22090473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. J Emerg Trauma Shock. 2011 Oct;4(4):511-3. doi: 10.4103/0974-2700.86649.

Sonographic diagnosis of intraperitoneal free air.

Hefny AF(1), Abu-Zidan FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, UAE 
University, Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates.

Detection of intraperitoneal free air is important for the diagnosing of 
life-threatening conditions in patients with acute abdominal pain. Point-of-care 
ultrasound is an extension of the clinical examination in patients presenting 
with acute abdomen. Failure of sonographers to detect intraperitoneal free air 
was clinically considered as a limitation of abdominal ultrasound. It is now 
increasingly appreciated that ultrasound may detect intraperitoneal free air. 
Emergency physicians should be familiar with the sonographic features of 
intraperitoneal free air which may be essential to recognize bowel perforation. 
Herein we review the literature on the sonographic findings of intraperitoneal 
free air and the technical manoeuvres that can improve clinicians' detection of 
intraperitoneal free air using point-of-care ultrasound.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-2700.86649
PMCID: PMC3214511
PMID: 22090748

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


963. Popul Stud (Camb). 1968 Nov;22(3):347-59. doi:
10.1080/00324728.1968.10404944.

A study on the demographic impact of an IUD programme.

Chow LP.

Abstract This paper discusses and presents data obtained through various studies 
and surveys on the effect of the IUD contraceptive programme in Taiwan. It has 
been demonstrated that the fertility of IUD acceptors before first acceptance 
was 58 % higher than that of married women in general and that, after 
acceptance, it declined by about 76%. The corresponding fertility decline among 
married women in general was only about %. Acceptors had had more recent births, 
as indicated by their shorter 'open interval' of 20.7 months, compared with 374 
months among the women in the KAP survey sample. If the fertility of IUD 
acceptors had declined at the same rate as that of married women in general in 
the absence of IUD, the insertion of about 4 IUDs would probably prevent one 
live birth in the following year. Observation over a longer period, however, is 
needed to determine the demographic effect of IUD. Data on fertility control 
practice after termination, type of termination of pregnancies after first 
acceptance, life-table rates by various socio-demographic characteristics of 
acceptors, and the 'life expectancy' of the first segment of IUD are also 
presented.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1968.10404944
PMID: 22091652


964. Health Serv Res. 2012 Feb;47(1 Pt 2):544-55. doi: 
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2011.01345.x. Epub 2011 Nov 8.

State-level variations in racial disparities in life expectancy.

Bharmal N(1), Tseng CH, Kaplan R, Wong MD.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, UCLA 
David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California-Los Angeles, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To explore state patterns in the racial life expectancy gap.
DATA SOURCES: The 1997-2004 Multiple Cause of Death PUF, 2000 U.S. Census.
STUDY DESIGN: We calculated life expectancy at birth for black and white men and 
women.
DATA EXTRACTION METHODS: Data were obtained by the NCHS and U.S. Census Bureau.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: States with small racial differences are due to 
higher-than-expected life expectancy for blacks or lower-than-expected for 
whites. States with large disparity are explained by higher-than-average life 
expectancy among whites or lower-than-average life expectancy among blacks.
CONCLUSIONS: Heterogeneous state patterns in racial disparity in life expectancy 
exist. Eliminating disparity in states with large black populations would make 
the greatest impact nationally.

© Health Research and Educational Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2011.01345.x
PMCID: PMC3393007
PMID: 22092060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Gerodontology. 2011 Dec;28(4):245. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2011.00601.x.

Neglect - a consequence of austerity?

Newton JP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2011.00601.x
PMID: 22092285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Pediatr Clin North Am. 2011 Dec;58(6):1425-38, x-xi. doi: 
10.1016/j.pcl.2011.09.013.

Practical approaches to the treatment of severe pediatric obesity.

Lenders CM(1), Gorman K, Lim-Miller A, Puklin S, Pratt J.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Fitness for Life Program (Pediatric Obesity), Department of 
Pediatrics, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston Medical Center, Boston, 
MA 02118, USA. Carine.Lenders@bmc.org

Pediatric obesity is a major public health threat. Obese children and 
adolescents are at increased risk for many medical and surgical conditions. 
These conditions may affect their quality of life and life expectancy. The 
rapidly progressive nature of type 2 diabetes mellitus within the first 
5 years of obesity diagnosis is particularly concerning. Because health risk 
increases with degree of obesity, adolescents who may be eligible for more 
aggressive obesity treatment should be identified and counseled.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcl.2011.09.013
PMID: 22093860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. BJU Int. 2012 Jul;110(2):240-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10729.x. Epub
2011  Nov 17.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of newer anticholinergic drugs for urinary 
incontinence vs oxybutynin and no treatment using data on persistence from the 
Swedish prescribed drug registry.

Nilsson FO(1), Linnér L, Samuelsson E, Milsom I.

Author information:
(1)Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, Stockholm, Sweden. 
fredrik.nilsson@tlv.se

Study Type - Therapy (cost effectiveness). Level of Evidence 2a. What's known on 
the subject? and What does the study add? Anticholinergic drugs are a common 
treatment alternative in urinary incontinence, which results in large costs for 
caregivers. So far, most cost-effectiveness analyses of anticholinergic drugs 
have focused on small putative differences between the newer anticholinergics. 
This study takes a novel approach by treating the clinical effects of the newer 
alternatives as similar and evaluating them as a group in relation to no 
treatment and oxybutynin (immediate release). It also uses registry data to 
account for persistence.
OBJECTIVE: • To analyse the cost-effectiveness of newer anticholinergic drugs in 
relation to oxybutynin immediate release (IR) and no treatment for patients with 
urgency urinary incontinence.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: • A decision analytic model was constructed. • Results 
were collected from randomized trials and combined with registry data on 
persistence of medicine use and estimated number of severe adverse events. • The 
setting corresponds to Swedish clinical practice. • The costs and effects of the 
treatment options were analysed over a period of 1 year. Costs included drug 
costs, treatment costs and costs for pad use. Patients' utilities were based on 
treatment effect and the lack or presence of adverse events.
RESULTS: • No treatment was the least costly treatment but also resulted in the 
fewest number of quality adjusted life years (QALYs). • Treatment with newer 
anticholinergic drug medications is the most costly option but also the most 
efficient treatment. Sensitivity analyses showed that the results were robust. • 
Treatment with newer anticholinergics resulted in a cost per QALY gained of €21 
045 compared with no treatment and no effect and €65 435 compared with no 
treatment and placebo effect. Compared with oxybutynin IR, the cost per QALY 
gained was €37 119. These calculations are based on relatively low pad costs, 
resulting in higher costs per QALY for the original drugs.
CONCLUSIONS: • The newer anticholinergic medications are likely to be cost 
effective in relation to oxybutynin IR. • The cost-effectiveness of the newer 
anticholinergics compared with no treatment depends on assumptions of the effect 
of no treatment, the severity of the treated condition and the treated 
individual's risk of adverse events. • Treatment is less likely to be cost 
effective for elderly persons or for persons otherwise at higher risk for 
adverse events.

© 2011 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10729.x
PMID: 22093912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Chir Main. 2011 Dec;30(6):363-7. doi: 10.1016/j.main.2011.09.009. Epub 2011
Oct  18.

[Techniques of peripheral nerves repair: evolution of the literature from 1950 
to 2010].

[Article in French]

Abbou R(1), Beck M, Zemirline A, Facca S, Liverneaux P.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie de la main, CCOM, hôpitaux universitaires de Strasbourg, 
Illkirch cedex, France.

The life expectancy of technological innovations is estimated at 50years. In 
medicine, these cycles were poorly studied. The purpose of this work was to 
study the time-evolution of publications concerning the techniques of repair of 
the peripheral nerves (TRPN). We listed the publications concerning TRPN since 
their appearance in the medical literature until nowadays, then studied their 
evolution in the time. We looked in "Medline(®)" for the publications on TRPN 
between 1950 and 2010. The direct techniques were published 156 times. The 
sutures and the biological glue appear in 1966 and the laser in 1979. The 
indirect techniques were published 199 times. The nerve guides appear in 1956, 
the vein grafts in 1965, the nerve grafts in 1977. In the decade 2000-2010, the 
literature produced as many publications on TRPN (181) as in the half-century 
from 1950 to 2000 (174). Conversely, the global medical literature produced 
twice as few publications in the decade 2000-2010 (7000000) than in the 
half-century 1950-2000 (13000000). Several hypotheses can be evoked: 
encouragement of scientific publication, the development of functional surgery, 
the augmentation of microsurgery education.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.main.2011.09.009
PMID: 22094177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Neurology. 2011 Dec 13;77(24):2082-8. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31823d763f.
Epub  2011 Nov 16.

Should TIA patients be hospitalized or referred to a same-day clinic?: a 
decision analysis.

Joshi JK(1), Ouyang B, Prabhakaran S.

Author information:
(1)Rush University Medical Center, Department of Neurological Sciences, Chicago, 
IL, USA.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2011 Dec 13;77(24):2078-9.

OBJECTIVE: For patients presenting with TIA, a previous study concluded that 
hospitalization is cost-effective compared to discharge without treatment from 
the emergency department. We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
hospitalization vs urgent clinic evaluation following TIA.
METHODS: Among a cohort of TIA patients, we created a decision tree model to 
compare the decision to hospitalize or refer to urgent-access specialty clinic. 
We estimated probabilities, utilities, and direct costs from the available 
literature and calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). We 
assumed equal access to standard medical treatments between the 2 approaches; 
however, we estimated higher tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) utilization 
among hospitalized patients. We performed sensitivity analyses to assess all 
assumptions in our model.
RESULTS: In patients with TIA aged 65-74 years, hospitalization yielded 
additional 0.00026 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) at 1 year, but at an 
additional cost of $5,573 per patient compared to urgent clinic evaluation (ICER 
= $21,434,615/QALY). Over 30 years, the ICER was $3,473,125/QALY. These results 
were not sensitive to varying 48-hour stroke risk, length of stay, tPA 
utilization rate, QALYs saved per tPA treatment, and hospitalization and clinic 
costs, and cost saved per tPA treatment.
CONCLUSION: Despite increased access to tPA in the hospital, we found that 
hospitalization is not cost-effective compared to same-day clinic evaluation 
following TIA. A very small fraction of patients benefits from hospitalization 
if urgent-access TIA clinics are available. The widespread development of 
urgent-access TIA clinics is warranted.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31823d763f
PMID: 22094477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Environ Health Perspect. 2012 Feb;120(2):216-22. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1104035.
Epub  2011 Nov 17.

A method to estimate the chronic health impact of air pollutants in U.S. 
residences.

Logue JM(1), Price PN, Sherman MH, Singer BC.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Energy Technologies Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, 
Berkeley, California, USA. JMLogue@lbl.gov

BACKGROUND: Indoor air pollutants (IAPs) cause multiple health impacts. 
Prioritizing mitigation options that differentially affect individual pollutants 
and comparing IAPs with other environmental health hazards require a common 
metric of harm.
OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to demonstrate a methodology to quantify and 
compare health impacts from IAPs. The methodology is needed to assess population 
health impacts of large-scale initiatives-including energy efficiency upgrades 
and ventilation standards-that affect indoor air quality (IAQ).
METHODS: Available disease incidence and disease impact models for specific 
pollutant-disease combinations were synthesized with data on measured 
concentrations to estimate the chronic heath impact, in disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) lost, due to inhalation of a subset of IAPs in U.S. 
residences. Model results were compared with independent estimates of DALYs lost 
due to disease.
RESULTS: Particulate matter ≤ 2.5 μm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5), acrolein, 
and formaldehyde accounted for the vast majority of DALY losses caused by IAPs 
considered in this analysis, with impacts on par or greater than estimates for 
secondhand tobacco smoke and radon. Confidence intervals of DALYs lost derived 
from epidemiology-based response functions are tighter than those derived from 
toxicology-based, interspecies extrapolations. Statistics on disease incidence 
in the United States indicate that the upper-bound confidence interval for 
aggregate IAP harm is implausibly high.
CONCLUSIONS: The approach demonstrated in this study may be used to assess 
regional and national initiatives that affect IAQ at the population level. 
Cumulative health impacts from inhalation in U.S. residences of the IAPs 
assessed in this study are estimated at 400-1,100 DALYs lost annually per 
100,000 persons.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1104035
PMCID: PMC3279453
PMID: 22094717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


971. HIV AIDS (Auckl). 2010;2:123-34. doi: 10.2147/hiv.s7720. Epub 2010 Feb 18.

Management of Pneumocystis Jirovecii pneumonia in HIV infected patients: current 
options, challenges and future directions.

Castro JG(1), Morrison-Bryant M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA.

The discovery of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) was led by the merge of 
clustered cases of Pneumocystis jirovecii Pneumonia (PCP) in otherwise healthy 
people in the early 80's.1,2 In the face of sophisticated treatment now 
available for HIV infection, life expectancy approaches normal limits. It has 
dramatically changed the natural course of HIV from a nearly fatal infection to 
a chronic disease.3-5 However, PCP still remains a relatively common 
presentation of uncontrolled HIV. Despite the knowledge and advances gained in 
the prevention and management of PCP infection, it continues to have high 
morbidity and mortality rates. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) remains 
as the recommended first-line treatment. Alternatives include pentamidine, 
dapsone plus trimethoprim, clindamycin administered with primaquine, and 
atovaquone. For optimal management, clinicians need to be familiar with the 
advantages and disadvantages of the available drugs. The parameters used to 
classify severity of infection are also important, as it is well known that the 
adjunctive use of steroids in moderate to severe cases have been shown to 
significantly improve outcome. Evolving management practices, such as the 
successful institution of early antiretroviral therapy, may further enhance 
overall survival rates.

DOI: 10.2147/hiv.s7720
PMCID: PMC3218692
PMID: 22096390


972. HIV AIDS (Auckl). 2010;2:191-201. doi: 10.2147/HIV.S9069. Epub 2010 Sep 30.

The effect of aging, nutrition, and exercise during HIV infection.

Somarriba G(1), Neri D, Schaefer N, Miller TL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Clinical Research, Department of Pediatrics, Miller 
School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, Florida, USA.

Medical advances continue to change the face of human immunodeficiency virus- 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS). As life expectancy increases, the 
number of people living with HIV rises, presenting new challenges for the 
management of a chronic condition. Aging, nutrition, and physical activity can 
influence outcomes in other chronic conditions, and emerging data show that each 
of these factors can impact viral replication and the immune system in HIV. HIV 
infection results in a decline of the immune system through the depletion of 
CD4+ T cells. From initial infection, viral replication is a continuous 
phenomenon. Immunosenescence, a hallmark of aging, results in an increased 
susceptibility to infections secondary to a delayed immune response, and this 
phenomenon may be increased in HIV-infected patients. Optimal nutrition is an 
important adjunct in the clinical care of patients with HIV. Nutritional 
interventions may improve the quality and span of life and symptom management, 
support the effectiveness of medications, and improve the patient's resistance 
to infections and other disease complications by altering immunity. Moderate 
physical activity can improve many immune parameters, reduce the risk of acute 
infection, and combat metabolic abnormalities. As people with HIV age, 
alternative therapies such as nutrition and physical activity may complement 
medical management.

DOI: 10.2147/HIV.S9069
PMCID: PMC3218696
PMID: 22096398


973. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e27108. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027108. Epub 2011
Nov  11.

Cost-effectiveness of Internet-based self-management compared with usual care in 
asthma.

van der Meer V(1), van den Hout WB, Bakker MJ, Rabe KF, Sterk PJ, Assendelft WJ, 
Kievit J, Sont JK; SMASHING (Self-Management in Asthma Supported by Hospitals, 
ICT, Nurses and General Practitioners) Study Group.

Collaborators: Assendelft WJ, Thiadens HA, Bakker MJ, van den Hout WB, Kievit J, 
van der Meer V, Sont JK, Kaptein AA, Rikkers-Mutsaerts ER, Rabe KF, Bel EH, 
Sterk PJ, Detmar SB, Otten W, van Stel HF, Roldaan AC, de Jongste JC, Toussaint 
PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. v.van_der_meer@lumc.nl

BACKGROUND: Effectiveness of Internet-based self-management in patients with 
asthma has been shown, but its cost-effectiveness is unknown. We conducted a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of Internet-based asthma self-management compared 
with usual care.
METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Cost-effectiveness analysis alongside a 
randomized controlled trial, with 12 months follow-up. Patients were aged 18 to 
50 year and had physician diagnosed asthma. The Internet-based self-management 
program involved weekly on-line monitoring of asthma control with self-treatment 
advice, remote Web communications, and Internet-based information. We determined 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) as measured by the EuroQol-5D and costs for 
health care use and absenteeism. We performed a detailed cost price analysis for 
the primary intervention. QALYs did not statistically significantly differ 
between the Internet group and usual care: difference 0.024 (95% CI, -0.016 to 
0.065). Costs of the Internet-based intervention were $254 (95% CI, $243 to 
$265) during the period of 1 year. From a societal perspective, the cost 
difference was $641 (95% CI, $-1957 to $3240). From a health care perspective, 
the cost difference was $37 (95% CI, $-874 to $950). At a willingness-to-pay of 
$50,000 per QALY, the probability that Internet-based self-management was 
cost-effective compared to usual care was 62% and 82% from a societal and health 
care perspective, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Internet-based self-management of asthma can be as effective as 
current asthma care and costs are similar.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN79864465.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027108
PMCID: PMC3214043
PMID: 22096523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


974. AIDS Policy Law. 2011 Oct;26(11):3.

Research. Symptom-based screening could reduce MSM infections.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 22096792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. West Indian Med J. 2011 Jul;60(4):471-7.

Chronic disease and ageing in the Caribbean: opportunities knock at the door.

Eldemire-Shearer D(1), James K, Morris C, Holder-Nevins D, Lawes H, Harris M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, The University of the West 
Indies, Kingston 7, Jamaica. denise.eldemireshearer@uwimona.edu.jm

Amidst rapid population ageing, the incidence and prevalence of chronic diseases 
and their sequelae demand reflective and critical looks at the issue and the 
subsequent development of informed age-sensitive responses. This paper reviews 
the burden of chronic diseases in the Caribbean, and its relationship to ageing 
and the demographic transition. Inter-linkages between the social determinants 
of health, poverty, ageing, and chronic disease are illustrated. Suggestions are 
made regarding directions to be pursued and the emerging initiative regarding 
chronic non-communicable diseases being spearheaded at the United Nations by 
CARICOM countries

PMID: 22097680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2011 Dec;11(6):627-39. doi: 
10.1586/erp.11.79.

Cost-effectiveness of raltegravir in HIV/AIDS.

Chaudhary MA(1), Elbasha EH, Kumar RN, Nathanson EC.

Author information:
(1)Merck & Co., Inc., UG1C-60, 351 N. Sumneytown Pike, PO Box 1000, North Wales, 
PA 19454-2505, USA. mohammad_chaudhary@merck.com

Raltegravir is a first-in-class HIV-1 integrase inhibitor with established 
antiviral efficacy in treatment-naive and treatment-experienced patients with 
multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infection. In this article, we summarize 
pharmacoeconomic evaluations of raltegravir-based treatment regimens, compared 
with alternative therapies, in the treatment of patients with HIV infection 
and/or AIDS. Cost-effectiveness evaluations of raltegravir in 
treatment-experienced patients conducted using a continuous-time, 
state-transition Markov cohort model suggest that raltegravir, combined with 
optimized background therapy, falls within the range that would generally be 
considered cost effective compared with optimized therapy alone in Spanish, 
Swiss and UK health systems. In treatment-naive populations, raltegravir was 
evaluated using a three-stage continuous-time state-transition cohort model. 
Raltegravir-based initiation treatment strategies (first-line raltegravir) were 
compared with protease inhibitor and non-nucleoside reverse-transcriptase 
inhibitor initiation strategies, in which raltegravir was retained for salvage 
therapy. First-line raltegravir was cost-effective versus retaining raltegravir 
for salvage therapy in several European populations. A separate economic model 
was used to evaluate first-line raltegravir against two alternative initiation 
regimens representing standard clinical practice in Australia; raltegravir 
proved to be cost effective in both scenarios. In all studies examined, results 
were sensitive to factors including treatment duration, mortality rate, analytic 
time horizon, health utility weights, cost of raltegravir and optimized therapy, 
incidence of opportunistic infection and discount rates. Nonetheless, 
raltegravir remained cost effective under most scenarios.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.11.79
PMID: 22098278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Radiol. 2011 Nov;92(11):1015-28. doi: 10.1016/j.jradio.2011.08.006. Epub
2011  Oct 20.

[Imaging evaluation of head and neck infections].

[Article in French]

Cassagneau P(1), Varoquaux A, Moulin G.

Author information:
(1)Service de radiologie générale et vasculaire, hôpital de la Timone, 264, rue 
Saint-Pierre, 13385 Marseille cedex 05, France. pierre.cassagneau@ap-hm.fr

Infections of the head and neck are frequent and usually have a good prognosis 
even though complications may sometimes be life threatening. In addition to 
airway compromise, intracranial and thoracic extension may occur. Diagnosis 
usually is made on clinical examination and imaging may play a significant role 
in assessing the extent of the disease, detecting complications and assist in 
surgical planning. The imaging protocol should be appropriate for the proposed 
diagnosis and suspected complications. CT of the soft tissues of the neck and 
chest is the imaging test of choice. Interpretation requires knowledge of the 
anatomy to understand the modalities of local and distant spread of the disease. 
Imaging evaluation is important but should not delay emergently needed treatment 
for entities such as epiglottitis and necrotizing fasciitis.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS and Éditions françaises de radiologie. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jradio.2011.08.006
PMID: 22098649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2011 Nov;18(6):412-9. doi:
10.1053/j.ackd.2011.09.008.

Geriatric nephrology: a paradigm shift in the approach to renal replacement 
therapy.

Latos DL(1), Lucas J.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Associates, Wheeling, WV 26003, USA. dlatos@wrc3.com

The population of elderly individuals diagnosed with CKD continues to grow. Many 
have multiple comorbid conditions that will impact life expectancy as well as 
decisions about whether to pursue renal replacement therapy. Nephrologists are 
uniquely positioned to assist their patients and caregivers in this regard and 
spend considerable time counseling them about the benefits and risks associated 
with dialysis therapy. This article presents an overview of many of the issues 
facing nephrologists, and provides tools to assist busy clinicians in helping 
their elderly patients in deciding whether to consider dialysis or intensive, 
nondialysis care.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ackd.2011.09.008
PMID: 22098659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


