
793. BMC Geriatr. 2011 Oct 24;11:66. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-11-66.

The effect of testosterone and a nutritional supplement on hospital admissions 
in under-nourished, older people.

Piantadosi C(1), Visvanathan R, Naganathan V, Hunter P, Cameron ID, Lange K, 
Karnon J, Chapman IM.

Author information:
(1)The Health Observatory, University of Adelaide, Department of Medicine, 
Adelaide SA 5005, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Weight loss and under-nutrition are relatively common in older 
people, and are associated with poor outcomes including increased rates of 
hospital admissions and death. In a pilot study of 49 undernourished older, 
community dwelling people we found that daily treatment for one year with a 
combination of testosterone tablets and a nutritional supplement produced a 
significant reduction in hospitalizations. We propose a larger, multicentre 
study to explore and hopefully confirm this exciting, potentially important 
finding (NHMRC project grant number 627178).
METHODS/DESIGN: One year randomized control trial where subjects are allocated 
to either oral testosterone undecanoate and high calorie oral nutritional 
supplement or placebo medication and low calorie oral nutritional 
supplementation. 200 older community-dwelling, undernourished people [Mini 
Nutritional Assessment score <24 and either: a) low body weight (body mass 
index, in kg/m(2): <22) or b) recent weight loss (>7.5% over 3 months)]. 
Hospital admissions, quality-adjusted life years, functional status, nutritional 
health, muscle strength, body composition and other variables will be assessed.
DISCUSSION: The pilot study showed that combined treatment with an oral 
testosterone and a supplement drink was well tolerated and safe, and reduced the 
number of people hospitalised and duration of hospital admissions in 
undernourished, community dwelling older people. This is an exciting finding, as 
it identifies a treatment which may be of substantial benefit to many older 
people in our community. We now propose to conduct a multi-centre study to test 
these findings in a substantially larger subject group, and to determine the 
cost effectiveness of this treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian Clinical Trial Registry: ACTRN 12610000356066.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-11-66
PMCID: PMC3213029
PMID: 22023735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Ann Vasc Surg. 2011 Nov;25(8):1138.e9-13. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2011.05.023.

Angiomyolipoma with vascular invasion during pregnancy.

Govednik-Horny C(1), Atkins M.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Texas A & M/Scott and White, Temple, Texas, 
USA. cgovednikhorny@swmail.sw.org

Angiomyolipoma (AML) is a rare, benign tumor composed of fat cells, smooth 
muscle cells, and blood vessels. They are commonly found in the kidney but have 
also been reported to occur in the liver, ovary, fallopian tube, spermatic cord, 
palate, and colon. Most often, they are discovered as an incidental finding on 
computed tomography scan and remain inconsequential; however, certain 
characteristics such as size, presence of aneurysms, and location can transform 
this disease process into a life-threatening entity. Here, we describe the case 
of a 30-year-old pregnant woman with bilateral renal AMLs in which there was 
invasion of the right renal vein and extension of the tumor into the inferior 
vena cava. The patient was believed to be at significant risk of 
hormone-mediated rapid expansion, embolization, and life-threatening pulmonary 
embolus during the pregnancy and was taken to the operating room for right 
nephrectomy and removal of the tumor from the vena cava. We report the first 
case of elective nephrectomy with the removal of the tumor from vena cava 
complicating pregnancy. The major risks of rupture, spontaneous hemorrhage, 
renal failure, and tumor thrombus were avoided, thereby demonstrating that 
despite pregnancy, successful surgery can be performed during the second 
trimester for the management of complicated AMLs.

Copyright © 2011 Annals of Vascular Surgery Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2011.05.023
PMID: 22023947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2012 Jul;83(1):145-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.09.007. Epub 2011 Oct 22.

Cancer prevalence and mortality in centenarians: a systematic review.

Pavlidis N(1), Stanta G, Audisio RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Medical School, University of Ioannina, 451 
10 Ioannina, Greece. npavlid@uoi.gr

Life expectancy has dramatically expanded, the global population has aged 
unprecedentedly and the number of centenarians has significantly increased. The 
analysis of autopsy series, cancer registries data, vital statistics and surveys 
specific to this age group allows unique observations with respect to incidence 
and prevalence, cause of death by cancer, frequency of primary tumours, 
metastatic patterns, occurrence of incidental cancers and of multiple primary 
tumours. Data analysis demonstrates how cancer incidence and cause of death 
present a threefold decrease after age 90 and reach 0-4% above age 100. In 
addition, the number of metastatic sites are remarkably less and incidental 
malignant tumours or multiple primary cancers are more frequent, indicating that 
cancer in centenarians carries a more indolent behaviour. The unique features of 
malignant tumours in this population is hereby presented and discussed following 
a systematic review of the available literature. Cancer in the very elderly is 
relatively uncommon as a disease and as a cause of death. It is characterized by 
a slow growth and a modest life-threatening potential.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.09.007
PMID: 22024388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Europace. 2012 Apr;14(4):502-8. doi: 10.1093/europace/eur329. Epub 2011 Oct
23.

Long-term outcome of cardiac pacing in octogenarians and nonagenarians.

Udo EO(1), van Hemel NM, Zuithoff NP, Kelder JC, Crommentuijn HA, 
Koopman-Verhagen AM, Voskuil T, Doevendans PA, Moons KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, UMC Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. e.o.udo@umcutrecht.nl

Comment in
    Europace. 2012 Apr;14(4):463-5.

AIMS: The number of patients >80 years receiving pacemakers (PMs) is increasing. 
Little is known about survival and complications in this specific subgroup. We 
aim to determine predictors of long-term survival.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Pacemaker-related complications and death occurring in 
patients receiving a first PM for conventional bradycardia indications were 
systematically documented (the FollowPace registry). This report describes 481 
patients ≥80 years during a mean follow-up of 5.8 (SD 1.2) years. Within 2 
months 54 PM complications occurred in 47 patients (9.8%). During follow-up, 35 
adverse PM events were reported in 33 patients (6.9%). Complication rates in 
patients ≥80 years were comparable with those for patients <80 years. Survival 
rates were 86, 75, and 49% after 1, 2, and 5 years, respectively, and were 
comparable with survival for age- and sex-matched controls from the general 
Dutch population. Most patients died of non-cardiac causes. Age at the time of 
implantation, male gender, the presence of congestive heart failure, coronary 
pathology, and diabetes mellitus were independent predictors of all-cause 
mortality.
CONCLUSION: This large study of long-term cardiac pacing for bradycardia in 
octogenarians and nonagenarians showed a cumulative 5-year survival of ~50%, 
which compares with that of age- and sex-matched controls. These data suggest a 
beneficial impact of bradycardia pacing, restoring life expectancy to previous 
levels. The occurrence of PM complications during long-term follow-up is not 
infrequent with 18.1% of patients experiencing a PM-related complication during 
a mean of 5.8 years follow-up. The complication rate was not higher than in 
younger PM patients.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eur329
PMID: 22024601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. J Cardiovasc Med (Hagerstown). 2011 Dec;12(12):878-82. doi: 
10.2459/JCM.0b013e32834da507.

The euros and sense of stents: do we get value for money?

Annemans L(1).

Author information:
(1)I-CHER (Interuniversity Center for Health Economic Research), Ghent 
University and VUB, Department of Public Health, De Pintelaan 185, Gent, 
Belgium. Lieven.Annemans@Ugent.be.

DOI: 10.2459/JCM.0b013e32834da507
PMID: 22025203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Health Econ. 2011 Dec;20(12):1523-31. doi: 10.1002/hec.1683. Epub 2010 Nov
18.

Non-monotonicity in the episodic random utility model.

Menzies NA(1), Salomon JA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Sciences, Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA. 
nmenzies@fas.harvard.edu

The time trade-off (TTO) is widely used in population-based surveys to estimate 
health-state valuations. Typically, respondents may characterize states as being 
better than or worse than dead. However, worse-than-dead responses can produce 
strongly negative mean values, so various analytic transformations of these 
responses have been suggested. The episodic random utility model (eRUM), 
operationalized using a linear regression estimator, was proposed as an 
alternative to these transformations, in part because of its theoretical appeal. 
We analyzed the eRUM estimator's mathematical properties and found that it 
violates monotonicity under certain patterns of survey responses, such that 
improvement in some individual valuations would imply a lower overall valuation 
for a given health state. Consequently, it is possible that orderings of 
alternative strategies based on eRUM valuations could lead a decision-maker to 
choose a strictly dominated strategy. Re-analyzing data from a large 
population-based EQ-5D valuation survey in the United Kingdom, we found 27% of 
all TTO responses (63% of all worse-than-dead responses) met the conditions for 
violation of monotonicity, and 74% of all respondents had at least one such 
response. These results present some challenge to the use of the eRUM estimator 
in generating health-state valuations for population health measurement and 
economic evaluation.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1683
PMCID: PMC3289720
PMID: 22025393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests: None


799. J Conserv Dent. 2011 Jul;14(3):208-14. doi: 10.4103/0972-0707.85788.

Geriatric restorative care - the need, the demand and the challenges.

Nadig RR(1), Usha G, Kumar V, Rao R, Bugalia A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics, Dayananda Sagar College 
of Dental Sciences, Bangalore, India.

Increased life expectancy is causing an explosion of the aging population that 
will continue now and in the foreseeable future. Improved quality of life at old 
age will demand tooth retention and consequently the need for restorative care. 
Retaining teeth disease free and maintaining them amidst multitude of risk 
factors associated with old age, is a multi- faceted challenge. This review 
article discusses the etiology of various dental diseases seen in older dentate 
population and their management keeping in mind the special needs of these 
matured people, so as to render a professional service that is sensitive and 
caring.

DOI: 10.4103/0972-0707.85788
PMCID: PMC3198545
PMID: 22025819

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


800. Oxf Econ Pap. 2011;63(3):448-74. doi: 10.1093/oep/gpr002.

Does inequality in health impede economic growth?

Grimm M(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University, Rotterdam.

This paper investigates the effects of inequality in health on economic growth 
in low and middle income countries. The empirical part of the paper uses an 
original cross-national panel data set covering 62 low and middle income 
countries over the period 1985 to 2007. I find a substantial and relatively 
robust negative effect of health inequality on income levels and income growth 
controlling for life expectancy, country and time fixed-effects and a large 
number of other effects that have been shown to matter for growth. The effect 
also holds if health inequality is instrumented to circumvent a potential 
problem of reverse causality. Hence, reducing inequality in the access to health 
care and to health-related information can make a substantial contribution to 
economic growth.

DOI: 10.1093/oep/gpr002
PMID: 22026023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Care Manag J. 2011;12(3):128-34. doi: 10.1891/1521-0987.12.3.128.

Transnational caregiving: part 2, caring for family relations across nations.

Dhar VE(1).

Author information:
(1)AARP Office of International Affairs, New York City, USA. ericadhar@gmail.com

DOI: 10.1891/1521-0987.12.3.128
PMID: 22026244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. BMC Cancer. 2011 Oct 25;11:462. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-11-462.

Canadian Optically-guided approach for Oral Lesions Surgical (COOLS) trial: 
study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

Poh CF(1), Durham JS, Brasher PM, Anderson DW, Berean KW, MacAulay CE, Lee JJ, 
Rosin MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Biological and Medical Science, The University of British 
Columbia, Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, Canada. cpoh@interchange.ubc.ca

BACKGROUND: Oral cancer is a major health problem worldwide. The 5-year survival 
rate ranges from 30-60%, and has remained unchanged in the past few decades. 
This is mainly due to late diagnosis and high recurrence of the disease. Of the 
patients who receive treatment, up to one third suffer from a recurrence or a 
second primary tumor. It is apparent that one major cause of disease recurrence 
is clinically unrecognized field changes which extend beyond the visible tumor 
boundary. We have previously developed an approach using fluorescence 
visualization (FV) technology to improve the recognition of the field at risk 
surrounding a visible oral cancer that needs to be removed and preliminary 
results have shown a significant reduction in recurrence rates.
METHOD/DESIGN: This paper describes the study design of a randomized, 
multi-centre, double blind, controlled surgical trial, the COOLS trial. Nine 
institutions across Canada will recruit a total of 400 patients with oral severe 
dysplasia or carcinoma in situ (N = 160) and invasive squamous cell carcinoma (N 
= 240). Patients will be stratified by participating institution and histology 
grade and randomized equally into FV-guided surgery (experimental arm) or white 
light-guided surgery (control arm). The primary endpoint is a composite of 
recurrence at or 1 cm within the previous surgery site with 1) the same or 
higher grade histology compared to the initial diagnosis (i.e., the diagnosis 
used for randomization); or 2) further treatment due to the presence of severe 
dysplasia or higher degree of change at follow-up. This is the first randomized, 
multi-centre trial to validate the effectiveness of the FV-guided surgery.
DISCUSSION: In this paper we described the strategies, novelty, and challenges 
of this unique trial involving a surgical approach guided by the FV technology. 
The success of the trial requires training, coordination, and quality assurance 
across multiple sites within Canada. The COOLS trial, an example of 
translational research, may result in reduced recurrence rates following 
surgical treatment of early-stage oral cancer with significant impacts on 
survival, morbidity, patients' quality of life and the cost to the health care 
system.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01039298.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-11-462
PMCID: PMC3226575
PMID: 22026481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. PLoS One. 2011;6(10):e24573. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024573. Epub 2011
Oct  18.

An inhibitory effect of extracellular Ca2+ on Ca2+-dependent exocytosis.

Xiong W(1), Liu T, Wang Y, Chen X, Sun L, Guo N, Zheng H, Zheng L, Ruat M, Han 
W, Zhang CX, Zhou Z.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane Engineering and Center for Life Sciences, 
Institute of Molecular Medicine, Peking University, Beijing, China.

AIM: Neurotransmitter release is elicited by an elevation of intracellular 
Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). The action potential triggers Ca(2+) influx 
through Ca(2+) channels which causes local changes of [Ca(2+)](i) for vesicle 
release. However, any direct role of extracellular Ca(2+) (besides Ca(2+) 
influx) on Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis remains elusive. Here we set out to 
investigate this possibility on rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and 
chromaffin cells, widely used models for studying vesicle exocytosis.
RESULTS: Using photolysis of caged Ca(2+) and caffeine-induced release of stored 
Ca(2+), we found that extracellular Ca(2+) inhibited exocytosis following 
moderate [Ca(2+)](i) rises (2-3 µM). The IC(50) for extracellular Ca(2+) 
inhibition of exocytosis (ECIE) was 1.38 mM and a physiological reduction (∼30%) 
of extracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](o)) significantly increased the 
evoked exocytosis. At the single vesicle level, quantal size and release 
frequency were also altered by physiological [Ca(2+)](o). The calcimimetics 
Mg(2+), Cd(2+), G418, and neomycin all inhibited exocytosis. The extracellular 
Ca(2+)-sensing receptor (CaSR) was not involved because specific drugs and 
knockdown of CaSR in DRG neurons did not affect ECIE.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: As an extension of the classic Ca(2+) hypothesis of 
synaptic release, physiological levels of extracellular Ca(2+) play dual roles 
in evoked exocytosis by providing a source of Ca(2+) influx, and by directly 
regulating quantal size and release probability in neuronal cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024573
PMCID: PMC3196490
PMID: 22028769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


804. PLoS One. 2011;6(10):e26607. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026607. Epub 2011
Oct  19.

Comparative analysis of old-age mortality estimations in Africa.

Bendavid E(1), Seligman B, Kubo J.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California, United States of America. ebd@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Survival to old ages is increasing in many African countries. While 
demographic tools for estimating mortality up to age 60 have improved greatly, 
mortality patterns above age 60 rely on models based on little or no demographic 
data. These estimates are important for social planning and demographic 
projections. We provide direct estimations of older-age mortality using survey 
data.
METHODS: Since 2005, nationally representative household surveys in ten 
sub-Saharan countries record counts of living and recently deceased household 
members: Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, 
Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. After accounting for age heaping using 
multiple imputation, we use this information to estimate probability of death in 
5-year intervals ((5)q(x)). We then compare our (5)q(x) estimates to those 
provided by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations 
Population Division (UNPD) to estimate the differences in mortality estimates, 
especially among individuals older than 60 years old.
FINDINGS: We obtained information on 505,827 individuals (18.4% over age 60, 
1.64% deceased). WHO and UNPD mortality models match our estimates closely up to 
age 60 (mean difference in probability of death -1.1%). However, mortality 
probabilities above age 60 are lower using our estimations than either WHO or 
UNPD. The mean difference between our sample and the WHO is 5.9% (95% CI 
3.8-7.9%) and between our sample is UNPD is 13.5% (95% CI 11.6-15.5%). 
Regardless of the comparator, the difference in mortality estimations rises 
monotonically above age 60.
INTERPRETATION: Mortality estimations above age 60 in ten African countries 
exhibit large variations depending on the method of estimation. The observed 
patterns suggest the possibility that survival in some African countries among 
adults older than age 60 is better than previously thought. Improving the 
quality and coverage of vital information in developing countries will become 
increasingly important with future reductions in mortality.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026607
PMCID: PMC3197519
PMID: 22028921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


805. PLoS One. 2011;6(10):e26621. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026621. Epub 2011
Oct  20.

Body configuration as a predictor of mortality: comparison of five 
anthropometric measures in a 12 year follow-up of the Norwegian HUNT 2 study.

Petursson H(1), Sigurdsson JA, Bengtsson C, Nilsen TI, Getz L.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit of General Practice, Department of Public Health and General 
Practice, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, 
Norway. halfdanpe@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Distribution of body fat is more important than the amount of fat as 
a prognostic factor for life expectancy. Despite that, body mass index (BMI) 
still holds its status as the most used indicator of obesity in clinical work.
METHODS: We assessed the association of five different anthropometric measures 
with mortality in general and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality in 
particular using Cox proportional hazards models. Predictive properties were 
compared by computing integrated discrimination improvement and net 
reclassification improvement for two different prediction models. The measures 
studied were BMI, waist circumference, hip circumference, waist-to-hip ratio 
(WHR), and waist-to-height ratio (WHtR). The study population was a prospective 
cohort of 62,223 Norwegians, age 20-79, followed up for mortality from 1995-1997 
to the end of 2008 (mean follow-up 12.0 years) in the Nord-Trøndelag Health 
Study (HUNT 2).
RESULTS: After adjusting for age, smoking and physical activity WHR and WHtR 
were found to be the strongest predictors of death. Hazard ratios (HRs) for CVD 
mortality per increase in WHR of one standard deviation were 1.23 for men and 
1.27 for women. For WHtR, these HRs were 1.24 for men and 1.23 for women. WHR 
offered the greatest integrated discrimination improvement to the prediction 
models studied, followed by WHtR and waist circumference. Hip circumference was 
in strong inverse association with mortality when adjusting for waist 
circumference. In all analyses, BMI had weaker association with mortality than 
three of the other four measures studied.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study adds further knowledge to the evidence that BMI is not 
the most appropriate measure of obesity in everyday clinical practice. WHR can 
reliably be measured and is as easy to calculate as BMI and is currently better 
documented than WHtR. It appears reasonable to recommend WHR as the primary 
measure of body composition and obesity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026621
PMCID: PMC3197688
PMID: 22028926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


806. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2011 Nov;9(11):1001-11. doi:
10.1586/eri.11.125.

Drug combinations for HIV: what's new?

Scourfield A(1), Waters L, Nelson M.

Author information:
(1)1st Floor, St Stephen's Centre, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, 369 Fulham 
Road, London, SW10 9NH, UK.

Since the advent of combined antiretroviral therapy there have been reductions 
in mortality and morbidity from HIV, transforming the disease into a chronic 
medical condition where newly diagnosed individuals can expect to live a 
near-normal life expectancy. When choosing therapy, probably the most important 
consideration is the risk of developing drug-related toxicity both in the short 
and long term, and new strategies to permit individualization of therapy will 
play a vital role in reducing this risk. The management of comorbidities 
including cardiovascular, renal, hepatic, bone and CNS disease, coinfections and 
malignancy are important considerations when choosing combined antiretroviral 
therapy, as is the cost of therapy. In individuals failing therapy, treatment 
switches will be guided by the presence of present and previously detected 
resistance mutations. This article will focus on the evidence for current 
therapies and strategies in ART-naive individuals and the potential for use of 
novel agents in the future.

DOI: 10.1586/eri.11.125
PMID: 22029520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Hum Gene Ther. 2012 Mar;23(3):330-5. doi: 10.1089/hum.2011.166. Epub 2012
Jan  26.

Decreasing disease severity in symptomatic, Smn(-/-);SMN2(+/+), spinal muscular 
atrophy mice following scAAV9-SMN delivery.

Glascock JJ(1), Osman EY, Wetz MJ, Krogman MM, Shababi M, Lorson CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Bond Life Sciences Center, University 
of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder, is 
the leading genetic cause of infant mortality. SMA is caused by the homozygous 
loss of Survival Motor Neuron-1 (SMN1). In humans, a nearly identical copy gene 
is present, SMN2. SMN2 is retained in all SMA patients and encodes the same 
protein as SMN1. However, SMN1 and SMN2 differ by a silent C-to-T transition at 
the 5' end of exon 7, causing alternative splicing of SMN2 transcripts and low 
levels of full-length SMN. SMA is monogenic and therefore well suited for 
gene-replacement strategies. Recently, self-complementary adeno-associated virus 
(scAAV) vectors have been used to deliver the SMN cDNA to an animal model of 
disease, the SMNΔ7 mouse. In this study, we examine a severe model of SMA, 
Smn(-/-);SMN2(+/+), to determine whether gene replacement is viable in a model 
in which disease development begins in utero. Using two delivery paradigms, 
intracerebroventricular injections and intravenous injections, we delivered 
scAAV9-SMN and demonstrated a two to four fold increase in survival, in addition 
to improving many of the phenotypic parameters of the model. This represents the 
longest extension in survival for this severe model for any therapeutic 
intervention and suggests that postsymptomatic treatment of SMA may lead to 
significant improvement of disease severity.

DOI: 10.1089/hum.2011.166
PMCID: PMC3300100
PMID: 22029744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Herpesviridae. 2011 Oct 26;2(1):10. doi: 10.1186/2042-4280-2-10.

Evolving evidence implicates cytomegalovirus as a promoter of malignant glioma 
pathogenesis.

Cobbs CS(1).

Author information:
(1)California Pacific Medical Center Research Institute, 475 Brannan Street, San 
Francisco, CA, 94114, USA. charles.cobbs@gmail.com.

Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) was first reported to be strongly associated with 
human malignant gliomas in 2002. HCMV is a herpesvirus that causes congenital 
brain infection and multi-organ disease in immumocompromised individuals. 
Malignant gliomas are the most common and aggressive adult brain tumors and 
glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the highest grade glioma, is associated with a 
life expectancy of less than two years. HCMV gene products encode for multiple 
proteins that can promote the various signaling pathways critical to tumor 
growth, including those involved in mitogenesis, mutagenesis, apoptosis, 
inflammation, angiogenesis, invasion and immuno-evasion. Several groups have now 
demonstrated that human malignant gliomas are universally infected with HCMV and 
express gene products that can promote key signaling pathways in glioma 
pathogenesis. In this review I discuss specific HCMV gene products that we and 
others have recently found to be expressed in GBM in vivo, including the HCMV 
IE1, US28, gB and IL-10 proteins. The roles these HCMV gene products play in 
dysregulating key pathways in glioma biology, including the PDGFR, AKT, STAT3, 
and monocyte/microglia function are discussed. Finally, I review emerging human 
clinical trials for GBM based on anti-HCMV strategies.

DOI: 10.1186/2042-4280-2-10
PMCID: PMC3214144
PMID: 22030012


809. Soc Sci Med. 2011 Dec;73(11):1575-84. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.09.034.
Epub  2011 Oct 13.

Rising premature mortality in the U.K.'s persistently deprived areas: only a 
Scottish phenomenon?

Norman P(1), Boyle P, Exeter D, Feng Z, Popham F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Spatial Analysis & Policy, School of Geography, University of 
Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK. p.d.norman@leeds.ac.uk

In the international literature, many studies find strong relationships between 
area-based measures of deprivation and mortality. In the U.K., mortality rates 
have generally fallen in recent decades but the life expectancy gap between the 
most and least deprived areas has widened, with a number of Scottish studies 
highlighting increased mortality rates in deprived areas especially in Glasgow. 
However, these studies relate health outcomes at different time points against 
period-specific measures of deprivation which may not be comparable over time. 
Using longitudinal deprivation measures where levels of area deprivation are 
made comparable over time, a recent study demonstrated how levels of mortality 
change in relation to changing or persistent levels of (non-) deprivation over 
time. The results showed that areas which were persistently deprived in Scotland 
experienced a rise in premature mortality rates by 9.5% between 1981 and 2001. 
Here, focussing on persistently deprived areas we extended the coverage to the 
whole of the U.K. to assess whether, between 1991 and 2001, rising premature 
mortality rates in persistently deprived areas are a Scottish only phenomenon or 
whether similar patterns are evident elsewhere and for men and women separately. 
We found that male premature mortality rates rose by over 14% in Scotland over 
the 10-year period between the early 1990s and 2000s in persistently deprived 
areas. We found no significant rise in mortality elsewhere in the U.K. and that 
the rise among men in Scotland was driven by results for Glasgow where mortality 
rates rose by over 15% during the decade. Our analyses demonstrate the 
importance of identifying areas experiencing persistent poverty. These results 
justify even more of a public health focus on Glasgow and further work is needed 
to understand the demographic factors, such as health selective migration, 
immobility and population residualisation, which may contribute to these 
findings.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.09.034
PMID: 22030211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2010 Dec;12(6):974-81.

[The cost-effectiveness of using magnetic resonance plus conventional 
radiography in diabetic-foot patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Chicaíza-Becerra LA(1), Gamboa-Garay O, García-Molina M.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Económicas, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá, 
Colombia. lachicaizab@unal.edu.co

OBJECTIVE: Performing a cost-effectiveness analysis of adding magnetic resonance 
to conventional radiography in patients suffering from diabetic foot and signs 
of infection from the payer's point of view.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The cost effectiveness (from the payer's point of view) of 
conventional radiography plus magnetic resonance was calculated for patients 
having diabetic foot and signs of infection by means of a Markov model. Costs 
were measured in 2008 Colombian pesos and effectiveness in terms of disability 
adjusted life years (DALY). The cost-effectiveness threshold was the Colombian 
2008 per capita GDP, $ 10,761,691.
RESULTS: Using magnetic resonance in addition to conventional radiography in 
this population had a $ 1,532,778 and $ 1,741,311 incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio, without and with discount, respectively; the results were robust to 
sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Using magnetic resonance in addition to conventional radiography in 
patients suffering from diabetic foot and signs of infection was cost-effective 
for Colombia.

PMID: 22030684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2011 Feb;13(1):1-12.

[Inequity in lost life years by Departments in Colombia 1985-2005].

[Article in Spanish]

Eslava-Schmalbach J(1), Rincón CJ, Guarnizo-Herreño CC.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de investigaciones clínicas, Universidad Nacional de Colombia. 
jheslavas@unal.edu.co

OBJECTIVES: Describing differences in years of life lost (LLY) regarding life 
expectancy at birth in Colombia amongst Departments during the study period.
METHODS: Data about life expectancy at birth by gender were taken from the 
Colombian Statistics Administration Department (DAÑE) databases for 1985-1990, 
1995-2000 and 2000-2005. Data about the country having the best world health 
expectancy value was taken from World Health Organisation reports. LLY regarding 
life expectancy at birth (LEB) were estimated with relative differences between 
regional values and the best world value for the study periods.
RESULTS: LLY tended to become reduced for both genders throughout the whole 
study period; however, LLY was higher for women than men in some departments 
during the three periods. The worst LLY quintile for 1985-1990 was 18.98+/-2.36 
mean LLY value for men and 18.45+/-2.43 for women. Mean LLY value for men was 
16.99+/-1.7 and 16.01+71.46 for women for 1995-2000 and mean 15.99+/-1.34 LLY 
for men and 14.51+/-0.96 LLY for women for 2000-2005. LLY values for the best 
quintile for men and women were 7.41+/-0.65; 8.34+/-0.65 in 1985-1990, 
7.22+/-0.62 and 8.59+/-0.31 in 1995-2000 and 7.72+/0.58 and 8.89+/-0.67 in 
2000-2005, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: There were differences in life expectancy at birth between 
departments and gender during the three periods studied. There was disparity 
regarding LLY compared to the best country in the world by department and gender 
in Colombia during the study periods.

PMID: 22030786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cad Saude Publica. 2011 Oct;27(10):1930-8. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2011001000006.

[Shoes stitched, workers unstitched: a study on working and health conditions 
among women factory workers in the footwear industry in Franca, São Paulo State, 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Prazeres TJ(1), Navarro VL.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto, Brasil.

This study aimed to analyze associations between working conditions and health 
problems reported by women workers assigned to mechanical stitching in the 
footwear industry in Franca, São Paulo State, Brazil. The qualitative study's 
theory and methodology were based on historical and dialectical materialism and 
combined sociological and ethnographic research techniques. Data were collected 
with taped interviews, focusing on the workers' life and work stories, 
systematic observation of the work process, consultation of historical 
documents, and imagistic production. Analysis of the data revealed the effects 
of work in mechanical stitching on the health of women workers employed in the 
factory and at home, who experience precarious labor conditions involving 
workday intensification and extension, preset production targets, job 
insecurity, and unhealthy workplaces.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2011001000006
PMID: 22031197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Lakartidningen. 2011 Sep 7-13;108(36):1707-8.

[EQ-5D--a difficult-to-interpret tool for clinical improvement work].

[Article in Swedish]

Ranstam J(1), Robertsson O, W-Dahl A, Löfvendahl S, Lidgren L.

Author information:
(1)Registercentrum Syd. jonas.ranstam@gmail.com

PMID: 22032016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Can J Public Health. 2011 Sep-Oct;102(5):375-81. doi: 10.1007/BF03404180.

Causes of widening life expectancy inequalities in Québec, Canada, 1989-2004.

Adam-Smith J(1), Harper S, Auger N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montréal, QC. jessica.adam-smith@mcgill.ca

OBJECTIVES: Inequalities in life expectancy between the most and least 
materially deprived areas in the province of Quebec, Canada are increasing, but 
the reasons for this trend are unclear. An analysis of which causes of death, in 
which age groups, are implicated in this trend is necessary to understand it and 
provide clear targets for intervention.
METHODS: We analyzed Quebec mortality data for three 4-year periods from 
1989-2004. Differences in life expectancy at birth between the most- and 
least-deprived areas in each period and over time were decomposed by age and 
cause of death for men and women using the Arriaga method.
RESULTS: Life expectancy increased for all areas, but the increase was smaller 
in deprived areas. Cancer, heart disease and unintentional injuries accounted 
for the largest shares of inequality in each period. Among women, the widening 
life expectancy gap was largely due to increased lung cancer mortality. Among 
men, mortality from HIV was an important cause of widening inequality. 
Increasing inequality in both sexes was offset by a decrease in mortality from 
unintentional injuries in deprived areas (narrowing the gap between the most- 
and least-deprived areas). The largest share of inequality among women was due 
to deaths in the 65-and-over age group. Among men, the largest share shifted 
over time from middle-age to the 65-and-over age group.
CONCLUSION: The widening life expectancy gap between advantaged and 
disadvantaged areas in Quebec is driven by relatively few causes of death with 
well-known risk factors and strategies for prevention.

Objectifs: Les inégalités dans l’espérance de vie entre les régions les plus et 
les moins défavorisées matériellement sont en hausse dans la province de Québec, 
au Canada. Nous avons évalué les causes de décès et les groupes d’âge qui ont 
contribué à cette tendance. Méthode: Nous avons analysé les données de mortalité 
au Québec sur trois périodes de quatre ans, de 1989 à 2004. Les différences 
d’espérance de vie à la naissance entre les régions les plus et les moins 
défavorisées dans chaque période, et au fil du temps, ont été décomposées par 
âge et par cause de décès pour les hommes et les femmes en utilisant la méthode 
d’Arriaga. Résultats: L’espérance de vie a augmenté dans toutes les régions, 
mais l’augmentation a été plus faible dans les zones défavorisées. Le cancer, 
les maladies cardiovasculaires et les blessures involontaires ont le plus 
contribué aux inégalités dans l’espérance de vie durant chaque période. Chez les 
femmes, l’élargissement de l’écart d’espérance de vie est largement attribuable 
à une augmentation de la mortalité par cancer du poumon. Chez les hommes, la 
mortalité due au VIH est une cause importante de l’élargissement des inégalités. 
Chez les deux sexes, les inégalités croissantes dans l’espérance de vie sont 
compensées par une diminution de la mortalité due aux blessures involontaires 
dans les zones défavorisées (réduisant l’écart entre les régions les plus et les 
moins défavorisées). La plus grande part des inégalités dans l’espérance de vie 
des femmes est attribuable aux décès dans le groupe d’âge des 65 ans et plus. 
Chez les hommes, la plus grande part est passée du groupe des 45 à 64 ans au 
groupe des 65 ans et plus sur l’ensemble de la période. Conclusion: L’écart 
d’espérance de vie entre les zones favorisées et défavorisées au Québec 
s’élargit en raison d’un assez petit nombre de causes de décès dont les facteurs 
de risque sont connus et qui peuvent faire l’objet de stratégies de prévention.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404180
PMCID: PMC6973779
PMID: 22032105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2011 Nov;92(11):1770-5. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2011.05.024.

Health, secondary conditions, and life expectancy after spinal cord injury.

Krause JS(1), Saunders LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Research, College of Health Professions, 
Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 29425, USA. krause@musc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association of health status, secondary health 
conditions, hospitalizations, and risk of mortality and life expectancy (LE) 
after spinal cord injury (SCI).
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Preliminary data were collected from a specialty hospital in the 
Southeastern United States, with mortality follow-up and data analysis conducted 
at a medical university.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with traumatic SCI (N=1361), all at least 1-year postinjury 
at the time of assessment, were enrolled in the study. There were 325 deaths. 
After elimination of those with missing data on key variables, there were 267 
deaths and 12,032 person-years.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The mortality status was determined by routine follow-up 
using the National Death Index through December 31, 2008. A logistic regression 
model was developed to estimate the probability of dying in any given year using 
person-years.
RESULTS: A history of chronic pressure ulcers, amputations, a depressive 
disorder, symptoms of infections, and being hospitalized within the past year 
were all predictive of mortality. LE estimates were generated using the example 
of a man with noncervical, nonambulatory SCI. Using 3 age examples (20, 40, 
60y), the greatest estimated lost LE was associated with chronic pressure ulcers 
(50.3%), followed by amputations (35.4%), 1 or more recent hospitalizations 
(18.5%), and the diagnosis of probable major depression (18%). Symptoms of 
infections were associated with a 6.7% reduction in LE for a 1 SD increase in 
infectious symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Several secondary health conditions represent risk factors for 
mortality and diminish LE after SCI. The presence of 1 or more of these factors 
should be taken as an indicator of the need for intervention.

Copyright © 2011 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2011.05.024
PMCID: PMC3385509
PMID: 22032212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 Nov 25;415(3):429-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.10.044. Epub 2011 Oct 18.

Production of transgenic mice carrying the Thanatin gene by intratesticular 
injection.

Miao XY(1), Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Animal Sciences, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing 100193, China. mxy32@sohu.com

Transgenic animals have potential applications in medicine, life sciences, and 
biopharmacy. In this study, we developed a convenient, economic, and efficient 
method for gene transfer by transfection of male spermatogonial stem cells. 
Three fragments of the Thanatin gene, encoding an antibacterial peptide, were 
synthesized and amplified by overlap extension polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 
They were inserted into vector pIRES2-EGFP. The pIRES2-EGFP-Thanatin plasmid was 
mixed with liposomes and injected into the testes of male mice by a minimally 
invasive operation. Six weeks after injection, male mice were mated with normal 
female mice to produce an F1 generation. PCR and Southern blotting were 
performed to analyze F1 mice. Among those 52 F1 mice produced, 38.46% were found 
to be positive for the Thanatin gene by PCR and 30.77% by Southern blotting. Six 
positive mice were selected from the F1 generation and mated with normal females 
to an F2 generation, in which 36.36% were found to be positive for the Thanatin 
gene. Expression of the green fluorescence protein in the transgenic mice was 
confirmed by fluorescence imaging. These results showed that the Thanatin gene 
was integrated into the mouse genome. The study provides a useful method for the 
future development of disease-resistant animals and production of antibacterial 
peptides through transgenic animals.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.10.044
PMID: 22033409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Dialogues Clin Neurosci. 2002 Sep;4(3):231-49. doi: 
10.31887/DCNS.2002.4.3/tsteimer.

The biology of fear- and anxiety-related behaviors.

Steimer T(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Psychopharmacology Unit, Geneva University Hospital, Chêne-Bourg, 
Switzerland.

Anxiety is a psychological, physiological, and behavioral state induced in 
animals and humans by a threat to well-being or survival, either actual or 
potential. It is characterized by increased arousal, expectancy, autonomic and 
neuroendocrine activation, and specific behavior patterns. The function of these 
changes is to facilitate coping with an adverse or unexpected situation. 
Pathological anxiety interferes with the ability to cope successfully with life 
challenges. Vulnerability to psychopathology appears to be a consequence of 
predisposing factors (or traits), which result from numerous gene-environment 
interactions during development (particularly during the perinatal period) and 
experience (life events), in this review, the biology of fear and anxiety will 
be examined from systemic (brain-behavior relationships, neuronal circuitry, and 
functional neuroanatomy) and cellular/molecular (neurotransmitters, hormones, 
and other biochemical factors) points of view, with particular reference to 
animal models. These models have been instrumental in establishing the 
biological correlates of fear and anxiety, although the recent development of 
noninvasive investigation methods in humans, such as the various neuroimaging 
techniques, certainly opens new avenues of research in this field. Our current 
knowledge of the biological bases of fear and anxiety is already impressive, and 
further progress toward models or theories integrating contributions from the 
medical, biological, and psychological sciences can be expected.

La ansiedad es una condición psicológica, fisiológica y conductual que se induce 
en los animales y en el hombre por una amenaza al bienestar o a la 
sobrevivencia, sea presente o potencial. Se caracteriza por un aumento del 
alerta, expectación, activación autonómica y endocrina, y patrones conductuales 
específicos. La función de estes cambios es facilitar la adaptación ante una 
situatión adversa o inesperada. La ansiedad patológica interfiere con la 
capacidad para adaptarse exitosamente a los desafíos de la vida. La 
vulnerabilidad a la psicopatología parece ser una consecuencia de factores 
predisponentes (o rasgos) los cuales se deben a numerosas interacciones entre 
los genes y el ambiente durante el desarrollo (especialmente durante el período 
perinatal) y a lo largo del curso de la vida (acontecimientos vitales). En esta 
revisión se examinará la biología del miedo y la ansiedad desde aproximaciones 
sistémicas (relaciones cerebro-conducta, circuitos neuronales y neuroanatomía 
funcional) y moleculares/celulares (neurotransmisores, hormonas y otros factores 
bioquímicos) poniendo especial atención a los modelos animales. Estos modelos 
han constituido un medio para establecer los correlatos biológicos del miedo y 
la ansiedad; sin embargo, el reciente desarrollo de métodos de investigación no 
invasores en humanos, como las diversas técnicas de neuroimágenes, ciertamente 
abre nuevas vías de investigación en este campo. Nuestro conocimíento actual de 
las bases biológicas del miedo y la ansiedad ya es notable y se puede esperar 
que a futuro se progrese hacia modelos o teorías que integren contribuciones 
desde las ciencias médicas, biológicas y psicológicas.

L'anxiété est un état psychologique, physiologique et comportemental provoqué 
chez les animaux et les humains par une menace qui s'exerce sur le bien-être ou 
la survie, qu'elle soit réelle ou potentielle. Elle est caractérisée par une 
hypervigilance, une attente excessive, une activation des systèmes autonome et 
neuroendocrine et par des schémas comportementaux spécifiques. Ces modifications 
doivent faciliter l'adaptation à une situation hostile ou inattendue. L'anxiété 
pathologique interfère avec la capacité de s'adapter avec succès aux aléas de la 
vie. La susceptibilité à la psychopathologie semble résulter de facteurs 
prédisposants (ou de caractères), eux-mêmes issus de nombreuses interactions 
gène-environnement pendant la phase de développement (particulièrement durant la 
période périnatale) et de l'expérience (événements de la vie). Dans cet article, 
la biologie de la peur et de l'anxiété sera examinée d'un point de vue 
systémique (relations cerveau-comportement, circuits neuronaux et neuroanatomie 
fonctionnelle) et d'un point de vue cellulaire et moléculaire 
(neurotransmetteurs, hormones et autres facteurs biochimiques), avec une 
référence particulière aux modèles animaux. Ces modèles ont contribué à 
l'établissement de corrélations biologiques de la peur et de l'anxiété, bien que 
les avancées récentes des méthodes d'investigation non invasives chez les 
humains, telles les diverses techniques de neuro-imagerie, ouvrent certainement 
de nouvelles voies de recherche dans ce domaine. Nos connaissances actuelles des 
bases biologiques de la peur et de l'anxiété sont déjà impressionnantes et nous 
pouvons espérer des progrès supplémentaires de la part de modèles ou de théories 
intégrant les données des sciences médicales, biologiques et psychologiques.

DOI: 10.31887/DCNS.2002.4.3/tsteimer
PMCID: PMC3181681
PMID: 22033741


818. Pediatr Radiol. 2012 May;42(5):536-43. doi: 10.1007/s00247-011-2287-9. Epub
2011  Oct 28.

Fetal MR imaging of posterior intracranial dural sinus thrombosis: a report of 
three cases with variable outcomes.

Byrd SE(1), Abramowicz JS, Kent P, Kimura RE, Elias D, Heydeman PT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine Section of 
Neuroradiology, Rush Medical College and Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL 60612, USA. Sharon_E_Byrd@rush.edu

BACKGROUND: Thrombosis of fetal intracranial dural sinuses is a rare entity. A 
specific type of midline dural sinus thrombosis (DST) at the torcular Herophili 
with extension into the superior sagittal sinus (SSS) was initially seen on 
fetal US and was referred to fetal MRI for definite diagnosis and better 
delineation.
OBJECTIVE: Retrospective comparison to medical literature of three cases, 
diagnosed at our institution, of midline fetal DST with MR imaging findings and 
clinical outcomes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We reviewed MRI findings on T2-weighted images of our 
three cases of fetal midline DST and clinical outcomes of these fetuses and 
compared our findings to medical literature. The MR imaging and clinical 
findings of our cases extend over 6 years. They consist of three pregnant women, 
31-39 years of age each with a single fetus, with fetal MR imaging performed at 
different gestational ages (GA). Case 1 the MR imaging was performed at 21 5/7 
weeks' GA, case 2 at 24 and 33 4/7 weeks' GA, and case 3 at 22 and 25 weeks' GA. 
Postnatal MRI was performed in case 2 at 6 months of life and case 3 at 1 day of 
life. Clinical follow-up occurred during the last 6 years.
RESULTS: In all of our cases, T2-W MR imaging demonstrated ballooned midline 
torcular Herophili with iso- to hypointense mass with or without focal eccentric 
area of greater hypointensity occupying the torcular Herophili with extension 
into the SSS. Case 3 had associated leptomeningeal dural vascular malformation 
overlying the left cerebral hemisphere with development of migrational disorder 
in the left cerebral hemisphere. Clinical outcome consisted of fetal demise in 
case 1, normal postnatal outcome in case 2 and severe brain damage with poor 
postnatal outcome in case 3.
CONCLUSION: Our findings of large iso-hypointense thrombus with or without a 
