age distribution of incoming members-including a young, an old, the 'current' 
and a mixed-age model-we then project the population of the Austrian Academy and 
its ageing forward in time. Our results indicate that the 'optimum policy' would 
be to elect either young or old aged new members.

DOI: 10.1553/populationyearbook2007s107
PMCID: PMC3172208
PMID: 21922021


532. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2011;73(1):1-25. doi: 10.2190/AG.73.1.a.

Extending the human life span: an exploratory study of pro- and anti-longevity 
attitudes.

Kogan N(1), Tucker J, Porter M.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, New School for Social Research, New York, NY 10011, 
USA. kogann@newschool.edu

Successful efforts by biologists to substantially increase the life span of 
non-human animals has raised the possibility of extrapolation to humans, which 
in turn has given rise to bioethical argumentation, pro and con. The present 
study converts these arguments into pro- and anti-longevity items on a 
questionnaire and examines the structure and correlates of the resultant 
life-extension domain. A 35-item Life-Extension Questionnaire (LEQ) was 
administered to a mixed-age sample of 164 respondents and a more age-homogeneous 
sample of 101 well-educated older adults. Demographic information (age, sex, 
ethnicity, education, marital status) was also obtained. In both samples, 
exploratory factor analysis of the LEQ (with Promax rotation) yielded three 
factors labeled Utopian Vision (UV), Personal Emotion Rejection (PER), and 
Social Economic Burden (SEB). Of the 35 LEQ items, 24 manifested similar factor 
loading patterns across the two samples--11 for UV, 9 for PER, and 4 for SEB. 
Coefficients of congruence further supported the case for factorial replication 
across the two samples. Chronological age correlated positively with UV factor 
scores in both samples, indicating a trend toward stronger prolongevity 
attitudes in older relative to younger cohorts. Individual differences in 
life-extension attitudes are seen as mirroring the differences among 
bioethicists in the domain.

DOI: 10.2190/AG.73.1.a
PMID: 21922797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2011 Sep;20(3):239-43. doi:
10.1017/s2045796011000485.

Mental health economics: current methodological issues.

McCrone P(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Service and Population Research Department, Institute of Psychiatry, 
King's College London, London, UK. paul.mccrone@kcl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Investment in innovative mental health care services requires the 
use of scarce resources that could be used in alternative ways. Economic 
evaluation is essential to ensure that such an investment is appropriately 
compared with investment elsewhere.
METHOD: A non-systematic review of mental health evaluations identifies key 
methodological issues pertaining to economic studies.
RESULTS: Economic evaluations require the measurement and combination of costs 
and outcomes, and clarity about how this measurement is undertaken is required. 
Regarding costs, important considerations relate to the perspective to be taken 
(e.g., health service or societal), method of measurement (patient self-report 
or use of databases) and valuation (actual costs, fees or expenditure). Decision 
makers frequently need to compare evidence both within and between clinical 
areas and therefore there is a tension between the use of condition specific and 
generic outcome measures. Quality-adjusted life years are frequently used in 
economic evaluations, but their appropriateness in mental health care studies is 
still debated.
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evaluations in the area of mental health care are 
increasing in number and it is essential that researchers continue to develop 
and improve methods used to conduct such studies.

DOI: 10.1017/s2045796011000485
PMID: 21922966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Pharmacotherapy. 2011 May;31(5):469-79. doi: 10.1592/phco.31.5.469.

Life-years gained with meropenem over ciprofloxacin in penicillin-allergic 
patients with gram-negative bacilli sepsis: results of a probabilistic model.

Scheetz MH(1), Bolon MK, Esterly JS, Reddy P, Postelnick M, Lee TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Midwestern University Chicago College of 
Pharmacy, Downers Grove, Illinois 60515, USA. mscheetz@nmh.org

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare meropenem with ciprofloxacin for treatment of 
gram-negative bacilli sepsis in penicillin-allergic patients in the intensive 
care unit (ICU) to determine if increased anaphylaxis risk with meropenem 
precluded its use when weighed against risks of inactive therapy with 
ciprofloxacin.
DESIGN: A decision model constructed from probability distributions from the 
literature and data from a local ICU antibiogram. A probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was performed to evaluate uncertainty in variable estimates by using 
one-way analyses, two-way analyses, and Monte Carlo simulation.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Microbiologic activity of treatment, anaphylaxis 
according to treatment regimen, curability of infection according to patient 
morbidity status, risk of superinfection, and recovery from gram-negative 
bacilli sepsis were the variables modeled. Effectiveness was defined by 
long-term survival and was modeled as life-years (LYs) and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained according to treatment group. Base case results were 
the incremental differences between the average effectiveness of each strategy 
calculated from the Monte Carlo simulation. Mean LYs and QALYs gained with 
meropenem were 9.9 (95% confidence interval [CI] 8.9-10.8) and 5.9 (95% CI 
4.8-6.7), respectively. Mean LYs and QALYs gained with ciprofloxacin were 8.9 
(95% CI 8.1-9.6) and 5.3 (95% CI 4.4-6.3), respectively. The incremental 
difference in effectiveness-or average benefit expected by selecting meropenem 
over ciprofloxacin-was 1.0 LY (95% CI 0.3-1.7 LYs) and 0.6 QALY (95% CI 0.2-1.1 
QALYs) favoring meropenem.
CONCLUSION: Use of empiric meropenem over ciprofloxacin may be justified in 
patients in the ICU who are allergic to penicillin.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.31.5.469
PMID: 21923428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Pharmacotherapy. 2011 Jun;31(6):552-65. doi: 10.1592/phco.31.6.552.

Comparison of rate control versus rhythm control for management of atrial 
fibrillation in patients with coexisting heart failure: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Perez A(1), Touchette DR, DiDomenico RJ, Stamos TD, Walton SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociobehavioral and Administrative Pharmacy, Nova Southeastern 
University, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare lifetime costs and health outcomes of rate control 
versus rhythm control for management of atrial fibrillation in patients with 
coexisting heart failure from the third-party payer perspective.
DESIGN: A Markov decision analysis model constructed from costs, utility, and 
transition probability inputs obtained from randomized clinical trials and 
publically available databases.
PATIENTS: A simulated cohort aged 65 years or older with persistent or 
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and heart failure.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Markov states for rhythm control were 
cardioversion plus amiodarone and maintenance amiodarone, and those for rate 
control were β-blocker, digoxin, and calcium channel blocker. Transition states 
included treatment success, hospitalizations for atrial fibrillation and/or 
heart failure, and severe adverse effects. Economic inputs included cost for 
drugs, cost of hospitalizations for atrial fibrillation and/or heart failure, 
and cost of management of severe adverse effects. Costs were measured in 2009 
U.S. dollars, and clinical outcomes in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 
One-way and multivariable sensitivity analyses were conducted. Uncertainty 
intervals (UIs) were obtained from probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Rate 
control was found to be less costly and more effective than rhythm control. Base 
case and probabilistic sensitivity analyses cost and effectiveness values for 
rate control were $7231 (95% UI $5517-9016) and 2.395 QALYs (95% UI 2.366-2.424 
QALYs); whereas those for rhythm control were $16,291 (95% UI $11,033-21,434) 
and 2.197 QALYs (95% UI 2.155-2.237 QALYs). No critical values were found for 
any model parameters in the one-way sensitivity analyses. The cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves showed that rate control was considered cost-effective in 
100% of cases at willingness-to-pay ratios between $0 and $200,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Rate control is less costly and more effective than rhythm control 
and should be the initial treatment for atrial fibrillation among patients with 
coexisting heart failure.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.31.6.552
PMID: 21923439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Reumatol Clin. 2011 Sep;7 Suppl 2:S28-33. doi: 10.1016/j.reuma.2011.06.002.
Epub  2011 Aug 4.

[New data on biphosphonate therapy: are therapeutic holidays advisable?].

[Article in Spanish]

Casado Burgos E(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Reumatología, Hospital de Sabadell, Corporació Sanitària i 
Universitària Parc Taulí, UAB, Sabadell, España. ecasado@tauli.cat

Bisphosphonates are potent antiresorptive agents proven to be highly effective 
in vertebral and non-vertebral fractures. However, the reported complications 
associated with long-term use have led to questions on indefinite treatment. 
After administration of alendronate there is a high retention of the drug due to 
slow skeletal release as a result of bone resorption (half-life of more than 10 
years), and it seems logical to propose a cessation of treatment (drug holidays) 
after prolonged treatment. The largest study published to date that assesses the 
effects on bone mineral density (BMD) and fractures with maintained or 
discontinued alendronate treatment is the FLEX (Fracture Intervention Trial 
Long-term Extension) trial. This study showed that discontinuation of 
alendronate for up to 5 years, after 5 years of treatment, the anti-resorptive 
effect is slowly lost, mainly in the lumbar spine (approximately 1.5% in 5 
years), as well as a slow and progressive loss of femur BMD (<3% in 5 years), 
but maintains its vertebral (morphometric) and non-vertebral anti-fracture 
efficacy. In this context, the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research 
recommended that continued use of bisphosphonates beyond 5 years should be 
reevaluated annually, assessing factors such as BMD, particularly in the hip 
region, fracture history, newly diagnosed underlying conditions or initiation of 
other medications known to affect skeletal status, and new research findings in 
a rapidly evolving field. However, the molecular differences between 
bisphosphonates, provides them different affinity and antiresorptive potency, so 
we can not extrapolate these recommendations to bisphosphonates other than 
alendronate.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.reuma.2011.06.002
PMID: 21924217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Int J Parasitol. 2011 Oct;41(12):1295-300. doi:
10.1016/j.ijpara.2011.07.011.  Epub 2011 Aug 31.

Clever birds are lousy: co-variation between avian innovation and the taxonomic 
richness of their amblyceran lice.

Vas Z(1), Lefebvre L, Johnson KP, Reiczigel J, Rózsa L.

Author information:
(1)Szent István University, Faculty of Veterinary Sciences, Department of 
Biomathematics and Informatics, Budapest H-1078, István u. 2, Hungary. 
vas.zoltan@gmail.com

Lice (Insecta: Phthiraptera) are ectoparasites that reduce host life expectancy 
and sexual attractiveness. Their taxonomic richness varies considerably among 
their hosts. Previous studies have already explored some important factors 
shaping louse diversity. An unexplored potential correlate of louse taxonomic 
richness is host behavioural flexibility. In this comparative study, we examine 
the relationship between louse generic richness, innovative capabilities (as a 
proxy for behavioural flexibility), and brain size while controlling for host 
species diversity, phylogeny, body size and research effort. Using data for 108 
avian families, we found a highly significant positive relationship between host 
innovative capabilities and the taxonomic richness of amblyceran lice, but a 
lack of a similar relationship in ischnoceran lice. Host brain size had only a 
marginal impact on amblyceran diversity and no correlation with ischnoceran 
diversity. This suggests that the effect in Amblycera is not mediated by 
metabolic limitations due to the energetic costs of brain size and maintenance, 
rather directly caused by the ecological differences between hosts with 
differing cognitive capabilities. We propose four alternative and mutually 
non-exclusive hypotheses that may explain this phenomenon.

Copyright © 2011 Australian Society for Parasitology Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2011.07.011
PMID: 21924269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Eur J Cancer. 2011 Nov;47(17):2626-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2011.08.010. Epub
 2011 Sep 15.

Estimating expected survival probabilities for relative survival 
analysis--exploring the impact of including cancer patient mortality in the 
calculations.

Talbäck M(1), Dickman PW.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Epidemiology, Department of Statistics, Monitoring and Evaluation, 
National Board of Health and Welfare, Stockholm, Sweden. 
mats.talback@socialstyrelsen.se

Relative survival is a widely used measure of cancer patient survival, defined 
as the observed survival of the cancer patients divided by the expected survival 
of a comparable group from the general population, free from the cancer under 
study. In practise, expected survival is usually calculated from general 
population life tables. Such estimates are known to be biased since they also 
include mortality from the cancer patients, but the bias is ignored since 
mortality among individuals with a specific cancer is thought to constitute only 
a small proportion of total mortality. Using the computerised population 
registers that exist in Sweden we had the unique opportunity to calculate 
expected survival both including and excluding individuals with cancer, and 
thereby estimate the size of the bias arising from using general population 
estimates. We also evaluated a simple method to adjust expected survival 
probabilities estimated from general population statistics as an aid to 
researchers who do not have access to computerised registers of the entire 
national population. Our results show that the bias is sufficiently small to be 
ignorable for most applications, notably for cancers with high or low mortality 
and for younger age groups (<60 years). However, the bias in relative survival 
estimates can be greater than 1 percent unit for older age groups for common 
cancers and even larger for all sites combined. For example, the bias in 10-year 
relative survival for men aged 75+ diagnosed with prostate cancer was 2.6 
percent units, which we think is of sufficient magnitude to warrant adjustment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2011.08.010
PMID: 21924892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Econ Hum Biol. 2012 Jul;10(3):276-88. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2011.08.001. Epub
2011  Aug 9.

The health transition and biological living standards: adult height and 
mortality in 20th-century Spain.

Spijker JJ(1), Cámara AD, Blanes A.

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Estudis Demogràfics and Department of Geography, Universitat 
Autónoma de Barcelona, Spain. jjaspijker@yahoo.es

This paper seeks new insights concerning the health transition in 20th century 
Spain by analyzing both traditional (mortality-based) and alternative 
(anthropometric-based) health indicators. Data were drawn from national 
censuses, vital and cause-of-death statistics and seven National Health Surveys 
dating from 1987 to 2006 (almost 100,000 subjects aged 20-79 were used to 
compute cohort height averages). A multivariate regression analysis was 
performed on infant mortality and economic/historical dummy variables. Our 
results agree with the general timing of the health transition process in Spain 
as has been described to date insofar as we document that there was a rapid 
improvement of sanitary and health care related factors during the second half 
of the 20th century reflected by a steady decline in infant mortality and 
increase in adult height. However, the association between adult height and 
infant mortality turned out to be not linear. In addition, remarkable gender 
differences emerged: mean height increased continuously for male cohorts born 
after 1940 but meaningful improvements in height among female cohorts was not 
attained until the late 1950s.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2011.08.001
PMID: 21924964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Best Pract Res Clin Anaesthesiol. 2011 Sep;25(3):439-49. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpa.2011.06.001.

ICU and critical care outreach for the elderly.

McDermid RC(1), Bagshaw SM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Critical Care Medicine, University of Alberta, 3C1.16 Walter C. 
Mackenzie Centre, 8440-122 Street, Edmonton, Alberta T6G2B7, Canada.

Average life expectancy has increased over the past century resulting in a shift 
in world population demographics. There are more elderly people alive now than 
throughout all of human history. The burden of comorbid disease and dependency 
rises with age and has been shown to independently predict need for 
hospitalization, institutionalization and mortality. Accordingly, there are more 
elderly persons living longer in more tenuous states of health. The relative 
proportion of patients admitted to hospital and intensive care who are elderly 
is considerable and recent data have suggested an increasing trend. There is 
likely significant selection bias amongst elderly patients triaged for access to 
finite critical care services. In fact, data have shown that elderly patients 
often receive less intensive therapy and have greater support limitations when 
admitted to an intensive care environment. "Chronologic" age has been an 
inconsistent predictor of prognosis in elderly patients who present with 
critical illness. However, surrogate measures of "physiologic" age are likely 
more relevant, such as an assessment of frailty, to aid in prognostication and 
informed decision-making and that ultimately correlate not only with short-term 
survival but additional outcomes such as functional status, institutionalization 
and quality of life after an episode of critical illness. There is a paucity of 
literature on the specific interaction of rapid response systems (RRS) and 
hospitalized "at-risk" elderly patients; however, the RRS may have particular 
application for this cohort. In particular, data have emerged to suggest mature 
ICU-based RRS respond commonly to elderly patients and are increasingly 
participating in end-of-life care discussions. In addition, another aspect of 
the RRS, critical care outreach (CCO), may facilitate the identification of 
elderly patients for timely goal-oriented advanced care planning prior to 
clinical deterioration.

2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpa.2011.06.001
PMID: 21925408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Am J Otolaryngol. 2012 May-Jun;33(3):296-8. doi:
10.1016/j.amjoto.2011.08.006.  Epub 2011 Sep 16.

Vallecular cyst in an infant: does your specimen show D2-40 immunoreactivity?

Gungor A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSUHSC Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Shreveport, LA, 
USA. entforkids@yahoo.com

Vallecular cysts are infrequent causes of supraglottic obstruction causing 
stridor and swallowing difficulty in infants. When detected early in life, the 
management consists of marsupialization or resection. Supraglottic lymphangiomas 
of the tongue base and vallecula present with similar symptoms and time of 
presentation. Endoscopic visualization is traditionally considered to be 
sufficient in identifying and differentiating these. When a vallecular cyst is 
visually diagnosed by the surgeon during endoscopy, surgical treatment is 
provided at the same time. Obtaining a specimen is rarely considered for 
histopathologic diagnostic verification. However, the natural presentation of a 
cystic lymphangioma may be indistinguishable from a solitary vallecular cyst by 
endoscopy alone. This case presentation argues in favor of histopathologic 
diagnosis in vallecular cysts because the 2 may represent a continuum of 
disease. A vallecular mass with a single large mucus-filled cyst and adjoining 
edematous soft tissue extension into the tongue base and piriform sinus 
diagnosed as lymphangioma through D2-40 immunoreactivity is presented.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2011.08.006
PMID: 21925767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Br J Sports Med. 2011 Oct;45(13):1079-80. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2011-090466.

Is exercise effective in promoting mental well-being in older age? A systematic 
review.

Rosenbaum S(1), Sherrington C.

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
Australia. srosenbaum@georgeinstitute.org.au

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2011-090466
PMID: 21926078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2011 Oct;37(4):198-200. doi: 
10.1136/jfprhc-2011-100136.

HIV testing in abortion clinics.

Bates SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genitourinary Medicine, Barnsley Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
Barnsley, UK. sylvia.bates@nhs.net

Comment in
    J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2012 Apr;38(2):138-9.
    J Fam Plann Reprod Health Care. 2012 Apr;38(2):139.

DOI: 10.1136/jfprhc-2011-100136
PMID: 21926240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2012 Jul;18(7):1240-8. doi: 10.1002/ibd.21862. Epub 2011
Sep  16.

Cost-effectiveness of imaging strategies to reduce radiation-induced cancer risk 
in Crohn's disease.

Cipriano LE(1), Levesque BG, Zaric GS, Loftus EV Jr, Sandborn WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: The aim was to examine the cost-effectiveness of magnetic resonance 
enterography (MRE) compared with computed tomography enterography (CTE) for 
routine imaging of small bowel Crohn's disease (CD) patients to reduce patients' 
life-time radiation-induced cancer risk.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to compare the lifetime costs, benefits 
(measured in quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs] of survival and cancers 
averted) and cost-effectiveness of using MRE rather than CTE for routine disease 
monitoring in hypothetical cohorts of 100,000 20-year-old patients with CD. We 
assumed each CT radiation exposure conferred an incremental annual risk of 
developing cancer using the linear, no-threshold model.
RESULTS: In the base case of 16 mSv per CTE, we estimated that radiation from 
CTE resulted in 1,206 to 20,146 additional cancers depending on the frequency of 
patient monitoring. Compared to using CTE only, using MRE until age 30 and CTE 
thereafter resulted in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) between 
$37,538 and $41,031 per life-year (LY) gained and between $52,969 and $57,772 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Using MRE until age 50 resulted in 
ICERs between $58,022 and $62,648 per LY gained and between $84,250 and $90,982 
per QALY gained. In a threshold analysis, any use of MRE had an ICER of greater 
than $100,000 per QALY gained when CT radiation doses are less than 6.0 mSv per 
CTE exam.
CONCLUSIONS: MRE is likely cost-effective compared to CTE in patients younger 
than age 50. Low-dose CTE may be an alternative cost-effective choice in the 
future.

Copyright © 2011 Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ibd.21862
PMID: 21928375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Med J Aust. 2011 Sep 19;195(6):333-5. doi: 10.5694/mja11.10169.

The mining and burning of coal: effects on health and the environment.

Castleden WM(1), Shearman D, Crisp G, Finch P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Fremantle Hospital, Fremantle, WA, Australia. 
wmc@iinet.net.au

Australia's coal conundrum is that all political parties say they are concerned 
about climate change while sanctioning an unprecedented expansion of coalmining 
and coal seam gas extraction in Australia. Australia's coal contributes to 
climate change and its global health impacts. Each phase of coal's lifecycle 
(mining, disposal of contaminated water and tailings, transportation, washing, 
combustion, and disposing of postcombustion wastes) produces pollutants that 
affect human health. Communities in which coalmining or burning occurs have been 
shown to suffer significant health impacts. The health and climate costs of coal 
are unseen, and when costs to health systems are included, coal is an expensive 
fuel.

DOI: 10.5694/mja11.10169
PMID: 21929497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Eur J Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(6):978-87. doi:
10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07804.x.

Comparing adult hippocampal neurogenesis in mammalian species and orders: 
influence of chronological age and life history stage.

Amrein I(1), Isler K, Lipp HP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 
Zurich, Switzerland. i.amrein@anatom.uzh.ch

Adult hippocampal neurogenesis is a prominent event in rodents. In species with 
longer life expectancies, newly born cells in the adult dentate gyrus of the 
hippocampal formation are less abundant or can be completely absent. Several 
lines of evidence indicate that the regulatory mechanisms of adult neurogenesis 
differ between short- and long-lived mammals. After a critical appraisal of the 
factors and problems associated with comparing different species, we provide a 
quantitative comparison derived from seven laboratory strains of mice (BALB, 
C57BL/6, CD1, outbred) and rats (F344, Sprague-Dawley, Wistar), six other rodent 
species of which four are wild-derived (wood mouse, vole, spiny mouse and guinea 
pig), three non-human primate species (marmoset and two macaque species) and one 
carnivore (red fox). Normalizing the number of proliferating cells to total 
granule cell number, we observe an overall exponential decline in proliferation 
that is chronologically equal between species and orders and independent of 
early developmental processes and life span. Long- and short-lived mammals 
differ with regard to major life history stages; at the time points of weaning, 
age at first reproduction and average life expectancy, long-lived primates and 
foxes have significantly fewer proliferating cells than rodents. Although the 
database for neuronal differentiation is limited, we find indications that the 
extent of neuronal differentiation is subject to species-specific selective 
adaptations. We conclude that absolute age is the critical factor regulating 
cell genesis in the adult hippocampus of mammals. Ontogenetic and ecological 
factors primarily influence the regulation of neuronal differentiation rather 
than the rate of cell proliferation.

© 2011 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2011 Federation of 
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07804.x
PMID: 21929629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2012 Jan;12(1):5-15. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00738.x. Epub 2011 Sep 19.

Field medicine: a new paradigm of geriatric medicine.

Matsubayashi K(1), Okumiya K.

Author information:
(1)Center for Southeast Asian Studies, Kyoto University Research Institute for 
Humanity and Nature, Kyoto, Japan. kmatsu@cseas.kyoto-u.ac.jp

It is only during the last half century that aging came to be truly thought of 
as a societal issue rather than simply a personal one, as well as a challenge to 
be tackled by science and medicine. Diseases used to be studied only in 
hospitals and laboratories, centering on patients treated there. However, caring 
for elderly people in hospitals provides only a small glimpse into their world. 
With an advancing aged population, the reality of old age and age-related 
chronic illnesses takes place in homes and communities. To truly understand the 
health issues of the elderly, we ventured into communities and visited elderly 
persons in their homes and cultural environments in Kochi prefecture. The 
Department of Geriatric Medicine, Kochi Medical School, was the first in Japan 
to incorporate the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment in preventive intervention 
and evaluation of the medical problems of elderly people in field settings, 
which could not be completely resolved in the hospital. Geriatric findings in 
field settings in Kochi before (1990-2000) and after (2000-2010) the 
introduction of the nationwide long-term care insurance system throughout Japan 
were reviewed. Field medicine also enables us to explore the aging of people 
living not only in Japan but also in several Asian communities and, further, 
into those living in atypical environments such as the Himalayan highlands. 
Based on the geriatric findings of field medicine carried out in sites with 
different ecology and cultures, we reconsidered the optimal aging situation 
based on the activities of daily living and quality of life, as well as chronic 
diseases of elderly people throughout the world. In this review article, we 
would like to highlight the importance of field medicine as a new paradigm of 
geriatric medical research.

© 2011 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00738.x
PMID: 21929735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Circulation. 2011 Oct 11;124(15):1615-25. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.039990. Epub 2011 Sep 19.

Cost-effectiveness of community-based strategies for blood pressure control in a 
low-income developing country: findings from a cluster-randomized, 
factorial-controlled trial.

Jafar TH(1), Islam M, Bux R, Poulter N, Hatcher J, Chaturvedi N, Ebrahim S, 
Cosgrove P; Hypertension Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Community Health Sciences, Aga Khan University, 
Stadium Rd, Karachi, Pakistan. tazeen.jafar@aku.edu

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2012 Sep;60(3):347-9.
    Natl Med J India. 2012 May-Jun;25(3):156-7.

BACKGROUND: Evidence on economically efficient strategies to lower blood 
pressure (BP) from low- and middle-income countries remains scarce. The Control 
of Blood Pressure and Risk Attenuation (COBRA) trial randomized 1341 
hypertensive subjects in 12 randomly selected communities in Karachi, Pakistan, 
to 3 intervention programs: (1) combined home health education (HHE) plus 
trained general practitioner (GP); (2) HHE only; and (3) trained GP only. The 
comparator was no intervention (or usual care). The reduction in BP was most 
pronounced in the combined group. The present study examined the 
cost-effectiveness of these strategies.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Total costs were assessed at baseline and 2 years to 
estimate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios based on (1) intervention cost; 
(2) cost of physician consultation, medications, diagnostics, changes in 
lifestyle, and productivity loss; and (3) change in systolic BP. Precision of 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio estimates was assessed by 1000 
bootstrapping replications. Bayesian probabilistic sensitivity analysis was also 
performed. The annual costs per participant associated with the combined HHE 
plus trained GP, HHE alone, and trained GP alone were $3.99, $3.34, and $0.65, 
respectively. HHE plus trained GP was the most cost-effective intervention, with 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $23 (95 confidence interval, 6-99) 
per mm Hg reduction in systolic BP compared with usual care, and remained so in 
97.7 of 1000 bootstrapped replications.
CONCLUSIONS: The combined intervention of HHE plus trained GP is potentially 
affordable and more cost-effective for BP control than usual care or either 
strategy alone in some communities in Pakistan, and possibly other countries in 
Indochina with similar healthcare infrastructure.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.039990
PMCID: PMC3192033
PMID: 21931077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Radiology. 2011 Oct;261(1):5-8. doi: 10.1148/radiol.11111319.

CT radiation dose: trending in the right direction.

Amis ES Jr.

Comment in
    Pediatr Radiol. 2012 Apr;42(4):397-8.

Comment on
    Radiology. 2011 Oct;261(1):193-8.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.11111319
PMID: 21931137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Sep;3(9):836-45. doi: 10.18632/aging.100381.

53BP1 contributes to a robust genomic stability in human fibroblasts.

Fink LS(1), Roell M, Caiazza E, Lerner C, Stamato T, Hrelia S, Lorenzini A, Sell 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Drexel University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, 
PA 19102, USA.

Faithful repair of damaged DNA is a crucial process in maintaining cell 
viability and function. A multitude of factors and pathways guides this process 
and includes repair proteins and cell cycle checkpoint factors. Differences in 
the maintenance of genomic processes are one feature that may contribute to 
species-specific differences in lifespan. We predicted that 53BP1, a key 
transducer of the DNA damage response and cell cycle checkpoint control, is 
highly involved in maintaining genomic stability and may function differently in 
cells from different species. We demonstrate a difference in the levels and 
recruitment of 53BP1 in mouse and human cells following DNA damage. In addition, 
we show that unresolved DNA damage persists more in mouse cells than in human 
cells, as evidenced by increased numbers of micronuclei. The difference in 
micronuclei seems to be related to the levels of 53BP1 present in cells. 
Finally, we present evidence that unresolved DNA damage correlates with species 
lifespan. Taken together, these studies suggest a link between recruitment of 
53BP1, resolution of DNA damage, and increased species lifespan.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100381
PMCID: PMC3227449
PMID: 21931182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interest to declare.


551. PLoS One. 2011;6(9):e23911. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023911. Epub 2011 Sep
8.

Category theoretic analysis of hierarchical protein materials and social 
networks.

Spivak DI(1), Giesa T, Wood E, Buehler MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.

Materials in biology span all the scales from Angstroms to meters and typically 
consist of complex hierarchical assemblies of simple building blocks. Here we 
describe an application of category theory to describe structural and resulting 
functional properties of biological protein materials by developing so-called 
ologs. An olog is like a "concept web" or "semantic network" except that it 
follows a rigorous mathematical formulation based on category theory. This key 
difference ensures that an olog is unambiguous, highly adaptable to evolution 
and change, and suitable for sharing concepts with other olog. We consider 
simple cases of beta-helical and amyloid-like protein filaments subjected to 
axial extension and develop an olog representation of their structural and 
resulting mechanical properties. We also construct a representation of a social 
network in which people send text-messages to their nearest neighbors and act as 
a team to perform a task. We show that the olog for the protein and the olog for 
the social network feature identical category-theoretic representations, and we 
proceed to precisely explicate the analogy or isomorphism between them. The 
examples presented here demonstrate that the intrinsic nature of a complex 
system, which in particular includes a precise relationship between structure 
and function at different hierarchical levels, can be effectively represented by 
an olog. This, in turn, allows for comparative studies between disparate 
materials or fields of application, and results in novel approaches to derive 
functionality in the design of de novo hierarchical systems. We discuss 
opportunities and challenges associated with the description of complex 
biological materials by using ologs as a powerful tool for analysis and design 
in the context of materiomics, and we present the potential impact of this 
approach for engineering, life sciences, and medicine.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023911
PMCID: PMC3169555
PMID: 21931622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


552. Int Orthop. 2012 Jan;36(1):1-8. doi: 10.1007/s00264-011-1354-z. Epub 2011
Sep  20.

Arthroplasty options in femoral-neck fracture: answers from the national 
registries.

Kannan A(1), Kancherla R, McMahon S, Hawdon G, Soral A, Malhotra R.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

PURPOSE: Femoral-neck fracture in the elderly population is a problem that 
demands the attention of the orthopaedic community as life expectancy continues 
to increase. There are several different treatment options in use, and this 
variety in and of itself indicates the absence of an ideal single treatment 
option. Recent debate has focussed on the probable superiority of total hip 
arthroplasty (THA) over hemiarthroplasty for femoral-neck fracture. Clinical 
trials and systematic reviews of such trials have not provided a convincing 
answer to this question.
METHODS: We analysed data from national registries evaluating prosthetic 
replacements for femoral-neck fracture in the elderly. We compared revision and 
reoperation rates of hemiarthroplasty and THA, analysed the prognostic variables 
that influenced implant survival and the major causes of failure.
RESULTS: Data from the Australian and Italian registries indicate that THA has 
an increased revision rate compared with bipolar hemiarthroplasty in 
femoral-neck fracture in the elderly. The registries identify that age over 75 
years and the use of the anterior surgical approach are associated with better 
survivorship in patients who have a hemiarthroplasty. Cemented fixation of the 
femoral stem in hemiarthroplasty and THA is supported by registry data. 
Acetabular erosion accounted for a very low percentage of hemiarthroplasty 
revisions and reoperations.
CONCLUSION: Our review of data from national registries supports the continued 
use of bipolar hemiarthroplasty in femoral-neck fracture in the elderly and 
identifies age, method of fixation and surgical approach as important prognostic 
variables in determining implant survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-011-1354-z
PMCID: PMC3251685
PMID: 21931966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Qual Life Res. 2012 Aug;21(6):1005-12. doi: 10.1007/s11136-011-0016-3. Epub
2011  Sep 20.

Comparison of hypothetical and experienced EQ-5D valuations: relative weights of 
the five dimensions.

Rand-Hendriksen K(1), Augestad LA, Kristiansen IS, Stavem K.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Centre, Akershus University Hospital, Nordbyhagen, 
Norway. kim.rand-hendriksen@medisin.uio.no

PURPOSE: EQ-5D tariffs are typically based on general population valuations 
studies, but whether valuations of experienced health (EH) or hypothetical 
health (HH) are more appropriate is disputed. Previous comparisons of valuations 
of EH and HH have focused on absolute differences in dimension-specific 
regression coefficients. We examined differences in the relative importance 
attributed to the EQ-5D dimensions between EH and HH valuations of EQ-5D states 
in the United States.
METHODS: We used the regression model from the US EQ-5D valuation study on EH 
ratings from the 2000-2003 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey and on HH ratings 
from the US EQ-5D valuation study conducted in 2001. We then compared patterns 
in the relative magnitudes of coefficients that corresponded to the five 
dimensions.
RESULTS: In the HH model, self-care and pain/discomfort were the most important 
dimensions, while usual activities were the least important. In the EH model, 
usual activities were the most important dimension, while self-care was one of 
the least important.
DISCUSSION: The findings reveal considerable differences between stated 
preferences for HH and ratings of EH, particularly for self-care and usual 
activities. The findings accentuate the importance of the debate about which 
groups' values should be used in medical priority setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-011-0016-3
PMID: 21932138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. BMC Neurol. 2011 Sep 20;11:109. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-11-109.

Risk factors and prognosis of young stroke. The FUTURE study: a prospective 
cohort study. Study rationale and protocol.

Rutten-Jacobs LC(1), Maaijwee NA, Arntz RM, Van Alebeek ME, Schaapsmeerders P, 
Schoonderwaldt HC, Dorresteijn LD, Overeem S, Drost G, Janssen MC, van Heerde 
WL, Kessels RP, Zwiers MP, Norris DG, van der Vlugt MJ, van Dijk EJ, de Leeuw 
FE.

Author information:
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Centre for 
Neuroscience, Department of Neurology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical 
Centre, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Young stroke can have devastating consequences with respect to 
quality of life, the ability to work, plan or run a family, and participate in 
social life. Better insight into risk factors and the long-term prognosis is 
extremely important, especially in young stroke patients with a life expectancy 
of decades. To date, detailed information on risk factors and the long-term 
prognosis in young stroke patients, and more specific risk of mortality or 
recurrent vascular events, remains scarce.
METHODS/DESIGN: The FUTURE study is a prospective cohort study on risk factors 
and prognosis of young ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke among 1006 patients, aged 
18-50 years, included in our study database between 1-1-1980 and 1-11-2010. 
Follow-up visits at our research centre take place from the end of 2009 until 
the end of 2011. Control subjects will be recruited among the patients' spouses, 
relatives or social environment. Information on mortality and incident vascular 
events will be retrieved via structured questionnaires. In addition, 
participants are invited to the research centre to undergo an extensive sub 
study including MRI.
DISCUSSION: The FUTURE study has the potential to make an important contribution 
to increase the knowledge on risk factors and long-term prognosis in young 
stroke patients. Our study differs from previous studies by having a maximal 
follow-up of more than 30 years, including not only TIA and ischemic stroke but 
also hemorrhagic stroke, the addition of healthy controls and prospectively 
collect data during an extensive follow-up visit. Completion of the FUTURE study 
may provide better information for treating physicians and patients with respect 
to the prognosis of young stroke.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-11-109
PMCID: PMC3185265
PMID: 21933424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Jul;32(7):693-6.

[Life expectancy of people with physical disabilities in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Zheng XY(1), Chen SJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Research, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China. 
xzheng@pku.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the life expectancy of persons with physical disabilities 
in China based on data related to representative national disability.
METHODS: Life table technique was used to estimate the life expectancy and its 
standard error by various characteristics on the basis of average mortality 
rates from the monitoring cases during 2007 - 2010.
RESULTS: (1) Females were expected to live longer than males. The life 
expectancy at birth for females was 63 years with standard error (SE) = 2.6 
while for males it was 55 years (SE = 3.1). (2) Persons aged 35 - 50 in urban 
areas had higher life expectancy than those in rural areas. (3) Life expectancy 
of persons with mild disability [62.5 years (SE = 2.4)] was higher than that of 
persons with severe disability [42 years (SE = 5.4)]. (4) Life expectancies of 
persons with physical disability were much lower than that of the Chinese 
general population. Gaps of male and female life expectancy at birth were 17.1 
years and 12.7 years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Persons with physical disability had higher mortality and actions 
should be taken to improve their life expectancy, accordingly.

PMID: 21933542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Exp Gerontol. 2011 Dec;46(12):1026-30. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.08.013.
Epub  2011 Sep 12.

Dietary effects on sex-specific health dynamics of medfly: support for the 
dynamic equilibrium model of aging.

Papadopoulos NT(1), Papanastasiou S, Müller HG, Wang JL, Yang W, Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture Crop Production and Rural Environment, University 
of Thessaly, Ionia (Volos), Magnisias, Greece.

We examined experimentally the relationship between the period of unhealthy life 
and longevity in the medfly by using the first sign of supine behavior (upside 
down; immobile) in medflies as an indication of their poor health and by 
altering cohort longevity through dietary manipulations. Our main findings 
included the following: i) for longer lived medflies it was more likely to 
observe the supine behavior while shorter lived flies would more likely die 
before exhibiting the supine behavior. ii) males have similar total life 
expectancy as females but a longer healthy life expectancy; iii) the total 
number of healthy days, spent in the pre-supine period, and the amount of 
healthy life span as a fraction of the total lifespan varied with both sex and 
diet; iv) despite the large difference in longevity between both male and female 
medflies when reared on sugar-only diets versus on full diets, the differences 
in the fraction of their lifespans in the disabled state were relatively modest 
(64 vs 61% in females and 77 vs 72% in males). This finding that there is no 
significant change in the proportion of the life course in the unhealthy state 
is consistent with the 'dynamic equilibrium' model of healthy aging.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.08.013
PMCID: PMC3382071
PMID: 21933703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. J Public Health (Oxf). 2012 Mar;34(1):37-45. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdr075.
Epub  2011 Sep 20.

The cost-effectiveness of public health interventions.

Owen L(1), Morgan A, Fischer A, Ellis S, Hoy A, Kelly MP.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health Excellence, National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence, London WC1V 6NA, UK. lesley.owen@nice.org.uk

BACKGROUND: The need to make best use of limited resources in the English 
National Health Service is now greater than ever. This paper contributes to this 
endeavour by synthesizing data from cost-effectiveness evidence produced to 
support the development of public health guidance at the National Institute of 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE). No comprehensive list of 
cost-effectiveness estimates for public health interventions has previously been 
published in England.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness estimates using English cost data were collected and 
analysed from 21 (of 26) economic analyses underpinning public health guidance 
published by NICE between 2006 and 2010.
RESULTS: Two hundred base-case cost-effectiveness estimates were analysed, 15% 
were cost saving (i.e. the intervention was more effective and cheaper than 
comparator). Eighty-five per cent were cost-effective at a threshold of £20,000 
per quality-adjusted life year and 89% at the higher threshold of £30,000. A 
further 5.5% were above £30,000 and 5.5% of the interventions were dominated 
(i.e. the intervention was more costly and less effective than comparator).
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of public health interventions assessed are highly 
cost-effective. The next challenge is to provide commissioners with a framework 
that allows information from economic analyses to be combined with other 
criteria that supports making better investment decisions at a local level.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdr075
PMID: 21933796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Haematologica. 2012 Jan;97(1):56-63. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2011.049874. Epub
 2011 Sep 20.

Telomere length and telomerase levels delineate subgroups of B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia with different biological characteristics and clinical 
outcomes.

Rampazzo E(1), Bonaldi L, Trentin L, Visco C, Keppel S, Giunco S, Frezzato F, 
Facco M, Novella E, Giaretta I, Del Bianco P, Semenzato G, De Rossi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Surgical Sciences, Oncology Section, University of 
Padova,Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a clinically heterogeneous 
disease; some patients rapidly progress and die within a few years of diagnosis, 
whereas others have a long life expectancy with minimal or no treatment. 
Telomere length and telomerase levels have been proposed as prognostic factors; 
however, very few cases have been characterized for both parameters and no study 
has analyzed the prognostic value of the telomere/telomerase profile.
DESIGN AND METHODS: One hundred and seventy-three cases of chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia were characterized for telomere lengths and telomerase levels by 
real-time polymerase chain reaction. Data were correlated with established 
prognostic markers, IGVH mutational status and chromosomal aberrations, and 
clinical outcome.
RESULTS: Telomere lengths were inversely correlated with telomerase levels (r(s) 
= -0.213; P = 0.012), and most of the cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia with 
high levels (above median) of telomerase had short (below median) telomeres (P = 
0.0001). Telomerase levels were higher and telomeres were shorter in unmutated 
IGVH cases than in mutated IGVH ones (P<0.0001). Chronic lymphocytic leukemias 
with 11q, 17p deletion or 12 trisomy had significantly higher levels of 
telomerase and shorter telomeres than those with no chromosomal aberration or 
the sole 13q deletion (P < 0.001). Telomere length/telomerase level profiles 
identified subgroups of patients with different clinical outcomes (P < 0.0001), 
even within the subsets of chronic lymphocytic leukemia defined by IGVH 
mutational status or chromosomal aberrations. Short telomere/high telomerase 
profile was independently associated with more rapid disease progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Comprehensive analyses of telomeres, telomerase, chromosomal 
aberrations, and IGVH mutational status delineate groups of chronic lymphocytic 
leukemias with distinct biological characteristics and clinical outcomes. The 
telomere/telomerase profile may be particularly useful in refining the prognosis 
of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with mutated IGVH and no high-risk 
