life as a function of age and rate of progression. For situations in which the 
individual rate of progression is unknown, we used the 90th percentiles of rate 
of progression and residual life expectancy. For situations in which the 
individual rate of progression is known, we used the 95th percentile of the 
residual life expectancy.
RESULTS: An easily applicable graphical tool was developed that enables an 
accurate estimate of the probability of becoming visually impaired during 
lifetime, given age, current glaucomatous damage, and--if available--the 
individual rate of progression.
CONCLUSIONS: This novel tool enables the clinician to incorporate life 
expectancy in glaucoma care in a well-founded manner and may serve as a starting 
point for personalized decision making.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2011.213
PMCID: PMC3234462
PMID: 21904393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Cancer Gene Ther. 2011 Dec;18(12):906-12. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2011.60. Epub
2011  Sep 9.

Treatment of mesothelioma with gene-modified PA1STK cells and ganciclovir: a 
phase I study.

Schwarzenberger P(1), Byrne P, Gaumer R, Norton J, Harrison L, Marrogi A, Kolls 
JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, 
New Orleans, LA, USA. poschwarz@yahoo.com

Mesothelioma is an incurable cancer of the pleura with a life expectancy of less 
than 1 year. On the basis of in vivo efficacy seen with the herpes simplex virus 
type 1 thymidine kinase (HSVtk) suicide gene-modified PA1STK cell line and 
ganciclovir (GCV) in a murine model of mesothelioma, a first in humans, clinical 
trial was designed for this therapeutic concept. The study was a phase I 
clinical trial using direct infusion of escalating doses of HSVtk suicide 
gene-modified PA1STK cells directly into tumor-associated pleural effusions 
followed by 7 days of intravenous GCV infusion. Therapeutic levels of GCV in 
both serum and pleura were achieved within 1 h, and GCV trough levels remained 
above the therapeutic threshold for the duration of GCV treatment. The treatment 
was well tolerated without any Grade 3 or 4 toxicity observed. Significant 
inductions of both Th1 and Th2 cytokines up to 20-fold over baseline were 
observed. No significant differences were seen between serum and pleura cytokine 
profiles, with the exception of interleukin-10, which was consistently elevated 
in the pleura specimens. No objective radiographic responses were observed. The 
data indicate significant immunological responses and validate the principal 
anti-tumor mechanisms observed in preclinical models of mesothelioma in a human 
clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1038/cgt.2011.60
PMID: 21904395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Pediatr Radiol. 2011 Nov;41(11):1421-8. doi: 10.1007/s00247-011-2213-1. Epub
 2011 Sep 9.

Ultrasound and colour Doppler in infantile subglottic haemangioma.

Rossler L(1), Rothoeft T, Teig N, Koerner-Rettberg C, Deitmer T, Rieger CH, 
Hamelmann E.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Kinder- und Jugendmedizin im St. Josef-Hospital, Ruhr-Universität 
Bochum, Bochum, Germany. l.rossler@klinikum-bochum.de

BACKGROUND: Subglottic haemangioma causes progressive and life-threatening 
stridor, typically manifesting at age 2-3 months. Standard diagnosis is by 
laryngoscopy. Larynx sonography is rarely used but allows assessment of the 
presence and extension of a mass that impinges on the subglottic airway. The 
additional use of colour Doppler enables demonstration of the vascular nature of 
such masses.
OBJECTIVE: To compare US and endoscopic findings in infants with subglottic 
haemangioma and to evaluate accuracy of US and colour Doppler imaging in this 
diagnosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We report eight infants with subglottic haemangioma seen 
in our institution over the last decade. They presented with laryngeal stridor 
and were all investigated with both US and endoscopy. Six infants underwent 
colour Doppler sonography.
RESULTS: US and endoscopic findings showed excellent anatomical correlation in 
lateral subglottic haemangioma. Colour Doppler imaging was deemed helpful in 
four infants.
CONCLUSION: Larynx sonography with complementary colour Doppler imaging was 
non-invasive and helpful in the diagnosis of subglottic haemangioma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-011-2213-1
PMID: 21904830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Herz. 2011 Sep;36(6):505-12. doi: 10.1007/s00059-011-3502-z.

[Modern aortic surgery in Marfan syndrome--2011].

[Article in German]

Kallenbach K(1), Schwill S, Karck M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herzchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Interdisziplinäres 
Marfan-Zentrum Heidelberg, INF 110, 69120, Heidelberg, Deutschland. 
klaus.kallenbach@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Marfan syndrome is a hereditary disease with a prevalence of 2-3 in 10,000 
births, leading to a fibrillin connective tissue disorder with manifestations in 
the skeleton, eye, skin, dura mater and in particular the cardiovascular system. 
Since other syndromes demonstrate similar vascular manifestations, but therapy 
may differ significantly, diagnosis should be established using the revised 
Ghent nosology in combination with genotypic analysis in specialized Marfan 
centres. The formation of aortic root aneurysms with the subsequent risk of 
acute aortic dissection type A (AADA) or aortic rupture limits life expectancy 
in patients with Marfan syndrome. Therefore, prophylactic replacement of the 
aortic root needs to be performed before the catastrophic event of AADA can 
occur. The goal of surgery is the complete resection of pathological aortic 
tissue. This can be achieved with excellent results by using a (mechanically) 
valved conduit that replaces both the aortic valve and the aortic root (Bentall 
operation). However, the need for lifelong anticoagulation with Coumadin can be 
avoided using the aortic valve sparing reimplantation technique according to 
David. The long-term durability of the reconstructed valve is favourable, and 
further technical improvements may improve longevity. Although results of 
prospective randomised long-term studies comparing surgical techniques are 
lacking, the David operation has become the surgical method of choice for aortic 
root aneurysms, not only at the Heidelberg Marfan Centre. Replacement of the 
aneurysmal dilated aortic arch is performed under moderate hypothermic 
circulatory arrest combined with antegrade cerebral perfusion using a heart-lung 
machine, which we also use in thoracic or thoracoabdominal aneurysms. Close 
post-operative follow-up in a Marfan centre is pivotal for the early detection 
of pathological changes on the diseased aorta.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-011-3502-z
PMID: 21904900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2011 Oct;26(10):1071-9. doi: 10.1002/gps.2646.
Epub  2010 Dec 9.

Mental and psychological conditions, medical comorbidity and functional 
limitation: differential associations in older adults with cognitive impairment, 
depressive symptoms and co-existence of both.

Millán-Calenti JC(1), Maseda A, Rochette S, Vázquez GA, Sánchez A, Lorenzo T.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Research Group, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of A 
Coruña, Spain. jcmillan@udc.es

OBJECTIVE: Cognitive impairment and depressive symptoms are common among the 
geriatric population but the co-occurrence of both is rarely studied. The 
purpose of this study was to identify and compare the factors associated with 
three groups of elderly people: those assessed with cognitive impairment alone 
(COG), depressive symptoms alone (DEP) or co-existence of both (COG-DEP).
METHODS: The cross-sectional study included 600 community-dwellers ages 65 and 
older. All participants underwent a comprehensive evaluation. Global cognition 
was measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and depressive symptoms 
were defined by the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). Specific chronic illnesses 
relevant to the Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) were self-reported. Functional 
status was evaluated by the Katz' basic (ADL) and Lawton's instrumental (IADL) 
activities of daily living scales.
RESULTS: COG-DEP was explained by IADL dependence (OR: 11.9, 95% CI: 
4.59-30.78), ADL dependence (OR: 11.5, 95% CI: 5.59-23.69), cerebrovascular 
disease (OR: 3.6, 95% CI: 1.48-8.68), congestive heart failure (OR: 3.4, 95% CI: 
1.77-6.59) and diabetes (OR: 2.6, 95% CI: 1.30-5.18), but it was best predicted 
by functional limitations in the adjusted model. Being functionally dependent 
and medically ill with shorter life expectancy was shown to significantly 
increase the odds of being DEP. Functional limitation in IADL was without 
distinction associated to COG, DEP and COG-DEP.
CONCLUSION: The present results on COG, DEP and COG-DEP show the particular 
relevance of certain medical comorbidities and functional limitations to those 
three distinct groups of elderly people.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.2646
PMID: 21905101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2012 Sep;18(9):1608-16. doi: 10.1002/ibd.21904. Epub 2011
Sep  8.

Comparative cost-effectiveness of strategies to prevent postoperative clinical 
recurrence of Crohn's disease.

Doherty GA(1), Miksad RA, Cheifetz AS, Moss AC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

BACKGROUND: A number of treatments have been shown to reduce the risk of 
postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease (CD). The optimal strategy is 
unknown. The aim was to evaluate the comparative cost-effectiveness of 
postoperative strategies to prevent clinical recurrence of CD.
METHODS: Three prophylactic strategies were compared to "no prophylaxis"; 
mesalamine, azathioprine (AZA) / 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), and infliximab. The 
probability of clinical recurrence, endoscopic recurrence, and therapy 
discontinuation due to adverse drug reactions (ADRs) were extracted from 
randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Quality-of-life scores and treatment costs 
were derived from published data. The primary model evaluated quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) and cost-effectiveness at 1 year after surgery. Sensitivity 
analysis assessed the impact of a range of recurrence rates on 
cost-effectiveness. An exploratory analysis evaluated cost-effectiveness 
outcomes 5 years after surgery.
RESULTS: A strategy of "no prophylaxis" was the least expensive one at 1 and 5 
years after surgery. Compared to this approach, AZA/6-MP had the most favorable 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) ($299,188/QALY gained), and yielded 
the highest net health benefits of the medication strategies at 1 year. 
Sensitivity analysis determined that the ICER of AZA/6-MP was preferable to 
mesalamine up to a recurrence rate of 52%, but mesalamine dominated at higher 
rates. In the 5-year exploratory analysis, mesalamine had the most favorable 
ICER over 5 years ($244,177/QALY gained).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to no prophylactic treatment, AZA/6-MP has the most 
favorable ICER in the prevention of clinical recurrence of postoperative CD up 
to 1 year. At 5 years, mesalamine had the most favorable ICER in this model.

Copyright © 2012 Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ibd.21904
PMCID: PMC3381977
PMID: 21905173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Mo Med. 2011 Jul-Aug;108(4):253-4.

Saint Louis University Center for Abdominal Transplantation: 'show me' world 
class care.

Newhall JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Saint Louis University Center for Abdominal Transplantation, USA. 
jtuttlen@slu.edu

PMCID: PMC6188421
PMID: 21905440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Int J Pediatr Obes. 2011 Sep;6 Suppl 1:53-8. doi:
10.3109/17477166.2011.604325.

Does obesity lead to a specific lipid disorder? Analysis from the 
German/Austrian/Swiss APV registry.

Holl RW(1), Hoffmeister U, Thamm M, Stachow R, Keller KM, L'Allemand D, Widhalm 
K, Flechtner-Mors M, Wiegand S.

Author information:
(1)University of Ulm, Institute for Epidemiology and Medical Biometry, Ulm, 
Germany.

Overweight and obese youth represent a challenge for the affected individual, 
the healthcare system as well as society as a whole. Increased long-term 
cardiovascular risk is one of the major consequences of early-onset obesity, 
affecting both life expectancy and quality of life. The aim of this report is to 
study the effects of age, gender and obesity category on the presence of 
individual components of dyslipidemia using normal-weight subjects from the 
population-based German KIGGS study including 17,641 randomly selected children 
and adolescents, aged 0-18 years (11,110 normal-weight subjects with lipid 
measurements) and the German-Austrian-Swiss APV registry, including 57,239 
overweight or obese children, adolescents and young adults from 162 specialized 
obesity care centers (lipid measurements available in 29,711 subjects). Subjects 
were classified according to BMI category based on the age- and gender-adjusted 
BMI-z-scores as recommended by the AGA (German Pediatric Obesity working group). 
Cut-offs for dyslipidemia were based on the recommendations by the American 
Heart Association: total cholesterol: > 5.2 mmol/l, HDL-cholesterol < 0.9 
mmol/l, LDL-cholesterol > 3.4 mmol/l, triglycerides > 1.7 mmol/l. Using SAS 
9.2-software, hierarchic modeling with both linear and logistic regression 
analysis was applied. Within the group of normal-weight children, fasting 
triglycerides were elevated in 3.3%, LDL-cholesterol in 7.2% and HDL-cholesterol 
was reduced in 3.1%. With increasing BMI-category, the prevalence of 
hypertriglyceridemia and reduced HDL-cholesterol increased rapidly. A weaker 
relationship was present for LDL-cholesterol and total cholesterol. Among obese 
youth, 30.5% displayed any dyslipidemia, underlining the importance of adequate 
screening and intervention.

DOI: 10.3109/17477166.2011.604325
PMID: 21905817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 2012 Feb;46(1):19-25. doi:
10.3109/00365599.2011.615759.  Epub 2011 Sep 12.

A decision support model for cost-effectiveness of radical prostatectomy in 
localized prostate cancer.

Lyth J(1), Andersson SO, Andrén O, Johansson JE, Carlsson P, Shahsavar N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Division of Medical Informatics, 
Linköping University Hospital, Linköping, Sweden. johan.lyth@liu.se

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to develop a probabilistic decision support model to 
calculate the lifetime incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) between 
radical prostatectomy and watchful waiting for different patient groups.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A randomized trial (SPCG-4) provided most data for this 
study. Data on survival, costs and quality of life were inputs in a decision 
analysis, and a decision support model was developed. The model can generate 
cost-effectiveness information on subgroups of patients with different 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Age was the most important independent factor explaining 
cost-effectiveness. The cost-effectiveness value varied from 21,026 Swedish 
kronor (SEK) to 858,703 SEK for those aged 65 to 75 years, depending on Gleason 
scores and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) values. Information from the decision 
support model can support decision makers in judging whether or not radical 
prostatectomy (RP) should be used to treat a specific patient group.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness ratio for RP varies with age, Gleason 
scores, and PSA values. Assuming a threshold value of 200,000 SEK per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, for patients aged ≤70 years the 
treatment was always cost-effective, except at age 70, Gleason 0-4 and PSA ≤10. 
Using the same threshold value at age 75, Gleason 7-9 (regardless of PSA) and 
Gleason 5-6 (with PSA >20) were cost-effective. Hence, RP was not perceived to 
be cost-effective in men aged 75 years with low Gleason and low PSA. Higher 
threshold values for patients with clinically localized prostate cancer could be 
discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/00365599.2011.615759
PMID: 21905981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Congest Heart Fail. 2011 Sep-Oct;17(5):205-12. doi: 
10.1111/j.1751-7133.2011.00241.x. Epub 2011 Jul 21.

Multivariate risk scores and patient outcomes in advanced heart failure.

Ketchum ES(1), Levy WC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98177, USA.

Significant improvements in survival have occurred for patients with advanced 
heart failure, with an increasing array of therapeutic options sharing quite 
varied properties of cost, invasiveness, and impact on life expectancy. Risk 
models allow patients and providers to achieve a better understanding of 
prognosis than is possible through unstructured holistic assessment. This 
article reviews scoring systems for heart failure prognostication in the general 
sense and in the setting of providing answers to specific clinical queries. 
Topics addressed include outpatient survival, risk of inpatient and 
post-discharge mortality, potential changes to clinician decision-making through 
better understanding of prognosis, and mortality after having a left ventricular 
assist device placed or receiving an implantable cardiac-defibrillator.

© 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-7133.2011.00241.x
PMID: 21906244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Curr Biol. 2011 Sep 27;21(18):1507-14. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2011.07.042. Epub
2011  Sep 8.

Autophagy and lipid metabolism coordinately modulate life span in germline-less 
C. elegans.

Lapierre LR(1), Gelino S, Meléndez A, Hansen M.

Author information:
(1)Program of Development and Aging, Del E. Webb Neuroscience, Aging and Stem 
Cell Research Center, USA.

BACKGROUND: The cellular recycling process of autophagy is emerging as a key 
player in several longevity pathways in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we 
identify a role for autophagy in long-lived animals lacking a germline and show 
that autophagy and lipid metabolism work interdependently to modulate aging in 
this longevity model.
RESULTS: Germline removal extends life span in C. elegans via genes such as the 
lipase LIPL-4; however, less is known of the cellular basis for this life-span 
extension. Here, we show that germline loss induces autophagy gene expression 
via the forkhead box A (FOXA) transcription factor PHA-4 and that autophagy is 
required to extend longevity. We identify a novel link between autophagy and 
LIPL-4, because autophagy is required to maintain high lipase activity in 
germline-deficient animals. Reciprocally, lipl-4 is required for autophagy 
induction. Coordination between autophagy and lipolysis is further supported by 
the finding that inhibition of TOR (target of rapamycin), a major negative 
regulator of autophagy, induces lipl-4 expression, and TOR levels are reduced in 
germline-less animals. TOR may therefore function as a common upstream regulator 
of both autophagy and lipl-4 expression in germline-less animals. Importantly, 
we find that the link between autophagy and LIPL-4 is relevant to longevity, 
because autophagy is induced in animals overexpressing LIPL-4 and autophagy is 
required for their long life span, recapitulating observations in germline-less 
animals.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our data offer a novel mechanism by which autophagy 
and the lipase LIPL-4 interdependently modulate aging in germline-deficient 
C. elegans by maintaining lipid homeostasis to prolong life span.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2011.07.042
PMCID: PMC3191188
PMID: 21906946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Nephrol Ther. 2011 Jul;7 Suppl 1:S1-39. doi: 10.1016/S1769-7255(11)70007-4.

[Quality of life of living kidney donor: a national report].

[Article in French]

Briançon S, Germain L, Baudelot C, Bannay A, Virion JM, Thuong M.

The renal transplantation is nowadays the reference treatment of ESRD. Living 
donor kidney transplantation is less often performed in France than in other 
countries. Nevertheless, numerous French and international surveys have 
evidenced that it provides the recipients a longer life expectancy and a better 
quality of life. Donors themselves, what do they become? How are they? For the 
first time in France, a survey has been implemented to investigate the quality 
of life of living kidney donor to one of their close relations. This study has 
been undertaken by the Agency of the biomedecine and the service Clinical 
Epidemiology and Evaluation (EEC), of the University teaching hospital of Nancy. 
The main objective was to describe the quality of life of the living donors 
having given a kidney for more than a year and less than 5 years. The secondary 
objective was to contribute to the knowledge of the main factors associated to 
the living kidney donor quality of life, one year after the donation. 
Participants had to be living in France at the time of the donation which had 
taken place between June 30(th), 2005 and March 1(st), 2009. A folder gathering 
various self-administrated questionnaires was sent to the place of residence of 
the donor between March and April, 2010. These data were completed by medical 
data collected near the transplantation centres by the Agency of biomedecine 
within the framework of the register CRISTAL. They included the characteristics 
of the donation and of the donor at the very time of the donation, 3 months 
after the donation and at the last annual assessment. Three living donors in 
four, that is 501 persons, agreed to fully participate. They constituted a 
representative national sample of all the living donors of this period. The non 
participants were younger (4.5 years on average) and had a less adequate annual 
follow-up. The women were more represented (61 %) than men. The median age was 
53 years. More of 2/3 were employed at the time of the survey. The three main 
categories of donors were ascendants (36 %), collateral (33 %) and spouses 
(26%). The donation decision was taken without hesitation (94 %) and at an early 
stage of the evolution of the recipient renal disease (64 %). The delivered 
information was considered globally satisfactory except for the painful 
consequences and for the scar. The living donors were, long after their 
donation, in an excellent physical health state according to the SF36 summarized 
physical score and this especially when they were old as compared to the same 
age and sex general population. This phenomenon highlights the drastic selection 
of the potential donors. The only factor influencing the level of long term 
physical health was the surgical technique: the 261 subjects having undergone a 
coelioscopy had less often presented post operative pain (OR=0.5; 0.3-0.8; 
P<0.002) and had more often recovered completely without any residual pain 
(OR=1.7; 1.2-2.5; P<0.004). The quality of life mental dimension according to 
the SF36 summarized mental score was very close to that of the same age and sex 
of the general population although a slightly lower. It is influenced by 
characteristics related to the way the donation had been lived, particularly the 
understanding of their donation by their circle of acquaintances (average score 
74.2/100), the perception of a feeling of owing on behalf of the recipient (46.5 
%) and the fact of having lived a competition to be retained as the donor (for 
266 cases another potential donor did exist and 21 lived the donation as a 
strong competition). More than 84 % of the donors was still followed by a 
healthcare professional at the time of the survey. The main expressed complaints 
concern the quality of the medical follow-up (70 donors expressed themselves 
openly on this topic) and the pain and scar after effects of the intervention. 
In spite of the surgical complications, of the dissatisfactions regarding their 
medical follow-up, of dismissals or of necessary adjustments of their 
professional life (13 %), of their difficulties to carry heavy loads, of 
sometimes complex relations with the recipient (23 % positive, 10 % negative) or 
their circle of acquaintances, of expenses non reimbursement and of losses of 
salary (12 %), they would be 95 % to recommend the donation and if it was to be 
redone 98 % would do it again! Benefits brought to the recipient won largely 
over the encountered difficulties. This retrospective and cross-sectional study 
allows to state recommendations which have to be confirmed by the 2009-2012 
longitudinal study: to favour the coelioscopy which offers an advantage in terms 
of less frequent pain and a better post operative recovery, to better understand 
the phenomena of competition between potential and donors recipients, to improve 
the information about the potential consequences of the donation on the pain and 
on the scar, to inform the donor about the importance to associate the proxies 
with the decisionmaking or at least with the discussion and finally to improve 
the society recognition of the donation.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1769-7255(11)70007-4
PMID: 21907160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Brain. 2011 Nov;134(Pt 11):3167-75. doi: 10.1093/brain/awr217. Epub 2011 Sep
9.

A 12-year follow-up in sporadic inclusion body myositis: an end stage with major 
disabilities.

Cox FM(1), Titulaer MJ, Sont JK, Wintzen AR, Verschuuren JJ, Badrising UA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Centre, 2300 RC Leiden, 
The Netherlands. f.cox@lumc.nl

Comment in
    Brain. 2011 Nov;134(Pt 11):3141-5.

Sporadic inclusion body myositis is considered to be a slowly progressive 
myopathy. Long-term follow-up data are, however, not yet available. Follow-up 
data are important with a view to informing patients about their prognosis and 
selecting appropriate outcome measures for clinical trials. We performed a 
follow-up study of 64 patients with sporadic inclusion body myositis who 
participated in a national epidemiological study in the Netherlands. Case 
histories were recorded, and manual and quantitative muscle tests as well as 
laboratory tests were performed at baseline and 12 years (median) after the 
first out-patient visit. Date and cause of death were recorded for all deceased 
patients. Forty-six patients died during the follow-up period, two patients 
chose not to participate and one patient was lost to follow-up. The remaining 15 
surviving patients had a mean disease duration of 20 years and were clinically 
evaluated at the second time point. The mean decline in strength was 3.5 and 
5.4% per year according to the manual muscle testing and quantitative muscle 
testing, respectively. This decline was most pronounced in the lower legs, which 
were also the weakest extremities. Life expectancy was normal at 81 years, but 
activities of daily life were clearly restricted. At follow-up, all patients 
were found to be using a wheelchair, seven of them (47%) being completely 
wheelchair-bound. Disorders of the respiratory system were the most common cause 
of death. In three patients, euthanasia was requested and in another three, 
continuous deep sedation was applied. The fact that end-of-life care 
interventions were used in six patients (13%) reflects the severe disability and 
loss of quality of life at the end stage of this disease. Sporadic inclusion 
body myositis is a chronic progressive disorder, leading to major disabilities 
at the end stage of the disease due to extensive muscle weakness.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awr217
PMID: 21908393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Otol Neurotol. 2011 Oct;32(8):1192-7. doi: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e31822e5ae6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the bone-anchored hearing device.

Monksfield P(1), Jowett S, Reid A, Proops D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University Hospitals Birmingham, UK. 
pmonksfield@talk21.com

OBJECTIVE: To establish the cost-effectiveness of a bone-anchored hearing device 
(BAHD). To date, there has not been any formal economic analysis of this 
treatment.
STUDY DESIGN: A prospective cohort case-control analysis.
SETTING: Tertiary referral center, university hospital.
PATIENTS: Between April 2007 and June 2008, all adult patients undergoing their 
first BAHD were contacted and invited to take part in this study. Data of 70 
patients were completed during the study period and were analyzed.
INTERVENTIONS: A health utility measure was made before and after the insertion 
of a BAHD to estimate the utility gain associated with this intervention.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The cost and quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain for 
each patient was established, and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
was calculated.
RESULTS: The results of our analysis are that, compared with current standard 
care, the BAHD has an ICER of £17,610 (US $26,415) per QALY gained. The National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence will endorse a health intervention 
as cost-effective if the ICER is below £20,000 to £30,000 per QALY (US 
$30,000-45,000).
CONCLUSION: This technology is likely to be cost-effective at the current 
thresholds used by National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. 
Therefore, this study suggests the BAHD may be a cost-effective method of 
auditory rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e31822e5ae6
PMID: 21909045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. PLoS Comput Biol. 2011 Sep;7(9):e1002129. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002129.
 Epub 2011 Sep 1.

A systems biology approach identifies molecular networks defining skeletal 
muscle abnormalities in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Turan N(1), Kalko S, Stincone A, Clarke K, Sabah A, Howlett K, Curnow SJ, 
Rodriguez DA, Cascante M, O'Neill L, Egginton S, Roca J, Falciani F.

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is an inflammatory process of the 
lung inducing persistent airflow limitation. Extensive systemic effects, such as 
skeletal muscle dysfunction, often characterize these patients and severely 
limit life expectancy. Despite considerable research efforts, the molecular 
basis of muscle degeneration in COPD is still a matter of intense debate. In 
this study, we have applied a network biology approach to model the relationship 
between muscle molecular and physiological response to training and systemic 
inflammatory mediators. Our model shows that failure to co-ordinately activate 
expression of several tissue remodelling and bioenergetics pathways is a 
specific landmark of COPD diseased muscles. Our findings also suggest that this 
phenomenon may be linked to an abnormal expression of a number of histone 
modifiers, which we discovered correlate with oxygen utilization. These 
observations raised the interesting possibility that cell hypoxia may be a key 
factor driving skeletal muscle degeneration in COPD patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002129
PMCID: PMC3164707
PMID: 21909251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


496. Osteoporos Int. 2012 Jul;23(7):1849-57. doi: 10.1007/s00198-011-1770-3. Epub
 2011 Sep 10.

SF-6D and EQ-5D result in widely divergent incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
in a clinical trial of older women: implications for health policy decisions.

Davis JC(1), Liu-Ambrose T, Khan KM, Robertson MC, Marra CA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, VCH Research Institute, The 
University of British Columbia, Research Pavilion, 7th floor, 828 West 10th 
Avenue, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 1M9, Canada. Jennifer.davis@ubc.ca

SUMMARY: Using two instruments (SF-6D and EQ-5D) to estimate quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs), we conducted an economic evaluation of a 12-month randomized 
controlled trial with a 12-month follow-up study in older women to evaluate the 
value for money of two doses of resistance training compared with balance and 
tone classes. We found that the incremental QALYs estimated from the SF-6D were 
two- to threefold greater than those estimated from the EQ-5D.
INTRODUCTION: Decision makers must continually choose between existing and new 
interventions. Hence, economic evaluations are increasingly prevalent. The 
impact of quality-adjusted life year (QALY) estimates using different 
instruments on the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) is not well 
understood in older adults. Thus, we compared ICERs, in older women, estimated 
by the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and the Short Form-6D (SF-6D) to discuss implications 
on decision making.
METHODS: Using both the EQ-5D and the SF-6D, we compared the incremental cost 
per QALY gained in a randomized controlled trial of resistance training in 155 
community-dwelling women aged 65 to 75 years. The 12-month randomized controlled 
trial included a subsequent 12-month follow-up. Our focus, the follow-up study, 
included 123 of the 155 participants from the Brain Power study; 98 took part in 
the economic evaluation (twice-weekly balance and tone exercises, n = 28; 
once-weekly resistance training, n = 35; twice-weekly resistance training, 
n = 35). Our primary outcome measure was the incremental cost per QALY gained of 
once- or twice-weekly resistance training compared with balance and tone 
exercises.
RESULTS: At cessation of the follow-up study, the incremental QALY was -0.051 
(EQ-5D) and -0.144 (SF-6D) for the once-weekly resistance training group and 
-0.081 (EQ-5D) and -0.127 (SF-6D) for the twice-weekly resistance training group 
compared with balance and tone classes.
CONCLUSION: The incremental QALYs estimated from the SF-6D were two- to 
threefold greater than those estimated from the EQ-5D. Given the large magnitude 
of difference, the choice of preference-based utility instrument may 
substantially impact health care decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-011-1770-3
PMCID: PMC4508131
PMID: 21909728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Dig Dis Sci. 2012 Feb;57(2):472-80. doi: 10.1007/s10620-011-1896-3. Epub
2011  Sep 11.

Certolizumab pegol compared to natalizumab in patients with moderate to severe 
Crohn's disease: results of a decision analysis.

Ananthakrishnan AN(1), Hur C, Korzenik JR.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital Crohn's and Colitis 
Center, 165 Cambridge Street, 9th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
aananthakrishnan@partners.org

INTRODUCTION: A significant proportion of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) 
lose response to antibodies directed against tumor necrosis factor α (TNF). 
Prior TNF-antagonist failure is associated with lower rates of response to 
subsequent TNF-antagonist therapy. In patients failing two anti-TNF agents, a 
choice exists between using a third-anti-TNF therapy or natalizumab (NAT), an 
α-4 integrin inhibitor. A cost-effectiveness analysis comparing these competing 
strategies has not been performed.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was constructed to compare the performance of 
certolizumab pegol (CZP) versus NAT in patients with moderate to severe CD. 
Previously published estimates of efficacy of third-line anti-TNF therapy and 
NAT were used to inform the model. Costs were expressed in 2010 US dollars. A 
1-year time frame was used for the analysis.
RESULTS: In the base case estimate, use of NAT was only marginally more 
effective [0.71 vs. 0.70 quality adjusted life-years (QALYs)] than CZP but was 
expensive with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $381,678 per 
QALY gained. For CZP 2 months response rate of at least 24%, NAT had an ICER 
above the willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold. The model was sensitive to the 
costs of both therapies; for all CZP costs below $2,300 per dose, NAT had higher 
ICER than the WTP threshold. Substituting adalimumab for CZP resulted in similar 
ICER estimates and thresholds for NAT use.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with moderate to severe CD failing two TNF-antagonists, 
using a third TNF-antagonist therapy appears to be a cost-effective strategy 
without significantly compromising treatment efficacy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-011-1896-3
PMID: 21909990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Hemoglobin. 2011;35(5-6):503-10. doi: 10.3109/03630269.2011.605499. Epub
2011  Sep 12.

Thrombosis in thalassemia: why are we so concerned?

Musallam KM(1), Taher AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology-Oncology Division, American 
University of Beirut Medical Centre, Beirut, Lebanon.

Although life expectancy of thalassemia patients has markedly improved over the 
last few decades, patients still suffer from many complications of this 
congenital disease. The presence of a high incidence of thromboembolic events 
(TEE), mainly in β-thalassemia intermedia (β-TI), has led to the identification 
of a hypercoagulable state in these patients. In this review, the molecular and 
cellular mechanisms leading to hypercoagulability in thalassemia are 
highlighted, with a special focus on thalassemia intermedia being the group with 
the highest incidence of thrombotic events as compared to other types of 
thalassemia. Clinical experience and available clues on optimal management are 
also discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/03630269.2011.605499
PMID: 21910599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. BMC Ophthalmol. 2011 Sep 12;11:25. doi: 10.1186/1471-2415-11-25.

inVestIgating the pSychologIcal and ecONomic impAct of cataRact surgerY in 
Vietnam: The VISIONARY observational study protocol.

Essue BM(1), Hackett ML, Mueller A, Hanh Duc NT, Phuc HT, Jan S.

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health; University of Sydney, PO Box M201 
Missenden Road, Sydney NSW 2050, Australia. beverley.essue@sydney.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Visual impairment caused by cataracts not only affects an 
individual's quality of life but can also have a profound impact on other 
important psychological factors and on the economic circumstances of individuals 
and their households. Cataract surgery is an effective intervention to restore 
vision and is also associated with other positive consequences including 
improvements in quality of life, economic and psychological outcomes. While 
there has been an increase in the number and quality of cataract surgeries 
performed in Vietnam, the programs currently in place are still unable to meet 
the existing demand and need for surgery. Data on both the cost-effectiveness of 
cataract surgery and the economic and psychological impact of untreated cataract 
in this setting is lacking.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study, investigating the psychological and economic impact 
of cataract surgery in Vietnam (VISIONARY), will recruit and interview a sample 
of adults (18 years or over) who are referred for cataract surgery by one of the 
following sites and their outreach programs: Hue Eye Hospital; Thai Binh Eye 
Hospital; Binh Dinh Department of Health Eye Hospital and the Vinh Long 
Department of Health Social Disease Centre. All participants (those who have 
cataract surgery and those who do not have surgery) will be followed up at six 
and 12 months.
DISCUSSION: This study is designed to examine the impact of low vision on 
household economic circumstances and psychological outcomes as well as to 
investigate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of cataract surgery in 
Vietnam. It will help to inform international and national non-government 
organisations working in the country and local policy-makers on priorities for 
further investment in eye-health services in this setting and their relevance to 
broader economic development goals.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2415-11-25
PMCID: PMC3184276
PMID: 21910894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Physiol. 2011 Nov 15;589(Pt 22):5517-28. doi:
10.1113/jphysiol.2011.216341.  Epub 2011 Sep 12.

Dietary nitrate reduces muscle metabolic perturbation and improves exercise 
tolerance in hypoxia.

Vanhatalo A(1), Fulford J, Bailey SJ, Blackwell JR, Winyard PG, Jones AM.

Author information:
(1)College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter School of 
Sport and Health Sciences, Heavitree Road, St Luke's Campus, Exeter EX1 2LU, UK. 
a.vanhatalo@exeter.ac.uk

Exercise in hypoxia is associated with reduced muscle oxidative function and 
impaired exercise tolerance. We hypothesised that dietary nitrate 
supplementation (which increases plasma [nitrite] and thus NO bioavailability) 
would ameliorate the adverse effects of hypoxia on muscle metabolism and 
oxidative function. In a double-blind, randomised crossover study, nine healthy 
subjects completed knee-extension exercise to the limit of tolerance (T(lim)), 
once in normoxia (20.9% O(2); CON) and twice in hypoxia (14.5% O(2)). During 24 
h prior to the hypoxia trials, subjects consumed 0.75 L of nitrate-rich beetroot 
juice (9.3 mmol nitrate; H-BR) or 0.75 L of nitrate-depleted beetroot juice as a 
placebo (0.006 mmol nitrate; H-PL). Muscle metabolism was assessed using 
calibrated (31)P-MRS. Plasma [nitrite] was elevated (P < 0.01) following BR (194 
± 51 nm) compared to PL (129 ± 23 nm) and CON (142 ± 37 nM). T(lim) was reduced 
in H-PL compared to CON (393 ± 169 vs. 471 ± 200 s; P < 0.05) but was not 
different between CON and H-BR (477 ± 200 s). The muscle [PCr], [P(i)] and pH 
changed at a faster rate in H-PL compared to CON and H-BR. The [PCr] recovery 
time constant was greater (P < 0.01) in H-PL (29 ± 5 s) compared to CON (23 ± 5 
s) and H-BR (24 ± 5 s). Nitrate supplementation reduced muscle metabolic 
perturbation during exercise in hypoxia and restored exercise tolerance and 
oxidative function to values observed in normoxia. The results suggest that 
augmenting the nitrate-nitrite-NO pathway may have important therapeutic 
applications for improving muscle energetics and functional capacity in hypoxia.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.216341
PMCID: PMC3240888
PMID: 21911616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Ann Afr Med. 2011 Jul-Sep;10(3):249-51. doi: 10.4103/1596-3519.84701.

Perforated appendicitis in a septuagenarian.

Sanda RB(1), Seliem SI, Omar E, Ashraf S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Drumheller Hospital, Drumheller AB, T0J 0Y1, Canada. 
robeesanda@yahoo.com

Appendicitis in the elderly is becoming an increasingly frequent clinical 
encounter due to the increased life expectancy in the human race over the last 
half-century. Appendicitis in this age group has, therefore, become relatively 
more common with an atypical presentation that incurs delay in diagnosis with 
attendant morbidity and mortality. We present a septuagenarian who presented 
atypically with a rapidly progressing feature of appendicitis that emphasizes 
the need for early operative intervention. In addition, the patient presented 
with other comorbidities that could detract from a diagnosis of appendicitis to 
the unwary.

DOI: 10.4103/1596-3519.84701
PMID: 21912013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Gerontology. 2012;58(1):3-14. doi: 10.1159/000329598. Epub 2011 Sep 7.

Evaluation and treatment of erectile dysfunction in the aging male: a 
mini-review.

Albersen M(1), Orabi H, Lue TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California at San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA. Maarten.albersen@uzleuven.be

Before the 20th century, individuals often did not live beyond the reproductive 
years, and sexuality of the elderly was not an issue. However, in the current 
era it is known that as life expectancy improves, both men and women are seeking 
to preserve their sexuality into old age. While the appreciation of sexuality 
persists with aging, a decline in sexual activity is typically seen with, and 
can be attributed to both general health problems as well as specific sexual 
dysfunctions. Erectile dysfunction is the most frequently diagnosed sexual 
dysfunction in the older male population. This mini-review provides an overview 
of contemporary literature concerning epidemiology, pathophysiology, assessment 
and treatment of erectile dysfunction in the aging male.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000329598
PMID: 21912081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Gerontology. 2012;58(3):216-20. doi: 10.1159/000330801. Epub 2011 Sep 7.

Electrocardiographic changes in centenarians: a study on 42 subjects and 
comparison with the literature.

Basile G(1), Cucinotta MD, Figliomeni P, Lo Balbo C, Maltese G, Lasco A.

Author information:
(1)School and Division of Geriatrics, University Hospital, University of 
Messina, Messina, Italy. giorgio.basile@unime.it

BACKGROUND: Aging is associated with extensive and pervasive changes in 
cardiovascular structure and function, which may result in electrocardiographic 
alterations. The typical modifications seen in an electrocardiogram (ECG) in 
elders are: prolonged PR and QT intervals, QRS left-axis deviation and microvolt 
T wave. Several studies have included elderly people, but not long-living 
elderly and centenarians in particular who represent an increasing part of the 
population.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the electrocardiographic 
findings in a population of centenarians and to compare the results with the few 
studies present in the literature.
METHODS: We analyzed 42 healthy centenarians (12 males, 30 females; average age 
101.43 ± 1.80 years) living in Messina, a municipality of Eastern Sicily, in 
Italy. They were clinically and functionally evaluated. All ECGs were analyzed 
by a single observer blind to clinical data. We assessed survival by phone 
recall.
RESULTS: PR interval mean duration was 190 ± 3.3 ms, QRS 90 ± 1.4 ms, QTc 
interval mean duration was 370 ± 3.5 ms. Entirely normal ECG recordings were 
found in 7 centenarians (16.6%). The most frequently observed abnormalities 
included left-axis deviation and left anterior hemiblock in 16 centenarians 
(38.09%), left ventricular hypertrophy and aspecific ST-T wave abnormalities in 
13 subjects (30.95%). We found no statistically significant differences between 
men and women. The mean age at death was 102.44 ± 2.45, and we did not find 
significant differences in age at death in long-living elderly in relation to 
different electrocardiographic findings. Comparing our results with two previous 
studies in the literature, the first conducted in Switzerland [Cornu: Rev Med 
Suisse Rom 1979;99:107-113] and the second in Nebraska [Lakkireddy et al.: Am J 
Cardiol 2003;92:1249-1251], we found a higher frequency of left ventricular 
hypertrophy that was compatible with the prevalence of hypertension in our 
centenarians (33.3%). Moreover, we did not find left bundle branch block, and 
the frequency of premature beats was remarkably less than that observed in the 
Swiss and US studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the increasing rate of centenarians, we believe that 
the results of the present study on electrocardiographic changes in centenarians 
may also be useful in clinical practice.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000330801
PMID: 21912098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2012 Sep-Oct;27(5):418-30. doi:
10.1097/JCN.0b013e31822ad3c3.

A combined aerobic and resistance exercise program improves physical functional 
performance in patients with heart failure: a pilot study.

Gary RA(1), Cress ME, Higgins MK, Smith AL, Dunbar SB.

Author information:
(1)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 
30322, USA. ragary@emory.edu

BACKGROUND: Recent guidelines for exercise in patients with heart failure (HF) 
recommended aerobic and resistance exercise as being safe and effective; 
however, the clinical and functional significance of these combined training 
modalities has not been established. In this pilot study, combined aerobic and 
resistance training was hypothesized to improve physical function, muscle 
strength, and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) compared with an attention 
control wait list (ACWL).
METHODS: The 10-item Continuous Scale Physical Functional Performance Test 
(CS-PFP10), which simulates common household chores; muscle strength (handgrip 
and knee extension); and HRQOL (Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire) were 
evaluated at baseline (T1) and at 12 weeks (T2). The home-based 
moderate-intensity walking and resistance training program was performed 5 days 
a week.
RESULTS: Twenty-four New York Heart Association class II to III HF patients 
(mean [SD] age, 60 [10] years; mean [SD] left ventricular ejection fraction, 25% 
[9%]) were randomized to a combined aerobic and resistance exercise program or 
to an ACWL group. Of the total group, 58% were New York Heart Association class 
III HF patients, 50% were white, and 50% were female. The CS-PFP10 total scores 
were significantly increased in the exercise group, from 45 (18) to 56 (16). The 
Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire overall summary score was significantly 
improved (P < .001) at T2 in the exercise intervention group compared with the 
ACWL group.
CONCLUSIONS: Participants provided the home-based, combined aerobic and 
resistance exercise program had significantly improved physical function, muscle 
strength, symptom severity, and HRQOL compared with the ACWL group. The findings 
of this study must be interpreted cautiously owing to the limitations of a small 
sample, data collection from a single center, and differences between control 
and interventions groups at baseline. A combined aerobic and resistance exercise 
approach may improve physical function in stable HF patients, but further study 
in a larger, more diverse population is recommended. However, in this study, the 
CS-PFP10 instrument demonstrated its ability to identify functional health 
status in HF patients and thus warrants further testing in a larger sample for 
possible use in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1097/JCN.0b013e31822ad3c3
PMCID: PMC4143391
PMID: 21912268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


505. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2011 Dec 15;36(26):2243-51. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182322d0f.

Cost-effectiveness of balloon kyphoplasty versus standard medical treatment in 
patients with osteoporotic vertebral compression fracture: a Swedish multicenter 
randomized controlled trial with 2-year follow-up.

Fritzell P(1), Ohlin A, Borgström F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Falun Hospital, Falun, Sweden. 
peter.fritzell@ltdalarna.se

STUDY DESIGN: A multicenter, randomized, controlled, cost-effectiveness 
analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of balloon kyphoplasty (BKP) 
compared with standard medical treatment (control) in patients with 
acute/subacute (<3 months) vertebral compression fracture (VCF) due to 
osteoporosis.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Patients with a VCF due to osteoporosis are common 
and will increase in number in an aging population, putting a substantial strain 
on health care. Selected patients may benefit from stabilizing the fracture with 
cement through BKP, a minimally invasive procedure. BKP has been reported to 
give good short-time clinical results, and economic modeling has suggested that 
the procedure could be cost-effective after 2 years compared with standard 
treatment.
METHODS: Hospitalized patients with back pain due to VCF were randomized to BKP 
or to control using a computer-generated random list. All costs associated with 
VCF and cost-effectiveness were reported primarily from the perspective of 
society. We used EQ-5D to assess quality of life (QoL). The accumulated 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and costs/QALY gained were assessed 
using intention to treat.
RESULTS: Between February 2003 and December 2005, a total of 63 out of 67 
Swedish patients were analyzed: BKP (n = 32) and control (n = 31). Societal cost 
per patient for BKP was SEK 160,017 (SD = 151,083) = €16,668 (SD = 15,735), and 
for control SEK 84,816 (SD = 40,954) = €8835 (SD = 4266), a significant 
difference of 75,198 (95% confidence intervals [CI] = 16,037-120,104) = €7833 
(95% CI = 1671-12,511). The accumulated difference in QALYs was 0.085 (95% CI = 
-0.132 to 0.306) in favor of BKP. Cost/QALY gained using BKP was SEK 884,682 = 
€92,154 and US $134,043.
CONCLUSION: In this randomized controlled trial, it was not possible to 
demonstrate that BKP was cost-effective compared with standard medical treatment 
in patients treated for an acute/subacute vertebral fracture due to 
osteoporosis. However, sensitivity analysis indicated a certain degree of 
uncertainty, which needs to be considered.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182322d0f
PMID: 21912321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Aging Res. 2011;2011:985703. doi: 10.4061/2011/985703. Epub 2011 Sep 7.

Multiple Comorbid Conditions among Middle-Aged and Elderly Hemophilia Patients: 
Prevalence Estimates and Implications for Future Care.

