USA.

Abstract A simple method is presented for converting an age distribution in any 
closed population into the stationary population corresponding to its current 
mortality conditions. The conversion only requires a set of age-specific growth 
rates, which will normally be available from successive censuses. From the 
stationary population, any life table mortality measure of interest can be 
computed. The index most robust to normal data errors in developing countries is 
life expectancy, and the paper focuses on its calculation. The sensitivity of 
results to various forms of data error is considered, and procedures are 
proposed for removing errors resulting from differential census coverage 
completeness and from age misstatement at older ages. Applications of the 
procedures are made to data from Sweden, India and South Korea. Because of the 
absence of a radix, estimation of life expectancy usually will begin at the 
fifth birthday.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1983.10405926
PMID: 22077368


923. Popul Stud (Camb). 1983;37(1):105-27. doi: 10.1080/00324728.1983.10405927.

A reducible four-parameter system of model life tables.

Ewbank DC(1), Gomez De Leon JC, Stoto MA.

Author information:
(1)a Population Studies Center , University of Pennsylvania , Pennsylvania.

Abstract In this paper a four-parameter extension of Brass's relational system 
of model life tables is suggested that (1) matches a wide range of empirical age 
patterns of mortality, (2) is easy to apply, especially to partial life tables, 
and (3) contains demographically meaningful parameters. A test of the model on a 
set of 62 empirical life tables indicates that four parameters are necessary and 
sufficient for fitting a wide range of mortality patterns. A further test on an 
historical series of Swedish life tables reveals a consistent pattern of 
mortality change. Examination of the parameters for a set of 
geographicallyrelated life tables suggests a way to define families of life 
tables. Identification of such temporal and spatial relationships allows the 
model to be reduced to a form with twoor three-parameters for application to 
incomplete or inaccurate data.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1983.10405927
PMID: 22077369


924. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Dec;29(12):1015-23. doi: 
10.2165/11593940-000000000-00000.

QALYs and carers.

Al-Janabi H(1), Flynn TN, Coast J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. 
h.aljanabi@bham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Sep 1;30(9):857-8; author reply 858.

When going 'beyond the patient', to measure QALYs for unpaid carers, a number of 
additional methodological considerations and value judgements must be made. 
While there is no theoretical reason to restrict the measurement of QALYs to 
patients, decisions have to be made about which carers to consider, what 
instruments to use and how to aggregate and present QALYs for carers and 
patients. Current, albeit limited, practice in measuring QALY gains to carers in 
economic evaluation varies, suggesting that there may be inconsistency in 
judgements about whether interventions are deemed cost effective. While 
conventional health-related quality-of-life tools can, in theory, be used to 
estimate QALYs, there are both theoretical and empirical concerns over the 
suitability of their use with carers. Measures that take a broader view of 
health or well-being may be more appropriate. Incorporating QALYs of carers in 
economic evaluations may have important distributional consequences and, 
therefore, greater normative discussion over the appropriateness of 
incorporating these impacts is required. In the longer term, more flexible forms 
of cost-per-QALY analysis may be required to take account of the broader impacts 
on carers and the weight these impacts should receive in decision making.

DOI: 10.2165/11593940-000000000-00000
PMID: 22077576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Dec;29(12):1063-73. doi: 
10.2165/11586470-000000000-00000.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of prophylactic lamivudine use in preventing 
vertical transmission of hepatitis B virus infection.

Hung HF(1), Chen HH.

Author information:
(1)Hsin-Chu General Hospital, Department of Health, Executive Yuan, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: As neonates born to mothers with positive hepatitis B e antigen may 
not be completely protected by hepatitis B vaccination, prophylactic lamivudine 
use in mothers with high viraemia has been proposed. However, the overall 
effectiveness and the balance between cost and benefit for such a prophylactic 
strategy have rarely been addressed.
OBJECTIVE: Using a review of recent literature, we aimed to assess the cost 
effectiveness, from the Taiwanese societal perspective, of administering 
prophylactic lamivudine to mothers to reduce vertical transmission of hepatitis 
B virus and its long-term sequelae in neonates.
METHODS: A meta-analysis of three randomized controlled trials was conducted to 
evaluate the efficacy of lamivudine versus placebo. A Markov decision model was 
constructed in which in both treatment arms infants received active and passive 
immunoprophylaxis. An economic evaluation was performed to calculate costs, 
acute infections averted, and QALYs gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were conducted and a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve drawn. All these 
analyses were from the societal perspective. Costs ($US) were valued in year 
2008 prices.
RESULT: Supplemental lamivudine use gained an additional 0.0024 QALYs and 
averted 0.23 acute infections per birth compared with the routine active-passive 
immunization without lamivudine. The cost-effectiveness analysis suggested that 
the use of additional prophylactic lamivudine dominated the routine strategy. 
The acceptability curve suggested that the probability of being cost effective 
under the willingness-to-pay threshold of $US20,000 was 94%.
CONCLUSION: This analysis suggests that supplemental use of lamivudine in 
mothers with high hepatitis B viraemia is effective in reducing vertical 
transmission and may be cost effective, from a Taiwanese societal perspective, 
compared with the routine active-passive immunization without lamivudine.

DOI: 10.2165/11586470-000000000-00000
PMID: 22077578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Dec;29(12):1075-91. doi: 
10.2165/11589260-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis B from a Canadian public payer perspective.

Dakin H(1), Sherman M, Fung S, Fidler C, Bentley A.

Author information:
(1)Abacus International, Bicester, UK. Helen.Dakin@abacusint.com

INTRODUCTION: Previous research has demonstrated that tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate (DF) is the most cost-effective nucleos(t)ide treatment for chronic 
hepatitis B (CHB) in the UK, Spain, Italy and France. However, to our knowledge, 
no published studies have yet evaluated the cost effectiveness of any treatments 
for CHB in a Canadian setting, where relative prices and management of CHB 
differ from those in Europe.
AIM: Our objective was to determine the cost effectiveness of tenofovir DF 
compared with other nucleos(t)ide therapies licensed for CHB in Canada from the 
perspective of publicly funded healthcare payers.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to calculate the costs and benefits of 
nucleos(t)ide therapy in three groups of patients with hepatitis B e antigen 
(HBeAg)-positive and -negative CHB: nucleos(t)ide-naive patients without 
cirrhosis; nucleos(t)ide-naive patients with compensated cirrhosis; and 
lamivudine-resistant patients. Disease progression was modelled as annual 
transitions between 18 disease states. Transition probabilities, quality of life 
and costs were based on published studies. Health benefits were measured in 
QALYs. The reference year for costs was 2007 and costs and outcomes were 
discounted at 5% per annum.
RESULTS: First-line tenofovir DF was the most effective nucleos(t)ide strategy 
for managing CHB, generating 6.85-9.39 QALYs per patient. First-line tenofovir 
DF was also the most cost-effective strategy in all patient subgroups 
investigated, costing between $Can43,758 and $Can48,015 per QALY gained compared 
with lamivudine then tenofovir. First-line tenofovir DF strongly dominated 
first-line entecavir. Giving tenofovir DF monotherapy immediately after 
lamivudine resistance developed was less costly and more effective than any 
other active treatment strategy investigated for lamivudine-resistant CHB, 
including second-line use of adefovir or adefovir + lamivudine. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis demonstrated 50% confidence that first-line tenofovir DF is 
the most cost-effective nucleos(t)ide strategy for treatment-naive patients with 
CHB, at a $Can50,000 per QALY threshold, and confirmed that first-line tenofovir 
DF has the highest expected net benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: First-line tenofovir DF appears to be the most cost-effective 
nucleos(t)ide treatment for both cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic CHB patients in 
Canada, providing that society is willing to pay at least $Can48,015 per QALY 
gained, although sensitivity analyses highlighted uncertainty around the 
results.

DOI: 10.2165/11589260-000000000-00000
PMID: 22077579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Popul Stud (Camb). 1969 Jul;23(2):225-46. doi:
10.1080/00324728.1969.10405279.

Expectancy of life at birth in 36 nationalities of the Soviet Union: 1958-60.

Mazur DP.

Abstract In the 36 nationalities of the Soviet Union the estimated expectancy of 
life at birth ranged from 50·0 years for Chechens to 71·1 years for Latvians 
with a median of about 67·5 years for Russians. In essence, the life table 
function e(0) was generated from the child-woman ratios with the use of 
intricate equations based on empirical data obtained from official Soviet 
publications. A modified version of Bourgeois-Pichat's model was used to 
estimate life expectancies at birth among the 36 nationalities on the basis of 
their crude death rates and the percentage of population aged 65 years and over. 
The 1959 U.S.S.R. Census of Population provided information pertaining to the 
older age groups. The crude death rates were estimated separately with the aid 
of second-degree polynomials fitted to the crude demographic measures for 109 
administrative areas of the Soviet Union for 1960. Information about recent 
improvements in public health, as well as conjectural evaluations of economic 
advancement in recent years were examined and related to the past and present 
level of mortality among the Russian people and the remaining population of 
minorities.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1969.10405279
PMID: 22077607


928. Popul Stud (Camb). 1974 Nov;28(3):381-400. doi:
10.1080/00324728.1974.10405189.

Vital rates in India 1961-71 estimated from 1971 census data.

Adlakha A, Kirk D.

Abstract In the last decade the increase in the population of India, while, of 
course, very large, was smaller than predicted by official forecasts. With the 
use of recent census and sample registration data - in the absence of 
age-specific rates and adequate vital statistics - this paper provides estimates 
of fertility and mortality through the reverse-survival and forward-projection 
methods. Birth rates are estimated as 40·5-42, death rates as 18-20, and life 
expectancy at birth as 45-46 years. Mortality decline had been smaller than 
forecast but more than during any comparable period in the past, even though 
current mortality levels, particularly infant mortality, are still high. Males 
continue to have a longer life expectation than females, with a difference that 
has widened in the past decade. The decline of between seven and ten per cent in 
the crude birth rate is largely due to changes in marital fertility and to some 
extent to changes in age and marital composition. Because of greater decline in 
death rates than birth rates, the 1961-71 decade shows a higher rate of 
population growth than previous periods.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.1974.10405189
PMID: 22077733


929. BJU Int. 2012 Aug;110(3):353-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10751.x. Epub
 2011 Nov 11.

Cost-effectiveness of Prostate Health Index for prostate cancer detection.

Nichol MB(1), Wu J, Huang J, Denham D, Frencher SK, Jacobsen SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy, 
School of Pharmacy, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90007,USA. mnichol@usc.edu

OBJECTIVE: • To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of early prostate cancer 
detection with the Beckman Coulter Prostate Health Index (phi) (not currently 
available in the USA) adding to the serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test 
compared with the PSA test alone from the US societal perspective.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: • Phi was developed as a combination of PSA, free PSA, and 
a PSA precursor form [-2]proPSA to calculate the probability of prostate cancer 
and was used as an aid in distinguishing prostate cancer from benign prostatic 
conditions for men with a borderline PSA test (e.g. PSA 2-10 ng/mL or 4-10 
ng/mL) and non-suspicious digital rectal examination. • We constructed a Markov 
model with probabilistic sensitivity analysis to estimate expected costs and 
utilities of prostate cancer detection and consequent treatment for the annual 
prostate cancer screening in the male population aged 50-75 years old. • The 
transition probabilities, health state utilities and prostate cancer treatment 
costs were derived from the published literature. The diagnostic performance of 
phi was obtained from a multi-centre study. Diagnostic related costs were 
obtained from the 2009 Medicare Fee Schedule. • Cost-effectiveness was compared 
between the strategies of PSA test alone and PSA plus phi under two PSA 
thresholds (≥2 ng/mL and ≥4 ng/mL) to recommend a prostate biopsy.
RESULTS: • Over 25 annual screening cycles, the strategy of PSA plus phi 
dominated the PSA-only strategy using both thresholds of PSA ≥2 ng/mL and PSA ≥4 
ng/mL, and was estimated to save $1199 or $443, with an expected gain of 0.08 or 
0.03 quality adjusted life years, respectively. • The probabilities of PSA plus 
phi being cost effective were approximately 77-70% or 78-71% at a range of 
$0-$200,000 willingness to pay using PSA thresholds ≥2 ng/mL and ≥4 ng/mL, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: • The strategy PSA plus phi may be an important strategy for 
prostate cancer detection at both thresholds of PSA ≥2 ng/mL and PSA ≥4 ng/mL to 
recommend a prostate biopsy compared with using PSA alone.

© 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10751.x
PMID: 22077934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Lancet. 2011 Nov 12;378(9804):1684-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61256-7.

Reporting quality of life in clinical trials: a CONSORT extension.

Calvert M(1), Blazeby J, Revicki D, Moher D, Brundage M.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Population Science, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61256-7
PMID: 22078674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. BMC Vet Res. 2011 Nov 11;7:70. doi: 10.1186/1746-6148-7-70.

Modelling Marek's disease virus (MDV) infection: parameter estimates for 
mortality rate and infectiousness.

Atkins KE(1), Read AF, Savill NJ, Renz KG, Walkden-Brown SW, Woolhouse ME.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Infectious Diseases, University Of Edinburgh, West Mains Road, 
Edinburgh, UK. . katherine.atkins@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: Marek's disease virus (MDV) is an economically important oncogenic 
herpesvirus of poultry. Since the 1960s, increasingly virulent strains have 
caused continued poultry industry production losses worldwide. To understand the 
mechanisms of this virulence evolution and to evaluate the epidemiological 
consequences of putative control strategies, it is imperative to understand how 
virulence is defined and how this correlates with host mortality and 
infectiousness during MDV infection. We present a mathematical approach to 
quantify key epidemiological parameters. Host lifespan, virus latent periods and 
host viral shedding rates were estimated for unvaccinated and vaccinated birds, 
infected with one of three MDV strains. The strains had previously been 
pathotyped to assign virulence scores according to pathogenicity of strains in 
hosts.
RESULTS: Our analyses show that strains of higher virulence have a higher viral 
shedding rate, and more rapidly kill hosts. Vaccination enhances host life 
expectancy but does not significantly reduce the shedding rate of the virus. 
While the primary latent period of the virus does not vary with challenge strain 
nor vaccine treatment of host, the time until the maximum viral shedding rate is 
increased with vaccination.
CONCLUSIONS: Our approach provides the tools necessary for a formal analysis of 
the evolution of virulence in MDV, and potentially simpler and cheaper 
approaches to comparing the virulence of MDV strains.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-6148-7-70
PMCID: PMC3226581
PMID: 22078942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Curr Biol. 2011 Nov 22;21(22):1942-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2011.10.016. Epub
2011  Nov 10.

Distinct cellular mechanisms of blood vessel fusion in the zebrafish embryo.

Herwig L(1), Blum Y, Krudewig A, Ellertsdottir E, Lenard A, Belting HG, Affolter 
M.

Author information:
(1)Biozentrum der Universität Basel, Klingelbergstrasse 70, CH-4056 Basel, 
Switzerland.

Although many of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of angiogenesis have been 
intensely studied [1], little is known about the processes that underlie 
vascular anastomosis. We have generated transgenic fish lines expressing an 
EGFP-tagged version of the junctional protein zona occludens 1 (ZO1) to 
visualize individual cell behaviors that occur during vessel fusion and lumen 
formation in vivo. These life observations show that endothelial cells (ECs) use 
two distinct morphogenetic mechanisms, cell membrane invagination and cord 
hollowing to generate different types of vascular tubes. During initial steps of 
anastomosis, cell junctions that have formed at the initial site of cell 
contacts expand into rings, generating a cellular interface of apical membrane 
compartments, as defined by the localization of the apical marker podocalyxin-2 
(Pdxl2). During the cord hollowing process, these apical membrane compartments 
are brought together via cell rearrangements and extensive junctional 
remodeling, resulting in lumen coalescence and formation of a multicellular 
tube. Vessel fusion by membrane invagination occurs adjacent to a preexisting 
lumen in a proximal to distal direction and is blood-flow dependent. Here, the 
invaginating inner cell membrane undergoes concomitant apicobasal polarization 
and the vascular lumen is formed by the extension of a transcellular lumen 
through the EC, which forms a unicellular or seamless tube.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2011.10.016
PMID: 22079115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2012 May 1;83(1):22-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2011.05.076. Epub 2011 Nov 11.

Biochemical control with radiotherapy improves overall survival in intermediate 
and high-risk prostate cancer patients who have an estimated 10-year overall 
survival of >90%.

Herbert C(1), Liu M, Tyldesley S, Morris WJ, Joffres M, Khaira M, Kwan W, 
Moiseenko V, Pickles T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver 
Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada. cherbert@bccancer.bc.ca

PURPOSE: To identify subgroups of patients with carcinoma of the prostate 
treated with radical radiotherapy that have improved overall survival when 
disease is biochemically controlled.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A cohort of 1,060 prostate cancer patients treated with 
radical radiotherapy was divided into nine subgroups based on National 
Comprehensive Cancer Network risk category and estimated 10-year overall 
survival (eOS 10y) derived from the age adjusted Charlson Comorbidity Index. 
Patients with and without biochemical control were compared with respect to 
overall survival. Actuarial estimates of overall survival were calculated using 
the Kaplan-Meier method. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards 
models were used for analysis of overall survival.
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 125 months (range, 51-176 months). Only the 
subgroups with high or intermediate risk disease and an eOS 10y of >90% had a 
statistically significantly improved overall survival when prostate cancer was 
biochemically controlled. In all other groups, biochemical control made no 
significant difference to overall survival. In the subgroup with high-risk 
disease and eOS 10y >90%, actuarial overall survival was 86.3% (95% confidence 
interval [CI] 78.5%-94.1%) and 62.1% (95% CI 52.9%-71.3%) for patients with 
biochemical control and biochemical relapse respectively (p = 0.002). In the 
intermediate risk group with eOS >90%, actuarial overall survival was 95.3% (95% 
CI 89.0%-100%) and 79.8% (95% CI 68.0%-91.6%) for biochemically controlled and 
biochemically relapsed patients (p = 0.033). On multivariate analysis, National 
Comprehensive Cancer Network risk group (p = 0.005), biochemical control (p = 
0.033) and eOS 10y (p < 0.001) were statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Biochemical control translates into improved overall survival in 
patients with high or intermediate risk disease and an estimated 10-year overall 
survival of >90%.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2011.05.076
PMID: 22079724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2012 Jan;43(1):1-3. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2011.10.016.  Epub 2011 Nov 12.

Hearts and minds.

Naylor AR(1).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Vascular Surgery at Leicester Royal Infirmary, Clinical 
Sciences Building, Leicester LE2 7LX, UK. ross.naylor@uhl-tr.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2012 May;43(5):613.

The American Heart Association liberalised guidelines for carotid stenting (CAS) 
into average risk patients based on the following interpretations and 
assumptions; (i) CAS doubles the risk of procedural stroke; (ii) CEA doubles the 
risk of procedural myocardial infarction (MI); (iii) peri-operative MI 
significantly reduces long-term survival; (iv) poorer long-term survival is 
attributable to a greater proportion of CEA patients dying after their 
peri-operative MI. (v) reduced survival in CEA patients suffering a 
peri-operative MI offsets any benefit conferred by the lower procedural stroke 
risk so that; (vi) CAS is considered equivalent to CEA and may even be safer in 
those considered high risk for procedural MI. However, this much publicised 
rationale is flawed by the simple fact that the poorer survival rates observed 
in CREST were not attributable to a greater proportion of CEA patients dying 
following their procedural MI. In fact, a relatively higher proportion of CAS 
patients suffering a peri-operative MI died during follow-up. This observation 
changes how the literature should be interpreted. The clinical reality is that 
up to 10% of patients will suffer a stroke within seven days of their index TIA 
and the benefits of intervening in the hyperacute period after onset of symptoms 
(ie offering greater stroke prevention) will far outweigh any potential 
consequences of peri-operative MI and reduced life expectancy. Peri-operative MI 
should inform, but not drive the current debate. More importantly, it should not 
deflect attention away from the most important management priority; the 
prevention of stroke. This is one situation where the heart should not rule the 
head!

Copyright © 2011 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2011.10.016
PMID: 22080046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Free Radic Biol Med. 2012 Feb 1;52(3):539-555. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.10.445. Epub 2011 Oct 24.

The redox stress hypothesis of aging.

Sohal RS(1), Orr WC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA. Electronic address: 
sohal@usc.edu.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275, USA.

The main objective of this review is to examine the role of endogenous reactive 
oxygen/nitrogen species (ROS) in the aging process. Until relatively recently, 
ROS were considered to be potentially toxic by-products of aerobic metabolism, 
which, if not eliminated, may inflict structural damage on various 
macromolecules. Accrual of such damage over time was postulated to be 
responsible for the physiological deterioration in the postreproductive phase of 
life and eventually the death of the organism. This "structural damage-based 
oxidative stress" hypothesis has received support from the age-associated 
increases in the rate of ROS production and the steady-state amounts of oxidized 
macromolecules; however, there are increasing indications that structural damage 
alone is insufficient to satisfactorily explain the age-associated functional 
losses. The level of oxidative damage accrued during aging often does not match 
the magnitude of functional losses. Although experimental augmentation of 
antioxidant defenses tends to enhance resistance to induced oxidative stress, 
such manipulations are generally ineffective in the extension of life span of 
long-lived strains of animals. More recently, in a major conceptual shift, ROS 
have been found to be physiologically vital for signal transduction, gene 
regulation, and redox regulation, among others, implying that their complete 
elimination would be harmful. An alternative notion, advocated here, termed the 
"redox stress hypothesis," proposes that aging-associated functional losses are 
primarily caused by a progressive pro-oxidizing shift in the redox state of the 
cells, which leads to the overoxidation of redox-sensitive protein thiols and 
the consequent disruption of the redox-regulated signaling mechanisms.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.10.445
PMCID: PMC3267846
PMID: 22080087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Curr Opin Urol. 2012 Jan;22(1):1-6. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32834d8e74.

Can noninvasive evaluation of benign prostatic obstruction be optimized?

Løvvik A(1), Yaqub S, Oustad H, Sand TE, Nitti VW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Akershus University Hospital, Lorenskog, Norway. 
anja.lovvik@ahus.no

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Lower urinary tract symptoms caused by benign prostatic 
obstruction is a common disorder and the incidence is increasing with higher 
life expectancy. The present article focuses on recently published methods to 
diagnose bladder outlet obstruction and differ between benign obstruction and 
prostate cancer in lower urinary tract symptoms patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several new ultrasound imaging techniques have been reported. 
Resistive index in the prostatic artery, detrusor wall thickness and prostatic 
urethral angle all may correlate with obstruction, but more studies are needed 
to establish their place in clinical practice. Intravesical prostatic protrusion 
can predict obstruction and may be considered for clinical use. Near infrared 
spectroscopy has to be studied more to clarify its usefulness in clinical 
practice. There has been a rapid development of novel serum and urine-based 
biomarkers for prostate cancer in the last decade to differentiate between 
benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer. The recent studies with the 
use of prostate-specific antigen and urine prostate cancer gene 3 look 
promising.
SUMMARY: Among promising new techniques in the investigation of prostatic 
obstruction, intravesical prostatic protrusion may be considered for clinical 
use. None of the methods described in recent studies can fully replace 
urodynamic investigation. Novel biomarkers in the future may help the clinicians 
to differentiate benign prostatic hyperplasia from prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32834d8e74
PMID: 22080874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Eur J Phys Rehabil Med. 2011 Dec;47(4):639-50. Epub 2011 Nov 11.

Management of detrusor external sphincter dyssynergia in neurogenic bladder.

Mahfouz W(1), Corcos J.

Author information:
(1)Jewish General Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) affects 11.5 to 53.4 individuals per million of the 
population in developed countries each year. SCI is caused by trauma, although 
it can also result from myelopathy, myelitis, vascular disease or arteriovenous 
malformations and multiple sclerosis. Patients with complete lesions of the 
spinal cord between spinal cord level T6 and S2, after they recover from spinal 
shock, generally exhibit involuntary bladder contractions without sensation, 
smooth sphincter synergy, but with detrusor striated sphincter dyssynergia 
(DESD). Those with lesions above spinal cord level T6 may experience, in 
addition, smooth sphincter dyssynergia and autonomic hyperreflexia. DESD is a 
debilitating problem in patients with SCI. It carries a high risk of 
complications, and even life expectancy can be affected. Nearly half of the 
patients with untreated DESD will develop deleterious urologic complications, 
due to high intravesical pressures, resulting in urolithiasis, urinary tract 
infection (UTI), vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), hydronephrosis, obstructive 
uropathy, and renal failure. The mainstay of treatment is the use of 
antimuscarinics and catheterization, but in those for whom this is not possible 
external sphincterotomy has been a last resort option. External sphincterotomy 
is associated with significant risks, including haemorrhage; erectile 
dysfunction and the possibility of redo procedures. Over the last decade 
alternatives have been investigated, such as urethral stents and 
intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection. In this review, we will cover 
neurogenic DESD, with emphasis on definition, classifications, diagnosis and 
different therapeutic options available.

PMID: 22081065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. BJOG. 2012 Feb;119(3):366-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2011.03031.x. Epub
2011  Nov 15.

False-positive pregnancy tests following enterocystoplasty.

Nakhal RS(1), Wood D, Woodhouse C, Creighton SM.

Author information:
(1)Elizabeth Garrett Anderson UCL Institute of Women's Health, University 
College London Hospitals, London, UK. rolanakhal@homail.com

People with major congenital urological or neurological malformations invariably 
require bladder reconstruction with enterocystoplasty in early childhood. The 
improvement of the surgical management of these children has reflected 
significantly on their life expectancy. As a result, more young people with 
enterocystoplasty are being transitioned to adolescent clinics where they 
receive the usual counselling about sexual health and pregnancy risks. However, 
the possibility of false-positive urinary pregnancy tests in these young women 
remains an overlooked but essential message. The lack of awareness about this 
fact can result in significant patient anxiety and the potential for unnecessary 
interventions as exemplified by the three cases we have encountered.

© 2011 The Authors BJOG An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology © 
2011 RCOG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2011.03031.x
PMID: 22082173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. J Urol. 2011 Jan;185(1):141-2. doi: 10.1016/S0022-5347(11)60116-X.

Re: years of potential life lost caused by prostate cancer deaths in the United 
States-projection from 2004 through 2050.

Walsh PC.

Comment on
    Cancer Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;34(4):368-72.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5347(11)60116-X
PMID: 22082920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Lifetime Data Anal. 2012 Apr;18(2):139-56. doi: 10.1007/s10985-011-9207-z.
Epub  2011 Nov 15.

A parametric model fitting time to first event for overdispersed data: 
application to time to relapse in multiple sclerosis.

Siri P(1), Henninger E, Sormani MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics (DIMAT), Polytechnic of Turin, Corso Duca degli 
Abruzzi 24, 10129, Torino, Italy.

In this article, we propose a parametric model for the distribution of time to 
first event when events are overdispersed and can be properly fitted by a 
Negative Binomial distribution. This is a very common situation in medical 
statistics, when the occurrence of events is summarized as a count for each 
patient and the simple Poisson model is not adequate to account for 
overdispersion of data. In this situation, studying the time of occurrence of 
the first event can be of interest. From the Negative Binomial distribution of 
counts, we derive a new parametric model for time to first event and apply it to 
fit the distribution of time to first relapse in multiple sclerosis (MS). We 
develop the regression model with methods for covariate estimation. We show 
that, as the Negative Binomial model properly fits relapse counts data, this new 
model matches quite perfectly the distribution of time to first relapse, as 
tested in two large datasets of MS patients. Finally we compare its performance, 
when fitting time to first relapse in MS, with other models widely used in 
survival analysis (the semiparametric Cox model and the parametric exponential, 
Weibull, log-logistic and log-normal models).

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-011-9207-z
PMID: 22083507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Lancet. 2011 Nov 12;378(9804):1689-90. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(11)61726-1.

New Zealand's bold strategy for reducing health disparities.

Alcorn T.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(11)61726-1
PMID: 22084822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Med Econ. 2012;15(2):253-60. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.641043. Epub 2011
Dec  5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of valsartan versus losartan and the effect of 
switching.

Baker TM(1), Goh J, Johnston A, Falvey H, Brede Y, Brown RE.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.

Erratum in
    J Med Econ. 2012;15(3):610.

OBJECTIVES: Losartan will shortly become generic, and this may encourage 
switching to the generic drug. However, valsartan was shown in a meta-analysis 
to be statistically superior in lowering blood pressure (BP) to losartan. This 
paper examines the costs of treatment with these two drugs and the potential 
consequences of switching established valsartan patients to generic losartan.
METHODS: A US payer cost-effectiveness model was developed incorporating the 
risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events related to systolic blood pressure 
(SBP) control comparing valsartan to continual losartan and switching from 
valsartan to generic losartan. The model, based upon a meta-analysis by Nixon et 
al. and Framingham equations, included first CVD event costs calculated from US 
administrative data sets and utility values from published sources. The modeled 
outcomes were number of CVD events, costs and incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and life-year (LY).
RESULTS: Fewer patients had fatal and non-fatal CVD events with valsartan 
therapy compared with continual losartan and with patients switched from 
valsartan to generic losartan. The base-case model results indicated that 
continued treatment with valsartan had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $27,268 and $25,460 per life year gained, and $32,313 and $30,170 per QALY 
gained, relative to continual losartan and switching treatments, respectively. 
Sensitivity analyses found that patient discontinuation post-switching was a 
sensitive parameter. Including efficacy offsets with lowered adherence or 
discontinuation resulted in more favorable ratios for valsartan compared to 
switching therapy.
LIMITATIONS: The model does not evaluate post-primary CVD events and considers 
change in SBP from baseline level as the sole predictor of CVD risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Valsartan appears to be cost-effective compared to switching to 
generic losartan and switching to the generic drug does not support a cost 
offset argument over the longer term. Physicians should continue to consider the 
needs of individual patient and not cost offsets.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.641043
PMID: 22084957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Addiction. 2012 Apr;107(4):801-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2011.03718.x.
Epub  2012 Jan 23.

Would vaccination against nicotine be a cost-effective way to prevent smoking 
uptake in adolescents?

Gartner CE(1), Barendregt JJ, Wallace A, Hall WD.

Author information:
(1)UQ Centre for Clinical Research, The University of Queensland, Herston, 
Brisbane, Australia. c.gartner@uq.edu.au

AIMS: We used epidemiological modelling to assess whether nicotine vaccines 
would be a cost-effective way of preventing smoking uptake in adolescents.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS AND MEASUREMENTS: We built an epidemiological 
model using Australian data on age-specific smoking prevalence; smoking 
cessation and relapse rates; life-time sex-specific disability-adjusted life 
years lived for cohorts of 100,000 smokers and non-smokers; government data on 
the costs of delivering a vaccination programme by general practitioners; and a 
range of plausible and optimistic estimates of vaccine cost, efficacy and immune 
response rates based on clinical trial results. We first estimated the smoking 
uptake rates for Australians aged 12-19 years. We then used these estimates to 
predict the expected smoking prevalence in a birth cohort aged 12 in 2003 by age 
20 under (i) current policy and (ii) different vaccination scenarios that varied 
in cost, initial vaccination uptake, yearly re-vaccination rates, efficacy and a 
favourable vaccine immune response rate.
FINDINGS: Under the most optimistic assumptions, the cost to avert a smoker at 
age 20 was $44,431 [95% confidence interval (CI) $40,023-49,250]. This increased 
to $296,019 (95% CI $252,307-$355,930) under more plausible scenarios. The 
vaccine programme was not cost-effective under any scenario.
CONCLUSIONS: A preventive nicotine vaccination programme is unlikely to be 
cost-effective. The total cost of a universal vaccination programme would be 
high and its impact on population smoking prevalence negligible. For these 
reasons, such a programme is unlikely to be publicly funded in Australia or any 
other developed country.

© 2011 The Authors, Addiction © 2011 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2011.03718.x
PMID: 22084967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2011;155(30-31):A3569.

[Tailored therapy for rheumatic disease within reach].

[Article in Dutch]

van Baarsen LG(1), Lodde BM, Tak PP.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum, afd. Klinische Immunologie en Reumatologie, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. p.p.tak@amc.uva.nl

Personalised medicine has the potential to increase therapeutic effectiveness, 
reduce side effects and lower cost. This approach has recently taken off in 
oncology where different malignancies may be treated with specific drugs based 
on genetic biomarkers or other tumour characteristics. This type of tailored 
therapy could also be developed for immune-mediated inflammatory disease, for 
which rheumatoid arthritis (RA) may serve as a prototype. While novel treatments 
are able to halt or even prevent disease progression, not all RA patients 
respond, and stratification of patient groups is needed. The identification of 
biomarkers predictive of the clinical response to specific treatments in subsets 
of patients may soon become reality in a variety of diseases.

PMID: 22085519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Free Radic Biol Med. 2012 Jan 15;52(2):281-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.10.484. Epub 2011 Oct 31.

The role of sirtuins in modulating redox stressors.

Webster BR(1), Lu Z, Sack MN, Scott I.

Author information:
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

For much of the time since their discovery, the sirtuin family of deacetylase 
enzymes has been associated with extension of life span. This 
longevity-promoting capacity in numerous model systems has enabled the sirtuins 
to gain "celebrity status" in the field of aging research. However, the 
mechanisms underpinning these changes remain incompletely defined. A general 
phenotype long associated with aging is the dysregulation of biological systems, 
which partly occurs via the accumulation of damage over time. One of the major 
sources of this damage is oxidative stress, which can harm both biological 
structures and the mechanisms with which they are repaired. It is now becoming 
clear that the beneficial life-span effects of sirtuins, along with many of 
their other functions, are closely linked to their ability to regulate systems 
that control the redox environment. Here we investigate the links between 
sirtuins and their oxidative/redox environment and review the control mechanisms 
that are regulated by the activity of sirtuin deacetylase proteins.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.10.484
PMCID: PMC3253188
PMID: 22085655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Am J Sports Med. 2012 Feb;40(2):307-14. doi: 10.1177/0363546511426088. Epub
2011  Nov 15.

A cost-effectiveness analysis comparing 3 anterior cruciate ligament graft 
types: bone-patellar tendon-bone autograft, hamstring autograft, and allograft.

Genuario JW(1), Faucett SC, Boublik M, Schlegel TF.

Author information:
(1)Steadman Hawkins Clinic Denver, Greenwood Village, Colorado, USA. 
genuarioj@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction, despite being one 
of the most common surgical interventions, is also one of the least agreed upon 
surgeries when it comes to optimum graft choice. Three graft choices stand among 
the most widely used in this procedure: (1) bone-patellar tendon-bone autograft 
(BPTB), (2) quadruple hamstring tendon autograft (HS), and (3) allograft.
HYPOTHESIS: Bone-patellar tendon-bone ACL reconstruction is the most 
cost-effective method of ACL reconstruction.
STUDY DESIGN: Economic and decision analysis; Level of evidence, 2.
METHODS: A simplified decision tree model was created with theoretical patients 
assigned equally to 1 of 3 ACL reconstruction cohorts based on graft type. These 
treatment arms were further divided into outcome arms based on probabilities 
from the literature. The terminal outcomes were assigned a health state/utility 
score and a societal cost. Utilities were calculated from real clinic patients 
via the time trade-off questionnaire. Costs were literature based. An 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $50 000/quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) was used as the threshold for cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Hamstring tendon autograft was the least costly ($5375/surgery) and 
most effective (0.912) graft choice, dominating both BPTB and allograft 
reconstructions. Allograft was both the most costly and least effective strategy 
for the average patient undergoing ACL reconstruction. However, if baseline 
costs of BPTB could be reduced (by $500) or the effectiveness increased 
(anterior knee pain <15% or postoperative instability <7%), then BPTB became an 
incrementally cost-effective choice. In addition, if the effectiveness of HS 
could be reduced (instability >29% or revision rates >7%), then BPTB also became 
incrementally cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: This model suggests that hamstring autograft ACL reconstruction is 
the most cost-effective method of surgery for the average patient with ACL 
deficiency. However, specific clinical scenarios that change postoperative 
probabilities of the different complications may sway surgeons to choose either 
allografts or BPTB. Cost-effectiveness analysis is not intended to replace 
individual clinician judgment but rather is intended to examine both the 
effectiveness and costs associated with theoretical groups undergoing specific 
multifactorial decisions.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546511426088
PMID: 22085728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Appl Biomech. 2012 Aug;28(4):420-30. doi: 10.1123/jab.28.4.420. Epub 2011
Nov  14.

Validity of the top-down approach of inverse dynamics analysis in fast and large 
rotational trunk movements.

Iino Y(1), Kojima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

This study investigated the validity of the top-down approach of inverse 
dynamics analysis in fast and large rotational movements of the trunk about 
three orthogonal axes of the pelvis for nine male collegiate students. The 
maximum angles of the upper trunk relative to the pelvis were approximately 47°, 
49°, 32°, and 55° for lateral bending, flexion, extension, and axial rotation, 
respectively, with maximum angular velocities of 209°/s, 201°/s, 145°/s, and 
288°/s, respectively. The pelvic moments about the axes during the movements 
were determined using the top-down and bottom-up approaches of inverse dynamics 
and compared between the two approaches. Three body segment inertial parameter 
sets were estimated using anthropometric data sets (Ae et al., Biomechanism 11, 
1992; De Leva, J Biomech, 1996; Dumas et al., J Biomech, 2007). The 
root-mean-square errors of the moments and the absolute errors of the peaks of 
the moments were generally smaller than 10 N·m. The results suggest that the 
pelvic moment in motions involving fast and large trunk movements can be 
determined with a certain level of validity using the top-down approach in which 
the trunk is modeled as two or three rigid-link segments.

DOI: 10.1123/jab.28.4.420
PMID: 22085794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Skeletal Radiol. 2012 Apr;41(4):459-64. doi: 10.1007/s00256-011-1300-6. Epub
 2011 Nov 16.

Intrasomatic injection of corticosteroid followed by vertebroplasty increases 
early pain relief rather than vertebroplasty alone in vertebral bone neoplasms: 
preliminary experience.

Basile A(1), Masala S, Banna G, Cotta E, Cavalli M, Fiumara P, Di Raimondo F, 
Mundo E, Scavone G, Granata A, Carrafiello G, Tsetis D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Ospedale Garibaldi 
Centro, Piazza Santa Maria del Gesù, Via Trieste 14, 95127, Catania, Italy. 
antodoc@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: In this prospective multicenter study, we evaluate the effectiveness of 
corticosteroid plus vertebroplasty rather than vertebroplasty alone in the 
analgesic treatment of single-level vertebral neoplasms or pathological 
fractures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From January 2009 to February 2011, we prospectively 
enrolled 20 consecutive patients (11 women, nine men; age range 46-78 years; 
mean age 65.1 years) with single-level vertebral neoplasm or pathological 
fractures totally or partially refractory to analgesic treatment, with 
indication to vertebroplasty. Institutional review board approval and informed 
consent were obtained. The inclusion criteria for the study were the presence of 
a single-level pathological fracture not extended to the posterior wall or 
symptomatic localization of primary or secondary neoplasms, visual analogue 
score (VAS) ≥5, and life expectancy more than 3 months. Exclusion criteria where 
all contraindications either to corticosteroid injection included allergy (local 
sepsis, bacteremia, allergy) or vertebroplasty included coagulopathy, etc. The 
population was randomly divided into two groups: in group A, patients underwent 
intrasomatic injections of 4 mg/ml of dexamethasone phosphate followed by a 
cement injection; patients in group B underwent standard vertebroplasty. VAS 
score was evaluated and compared between both groups of patients at 6 h, 24 h, 
48 h, 7 days, 30 days, and 3 months after the intervention plus last available 
follow-up. Statistical analyses were performed by application of the t test.
RESULTS: Technical success was achieved in all cases. In group A, we treated six 
male and six female patients (age range 46-73 years, average 60.2 years). 
Pre-intervention VAS in group A ranged between 7 and 10 points, average 8 
points. In group B, we treated three male and five female patients (age range 
52-78 years, average 67.3 years). Pre-intervention VAS score in group B ranged 
between 7 and 9 points, with an average 8 points. Patients in group A in respect 
to patients in group B had a higher reduction in VAS, with a difference of 25.4% 
(VAS reduction average 5.5 versus 4.1) at 6 h post-intervention, 24.5% (VAS 
average 5.7 versus 4.3) at 24 h, 25% (VAS average 6 versus 4.5) at 48 h, 23% 
(VAS average 6.5 versus 5) at 7 days, 16.4% (VAS average 6.7 versus 5.6) at 30 
days, 8.9% (VAS average 6.7 versus 6, .1) at 3 months. The last available 
follow-up ranged from 3 to 24 months in group A and from 5 to 20 months in group 
B.
CONCLUSIONS: In our preliminary experience, pre-vertebroplasty injection of 
intrasomatic corticosteroid in comparison to vertebroplasty alone is able to 
increase the early pain relief of the procedure.

DOI: 10.1007/s00256-011-1300-6
PMID: 22086119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Lifetime Data Anal. 2012 Apr;18(2):195-214. doi: 10.1007/s10985-011-9208-y.
Epub  2011 Nov 16.

Comparing quantile residual life functions by confidence bands.

Franco-Pereira AM(1), Lillo RE, Romo J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Operational Research, Universidad de Vigo, 
36310, Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain. alba.franco@uvigo.es

In this article we present a nonparametric method for constructing confidence 
bands for the difference of two quantile residual life (qrl) functions. These 
bands provide evidence for two random variables ordering with respect to the qrl 
order. The comparison of qrl functions is of importance, specially in the 
treatment of cancer when there exists a possibility of benefiting from a new 
secondary therapy. A qrl function is the quantile of the remaining life of a 
surviving subject, as it varies with time. We show the applicability of this 
approach in Medicine and Ecology. A simulation study has been carried out to 
evaluate and illustrate the performance and the consistency of this new 
methodology.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-011-9208-y
PMID: 22086215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Blood Purif. 2011;32(4):331-40. doi: 10.1159/000333826. Epub 2011 Nov 11.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of polymyxin-B immobilized fiber column and 
conventional medical therapy in the management of abdominal septic shock in 
Italy.

Berto P(1), Ronco C, Cruz D, Melotti RM, Antonelli M.

Author information:
(1)PBE Consulting, Verona, Italy. patrizia.berto@ pbe.it

INTRODUCTION: Severe abdominal sepsis and septic shock are common problems in 
intensive care units (ICUs), and carry high mortality. The purpose of this 
economic analysis was to determine the cost-effectiveness of polymyxin B 
immobilized fiber column (PMX-F) plus conventional therapy (CT) (PMX-F-CT) 
versus CT alone for patients with severe sepsis/septic shock of abdominal 
origin, in the perspective of the Italian hospital.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) based on 
data of clinical efficacy and consumption of resources collected alongside an 
