
Viral connectors are key components of the life cycle of bacteriophages and 
other viral systems. They participate in procapsid assembly, and they are 
instrumental in DNA packaging and release. Connector proteins build hollow 
cylindrical dodecamers that show an overall morphological similarity among 
different viral systems including a remarkable conserved domain in the central 
part of the protein. These domains build the wall of the channel forming a 24 
α-helices stretch together with an α-β extension. A similar α-helical 
arrangement is found in other unspecific DNA translocating complexes, suggesting 
the existence of a common structural signature for channel formation. 
Preliminary experiments suggest that connectors might be ideal candidates as 
nanopores for synthetic applications in nanotechnology.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.copbio.2011.11.029
PMID: 22186221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Autophagy. 2012 Jan;8(1):144-6. doi: 10.4161/auto.8.1.18722. Epub 2012 Jan
1.

Autophagy links lipid metabolism to longevity in C. elegans.

Lapierre LR(1), Meléndez A, Hansen M.

Author information:
(1)Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, Del E. Webb Neuroscience, Aging 
and Stem Cell Research Center, Program of Development and Aging, La Jolla, CA, 
USA.

The cellular recycling process of autophagy is emerging as a central player in 
many of the conserved longevity pathways in C. elegans, but the underlying 
mechanisms that link autophagy and life span remain unclear. In a recent study, 
we provided evidence to suggest that autophagy modulates aging through an effect 
on lipid homeostasis. Specifically, we identified a role for autophagy in a 
longevity model in which germline removal in C. elegans extends life span. 
Life-span extension in these animals is achieved, at least in part, through 
increased expression of the lipase LIPL-4. We found that autophagy and 
LIPL-4-dependent lipolysis are both upregulated in germline-less animals and 
work interdependently to prolong life span. While these genetic results lend 
further support to a growing link between autophagy and lipid metabolism, our 
findings are the first to suggest a possible molecular mechanism by which 
autophagy modulates organismal aging.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.8.1.18722
PMCID: PMC3335999
PMID: 22186228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. JAMA. 2011 Dec 21;306(23):2588-93. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1821.

Association between chlorthalidone treatment of systolic hypertension and 
long-term survival.

Kostis JB(1), Cabrera J, Cheng JQ, Cosgrove NM, Deng Y, Pressel SL, Davis BR.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Institute, UMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, One 
Robert Wood Johnson Place, New Brunswick, NJ 08903-0019, USA. kostis@umdnj.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2012 Apr 4;307(13):1368; author reply 1368-9.
    Evid Based Med. 2012 Dec;17(6):183-4.

CONTEXT: In the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) trial, 
conducted between 1985 and 1990, antihypertensive therapy with 
chlorthalidone-based stepped-care therapy resulted in a lower rate of 
cardiovascular events than placebo but effects on mortality were not 
significant.
OBJECTIVE: To study the gain in life expectancy of participants randomized to 
active therapy at the 22-year follow-up.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A National Death Index ascertainment of death 
in the long-term follow-up of a randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial 
(SHEP) of patients aged 60 years or older with isolated systolic hypertension. 
Recruitment was between March 1, 1985, and January 15, 1988. After the end of a 
4.5-year randomized phase of the SHEP trial, all participants were advised to 
receive active therapy. The time interval between the beginning of recruitment 
and the ascertainment of death by National Death Index (December 31, 2006) was 
approximately 22 years (21 years 10 months).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cardiovascular death and all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: At the 22-year follow-up, life expectancy gain, expressed as the area 
between active (n = 2365) and placebo (n = 2371) survival curves, was 105 days 
(95% CI, -39 to 242; P = .07) for all-cause mortality and 158 days (95% CI, 
36-287; P = .009) for cardiovascular death. Each month of active treatment was 
therefore associated with approximately 1 day extension in life expectancy. The 
active treatment group had higher survival free from cardiovascular death vs the 
placebo group (hazard ratio [HR], 0.89; 95% CI, 0.80-0.99; P = .03) but similar 
survival for all-cause mortality (HR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.90-1.04; P = .42). There 
were 1416 deaths (59.9%) in the active treatment group and 1435 deaths (60.5%) 
in the placebo group (log-rank P = .38, Wilcoxon P = .24). Cardiovascular death 
was lower in the active treatment group (669 deaths [28.3%]) vs the placebo 
group (735 deaths [31.0%]; log-rank P = .03, Wilcoxon P = .02). Time to 70th 
percentile survival was 0.56 years (95% CI, -0.14 to 1.23) longer in the active 
treatment group vs the placebo group (11.53 vs 10.98 years; P = .03) for 
all-cause mortality and 1.41 years (95% CI, 0.34-2.61; 17.81 vs 16.39 years; P = 
.01) for survival free from cardiovascular death.
CONCLUSION: In the SHEP trial, treatment of isolated systolic hypertension with 
chlorthalidone stepped-care therapy for 4.5 years was associated with longer 
life expectancy at 22 years of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1821
PMID: 22187278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Health Care Manag Sci. 2012 Jun;15(2):103-7. doi: 10.1007/s10729-011-9186-3.
 Epub 2011 Dec 21.

Presenting Germany's drug pricing rule as a cost-per-QALY rule.

Gandjour A(1).

Author information:
(1)Frankfurt School of Finance & Management, Frankfurt, Germany. 
a.gandjour@fs.de

In Germany, the Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) 
makes recommendations for ceiling prices of drugs based on an evaluation of the 
relationship between costs and effectiveness. To set ceiling prices, IQWiG uses 
the following decision rule: the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a new 
drug compared with the next effective intervention should not be higher than 
that of the next effective intervention compared to its comparator. The purpose 
of this paper is to show that IQWiG's decision rule can be presented as a 
cost-per-QALY rule by using equity-weighted QALYs. This transformation shows 
where both rules share commonalities. Furthermore, it makes the underlying 
ethical implications of IQWiG's decision rule transparent and open to debate.

DOI: 10.1007/s10729-011-9186-3
PMID: 22187356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Dement Geriatr Cogn Dis Extra. 2011 Jan;1(1):418-28. doi: 10.1159/000333812.
 Epub 2011 Nov 18.

Costs of informal care for people suffering from dementia: evidence from a 
danish survey.

Jakobsen M(1), Poulsen PB, Reiche T, Nissen NP, Gundgaard J.

Author information:
(1)COWI A/S, Kongens Lyngby, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Around 70,000-80,000 Danes suffer from dementia. As average 
life expectancy increases, the number of people suffering from dementia is 
expected to increase in the future with informal care provided by family and 
friends becoming more important. The aim of this study was to estimate the time 
spent by family and friends on informal care of persons suffering from dementia 
in a Danish setting and calculate the economic implications.
METHODS: Information on informal care time was collected in a postal survey of 
members of the Danish Alzheimer's Association. Data from 469 informal caregivers 
were obtained corresponding to an adjusted response rate of 62%.
RESULTS: On a typical day, informal care time was 4.97-6.91 h for primary 
caregivers and 0.70-1.06 h for other caregivers. Using the proxy good method to 
value informal care, daily costs ranged between EUR 160 and 223 for primary 
caregivers and between EUR 23 and 34 for others.
CONCLUSION: Informal care delivered by family and friends is significant. The 
value of informal care constitutes an important part of the societal cost of 
dementia in Denmark.

DOI: 10.1159/000333812
PMCID: PMC3243641
PMID: 22187549


223. Rev Med Suisse. 2011 Nov 2;7(315):2154-5.

[Seven billion humans on Earth, what about afterwards?].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 22187786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Feb 1;30(2):87-101. doi: 
10.2165/11599370-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban versus enoxaparin for prevention of 
post-surgical venous thromboembolism from a U.S. payer's perspective.

Duran A(1), Sengupta N, Diamantopoulos A, Forster F, Kwong L, Lees M.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Major orthopaedic surgery, such as total hip replacement (THR) and 
total knee replacement (TKR), is associated with an increased risk of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE).
OBJECTIVE: Clinical trials have demonstrated the efficacy of rivaroxaban, a 
once-daily, orally administered Factor Xa inhibitor, for the prevention of VTE 
in patients undergoing THR or TKR. This analysis evaluated the cost 
effectiveness of rivaroxaban compared with enoxaparin, from a U.S. payer's 
perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to compare the costs and 
outcomes associated with rivaroxaban and enoxaparin for the prevention of VTE. 
The model replicated short-term clinical outcomes from the phase III RECORD 
trials. RECORD1 and RECORD2 compared rivaroxaban 10 mg daily (qd), given for 35 
days, with enoxaparin 40 mg qd, given for 35 days or 10 to 14 days, 
respectively, in patients undergoing THR. RECORD3 compared 10 mg of rivaroxaban 
qd for 10 to 14 days versus 40 mg of enoxaparin qd for 10 to 14 days in patients 
undergoing TKR. The decision-analytic model also included data on long-term 
complications and sequelae as captured in observational studies and databases. 
It also included direct year 2010 medical costs over 1-year and 5-year time 
horizons. A series of sensitivity analyses were performed to determine the 
impact of different factors on the results of the model. Results of the 
cost-effectiveness analysis were reported in terms of symptomatic VTE events 
avoided.
RESULTS: Rivaroxaban was associated with cost savings of $US 511.93 per patient 
and prevented an average of 0.0145 symptomatic VTE events per patient in the THR 
population, compared with enoxaparin. For a TKR population, 10 to 14 days of 
rivaroxaban prophylaxis was associated with cost savings of $US 465.74 and 
prevented an average 0.0193 symptomatic VTE events per patient. Sensitivity 
analysis suggested that the results of the model were robust, with cost savings 
ranging from $US 133.96-629.57 in the THR population and $US 293.01-848.68 in 
the TKR population, depending on the variables used. Sensitivity analysis also 
suggested that the economic profile of rivaroxaban is improved when the time 
horizon of the model is extended from 1 year to 5 years. A probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis confirmed the findings of baseline results, showing that 
rivaroxaban was less costly and more effective in all model simulations for both 
populations.
CONCLUSIONS: This decision-analytic model analysis, from the U.S. payer's 
perspective, concluded that rivaroxaban may be cost saving in both the THR and 
the TKR populations, when compared with enoxaparin in the U.S.

DOI: 10.2165/11599370-000000000-00000
PMID: 22187932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2012 Jul;21(4):477-84. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2011.01319.x. Epub 2011 Dec 20.

Predicting the need for end-of-life care for elderly cancer patients: findings 
from a Dutch regional cancer registry database.

Olden TE(1), Schols JM, Hamers JP, Van De Schans SA, Coebergh JW, 
Janssen-Heijnen ML.

Author information:
(1)Department for Palliative Care, Comprehensive Cancer Centre South, Eindhoven, 
the Netherlands. t.olden@ikz.nl

Over 80% of all deaths in the Netherlands concern people aged 65 years and 
older. Elderly patients who have been diagnosed with a life-limiting illness 
have many unmet healthcare needs in the last phase of their life. For this 
exploratory population-based study, data from the Eindhoven Cancer Registry were 
retrospectively analysed to determine possible trends in the number, patient 
characteristics, treatment and survival of patients aged 65 years and older 
newly diagnosed with stage IV cancer (n= 9028), a group of elderly in the 
palliative phase of cancer. During 1996-2006 a substantial increase of 81% in 
the number of elderly patients newly diagnosed with cancer stage IV was found. 
Over 70% of these patients received primary cancer treatment, irrespective of 
serious comorbidity (in 61% of them) and a short life expectancy (most died 
within 12 months except for those with cancer of the prostate). The vast 
increase in the number of the elderly who need palliative care contributes to 
awareness among healthcare professionals about future demand. They enable 
anticipation and planning sufficient end-of-life care capacity, but also to 
develop care planning programmes for these older palliative cancer patients. 
Research needs to be done on aspects of the symptom burden, role of palliative 
treatment, psychological, social and spiritual needs and end-of-life 
decision-making. Registration of additional data on these aspects of 
(palliative) care is suggested.

© 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2011.01319.x
PMID: 22188177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Milbank Q. 2011 Dec;89(4):658-93. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2011.00646.x.

Best practice guidelines for monitoring socioeconomic inequalities in health 
status: lessons from Scotland.

Frank J(1), Haw S.

Author information:
(1)Scottish Collaboration for Public Health Research and Policy, c/o MRC Human 
Genetics Unit, Western General Hospital, Crewe Road, Edinburgh, UK. 
john.frank@scphrp.ac.uk

Comment in
    Milbank Q. 2013 Mar;91(1):186-91.
    Milbank Q. 2013 Mar;91(1):192-200.
    Milbank Q. 2013 Mar;91(1):201-4.
    Milbank Q. 2013 Mar;91(1):205-9.

CONTEXT: In this article we present "best practice" guidelines for monitoring 
socioeconomic inequalities in health status in the general population, using 
routinely collected data.
METHODS: First, we constructed a set of critical appraisal criteria to assess 
the utility of routinely collected outcomes for monitoring socioeconomic 
inequalities in population health status, using epidemiological principles to 
measure health status and quantify health inequalities. We then selected as case 
studies three recent "cutting-edge" reports on health inequalities from the 
Scottish government and assessed the extent to which each of the following 
outcomes met our critical appraisal criteria: natality (low birth weight rate, 
LBW), adult mortality (all-cause, coronary heart disease [CHD], alcohol-related, 
cancer, and healthy life expectancy at birth), cancer incidence, and mental 
health and well-being.
FINDINGS: The critical appraisal criteria we derived were "completeness and 
accuracy of reporting"; "reversibility and sensitivity to intervention"; 
"avoidance of reverse causation"; and "statistical appropriateness." Of these, 
the most commonly unmet criterion across the routinely collected outcomes was 
"reversibility and sensitivity to intervention." The reasons were that most 
mortality events occur in later life and that the LBW rate has now become 
obsolete as a sole indicator of perinatal health. Other outcomes were also 
judged to fail other criteria, notably alcohol-related mortality after midlife 
("avoidance of reverse causation"); all cancer sites' incidence and mortality 
(statistical appropriateness due largely to heterogeneity of SEP gradients 
across different cancer sites, as well as long latency); and mental health and 
well-being ("uncertain reversibility and sensitivity to intervention").
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that even state-of-the-art data reports on health 
inequalities by SEP have only limited usefulness for most health and social 
policymakers because they focus on routinely collected outcomes that are not 
very sensitive to intervention. We argue that more "upstream" outcome measures 
are required, which occur earlier in the life course, can be changed within a 
half decade by feasible programs and policies of proven effectiveness, 
accurately reflect individuals' future life-course chances and health status, 
and are strongly patterned by SEP.

© 2011 Milbank Memorial Fund.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2011.00646.x
PMCID: PMC3250637
PMID: 22188351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Curr Pharm Des. 2011 Dec 1;17(36):3959-65. doi: 10.2174/138161211798764942.

Females live longer than males: role of oxidative stress.

Vina J(1), Gambini J, Lopez-Grueso R, Abdelaziz KM, Jove M, Borras C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Valencia, Spain. jose.vina@uv.es

One of the most significant achievements of the twentieth century is the 
increase in human lifespan. In any period studied, females live longer than 
males. We showed that mitochondrial oxidative stress is higher in males than 
females and that the higher levels of estrogens in females protect them against 
ageing, by up-regulating the expression of antioxidant, longevity-related genes. 
The chemical structure of estradiol confers antioxidant properties to the 
molecule. However, the low concentration of estrogens in females makes it 
unlikely that they exhibit significant antioxidant capacity in the organism. 
Therefore we studied the mechanisms enabling estradiol to be antioxidant at 
physiological levels. Our results show that physiological concentrations of 
estrogens activate estrogen receptors and the MAPK and NFKB pathway. Activation 
of NFkB by estrogens subsequently activates the expression of Mn-SOD and GPx. 
Moreover, we have demonstrated that genistein, the most abundant phytoestrogen 
in soya, reproduces the antioxidant effect of estradiol at nutritionally 
relevant concentrations by the same mechanism, both in healthy ageing and in 
Alzheimer's disease. We conclude that estrogens and phytoestrogens up-regulate 
expression of antioxidant enzymes via the estrogen receptor and MAPK activation, 
which in turn activate the NFkB signalling pathway, resulting in the 
up-regulation of the expression of longevity-related genes.

DOI: 10.2174/138161211798764942
PMID: 22188448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2012 Jan;12(1):16-22. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00776.x.

Toward the realization of a better aged society: messages from gerontology and 
geriatrics.

Arai H(1), Ouchi Y, Yokode M, Ito H, Uematsu H, Eto F, Oshima S, Ota K, Saito Y, 
Sasaki H, Tsubota K, Fukuyama H, Honda Y, Iguchi A, Toba K, Hosoi T, Kita T; 
Members of Subcommittee for Aging.

Author information:
(1)Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. 
harai@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp

1.
BACKGROUND: Recent medical advancements, and improvements in hygiene and food 
supply have led to Japan having the longest life expectancy in the world. Over 
the past 50 years, the percentage of the elderly population has increased 
fourfold from 5.7% in 1960 to 23.1% in 2010. This change has occurred at the 
fastest rate in the world. Compared with France, where the percentage of the 
elderly population has increased just twofold in the past 100 years, Japanese 
society is aging at an unprecedented rate. In addition, the percentage of the 
very elderly (aged 75 years and over), comprising more frail people, exceeded 
10% of the nation's population in 2008. In such a situation, many elderly 
Japanese wish to spend their later years healthy, and wish to achieve great 
accomplishments in their lives. To achieve that, rather than considering an 
aging population as a negative social phenomenon, we should create a society 
where elderly people can enjoy a healthy, prosperous life through social 
participation and contribution. Factors that hamper the elderly from leading a 
healthy life include various psychological and social problems occurring in 
older age, as well as a high incidence of diseases. Therefore, gerontology, 
which focuses on health promotion of the elderly by encompassing the study of 
social welfare, psychology, environment and social systems; and geriatrics, 
which focuses on health care of elderly people and carried out research, 
education and practices to promote health in the elderly, are becoming more 
important. Furthermore, along with a need for multidisciplinary care to support 
geriatric medicine, the development of a comprehensive education system for 
aged-care professionals is awaited. Thus, we should now recognize the importance 
of gerontology and geriatrics, and a reform of medical-care services should be 
made in order to cope with the coming aged society. Population aging is a global 
phenomenon. The actions being taken by Japan, the world's most aged society, 
have been closely watched by the rest of the world. Japan's aged society has 
been posing not only medical, nursing and welfare problems, but also complex 
problems closely associated with economy, industry and culture. Therefore, to 
solve these problems, a macroscopic integration and cooperation among 
industries, education institutions, administration and community through an 
interdisciplinary approach including medical science, nursing science, nursing 
care, study of social welfare, social science, engineering, psychology, 
economics, religion and ethics should be made. Regarding the promotion of 
gerontology, the "Committee for Establishing a Scientific Community for 
Sustainable Aged Society" of the Science Council of Japan also prepared a 
proposal and this was announced on 20 April 2011. 2.
CURRENT SITUATION AND PROBLEMS: (1) Promotion of social participation and 
contribution of elderly people In Japan, the overall labor force rate is 
expected to decrease in the near future as a result of the low birth rate and 
high life expectancy. In contrast, many elderly people, particularly the 
young-old, have sufficient physical strength to fulfil their job duties and make 
a social contribution. For these people, a social structure where elderly people 
can work should be developed through re-educating the elderly and providing 
various job types. Promotion of social participation and contribution of the 
elderly is expected to cause a substantial increase in the labor force. 
Furthermore, it is also expected to contribute to not only the upturn of 
national economic activity through an increase in total consumption, but also a 
decrease in the number of elderly people who are likely to be in need of care. 
Therefore, in order for elderly people to be engaged in various social 
activities, strategies for developing a social structure for re-education, 
various employment statuses and employment opportunities should be prepared. 
However, as the total number of jobs is fixed, consideration should also be 
given to young workers. (2) Fostering medical specialists for aging Older people 
often suffer from many diseases, together with geriatric syndromes with multiple 
etiologies. Signs and symptoms vary according to each individual, and are often 
atypical; therefore, the patients visit different hospitals and receive many 
screening tests and prescriptions at the same time. To solve this problem, an 
effective screening system carried out by a primary-care doctor, and 
privacy-preserving medical data sharing among hospitals and clinics are needed. 
In a geriatric clinical setting, health-care professionals should be aware of 
the physical traits of older people who often develop not only dementia, but 
also geriatric syndromes, such as depression, falls and urinary incontinence, so 
that a holistic approach with consideration of nursing care is required. 
However, the existing Japanese medical education system is not prepared for 
medical professionals enabled to respond to the aforementioned requirements. 
Thus, the fostering of medical professionals who can provide comprehensive care 
- especially for the oldest-old - such as geriatric specialists and medical 
professionals who understand the principles of elderly care, is urgently needed. 
(3) Diagnosis of elderly-specific diseases and reform of medical-care services 
In Japan, the diagnostic system for elderly-specific diseases, including 
dementia, and reform of medical care services are markedly delayed. The current 
status concerning diagnosis, care and nursing should be investigated to collect 
academic data. In order to accumulate evidence for providing safe elderly care 
and nursing, the promotion of clinical research and a marked expansion of 
geriatric medical centers with high-level medical services are eagerly awaited. 
(4) Promotion of home-based care and multidisciplinary care To reduce the length 
of stay in acute hospitals, to reduce the physical burden of health-care 
professionals working at acute hospitals and to meet the demand of older people 
who prefer to remain in their own homes, further promotion of home-based care is 
needed. In addition, "multidisciplinary care" is increasingly needed to meet 
various demands in the medical care and welfare of the elderly. It is considered 
important to share countermeasures against the problems of disease prevention, 
medicine, care and welfare among health-care professionals in medicine, care and 
welfare, and cooperate by making the best use of health-care professionals' 
specialties. 3.
CONTENTS OF THE PROPOSAL: The subcommittee for aging, thus, provided the 
following proposal: 1 Development and promotion of systems that enable elderly 
people to participate socially and make a contribution using an 
interdisciplinary approach among the various areas, including nursing science, 
nursing care, study of social welfare, social science, psychology, economics, 
religion and ethics, as well as medical sciences; 2 Promotion of gerontology, 
reform and enhancement of geriatrics in undergraduate, postgraduate and lifelong 
education; 3 Building geriatric medical centers in each area, and accumulating 
large-scale evidence of geriatric diseases and geriatrics; and 4 Structural 
development and promotion of home-based care and multidisciplinary care. Through 
implementation of the above measures, Japan is expected to function as a 
successful example for the rest of the world.

© 2011 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00776.x
PMID: 22188494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Am J Kidney Dis. 2012 Feb;59(2):293-302. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2011.08.039.
Epub  2011 Dec 20.

Managing older adults with CKD: individualized versus disease-based approaches.

Bowling CB(1), O'Hare AM.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham/Atlanta Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Center, 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, USA.

The last decade has seen the evolution and ongoing refinement of a 
disease-oriented approach to chronic kidney disease (CKD). Disease-oriented 
models of care assume a direct causal association between observed signs and 
symptoms and underlying disease pathophysiologic processes. Treatment plans 
target underlying disease mechanisms with the goal of improving disease-related 
outcomes. Because average glomerular filtrate rates tend to decrease with age, 
CKD becomes increasingly prevalent with advancing age and those who meet 
criteria for CKD are disproportionately elderly. However, several features of 
geriatric populations may limit the utility of disease-oriented models of care. 
In older adults, complex comorbid conditions and geriatric syndromes are common; 
signs and symptoms often do not reflect a single underlying pathophysiologic 
process; there can be substantial heterogeneity in life expectancy, functional 
status, and health priorities; and information about the safety and efficacy of 
recommended interventions often is lacking. For all these reasons, geriatricians 
have tended to favor an individualized patient-centered model of care over more 
traditional disease-based approaches. An individualized approach prioritizes 
patient preferences and embraces the notion that observed signs and symptoms 
often do not reflect a single unifying disease process and instead reflect the 
complex interplay between many different factors. This approach emphasizes 
modifiable outcomes that matter to the patient. Prognostic information related 
to these and other outcomes generally is used to shape rather than dictate 
treatment decisions. We argue that an individualized patient-centered approach 
to care may have more to offer than a traditional disease-based approach to CKD 
in many older adults.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2011.08.039
PMCID: PMC3261354
PMID: 22189037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2011 Dec;38(13):2548-52.

[Controversy over treatment options in clinical T3 prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishimura K(1), Yamamoto Y, Nakayama M, Kakimoto K.

Author information:
(1)Osaka Medical Center for Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases.

Clinical stage T3 prostate cancer is a locally advanced disease at risk of 
having micrometastasis.Since clinical T staging is potentially inaccurate, PSA 
and Gleason score are also added at biopsy for risk stratification. The 
recurrence rate after radical prostatectomy alone or radiotherapy alone is 
generally high. Therefore, multimodal treatment is required. Recent multiple 
randomized trials have shown survival benefits of radiotherapy combined with 
long-term hormonal therapy. Dose escalation utilizing intensity modulated 
radiotherapy (IMRT) or brachytherapy has the potential benefit of exerting local 
control. Since previous trials used conventional external radiotherapy, the 
optimal duration of hormonal therapy combined with dose escalated radiotherapy 
remains unknown. On the other hand, some patients can be cured by radical 
prostatectomy alone, and approximately half of patients with adverse features 
after surgery can be rescued by adjuvant radiotherapy. Primary hormonal therapy 
is used widely and has shown favorable results in patients with T3 prostate 
cancer, particularly in Japan. Based on the life expectancy and comorbidity of 
an individual patient, hormonal therapy can be chosen as a primary treatment. 
There are controversies over treatment options such as surgery, radiotherapy, 
and hormonal therapy in clinical T3 prostate cancer. The clinical results of 
these treatments are reviewed and several unresolved issues are addressed here.

PMID: 22189219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Bioorg Med Chem. 2012 Jan 15;20(2):1029-45. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2011.11.039.
Epub  2011 Nov 30.

Cyclohexane 1,3-diones and their inhibition of mutant SOD1-dependent protein 
aggregation and toxicity in PC12 cells.

Zhang W(1), Benmohamed R, Arvanites AC, Morimoto RI, Ferrante RJ, Kirsch DR, 
Silverman RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208-3113, 
USA.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease 
characterized by the progressive loss of motor neurons. Currently, there is only 
one FDA-approved treatment for ALS (riluzole), and that drug only extends life, 
on average, by 2-3 months. Mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) are 
found in familial forms of the disease and have played an important role in the 
study of ALS pathophysiology. On the basis of their activity in a PC12-G93A-YFP 
high-throughput screening assay, several bioactive compounds have been 
identified and classified as cyclohexane-1,3-dione (CHD) derivatives. A concise 
and efficient synthetic route has been developed to provide diverse CHD analogs. 
The structural modification of the CHD scaffold led to the discovery of a more 
potent analog (26) with an EC(50) of 700 nM having good pharmacokinetic 
properties, such as high solubility, low human and mouse metabolic potential, 
and relatively good plasma stability. It was also found to efficiently penetrate 
the blood-brain barrier. However, compound 26 did not exhibit any significant 
life span extension in the ALS mouse model. It was found that, although 26 was 
active in PC12 cells, it had poor activity in other cell types, including 
primary cortical neurons, indicating that it can penetrate into the brain, but 
is not active in neuronal cells, potentially due to poor selective cell 
penetration. Further structural modification of the CHD scaffold was aimed at 
improving global cell activity as well as maintaining potency. Two new analogs 
(71 and 73) were synthesized, which had significantly enhanced cortical neuronal 
cell permeability, as well as similar potency to that of 26 in the PC12-G93A 
assay. These CHD analogs are being investigated further as novel therapeutic 
candidates for ALS.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2011.11.039
PMCID: PMC3259267
PMID: 22189273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2011;2011:467180. doi: 10.1155/2011/467180. Epub 2011
Nov  24.

Oxidative stress in neurodegenerative diseases: mechanisms and therapeutic 
perspectives.

Melo A(1), Monteiro L, Lima RM, Oliveira DM, Cerqueira MD, El-Bachá RS.

Author information:
(1)National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), Faculty 
of Medicine, Federal University of Bahia, 40820-020 Salvador, BA, Brazil.

The incidence and prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases (ND) increase with 
life expectancy. This paper reviews the role of oxidative stress (OS) in ND and 
pharmacological attempts to fight against reactive oxygen species (ROS)-induced 
neurodegeneration. Several mechanisms involved in ROS generation in 
neurodegeneration have been proposed. Recent articles about molecular pathways 
involved in ROS generation were reviewed. The progress in the development of 
neuroprotective therapies has been hampered because it is difficult to define 
targets for treatment and determine what should be considered as 
neuroprotective. Therefore, the attention was focused on researches about 
pharmacological targets that could protect neurons against OS. Since it is 
necessary to look for genes as the ultimate controllers of all biological 
processes, this paper also tried to identify gerontogenes involved in OS and 
neurodegeneration. Since neurons depend on glial cells to survive, recent 
articles about the functioning of these cells in aging and ND were also 
reviewed. Finally, clinical trials testing potential neuroprotective agents were 
critically reviewed. Although several potential drugs have been screened in in 
vitro and in vivo models of ND, these results were not translated in benefit of 
patients, and disappointing results were obtained in the majority of clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/467180
PMCID: PMC3236428
PMID: 22191013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Prostate Cancer. 2011;2011:819010. doi: 10.1155/2011/819010. Epub 2011 Nov
30.

Environment as a potential key determinant of the continued increase of prostate 
cancer incidence in martinique.

Belpomme D(1), Irigaray P.

Author information:
(1)Paris Descartes University, 75015 Paris, France.

Prostate cancer incidence is steadily increasing in many developed countries. 
Because insular populations present unique ethnic, geographical, and 
environmental characteristics, we analyzed the evolution of prostate cancer 
age-adjusted world standardized incidence rates in Martinique in comparison with 
that of metropolitan France. We also compared prostate cancer incidence rates, 
and lifestyle-related and socioeconomic markers such as life expectancy, dietary 
energy, and fat supply and consumption, with those in other Caribbean islands, 
France, UK, Sweden, and USA. The incidence rate of prostate cancer in Martinique 
is one of the highest reported worldwide; it is continuously growing since 1985 
in an exponential mode, and despite a similar screening detection process and 
lifestyle-related behaviour, it is constantly at a higher level than in 
metropolitan France. However, Caribbean populations that are genetically close 
to that of Martinique have generally much lower incidence of prostate cancer. We 
found no correlation between prostate cancer incidence rates, life expectancy, 
and diet westernization. Since the Caribbean African descent-associated genetic 
susceptibility factor would have remained constant during the 1980-2005, we 
suggest that in Martinique some environmental change including the intensive use 
of carcinogenic organochlorine pesticides might have occurred as key determinant 
of the persisting highly growing incidence of prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/819010
PMCID: PMC3236418
PMID: 22191038


234. Curr Radiopharm. 2011 Apr;4(2):76-89. doi: 10.2174/1874471011104020076.

Radiobromine-labelled tracers for positron emission tomography: possibilities 
and pitfalls.

Tolmachev V(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Radiation Sciences, Rudbeck Laboratory, Uppsala University, 
Sweden. vladimir.tolmachev@bms.uu.se

The use of positron emission tomography (PET) for radionuclide imaging provides 
better sensitivity, better spatial and temporal resolution and better 
quantification accuracy in comparison with single photon emission computed 
tomography (SPECT). One limitation of PET is the predominant use of short-lived 
(with half-life up to 2 h) radionuclides. Extension of PET utility might be 
achieved by the use of more long-lived, "non-conventional" positron emitters. 
Two positron-emitting isotopes of bromine, 75Br (T1/2 = 96.7 min) and 76Br (T1/2 
= 16.2 h), can be considered as labels for targeting proteins and peptides, and 
for small molecules, which have an optimal imaging time outside the time frame 
provided by conventional biogenic positron emitters. Variety of tracers might be 
labelled by electrophilic bromination of activated phenolic rings, electrophilic 
bromodestannylation and halogen exchange. A major problem is that in vivo 
metabolism of tracers might lead to formation of radiobromide as a main 
radiocatabolite. Radiobromide is very slowly excreted, and is distributed in the 
extracellular space creating high background. Careful tracer design optimisation 
is required to avoid this obstacle in the introduction of bromine isotopes into 
PET practice.

DOI: 10.2174/1874471011104020076
PMID: 22191647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Drugs Aging. 2012 Jan 1;29(1):31-43. doi: 10.2165/11597380-000000000-00000.

Health state values for use in the economic evaluation of treatments for 
Alzheimer's disease.

Shearer J(1), Green C, Ritchie CW, Zajicek JP.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Institute of Health Service Research, Peninsula 
College of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK. 
james.shearer@pms.ac.uk

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic, progressive, neurodegenerative disease 
that places a heavy burden on people with the condition, their families and 
carers, health care systems and society in general. Health-related quality of 
life (HR-QOL) in patients deteriorates as the cognitive, behavioural and 
functional symptoms of AD develop. The human and financial cost of AD is 
forecast to grow rapidly as populations age, and those responsible for planning 
and financing health care face the challenge of allocating increasingly scarce 
resources against current and future interventions targeted towards AD. These 
include calls for early detection and diagnosis, preventative strategies, new 
medications, residential care, supportive care, and meeting the needs of carers 
as well as patients. Health care funders in many health systems now require a 
demonstration of the value of new interventions through a comparison of benefits 
in terms of improvements in HR-QOL and costs relative to those of competing or 
existing practices. Changes in HR-QOL provide the basis for the calculation of 
the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), a key outcome used in economic 
evaluations to compare treatments within and between different disease 
conditions. The objective of this systematic review was to provide a summary of 
the published health state values (utilities) for AD patients and their carers 
that are currently available to estimate QALYs for use in health economic 
evaluations of interventions in AD. The health care literature was searched for 
articles published in English between 2000 and 2011, using keywords and variants 
including 'quality-adjusted life years', 'health state indicators', 'health 
utilities' and the specific names of generic measures of HR-QOL and health state 
valuation techniques. Databases searched included MEDLINE, EMBASE, NHS EED, 
PsycINFO and ISI Web of Science. This review identified 12 studies that reported 
utility values associated with health states in AD. Values for AD health states 
categorized according to cognitive impairment (where 1 = perfect health and 0 = 
dead) ranged from mild AD (0.52-0.73) to moderate AD (0.30-0.53) to severe AD 
(0.12-0.49). Utility values were almost all based on two generic measures of 
HR-QOL: the EQ-5D and Health Utility Index mark 2/3 (HUI2/3). There were no 
health state values estimated from condition- or disease-specific measures of 
HR-QOL. The review also identified 18 published cost-utility analyses (CUAs) of 
treatments for AD. The CUAs incorporated results from only three of the 
identified health state valuation studies. Twelve CUAs relied on the same study 
for health state values. We conclude that the literature on health state values 
in AD is limited and overly reliant on a single symptom (cognition) to describe 
disease progression. Other approaches to characterizing disease progression in 
AD based on multiple outcomes or dependency may be better predictors of costs 
and utilities in economic evaluations. Patient and proxy ratings were poorly 
correlated, particularly in patients with more advanced AD. However, proxy 
ratings displayed the validity and reliability across the entire range of AD 
severity needed to detect long-term changes relevant to economic evaluation. 
Further longitudinal research of patient and carer HR-QOL based on 
multidimensional measures of outcome and utilities is needed.

DOI: 10.2165/11597380-000000000-00000
PMID: 22191721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Lancet Infect Dis. 2012 Jan;12(1):12. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(11)70338-3.

Far more than 7 billion.

Rohde JE.

Comment on
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2011 Nov;11(11):801.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(11)70338-3
PMID: 22192129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. AMIA Annu Symp Proc. 2011;2011:1361-5. Epub 2011 Oct 22.

Evaluation of the use of electronic health data to classify four-year mortality 
risk for older adults undergoing screening colonoscopies.

Synnestvedt MB(1), Weiner MG.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Current cancer screening recommendations often apply coarse age cutoffs for 
screening requirements without regard to predicted life expectancy. Using these 
cutoffs, healthier older patients may be under-screened, and sicker younger 
patients may be screened too often. Mortality risk classification using EHR data 
could be used to tailor screening reminders to physicians in ways that better 
align screening recommendations with patients who are more likely to live long 
enough to benefit from early detection. We have evaluated the performance of an 
existing prognostic index for 4-year mortality using data readily available in 
the electronic health record (EHR), and investigated the effect of the index in 
retrospective cohorts of adults age 65 and older undergoing screening 
colonoscopy. Risk scores in this adaptation of a four-year prognostic index were 
found to be associated with actual death rates and consistent with mortality 
rates from a national sample. Our results demonstrate that data extracted from 
electronic health records can be used to classify mortality risk. With 
improvements, including extension to a 5-year mortality model with inclusion of 
additional variables and extension of variable definitions, informatics methods 
to implement mortality models may prove to be clinically useful in tailoring 
screening guidelines.

PMCID: PMC3243252
PMID: 22195198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Pediatr Neurol. 2012 Jan;46(1):1-12. doi:
10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2011.09.001.

Spinal muscular atrophy: a clinical and research update.

Markowitz JA(1), Singh P, Darras BT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115, USA.

Spinal muscular atrophy, a hereditary degenerative disorder of lower motor 
neurons associated with progressive muscle weakness and atrophy, is the most 
common genetic cause of infant mortality. It is caused by decreased levels of 
the "survival of motor neuron" (SMN) protein. Its inheritance pattern is 
autosomal recessive, resulting from mutations involving the SMN1 gene on 
chromosome 5q13. However, unlike many other autosomal recessive diseases, the 
SMN gene involves a unique structure (an inverted duplication) that presents 
potential therapeutic targets. Although no effective treatment for spinal 
muscular atrophy exists, the field of translational research in spinal muscular 
atrophy is active, and clinical trials are ongoing. Advances in the 
multidisciplinary supportive care of children with spinal muscular atrophy also 
offer hope for improved life expectancy and quality of life.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2011.09.001
PMID: 22196485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Lancet. 2012 Jan 21;379(9812):221-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61653-X.
Epub  2011 Dec 22.

Efficacy and safety of an extended nevirapine regimen in infant children of 
breastfeeding mothers with HIV-1 infection for prevention of postnatal HIV-1 
transmission (HPTN 046): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Coovadia HM(1), Brown ER, Fowler MG, Chipato T, Moodley D, Manji K, Musoke P, 
Stranix-Chibanda L, Chetty V, Fawzi W, Nakabiito C, Msweli L, Kisenge R, Guay L, 
Mwatha A, Lynn DJ, Eshleman SH, Richardson P, George K, Andrew P, Mofenson LM, 
Zwerski S, Maldonado Y; HPTN 046 protocol team.

Author information:
(1)Maternal Adolescent and Child Health (MatCH), University of the 
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa. hcoovadia@match.org.za

Comment in
    Lancet. 2012 May 12;379(9828):1787-8; author reply 1788.

BACKGROUND: Nevirapine given once-daily for the first 6, 14, or 28 weeks of life 
to infants exposed to HIV-1 via breastfeeding reduces transmission through this 
route compared with single-dose nevirapine at birth or neonatally. We aimed to 
assess incremental safety and efficacy of extension of such prophylaxis to 6 
months.
METHODS: In our phase 3, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled HPTN 046 
trial, we assessed the incremental benefit of extension of once-daily infant 
nevirapine from age 6 weeks to 6 months. We enrolled breastfeeding infants born 
to mothers with HIV-1 in four African countries within 7 days of birth. 
Following receipt of nevirapine from birth to 6 weeks, infants without HIV 
infection were randomly allocated (by use of a computer-generated permuted block 
algorithm with random block sizes and stratified by site and maternal 
antiretroviral treatment status) to receive extended nevirapine prophylaxis or 
placebo until 6 months or until breastfeeding cessation, whichever came first. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was HIV-1 infection in infants at 6 months and 
safety endpoints were adverse reactions in both groups. We used Kaplan-Meier 
analyses to compare differences in the primary outcome between groups. This 
study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00074412.
FINDINGS: Between June 19, 2008, and March 12, 2010, we randomly allocated 1527 
infants (762 nevirapine and 765 placebo); five of whom had HIV-1 infection at 
randomisation and were excluded from the primary analyses. In Kaplan-Meier 
analysis, 1·1% (95% CI 0·3-1·8) of infants who received extended nevirapine 
developed HIV-1 between 6 weeks and 6 months compared with 2·4% (1·3-3·6) of 
controls (difference 1·3%, 95% CI 0-2·6), equating to a 54% reduction in 
transmission (p=0·049). However, mortality (1·2% for nevirapine vs 1·1% for 
placebo; p=0·81) and combined HIV infection and mortality rates (2·3%vs 3·2%; 
p=0·27) did not differ between groups at 6 months. 125 (16%) of 758 infants 
given extended nevirapine and 116 (15%) of 761 controls had serious adverse 
events, but frequency of adverse events, serious adverse events, and deaths did 
not differ significantly between treatment groups.
INTERPRETATION: Nevirapine prophylaxis can safely be used to provide protection 
from mother-to-child transmission of HIV-1 via breastfeeding for infants up to 6 
months of age.
FUNDING: US National Institutes of Health.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)61653-X
PMCID: PMC3539769
PMID: 22196945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: We declare that we have 
no conflicts of interest.


240. J Pediatr Urol. 2013 Feb;9(1):42-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2011.11.009. Epub
2011  Dec 21.

Decision making among different treatment options for neurologically impaired 
boys with undescended testis: a multinational pediatric survey.

Springer A(1), Kidger E, Krois W, Fengler D, Reck CA, Horcher E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger 
Gürtel 18-20, 1090 Vienna, Austria. alexander.springer@meduniwien.ac.at

OBJECTIVE: To determine the attitude of referring pediatricians towards the 
decision of treatment modalities for undescended testis (UDT) in neurologic 
impaired boys (NIB).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: An online questionnaire was offered to registered 
pediatricians in Austria and Germany for online completion.
RESULTS: 221 male (61.6%) and 138 female (38.4%) pediatricians completed the 
survey; 326 (90.8%) believe that UDT should be treated according to national 
guidelines; 31 (8.6%) believe that UDT should be treated according to the 
parental wish, whereas only 2 (0.6%) tend to no treatment at all. Tumor 
prophylaxis, further sexual life, legal concerns, risks of anesthesia, and the 
choice of the parents have major impact on the perception of UDT. Moreover, 
fertility and limited life expectancy seem to be of minor importance only. In 
general, Pearson χ2 test could not identify age and sex of pediatricians as 
significant predictor of how the importance of the treatment of UDT is 
appraised.
CONCLUSION: From the pediatric point of view UDT in NIB is an important issue 
and should be treated according to guidelines. Nevertheless, this study 
indicates the problems in decision-making and choosing the best management for 
UDT in NIB. Undoubtedly, further ethical discussion is needed to optimize 
treatment of UDT in NIB.

Copyright © 2011 Journal of Pediatric Urology Company. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2011.11.009
PMID: 22197221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2012 Jun;30(6):294-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.eimc.2011.11.004. Epub 2011 Dec 22.

[Evaluation of the costs of transient elastography (FibroScan(®)) in the 
diagnosis of liver fibrosis in HIV patients with hepatitis C virus].

[Article in Spanish]

García-Jurado L(1), Oyagüez I, Casado MÁ, Tural C, González-García J, Ortega E, 
Pineda JA.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacoeconomics & Outcomes Research Iberia, Madrid, España.

INTRODUCTION: The assessment of liver fibrosis is crucial for taking therapeutic 
decisions in patients infected with HIV/AIDS coinfected with HCV, because it 
allows the prognosis of the disease and the prioritization of hepatitis C 
treatment in these patients.
METHODS: A discrete events model simulation (DEMS) and a Markov model have been 
developed to represent the evolution of liver fibrosis to cirrhosis in patients 
coinfected with HIV/HVC. The model evaluated two alternatives for the diagnosis 
and monitoring of these patients, transient elastography performed annually and 
liver biopsy performed every seven years. The models have been developed under 
Health Care System perspective and only considered direct medical costs (disease 
treatment and health state costs). One-way sensitivity analyses were carried out 
to assess the impact of parameters with higher uncertainty. A discount rate of 
3% was applied.
RESULTS: Base case analysis shows that the diagnosis and monitoring of patients 
with transient elastography is a dominant strategy compared with to liver 
biopsy, resulting in greater life expectancy at lower cost. The sensitivity 
analysis performed confirmed the robustness of these results.
CONCLUSION: Transient elastography has proved to be a dominant strategy compared 
to liver biopsy in the diagnosis and monitoring of liver fibrosis in patients 
coinfected with HIV/HCV in Spain.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eimc.2011.11.004
PMID: 22197275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Health Econ. 2012 Jan;31(1):306-18. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.11.004.
Epub  2011 Dec 6.

Using a discrete choice experiment to estimate health state utility values.

Bansback N(1), Brazier J, Tsuchiya A, Anis A.

Author information:
