METHODS AND MATERIAL: The latest version of Partin tables was applied to a large 
scale British dataset in order to measure their performances by mean of 
concordance index (c-index). The data was collected by the British Association 
of Urological Surgeons (BAUS) and gathered records from over 1700 patients 
treated with prostatectomy in 57 centers across UK. The original methodology was 
replicated using the BAUS dataset and evaluated using concordance index. In 
addition, a selection of classifiers, including, among others, LR, artificial 
neural networks and Bayesian networks (BNs) was applied to the same data and 
compared with each other using the area under the ROC curve (AUC). Subsets of 
the data were created in order to observe how classifiers perform with the 
inclusion of extra variables. Finally a local dataset prepared by the Aberdeen 
Royal Infirmary was used to study the effect on predictive performance of using 
different variables.
RESULTS: Partin tables have low predictive quality (c-index=0.602) when applied 
on UK data for comparison on patients with organ confined and extra prostatic 
extension conditions, patients at the two most frequently observed pathological 
stages. The use of replicate lookup tables built from British data shows an 
improvement in the classification, but the overall predictive quality remains 
low (c-index=0.610). Comparing a range of classifiers shows that BNs generally 
outperform other methods. Using the four variables from Partin tables, naive 
Bayes is the best classifier for the prediction of each class label (AUC=0.662 
for OC). When two additional variables are added, the results of LR (0.675), 
artificial neural networks (0.656) and BN methods (0.679) are overall improved. 
BNs show higher AUCs than the other methods when the number of variables raises
CONCLUSION: The predictive quality of Partin tables can be described as low to 
moderate on U.K. data. This means that following the predictions generated by 
Partin tables, many patients would received an inappropriate treatment, 
generally associated with a deterioration of their quality of life. In addition 
to demographic differences between U.K. and the original U.S. population, the 
methodology and in particular LR present limitations. BN represents a promising 
alternative to LR from which prostate cancer staging can benefit. Heuristic 
search for structure learning and the inclusion of more variables are elements 
that further improve BN models quality.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2011.11.003
PMID: 22206941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Neurovirol. 2012 Aug;18(4):331-8. doi: 10.1007/s13365-011-0074-x. Epub
2011  Dec 30.

Neuromuscular complications in HIV: effects of aging.

Robinson-Papp J(1), Tan IL, Simpson DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, 
USA. jessica.robinson-papp@mssm.edu

There has been speculation that chronic HIV infection is a condition of 
accelerated aging that may lead to early onset of disease in multiple organ 
systems. The neuromuscular disorders of HIV, in particular distal symmetric 
polyneuropathy and myopathies, are also seen in the general population among 
older patients. As the HIV-infected population ages, there may be deleterious 
synergistic effects of age and chronic HIV infection on the brain, peripheral 
nerve, and muscle. In this review, we explore commonalities between the clinical 
features and putative mechanisms of neuromuscular disorders and HIV.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-011-0074-x
PMID: 22207585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Chest. 2012 Jun;141(6):1575-1583. doi: 10.1378/chest.11-1972. Epub 2011 Dec
29.

Radiologic imaging in cystic fibrosis: cumulative effective dose and changing 
trends over 2 decades.

O'Connell OJ(1), McWilliams S(1), McGarrigle A(2), O'Connor OJ(3), Shanahan 
F(4), Mullane D(1), Eustace J(5), Maher MM(3), Plant BJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Cork Cystic Fibrosis Center, Cork University Hospital, University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(2)Department of Radiation Physics, Cork University Hospital, University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(3)Department of Radiology, Cork University Hospital, University College Cork, 
Cork, Ireland.
(4)Department of Medicine, Cork University Hospital, University College Cork, 
Cork, Ireland.
(5)Department of Renal Medicine, Cork University Hospital, University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(6)Cork Cystic Fibrosis Center, Cork University Hospital, University College 
Cork, Cork, Ireland. Electronic address: Barry.Plant@hse.ie.

Comment in
    Chest. 2012 Oct;142(4):1077; author reply 1078.

OBJECTIVE: With the increasing life expectancy for patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF), and a known predisposition to certain cancers, cumulative radiation 
exposure from radiologic imaging is of increasing significance. This study 
explores the estimated cumulative effective radiation dose over a 17-year period 
from radiologic procedures and changing trends of imaging modalities over this 
period.
METHODS: Estimated cumulative effective dose (CED) from all thoracic and 
extrathoracic imaging modalities and interventional radiology procedures for 
both adult and pediatric patients with CF, exclusively attending a nationally 
designated CF center between 1992-2009 for > 1 year, was determined. The study 
period was divided into three equal tertiles, and estimated CED attributable to 
all radiologic procedures was estimated for each tertile.
RESULTS: Two hundred thirty patients met inclusion criteria (2,240 person-years 
of follow-up; 5,596 radiologic procedures). CED was > 75 mSv for one patient 
(0.43%), 36 patients (15.6%) had a CED between 20 and 75 mSv, 56 patients 
(24.3%) had a CED between 5 and 20 mSv, and in 138 patients (60%) the CED was 
estimated to be between 0 and 5 mSv over the study period. The mean annual CED 
per patient increased consecutively from 0.39 mSv/y to 0.47 mSv/y to 1.67 mSv/y 
over the tertiles one to three of the study period, respectively (P < .001). 
Thoracic imaging accounted for 46.9% of the total CED and abdominopelvic imaging 
accounted for 42.9% of the CED, respectively. There was an associated 5.9-fold 
increase in the use of all CT scanning per patient (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the increasing exposure to ionizing radiation 
to patients with CF as a result of diagnostic imaging, primarily attributable to 
CT scanning. Increased awareness of CED and strategies to reduce this exposure 
are needed.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.11-1972
PMID: 22207674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Natl Bur Econ Res Bull Aging Health. 2011;(3):3-4.

Can comparative effectiveness research help reduce health care costs?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 22207918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Kaohsiung J Med Sci. 2011 Dec;27(12):533-7. doi: 10.1016/j.kjms.2011.10.020.
 Epub 2011 Nov 25.

Chronic hepatitis C infection in the elderly.

Huang CF(1), Chuang WL, Yu ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Medicine, Kaohsiung Municipal Ta-Tung Hospital, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

The prevalence of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) tends to be higher in the 
elderly in many countries. Aging is regarded as an unfavorable factor for liver 
disease progression and treatment outcome in HCV infection. The efficacy and 
safety of treating elderly patients remain a source of significant debate. 
Discrepancies in results may be attributed to dissimilarities in study design 
and treatment regimens. The long-term benefits of administering interferon-based 
therapy to elderly patients with HCV infection is a critical issue when taking 
the patient's remaining life expectancy into consideration. Rapid virological 
response is the most notable on-treatment response factor that is predictive of 
treatment success in elderly patients. A shortened treatment course may reduce 
drug-related side effects and promote treatment adherence, especially in the 
elderly. A regimen tailored towards super-responders might provide insights for 
treatment strategies in elderly patients.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.kjms.2011.10.020
PMID: 22208535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. World J Surg Oncol. 2011 Dec 30;9:174. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-9-174.

Outcomes of resection for colorectal cancer hepatic metastases stratified by 
evolving eras of treatment.

Chan KM(1), Chiang JM, Lee CF, Yu MC, Lee WC, Chen JS, Wang JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, Chang 
Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan. 
chankunming@adm.cgmh.org.tw

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The outcomes and management of colorectal cancer (CRC) 
hepatic metastasis have undergone many evolutionary changes. In this study, we 
aimed to analyze the outcomes of patients with CRC hepatic metastasis in terms 
of the era of treatment.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of 279 patients who underwent liver 
resection (LR) for CRC hepatic metastases. The prognoses of patients treated 
pre-2003 (era 1) and post-2003 (era 2) were examined.
RESULTS: Of the patients included in the study, 210 (75.3%) had CRC recurrence 
after LR. There was a significant difference in the ratio of CRC recurrence 
between the 2 eras (82.0% in era 1 vs. 69.5% in era 2; p = 0.008). Analysis of 
recurrence-free and overall survival rates also showed that the patient outcome 
was significantly better in the post-2003 era than in the pre-2003 era. Further 
analysis showed that a significantly higher percentage of patients in era 2 had 
received modern chemotherapeutic regimens including irinotecan and oxaliplatin, 
while patients in era 1 were mainly administered fluorouracil and leucovorin for 
adjuvant chemotherapy. Among patients with CRC recurrence, a significant ratio 
of those in era 2 underwent surgical resection for recurrent lesions, and these 
patients had a better survival curve than did patients without resection (34.1% 
vs. 2.2% for 5-year survival; p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: The incidence of CRC recurrence after LR for hepatic metastasis 
remains very high. However, the management and outcomes of patients with CRC 
hepatic metastasis have greatly improved with time, suggesting that the current 
use of aggressive multimodality treatments including surgical resection combined 
with modern chemotherapeutic regimens effectively prolongs the life expectancy 
of these patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-9-174
PMCID: PMC3278383
PMID: 22208884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. J Insect Sci. 2011;11:99. doi: 10.1673/031.011.9901.

Pollen processing behavior of Heliconius butterflies: a derived grooming 
behavior.

Hikl AL(1), Krenn HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 
A-1090 Vienna, Austria. antschal@gmail.com

Pollen feeding behaviors Heliconius and Laparus (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) 
represent a key innovation that has shaped other life history traits of these 
neotropical butterflies. Although all flower visiting Lepidoptera regularly come 
in contact with pollen, only Heliconius and Laparus butterflies actively collect 
pollen with the proboscis and subsequently take up nutrients from the pollen 
grains. This study focused on the behavior of pollen processing and compared the 
movement patterns with proboscis grooming behavior in various nymphalid 
butterflies using video analysis. The proboscis movements of pollen processing 
behavior consisted of a lengthy series of repeated coiling and uncoiling 
movements in a loosely coiled proboscis position combined with up and down 
movements and the release of saliva. The proboscis-grooming behavior was 
triggered by contamination of the proboscis in both pollen feeding and 
non-pollen feeding nymphalid butterflies. Proboscis grooming movements included 
interrupted series of coiling and uncoiling movements, characteristic sideways 
movements, proboscis lifting, and occasionally full extension of the proboscis. 
Discharge of saliva was more pronounced in pollen feeding species than in 
non-pollen feeding butterfly species. We conclude that the pollen processing 
behavior of Heliconius and Laparus is a modified proboscis grooming behavior 
that originally served to clean the proboscis after contamination with 
particles.

DOI: 10.1673/031.011.9901
PMCID: PMC3281465
PMID: 22208893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Thromb Res. 2012 Aug;130(2):157-62. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2011.12.012.
Epub  2011 Dec 30.

Non-fatal cardiovascular disease, malignancies, and other co-morbidity in adult 
haemophilia patients.

Fransen van de Putte DE(1), Fischer K, Pulles AE, Roosendaal G, Biesma DH, 
Schutgens RE, Mauser-Bunschoten EP.

Author information:
(1)Van Creveldkliniek, Department of Hematology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. D.E.FransenvandePutte@umcutrecht.nl

INTRODUCTION: With increasing life expectancy, more haemophilia patients will be 
confronted with age-related problems. To ensure optimal care, it is important to 
know the occurrence of both fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease, 
malignancies and other types of co-morbidity in these patients. Our aim was to 
retrospectively assess the occurrence of co-morbidity and causes of death in a 
substantial birth-cohort of haemophilia patients.
METHODS: Data on all types of co-morbidity were collected from medical records 
of 408 haemophilia patients (204 severe, 204 non-severe) born before 1971, and 
compared with the Dutch age-matched general male population.
RESULTS: Ten patients had 11 myocardial infarctions, none of which were fatal. 
The cumulative incidence of non-fatal myocardial infarction was significantly 
lower in patients with severe haemophilia than in the general population (0.5% 
versus 4.8%), but was not decreased in patients with non-severe haemophilia 
(4.4%). Intracranial bleeding occurred significantly more often in haemophilia 
patients. The occurrence of non-virus related malignancies, and other non-virus 
related co-morbidities was similar in haemophilia patients and the general 
population. HIV infection was present in 12% of patients, and hepatitis C 
infection in 56%. Seventy-eight patients (19%) were deceased. Main causes of 
death were malignancies, AIDS, hepatitis C, and intracranial bleeding.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed a decreased occurrence of myocardial infarction 
in patients with severe haemophilia, suggesting a protective effect of very low 
clotting factor levels on thrombotic cardiac events. No differences were found 
between haemophilia patients and the general population in the occurrence of any 
other type of non-virus related co-morbidity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2011.12.012
PMID: 22209337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Soc Sci Med. 2012 Mar;74(5):671-3. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.12.016.
Epub  2011 Dec 30.

Addressing health inequalities in the US: a life course health development 
approach.

Halfon N(1).

Author information:
(1)UCLA Center for Healthier Children Families and Communities, United States. 
nhalfon@ucla.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.12.016
PMID: 22209674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Br Med Bull. 2012;101:1-15. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldr049. Epub 2011 Dec 30.

Mapping for economic evaluation.

Chuang LH(1), Whitehead SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, Heslington, York, UK. 
ling-hsiang.chuang@york.ac.uk

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND: Mapping provides a statistical algorithm that allows 
the estimation of utilities and consequently calculation of QALYs in clinical 
studies where preference-based measures are not implemented.
SOURCES OF DATA: Reviews of the mapping literature were utilized.
AREAS OF AGREEMENT: Mapping requires similar populations between the estimation 
and study data sets, with a high degree of overlap between the target and base 
measures being desirable. The National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence recognizes mapping as a method to provide utility information. Areas 
of controversy Issues surrounding mapping include the descriptive system of the 
measure, the appropriate econometric method and model specification.
GROWING POINTS: There is a need for further research into the issue of 
over-prediction for severe health states and uncertainty around the estimated 
utility scores.
AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: Mapping continues to be an important area 
of research for economic evaluation, in particular validation of mapping 
functions.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldr049
PMID: 22209743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2013 Jan-Feb;28(1):48-53. doi:
10.1097/JCN.0b013e3182363e3b.

Premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in systemic lupus 
erythematosus: understanding management strategies.

Turano L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Professional Development, Hospital for Special Surgery, New 
York, NY 10021, USA. lillian.turano@gmail.com

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is associated with increased risk of 
cardiovascular disease because of the premature development of atherosclerotic 
plaques. It is a complex autoimmune disorder characterized by the production of 
autoantibodies against self-antigens. These self-antigens include nucleic acids, 
blood cells, coagulation proteins, and phospholipids that cause disease 
manifestations in virtually every organ system. Over the last 3 decades, 
treatment modalities and preventive therapies for SLE patients have 
substantially improved, producing decreases in mortality from the disease. 
However, as life expectancy among SLE patients has increased, the incidence of 
cardiovascular disease has increased as well. Multiple studies suggest that 
patients with SLE have between a 9-fold and 50-fold increase in risk of 
developing cardiovascular disease compared with non-SLE patients. It is thought 
that these increases result from a combination of traditional risk factors, as 
well as the dysfunctional immune and inflammatory mechanisms in patients with 
SLE. At this time, there is limited evidence to support specific treatment 
guidelines for the prevention of cardiovascular disease in SLE patients. The 
treatment of these patients currently remains to identify and treat the 
traditional and SLE-related risk factors.

DOI: 10.1097/JCN.0b013e3182363e3b
PMID: 22210142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2012 Mar;78(5):1513-22. doi: 10.1128/AEM.07340-11.
Epub  2011 Dec 30.

Dextran sodium sulfate-induced inflammation alters the expression of proteins by 
intestinal Escherichia coli strains in a gnotobiotic mouse model.

Schumann S(1), Alpert C, Engst W, Loh G, Blaut M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Microbiology, German Institute of Human 
Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbrücke, Nuthetal, Germany.

To identify Escherichia coli proteins involved in adaptation to intestinal 
inflammation, mice were monoassociated with the colitogenic E. coli strain UNC 
or with the probiotic E. coli strain Nissle. Intestinal inflammation was induced 
by treating the mice with 3.5% dextran sodium sulfate (DSS). Differentially 
expressed proteins in E. coli strains collected from cecal contents were 
identified by 2-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis. In both strains, 
acute inflammation led to the downregulation of pathways involved in 
carbohydrate breakdown and energy generation. Accordingly, DSS-treated mice had 
lower concentrations of bacterial fermentation products in their cecal contents 
than control mice. Differentially expressed proteins also included the Fe-S 
cluster repair protein NfuA, the tryptophanase TnaA, and the uncharacterized 
protein YggE. NfuA expression was 3-fold higher in E. coli strains from 
DSS-treated than from control mice. Reporter experiments confirmed the induction 
of nfuA in response to iron deprivation, mimicking Fe-S cluster destruction by 
inflammation. YggE expression, which has been reported to reduce the 
intracellular level of reactive oxygen species, was 4- to 8-fold higher in E. 
coli Nissle than in E. coli UNC. This was confirmed by in vitro reporter gene 
assays indicating that Nissle is better equipped to cope with oxidative stress 
than UNC. Nissle isolated from DSS-treated and control mice had TnaA levels 4- 
to 7-fold-higher than those of UNC. Levels of indole resulting from the TnaA 
reaction were higher in control animals associated with E. coli Nissle. Because 
of its anti-inflammatory effect, indole is hypothesized to be involved in the 
extension of the remission phase in ulcerative colitis described for E. coli 
Nissle.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.07340-11
PMCID: PMC3294480
PMID: 22210207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Struct Biol. 2012 Feb;177(2):193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.jsb.2011.12.012. Epub
 2011 Dec 24.

Correlative VIS-fluorescence and soft X-ray cryo-microscopy/tomography of 
adherent cells.

Hagen C(1), Guttmann P, Klupp B, Werner S, Rehbein S, Mettenleiter TC, Schneider 
G, Grünewald K.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Particle Imaging Centre, Division of Structural Biology, Wellcome 
Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK. 
christoph@strubi.ox.ac.uk

Soft X-ray cryo-microscopy/tomography of vitreous samples is becoming a valuable 
tool in structural cell biology. Within the 'water-window' wavelength region 
(2.34-4.37nm), it provides absorption contrast images with high signal to noise 
ratio and resolution of a few tens of nanometer. Soft X-rays with wavelengths 
close to the K-absorption edge of oxygen penetrate biological samples with 
thicknesses in the micrometer range. Here, we report on the application of a 
recently established extension of the transmission soft X-ray cryo-microscope 
(HZB TXM) at the beamline U41-XM of the BESSY II electron storage ring by an 
in-column epi-fluorescence and reflected light cryo-microscope. We demonstrate 
the new capability for correlative fluorescence and soft X-ray 
cryo-microscopy/tomography of this instrument along a typical life science 
experimental approach - the correlation of a fluorophore-tagged protein 
(pUL34-GFP of pseudorabies virus, PrV, the nuclear membrane-anchored component 
of the nuclear egress complex of the Herpesviridae which interacts with viral 
pUL31) in PrV pUL34-GFP/pUL31 coexpressing mammalian cells, with virus-induced 
vesicular structures in the nucleus, expanding the nucleoplasmic reticulum. 
Taken together, our results demonstrate new possibilities to study the role of 
specific proteins in substructures of adherent cells, especially of the nucleus 
in toto, accessible to electron microscopy in thinned samples only.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsb.2011.12.012
PMCID: PMC3343273
PMID: 22210307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2012 Feb;51(2):393-6. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/ker404.  Epub 2011 Dec 30.

Reduction of direct and indirect costs in patients with AS receiving etanercept: 
results from an open-label 36-week extension of the ASCEND study in four 
European countries.

Moots RJ(1), Ostor AJ, Loft AG, Järvinen P, Larsson P, Ekelund M, Reynolds A, 
Kielar D, Lindkvist RM, Qvitzau S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Chronic Diseases and Ageing, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK. r.j.moots@liverpool.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the impact of etanercept (ETN) in AS on cost, work 
productivity and quality of life (QoL).
METHODS: A Phase 4, open-label, multi-centre (UK, Scandinavia) extension study 
in AS. Eligible subjects (n = 84) were treated for 36-52 weeks with ETN 50 mg 
s.c. once weekly. Analysis included direct costs (transformed out-patient and 
in-patient care elements), indirect costs (sick leave and lost working days), 
efficacy and QoL.
RESULTS: Annualized direct and indirect costs decreased (55.5%, P ≤ 0.008) 
during ETN treatment, as did out-patient and in-patient episodes 
(physiotherapist/physician visits, P = 0.012). Work productivity and QoL 
increased.
CONCLUSION: ETN therapy significantly reduces direct and indirect health-care 
costs and increases work ability and QoL in AS. Trial Registration. EUDRACT, 
https://eudract.ema.europa.eu/, 2006-001061-42.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ker404
PMID: 22210658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2011 Dec;50 Suppl 5:v4-12. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/ker394.

Overview of the mucopolysaccharidoses.

Muenzer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics and Metabolism, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. muenzer@med.unc.edu

The mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs) are a group of rare, inherited lysosomal 
storage disorders that are clinically characterized by abnormalities in multiple 
organ systems and reduced life expectancy. The MPSs are heterogeneous, 
progressive disorders. Patients typically appear normal at birth, but during 
early childhood they experience the onset of clinical disease, including 
skeletal, joint, airway and cardiac involvement, hearing and vision impairment, 
and mental retardation in the severe forms of MPS I, MPS II and MPS VII and all 
subtypes of MPS III. There are two treatment options for patients with MPS that 
are directed at the underlying pathophysiology: haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation, which is useful for selected patients, and recombinant i.v. 
enzyme replacement therapy, which is available for MPS I, II and VI. Early 
diagnosis and treatment can improve patient outcomes and may reduce the disease 
burden on patients and caregivers. As skeletal and joint abnormalities are 
characteristic of many patients with MPS, rheumatologists are positioned to 
recognize the features of the disease and to facilitate early diagnosis and 
referral. In this overview, the clinical features of the MPS disorders and a 
brief review of treatment options will be presented in order to aid the 
rheumatologist in recognizing the features of these rare genetic disorders.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ker394
PMID: 22210669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Curr HIV Res. 2011 Dec 1;9(8):588-94. doi: 10.2174/157016211798998835.

Implications of RNA helicases in HIV-1 replication: possible roles in latency.

Ajamian L(1), Mouland AJ.

Author information:
(1)Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research-Sir Mortimer B. Davis Jewish 
General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

HAART treatment has greatly improved life expectancy of HIV-1-infected 
individuals. Unfortunately, latency still remains the major barrier towards 
HIV-1 eradication. Efforts to identify viral and host cell proteins involved in 
latency remain important research areas to win this war against HIV-1. Here, we 
review the contributions of several factors in the establishment of latently 
infected cells. In addition, we also raise the possibility that RNA helicases, 
while playing important roles at almost every step of the HIV-1 replication 
cycle, could be implicated in the processes governing the establishment of these 
latent reservoirs.

DOI: 10.2174/157016211798998835
PMID: 22211663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Andrologia. 2012 May;44 Suppl 1:739-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01260.x.  Epub 2011 Dec 26.

Male accessory gland infections: anatomical extension of inflammation and 
severity of symptoms evaluated by an original questionnaire.

La Vignera S(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Andrology and Internal Medicine and Master in 
Andrological, Human Reproduction and Biotechnology Sciences, Department of 
Internal Medicine and Systemic Diseases, University of Catania, Catania, Italy. 
sandrolavignera@email.it

The study was aimed at evaluating a new diagnostic interview, arbitrarily named 
Structured Interview about male accessory gland infections (SI-MAGI), 
administered to three different groups of patients with MAGI according to 
ultrasound evaluation [prostatitis (P) or prostato-vesciculitis (PV) or 
prostato-vesciculo-epididymitis (PVE)]. We evaluated 110 consecutively selected 
infertile patients, with diagnosis of MAGI and underwent to transrectal and 
scrotal ultrasound (US) examination. After ultrasound evaluation, they were 
divided into three well-characterised, aged-matched groups: prostatitis (P; n = 
45), prostato-vesciculitis (PV; n = 30) and prostato-vesciculo-epididymitis 
(PVE; n = 35). Then, all patients were submitted to active clinical history 
oriented by SI-MAGI questionnaire elucidated by the operator. The SI-MAGI was 
structured in four domains (urinary symptoms, ejaculatory pain or discomfort, 
sexual dysfunction and quality-of-life impact) for a total of 30 questions with 
four possible answers. Infertile patients of PVE and PV groups showed scores 
significantly higher than P group in all domains (anovaP < 0.005). PVE showed 
scores significantly higher than PV group in domain 2 and 3. Our study 
demonstrates the MAGI's symptoms worsen with major extension of inflammation and 
ultrasound can evaluate the true extent of MAGI and symptoms can help to suggest 
the severity of MAGI.

© 2011 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01260.x
PMID: 22211812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2013 Feb;27(2):151-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-3083.2011.04430.x. Epub 2012 Jan 3.

Clinical patterns and epidemiological characteristics of facial melasma in 
Brazilian women.

Tamega Ade A(1), Miot LD, Bonfietti C, Gige TC, Marques ME, Miot HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Sao Paulo State University, Botucatu Medical 
School, Unesp, Campus Universitário de Rubião, Botucatu, SP, Brazil.

BACKGROUND; Melasma is a common acquired chronic hypermelanosis of sun-exposed 
areas which significantly impacts quality of life. There are few epidemiological 
studies in medical literature concerning these patients.
OBJECTIVE: Characterize clinical and epidemiological data on Brazilian female 
patients with melasma.
METHODS: A semi-structured questionnaire was administered to melasma patients 
treated at a dermatology clinic between 2005 and 2010. Association between 
variables was performed by multivariate regression models.
RESULTS: We assessed 302 patients; intermediate skin phototypes III (34.4%) and 
IV (38.4%) were prevalent. Mean disease onset age was 27.5 ± 7.8 years and 
familiar occurrence of melasma was identified in 56.3%. The most commonly 
reported trigger factors were pregnancy (36.4%), contraceptive pills (16.2%) and 
intense sun exposure (27.2%). Preferred facial topographies were zygomatic 
(83.8%), labial superior (51.3%) and frontal (49.7%). Pregnancy induced melasma 
has been associated to early disease (OR = 0.86) and number of pregnancies (OR = 
1.39). Childbearing was correlated to melasma extension. Older disease onset age 
was associated to darker skin phototypes. Co-occurrence of facial topographies 
supported clinical classification as centrofacial and peripheral melasma.
CONCLUSION: This population was characterized by: a high prevalence in adult 
females, intermediate skin phototypes, disease precipitation by hormonal 
stimulus and familiar genetic influence.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and 
Venereology © 2012 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2011.04430.x
PMID: 22212073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Hautarzt. 2012 Jan;63(1):10-5. doi: 10.1007/s00105-011-2195-9.

[HIV infection].

[Article in German]

Potthoff A(1), Rasokat H, Brockmeyer NH.

Author information:
(1)Interdisziplinäre Immunologische Ambulanz , St. Josef Hospital Bochum, 
Gudrunstr. 56, 44791, Bochum, Deutschland. a.potthoff@klinikum-bochum.de

The skin can be an indicator of decreased immunocompetence. Dermatological 
markers include new and extensive seborrheic eczema, psoriasis without a family 
history, widespread herpes zoster in young adults, oral hairy leucoplakia and 
mollusca in adults. In these cases an HIV test should be offered. During the 
last 15 years the clinical picture of HIV has changed dramatically. Almost every 
year new drugs with better efficacy, lower pill burden and less side effects 
have been approved. Life expectancy is close to normal in western countries. In 
spite of better treatment options, prevention is the key to stop the worldwide 
epidemic. Awareness campaigns have to account for the synergies between HIV and 
other sexually transmitted diseases. This poses a great challenge for 
dermatovenereology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00105-011-2195-9
PMID: 22212157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Reprod Domest Anim. 2012 Jan;47 Suppl 1:7-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1439-0531.2011.01957.x.

A global strategy of using molecular genetic information to improve genetics in 
livestock.

Margawati ET(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Biotechnology, The Indonesian Institute of Sciences 
(LIPI) Cibinong, West Java, Indonesia. endangtri@hotmail.com

Traditional breeding programmes have largely contributed to disseminate the 
benefits of several quantitative traits in livestock. In developing countries 
such as Indonesia where animal population scattered throughout the country, it 
is difficult to invest for molecular research. On the other side, yet, it is 
worthy asset for breeding purposes. Based on theory and evidence, it has been 
proved that those scattered population evolved different genetic adaptations in 
response to a given natural pressure selection. A global strategy can be applied 
to the use of molecular genetic information for identification of economically 
important value. The use of genetic markers or more effective of marker-assisted 
selection (MAS) for desired important traits would be more valuable and useful 
and even more efficient in important trait selection of superior livestock. DNA 
marker technology would be very useful when applied for quantitative trait 
identification. Marker-assisted selection can be used for enhancing conventional 
breeding and works best for the traits with low heritability such as in 
reproductive traits and disease resistance. Application of conventional breeding 
for lower heredity traits would not be efficient because of waiting longer for 
generation interval, expensive in measurements, more population and more 
employees needed. Study of quantitative trait loci mapping is early investment 
to improve genetic merit. It can be performed once but can be used for exploring 
many genetic traits with economically important values. An effective option is 
biotechnology application in livestock for the development of genetic varieties 
such as stress tolerance, growth and carcass traits. Application of 
biotechnology approaches will enable improvement in productivity, reduction in 
costs, enrichment of milk compositions and extension of shelf life products.

© 2012 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0531.2011.01957.x
PMID: 22212204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Exp Gerontol. 2012 Feb;47(2):188-97. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.12.006. Epub
2011  Dec 26.

Reserpine modulates neurotransmitter release to extend lifespan and alleviate 
age-dependent Aβ proteotoxicity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Saharia K(1), Arya U, Kumar R, Sahu R, Das CK, Gupta K, Dwivedi H, Subramaniam 
JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology Kanpur, Kanpur 208016, India.

Aging is a debilitating process often associated with chronic diseases such as 
diabetes, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). AD occurs at a very high incidence posing a huge burden to the society. 
Model organisms such as C. elegans become essential to understand aging or 
lifespan extension - the etiology, molecular mechanism and identification of new 
drugs against age associated diseases. The AD model, manifesting Aβ 
proteotoxicity, in C. elegans is well established and has provided valuable 
insights. Earlier, we have reported that Reserpine, an FDA-approved 
antihypertensive drug, increases C. elegans lifespan with a high quality of life 
and ameliorates Aβ toxicity in C. elegans. But reserpine does not seem to act 
through the known lifespan extension pathways or inhibition of its known target, 
vesicular monoamine transporter, VMAT. Reserpine's mode of action and the 
pathways it activates are not known. Here, we have evaluated the presynaptic 
neurotransmitter(s) release pathway and identified acetylcholine (ACh) as the 
crucial player for reserpine's action. The corroborating evidences are: i) lack 
of lifespan extension in the ACh loss of function (hypomorphic) - synthesis 
(cha-1) and transport (unc-17) mutants; ii) mitigation of chronic aldicarb 
effect; iii) lifespan extension in dopamine (cat-2) and dopamine and serotonin 
(bas-1) biosynthetic mutants; iv) no rescue from exogenous serotonin induced 
paralysis in the AD model worms; upon reserpine treatment. Thus, modulation of 
acetylcholine is essential for reserpine's action.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.12.006
PMID: 22212533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2011 Oct;85(5):469-79. doi: 
10.1590/S1135-57272011000500006.

[Impact of morbidity on the health of the Basque Country population 2002-2007: a 
comprehensive approach through health expectancies].

[Article in Spanish]

Martín U(1), Esnaola S, Audicana C, Bacigalupe A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Sociología 2, Universidad del País Vasco-Euskal Herriko 
Unibertsitatea, Leioa-Bizcaia, País Vasco, España.

BACKGROUND: The estimation of the impact of morbidity on health is essential to 
health planning. The objective was to estimate this impact using disability free 
life expectancy, and to analyze whether the hypothetical elimination of various 
diseases would have led to a compression or expansion of morbidity.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study on the population of the Basque Country. Data on 
mortality (2002-2006), health survey data (2007) and population based data were 
used. The impact of different groups of diseases on mortality rates, years of 
life and potential years of life lost (PYLL) and disability (absolute number and 
rates) were calculated. An integrated analysis was also done, using disability 
free life expectancy (DFLE), using the Sullivan method.
RESULTS: The diseases causing the greatest impact on mortality were tumours 
among men (35,2% and 39,3% of deaths and PYLL respectively), and circulatory 
diseases (34,5% of deaths) and tumours (43,6% of PYLL) among women. 
Osteomuscular diseases had a major impact on disability, causing the 26,6% and 
the 45,2% of the total cases in men and women). Circulatory diseases had the 
highest impact as a whole (4.2 years of DFLE in men and 3.8 in women). However, 
osteomuscular diseases had the highest influence on years of life with 
disability.
CONCLUSIONS: The diseases which caused the overall greatest impact on mortality 
and disability were circulatory system related ones, tumors, and osteomuscular 
diseases. The elimination of this last group of diseases would have led to a 
morbidity compression, meaning the greatest reduction in life years with 
disability among all the causes.

DOI: 10.1590/S1135-57272011000500006
PMID: 22212834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Arch Neurol. 2012 May;69(5):601-7. doi: 10.1001/archneurol.2011.2370.

Predictors of survival in patients with Parkinson disease.

Willis AW(1), Schootman M, Kung N, Evanoff BA, Perlmutter JS, Racette BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO 63110, USA. willisa@neuro.wustl.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the life expectancy of patients with Parkinson disease 
(PD) in the United States and identify demographic, geographic, and clinical 
factors that influence survival.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study of 138 000 Medicare beneficiaries with 
incident PD who were identified in 2002 and followed up through 2008.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Confounder-adjusted 6-year risk of death as influenced by 
3 groups of factors: (1) race, sex, and age at diagnosis; (2) geography and 
environmental factors; and (3) clinical conditions. We examined hospitalization 
diagnoses in patients with terminal PD and compared PD mortality with that of 
other common diseases.
RESULTS: Thirty-five percent of patients with PD lived more than 6 years. Sex 
and race significantly predicted survival; patients who were female (HR [hazard 
ratio], 0.74; 95% CI, 0.73-0.75), Hispanic (HR, 0.72; 95% CI, 0.65-0.80), or 
Asian (HR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.82-0.91) had a lower adjusted risk of death than 
white men. Dementia, diagnosed in 69.6% of cases and most often in African 
American patients (78.2%) and women (71.5%), was associated with a greater 
likelihood of death (HR, 1.72; 95% CI, 1.69-1.75). Parkinson disease mortality 
was greater than that of many common life-threatening diseases. Patients with 
terminal PD were hospitalized frequently for cardiovascular disease (18.5%) and 
infection (20.9%) but rarely for PD (1.0%). Regional survival rates were similar 
but patients with PD living in urban high industrial metal emission areas had a 
slightly higher adjusted risk of death (HR, 1.19; 95% CI, 1.10-1.29).
CONCLUSIONS: Demographic and clinical factors impact PD survival. Dementia is 
highly prevalent in patients with PD and is associated with a significant 
increase in mortality. More research is needed to understand whether 
environmental exposures influence PD course or survival.

DOI: 10.1001/archneurol.2011.2370
PMCID: PMC3599783
PMID: 22213411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Sex Transm Infect. 2012 Apr;88(3):222-8. doi: 10.1136/sextrans-2011-050067.
Epub  2012 Jan 2.

The cost and cost-effectiveness of opportunistic screening for Chlamydia 
trachomatis in Ireland.

Gillespie P(1), O'Neill C, Adams E, Turner K, O'Donovan D, Brugha R, Vaughan D, 
O'Connell E, Cormican M, Balfe M, Coleman C, Fitzgerald M, Fleming C.

Author information:
(1)School of Business and Economics, National University of Ireland Galway, 
Ireland. paddy.gillespie@nuigalway.ie

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate the cost and 
cost-effectiveness of opportunistic screening for Chlamydia trachomatis in 
Ireland.
METHODS: Prospective cost analysis of an opportunistic screening programme 
delivered jointly in three types of healthcare facility in Ireland. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using an existing dynamic modelling 
framework to compare screening to a control of no organised screening. A 
healthcare provider perspective was adopted with respect to costs and included 
the costs of screening and the costs of complications arising from untreated 
infection. Two outcome measures were examined: major outcomes averted, 
comprising cases of pelvic inflammatory disease, ectopic pregnancy and tubal 
factor infertility in women, neonatal conjunctivitis and pneumonia, and 
epididymitis in men; and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) gained. Uncertainty 
was explored using sensitivity analyses and cost-effectiveness acceptability 
curves.
RESULTS: The average cost per component of screening was estimated at €26 per 
offer, €66 per negative case, €152 per positive case and €74 per partner 
notified and treated. The modelled screening scenario was projected to be more 
effective and more costly than the control strategy. The incremental cost per 
major outcomes averted was €6093, and the incremental cost per QALY gained was 
€94,717. For cost-effectiveness threshold values of €45,000 per QALY gained and 
lower, the probability of the screening being cost effective was estimated at 
<1%.
CONCLUSIONS: An opportunistic chlamydia screening programme, as modelled in this 
study, would be expensive to implement nationally and is unlikely to be judged 
cost effective by policy makers in Ireland.

DOI: 10.1136/sextrans-2011-050067
PMID: 22213681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Med Ethics. 2012 May;38(5):258-62. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100129.
Epub  2012 Jan 2.

National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence appraisal and ageism.

Stevens A(1), Doyle N, Littlejohns P, Docherty M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2012 May;38(5):263-6.

The requirements of the UK Equality Act 2010 and some high profile criticism for 
using a potentially ageist methodology have prompted the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) to assess the processes and methodology it 
uses to make appraisal decisions. This paper argues that NICE has established 
rigorous systems to protect against ageist decisions, has no track record of 
ageism and is well placed to meet the requirements of new UK equality 
legislation.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100129
PMID: 22213833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Popul Stud (Camb). 2012 Mar;66(1):29-37. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2011.635215.
Epub  2012 Jan 3.

How slowing senescence translates into longer life expectancy.

Goldstein JR(1), Cassidy T.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research.

Mortality decline has historically been largely a result of reductions in the 
level of mortality at all ages. A number of leading researchers on ageing, 
however, suggest that the next revolution of longevity increase will be the 
result of slowing down the rate of ageing. In this paper, we show mathematically 
how varying the pace of senescence influences life expectancy. We provide a 
formula that holds for any baseline hazard function. Our result is analogous to 
Keyfitz's 'entropy' relationship for changing the level of mortality. 
Interestingly, the influence of the shape of the baseline schedule on the effect 
of senescence changes is the complement of that found for level changes. We also 
provide a generalized formulation that mixes level and slope effects. We 
illustrate the applicability of these models using recent mortality decline in 
Japan and the problem of period to cohort translation.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2011.635215
PMID: 22214515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Inhal Toxicol. 2012;24(2):89-98. doi: 10.3109/08958378.2011.638947. Epub
2012  Jan 4.

A new time-series methodology for estimating relationships between elderly 
frailty, remaining life expectancy, and ambient air quality.

Murray CJ(1), Lipfert FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA.

Comment in
    Inhal Toxicol. 2016 Sep;28(11):481-3.
    Inhal Toxicol. 2017 Feb;29(3):93-95.

BACKGROUND: Many publications estimate short-term air pollution-mortality risks, 
but few estimate the associated changes in life-expectancies.
OBJECTIVE AND METHODS: We present a new methodology for analyzing time series of 
health effects, in which prior frailty is assumed to precede short-term elderly 
nontraumatic mortality. The model is based on a subpopulation of frail 
individuals whose entries and exits (deaths) are functions of daily and lagged 
environmental conditions: ambient temperature/season, airborne particles, and 
ozone. This frail susceptible population is unknown; its fluctuations cannot be 
observed but are estimated using maximum-likelihood methods with the Kalman 
filter. We used an existing 14-y set of daily data to illustrate the model and 
then tested the assumption of prior frailty with a new generalized model that 
estimates the portion of the daily death count allocated to nonfrail 
individuals.
RESULTS: In this demonstration dataset, new entries into the high-risk pool are 
associated with lower ambient temperatures and higher concentrations of 
particulate matter and ozone. Accounting for these effects on antecedent frailty 
reduces this at-risk population, yielding frail life expectancies of 5-7 days. 
Associations between environmental factors and entries to the at-risk pool are 
about twice as strong as for mortality. Nonfrail elderly deaths are seen to make 
only small contributions.
CONCLUSIONS: This new model predicts a small short-lived frail 
population-at-risk that is stable over a wide range of environmental conditions. 
The predicted effects of pollution on new entries and deaths are robust and 
consistent with conventional morbidity/mortality times-series studies. We 
recommend model verification using other suitable datasets.

DOI: 10.3109/08958378.2011.638947
PMID: 22214527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. JAMA. 2012 Jan 4;307(1):32; author reply 32-3. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1952.

Prematurity and mortality in childhood and early adulthood.

Strunk T, Simmer K, Burgner D.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2011 Sep 21;306(11):1233-40.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1952
PMID: 22215157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. JAMA. 2012 Jan 4;307(1):41-2. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1948.

Two years and counting: how will the effects of the Affordable Care Act be 
monitored?

Brook RH(1).

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation and David Geffen UCLA School of Medicine, Santa Monica, CA 
90401, USA. brook@rand.org

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1948
PMID: 22215162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Gen Intern Med. 2012 Jun;27(6):640-6. doi: 10.1007/s11606-011-1951-y. Epub
 2012 Jan 4.

Impact of delaying blood pressure control in patients with Type 2 diabetes: 
results of a decision analysis.

Laiteerapong N(1), John PM, Meltzer DO, Huang ES.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
Chicago, 5841 S Maryland Ave, MC 2007, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
nlaiteer@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

