
643. AIDS. 2012 Jun 1;26(9):1083-93. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32835221eb.

Genotype assays and third-line ART in resource-limited settings: a simulation 
and cost-effectiveness analysis of a planned clinical trial.

Lorenzana SB(1), Hughes MD, Grinsztejn B, Collier AC, Luz PM, Freedberg KA, Wood 
R, Levison JH, Mugyenyi PN, Salata R, Wallis CL, Weinstein MC, Schooley RT, 
Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To project the clinical and economic outcomes of a genotype assay 
for selection of third-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) in resource-limited 
settings, as per the planned international A5288 trial (MULTI-OCTAVE).
METHODS: We used the Cost-effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications 
(CEPAC)-International Model to compare three strategies for patients who have 
failed second-line ART in South Africa: sustained second-line: no genotype 
assay, all patients remain on second-line ART; A5288: genotype to determine the 
resistance profile and assign an appropriate regimen; or population-based 
third-line: no genotype, all patients switch to a potent third-line regimen. 
Model inputs are from published data in South Africa. Resistance profiles, ART 
regimens, and efficacy data were those used for trial planning.
RESULTS: Projected life expectancy for sustained second-line, A5288, and 
population-based third-line are 61.1, 103.8, and 104.2 months. Compared to 
sustained second-line ($12 ,460), per person lifetime costs increase for the 
A5288 ($39, 250) and population-based ($44, 120) strategies. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of A5288, compared to sustained second-line, is 
$7500/year of life saved (YLS), and for population-based third-line, compared to 
A5288, is $154 ,500/YLS. In the A5288 strategy, very late presentation to care, 
coupled with lengthy delays to obtain the genotype, dramatically reduces 5-year 
survival, making the population-based third-line strategy more attractive.
CONCLUSIONS: We project that, whereas the public health approach to third-line 
therapy is unaffordable, genotype assays and third-line ART in resource-limited 
settings will increase survival and be cost-effective compared to the 
population-based approach, supporting the value of an efficacy study.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32835221eb
PMCID: PMC3424271
PMID: 22343964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST SBL: None MDH: Dr. Hughes 
is a paid member of data monitoring committees for Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Medicines Development, Pfizer and Tibotec. BG: Dr. Grinsztejn has received 
honoraria to participate in advisory boards from Merck and Tibotec and for 
lectures from Merck, Tibotec and GSK. ACC: Dr. Collier has current or recent 
past research support from Merck & Company and Schering-Plough. She was a member 
of a Data, Safety, and Monitoring Board for a Merck-sponsored study. She and an 
immediate family member own stock in Abbott Laboratories, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Johnson and Johnson and Pfizer, Inc. PML: None KAF: None RW: None JHL: None PNM: 
None RS: None CLW: None MCW: None RTS: Dr. Schooley has served as a consultant 
to Merck & Company. He serves as a consultant to Johnson and Johnson and to 
Gilead Sciences. He serves as Chair of a Data, Safety, and Monitoring Board for 
a Gilead-sponsored study. RPW: None


644. Braz Oral Res. 2012 Jan-Feb;26(1):24-8. doi:
10.1590/s1806-83242012000100005.

Influence of artificial saliva in biofilm formation of Candida albicans in 
vitro.

Silva MP(1), Chibebe Junior J, Jorjão AL, Machado AK, Oliveira LD, Junqueira JC, 
Jorge AO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences and Oral Diagnosis, School of Dentistry of São José 
dos Campos, Univ. Estadual Paulista, São José dos Campos, SP, 
Brazil.mipeneluppi@ig.com.br

Due to the increase in life expectancy, new treatments have emerged which, 
although palliative, provide individuals with a better quality of life. 
Artificial saliva is a solution that contains substances that moisten a dry 
mouth, thus mimicking the role of saliva in lubricating the oral cavity and 
controlling the existing normal oral microbiota. This study aimed to assess the 
influence of commercially available artificial saliva on biofilm formation by 
Candida albicans. Artificial saliva I consists of carboxymethylcellulose, while 
artificial saliva II is composed of glucose oxidase, lactoferrin, lysozyme and 
lactoperoxidase. A control group used sterile distilled water. Microorganisms 
from the oral cavity were transferred to Sabouraud Dextrose Agar and incubated 
at 37 Â°C for 24 hours. Colonies of Candida albicans were suspended in a sterile 
solution of NaCl 0.9%, and standardisation of the suspension to 106 cells/mL was 
achieved. The acrylic discs, immersed in artificial saliva and sterile distilled 
water, were placed in a 24-well plate containing 2 mL of Sabouraud Dextrose 
Broth plus 5% sucrose and 0.1 mL aliquot of the Candida albicans suspension. The 
plates were incubated at 37 Â°C for 5 days, the discs were washed in 2 mL of 
0.9% NaCl and placed into a tube containing 10 mL of 0.9% NaCl. After decimal 
dilutions, aliquots of 0.1 mL were seeded on Sabouraud Dextrose Agar and 
incubated at 37 Â°C for 48 hours. Counts were reported as CFU/mL (Log10). A 
statistically significant reduction of 29.89% (1.45 CFU/mL) of Candida albicans 
was observed in saliva I when compared to saliva II (p = 0.002, considering 
p≤0.05).

DOI: 10.1590/s1806-83242012000100005
PMID: 22344334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. J Med Ethics. 2012 May;38(5):263-6. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100417. Epub
 2012 Feb 19.

Ageism and equality.

Harris J(1), Regmi S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Science, Ethics and Innovation, University of Manchester, M13 
9PL, UK. john.harris@manchester.ac.uk

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2012 May;38(5):258-62.

This paper rebuts suggestions made by Littlejohns et al that NICE is not ageist 
by analysing the concept of ageism. It recognises the constraints that finite 
resources impose on decision making bodies such as NICE and then makes a number 
of positive suggestions as to how NICE might more effectively and more justly 
intervene in the allocation of scarce resources for health.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100417
PMID: 22345557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2012 Jan;19(1):34-42. doi: 
10.4103/0974-9233.92114.

The hot orbit: orbital cellulitis.

Chaudhry IA(1), Al-Rashed W, Arat YO.

Author information:
(1)Oculoplastic and Orbit Division, King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.

Orbital cellulitis is an uncommon condition previously associated with severe 
complications. If untreated, orbital cellulitis can be potentially sight and 
life threatening. It can affect both adults and children but has a greater 
tendency to occur in the pediatric age group. The infection most commonly 
originates from sinuses, eyelids or face, retained foreign bodies, or distant 
soources by hematogenous spread. It is characterized by eyelid edema, erythema, 
chemosis, proptosis, blurred vision, fever, headache, and double vision. A 
history of upper respiratory tract infection prior to the onset is very common 
especially in children. In the era prior to antibiotics, vision loss from 
orbital cellulitis was a dreaded complication. Currently, imaging studies for 
detection of orbital abcess, the use of antibiotics and early drainage have 
mitigated visual morbidity significantly. The purpose of this review is to 
describe current investigative strategies and management options in the 
treatment of orbital cellulitis, establish their effectiveness and possible 
complications due to late intervention.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-9233.92114
PMCID: PMC3277022
PMID: 22346113

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


647. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e30274. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030274. Epub 2012 Feb
8.

Hazardous alcohol consumption is a major factor in male premature mortality in a 
typical Russian city: prospective cohort study 2003-2009.

Tomkins S(1), Collier T, Oralov A, Saburova L, McKee M, Shkolnikov V, Kiryanov 
N, Leon DA.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: Russia has experienced massive fluctuations in mortality at 
working ages over the past three decades. Routine data analyses suggest that 
these are largely driven by fluctuations in heavy alcohol drinking. However, 
individual-level evidence supporting alcohol having a major role in Russian 
mortality comes from only two case-control studies, which could be subject to 
serious biases due to their design.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: A prospective study of mortality (2003-9) of 2000 men aged 
25-54 years at recruitment was conducted in the city of Izhevsk, Russia. This 
cohort was free from key limitations inherent in the design of the two earlier 
case-control studies. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to estimate 
hazard ratios of all-cause mortality by alcohol drinking type as reported by a 
proxy informant. Hazardous drinkers were defined as those who either drank 
non-beverage alcohols or were reported to regularly have hangovers or other 
behaviours related to heavy drinking episodes. Over the follow-up period 113 men 
died. Compared to non-hazardous drinkers and abstainers, men who drank 
hazardously had appreciably higher mortality (HR = 3.4, 95% CI 2.2, 5.1) 
adjusted for age, smoking and education. The population attributable risk 
percent (PAR%) for hazardous drinking was 26% (95% CI 14,37). However, larger 
effects were seen in the first two years of follow-up, with a HR of 4.6 (2.5, 
8.2) and a corresponding PAR% of 37% (17, 51).
INTERPRETATION: This prospective cohort study strengthens the evidence that 
hazardous alcohol consumption has been a major determinant of mortality among 
working age men in a typical Russian city. As such the similar findings of the 
previous case-control studies cannot be explained as artefacts of limitations of 
their design. As Russia struggles to raise life expectancy, which even in 2009 
was only 62 years among men, control of hazardous drinking must remain a top 
public health priority.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030274
PMCID: PMC3275563
PMID: 22347371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


648. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e30795. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030795. Epub 2012 Feb
9.

Health risk or resource? Gradual and independent association between self-rated 
health and mortality persists over 30 years.

Bopp M(1), Braun J, Gutzwiller F, Faeh D; Swiss National Cohort Study Group.

Collaborators: Gutzwiller F, Bopp M, Egger M, Spoerri A, Sturdy M, Zwahlen M, 
Künzli N, Paccaud F, Oris M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland. bopp@ifspm.uzh.ch

BACKGROUND: Poor self-rated health (SRH) is associated with increased mortality. 
However, most studies only adjust for few health risk factors and/or do not 
analyse whether this association is consistent also for intermediate categories 
of SRH and for follow-up periods exceeding 5-10 years. This study examined 
whether the SRH-mortality association remained significant 30 years after 
assessment when adjusting for a wide range of known clinical, behavioural and 
socio-demographic risk factors.
METHODS: We followed-up 8,251 men and women aged ≥ 16 years who participated 
1977-79 in a community based health study and were anonymously linked with the 
Swiss National Cohort (SNC) until the end of 2008. Covariates were measured at 
baseline and included education, marital status, smoking, medical history, 
medication, blood glucose and pressure.
RESULTS: 92.8% of the original study participants could be linked to a census, 
mortality or emigration record of the SNC. Loss to follow-up 1980-2000 was 5.8%. 
Even after 30 years of follow-up and after adjustment for all covariates, the 
association between SRH and all-cause mortality remained strong and estimates 
almost linearly increased from "excellent" (reference: hazard ratio, HR 1) to 
"good" (men: HR 1.07 95% confidence interval 0.92-1.24, women: 1.22, 1.01-1.46) 
to "fair" (1.41, 1.18-1.68; 1.39, 1.14-1.70) to "poor"(1.61, 1.15-2.25; 1.49, 
1.07-2.06) to "very poor" (2.85, 1.25-6.51; 1.30, 0.18-9.35). Persons answering 
the SRH question with "don't know" (1.87, 1.21-2.88; 1.26, 0.87-1.83) had also 
an increased mortality risk; this was pronounced in men and in the first years 
of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: SRH is a strong and "dose-dependent" predictor of mortality. The 
association was largely independent from covariates and remained significant 
after decades. This suggests that SRH provides relevant and sustained health 
information beyond classical risk factors or medical history and reflects 
salutogenetic rather than pathogenetic pathways.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030795
PMCID: PMC3276505
PMID: 22347405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


649. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e31096. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031096. Epub 2012 Feb
7.

Repression of floral meristem fate is crucial in shaping tomato inflorescence.

Thouet J(1), Quinet M, Lutts S, Kinet JM, Périlleux C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Physiology, Department of Life Sciences, University of 
Liège, Liège, Belgium.

Tomato is an important crop and hence there is a great interest in understanding 
the genetic basis of its flowering. Several genes have been identified by 
mutations and we constructed a set of novel double mutants to understand how 
these genes interact to shape the inflorescence. It was previously suggested 
that the branching of the tomato inflorescence depends on the gradual transition 
from inflorescence meristem (IM) to flower meristem (FM): the extension of this 
time window allows IM to branch, as seen in the compound inflorescence (s) and 
falsiflora (fa) mutants that are impaired in FM maturation. We report here that 
Jointless (J), which encodes a MADS-box protein of the same clade than Short 
Vegetative Phase (SVP) and Agamous Like 24 (AGL24) in Arabidopsis, interferes 
with this timing and delays FM maturation, therefore promoting IM fate. This was 
inferred from the fact that j mutation suppresses the high branching 
inflorescence phenotype of s and fa mutants and was further supported by the 
expression pattern of J, which is expressed more strongly in IM than in FM. Most 
interestingly, FA--the orthologue of the Arabidopsis LEAFY (LFY) gene--shows the 
complementary expression pattern and is more active in FM than in IM. Loss of J 
function causes premature termination of flower formation in the inflorescence 
and its reversion to a vegetative program. This phenotype is enhanced in the 
absence of systemic florigenic protein, encoded by the Single Flower Truss (SFT) 
gene, the tomato orthologue of Flowering Locus T (FT). These results suggest 
that the formation of an inflorescence in tomato requires the interaction of J 
and a target of SFT in the meristem, for repressing FA activity and FM fate in 
the IM.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031096
PMCID: PMC3274538
PMID: 22347436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


650. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2012;4:31-7. doi: 10.2147/CEOR.S25923. Epub 2012
Jan  26.

Cross-market cost-effectiveness analysis of erlotinib as first-line maintenance 
treatment for patients with stable non-small cell lung cancer.

Vergnenègre A(1), Ray JA, Chouaid C, Grossi F, Bischoff HG, Heigener DF, Walzer 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pneumology, Hôpital du Cluzeau, Limoges, France.

BACKGROUND: Platinum-doublet, first-line treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is limited to 4-6 cycles. An 
alternative strategy used to prolong the duration of first-line treatment and 
extend survival in metastatic NSCLC is first-line maintenance therapy. Erlotinib 
was approved for first-line maintenance in a stable disease population following 
results from a randomized, controlled Phase III trial comparing erlotinib with 
best supportive care. We aimed to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of 
erlotinib 150 mg/day versus best supportive care when used as first-line 
maintenance therapy for patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC and 
stable disease.
METHODS: An economic decision model was developed using patient-level data for 
progression-free survival and overall survival from the SATURN (SequentiAl 
Tarceva in UnResectable NSCLC) study. An area under the curve model was 
developed; all patients entered the model in the progression-free survival 
health state and, after each month, moved to progression or death. A time 
horizon of 5 years was used. The model was conducted from the perspective of 
national health care payers in France, Germany, and Italy. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Treatment with erlotinib in first-line maintenance resulted in a mean 
life expectancy of 1.39 years in all countries, compared with a mean 1.11 years 
with best supportive care, which represents 0.28 life-years (3.4 life-months) 
gained with erlotinib versus best supportive care. In the base-case analysis, 
the cost per life-year gained was €39,783, €46,931, and €27,885 in France, 
Germany, and Italy, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Erlotinib is a cost-effective treatment option when used as 
first-line maintenance therapy for locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC.

DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S25923
PMCID: PMC3278202
PMID: 22347803


651. Cardiovasc Eng Technol. 2011 Dec;2(4):288-295. doi:
10.1007/s13239-011-0059-1.

Hemodynamic Modeling of Surgically Repaired Coarctation of the Aorta.

Olivieri LJ(1), de Zélicourt DA, Haggerty CM, Ratnayaka K, Cross RR, Yoganathan 
AP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Children s National Medical Center, Washington, DC.

PURPOSE: Late morbidity of surgically repaired coarctation of the aorta includes 
early cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease, shortened life expectancy, 
abnormal vasomodulator response, hypertension and exercise-induced hypertension 
in the absence of recurrent coarctation. Observational studies have linked 
patterns of arch remodeling (Gothic, Crenel, and Romanesque) to late morbidity, 
with Gothic arches having the highest incidence. We evaluated flow in native and 
surgically repaired aortic arches to correlate respective hemodynamic indices 
with incidence of late morbidity. METHODS: Three dimensional reconstructions of 
each remodeled arch were created from an anatomic stack of magnetic resonance 
(MR) images. A structured mesh core with a boundary layer was generated. 
Computational fluid dynamic (CFD) analysis was performed assuming peak flow 
conditions with a uniform velocity profile and unsteady turbulent flow. Wall 
shear stress (WSS), pressure and velocity data were extracted. RESULTS: The 
region of maximum WSS was located in the mid-transverse arch for the Crenel, 
Romanesque and Native arches. Peak WSS was located in the isthmus of the Gothic 
model. Variations in descending aorta flow patterns were also observed among the 
models. CONCLUSION: The location of peak WSS is a primary difference among the 
models tested, and may have clinical relevance. Specifically, the Gothic arch 
had a unique location of peak WSS with flow disorganization in the descending 
aorta. Our results suggest that varied patterns and locations of WSS resulting 
from abnormal arch remodeling may exhibit a primary effect on clinical vascular 
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s13239-011-0059-1
PMCID: PMC3279918
PMID: 22347895


652. Orv Hetil. 2012 Mar 4;153(9):344-50. doi: 10.1556/OH.2012.29280.

[Health related costs of smoking from the viewpoint of the Health Insurance Fund 
in Hungary].

[Article in Hungarian]

Gresz M(1), Nagy J, Freyler P.

Author information:
(1)Országos Egészségbiztosítási Pénztár Budapest Forint u. gresz@hu.inter.net

In recent times, the topic of smoking has been extensively debated in Hungary. A 
new Act has been issued for the protection of non-smokers and for the regulation 
of tobacco product distribution.
AIMS: The aim of the authors was to examine the economic burden of smoking on 
the society.
METHODS: According to wildly accepted estimates, 30% of the Hungarian population 
smokes. Smoking leads to the development of several diseases, for example, it is 
responsible for 90% of lung cancer cases.
RESULTS: 17.2% of the curative-preventive costs and 15% of the pharmaceutic 
costs are estimated to be spent on the health damages caused by smoking. In 
2009, the Health Insurance Fund had to spend approximately 174.6 billion HUF for 
health damages including sick leave costs caused by smoking. Working days lost 
(patients on sick list) as a consequence of smoking decreased the GDP of Hungary 
by around 95 billion HUF in the same year. Literature suggests that smoking 
leads to a loss of approximately seven life years. Shortened life span might 
cause 594.9 billion HUF loss to the Hungarian economy not to mention the 
economical and emotional loss of the individual families.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors estimated a total of 864.4 billion HUF loss to the 
Hungarian economy due to smoking.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2012.29280
PMID: 22348850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Zhong Nan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2012 Jan;37(1):84-8. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2012.01.015.

[Survival analysis of patients with pneumoconiosis from 1956 to 2010 in 
Changsha].

[Article in Chinese]

Xue J(1), Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Public Health School of 
Central South University, Changsha, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the survival rate and life expectancy of patients with 
pneumoconiosis and influence factors in Changsha from 1956 to 2010.
METHODS: A total of 3685 patients with pneumoconiosis were diagnosed and 
reported from 1956 to 2010 in Changsha. The fatality rate and life expectancy 
were analyzed by life table and the cause of death was analyzed by Kaplan-Meier 
method and Cox regression model.
RESULTS: The death rate increased obviously with age. Age and accumulation death 
probability showed linearity (Ŷ=1.271+0.041X, r=0.989). The life expectancy was 
60.12 years. The first cause of death was pulmonary tuberculosis in patients 
with pneumoconiosis. Ruling out the influence of pulmonary tuberculosis, 
pneumoconiosis, and lung source heart disease, the life expectancy of patients 
with pneumoconiosis averagely extended 0.83, 0.99, and 0.02 years. The death 
rate of pneumoconiosis-tuberculosis had significant difference with that of the 
pneumoconiosisnontuberculosis (P<0.01). Cox regression analysis revealed that 
the main risk factors for the survival of patients with pneumoconiosis included 
type of work (smashing worker), complication with tuberculosis, type of 
pneumoconiosis (silicosis). The death hazard ratio or relative risk caused by 
them was 1.927, 1.749, and 1.609, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Prevention of pneumoconiosis should focus on smashing workers in 
Changsha, while its the treatment primarily attaches importance to complication 
of tuberculosis and lung infection.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1672-7347.2012.01.015
PMID: 22349391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nervenarzt. 2012 Jun;83(6):785-93. doi: 10.1007/s00115-011-3440-2.

[Spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage].

[Article in German]

Steinmetz H(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum der Neurologie und Neurochirurgie, Klinikum der J.W. 
Goethe-Universität, Schleusenweg 2-16, 60528 Frankfurt am Main, Deutschland. 
h.steinmetz@em.uni-frankfurt.de

The diagnosis, management and long-term implications of non-traumatic 
subarachnoid hemorrhage continue to be a multidisciplinary challenge. Often, the 
patients present to emergency or primary care physicians not particularly 
experienced in the differential diagnosis of headache. In most cases of a proven 
hemorrhage (aneurysm rupture in 85%), further treatment will require the 
discussion between experienced neurosurgeons and neuroradiologists whether to 
"clip or coil". Thus, subarachnoid hemorrhage is the first cerebrovascular 
disorder where a multidisciplinary approach has become the evidence-based 
standard of care. Patients with this condition are relatively young, and the 
survivors have a good life expectancy. Their neurologic, cognitive and 
psychiatric morbidity, risk of recurrent bleeding and elevated risk of other 
vascular diseases remain underestimated tasks for long-term care.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-011-3440-2
PMID: 22349626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Oecologia. 2012 Aug;169(4):927-37. doi: 10.1007/s00442-012-2266-3. Epub 2012
Feb  17.

Mean residence time of leaf number, area, mass, and nitrogen in canopy 
photosynthesis.

Hirose T(1), Oikawa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Agricultural Development, Tokyo University of 
Agriculture, Tokyo 156-8502, Japan. t3hirose@nodai.ac.jp

Mean residence time (MRT) of plant nitrogen (N), which is an indicator of the 
expected length of time N newly taken up is retained before being lost, is an 
important component in plant nitrogen use. Here we extend the concept MRT to 
cover such variables as leaf number, leaf area, leaf dry mass, and nitrogen in 
the canopy. MRT was calculated from leaf duration (i.e., time integral of 
standing amount) divided by the total production of leaf variables. We 
determined MRT in a Xanthium canadense stand established with high or low N 
availability. The MRT of leaf number may imply longevity of leaves in the 
canopy. We found that the MRT of leaf area and dry mass were shorter than that 
of leaf number, while the MRT of leaf N was longer. The relatively longer MRT of 
leaf N was due to N resorption before leaf shedding. The MRT of all variables 
was longer at low N availability. Leaf productivity is the rate of canopy 
photosynthesis per unit amount of leaf variables, and multiplication of leaf 
productivity by MRT gives the leaf photosynthetic efficiency (canopy 
photosynthesis per unit production of leaf variables). The photosynthetic 
efficiency of leaf number implies the lifetime carbon gain of a leaf in the 
canopy. The analysis of plant-level N use efficiency by evaluating the N 
productivity and MRT is a well-established approach. Extension of these concepts 
to leaf number, area, mass, and N in the canopy will clarify the underlying 
logic in the study of leaf life span, leaf area development, and dry mass and N 
use in canopy photosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-012-2266-3
PMID: 22349752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Osteoporos Int. 2013 Jan;24(1):163-77. doi: 10.1007/s00198-012-1936-7. Epub
2012  Feb 17.

Cost-effectiveness of bone densitometry among Caucasian women and men without a 
prior fracture according to age and body weight.

Schousboe JT(1), Gourlay M, Fink HA, Taylor BC, Orwoll ES, Barrett-Connor E, 
Melton LJ 3rd, Cummings SR, Ensrud KE; Osteoporotic Fractures in Men (MrOS) and 
Study of Osteoporotic Fractures (SOF) Research Groups.

Author information:
(1)Park Nicollet Institute, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
john.schousboe@parknicollet.com

We used a microsimulation model to estimate the threshold body weights at which 
screening bone densitometry is cost-effective. Among women aged 55-65 years and 
men aged 55-75 years without a prior fracture, body weight can be used to 
identify those for whom bone densitometry is cost-effective.
INTRODUCTION: Bone densitometry may be more cost-effective for those with lower 
body weight since the prevalence of osteoporosis is higher for those with low 
body weight. Our purpose was to estimate weight thresholds below which bone 
densitometry is cost-effective for women and men without a prior clinical 
fracture at ages 55, 60, 65, 75, and 80 years.
METHODS: We used a microsimulation model to estimate the costs and health 
benefits of bone densitometry and 5 years of fracture prevention therapy for 
those without prior fracture but with femoral neck osteoporosis (T-score ≤ -2.5) 
and a 10-year hip fracture risk of ≥3%. Threshold pre-test probabilities of low 
BMD warranting drug therapy at which bone densitometry is cost-effective were 
calculated. Corresponding body weight thresholds were estimated using data from 
the Study of Osteoporotic Fractures (SOF), the Osteoporotic Fractures in Men 
(MrOS) study, and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 
for 2005-2006.
RESULTS: Assuming a willingness to pay of $75,000 per quality adjusted life year 
(QALY) and drug cost of $500/year, body weight thresholds below which bone 
densitometry is cost-effective for those without a prior fracture were 74, 90, 
and 100 kg, respectively, for women aged 55, 65, and 80 years; and were 67, 101, 
and 108 kg, respectively, for men aged 55, 75, and 80 years.
CONCLUSIONS: For women aged 55-65 years and men aged 55-75 years without a prior 
fracture, body weight can be used to select those for whom bone densitometry is 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-012-1936-7
PMCID: PMC3739718
PMID: 22349916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None.


657. Radiologe. 2012 Feb;52(2):149-55. doi: 10.1007/s00117-011-2236-5.

[Arthrosis - update 2012].

[Article in German]

Räuchle M(1), Cemerka M, Eibenberger B, Breitenseher M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Radiologie und Interventionelle Radiologie, Landesklinikum 
Waldviertel Horn, Spitalgasse 10, A-3580, Horn, Österreich. 
michael.raeuchle@horn.lknoe.at

Osteoarthritis is the most common joint disease in adults. With higher life 
expectancy and a growing proportion of elderly people in society, the relevance 
of osteoarthritis is becoming higher, especially in terms of socioeconomic 
effects and burdens for the healthcare system. In this review the pathogenesis 
and risk factors of the disease are presented with the focus on the knee, hip 
and shoulder, clinical symptoms, diagnosis and especially radiological imaging 
and therapy options.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-011-2236-5
PMID: 22349950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Eur J Epidemiol. 2012 Feb;27(2):85-9. doi: 10.1007/s10654-012-9658-x. Epub
2012  Feb 19.

Early retirement and mortality in Germany.

Kühntopf S(1), Tivig T.

Author information:
(1)Federal Institute for Population Research, Friedrich-Ebert-Allee 4, 65185 
Wiesbaden, Germany. stephan.kuehntopf@destatis.de

Differences in mortality by retirement age have an important impact on the 
financing of pension insurance, yet no clear-cut results for Germany exist so 
far. We calculate mortality rates by retirement age from microdata on all German 
old-age pensioners and 1.84 million deceases. The life expectancies and survival 
probabilities at age 65 are estimated for population subgroups according to 
creditable periods because of disease and pension income. Early-retired men who 
reach the age of 65 years live significantly longer the later early retirement 
occurs; the life expectancy at age 65 ranges from 13 to 17.8 years. For each 
retirement age, mortality of men is higher the more periods of disease are 
credited in the pension insurance system. For a given length of credited periods 
of disease, mortality of early retirees decreases with the retirement age. 
'Healthy worker selection effects' operating in the labour market may contribute 
to these results. The 'work longer, live longer'-result is found for each 
pension income quintile, which resolves the J-curve pattern found in the 
literature. The mortality of female old-age pensioners varies little with 
retirement age.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-012-9658-x
PMID: 22350223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Oncotarget. 2012 Feb;3(2):195-202. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.448.

MiR-181b: new perspective to evaluate disease progression in chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia.

Visone R(1), Veronese A, Balatti V, Croce CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Experimental Medicine, G. d'Annunzio University, 
66100, Chieti, Italy.

Over the past decades numerous markers of the tumor burden have been discovered 
in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Among these, the microRNAs seem to have a 
promising role. The development and validation of miRNAs as biomarkers should 
have significant impact in improving early cancer detection and diagnosis, 
enhancing therapeutic success, and increasing the life expectancy of patients. 
We identified miR-181b as a biomarker for the progression of this disease from 
indolent to aggressive. For this study we used sequential samples from patients 
with either progressive or stable course of the illness. Here, we discuss more 
extensively this issue by adding novel findings and introducing a novel approach 
for monitoring CLL patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.448
PMCID: PMC3326649
PMID: 22350310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2012 Feb;45(2):146-54. doi: 10.1007/s00391-011-0266-2.

Relationship between multimorbidity and direct healthcare costs in an advanced 
elderly population. Results of the PRISCUS trial.

Nagl A(1), Witte J, Hodek JM, Greiner W.

Author information:
(1)Fakultät für Gesundheitswissenschaften, AG5 - Gesundheitsökonomie und 
Gesundheitsmanagement, Universität Bielefeld, 10 01 03, 33501, Bielefeld, 
Deutschland. alexander.nagl@uni-bielefeld.de

OBJECTIVES: The goal of this work was to analyze the impact of the extent of 
multimorbidity on health service resource utilization and, thus, direct 
healthcare costs of advanced elderly in the German population.
METHODS: Based on a cross-sectional sample aged 72 or above in Germany 
(n = 1,937), a bottom-up study assessing resource utilization and corresponding 
costs was performed. Main data sources were patient-reported information 
concerning morbidity and health service resource utilization administered via 
telephone interviews within the framework of the PRISCUS trial. To value 
resource utilization, unit costs were determined for all services under 
consideration. In order to estimate the impact of multimorbidity on mean annual 
direct costs, a cumulative multimorbidity index was constructed. Influencing 
factors on annual average costs were identified via multivariate linear 
regression models.
RESULTS: Mean annual direct costs of 3,315 EUR (95% confidence interval (CI) 
3,118; 3,512) at 2010 prices were caused by the involved patients: 25% of mean 
annual costs were due to inpatient care, 20% to outpatient physician services, 
20% to pharmaceuticals, 12% to assisted living and transportation, 8% to 
healthcare products and dentures, 7% to rehabilitation services, 5% to 
outpatient nonphysician providers, and 3% to spending from compulsory long-term 
care insurance. Each additional comorbidity was accompanied by a cost increase 
of 563 EUR (95% CI 488; 638). Participants with no diseases mentioned in the 
multimorbidity index caused average annual costs of 1,250 EUR. In contrast, 
respondents with 10 + diseases caused the highest mean annual costs of 
6,862 EUR.
CONCLUSION: Longer life expectancy has become commonplace and is often 
associated with the simultaneous occurrence of several diseases. A clear 
understanding of the impact of multimorbidity on costs is highly relevant for 
health policy decision makers. The present study provides a well-founded basis 
to analyze the relationship between multiple morbidity and associated costs due 
to healthcare resource consumption of older adults in Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-011-0266-2
PMID: 22350393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Qual Life Res. 2013 Feb;22(1):27-35. doi: 10.1007/s11136-012-0118-6. Epub
2012  Feb 18.

Quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) loss due to smoking in the United 
States.

Jia H(1), Zack MM, Thompson WW, Dube SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, 617 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
hj2198@columbia.edu

PURPOSE: Estimate quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) loss due to smoking 
and examine trends and state differences in smoking-related QALE loss in the 
U.S.
METHODS: Population health-related quality of life (HRQOL) scores were estimated 
from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. This study constructed life 
tables based on U.S. mortality files and the mortality linked National Health 
Interview Survey and calculated QALE for smokers, non-smokers, and the total 
population.
RESULTS: In 2009, an 18-year-old smoker was expected to have 43.5 (SE = 0.2) 
more years of QALE, and a non-smoker of the same age was expected to have 54.6 
(SE = 0.2) more years of QALE. Therefore, smoking contributed 11.0 (SE = 0.2) 
years of QALE loss for smokers and 4.1 years (37%) of this loss resulted from 
reductions in HRQOL alone. At the population level, smoking was associated with 
1.9 fewer years of QALE for U.S. adults throughout their lifetime, starting at 
age 18.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates an application of a recently developed QALE 
estimation methodology. The analyses show good precision and relatively small 
bias in estimating QALE--especially at the individual level. Although smokers 
may live longer today than before, they still have a high disease burden due to 
morbidities associated with poor HRQOL.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-012-0118-6
PMCID: PMC4590979
PMID: 22350530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Lifetime Data Anal. 2012 Apr;18(2):157-76. doi: 10.1007/s10985-012-9215-7.
Epub  2012 Feb 18.

Recurrent first hitting times in Wiener diffusion under several observation 
schemes.

Whitmore GA(1), Ramsay T, Aaron SD.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, 1001 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, Quebec, H3A 1G5, 
Canada. george.whitmore@mcgill.ca

Recurrent events are commonly encountered in the natural sciences, engineering, 
and medicine. The theory of renewal and regenerative processes provides an 
elegant mathematical foundation for idealized recurrent event processes. In 
real-world applications, however, the contexts tend to be complicated by a 
variety of practical intricacies, including observation schemes with different 
phase and data structures. This paper formulates a recurrent event process as a 
succession of independent and identically distributed first hitting times for a 
Wiener sample path as it passes through successive equally-spaced levels. We 
develop exact mathematical results for statistical inferences based on several 
observation schemes that include observation initiated at a renewal point, 
observation of a stationary process over a finite window, and other variants. We 
also consider inferences drawn from different data structures, including gap 
times between renewal points (or fragments thereof) and counts of renewal events 
occurring within an observation window. We explore the precision of estimates 
using simulated scenarios and develop empirical regression functions for 
planning the sample size of a recurrent event study. We demonstrate our results 
using data from a clinical trial for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 
which the recurrent events are successive exacerbations of the condition. The 
case study demonstrates how covariates can be incorporated into the analysis 
using threshold regression.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-012-9215-7
PMID: 22350567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Support Care Cancer. 2012 Nov;20(11):2755-64. doi:
10.1007/s00520-012-1397-8.  Epub 2012 Feb 17.

Health-related quality of life anticipated with different management strategies 
for febrile neutropenia in adult cancer patients.

Teuffel O(1), Cheng S, Ethier MC, Diorio C, Martino J, Mayo C, Wing R, Sung L, 
Alibhai SM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Haematology/Oncology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: To describe anticipated health-related quality of life (HRQL) for 
different hypothetical strategies of febrile neutropenia (FN) management in 
adult cancer patients.
METHODS: Seventy-eight adult cancer patients were enrolled. Our study considered 
four different hypothetical treatment strategies for FN: (1) entire inpatient 
management with intravenous (IV) antibiotics; (2) oral treatment at home after 
an initial observation in hospital with IV antibiotics; (3) entire outpatient 
management with IV antibiotics; and (4) entire outpatient management with oral 
antibiotics. Initially, patients were asked to rank the different treatment 
strategies for FN based on their personal preference. Subsequently, HRQL was 
rated using visual analog scale (VAS), time trade-off (TTO), and 
willingness-to-pay (WTP).
RESULTS: Seventy-five percent of all respondents preferred an outpatient 
strategy for FN (36% oral, 21% intravenous, 18% early discharge). Further, 
outpatient strategies were associated with higher mean VAS scores (possible 
range 0-10) (oral: 6.1 (standard deviation (SD) 3.1); intravenous: 6.2 (SD 2.2); 
early discharge: 5.7 (SD 2.1)) as compared to inpatient care (5.3 (SD 2.9)). On 
the aggregate level, patients were willing to give up between 9 and 10 weeks of 
their life (TTO; corresponding to <1% of remaining life expectancy) and to pay 
between $255 and $327 Canadian dollars (WTP) to avoid treatment in hospital.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that the majority of adult cancer patients 
would prefer an outpatient strategy for FN. However, patients' preferences vary 
substantially at the individual level. Implementation of outpatient strategies 
into routine clinical practice should consider this variability.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-012-1397-8
PMID: 22350594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Clin Res Cardiol. 2012 Jul;101(7):573-84. doi: 10.1007/s00392-012-0428-2.
Epub  2012 Feb 21.

Cost-effectiveness of paclitaxel-coated balloon angioplasty and 
paclitaxel-eluting stent implantation for treatment of coronary in-stent 
restenosis in patients with stable coronary artery disease.

Bonaventura K(1), Leber AW, Sohns C, Roser M, Boldt LH, Kleber FX, Haverkamp W, 
Dorenkamp M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Angiology, Klinikum Ernst von Bergmann, Potsdam, 
Germany. kbonaventura@klinikumevb.de

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of 
drug-coated balloon (DCB) angioplasty for the treatment of coronary in-stent 
restenosis (ISR). The cost-effectiveness of this practice is unknown.
METHODS: A Markov state-transition decision analytic model accounting for 
varying procedural efficacy rates, complication rates, and cost estimates was 
developed to compare DCB angioplasty with drug-eluting stent (DES) placement in 
patients with bare-metal stent (BMS)-ISR. Data on procedural outcomes associated 
with both treatment strategies were derived from the literature, and the cost 
analysis was conducted from a health care payer perspective. Effectiveness was 
expressed as life-years gained.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, initial procedure costs amounted to 
€3,604.14 for DCB angioplasty and to €3,309.66 for DES implantation. Over a 
12-month time horizon, the DCB strategy was found to be less costly (€4,130.38 
vs. €5,305.30) and slightly more effective in terms of life expectancy (0.983 
vs. 0.976 years) than the DES strategy. Extensive sensitivity analyses indicated 
that, in comparison with DES implantation, the cost advantage of the DCB 
strategy was robust to clinically plausible variations in the values of key 
model input parameters. The variables with the greatest impact on base-case 
results were the duration of dual antiplatelet therapy with acetylsalicylic acid 
and clopidogrel after DCB angioplasty, the use of generic clopidogrel, and 
variations in the costs associated with the DCB device.
CONCLUSION: DCB angioplasty is a cost-effective treatment option for coronary 
BMS-ISR. The higher initial costs of DCB are more than offset by later 
cost-savings, predominantly as a result of reduced medication costs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-012-0428-2
PMID: 22350752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;851:1-8. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-561-9_1.

Advancements in pain research.

Luo ZD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Care, School of Medicine, 
University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA. zluo@uci.edu

After the publication of the First Edition of this book in the series of Methods 
in Molecular Medicine (volume 99 in the series) in 2004, pain research continues 
its rapid acceleration until 2009, during which it experienced a plateau of 
growth that likely resulted from the economic downturn started in 2008 (Fig. 
1.1). This rapid growth in pain research could be the driving force for an 
impressive 66% increase in new randomized, double-blind, placebo-control trials 
for neuropathic pain medications in the past 5 years compared with the last four 
decades. Unfortunately, little improvement in pain medications has been obtained 
[1] due to primarily our limited understanding of mechanisms mediating different 
pain states, especially that for chronic pain. It is highly possible that the 
growth in pain research will continue for decades to come due to three main 
reasons. First, there is an urgent need for more efficacious and safer pain 
medications that are necessary for better and individualized pain management. 
The increase in life expectancy of the general population and patients due to 
improvements in quality of health care and medicine is likely to increase the 
demand for better pain medications for improving the quality of daily life of 
those living with pain. It is estimated that the continuous increase in 
percentage of patients suffering from chronic pain (pain conditions lasting more 
than 6 months) arranges from 11 to 47% between 40 and 75 years of age [2], which 
will inevitably and continually increase the demand for better pain medications. 
Second, the cost of pain conditions to our society is high, estimated $55 
billion per year in loss of productivity from full-time workers alone [3], so 
better pain management can significantly help economic growth and stability. 
Third, the swift advancement in technologies and our better understanding of 
sensory circuitries and pain pathways serves as a driving force for timely drug 
discovery research and development at an unprecedented pace to meet the demand 
for better pain medications.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-561-9_1
PMID: 22351079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Int J Hematol. 2012 Mar;95(3):248-56. doi: 10.1007/s12185-012-1007-z. Epub
2012  Feb 21.

Anemia and mortality in older persons: does the type of anemia affect survival?

Shavelle RM(1), MacKenzie R, Paculdo DR.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. 
Shavelle@LifeExpectancy.org

Anemia is a common condition among community-dwelling older adults. The present 
study investigates the effect of type of anemia on subsequent mortality. We 
analyzed data from participants of the Third National Health and Nutrition 
Survey who were aged ≥50 and had valid hemoglobin levels determined by 
laboratory measurement. Anemia was defined by World Health Organization 
criteria. 7,171 subjects met our inclusion criterion. Of those with anemia 
(n = 862, deaths = 491), 24% had nutritional anemia, 11% had anemia of chronic 
renal disease, 26% had anemia of chronic inflammation, and 39% had unexplained 
anemia. We found an overall relative risk (RR) for mortality of 1.8 (p < 0.001) 
comparing those with anemia to those without, after adjusting for age, sex, and 
race. After we controlled for a number of chronic medical conditions, the 
overall RR was 1.6. Compared to persons without anemia, we found the following 
RRs for the type of anemia: nutritional (2.34, p < 0.0001), chronic renal 
disease (1.70, p < 0.0001), chronic inflammation (1.48, p < 0.0001), and 
unexplained (1.26, p < 0.01). Anemia is common although not severe in older 
non-institutionalized adults. When compared with non-anemic older adults, those 
with nutritional anemia or anemia due to chronic renal disease have the highest 
mortality risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s12185-012-1007-z
PMID: 22351246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Methods Mol Med. 2000;38:353-9. doi: 10.1385/1-59259-070-5:353.

Dietary restriction and life-span extension.

Yu BP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX.

The popularity of the dietary restriction (DR) paradigm (often used 
interchangeably with calorie restriction) among gerontologists is primarily 
based on the research finding of the last two decades. Originally discovered by 
McCay's group in the 1930s, this paradigm showed that animals placed on the DR 
regimen, meaning reduced nutrition without malnutrition, had robust life 
extensions (1). This scientific breakthrough showed that nutritional status can 
bring about distinctive metabolic adjustments.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-070-5:353
PMID: 22351286


668. Ann Intern Med. 2012 Feb 21;156(4):279-90. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-156-4-201202210-00005.

New protease inhibitors for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Liu S(1), Cipriano LE, Holodniy M, Owens DK, Goldhaber-Fiebert JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy, Stanford University, CA, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2012 Feb 21;156(4):317-8.

BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis C virus is difficult to treat and affects 
approximately 3 million Americans. Protease inhibitors increase the 
effectiveness of standard therapy, but they are costly. A genetic assay may 
identify patients most likely to benefit from this treatment advance.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of new protease inhibitors and an 
interleukin (IL)-28B genotyping assay for treating chronic hepatitis C virus.
DESIGN: Decision-analytic Markov model.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature and expert opinion.
TARGET POPULATION: Treatment-naive patients with chronic, genotype 1 hepatitis C 
virus monoinfection.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Strategies are defined by the use of IL-28B genotyping and type of 
treatment (standard therapy [pegylated interferon with ribavirin]; triple 
therapy [standard therapy and a protease inhibitor]). Interleukin-28B-guided 
triple therapy stratifies patients with CC genotypes to standard therapy and 
those with non-CC types to triple therapy.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Discounted costs (in 2010 U.S. dollars) and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs); incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: For patients with mild and advanced fibrosis, 
universal triple therapy reduced the lifetime risk for hepatocellular carcinoma 
by 38% and 28%, respectively, and increased quality-adjusted life expectancy by 
3% and 8%, respectively, compared with standard therapy. Gains from 
IL-28B-guided triple therapy were smaller. If the protease inhibitor costs $1100 
