
189. Rejuvenation Res. 2011 Dec;14(6):691. doi: 10.1089/rej.2011.1293.

Gender bias in life extension theory?

Walker RF.

Comment on
    Rejuvenation Res. 2011 Aug;14(4):429-36.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2011.1293
PMID: 22175512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Australas J Ageing. 2011 Dec;30(4):173-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1741-6612.2011.00575.x.

The changing face of ageing research and practice in Australia over the last 50 
years.

Everitt AV(1), Le Couteur DG, Kendig H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Education and Research on Ageing, ANZAC Medical Research 
Institute, Concord Hospital, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-6612.2011.00575.x
PMID: 22176560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. J Arthroplasty. 2012 Aug;27(7):1297-1304.e1. doi:
10.1016/j.arth.2011.10.027.  Epub 2011 Dec 16.

Twenty-year survival analysis in total knee arthroplasty by a single surgeon.

Bae DK(1), Song SJ, Park MJ, Eoh JH, Song JH, Park CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, 
Seoul, Korea.

Between January 1988 and December 2006, a total of 3014 primary total knee 
arthroplasties (TKAs) in 2042 patients were performed, and survivorship analysis 
was performed. Survivorship analysis showed a 10-year survival of 93.8% and a 
20-year survival of 70.9%. There was no significant difference in the survival 
rate according to sex and diagnosis (P = .142 and .443, respectively). The 
survival rate was higher in the patients older than 60 years (P < .001). The 
survival rate of Total Condylar IV (TC-IV) was higher than that of Ortholoc (Dow 
Corning Wright Medical, Arlington, Tenn) (P < .001). Total knee arthroplasty 
results in satisfactory long-term survival rates. However, the survival rate 
decreases over time. The risk of requiring revision TKA was related to age and 
type of implants. Careful consideration is necessary to decide the time for TKA 
and select type of implants.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2011.10.027
PMID: 22177792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Jan;35(1):12-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2011.11.002. Epub 2011 Dec 15.

[Long survival after resection of cranial metastases from hepatocellular 
carcinoma. Case report and review of the literature].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez-Delgado J(1), Calzado S, de Haro C, Mas M, Miquel M, Casas M, Vergara M, 
Dalmau B, Gil M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Hepatología, Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona, Corporació Sanitària Parc Taulí, Sabadell, Barcelona, España. 
jsanchezd@tauli.cat

The life expectancy of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has 
increased in the last few years due to recent treatment advances. However, 
extrahepatic metastases from tumors, previously described only occasionally, are 
becoming more frequent in clinical practice. The choice between an active or 
passive approach to these metastatic lesions can sometimes present clinicians 
with a difficult dilemma. We discuss the case of a male patient with multifocal 
HCC and cranial metastasis from a primary liver tumor and who, after surgery and 
radiotherapy over the metastatic lesion, has survived for more than 3 years.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2011.11.002
PMID: 22177938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2011;66(9):1513-8. doi:
10.1590/s1807-59322011000900001.

Adiposity and postural balance control: correlations between bioelectrical 
impedance and stabilometric signals in elderly Brazilian women.

Mainenti MR(1), Rodrigues Ede C, Oliveira JF, Ferreira Ade S, Dias CM, Silva AL.

Author information:
(1)Augusto Motta University Center, Postgraduate Program of Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. miriam.mainenti@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the correlation between 
body adiposity and postural control in elderly women.
INTRODUCTION: Aging and obesity account for a significant portion of healthcare 
spending. Life expectancy is increasing worldwide, and Rio de Janeiro has the 
largest proportion of elderly residents of all Brazilian states.
METHODS: A total of 45 women underwent bioelectrical impedance analysis, waist 
circumference measurements, weight and height measurements, and stabilometric 
tests in eight different stance conditions (opened and closed bases with both 
eyes opened and closed and right and left tandem and unilateral stances with 
eyes opened). During unilateral stances, the number of hand or foot contacts was 
counted.
RESULTS: Weight, body mass index, waist circumference, fat percentage, and fat 
mass showed statistically significant (p,0.05) and positive correlations with 
the number of contacts made during unilateral stances. The subjects with greater 
fat mass showed significantly higher anterior-posterior standard deviation and 
range when their eyes were closed. The sway area was also greater for this group 
in opened base when their eyes were closed.
DISCUSSION: The results relating body adiposity and postural control can be 
explained by the difficulty of maintaining a greater quantity of body fat mass 
within the limits of the individual support base, especially while assuming a 
unilateral stance.
CONCLUSION: The subjects with a greater fat mass exhibited poor balance control, 
indicating that body adiposity level was associated with postural control in the 
elderly women examined in the present study.

DOI: 10.1590/s1807-59322011000900001
PMCID: PMC3164396
PMID: 22179151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2012 Feb;78(4):981-7. doi: 10.1128/AEM.06537-11.
Epub  2011 Dec 16.

Dead or alive: deformed wing virus and Varroa destructor reduce the life span of 
winter honeybees.

Dainat B(1), Evans JD, Chen YP, Gauthier L, Neumann P.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Bee Research Centre, Agroscope Liebefeld-Posieux Research Station ALP, 
Bern, Switzerland. benjamin.dainat@alp.admin.ch

Elevated winter losses of managed honeybee colonies are a major concern, but the 
underlying mechanisms remain controversial. Among the suspects are the parasitic 
mite Varroa destructor, the microsporidian Nosema ceranae, and associated 
viruses. Here we hypothesize that pathogens reduce the life expectancy of winter 
bees, thereby constituting a proximate mechanism for colony losses. A monitoring 
of colonies was performed over 6 months in Switzerland from summer 2007 to 
winter 2007/2008. Individual dead workers were collected daily and 
quantitatively analyzed for deformed wing virus (DWV), acute bee paralysis virus 
(ABPV), N. ceranae, and expression levels of the vitellogenin gene as a 
biomarker for honeybee longevity. Workers from colonies that failed to survive 
winter had a reduced life span beginning in late fall, were more likely to be 
infected with DWV, and had higher DWV loads. Colony levels of infection with the 
parasitic mite Varroa destructor and individual infections with DWV were also 
associated with reduced honeybee life expectancy. In sharp contrast, the level 
of N. ceranae infection was not correlated with longevity. In addition, 
vitellogenin gene expression was significantly positively correlated with ABPV 
and N. ceranae loads. The findings strongly suggest that V. destructor and DWV 
(but neither N. ceranae nor ABPV) reduce the life span of winter bees, thereby 
constituting a parsimonious possible mechanism for honeybee colony losses.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.06537-11
PMCID: PMC3273028
PMID: 22179240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Gen Intern Med. 2012 Jun;27(6):653-60. doi: 10.1007/s11606-011-1945-9.
Epub  2011 Dec 17.

Medical center characteristics associated with PSA screening in elderly veterans 
with limited life expectancy.

So C(1), Kirby KA, Mehta K, Hoffman RM, Powell AA, Freedland SJ, Sirovich B, 
Yano EM, Walter LC.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although guidelines recommend against prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA) screening in elderly men with limited life expectancy, screening is 
common.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to identify medical center characteristics associated with 
screening in this population.
DESIGN/PARTICIPANTS: We conducted a prospective study of 622,262 screen-eligible 
men aged 70+ seen at 104 VA medical centers in 2003.
MAIN MEASURES: Primary outcome was the percentage of men at each center who 
received PSA screening in 2003, based on VA data and Medicare claims. Men were 
stratified into life expectancy groups ranging from favorable (age 70-79 with 
Charlson score = 0) to limited (age 85+ with Charlson score ≥1 or age 70+ with 
Charlson score ≥4). Medical center characteristics were obtained from the 
1999-2000 VA Survey of Primary Care Practices and publicly available VA data 
sources.
KEY RESULTS: Among 123,223 (20%) men with limited life expectancy, 45% received 
PSA screening in 2003. Across 104 VAs, the PSA screening rate among men with 
limited life expectancy ranged from 25-79% (median 43%). Higher screening was 
associated with the following center characteristics: no academic affiliation 
(50% vs. 43%, adjusted RR = 1.14, 95% CI 1.04-1.25), a ratio of midlevel 
providers to physicians ≥3:4 (55% vs. 45%, adjusted RR = 1.20, 95% CI 1.09-1.32) 
and location in the South (49% vs. 39% in the West, adjusted RR = 1.25, 95% CI 
1.12-1.40). Use of incentives and high scores on performance measures were not 
independently associated with screening. Within centers, the percentages of men 
screened with limited and favorable life expectancies were highly correlated 
(r = 0.90).
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial practice variation exists for PSA screening in older 
men with limited life expectancy across VAs. The high center-specific 
correlation of screening among men with limited and favorable life expectancies 
indicates that PSA screening is poorly targeted according to life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-011-1945-9
PMCID: PMC3358397
PMID: 22180196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Haematologica. 2012 Jun;97(6):805-17. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2011.056283.
Epub  2011 Dec 16.

Acute myeloid leukemia developing in patients with autoimmune diseases.

Ramadan SM(1), Fouad TM, Summa V, Hasan SKh, Lo-Coco F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, NCI-Cairo University, 11796 Cairo, Egypt. 
safaanci@yahoo.com

Therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia is an unfortunate complication of cancer 
treatment, particularly for patients with highly curable primary malignancies 
and favorable life expectancy. The risk of developing therapy-related acute 
myeloid leukemia also applies to patients with non-malignant conditions, such as 
autoimmune diseases treated with cytotoxic and/or immunosuppressive agents. 
There is considerable evidence to suggest that there is an increased occurrence 
of hematologic malignancies in patients with autoimmune diseases compared to the 
general population, with a further increase in risk after exposure to cytotoxic 
therapies. Unfortunately, studies have failed to reveal a clear correlation 
between leukemia development and exposure to individual agents used for the 
treatment of autoimmune diseases. Given the dismal outcome of secondary acute 
myeloid leukemia and the wide range of available agents for treatment of 
autoimmune diseases, an increased awareness of this risk and further 
investigation into the pathogenetic mechanisms of acute leukemia in autoimmune 
disease patients are warranted. This article will review the data available on 
the development of acute myeloid leukemia in patients with autoimmune diseases. 
Possible leukemogeneic mechanisms in these patients, as well as evidence 
supporting the association of their primary immunosuppressive status and their 
exposure to specific therapies, will also be reviewed. This review also supports 
the idea that it may be misleading to label leukemias that develop in patients 
with autoimmune diseases who are exposed to cytotoxic agents as 'therapy-related 
leukemias'. A better understanding of the molecular defects in autoimmune 
disease patients who develop acute leukemia will lead to a better understanding 
of the association between these two diseases entities.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2011.056283
PMCID: PMC3366644
PMID: 22180424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. BMJ. 2011 Dec 16;343:d8198. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d8198.

Excessive mortality in Central African Republic is out of control, warns 
charity.

Moszynski P.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d8198
PMID: 22180448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nicotine Tob Res. 2012 May;14(5):522-30. doi: 10.1093/ntr/ntr241. Epub 2011
Dec  16.

A cost-benefit analysis of the outpatient smoking cessation services in Taiwan 
from a societal viewpoint.

Chen PC(1), Lee YC, Tsai ST, Lai CK.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Welfare Policy, College of Medicine, National 
Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.

INTRODUCTION: This study applied a cost-benefit analysis from a societal 
viewpoint to evaluate the Outpatient Smoking Cessation Services (OSCS) program.
METHODS: The costs measured in this study include the cost to the health sector, 
non-health sectors, the patients and their family, as well as the loss of 
productivity as a result of smoking. The benefits measured the medical costs 
savings and the earnings due to the increased life expectancy of a person that 
has stopped smoking for 15 years. Data were obtained from the primary data of a 
telephone survey, the literatures and reports from the Outpatient Smoking 
Cessation Management Center and government. Sensitivity analyses were conducted 
to verify the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: There were 169,761 cases that participated in the outpatient smoking 
cessation program in the years 2007 and 2008, of those cases, 8,282 successfully 
stopped smoking. The total cost of the OSCS program was 18 million USD. The 
total benefits of the program were 215 million USD with a 3% discount rate; the 
net benefit to society was 196 million USD. After conducting sensitivity 
analyses on the different abstinence, relapse, and discount rates, from a 
societal perspective, the benefits still far exceeded the costs, while from a 
health care perspective, there was only a net benefit when the respondent's 
abstinence rate was used.
CONCLUSIONS: From a societal perspective, the OSCS program in Taiwan is 
cost-beneficial. This study provides partial support for the policy makers to 
increase the budget and expand the OSCS program.

DOI: 10.1093/ntr/ntr241
PMID: 22180585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2011 Dec;5(12):e1377. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0001377.
 Epub 2011 Dec 13.

Disability weight of Clonorchis sinensis infection: captured from community 
study and model simulation.

Qian MB(1), Chen YD, Fang YY, Xu LQ, Zhu TJ, Tan T, Zhou CH, Wang GF, Jia TW, 
Yang GJ, Zhou XN.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Chinese Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention, WHO Collaborative Center for Malaria, Schistosomiasis and 
Filariasis, Key Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology, Ministry of Health, 
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Clonorchiasis is among the most neglected tropical diseases. It is 
caused by ingesting raw or undercooked fish or shrimp containing the larval of 
Clonorchis sinensis and mainly endemic in Southeast Asia including China, Korea 
and Vietnam. The global estimations for population at risk and infected are 601 
million and 35 million, respectively. However, it is still not listed among the 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) and no disability weight is available for it. 
Disability weight reflects the average degree of loss of life value due to 
certain chronic disease condition and ranges between 0 (complete health) and 1 
(death). It is crucial parameter for calculating the morbidity part of any 
disease burden in terms of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: According to the probability and disability 
weight of single sequelae caused by C. sinensis infection, the overall 
disability weight could be captured through Monte Carlo simulation. The 
probability of single sequelae was gained from one community investigation, 
while the corresponding disability weight was searched from the literatures in 
evidence-based approach. The overall disability weights of the male and female 
were 0.101 and 0.050, respectively. The overall disability weights of the age 
group of 5-14, 15-29, 30-44, 45-59 and 60+ were 0.022, 0.052, 0.072, 0.094 and 
0.118, respectively. There was some evidence showing that the disability weight 
and geometric mean of eggs per gram of feces (GMEPG) fitted a logarithmic 
equation.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: The overall disability weights of C. sinensis infection 
are differential in different sex and age groups. The disability weight captured 
here may be referred for estimating the disease burden of C. sinensis infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0001377
PMCID: PMC3236727
PMID: 22180791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


200. Mech Ageing Dev. 2012 Jan;133(1):30-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2011.12.001. Epub
2011  Dec 13.

Effects of age and caloric restriction on mitochondrial protein oxidative damage 
in mice.

Li XD(1), Rebrin I, Forster MJ, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Southern California, 1985 Zonal Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90089, United States.

The hypothesis that life-span extension by caloric restriction (CR) is 
contingent upon the attenuation of macromolecular oxidative damage was tested in 
two different strains of mice: the C57BL/6, whose life span is extended by CR, 
and the DBA/2, in which CR has relatively minor or no impact on longevity. Mice 
were fed ad libitum (AL) or restricted to 40% lesser food, starting at 4 months 
of age. Protein damage was measured as protein-linked adducts of 
4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in skeletal muscle 
mitochondria at 6 and 23 months of age. Protein-HNE and -MDA content increased 
with age in C57BL/6 mice and CR significantly attenuated these augmentations. 
Metalloprotease 1, NADP-dependent mitochondrial malic enzyme (isoform 2) and 
citrate synthase were identified by mass spectroscopy to contain HNE/MDA 
adducts. DBA/2 mice exhibited little effect of age or CR on protein HNE/MDA 
content in skeletal muscle mitochondria. In contrast, protein-HNE levels in 
liver mitochondria showed a significant increase with age in AL-fed mice of both 
strains, and CR caused significant attenuation of this damage. Overall, results 
indicated that the age-related increase in protein oxidative damage and its 
abatement by CR are genotype- and tissue-specific, and not a universal 
phenomenon.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2011.12.001
PMCID: PMC3268905
PMID: 22182424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Dec;15(44):i-xii, 1-254. doi: 10.3310/hta15440.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of exercise referral schemes: 
a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Pavey TG(1), Anokye N, Taylor AH, Trueman P, Moxham T, Fox KR, Hillsdon M, Green 
C, Campbell JL, Foster C, Mutrie N, Searle J, Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Exeter, Exeter, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: Exercise referral schemes (ERS) aim to identify inactive adults in 
the primary-care setting. The GP or health-care professional then refers the 
patient to a third-party service, with this service taking responsibility for 
prescribing and monitoring an exercise programme tailored to the needs of the 
individual.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of ERS 
for people with a diagnosed medical condition known to benefit from physical 
activity (PA). The scope of this report was broadened to consider individuals 
without a diagnosed condition who are sedentary.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE; EMBASE; PsycINFO; The Cochrane Library, ISI Web of 
Science; SPORTDiscus and ongoing trial registries were searched (from 1990 to 
October 2009) and included study references were checked.
METHODS: Systematic reviews: the effectiveness of ERS, predictors of ERS uptake 
and adherence, and the cost-effectiveness of ERS; and the development of a 
decision-analytic economic model to assess cost-effectiveness of ERS.
RESULTS: Seven randomised controlled trials (UK, n = 5; non-UK, n = 2) met the 
effectiveness inclusion criteria, five comparing ERS with usual care, two 
compared ERS with an alternative PA intervention, and one to an ERS plus a 
self-determination theory (SDT) intervention. In intention-to-treat analysis, 
compared with usual care, there was weak evidence of an increase in the number 
of ERS participants who achieved a self-reported 90-150 minutes of at least 
moderate-intensity PA per week at 6-12 months' follow-up [pooled relative risk 
(RR) 1.11, 95% confidence interval 0.99 to 1.25]. There was no consistent 
evidence of a difference between ERS and usual care in the duration of 
moderate/vigorous intensity and total PA or other outcomes, for example physical 
fitness, serum lipids, health-related quality of life (HRQoL). There was no 
between-group difference in outcomes between ERS and alternative PA 
interventions or ERS plus a SDT intervention. None of the included trials 
separately reported outcomes in individuals with medical diagnoses. Fourteen 
observational studies and five randomised controlled trials provided a numerical 
assessment of ERS uptake and adherence (UK, n = 16; non-UK, n = 3). Women and 
older people were more likely to take up ERS but women, when compared with men, 
were less likely to adhere. The four previous economic evaluations identified 
suggest ERS to be a cost-effective intervention. Indicative incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) estimates for ERS for various scenarios were 
based on a de novo model-based economic evaluation. Compared with usual care, 
the mean incremental cost for ERS was £169 and the mean incremental QALY was 
0.008, with the base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio at £20,876 per 
QALY in sedentary people without a medical condition and a cost per QALY of 
£14,618 in sedentary obese individuals, £12,834 in sedentary hypertensive 
patients, and £8414 for sedentary individuals with depression. Estimates of 
cost-effectiveness were highly sensitive to plausible variations in the RR for 
change in PA and cost of ERS.
LIMITATIONS: We found very limited evidence of the effectiveness of ERS. The 
estimates of the cost-effectiveness of ERS are based on a simple analytical 
framework. The economic evaluation reports small differences in costs and 
effects, and findings highlight the wide range of uncertainty associated with 
the estimates of effectiveness and the impact of effectiveness on HRQoL. No data 
were identified as part of the effectiveness review to allow for adjustment of 
the effect of ERS in different populations.
CONCLUSIONS: There remains considerable uncertainty as to the effectiveness of 
ERS for increasing activity, fitness or health indicators or whether they are an 
efficient use of resources in sedentary people without a medical diagnosis. We 
failed to identify any trial-based evidence of the effectiveness of ERS in those 
with a medical diagnosis. Future work should include randomised controlled 
trials assessing the cinical effectiveness and cost-effectivenesss of ERS in 
disease groups that may benefit from PA.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta15440
PMCID: PMC4781450
PMID: 22182828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Eur J Epidemiol. 2011 Dec;26(12):897-8. doi: 10.1007/s10654-011-9640-z. Epub
 2011 Dec 20.

Success has many fathers, failure remains an orphan.

Bonneux L(1).

Author information:
(1)Nederlands Interdisciplinair Demografisch Instituut (NIDI), PB 11650, 2502 
AR, Den Haag, The Netherlands. bonneux@nidi.nl

Comment on
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2011 Dec;26(12):903-14.

Was the sharp upturn of life expectancy in the Netherlands partly due to 
increased health care funding for the elderly? I argue that there is nothing 
unusual to the increasing life expectancy since the beginning of the 
twenty-first century, and that there is no observable relationship with changed 
health care funding whatsoever. What was highly unusual was the rather dramatic 
lagging of Dutch life expectancy between 1980 and 2000. The reasons of this 
failure remain clouded in mystery.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-011-9640-z
PMCID: PMC3253281
PMID: 22183136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Lifetime Data Anal. 2012 Apr;18(2):177-94. doi: 10.1007/s10985-011-9212-2.
Epub  2011 Dec 20.

Censored quantile regression for residual lifetimes.

Kim MO(1), Zhou M, Jeong JH.

Author information:
(1)Cincinnati Children's Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA. 
miok.kim@cchmc.org

We propose a regression method that studies covariate effects on the conditional 
quantiles of residual lifetimes at a certain followup time point. This can be 
particularly useful in cancer studies, where more patients survive cancers 
initially and a patient's residual life expectancy is used to compare the 
efficacy of secondary or adjuvant therapies. The new method provides a 
consistent estimator that often exhibits smaller standard error in real and 
simulated examples, compared to the existing method of Jung et al. (2009). It 
also provides a simple empirical likelihood inference method that does not 
require estimating the covariance matrix of the estimator or resampling. We 
apply the new method to a breast cancer study (NSABP Protocol B-04, Fisher et 
al. (2002)) and estimate median residual lifetimes at various followup time 
points, adjusting for important prognostic factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-011-9212-2
PMID: 22183141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Thromb Thrombolysis. 2012 Feb;33(2):193-6. doi: 10.1007/s11239-011-0664-8.

Successful double bypass in a patient with severe hemophilia A: a case report.

Barillari G(1), Pasca S, Erice F, Livi U.

Author information:
(1)Center for Hemorrhagic and Thrombotic Diseases, University Hospital of Udine, 
P.le S. Maria della Misericordia, 15, 33100, Udine, Italy.

Life expectancy in the hemophilia people is similar to the non-haemophilics and 
age-related cardiovascular disorders to become more prevalent, but cardiac 
surgery is considered a very high risk for these patients. In this article we 
report the successful cardiac double bypass internal mammary artery--coronary 
artery in a patient with severe hemophilia A. (FVIII<1%; missense mutation: exon 
16, c.5508 G>A (domain A3), p.Trp1817Stop). Continuous infusion of rFVIII 
B-domain deleted was used to control haemostasis during surgery and in 
post-operative period. There was no bleeding complications and the patient did 
not need to receive transfusion of red blood cells or platelets.

DOI: 10.1007/s11239-011-0664-8
PMID: 22183177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. J Orthop Trauma. 2012 Jul;26(7):422-6. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e318228c1a1.

Functional outcomes after operatively treated patella fractures.

LeBrun CT(1), Langford JR, Sagi HC.

Author information:
(1)R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 
University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the midterm functional outcomes of patients with 
isolated operatively treated patella fractures.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort and retrospective clinical and radiographic 
assessment.
SETTING: A Level I and Level II trauma center.
PATIENTS/PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred forty-one patients underwent operative 
intervention for a displaced patella fracture between 1991 and 2007. After 
appropriate exclusions, 110 patients met criteria. A total of 40 (36%) patients 
with isolated, unilateral, operatively treated patella fractures with minimum 
1-year follow-up agreed to participate in this study and return for functional 
testing. Mean follow-up was 6.5 years (range, 1.25-17 years).
INTERVENTION: Enrolled patients were treated with one of the following methods: 
standard tension band with Kirschner wires, tension band through 2 cannulated 
screws, longitudinal anterior banding with cerclage, or partial patellectomy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: All enrolled patients were evaluated with the SF-36 
and an injury-specific questionnaire (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome 
Scores) and asked to self-report symptomatic hardware. Patients were also 
evaluated by physical examination assessing range of motion and Biodex bilateral 
quadriceps isometric and isokinetic comparisons.
RESULTS: The mean normalized SF-36 physical composite score and the mean 
normalized Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Scores subscale scores (pain, 
71.7; symptoms, 66.3; activities of daily living, 75.1; sport/recreation, 45.2; 
quality of life, 49.6) were statistically different (P < 0.05) from reference 
population norms. Removal of symptomatic fixation was required in 52% of the 
patients treated with osteosynthesis, whereas 38% of those with retained 
fixation self-reported implant-related pain at least some of the time. Eight 
patients (20%) had an extensor lag greater than 5°. A restricted range of 
flexion of greater than 5° was noted in 15 patients (38%) and restricted range 
of extension of greater than 5° was noted in 6 patients (15%). Biodex 
dynamometric testing revealed a mean isometric extension deficit of 26% between 
the uninvolved and involved sides for peak torque. Extension power was also 
tested with an angular velocity of 90°/sec and 180°/sec and mean deficits of 31% 
and 29% were noted, respectively, when compared with the contralateral 
extremity.
CONCLUSIONS: At a mean of 6.5 years after operative treatment for patella 
fractures, significant symptomatic complaints and functional deficits persist 
based on validated outcome measures as well as objective physical evaluations. 
This study fills a void in the literature regarding the functional outcomes of 
these patients. It also underscores the complexity associated with treating this 
common fracture and should help guide surgeons to better counsel patients on the 
expected long-term function after operative treatment of patella fractures.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a 
complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e318228c1a1
PMID: 22183197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Neurol. 2012 Jul;259(7):1461-7. doi: 10.1007/s00415-011-6359-4. Epub 2011
Dec  20.

Intravenous thrombolysis for acute cerebral ischaemia in old stroke patients ≥ 
80 years of age.

Boulouis G(1), Dumont F, Cordonnier C, Bodenant M, Leys D, Hénon H.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Lille University Hospital, Hôpital Roger Salengro, 
Lille Cedex, France. gregoireboulouis@gmail.com

Despite increasing life expectancy, few data exist on the outcome of elderly 
stroke patients treated with IV thrombolysis. We analyzed the prospectively 
collected data from the Lille University Hospital stroke unit on patients 
treated with IV rt-PA within 4.5 h, comparing patients ≥80 years to younger 
ones. We considered the following outcomes: neurological improvement at the 
acute phase (NIHSS 0 or 1 at 24 h, or if the difference between NIHSS at 24 h 
and at baseline was ≥4), occurrence of intracerebral haemorrhage, mortality and 
functional outcome in survivors (favourable if mRS ≤2 or equal to pre-stroke 
score) at 3 months. Predictors of vital and functional outcome were determined 
using logistic regression analysis. Four hundred patients were treated with IV 
rt-PA, 98 (25%) being ≥80 years. The proportion of patients with neurological 
improvement at the acute phase (31 vs. 40%, OR 0.7, 95%CI 0.4-1.2), and with ICH 
(19 vs. 21%, OR 0.9, 95%CI 0.5-1.7) was similar among older and younger 
patients. At 3 months, 35% of patients ≥80 years had died; 52% of survivors had 
favourable functional outcome. Using multivariate analysis, age ≥80 years was an 
independent predictor of death (3.4; 95%CI 1.6-7.3), and of reduced likelihood 
of favourable functional outcome in survivors (OR 0.3; 95%CI 0.2-0.7) at 3 
months. Although outcome at 3 months is worse for older patients than for their 
younger counterparts, our results are encouraging with a similar proportion of 
patients with early neurological improvement and with ICH in old and young 
patients and about half of the survivors having a favourable functional outcome 
in patients ≥80 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-011-6359-4
PMID: 22183776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Ann Bot. 2012 Feb;109(2):407-18. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcr295. Epub 2011 Dec 19.

A role for PHANTASTICA in medio-lateral regulation of adaxial domain development 
in tomato and tobacco leaves.

Zoulias N(1), Koenig D, Hamidi A, McCormick S, Kim M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, UK.

Erratum in
    Ann Bot. 2012 Jun;109(7):1379.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Diverse leaf forms in nature can be categorized into two 
groups: simple and compound. A simple leaf has a single blade unit, whilst a 
compound leaf is dissected into leaflets. For both simple and compound leaves, a 
MYB domain transcription factor PHANTASTICA (PHAN) plays an important role in 
establishing the adaxial domain in the leaf. Absence of PHAN in arabidopsis and 
antirrhinum leaves supresses blade development, and in tomato suppresses leaflet 
development. However, in the rachis and petiole regions of tomato leaves where 
PHAN and the adaxial domain coexist, it has been unclear why leaf blade and 
leaflets are not formed. We hypothesized that PHAN regulates the medio-lateral 
extent of the adaxial domain, thereby determining compound leaf architecture.
METHODS: To test this hypothesis, we generated and analysed transgenic tomato 
plants expressing tomato PHAN (SlPHAN) under the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 
35S promoter in both sense and antisense orientations, and tobacco plants that 
over-express tomato SlPHAN.
KEY RESULTS: Modulations in SlPHAN resulted in a variety of leaf morphologies 
such as simple, ternate and compound in either a peltate or non-peltate 
arrangement. Measurements of the extent of the adaxial domain along the 
wild-type tomato leaf axis showed that the adaxial domain is narrowed in the 
rachis and petiole in comparison with regions where laminar tissue arises. In 
antiSlPHAN transgenic leaves, no blade or leaflet was formed where the adaxial 
domain was medio-laterally narrowed, and KNOX gene expression was correlatively 
upregulated. CaMV35S::SlPHAN expression led to widening of the adaxial domain 
and ectopic blade outgrowth in the rachis of tomato and in the petiole of 
tobacco. Taken together, these results suggest that SlPHAN plays a role in 
medio-lateral extension of the adaxial domain and contributes to final leaf 
morphology in tomato.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a novel insight into leaf architecture in 
tomato and highlights how changes in the expression domain of a master regulator 
gene such as SlPHAN can be translated into diverse final leaf morphologies.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcr295
PMCID: PMC3268540
PMID: 22184618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Circulation. 2012 Jan 3;125(1):37-44. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.002774.  Epub 2011 Dec 19.

Impact of blood pressure and blood pressure change during middle age on the 
remaining lifetime risk for cardiovascular disease: the cardiovascular lifetime 
risk pooling project.

Allen N(1), Berry JD, Ning H, Van Horn L, Dyer A, Lloyd-Jones DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Division of Cardiology, Feinberg School 
of Medicine, Northwestern University, 680 N Lake Shore Dr, Ste 1102, Chicago, IL 
60611, USA.

BACKGROUND: Prior estimates of lifetime risk (LTR) for cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) examined the impact of blood pressure (BP) at the index age and did not 
account for changes in BP over time. We examined how changes in BP during middle 
age affect LTR for CVD, coronary heart disease, and stroke.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Data from 7 diverse US cohort studies were pooled. 
Remaining LTRs for CVD, coronary heart disease, and stroke were estimated for 
white and black men and women with death free of CVD as a competing event. LTRs 
for CVD by BP strata and by changes in BP over an average of 14 years were 
estimated. Starting at 55 years of age, we followed up 61 585 men and women for 
700 000 person-years. LTR for CVD was 52.5% (95% confidence interval, 51.3-53.7) 
for men and 39.9% (95% confidence interval, 38.7-41.0) for women. LTR for CVD 
was higher for blacks and increased with increasing BP at index age. Individuals 
who maintained or decreased their BP to normal levels had the lowest remaining 
LTR for CVD, 22% to 41%, compared with individuals who had or developed 
hypertension by 55 years of age, 42% to 69%, suggesting a dose-response effect 
for the length of time at high BP levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals who experience increases or decreases in BP in middle 
age have associated higher and lower remaining LTR for CVD. Prevention efforts 
should continue to emphasize the importance of lowering BP and avoiding or 
delaying the incidence of hypertension to reduce the LTR for CVD.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.110.002774
PMCID: PMC3310202
PMID: 22184621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None


209. Przegl Epidemiol. 2011;65(3):483-9.

[Main causes of death among Polish population in 2030].

[Article in Polish]

Poznańska A(1), Wojtyniak B, Seroka W.

Author information:
(1)Zakład - Centrum Monitorowania i Analiz Stanu Zdrowia Ludności, Narodowego 
Instytutu Zdrowia Publicznego - Państwowego Zakładu Higieny w Warszawie. 
paula@medstat.waw.pl

The purpose of the study was the identification of main causes of death in 
Poland in 2030 and the assessment of mortality associated with them. It was 
assumed that the population age structure in 2030 shall develop in accordance 
with the prognosis of the Central Statistical Office. Mortality level was 
estimated using the projections for the regions (groups of countries), defined 
on the basis of some geographical and economic criteria, published by WHO as the 
result of the Global Burden of Disease Study. It was found that in 2030 
mortality in Poland will increase by 17%-25% in comparison to 2008 which will be 
the result of changes in the age structure of the population. At the same time, 
the risk of death, expressed by age specific mortality rates, will decrease. 
Similar effects are expected for particular main causes of death. Ischaemic 
heart disease and cerebrovascular diseases will continue to account for the most 
frequent reasons of death. In comparison to 2008 a significant increase of 
mortality due to diabetes mellitus and prostate cancer will be observed. 
According to some projections, it will also refer to the chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease as well as malignant neoplasms of colon, rectum and stomach. 
Mortality due to suicides and road traffic accidents will decrease.

PMID: 22184953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Przegl Epidemiol. 2011;65(3):521-7.

[Salutogenesis--new approach to health and disease].

[Article in Polish]

Piotrowicz M(1), Cianciara D.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Promocji Zdrowia i Szkolenia Podyplomowego, Narodowego Instytutu 
Zdrowia Publicznego - Państwowego Zakładu Higieny w Warszawie. 
mpiotrowicz@pzh.gov.pl

A. Antonovsky is the creator of salutogenesis. The theory was built on the 
ground of many, different sciences connected with health. The article presents 
salutogenic assumptions including the main factors that determine health and 
disease i.e. stressors, generalised resistance resources and sense of coherence. 
Interactions between individuals, environment and culture were presented. 
Complexity of individual and population health and quality of life was stressed. 
Salutogenesis and health promotion links were indicated.

PMID: 22184959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Adv Gerontol. 2011;24(3):366-79.

[Statistical models of longevity, aging and degradation in demography, 
gerontology and oncology].

[Article in Russian]

Nikulin MS, Anisimov VN, Nikulin AM.

Several interesting papers related with the problems of mathematical modelling 
in connection with a study of aging and longevity have been published recently 
in "Advances of Gerontology"; see, for example, [1-4, 10, 11]. Following the 
main idea of these papers we consider here some approaches for construction of 
statistical models used today in survival analysis and reliability, and which 
can be used in demography, gerontology and carcinogenesis studies. We expose the 
so called dynamic regression models, which are well adapted for studies of 
survival in dynamic environments.

PMID: 22184963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Adv Gerontol. 2011;24(3):405-19.

Effect of PARP-1 overexpression and pharmacological inhibition of NF-kB on the 
lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster.

Shaposhnikov MV(1), Moskalev AA, Plyusnina EN.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, Komi Scientific Center, Ural Branch of RAS, 28 
Kommunisticheskaya ul., Syktyvkar 167982, Russia.

Age-dependent accumulation of genome rearrangements leads to cellular 
senescence, overall aging and lifespan decreasing of the organism. In this 
respect, it is important to study the effect of overexpression of DNA repair 
genes on the lifespan and aging parameters (rates of age-related decline of 
fertility and locomotor activity). The present work investigates how the 
overexpression of the PARP-1 gene, which is involved in various mechanisms of 
DNA repair (base excision repair and DNA double-strand breaks repair), combined 
with a pharmacological inhibition of the NF-kB transcription factor that 
controls the genes of inflammatory response, affects the lifespan of Drosophila 
melanogaster. It is demonstrated that in males, constitutive activation of 
PARP-1 overexpression in the nervous system throughout the lifetime results in 
reduced median (by 14%) and maximum (by 8%) lifespan, whereas in females the 
median (by 14%) and maximum (by 20%) lifespan increases. Activation of PARP-1 
overexpression in the imago (conditionally) results in extension of the median 
(by 3-16%) and the maximum (by 10-15%) lifespan in females and males, 
respectively. The lifespan increase in females with PARP-1 conditional 
overexpression was accompanied by decrease of fertility. Selective 
pharmacological inhibition of transcription factor NF-kB with pyrrolidine 
dithiocarbamate increases the median (by 13-20%) and the maximum (by 11-14%) 
lifespan in females and males, respectively. No synergic effect between 
conditionally activated PARP-1 expression and NF-kB inhibition is observed. The 
geroprotective effect of PARP-1 overexpression depends on the sex and the life 
history stage of overexpression induction.

PMID: 22184968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Feb 1;30(2):83-6. doi:
10.2165/11597720-000000000-00000.

Health utility elicitation: is there still a role for direct methods?

Prosser LA, Grosse SD, Wittenberg E.

DOI: 10.2165/11597720-000000000-00000
PMID: 22185185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Feb 1;30(2):127-31. doi: 
10.2165/11593350-000000000-00000.

Why not real economics?

Johnson FR(1).

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle Park, NC 
27719, USA. frjohnson@rti.org

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Feb 1;30(2):133-6.

DOI: 10.2165/11593350-000000000-00000
PMID: 22185186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Obstet Gynaecol. 2012 Jan;32(1):6-9. doi: 10.3109/01443615.2011.622058.

Management of pregnancy and delivery of a patient with malfunctioning 
ventriculoperitoneal shunt.

Schiza S(1), Stamatakis E, Panagopoulou A, Valsamidis D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology, Alexandra General Hospital, Athens, Greece. 
sophiaschiza@hotmail.com

The use of ventriculoperitoneal shunts increased the life expectancy of many 
women with hydrocephalus who are able to reach childbearing age. It is believed 
that pregnancy may be associated with shunt malfunction and the management of 
pregnant women with a malfunctioning ventriculoperitoneal shunt is a challenging 
medical condition for the anaesthetist, the obstetrician and the neurosurgeon. 
We report on a case of a 35-year-old primiparous woman who underwent a scheduled 
caesarean delivery at 30 weeks' gestation due to deteriorating neurological 
condition during pregnancy. The patient had a history of astrocytoma resection 
in the past and placement of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt due to obstructive 
hydrocephalus. She had a normal life without neurological deficits until the 
18th week of gestation, when the first neurological symptoms appeared. An MRI 
was done that showed significant dilatation of the fourth ventricle and it was 
believed that the shunt was not functioning properly so the patient's symptoms 
were present because of raised intracranial pressure. In the 30th week of 
gestation, she had a caesarean delivery under epidural anaesthesia and she gave 
birth to a live female infant. Her neurological condition started improving 48 h 
after delivery and the symptoms gradually regressed. At 20 days after surgery 
she was discharged from hospital. The presence of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt 
is not a contraindication for pregnancy. Maternal shunt dependency carries a 
relatively high incidence of complications for some patients, e.g. shunt 
malfunction due to raised intraabdominal pressure caused by the gravid uterus. 
The results of pregnancies and deliveries in women with pre-existing 
ventriculoperitoneal shunts are favourable if there is proper management.

DOI: 10.3109/01443615.2011.622058
PMID: 22185526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Hum Mol Genet. 2012 Apr 15;21(8):1673-80. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddr602. Epub 2011
Dec  20.

Pharmacological interference with the glucocorticoid system influences symptoms 
and lifespan in a mouse model of Rett syndrome.

Braun S(1), Kottwitz D, Nuber UA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund Strategic Research Center for Stem 
Cell Biology and Cell Therapy, Lund University, Klinikgatan 26, 221 84 Lund, 
Sweden.

Rett syndrome (RTT) is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the X-linked gene 
MECP2 coding for methyl CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). This protein can act as 
transcriptional repressor, and we showed in a previous study that 
glucocorticoid-inducible genes are up-regulated in an RTT mouse model and that 
these genes are direct MeCP2 targets. Here, we report that pharmacological 
intervention with the glucocorticoid system has an impact on the symptoms and 
lifespan in an RTT mouse model. Our data support a functional implication of the 
stress hormone system in RTT and suggest this hormone system as potential 
therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddr602
PMID: 22186023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Ageing Res Rev. 2012 Apr;11(2):220-9. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2011.12.003. Epub
2011  Dec 13.

"Is obesity linked to aging?": adipose tissue and the role of telomeres.

Tzanetakou IP(1), Katsilambros NL, Benetos A, Mikhailidis DP, Perrea DN.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Experimental Surgery and Surgical Research "N. S. Christeas", 
University of Athens Medical School, Greece. itzanetakoy@yahoo.gr

Obesity is a condition in which excess or abnormal fat accumulation may present 
with adverse effects on health and decreased life expectancy. Increased body 
weight and adipose tissue accumulation amplifies the risk of developing various 
age-related diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, 
musculoskeletal disorders, respiratory diseases and certain types of cancer. 
This imbalance in body composition and body weight is now recognized as a state 
of increased oxidative stress and inflammation for the organism. Increasing 
oxidative stress and inflammation affect telomeres. Telomeres are specialized 
DNA-protein structures found at the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes and serve as 
markers of biological aging rate. They also play a critical role in maintaining 
genomic integrity and are involved in age-related metabolic dysfunction. Erosion 
of telomeres is hazardous to healthy cells, as it is a known mechanism of 
premature cellular senescence and loss of longevity. The association of 
telomeres and oxidative stress is evident in cultured somatic cells in vitro, 
where oxidative stress enhances the process of erosion with each cycle of 
replication. Shorter telomeres have been associated with increasing body mass 
index, increased adiposity, and more recently with increasing waist to hip ratio 
and visceral excess fat accumulation. Furthermore, many of the metabolic 
imbalances of obesity (e.g. glycemic, lipidemic, etc.) give rise to organ 
dysfunction in a way that resembles the accelerated aging process. This article 
is a non-systematic review of the evidence linking obesity and accelerated aging 
processes as they are regulated by telomeres.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2011.12.003
PMID: 22186032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2012 Aug;23(4):529-36. doi:
10.1016/j.copbio.2011.11.029.  Epub 2011 Dec 18.

Viral connectors for DNA encapsulation.

Cuervo A(1), Carrascosa JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Structure of Macromolecules, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, 
CNB-CSIC, c/Darwin 3, Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain.
