coûts et la pondération selon la qualité de vie ont été dérivés de bases de 
données administratives par personne de Nouvelle-Écosse, de sources du système 
de santé et de rapports publiés. Des analyses de sensibilité ont permis de 
tester l’incidence de divers paramètres clés, dont l’efficacité du vaccin et son 
mode d’administration. Résultats: La vaccination ciblée était plus économique 
que l’absence de vaccination lorsqu’elle était administrée dans les cliniques de 
santé publique (CSP) ou lors d’une visite ordinaire chez le médecin de famille 
(MF). Comparativement à la stratégie ciblée, le coût de la vaccination 
universelle, par année de survie ajustée pour la qualité de vie, était de <40 
000 $ lorsque le vaccin était administré dans une CSP ou par le MF. Le coût net 
de la vaccination universelle dans une CSP ou par le MF était de <10 $ par femme 
enceinte. Conclusion: La vaccination universelle des femmes enceintes semble 
rentable lorsque le vaccin est administré dans une CSP ou lors d’une visite 
prénatale ordinaire chez le MF. La vaccination ciblée des femmes enceintes 
présentant des comorbidités peut être rentable, mais en plus des coûts de 
planification de programme, il faut tenir compte de la possibilité d’une plus 
grande acceptation du vaccin avec une stratégie universelle comparativement à 
une stratégie ciblée.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404197
PMCID: PMC6973660
PMID: 22164556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Harefuah. 2011 Apr;150(4):359-62, 418.

[Hospice for end-stage heart failure and its relevance to Israel].

[Article in Hebrew]

Potashnik-Peled Y(1), Arad M, Freimark D.

Author information:
(1)Heart Failure Service, Leviev Heart Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel 
Hashomer, Israel.

The recently improved cardiac diagnostic and therapeutic means associated with 
improved life-expectancy of patients, highlighted the special needs of the 
worldwide ever-growing numbers of patients with end-stage heart failure and 
their families. The hospice--palliative treatment approach to end-stage heart 
failure patients has been well defined and recommended by the World Health 
Organization (W.H.O.). The principles of this approach is aimed towards 
achieving a maximum relief of symptoms, avoiding interference (acceleration or 
delay) with life expectancy; ensuring daily activity and reasonable quality of 
life, and providing mental and spiritual support to the patients and their close 
family members. Obviously, it requires a trained multidisciplinary team 
including a senior physician, a nurse, a psychologist and a social worker. In 
order to be eligible for hospice and palliative care, endstage systolic heart 
failure patients should meet defined criteria including: severity of illness 
(NYHA class IV), clinical deterioration observed within the last six months and 
unsuitability for advanced therapeutic options. Recently, the Israeli Ministry 
of Health has adapted the W.H.O. recommendations, instructing all Local health 
service providers to expand this service and establish it according to 
well-defined guidelines and standards of care. Accessibility of all end-stage 
heart failure patients in Israel to this service will critically contribute to 
their physical and mental comfort, their dignity, and to the benefit of their 
families.

PMID: 22164917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Harefuah. 2011 Feb;150(2):153-7, 204.

[Anesthesia and peri-operative care of the elderly patient].

[Article in Hebrew]

Barak M(1), Peted E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa, Israel. 
m_barak@rambam.health.gov.il

With raised life expectancy, there is a constant elevation in the percentage of 
elderly people in the general population. Consequently, the age of the surgical 
patient increases. This progressive process results in operating on patients who 
were considered 'too old for surgery' a decade ago. There are many physiological 
and pathological changes that take place in all body systems during aging. The 
function capacity of organs deteriorates, resulting in decreased capability to 
overcome surgical stress. As a result, the elderly surgical patients have higher 
rates of peri-operative morbidity and mortality. Anesthesia and peri-operative 
care should be customized to this population. Practicing management of older 
patients undergoing surgery will increase the experience of all caregivers and, 
in time, improve outcome.

PMID: 22164945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Econ Inq. 2011;49(4):959-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1465-7295.2009.00191.x.

Heterogeneous rates of time preference and the decision to smoke.

Scharff RL(1), Viscusi WK.

Author information:
(1)The Ohio State University.

Individuals with higher personal rates of time preference will be more likely to 
smoke. Although previous studies have found no evidence of a relationship 
between smoking and rates of time preference, analysis of implicit rates of time 
preference associated with workers' wage fatality risk trade-offs indicates that 
smokers have higher rates of time preference with respect to years of life. 
Current smokers have an implied rate of time preference of 13.8% as compared to 
8.1% for nonsmokers. Current smokers who are blue-collar workers have rates of 
time preference with respect to years of life of 16.3% compared to 7.8% for 
nonsmoking blue-collar workers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1465-7295.2009.00191.x
PMID: 22165417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Econ Inq. 2011;49(4):1104-116. doi: 10.1111/j.1465-7295.2010.00273.x.

The impact of AIDS on income and human capital.

Ferreira PC(1), Pessôa S, Santos MR.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Economics, Fundação Getulio Vargas, Rio de Janeiro.

This paper studies the impact of HIV/AIDS on per capita income and education. It 
explores two channels on how HIV/AIDS affects income that have not been 
sufficiently stressed by previous literature: the reduction of the incentives to 
stay in school due to shorter expected longevity and the reduction in 
productivity of experienced workers. In the model, individuals live for three 
periods, may get infected in the second period, and with some probability die of 
AIDS before reaching the third period of their lives. Parents care for the 
welfare of the future generations so that they will maximize lifetime utility of 
their dynasty. The simulations predict that the most affected countries in 
Sub-Saharan Africa in the future will be, on average, 30% poorer than they would 
be without AIDS. Schooling will decline in some cases by 40%. These figures are 
dramatically reduced with widespread medical treatment, as it increases the 
survival probability and productivity of infected individuals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1465-7295.2010.00273.x
PMID: 22165421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. World Policy J. 2011;28(2):111-21. doi: 10.1177/0740277511412480.

Drinking games: can Russia admit it has a problem?

Brown H.

DOI: 10.1177/0740277511412480
PMID: 22165433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Vojnosanit Pregl. 2011 Oct;68(10):886-90. doi: 10.2298/vsp1110886n.

[Plantar fibromatosis and Dupuytren's contracture in an adolescent].

[Article in Serbian]

Nikolić J(1), Janjić Z, Momcilović D, Ninković S, Harhai V.

Author information:
(1)Klinicki center Vojvodine, Klinika za plasticnu i rekonstruktivnu hirurgiju, 
Novi Sad, Srbija. jelenica.nikolic@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Fibromatosis represents a wide group of benign, locally 
proliferative disorders of fibroblasts. Dupuytren's disease is a benign 
proliferative disease of palmar aponeurosis which usually affects adults between 
40 and 60 years of age. Ledderhose's disease or plantar fibromatosis is plantar 
equivalent of Dupuyten's disease most often affecting middle-aged and older men, 
usually bilateral, represented with painless nodule in the medial division of 
plantar fascia.
CASE REPORT: We presented a 19-year old adolescent that turned to a plastic 
surgeon complaining to his small finger contracture. He noticed palmar 
thickening with nodule over the metacarpophalangeal joint of small finger of his 
right hand when he was 16 years old. A year later a finger started to band. 
During physical checkup we noticed plantar nodule that also had his father and 
grandmother. Magnetic resonance and tumor biopsy confirmed a suspicion on 
plantar fibromatosis - Ledderhose's disease. Clinical exam of the hand clearly 
led to a conclusion that the patient had Dupuytren's contracture with 
pretendinous cord over the small finger flexor tendons and lack of extension of 
proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joint. On the extensor side of the PIP joints 
there were Garrod's nodes. The patient refused surgical treatment of plantar 
tumor, but agreed to surgical correction of finger contracture.
CONCLUSION: Despite the fact that Dupuytren's disease and plantar fibromatosis 
are diseases of adults, the possibility of conjoint appearance of these forms of 
fibromatosis in adolescent period of life should be kept in mind especially in 
patients with strong genetic predisposition.

DOI: 10.2298/vsp1110886n
PMID: 22165757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Public Health Nutr. 2012 Jul;15(7):1232-9. doi: 10.1017/S1368980011003235.
Epub  2011 Dec 14.

Factor analysis in the identification of dietary patterns and their predictive 
role in morbid and fatal events.

Menotti A(1), Alberti-Fidanza A, Fidanza F, Lanti M, Fruttini D.

Author information:
(1)Association for Cardiac Research - Associazione per la Ricerca Cardiologica, 
Via Arco di Parma 13, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose was to examine the role of dietary patterns derived from 
factor analysis and their association with health and disease.
DESIGN: Longitudinal population study, with measurement of diet (dietary history 
method), cardiovascular risk factors and a follow-up of 20 years for CHD 
incidence and 40 years for mortality.
SETTING: Two population samples in rural villages in northern and central Italy.
SUBJECTS: Men (n 1221) aged 45-64 years were examined and followed up.
RESULTS: One of the factors identified with factor analysis, run on seventeen 
food groups, was converted into a factor score (Factor 2 score) and used as a 
possible predictor of morbid and fatal events. High values of Factor 2 score 
were characterized by higher consumption of bread, cereals (pasta), potatoes, 
vegetables, fish and oil and by lower consumption of milk, sugar, fruit and 
alcoholic beverages. In multivariate analysis, Factor 2 score (mean 0·0061; sd 
1·3750) was inversely and significantly associated (hazard ratio for a 1 sd 
increase; 95% CI) with 20-year CHD incidence (0·88; 0·73, 0·96) and 40-year 
mortality from CHD (0·79; 0·66, 0·95), CVD (0·87; 0·78, 0·96), cancer (0·84; 
0·74, 0·96) and all causes (0·89; 0·83, 0·96), after adjustment for five other 
risk factors. Men in quintile 5 of Factor 2 score had a 4·1 years longer life 
expectancy compared with men in quintile 1.
CONCLUSIONS: A dietary pattern derived from factor analysis, and resembling the 
characteristics of the Mediterranean diet, was protective for the occurrence of 
various morbid and fatal events during 40 years of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980011003235
PMID: 22166270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Laryngol Otol. 2012 Mar;126(3):276-8. doi: 10.1017/S0022215111002647. Epub
 2011 Dec 14.

Oral squamous cell carcinoma in human immunodeficiency virus positive patients: 
clinicopathological audit.

Butt FM(1), Chindia ML, Rana F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, University of Nairobi, Kenya. 
fawzia_butt@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Most human immunodeficiency virus positive patients now have a 
longer life expectancy, with the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy. 
However, they are now at increased risk of developing a malignancy during their 
lives.
AIM: To investigate the age at which oral squamous cell carcinoma presents in 
patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, clinicohistopathological audit of patients infected 
with human immunodeficiency virus.
RESULTS: Of 200 human immunodeficiency virus positive patients, 16 (8 per cent) 
presented with oral squamous cell carcinoma (nine women and seven men; age range 
18-43 years, mean age 31.7 years). The majority of patients (62.5 per cent) had 
stage III and IV disease (tumour-node-metastasis staging). There was a 
predilection for poorly differentiated oral squamous cell carcinoma (using 
Broder's histopathological classification).
CONCLUSION: Oral squamous cell carcinoma associated with human immunodeficiency 
virus infection appears to present at a relatively young age.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022215111002647
PMID: 22166489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Nov;3(11):1110-9. doi: 10.18632/aging.100404.

Effects of the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant SkQ1 on lifespan of rodents.

Anisimov VN(1), Egorov MV, Krasilshchikova MS, Lyamzaev KG, Manskikh VN, Moshkin 
MP, Novikov EA, Popovich IG, Rogovin KA, Shabalina IG, Shekarova ON, Skulachev 
MV, Titova TV, Vygodin VA, Vyssokikh MY, Yurova MN, Zabezhinsky MA, Skulachev 
VP.

Author information:
(1)Petrov Institute of Oncology, St. Petersburg 197758, Russia.

The effect of the mitochondria-targeted, plastoquinone-containing antioxidant 
SkQ1 on the lifespan of outbred mice and of three strains of inbred mice was 
studied. To this end, low pathogen (LP) or specific pathogen free (SPF) vivaria 
in St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Stockholm were used. For comparison, we also 
studied mole-voles and dwarf hamsters, two wild species of small rodents kept 
under simulated natural conditions. It was found that substitution of a LP 
vivarium for a conventional (non-LP) one doubled the lifespan of female outbred 
mice, just as SkQ1 did in a non-LP vivarium. SkQ1 prevented age-dependent 
disappearance of estrous cycles of outbred mice in both LP and non-LP vivaria. 
In the SPF vivarium in Moscow, male BALB/c mice had shorter lifespan than 
females, and SkQ1 increased their lifespan to the values of the females. In the 
females, SkQ1 retarded development of such trait of aging as heart mass 
increase. Male C57Bl/6 mice housed individually in the SPF vivarium in Stockholm 
lived as long as females. SkQ1 increased the male lifespan, the longevity of the 
females being unchanged. SkQ1 did not change food intake by these mice. Dwarf 
hamsters and mole-voles kept in outdoor cages or under simulated natural 
conditions lived longer if treated with SkQ1. The effect of SkQ1 on longevity of 
females is assumed to mainly be due to retardation of the age-linked decline of 
the immune system. For males under LP or SPF conditions, SkQ1 increased the 
lifespan, affecting also some other system(s) responsible for aging.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100404
PMCID: PMC3249456
PMID: 22166671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interest to declare.


171. Epidemiol Prev. 2011 Sep-Dec;35(5-6):307-14.

[Comparison between two different Disability Weights calculations: the case of 
occupational injuries].

[Article in Italian]

Levi M(1), Ariani F, Baldasseroni A.

Author information:
(1)Centro regionale infortuni malattie professionali e da lavoro CeRIMP, Regione 
Toscana, Firenze. miriam.levi@asf.toscana.it

AIM: To introduce the concept of DALYs (Disability Adjusted Life Years), in 
order to calculate the burden of occupational injuries and to compare the 
disability weights methodology applied by the National Institute for Insurance 
against Accidents at Work (INAIL) to occupational injuries, with respect to the 
methodology adopted by the World Health Organization in the Global Burden of 
Disease Study (GBD), in order to facilitate, on a regional-national basis, the 
future application of estimates of Burden of Disease due to this phenomenon, 
based on data available from the NHS.
DESIGN: In the first part of the present study, a comparison between the 
theoretical GBD methodology, based on Disability Weights, and the INAIL 
methodology based on Gradi di inabilità (Degree of Disability) (GI) described in 
the table of impairments is made, using data on occupational injuries occurred 
in Tuscany from 2001 to 2008. Given the different criteria adopted by WHO and 
INAIL for the classification of injuries sequelae, in the second part, two 
equations described in the literature have been applied in order to correct 
systematic biases.
RESULTS: In the INAIL dataset, all types of injuries, though often small in 
scale, have cases with permanent consequences, some of them serious.This 
contrasts with the assumptions of the WHO, that, apart from the cases of 
amputation, reduces the possibility of lifelong disabilities to a few very 
serious categories. In the case of femur and skull fractures, the proportion of 
lifelong cases is considered by WHO similar to the proportion that in the INAIL 
dataset is achieved after narrowing the threshold of permanent damage to cases 
with GI ≥ 33. In the case of amputations and spinal cord injuries, for which the 
WHO assumes a priori that all cases have lifelong consequences, on the contrary, 
the greater similarity between the assumptions and the empirically observable 
reality is obtained after extending the threshold of permanent damage to all 
cases with even minimal sequelae.The comparison between the WHO DW and INAIL GI, 
possible only in relation to injuries resulting in permanent damage, shows that 
in case of injuries of greater severity, INAIL GI are generally lower than the 
WHO DW. In the case of less serious injuries, INAIL gives instead higher values. 
The length of temporary disabilities recorded by INAIL is systematically higher 
than that estimated by WHO.
CONCLUSIONS: These initial comparisons between the WHO methodology and the cases 
evaluation performed by INAIL show that the Italian system, based on the 
gathering of all relevant aspects related to each case, has the potential to 
utilize and synthesize a greater amount of information.However, wide limits of 
uncertainty still remain and further empirical findings are needed in order to 
compare the two systems in terms of precise determination of the DW, the length 
of disabilities and variations of mortality related to injuries.

PMID: 22166777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Kidney Int. 2012 Mar;81(5):494-501. doi: 10.1038/ki.2011.407. Epub 2011 Dec
14.

Early angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in Alport syndrome delays renal 
failure and improves life expectancy.

Gross O(1), Licht C, Anders HJ, Hoppe B, Beck B, Tönshoff B, Höcker B, Wygoda S, 
Ehrich JH, Pape L, Konrad M, Rascher W, Dötsch J, Müller-Wiefel DE, Hoyer P; 
Study Group Members of the Gesellschaft für Pädiatrische Nephrologie; Knebelmann 
B, Pirson Y, Grunfeld JP, Niaudet P, Cochat P, Heidet L, Lebbah S, Torra R, 
Friede T, Lange K, Müller GA, Weber M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Rheumatology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany. gross.oliver@med.uni-goettingen.de

Comment in
    Nat Rev Nephrol. 2012 Feb;8(2):63.

Alport syndrome inevitably leads to end-stage renal disease and there are no 
therapies known to improve outcome. Here we determined whether 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors can delay time to dialysis and improve 
life expectancy in three generations of Alport families. Patients were 
categorized by renal function at the initiation of therapy and included 33 with 
hematuria or microalbuminuria, 115 with proteinuria, 26 with impaired renal 
function, and 109 untreated relatives. Patients were followed for a period whose 
mean duration exceeded two decades. Untreated relatives started dialysis at a 
median age of 22 years. Treatment of those with impaired renal function 
significantly delayed dialysis to a median age of 25, while treatment of those 
with proteinuria delayed dialysis to a median age of 40. Significantly, no 
patient with hematuria or microalbuminuria advanced to renal failure so far. 
Sibling pairs confirmed these results, showing that earlier therapy in younger 
patients significantly delayed dialysis by 13 years compared to later or no 
therapy in older siblings. Therapy significantly improved life expectancy beyond 
the median age of 55 years of the no-treatment cohort. Thus, Alport syndrome is 
treatable with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition to delay renal failure 
and therapy improves life expectancy in a time-dependent manner. This supports 
the need for early diagnosis and early nephroprotective therapy in 
oligosymptomatic patients.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2011.407
PMID: 22166847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Epidemiol Prev. 2011 Sep-Dec;35(5-6 Suppl 2):78.

[Smoke. Every year, 70-80,000 deceases and 1 million years of life lost].

[Article in Italian]

Baldissera S(1), d'Argenio P, Ferrante G, Minardi V, Possenti V, Quarchioni E, 
Salmaso S; Gruppo Tecnico PASSI.

Collaborators: Bertozzi N, Campostrini S, Carrozzi G, D'Argenzio A, 
Fateh-Moghadam P, Oddone Trinito M, Vasselli S.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nazionale di Epidemiologia, Sorveglianza e Promozione della Salute, 
Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Roma.

PMID: 22166867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Clin Exp Nephrol. 2012 Apr;16(2):279-91. doi: 10.1007/s10157-011-0567-1.
Epub  2011 Dec 14.

Cost-effectiveness of chronic kidney disease mass screening test in Japan.

Kondo M(1), Yamagata K, Hoshi SL, Saito C, Asahi K, Moriyama T, Tsuruya K, 
Yoshida H, Iseki K, Watanabe T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Policy and Management, Graduate School of 
Comprehensive Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennoudai, Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, 305-8577, Japan. mkondo@md.tsukuba.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a significant public health problem. 
Strategy for its early detection is still controversial. This study aims to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of population strategy, i.e. mass screening, and 
Japan's health checkup reform.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out to compare test modalities 
in the context of reforming Japan's mandatory annual health checkup for adults. 
A decision tree and Markov model with societal perspective were constructed to 
compare dipstick test to check proteinuria only, serum creatinine (Cr) assay 
only, or both.
RESULTS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of mass screening 
compared with do-nothing were calculated as ¥1,139,399/QALY (US $12,660/QALY) 
for dipstick test only, ¥8,122,492/QALY (US $90,250/QALY) for serum Cr assay 
only and ¥8,235,431/QALY (US $91,505/QALY) for both. ICERs associated with the 
reform were calculated as ¥9,325,663/QALY (US $103,618/QALY) for mandating serum 
Cr assay in addition to the currently used mandatory dipstick test, and 
¥9,001,414/QALY (US $100,016/QALY) for mandating serum Cr assay and applying 
dipstick test at discretion.
CONCLUSIONS: Taking a threshold to judge cost-effectiveness according to World 
Health Organization's recommendation, i.e. three times gross domestic product 
per capita of ¥11.5 million/QALY (US $128 thousand/QALY), a policy that mandates 
serum Cr assay is cost-effective. The choice of continuing the current policy 
which mandates dipstick test only is also cost-effective. Our results suggest 
that a population strategy for CKD detection such as mass screening using 
dipstick test and/or serum Cr assay can be justified as an efficient use of 
health care resources in a population with high prevalence of the disease such 
as in Japan and Asian countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s10157-011-0567-1
PMCID: PMC3328680
PMID: 22167460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Popul Dev Rev. 2011;37(3):419-34. doi: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2011.00428.x.

Steep increase in best-practice cohort life expectancy.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Jdanov DA, Andreev EM, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock.

We analyze trends in best-practice life expectancy among female cohorts born 
from 1870 to 1950. Cohorts experience declining rather than constant death 
rates, and cohort life expectancy usually exceeds period life expectancy. 
Unobserved mortality rates in non-extinct cohorts are estimated using the 
Lee-Carter model for mortality in 1960–2008. Best-practice cohort and period 
life expectancies increased nearly linearly. Across cohorts born from 1870 to 
1920 the annual increase in cohort length of life was 0.43 years. Across 
calendar years from 1870 to 2008, the annual increase was 0.28 years. Cohort 
life expectancy increased from 53.7 years in the 1870 cohort to 83.8 years in 
the 1950 cohort. The corresponding cohort/period longevity gap increased from 
1.2 to 10.3 years. Among younger cohorts, survival to advanced ages is 
substantially higher than could have been anticipated by period mortality 
regimes when these cohorts were young or middle-aged. A large proportion of the 
additional expected years of life are being lived at ages 65 and older. This 
substantially changes the balance between the stages of the life cycle.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2011.00428.x
PMID: 22167810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Popul Dev Rev. 2011;37(3):499-528. doi: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2011.00432.x.

Changes in world inequality in length of life: 1970–2000.

Edwards RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Queens College and Graduate Center, City University of New York, and a 
Research Associate of NBER.

Previous research has revealed much global convergence over the past several 
decades in life expectancy at birth and in infant mortality, which are closely 
linked. But trends in the variance of length of life, and in the variance of 
length of adult life in particular, are less well understood. I examine 
life-span inequality in a comprehensive panel of 180 countries observed in 1970 
and 2000. Convergence in infant mortality has unambiguously reduced world 
inequality in total length of life starting from birth, but world inequality in 
length of adult life has remained largely unchanged. Underlying both of these 
observations is a growing share of total inequality attributable to 
between-country variation. Especially among developed countries, the absolute 
level of between-country inequality has risen over time. The sources of widening 
inequality in length of life between countries remain unclear, but signs point 
away from changes in income, leaving patterns of knowledge diffusion as a likely 
candidate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4457.2011.00432.x
PMID: 22167813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Spine J. 2012 Jan;12(1):44-54. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2011.10.004. Epub 2011
Dec  9.

Cost-utility of lumbar decompression with or without fusion for patients with 
symptomatic degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis.

Kim S(1), Mortaz Hedjri S, Coyte PC, Rampersaud YR.

Author information:
(1)Lawrence S. Bloomberg Faculty of Nursing, University of Toronto, 155 College 
St, Suite 130, Toronto, Ontario M5T 1P8, Canada.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: The most common surgical treatment of symptomatic 
degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis (DLS) is decompression and instrumented 
fusion. However, contemporary, midline-sparing, microdecompressive techniques 
have shown good results for selected patients with stable Grade 1 DLS. Growing 
concerns over the rising cost and rates of spinal fusion warrant both clinical 
and economic comparative effectiveness research in this common spinal diagnosis.
PURPOSE: To determine the relative cost-utility of decompression with and 
without concomitant instrumented fusion for selected patients with DLS.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: Comparative cost-effectiveness study.
PATIENT SAMPLE: Probabilities and utilities were estimated from an observational 
cohort study and the current literature. Costing information was obtained from 
our institution (microcase costing data/patient) and the literature. 
Probabilities considered were perioperative and general mortality, probability 
of clinical improvement and clinical worsening, and reoperation.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the incremental cost/utility ratio 
(ICUR) expressed as the differential cost per relative gain in quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY).
METHODS: A Markov model with 10-year follow-up was developed. The analyses were 
carried out from the hospital's perspective. Sensitivity analysis was used to 
test the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: The cost-utility of decompression with fusion and decompression alone 
at 10 years postintervention was $3,281/QALY and $1,040/QALY, respectively. 
Compared with decompression alone, decompression plus instrumented fusion was 
associated with an improvement in quality of life at a cost of $185,878 per QALY 
in the base-case analysis. The ICUR was invariant to changes in clinical 
effectiveness of decompression alone, percentage of inpatient decompressions, 
and varying cost or QALY discounting rates. The ICUR was sensitive to change in 
QALY and cost structure changes.
CONCLUSIONS: For a select subgroup of patients with DLS (leg-dominant pain with 
a stable Grade 1 spondylolisthesis), decompression without fusion is 
significantly more cost effective than instrumented fusion and provides an 
opportunity for increased service delivery and/or cost savings for this growing 
population.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2011.10.004
PMID: 22169001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2012 Feb;143(2):428-36. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2011.10.078. Epub 2011 Dec 9.

A comparison of surgical intervention and stereotactic body radiation therapy 
for stage I lung cancer in high-risk patients: a decision analysis.

Puri V(1), Crabtree TD, Kymes S, Gregory M, Bell J, Bradley JD, Robinson C, 
Patterson GA, Kreisel D, Krupnick AS, Meyers BF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 
63110, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare the relative cost-effectiveness of surgical 
intervention and stereotactic body radiation therapy in high risk patients with 
clinical stage I lung cancer (non-small cell lung cancer).
METHODS: We compared patients chosen for surgical intervention or SBRT for 
clinical stage I non-small cell lung cancer. Propensity score matching was used 
to adjust estimated treatment hazard ratios for the confounding effects of age, 
comorbidity index, and clinical stage. We assumed that Medicare-allowable 
charges were $15,034 for surgical intervention and $13,964 for stereotactic body 
radiation therapy. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated as the 
cost per life year gained over the patient's remaining lifetime by using a 
decision model.
RESULTS: Fifty-seven patients in each arm were selected by means of propensity 
score matching. Median survival with surgical intervention was 4.1 years, and 
4-year survival was 51.4%. With stereotactic body radiation therapy, median 
survival was 2.9 years, and 4-year survival was 30.1%. Cause-specific survival 
was identical between the 2 groups, and the difference in overall survival was 
not statistically significant. For decision modeling, stereotactic body 
radiation therapy was estimated to have a mean expected survival of 2.94 years 
at a cost of $14,153 and mean expected survival with surgical intervention was 
3.39 years at a cost of $17,629, for an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$7753.
CONCLUSIONS: In our analysis stereotactic body radiation therapy appears to be 
less costly than surgical intervention in high-risk patients with early stage 
non-small cell lung cancer. However, surgical intervention appears to meet the 
standards for cost-effectiveness because of a longer expected overall survival. 
Should this advantage not be confirmed in other studies, the cost-effectiveness 
decision would be likely to change. Prospective randomized studies are necessary 
to strengthen confidence in these results.

Copyright © 2012 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2011.10.078
PMID: 22169443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Autophagy. 2012 Jan;8(1):140-1. doi: 10.4161/auto.8.1.18391. Epub 2012 Jan
1.

Critical role of autophage in ischemia/reperfusion injury to aged livers.

Wang JH(1), Behrns KE, Leeuwenburgh C, Kim JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Biology of Aging, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA.

A steady increase in life expectancy has resulted in an equivalent increase in 
elderly patients who are more susceptible to diseases than young patients. In a 
recent study, we found that in both in vitro and in vivo models of 
ischemia/reperfusion (I/R), a loss of ATG4B is causatively associated with the 
increased sensitivity of the liver to I/R injury with age. Our work suggests 
that a restoration or enhancement of autophagy is a novel therapeutic modality 
to ameliorate liver function after I/R to aged livers.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.8.1.18391
PMCID: PMC3335997
PMID: 22170150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Stress Health. 2012 Aug;28(3):255-63. doi: 10.1002/smi.1430. Epub 2011 Dec
14.

Job insecurity as a predictor of physiological indicators of health in healthy 
working women: an extension of previous research.

Näswall K(1), Lindfors P, Sverke M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New 
Zealand. katharina.naswall@canterbury.ac.nz

Job insecurity has been linked to different negative outcomes, such as negative 
work attitudes and health problems, with most studies including self-reported 
outcomes. Extending earlier research, the present study includes both 
self-reported and physiological indicators of health and sets out to investigate 
whether higher levels of job insecurity are related to higher levels of 
allostatic load, higher levels of morning cortisol, more physician-diagnosed 
symptoms of ill-health and poorer self-rated health. The study also investigated 
whether self-rated health mediated the relation between job insecurity and 
physiological outcomes. This was cross-sectionally studied in a cohort of 
Swedish women who participated in a large-scale longitudinal study focusing on 
life span development and adaptation. The results showed that job insecurity was 
related to self-rated health and morning cortisol, and, contrary to 
expectations, that job insecurity was unrelated to allostatic load and physician 
ratings, both directly and indirectly. The results indicate that, in healthy 
working women, job insecurity may be less detrimental to long-term physiological 
health than originally hypothesized.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/smi.1430
PMID: 22170746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Nov;3(11):1045-50. doi: 10.18632/aging.100410.

SkQ1 treatment and food restriction--two ways to retard an aging program of 
organisms.

Skulachev VP(1).

Author information:
(1)Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State 
University, Moscow 119991, Russia. skulach@belozersky.msu.ru

Effects of the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant SkQ1 and food restriction are 
compared. In both cases there is a remarkable increase in the median lifespan of 
organisms belonging to many different taxonomic ranks. Essentially, both SkQ1 
treatment and restriction in food intake retard development of numerous adverse 
traits of senescence. This relationship could be predicted assuming that SkQ1 
and food restriction inhibit the execution of an aging program. It is 
hypothesized that food restriction is perceived by organisms as a signal of 
starvation, which can be catastrophic for the population. Under these 
conditions, the organism switches off an aging program that is favorable for 
evolvability of the species but counterproductive for the individual. 
Unfortunately, food restriction is accompanied by some other effects, e.g., 
constant anxiety and attempts to scan as large a space as possible looking for 
food. Such side effects seem to be absent in the case of inhibition of the aging 
program by SkQ1.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100410
PMCID: PMC3249450
PMID: 22170754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author of this manuscript has no conflict of 
interest to declare.


182. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2011 Dec;42 Suppl 2:S75-90. doi: 
10.1016/S1078-5884(11)60013-0.

Chapter VI: Follow-up after revascularisation.

Dick F(1), Ricco JB, Davies AH, Cao P, Setacci C, de Donato G, Becker F, 
Robert-Ebadi H, Eckstein HH, De Rango P, Diehm N, Schmidli J, Teraa M, Moll FL, 
Lepäntalo M, Apelqvist J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Swiss Cardiovascular Centre, University 
Hospital Berne, Switzerland. florian.dick@insel.ch

Structured follow-up after revascularisation for chronic critical limb ischaemia 
(CLI) aims at sustained treatment success and continued best patient care. 
Thereby, efforts need to address three fundamental domains: (A) best medical 
therapy, both to protect the arterial reconstruction locally and to reduce 
atherosclerotic burden systemically; (B) surveillance of the arterial 
reconstruction; and (C) timely initiation of repeat interventions. As most CLI 
patients are elderly and frail, sustained resolution of CLI and preserved 
ambulatory capacity may decide over independent living and overall prognosis. 
Despite this importance, previous guidelines have largely ignored follow-up 
after CLI; arguably because of a striking lack of evidence and because of a 
widespread assumption that, in the context of CLI, efficacy of initial 
revascularisation will determine prognosis during the short remaining life 
expectancy. This chapter of the current CLI guidelines aims to challenge this 
disposition and to recommend evidentially best clinical practice by critically 
appraising available evidence in all of the above domains, including 
antiplatelet and antithrombotic therapy, clinical surveillance, use of duplex 
ultrasound, and indications for and preferred type of repeat interventions for 
failing and failed reconstructions. However, as corresponding studies are rarely 
performed among CLI patients specifically, evidence has to be consulted that 
derives from expanded patient populations. Therefore, most recommendations are 
based on extrapolations or subgroup analyses, which leads to an almost 
systematic degradation of their strength. Endovascular reconstruction and 
surgical bypass are considered separately, as are specific contexts such as 
diabetes or renal failure; and critical issues are highlighted throughout to 
inform future studies.

Copyright © 2011 European Society for Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Urology. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1078-5884(11)60013-0
PMID: 22172475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Rev Esp Quimioter. 2011 Dec;24(4):233-62.

Consensus document on treatment of infections in diabetic foot.

Blanes JI(1); Representatives of Spanish Society of Surgeons (ACS); 
Representatives of Spanish Society of Angiology and Vascular Surgery (SEACV); 
Representatives of Spanish Society of Emergency Medicine (SEMES); Spanish 
Internal Medicine Society (SEMI); Representatives of Spanish Society of Critical 
Care Medicine and Coronary Units (SEMICYUC); Representatives of Spanish Society 
of Chemotherapy (SEQ).

Collaborators: Lozano F, Clará A, Alcalá D, Clará A, Blanes JI, Doiz E, Merino 
R, Lozano F, Castillo JG, Barberán J, Zaragoza R, Sánchez JE.

Author information:
(1)lochv@telefonica.net

Diabetic foot infection, particularly if it is associated to ischaemia,is the 
most common cause of lower limb amputation, in the general population, of 
hospital admissions, and a decrease in the quality of life in diabetics. Of all 
diabetics, 15% of them are going to suffer from a foot infection during their 
life, with an annual incidence of 1-4%, preceded by a foot ulcer in more than 
80% of cases. They are complex infections and the prognosis is influenced by 
many factors, depending on the ulcer (location, extension, whether chronic or 
not, previous amputation, ischaemia grade), and the patient (age, renal 
impairment, time of onset of diabetes, associated comorbidity). All these must 
be taken into account when establishing its treatment. The infections must be 
classified according to their severity (mild, moderate-mild, moderatesevere, and 
severe). Their treatment is complex and must be multidisciplinary and must 
include debridement, discharge, adequate antibiotic therapy, revascularisation, 
and treatment of the ulcer. In this consensus document, produced in 
collaboration with the Spanish Angiology and Vascular Surgery Society (SEACV), 
the Spanish Society of Internal Medicine (SEMI), the Spanish Chemotherapy 
Society (SEQ), the Spanish Surgeons Association (AEC), the Spanish Society of 
Urgent Medicine and Emergencies (INFURG-SEMES) and the Spanish Society of 
Intensive and Critical Medicine and Coronary Care (SEMICYUC), the guidelines are 
developed based on the best available evidence on diabetic foot infections, 
aimed at achieving greater clinical efficacy.

PMID: 22173195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. J Spec Oper Med. 2011 Summer-Fall;11(3):52-55. doi: 10.55460/846X-RANO.

A new plan for the 800-pound Gorilla (Guerrilla): perinatal mortality in 
Afghanistan: a 21st century counterinsurgency model for Afghanistan.

Johnson TC.

Afghanistan has the highest perinatal mortality rate in the entire world. One 
Afghani woman dies every 30 minutes from perinatal- related event. One of eight 
Afghani women will die from perinatal events. Maternal mortality is (use 
percentage, not fractions) 1600/100,000 vs 13 /100,000 in the United States. 
Afghanistan is one of the only countries in the world in which the average 
woman?s life expectancy is shorter than a males- despite the active, nationwide 
combat fought primarily by Afghani males. Meaning, women in Afghanistan are not 
routinely involved in combat, yet are more likely to die than a man of the same 
age. This article presents an alternative model Medical Seminar (MEDSEM) for a 
successful Special Forces (SF) medical counterinsurgency (COIN) plan that can 
obtain real results by addressing the mission of the Afghan Ministry of Health 
versus clinging to old notions. This model forms around the medical capabilities 
of the SF Operational Detachment (ODA)- Alpha (A) and preventinmaternal-infant 
complications.

2011.

DOI: 10.55460/846X-RANO
PMID: 22173597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Home Healthc Nurse. 2012 Jan;30(1):54-60. doi: 10.1097/NHH.0b013e31823aa740.

Research on health-related quality of life and cardiac conditions.

Beck CA(1), Shah S.

Author information:
(1)VNSNY CHOICE, New York, New York, USA.

According to the , health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is a broad 
multidimensional concept that typically encompasses self-reported measures of 
physical and mental health. HRQoL is an individually based, multidomain concept 
referring to how a health condition impacts a person's perception of their well- 
being. HRQoL encompasses several domains to include functional ability, 
psychological state, social function, and an individual's perception of his or 
her health. As life expectancy continues to increase, the rates of chronic 
disease will also continue to grow. Patient-centric outcomes that include HRQoL 
will become even more important as individuals adjust to living with chronic 
conditions such as heart failure (HF) and other cardiac conditions. This article 
features 4 HRQoL-related studies. The 1st article presents data on the ability 
to use HRQoL measurement to predict event-free survival in HF patients. The 
results have implications for potentially determining those most in need of 
additional intervention. The 2nd article looks at the relationship between 
cognitive impairment and HRQoL in HF patients. The 3rd and 4th articles present 
information on the effect of clinical interventions on HRQoL and other outcomes. 
One article describes a telephone-delivered collaborative care intervention to 
help postcoronary artery bypass graft patients with depressive symptoms. The 
other intervention article describes the success of a home-based cardiac 
rehabilitation program. Interested readers are encouraged to read the original 
articles for full information about the study methods and findings.

DOI: 10.1097/NHH.0b013e31823aa740
PMID: 22173621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 2012 Jun;51(3):160-70. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1285893.
 Epub 2011 Dec 15.

[Psychosocial predictors of utilization of medical rehabilitation services among 
prostate cancer patients].

[Article in German]

Lehmann C(1), Beierlein V, Hagen-Aukamp C, Kerschgens C, Rhee M, Frühauf S, Otto 
J, Graefen M, Krüll A, Berger D, Koch U, Bergelt C.

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Medizinische Psychologie, Universitätsklinikum 
Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, Germany. c.lehmann@uke.de

PURPOSE: Prostate cancer patients often suffer from treatment-associated 
morbidities which lead to severe physical and mental impairments. Nevertheless, 
only a relatively small percentage of this patient population uses medical 
rehabilitation services; there is still a lack of evidence concerning possible 
factors causing use and non-use of services. Therefore, this study exploratively 
aims at the identification of predictors of the use of rehabilitation services 
in a cohort of prostate cancer patients.
METHOD: In a prospective multicentre study to evaluate outpatient oncological 
rehabilitation services, n=242 prostate cancer patients who used outpatient or 
inpatient rehabilitation services ("users") were compared with n=253 prostate 
cancer patients who did not use rehabilitation ("non-users") at measure point 1. 
At the beginning of the rehabilitation programme and at the end of primary 
treatment, respectively, patients completed a self-report questionnaire 
consisting of standardized instruments designed to assess the following 
independent variables: autonomy striving (TPF), self-efficacy expectancy (GSE), 
distress (distress thermometer), anxiety and depression (HADS-D), quality of 
life (SF-8), social support (SSUK), rehabilitation motivation: readiness to 
change, knowledge, scepticism regarding rehabilitation services (PAREMO-20). 
Illness- and treatment-related variables (tumour state, comorbidity, primary 
therapies) were documented by the attending oncologists.
RESULTS: Only few significant and effective differences between rehabilitation 
users and non-users are observed: Non-users are suffering more often from 
gastrointestinal comorbidities (18% vs. 2%, w=0.25). Both patient groups report 
severe quality-of-life impairments, particularly with respect to their physical 
functioning. Non-users achieve significantly higher scores on the scale 
"scepticism" (PAREMO-20) than users (eta²=0.19). The scale "scepticism" is also 
identified as the dominant predictor of utilization of rehabilitation services 
(R²=0.23). Suffering from comorbid diseases of the digestive system, 
self-efficacy expectation and employment status emerge as further significant 
predictors (R²=0.12, and R²=0.02 each). With increasing scepticism and in case 
of comorbidity the probability of rehabilitation utilization was decreasing.
CONCLUSION: Besides illness-related variables prostate cancer patients' 
expectancies regarding the effectiveness of rehabilitation services to alleviate 
their medical conditions seem to be more relevant for rehabilitation utilization 
than sociodemographic variables or psychosocial distress. Further studies should 
investigate the replicability of these results and should focus on the 
doctor-patient-communication and the amount of information about goals and 
concepts of rehabilitation services prostate cancer patients are told. For 
clinical practice of information-giving about rehabilitation services it can be 
recommended not only to assess patients' physical and mental conditions but also 
to explore their expectations and concerns about rehabilitative treatment 
options in order to remove any doubts and to be able to optimize oncological 
care.

© George Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1285893
PMID: 22174099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. PLoS One. 2011;6(12):e28744. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028744. Epub 2011
Dec  12.

Costs associated with low birth weight in a rural area of Southern Mozambique.

Sicuri E(1), Bardají A, Sigauque B, Maixenchs M, Nhacolo A, Nhalungo D, Macete 
E, Alonso PL, Menéndez C.

Author information:
(1)Barcelona Centre for International Health Research CRESIB, Hospital Clínic, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. elisa.sicuri@cresib.cat

BACKGROUND: Low Birth Weight (LBW) is prevalent in low-income countries. Even 
though the economic evaluation of interventions to reduce this burden is 
essential to guide health policies, data on costs associated with LBW are 
scarce. This study aims to estimate the costs to the health system and to the 
household and the Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) arising from infant 
deaths associated with LBW in Southern Mozambique.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Costs incurred by the households were collected through 
exit surveys. Health system costs were gathered from data obtained onsite and 
from published information. DALYs due to death of LBW babies were based on local 
estimates of prevalence of LBW (12%), very low birth weight (VLBW) (1%) and of 
case fatality rates compared to non-LBW weight babies [for LBW (12%) and VLBW 
(80%)]. Costs associated with LBW excess morbidity were calculated on the 
incremental number of hospital admissions in LBW babies compared to non-LBW 
weight babies. Direct and indirect household costs for routine health care were 
24.12 US$ (CI 95% 21.51; 26.26). An increase in birth weight of 100 grams would 
lead to a 53% decrease in these costs. Direct and indirect household costs for 
hospital admissions were 8.50 US$ (CI 95% 6.33; 10.72). Of the 3,322 live births 
that occurred in one year in the study area, health system costs associated to 
LBW (routine health care and excess morbidity) and DALYs were 169,957.61 US$ (CI 
95% 144,900.00; 195,500.00) and 2,746.06, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This first cost evaluation of LBW in a low-income country shows 
that reducing the prevalence of LBW would translate into important cost savings 
to the health system and the household. These results are of relevance for 
similar settings and should serve to promote interventions aimed at improving 
maternal care.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028744
PMCID: PMC3236214
PMID: 22174885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


188. World Polit. 2011;63(4):647-77. doi: 10.1017/s0043887111000177.

The impact of regime type on health: does redistribution explain everything?

Wigley S, Akkoyunlu-Wigley A.

Many scholars claim that democracy improves population health. The prevailing 
explanation for this is that democratic regimes distribute health-promoting 
resources more widely than autocratic regimes. The central contention of this 
article is that democracies also have a significant pro-health effect regardless 
of public redistributive policies. After establishing the theoretical 
plausibility of the nondistributive effect, a panel of 153 countries for the 
years 1972 to 2000 is used to examine the relationship between extent of 
democratic experience and life expectancy. The authors find that democratic 
governance continues to have a salutary effect on population health even when 
controls are introduced for the distribution of health-enhancing resources. Data 
for fifty autocratic countries for the years 1994 to 2007 are then used to 
examine whether media freedom—independent of government responsiveness—has a 
positive impact on life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/s0043887111000177
PMID: 22175088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

