Previous studies have not shown a survival advantage for smoking reduction. The 
authors assessed survival and life expectancy according to changes in smoking 
intensity in a cohort of Israeli working men. Baseline smokers recruited in 1963 
were reassessed in 1965 (n = 4,633; mean age, 51 years) and followed up 
prospectively for mortality through 2005. Smoking intensity at both time points 
was self-reported and categorized as none, 1-10, 11-20, and ≥21 cigarettes per 
day. Change between smoking categories was noted, and participants were 
classified as increased (8%), maintained (65%), reduced (17%), or quit (10%) 
smoking. During a median follow-up of 26 (quartiles 1-3: 16-35) years, 87% of 
participants died. Changes in intensity were associated with survival. In 
multivariable-adjusted models, the hazard ratios for mortality were 1.14 (95% 
confidence interval (CI): 0.99, 1.32) among increasers, 0.85 (95% CI: 0.77, 
0.95) among reducers, and 0.78 (95% CI: 0.69, 0.89) among quitters, compared 
with maintainers. Inversely, the adjusted odds ratios of surviving to age 80 
years were 0.77 (95% CI: 0.60, 0.98), 1.22 (95% CI: 1.01, 1.47), and 1.33 (95% 
CI: 1.07, 1.66), respectively. The survival benefit associated with smoking 
reduction was mostly evident among heavy smokers and for cardiovascular disease 
mortality. These results suggest that decreasing smoking intensity should be 
considered as a risk-reduction strategy for heavy smokers who cannot quit 
abruptly.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwr466
PMID: 22306566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. HIV Clin Trials. 2012 Jan-Feb;13(1):1-10. doi: 10.1310/hct1301-001.

Cost-effectiveness of adding an agent that improves immune responses to initial 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) in HIV-infected patients: guidance for drug 
development.

Morris BL(1), Scott CA, Wilkin TJ, Sax PE, Gulick RM, Freedberg KA, Schackman 
BR.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. blmorris@partners.org

PURPOSE: Adding an immune-enhancing agent to initial antiretroviral therapy 
(ART) for HIV is a potential strategy to ensure that patients achieve optimal 
immune response.
METHOD: Using a mathematical model of HIV disease and treatment, we evaluated 
the treatment benefits and cost-effectiveness of adding a hypothetical 
immune-enhancing agent to the initial 6 months of ART. We assumed that the 
additional agent would result in a higher CD4 increase that would provide 
clinical benefit. The additional cost ($1,900/month) was based on the cost of a 
drug currently under investigation for immune enhancement. Outcomes included 
projected life expectancy and cost-effectiveness in 2009 US 
dollars/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) with costs and QALYs discounted at 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: Compared to standard ART, immune-enhanced ART resulting in an 
additional 40 CD4 cell/µL increase at 6 months yields a 2.4 month projected 
undiscounted life expectancy increase with a cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$107,600/QALY. Achieving a cost-effectiveness ratio <$100,000/QALY requires a 
>43 CD4 cell/µL improvement, or >19 cells/µL if immune-enhancing agent costs are 
halved.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to showing clinical efficacy, investigational immune 
enhancement agents need to increase CD4 counts more than has been previously 
observed or have a lower cost to be considered cost-effective in the United 
States.

DOI: 10.1310/hct1301-001
PMCID: PMC3321257
PMID: 22306583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. HIV Clin Trials. 2012 Jan-Feb;13(1):11-22. doi: 10.1310/hct1301-011.

Cost-effectiveness of a fourth-generation combination immunoassay for human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibody and p24 antigen for the detection of HIV 
infections in the United States.

Cragin L(1), Pan F, Peng S, Zenilman JM, Green J, Doucet C, Chalfin DB, de 
Lissovoy G.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, 
USA. lael.cragin@unitedbiosource.com

PURPOSE: The US Food and Drug Administration recently approved the first 
4th-generation HIV test. This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of the 
4th-generation assay versus a 3rd-generation test in screening for HIV 
infections in the United States.
METHODS: An exploratory microsimulation model was developed that follows 
hypothetical individuals and simulates the course of HIV/AIDS, treatment with 
highly active antiretroviral therapy, and transmissions.
RESULTS: With a 1% HIV prevalence, screening 1.5 million individuals with the 
4th- versus 3rd-generation assay resulted in detection of 266 additional HIV 
cases at an incremental cost per additional HIV case detected of $63,763, an 
additional 489 life years and 395 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and 26 
HIV transmissions prevented. Although lifetime costs were increased by $33.6 
million, the incremental cost/QALY gained was $85,206. The 4th-generation test 
was more cost-effective in high incidence settings. The number needed to screen 
to detect one additional HIV case was 5,635.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening using the 4th-generation assay may be cost-effective for 
HIV detection in appropriate settings, resulting in increased case 
identification, fewer transmissions, extended life, and increased quality of 
life. With early and accurate detection, this 4th-generation test may provide a 
suitable alternative to current 3rd-generation tests.

DOI: 10.1310/hct1301-011
PMID: 22306584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Mult Scler. 2012 Sep;18(9):1278-89. doi: 10.1177/1352458512436594. Epub 2012
Feb  3.

Long-term follow-up of a phase 2 study of oral teriflunomide in relapsing 
multiple sclerosis: safety and efficacy results up to 8.5 years.

Confavreux C(1), Li DK, Freedman MS, Truffinet P, Benzerdjeb H, Wang D, Bar-Or 
A, Traboulsee AL, Reiman LE, O'Connor PW; Teriflunomide Multiple Sclerosis Trial 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Neurologique, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, France. 
christian.confavreux@chu-lyon.fr

BACKGROUND: Teriflunomide, an oral disease-modifying therapy in development for 
patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (RMS), was well tolerated 
and effective in reducing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lesions in 179 RMS 
patients in a phase 2 36-week, placebo-controlled study.
METHODS: A total of 147 patients who completed the core study entered an 
open-label extension. Teriflunomide patients continued their assigned dose, and 
placebo patients were re-allocated to teriflunomide, 7 mg/day or 14 mg/day. An 
interim analysis was performed at a cut-off on January 8 2010.
RESULTS: The mean and median duration of study treatment, including both the 
core and extension phase, from baseline to the interim cut-off, was 5.6 years 
(standard deviation: 2.7 years) and 7.1 years (range: 0.05-8.5 years), 
respectively. Of 147 patients, 62 (42.2%) discontinued (19% due to 
treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs)). The most common TEAEs were mild 
infections, fatigue, sensory disturbances and diarrhoea. No serious 
opportunistic infections occurred, with no discontinuations due to infection. 
Asymptomatic alanine aminotransferase increases (≤3× upper limit of normal 
(ULN)) were common (7 mg, 64.2%; 14 mg, 62.1%); increases >3×ULN were similar 
across groups (7 mg, 12.3%; 14 mg, 12.1%). Mild decreases in neutrophil counts 
occurred; none led to discontinuation. The incidence of malignancies was 
comparable to that of the general population, and cases were not reminiscent of 
those observed in immunocompromised patients. Annualised relapse rates remained 
low, minimal disability progression was observed, with a dose-dependent benefit 
with teriflunomide 14 mg for several MRI parameters.
CONCLUSION: Teriflunomide had a favourable safety profile for up to 8.5 years.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458512436594
PMCID: PMC3573681
PMID: 22307384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Christian Confavreux has 
received consulting fees from Biogen Idec, Genzyme Corporation, Novartis, Merck 
Serono, sanofi-aventis, Teva Pharma and UCB Pharma; lecture fees from Bayer 
Schering, Biogen Idec, LFB, Merck Serono, Novartis, sanofi-aventis and Teva 
Pharma; and research support from Bayer Schering, Biogen Idec, Merck Serono, 
Novartis, sanofi-aventis and Teva Pharma. David Li has received research funding 
from the Canadian Institute of Health Research and Multiple Sclerosis Society of 
Canada, has consulted for Genzyme and Novartis, and is the Director of the UBC 
MS/MRI Research Group, which has been contracted to perform central analysis of 
MRI scans for therapeutic trials for Angiotech, Bayer, Berlex-Schering, BioMS, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Centocor, Daiichi Sankyo, Genentech, Hoffmann-LaRoche, 
Merck Serono, Perceptives, Schering-Plough, Teva Neurosciences, sanofi-aventis 
and Transition Therapeutics. Mark Freedman has received grant support from 
Genzyme and has acted as an advisor/consultant/steering committee member or 
speaker for Bayer, Biogen Idec, Teva, Merck Serono, Novartis, and 
sanofi-aventis. Philippe Truffinet, Hadj Benzerdjeb and Dazhe Wang are employees 
of sanofi-aventis. Amit Bar-Or has received personal compensation for 
consulting, serving on scientific advisory boards and/or speaking activities 
from: Bayer, Bayhill Therapeutics, Berlex, Biogen Idec, BioMS, Diogenix, 
Eli-Lilly, Genentech, GSK, Guthy-Jackson/GGF, Merck Serono, Novartis, Ono 
Pharmacia, Roche, sanofi-aventis, Teva Neurosciences and Wyeth. Anthony 
Traboulsee has received personal compensation for membership of data safety 
monitoring boards (Merck Serono and Daiichi Sankyo), co-chairing a symposium 
(Merck Serono), chairing a symposium (Teva Neurosciences), speaking (Bayer 
Health Care), and membership of an editorial advisory board (Neura). Lucy Reiman 
is an employee of Fishawack Communications Ltd., contracted to provide editorial 
services for sanofi-aventis. Paul O’Connor has received consulting fees and/or 
research support for MS trials from Actelion, Bayer, Biogen Idec, BioMS, 
Cognosci, Daiichi Sankyo, EMD Serono, Genentech, Genmab, Novartis, Roche, 
sanofi-aventis, Teva Neurosciences and Warburg Pincus.


538. Cancer. 2012 Feb 15;118(4):867-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27436.

Disparities in cancer care: Are we making progress?: a look at how researchers 
and organizations are working to reduce cancer health disparities.

Printz C.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27436
PMID: 22307882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Health Econ. 2013 Mar;22(3):258-71. doi: 10.1002/hec.2795. Epub 2012 Feb 6.

Valuing the economic benefits of complex interventions: when maximising health 
is not sufficient.

Payne K(1), McAllister M, Davies LM.

Author information:
(1)Health Sciences-Economics, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. 
katherine.payne@manchester.ac.uk

Complex interventions, involving interlinked packages of care, challenge the 
application of current methods of economic evaluation that focus on measuring 
only health gain. Complex interventions may be problematic on two levels. The 
complexity means the intervention may not fit into one of the current appraisal 
systems, and/or maximising health is not the only objective. This paper 
discusses the implications of a programme of work that focused on clinical 
genetics services, as an example of a complex intervention, and aimed to 
identify the following: the attributes that comprise both health and non-health 
aspects of benefits and whether it is possible to evaluate such an intervention 
using current National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence appraisal 
processes. Genetic services and tests are a good example of a complex 
intervention and have broader objectives than just health gain, which may 
usefully be measured using the concept related to capability, which we have 
called 'empowerment'. Further methodological work is required to identify the 
trade-off between non-health (empowerment) and health benefits for other complex 
interventions. We do not advocate a move away from QALY maximisation but do 
suggest that there is a need for a more considered approach that can take 
account of the perceived value for non-health attributes for some complex 
interventions.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2795
PMID: 22308053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Europace. 2012 Jun;14(6):787-94. doi: 10.1093/europace/eus001. Epub 2012 Feb
2.

Sudden cardiac death and implantable cardioverter defibrillators: two modern 
epidemics?

Katritsis DG(1), Josephson ME.

Author information:
(1)Athens Euroclinic, 9 Athanassiadou Street, Athens 11521, Greece. 
dkatritsis@euroclinic.gr

Critical analysis of the existing evidence indicates that: In patients with 
documented sustained ventricular arrhythmias and/or cardiac arrest, implantable 
cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) confer a survival benefit. In several 
clinical settings this is rather transient, and might be lost when modern 
medical therapy including β-blockers is implemented. In patients without 
sustained ventricular arrhythmias or cardiac arrest, ICDs confer a significant 
survival benefit only in high-risk patients with ischaemic cardiomyopathy and 
left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤ 35% due to a remote myocardial 
infarction. Left ventricular ejection fraction alone is rather unlikely to be 
sufficient for effective sudden cardiac death risk prediction, due to low 
sensitivity and specificity. The benefits of ICDs in the elderly as well as in 
women are not established. With current prices, ICDs are probably cost-effective 
only when used in high-risk patients without associated comorbidities that limit 
the life expectancy to <10 years. Recommendations by current guidelines may 
result in unnecessary overuse of ICD.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eus001
PMID: 22308081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Stroke. 2012 Mar;43(3):881-3. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.641027. Epub 2012
Feb  3.

Cost-effectiveness of dabigatran compared with warfarin for stroke prevention in 
patients with atrial fibrillation and prior stroke or transient ischemic attack.

Kamel H(1), Johnston SC, Easton JD, Kim AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Cornell Medical College, New 
York, NY, USA. hok9010@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The cost-effectiveness of dabigatran for stroke 
prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation and prior stroke or transient 
ischemic attack has not been directly assessed.
METHODS: A Markov decision model was constructed using data from the Randomized 
Evaluation of Long-Term Therapy (RE-LY) trial, other trials of warfarin therapy 
for atrial fibrillation, and the published cost of dabigatran. We compared the 
cost and quality-adjusted life expectancy associated with 150 mg dabigatran 
twice daily versus warfarin therapy targeted to an international normalized 
ratio of 2 to 3. The target population was a cohort of patients aged ≥70 years 
with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, prior stroke or transient ischemic attack, 
and no contraindication to anticoagulation.
RESULTS: In the base case, dabigatran was associated with 4.27 quality-adjusted 
life-years compared with 3.91 quality-adjusted life-years with warfarin. 
Dabigatran provided 0.36 additional quality-adjusted life-years at a cost of 
$9000, yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $25,000. In 
sensitivity analyses, the cost-effectiveness of dabigatran was inversely related 
to the quality of international normalized ratio control achieved with warfarin 
therapy. In Monte Carlo analysis, dabigatran was cost-effective in 57% of 
simulations using a threshold of $50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year and 78% 
of simulations using a threshold of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: Dabigatran appears to be cost-effective relative to warfarin for 
stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation and prior stroke or 
transient ischemic attack. Our analysis is limited by its reliance on data from 
a substudy of a single randomized trial, and our results may not apply in 
settings with uncommonly good international normalized ratio control using 
warfarin.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.641027
PMID: 22308255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Circulation. 2012 Mar 6;125(9):1102-9. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.054072.  Epub 2012 Feb 3.

Cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve replacement compared with 
standard care among inoperable patients with severe aortic stenosis: results 
from the placement of aortic transcatheter valves (PARTNER) trial (Cohort B).

Reynolds MR(1), Magnuson EA, Wang K, Lei Y, Vilain K, Walczak J, Kodali SK, 
Lasala JM, O'Neill WW, Davidson CJ, Smith CR, Leon MB, Cohen DJ; PARTNER 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, University of Missouri-Kansas City 
School of Medicine, Kansas City, MO 64111, USA.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2012 Mar 6;125(9):1076-7.
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2012 Apr;9(4):188.

BACKGROUND: In patients with severe aortic stenosis who cannot have surgery, 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has been shown to improve survival 
and quality of life compared with standard therapy, but the costs and 
cost-effectiveness of this strategy are not yet known.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The PARTNER trial randomized patients with symptomatic, 
severe aortic stenosis who were not candidates for surgery to TAVR (n=179) or 
standard therapy (n=179). Empirical data regarding survival, quality of life, 
medical resource use, and hospital costs were collected during the trial and 
used to project life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and lifetime 
medical care costs to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of TAVR from a 
US perspective. For patients treated with TAVR, mean costs for the initial 
procedure and hospitalization were $42 806 and $78 542, respectively. Follow-up 
costs through 12 months were lower with TAVR ($29 289 versus $53 621) because of 
reduced hospitalization rates, but cumulative 1-year costs remained higher ($106 
076 versus $53 621). We projected that over a patient's lifetime, TAVR would 
increase discounted life expectancy by 1.6 years (1.3 quality-adjusted 
life-years) at an incremental cost of $79 837. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for TAVR was thus estimated at $50 200 per year of life 
gained or $61 889 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. These results were 
stable across a broad range of uncertainty and sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with severe aortic stenosis who are not candidates for 
surgery, TAVR increases life expectancy at an incremental cost per life-year 
gained well within accepted values for commonly used cardiovascular 
technologies.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique 
identifier: NCT00530894.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.054072
PMID: 22308299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Int J Clin Pract Suppl. 2012 Feb;(175):1. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2011.02860.x.

The improvement in quality of life and life expectancy of people with diabetes 
increasingly depends on the success of innovative people in academia and 
industry to develop new technologies. Preface.

Phillip M, Battelino T.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2011.02860.x
PMID: 22308981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2012 Sep;21(5):599-605. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2012.01329.x. Epub 2012 Feb 6.

Malignancy-associated chylothorax: a 20-year study of 18 patients from a single 
institution.

Teng CL(1), Li KW, Yu JT, Hsu SL, Wang RC, Hwang WL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Taichung Veterans 
General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.

Malignancy-associated chylothorax is a rare manifestation with uncertain 
characteristics and clinical significance. We segregated 18 patients into 
malignant lymphoma (n= 11) and solid malignancy (n= 7) groups to analyse the 
characteristics, treatment response and prognostic value of 
malignancy-associated chylothorax. Diagnosis of chylothorax was confirmed by a 
triglyceride concentration of >110 mg/dL or by the presence of chylomicrons in 
the pleural effusion. Concentrations of glucose, protein and lactate 
dehydrogenase did not differ significantly between the malignant lymphoma and 
solid malignancy groups. Although not statistically significant (P= 0.25), 90.9% 
malignant lymphoma patients and 57.1% solid malignancy patients had exudates. 
The cytology diagnostic rate in the malignant lymphoma and solid malignancy 
groups was 20.0% and 33.3% respectively (P > 0.99). After chemotherapy, six 
malignant lymphoma patients achieved complete remission, with simultaneous 
chylothorax disappearance. The overall survival rate at 12 and 24 months in the 
malignant lymphoma group was 54.5% and 36.4% respectively, while that in the 
solid malignancy group was 35.7% and 0% respectively. Malignant lymphoma was the 
chief cause of chylothorax in our cohort. Effective lymphoma treatment, lacking 
supplementary interventions, is essential for treating chylothorax in malignant 
lymphoma patients. Chylothorax indicates extremely limited life expectancy for 
solid malignancy patients.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2012.01329.x
PMID: 22309398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Feb 6;12:32. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-32.

Screening mammography beliefs and recommendations: a web-based survey of primary 
care physicians.

Yasmeen S(1), Romano PS, Tancredi DJ, Saito NH, Rainwater J, Kravitz RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Centre for Healthcare Policy and Research 
University of California Davis School of Medicine, Sacramento, California, USA. 
shagufta.yasmeen@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

BACKGROUND: The appropriateness and cost-effectiveness of screening mammography 
(SM) for women younger than 50 and older than 74 years is debated in the 
clinical research community, among health care providers, and by the American 
public. This study explored primary care physicians' (PCPs) perceptions of the 
influence of clinical practice guidelines for SM; the recommendations for SM in 
response to hypothetical case scenarios; and the factors associated with 
perceived SM effectiveness and recommendations in the US from June to December 
2009 before the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recently 
revised guidelines.
METHODS: A nationally representative sample of 11,922 PCPs was surveyed using a 
web-based questionnaire. The response rate was 5.7% (684); (41%) 271 family 
physicians (FP), (36%) 232 general internal medicine physicians (IM), (23%) 150 
obstetrician-gynaecologists (OBG), and (0.2%) 31 others. Cross-sectional 
analysis examined PCPs perceived effectiveness of SM, and recommendation for SM 
in response to hypothetical case scenarios. PCPs responses were measured using 
4-5 point adjectival scales. Differences in perceived effectiveness and 
recommendations for SM were examined after adjusting for PCPs specialty, 
race/ethnicity, and the US region.
RESULTS: Compared to IM and FP, OBG considered SM more effective in reducing 
breast cancer mortality among women aged 40-49 years (p = 0.003). Physicians 
consistently recommended mammography to women aged 50-69 years with no 
differences by specialty (p = 0.11). However, 94% of OBG "always recommended" SM 
to younger and 86% of older women compared to 81% and 67% for IM and 84% and 59% 
for FP respectively (p = < .001). In ordinal regression analysis, OBG specialty 
was a significant predictor for perceived higher SM effectiveness and 
recommendations for younger and older women. In evaluating hypothetical 
scenarios, overall PCPs would recommend SM for the 80 year woman with CHF with a 
significant variation by specialty (38% of OBG, 18% of FP, 17% of IM; p = < 
.001).
CONCLUSIONS: A majority of physicians, especially OBG, favour aggressive breast 
cancer screening for women from 40 through 79 years of age, including women with 
short life expectancy. Policy interventions should focus on educating providers 
to provide tailored recommendations for mammography based on individualized 
cancer risk, health status, and preferences.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-32
PMCID: PMC3293074
PMID: 22309456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2012 Sep;37(9):1379-96. doi: 
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.01.007. Epub 2012 Feb 5.

Estrogens and memory in physiological and neuropathological conditions.

Pompili A(1), Arnone B, Gasbarri A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Technologies, University of L'Aquila, 
L'Aquila, Italy. assunta.pompili@cc.univaq.it

Ovarian hormones can influence brain regions crucial to higher cognitive 
functions, such as learning and memory, acting at structural, cellular and 
functional levels, and modulating neurotransmitter systems. Among the main 
effects of estrogens, the protective role that they may play against the 
deterioration of cognitive functions occurring with normal aging is of essential 
importance. In fact, during the last century, there has been a 30 years increase 
in female life expectancy, from 50 to 83 years; however, the mean age of 
spontaneous menopause remains stable, 50-51 years, with variability related to 
race and ethnicity. Therefore, women are now spending a greater fraction of 
their lives in a hypoestrogenic state. Although many cognitive functions seem to 
be unaffected by normal aging, age-related impairments are particularly evident 
in tasks involving working memory (WM), whose deficits are a recognized feature 
of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Many studies conducted over the past two decades 
showed that the female gonadal hormone estradiol can influence performance of 
learning and memory tasks, both in animal and humans. There is a great deal of 
evidence, mostly from animal models, that estrogens can facilitate or enhance 
performance on WM tasks; therefore, it is very important to clarify their role 
on this type of memory. To this aim, in this review we briefly describe the most 
relevant neurobiological bases of estrogens, that can explain their effects on 
cognitive functioning, and then we summarize the results of works conducted in 
our laboratory, both on animals and humans, utilizing the menstrual/estrous 
cycle as a useful noninvasive model. Finally, we review the possible role of 
estrogens in neuropathological conditions, such as AD and schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.01.007
PMID: 22309827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Environ Pollut. 2012 May;164:24-7. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2012.01.011. Epub
2012  Feb 4.

Effects of herbicides on Behr's metalmark butterfly, a surrogate species for the 
endangered butterfly, Lange's metalmark.

Stark JD(1), Chen XD, Johnson CS.

Author information:
(1)Ecotoxicology Program, Department of Entomology, Washington State University, 
Puyallup Research and Extension Center, Puyallup, WA 98371, USA. starkj@wsu.edu

Lange's metalmark butterfly, Apodemia mormo langei Comstock, is in danger of 
extinction due to loss of habitat caused by invasive exotic plants which are 
eliminating its food, naked stem buckwheat. Herbicides are being used to remove 
invasive weeds from the dunes; however, little is known about the potential 
effects of herbicides on butterflies. To address this concern we evaluated 
potential toxic effects of three herbicides on Behr's metalmark, a close 
relative of Lange's metalmark. First instars were exposed to recommended field 
rates of triclopyr, sethoxydim, and imazapyr. Life history parameters were 
recorded after exposure. These herbicides reduced the number of adults that 
emerged from pupation (24-36%). Each herbicide has a different mode of action. 
Therefore, we speculate that effects are due to inert ingredients or indirect 
effects on food plant quality. If these herbicides act the same in A. mormo 
langei, they may contribute to the decline of this species.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2012.01.011
PMID: 22310058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Med Clin (Barc). 2011 Dec;137 Suppl 2:9-15. doi:
10.1016/S0025-7753(11)70022-7.

[Impact of chronic diseases on life expectancy in the population of Catalonia, 
Spain, in 1994 and 2006].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez-Beneyto V(1), Brugulat-Guiteras P, Mompart-Penina A, Rosas-Ruiz A, 
Tresserras-Gaju R.

Author information:
(1)Servei del Pla de Salut, Direcció General de Regulació, Planificació i 
Recursos Sanitaris, Departament de Salut, Generalitat de Catalunya, Barcelona, 
España. v.martinez@gencat.cat

This paper analyzes the changes in the prevalence of selected chronic conditions 
and their impact on the life expectancy in the population of Catalonia. The 
chronic conditions selected are: hypertension, diabetes, stroke, heart diseases, 
chronic bronchitis, asthma, chronic allergies, musculoskeletal system diseases, 
and anxiety/depression. The prevalence of these diseases is estimated from data 
collected by the Health Survey of Catalonia in 1994 and 2006. The most 
frequently chronic conditions among the Catalan population are the 
musculoskeletal disorders, the high blood pressure and the depression and/or 
anxiety. By the analysis of the changes in the life expectancy free of chronic 
disorders, this study shows the impact of these disorders in the life 
expectancy. The burden of the chronic morbidity in our community, and its impact 
on the health systems, requires further studies to increase the knowledge of 
this phenomenon.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier España S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0025-7753(11)70022-7
PMID: 22310357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2012 Nov;47(11):1775-82. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-012-0478-9. Epub 2012 Feb 7.

Epidemiology and comorbidity of severe mental illnesses in the community: 
findings from a computerized mental health registry in a large Israeli health 
organization.

Kodesh A(1), Goldshtein I, Gelkopf M, Goren I, Chodick G, Shalev V.

Author information:
(1)Medical Division, Maccabi Healthcare Services, 27 Ha'Mered Street, Tel Aviv 
68125, Israel.

PURPOSE: Maccabi Healthcare Services, a large health maintenance organization 
(HMO) operating in Israel, has recently constructed a computerized registry of 
patients with severe mental illnesses (SMI). In the present study, we aimed to 
use this registry to investigate the epidemiology of schizophrenia and bipolar 
affective disorder among adults, and to assess their comorbidity and mortality 
compared to the general population.
METHODS: In this historical cohort study, we investigated the age- and 
sex-specific prevalence and incidence rates of HMO members diagnosed with 
schizophrenia or bipolar affective disorder between 2003 and 2009. We compared 
their medical comorbidity and mortality to the general HMO population.
RESULTS: A total of 8,848 and 5,732 patients were diagnosed with bipolar (crude 
prevalence rate of 5 per 1,000) and schizophrenia (3 per 1,000), respectively. 
The annual incidence rates were 4.2 and 2.4 per 1,000 for schizophrenia and 
bipolar disorder, respectively. On average, schizophrenic men were diagnosed 4-5 
years earlier than schizophrenic women. Compared to the general population, 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder patients had a 12- and 9-year shorter life 
expectancy, respectively. They were also more likely to be diagnosed with 
diabetes mellitus (odds ratio of 1.9 and 1.6, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The current study demonstrates the potential use of automated 
medical databases to characterize the epidemiology of SMI in the community. The 
increased comorbidity and mortality among these patients has important 
implication for health authorities for prevention and delivery of health-care 
services.

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-012-0478-9
PMID: 22310700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Contrib Nephrol. 2012;176:54-65. doi: 10.1159/000332383. Epub 2012 Jan 30.

Treatment of hepatitis C in dialysis patients.

Esforzado N, Campistol JM.

Chronic infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major problem affecting a 
significant percentage of patients with end-stage renal failure (ESRD), with a 
negative impact on patient survival, and associated with accelerated progression 
of liver damage after undergoing a kidney transplant. After acute HCV infection, 
HCV infection becomes chronic in around 80% of patients and progresses to 
cirrhosis in about 20% of cases at 20 years of evolution. Treatments with 
interferon (IFN-α2a) and pegylated IFN are currently the only treatments that 
achieve a cure rate of about 30-45% of ESRD patients with chronic HCV infection. 
The combination with ribavirin (RBV) in the general population has improved the 
results, with a sustained virological response between 50% (genotype 1 and 4) 
and 80% (genotype 2 and 3); however, the poor tolerance to RBV in ESRD patients 
makes this treatment difficult in dialysis patients. Indication of antiviral 
treatment in HCV-positive patients on dialysis should be individualized. All 
HCV-positive candidates for kidney transplantation should be assessed to receive 
antiviral treatment before transplantation given the increased life expectancy 
compared to other HCV-positive patients on dialysis, the increased risk of 
progression of liver disease with immunosuppressive therapy and the inability to 
receive IFN therapy after renal transplantation.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000332383
PMID: 22310781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Eur Spine J. 2012 Aug;21(8):1492-8. doi: 10.1007/s00586-012-2167-5. Epub
2012  Feb 4.

Age-related changes in osseous anatomy, alignment, and range of motion of the 
cervical spine. Part I: Radiographic data from over 1,200 asymptomatic subjects.

Yukawa Y(1), Kato F, Suda K, Yamagata M, Ueta T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Chubu Rosai Hospital, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan. 
yukawa.ort@chubuh.rofuku.go.jp

PURPOSE: This study aimed to establish radiographic standard values for cervical 
spine morphometry, alignment, and range of motion (ROM) in both male and female 
in each decade of life between the 3rd and 8th and to elucidate these 
age-related changes.
METHODS: A total of 1,230 asymptomatic volunteers underwent anteroposterior 
(AP), lateral, flexion, and extension radiography of the cervical spine. There 
were at least 100 men and 100 women in each decade of life between the 3rd and 
8th. AP diameter of the spinal canal, vertebral body, and disc were measured at 
each level from the 2nd to 7th cervical vertebra (C2-C7). C2-C7 sagittal 
alignment and ROM during flexion and extension were calculated using a computer 
digitizer.
RESULTS: The AP diameter of the spinal canal was 15.8 ± 1.5 [mean ± standard 
deviation (SD)] mm at the mid-C5 level, and 15.5 ± 2.0 mm at the C5/6 disc 
level. The disc height was 5.8 ± 1.3 mm at the C5/6 level, which was the minimum 
height, and the maximum height was at the C6/7 level. Both the AP diameter of 
the spinal canal and disc height decreased gradually with increasing age. The 
C2-C7 sagittal alignment and total ROM were 13.9 ± 12.3° in lordosis and 55.3 ± 
16.0°, respectively. The C2-C7 lordotic angle was 8.0 ± 11.8° in the 3rd decade 
and increased to 19.7 ± 11.3 in the 8th decade, whereas the C2-C7 ROM was 67.7 ± 
17.0° in the 3rd decade and decreased to 45.0 ± 12.5 in the 8th decade. The 
extension ROM decreased more than the flexion ROM, and lordotic alignment 
progressed with increasing age. There was a significant difference in C2-C7 
alignment and ROM between men and women.
CONCLUSIONS: The standard values and age-related changes in cervical anatomy, 
alignment, and ROM for males and females in each decade between the 3rd and 8th 
were established. Cervical lordosis in the neutral position develops with aging, 
while extension ROM decreases gradually. These data will be useful as normal 
values for the sake of comparison in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-012-2167-5
PMCID: PMC3535253
PMID: 22310883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Free Radic Biol Med. 2012 Apr 1;52(7):1236-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2012.01.011. Epub 2012 Jan 28.

Calorie restriction increases cerebral mitochondrial respiratory capacity in a 
NO•-mediated mechanism: impact on neuronal survival.

Cerqueira FM(1), Cunha FM, Laurindo FR, Kowaltowski AJ.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, Instituto de Química, Universidade de São Paulo, 
São Paulo, SP 05508-900, Brazil.

Calorie restriction (CR) enhances animal life span and prevents age-related 
diseases, including neurological decline. Recent evidence suggests that a 
mechanism involved in CR-induced life-span extension is NO(•)-stimulated 
mitochondrial biogenesis. We examine here the effects of CR on brain 
mitochondrial content. CR increased eNOS and nNOS and the content of 
mitochondrial proteins (cytochrome c oxidase, citrate synthase, and mitofusin) 
in the brain. Furthermore, we established an in vitro system to study the 
neurological effects of CR using serum extracted from animals on this diet. In 
cultured neurons, CR serum enhanced nNOS expression and increased levels of 
nitrite (a NO(•) product). CR serum also enhanced the levels of cytochrome c 
oxidase and increased citrate synthase activity and respiratory rates in 
neurons. CR serum effects were inhibited by L-NAME and mimicked by the NO(•) 
donor SNAP. Furthermore, both CR sera and SNAP were capable of improving 
neuronal survival. Overall, our results indicate that CR increases mitochondrial 
biogenesis in a NO(•)-mediated manner, resulting in enhanced reserve respiratory 
capacity and improved survival in neurons.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2012.01.011
PMID: 22310960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Curr Diab Rep. 2012 Apr;12(2):213-9. doi: 10.1007/s11892-012-0252-0.

Transculturalization of a diabetes-specific nutrition algorithm: Asian 
application.

Su HY(1), Tsang MW, Huang SY, Mechanick JI, Sheu WH, Marchetti A; Task Force for 
Development of Transcultural Algorithms in Nutrition and Diabetes.

Collaborators: Apovian C, Benchimol A, Bisschop P, BolioGalvis A, Hegazi R, 
Jenkins D, Leon-Sanz M, Tatti P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dietetics, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) in Asia is growing at an alarming rate, 
posing significant clinical and economic risk to health care stakeholders. 
Commonly, Asian patients with T2D manifest a distinctive combination of 
characteristics that include earlier disease onset, distinct pathophysiology, 
syndrome of complications, and shorter life expectancy. Optimizing treatment 
outcomes for such patients requires a coordinated inclusive care plan and 
knowledgeable practitioners. Comprehensive management starts with medical 
nutrition therapy (MNT) in a broader lifestyle modification program. 
Implementing diabetes-specific MNT in Asia requires high-quality and transparent 
clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) that are regionally adapted for cultural, 
ethnic, and socioeconomic factors. Respected CPGs for nutrition and diabetes 
therapy are available from prestigious medical societies. For cost efficiency 
and effectiveness, health care authorities can select these CPGs for Asian 
implementation following abridgement and cultural adaptation that includes: 
defining nutrition therapy in meaningful ways, selecting lower cutoff values for 
healthy body mass indices and waist circumferences (WCs), identifying the 
dietary composition of MNT based on regional availability and preference, and 
expanding nutrition therapy for concomitant hypertension, dyslipidemia, 
overweight/obesity, and chronic kidney disease. An international task force of 
respected health care professionals has contributed to this process. To date, 
task force members have selected appropriate evidence-based CPGs and simplified 
them into an algorithm for diabetes-specific nutrition therapy. Following 
cultural adaptation, Asian and Asian-Indian versions of this algorithmic tool 
have emerged. The Asian version is presented in this report.

DOI: 10.1007/s11892-012-0252-0
PMCID: PMC3303039
PMID: 22311609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. CMAJ. 2012 Mar 20;184(5):E277-83. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.111355. Epub 2012 Feb 6.

Factors influencing patient choice of dialysis versus conservative care to treat 
end-stage kidney disease.

Morton RL(1), Snelling P, Webster AC, Rose J, Masterson R, Johnson DW, Howard K.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, the University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. 
rachael.morton@sydney.edu.au

BACKGROUND: For every patient with chronic kidney disease who undergoes 
renal-replacement therapy, there is one patient who undergoes conservative 
management of their disease. We aimed to determine the most important 
characteristics of dialysis and the trade-offs patients were willing to make in 
choosing dialysis instead of conservative care.
METHODS: We conducted a discrete choice experiment involving adults with stage 
3-5 chronic kidney disease from eight renal clinics in Australia. We assessed 
the influence of treatment characteristics (life expectancy, number of visits to 
the hospital per week, ability to travel, time spent undergoing dialysis [i.e., 
time spent attached to a dialysis machine per treatment, measured in hours], 
time of day at which treatment occurred, availability of subsidized transport 
and flexibility of the treatment schedule) on patients' preferences for dialysis 
versus conservative care.
RESULTS: Of 151 patients invited to participate, 105 completed our survey. 
Patients were more likely to choose dialysis than conservative care if dialysis 
involved an increased average life expectancy (odds ratio [OR] 1.84, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 1.57-2.15), if they were able to dialyse during the day 
or evening rather than during the day only (OR 8.95, 95% CI 4.46-17.97), and if 
subsidized transport was available (OR 1.55, 95% CI 1.24-1.95). Patients were 
less likely to choose dialysis over conservative care if an increase in the 
number of visits to hospital was required (OR 0.70, 95% CI 0.56-0.88) and if 
there were more restrictions on their ability to travel (OR=0.47, 95%CI 
0.36-0.61). Patients were willing to forgo 7 months of life expectancy to reduce 
the number of required visits to hospital and 15 months of life expectancy to 
increase their ability to travel.
INTERPRETATION: Patients approaching end-stage kidney disease are willing to 
trade considerable life expectancy to reduce the burden and restrictions imposed 
by dialysis.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.111355
PMCID: PMC3307582
PMID: 22311947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Pediatrics. 2012 Mar;129(3):e723-30. doi: 10.1542/peds.2011-1823. Epub 2012
Feb  6.

The population cost-effectiveness of interventions designed to prevent childhood 
depression.

Mihalopoulos C(1), Vos T, Pirkis J, Carter R.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Deakin University, Melbourne, VIC 3125, Australia. 
cathy.mihalopoulos@deakin.edu.au

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Depression in childhood and adolescence is common and 
often persists into adulthood. This study assessed the population-level 
cost-effectiveness of a preventive intervention that screens children and 
adolescents for symptoms of depression in schools and the subsequent provision 
of a psychological intervention to those showing elevated signs of depression. 
The target population for screening comprised 11- to 17-year-old children and 
adolescents in the 2003 Australian population.
METHODS: Economic modeling techniques were used to assess the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of the intervention compared with no intervention. The 
perspective was that of the health sector, and outcomes were measured by using 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs). Multivariate probabilistic and 
univariate sensitivity testing was applied to quantify variations in the model 
parameters.
RESULTS: The modeled psychological intervention had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $5400 per DALY averted, with just 2% of iterations 
falling above a $50 000 per DALY value-for-money threshold. Results were robust 
to model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: After school screening, screening and the psychological 
intervention represent good value-for-money. Such an intervention needs to be 
seriously considered in any national package of preventive health services. 
Acceptability issues, particularly to intervention providers, including schools 
and mental health professionals, need to be considered before wide-scale 
adoption.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2011-1823
PMID: 22312000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Scand J Public Health. 2012 May;40(3):294-302. doi:
10.1177/1403494811435495.  Epub 2012 Feb 6.

Public health burden due to infections by verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia 
coli (VTEC) and Campylobacter spp. as estimated by cost of illness and different 
approaches to model disability-adjusted life years.

Toljander J(1), Dovärn A, Andersson Y, Ivarsson S, Lindqvist R.

Author information:
(1)Risk Benefit Assessment Department, National Food Agency, Uppsala, Sweden. 
jonas.toljander@slv.se

AIMS: To estimate disability-adjusted life years (DALY) and cost of illness 
(COI) associated with the gastrointestinal bacterial pathogens Campylobacter and 
verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia coli (VTEC) in Sweden and to investigate the 
impact of variability in health outcomes, data availability, and different 
assumptions about underreporting on DALY.
METHODS: Data from the Swedish notification system, public databases, and the 
literature were used to estimate COI and DALY. DALY was modelled using a 
deterministic and a stochastic approach, the latter describing variation in 
health outcomes between individuals. Effects of different assumptions about 
underreporting of gastroenteritis were evaluated in separate scenarios.
RESULTS: COI and DALY were greater for Campylobacter than for VTEC. Years of 
life lost due to haemolytic uraemic syndrome and years lived with 
gastroenteritis constituted most of DALY for VTEC and Campylobacter, 
respectively. Productivity losses due to gastroenteritis constituted the main 
cost associated with both pathogens. Degree of underreporting had a greater 
impact on DALY for Campylobacter, due to higher estimated incidence of 
gastroenteritis associated with campylobacteriosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Pathogen-specific health outcomes and data quality may influence 
the preferred modelling approach. There was a fair agreement between modelling 
approaches, but the stochastic model reflected the contribution of some rare 
health outcomes not captured in the deterministic model. Health outcomes 
excluded due to lack of data lead to an underestimation of the total burden 
associated with the pathogens. Increased knowledge, especially on the degree of 
underreporting and the contribution of the pathogens to sequelae, is needed to 
further improve public health burden estimates for these pathogens in Sweden.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494811435495
PMID: 22312030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Ann Intern Med. 2012 Feb 7;156(3):204-10. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-156-3-201202070-00008.

End-of-life care discussions among patients with advanced cancer: a cohort 
study.

Mack JW(1), Cronin A, Taback N, Huskamp HA, Keating NL, Malin JL, Earle CC, 
Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: National guidelines recommend that physicians discuss end-of-life 
(EOL) care planning with patients with cancer whose life expectancy is less than 
1 year.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the incidence of EOL care discussions for patients with 
stage IV lung or colorectal cancer and where, when, and with whom these 
discussions take place.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study of patients diagnosed with lung or colorectal 
cancer from 2003 to 2005.
SETTING: Participants lived in Northern California, Los Angeles County, North 
Carolina, Iowa, or Alabama or received care in 1 of 5 large HMOs or 1 of 15 
Veterans Health Administration sites.
PATIENTS: 2155 patients with stage IV lung or colorectal cancer.
MEASUREMENTS: End-of-life care discussions reported in patient and surrogate 
interviews or documented in medical records through 15 months after diagnosis.
RESULTS: 73% of patients had EOL care discussions identified by at least 1 
source. Among the 1470 patients who died during follow-up, 87% had EOL care 
discussions, compared with 41% of the 685 patients who were alive at the end of 
follow-up. Of the 1081 first EOL care discussions documented in records, 55% 
occurred in the hospital. Oncologists documented EOL care discussions with only 
27% of their patients. Among 959 patients with documented EOL care discussions 
who died during follow-up, discussions took place a median of 33 days before 
death.
LIMITATIONS: The depth and quality of EOL care discussions was not evaluated. 
Much of the information about discussions came from surrogates of patients who 
died before baseline interviews could be obtained.
CONCLUSION: Although most patients with stage IV lung or colorectal cancer 
discuss EOL care planning with physicians before death, many discussions occur 
during acute hospital care, with providers other than oncologists, and late in 
the course of illness.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Cancer Institute and Department of Veterans 
Affairs.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-156-3-201202070-00008
PMCID: PMC3616320
PMID: 22312140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e30454. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030454. Epub 2012 Feb
1.

Implications of extreme life span in clonal organisms: millenary clones in 
meadows of the threatened seagrass Posidonia oceanica.

Arnaud-Haond S(1), Duarte CM, Diaz-Almela E, Marbà N, Sintes T, Serrão EA.

Author information:
(1)Ifremer, DEEP-Centre de Brest, Plouzané, France. sarnaud@ualg.pt

The maximum size and age that clonal organisms can reach remains poorly known, 
although we do know that the largest natural clones can extend over hundreds or 
thousands of metres and potentially live for centuries. We made a review of 
findings to date, which reveal that the maximum clone age and size estimates 
reported in the literature are typically limited by the scale of sampling, and 
may grossly underestimate the maximum age and size of clonal organisms. A case 
study presented here shows the occurrence of clones of slow-growing marine 
angiosperm Posidonia oceanica at spatial scales ranging from metres to hundreds 
of kilometres, using microsatellites on 1544 sampling units from a total of 40 
locations across the Mediterranean Sea. This analysis revealed the presence, 
with a prevalence of 3.5 to 8.9%, of very large clones spreading over one to 
several (up to 15) kilometres at the different locations. Using estimates from 
field studies and models of the clonal growth of P. oceanica, we estimated these 
large clones to be hundreds to thousands of years old, suggesting the evolution 
of general purpose genotypes with large phenotypic plasticity in this species. 
These results, obtained combining genetics, demography and model-based 
calculations, question present knowledge and understanding of the spreading 
capacity and life span of plant clones. These findings call for further research 
on these life history traits associated with clonality, considering their 
possible ecological and evolutionary implications.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030454
PMCID: PMC3270012
PMID: 22312426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


559. Int J Surg Oncol. 2011;2011:494381. doi: 10.1155/2011/494381. Epub 2011 Jun
28.

Minimally invasive treatment of spinal metastases: techniques.

Rose PS(1), Clarke MJ, Dekutoski MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

With improved treatments and increasingly life expectancy, the burden of 
metastatic disease in the spine is expected to rise. The role of conventional 
surgery for spinal metastases is well established but often involves procedures 
of large magnitude. We describe minimally invasive techniques for spinal 
stabilization and decompression in patients with symptomatic metastatic disease 
of the spine.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/494381
PMCID: PMC3263674
PMID: 22312512


560. Duodecim. 2012;128(1):37-46.
