(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, S 
Yorks, UK. nick.bansback@ubc.ca

In this study we explored a novel application of the discrete choice experiment 
(DCE) that resembles the time trade off (TTO) task to estimate values on the 
health utility scale for the EQ-5D. The DCE was tested in a survey alongside the 
TTO in a sample of English-speaking Canadians recruited by a market research 
company. The study found that the DCE is able to derive logical and consistent 
values for health states valued on the full health - dead scale. The DCE 
overcame some issues identified in the version of TTO currently used to value 
EQ-5D, notably allowing for fewer data exclusions and incorporating values 
considered worse than dead without introducing a separate valuation procedure. 
This has important implications for providing robust values that represent the 
preferences of all respondents.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2011.11.004
PMID: 22197308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2012 Jan 6;417(1):630-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.12.021. Epub 2011 Dec 14.

SIRT1 prevents replicative senescence of normal human umbilical cord fibroblast 
through potentiating the transcription of human telomerase reverse transcriptase 
gene.

Yamashita S(1), Ogawa K, Ikei T, Udono M, Fujiki T, Katakura Y.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Systems Life Sciences, Kyushu University, Higashi-ku, 
Fukuoka, Japan. shuntaro@grt.kyushu-u.ac.jp

SIRT1, the mammalian homolog of sirtuins, has emerged as a mediator of the 
beneficial effects of calorie restriction. Among them, we focused on the 
SIRT1-induced prevention of cellular senescence, and tried to reveal the 
molecular mechanisms that define the effects of SIRT1. Firstly in this study, we 
observed that overexpression of SIRT1 resulted in the prevention of cellular 
senescence of normal human umbilical cord fibroblast HUC-F2 cells. Here, we 
focused on the human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene as a target 
of the SIRT1-induced prevention of cellular senescence. Results showed that 
SIRT1, SIRT1 activator, resveratrol, and SIRT1 activating condition, starved 
condition, increased the transcription of hTERT in HUC-F2 cells. Next, we found 
that SIRT1 increased hTERT transcription in a c-MYC-dependent manner, triggered 
the transcription of the c-MYC gene and increased the amount of c-MYC recruited 
to the hTERT promoter. Further, SIRT1 increased the transcriptional activation 
ability of c-MYC and correspondingly increased the amount of acetylated H4 
histone at the hTERT promoter. All of these results indicated that SIRT1 
activates hTERT transcription through the involvement of c-MYC, and suggested 
that this SIRT1-induced augmentation of hTERT transcription resulted in the 
extension of the cellular life span of HUC-F2 cells.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.12.021
PMID: 22197555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Carcinogenesis. 2012 Mar;33(3):644-51. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgr308. Epub 2011
Dec  22.

Oral infusion of pomegranate fruit extract inhibits prostate carcinogenesis in 
the TRAMP model.

Adhami VM(1), Siddiqui IA, Syed DN, Lall RK, Mukhtar H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, School of Medicine and Public Health, University 
of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

We earlier provided evidence that oral consumption of pomegranate fruit extract 
(PFE) inhibits prostate cancer (PCa) cell growth in nude mice. To ascertain 
convincing evidence of chemopreventive effects of PFE against PCa, its efficacy 
requires to be evaluated in animal models that closely emulate human disease. 
Here, we provide evidence of remarkable tumor growth inhibitory effects of PFE 
using the TRAMP model. Mice received 0.1 and 0.2% PFE, equivalent to 250 and 500 
ml of pomegranate juice, in drinking water, starting at 6 weeks and examined at 
12, 20 and 34 weeks of age. In water-fed group, 100% mice developed palpable 
tumors by 20 weeks compared with only 30 and 20% in the 0.1 and 0.2% 
PFE-supplemented groups, respectively. At 34 weeks, palpable tumors were 
observed in 70 of 0.1% and only 50 of 0.2% PFE-supplemented mice. Compared with 
median survival of 43 weeks in water-fed mice, 0.1 and 0.2% PFE-supplemented 
mice exhibited median life expectancy of 73 and 92 weeks, respectively. Compared 
with respective water-fed groups, none of the mice in PFE-supplemented groups 
exhibited metastases to any of the distant organs at 20 weeks and only 20% mice 
exhibited metastasis at 34 weeks of age. Many of the PFE-supplemented animals 
had multiple foci of well-differentiated carcinoma but no evidence of poorly 
differentiated carcinoma. PFE supplementation resulted in simultaneous and 
significant inhibition of IGF-I/Akt/mTOR pathways in the prostate tissues and 
tumors. We suggest that pomegranate juice be evaluated in clinical trials in 
patients at high risk for developing PCa.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgr308
PMCID: PMC3291862
PMID: 22198212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2012 Mar;44(3):536-46. doi: 
10.1016/j.biocel.2011.12.007. Epub 2011 Dec 19.

The N-terminal extension is essential for the formation of the active dimeric 
structure of liver peroxisomal alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase.

Montioli R(1), Fargue S, Lewin J, Zamparelli C, Danpure CJ, Borri Voltattorni C, 
Cellini B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Reproduction, Section of Biological 
Chemistry, University of Verona, Strada Le Grazie 8, 37134 Verona, Italy.

Alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) is a pyridoxal-phosphate 
(PLP)-dependent enzyme. Its deficiency causes the hereditary kidney stone 
disease primary hyperoxaluria type 1. AGT is a highly stable compact dimer and 
the first 21 residues of each subunit form an extension which wraps over the 
surface of the neighboring subunit. Naturally occurring and artificial amino 
acid replacements in this extension create changes in the functional properties 
of AGT in mammalian cells, including relocation of the enzyme from peroxisomes 
to mitochondria. In order to elucidate the structural and functional role of 
this N-terminal extension, we have analyzed the consequences of its removal 
using a variety of biochemical and cell biological methods. When expressed in 
Escherichia coli, the N-terminal deleted form of AGT showed the presence of the 
protein but in an insoluble form resulting in only a 10% soluble yield as 
compared to the full-length version. The purified soluble fraction showed 
reduced affinity for PLP and greatly reduced catalytic activity. Although 
maintaining a dimer form, it was highly prone to self-aggregation. When 
expressed in a mammalian cell line, the truncated construct was normally 
targeted to peroxisomes, where it formed large stable but catalytically inactive 
aggregates. These results suggest that the N-terminal extension plays an 
essential role in allowing AGT to attain its correct conformation and functional 
activity. The precise mechanism of this effect is still under investigation.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2011.12.007
PMID: 22198249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Pathology. 2012 Feb;44(2):148-52. doi: 10.1097/PAT.0b013e32834e8453.

Screening for hereditary haemochromatosis.

Nadakkavukaran IM(1), Gan EK, Olynyk JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Fremantle Hospital, Fremantle, Australia.

Hereditary haemochromatosis (HH) is a common autosomal recessive disorder of 
iron overload in Caucasian populations. Clinical manifestations usually occur in 
individuals homozygous for the C282Y mutation in the HFE gene product and who 
have developed significant iron loading. Current screening methods can detect 
affected individuals either prior to or early during disease evolution, enabling 
early introduction of phlebotomy treatment that can normalise life expectancy. 
Evaluation of possible iron overload, via measurement of serum transferrin 
saturation and ferritin level, is the most appropriate initial test for those 
subjects presenting clinically for evaluation. HFE genotyping, when combined 
with serum biochemical measurements, defines the presence of likely iron 
overload and the underlying genetic disorder and is the preferred initial 
screening modality for families of an affected individual. Definitive proof of 
iron overload requires measurement of hepatic iron concentration or total iron 
burden via therapeutic phlebotomy; elevated serum ferritin level alone is not 
adequate. We now recognise that the natural history of HH is not as discrete as 
previously believed, because genetic and environmental modifiers of disease 
penetrance are increasingly identified as influencing the clinical expression of 
HH. In fact, a minority of C282Y homozygotes develop classical 'iron overload 
disease', although it has recently emerged that the disorder may predispose to 
breast and colorectal cancer. Uncertainties as to the true clinical impact of 
the condition at a population level lead to current recommendations of cascade 
screening of families of affected patients, case-finding in high-risk groups, 
such as patients with clinical manifestations consistent with the diagnosis, and 
a high level of clinical awareness in the community to facilitate early 
diagnosis. Generalised population screening is not presently recommended.

DOI: 10.1097/PAT.0b013e32834e8453
PMID: 22198253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Ageing Res Rev. 2012 Apr;11(2):242-53. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2011.12.002. Epub
2011  Dec 13.

Birds and longevity: does flight driven aerobicity provide an oxidative sink?

Hickey AJ(1), Jüllig M, Aitken J, Loomes K, Hauber ME, Phillips AR.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, New Zealand. 
a.hickey@auckland.ac.nz

Birds generally age slower and live longer than similar sized mammals. For birds 
this occurs despite elevated blood glucose levels that for mammals would in part 
define them as diabetic. However these data were acquired in respiration states 
that have little resemblance to conditions in healthy tissues and mitochondrial 
RS production is probably minimal in healthy animals. Indeed mitochondria 
probably act as net consumers rather than producers of RS. Here we propose that 
(1) if mitochondria are antioxidant systems, the greater mitochondrial mass in 
athletic species, such as birds, is advantageous as it should provide a 
substantial sink for RS. (2) The intense drive for aerobic performance and 
decreased body density to facilitate flight may explain the relative 
insensitivity of birds to insulin, as well as depressed insulin levels and 
apparent sensitization to glucagon. Glucagon also associates with the sirtuin 
protein family, most of which are associated with caloric restriction regulated 
pathways, mitochondrial biogenesis and life span extension. (3) We note that 
telomeres, which appear to be unusually long in birds, bind Sirtuins 2 and 4 and 
therefore may stabilize and protect nuclear DNA. Ultimately these flight driven 
responses may suppress somatic growth and protect DNA from oxidative damage that 
would otherwise lead to ageing and non-viral cancers.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2011.12.002
PMID: 22198369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2012 Aug;32(6):971-7. doi: 10.1007/s10571-011-9782-2.
Epub  2011 Dec 25.

Intracerebroventricular 4-methylcatechol (4-MC) ameliorates chronic pain 
associated with depression-like behavior via induction of brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF).

Fukuhara K(1), Ishikawa K, Yasuda S, Kishishita Y, Kim HK, Kakeda T, Yamamoto M, 
Norii T, Ishikawa T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosciences, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Ube, Yamaguchi, Japan.

Neuropathic pain concurrent with mood disorder from peripheral nerve injury is a 
serious clinical problem that significantly affects quality of life. Recent 
studies have suggested that a lack of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) 
in the limbic system may cause this pain-emotion. BDNF is induced in cultured 
neurons by 4-methylcatechol (4-MC), but the role of 4-MC-induced BDNF in 
pain-emotion is poorly understood. Thus, we assessed the possible involvement of 
BDNF in brain in depression-like behavior during chronic pain following 
peripheral nerve injury. In addition, we examined whether 
intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) 4-MC prevents chronic pain in rats and produces 
an antidepressant effect. Sprague-Dawley rats implanted 
intracerebroventricularly with a PE-10 tube were subjected to chronic 
constriction injury (CCI). Pain was assessed by a reduction in paw withdrawal 
latency (PWL) to heat stimuli after CCI. We also used a forced swimming testing 
(FST; time of immobility, in seconds) from day 14 to day 21 after CCI. 
Modulation of pain and emotional behavior was performed by injection of 
PD0325901 (a MEK1/2 inhibitor). 4-MC (100 nM) was continuously administered 
i.c.v. for 3 days during the period from day 14 to day 21 after CCI. To block 
analgesic and antidepressant effects, anti-BDNF antibody or K252a (a TrkB 
receptor inhibitor) was injected in combination with 4-MC. Naloxone was also 
coadministered to confirm the analgesic effect of 4-MC. During the chronic stage 
after CCI, the rats showed a sustained decrease in PWL (thermal hyperalgesia) 
associated with extension of the time of immobility (depression-like behavior). 
PD0325901 significantly reduced the decrease in PWL and the increased time of 
immobility after CCI. The decreased PWL and increased time of immobility were 
also reduced by 4-MC and by treatment with an ERK1/2 inhibitor. These effects of 
4-MC i.c.v. were reversed by anti-BDNF and K252a. The analgesic effect of 4-MC 
i.c.v. was also antagonized by naloxone. Based on these results, we suggest that 
a lack of BDNF and activation of ERK1/2 in the pain-emotion network in the CNS 
may be involved in depression-like behavior during chronic pain. 4-MC i.c.v. 
ameliorates chronic pain and depression-like behavior by producing of BDNF and 
normalization of ERK1/2 activation. Therefore, enhancement of BDNF may be a new 
treatment strategy for chronic pain associated with depression.

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-011-9782-2
PMID: 22198556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Neurobiol Dis. 2012 Mar;45(3):992-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2011.12.018. Epub
2011  Dec 14.

Characterization of a murine model of SMA.

Donnelly EM(1), Quach ET, Hillery TM, Heeke BL, Snyder BR, Handy CR, O'Connor 
DM, Boulis NM, Federici T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University School of Medicine, 101 Woodruff 
Circle, Rm 6339, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disease, 
which is the leading genetic cause of mortality in children. To date no 
effective treatment exists for SMA. The genetic basis for SMA has been well 
documented as a mutation in the gene for survival of motor neuron (SMN). Because 
there is an understanding of which gene needs to be replaced (SMN) and where it 
needs to be replaced (spinal motor systems), SMA is an ideal target for gene 
replacement via gene therapy. While a variety of animal models for SMA exist, 
they are either too fulminant to realistically test most gene delivery 
strategies, or too mild to provide a robust read out of the therapeutic effect. 
The field, therefore, requires a robust model with a slower symptomatic 
progression. A conditional knockout of SMN in neuronal cell types, giving a 
phenotype of functional motor defects, weight loss and reduced life expectancy 
partially satisfies this need (Frugier, Tiziano et al. 2000). This Cre/LoxP 
mediated neuron specific model presents an attractive alternative. In the 
present manuscript, we characterize the functional motor deficits of the model. 
We observed a decline in locomotor ability, as assessed by open field testing. 
The finer functions of motor skills such as righting reflex and grip strength 
were also observed to degenerate in the SMA mice. The decline in motor function 
that we observed here correlates with the anatomical decline in motor neurons 
and motor axons presented in the literature (Ferri, Melki et al. 2004). This 
work adds to our understanding and knowledge base of this Cre/LoxP model and 
provides a basis from which functional recovery, following interventions can be 
assessed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2011.12.018
PMID: 22198571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2012 Jul;13(4):387-92. doi:
10.1097/PCC.0b013e318238969a.

An assessment of the psychometric performance of the Health Utilities Index 2 
and 3 in children following discharge from a U.K. pediatric intensive care unit.

Stevens KJ(1), Freeman JV.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, The University of Sheffield, 
UK. K.Stevens @Sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2012 Jul;13(4):482-3.

OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to assess the psychometric performance of the 
Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 in a pediatric population following admission to 
a pediatric intensive care unit.
DESIGN: As part of a larger study of pediatric intensive care outcomes, children 
were followed up at 6 and 12 months post admission from pediatric intensive care 
using the Health Utilities Index 2 and 3. We evaluated and compared the 
psychometric performance of the Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 in this 
population by assessing their practicality, reliability, and limited information 
regarding validity.
SETTING: Twenty-two pediatric intensive care units in the United Kingdom.
PATIENTS: A total of 685 children aged 5 yrs and over.
INTERVENTIONS: The Health Utilities Index 2 and 3, which are both generic 
preference-based measures of health-related quality of life, were completed by 
proxy and children over 11 yrs of age were invited to self-complete.
MEASUREMENT AND MAIN RESULTS: Both Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 demonstrated 
good practicality, with excellent completion rates (>97%) and a mean time to 
complete of around 8 mins. Both Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 demonstrated very 
good inter-rater reliability and evidence of sensitivity to change. At 6 months 
after admission, mean scores of the Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 were 
different in some groups of children with different degrees of in-hospital 
severity of illness, but those differences were not found at 12 months of 
follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The Health Utilities Index 2 and 3 both perform well in a pediatric 
intensive care setting whether by self-complete or proxy complete. Evidence of 
good inter-rater reliability gives confidence that the measures can be reliably 
used with a proxy completer, such as parent or caregiver. Additional research is 
important to investigate their construct validity further in this population, 
ideally using baseline data collected at the time of hospital stay in pediatric 
intensive care and other measures of health status at the times of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1097/PCC.0b013e318238969a
PMID: 22198813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. BMC Public Health. 2011 Dec 26;11:954. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-954.

The cost-effectiveness of exercise referral schemes.

Anokye NK(1), Trueman P, Green C, Pavey TG, Hillsdon M, Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group (HERG), Brunel University, Uxbridge, 
Middlesex UB8 3PH, UK. nana.anokye@brunel.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Exercise referral schemes (ERS) aim to identify inactive adults in 
the primary care setting. The primary care professional refers the patient to a 
third party service, with this service taking responsibility for prescribing and 
monitoring an exercise programme tailored to the needs of the patient. This 
paper examines the cost-effectiveness of ERS in promoting physical activity 
compared with usual care in primary care setting.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was developed to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of ERS from a UK NHS perspective. The costs and outcomes of 
ERS were modelled over the patient's lifetime. Data were derived from a 
systematic review of the literature on the clinical and cost-effectiveness of 
ERS, and on parameter inputs in the modelling framework. Outcomes were expressed 
as incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses investigated the impact of varying ERS cost 
and effectiveness assumptions. Sub-group analyses explored the 
cost-effectiveness of ERS in sedentary people with an underlying condition.
RESULTS: Compared with usual care, the mean incremental lifetime cost per 
patient for ERS was £169 and the mean incremental QALY was 0.008, generating a 
base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for ERS at £20,876 per 
QALY in sedentary individuals without a diagnosed medical condition. There was a 
51% probability that ERS was cost-effective at £20,000 per QALY and 88% 
probability that ERS was cost-effective at £30,000 per QALY. In sub-group 
analyses, cost per QALY for ERS in sedentary obese individuals was £14,618, and 
in sedentary hypertensives and sedentary individuals with depression the 
estimated cost per QALY was £12,834 and £8,414 respectively. Incremental 
lifetime costs and benefits associated with ERS were small, reflecting the 
preventative public health context of the intervention, with this resulting in 
estimates of cost-effectiveness that are sensitive to variations in the relative 
risk of becoming physically active and cost of ERS.
CONCLUSIONS: ERS is associated with modest increase in lifetime costs and 
benefits. The cost-effectiveness of ERS is highly sensitive to small changes in 
the effectiveness and cost of ERS and is subject to some significant uncertainty 
mainly due to limitations in the clinical effectiveness evidence base.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-954
PMCID: PMC3268756
PMID: 22200193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2012 Mar;38(3):238-44. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2011.12.001.
Epub  2011 Dec 24.

Role of comorbidities in locally advanced cervical cancer patients administered 
preoperative chemoradiation: impact on outcome and treatment-related 
complications.

Ferrandina G(1), Lucidi A, Paglia A, Corrado G, Macchia G, Tagliaferri L, 
Fanfani F, Morganti AG, Valentini V, Scambia G.

Author information:
(1)Gynecologic Oncology Unit, Department of Oncology, Catholic University, 
Campobasso, Italy; Gynecologic Oncology Unit, Catholic University, Rome, Italy. 
gabriella.ferrandina@libero.it

AIMS: The study aimed at describing the prevalence, and pattern of 
comorbidities, as well as their clinical role in a large series of locally 
advanced cervical cancer (LACC) patients triaged to preoperative chemoradiation.
METHODS: The Charlson index (CCI), and the ACE27 index were used to 
retrospectively evaluate comorbidities in 258 LACC patients: life tables were 
computed by the Kaplan-Meier method; multivariate analysis was performed by 
Cox's regression model.
RESULTS: A CCI score = 0 was documented in 225 patients (87.2%), while 24 
patients (9.3%) had a CCI score = 1, and only 9 patients (3.5%) had a CCI score 
≥ 2. An ACE27 score = 0 was documented in 170 patients (65.9%), and was 1 in 59 
patients (22.8%), 2 in 24 patients (9.3%) and 3 in 5 patients (2%). There was no 
association between the presence of comorbidities and clinico-pathological 
variables with the exception of a direct association with older age. There was 
no difference in the distribution of comorbid cases according to the extent of 
hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy. DFS or OS curves did not differ in patients 
with or without comorbidities according to both indexes. No difference in the 
distribution of patients with comorbidities according to presence of 
complications was documented.
CONCLUSIONS: The role of comorbidities in the decision-making process relative 
to the enrollment of LACC patients into this trimodal therapeutic strategy needs 
to be established in specifically designed prospective trials.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2011.12.001
PMID: 22200246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Ren Nutr. 2012 Jan;22(1):211-9. doi: 10.1053/j.jrn.2011.10.010.

Survival is not enough.

De Santo NG(1), Perna A, El Matri A, De Santo RM, Cirillo M.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy. 
nataleg.desanto@unina2.it

Survival is not enough is a yearly international event started in 2007 in 
Naples, Italy, in the week of the World Kidney Day to discuss the needs of renal 
patients and the quality of life of a category of patients living a 
machine-dependent life. Renal patients and their associations, philosophers, 
economists, nephrologists, and health care managers are enrolled to discuss 
about the possibility to grant the best cures and care without reducing the 
quality and the quantity of the services the patients need. Various quests have 
arisen for (1) a new cadre of managers capable of keeping health accounts in 
balance without cutting expenditure but by reducing waste of resources, (2) the 
promotion of prevention as the only measure capable of reducing costs in the 
long run, and (3) the promotion of clinical and translational research. The 
changes occurring in the health system should be viewed as a window of 
opportunity, including the advent of the medical-industrial complex firstly 
described in 1980, an event originating in the United States of America and now 
spreading worldwide.

Copyright © 2012 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.jrn.2011.10.010
PMID: 22200445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2012 Apr;132(2):747-51. doi:
10.1007/s10549-011-1919-y.  Epub 2011 Dec 27.

A cost-benefit analysis of bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel in the 
first-line treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer.

Montero AJ(1), Avancha K, Glück S, Lopes G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Miami Sylvester Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, Miami, FL, USA.

Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy increases progression-free survival 
(PFS), but not overall survival when compared to chemotherapy alone in the 
treatment of metastatic breast cancer (MBC). Recently in November, 2011 the Food 
and drug administration revoked approval of bevacizumab in combination with 
paclitaxel for the treatment of MBC. The European Medicines Agency, in contrast, 
maintained its approval of bevacizumab in MBC. While neither agency considers 
health economics in their decision-making process, one of the greatest 
challenges in oncology practice today is to reconcile hard-won small incremental 
clinical benefits with exponentially rising costs. To inform policy-makers in 
the US, this study aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
bevacizumab/paclitaxel in MBC, from a payer perspective. We created a decision 
analytical model using efficacy and adverse events data from the ECOG 2100 
trial. Health utilities were derived from available literature. Costs were 
obtained from the Center for Medicare Services Drug Payment Table and Physician 
Fee Schedule and are represented in 2010 US dollars. Quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY) and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) were calculated. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed. Bevacizumab added 0.49 years of PFS and 
0.135 QALY with an incremental cost of $100,300, and therefore a cost of 
$204,000 per year of PFS gained and an ICER of $745,000 per QALY. The main 
drivers of the model were drug acquisition cost, PFS, and health utility values. 
Using a threshold of $150,000/QALY, drug price would have to be reduced by 
nearly 80% or alternatively PFS increased by 10 months to make bevacizumab 
cost-effective. The results of the model were robust in sensitivity analyses. 
Bevacizumab plus paclitaxel is not cost-effective in treating MBC. Value-based 
pricing and the development of biomarkers to improve patient selection are 
needed to better define the role of the drug in this population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-011-1919-y
PMID: 22200867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Georgian Med News. 2011 Nov;11(200):42-51.

[Role of multislice spiral computed tomography in diagnosis of spinal injuries 
in polytrauma patients].

[Article in Russian]

Nemsadze G(1), Lapiashvili E, Urushadze O, Gotsadze G.

Author information:
(1)University Central Clinical Hospital after N. Kipshidze, Tbilisi, Georgia.

Spinal injury in poly trauma patients is serious problem, because they cause 
high mortality and morbidity. According to WHO statistics, there are registered 
30 million cases of spinal injuries annually, 50% of them die before reaching 
the hospital. In last 5 years incidence of spinal traumas has increased 2.6 fold 
and is about one third of all spinal diseases. That is why spinal injuries 
remain a challenge. The purpose of our study is to assess diagnostic efficiency 
of multislice spiral CT in diagnosis of spinal injuries in poly trauma patients. 
We randomly assessed data from 200 poly trauma patients, who underwent 
multislice spiral CT in poly trauma mode. In 92 (46%) patients different types 
of spinal fractures and injuries were detected. Age distribution was 16-72 (mean 
age 52 years). Out of 92 patients, 9 (4.5%) had isolated trauma, 83 (41.5%) had 
multiple trauma. Solitary injury of spinal column was detected in 30 (32.6%) 
patients, 54 (58.6%) had combined spinal injuries. In spinal injury patients the 
most common trauma mechanism was MVC - 56 patients (60.86%), fall from height 27 
(29.36%) patients, diving 5 (5.43%) patients, gun shot wound 3 (3.26%) patients, 
industrial injury 1 (1.08%) patients. The most common location of the injury was 
lumbar vertebra (55 patients), thoracic vertebra (39 patients), cervical 
vertebra (28 patients). After assessing MDCT and MRI results 37 patients were 
operated, 6 of them underwent surgical intervention urgently, 31 had delayed 
surgery, that was performed after treating other life threatening injuries. 
Indications for surgical intervention were spinal cord compression and non 
stable vertebral fractures. According to our study results, MDCT is the study of 
choice for the diagnosis of spinal injuries in poly trauma patients. It helps to 
detect type and extension of the bony injury and visualize fragments in the 
spinal canal. It is superior to other radiological studies. 3D, MIP and MPR 
reconstruction gives information about spatial location of the fracture and 
helps to timely plan correct management.

PMID: 22201079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Clin Drug Investig. 2012 Feb 1;32(2):73-85. doi: 
10.2165/11594030-000000000-00000.

Implementing an influenza vaccination programme for adults aged ≥65 years in 
Poland: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Brydak L(1), Roiz J, Faivre P, Reygrobellet C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Influenza Research, Head, National Influenza Center, National 
Institute of Public Health, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Influenza is a common respiratory disease occurring 
in seasonal patterns, and may lead to severe complications in frail populations 
such as the elderly. In Poland, influenza vaccination is recommended for people 
aged ≥65 years; however the vaccine coverage rate in the elderly is very low. 
The fact that influenza vaccine is neither reimbursed by the National Health 
Insurance (Narodowy Fundusz Zdrowia [NFZ]) nor financed via a National 
Immunization Program (NIP) could be a reason for the low coverage rate. This 
study assessed the cost effectiveness of the full reimbursement of an influenza 
vaccination programme in Poland for people aged ≥65 years.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to compare costs and outcomes 
associated with the current situation in which influenza vaccination is not 
reimbursed and a new situation in which it would be fully covered by the NFZ. 
The model was parameterized to Poland using data from the literature and from 
the Central Statistic Office of Poland. Within the elderly population, 50% were 
considered to be at high risk of influenza complications. An influenza attack 
rate of 3.5% was used for calculation purposes. Influenza-associated 
hospitalizations and death rates were estimated at 439.9 per 100 000 
person-years and 79.1 per 100 000 person-years, respectively. Cost estimates 
were derived from a cost study conducted in Poland. Costs are presented in 
Polish Zloty (PLN) [2009 mean exchange rate: 1 PLN = €0.232]. Only direct 
medical costs were included to fit to the NFZ perspective. To reflect the 
seasonality of influenza, a time horizon of 1 year was chosen. Life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) accumulated over future years were 
discounted at a rate of 5% as recommended by Polish guidelines. Deterministic 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: In Poland, the introduction of the public funding of influenza 
vaccination for people aged ≥65 years would cost PLN 79 million when an increase 
in coverage rate from 13.5% to 40% is assumed. 23 900 cases of influenza, 1777 
hospitalizations and 548 premature deaths would be averted each year due to the 
influenza vaccination programme. Fifty-seven persons would need to be vaccinated 
to prevent one case of influenza. To prevent one hospitalization and one death 
due to influenza, 842 and 2809 individuals would need to be vaccinated, 
respectively. The new strategy would be very cost effective compared with the 
current situation with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
PLN26 118/QALY, which is below the 2009 yearly gross domestic product (GDP) per 
capita. Deterministic sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the most 
influential variables for the ICER were vaccine efficacy against death, excess 
hospitalization rate, utility norms, influenza attack rate, vaccine efficacy 
against hospitalization, and discount rates. All ICERs computed were below the 
threshold of 3 GDP per capita. From the probabilistic analysis, the proposed new 
influenza vaccination programme, if implemented, was predicted to be cost 
effective from the NFZ perspective with a probability of 100%, given the same 
threshold.
CONCLUSION: Implementing a vaccination programme in Poland in which influenza 
vaccination would be fully reimbursed by the NFZ for people aged ≥65 years would 
be a very cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.2165/11594030-000000000-00000
PMID: 22201294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Oncol Nurs Forum. 2012 Jan;39(1):E70-83. doi: 10.1188/12.ONF.E70-E83.

Physician, patient, and contextual factors affecting treatment decisions in 
older adults with cancer and models of decision making: a literature review.

Tariman JD(1), Berry DL, Cochrane B, Doorenbos A, Schepp KG.

Author information:
(1)Myeloma Program, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA. 
phdinseattle@yahoo.com

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To review physician, patient, and contextual factors that 
affect treatment decision making in older adults diagnosed with cancer, and to 
relate those factors to theoretical models of decision making.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed (1966 to April 2010), PsycINFO (1967 to April 2010) and 
CINAHL® (1982 to April 2010) databases were searched to access relevant medical, 
psychological, and nursing literature.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Physician factors in treatment decisions included physician's 
personal beliefs and values, medical expertise, practice type, perception of 
lowered life expectancy, medical factors, power, and communication style. 
Patient factors included personal beliefs and values, ethnicity, decisional 
control preferences, previous health-related experience, perception of the 
decision-making process, and personal factors. Contextual factors included 
availability of caregiver, insurance, financial status, and geographical 
barrier.
CONCLUSIONS: A diverse group of factors were identified, which are likely to 
form a unique framework to understand clinical decision making and plan future 
investigations in older adult patient populations. Using longitudinal and 
prospective designs to examine the real-time interplay of patient, physician, 
and contextual factors will enable a better understanding of how those divergent 
factors influence actual treatment decisions.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: Oncology nurses can advocate autonomous 
(patient-driven), shared, or family-controlled treatment decisions, depending on 
an older patient's decisional role preference. Nurses can support patient 
autonomy during treatment decision making by coaching patients to engage in 
discussion of various evidence-based treatment options and a comprehensive 
discussion of the probability of success for each option with specialist 
providers. Oncology nurses may be able to promote treatment decisions that are 
consistent with a patient's personal preferences and values, with strong 
consideration of the patient's personal contexts.

DOI: 10.1188/12.ONF.E70-E83
PMCID: PMC3247918
PMID: 22201670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Eur J Epidemiol. 2012 Jan;27(1):27-38. doi: 10.1007/s10654-011-9644-8. Epub
2011  Dec 28.

Life expectancy gap between the Francophone majority and Anglophone minority of 
a Canadian population.

Auger N(1), Harper S, Barry AD, Trempe N, Daniel M.

Author information:
(1)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
nathalie.auger@inspq.qc.ca

Language is an important determinant of health, but analyses of linguistic 
inequalities in mortality are scant, especially for Canadian linguistic groups 
with European roots. We evaluated the life expectancy gap between the 
Francophone majority and Anglophone minority of Québec, Canada, both over time 
and across major provincial areas. Arriaga's method was used to estimate the age 
and cause of death groups contributing to changes in the life expectancy gap at 
birth between 1989-1993 and 2002-2006, and to evaluate patterns across major 
provincial areas (metropolitan Montréal, other metropolitan centres, and small 
cities/rural areas). Life expectancy at birth was greater for Anglophones, but 
the gap decreased over time by 1.3 years (52% decline) in men and 0.9 years (47% 
decline) in women, due to relatively sharper reductions in Francophone mortality 
from several causes, except lung cancer which countered reductions in women. The 
life expectancy gap in 2002-2006 was widest in other metropolitan centres (men 
5.1 years, women 3.2 years), narrowest in small cities/rural areas (men 
0.8 years, women 0.7 years), and tobacco-related causes were the main 
contributors. Only young Anglophones <40 years in small cities/rural areas had 
mortality higher than Francophones, resulting in a narrower gap in these areas. 
Differentials in life expectancy favouring Anglophones decreased over time, but 
varied across areas of Québec. Tobacco-related causes accounted for the majority 
of the current life expectancy gap.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-011-9644-8
PMID: 22203340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. JAMA. 2011 Dec 28;306(24):2717-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.2011.1881.

Prostate cancer screening--time to abandon one-size-fits-all approach?

Kim J(1), Davis JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genitourinary Medical Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, 1155 Pressler St, Houston, TX 77030, USA. jekim@mdanderson.org

Comment in
    JAMA. 2012 Apr 4;307(13):1372; author reply 1372-4.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2011.1881
PMID: 22203541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Curr Gerontol Geriatr Res. 2012;2012:724904. doi: 10.1155/2012/724904. Epub
2011  Nov 29.

Oxidative Stress and Down Syndrome: A Route toward Alzheimer-Like Dementia.

Perluigi M(1), Butterfield DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy and Medicine, 
Sapienza University of Rome 00185 Rome, Italy.

Down syndrome (DS) is one of the most frequent genetic abnormalities 
characterized by multiple pathological phenotypes. Indeed, currently life 
expectancy and quality of life for DS patients have improved, although with 
increasing age pathological dysfunctions are exacerbated and intellectual 
disability may lead to the development of Alzheimer's type dementia (AD). The 
neuropathology of DS is complex and includes the development of AD by middle 
age, altered free radical metabolism, and impaired mitochondrial function, both 
of which contribute to neuronal degeneration. Understanding the molecular basis 
that drives the development of AD is an intense field of research. Our 
laboratories are interested in understanding the role of oxidative stress as 
link between DS and AD. This review examines the current literature that showed 
oxidative damage in DS by identifying putative molecular pathways that play a 
central role in the neurodegenerative processes. In addition, considering the 
role of mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative phenomena, results 
demonstrating the involvement of impaired mitochondria in DS pathology could 
contribute a direct link between normal aging and development of AD-like 
dementia in DS patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/724904
PMCID: PMC3235450
PMID: 22203843


261. Clin Dev Immunol. 2012;2012:534929. doi: 10.1155/2012/534929. Epub 2011 Nov
29.

Blocking type I interferon production: a new therapeutic option to reduce the 
HIV-1-induced immune activation.

Ries M(1), Pritschet K, Schmidt B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical and Molecular Virology, German National Reference 
Centre for Retroviruses, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, 
Erlangen, Germany.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy has dramatically improved the morbidity and 
mortality of HIV-1-infected individuals. A total of 25 licensed drugs provide 
the basis for an optimized virus-suppressive treatment of nearly each subject. 
The promises of immune reconstitution and normal life expectancy, however, fall 
short for a number of patients, either through inadequate recovery of CD4+ 
T-cell counts or the occurrence of non-AIDS defining malignancies. In this 
respect, the prevalence of Epstein-Barr virus-associated Hodgkin lymphoma and 
human papillomavirus-related anal neoplasia is rising in aging HIV-1-infected 
individuals despite antiretroviral therapy. An important cause appears to be the 
HIV-1-induced chronic immune activation, propagated by inappropriate release of 
proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferons. This immune dysregulation can 
be reduced in vitro by inhibitors blocking the endosomal acidification. Recent 
data suggest that this concept is also of relevance in vivo, which opens the 
door for adjuvant immunomodulatory therapies in HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/534929
PMCID: PMC3235520
PMID: 22203858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2012;2012:349040. doi:
10.1155/2012/349040.  Epub 2011 Nov 22.

Greco-arab and islamic herbal-derived anticancer modalities: from tradition to 
molecular mechanisms.

Zaid H(1), Silbermann M, Ben-Arye E, Saad B.

Author information:
(1)Qasemi Research Center, Al-Qasemi Academy, P.O. Box 124, Baqa El-Gharbia 
30100, Israel.

The incidence of cancer is increasing in the developed countries and even more 
so in developing countries parallel to the increase in life expectancy. In 
recent years, clinicians and researchers advocate the need to include supportive 
and palliative care since the establishment of the diagnosis and throughout the 
duration of treatment, with the goal of improving patients' quality of life. 
This patient-centered approach in supportive care is also shared by various 
traditional and complementary medicine approaches. Traditional Arab-Islamic 
medicine offers a variety of therapeutic modalities that include herbal, 
nutritional, and spiritual approaches. Physicians and scholars, such as Avicenna 
(980-1037), Rhazes (965-915), Al Zahrawi (936-1013), and Ibn al Nafis 
(1218-1288) referred to cancer etiology in various medicinal texts and suggested 
both preventive and therapeutic remedies to alleviate suffering. This review 
presents research data related to the anticancer activities of herbs used in 
Arab-Islamic medicine and allude to their potential role in improving the 
quality of life of cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/349040
PMCID: PMC3235667
PMID: 22203868


263. J Pak Med Assoc. 2011 Jul;61(7):690-5.

Glycated haemoglobin--a marker and predictor of cardiovascular disease.

Syed IA(1), Khan WA.

Author information:
(1)Whitfield Clinics, Waterford, Ireland.

Glycated haemoglobin is formed by simple chemical reaction between haemoglobin 
and blood glucose. It represents a reliable and moving average of blood glucose 
over preceding three months. In 2009 the International Expert Committee 
recommended the use of HbA1c to diagnose diabetes with a cut-off of 6.5%. 
Studies have shown that HbA1c even in the range of 5.5% to 6.5% poses 
considerably high risk of morbidity and mortality due to cardiovascular disease. 
HbA1c as a test is important because about 220 million people have diabetes and 
with increasing life expectancy and emergence of type 2 diabetes in children 
makes it even more important. Each 1% increase in HbA1c poses 15-18% relative 
risk of cardiovascular disease in T1DM and T2DM respectively. CVD is a major 
cause of death and disability among diabetes patients and glycated haemoglobin 
itself is proportionately linked with excess CV morbidity and mortality. 
UKPDS-35 demonstrated 14% reduction in the incidence of acute myocardial 
infarction with only 1% reduction in HbA1c in T2DM patients. The DCCT reported 
significant reduction in retinopathy and nephropathy in T1DM, the follow up 
trial EDIC demonstrated 42% reduction in CVD with intensive reduction of HbAlc. 
This review is written to remind ourselves of the importance of this simple test 
which can predict early CV mortality in patients without prior CVD and poor 
prognosis in established cardiovascular disease. In a country like ours, 
Pakistan; where diabetes is prevalent with poor health awareness and limited 
resources, a test like HbA1c which costs Rs, 500.00 twice a year should be 
considered a cost effective way to avoid the long term diabetes complications, 
which once start unfolding put enormous burden on already stretched healthcare 
resources which could easily be avoided by intensive control of diabetes.

PMID: 22204248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nephron Clin Pract. 2012;120(1):c42-7. doi: 10.1159/000334429. Epub 2011 Dec
23.

Survival after starting renal replacement treatment in patients with autosomal 
dominant polycystic kidney disease: a single-centre 40-year study.

Haynes R(1), Kheradmand F, Winearls CG.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Kidney Unit, Churchill Hospital, Oxford University Hospitals NHS 
Trust, Oxford, UK. richard.haynes@ouh.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Adult polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) has a predictable 
natural history and the relative lack of co-morbidity allows a relatively 
unconfounded assessment of survival. We examined whether survival on renal 
replacement treatment (RRT) has improved over the last four decades compared to 
that in the general population.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of all patients with ADPKD 
who received RRT between 1971 and 2000 at the Oxford Kidney Unit. The main 
exposure was period of start of treatment (1971-1985 vs. 1986-2000) and the key 
outcome was overall survival. Standard Cox regression techniques were used to 
assess the association between these baseline variables and survival.
RESULTS: Age at start of RRT (HR per 1 year 1.08; 95% CI 1.06-1.10) and presence 
of a functioning transplant (HR 0.22; 95% CI 0.16-0.31) were associated with 
improved survival in unadjusted analyses. After adjustment for age the period of 
treatment also became a significant predictor of overall survival (HR 0.67; 95% 
CI 0.47-0.97).
CONCLUSIONS: Survival on RRT appears to have improved and exceeds that observed 
in the general population, such that RRT now provides almost two-thirds of the 
life expectancy of the general population, compared to about half in earlier 
decades.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000334429
PMID: 22205054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am J Med Sci. 2012 Jan;343(1):17-20. doi: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e31823ea23e.

Benefits and risks for intensive glycemic control in patients with diabetes 
mellitus.

Blonde L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Ochsner Clinic Foundation, New Orleans, 
Louisiana 70121, USA. lblonde@ochsner.org

Overweight, obesity, pre-diabetes and diabetes have become epidemic in most of 
Western society. An estimated 25.8 million United States adults have diabetes 
and some 79 million have prediabetes and are thus at high risk for future 
development of diabetes. Appropriate treatment of the ABCs of diabetes [A1C, 
blood pressure and cholesterol (dyslipidemia)] can reduce the risk for the 
development and progression of diabetic complications. This paper reviews some 
of the research studies that support treatment goals established by the American 
Association of Clinical Endocrinologists/American College of Endocrinology and 
the American Diabetes Association. Multiple studies have demonstrated that 
intensive glycemic control will reduce the risk for diabetes microvascular and 
neuropathic disease, but none showed decreased macrovascular disease events 
during the initial phase of the trials, although benefit was seen in long-term 
follow-up of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial and the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study. The American Association of Clinical 
Endocrinologists/American College of Endocrinology and the American Diabetes 
Association goals for glycemia informed by these studies indicate the importance 
of individualizing targets for patients based on factors including the duration 
of diabetes, presence of acute and chronic complications and life expectancy. 
Writing groups convened by these organizations have also developed treatment 
algorithms to help clinicians appropriately use both lifestyle and 
pharmacotherapy interventions to safely achieve glycemic targets.

DOI: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e31823ea23e
PMID: 22205061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2012 Apr;93(4):578-87. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2011.10.026.  Epub 2011 Dec 27.

Further assessment to determine the additive effect of botulinum toxin type A on 
an upper extremity exercise program to enhance function among individuals with 
chronic stroke but extensor capability.

Wolf SL(1), Milton SB, Reiss A, Easley KA, Shenvi NV, Clark PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. swolf@emory.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether dose-specified botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) 
and a standardized exercise protocol produce better upper extremity function 
than placebo and the same exercise program.
DESIGN: Double-blind randomized trial.
SETTING: A rehabilitation research center.
PARTICIPANTS: A convenience sample of patients (N=25, age range, 23-76 y) who 
sustained a stroke 3 to 24 months previously but could initiate wrist extension.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomly selected to receive either BTX-A 
(maximum 300 U) or saline, followed by 12 to 16 exercise sessions.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the Wolf Motor Function Test 
(WMFT). Secondary outcome measures included the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), 
active range of motion, and the Stroke Impact Scale (SIS; quality of life).
RESULTS: There were no group-by-time interactions for changes in the WMFT and no 
treatment difference (P=.86), although the BTX-A group could complete more tasks 
governing proximal joint motions. MAS scores improved for the BTX-A group and 
worsened for the control group after injection (P=.02), as did the SIS emotion 
domain (P=.035).
CONCLUSIONS: Among chronic stroke survivors, BTX-A did not impact function, 
movement, or tone more than a standardized exercise program.

Copyright © 2012 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2011.10.026
PMID: 22206630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Artif Intell Med. 2012 May;55(1):25-35. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2011.11.003.
Epub  2011 Dec 27.

Machine learning for improved pathological staging of prostate cancer: a 
performance comparison on a range of classifiers.

Regnier-Coudert O(1), McCall J, Lothian R, Lam T, McClinton S, N'dow J.

Author information:
(1)IDEAS Research Institute, Robert Gordon University, St. Andrew Street, 
Aberdeen AB25 1HG, UK. o.regnier-coudert@rgu.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Prediction of prostate cancer pathological stage is an essential 
step in a patient's pathway. It determines the treatment that will be applied 
further. In current practice, urologists use the pathological stage predictions 
provided in Partin tables to support their decisions. However, Partin tables are 
based on logistic regression (LR) and built from US data. Our objective is to 
investigate a range of both predictive methods and of predictive variables for 
pathological stage prediction and assess them with respect to their predictive 
quality based on U.K. data.
