Schweitzer's highly skilful and famous organ playing were not affected. 
Inheritance from his mother is likely. Schweitzer applied several coping 
strategies including a specific holding pattern for pens, usage of special pens, 
avoidance of handwriting and slowing of handwriting. With all these features 
Schweitzer presents as a classical case of action-specific dystonia in the form 
of a simple tonic writer's cramp. Interestingly, Schweitzer never received a 
medical diagnosis, although writer's cramp had already been identified and 
described as a medical condition. Impairment of his handwriting but not his 
organ playing may give insight into the multifactorial aetiology of writer's 
cramp.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2011.10.022
PMID: 22154297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Gac Sanit. 2011 Dec;25 Suppl 2:59-65. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.10.003.
Epub  2011 Dec 9.

[Influence of income, income inequalities and social capital on the health of 
persons aged 65 and over in Spain in 2007].

[Article in Spanish]

Karlsdotter K(1), Martín Martín JJ, López del Amo González Mdel P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economía Aplicada, Universidad de Granada, Granada, España. 
kristina.karlsdotter@gmail.com

The aim of this study is to evaluate the influence of personal income [absolute 
income hypothesis (AIH)], income inequality and welfare [relative income 
hypothesis (RIH)], and social capital on the health of older people. 
Multi-level, cross-sectional logit models are calculated separately for women 
and men. The database employed was the Spanish Life Conditions Survey for 2007. 
The population consists of 6,259 persons aged over 65 years living in the 17 
autonomous regions of Spain. The results confirm the AIH hypothesis: higher 
personal income is associated with better health. Education is also associated 
with better self-perceived health. The RIH hypothesis is partially confirmed due 
to the association between the Gini coefficient, regional per capita welfare and 
self-perceived health in older people, but only for women. Two different 
measures of social capital are used: the value of services of social capital and 
the percentage of people aged over 65 belonging to an association. Both factors 
are statistically associated with better self-perceived health in women. This 
study is the first to contrast the associations among income, income 
inequalities, social capital and the health of elders in Spain.

Copyright © 2011 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.10.003
PMID: 22154345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Autoimmun Rev. 2012 May;11(6-7):A447-59. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2011.11.019.
Epub  2011 Dec 3.

Pregnancy and vasculitis: a systematic review of the literature.

Gatto M(1), Iaccarino L, Canova M, Zen M, Nalotto L, Ramonda R, Punzi L, Doria 
A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of Padova, 
Padova, Italy.

Primary systemic vasculitis are uncommon diseases that may affect young women in 
their childbearing age. To date, patients affected with primary systemic 
vasculitis are often diagnosed and treated earlier than in the past, due to 
improvement in diagnostic skills and a larger availability of effective drugs. 
The progressive achievement of a longer life expectancy and a better quality of 
life have progressively led to an increased number of pregnancies observed 
during the course of such diseases. Here, we review 567 pregnancies among 
patients with primary systemic vasculitis, in order to define the relationship 
between pregnancy and these conditions and to suggest guidelines for their 
management. However, data on pregnancy outcomes are limited and knowledge about 
their gestational risk is mostly provided by single case reports or at best by 
retrospective studies which may result in intrinsic observational bias; 
unfortunately, long term prospective studies are still lacking. Analysis of the 
data highlighted a reciprocal influence between disease course and gestational 
outcome, although no definite effects can be outlined. Indeed, either 
improvement or worsening of the different vasculitis can occur, probably due to 
diverse genetic, clinical and immunological background of the patients. Since 
disease course may vary over time, careful management of systemic vasculitis 
during gestation is required. Furthermore, organ failure or damage must be 
carefully considered, since it can lead to adverse obstetrical and fetal 
outcomes.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2011.11.019
PMID: 22155197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2012 Aug;1818(8):2068-75. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbamem.2011.11.017. Epub 2011 Nov 29.

Connexins in wound healing; perspectives in diabetic patients.

Becker DL(1), Thrasivoulou C, Phillips AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University College, London, 
WC1E 6BT, UK. d.becker@ucl.ac.uk

Skin lesions are common events and we have evolved to rapidly heal them in order 
to maintain homeostasis and prevent infection and sepsis. Most acute wounds heal 
without issue, but as we get older our bodies become compromised by poor blood 
circulation and conditions such as diabetes, leading to slower healing. This can 
result in stalled or hard-to-heal chronic wounds. Currently about 2% of the 
Western population develop a chronic wound and this figure will rise as the 
population ages and diabetes becomes more prevalent [1]. Patient morbidity and 
quality of life are profoundly altered by chronic wounds [2]. Unfortunately a 
significant proportion of these chronic wounds fail to respond to conventional 
treatment and can result in amputation of the lower limb. Life quality and 
expectancy following amputation is severely reduced. These hard to heal wounds 
also represent a growing economic burden on Western society with published 
estimates of costs to healthcare services in the region of $25B annually [3]. 
There exists a growing need for specific and effective therapeutic agents to 
improve healing in these wounds. In recent years the gap junction protein Cx43 
has been shown to play a pivotal role early on in the acute wound healing 
process at a number of different levels [4-7]. Conversely, abnormal expression 
of Cx43 in wound edge keratinocytes was shown to underlie the poor rate of 
healing in diabetic rats, and targeting its expression with an antisense gel 
restored normal healing rates [8]. The presence of Cx43 in the wound edge 
keratinocytes of human chronic wounds has also been reported [9]. Abnormal Cx43 
biology may underlie the poor healing of human chronic wounds and be amenable 
therapeutic intervention [7]. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: 
The Communicating junctions, composition, structure and characteristics.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamem.2011.11.017
PMID: 22155211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. BMJ. 2011 Dec 8;343:d7627. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d7627.

Possible net harms of breast cancer screening: updated modelling of Forrest 
report.

Raftery J(1), Chorozoglou M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Wessex Institute, University of Southampton, Southampton 
SO16 7PX, UK. j.p.raftery@soton.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2012;344:d8279.
    Climacteric. 2012 Aug;15(4):398-9.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the claim in a Cochrane review that mammographic breast 
cancer screening could be doing more harm than good by updating the analysis in 
the Forrest report, which led to screening in the United Kingdom.
DESIGN: Development of a life table model, which replicated Forrest's results 
before updating and extending them with data from relevant systematic reviews, 
trials, and other models based on purposive literature searches.
PARTICIPANTS: Women aged 50 and over invited for breast cancer screening.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality adjusted life years (QALYs), combining life years 
gained from screening with losses of quality of life from false positive 
diagnoses and surgery.
RESULTS: Inclusion of the effects of harms reduced the updated estimate of net 
cumulative QALYs gained after 20 years from 3301 to 1536 or by more than half. 
The best estimates from the Cochrane review generated negative QALYs for the 
first seven years of screening, 70 QALYs after 10 years, and 834 QALYs after 20 
years. Sensitivity analysis showed these results were robust to a range of 
assumptions, particularly up to 10 years. It also indicated the importance of 
the level and duration of harms from surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis supports the claim that the introduction of breast 
cancer screening might have caused net harm for up to 10 years after the start 
of screening.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d7627
PMCID: PMC3234304
PMID: 22155336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support from any 
organisation for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any 
organisations that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 
three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


142. Psychosom Med. 2012 Jan;74(1):16-22. doi: 10.1097/PSY.0b013e3182385784. Epub
 2011 Dec 7.

Genetic influences on life span and its relationship to personality: a 16-year 
follow-up study of a sample of aging twins.

Mosing MA(1), Medland SE, McRae A, Landers JG, Wright MJ, Martin NG.

Author information:
(1)GeneticEpidemiology Unit, Queensland Institute of Medical Research, 300 
Herston Rd, Herston, Brisbane, Queensland 4006, Australia. 
miriam.mosing@qimr.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: The relationship between personality and life span is not well 
understood, and no study to date has examined genetic influences underlying this 
relationship. The present study aimed to explore the phenotypic and genetic 
relationship between personality and life span, as well as genetic influences on 
all-cause mortality.
METHODS: Prospective community-based study including 3752 twin individuals older 
than 50 years. Neuroticism, psychoticism, extraversion, and social desirability 
and pessimism/optimism were measured at baseline using the Revised Eysenck 
Personality Questionnaire and the Revised Life Orientation Test, respectively. 
Information on age at death was obtained 16 years after the initial assessment 
of personality.
RESULTS: Extraversion was inversely related to mortality with the risk of death 
decreasing 3% per unit increase of the extraversion score. Psychoticism and 
pessimism were positively related to mortality with a 36% and 39% increase in 
risk of death per unit increase in the respective personality score. 
Heritability of life span was 7%. Cross-twin cross-trait hazard ratios (HRs) 
were only significant for optimism/pessimism in monozygotic (MZ) twins with no 
significant differences in HRs between MZ and dizygotic twins in all traits; 
however, there was a trend for slightly higher HRs in MZ compared with dizygotic 
twins in psychoticism and optimism/pessimism.
CONCLUSIONS: Extraversion, psychoticism, and optimism/pessimism are significant 
predictors of longevity; extraversion is associated with a reduction, and 
pessimism and psychoticism are associated with an increase in mortality risk. 
Genetic influences on longevity in Australian twins are very low (7%). Our data 
also suggest a small, albeit nonsignificant, genetic influence on the 
relationship of pessimism and psychoticism with life span.

DOI: 10.1097/PSY.0b013e3182385784
PMID: 22155943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Aging (Albany NY). 2011 Nov;3(11):1098-109. doi: 10.18632/aging.100396.

Tetrahydrocurcumin extends life span and inhibits the oxidative stress response 
by regulating the FOXO forkhead transcription factor.

Xiang L(1), Nakamura Y, Lim YM, Yamasaki Y, Kurokawa-Nose Y, Maruyama W, Osawa 
T, Matsuura A, Motoyama N, Tsuda L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Brain Sciences, National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology, Obu, Aichi, 474-8511, Japan.

The O-type forkhead domain transcription factor (FOXO) is involved in many 
biological processes such as aging, the oxidative stress response, and growth 
regulation. FOXO activity is tightly controlled within cells. In particular, 
growth factor signaling pathways and the oxidative stress response can both 
stimulate nuclear translocation of this transcription factor. Here, we show that 
tetrahydrocurcumin (THC), a curcumin metabolite, regulates the oxidative stress 
response and aging via FOXO. In NIH3T3 cells, THC induced nuclear accumulation 
of FOXO4, a member of the FOXO family of transcription factors, by inhibiting 
phosphorylation of protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt. In Drosophila melanogaster, THC 
attenuated the oxidative stress response, an effect that was blocked in a foxo 
mutant background. THC also extended the life span of Drosophila under normal 
conditions, and loss of either foxo or Sir2 activity eliminated this effect. 
Based on these results, THC may regulate the aging process via an evolutionarily 
conserved signaling pathway that includes both foxo and Sir2.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100396
PMCID: PMC3249455
PMID: 22156377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interest to declare.


144. Angiology. 2012 Aug;63(6):443-7. doi: 10.1177/0003319711426423. Epub 2011
Dec 7.

Increased cardiovascular and renal disease but not reduced life expectancy among 
diabetic participants in the general Northern Greek population.

Papanas N(1), Trypsianis G, Tiaka EK, Manolakis AC, Katsavaki D, Birka S, 
Natsiopoulos K, Maltezos E, Papazoglou N.

Author information:
(1)Outpatient Clinic of Obesity, Diabetes and Metabolism, Second Department of 
Internal Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece. 
papanasnikos@yahoo.gr

We compared life expectancy and causes of death based on death certificates of 
269 diabetic participants (group A) and 5659 nondiabetic participants (group B) 
who died from January 1, 1991 to December 31, 2010, in 3 small towns of Northern 
Greece. Age at death was significantly (P = .011) higher in group A (77.2 ± 8.7 
years) than in group B (75.7 ± 18.9 years). Males with diabetes lived longer 
with a mean difference of 4.7 (2.8-6.6) years (P < .001), whereas females 
without diabetes lived longer, with a mean difference of 2.3 (1.1-5.6) years (P 
= .004). Diabetic participants died more frequently of myocardial infarction (P 
= .001), chronic renal failure (P < .001), followed by pneumonia (P = .010) and 
hyperosmolar non-ketotic coma (P < .001). Nondiabetic participants died more 
frequently of lung cancer (P < .001), old age (P < .001), and car accidents (P = 
.004). In conclusion, the cardiovascular and renal disease burden among diabetic 
participants did not reduce life expectancy, especially in men.

DOI: 10.1177/0003319711426423
PMID: 22156405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Medicina (Kaunas). 2011;47(9):504-11. Epub 2011 Dec 2.

Trends in avoidable mortality in Lithuania during 2001-2008 and their impact on 
life expectancy.

Grabauskas V(1), Gaižauskienė A, Sauliūnė S, Mišeikytė R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management, Medical Academy, Lithuanian University of 
Health Sciences, Mickevičiaus 9, 44307 Kaunas, Lithuania.

The process of the restructuring of health care system in Lithuania demonstrates 
the need to continue the monitoring of changes in avoidable mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the level of avoidable mortality as well as its changes 
over time in Lithuania during 2001-2008 and to define the impact of avoidable 
mortality on life expectancy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The mortality data were taken from the Lithuanian 
Department of Statistics. Twelve avoidable causes of deaths (treatable and 
preventable) were analyzed. Mortality trends were assessed by computing the 
average annual percent change (AAPC). The shortening of average life expectancy 
was computed from survival tables.
RESULTS: During the period 2001-2008, the avoidable mortality was increasing 
more significantly (AAPC 3.0%, P<0.05) than the overall mortality (AAPC 1.7%, 
P<0.05) in the population aged 5-64 years. The increasing trend was mainly 
determined by mortality from preventable diseases (AAPC 4.6%, P<0.05). The 
avoidable causes of death reduced the life expectancy by 1.77 years (preventable 
by 1.12 and treatable by 0.63 years). Diversity in trends in mortality of 
different avoidable causes was disclosed. A declining trend in mortality caused 
by chronic rheumatic heart disease and lung cancer was observed for males (AAPC 
-22.6% and -2.1%, respectively; P<0.05). However, the mortality caused by liver 
cirrhosis was increasing for both genders (AAPC 16.1% for males and 17.6% for 
females, P<0.01) and that caused by tuberculosis - only for females (AAPC 7.8%, 
P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: An increasing trend in avoidable mortality was observed. Deaths 
caused by the diseases that could have been prevented had the greatest impact on 
the increasing mortality and decreasing life expectancy.

PMID: 22156602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2011 Dec;6 Suppl 1:S12-20. doi: 
10.1097/01.COH.0000410240.65647.23.

Virologic suppression in treatment-experienced patients after virologic rebound 
or failure of therapy.

Sarmento-Castro R(1), Vasconcelos C, Aguas MJ, Marques R, Oliveira J.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Service, Centro Hospitalar do Porto, ECS - University of 
Minho, Portugal. hju@hjurbano.min-saude.pt

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To discuss factors related to virologic failure and review 
data from recent clinical trials evaluating re-suppression of viremia in 
extensively-treated HIV-infected patients with resistance.
RECENT FINDINGS: Factors associated with virologic failure can be related to the 
virus (e.g. resistance), the patient (e.g. adherence) or HIV therapy (e.g. 
availability) and must be analyzed to minimize the likelihood of a new failure. 
Recent clinical trials have shown that it is now possible to achieve virologic 
suppression in a large proportion of treatment-experienced patients with 
extensive drug resistance, with several newer agents demonstrating favorable 
potency, tolerability and long-term efficacy.
SUMMARY: The benefits of highly active antiretroviral treatment are well 
recognized, and adding at least two (preferably three) new active drugs to an 
optimized background regimen can provide effective suppression of viremia even 
in multidrug-experienced patients. Changing drugs or regimen simplification 
should be considered when treatment is inadequate, poorly tolerated or 
associated with poor adherence, and is made easier by the newer agents and 
formulations now available. Newer antiretrovirals may contribute to a better 
quality of life and life expectancy in patients with few or no therapy options, 
although adherence is paramount in ensuring their continued effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1097/01.COH.0000410240.65647.23
PMID: 22156775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2011 Dec;9(12):1358-95. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2011.0117.

NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines Occult primary.

Ettinger DS, Agulnik M, Cates JM, Cristea M, Denlinger CS, Eaton KD, Fidias PM, 
Gierada D, Gockerman JP, Handorf CR, Iyer R, Lenzi R, Phay J, Rashid A, Saltz L, 
Shulman LN, Smerage JB, Varadhachary GR, Zager JS, Zhen WK; National 
Comprehensive Cancer Network.

Occult primary tumors, or cancers of unknown primary (CUPs), are defined as 
histologically proven metastatic malignant tumors whose primary site cannot be 
identified during pretreatment evaluation. They have a wide variety of clinical 
presentations and a poor prognosis in most patients. Patients with occult 
primary tumors often present with general complaints, such as anorexia and 
weight loss. Clinical absence of primary tumor, early dissemination, 
aggressiveness, and unpredictability of metastatic pattern are characteristic of 
these tumors. Life expectancy is very short, with a median survival of 6 to 9 
months. In most patients, occult primary tumors are refractory to systemic 
treatments, and chemotherapy is only palliative and does not significantly 
improve long-term survival. However, certain clinical presentations of these 
tumors are associated with a better prognosis. Special pathologic studies can 
identify subsets of patients with tumor types that are more responsive to 
chemotherapy. Treatment options should be individualized for this selected group 
of patients to achieve improved response and survival rates.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2011.0117
PMID: 22157556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2012 May;20(5):1057-65. doi: 10.1038/oby.2011.354.
Epub  2011 Dec 8.

Functional capacity of neutrophils from class III obese patients.

Trottier MD(1), Naaz A, Kacynski K, Yenumula PR, Fraker PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, Michigan, USA.

Class III obesity is associated with chronic inflammation and a variety of 
changes in immune function. Yet surprisingly little was known about the status 
of neutrophils that represent the first line of immune defense. The aim of this 
study was to assess key functions of neutrophils from class III obese patients, 
namely phagocytosis, superoxide production, chemotaxis, and response to 
endotoxin challenge, and compare their responses with lean controls. Thirty 
obese patients (BMI 48.8 ± 6.6 kg/m(2)) with comorbidities such as diabetes, 
hyperlipidemia, high blood pressure, etc. and nine lean (BMI between 20 and 25) 
subjects were enrolled in the study. Neutrophils from class III obese patients 
phagocytosed Escherichia coli (E. coli) at similar rates and with adequate 
numbers of bacteria taken up per cell compared with cells from lean subjects. 
Neutrophil production of superoxide, which is key to rapid killing of pathogens, 
showed modest diminution in the class III obese, which increased among patients 
with BMI >50. Chemotactic activity of neutrophils from class III obese patients 
was not altered. However, neutrophils from obese subjects showed an increased 
response to low-dose endotoxin, with concomitant reduced apoptosis and extension 
of their half-life compared with lean subjects, which suggests possible 
hyperresponsiveness of these neutrophils. Overall, neutrophil activity was not 
significantly altered by age, gender, diabetic status, or hyperlipidemia. 
Collectively, these results suggest that class III obese patients, even with 
comorbidities, have normal or nearly normal phagocytic, chemotactic, and 
superoxide generating capacity.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2011.354
PMID: 22158006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Int J Epidemiol. 2011 Dec;40(6):1519-29. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyr145. Epub 2011
Oct  28.

Premature cardiovascular mortality and alcohol consumption before death in 
Arkhangelsk, Russia: an analysis of a consecutive series of forensic autopsies.

Sidorenkov O(1), Nilssen O, Nieboer E, Kleshchinov N, Grjibovski AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway. oleg.sidorenkov@uit.no

BACKGROUND: High cardiovascular diseases (CVD) mortality among the middle aged 
is a major cause of reduced life expectancy in Russia, especially among men. 
Hazardous alcohol consumption is suspected to be a powerful contributing factor.
METHODS: All men (1099) and women (519) aged 30-70 years who died between 1 
January 2008 and 31 August 2009 from CVD in the city of Arkhangelsk, north-west 
Russia, were included. CVD mortality was stratified by age, gender and 
diagnosis. For the cases diagnosed by forensic pathologists, the blood alcohol 
concentration (BAC) was determined. The forensic autopsy rate was 72% for men 
and 62% for women.
RESULTS: Age-standardized CVD mortality rate (all age groups) in men was higher 
than in women. The largest male-female ratio (4.3) was observed in the age group 
of 50-59 years. Alcoholic and unspecified cardiomyopathies were the most 
dominant of CVD mortalities in women, and second in men aged <50 years; they 
accounted for 50 and 25% of deaths, respectively. About one-third of men and 
women who died from CVD aged <60 years had consumed alcohol shortly before 
death. This occurred most frequently among the diagnostic groups 'other acute or 
subacute cardiac ischaemia', 'atherosclerotic heart disease' and 
'cardiomyopathies'. Alcohol was more likely to be found at autopsy in men than 
in women (odds ratio 1.55; 95% confidence interval 1.14-2.10). No difference was 
found for those who died from myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular diseases 
and cardiomyopathies. Of the deceased, <1% had a BAC of ≥ 4 g/l.
CONCLUSIONS: A high proportion of subjects who died from CVD in Arkhangelsk 
consumed alcohol shortly before death. It was highest among males aged 50-59 
years. The largest gender difference in mortality, highest absolute number of 
premature CVD deaths, and the highest proportion of alcohol-positive autopsies 
occurred among them. Since associations with alcohol consumption varied 
considerably between the types of CVD diagnoses, this observation should be 
taken into account when planning future research. Our study does not provide 
evidence that cardiovascular deaths are misclassified cases of acute alcohol 
poisoning.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyr145
PMID: 22158662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2012 Feb;14(2):140-2. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivr050. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

Biology of colorectal pulmonary metastasis: implications for surgical resection.

Poullis M(1), Littler J, Gosney J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, 
Liverpool, UK. mike.poullis@lhch.nhs.uk

In colorectal cancer, little high grade evidence for cure, life extension, 
disease modification or palliation achieved by pulmonary metastasectomy exists. 
This has prompted the pulmonary metastasectomy in colorectal cancer (PulMiCC) 
trial. Reappraisal of the biological facts on colorectal metastasis may, 
however, shed light on an alternative avenue of clinical management. Early onset 
of metastasis, short doubling time and a short disease-free interval are all 
associated with poor clinical outcomes. Selecting who will be cured (i.e. no 
occult metastasis) remains the holy grail for pulmonary metastasectomy surgery. 
Serial CT scans can be utilized to calculate the tumour doubling time by 
volumetric analysis. Knowing the doubling time and size of the largest 
metastasis, which by definition is the first cell that has successfully spread 
from the primary site, the time of initial metastasis can be predicted. More 
importantly, using the doubling time, calculating the time interval from the 
primary surgery to the point at which all pulmonary metastases are visible 
should be possible. Perhaps watchful waiting, with interval CT scanning, 
followed by pulmonary metastasectomy should be utilized, rather than clinical 
opinion or randomization in a trial based upon first presentation.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivr050
PMCID: PMC3279968
PMID: 22159245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Urologe A. 2011 Dec;50(12):1573-7. doi: 10.1007/s00120-011-2731-3.

[Pharmacoeconomics in uro-oncology: the concept of QALYs].

[Article in German]

Poulsen Nautrup B(1).

Author information:
(1)EAH-Consulting, Heimbacher Straße 19, 52428 Jülich, Deutschland. 
bpn@EAH-Consulting.de

The QALY (quality-adjusted life year) is often used in pharmacoeconomic 
evaluations. It combines the two dimensions 'quality of life' and 'life 
expectancy' into one index. Quality of life is expressed as a utility, 
corresponding to a value between 0 (death) and 1 (perfect health). Life 
expectancy is then multiplied by the utility corresponding to the quality of 
life of the respective life time. Accordingly, 1 QALY corresponds to 1 year in 
perfect health (1 year multiplied by utility 1) or 2 years with a quality of 
life reduced by 50% (2 years multiplied by utility 0.5). Results of 
pharmacoeconomic evaluations are often reported as additional costs in relation 
to the added value of a new treatment, expressed as cost per additional QALY 
gained for the patient with the new therapeutic intervention. The main advantage 
of the QALY concept is its validity for all patients and indications. And the 
use of benefit measures which are not restricted to a specific indication is 
most important for resource allocation, i.e. to avoid that varying amounts of 
money are paid for the same health benefit in different disease areas.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-011-2731-3
PMID: 22159702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Urologe A. 2011 Dec;50(12):1584-90. doi: 10.1007/s00120-011-2733-1.

[Evaluation of cancer therapy from the perspective of a statutory health 
insurance].

[Article in German]

Rebscher H(1), Schellhammer S, Kopp T, Scharnetzky E.

Author information:
(1)DAK Unternehmen Leben, Nagelsweg 27–31, 20097 Hamburg. 
herbert.rebscher@dak.de

Increasing life expectancy, the introduction of costly new drugs and 
contributions from the health fund which do not cover overall costs, all 
contribute to financial problems for statutory health insurances (SHI) in 
oncology. Only an evidence-based approach can help to address these problems. In 
a first step patient-relevant benefits have to be substantiated as a necessary 
prerequisite for coverage of any treatment by SHIs. For products with no 
additional benefit compared to established forms of therapy the price will be 
limited by the established cost-benefit ratio. For products with additional 
benefits pricing is more difficult. For this situation the Institute for Quality 
and Efficiency in Healthcare (IQWiG) has developed general methods for the 
assessment of the relation of benefits to costs. Pricing based on this health 
economic evaluation is developed using efficiency frontier plots. However, this 
method is prone to manipulation and needs to be refined. Therapies without 
comparators, so-called soloists, cannot be priced in this way. New approaches to 
increase cost efficiency need to be developed in order to ensure the 
availability of high quality care in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-011-2733-1
PMID: 22159704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011 Dec 7;(12):CD006282. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006282.pub3.

Drug treatment for spinal muscular atrophy types II and III.

Wadman RI(1), Bosboom WM, van den Berg LH, Wokke JH, Iannaccone ST, Vrancken AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Rudolf Magnus 
Institute for Neuroscience, Universiteitsweg 100, Utrecht, Netherlands, 3584 CG.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;4:CD006282.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009;(1):CD006282.

BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by degeneration of anterior 
horn cells, which leads to progressive muscle weakness. Children with SMA type 
II do not develop the ability to walk without support and have a shortened life 
expectancy, whereas children with SMA type III develop the ability to walk and 
have a normal life expectancy. There are no known efficacious drug treatments 
that influence the disease course of SMA. This is an update of a review first 
published in 2009.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether drug treatment is able to slow or arrest the 
disease progression of SMA types II and III and to assess if such therapy can be 
given safely. Drug treatment for SMA type I is the topic of a separate updated 
Cochrane review.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized 
Register (8 March 2011), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials 
(CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 1), MEDLINE (January 1991 to 
February 2011), EMBASE (January 1991 to February 2011) and ISI Web of Knowledge 
(January 1991 to March 8 2011). We also searched clinicaltrials.gov to identify 
as yet unpublished trials (8 March 2011).
SELECTION CRITERIA: We sought all randomised or quasi-randomised trials that 
examined the efficacy of drug treatment for SMA types II and III. Participants 
had to fulfil the clinical criteria and have a deletion or mutation of the 
survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene (5q11.2-13.2) that was confirmed by genetic 
analysis.The primary outcome measure was to be change in disability score within 
one year after the onset of treatment. Secondary outcome measures within one 
year after the onset of treatment were to be change in muscle strength, ability 
to stand or walk, change in quality of life, time from the start of treatment 
until death or full time ventilation and adverse events attributable to 
treatment during the trial period.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently reviewed and extracted 
data from all potentially relevant trials. Pooled relative risks and pooled 
standardised mean differences were to be calculated to assess treatment 
efficacy. Risk of bias was systematically analysed.
MAIN RESULTS: Six randomised placebo-controlled trials on treatment for SMA 
types II and III were found and included in the review: the four in the original 
review and two trials added in this update. The treatments were creatine (55 
participants), phenylbutyrate (107 participants), gabapentin (84 participants), 
thyrotropin releasing hormone (9 participants), hydroxyurea (57 participants), 
and combination therapy with valproate and acetyl-L-carnitine (61 participants). 
None of these studies were completely free of bias. All studies had adequate 
blinding, sequence generation and reports of primary outcomes.None of the 
included trials showed any statistically significant effects on the outcome 
measures in participants with SMA types II and III. One participant died due to 
suffocation in the hydroxyurea trial and one participant died in the creatine 
trial. No participants in any of the other four trials died or reached the state 
of full time ventilation. Serious side effects were infrequent.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is no proven efficacious drug treatment for SMA 
types II and III.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006282.pub3
PMID: 22161400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011 Dec 7;(12):CD007234. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007234.pub2.

Adjuvant radiotherapy following radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer.

Daly T(1), Hickey BE, Lehman M, Francis DP, See AM.

Author information:
(1)Mater Centre Radiation Oncology Service, Princess Alexandra Hospital, 31 
Raymond Terrace, South Brisbane, QLD, Australia, 4101.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2012 May;61(5):1065.
    Urologe A. 2015 Jul;54(7):1017-20.

BACKGROUND: Men who have a radical prostatectomy (RP) for prostate cancer that 
does not involve lymph nodes, but extends beyond the prostate capsule into the 
seminal vesicles or to surgical margins, are at increased risk of relapse. In 
men with these high risk factors, radiotherapy (RT) directed at the prostate bed 
after surgery may reduce this risk, and be curative.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effect of adjuvant RT following RP for prostate 
cancer in men with high risk features compared with RP.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Prostatic Diseases and Urological 
Cancers Specialised Register (23 February 2011), the Cochrane Central Register 
of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE (January 1966 to February 2011), PDQ® 
(Physician Data Query) trial registry databases for ongoing studies (2 November 
2010), reference lists from selected studies and reviews, and handsearched 
relevant conference proceedings.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCT) comparing RP followed by 
RT with RP alone.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed the studies for 
inclusion and bias and extracted data for analysis. Authors were contacted to 
clarify data and obtain missing information.
MAIN RESULTS: We found three RCTs involving 1815 men. Adjuvant RT following 
prostatectomy did not affect overall survival at 5 years (RD (risk difference) 
0.00; 95% CI -0.03 to 0.03), but improved survival at 10 years (RD -0.11; 95% CI 
-0.20 to -0.02). Adjuvant RT did not improve prostate cancer-specific mortality 
at 5 years (RD -0.01; 95% CI -0.03 to 0.00). Adjuvant RT did not reduce 
metastatic disease at 5 years (RD -0.00; 95% CI -0.04 to 0.03), but reduced it 
at 10 years (RD -0.11; 95% CI -0.20 to -0.01). It improved local control at 5 
and 10 years (RD -0.10; 95% CI -0.13 to -0.06 and RD -0.14; 95% CI -0.21 to 
-0.07, respectively), and biochemical progression-free survival at 5 years and 
10 years (RD -0.16; 95% CI -0.21 to -0.11 and RD -0.29; 95% CI -0.39 to -0.19, 
respectively). There were no data for clinical disease-free survival. Adjuvant 
RT increased acute and late gastrointestinal toxicity [do you have the rd for 
this?], urinary stricture (RD 0.05; 95% CI 0.01 to 0.09) and incontinence (RD 
0.04; 95% CI 0.01 to 0.08). It did not increase erectile dysfunction or degrade 
quality of life (RD 0.01; 95% CI -0.06 to -0.26), but with limited data.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant RT after RP improves overall survival and reduces 
the rate of distant metastases, but these effects are only evident with longer 
follow up. At 5 and 10 years it improves local control and reduces the risk of 
biochemical failure, although the latter is not a clinical endpoint. Moderate or 
severe acute and late toxicity is minimal. There is an increased risk of urinary 
stricture and incontinence, but no detriment to quality of life, based on 
limited data. Given that the majority of men who have undergone a RP have a 
longer life expectancy, radiotherapy should be considered for those with 
high-risk features following radical prostatectomy. The optimal timing is 
unclear.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007234.pub2
PMID: 22161411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. BMJ. 2011 Dec 7;343:d7657. doi: 10.1136/bmj.d7657.

Major challenges ahead for Hungarian healthcare.

Gaál P(1), Szigeti S, Panteli D, Gaskins M, van Ginneken E.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis University, Health Services Management Training Centre, Budapest, 
Hungary. ewout.vanginneken@tu-berlin.de

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.d7657
PMID: 22162289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Int J Gen Med. 2011;4:799-802. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S24777. Epub 2011 Nov 25.

The paradox of the 21st century - is there really an epidemic of most common 
killers?

Paczek L(1), Nowak M.

Author information:
(1)Transplantation Institute, Department of Immunology, Transplantology and 
Internal Diseases, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

Over the last 110 years, average global life expectancy has more than doubled 
from 31 years of age to 65 years of age. This trend is expected to continue, and 
many of the children born after the year 2000 can expect to live to celebrate 
their hundredth birthday. In the last 20 years alone, average life expectancy 
has increased globally by 6 years.DURING THE SAME PERIOD, DOCTORS HAVE ANNOUNCED 
A GLOBAL EPIDEMIC OF THE MOST COMMON KILLERS: cardiovascular disease, diabetes, 
chronic kidney, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. One of the most 
important reasons for the more frequent recognition of these diseases is the 
fact that their diagnostic criteria have changed and become much more acute 
during the past few years.These changes in diagnostic criteria have made it 
difficult, or even impossible, to compare the present statistical data regarding 
these diseases to historical data for the same illnesses. Due to this 
difficulty, there is no evidence-based comparison of the prevalence of any 
disease at present and in the past. Before announcing a global epidemic, a fair 
epidemiological comparison should be made, based upon the same definitions and 
using identical diagnostic tools.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S24777
PMCID: PMC3233375
PMID: 22162935


157. PLoS Med. 2011 Dec;8(12):e1001140. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001140. Epub
2011  Dec 6.

Measuring the population burden of injuries--implications for global and 
national estimates: a multi-centre prospective UK longitudinal study.

Lyons RA(1), Kendrick D, Towner EM, Christie N, Macey S, Coupland C, Gabbe BJ; 
UK Burden of Injuries Study Group.

Collaborators: Brophy S, Evans A, Pallister I, Benger J, Carter B, Sleney J, 
Groom L, Mulvaney C, Smith S, Coffey F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Information Research and Evaluation, College of Medicine, 
Swansea University, UK. r.a.lyons@swansea.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Current methods of measuring the population burden of injuries rely 
on many assumptions and limited data available to the global burden of diseases 
(GBD) studies. The aim of this study was to compare the population burden of 
injuries using different approaches from the UK Burden of Injury (UKBOI) and GBD 
studies.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: The UKBOI was a prospective cohort of 1,517 injured 
individuals that collected patient-reported outcomes. Extrapolated outcome data 
were combined with multiple sources of morbidity and mortality data to derive 
population metrics of the burden of injury in the UK. Participants were injured 
patients recruited from hospitals in four UK cities and towns: Swansea, 
Nottingham, Bristol, and Guildford, between September 2005 and April 2007. 
Patient-reported changes in quality of life using the EQ-5D at baseline, 1, 4, 
and 12 months after injury provided disability weights used to calculate the 
years lived with disability (YLDs) component of disability adjusted life years 
(DALYs). DALYs were calculated for the UK and extrapolated to global estimates 
using both UKBOI and GBD disability weights. Estimated numbers (and rates per 
100,000) for UK population extrapolations were 750,999 (1,240) for hospital 
admissions, 7,982,947 (13,339) for emergency department (ED) attendances, and 
22,185 (36.8) for injury-related deaths in 2005. Nonadmitted ED-treated injuries 
accounted for 67% of YLDs. Estimates for UK DALYs amounted to 1,771,486 (82% due 
to YLDs), compared with 669,822 (52% due to YLDs) using the GBD approach. 
Extrapolating patient-derived disability weights to GBD estimates would increase 
injury-related DALYs 2.6-fold.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of disability weights derived from patient experiences 
combined with additional morbidity data on ED-treated patients and inpatients 
suggests that the absolute burden of injury is higher than previously estimated. 
These findings have substantial implications for improving measurement of the 
national and global burden of injury.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001140
PMCID: PMC3232198
PMID: 22162954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DK's research is/has been funded by the NIHR, 
The Department of Health, the MRC, the US Dept of Health and Human Services, the 
Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and Lincolnshire Research Alliance. Nottingham Fire 
and Rescue Service, the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, the 
European Commission, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Royal 
College of General Practitioners. DK was a co-opted member of the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence guideline development group for 
public health guidance 29 - strategies to prevent unintentional injury in 
children aged under 15 years and provided expert testimony to the guideline 
development group on inequities in child injury. All other authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


158. PLoS One. 2011;6(12):e28453. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028453. Epub 2011
Dec 7.

Should the arteriovenous fistula be created before starting dialysis?: a 
decision analytic approach.

Hiremath S(1), Knoll G, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Kidney Research Center, Ottawa Hospital Research 
Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. shiremath@toh.on.ca

BACKGROUND: An arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is considered the vascular access of 
choice, but uncertainty exists about the optimal time for its creation in 
pre-dialysis patients. The aim of this study was to determine the optimal 
vascular access referral strategy for stage 4 (glomerular filtration rate <30 
ml/min/1.73 m(2)) chronic kidney disease patients using a decision analytic 
framework.
METHODS: A Markov model was created to compare two strategies: refer all stage 4 
chronic kidney disease patients for an AVF versus wait until the patient starts 
dialysis. Data from published observational studies were used to estimate the 
probabilities used in the model. A Markov cohort analysis was used to determine 
the optimal strategy with life expectancy and quality adjusted life expectancy 
as the outcomes. Sensitivity analyses, including a probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, were performed using Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: The wait strategy results in a higher life expectancy (66.6 versus 65.9 
months) and quality adjusted life expectancy (38.9 versus 38.5 quality adjusted 
life months) than immediate AVF creation. It was robust across all the 
parameters except at higher rates of progression and lower rates of ischemic 
steal syndrome.
CONCLUSIONS: Early creation of an AVF, as recommended by most guidelines, may 
not be the preferred strategy in all pre-dialysis patients. Further research on 
cost implications and patient preferences for treatment options needs to be done 
before recommending early AVF creation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028453
PMCID: PMC3233576
PMID: 22163305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


159. PLoS One. 2011;6(12):e26783. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026783. Epub 2011
Dec 2.

Cost effectiveness of fibrosis assessment prior to treatment for chronic 
hepatitis C patients.

Liu S(1), Schwarzinger M, Carrat F, Goldhaber-Fiebert JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California, United States of America. shanliu@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) is a liver disease affecting over 
3 million Americans. Liver biopsy is the gold standard for assessing liver 
fibrosis and is used as a benchmark for initiating treatment, though it is 
expensive and carries risks of complications. FibroTest is a non-invasive 
biomarker assay for fibrosis, proposed as a screening alternative to biopsy.
METHODS: We assessed the cost-effectiveness of FibroTest and liver biopsy used 
alone or sequentially for six strategies followed by treatment of eligible U.S. 
patients: FibroTest only; FibroTest with liver biopsy for ambiguous results; 
FibroTest followed by biopsy to rule in; or to rule out significant fibrosis; 
biopsy only (recommended practice); and treatment without screening. We 
developed a Markov model of chronic HCV that tracks fibrosis progression. 
Outcomes were expressed as expected lifetime costs (2009 USD), quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER).
RESULTS: Treatment of chronic HCV without fibrosis screening is preferred for 
both men and women. For genotype 1 patients treated with pegylated interferon 
and ribavirin, the ICERs are $5,400/QALY (men) and $6,300/QALY (women) compared 
to FibroTest only; the ICERs increase to $27,200/QALY (men) and $30,000/QALY 
(women) with the addition of telaprevir. For genotypes 2 and 3, treatment is 
more effective and less costly than all alternatives. In clinical settings where 
testing is required prior to treatment, FibroTest only is more effective and 
less costly than liver biopsy. These results are robust to multi-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Early treatment of chronic HCV is superior to the other fibrosis 
screening strategies. In clinical settings where testing is required, FibroTest 
screening is a cost-effective alternative to liver biopsy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0026783
PMCID: PMC3229483
PMID: 22164204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


160. Zhongguo Xue Xi Chong Bing Fang Zhi Za Zhi. 2011 Jun;23(3):243-8.

[Burden of disease in schistosomiasis japonica. I. Calculation and evaluation of 
years lived with disability of chronic schistosomiasis].

[Article in Chinese]

Jia TW(1), Sun LP, Hong QB, Deng Y, Zhang GH, Wang H, Yi P, Guo JG, Zhou XN.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Chinese Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Shanghai 200025, China.

OBJECTIVE: To discuss the evaluation index of the disease burden of chronic 
schistosomiasis and its calculation methods.
METHODS: The epidemiological data came from the thematic research carried out in 
two schistosome-endemic counties in lake areas between 2004 and 2005. The 
specific prevalence rates by age group, gender and endemic type were calculated. 
According to the age-specific disability weight obtained in the thematic 
research, the years lived with disability (YLDs) and the rates of YLD of 
stratified samples by age and gender, and the total YLDs of the two counties 
were calculated.
RESULTS: The total YLDs were 1 056.26 and 3 967.43 person-years in Dangtu and 
Hanshou counties, respectively. The contributing rate of Grade I type village to 
the total YLDs of two counties was 37.95% (40.08% in Dangtu and 37.39% in 
Hanshou). For different stratums by age and gender, the older ones and male 
tended to have larger YLDs. Compared to the non-endemic areas, chronic 
schistosomiasis brought an average extra of 4.398 and 1.505 years per 1 000 
person to population in Dangtu and Hanshou counties, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The evaluation to YLDs of chronic schistosomiasis is helpful for 
prioritizing intervention areas and population, as well as providing a new index 
for the evaluation of effectiveness of control measures.

PMID: 22164482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Can J Public Health. 2011 Nov-Dec;102(6):445-50. doi: 10.1007/BF03404197.

An incremental economic evaluation of targeted and universal influenza 
vaccination in pregnant women.

Skedgel C(1), Langley JM, MacDonald NE, Scott J, McNeil S.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Center for Vaccinology, IWK Health Centre, Capital District Health 
Authority and Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS. chris.skedgel@cdha.nshealth.ca

OBJECTIVE: Pregnancy is associated with increased influenza hospitalizations and 
physician visits (events) in healthy women and those with co-morbidities. Annual 
influenza immunization is recommended for all pregnant women. Although 
vaccination is expected to reduce influenza-related events, the economic 
implications are unclear. We developed an economic model to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness (CE) of different vaccination strategies in Nova Scotia.
METHODS: A decision tree characterized the one-year costs and consequences of 
targeted (pregnant women with co-morbidities only) and universal (all pregnant 
women) vaccination strategies relative to a no-vaccination strategy. Baseline 
event probabilities, vaccine effectiveness, costs and quality-of-life weights 
were derived from individual-level Nova Scotia administrative databases, health 
system sources and published reports. Sensitivity analyses tested the impact of 
varying key parameters, including vaccine effectiveness and mode of delivery.
RESULTS: Targeted vaccination was cost-saving relative to no vaccination when 
delivered by public health clinics (PHC) or routine family practitioner (FP) 
visit. Cost per quality-adjusted life year gained by universal vaccination 
relative to targeted strategy was < $40,000 when delivered by PHC or routine FP 
visit. Net cost of universal vaccination by PHC or a routine FP visit was < $10 
per pregnant woman.
CONCLUSION: Universal vaccination of pregnant women appears cost-effective when 
delivered by PHC or as part of a routine FP prenatal visit. Targeted vaccination 
of pregnant women with co-morbidities can be cost-saving, but the possibility of 
higher vaccine uptake with a universal compared to a targeted strategy must be 
considered in addition to costs in program planning.

Objectif: La grossesse est associée à des hausses de certains événements liés à 
la grippe (hospitalisations et visites chez le médecin) chez les femmes en bonne 
santé comme chez les femmes atteintes de comorbidités. On recommande le vaccin 
annuel contre la grippe à toutes les femmes enceintes. On sait que la 
vaccination réduit les événements liés à la grippe, mais ses répercussions 
économiques ne sont pas claires. Nous avons élaboré un modèle économique pour 
estimer le rapport coût-efficacité de diverses stratégies de vaccination en 
Nouvelle-Écosse. Méthode: Au moyen d’un arbre de décision, nous avons 
caractérisé les coûts et les conséquences sur un an de stratégies de vaccination 
ciblées (seulement les femmes enceintes avec des comorbidités) et universelles 
(toutes les femmes enceintes) comparativement à une stratégie de nonvaccination. 
Les probabilités de base de survenue des événements, l’efficacité du vaccin, les 
