

377. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2012 Mar;35(5):587-99. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2011.04983.x. Epub 2012 Jan 18.

Safety and patient outcomes with lubiprostone for up to 52 weeks in patients 
with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation.

Chey WD(1), Drossman DA, Johanson JF, Scott C, Panas RM, Ueno R.

Author information:
(1)GI Physiology Laboratory, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, 
48109-0362, USA. wchey@umich.edu

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2012 Apr;35(8):962-3.

BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) significantly 
decreases quality of life and the ability to perform daily living activities.
AIM: To demonstrate the long-term safety, tolerability and patient outcomes of 
lubiprostone in patients with IBS-C.
METHODS: This extension study enrolled 522 IBS-C patients who had completed one 
of two randomised phase 3 studies. All enrolled patients received open-label 
lubiprostone orally for 36-weeks (8 mcg, twice daily). The primary objective was 
the assessment of long-term safety and tolerability, monitored via adverse 
events (AEs), laboratory parameters and vital signs. Additional outcome 
endpoints included monthly responder rates and patient evaluations of IBS-C 
symptom severity and impact on quality of life.
RESULTS: The evaluable safety population comprised of 520 patients; 476 of which 
had patient reported outcome data available. The overall safety profile of 
lubiprostone during this study was similar to that observed in the preceding 
phase 3 studies. The most common AEs were diarrhoea (11.0%), nausea (11.0%), 
urinary tract infection (9.0%), sinusitis (9.0%) and abdominal distention 
(5.8%). Diarrhoea and nausea were the most common treatment-related AEs. No 
serious AEs were considered treatment-related. Seventeen patients discontinued 
due to a treatment-related AE, of which diarrhoea and nausea accounted for six 
(1.2%) and three (0.6%) respectively. For responder rates and patient-evaluated 
parameters (n = 476), all groups experienced significant improvements from 
baseline, with initial improvements maintained throughout the study.
CONCLUSION: In patients with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation, 
lubiprostone 8 mcg twice daily was found to be safe and well tolerated over 9-13 
months of treatment.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2011.04983.x
PMID: 22251419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2012 Oct;53(5):641-50. Epub 2012 Jan 17.

Comparing cost aspects of coronary artery bypass graft surgery with coronary 
artery stenting.

Birim Ö(1), Bogers AJ, Kappetein AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, Erasmus MC Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. o.birim@erasmusmc.nl

Randomized trials have compared revascularization of coronary artery disease by 
coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) or percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI). CABG is an expensive treatment. However, it manages to 
improve quality of life, restore general well being, and alleviate symptoms of 
patients. Coronary stents have improved the safety and durability of PCI. 
Nonetheless, stenting remains limited by a relatively high in-stent restenosis 
and thrombosis rate. The costs and cost-effectiveness for these different 
treatment modalities are relevant issues because cardiovascular disease and its 
management are prime targets for cost reduction initiatives. There is a debate 
as to which is the optimal treatment strategy as well as to the 
cost-effectiveness comparing CABG and PCI. This review provides an overview of 
cost-effectiveness of CABG compared with PCI. PCI has high costs due to the need 
for subsequent revascularization procedures, with absence of mortality and 
survival benefit compared with CABG. Despite the relative lower initial costs of 
PCI in the first year, PCI is not a cost-effective intervention in comparison 
with CABG. However, the studies undertaken to date have predominantly been short 
term and provide a very limited evidence base by which to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of modern clinical practice. It seems that in longer term, 
the benefits of CABG may exceed those of stenting and the difference in net cost 
may be in favour of CABG as the risk of repeat revascularization still increases 
with PCI regardless of the use of DES. However, to date no long-term data are 
available in cost-effectiveness between CABG and PCI. The 5-year outcome of the 
ongoing SYNTAX trial is essential and might therefore provide new insights into 
the comparison of cost-effectiveness between CABG and DES PCI.

PMID: 22252542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Korean J Pediatr. 2011 Nov;54(11):429-35. doi: 10.3345/kjp.2011.54.11.429.
Epub  2011 Nov 30.

The changing trends in live birth statistics in Korea, 1970 to 2010.

Lim JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Konyang University Hospital, Daejeon, Korea.

Although Korean population has been growing steadily during the past four 
decades, the nation is rapidly becoming an aging society because of its 
declining birth rate combined with an increasing life expectancy. In addition, 
Korea has one of the lowest fertility rates in the world due to fewer married 
couples, advanced maternal age, and falling birth rate. The prevalence of low 
birth weight infants and multiple births has been increased compared with the 
decrease in the birth rate. Moreover, the number of congenital anomalies is 
expected to increase due to the advanced maternal age. In addition, the number 
of interracial children is expected to increase due to the rise in the number of 
international marriages. However, the maternal education level is high, 
single-mother birth rate is low, and the gender imbalance has lessened. The 
number of overweight babies has been decreased, as more pregnant women are 
receiving adequate prenatal care. Compared to the Asian average birth weight, 
the average birth weight is the highest in Asia. Moreover, the rate of low birth 
weight infants is low, and infant mortality is similarly low across Asia. Using 
birth data from Statistics Korea and studies of birth outcomes in Korea and 
abroad, this study aimed to assess the changes in maternal and infant 
characteristics associated with birth outcomes during the past four decades and 
identify necessary information infrastructures to study countermeasures the 
decrease in birth rate and increase in low birth weight infants in Korea.

DOI: 10.3345/kjp.2011.54.11.429
PMCID: PMC3254888
PMID: 22253639


380. PLoS One. 2012;7(1):e29666. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0029666. Epub 2012 Jan
11.

Reduction of mitoferrin results in abnormal development and extended lifespan in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Ren Y(1), Yang S, Tan G, Ye W, Liu D, Qian X, Ding Z, Zhong Y, Zhang J, Jiang D, 
Zhao Y, Lu J.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Ministry of Education of China, 
Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics, School of Laboratory 
Medicine and Life Science, Wenzhou Medical College, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China.

Iron is essential for organisms. It is mainly utilized in mitochondria for 
biosynthesis of iron-sulfur clusters, hemes and other cofactors. Mitoferrin 1 
and mitoferrin 2, two homologues proteins belonging to the mitochondrial solute 
carrier family, are required for iron delivery into mitochondria. Mitoferrin 1 
is highly expressed in developing erythrocytes which consume a large amount of 
iron during hemoglobinization. Mitoferrin 2 is ubiquitously expressed, whose 
functions are less known. Zebrafish with mitoferrin 1 mutation show profound 
hypochromic anaemia and erythroid maturation arrests, and yeast with defects in 
MRS3/4, the counterparts of mitoferrin 1/2, has low mitochondrial iron levels 
and grows poorly by iron depletion. Mitoferrin 1 expression is up-regulated in 
yeast and mouse models of Fiedreich's ataxia disease and in human cell culture 
models of Parkinson disease, suggesting its involvement in the pathogenesis of 
diseases with mitochondrial iron accumulation. In this study we found that 
reduced mitoferrin levels in C. elegans by RNAi treatment causes pleiotropic 
phenotypes such as small body size, reduced fecundity, slow movement and 
increased sensitivity to paraquat. Despite these abnormities, lifespan was 
increased by 50% to 80% in N2 wild type strain, and in further studies using the 
RNAi sensitive strain eri-1, more than doubled lifespan was observed. The 
pathways or mechanisms responsible for the lifespan extension and other 
phenotypes of mitoferrin RNAi worms are worth further study, which may 
contribute to our understanding of aging mechanisms and the pathogenesis of iron 
disorder related diseases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0029666
PMCID: PMC3256167
PMID: 22253756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


381. Nutrients. 2009 Jan;1(1):50-70. doi: 10.3390/nu1010050. Epub 2009 Aug 14.

Dietary calcium and dairy modulation of oxidative stress and mortality in 
aP2-agouti and wild-type mice.

Bruckbauer A(1), Zemel MB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 
37996-1920, USA.

Oxidative and inflammatory stress have been implicated as major contributors to 
the aging process. Dietary Ca reduced both factors in short-term interventions, 
while milk exerted a greater effect than supplemental Ca. In this work, we 
examined the effects of life-long supplemental and dairy calcium on lifespan and 
life-span related biomarkers in aP2-agouti transgenic (model of diet-induced 
obesity) and wild-type mice fed obesigenic diets until their death. These data 
demonstrate that dairy Ca exerts sustained effects resulting in attenuated 
adiposity, protection against age-related muscle loss and reduction of oxidative 
and inflammatory stress in both mouse strains. Although these effects did not 
alter maximum lifespan, they did suppress early mortality in wild-type mice, but 
not in aP2-agouti transgenic mice.

DOI: 10.3390/nu1010050
PMCID: PMC3257586
PMID: 22253967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nutrients. 2011 Mar;3(3):274-82. doi: 10.3390/nu3030274. Epub 2011 Feb 28.

Aging and longevity: why knowing the difference is important to nutrition 
research.

McDonald RB(1), Ruhe RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
rcruhe@ucdavis.edu

Life expectancies after the age of 70 and the number of individuals living with 
age-related chronic conditions that affect daily activities continue to 
increase. Age-specific nutritional recommendations may help to decrease the 
incidence or severity of age-related debilitating chronic disorders. However, 
research in this area has seen limited success in identifying nutrition-related 
mechanisms that underlie the functional loss and chronic conditions that occur 
as a function of time. We believe that the limited success in establishing 
age-specific nutrition recommendations for the older population reflects, at 
least in part, research designs that fail to consider the evolutionary and 
biological bases of aging and longevity. Longevity has evolved as a by-product 
of genes selected for their contribution in helping the organism survive to the 
age of reproduction. As such, the principle of genetic determinism provides an 
appropriate underlying theory for research designs evaluating nutritional 
factors involved with life span. Aging is not a product of evolution and 
reflects stochastic and/or random events that most likely begin during the 
early, reproductively-active years. The genetic determinism model by which young 
(normal, control) are compared to old (abnormal, experimental) groups will not 
be effective in identifying underlying mechanisms and nutritional factors that 
impact aging. The purpose of this commentary is to briefly discuss the 
difference between aging and longevity and why knowing the difference is 
important to nutrition research and to establishing the most precise nutritional 
recommendations possible for the older population.

DOI: 10.3390/nu3030274
PMCID: PMC3257745
PMID: 22254097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2011;2011:2033-6. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2011.6090374.

Analysis of complexity based EEG features for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Staudinger T(1), Polikar R.

Author information:
(1)Signal Processing and Pattern Recognition Laboratory, Dept of Electrical and 
Computer Eng, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ 08028, USA. 
staudi25@students.rowan.edu

As life expectancy increases, particularly in the developed world, so does the 
prevalence of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). AD is a neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by neurofibrillary plaques and tangles in the brain that leads to 
neuronal death and dementia. Early diagnosis of AD is still a major unresolved 
health concern: several biomarkers are being investigated, among which the 
electroencephalogram (EEG) provides the only option for an electrophysiological 
information. In this study, EEG signals obtained from 161 subjects--79 with AD, 
and 82 age-matched controls (CN)--are analyzed using several nonlinear signal 
complexity measures. These measures include: Higuchi fractal dimension (HFD), 
spectral entropy (SE), spectral centroid (SC), spectral roll-off (SR), and 
zero-crossing rate (ZCR). HFD is a quantitative measure of time series 
complexity derived from fractal theory. Among spectral measures, SE measures the 
level of disorder in the spectrum, SC is a measure of spectral shape, and SR is 
frequency sample below which a specified percent of the spectral magnitude 
distribution is contained. Lastly, ZCR is simply the rate at which the signal 
changes signs. A t-test was first applied to determine those features that 
provide significant differences between the groups. Those features were then 
used to train a neural network. The classification accuracies ranged from 
60-66%, suggesting they contain some discriminatory information; however, not 
enough to be clinically useful alone. Combining these features and training a 
support vector machine (SVM) resulted in a diagnostic accuracy of 78%, 
indicating that these feature carry complementary information.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2011.6090374
PMID: 22254735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2011;2011:5182-7. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2011.6091283.

Us'em: the user-centered design of a device for motivating stroke patients to 
use their impaired arm-hand in daily life activities.

Markopoulos P(1), Timmermans AA, Beursgens L, van Donselaar R, Seelen HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Design, Eindhoven University of Technology. 
P.Markopoulos@tue.nl

Stroke leaves the majority of its survivors with an impairment of the upper 
extremity that affects their ability to live independently and their quality of 
life. Rehabilitation research shows that practice of everyday life activities in 
a natural context may sustain or even improve arm-hand performance, even during 
chronic stages after stroke. Based on this insight we designed, developed and 
evaluated Us'em; this consists of two watch-like accelerometry devices that 
provide feedback to stroke patients regarding the usage of their impaired versus 
their non-affected upper extremity. System usability and treatment 
credibility/expectancy were evaluated positively by therapists and patients.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2011.6091283
PMID: 22255506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2011;2011:6438-41. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2011.6091589.

Rough Set Theory based prognostication of life expectancy for terminally ill 
patients.

Gil-Herrera E(1), Yalcin A, Tsalatsanis A, Barnes LE, Djulbegovic B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial and Management System Engineering, University of 
South Florida, Tampa, FL 33620, USA. eleazar@mail.usf.edu

We present a novel knowledge discovery methodology that relies on Rough Set 
Theory to predict the life expectancy of terminally ill patients in an effort to 
improve the hospice referral process. Life expectancy prognostication is 
particularly valuable for terminally ill patients since it enables them and 
their families to initiate end-of-life discussions and choose the most desired 
management strategy for the remainder of their lives. We utilize retrospective 
data from 9105 patients to demonstrate the design and implementation details of 
a series of classifiers developed to identify potential hospice candidates. 
Preliminary results confirm the efficacy of the proposed methodology. We 
envision our work as a part of a comprehensive decision support system designed 
to assist terminally ill patients in making end-of-life care decisions.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2011.6091589
PMID: 22255812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. East Mediterr Health J. 2011 Oct;17(10):784-93. doi:
10.26719/2011.17.10.784.

Health care system in Saudi Arabia: an overview.

Almalki M(1), Fitzgerald G, Clark M.

Author information:
(1)College of Health Sciences, University of Jazan, Jazan, Saudi Arabia. 
mohammed.almalki@gmail.com

Comment in
    East Mediterr Health J. 2012 Oct;18(10):1078-9.

The government of Saudi Arabia has given high priority to the development of 
health care services at all levels: primary, secondary and tertiary. As a 
consequence, the health of the Saudi population has greatly improved in recent 
decades. However, a number of issues pose challenges to the health care system, 
such a shortage of Saudi health professionals, the health ministry's multiple 
roles, limited financial resources, changing patterns of disease, high demand 
resulting from free services, an absence of a national crisis management policy, 
poor accessibility to some health care facilities, lack of a national health 
information system, and the underutilization of the potential of electronic 
health strategies. This paper reviews the historical development and current 
structure of the health care system in Saudi Arabia with particular emphasis on 
the public health sector and the opportunities and challenges confronting the 
Saudi health care system.

DOI: 10.26719/2011.17.10.784
PMID: 22256414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. BJU Int. 2012 Mar;109 Suppl 2:1-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10870.x.

Novel approaches to improve prostate cancer diagnosis and management in 
early-stage disease.

Marberger M(1), Barentsz J, Emberton M, Hugosson J, Loeb S, Klotz L, Koch M, 
Shariat SF, Vickers A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18 – 20, 
Vienna, Austria. Michael.Marberger@A1.net

The reported incidence of prostate cancer has risen since the implementation of 
screening. It is felt that the introduction of widespread prostate-specific 
antigen testing is responsible for most patients with prostate cancer now being 
diagnosed with asymptomatic, clinically localised disease. Diagnosis at this 
stage is associated with significantly improved treatment outcomes and longer 
life expectancy. Although there is evidence that screening has reduced prostate 
cancer mortality, there is a risk of over-diagnosis and over-treatment of early 
state prostate cancers, including clinically insignificant and indolent cancers. 
Active surveillance and focal therapy have been advocated as potential 
management options for some patients. However, these approaches face several 
challenges. Biopsy sampling errors together with less than optimal imaging of 
tumours can lead to difficulties in selecting suitable low-risk patients for 
these options.  To overcome these challenges, novel approaches to the staging 
and monitoring of patients with early prostate cancer are being developed. These 
include new imaging techniques, such as multi-parametric magnetic resonance 
imaging, and the development of new biomarkers and biopsy-based methods. These 
techniques aim to assess the potential of a specific tumour to be aggressive, 
and to improve patient outcomes. The aim of the present paper is to summarise 
presentations and debates at the third annual Interactive Genitourinary Cancer 
Conference concerning the use of population-based screening methods and the 
roles of active surveillance and focal therapy as prostate cancer treatments. 
The application of novel imaging biopsy-based methods and biomarkers in 
early-stage prostate cancer will also be explored.

© 2012 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2012 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10870.x
PMID: 22257098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Transplantation. 2012 Feb 27;93(4):348-53. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e31823f7f47.

Advising potential recipients on the use of organs from donors with primary 
central nervous system tumors.

Warrens AN(1), Birch R, Collett D, Daraktchiev M, Dark JH, Galea G, Gronow K, 
Neuberger J, Hilton D, Whittle IR, Watson CJ; Advisory Committee on the Safety 
of Blood, Tissues and Organs, UK.

Author information:
(1)Office of the Dean for Education, Barts and the London School of Medicine, 
Queen Mary, University of London, London, United Kingdom. a.warrens@qmul.ac.uk

Comment in
    Exp Clin Transplant. 2015 Oct;13(5):490-2.

Deciding to use an organ from a donor with a primary central nervous system 
(CNS) tumor necessitates offsetting the risk of tumor transmission with the 
chances of survival if the patient waits for another offer of a transplant. 
Published data vary in the quoted risk of tumor transmission. We used data 
obtained by reviewing 246 UK recipients of organs taken from donors with CNS 
tumors and found no evidence of a difference in overall patient mortality for 
recipients of a kidney, liver, or cardiothoracic organ, compared with recipients 
of organs from donors without a CNS tumor. Recent publication of the UK 
experience of transplanting organs from CNS tumor donors found no transmission 
in 448 recipients of organs from 177 donors with a primary CNS tumor (Watson et 
al., Am J Transplant 2010; 10: 1437). This 0% transmission rate is associated 
with an upper 95% confidence interval limit of 1.5%. Using a series of 
assumptions of risk, we compared the risks of dying as a result of the 
transmission of a primary brain tumor with the risks of dying if not 
transplanted. On this basis, the use of kidneys from a donor with a primary CNS 
tumor provides a further 8 years of life over someone who waited for a donor who 
did not have a primary CNS tumor, in addition to the life years gained by the 
transplant itself. The benefits for the recipients of livers and cardiothoracic 
organs were less, but there was no disadvantage in the impact on life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e31823f7f47
PMID: 22258288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2012;156(3):A3696.

[Indications for palliative sedation].

[Article in Dutch]

van Casteren HW(1), Mensink FM, Fokke JE, Veldhoven CM, Kodde HL.

Author information:
(1)Integraal Kankercentrum Nederland, Ondersteuningspunt Palliatieve Zorg, 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands. m.van.casteren@kalorama.nl

Two male patients, aged 75 and 47 years, suffered from dyspnoea in the terminal 
phase of their disease, COPD and lung cancer, respectively. Both were given 
palliative sedation. The palliative consultation team was consulted when 
problems occurred. Although the Royal Dutch Medical Association issued a 
guideline on palliative sedation, the practice of administering palliative 
sedation is still complicated. Determining whether a symptom is 'refractory' and 
estimating the life expectancy is especially complex. A symptom is refractory 
when it causes unbearable suffering and conventional modes of treatment are not 
effective or timely. Knowledge of this guideline, early anticipation of possible 
scenarios and communication with the patient and his family contribute to good 
care. The palliative consultation team can help physicians with these decisions, 
preferably by starting at an early stage.

PMID: 22258441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2011 Nov;50(5):434-40. doi:
10.3340/jkns.2011.50.5.434.  Epub 2011 Nov 30.

Efficacy of decompression and fixation for metastatic spinal cord compression: 
analysis of factors prognostic for survival and postoperative ambulation.

Park JH(1), Rhim SC, Jeon SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: The goals of surgical intervention for metastatic spinal cord 
compression (MSCC) are prolonging survival and improving quality of life. 
Non-ambulatory paraplegic patients, either at presentation or after treatment, 
have a much shorter life expectancy than ambulatory patients. We therefore 
analyzed prognostic factors for survival and postoperative ambulation in 
patients surgically treated for MSCC.
METHODS: We assessed 103 patients with surgically treated MSCC who presented 
with lower extremity weakness between January 2001 and December 2008. Factors 
prognostic for overall survival (OS) and postoperative ambulation, including 
surgical method, age, sex, primary tumor site, metastatic spinal site, surgical 
levels, Tokuhashi score, and treatment with chemo- or radiation therapy, were 
analyzed retrospectively.
RESULTS: Median OS was significantly longer in the postoperatively ambulatory 
group [11.0 months; 95% confidence interval (CI), 9.29-12.71 months] than in the 
non-ambulatory group (5.0 months; 95% CI, 1.80-8.20 months) (p=0.035). When we 
compared median OS in patients with high (9-11) and low (0-8) Tokuhashi scores, 
they were significantly longer in the former (15.0 months; 95% CI, 9.29-20.71 
months vs. 9.0 months; 95% CI, 7.48-10.52 months; p=0.003). Multivariate 
logistic regression analysis showed that preoperative ambulation with or without 
aid [odds ratio (OR) 5.35; 95% CI 1.57-18.17; p=0.007] and hip flexion power 
greater than grade III (OR 6.23; 95% CI, 1.29-7.35; p=0.038) were prognostic of 
postoperative ambulation.
CONCLUSION: We found that postoperative ambulation and preoperative high 
Tokuhashi score were significantly associated with longer patient survival. In 
addition, preoperative hip flexion power greater than grade III was critical for 
postoperative ambulation.

DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2011.50.5.434
PMCID: PMC3259463
PMID: 22259690


391. East Mediterr Health J. 2011 Sep;17(9):654-64.

Health disparities between Muslim and non-Muslim countries.

Razzak JA(1), Khan UR, Azam I, Nasrullah M, Pasha O, Malik M, Ghaffar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Aga Kan University, Karachi, Pakistan. 
Junaid.razzak@aku.edu

Erratum in
    East Mediterr Health J. 2011 Dec;17(12):948.

We examined differences in health indicators and associated factors across 
countries according to the proportion of the population who are Muslim. Of 190 
UN countries, 48 were classified as Muslim-majority countries (MMC) and 142 as 
non-MMC. Data on 41 potential determinants of health were obtained from 10 
different data sources, and 4 primary outcome measures (male and female life 
expectancy, maternal mortality ratio and infant mortality rate) were analysed. 
Annual per capita expenditure on health in MMC was one-fifth that of non-MMC. 
Maternal mortality and infant mortality rates were twice as high in MMC as 
non-MMC. Adult literacy rate was significantly higher for non-MMC. Four 
significant predictors explained 52%-72% of the differences in health outcomes 
between the 2 groups: gross national income, literacy rate, access to clean 
water and level of corruption.

PMID: 22259915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Feb;60(2):193-201. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2011.03784.x.  Epub 2012 Jan 19.

Treating chronically ill people with diabetes mellitus with limited life 
expectancy: implications for performance measurement.

Woodard LD(1), Landrum CR, Urech TH, Profit J, Virani SS, Petersen LA.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy and Quality Program, Health Services Research and Development 
Center of Excellence, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. woodard.lechauncy@va.gov

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Feb;60(2):361-3.

OBJECTIVES: To develop an algorithm to identify individuals with limited life 
expectancy and examine the effect of limited life expectancy on glycemic control 
and treatment intensification in individuals with diabetes mellitus.
DESIGN: Individuals with diabetes mellitus and coexisting congestive heart 
failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, dementia, end-stage liver 
disease, and/or primary or metastatic cancer with limited life expectancy were 
identified. To validate the algorithm, 5-year mortality was assessed in 
individuals identified as having limited life expectancy. Rates of meeting 
performance measures for glycemic control between individuals with and without 
limited life expectancy were compared. In individuals with uncontrolled 
glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c) ) levels, the effect of limited life expectancy 
on treatment intensification within 90 days was examined.
SETTING: One hundred ten Department of Veterans Affairs facilities; October 2006 
to September 2007.
PARTICIPANTS: Eight hundred eighty-eight thousand six hundred twenty-eight 
individuals with diabetes mellitus.
MEASUREMENTS: HbA(1c) ; treatment intensification within 90 days of index 
HbA(1c) reading.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine thousand sixteen (3%) participants had limited life 
expectancy. Adjusting for age, 5-year mortality was five times as high in 
participants with limited life expectancy than in those without. Participants 
with limited life expectancy had poorer glycemic control than those without 
(glycemic control: 77.1% vs 78.1%; odds ratio (OR) = 0.84, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) = 0.81-0.86) and less-frequent treatment intensification 
(treatment intensification: 20.9% vs 28.6%; OR = 0.71, 95% CI = 0.67-0.76), even 
after controlling for patient-level characteristics.
CONCLUSION: Participants with limited life expectancy were less likely than 
those without to have controlled HbA(1c) levels and to receive treatment 
intensification, suggesting that providers treat these individuals less 
aggressively. Quality measurement and performance-based reimbursement systems 
should acknowledge the different needs of this population.

© 2012, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2012, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2011.03784.x
PMCID: PMC4811190
PMID: 22260627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: No author has any 
conflicts of interest to disclose.


393. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2012 Sep;16(5):449-58. doi:
10.1016/j.ejpn.2012.01.001.  Epub 2012 Jan 18.

Clinical outcomes, quality of life, and costs associated with implantation of 
vagus nerve stimulation therapy in pediatric patients with drug-resistant 
epilepsy.

Helmers SL(1), Duh MS, Guérin A, Sarda SP, Samuelson TM, Bunker MT, Olin BD, 
Jackson SD, Faught E.

Author information:
(1)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, United States. 
sandra.helmers@emory.edu

BACKGROUND: VNS (Vagus Nerve Stimulation Therapy) is approved in the USA to 
treat refractory epilepsy as adjunctive to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in 
patients ≥12 years with complex partial seizures.
AIMS: To evaluate clinical outcomes, quality-adjusted life years (QALY), and 
costs associated with VNS in pediatric patients with drug-resistant epilepsy in 
a real-world setting.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted using Medicaid data (USA). 
Patients had ≥1 neurologist visits with epilepsy diagnosis (ICD-9 345.xx, 
780.3x), ≥1 procedure claims for VNS implantation, ≥1 AEDs, ≥6-months of Pre- 
and Post-VNS continuous enrollment. Pre-VNS period was 6-months and Post-VNS 
period extended from implantation until device removal, death, Medicaid 
disenrollment, or study end (up to 3 years). Incidence rate ratios (IRR) and 
costs ($2010) were estimated. QALYs were estimated using number of 
seizure-related events.
RESULTS: For patients 1-11 years old (N = 238), hospitalizations and emergency 
room visits were reduced Post-VNS vs. Pre-VNS (adjusted IRR = 0.73 [95% CI: 
0.61-0.88] and 0.74 [95% CI: 0.65-0.83], respectively). Average total healthcare 
costs were lower Post-VNS vs. Pre-VNS ($18,437 vs. $18,839 quarterly [adjusted 
p = 0.052]). For patients 12-17 years old (N = 207), hospitalizations and status 
epilepticus events were reduced Post-VNS vs. Pre-VNS (adjusted IRR = 0.43 [95% 
CI: 0.34-0.54] and 0.25 [95% CI: 0.16-0.39], respectively). Average total 
healthcare costs were lower Post-VNS vs. Pre-VNS period ($14,546 vs. $19,695 
quarterly [adjusted p = 0.002]). Lifetime QALY gain after VNS was 5.96 (patients 
1-11 years) and 4.82 years (patients 12-17 years).
CONCLUSIONS: VNS in pediatric patients is associated with decreased resource use 
and epilepsy-related events, cost savings, and QALY gain.

Copyright © 2012 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2012.01.001
PMID: 22261080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. J Crohns Colitis. 2012 Feb;6(1):77-85. doi: 10.1016/j.crohns.2011.07.007.
Epub  2011 Sep 9.

Canadian cost-utility analysis of initiation and maintenance treatment with 
anti-TNF-α drugs for refractory Crohn's disease.

Blackhouse G(1), Assasi N, Xie F, Marshall J, Irvine EJ, Gaebel K, Campbell K, 
Hopkins R, O'Reilly D, Tarride JE, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health Research Institute, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. blackhou@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVES: Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the 
gastrointestinal tract. Symptoms include but are not limited to abdominal pain, 
nausea, emesis, and diarrhea. Anti-TNF-α drugs are increasingly being used in 
patients with CD who have inadequate response to conventional therapy. However, 
these medications are quite expensive. The objective of this study is to 
evaluate the cost-utility of two anti-TNF-α drugs (infliximab, adalimumab) for 
refractory CD.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the costs and QALYs of three 
treatments (usual care, infliximab, adalimumab) over a 5 year time horizon. 
After initial treatment, patients achieve remission, achieve treatment response 
or remain in the drug refractory health state. Patients who achieve remission or 
treatment response are at risk of relapse each 3 month model cycle. Patients in 
the drug refractory health state either remain in the health state or have 
surgery in each cycle. Different costs and utility values were assigned to the 
various model health states. Model input parameters including initial response 
rates, relapse rates, utility values were derived from published literature.
RESULTS: Usual care had both the lowest expected costs ($17,017) and QALYs 
(2.555), while infliximab had both the highest expected costs ($54,084) and 
QALYs (2.721). The incremental cost per QALY moving from usual care to 
adalimumab and from adalimumab to infliximab was estimated to be to be $193,305 
and $451,165, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on common willingness to pay thresholds, ant-TNF-α drugs 
would not be perceived as a cost effective treatment for refractory CD.

Copyright © 2011 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2011.07.007
PMID: 22261531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2012 Mar 5;51(10):2288-97. doi:
10.1002/anie.201105016.  Epub 2012 Jan 19.

Reprogramming the genetic code: from triplet to quadruplet codes.

Wang K(1), Schmied WH, Chin JW.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Rd, 
Cambridge, CB2 0QH UK.

The genetic code of cells is near-universally triplet, and since many ribosomal 
mutations are lethal, changing the cellular ribosome to read nontriplet codes is 
challenging. Herein we review work on the incorporation of unnatural amino acids 
into proteins in response to quadruplet codons, and the creation of an 
orthogonal translation system in the cell that uses an evolved orthogonal 
ribosome to efficiently direct the incorporation of unnatural amino acids in 
response to quadruplet codons. Using this system multiple distinct unnatural 
amino acids have been incorporated and used to genetically program emergent 
properties into recombinant proteins. Extension of approaches to incorporate 
multiple unnatural amino acids may allow the combinatorial biosynthesis of 
materials and therapeutics, and drive investigations into whether life with 
additional genetically encoded polymers can evolve to perform functions that 
natural biological systems cannot.

Copyright © 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/anie.201105016
PMID: 22262408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Clin Transl Oncol. 2012 Jan;14(1):43-9. doi: 10.1007/s12094-012-0760-z.

Predicting compliance and survival in palliative whole-brain radiotherapy for 
brain metastases.

Sabater S(1), Mur E, Müller K, Arenas M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Complejo Hospitalario Universitario, 
Albacete, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: Brain radiotherapy is the main treatment for patients with brain 
metastases but its goal is just symptom control. Our aim was to study if 
different performance tools, used in geriatric practice, could improve patient 
selection for decision-making in the palliative brain radiotherapy setting.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data from 61 consecutive patients were analysed. In 
addition to Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) their physical activity was 
assessed by means of the activity of daily living (ADL) and instrumental ADL 
(IADL) scales. A neurocognitive evaluation was performed with the Pfeiffer Short 
Portable Mental Status Questionnaire (SPMSQ) and with the Mini-Mental Status 
Exam (MMSE). Radiotherapy compliance and short survival were the endpoints of 
the study.
RESULTS: High rates of cognitive impairment were found by both neurocognitive 
tools (Pfeiffer: 19.7% of patients; MMSE: 30%). Dependence was also highly 
prevalent, either measured by the ADL (50.8%) or by the IADL (43.3%). Nearly one 
third (27.9%) of patients died soon after radiotherapy evaluation. Longer 
survival was related to female, younger than 60 years, breast cancer primary 
tumour, steroid response, RPA class, and higher performance and neurocognitive 
score tools. A premature death was associated with neurocognitive tools, IADL 
and longer interval from brain metastatic diagnosis to radiotherapy. 
Twenty-three percent of patients were not able to finish the WBRT course due to 
clinical deterioration. The only variable related to compliance was a low MMSE 
score.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that the geriatric tools analysed could offer 
information on brain palliative radiotherapy complementary to that offered by 
the more usual tools. It will be interesting to study if our data could be 
extrapolated to the general palliative oncological field.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-012-0760-z
PMID: 22262718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Am J Intellect Dev Disabil. 2012 Jan;117(1):33-47. doi: 
10.1352/1944-7558-117.1.33.

Predictors of future caregiving by adult siblings of individuals with 
intellectual and developmental disabilities.

Burke MM(1), Taylor JL, Urbano R, Hodapp RM.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University, Vanderbilt Kennedy Center and Department of Special 
Education, Nashville, TN 37203, USA. meghan.m.burke@vanderbilt.edu

With the growing life expectancy for individuals with intellectual and 
developmental disabilities, siblings will increasingly assume responsibility for 
the care of their brother or sister with intellectual and developmental 
disabilities. Using a 163-item survey completed by 757 siblings, the authors 
identified factors related to future caregiving expectations. Siblings expected 
to assume greater caregiving responsibility for their brother or sister with 
disabilities if they were female, had closer relationships with and lived closer 
to their brother or sister with intellectual and developmental disabilities, and 
were the lone sibling without a disability. Siblings who expected to assume 
higher levels of caregiving had parents who were currently more able to care for 
their brother or sister with disabilities. With a better understanding of who 
intends to fulfill future caregiving roles, support can be provided to these 
siblings.

DOI: 10.1352/1944-7558-117.1.33
PMID: 22264111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Int J Stroke. 2012 Feb;7(2):165-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2011.00767.x.

Burden of stroke in Malaysia.

Loo KW(1), Gan SH.

Author information:
(1)Human Genome Centre, School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 
Kubang Kerian, Kelantan, Malaysia.

Stroke is one of the top five leading causes of death and one of the top 10 
causes for hospitalization in Malaysia. Stroke is also in the top five diseases 
with the greatest burden of disease, based on disability-adjusted life years. 
However, prospective studies on stroke in Malaysia are limited. To date, neither 
the prevalence of stroke nor its incidence nationally has been recorded. 
Hypertension is the major risk factor for stroke. The mean age of stroke 
patients in Malaysia is between 54.5 and 62.6 years. Traditional medicine is 
commonly practiced. With the increasing number of stroke cases annually, more 
government and nongovernment organizations should be involved in primary and 
secondary prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2011.00767.x
PMID: 22264370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Value Health. 2012 Jan;15(1):1-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.09.003. Epub
2011  Nov 29.

Cost-effectiveness of nonpharmacologic, nonsurgical interventions for hip and/or 
knee osteoarthritis: systematic review.

Pinto D(1), Robertson MC, Hansen P, Abbott JH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Physiotherapy Research, School of Physiotherapy, University of 
Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand. daniel-pinto@northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of nonpharmacological, 
nonsurgical interventions for the treatment of hip and/or knee osteoarthritis.
METHODS: We identified economic evaluations or cost studies associated with 
randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials that assessed nonpharmacologic, 
nonsurgical interventions for the treatment of hip and/or knee osteoarthritis. 
Medline, Embase, PubMed, National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database, 
CENTRAL, EconLit, and OpenSIGLE were searched up to October 1, 2010. Study 
characteristics extracted include study population, health outcomes, and 
economic analysis elements. Economic analyses were assessed by using the Quality 
of Health Economic Studies instrument, and the methodological quality of the 
randomized controlled trials was graded by using an internal validity checklist. 
All costs were converted to 2008 US dollars.
RESULTS: Ten economic evaluations and one randomized controlled trial reporting 
health-care costs met our inclusion criteria. Interventions included exercise 
programs, acupuncture, rehabilitation programs, and lifestyle interventions. Six 
of the 11 studies exhibited high risks of bias for the cost and/or effect 
components of their cost-effectiveness estimate. Six studies used comparators of 
unknown cost-effectiveness. Four studies reported cost-effectiveness estimates 
lower than $50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year. All studies evaluating 
exercise interventions found the programs to be cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS: There is only limited evidence for the cost-effectiveness of 
conservative treatments for the management of hip and/or knee osteoarthritis. 
More high-quality economic evaluations of conservative interventions are needed 
to further inform practice.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.09.003
PMID: 22264966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Value Health. 2012 Jan;15(1):22-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.07.008. Epub
2011  Sep 29.

The cost-effectiveness of different chemotherapy strategies for patients with 
poor prognosis advanced colorectal cancer (MRC FOCUS).

Manca A(1), Asseburg C, Bravo Vergel Y, Seymour MT, Meade A, Stephens R, Parmar 
M, Sculpher MJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. am126@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To assess the value for money of alternative chemotherapy strategies 
for managing advanced colorectal cancer using irinotecan or oxaliplatin, either 
in sequence or in combination with fluorouracil.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model was developed using data from the U.K. 
fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, and CPT11 (irinotecan)--use and sequencing (FOCUS) 
trial. The analysis adopted the perspective of the U.K. National Health Service. 
Input parameters were derived using a system of risk equations (for 
probabilities), count data regression models (for resource use), and generalized 
linear models (for utilities). Parameter estimates were obtained using Markov 
chain Monte Carlo methods, propagating the simulation values through the 
state-transition model to characterize appropriately the joint distributions of 
expected cost, survival and quality-adjusted life years for each treatment 
strategy. An acceptability frontier was used to represent the probability that 
the optimal option is cost-effective at different values of the 
cost-effectiveness threshold.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis used drug unit costs provided by a typical 
English hospital. First-line doublet therapy combination therapy fluorouracil 
(5FU) plus irinotecan was the most cost-effective strategy at standard 
thresholds, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £14,877 
(pound sterling) compared with first-line 5FU until treatment failure followed 
by single agent irinotecan. Other strategies were all subject to extended 
dominance. A sensitivity analysis using published drug (list) prices found the 
most cost-effective strategy would be first-line fluorouracil until failure 
followed by 5FU plus irinotecan (ICER: £19,753).
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of 5FU and irinotecan (whether used first or second 
line) appears to be more cost-effective than the single agent sequential 
therapies used in the FOCUS trial, or 5FU plus oxaliplatin.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.07.008
PMID: 22264968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Value Health. 2012 Jan;15(1):39-45. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.10.003.

Modeling cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening in Hungary.

Vokó Z(1), Nagyjánosi L, Margitai B, Kövi R, Tóth Z, László D, Kaló Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Health Economics, Institute of Economics, 
Faculty of Social Sciences, Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest, Hungary. 
voko@caesar.elte.hu

OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to compare the cost-effectiveness of two national 
cervical cancer screening programs aiming to involve those who do not regularly 
participate in the screening program in Hungary with no screening, using a 
public health-care payer's perspective and a 20-year time horizon.
METHODS: We built a Markov model based on disease progression. The health-care 
costs of screening and treatment were received from real-word data. Other input 
data were obtained from the literature. The cost-effectiveness of the current 
screening program (a screening test that combines cytology and colposcopy in 
gynecological outpatient services) and of a planned new screening program (only 
cytology, and Pap smear is taken locally by public health nurses), both 
supported with a more active communication campaign, were compared with no 
screening.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the intensified current 
screening practice was $33,100 per quality-adjusted life-year compared with no 
screening, whereas the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the renewed 
program was $18,990 per quality-adjusted life-year compared with no screening. 
The most influential parameters in the deterministic analysis were the 
quality-of-life weights of undetected stage I or IIA cancer. In the 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, 99.9% of the simulations were below the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $30,000 per quality-adjusted life-year 
in the case of the renewed strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing services closer to the population is a rational economic 
option for the reform of the Hungarian cervical cancer screening program. The 
other policy aspects of this development, human resource need, stakeholders' 
interests, organizational aspects, and attitude of the target population need to 
be carefully considered.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.10.003
PMID: 22264970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Value Health. 2012 Jan;15(1):55-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.08.1741. Epub
2011  Nov 12.

Updating and confirming an industry-sponsored pharmacoeconomic model: comparing 
two antipsychotics in the treatment of schizophrenia.

Graham CN(1), Mauskopf JA, Lawson AH, Ascher-Svanum H, Bruhn D.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study updated a 2001 decision economic model that used indirect 
data and confirmed its findings by developing a new cost-effectiveness model by 
using now available head-to-head data. The models compared olanzapine with 
ziprasidone in the treatment of schizophrenia in the United States.
METHODS: A decision analytic modeling approach was used to estimate annual 
health-care costs and health outcomes, incorporating events such as response, 
relapse, and suicide. Patients without response to first-line treatment switched 
to the other comparator. Decision tree probabilities were extracted from 
head-to-head studies and other published clinical literature. Direct health-care 
costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were estimated on the basis of 
resource use and utility weights for initial and relapse episodes, maintenance 
therapy, and extended episodes of illness. Disutilities associated with 
treatment-emergent adverse events were included.
RESULTS: Consistent with the 2001 model, this model found that first-line 
treatment with olanzapine is associated with fewer hospital days, fewer days 
with extrapyramidal symptoms, and higher QALYs than is first-line treatment with 
ziprasidone. Total costs were lower for the olanzapine pathway ($70,232-$72,776 
vs. $73,086-$73,310 in the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale analysis) due to 
the cost savings associated with reduced health-care resource use. The 
incremental cost per QALY gained indicated that the olanzapine pathway dominated 
the ziprasidone pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision analytic models should be continuously assessed against 
new data. This case study shows that incorporating new data confirmed results of 
a previously published model in which olanzapine was associated with better 
expected health outcomes and lower total health-care costs than was ziprasidone.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

