range in the UK. In conclusion, the available pharmacoeconomic data indicate 
that rufinamide is more effective, but more expensive, than alternative 
adjunctive therapies approved for use in patients with LGS in the UK. Rufinamide 
would appear to be a cost-effective alternative to topiramate. Although 
rufinamide exceeds conventional cost-effectiveness thresholds when compared with 
lamotrigine, it may still be considered a valuable treatment option for a 
devastating orphan disease such as LGS.

DOI: 10.2165/11208630-000000000-00000
PMID: 22332960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. AIDS. 2012 May 15;26(8):987-95. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283522d47.

The cost-effectiveness of routine tuberculosis screening with Xpert MTB/RIF 
prior to initiation of antiretroviral therapy: a model-based analysis.

Andrews JR(1), Lawn SD, Rusu C, Wood R, Noubary F, Bender MA, Horsburgh CR, 
Losina E, Freedberg KA, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
02114, USA. jasonandr@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: In settings with high tuberculosis (TB) prevalence, 15-30% of 
HIV-infected individuals initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) have 
undiagnosed TB. Such patients are usually screened by symptoms and sputum smear, 
which have poor sensitivity.
OBJECTIVE: To project the clinical and economic outcomes of using Xpert 
MTB/RIF(Xpert), a rapid TB/rifampicin-resistance diagnostic, to screen 
individuals initiating ART.
DESIGN: We used a microsimulation model to evaluate the clinical impact and 
cost-effectiveness of alternative TB screening modalities - in all patients or 
only symptomatic patients - for hypothetical cohorts of individuals initiating 
ART in South Africa (mean CD4 cell count = 171 cells/μl; TB prevalence 22%). We 
simulated no active screening and four diagnostic strategies, smear microscopy 
(sensitivity 23%); smear and culture (sensitivity, 100%); one Xpert sample 
(sensitivity in smear-negative TB: 43%); two Xpert samples (sensitivity in 
smear-negative TB: 62%). Outcomes included projected life expectancy, lifetime 
costs (2010 US$), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Strategies 
with ICERs less than $7100 (South African gross domestic product per capita) 
were considered very cost-effective.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, life expectancy in TB-infected patients 
increased by 1.6 months using smear in symptomatic patients and by 6.6 months 
with two Xpert samples in all patients. At 22% TB prevalence, the ICER of smear 
for all patients was $2800 per year of life saved (YLS), and of Xpert (two 
samples) for all patients was $5100/YLS. Strategies involving one Xpert sample 
or symptom screening were less efficient.
CONCLUSION: Model-based analysis suggests that screening all individuals 
initiating ART in South Africa with two Xpert samples is very cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283522d47
PMCID: PMC3517815
PMID: 22333751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2012;7:43-55. doi: 10.2147/COPD.S27319.
Epub  2012 Feb 3.

Efficacy and safety of a fixed-dose combination of mometasone furoate and 
formoterol fumarate in subjects with moderate to very severe COPD: results from 
a 52-week Phase III trial.

Tashkin DP(1), Doherty DE, Kerwin E, Matiz-Bueno CE, Knorr B, Shekar T, Banerjee 
S, Staudinger H.

Author information:
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. 
dtashkin@mednet.ucla.edu

Erratum in
    Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2012;7:765.

BACKGROUND: A clinical trial of mometasone furoate/formoterol fumarate (MF/F) 
administered via a metered-dose inhaler in subjects with moderate to very severe 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) investigated the efficacy and 
safety of a fixed-dose combination of MF/F.
METHODS: This multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial had a 26-week 
treatment period and a 26-week safety extension. Subjects (n = 1055; ≥40 years) 
were current or ex- smokers randomized to twice-daily treatment with inhaled 
MF/F 400/10 μg, MF/F 200/10 μg, MF 400 μg, F 10 μg, or placebo. The coprimary 
endpoints of the trial were mean changes from baseline in forced expiratory 
volume in 1 second (FEV(1)) over 0-12 hours (AUC(0-12) FEV(1)) with MF/F versus 
MF, and in morning predose FEV(1) with MF/F versus F. Key secondary endpoints 
were quality of life (Saint George's Respiratory Questionnaire [SGRQ]), 
symptom-free nights, and partly stable COPD at 26 weeks, as well as time to 
first COPD exacerbation.
RESULTS: Significant improvements in FEV(1) AUC(0-12) occurred at endpoint with 
MF/F 400/10 and MF/F 200/10 versus MF 400 (P ≤ 0.007). Significant 
bronchodilation occurred in 5 minutes with MF/F, and serial spirometry 
demonstrated sustained FEV(1) improvements with MF/F over the treatment period. 
Significant improvements in morning predose FEV(1) occurred with both MF/F 
doses, and these effects were further investigated by excluding results for 
subjects whose morning FEV(1) data were collected >2 days after the last dose of 
study treatment. Improvements in SGRQ total scores surpassed the minimum 
clinically important difference of at least 4 units with MF/F 400/10. MF/F 
400/10 significantly reduced the time-to-first COPD exacerbation. Similar 
proportions of subjects in all five treatment groups reported treatment-emergent 
adverse events. Rates of pneumonia were low (≤1.0%) across treatment groups.
CONCLUSION: MF/F 400/10 μg twice daily was shown to be an effective therapy for 
patients with moderate to very severe COPD, and both MF/F 400/10 μg twice daily 
and MF/F 200/10 μg twice daily were well tolerated.

DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S27319
PMCID: PMC3276256
PMID: 22334768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2012 Jan;109(4):49-55. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2012.0049.
Epub  2012 Jan 27.

Phosphate additives in food--a health risk.

Ritz E(1), Hahn K, Ketteler M, Kuhlmann MK, Mann J.

Author information:
(1)Nierenzentrum Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. prof.e.ritz@t-online.de

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2012 Jul;109(27-28):492; author reply 493.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2012 Jul;109(27-28):492-3; author reply 493.

BACKGROUND: Hyperphosphatemia has been identified in the past decade as a strong 
predictor of mortality in advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD). For example, a 
study of patients in stage CKD 5 (with an annual mortality of about 20%) 
revealed that 12% of all deaths in this group were attributable to an elevated 
serum phosphate concentration. Recently, a high-normal serum phosphate 
concentration has also been found to be an independent predictor of 
cardiovascular events and mortality in the general population. Therefore, 
phosphate additives in food are a matter of concern, and their potential impact 
on health may well have been underappreciated.
METHODS: We reviewed pertinent literature retrieved by a selective search of the 
PubMed and EU databases (www.zusatzstoffe-online.de, www.codexalimentarius.de), 
with the search terms "phosphate additives" and "hyperphosphatemia."
RESULTS: There is no need to lower the content of natural phosphate, i.e. 
organic esters, in food, because this type of phosphate is incompletely 
absorbed; restricting its intake might even lead to protein malnutrition. On the 
other hand, inorganic phosphate in food additives is effectively absorbed and 
can measurably elevate the serum phosphate concentration in patients with 
advanced CKD. Foods with added phosphate tend to be eaten by persons at the 
lower end of the socioeconomic scale, who consume more processed and "fast" 
food. The main pathophysiological effect of phosphate is vascular damage, e.g. 
endothelial dysfunction and vascular calcification. Aside from the quality of 
phosphate in the diet (which also requires attention), the quantity of phosphate 
consumed by patients with advanced renal failure should not exceed 1000 mg per 
day, according to the guidelines.
CONCLUSION: Prospective controlled trials are currently unavailable. In view of 
the high prevalence of CKD and the potential harm caused by phosphate additives 
to food, the public should be informed that added phosphate is damaging to 
health. Furthermore, calls for labeling the content of added phosphate in food 
are appropriate.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2012.0049
PMCID: PMC3278747
PMID: 22334826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. J Asthma. 2012 Apr;49(3):260-6. doi: 10.3109/02770903.2012.656863. Epub 2012
Feb  16.

Measurement characteristics of the pediatric asthma health outcome measure.

Gerald JK(1), McClure LA, Harrington KF, Moore T, Hernández-Martínez AC, Gerald 
LB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Community, Environment and Policy, Mel and Enid Zuckerman College 
of Public Health, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724, USA. 
geraldj@email.arizona.edu

INTRODUCTION: The Pediatric Asthma Health Outcome Measure (PAHOM) was designed 
to measure quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in children with asthma. Our 
objective was to compare parent- and child-reported PAHOM scores to each other, 
to parent-reported scores on the Juniper Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ), and 
to physician-rated asthma control.
METHODS: A convenience sample of primarily African-American parent-child dyads 
(N = 261) was recruited from asthma clinics between May 2008 and May 2010. 
Correlations and differences in scores between the instruments and respondents 
were compared across variables of interest. The sensitivity and specificity of 
each, relative to physician-rated asthma control, were estimated.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) parent- and child-reported PAHOM scores were significantly 
different, 0.91 (0.13) and 0.95 (0.08), respectively, (p < .01) and were weakly 
correlated (0.24). Parent-reported PAHOM and parent-reported ACQ, 5-item version 
(ACQ5) scores were moderately correlated (-0.69). Both the parent- and 
child-reported PAHOM scores distinguished between physician-rated 
well-controlled and not well-controlled asthma (p < .01 and p < .01, 
respectively). When compared with physician-rated asthma control, the areas 
under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for the parent-reported 
PAHOM and the ACQ5 were similar (p = .11), but both performed better than the 
child-reported PAHOM (both p < .01). Discussion. The validity of the PAHOM is 
supported by its moderate correlation with the ACQ and its association with 
physician-rated asthma control. Although intended to be administered to 
children, parent-reported scores were better predictors of physician-rated 
asthma control.
CONCLUSIONS: A validation study in a more economically and ethnically diverse 
population is needed. Until then, we recommend the PAHOM to be administered to 
both parents and children.

DOI: 10.3109/02770903.2012.656863
PMID: 22335297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. J Nutr Gerontol Geriatr. 2012;31(1):16-37. doi:
10.1080/21551197.2012.647553.

Diet and acculturation among Hispanic/Latino older adults in the United States: 
a review of literature and recommendations.

Arandia G(1), Nalty C, Sharkey JR, Dean WR.

Author information:
(1)Program for Research in Nutrition and Health Disparities, School of Rural 
Public Health, Texas A&M Health Science Center, College Station, Texas 
77843-1266, USA.

Among U.S. and foreign-born Hispanic/Latino older adults living in the United 
States, associations of dietary acculturation and health outcomes have yielded 
no consistent findings. The purpose of this review was to present current 
knowledge and research disparities on acculturation, dietary intake, and health 
outcomes among the fastest growing minority group in the United States. Fifteen 
peer-reviewed studies that measured dietary acculturation among Mexican, Puerto 
Rican, and Dominican older adults living in the United States were identified 
and examined. This literature review divulged contradictory associations between 
dietary acculturation and dietary intake, along with nutritional and general 
health outcomes. Conclusive evidence has yet to be attained due to use of 
cross-sectional study designs and numerous acculturation measures as well as 
unique cultural and dietary patterns across diverse Hispanic/Latino populations. 
Further research is needed to ascertain dietary acculturation among U.S. and 
foreign-born Hispanic/Latino older adults in the United States and should strive 
to develop instruments that consider the social, economic, and political 
environments that influence the dietary acculturation process. Furthermore, 
longitudinal study designs and qualitative methodologies are warranted.

DOI: 10.1080/21551197.2012.647553
PMID: 22335438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Haemophilia. 2012 Mar;18(2):152-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2012.02754.x.

Health technology assessment and haemophilia.

Farrugia A(1), O'Mahony B, Cassar J.

Author information:
(1)Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association, Annapolis, MD, USA. 
afarrugia@pptaglobal.org

Although the funding of rare diseases such as haemophilia in developing 
countries remains a low priority, pressures on the funding of haemophilia 
treatment are also emerging in developed economies affected by the global 
economic downturn and the other demands on health care budgets. This is leading 
advisory bodies and payers alike to explore the tools of Health Technology 
Assessment (HTAs) in deriving recommendations for reimbursement policies. In 
particular, the use of cost utility analysis (CUA) in deriving costs per quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) for different interventions is being used to rank 
interventions in order of priorities relative to a threshold cost per QALY. In 
these exercises, rare chronic disorders such as haemophilia emerge as 
particularly unattractive propositions for reimbursement, as the accepted 
methodology of deriving a CUA. For e.g. the use of prophylaxis in haemophilia 
leads to a range of costs/QALY which exceed the willingness to pay thresholds of 
most payers. In this commentary, we review the principles utilized in a recent 
systematic review of the use of haemophilia products carried out in Sweden as 
part of an HTA. We suggest that ranking haemophilia related interventions with 
the standard interventions of therapeutics and public health in CUA comparisons 
is inappropriate. Given that haemophilia treatment is a form of blood 
replacement therapy, we propose that such comparisons should be made with the 
interventions of mainstream blood transfusion. We suggest that unequivocally 
effective treatments such as haemophilia therapies should be assessed 
differently from mainstream interventions, that new methodologies are required 
for these kinds of diseases and that evidence of a societal willingness to 
support people with rare disorders needs to be recognized when reimbursement 
policies are developed.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2012.02754.x
PMID: 22335450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Feb 15;12:39. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-39.

Health care priority setting in Norway a multicriteria decision analysis.

Defechereux T(1), Paolucci F, Mirelman A, Youngkong S, Botten G, Hagen TP, 
Niessen LW.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, 
615 N Wolfe Street, Baltimore, USA. Thierry@Defechereux-MD.com

BACKGROUND: Priority setting in population health is increasingly based on 
explicitly formulated values. The Patients Rights Act of the Norwegian tax-based 
health service guaranties all citizens health care in case of a severe illness, 
a proven health benefit, and proportionality between need and treatment. This 
study compares the values of the country's health policy makers with these three 
official principles.
METHODS: In total 34 policy makers participated in a discrete choice experiment, 
weighting the relative value of six policy criteria. We used multi-variate 
logistic regression with selection as dependent valuable to derive odds ratios 
for each criterion. Next, we constructed a composite league table - based on the 
sum score for the probability of selection - to rank potential interventions in 
five major disease areas.
RESULTS: The group considered cost effectiveness, large individual benefits and 
severity of disease as the most important criteria in decision making. Priority 
interventions are those related to cardiovascular diseases and respiratory 
diseases. Less attractive interventions rank those related to mental health.
CONCLUSIONS: Norwegian policy makers' values are in agreement with principles 
formulated in national health laws. Multi-criteria decision approaches may 
provide a tool to support explicit allocation decisions.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-39
PMCID: PMC3312861
PMID: 22335815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Urol. 2012 Apr;187(4):1241-6. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2011.12.015. Epub 2012
Feb  14.

Active surveillance versus surgery for low risk prostate cancer: a clinical 
decision analysis.

Liu D(1), Lehmann HP, Frick KD, Carter HB.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Department of Urology, the James 
Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland 
21287-2101, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Oct;188(4):1400; author reply 1400.

PURPOSE: We assessed the effect of age, health status and patient preferences on 
outcomes of surgery vs active surveillance for low risk prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used Monte Carlo simulation of Markov models of the 
life courses of 200,000 men diagnosed with low risk prostate cancer and treated 
with surveillance or radical prostatectomy to calculate quality adjusted life 
expectancy, life expectancy, prostate cancer specific mortality and years of 
treatment side effects, with model parameters derived from the literature. We 
simulated outcomes for men 50 to 75 years old with poor, average or excellent 
health status (50%, 100% and 150% of average life expectancy, respectively). 
Sensitivity of outcomes to uncertainties in model parameters was tested.
RESULTS: For 65-year-old men in average health, surgery resulted in 0.3 
additional years of life expectancy, 1.6 additional years of impotence or 
incontinence and a 4.9% decrease in prostate cancer specific mortality compared 
to surveillance, for a net difference of 0.05 fewer quality adjusted life years. 
Increased age and poorer baseline health status favored surveillance. With 
greater than 95% probability, surveillance resulted in net benefits compared to 
surgery for age older than 74, 67 and 54 years for men in excellent, average and 
poor health, respectively. Patient preferences toward life under surveillance, 
biochemical recurrence of disease, treatment side effects and future discount 
rate affected optimal management choice.
CONCLUSIONS: Older men and men in poor health are likely to have better quality 
adjusted life expectancy with active surveillance. However, specific individual 
preferences impact optimal choices and should be a primary consideration in 
shared decision making.

Copyright Â© 2012 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2011.12.015
PMCID: PMC3952430
PMID: 22335873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2012 Apr;8(4):506-8. doi: 10.4161/hv.18334. Epub 2012
Feb  16.

Pharmaco-economic aspects of sipuleucel-T.

Simoens S(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Pharmaceutical Care and Pharmaco-Economics, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. steven.simoens@pharm.kuleuven.be

Sipuleucel-T, a new autologous active cellular immunotherapy, is indicated for 
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. This Commentary aims to 
highlight pharmaco-economic aspects relating to the clinical evidence, 
cost-effectiveness and reimbursement of sipuleucel-T. Today, there is still 
uncertainty surrounding the clinical benefit of sipuleucel-T and existing 
evidence relates to the efficacy of sipuleucel-T in a structured setting rather 
than to its effectiveness in a real-world setting. Due to the clinical 
uncertainty, there may be scope to introduce a 'coverage with evidence 
development' scheme, where sipuleucel-T is reimbursed subject to further 
evidence being generated about its (cost-)effectiveness. Given the high price 
for a modest effectiveness, sipuleucel-T is unlikely to be cost-effective. 
However, other societal considerations may matter such as the fact that 
sipuleucel-T is an end-of-life treatment. A case can be made to apply weights to 
quality-adjusted life years accrued in the later stages of terminal diseases, 
thereby improving the cost-effectiveness of sipuleucel-T. Also, risk-sharing 
arrangements could be considered where the manufacturer shares the risk with the 
third-party payer that the product may or may not be effective for a particular 
patient. However, the current absence of markers to identify eligible patients 
and to assess treatment response inhibits the implementation of a risk-sharing 
arrangement for sipuleucel-T.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.18334
PMID: 22336882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Crit Pathw Cardiol. 2012 Mar;11(1):20-5. doi: 10.1097/HPC.0b013e318246854c.

Cost-effectiveness of a novel indication of computed tomography of the coronary 
arteries.

Powell ES(1), Patterson BW, Venkatesh AK, Khare RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. emilie-powell@md.northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: A common strategy for excluding coronary artery disease among 
patients presenting with low-risk chest pain is observation unit (OU) admission 
with serial cardiac biomarkers and stress testing for cardiac risk 
stratification. Patients with positive- or indeterminate-stress tests are often 
admitted for cardiac catheterization despite a low likelihood of disease. The 
aim of this study is to estimate the cost-effectiveness of computed tomography 
of the coronary arteries (CTCA) in the OU for the evaluation of low-risk chest 
pain patients with indeterminate- or positive-stress test results.
METHODS: We conducted a decision analytic study to compare health outcomes and 
costs between 3 cardiac risk-stratification strategies in a population of 
patients at low cardiac risk admitted to the OU, who later had indeterminate- or 
abnormal-stress tests. Our population and test characteristics were based on 
data obtained both from the published literature and from a retrospective cohort 
review previously performed at our institution. The 3 strategies compared were 
(1) A CTCA strategy in which patients with positive- or indeterminate-stress 
tests subsequently underwent CTCA, and only received catheterization if results 
were positive, (2) A standard-of-care arm in which all patients with positive- 
or indeterminate-stress tests were admitted for catheterization, and (3) A 
do-nothing strategy in which all patients were discharged home after stress 
testing regardless of outcome. Outcomes measured were cost of care and life 
expectancy. Sensitivity analysis was performed with a multivariate Monte Carlo 
methodology.
RESULTS: Both the CTCA and standard-of-care strategies dominated the do-nothing 
strategy in the base case. When comparing the standard-of-care with the CTCA 
strategy, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $3,423,309 per additional 
year of life gained. Sensitivity analysis showed that below a willingness to pay 
of $600,000 per additional year of life, CTCA was the most likely strategy to be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: In this computer-modeled analysis, the addition of CTCA following 
positive- or indeterminate-stress tests to an OU cardiac risk-stratification 
pathway for low-risk chest pain patients achieved significant cost savings with 
a small decrease in life expectancy per patient. Adding CTCA after 
indeterminate- or positive-stress test results is a cost-effective intervention 
for further risk-stratifying low-risk chest pain patients in the OU setting 
before proceeding to traditional coronary angiography.

DOI: 10.1097/HPC.0b013e318246854c
PMID: 22337217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2012 Mar;43(3):e8-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.176.

Percutaneous cervical cordotomy for non-cancer pain in a patient with terminal 
esophageal carcinoma.

Lewin J, Hugel H, Sharma ML.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.176
PMID: 22337357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. J Craniofac Surg. 2012 Jan;23(1):e31-3. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3182420981.

Disappearing dermoid: fact or fiction?

Maurice SM(1), Burstein FD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Craniofacial and Children's Reconstructive Surgery, Mercy Medical 
Center-Des Moines, Des Moines, Iowa 50314, USA. smauricemd@gmail.com

Dermoid cysts are common periorbital lesions. They usually present early in life 
as mobile, palpable, well-circumscribed masses near the lateral brow. 
Transcranial extension of a superficial, nonmidline, periorbital dermoid cyst is 
rare. We report 2 cases of dermoid cysts of the lateral brow that were 
originally recognized during the newborn period. Over time, they appeared to be 
clinically resolved, but they presented years later with full-thickness bone 
erosion and transcranial extension. Excision was performed via a combined 
extracranial and intracranial approach. The treatment, pathophysiology, and 
natural history of orbitofacial dermoid cysts are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3182420981
PMID: 22337456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. BMJ. 2012 Feb 15;344:e1141. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e1141.

Rise in life expectancy is marred by widening inequality gap.

Torjesen I.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e1141
PMID: 22337750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Coll Antropol. 2012 Jan;36 Suppl 1:113-6.

Obesity--new threat to Croatian longevity.

Milanović SM(1), Ivanković D, Uhernik AI, Fister K, Peternel R, Vuletić S.

Author information:
(1)University of Zagreb, School of Medicine, "Andrija Stampar" School of Public 
Health, Department of Medical Statistics, Epidemiology and Medical Informatics, 
Zagreb, Croatia. sanja.music@hzjz.hr

The aim of this study was to examine the association of weight gain and life 
expectancy at birth in Croatia. Mean body mass index was based on the data from 
the Croatian Adult Health Survey 2003. Birth rate and mortality data needed for 
life expectancy calculation were supplied by the Central Bureau of Statistics. 
The results suggest that the increase in mean body mass index value (1.31 kg 
m(-2) for women and 1.41 kg m(-2) for men) will shorten life expectancy at birth 
for one year. Obesity, if unchecked, might have a negative effect on life 
expectancy in Croatia. Despite widespread knowledge about how to reduce the 
severity of the problem, observed trends in obesity in Croatia continue to 
worsen. These trends threaten to diminish the health and life expectancy of 
current and future generations.

PMID: 22338758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Curr Drug Discov Technol. 2012 Dec;9(4):237-55. doi:
10.2174/157016312803305933.

Immunotherapy with tumor vaccines for the treatment of malignant gliomas.

Ajay D(1), Sanchez-Perez L, Choi BD, De Leon G, Sampson JH.

Author information:
(1)Duke Brain Tumor Immunotherapy Program, Division of Neurosurgery, Department 
of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. 
divyaajay@nus.edu.sg

With an average life expectancy of 14 months, Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), is 
the most aggressive primary brain tumor. Our growing understanding of the immune 
system and its role in oncogenesis has helped develop cancer vaccines as a 
promising treatment modality against this disease. What follows is a 
comprehensive discussion on the history of immunotherapy and the various vaccine 
based therapies being developed and utilized for the treatment of malignant 
gliomas.

DOI: 10.2174/157016312803305933
PMID: 22339070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Med Imaging Radiat Oncol. 2012 Feb;56(1):66-74. doi: 
10.1111/j.1754-9485.2011.02331.x.

Value of fused positron emission tomography CT in detecting primaries in 
patients with primary unknown cervical lymph node metastasis.

Chen YH(1), Yang XM, Li SS, Wang YH, He JJ, Yang YD, Wang S, Liu JJ, Zhang XL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, the Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.

OBJECTIVE: Identification of the primary tumour can prolong the life expectancy 
of patients with primary unknown cervical lymph node metastasis (PUCLNM) through 
targeted therapy. This study investigated the value of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose 
positron emission tomography/computed tomography (FDG PET-CT) at identifying 
primaries in patients with PUCLNM.
METHODS: Twenty-seven patients (21 males and 6 females, median age 48.2 ± 16.3, 
age range 30-73) with PUCLNM underwent FDG PET-CT to search for the primary 
tumour, which could not be detected by conventional diagnostic modalities. The 
results were analysed and correlated with either pathological findings or 
clinical follow up.
RESULTS: Pathological FDG uptake suspicious for the primary was detected in 13 
cases, while the primary tumour remained occult in 14 cases. Eleven of 13 
patients with suspected primaries were confirmed by histological findings. One 
with a coexisting second tumour and three with unexpected distant metastases 
were found in patients with confirmed primaries. The most common primary 
location in patients with PUCLNM found in our study was nasopharynx. In those 14 
patients with negative FDG PET-CT results, only one patient had a primary 
malignancy that was proven histologically after endoscopy with biopsy during a 
period of clinical follow up. The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and 
positive predictive values of FDG PET-CT were 91.7, 86.7, 88.9 and 84.6%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: FDG PET-CT is a useful tool to help search for unknown primaries in 
patients with cervical lymph node metastasis and has an acceptable diagnostic 
yield for the detection of distant malignancies.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Medical Imaging and Radiation Oncology © 2012 The 
Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Radiologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1754-9485.2011.02331.x
PMID: 22339748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Nurs Scholarsh. 2012 Mar;44(1):55-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1547-5069.2011.01438.x.  Epub 2012 Feb 17.

Nurses' experiences of the encounter with elder neglect.

Winterstein TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology, Faculty of Social Welfare & Health Sciences, 
University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel. twinters@research.haifa.ac.il

PURPOSE: Nurses are on the front line in encounters with elder neglect. In spite 
of their significant role, they are not always aware of this. The purpose of 
this paper was to understand the meanings that nurses ascribe to elder neglect 
through their perceptions and professional experience with older people and to 
throw light on nurses' significant role in this encounter.
DESIGN AND METHODS: An integrated review of the current literature was completed 
and 30 Israeli professional nurses working in long-term geriatric care 
facilities were interviewed using a semistructured interview guide. Interviews 
were tape recorded and transcribed verbatim. Data analysis was performed 
according to the phenomenological method.
FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS: Four major themes emerged: (a) neglect from the 
outside or neglect from within; (b) between professional and personal; (c) whose 
responsibility is this? and (d) professional values and ethics in the face of a 
neglecting reality. Findings are discussed in relation to the nurses' 
experiences of the encounter with elder neglect and the consequences of the 
phenomenon, such as increasing ageist perceptions and behavior.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: As the world experiences higher life expectancy, nursing 
education should be challenged with elder mistreatment in general, and elder 
neglect in particular. Training and educational programs should provide a 
platform on which to raise dilemmas concerning the encounter with this subject.

© 2012 Sigma Theta Tau International.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.2011.01438.x
PMID: 22340016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Transpl Int. 2012 Apr;25(4):401-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1432-2277.2012.01429.x.
Epub  2012 Feb 16.

Lack of impact of donor age on patient survival for renal transplant recipients 
≥60years.

Lim WH(1), Dogra G, Chadban SJ, Campbell SB, Clayton P, Cohney S, Russ GR, 
McDonald SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Renal Medicine, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Perth, 
Australia. wai.lim@health.wa.gov.au

There has been an increase in the number of older patients on the transplant 
waiting list and acceptance of older donor kidneys. Although kidneys from older 
donors have been associated with poorer graft outcomes, whether there is a 
differential impact of donor age on outcomes in older recipients remains 
unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of donor age on graft 
and patient survival in renal transplant (RT) recipients ≥60years. Using the 
Australia and New Zealand Dialysis and Transplant Registry, outcomes of 1,037 RT 
recipients ≥60years between 1995 and 2009 were analyzed. Donor age groups were 
categorized into 0-20, >20-40, >40-60, and >60years. Compared with recipients 
receiving donor kidneys >60years, those receiving donor kidneys >20-40years had 
lower risk of acute rejection (odds ratio 0.46, 95% CI 0.27, 0.79; P<0.01) and 
death-censored graft failure (HR 0.37, 95% CI 0.19, 0.72; P<0.01). There was no 
association between donor age groups and death. With a corresponding growth in 
the availability of older donor kidneys and the observed lack of association 
between donor age and patient survival in RT recipients ≥60years, preferential 
allocation of older donor kidneys to RT recipients ≥60years may not disadvantage 
the life expectancy of these patients.

© 2012 The Authors. Transplant International © 2012 European Society for Organ 
Transplantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-2277.2012.01429.x
PMID: 22340432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Sep;32(9):864-8.

[Regional disparity on life expectancy, active life expectancy in the elderly 
from Beijing].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang ZY(1), Tang Z, Feng M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University, Beijing 
100053, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the regional disparity in life expectancy (LE), active 
life expectancy (ALE), active life expectancy/life expectancy (ALE/LE) of the 
elderly in Beijing and to express the impact of hypertension upon those indices.
METHODS: The sample was derived from a "Beijing multidimensional longitudinal 
study on aging", including those from urban district (Xuanwu), rural district 
(Daxing and Huairou) by well-established statistical sampling techniques. 
Baseline survey comprised 1847 people aged 60 years or over, living in the 
communities in Beijing in 2004. The subjects under research were investigated 
with questionnaires at home by well-trained interviews and the contents would 
include: degree of education, occupation, medical history of hypertension 
together with repeated blood pressure measurements. Someone being "active" was 
defined as the ability in performing activities of daily life (ADL). IMaCH 
software for multi-state life table method was used to calculate the life 
expectancy (LE), active life expectancy (ALE) and active life expectancy/life 
expectancy (ALE/LE) in different district and the hypertensive exert influence 
on those indices.
RESULTS: Data from the study showed that people inhabited in the rural district 
had lower LE, ALE and degree of education (illiteracy account for 66.2 
percentage), but with more physical activities (account for 95.5 percentage) and 
higher ALE/LE than urban district people. Regional disparity in Females was 
obvious than in males while hypertension would exert more influence on LE of the 
urban women, which widened the gap in LE, ALE of males and ALE of females 
between the urban and rural areas.
CONCLUSION: Regional disparity was found existing in LE, ALE, ALE/LE of the 
elderly from Beijing, particularly in females. Hypertension widened the gap and 
decreased the quality of life on senior citizens in the rural areas. This 
finding underlined the influence of habitation on the quality of life which 
manifested the importance of prevention regarding high blood pressure.

PMID: 22340871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Ann Pharm Fr. 2012 Jan;70(1):53-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pharma.2011.11.006. Epub
2012  Jan 4.

[So that therapeutic education becomes for the pharmacist a working posture].

[Article in French]

Allenet B(1).

Author information:
(1)BAllenet@chu-grenoble.fr

Considering the increasing complexity of the management of the chronic 
pathologies (invalidating, requiring an adaptation from the patient, an 
integration in his everyday life, a global care, in clinical, therapeutic, 
economic and psychosocial aspects), the pharmacist has to build up a partnership 
with the others healthcare professionals. This practice can be described 
following Pharmaceutical care process: reconciliation (what information on drugs 
intake upon patient's admission); validation of prescription (what critical 
points? what points of optimization of the therapeutics?); pharmaceutical 
follow-up (which clinical indicators, biological, psychosocial (…) to assess 
benefits/risks ratio of the drug regimen?); negotiation with the patient of a 
schedule of drug intake; definition of an therapeutic education plan. 
therapeutic patient education, defined by a set of recent texts (August 2, 2010) 
(relating to qualifications and methodological framework for this activity) must 
be understood by the pharmacist, not as a new practice but as a logical 
extension of his service to the chronic patient, requiring pharmaceutical 
expertise (to be recognized as legitimate over drug therapy), an active 
listening posture and guidance tailored to each patient (to develop teaching 
skills), networking with others partners on information around the patient.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharma.2011.11.006
PMID: 22341009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Am J Prev Med. 2012 Mar;42(3):229-34. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2011.11.008.

Integrating age and comorbidity to assess screening mammography utilization.

Tan A(1), Kuo YF, Goodwin JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555-1148, USA. altan@utmb.edu

BACKGROUND: Most studies use age as a cutoff to evaluate screening mammography 
utilization, generally examining screening up to age 75 years (the age-cutoff 
method). However, many experts and guidelines encourage clinicians to consider 
patient health and/or life expectancy.
PURPOSE: To compare the accuracy of estimating screening mammography utilization 
in older women using the age-cutoff method versus using a method based on the 
projected life expectancy.
METHODS: Two cohorts were selected from female Medicare beneficiaries aged 67-90 
years living in Texas in 2001 and 2006. The 2001 cohort (n=716,279) was used to 
generate life-expectancy estimates by age and comorbidity, which were then 
applied to the 2006 cohort (n=697,825). Screening mammography utilization during 
2006-2007 was measured for the 2006 cohort. Data were collected in 2000-2007 and 
analyzed in 2011.
RESULTS: The screening rate was 52.7% in women aged 67-74 years based on age 
alone, compared to 53.5% in women in the same age group with a life expectancy 
of ≥7 years. A large proportion (63.4%) of women aged 75-90 years (n=370,583) 
had a life expectancy of ≥7 years. Those women had a screening rate of 42.7%. 
The screening rate was 35.7% in women aged 75-90 years based on age alone, 
compared to 16.3% in women in the same age group with a life expectancy of <5 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimating screening mammography utilization among older women can 
be improved by using projected life expectancy rather than the age-cutoff 
method.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2011.11.008
PMCID: PMC3289514
PMID: 22341159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2013 Jul-Aug;9(4):547-553.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.soard.2012.01.004. Epub 2012 Jan 16.

Body mass trajectories through midlife among adults with class I obesity.

Finkelstein EA(1), Østbye T, Malhotra R.

Author information:
(1)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the body mass trajectories for adults with 
class I obesity. Our objective was to map the body mass trajectories through 
midlife for young adults with class I obesity in the United States.
METHODS: Data from the National Longitudinal Study of Youth 1979 was used to 
generate a cohort of 1058 men and women, aged 25-33 years with class I obesity 
in 1990. Group-based trajectory modeling was used to identify the number and 
shape of the body mass index trajectories from 1990 to 2008 for this cohort.
RESULTS: By 2008, about 15% of men and women with class I obesity in 1990 
experienced a body mass index increase to >40 kg/m(2). The trajectory analyses 
showed that roughly one third of the sample were on 1 of 2 body mass index 
trajectory groups that culminated with an average BMI well above 35 kg/m(2).
CONCLUSION: The large majority of young adults with class I obesity are likely 
to gain weight over time. For many, the weight gain will be significant and 
greatly increase their risk of obesity-related co-morbidities and reduced life 
expectancy. As a result, bariatric surgery or other intensive weight management 
options might be warranted.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Published 
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2012.01.004
PMID: 22341531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Cancer Treat Rev. 2012 Oct;38(6):726-36. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2012.01.004.
Epub  2012 Feb 17.

A review of methionine dependency and the role of methionine restriction in 
cancer growth control and life-span extension.

Cavuoto P(1), Fenech MF.

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Food and Nutritional Sciences, P.O. Box 10041, Adelaide BC, SA 5000, 
Australia. paul.cavuoto@csiro.au

Methionine is an essential amino acid with many key roles in mammalian 
metabolism such as protein synthesis, methylation of DNA and polyamine 
synthesis. Restriction of methionine may be an important strategy in cancer 
growth control particularly in cancers that exhibit dependence on methionine for 
survival and proliferation. Methionine dependence in cancer may be due to one or 
a combination of deletions, polymorphisms or alterations in expression of genes 
in the methionine de novo and salvage pathways. Cancer cells with these defects 
are unable to regenerate methionine via these pathways. Defects in the 
metabolism of folate may also contribute to the methionine dependence phenotype 
in cancer. Selective killing of methionine dependent cancer cells in co-culture 
with normal cells has been demonstrated using culture media deficient in 
methionine. Several animal studies utilizing a methionine restricted diet have 
reported inhibition of cancer growth and extension of a healthy life-span. In 
humans, vegan diets, which can be low in methionine, may prove to be a useful 
nutritional strategy in cancer growth control. The development of methioninase 
which depletes circulating levels of methionine may be another useful strategy 
in limiting cancer growth. The application of nutritional methionine restriction 
and methioninase in combination with chemotherapeutic regimens is the current 
focus of clinical studies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2012.01.004
PMID: 22342103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 2012 Aug;26(4):487-93. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2012.01.006. Epub 2012 Feb 18.

Empowering women in human immunodeficiency virus prevention.

Abdool Karim Q(1), Humphries H, Stein Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, USA. 
abdoolq2@ukzn.ac.za

Women comprise one-half of people infected with the human immunodeficiency virus 
in the world, and about 70% of them live in sub-Saharan Africa. Advancing, 
untreated HIV disease in women has resulted in substantial declines in fertility 
rates, life expectancy and infant mortality rates, and an increased burden of 
tuberculosis. Three decades into the pandemic, our knowledge of HIV acquisition 
in women remains sparse, as are options of what women can use to reduce their 
risk of acquiring HIV. Here, we describe the role of pre-HIV responses to 
venereal diseases and then discuss unwanted pregnancies, early perceptions of 
the HIV epidemic in setting prevention priorities, and the history of 
microbicide development. Opportunities to reduce HIV risk in women through 
sexual reproductive health services are highlighted. Women are key to turning 
the tide of the HIV pandemic. Microbicides provide an opportunity to ensure 
survival of women while addressing the power disparities that underpin women's 
vulnerability to HIV.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2012.01.006
PMID: 22342150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Immunol Lett. 2012 Mar 30;143(1):9-19. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2012.01.013.
Epub  2012 Feb 11.

The role of neutrophils in autoimmune diseases.

Németh T(1), Mócsai A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Semmelweis University School of Medicine, Budapest, 
Hungary. nemeth@eok.sote.hu

Though chronic autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis or systemic 
lupus erythematosus affect a significant percentage of the human population and 
strongly diminish the quality of life and life expectancy in Western societies, 
the molecular pathomechanisms of those diseases are still poorly understood, 
hindering the development of novel treatment strategies. Autoimmune diseases are 
thought to be caused by disturbed recognition of foreign and self antigens, 
leading to the emergence of autoreactive T-cells (so-called immunization phase). 
Those autoreactive T-cells then trigger the second (so-called effector) phase of 
the disease which is characterized by immune-mediated damage to host tissues. 
For a long time, neutrophils have mainly been neglected as potential players of 
the development of autoimmune diseases. However, a significant amount of new 
experimental data now indicates that neutrophils likely play an important role 
in both the immunization and the effector phase of autoimmune diseases. Here we 
review the current literature on the role of neutrophils in autoimmune diseases 
with special emphasis on rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, 
autoimmune vasculitides and blistering skin diseases. We also discuss the role 
of neutrophil cell surface receptors (e.g. integrins, Fc-receptors or chemokine 
receptors) and intracellular signal transduction pathways (e.g. Syk and other 
tyrosine kinases) in the pathogenesis of autoimmune inflammation. Though many of 
the results discussed in this review were obtained using animal models, 
additional data indicate that those mechanisms likely also contribute to human 
pathology. Taken together, neutrophils should be considered as one of the 
important cell types in autoimmune disease pathogenesis and they may also prove 
to be suitable targets of the pharmacological control of those diseases in the 
future.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2012.01.013
PMID: 22342996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. J Epidemiol. 2012;22(3):199-204. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20110112. Epub 2012 Feb
18.

Gains in disability-free life expectancy from elimination of diseases and 
injuries in Japan.

Hashimoto S(1), Kawado M, Yamada H, Seko R, Murakami Y, Hayashi M, Kato M, Noda 
T, Ojima T, Nagai M, Tsuji I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Fujita Health University School of Medicine, Toyoake, 
Japan.hasimoto@fujita-hu.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Although disability-free life expectancy has been investigated in 
Japan, gains from elimination of diseases and injuries have not been examined.
METHODS: We used data from the 2007 Japanese national health statistics to 
calculate the number of years with and without activity limitation that could be 
expected from eliminating 6 selected diseases and injuries.
RESULTS: At birth, the number of expected years of life without and with 
activity limitation was 70.8 and 8.4, respectively, in males and 74.2 and 11.8 
in females. More than 1.0 expected years without activity limitation were gained 
from eliminating malignant neoplasms and cerebrovascular diseases; smaller gains 
were observed after eliminating other diseases and injuries. Elimination of 
cerebrovascular diseases, dementia, and fracture decreased expected years with 
activities of daily living (ADL) limitation, and elimination of shoulder 
lesions/low back pain decreased expected years with non-ADL limitation.
CONCLUSIONS: Elimination of diseases and injuries increased expected years with 
and without activity limitation among Japanese, which suggests that improved 
prevention of those diseases and injuries-including cerebrovascular diseases and 
dementia-would result in longer disability-free life expectancy and fewer years 
of severe disability.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20110112
PMCID: PMC3798620
PMID: 22343332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Gerontology. 2012;58(4):331-6. doi: 10.1159/000334242. Epub 2012 Feb 16.

Prostate-specific antigen screening for prostate cancer in older men in the 
United States of America.

Black A(1), Berg CD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 
Rockville, MD 20852, USA.

Prostate cancer, like many diseases, is more common in older men. Although an 
estimated 1 in 7 men will be diagnosed with it, the majority of these men will 
not die from prostate cancer. The latent nature of this disease, the use of 
screening with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing and the greater risk of 
dying from causes other than prostate cancer contribute to this disparity. As 
the US population continues to age, prostate cancer screening and disease 
management presents an increasingly important public health issue. We discuss 
the current PSA screening recommendations and practices in the USA and the 
benefits and harms of screening older populations.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000334242
PMID: 22343605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

