for.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-011-0089-1
PMID: 22287272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Int J Nanomedicine. 2012;7:297-306. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S28344. Epub 2012 Jan
18.

Cell-delivered magnetic nanoparticles caused hyperthermia-mediated increased 
survival in a murine pancreatic cancer model.

Basel MT(1), Balivada S, Wang H, Shrestha TB, Seo GM, Pyle M, Abayaweera G, Dani 
R, Koper OB, Tamura M, Chikan V, Bossmann SH, Troyer DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Physiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Manhattan, KS, USA. mbasel@vet.ksu.edu

Using magnetic nanoparticles to absorb alternating magnetic field energy as a 
method of generating localized hyperthermia has been shown to be a potential 
cancer treatment. This report demonstrates a system that uses tumor homing cells 
to actively carry iron/iron oxide nanoparticles into tumor tissue for 
alternating magnetic field treatment. Paramagnetic iron/ iron oxide 
nanoparticles were synthesized and loaded into RAW264.7 cells (mouse monocyte/ 
macrophage-like cells), which have been shown to be tumor homing cells. A murine 
model of disseminated peritoneal pancreatic cancer was then generated by 
intraperitoneal injection of Pan02 cells. After tumor development, 
monocyte/macrophage-like cells loaded with iron/ iron oxide nanoparticles were 
injected intraperitoneally and allowed to migrate into the tumor. Three days 
after injection, mice were exposed to an alternating magnetic field for 20 
minutes to cause the cell-delivered nanoparticles to generate heat. This 
treatment regimen was repeated three times. A survival study demonstrated that 
this system can significantly increase survival in a murine pancreatic cancer 
model, with an average post-tumor insertion life expectancy increase of 31%. 
This system has the potential to become a useful method for specifically and 
actively delivering nanoparticles for local hyperthermia treatment of cancer.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S28344
PMCID: PMC3265998
PMID: 22287840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Case Rep Med. 2012;2012:182795. doi: 10.1155/2012/182795. Epub 2012 Jan 11.

Adult congenital permanent bilateral dislocation of the patella with full knee 
function: case report and literature review.

Bistolfi A(1), Massazza G, Backstein D, Ventura S, Cerlon R, Crova M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, CTO Hospital, Via Zuretti 29, 
10126 Turin, Italy.

Congenital permanent dislocation of the patella is a rare disorder of the knee 
joint in which the patella is permanently displaced, even in extension and is 
fixed on the lateral aspect of the femoral condyle. The dislocation is 
irreducible without surgical techniques. This rare condition is usually detected 
within the first decade of life, because of inability of active extension in the 
knee and impaired ability during walking. This report presents an unusual case 
of a 51-year-old man with bilateral congenital permanent dislocation of the 
patella. The pathology had never been treated because there were few symptoms. 
The patient presented with right knee pain caused by a fall on the knee during 
his work. The right knee was painful on the lateral side and the clinical signs 
were positive for pathology of the lateral meniscus, confirmed by MRI. The 
clinical and the imaging findings suggested a lesion of the lateral meniscus as 
the probable cause of the pain. Therefore we performed a knee arthroscopy, whose 
intra-operative findings confirmed the MRI findings. During the surgery we 
performed just a selective arthroscopic meniscectomy, without correcting patella 
dislocation, because the condition was unusually asymptomatic before the trauma.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/182795
PMCID: PMC3263588
PMID: 22287971481. Int J Surg Case Rep. 2012;3(1):37-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2011.10.012. Epub
2011  Nov 3.

Contralateral ureteral metastasis 4 years after radical nephrectomy.

Zhang HJ(1), Sheng L, Zhang ZW, Sun ZQ, Qian WQ, Song JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Huadong Hospital, Fudan University, 221 West Yan'an 
Road, Shanghai 200040, PR China.

INTRODUCTION: Metastasis of renal cell carcinoma to the contralateral ureter is 
extremely rare. To date, only 50 cases of metastatic RCC to the ureter have been 
reported, among whom 6 cases occur at the contralateral site. We herein report a 
rare case of metastatic RCC in the contralateral ureter 4 years after radical 
nephrectomy.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: A 74-year-old man presented with gross, painless hematuria 
for one month. Computed tomography scan confirmed that a 1.5 cm × 0.5 cm tumor 
occurred in the contralateral distal ureter. A 3.5 cm segment of ureter was 
resected and a uretero-vesical anastomosis with psoas hitch was accomplished.
DISCUSSION: The reappearance of hematuria after radical nephrectomy is the most 
common manifestation of the metastasis to the bladder or ureter. The mechanism 
of metastasis is not clear. In pathology, vimentin and cytokeratins might help 
to differentiate between metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma and clear 
cell transitional cell carcinoma.
CONCLUSION: Metastasis of renal cell carcinoma to the contralateral ureter is 
rare. Early recognition is extremely important in protecting the remaining renal 
function and prolonging life-expectancy for post-nephrectomy patients. Complete 
metastectomy suitable anastomosis have been shown to improve survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2011.10.012
PMCID: PMC3267242
PMID: 22288039


482. Arch Surg. 2011 Dec;146(12):1416-23. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.2011.212.

Hepatic resection vs minimally invasive radiofrequency ablation for the 
treatment of colorectal liver metastases: a Markov analysis.

Khajanchee YS(1), Hammill CW, Cassera MA, Wolf RF, Hansen PD.

Author information:
(1)Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Program, Providence Portland Medical 
Center, 4805 NE Glisan St, Ste 6N50, Portland, OR 97213, USA.

HYPOTHESIS: Current literature evaluating radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for 
treatment of colorectal liver metastases describes high-risk surgical candidates 
or patients with unresectable disease. This creates bias when comparing RFA and 
hepatic resection. A Markov analysis would define theoretical outcomes necessary 
for RFA to demonstrate equivalence to resection.
DESIGN: A multistate Markov decision analytic model was constructed. 
Second-order Monte Carlo analysis was used to simulate a randomized controlled 
trial. Sensitivity analyses were performed to determine the projected outcomes 
necessary for RFA to achieve equivalence with resection.
SETTING: Tertiary care teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: A systematic review of published literature was performed, identifying 
studies involving patients with colorectal liver metastases treated with RFA or 
resection. Data were also included from a prospective database of patients 
undergoing laparoscopic RFA at our institution.
INTERVENTIONS: Percutaneous or laparoscopic RFA and hepatic resection.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life expectancy and quality of 
life-adjusted survival.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis (60-year-old man) demonstrated a mean ± SD 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 5.67 ± 0.71 years and a 5-year survival of 
38.2% following resection. Based on current literature, the mean ± SD 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for RFA was 3.61 ± 0.49 years, with a 5-year 
survival of 27.2%. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that RFA becomes the 
preferred strategy if the median disease-free survival reaches 1.42 years. When 
limited to patients from our institution with resectable lesions, the 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for RFA improved to a mean ± SD of 5.72 ± 0.50 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Classical Markov analysis demonstrates that based on current 
literature, resection is superior to RFA in the treatment of colorectal liver 
metastases. When input is limited to laparoscopic RFA in patients with 
resectable lesions, projected 5-year survival is superior to that of hepatic 
resection.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.2011.212
PMID: 22288086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Intern Med J. 2013 Jan;43(1):66-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2012.02727.x.

How many life years are lost in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? Secular 
cause-specific and all-cause mortality in rheumatoid arthritis, and their 
predictors in a long-term Australian cohort study.

Lassere MN(1), Rappo J, Portek IJ, Sturgess A, Edmonds JP.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of NSW, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
marissa.lassere@sesiahs.health.nsw.gov.au

BACKGROUND: There is an excess of mortality in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) but no long-term Australian cohort data.
AIMS: To determine median life years lost, all-cause standardised mortality 
ratio (SMR) and cause-specific SMR, their predictors and secular change in 
Australian patients with RA.
METHODS: Study population was all patients seen by a rheumatologist between 1990 
and 1994. Record linkage with Australian National Death Index was performed to 
determine fact and cause of death up to 2004. All-cause and cause-specific SMR, 
and median life years lost were determined.
RESULTS: There were 35 (31%) deaths in the early 1990s cohort (n = 113), SMR 
1.31 (95% 0.93, 1.80). There were 216 (44%) deaths in the pre-1990s established 
cohort (n = 495), SMR 1.73 (1.49, 1.95). Median life years lost in the early 
cohort was 6 years for males and 7 years for females compared with 8 and 10 
years, respectively, in the established cohort. Patients with low disease 
activity score at baseline (DAS < 3.2), SMR was 0.8 (0.3, 2.2) and 1.5 (1.1, 
2.2) for the early and established cohorts, and if DAS ≥3.2, SMR was 1.4 (1.02, 
1.98) and 1.8 (1.5, 2.1) respectively. Primary cause of death was cardiovascular 
disease (SMR 1.43 (1.17, 1.74). Patients at most risk were those age 45-54 
years. RA was listed as a comorbid condition on the death certificate in only 
16% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Within a period of 14 years, median life expectancy of patients 
with RA with disease onset in the early 1990s is reduced by 6-7 years. However, 
our results also suggest a secular reduction in excess mortality.

© 2012 The Authors; Internal Medicine Journal © 2012 Royal Australasian College 
of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2012.02727.x
PMID: 22289054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Acta Ophthalmol. 2012 Feb;90(1):20-31. doi:
10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02318.x.

The long-term outcomes of four alternative treatment strategies for primary 
open-angle glaucoma.

van Gestel A(1), Webers CA, Severens JL, Beckers HJ, Jansonius NM, Hendrikse F, 
Schouten JS.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Clinic, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term effects and costs of four treatment 
strategies for primary open-angle glaucoma compared to usual care.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analyses with a lifelong horizon were made from a 
societal perspective. Data were generated with a patient-level model based on 
discrete event simulation. The model structure and parameter estimates were 
based on literature, particularly clinical studies on the natural course of 
glaucoma and the effect of treatment. We simulated heterogeneous cohorts of 3000 
patients and explored the impact of uncertainty with sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of initial treatment 
with a prostaglandin analogue compared with a β-blocker was €12.931 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. A low initial target pressure (15 
mmHg) resulted in 0.115 QALYs gained and €1550 saved compared to a gradual 
decrease from 21 to 15 mmHg upon progression. Visual field (VF) measurements 
every 6 rather than 12 months lead to health gains at increased costs (ICER 
€173,486 per QALY gained), whereas measurements every 24 months lead to health 
losses at reduced costs (ICER €21,516 per QALY lost). All treatment strategies 
were dominant over 'withholding treatment'.
CONCLUSIONS: From a cost-effectiveness point of view, it seems advantageous to 
aim for a low intraocular pressure in all glaucoma patients. The feasibility of 
this strategy should therefore be investigated. Additionally, the 
cost-effectiveness outcomes of initiating monotherapy with a prostaglandin 
analogue and reducing the frequency of VF testing may be acceptable.

© 2012 The Authors. Acta Ophthalmologica © 2012 Acta Ophthalmologica 
Scandinavica Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.2011.02318.x
PMID: 22289192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2012 Feb;93(2):245-52. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2011.08.039.

Examination of assumptions in using time tradeoff and standard gamble utilities 
in individuals with spinal cord injury.

Lin MR(1), Yu WY, Wang SC.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Injury Prevention and Control, College of Public Health 
and Nutrition, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. mrlin@tmu.edu.tw

OBJECTIVE: To examine how the time tradeoff (TTO) and standard gamble (SG) 
utilities perform at different lengths of life expectancy and across patient 
characteristics such as risk attitudes and injury severity in individuals with 
traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI).
DESIGN: Survey.
SETTING: Structured telephone interviews of patients after discharge from 4 
teaching hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: Subjects (N=270) who had sustained SCI were block-randomized in 
groups of 4 to receive 1 of 2 questionnaire versions. One version asked about 
the TTO and SG at 2 life expectancies of 10 and 20 years, and the other at 20 
and 30 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The TTO and SG were used to elicit preferences for 
patients with an SCI.
RESULTS: Patients with SCI who were younger and had more severe neurologic 
lesions, had higher intense risk-taking attitudes, and experienced depression 
had significantly lower TTO and SG scores than their counterparts. A longer life 
expectancy was also significantly associated with lower TTO scores. As the life 
expectancy increased, patients who had sustained SCI more recently (≤1 y ago) 
were more willing to trade off life years for full health (ie, lower TTO 
scores). SG scores did not significantly vary according to different life 
expectancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with SCI, there was a nonlinear relation between the 
TTO and life expectancy that violated the fundamental assumption of risk 
neutrality toward life years. Accordingly, TTO utilities elicited for different 
life expectancies should not be compared in quality-of-life assessments or used 
in cost-utility analyses. In contrast, SG utilities remained stable at different 
lengths of life expectancy in SCI patients. Moreover, certain patient 
characteristics such as age, time lapse since the injury, neurologic severity, 
risk attitudes, and depressive status can account for some TTO and SG variations 
among patients with SCI.

Copyright © 2012 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2011.08.039
PMID: 22289233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Clin Ther. 2012 Feb;34(2):446-56. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.01.005. Epub
 2012 Jan 30.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of ranibizumab versus verteporfin photodynamic 
therapy, pegaptanib sodium, and best supportive care for the treatment of 
age-related macular degeneration in Greece.

Athanasakis K(1), Fragoulakis V, Tsiantou V, Masaoutis P, Maniadakis N, 
Kyriopoulos J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, National School of Public Health, Athens, 
Greece. kathanasakis@esdy.edu.gr

BACKGROUND: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive disease that 
results in loss of central vision, significant functional impairment, and a 
subsequent heavy socioeconomic burden. AMD treatments delay disease progression, 
improve patient outcomes, and reduce resource use associated with visual 
impairment, however, in a varying way concerning costs and effects.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the cost effectiveness 
of ranibizumab compared with verteporfin photodynamic therapy, pegaptanib 
sodium, and best supportive care for the treatment of AMD in Greece.
METHODS: A 6-state Markov model was constructed according to patient visual 
acuity in the better-seeing eye. Data on effectiveness were derived from 
randomized controlled trials evaluating the outcomes of ranibizumab versus 
alternative AMD treatments. Resource utilization reflected the Greek health care 
setting and was defined by a panel of experts. All treatments were administered 
for a 2-year period and evaluated during a 10-year time frame from a third-party 
payer perspective and discounted at 3.5% per annum.
RESULTS: Estimated mean 10-year direct costs of treatment in the ranibizumab arm 
ranged from €23,733 to €31,795 (2011 Euros), with a projected gain of 4.50 to 
4.74 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) or 2.97 to 4.47 vision years, depending 
on type of lesion. For predominantly classic lesions, the cost per QALY gained 
with ranibizumab was estimated at €6444/QALY (95% uncertainty interval [UI], 
€-30,403/QALY to €44,524/QALY), €15,344 (95% UI, €-11,433 to €53,554) and 
dominant relative to photodynamic therapy, best supportive care, and pegaptanib, 
respectively. Corresponding ratios for patients with minimally classic lesions 
were €24,580/QALY (95% UI, €-5580/QALY to €76,229/QALY) and €13,112/QALY (95% 
UI, €-3839/QALY to €37,527/QALY) for ranibizumab relative to best supportive 
care and pegaptanib, and for patients with occult lesions were estimated at 
€19,407/QALY (95% UI, €-1486 to €46,434) and €28,561/QALY (95% UI, €6143 to 
73,431), respectively. Sensitivity analysis provided robust results in all 
cases.
CONCLUSION: Ranibizumab can be a cost-effective option for the treatment of AMD 
compared with selected alternatives in the Greek health care setting.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.01.005
PMID: 22289279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Biosystems. 2012 Apr-Jun;108(1-3):45-51. doi:
10.1016/j.biosystems.2012.01.006.  Epub 2012 Jan 21.

Death wins against life in a spatially extended model of the caspase-3/8 
feedback loop.

Daub M(1), Waldherr S, Allgöwer F, Scheurich P, Schneider G.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Analysis, Dynamics and Modeling, University of Stuttgart, 
Stuttgart, Germany. Markus.Daub@mathematik.uni-stuttgart.de

Apoptosis is an important physiological process which enables organisms to 
remove unwanted or damaged cells. A mathematical model of the extrinsic 
pro-apoptotic signaling pathway has been introduced by Eissing et al. (2007) and 
a bistable behavior with a stable death state and a stable life state of the 
reaction system has been established. In this paper, we consider a spatial 
extension of the extrinsic pro-apoptotic signaling pathway incorporating 
diffusion terms and make a model-based, numerical analysis of the apoptotic 
switch in the spatial dimension. For the parameter regimes under consideration 
it turns out that for this model diffusion homogenizes rapidly the 
concentrations which afterward are governed by the original reaction system. The 
activation of effector-caspase 3 depends on the space averaged initial 
concentration of pro-caspase 8 and pro-caspase 3 at the beginning of the 
process.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2012.01.006
PMID: 22289626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Internist (Berl). 2012 Feb;53(2):152-60. doi: 10.1007/s00108-011-2917-1.

[Surgery for neuroendocrine tumors of the gastroenteropancreatic system 
(GEP-NET)].

[Article in German]

Goretzki PE(1), Starke A, Akca A, Lammers BJ.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik I, Lukaskrankenhaus GmbH Neuss und Insulinoma und GEP-NET 
Tumorzentrum Neuss–Düsseldorf, Preussenstrasse 84, Neuss. 
pgoretzki@lukasneuss.de

Surgical treatment is still the only curative treatment proven for patients with 
neuroendocrine tumors (NET) of the gastroenteropancreatic system. In addition to 
the therapy of incidental findings, the treatment of NET with variable 
aggressiveness and often good long-term prognosis requires a thorough 
preoperative assessment and a surgical procedure that is based on each 
individual case. Treatment can be surgery alone (if the disease is locally 
confined) or can be combined with other therapies. Early NET of the stomach and 
rectum can be cured endoscopically without further diagnostics, while early 
findings of the appendix can be treated by an appendectomy. Functionally active 
pancreatic NET and NET of the small intestine are often preoperatively diagnosed 
based on symptoms. Thus, it is possible to refer the patient to a NET center, if 
necessary. Stratification of the necessary treatment combination can be made 
early. An alternative to radical surgical treatment is the operative reduction 
of the tumor size and hormone production in metastasized NET, which can lead to 
improved life expectancy and quality of life. Combination with other treatment 
forms is absolutely necessary in these patients. It has been proven useful to 
divide the large group of NET based on the different tumor locations, hormone 
activity, and the degree of differentiation of the tumor. Early forms, 
locoregionally limited tumor stages, and tumor stages with distant metastases 
are considered separately.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-011-2917-1
PMID: 22290318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Am J Gastroenterol. 2012 May;107(5):691-7. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2012.7. Epub
2012  Jan 31.

Viral hepatitis in the elderly.

Carrion AF(1), Martin P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Miami, Florida 33125, USA. 
acarrionmonsalve@med.miami.edu

As life expectancy continues to rise, elderly adults represent a rapidly growing 
proportion of the population. The likelihood of complications of acute and 
chronic liver disease and overall mortality are higher in elderly populations. 
Several physiological changes associated with aging, greater prevalence of 
co-morbid conditions, and cumulative exposure to hepatotropic viruses and 
environmental hepatotoxins may contribute to worse outcomes of viral hepatitis 
in the elderly. Although pharmacotherapy for hepatitis B and C continues to 
evolve, the efficacy, tolerability, and side effects of these agents have not 
been studied extensively in elderly adults. Immunization against hepatitis A and 
B in naïve elderly adults is an important public health intervention that needs 
to be revised and broadened.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2012.7
PMID: 22290404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Obes Surg. 2012 Apr;22(4):646-53. doi: 10.1007/s11695-012-0608-1.

Bariatric surgery: cost-effectiveness and budget impact.

Terranova L(1), Busetto L, Vestri A, Zappa MA.

Author information:
(1)Federazione Italiana Aziende Sanitarie e Ospedaliere, Scuola di 
Specializzazione in Statistica Sanitaria, Università di Roma La Sapienza, Rome, 
Italy.

Bariatric surgery is to date the most effective treatment for morbid obesity and 
it has been proven to reduce obesity-related comorbidities and total mortality. 
As any medical treatment, bariatric surgery is costly and doubts about its 
affordability have been raised. On the other hand, bariatric surgery may reduce 
the direct and indirect costs of obesity and related comorbidities. The 
appreciation of the final balance between financial investments and savings is 
critical from a health economic perspective. In this paper, we try to provide a 
brief updated review of the most recent studies on the cost-efficacy of 
bariatric surgery, with particular emphasis on budget analysis. A brief overview 
of the economic costs of obesity will also be provided. The epidemic of obesity 
may cause a significant reduction in life expectancy and overwhelming direct and 
indirect costs for citizens and societies. Cost-efficacy analyses included in 
this review consistently demonstrated that the additional years of lives gained 
through bariatric surgery may be obtained at a reasonable and affordable cost. 
In groups of patients with very high obesity-related health costs, like patients 
with type 2 diabetes, the use of bariatric surgery required an initial economic 
investment, but may save money in a relatively short period of time.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-012-0608-1
PMID: 22290621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Zoo Biol. 2012 Nov-Dec;31(6):705-17. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21002. Epub 2012 Jan
30.

Variation in growth and potentially associated health status in Hermann's and 
spur-thighed tortoise (Testudo hermanni and Testudo graeca).

Ritz J(1), Clauss M, Streich WJ, Hatt JM.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Zoo Animals, Exotic Pets and Wildlife, Vetsuisse Faculty, 
University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse, Zurich, Switzerland.

Captive reptiles often show higher growth rates than in the wild, possibly due 
to higher feeding intensity. Although health problems are usually linked to 
inappropriate diets, fast growth itself, such as triggered by appropriate diets 
fed in high amounts, has traditionally also been considered unfavorable for 
tortoises. We document growth rates (based on age and mass) from private Testudo 
hermanni and T. graeca breeders, which are generally higher than those reported 
for free-ranging specimens, but show enormous variation. Tortoise patients 
presented to an exotics clinic also covered the whole growth rate spectrum. To 
test whether fast growth was associated with diseases, the age-body mass 
relationship of these patients was tested, in a retrospective evaluation, for 
additional influence factors, such as dietary history and occurrence of certain 
diet and growth-related diseases. No indication was found that animals 
particularly heavy for their age were more prone to diet/growth-related 
disorders. In general, tortoises fed diets with meat/grain were heavier for 
their age than tortoises fed more appropriate diets; dietary history was not 
related to a particular disease. The results suggest the age-body mass 
relationship may not be suitable for testing effects of fast growth; an age-body 
length relationship would be more appropriate. Animals presented for a 
diet/growth-related disorder were younger than animals presented for other 
reasons; there was a significant negative correlation between the severity of 
pyramiding and age, suggesting that growth-related disorders may well limit the 
life expectancy of tortoises. Controlled clinical studies are required to fully 
test this hypothesis.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21002
PMID: 22290654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2012 Aug;42(2):254-59; discussion 259-60. doi: 
10.1093/ejcts/ezr301. Epub 2012 Jan 18.

Cumulative radiation exposure during thoracic endovascular aneurysm repair and 
subsequent follow-up.

Zoli S(1), Trabattoni P, Dainese L, Annoni A, Saccu C, Fumagalli M, Spirito R, 
Biglioli P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Centro Cardiologico Monzino IRCCS, 
Milan, Italy. stefano.zoli@ccfm.it

OBJECTIVES: Thoracic endovascular aneurysm repair (TEVAR) is an appealing 
alternative to the standard surgical approach, but requires rigorous 
radiological follow-up. The cumulative radiation exposure (RE) of patients 
undergoing TEVAR-including pre-operative workup, the procedure and subsequent 
follow-up computed tomography (CT) imaging-has not previously been investigated.
METHODS: From August 2003 to February 2011, 48 patients underwent TEVAR at our 
institution. Mean age was 66 ± 11 years, with 10 patients (21%) aged <60 years. 
Forty-one (85%) patients were male; 7 (15%) had urgent/emergent operation; 21 
(44%) had undergone previous aortic surgery. Mean aortic diameter was 7.3 ± 2.1 
cm. Intra-operative screening time and RE were reviewed, and typical 
institutional thoracic CT scan RE was calculated (17.8 mSv). Life expectancy of 
an age- and sex-matched population was estimated to assess the cumulative RE 
from recurrent CT follow-up.
RESULTS: The average screening time was 15.7 ± 11.4 min, with an RE of 11.3 ± 9 
mSv. Obese patients had significantly higher RE during TEVAR (Pearson's 
coefficient = 0.388, P = 0.019). The RE dropped from 14.9 ± 9.4 mSv to 8.6 ± 7.9 
mSv (P = 0.033) after a hybrid suite was established. Our institutional TEVAR 
protocol involves one pre-operative thoracoabdominal CT scan and three follow-up 
thoracic CT scans for the first year, with a yearly evaluation thereafter. The 
life expectancy of an age- and sex-matched population was 17 years. A patient 
adhering to our surveillance protocol would be subjected to an overall exposure 
of 89 mSv at 1 year and 161 mSv at 5 years, with a projected lifetime RE >350 
mSv.
CONCLUSIONS: A 2-year RE exceeding the threshold of 100 mSv with a life 
expectancy >15 years can be estimated to lead to a lifetime risk increase in 
radiation-induced leukaemia and solid-tumour cancer >2.7%. The risks of 
cumulative RE especially in younger and/or obese patients must be balanced with 
the expected morbidity and mortality reduction in TEVAR versus traditional open 
repair, and the anticipated benefits of recurrent radiographic imaging.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezr301
PMID: 22290886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Pediatrics. 2012 Feb;129(2):338-48. doi: 10.1542/peds.2011-3435. Epub 2012
Jan  30.

Annual summary of vital statistics: 2009.

Kochanek KD(1), Kirmeyer SE, Martin JA, Strobino DM, Guyer B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA. kdk2@cdc.gov

The number of births in the United States decreased by 3% between 2008 and 2009 
to 4 130 665 births. The general fertility rate also declined 3% to 66.7 per 
1000 women. The teenage birth rate fell 6% to 39.1 per 1000. Birth rates also 
declined for women 20 to 39 years and for all 5-year groups, but the rate for 
women 40 to 44 years continued to rise. The percentage of all births to 
unmarried women increased to 41.0% in 2009, up from 40.6% in 2008. In 2009, 
32.9% of all births occurred by cesarean delivery, continuing its rise. The 2009 
preterm birth rate declined for the third year in a row to 12.18%. The 
low-birth-weight rate was unchanged in 2009 at 8.16%. Both twin and triplet and 
higher order birth rates increased. The infant mortality rate was 6.42 infant 
deaths per 1000 live births in 2009. The rate is significantly lower than the 
rate of 6.61 in 2008. Linked birth and infant death data from 2007 showed that 
non-Hispanic black infants continued to have much higher mortality rates than 
non-Hispanic white and Hispanic infants. Life expectancy at birth was 78.2 years 
in 2009. Crude death rates for children and adolescents aged 1 to 19 years 
decreased by 6.5% between 2008 and 2009. Unintentional injuries and homicide, 
the first and second leading causes of death jointly accounted for 48.6% of all 
deaths to children and adolescents in 2009.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2011-3435
PMCID: PMC4079290
PMID: 22291121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Biologics. 2012;6:21-9. doi: 10.2147/BTT.S19811. Epub 2012 Jan 1.

Eribulin mesylate in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.

Jain S(1), Cigler T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.

The treatment of metastatic breast cancer (MBC) has become increasingly 
challenging as the primary goals of therapy include prolonging life without 
added toxicity. While multiple agents are approved for the therapy of MBC, there 
is no standard approach for therapy beyond the second-line. Eribulin mesylate, 
an analog of the marine sponge halichondrin B, is a non-taxane microtubule 
dynamics inhibitor with a mechanism of action distinct from other 
tubulin-targeted drugs. Based on a significant extension in overall survival 
seen in a Phase III clinical trial, eribulin was approved for third-line therapy 
in MBC patients following anthracycline and taxane failure. Eribulin has a 
manageable toxicity profile and a low incidence of peripheral neuropathy. In 
this review, we discuss the natural source of eribulin, pharmacology, mode of 
action, preclinical and clinical data, and patient-focused perspectives.

DOI: 10.2147/BTT.S19811
PMCID: PMC3266863
PMID: 22291464


495. Clin Pharmacol. 2010;2:9-16. doi: 10.2147/CPAA.S8931. Epub 2010 Mar 16.

Nanoparticle-labeled stem cells: a novel therapeutic vehicle.

El-Sadik AO(1), El-Ansary A, Sabry SM.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Unit, Anatomy Department, College of Medicine, Health Science 
Colleges, Cairo, Egypt. abgh50@yahoo.com

Nanotechnology has been described as a general purpose technology. It has 
already generated a range of inventions and innovations. Development of 
nanotechnology will provide clinical medicine with a range of new diagnostic and 
therapeutic opportunities such as medical imaging, medical diagnosis, drug 
delivery, and cancer detection and management. Nanoparticles such as manganese, 
polystyrene, silica, titanium oxide, gold, silver, carbon, quantum dots, and 
iron oxide have received enormous attention in the creation of new types of 
analytical tools for biotechnology and life sciences. Labeling of stem cells 
with nanoparticles overcame the problems in homing and fixing stem cells to 
their desired site and guiding extension of stem cells to specific directions. 
Although the biologic effects of some nanoparticles have already been assessed, 
information on toxicity and possible mechanisms of various particle types 
remains inadequate. The aim of this review is to give an overview of the 
mechanisms of internalization and distribution of nanoparticles inside stem 
cells, as well as the influence of different types of nanoparticles on stem cell 
viability, proliferation, differentiation, and cytotoxicity, and to assess the 
role of nanoparticles in tracking the fate of stem cells used in tissue 
regeneration.

DOI: 10.2147/CPAA.S8931
PMCID: PMC3262361
PMID: 22291483


496. PLoS Med. 2012 Jan;9(1):e1001160. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001160. Epub
2012  Jan 24.

Adult mortality attributable to preventable risk factors for non-communicable 
diseases and injuries in Japan: a comparative risk assessment.

Ikeda N(1), Inoue M, Iso H, Ikeda S, Satoh T, Noda M, Mizoue T, Imano H, Saito 
E, Katanoda K, Sobue T, Tsugane S, Naghavi M, Ezzati M, Shibuya K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health Policy, Graduate School of Medicine, University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. ikedan@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The population of Japan has achieved the longest life expectancy in 
the world. To further improve population health, consistent and comparative 
evidence on mortality attributable to preventable risk factors is necessary for 
setting priorities for health policies and programs. Although several past 
studies have quantified the impact of individual risk factors in Japan, to our 
knowledge no study has assessed and compared the effects of multiple modifiable 
risk factors for non-communicable diseases and injuries using a standard 
framework. We estimated the effects of 16 risk factors on cause-specific deaths 
and life expectancy in Japan.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We obtained data on risk factor exposures from the 
National Health and Nutrition Survey and epidemiological studies, data on the 
number of cause-specific deaths from vital records adjusted for ill-defined 
codes, and data on relative risks from epidemiological studies and 
meta-analyses. We applied a comparative risk assessment framework to estimate 
effects of excess risks on deaths and life expectancy at age 40 y. In 2007, 
tobacco smoking and high blood pressure accounted for 129,000 deaths (95% CI: 
115,000-154,000) and 104,000 deaths (95% CI: 86,000-119,000), respectively, 
followed by physical inactivity (52,000 deaths, 95% CI: 47,000-58,000), high 
blood glucose (34,000 deaths, 95% CI: 26,000-43,000), high dietary salt intake 
(34,000 deaths, 95% CI: 27,000-39,000), and alcohol use (31,000 deaths, 95% CI: 
28,000-35,000). In recent decades, cancer mortality attributable to tobacco 
smoking has increased in the elderly, while stroke mortality attributable to 
high blood pressure has declined. Life expectancy at age 40 y in 2007 would have 
been extended by 1.4 y for both sexes (men, 95% CI: 1.3-1.6; women, 95% CI: 
1.2-1.7) if exposures to multiple cardiovascular risk factors had been reduced 
to their optimal levels as determined by a theoretical-minimum-risk exposure 
distribution.
CONCLUSIONS: Tobacco smoking and high blood pressure are the two major risk 
factors for adult mortality from non-communicable diseases and injuries in 
Japan. There is a large potential population health gain if multiple risk 
factors are jointly controlled.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001160
PMCID: PMC3265534
PMID: 22291576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


497. Int J Cell Biol. 2012;2012:760498. doi: 10.1155/2012/760498. Epub 2012 Jan
16.

Autophagy in pancreatic cancer.

Grasso D(1), Garcia MN, Iovanna JL.

Author information:
(1)Parc Scientifique et Technologique de Luminy, Stress Cellulaire, INSERM U624, 
163 avenue de Luminy, CP 915, 13288 Marseille Cedex 9, France.

Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a devastating disease with an extremely poor 
life expectancy and no effective treatment. Autophagy is a process of 
degradation of cytoplasmic component capable of recycling cellular components or 
eliminate specific targets. The presence of autophagy in PDAC has been 
demonstrated. However, the implicated cellular pathways are not fully understood 
and, more importantly, the role of autophagy in PDAC is matter of intensive 
debate. This review summarizes recently published data in an attempt to clarify 
the importance of autophagy in this disease and try to reconcile apparently 
contradictory results.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/760498
PMCID: PMC3265076
PMID: 22291707


498. Stud Fam Plann. 2011 Dec;42(4):237-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1728-4465.2011.00287.x.

Estimating obstetric mortality from pregnancy-related deaths recorded in 
demographic censuses and surveys.

Garenne M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, France. 
michel.garenne@pasteur.fr

Demographic surveys and censuses often record pregnancy-related deaths, defined 
as those occurring during the maternal risk period (pregnancy, delivery, and six 
weeks postpartum), but do not include cause of death. This study presents a 
method for estimating obstetric mortality from pregnancy-related deaths data. 
Calculations are based on multiple-decrement life tables, and data needed are 
simply age-specific fertility and mortality rates that are commonly available in 
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) or census data, and an estimate of the 
relative risk of death from nonobstetric causes during the maternal risk period. 
The method is tested on 59 DHS surveys from Africa. Results show that, on 
average, less than half of the pregnancy-related deaths are attributable to 
obstetric causes. This proportion varies with the level of mortality and 
fertility, and in particular with the prevalence of HIV in the population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4465.2011.00287.x
PMID: 22292243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Stud Fam Plann. 2011 Dec;42(4):247-60. doi:
10.1111/j.1728-4465.2011.00288.x.

Measuring the effect of fertility decline on the maternal mortality ratio.

Jain AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Council, One Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, New York, NY 10017, USA. 
ajain@popcouncil.org

This article proposes a simple method to decompose the overall decline in the 
maternal mortality ratio (MMR) observed between 1990 and 2008 into two 
components: decline attributable to fertility decline and decline attributable 
to safe motherhood programs. This method--illustrated here for three South Asian 
countries (India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh)--is aimed at helping to properly 
assess the impact of safe motherhood initiatives on the MMR. The methodology is 
also applied to estimate the 2015 MMR level implied by low, medium, and high 
variants of fertility decline assumed by the United Nations, and thus to assess 
the contribution of future fertility decline in these countries to the 
achievement of MDG 5 by 2015. The results show that fertility decline in these 
countries between 1990 and 2008 has made a substantial contribution to the 
reduction of the MMR and that continued fertility decline between 2008 and 2015 
will contribute to the achievement of MDG 5.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4465.2011.00288.x
PMID: 22292244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Clin Drug Investig. 2012 Mar 1;32(3):189-202. doi: 
10.2165/11597060-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of saxagliptin and metformin versus sulfonylurea and 
metformin in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in Germany: a Cardiff 
diabetes model analysis.

Erhardt W(1), Bergenheim K, Duprat-Lomon I, McEwan P.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research Manager, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The lack of adequate glycaemic control for patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM), especially with existing second-line therapies, 
represents an unmet medical need. Of the newer therapies, the incretin-based 
medicines, such as saxagliptin, look promising to consolidate second-line 
pharmacotherapy.
OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates the long-term economic consequences of 
saxagliptin versus sulfonylurea (glipizide) as second-line therapy when used in 
combination with metformin after failure of monotherapy treatment with 
metformin, in patients with T2DM in Germany.
METHODS: A published discrete event simulation model with a fixed-time increment 
was used to model the effects of different treatment scenarios over a 40-year 
(life-) time horizon. Disease progression was modelled using evidence from the 
United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) 68. The treatment sequence 
matched that of published German guidelines, and efficacy and safety data were 
derived from published sources. The model assumes that quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) are affected by complications, hypoglycaemic events and 
weight change over a lifetime. Costs were specific to the German setting, where 
sulfonylureas are generic. Costs and effects were discounted annually at 3%. The 
extended perspective of the national sick funds was adopted, and recommendations 
from the Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) were 
considered.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, treatment with saxagliptin plus metformin 
was associated with a lower incidence of both symptomatic and severe 
hypoglycaemic events, resulting in an incremental benefit of 0.12 QALYs and an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of €13,931 per QALY gained compared 
with sulfonylurea plus metformin (year of costing 2009). Modest reductions in 
all macro- and microvascular complications were seen in those receiving 
saxagliptin plus metformin compared with sulfonylurea plus metformin. 
Sensitivity analysis showed that treatment-related weight changes, as a risk 
factor for complications, represent the most influential driver of cost 
effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: The study demonstrated improved outcomes with saxagliptin at a cost 
that would likely be considered acceptable in the German setting. Furthermore, 
the findings of the sensitivity analysis suggest that the results are robust to 
various assumptions concerning input variables and modelling assumptions.

DOI: 10.2165/11597060-000000000-00000
PMID: 22292415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Cancer Nurs. 2012 Nov-Dec;35(6):419-28. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0b013e3182431071.

Making the right decision for my child with cancer: the parental imperative.

Stewart JL(1), Pyke-Grimm KA, Kelly KP.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Nursing, 3500 Victoria St, Room 440, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. stewj@pitt.edu

BACKGROUND: Making major treatment decisions with life-altering consequences is 
a significant challenge faced by parents of children with cancer. The unique 
experience of parents is not well represented in the growing literature on 
cancer treatment decision making (TDM).
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to describe the process of parents 
making major treatment decisions for their children with cancer.
METHODS: Using grounded theory methods, we interviewed 15 parents of 13 children 
with cancer facing major treatment decisions.
RESULTS: Parents' determination to make the right decision was both a demanding 
responsibility and a natural extension of the parental role. Everything parents 
encountered and undertook during the TDM process was in the service of making 
the right decision for their child. All parents expressed conviction that they 
had made the right decision, but conviction was tempered by doubts triggered by 
the pervasive uncertainty of the childhood cancer experience. Parents described 
limited TDM participation by extended family members and the affected children 
themselves, asserting their primary responsibility to act as their child's 
surrogate in partnership with the child's medical team.
CONCLUSIONS: Making the right decision for one's child under challenging 
conditions is an extension of the parental obligation to act in the child's best 
interest and a responsibility that parents claim as their own.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The findings from this study can serve as the 
foundation for future studies to refine the conceptualization of TDM in 
childhood cancer, which will in turn ground the development and evaluation of 
interventions to support parents in their critical TDM role.

DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0b013e3182431071
PMID: 22293159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Minerva Anestesiol. 2012 Feb;78(2):243-50.

Bridging to lung transplantation by extracorporeal support.

Del Sorbo L(1), Boffini M, Rinaldi M, Ranieri VM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, University of Turin, 
S. Giovanni Battista-Molinette Hospital, Turin, Italy.

Ideally, bridging patients with end stage severe respiratory failure to lung 
transplantation should significantly extend the pretransplant life expectancy to 
increase the chances to receive a suitable organ, as well as efficiently 
preserve the post-transplant long-term life expectancy by maintaining 
physiological homeostasis and avoiding multi-organ dysfunction. Various advanced 
strategies of extracorporeal circulation can replace at least in part the 
respiratory function of the lung and can potentially provide the appropriate 
mode and level of cardiopulmonary support for each patient's physiologic 
requirements. Therefore, patients on the lung transplant waiting list developing 
severe hypoxemic and/or hypercapnic respiratory failure can be supported for a 
prolonged period of time before the transplant, preserving a satisfactory 
post-transplant life expectancy. However, a more systematic clinical study on 
this issue is warranted in order to define the actual efficacy of these 
treatments in reducing the mortality rate on the waiting transplant list, and 
eventually improve the outcome of patients with end stage respiratory failure.

PMID: 22293922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2012 Feb 1;101(3):163-8. doi: 10.1024/1661-8157/a000825.

[Supervised exercise training in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension - 
analyses of the effectiveness and safety].

[Article in German]

Saxer S(1), Rhyner M, Treder U, Speich R, van Gestel AJ.

Author information:
(1)Zürcher Hochschule für Angewandte Wissenschaft, Winterthur.

Both in today's scientific research and in clinical practice, there exists a 
need to address the uncertainty concerning the effectiveness and safety of 
cardiopulmonary exercise training (CPET) in patients with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH). It is commonly believed that CPET may be dangerous for 
patients with PAH, because increasing pressure on the pulmonary arteries may 
worsen right-sided heart failure. Recently, the first clinical trials on 
exercise training in patients with pulmonary hypertension reported promising 
results. Extension of the walking distance at the 6-minute walk test improved 
quality of life, endurance capacity and a reduction in symptoms were observed 
after CPET. Furthermore, CPET was well tolerated by the patients in five 
clinical trials. In conclusion, it may be postulated that CPET is an effective 
therapy in patients with PAH and was tendentially well tolerated by the 
patients.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a000825
PMID: 22294301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2012 Oct;59(4):717-24. doi: 10.1002/pbc.24096. Epub
2012  Jan 31.

Health-related quality of life among children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Furlong W(1), Rae C, Feeny D, Gelber RD, Laverdiere C, Michon B, Silverman L, 
Sallan S, Barr R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, and Department of Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 
furlongb@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: The objective was to quantify the health-related quality of life 
(HRQL) of children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and identify 
specific disabilities for remediation.
PROCEDURE: Two types of subjects were included: ALL patients 5 plus years old in 
a multi-center clinical trial and general population control groups. Patients 
were assessed during all four major phases of active treatment and approximately 
2 years after treatment. Health status and HRQL were measured using HEALTH 
UTILITIES INDEX® (HUI®) Mark 2 (HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3). HRQL scores were used 
to calculate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Excess disability rates 
identified attributes for remediation.
RESULTS: HUI assessments (n = 749) were collected during the five phases. Mean 
HRQL increased from induction through the post-treatment phase (P < 0.001). 
There were no significant demographic or treatment effects on HRQL, except for 
type of asparaginase during continuation therapy (P = 0.005 for HUI2 and P = 
0.007 for HUI3). Differences in mean HRQL scores between patients and controls 
were important (P < 0.001) during the active treatment phases but not during the 
post-treatment phase. Relative to controls, patients lost approximately 0.2 
QALYs during active treatment. Disability was evident in mobility/ambulation, 
emotion, self-care and pain, and declined over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with ALL experienced important but declining deficits in 
HRQL during active treatment phases: Equivalent to losing approximately 2 months 
of life in perfect health. HRQL within the 2-years post-treatment phase was 
similar to controls. The policy challenge is to develop new treatment protocols 
producing fewer disabilities in mobility/ambulation, emotion, self-care, and 
pain without compromising survival.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.24096
PMCID: PMC4123756
PMID: 22294502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2011 Feb;7(1):15-21. doi: 10.2174/157340311795677716.

Is age of 80 years a threshold for carotid revascularization?

Reichmann BL(1), van Lammeren GW, Moll FL, de Borst GJ.

