Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Medical Centre Utrecht; The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Carotid Angioplasty and Stenting (CAS) has emerged as an 
alternative to Carotid Endarterectomy (CEA) in treatment of carotid stenotic 
disease. With increasing life expectancy clinicians are more often confronted 
with patients of higher age. Octogenarians were often excluded from randomized 
trials comparing CAS to CEA because they were considered high-risk for 
revascularization. Conflicting results on the peri-procedural outcome of carotid 
revascularization in these patients have been reported. In order to objectively 
evaluate whether age above 80 years should be an upper limit for indicating 
carotid revascularization we systematically reviewed the currently available 
literature.
METHODS: Literature was systematically reviewed between January 2000 and June 
2010 using Pubmed and Embase, to identify all relevant studies concerning CAS 
and CEA in octogenarians. Inclusion criteria were 1) reporting outcome on either 
CEA or CAS; and 2) data subanalysis on treatment outcome by age. The 30-day 
Major Adverse Event (MAE) rate (disabling stroke, myocardial infarction or 
death) was extracted as well as demographic features of included patients.
RESULTS: After exclusion of 23 articles, 46 studies were included in this 
review, 18 involving CAS and 28 involving CEA. A total of 2.963 CAS patients and 
14.365 CEA patients with an age >80 years were reviewed. The MAE rate was 6.9% 
(range 1.6 - 24.0%) following CAS and 4.2% (range 0 - 8.8%) following CEA. A 
separate analysis in this review included the results of one major registry 
140.376 patients) analyzing CEA in octogenarians only reporting on 30-day 
mortality and not on neurological or cardiac adverse events. When these data 
were included the MAE following CEA is 2.4% (range 0 - 8.8%)
CONCLUSIONS: MAE rates after CEA in octogenarians are comparable with the 
results of large randomized trials in younger patients. Higher complication 
rates are described for CAS in octogenarians. In general, age > 80 years is not 
an absolute cut off point to exclude patients from carotid surgery. In our 
opinion, CEA should remain the golden standard in the treatment of significant 
carotid artery stenoses, even in the very elderly.

DOI: 10.2174/157340311795677716
PMCID: PMC3131710
PMID: 22294970


506. Trop Med Int Health. 2012 Apr;17(4):469-79. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-3156.2011.02941.x. Epub 2012 Feb 1.

Public health services, an essential determinant of health during crisis. 
Lessons from Cuba, 1989-2000.

De Vos P(1), García-Fariñas A, Álvarez-Pérez A, Rodríguez-Salvá A, Bonet-Gorbea 
M, Van der Stuyft P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerpen, Belgium. pdevos@itg.be

During the 1990s, Cuba was able to overcome a severe crisis, almost without 
negative health impacts. This national retrospective study covering the years 
1989-2000 analyses the country's strategy through essential social, demographic, 
health process and health outcome indicators. Gross domestic product (GDP) 
diminished by 34.76% between 1989 and 1993. In 1994 slow recuperation started. 
During the crisis, public health expenses increased. The number of family 
doctors rose from 9.22 to 27.03 per 104 inhabitants between 1989 and 2000. 
Infant mortality rate and life expectancy exemplify a series of health 
indicators that continued to improve during the crisis years, whereas low birth 
weight and tuberculosis incidence are among the few indicators that suffered 
deterioration. GDP is inversely related to tuberculosis incidence, whereas the 
average salary is inversely related to low birth weight. Infant mortality rate 
has a strong negative correlation with the health expenses per inhabitant, the 
number of maternal homes, the number of family doctors and the proportion of 
pregnant women receiving care in maternal homes. Life expectancy has a strong 
positive correlation with health expenses, the number of nursing personnel and 
the number of medical contacts per inhabitant. The Cuban strategy effectively 
resolved health risks during the crisis. In times of serious socio-economic 
constraints, a well conceptualized public health policy can play an important 
role in maintaining the overall well-being of a population.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3156.2011.02941.x
PMID: 22296108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Am Chem Soc. 2012 Feb 29;134(8):3691-4. doi: 10.1021/ja212027q. Epub 2012
Feb  3.

Activated ribonucleotides undergo a sugar pucker switch upon binding to a 
single-stranded RNA template.

Zhang N(1), Zhang S, Szostak JW.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Molecular Biology and 
Center for Computational and Integrative Biology, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, 185 Cambridge Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Template-directed polymerization of chemically activated ribonucleotide 
monomers, such as nucleotide 5'-phosphorimidazolides, has been studied as a 
model for nonenzymatic RNA replication during the origin of life. Kinetic 
studies of the polymerization of various nucleotide monomers on oligonucleotide 
templates have suggested that the A-form (C3'-endo sugar pucker) conformation is 
optimal for both monomers and templates for efficient copying. However, RNA 
monomers are predominantly in the C2'-endo conformation when free in solution, 
except for cytidine, which is approximately equally distributed between the 
C2'-endo and C3'-endo conformations. We hypothesized that ribonucleotides 
undergo a switch in sugar pucker upon binding to an A-type template and that 
this conformational switch allows or enhances subsequent polymerization. We used 
transferred nuclear Overhauser effect spectroscopy (TrNOESY), which can be used 
for specific detection of the bound conformation of small-molecule ligands with 
relatively weak affinity to receptors, to study the interactions between 
nucleotide 5'-phosphorimidazolides and single-stranded oligonucleotide 
templates. We found that the sugar pucker of activated ribonucleotides switches 
from C2'-endo in the free state to C3'-endo upon binding to an RNA template. 
This switch occurs only on RNA and not on DNA templates. Furthermore, activated 
2'-deoxyribonucleotides maintain a C2'-endo sugar pucker in both the free and 
template-bound states. Our results provide a structural explanation for the 
observations that activated ribonucleotides are superior to activated 
deoxyribonucleotides and that RNA templates are superior to DNA templates in 
template-directed nonenzymatic primer-extension reactions.

© 2012 American Chemical Society

DOI: 10.1021/ja212027q
PMCID: PMC3448298
PMID: 22296305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Health Expect. 2014 Apr;17(2):278-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1369-7625.2011.00749.x.
 Epub 2012 Feb 2.

Assessing the impact of deliberative processes on the views of participants: is 
it 'in one ear and out the other'?

Stafinski T(1), Menon D, Yasui Y.

Author information:
(1)Associate Director, Health Technology & Policy Unit, School of Public Health, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, CanadaProfessor, Public Health Sciences, 
School of Public Health, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Interest in citizens' juries for eliciting the views of the public 
to inform coverage decisions on new health technologies has grown. However, 
evaluative information, particularly regarding their short- and/or longer-term 
impact on participants' views is limited. As citizens' juries can be resource 
intensive, such information is required to make 'evidence-based' decisions about 
their use.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the impact of citizens' juries on participants' 
preferences for the distribution of health care across populations over time.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Two citizens' juries, involving a different 
representative sample of the public, were held. Participants completed identical 
questionnaires before (T1), directly after (T2) and 6 weeks following the jury 
(T3). Questionnaires comprised rating, ranking and choice-based questions 
related to four characteristics of competing patient populations (age, current 
health, life expectancy without treatment and health gain resulting from an 
intervention). Semi-structured telephone interviews were also conducted to 
explore the impact of the jury on participants' distributive preferences. 
Changes in responses to the self-administered survey over the three time points 
were assessed quantitatively, while interview questions were analysed using 
qualitative techniques.
RESULTS: No significant differences in responses to rating questions were 
observed. Pre/post-jury changes in the rankings of two factors were 
statistically significant in one of the juries. However, in both juries, T1-T2 
changes in responses to several of the choice-based questions reached 
statistical significance. The number was lower between T2 and T3, suggesting 
that jurors retained their views. According to findings from the interviews, 
jurors' views changed or were clarified through participation in the jury.
CONCLUSIONS: There appears to be evidence suggesting that the views of 
individuals who participate in citizens' juries change as a result of the 
experience, and those 'informed' views are sustained.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1369-7625.2011.00749.x
PMCID: PMC5060711
PMID: 22296492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. BMC Med. 2012 Feb 1;10:10. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-10-10.

Cost-effectiveness analysis for clinicians.

Hill SR(1).

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, 20 Ave Appia, Geneva 27, Switzerland. 
suzannerhill@gmail.com

In a climate of economic uncertainty, cost effectiveness analysis is a 
potentially important tool for making choices about health care interventions. 
Methods for such analyses are well established, but the results need to be 
interpreted carefully and are subject to bias. Making decisions based on results 
of cost-effectiveness analyses can involve setting thresholds, but for 
individual patients, there needs to be disaggregation of benefits and harms 
included in a quality adjusted life year to ensure appropriate consideration of 
benefits and harms as well as personal preferences and circumstances.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-10-10
PMCID: PMC3395827
PMID: 22296610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Int J Equity Health. 2012 Feb 2;11:6. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-11-6.

The quest for equity in Latin America: a comparative analysis of the health care 
reforms in Brazil and Colombia.

Esteves RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Secretariat of Labor and Education Management for Health, SGTES, Ministry of 
Health of Brazil, Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco G, Ed, Sede, Sala 704, 
Brasília, DF 70680-350, Brazil. resteves@mail.com

INTRODUCTION: Brazil and Colombia have pursued extensive reforms of their health 
care systems in the last couple of decades. The purported goals of such reforms 
were to improve access, increase efficiency and reduce health inequities. 
Notwithstanding their common goals, each country sought a very different pathway 
to achieve them. While Brazil attempted to reestablish a greater level of State 
control through a public national health system, Colombia embraced market 
competition under an employer-based social insurance scheme. This work thus aims 
to shed some light onto why they pursued divergent strategies and what that has 
meant in terms of health outcomes.
METHODS: A critical review of the literature concerning equity frameworks, as 
well as the health care reforms in Brazil and Colombia was conducted. Then, the 
shortfall inequality values of crude mortality rate, infant mortality rate, 
under-five mortality rate, and life expectancy for the period 1960-2005 were 
calculated for both countries. Subsequently, bivariate and multivariate linear 
regression analyses were performed and controlled for possibly confounding 
factors.
RESULTS: When controlling for the underlying historical time trend, both 
countries appear to have experienced a deceleration of the pace of improvements 
in the years following the reforms, for all the variables analyzed. In the case 
of Colombia, some of the previous gains in under-five mortality rate and crude 
mortality rate were, in fact, reversed.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither reform seems to have had a decisive positive impact on the 
health outcomes analyzed for the defined time period of this research. This, in 
turn, may be a consequence of both internal characteristics of the respective 
reforms and external factors beyond the direct control of health reformers. 
Among the internal characteristics: underfunding, unbridled decentralization and 
inequitable access to care seem to have been the main constraints. Conversely, 
international economic adversities, high levels of rural and urban violence, 
along with entrenched income inequalities seem to have accounted for the highest 
burden among external factors.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-11-6
PMCID: PMC3317827
PMID: 22296659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2012 May;96(2):e18-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2012.01.003. Epub 2012 Jan 31.

Diabetes and life expectancy among Japanese - NIPPON DATA80.

Turin TC(1), Murakami Y, Miura K, Rumana N, Kadota A, Ohkubo T, Okamura T, 
Okayama A, Ueshima H; NIPPON DATA80 Research Group.

Collaborators: Ueshima H, Okayama A, Okamura T, Saitoh S, Sakata K, Hozawa A, 
Hayakawa T, Nakamura Y, Matsumura Y, Nishi N, Okuda N, Izumi T, Ojima T, 
Tamakoshi K, Nakagawa H, Miura K, Ohkubo T, Kita Y, Kadota A, Nakamura Y, 
Yoshita K, Kodama K, Kasagi F, Kiyohara Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
turin.chowdhury@ucalgary.ca

Life expectancy (LE) among the Japanese population with or without diabetes 
mellitus was estimated. LE in 40-year old men and women was 41.1 and 47.5 years 
in those without diabetes and 32.3 and 40.9 years in those with diabetes. The LE 
of 40-year old men and women with diabetes was 8.8 and 6.6 years shorter than in 
those without diabetes. Diabetes mellitus leads to a decrease in LE. The 
presence of impaired glucose tolerance also affected LE inversely.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2012.01.003
PMID: 22296855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2012;156(5):A3817.

[Cost-effectiveness: euros per QALY is not enough].

[Article in Dutch]

van den Berg M(1), Hamberg-van Reenen HH, Schoemaker CG.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, Centrum voor Volksgezondheid 
Toekomstverkenningen, Bilthoven, the Netherlands. matthijs.van.den.berg@rivm.nl

The number of economic evaluations being published in scientific literature each 
year is increasing exponentially. Cost-effectiveness seems to be playing an 
increasing role in decisions about reimbursement or the implementation of 
curative or preventive interventions. A cost-effectiveness ratio represents the 
fraction between the costs and effects that are associated with an intervention. 
What costs are included in the numerator of the fraction? What assumptions on 
effectiveness and reach are made to express the denominator? Various examples 
have shown that small differences in assumptions can have significant 
consequences for the cost-effectiveness ratio. This holds true for presumptions 
on the long-term effects of an intervention as well as the willingness to 
participate in an intervention. Such assumptions and choices can sometimes 
highly determine the outcome of a cost-effectiveness analysis. For this reason, 
caution in interpreting results of cost-effectiveness analyses is warranted.

PMID: 22296895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Arch Pharm Res. 2012 Jan;35(1):69-76. doi: 10.1007/s12272-012-0107-x. Epub
2012  Feb 2.

Life span extension of Caenorhabditis elegans by novel pyridoperimidine 
derivative.

Sayed AA(1), El-Shaieb KM, Mourad AF.

Author information:
(1)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Minia University, El-Minia 61519, 
Egypt. sayedaar1@yahoo.com

Zwitterions formed from the addition of triphenylphosphine to dialky 
acetylene-dicarboxylates attack the nucleus of both 1H-perimidine (1) and 
1H-benzo[d]imidazole (9) to form novel pyrido[1,2,3-cd]perimidine and 
imidazo[4,5,1-ij]quinoline derivatives in moderate yields (64-72%). The 
biological activity of the products has been studied. Compound 3a was found to 
extend life span of wild type Caenorhabditis elegans under standard laboratory 
conditions. Both heat stress and induced chemical stress resistance of wild type 
C. elegans were improved in a reverse dose-dependent manner due to 3a treatment. 
In addition, treatment of worms with compound 3a significantly attenuated the 
formation of advanced glycation end products in a reverse dose-dependent manner.

DOI: 10.1007/s12272-012-0107-x
PMID: 22297744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Indian J Public Health. 2011 Oct-Dec;55(4):247-51. doi:
10.4103/0019-557X.92399.

Women's health: beyond reproductive years.

Vibha(1); Laskar AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi, 
India. vibha_lhmc@rediffmail.com

With changing demographic profile India has more older women than men as life 
expectancy for women is 67.57 as against 65.46 for men. Gender differences in 
the aging process reflect biological, economic, and social differences. Both 
social and health needs of the older women are unique and distinctive as they 
are vulnerable. The social problems revolve around widowhood, dependency, 
illiteracy and lack of awareness about the policies and programmes from which 
they can benefit. Among the medical problems, vision (cataract) and degenerative 
joint disease top the list, followed by neurological problems. Lifestyle 
diseases form another single-most important group of health problems in the 
elderly women. The risk of cardiovascular disease doubles with the outcome being 
poorer than men. The most common causes of death among women above the age of 60 
years are stroke, ischemic heart disease and COPD. Hypertensive heart disease 
and lower respiratory tract infections contribute to mortality in these women. 
Common malignancies viz. Cervical, breast and uterus in women are specific to 
them and account for a sizeable morbidity and mortality. In a study done at Lady 
Hardinge medical college in Delhi, Hypertension (39.6%) and obesity (12-46.8%) 
were very common in postmenopausal women. Half or more women had high salt and 
fat intake, low fruit and vegetable intake and stress. There is a need to 
recognize the special health needs of the women beyond the reproductive age, to 
be met through strengthening and reorienting the public health services at all 
levels starting from primary health care to secondary till tertiary care level 
with adequate referral linkages. All policies and programs need to have a gender 
perspective. At present there is lack of sensitization and appropriate training 
of the health personnel in dealing with the needs of elderly. Women too need to 
be aware to adopt healthy lifestyle and seek timely care.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-557X.92399
PMID: 22298132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Public Health Rep. 2012 Jan-Feb;127(1):89-95. doi:
10.1177/003335491212700110.

Resources that may matter: the impact of local health department expenditures on 
health status.

Erwin PC(1), Mays GP, Riley WJ.

Author information:
(1)The University of Tennessee, College of Education, Health, and Human 
Sciences, Department of Public Health, 1914 Andy Holt Ave., HPER, Knoxville, TN 
37996, USA. perwin@utk.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study examines the association between changes in local health 
department (LHD) expenditures, aggregated to the state level, and changes in 
state-level measures of health, from 1993 to 2005. The literature on the impact 
of LHD resources on health status has been limited by cross-sectional designs. 
With repeated surveys of LHDs, it is now possible to use longitudinal designs to 
explore the association between LHD inputs and outcomes.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study. We used a fixed-effects 
regression model to assess the association between LHD expenditures, aggregated 
to the state level, and seven separate health measures. We derived LHD 
expenditure data from the National Association of County and City Health 
Officials' surveys of LHDs in 1993, 1997, and 2005. We obtained secondary data 
on seven health measures--smoking and obesity prevalence, infectious disease 
morbidity, infant mortality, deaths due to cardiovascular disease and cancer, 
and overall premature death--through the America's Health Rankings® reports, 
1990-2008. Usable data were available for 1,470 LHDs, representing 37 states.
RESULTS: An increase in LHD expenditures, aggregated to the state level, was 
associated with a statistically significant decline in state-level infectious 
disease morbidity (t= -3.28, p=0.002) and in years of potential life lost (YPLL) 
(t= -2.73, p=0.008). For every $10 increase in aggregated LHD expenditures per 
capita, infectious disease morbidity decreased by 7.4%, and YPLL decreased by 
1.5%.
CONCLUSION: LHD resources are associated with improvements in preventable causes 
of morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1177/003335491212700110
PMCID: PMC3234401
PMID: 22298926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Gastroenterol Hepatol (N Y). 2011 Oct;7(10):689-91.

Barrett esophagus and life expectancy: implications for screening?

Kuipers EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Medicine Chair, Departments of Internal Medicine and 
Gastroenterology and Hepatology Erasmus MC University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

PMCID: PMC3265012
PMID: 22298963


517. J Econ Entomol. 2011 Dec;104(6):1950-9. doi: 10.1603/ec11070.

Life stage toxicity and residual activity of insecticides to codling moth and 
oriental fruit moth (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae).

Magalhaes LC(1), Walgenbach JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, North Carolina State University, Mountain 
Horticultural Crops Research & Extension Center, Mills River, NC 28759, USA.

The codling moth, Cydia pomonella (L.), and oriental fruit moth, Grapholita 
molesta (Busck), are two key pests of apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) in North 
Carolina. Growers extensively relied on organophosphate insecticides, primarily 
azinphosmethyl, for > 40 yr to manage these pests. Because of organophosphate 
resistance development and regulatory actions, growers are transitioning to 
management programs that use new, reduced-risk, and OP-replacement insecticides. 
This study evaluated the toxicity of a diversity of replacement insecticides to 
eggs, larvae, and adults, as well as an assessment of their residual activity, 
to codling moth and oriental fruit moth. Laboratory-susceptible strains of both 
species were used for all bioassays. Fresh field-harvested apples were used as a 
media for assessing the ovicidal activity of insecticides. For larval studies, 
insecticides were topically applied to the surface of lima bean-based diet, onto 
which neonates were placed. Toxicity was based on two measures of mortality; 5-d 
mortality and development to adult stage. Ovicidal bioassays showed that 
oriental fruit moth eggs were generally more tolerant than codling moth eggs to 
insecticides, with novaluron, acetamiprid, and azinphoshmethyl having the 
highest levels of toxicity to eggs of both species. In contrast, codling moth 
larvae generally were more tolerant than oriental fruit moth to most 
insecticides. Methoxyfenozide and pyriproxyfen were the only insecticides with 
lower LC50 values against codling moth than oriental fruit moth neonates. 
Moreover, a number of insecticides, particularly the IGRs methoxyfenozide and 
novaluron, the anthranilic diamide chlorantriliprole, and the spinosyn 
spinetoram, provided equal or longer residual activity against codling moth 
compared with azinphosmethyl in field studies. Results are discussed in relation 
to their use in devising field use patterns of insecticides and for insecticide 
resistance monitoring programs.

DOI: 10.1603/ec11070
PMID: 22299357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Acta Cardiol. 2011 Dec;66(6):715-20. doi: 10.1080/ac.66.6.2136954.

Screening for silent myocardial ischaemia in patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus: a quest to improve selection of the target screening population.

De Keyzer E(1), Kerkhove D, Van Camp G, De Sutter J, Achtergael W, Keymeulen B, 
Weytjens C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Brussels 
Free University-Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Brussels, Belgium. 
edkeyzer@uzbrussel.be

OBJECTIVE: Despite the association of diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM2) with silent 
myocardial ischaemia (SMI) and a high prevalence of death due to coronary artery 
disease (CAD), screening for CAD in patients with DM2 remains controversial 
because of a lack of proof that it improves cardiac outcome. The aim of this 
study was to improve the diagnostic yield of the exercise stress test (EST) by 
introducing recently published life expectancy tables in selecting DM2 patients 
for coronary screening.
METHODS: 359 patients with DM2 without history or symptoms of CAD were included 
to perform an EST after a clinical history and brief physical examination. 
Cardiovascular risk factor profiling was completed with blood and urine 
analysis. A lower heart rate was defined as bradycardia (heart rate less than 60 
bpm), a higher blood pressure as a systolic blood pressure at rest of 130 mmHg 
of more.
RESULTS: The prevalence of SMI was 14.5% (n = 52). The average number of 
additional cardiovascular risk factors per subject was 4. Multivariate logistic 
regression yields 4 significant predictors: (i) heart rate at rest (P= 0.015), 
(ii) a family history of cardiovascular disease (P = 0.017), (iii) systolic 
blood pressure at rest (P = 0.019), and, (iv) an LDL-c of 80 mg/dL or more (P = 
0.021).
CONCLUSION: Known risk factors for myocardial ischaemia were identified as 
significantly influencing the prevalence of SMI. No improvement in diagnostic 
yield could be identified by selecting the screening population using predicted 
life expectancy tables.

DOI: 10.1080/ac.66.6.2136954
PMID: 22299381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Harv Bus Rev. 2012 Jan-Feb;90(1-2):78-83, 152.

The economics of well-being.

Fox J.

Gross domestic product has long been the chief measure of national success. But 
there's been a lot of talk lately about changing that, from economists and world 
leaders alike. GDP is under siege for three main reasons. First, it is flawed 
even on its own terms: It misses lots of economic activity (unpaid household 
work, for example) and, as a single-number representation of vast, complex 
systems, is inevitably skewed. Second, it fails to account for economic and 
environmental sustainability. And third, readily available alternative measures 
may reflect well-being far better, by taking into account factors such as 
educational achievement, health, and life expectancy. HBR's Justin Fox surveys 
historical and current views on how to assess national progress, from Jeremy 
Bentham to Robert Kennedy to Nicolas Sarkozy. He also looks at where we may be 
headed. The biggest success so far in the campaign to supplant or at least 
supplement GDP, he finds, is the UN's Human Development Index-on which the 
United States has never claimed the top spot.

PMID: 22299505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2012 Oct;12(4):733-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00824.x. Epub 2012 Feb 2.

Perceived age of facial features is a significant diagnosis criterion for 
age-related carotid atherosclerosis in Japanese subjects: J-SHIPP study.

Kido M(1), Kohara K, Miyawaki S, Tabara Y, Igase M, Miki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Ehime University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Ehime, Japan.

AIM: Vascular aging is known to be a major determinant of life expectancy. 
Recently, perceived age was reported to be a better predictor for mortality than 
chronological age. Based on these findings, we investigated whether or not 
perceived age was related to atherosclerosis in a general population.
METHODS: The participants were 273 individuals aged ≥ 50 years who participated 
in the Skin-doc in Anti-Aging Doc program. Facial photos were taken under a 
shadowless lamp from three directions (antero-posterior, and 60° right and left 
oblique projection) using a high-resolution digital camera. Perceived age was 
assessed either by 19 professional nurses in the geriatric ward or using facial 
identification program software. Carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), radial 
augmentation index (AI) and brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) were 
measured as indices for atherosclerosis.
RESULTS: The perceived age difference (expressed as the difference between 
perceived age and chronological age), when estimated either by nurses or 
software, was significantly and negatively associated with chronological age. 
Subjects who were evaluated by nurses to be younger than their chronological age 
had significantly lower carotid IMT after adjustment for chronological age. 
Conversely, carotid IMT was an independent and negative determinant of looking 
young, as perceived by nurses. Similar observations were also made between 
perceived age using facial identification software and carotid IMT. Radial AI 
and baPWV were not associated with perceived age.
CONCLUSION: These findings show that carotid atherosclerosis is related to 
perceived age. This association might underlie previous findings showing that 
perceived age predicts life expectancy.

© 2012 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00824.x
PMID: 22299819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Parasitol. 2012 Jun;98(3):692-4. doi: 10.1645/GE-2994.1. Epub 2012 Feb 2.

DNA barcoding of parasitic nematodes: is it kosher?

Siddall ME(1), Kvist S, Phillips A, Oceguera-Figuero A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Invertebrate Zoology, American Museum of Natural History, New 
York, New York 10024, USA. siddall@amnh.org

Nematode parasites were encountered in kosher-certified fish meat and roe, and 
the question was raised as to whether or not these food products were kosher as 
concerns food preparation standards-a matter that pertains to the identity and, 
by extension, the life cycle of the parasites. To ascertain the identities of 
parasitic nematodes, given the distorted or damaged nature of the specimens, 
molecular techniques were applied in the form of DNA barcoding. To our 
knowledge, this is the first application of this technique to an obviously 
cultural concern as opposed to one of health or economic significance. Results, 
based both on cytochrome c oxidase subunits I and II, suggested that the 
parasite species found in the fish products are anisakine species that do not 
inhabit the intestinal lumen of the fish hosts examined. Thus, there was no 
evidence of failure to adhere to food preparation practices consistent with the 
proscriptions of Orthodox Judaism. Notwithstanding the success of DNA barcoding 
in determining at least the higher taxonomic identities of the parasites, some 
shortcomings of the DNA barcoding pipeline as it pertains to nematode parasites 
were encountered; specifically, the paucity of data available for the DNA 
barcoding locus, even for very common nematode taxa.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-2994.1
PMID: 22300283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Med Decis Making. 2012 Jul-Aug;32(4):578-82. doi: 10.1177/0272989X11435173.
Epub  2012 Feb 2.

Valuing health: a brief report on subjective well-being versus preferences.

Dolan P(1), Metcalfe R(2).

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics, London, UK (PD)
(2)University of Oxford, Merton College, Oxford, UK (RM)

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X11435173
PMID: 22300881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Instr Course Lect. 2012;61:303-11.

How to do a revision total hip arthroplasty: revision of the acetabulum.

Sporer SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.

The need for revision total hip arthroplasty continues to increase as the 
indications for total hip replacement broaden and the average life expectancy of 
patients and their demands for activity increase. To achieve a successful 
long-term outcome after revision acetabular surgery, the surgical reconstruction 
must provide a mechanically stable construct that will minimize micromotion, 
allow bone ingrowth, and restore appropriate hip biomechanics. Achieving these 
goals during revision acetabular surgery can be challenging because of 
periacetabular bone loss and a compromised biologic environment. Acetabular 
classifications can help to preoperatively predict areas of bone loss to guide 
treatment options. Most acetabular defects can be managed with a hemispheric or 
elliptic porous acetabular component; however, large areas of segmental or 
cavitary bone loss may require alternative treatments such as custom implants, 
metal/allograft augmentation, or an acetabular cage reconstruction.

PMID: 22301242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Herz. 2012 Jun;37(4):456-60. doi: 10.1007/s00059-011-3566-9.

[Hereditary cardiac amyloidosis with transthyretin mutations. A cause of sudden 
death ].

[Article in German]

Edler C(1), Saeger W, Orth U, Braun C, Wulff B, Sperhake J.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Rechtsmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Butenfeld 
34, 22529 Hamburg. c.edler@uke.de

Hereditary amyloidoses present a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group 
of autosomal dominant diseases. The most frequent form is associated with 
mutations of the transthyretin gene. The type of mutation determines the 
process, the organs primarily involved as well as the time of onset of the 
disease. Life expectancy is generally limited by the degree of cardiomyopathy. 
The cases of two male patients who died suddenly and unexpectedly are presented. 
In both cases, autopsy revealed a biventricular cardiac hypertrophy. Cardiac 
amyloidosis was diagnosed by means of histologic and genetic analysis. Early 
diagnosis is essential for those affected, since liver transplantation still 
represents the only effective treatment. This illustrates the benefit of autopsy 
investigations for surviving relatives, who may themselves be affected by the 
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-011-3566-9
PMID: 22301727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Oncologist. 2012;17(2):164-71. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0379. Epub
2012  Feb 2.

Assessing the real-world cost-effectiveness of adjuvant trastuzumab in HER-2/neu 
positive breast cancer.

Hedden L(1), O'Reilly S, Lohrisch C, Chia S, Speers C, Kovacic L, Taylor S, 
Peacock S.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 
1L3 Canada.

Comment in
    Oncologist. 2012;17(2):157-9.

BACKGROUND: Among women with surgically removed, high-risk HER-2/neu-positive 
breast cancer, trastuzumab has demonstrated significant improvements in 
disease-free and overall survival. The objective of this study is to evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of the currently recommended 12-month adjuvant protocol 
of trastuzumab using a Markov modeling approach and real-world cost data.
METHODS: A 10-health-state Markov model tracked patients' quarterly transitions 
between health states in the local and advanced states of breast cancer. 
Clinical data were obtained from the joint analysis of the National Surgical 
Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project and North Central Cancer Treatment Group, as 
well as from the metastatic study conducted by Norum et al. Clinical outcomes 
were adjusted for quality of life using utility estimates published in a 
systematic review. Real cost data were obtained from the British Columbia Cancer 
Agency and were evaluated from a payer perspective. Costs and utilities were 
discounted at 5% per year, respectively, for a 28-year time horizon.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, treatment with a 12-month adjuvant 
trastuzumab regimen resulted in a gain of 1.38 quality-adjusted life years or 
1.17 life years gained at a cost of $18,133 per patient. Thus, the cost per QALY 
gained for the base case is $13,095. Cost per LYG is $15,492.
CONCLUSIONS: Over the long term, treatment of HER-2/neu mutation positive breast 
cancer with a 12-month protocol of trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting is 
predicted to be cost-effective in a Canadian context.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2011-0379
PMCID: PMC3286164
PMID: 22302231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Lindsay Hedden: None; Susan 
O'Reilly: None; Caroline Lohrisch: None; Stephen Chia: None; Caroline Speers: 
None; Laurel Kovacic: None; Suzanne Taylor: None; Stuart Peacock: None


526. Pediatr Radiol. 2012 Apr;42(4):397-8. doi: 10.1007/s00247-011-2315-9.

CT radiation dose reduction: can we do harm by doing good?

Cohen MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Riley Hospital for Children, Indiana University, 702 
Barnhill Drive, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. mecohen@iupui.edu

Comment in
    Pediatr Radiol. 2012 Apr;42(4):399-401.

Comment on
    Pediatr Radiol. 2011 Sep;41 Suppl 2:453-5.
    Radiology. 2011 Oct;261(1):5-8.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-011-2315-9
PMID: 22302318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Pediatr Radiol. 2012 Apr;42(4):399-401. doi: 10.1007/s00247-011-2331-9.

Reply to commentary--'CT radiation dose reduction: can we do harm by doing 
good?'.

Newman B, Callahan MJ.

Comment on
    Pediatr Radiol. 2012 Apr;42(4):397-8.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-011-2331-9
PMID: 22302319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Health Care Manag Sci. 2012 Dec;15(4):293-309. doi:
10.1007/s10729-012-9195-x.

Simulation optimization of PSA-threshold based prostate cancer screening 
policies.

Underwood DJ(1), Zhang J, Denton BT, Shah ND, Inman BA.

Author information:
(1)Edward P. Fitts Department of Industrial & Systems Engineering, North 
Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA. daniel.underwood@ncsu.edu

We describe a simulation optimization method to design PSA screening policies 
based on expected quality adjusted life years (QALYs). Our method integrates a 
simulation model in a genetic algorithm which uses a probabilistic method for 
selection of the best policy. We present computational results about the 
efficiency of our algorithm. The best policy generated by our algorithm is 
compared to previously recommended screening policies. Using the policies 
determined by our model, we present evidence that patients should be screened 
more aggressively but for a shorter length of time than previously published 
guidelines recommended.

DOI: 10.1007/s10729-012-9195-x
PMCID: PMC3711512
PMID: 22302420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Front Microbiol. 2012 Jan 26;3:19. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2012.00019.
eCollection  2012.

The genes and enzymes of phosphonate metabolism by bacteria, and their 
distribution in the marine environment.

Villarreal-Chiu JF(1), Quinn JP, McGrath JW.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Queen's University Belfast, UK.

Phosphonates are compounds that contain the chemically stable carbon-phosphorus 
(C-P) bond. They are widely distributed amongst more primitive life forms 
including many marine invertebrates and constitute a significant component of 
the dissolved organic phosphorus reservoir in the oceans. Virtually all biogenic 
C-P compounds are synthesized by a pathway in which the key step is the 
intramolecular rearrangement of phosphoenolpyruvate to phosphonopyruvate. 
However C-P bond cleavage by degradative microorganisms is catalyzed by a number 
of enzymes - C-P lyases, C-P hydrolases, and others of as-yet-uncharacterized 
mechanism. Expression of some of the pathways of phosphonate catabolism is 
controlled by ambient levels of inorganic P (Pi) but for others it is 
Pi-independent. In this report we review the enzymology of C-P bond metabolism 
in bacteria, and also present the results of an in silico investigation of the 
distribution of the genes that encode the pathways responsible, in both 
bacterial genomes and in marine metagenomic libraries, and their likely modes of 
regulation. Interrogation of currently available whole-genome bacterial 
sequences indicates that some 10% contain genes encoding putative pathways of 
phosphonate biosynthesis while ∼40% encode one or more pathways of phosphonate 
catabolism. Analysis of metagenomic data from the global ocean survey suggests 
that some 10 and 30%, respectively, of bacterial genomes across the sites 
sampled encode these pathways. Catabolic routes involving phosphonoacetate 
hydrolase, C-P lyase(s), and an uncharacterized 2-aminoethylphosphonate 
degradative sequence were predominant, and it is likely that both 
substrate-inducible and Pi-repressible mechanisms are involved in their 
regulation. The data we present indicate the likely importance of phosphonate-P 
in global biogeochemical P cycling, and by extension its role in marine 
productivity and in carbon and nitrogen dynamics in the oceans.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2012.00019
PMCID: PMC3266647
PMID: 22303297


530. Rev Med Suisse. 2012 Jan 11;8(323):23-7.

[Review in geriatric medicine 2011].

[Article in French]

Rochat S(1), Doser N, Eyer S, Jabri A, Rubli E, Büla C.

Author information:
(1)Service de gériatrie et de réadaptation gériatrique, Département de médecine, 
CHUV, 1011 Lausanne. stephane.rochat@chuv.ch

In 2011, new tools to evaluate life expectancy are available. Controversy about 
PSA-based screening for prostate cancer is still going on, with new data from 
the US Preventive services task force. A brief behavioral treatment for insomnia 
can be efficient and durable. Gliptines are be useful to avoid treatment-induced 
hypoglycemia in diabetic patients. New Alzheimer diagnostic criteria, including 
biomarkers, have been published.

PMID: 22303735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Med Econ. 2012;15(3):531-47. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.662923. Epub 2012
Feb  21.

Cost-effectiveness of several atypical antipsychotics in orally disintegrating 
tablets compared with standard oral tablets in the treatment of schizophrenia in 
the United States.

Ascher-Svanum H(1), Furiak NM, Lawson AH, Klein TM, Smolen LJ, Conley RR, Culler 
SD.

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA. haya@lilly.com

OBJECTIVE: Although the use of innovative drug delivery systems, like orally 
disintegrating antipsychotic tablets (ODT), may facilitate medication adherence 
and help reduce the risk of relapse and hospitalization, no information is 
available about the comparative cost-effectiveness of standard oral tablets 
(SOT) vs ODT formulations in the treatment of schizophrenia. This study compared 
the cost-effectiveness of olanzapine ODT and olanzapine SOT in the usual 
treatment of outpatients with schizophrenia from a US healthcare perspective. 
The study also compared olanzapine ODT with risperidone and aripiprazole, two 
other atypical antipsychotics available in both ODT and SOT formulations.
METHODS: Published medical literature and a clinical expert panel were used to 
populate a 1-year Monte Carlo Micro-simulation model. The model captures 
clinical and cost parameters including adherence levels, treatment 
discontinuation by reason, relapse with and without inpatient hospitalization, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), treatment-emergent adverse events, 
healthcare resource utilization, and associated costs. Key outcomes were total 
annual direct cost per treatment, QALY, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
(ICER) per 1 QALY gained.
RESULTS: Based on model projections, olanzapine ODT therapy was more costly 
($9808 vs $9533), but more effective in terms of a lower hospitalization rate 
(15% vs 16%) and better QALYs (0.747 vs 0.733) than olanzapine SOT therapy. 
Olanzapine ODT was more cost-effective than olanzapine SOT (ICER: $19,643), more 
cost-effective than risperidone SOT therapy (ICER: $39,966), and dominant 
(meaning less costly and more effective) than risperidone ODT and aripiprazole 
in ODT or SOT formulations.
LIMITATIONS: Lack of head-to-head randomized studies comparing the three studied 
atypical antipsychotics required making input assumptions that need further 
study.
CONCLUSIONS: This micro-simulation found that the utilization of olanzapine ODT 
for the treatment of schizophrenia is predicted to be more cost-effective than 
any other ODT or SOT formulations of the studied atypical antipsychotic 
medications.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.662923
PMID: 22304338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Adv Nurs. 2012 Nov;68(11):2466-76. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2012.05944.x.
Epub  2012 Feb 5.

Nursing contribution to the rehabilitation of older patients: patient and family 
perspectives.

Tyrrell EF(1), Levack WM, Ritchie LH, Keeling SM.

Author information:
(1)ATR Unit, Nelson Hospital, Nelson, New Zealand.

AIMS:   This article reports a study of the perspective of older patients and 
their family members on the role of nurses in inpatient rehabilitation.
BACKGROUND:   Rehabilitation services are used increasingly by older patients as 
life expectancy increases. The role of rehabilitation nurses in the 
multidisciplinary team has, however, yet to be clearly articulated. Previous 
research has focussed on the views of health professionals about nursing 
involvement in rehabilitation, but none has sought family members' perspectives. 
With the expectation of patient-centred care, it is important to consider what 
older patients and their families expect and require from nurses.
DESIGN:   Grounded theory was used to collect and analyse data from interviews 
in an inpatient rehabilitation unit in New Zealand with seven patients, aged 
72-89 years, and six family members, during 2009-2010.
FINDINGS:   A substantive theory was developed which recognizes that the older 
patient values the relationship they build with nurses more than any specific 
role nurses perform. Participants acknowledged that rehabilitation nurses' roles 
included 'looking after', 'stepping in' and 'coaching independence' but 'best 
fit' nurses were identified by patients based on their 'nature', 'being 
available' and 'being attuned' to the patient's individual needs. If a 
'connection' was formed, then this 'best fit relationship' maximized the older 
person's motivation to participate in his or her rehabilitation therapy.
CONCLUSION:   Patients and family members appreciate 'best fit relationships' 
where nurses seek to enter into the older person's world of disability to form a 
partnership which enhances their motivation to achieve independence.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.2012.05944.x
PMID: 22304738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Ann Vasc Surg. 2012 May;26(4):573.e5-7. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2011.10.016.
Epub  2012 Feb 3.

Endovascular repair of aortic isthmus coarctation with a self-expanding covered 
stent.

Oberhuber A(1), Muehling BM, Orend KH, Schelzig H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany. 
alexander.oberhuber@uniklinik-ulm.de

BACKGROUND: Coarctation is one of the most often seen congenital aortal defects. 
In the majority, diagnosis will be made in newborns. Endovascular repair is 
critical in children owing to their growth, but in adult patients, it is an 
interesting alternative.
METHODS: A 31-year-old man presenting with hypertension of upper extremities and 
pulseless lower extremities was admitted to our hospital. Systolic blood 
pressure was 190 mm Hg, although a triple antihypertensive medication was 
administered. Computed tomographic angiography showed a nearly total occlusion 
of the aortic isthmus. Coarctation was treated by an endovascular approach with 
a self-expanding covered stent-graft (Medtronic Talent; Medtronic World Medical, 
Sunrise, FL) after predilatation with a Reliant balloon (Medtronic World 
Medical, Sunrise, FL).
RESULTS: After a follow-up of 40 months, the patient is normotensive and 
antihypertensive medication could be reduced. Lower extremities showed normal 
pulses and normal ankle-brachial index. Computed tomographic scans showed 
unchanged stent-graft position, with constant slight waist.
DISCUSSION: Endovascular repair of atresia or coarctation of the thoracic aorta 
is a minimal invasive debatable option. Not only reduction of blood pressure but 
also reduction of left ventricular mass and prolongation of life expectancy can 
be achieved by endovascular treatment.

Copyright © 2012 Annals of Vascular Surgery Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2011.10.016
PMID: 22305473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Am J Epidemiol. 2012 May 15;175(10):1006-12. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwr466. Epub
2012  Feb 3.

Smoking reduction at midlife and lifetime mortality risk in men: a prospective 
cohort study.

Gerber Y(1), Myers V, Goldbourt U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv 69978, 
Israel. yarivg@post.tau.ac.il

