Decreased sleep duration: a risk of progression of degenerative lumbar 
scoliosis.

Li H(1), Liang C, Shen C, Li Y, Chen Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, 2nd Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, #88 Jiefang Road, Hangzhou, PR China.

Degenerative lumbar scoliosis (DLS) is a spinal deformity that develops after 
skeletal maturity with a Cobb angle of more than 10° in the coronal plane. As 
the life expectancy of our population increases, DLS becomes a prevalent health 
issue affecting the quality of life of the elderly. The degree of the scoliosis 
curvature affects not only the symptoms but also the choice of treatments. 
Osteoporosis and intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) have been suggested as 
two important risks associated with the progression of DLS. Interestingly, 
recent data implicate interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the altered matrix biology that 
characterizes human IDD. Compelling evidence links decreased sleep duration to 
lower bone mineral density (BMD) and elevated expression of IL-1. Based on these 
evidences, we propose that decreased sleep duration might be a risk of the 
progression of DLS, and hypothesize that the underlying mechanisms might be the 
elevated excretion of glucocorticoids and elevated expression of IL-1.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2011.10.036
PMID: 22118954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Joint Bone Spine. 2012 May;79(3):219-27. doi: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.09.015.
Epub  2011 Nov 26.

Therapeutic approach to giant cell arteritis.

Masson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de rhumatologie, CHU d'Angers, 4, rue Larrey, 49933 Angers cedex 9, 
France. ChMasson@chu-angers.fr

Giant cell arteritis (GCA) affects middle-sized or large arteries in individuals 
over 50 years of age. GCA is characterized by a combination of focal 
inflammation responsible for arterial stenosis or occlusion and of systemic 
inflammation manifesting as polymyalgia rheumatica, a decline in general health, 
and inflammatory anemia. In addition to the typical involvement of the branches 
of the external carotid arteries, relatively common sites of involvement include 
the aorta, most notably in its thoracic segment, and the subclavian, axillary, 
brachial, vertebral, and femoral arteries. The treatment of GCA rests on daily 
glucocorticoid administration, which should be started on an emergency basis in 
patients with incipient visual impairments (diplopia or amaurosis fugax). The 
duration of glucocorticoid therapy is unpredictable and side effects are common. 
Initial megadose glucocorticoid therapy does not decrease subsequent 
glucocorticoid requirements. Glucocorticoid therapy regulates the Th17 pathway, 
which is involved in the prominent vascular and systemic manifestations; but not 
the Th1 pathway, which may underlie the chronic course of the disease (whereas 
aspirin, in addition to decreasing platelet aggregation, blocks the Th1 mediator 
interferon-gamma). Although GCA is classically described as resolving within 1 
to 3 years, clinical practice often teaches otherwise. Many patients experience 
rebound abnormalities in laboratory tests and/or relapses, and some of them have 
recurrences after an apparently full recovery. Histological documentation is 
useful to confirm the diagnosis. The effect of methotrexate and TNFα antagonists 
is modest at best. A few patients have responded to tocilizumab, which 
suppresses IL-6, a key cytokine in GCA. Life expectancy in GCA patients is 
similar to that in same-age controls except for a slight excess in vascular 
mortality shortly after the diagnosis.

Copyright © 2011 Société française de rhumatologie. Published by Elsevier SAS. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2011.09.015
PMID: 22119350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. World Neurosurg. 2012 Jul;78(1-2):178-84. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2011.09.013.
Epub  2011 Nov 7.

Cost-effectiveness of minimally invasive versus open transforaminal lumbar 
interbody fusion for degenerative spondylolisthesis associated low-back and leg 
pain over two years.

Parker SL(1), Adogwa O, Bydon A, Cheng J, McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS-TLIF) 
for lumbar spondylolisthesis allows for surgical treatment of back and leg pain 
while theoretically minimizing tissue injury and accelerating overall recovery. 
Although the authors of previous studies have demonstrated shorter length of 
hospital stay and reduced blood loss with MIS versus open-TLIF, short- and 
long-term outcomes have been similar. No studies to date have evaluated the 
comprehensive health care costs associated with TLIF procedures or assessed the 
cost-utility of MIS- versus open-TLIF. As such, we set out to assess previously 
unstudied end points of health care cost and cost-utility associated with MIS- 
versus open-TLIF.
METHODS: Thirty patients undergoing MIS-TLIF (n=15) or open-TLIF (n=15) for 
grade I degenerative spondylolisthesis associated back and leg pain were 
prospectively studied. Total back-related medical resource use, missed work, and 
health-state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], calculated from EQ-5D 
with U.S. valuation) were assessed after two-year follow-up. Two-year resource 
use was multiplied by unit costs on the basis of Medicare national allowable 
payment amounts (direct cost) and work-day losses were multiplied by the 
self-reported gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). Difference in mean total 
cost per QALY gained for MIS- versus open-TLIF was assessed as incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER: COSTmis-COSTopen/QALYmis-QALYopen).
RESULTS: MIS versus open-TLIF cohorts were similar at baseline. By two years 
postoperatively, patients undergoing MIS- versus open-TLIF reported similar mean 
QALYs gained (0.50 vs. 0.41, P=0.17). Mean total two-year cost of MIS- and 
open-TLIF was $35,996 and $44,727, respectively. The $8,731 two-year cost 
savings of MIS- versus open-TLIF did not reach statistical significance (P=0.18) 
for this sample size.
CONCLUSIONS: Although our limited sample size prevented statistical 
significance, MIS- versus open-TLIF was associated with reduced costs over two 
years while providing equivalent improvement in QALYs. MIS-TLIF allows patients 
to leave the hospital sooner, achieve narcotic independence sooner, and return 
to work sooner than open-TLIF. In our experience, MIS- versus open-TLIF is a 
cost reducing technology in the surgical treatment of medically refractory 
low-back and leg pain from grade I lumbar spondylolisthesis.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2011.09.013
PMID: 22120269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. J Clin Med Res. 2011 Jul 26;3(4):168-76. doi: 10.4021/jocmr537w.

Postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and musculoskeletal status: a comparative 
cross-sectional study.

Cunha-Henriques S(1), Costa-Paiva L, Pinto-Neto AM, Fonsechi-Carvesan G, Nanni 
L, Morais SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, School of Medical Sciences, 
Universidade Estadual de Campinas (UNICAMP), Brazil.

BACKGROUND: With increased life expectancy of the world's population that has 
taken place in recent decades, there has been growth in the incidence of 
illnesses of the most advanced ages, including osteoporosis. However, changes in 
musculoskeletal disorders are not yet so clear. This study proposes to evaluate 
musculoskeletal alterations in osteoporotic postmenopausal women and healthy and 
correlate with bone mineral density of the lumbar spine.
METHODS: Randomized, examiner-blinded, comparative cross-sectional study was 
designed with two groups of women attending the Menopause Clinic in the UNICAMP, 
30 women with osteoporosis, while 33 women without osteoporosis comprised the 
second group. Diagnosis of the presence or absence of osteoporosis was based on 
bone densitometry performed on the lumbar spine. Volunteers were interviewed and 
underwent a physical examination with the same examiner, including the muscle 
strength and amplitude of movement of back flexion and extension, angles of 
thoracic kyphosis and lumbar lordosis, as well as static and dynamic balance.
RESULTS: Mean back flexors and extensors strength was significantly lower in 
women with osteoporosis (P < 0.01). Flexion spinal range of motion was similar 
in both groups (P = 0.91). However, movement amplitude of spine extension was 
20.5 (o)C in women with osteoporosis and 28.4 (o)C in women without 
osteoporosis. Thoracic kyphosis angles from T1 to T4 (P < 0.01) and lumbar 
lordosis angles (P = 0.02) were greater in women with osteoporosis. 
Seventy-three point three percent of women with osteoporosis and 78.8% of women 
without osteoporosis had good reply to static balance. Women in both groups had 
poor results to dynamic balance. No significant differences were observed in 
static or dynamic balance between women with and without osteoporosis. Vertebral 
fractures were present in 20% of women with osteoporosis and absent in women 
without osteoporosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Women with osteoporosis in the study population had poorer 
musculoskeletal status than women without osteoporosis. Further studies are 
necessary to evaluate whether correction of these alterations would be related 
to preventing falls and reducing fracture risk.
KEYWORDS: Balance; Kyphosis; Mobility; Muscle strength; Osteoporosis; 
Postmenopausal.

DOI: 10.4021/jocmr537w
PMCID: PMC3194012
PMID: 22121400


34. Pan Afr Med J. 2011;8:10. doi: 10.4314/pamj.v8i1.71057. Epub 2011 Feb 15.

Health related quality of life among adolescents with sickle cell disease in 
Saudi Arabia.

Amr MA(1), Amin TT, Al-Omair OA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, College of Medicine, King Faisal 
University-Al Hassa, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: Increased life expectancy due to recent medical advances has 
increased the need to understand more fully the quality of life (QoL) in 
patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) and factors predicting disease 
adaptation .The objectives of this study were to assess the impairment of health 
related quality of life (HRQoL) domains in a sample of Saudi Arabian adolescents 
with SCD.
METHODS: A non-probability sample composed of Saudi adolescents with SCD (n=180) 
aged 14-18 years and comparable age and gender matched healthy controls (n=202). 
Socio-demographics and disease related data were obtained through personal 
interview with parents/legal guardians and reviewing patients' medical records. 
Self-administered 'Short Form-36' questionnaire was used to assess HRQoL of the 
included groups.
RESULTS: HRQoL showed significant deterioration in adolescents with SCD 
especially in role physical, general health, and bodily pain domains 
irrespective of the gender, while female adolescents with SCD demonstrated 
significant deterioration in emotional wellbeing. Those with SCD-complications 
showed worse scores along the physical, general health, and emotional wellbeing 
domains. HRQol scores were negatively associated with increasing age, female 
gender, rural residence, low family income, presence of disease-related 
complications and frequent hospital admissions as revealed by multivariate 
regression analysis.
CONCLUSION: Saudi adolescents with SCD experience deterioration along all 
domains of HRQoL especially the physical. Disease related complications and 
sociodemographic correlates are significant determinants to worse HRQoL among 
the included adolescents with SCD.

DOI: 10.4314/pamj.v8i1.71057
PMCID: PMC3201577
PMID: 22121419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2012 Jul;12(3):405-12. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00779.x. Epub 2011 Nov 28.

Dementia on the Byzantine throne (ad 330-1453).

Poulakou-Rebelakou E(1), Kalantzis G, Tsiamis C, Ploumpidis D.

Author information:
(1)History of Medicine, Athens University Medical School, Athens, Greece. 
efpoulrebel@med.uoa.gr

AIM: To present the consequences of the prolonged age of the emperors, 
especially if combined with symptoms of dementia, during the Byzantine period 
(ad 330-1453).
METHODS: A review of the original historical and literal sources referring to 
the life and political course of all the aged Byzantine emperors (a range of 87 
total persons who ascended the throne).
RESULTS: Seven Byzantine emperors out of 87 reached older age and showed 
symptoms that are attributed to dementia, as well as other manifestations of 
prolonged life. Most of the Byzantine medical authors attempted to connect 
dementia with certain multifactor agents and some of them interpreted the 
symptoms as being influenced by the brain's pathogenic humor or focused on the 
role of vascular diseases. However, an elderly leader afflicts his personal 
destiny, as well as the succession of the throne and the history of the whole 
nation. Sometimes, a delay in diagnosis and recognition of the loss of the 
somatic and mental ability of the emperor made scientific intervention useless 
and the patient's behavior was dangerous for the citizens of the state.
CONCLUSION: Even in contemporary societies, extended life expectancy results in 
leaders of older age, suffering from various diseases connected with 
gerontology. Loss of mental skills is considered dangerous and remains a problem 
from antiquity to the modern day. Byzantium handled all these cases with 
diplomacy.

© 2011 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0594.2011.00779.x
PMID: 22122672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Mitochondrion. 2012 Mar;12(2):280-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2011.10.003. Epub
2011  Nov 15.

The failure to extend lifespan via disruption of complex II is linked to 
preservation of dynamic control of energy metabolism.

Kuang J(1), Ebert PR.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Queensland, St Lucia 4072, 
Brisbane, Australia.

A decrease in mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) activity results in 
an extended lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans. This longevity has only been 
reported when complexes I, III and IV genes are silenced, but not genes of 
complex II. We now have suppressed each complex II subunit in turn and have 
confirmed that in no case is lifespan extended. Animals with impaired complex II 
function exhibit similar metabolic changes to those observed following 
suppression of complexes I, III and IV genes, but the magnitude of the changes 
is smaller. Furthermore, an inverse correlation exists between mitochondrial 
membrane potential and ATP levels (r(2)=0.82), which strongly suggests that 
dynamic allocation of energy resources is maintained. In contrast, suppression 
of genes from complexes I, III and IV, results in a metabolic crisis with an 
associated stress response and loss of metabolic flexibility. Thus, the 
maintenance of a normal metabolism at a moderately decreased level does not 
alter normal lifespan, whereas metabolic crisis and induction of a stress 
response is linked to lifespan extension.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. and Mitochondria Research Society. All rights 
reserved. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mito.2011.10.003
PMID: 22122855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Hand Surg Am. 2011 Dec;36(12):1912-8.e1-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2011.09.039.

An economic analysis of outcomes and complications of treating distal radius 
fractures in the elderly.

Shauver MJ(1), Clapham PJ, Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109-5340, USA.

PURPOSE: There is a lack of scientific data regarding which treatment provides 
the best outcome for distal radius fractures (DRFs) in the elderly. Currently, 
casting is used to treat the majority of these fractures, although open 
reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) has been used increasingly in recent 
years. Given the recent emphasis on the wise use of medical resources, we 
conducted a cost-utility analysis to assess which of 4 common DRF treatments 
(casting, wire fixation, external fixation, or ORIF) optimizes the 
cost-to-patient preference ratio.
METHODS: We created a decision tree to model the process of choosing a DRF 
treatment and experiencing a final outcome. Fifty adults aged 65 and older were 
surveyed in a time trade-off, one-on-one interview to obtain utilities for DRF 
treatments and possible complications. We gathered Medicare reimbursement rates 
and calculated the incremental cost-utility ratio for each treatment.
RESULTS: Participants rated DRF treatment relatively high, assigning utility 
values close to perfect health to all treatments. The ORIF was the most 
preferred treatment (utility, 0.96), followed by casting (utility, 0.94), wire 
fixation (utility, 0.94), and external fixation (utility, 0.93). The ORIF was 
the most expensive treatment (reimbursement, $3,516), whereas casting was the 
least expensive (reimbursement, $564). The incremental cost-utility ratio for 
ORIF, when compared to casting, was $15,330 per quality-adjusted life years, 
which is less than $50,000 per quality-adjusted life year, thereby indicating 
that, from the societal perspective, ORIF is considered a worthwhile alternative 
to casting.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a slight preference for the faster return to minimally 
restricted activity provided by ORIF. Overall, patients show little preference 
for one DRF treatment over another. Because Medicare patients pay similar 
out-of-pocket costs regardless of procedure, they are not particularly concerned 
with procedure costs. Considering the similar long-term outcomes, this study 
adds to the uncertainty surrounding the choice of DRF treatment in the elderly, 
further indicating the need for a high-powered, randomized trial.

Copyright © 2011 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2011.09.039
PMID: 22123045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Crit Care Clin. 2012 Jan;28(1):11-24, v. doi: 10.1016/j.ccc.2011.10.002.

Health economic methods: cost-minimization, cost-effectiveness, cost-utility, 
and cost-benefit evaluations.

Higgins AM(1), Harris AH.

Author information:
(1)Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Research Centre, Department of 
Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health and Preventive 
Medicine, Monash University, 99 Commercial Road, Melbourne 3004, Australia. 
lisa.higgins@monash.edu

Health care resources are limited, and health care providers must strive to 
maximize health benefits to patients within available resources. This is 
becoming increasingly important in critical care as demand for services grows 
and costs associated with treatment increase. Economic evaluations enable 
comparisons of both the costs and effects of an intervention. There are four 
main types: cost-minimization, cost effectiveness,cost-utility, and 
cost-benefit. The costs associated with the intervention are measured in 
monetary units (dollars); the evaluation types differ with respect to how 
outcomes are measured. This article introduces the methodology for performing 
these economic evaluations,highlighting important aspects regarding critical 
care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccc.2011.10.002
PMID: 22123096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Crit Care Clin. 2012 Jan;28(1):39-55, vi. doi: 10.1016/j.ccc.2011.10.004.

Economics of mechanical ventilation and respiratory failure.

Cooke CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109, USA. cookecr@umich.edu

For patients with acute respiratory failure, mechanical ventilation provides the 
most definitive life-sustaining therapy. Because of the intense resources 
required to care for these patients, its use accounts for considerable costs. 
There is great societal need to ensure that use of mechanical ventilation 
maximizes societal benefits while minimizing costs, and that mechanical 
ventilation, and ventilator support in general, is delivered in the most 
efficient and cost-effective manner. This review summarizes the economic aspects 
of mechanical ventilation and summarizes the existing literature that examines 
its economic impact cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccc.2011.10.004
PMID: 22123098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Exp Gerontol. 2012 Feb;47(2):143-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.11.008. Epub
2011  Nov 23.

Low serum IL-6 is associated with high 6-minute walking performance in 
asymptomatic women aged 20 to 70years.

Blain H(1), Jaussent A, Béziat S, Dupuy AM, Bernard PL, Mariano-Goulart D, 
Cristol JP, Sultan C, Picot MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, University Hospital of Montpellier, Movement to 
Health Laboratory Montpellier, EUROMOV, University of Montpellier 1, France. 
h-blain@chu-montpellier.fr

Cross-sectional associations between low physical performance and inflammatory 
biomarkers have been reported in healthy subjects and in persons with specific 
disease conditions. In asymptomatic subjects, whether the inverse association 
between physical fitness and inflammatory biomarkers is dependent or is 
independent of fat mass, a significant source of inflammatory cytokines, and is 
independent of age, muscle mass and strength, endocrine, metabolic, and 
lifestyle factors is not known. Two hundred and twenty asymptomatic women aged 
20 to 72years with a C-reactive protein <5mg/L were assessed for their mean 
speed over the 6-minute walking test (6MWS) and their serum IL-6, as well as 
body height, body weight, body lean and fat mass (measured by DXA), waist-to-hip 
ratio, grip and knee extension strength, physical activities (quantified by the 
QUANTAP questionnaire), tobacco consumption, serum 25(OH) vitamin D, parathyroid 
hormone (PTH), estradiol (E2), free testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate 
(DHEAS), insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I), sex hormone-binding globulin 
(SHBG), calcium, albumin, and creatinine. In the stepwise multiple linear 
regression model, a 6MWS in the highest quartile (over 1.4m/s) was associated 
with lower values of serum IL-6 (p=0.02) and with higher values of grip strength 
(p=0.04) and creatinine (p=0.04). In conclusion, present results demonstrate 
that the relationship between lower levels of serum IL-6 and higher values of 
physical fitness in asymptomatic women is independent of age, body composition, 
and lifestyle, endocrine and metabolic confounders. It remains to be determined 
whether the inverse relationship between IL-6 and fitness reflects the presence 
of preclinical inflammatory diseases that could potentially influence fitness in 
asymptomatic women.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2011.11.008
PMID: 22123428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Neurology. 2011 Nov 29;77(22):1986-92. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31823a0ed3.

Neurology and neurologic practice in China.

Shi FD(1), Jia JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tianjin Neurological Institute, Tianjin Medical 
University General Hospital, Tianjin 300071, China. fshi66@gmail.com

Comment in
    Neurology. 2012 Feb 28;78(9):683-4.

In the wake of dramatic economic success during the past 2 decades, the 
specialized field of neurology has undergone a significant transformation in 
China. With an increase in life expectancy, the problems of aging and cognition 
have grown. Lifestyle alterations have been associated with an epidemiologic 
transition both in the incidence and etiology of stroke. These changes, together 
with an array of social issues and institution of health care reform, are 
creating challenges for practicing neurologists throughout China. Notable 
problems include overcrowded, decrepit facilities, overloaded physician 
schedules, deteriorating physician-patient relationships, and an insufficient 
infrastructure to accommodate patients who need specialized neurologic care. 
Conversely, with the creation of large and sophisticated neurology centers in 
many cities across the country, tremendous opportunities exist. Developments in 
neurologic subspecialties enable delivery of high-quality care. Clinical and 
translational research based on large patient populations as well as highly 
sophisticated technologies are emerging in many neurologic centers and 
pharmaceutical companies. Child neurology and neurorehabilitation will be 
fast-developing subdisciplines. Given China's extensive population, the growth 
and progress of its neurology complex, and its ever-improving quality control, 
it is reasonable to anticipate that Chinese neurologists will contribute notably 
to unraveling the pathogenic factors causing neurologic diseases and to 
providing new therapeutic solutions.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31823a0ed3
PMCID: PMC3235353
PMID: 22123780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2011 Oct;30(4):342-53.

[Mortality and years of potential life lost due to homicide in Colombia, 
1985-2006].

[Article in Spanish]

Moreno C(1), Cendales R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva y Salud Pública, Universidad Autónoma de 
Madrid, Madrid, España. cmarcems@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: Describe the mortality patterns, burden of disease, and mechanisms of 
injury by homicide in Colombia between 1985 and 2006.
METHODS: The official population and mortality databases in Colombia were used. 
Equivalencies of the underlying cause of death were identified and grouped 
according to the shortlists of the Ninth and Tenth Revision of the International 
Classification of Diseases. The years of potential life lost (YPLL), indices of 
YPLL, and crude, adjusted, and specific mortality rates associated with major 
causes and external causes for each sex were calculated. The homicide mechanisms 
were described.
RESULTS: During the study period, a total of 523 870 homicides were recorded 
(484 475 in men and 39 395 in women). Homicides accounted for 13.8% of total 
mortality (21.4% of mortality in men and 2.6% in women) and generated 24.2% of 
YPLL (35.2% in men and 5.8% in women). The highest rates in men were found in 
the 20-44-year age range, with specific rates of up to 366.9 per 100 000 
population, and in women in the 15-40 years age range with specific rates of up 
to 24.9 per 100 000 population. The most frequent homicide mechanism in both 
sexes was firearms.
CONCLUSION: Homicides represent a significant burden of disease in Colombia, 
particularly affecting the young male population. Mortality from homicide has 
trended downward in recent years.

PMID: 22124693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;821:421-33. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-430-8_27.

A mouse model of diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance.

Wang CY(1), Liao JK.

Author information:
(1)Second Section of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan.

Obesity is reaching pandemic proportions in Western society. It has resulted in 
increasing health care burden and decreasing life expectancy. Obesity is a 
complex, chronic disease, involving decades of pathophysiological changes and 
adaptation. Therefore, it is difficult ascertain the exact mechanisms for this 
long-term process in humans. To circumvent some of these issues, several 
surrogate models are available, including murine genetic loss-of-function 
mutations, transgenic gain-of-function mutations, polygenic models, and 
different environmental exposure models. The mouse model of diet-induced obesity 
has become one of the most important tools for understanding the interplay of 
high-fat Western diets and the development of obesity. The diet-induced obesity 
model closely mimics the increasingly availability of the high-fat/high-density 
foods in modern society over the past two decades, which are main contributors 
to the obesity trend in human. This model has lead to many discoveries of the 
important signalings in obesity, such as Akt and mTOR. The chapter describes 
protocols for diet induced-obesity model in mice and protocols for measuring 
insulin resistance and sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-430-8_27
PMCID: PMC3807094
PMID: 22125082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Eur Heart J. 2011 Oct;32(20):2468.

Biomarkers for health, and overall life expectancy, are becoming more and more 
accurate.

Rogers L.

PMID: 22125805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2011;12(7):1697-702.

Multivariate analysis of prognostic factors in gastric cancer patients using 
additive hazards regression models.

Maroufizadeh S(1), Hajizadeh E, Baghestani AR, Fatemi SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Medical Science, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer 
death worldwide and is the most common type of cancer in Iran. The objective of 
this paper is to apply the additive hazards models to the study of survival of 
patients with gastric cancer and to compare results obtained by the additive 
hazards models and the Cox model.
METHODS: We retrospectively studied 213 patients with gastric cancer who were 
registered in one referral cancer registry center in Tehran, Iran. Age at 
diagnosis, sex, presence of metastasis, tumor size, histology type, lymph node 
metastasis, and pathologic stages were entered into analysis using the Cox model 
and additive hazard models. To visualize a covariate effect over time, the 
estimated cumulative regression function by the Aalen's model is examined.
RESULTS: The five-year survival rate and the median life expectancy in the 
studied patients were 14.6% and 29.6 months, respectively. Multivariate Cox and 
Additive hazards models analysis identified that age at diagnosis, tumor size 
and pathologic stage were independent prognostic factors for the survival of 
patients with gastric cancer (P<0.05). Moreover, pathologic stage has a late or 
delayed effect according to the Aalen's plot. Other clinicopathological 
characteristics were not statistically significant (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Since Cox and additive models give different aspects of the 
association between risk factors and the study outcome, it seems desirable to 
use together to give a more comprehensive understanding of data. Our results 
also suggest that early detection of patients at younger age and in primary 
stages is important to increase survival of patients with gastric cancer.

PMID: 22126547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Clin Transl Oncol. 2011 Dec;13(12):869-77. doi: 10.1007/s12094-011-0748-0.

Cost-effectiveness evaluation of sunitinib as first-line targeted therapy for 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma in Spain.

Calvo Aller E(1), Maroto P, Kreif N, González Larriba JL, López-Brea M, 
Castellano D, Martí B, Díaz Cerezo S.

Author information:
(1)START Madrid, Centro Integral Oncológico Clara Campal, Hospital Universitario 
Madrid Norte Sanchinarro, Spain. emilianocalvo@hospitaldemadrid.com

INTRODUCTION Sunitinib, an oral, multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor, delays disease progression, with a median overall survival (OS) of 
more than 2 years, improves quality of life and is becoming the first-line 
standard of care for metastatic renal carcinoma (mRCC). PURPOSE To assess the 
economic value of sunitinib as fi rst-line therapy in mRCC within the Spanish 
healthcare system. METHODS An adapted Markov model with a 10-year time horizon 
was used to analyse the cost effectiveness of sunitinib vs. sorafenib (SFN) and 
bevacizumab/interferon-α (BEV/IFN) as first-line mRCC therapy from the Spanish 
third-party payer perspective. Progression-free survival (PFS) and OS data from 
sunitinib, SFN and BEV/IFN pivotal trials were extrapolated to project survival 
and costs in 6-week cycles. Results, in progression-free life-years (PFLY), life 
years (LY) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) gained, expressed as 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) with costs and benefits discounted 
annually at 3%, were obtained using deterministic and probabilistic analyses. 
RESULTS Sunitinib was more effective and less costly than both SFN (gains of 
0.52 PFLY, 0.16 LY, 0.17 QALY) and BEV/IFN (gains of 0.19 PFLY, 0.23 LY, 0.16 
QALY) with average cost savings/patients of €1,124 and €23,218, respectively. 
Using a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of €50,000/QALY, sunitinib achieved 
an incremental net benefit (INB) of €9,717 and €31,211 compared with SFN and 
BEV/IFN, respectively. At this WTP, the probability of sunitinib providing the 
highest INB was 75%. CONCLUSION Our analysis suggests that sunitinib is a 
costeffective alternative to other targeted therapies as first-line mRCC therapy 
in the Spanish healthcare setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-011-0748-0
PMID: 22126730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):453-64. doi: 10.1071/SH11028.

HIV infection and aging of the innate immune system.

Hearps AC(1), Angelovich TA, Jaworowski A, Mills J, Landay AL, Crowe SM.

Author information:
(1)Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health, Melbourne, 
Australia.

The increased life expectancy of HIV-infected individuals due to improved 
treatment has revealed an unexpected increase in non-AIDS comorbidities that are 
typically associated with older age including cardiovascular disease, dementia 
and frailty. The majority of these diseases arise as the result of dysregulated 
systemic inflammation, and both the aged and HIV-infected individuals exhibit 
elevated basal levels of inflammation. In the elderly, increased inflammation 
and age-related diseases are associated with a state of impaired immunity called 
immunosenescence, which is thought to result from a lifetime of immune 
stimulation. It is now apparent that HIV induces premature immunosenescence 
within T-cells; however, the impact of HIV on aging of cells of the innate arm 
of the immune system is unknown. Innate immune cells play a central role in 
inflammation and are thus critical for the pathogenesis of inflammatory 
diseases. Limited evidence suggests HIV infection mimics age-related changes to 
innate immune cells; however, the extent of this effect and the mechanism 
underlying these changes remain to be defined. This review focuses on the impact 
of HIV infection on the function and aging of innate immune cells and discusses 
potential drivers of premature immunosenescence including chronic endotoxaemia, 
residual viraemia, telomere attrition and altered cellular signalling.

DOI: 10.1071/SH11028
PMID: 22127030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):485-92. doi: 10.1071/SH10146.

HIV-associated kidney disease in the context of an aging population.

Naftalin C(1), Nathan B, Hamzah L, Post FA.

Author information:
(1)Department of HIV/Sexual Health, King's College Hospital, London SE5 9RS, UK.

Acute renal failure and chronic kidney disease are more common in HIV-infected 
patients compared with the general population. Several studies have shown age to 
be a risk factor for HIV-associated kidney disease. The improved life expectancy 
of HIV-infected patients as a result of widespread use of antiretroviral therapy 
has resulted in progressive aging of HIV cohorts in the developed world, and an 
increased burden of cardiovascular and kidney disease. Consequently, HIV care 
increasingly needs to incorporate strategies to detect and manage these 
non-infectious co-morbidities.

DOI: 10.1071/SH10146
PMID: 22127033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):493-501. doi: 10.1071/SH11014.

HIV infection and bone disease: implications for an aging population.

Cotter AG(1), Mallon PW.

Author information:
(1)HIV Molecular Research Group, School of Medicine & Medical Science, 
University College Dublin 7, Ireland. Aoife.cotter@ucdconnect.ie

Now more than ever, the management of age-related problems, from cardiovascular 
morbidity to bone pathology, is increasingly relevant for HIV physicians. Low 
bone mineral density (BMD) and fractures are more common in HIV-infected 
patients. Although a multifactorial aetiology underlies this condition, 
increasing evidence suggests a role for antiretroviral therapy in low BMD, 
especially upon initiation. This review will detail the epidemiology, 
pathogenesis, diagnosis and management of osteoporosis and low BMD in 
HIV-infected patients, with particular emphasis on aging.

DOI: 10.1071/SH11014
PMID: 22127034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):512-20. doi: 10.1071/SH10163.

Liver disease, HIV and aging.

Falade-Nwulia O(1), Thio CL.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA. 
faladeoo@cc.nih.gov

The life expectancy of HIV-infected patients has increased due to the efficacy 
of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in controlling HIV replication; 
thus, the population living with HIV infection is steadily aging. Liver-related 
morbidity and mortality has emerged as a leading problem in HIV-infected 
patients. Since aging, HIV infection and HAART all affect the liver, 
understanding the impact of the combination of these factors on liver disease is 
crucial for optimisation of care in the aging HIV-infected population. This 
review will focus on the current understanding of liver disease in older (>50 
years old) HIV-negative individuals and in HIV-infected individuals. Areas for 
future research in the area of HIV, liver disease and aging will also be 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1071/SH10163
PMCID: PMC5474943
PMID: 22127037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None declared.


51. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):521-5. doi: 10.1071/SH11048.

HIV, cancer, and aging.

Grulich AE(1), Jin F, Poynten IM, Vajdic CM.

Author information:
(1)Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2010, Australia. 
Agrulich@kirby.unsw.edu.au

As people with HIV age, they will experience increasing rates of all diseases of 
aging, including cancer. However, the pattern of higher cancer risk in people 
with HIV is mostly explained by the chronic effects of certain oncogenic 
infections, and is not consistent with a syndrome of accelerated aging. Many of 
those cancers that are most closely associated with aging do not occur at 
increased rates in people with HIV compared with the general population. The 
risk of many infection-associated cancers in people with HIV is closely related 
to the degree of immune deficiency, and for some types of cancer, it is also 
associated with ongoing HIV replication. Thus, if HIV therapy can provide 
durable HIV suppression and maintain near normal levels of immune function, the 
excess risk of cancer is likely to be minimised. While avoidance of profound 
immunity will greatly reduce cancer risk, it is unclear how close to normal 
immune function must be to minimise HIV-associated cancer risk. People with HIV 
are also at a high risk of cancer because they have high rates of lifestyle 
risks for cancer, in particular tobacco and alcohol exposure. For most cancers, 
it is appropriate to follow general population guidelines on cancer screening. 
The exception is cervical cancer, for which annual screening is recommended. In 
addition, active research is required to establish whether anal cancer screening 
would prevent the unacceptably high levels of morbidity caused by this disease 
in people with HIV, most particularly in gay men.

DOI: 10.1071/SH11048
PMID: 22127038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):526-33. doi: 10.1071/SH11046.

Life expectancy of HIV-positive adults: a review.

May MT(1), Ingle SM.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 
2PS, UK. m.t.may@bristol.ac.uk

We review studies estimating life expectancy (LE), the average number of 
additional years a person can expect to live, for HIV-positive adults and show 
variation by sociodemographic factors and level of immunosuppression. The LE of 
patients starting antiretroviral therapy early in the course of HIV infection 
and attaining restoration of a normal CD4 count may approach that of the general 
population. Improvements in treatment and the associated increase in LE imply 
that increasing numbers of HIV-positive patients will live to older age. Late 
diagnosis and presentation to care and treatment not concordant with guidelines 
contribute to reducing LE.

DOI: 10.1071/SH11046
PMID: 22127039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):534-40. doi: 10.1071/SH11026.

Optimal antiretroviral therapy for aging.

Cordery DV(1), Cooper DA.

Author information:
(1)The Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2010, 
Australia.

The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has irrevocably 
changed the nature of the HIV epidemic in developed countries. Although the use 
of HAART does not completely restore health in HIV-infected individuals, it has 
dramatically reduced morbidity and mortality. Increases in life expectancy 
resulting from effective long-term treatment mean that the proportion of older 
people living with HIV has increased substantially in the past 15 years. 
Increasing age is associated with many complications including cardiovascular 
disease, neurological complications, kidney and liver dysfunction, and metabolic 
complications such as dyslipidaemia and diabetes. HIV infection and 
antiretroviral drugs have also been associated with similar complications to 
those seen with increasing age. The increase in HIV prevalence in older age 
groups has not been accompanied by the development of treatment guidelines or 
recommendations for appropriate antiretroviral therapy or clinical management in 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1071/SH11026
PMID: 22127040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):541-50. doi: 10.1071/SH11003.

The burden of HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment in Australia and its 
estimates for the future.

Cysique LA(1), Bain MP, Brew BJ, Murray JM.

Author information:
(1)Brain Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The growing number of older individuals with HIV in Australia 
implies that the prevalence of dementia and additional HIV-associated 
neurocognitive disorders will increase. There are currently no estimates of the 
future burden of neurocognitive disease in this population.
METHODS: We estimated the number and age profile of people living with HIV to 
the end of 2009 using HIV/AIDS Registry data, and extrapolated these estimates 
to 2030. Prevalence of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) from 2005 to 2010 from a 
large Sydney hospital and cost estimates from the AIDS Dementia and HIV 
Psychiatry Service were used to estimate future HAD burden and costs.
RESULTS: Based on our calculations, the number of HIV-positive individuals in 
Australia will increase from 16228 men and 1797 women in 2009 to 26963 men and 
5224 women in 2030, while the number of individuals aged 60+ years will increase 
from 1140 men and 78 women to 5442 men and 721 women, i.e. a 377% increase of 
older men and an 825% increase in older women. Based on a 7.8% (157/2004) HAD 
prevalence obtained from hospital data, individuals with HAD will increase in 
number from 1314 men and 143 women in 2009 to 2204 men and 421 women in 2030. An 
estimated 22 men and 2 women with non-HIV dementia in 2009 will increase to 104 
men and 12 women by 2030. The annual cost of care will increase from ~$29 
million in 2009 to $53 million in 2030, mostly for full-time residential care.
CONCLUSIONS: Neurocognitive disorders will place an increasing burden on 
resources, especially as those living with HIV age. Because it is unclear if HAD 
is an increased risk factor for non-HIV dementia, our calculations may be 
conservative.

DOI: 10.1071/SH11003
PMID: 22127041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Sex Health. 2011 Dec;8(4):551-9. doi: 10.1071/SH11017.

Comorbidities and depression in older adults with HIV.

Havlik RJ(1), Brennan M, Karpiak SE.

Author information:
(1)AIDS Community Research Initiative of America, ACRIA Center on HIV and Aging, 
New York, NY 10018, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the high rates of depression found in older 
adults living with HIV are associated with the number and types of 
comorbidities.
METHODS: The Research on Older Adults with HIV (ROAH) study collected 
self-reported health data on ~1000 New York City HIV-positive men and women aged 
50 years and older. Participants provided data on health problems experienced in 
the past year and depressive symptomatology (Center for Epidemiological Studies 
Depression Scale (CES-D)). Data were analysed using a non-parametric test of 
association and multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS: The correlation between CES-D scores and number of comorbidities was 
significant (r=0.24). In multivariate analyses, depression remained a 
significant covariate of the number of comorbid conditions, in addition to 
female gender, inadequate income, history of drug and alcohol use, AIDS 
diagnosis and self-rated health. Correlations of depression with specific 
comorbidities varied. Significant correlations with sensory loss and 
dermatological problems were observed. Significant correlations existed with 
heart and respiratory conditions as well as fractures, but the directionality of 
these cross-sectional relationships is uncertain.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest the need for further longitudinal research to 
understand how high rates of depressive symptoms are related to comorbidities. 
Focussed clinical care that strives to prevent the collapse of the immune system 
must evolve into an effective treatment strategy for multimorbidities, where HIV 
is but one of many other chronic illnesses. If the management of depression 
continues to be a low priority, the older person with HIV may experience an 
avoidable reduction in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1071/SH11017
PMID: 22127042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Eur J Epidemiol. 2011 Dec;26(12):903-14. doi: 10.1007/s10654-011-9633-y. Epub
 2011 Nov 30.

Sharp upturn of life expectancy in the Netherlands: effect of more health care 
for the elderly?

Mackenbach JP(1), Slobbe L, Looman CW, van der Heide A, Polder J, Garssen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2011 Dec;26(12):897-8.

During the 1980s and 1990s life expectancy at birth has risen only slowly in the 
Netherlands. In 2002, however, the rise in life expectancy suddenly accelerated. 
We studied the possible causes of this remarkable development. Mortality data by 
age, gender and cause of death were analyzed using life table methods and 
age-period-cohort modeling. Trends in determinants of mortality (including 
health care delivery) were compared with trends in mortality. Two-thirds of the 
increase in life expectancy at birth since 2002 were due to declines in 
mortality among those aged 65 and over. Declines in mortality reflected a period 
rather than a cohort effect, and were seen for a wide range of causes of death. 
Favorable changes in mortality determinants coinciding with the acceleration of 
mortality decline were mainly seen within the health care system. Health care 
expenditure rose rapidly after 2001, and was accompanied by a sharp rise of 
specialist visits, drug prescriptions, hospital admissions and surgical 
procedures among the elderly. A decline of deaths following non-treatment 
decisions suggests a change towards more active treatment of elderly patients. 
Our findings are consistent with the idea that the sharp upturn of life 
expectancy in the Netherlands was at least partly due to a sharp increase in 
health care for the elderly, and has been facilitated by a relaxation of 
budgetary constraints in the health care system.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-011-9633-y
PMCID: PMC3253291
PMID: 22127495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Lifetime Data Anal. 2012 Apr;18(2):234-46. doi: 10.1007/s10985-011-9211-3.
Epub  2011 Nov 30.

A tilting algorithm for the estimation of fractional age survival probabilities.

Barz C(1), Müller A.

Author information:
(1)Anderson School of Management, University of California at Los Angeles, 110 
Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. christiane.barz@anderson.ucla.edu

Life tables used in life insurance determine the age of death distribution only 
at integer ages. Therefore, actuaries make fractional age assumptions to 
interpolate between integer age values when they have to value payments that are 
not restricted to integer ages. Traditional fractional age assumptions as well 
as the fractional independence assumption are easy to apply but result in a 
non-intuitive overall shape of the force of mortality. Other approaches proposed 
either require expensive optimization procedures or produce many 
discontinuities. We suggest a new, computationally inexpensive algorithm to 
select the parameters within the LFM-family introduced by Jones and Mereu (Insur 
Math Econ 27:261-276, 2000). In contrast to previously suggested methods, our 
algorithm enforces a monotone force of mortality between integer ages if the 
mortality rates are monotone and keeps the number of discontinuities small.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-011-9211-3
PMID: 22127605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Herz. 2012 Feb;37(1):75-80. doi: 10.1007/s00059-011-3554-0.

[Primary prevention of coronary artery disease: is there a role for risk 
scores?].

[Article in German]

Gohlke H(1).

Author information:
(1)Herz-Zentrum, Bad Krozingen, Deutschland. h.gohlke@t-online.de

Primary prevention of coronary artery disease is becoming increasingly important 
due to treatment costs. The assessment of overall cardiovascular risk in Germany 
is usually performed using the PROCAM algorithm or the ESC score. If the 10-year 
risk of myocardial infarction or cardiovascular death exceeds 20% or 5%, 
respectively, intensive risk intervention is cost effective and the number 
needed to treat (NNT) is usually <200. An NNT of <200 can also be achieved by 
treating a single pronounced risk factor. The CARRISMA system uses lifestyle 
factors in addition to conventional factors to improve risk stratification and 
also supports lifestyle modification. During the last two decades average life 
expectancy has increased by 6 years and possibilities for prevention have 
improved. Risk stratification for prevention should therefore be offered up to 
