descriptive analysis and clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness modelling 
of IVIG in severe sepsis. Additional primary data analysis. Expected value of 
information (EVI) analysis.
RESULTS: Our meta-analysis, the first to simultaneously allow for type of IVIG 
(IVIG or immunoglobulin M-enriched polyclonal IVIG), choice of control (no 
treatment or albumin), study quality/publication bias and other potential 
covariates, indicated that the treatment effect of IVIG on mortality for 
patients with severe sepsis is borderline significant with a large degree of 
heterogeneity in treatment effect between individual studies. Modelling 
indicated that there were issues with bias associated with trial methodology, 
publication and small-study effects with the current evidence. The large degree 
of heterogeneity in treatment effects between studies, however, could be 
explained (best-fitting model) by a measure of study quality (i.e. use of 
albumin as control - as an indicator of proper blinding to treatment as a proxy 
for study quality - associated with decreased effect) and duration of IVIG 
therapy (longer duration associated with increased effect). In-depth discussion 
within the Expert Group on duration of IVIG therapy, with daily dose and total 
dose also clearly inter-related, indicated no clear clinical rationale for this 
association and exposed a lack of evidence on the understanding of the mechanism 
of action of IVIG in severe sepsis. Although the EVI analyses suggested 
substantial expected net benefit from a large, multicentre randomised controlled 
trial (RCT) evaluating the clinical effectiveness of IVIG, the remaining 
uncertainties around the design of such a study mean that we are unable to 
recommend it at this time.
LIMITATIONS: As has been identified in previous meta-analyses, there are issues 
with the methodological quality of the available evidence.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the results highlight the value for money obtained in 
conducting further primary research in this area, the biggest limitation for 
such research regards the uncertainties over the mechanism of action of IVIG and 
the heterogeneous nature of severe sepsis. Resolving these would allow for 
better definition of the plausibility of the effectiveness scenarios presented 
and, consequently, a better understanding of the cost-effectiveness of this 
treatment. This information would also inform the design of future, primary 
evaluative research. Our recommendations for future research focus on filling 
the knowledge gaps to inform a future multicentre RCT prior to recommending its 
immediate design and conduct.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16070
PMCID: PMC4781633
PMID: 22361003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Lung Cancer. 2012 Jul;77(1):116-20. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2012.01.013. Epub
 2012 Feb 21.

Prognostic score for second-line chemotherapy of advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer: external validation in a phase III trial comparing vinflunine with 
docetaxel.

Di Maio M(1), Krzakowski M, Fougeray R, Kowalski DM, Gridelli C.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Unit, National Cancer Institute, Napoli, Italy.

A prognostic index for second-line chemotherapy of NSCLC was previously 
developed, based on individual patient data (IPD) of nine randomized trials. In 
order to validate the prognostic score in an external dataset, we analysed IPD 
of a non-inferiority phase III trial comparing vinflunine vs. docetaxel in 
second-line treatment of advanced NSCLC. Primary endpoint of this analysis was 
overall survival (OS). The following variables were considered for survival 
analysis and score calculation: gender, performance status, stage of disease, 
tumour histology, type of first-line treatment, response to first-line 
treatment. Cox model, stratified by treatment arm, was used for multivariate 
analysis. Individual prognostic scores were derived, and patients were divided 
into 3 categories: <5 (best), 5-9 (intermediate), >9 (worst). All 551 patients 
enrolled in the trial had complete information for the calculation of prognostic 
score. Median OS in the whole group was 6.9 months, with similar efficacy in the 
two treatment arms. Median OS was 12.9, 6.9 and 3.8 months in the best, 
intermediate and worst category, respectively. Cox model showed a significant 
effect comparing intermediate vs. best category (Hazard Ratio 1.79, 95%CI 
1.31-2.47, p=0.0003) and comparing worst vs. best category (Hazard Ratio 3.25, 
95%CI 2.18-4.83, p<0.0001). The C-index of the model was high (0.926), 
indicating a good discrimination according to the proposed three risk 
categories. Prognostic ability of our score for candidates to second-line 
treatment in advanced NSCLC was successfully validated, allowing the 
identification of subgroups of patients with more vs. less favourable outcome. 
Prognostic score could be useful in daily decision-making in clinical practise, 
because a better understanding of factors conditioning life expectancy of 
patients could greatly help a careful evaluation of risks and benefits 
associated with therapeutic decisions.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2012.01.013
PMID: 22361218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. IEEE Trans Inf Technol Biomed. 2012 May;16(3):488-500. doi: 
10.1109/TITB.2012.2188536. Epub 2012 Feb 22.

Artifact removal in physiological signals--practices and possibilities.

Sweeney KT(1), Ward TE, McLoone SF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Electronic Engineering, National University of Ireland, 
Maynooth, Ireland. ksweeney@eeng.nuim.ie

The combination of reducing birth rate and increasing life expectancy continues 
to drive the demographic shift toward an aging population. This, in turn, places 
an ever-increasing burden on healthcare due to the increasing prevalence of 
patients with chronic illnesses and the reducing income-generating population 
base needed to sustain them. The need to urgently address this healthcare "time 
bomb" has accelerated the growth in ubiquitous, pervasive, distributed 
healthcare technologies. The current move from hospital-centric healthcare 
toward in-home health assessment is aimed at alleviating the burden on 
healthcare professionals, the health care system and caregivers. This shift will 
also further increase the comfort for the patient. Advances in signal 
acquisition, data storage and communication provide for the collection of 
reliable and useful in-home physiological data. Artifacts, arising from 
environmental, experimental and physiological factors, degrade signal quality 
and render the affected part of the signal useless. The magnitude and frequency 
of these artifacts significantly increases when data collection is moved from 
the clinic into the home. Signal processing advances have brought about 
significant improvement in artifact removal over the past few years. This paper 
reviews the physiological signals most likely to be recorded in the home, 
documenting the artifacts which occur most frequently and which have the largest 
degrading effect. A detailed analysis of current artifact removal techniques 
will then be presented. An evaluation of the advantages and disadvantages of 
each of the proposed artifact detection and removal techniques, with particular 
application to the personal healthcare domain, is provided.

DOI: 10.1109/TITB.2012.2188536
PMID: 22361665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2012 Jun;133(3):1115-23. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-012-1989-5. Epub 2012 Feb 24.

Cost-utility of the 21-gene recurrence score assay in node-negative and 
node-positive breast cancer.

Lamond NW(1), Skedgel C, Rayson D, Lethbridge L, Younis T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, 454 Bethune Building. 1276 
South Park Street, Halifax NS, B3H 2Y9, Canada.

The 21-gene recurrence score (Oncotype DX: RS) appears to augment 
clinico-pathologic prognostication and is predictive of adjuvant chemotherapy 
benefit in node-negative (N-) and node-positive (N+), endocrine-sensitive breast 
cancer. RS is a costly assay that is associated with good 'value for money' in 
N- disease, while economic evaluations in N+ disease based on most recent data 
have not been conducted. We examined the cost-utility (CU) of a RS-guided 
adjuvant strategy, compared to current practice without RS in N- and N+, 
endocrine-sensitive, breast cancer from a Canadian health care system 
perspective. A generic state-transition model was developed to compute 
cumulative costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) over a 25-year horizon. 
Patient outcomes with and without chemotherapy in RS-untested cohorts and in 
those with low, intermediate and high RS were examined based on the reported 
prognostic and predictive impact of RS in N- and N+ disease. Chemotherapy 
utilization (current vs. RS-guided), unit costs and utilities were derived from 
a Nova Scotia Canadian population-based cohort, local unit costs and the 
literature. Costs and outcomes were discounted at 3% annually, and costs were 
reported in 2011 Canadian dollars ($). Probabilistic and one-way sensitivity 
analyses were conducted for key model parameters. Compared to a non-RS-guided 
strategy, RS-guided adjuvant therapy was associated with $2,585 and $864 
incremental costs, 0.27 and 0.06 QALY gains, and resultant CUs of $9,591 and 
$14,844 per QALY gained for N- and N+ disease, respectively. CU estimates were 
robust to key model parameters, and were most sensitive to chemo utilization 
proportions. RS-guided adjuvant therapy appears to be a cost-effective strategy 
in both N- and N+, endocrine-sensitive breast cancer with resultant CU ratios 
well below commonly quoted thresholds.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-012-1989-5
PMID: 22361999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Eur Respir J. 2012 Jul;40(1):133-42. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00169411. Epub
2012  Feb 23.

Cost and cost-effectiveness of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis treatment in 
Estonia and Russia.

Floyd K(1), Hutubessy R, Kliiman K, Centis R, Khurieva N, Jakobowiak W, 
Danilovits M, Peremitin G, Keshavjee S, Migliori GB.

Author information:
(1)Stop TB Dept, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva, 
Switzerland. floydk@who.int

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2012 Jul;40(1):9-11.

Evidence on the cost and cost-effectiveness of treatment of multidrug-resistant 
tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is limited, and no published data are available from 
former Soviet Union countries, where rates of MDR-TB are highest globally. We 
evaluated the cost and cost-effectiveness of MDR-TB treatment in Estonia and 
Russia (Tomsk Oblast), comparing cohorts enrolled on treatment according to 
World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines in 2001 and 2002 with cohorts treated 
in previous years. Costs were assessed from a health system perspective in 2003 
US$; effects were measured as cures, deaths averted and disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) averted. Cure rates when WHO guidelines were followed were 
61% (90 out of 149) in Estonia and 76% (76 out of 100) in Tomsk Oblast, with a 
cost per patient treated of US$8,974 and US$10,088, respectively. Before WHO 
guidelines were followed, cure rates were 52% in Estonia and 15% in Tomsk 
Oblast; the cost per patient treated was US$4,729 and US$2,282, respectively. 
Drugs and hospitalisation accounted for 69-90% of total costs. The cost per DALY 
averted by treatment following WHO guidelines was US$579 (range US$297-US$902) 
in Estonia and US$429 (range US$302-US$546) in Tomsk Oblast. Treatment of 
patients with MDR-TB can be cost-effective, but requires substantial additional 
investment in tuberculosis control in priority countries.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00169411
PMID: 22362862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Med Genet. 2012 Apr;49(4):264-9. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2011-100562. Epub
2012  Feb 23.

Life expectancy in hereditary cancer predisposing diseases: an observational 
study.

Wilding A(1), Ingham SL, Lalloo F, Clancy T, Huson SM, Moran A, Evans DG.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Medicine, The University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health 
Science Centre, St Maryâs Hospital, Central Manchester Hospitals Foundation 
Trust, Manchester, UK.

BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1), neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2), familial 
adenomatous polyposis (FAP), von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (VHL), and Gorlin 
syndrome (GS) are single gene diseases that predispose to early onset tumours. 
Few studies have assessed the effect of these diseases on life expectancy. This 
study's aim was to assess this effect, and to test the hypothesis that genetic 
registers increase survival.
METHOD: NF1, NF2, VHL, FAP, and GS patients were identified through the North 
West Regional Genetic Register Service and the North West Cancer Intelligence 
Service. Information on benign and malignant tumours, and deaths were obtained. 
Kaplan-Meier curves were used to show actuarial survival rates for each disease, 
compared to the local population, and in patients diagnosed pre/post the 
regional genetic register. Log rank (Mantel-Cox) tests were used to compare 
survival between groups.
RESULTS: Life expectancies were significantly reduced for all diseases 
investigated compared with the local population (80.0 years) (p=0.05). GS had 
the longest life expectancy at 73.4 years, followed by NF1 at 71.5 years, NF2 at 
69.0 years, FAP at 63.6 years, and VHL at 52.5 years. Patients diagnosed after 
establishment of the genetic register had an increase in survival compared to 
those diagnosed pre-1990: NF2 (14.7 years), FAP (13.9 years), VHL (16.3 years), 
and GS (11.2 years).
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy for all five diseases was less than normal, although 
in recent years this reached the level of the local population in GS. Although 
there have been improvements in all conditions which may in part be attributable 
to better targeted care through the genetic register service, more needs to be 
done to address the very poor life expectancy in VHL.

DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2011-100562
PMID: 22362873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2012 Nov;29(7):515-21. doi:
10.1177/1049909111434044.  Epub 2012 Feb 23.

Palliative chemotherapy for malignant ascites secondary to ovarian cancer.

Malayev Y(1), Levene R, Gonzalez F.

Author information:
(1)College of Osteopathic Medicine, Nova Southeastern University, Fort 
Lauderdale, FL 33328, USA. ymalayev@gmail.com

Although research has shown that palliative chemotherapy is beneficial compared 
to lack of treatment (Schorge JO, Schaffer JI, Halvorson LM, et al. ed. Williams 
Gynecology. New York, NY: McGraw Hill Medical; 2008.), other studies show 
aggressive end-of-life treatment adversely affects quality of life and shortens 
life span (Arriba L, Fader A, Frasure H, von Gruenigen V. A review of issues 
surrounding quality of life among women with ovarian cancer. Gynecol Oncol. 
2010;119(2):390-396.). Without a consensus on palliative chemotherapy, 
underutilization during end of life prevails, and likely will continue without 
additional research (Barbera L, Elit L, Krzyzanowska M, et al. End of life care 
for women with gynecologic cancers. Gynecol Oncol. 2010;118(2):196-201.). This 
article aims to evaluate and examine existing chemotherapy for palliation of 
malignant ascites secondary to ovarian cancer and compare commonly used 
regimens. Agents will be evaluated by their modes of administration. Oral agents 
include cyclophosphamide and thalidomide, and intraperitoneal vehicles include 
taxane-based agents, platinum-based agents, antibiotics, and biologic agents. In 
addition, cost, ethics, and quality of life discussions factor into this review. 
Palliative care's goal is to find a balance between life expectancy and symptom 
relief with minimal adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909111434044
PMID: 22363037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2012 Dec;29(8):622-6. doi: 10.1177/1049909111435811.
 Epub 2012 Feb 23.

Most advance directives written by patients with advanced cancer or their 
proxies request only minimally invasive treatments during end-of-life care.

Kwon SH(1), Im SH, Cho KW, Cho E, Yoon SJ, Oh SY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.

Although it is assumed that most patients with terminal cancer are reluctant to 
receive life-sustaining treatment, there is a paucity of evidence supporting 
this assumption. We retrospectively analyzed the advance directives of terminal 
cancer patients to determine the preferences of patients. Patients with cancer 
who had life expectancy of less than 6 months were admitted to a palliative care 
unit in Seoul Medical Center from March 2008 to February 2010. Among a total of 
247 patients, advance directives were present in the medical records of 168 
patients (68.0%). Most of the advance directives were written by the patients' 
families (95.2%) and they stated that they did not want most of the invasive 
procedures. Patients with advanced cancer mostly requested that only minimally 
invasive treatments that eased suffering be performed.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909111435811
PMID: 22363040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Stroke. 2012 May;43(5):1370-5. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.634949. Epub 2012
Feb  23.

Organized blood pressure control programs to prevent stroke in Australia: would 
they be cost-effective?

Cadilhac DA(1), Carter R, Thrift AG, Dewey HM.

Author information:
(1)Monash University, Victoria, Australia. dominique.cadilhac@monash.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: High blood pressure (BP) is the most important 
modifiable stroke risk factor. Worldwide high BP in many people is uncontrolled 
or people are unaware of their BP status. We aimed to assess whether a program 
of organized multidisciplinary care and medication would be cost-effective for 
improving BP control for the prevention of stroke.
METHODS: A novel aspect was to simulate the intervention to match recent primary 
care initiatives (eg, new Medicare reimbursement items) to ensure policy 
relevance. Current practice and additional costs of each intervention were 
included using the best available evidence. The differences in the cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for the interventions were compared 
against current practice. Cost-effectiveness was defined as cost per QALY gained 
was less than Australian dollars (AUD) 50 000 (societal perspective; reference 
year 2004). The robustness of estimates was assessed with probabilistic 
multivariable uncertainty analysis.
RESULTS: For primary prevention, the median cost per QALY gained was AUD11 068 
(95% uncertainty interval AUD5201 to AUD18 696) in those aged 75 years or older 
and was AUD17 359 (95% uncertainty interval AUD10 516 to AUD26 036) in those 
aged 55 to 84 years with â¥15% absolute risk of stroke. Primary prevention 
interventions were not cost-effective if aged younger than 50 years. The median 
cost per QALY gained for secondary prevention was AUD1811 and AUD4704, depending 
on which medications were modeled.
CONCLUSIONS: Organized care for BP control targeted at specific populations 
offers excellent value over current practice. Organized care for secondary 
prevention provided the greatest benefits and strongest cost-effectiveness. 
Translation into clinical practice requires improved use of relevant Medicare 
policy in Australia.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.634949
PMID: 22363058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Front Physiol. 2012 Feb 20;3:30. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2012.00030. eCollection 
2012.

Endothelial progenitor cells enter the aging arena.

Williamson K(1), Stringer SE, Alexander MY.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Group, School of Biomedicine, University of 
Manchester Manchester, UK.

Age is a significant risk factor for the development of vascular diseases, such 
as atherosclerosis. Although pharmacological treatments, including statins and 
anti-hypertensive drugs, have improved the prognosis for patients with 
cardiovascular disease, it remains a leading cause of mortality in those aged 
65âyears and over. Furthermore, given the increased life expectancy of the 
population in developed countries, there is a clear need for alternative 
treatment strategies. Consequently, the relationship between aging and 
progenitor cell-mediated repair is of great interest. Endothelial progenitor 
cells (EPCs) play an integral role in the cellular repair mechanisms for 
endothelial regeneration and maintenance. However, EPCs are subject to 
age-associated changes that diminish their number in circulation and function, 
thereby enhancing vascular disease risk. A great deal of research is aimed at 
developing strategies to harness the regenerative capacity of these cells. In 
this review, we discuss the current understanding of the cells termed "EPCs," 
examine the impact of age on EPC-mediated repair and identify therapeutic 
targets with potential for attenuating the age-related decline in vascular 
health via beneficial actions on EPCs.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2012.00030
PMCID: PMC3282536
PMID: 22363299


704. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e30735. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030735. Epub 2012 Feb
17.

Potential cost-effectiveness of universal access to modern contraceptives in 
Uganda.

Babigumira JB(1), Stergachis A, Veenstra DL, Gardner JS, Ngonzi J, 
Mukasa-Kivunike P, Garrison LP.

Author information:
(1)Global Medicines Program, Department of Global Health, School of Public 
Health, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America. 
babijo@uw.edu

BACKGROUND: Over two thirds of women who need contraception in Uganda lack 
access to modern effective methods. This study was conducted to estimate the 
potential cost-effectiveness of achieving universal access to modern 
contraceptives in Uganda by implementing a hypothetical new contraceptive 
program (NCP) from both societal and governmental (Ministry of Health (MoH)) 
perspectives.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A Markov model was developed to compare the NCP 
to the status quo or current contraceptive program (CCP). The model followed a 
hypothetical cohort of 15-year old girls over a lifetime horizon. Data were 
obtained from the Uganda National Demographic and Health Survey and from 
published and unpublished sources. Costs, life expectancy, disability-adjusted 
life expectancy, pregnancies, fertility and incremental cost-effectiveness 
measured as cost per life-year (LY) gained, cost per disability-adjusted 
life-year (DALY) averted, cost per pregnancy averted and cost per unit of 
fertility reduction were calculated. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were performed to examine the robustness of results. Mean discounted 
life expectancy and disability-adjusted life expectancy (DALE) were higher under 
the NCP vs. CCP (28.74 vs. 28.65 years and 27.38 vs. 27.01 respectively). Mean 
pregnancies and live births per woman were lower under the NCP (9.51 vs. 7.90 
and 6.92 vs. 5.79 respectively). Mean lifetime societal costs per woman were 
lower for the NCP from the societal perspective ($1,949 vs. $1,987) and the MoH 
perspective ($636 vs. $685). In the incremental analysis, the NCP dominated the 
CCP, i.e. it was both less costly and more effective. The results were robust to 
univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Universal access to modern contraceptives in Uganda 
appears to be highly cost-effective. Increasing contraceptive coverage should be 
considered among Uganda's public health priorities.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030735
PMCID: PMC3281877
PMID: 22363480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


705. J Med Econ. 2012;15(4):724-36. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.670174. Epub 2012
Mar  28.

Cost-effectiveness of tapentadol prolonged release compared with oxycodone 
controlled release in the UK in patients with severe non-malignant chronic pain 
who failed 1st line treatment with morphine.

Ikenberg R(1), Hertel N, Moore RA, Obradovic M, Baxter G, Conway P, Liedgens H.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Munich, Germany.

Erratum in
    J Med Econ. 2012;15(6):1216.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this analysis was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
tapentadol PR (prolonged release) compared with oxycodone CR (controlled 
release) in severe non-malignant chronic pain patients in whom controlled 
release morphine was ineffective or not tolerated.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to assess costs and benefits over a 1-year 
time horizon from the National Health Service perspective in the UK. Patients 
could either continue on 2nd line therapy or switch to 3rd line opioid due to 
lack of efficacy or poor tolerability. Patients failing also 3rd line therapy 
entered the final absorbing health state (4th line). Data on tolerability, 
efficacy, and utilities for tapentadol and oxycodone were obtained from the 
three comparative phase III clinical trials. Costs of resource consumption 
associated with opioid treatment were derived from a retrospective database 
analysis of anonymized patient records.
RESULTS: The model results predicted that initiating 2nd line therapy with 
tapentadol leads to higher effectiveness and lower costs vs oxycodone. For the 
overall population included in the clinical trials, mean annual costs per 
patient when treated with tapentadol and oxycodone were Â£3543 and Â£3656, 
respectively. Treatment with tapentadol, while cheaper than oxycodone, was more 
effective (0.6371 vs 0.6237 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for tapentadol 
and oxycodone, respectively), meaning that tapentadol dominated oxycodone. For 
the sub-group of opioid-experienced patients with severe pain at baseline the 
ranking in terms of costs and QALYs remained unchanged. Extensive sensitivity 
analyses showed that conclusions about the cost-effectiveness are consistent.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness study suggested that initiating 2nd line 
treatment in patients with severe non-malignant chronic pain in the UK with 
tapentadol instead of oxycodone improves patients' quality-of-life and is less 
costly. Key limitations when interpreting the results are the use of different 
sources to populate the model and restricted generalizability due to data 
extrapolation.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.670174
PMID: 22364286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(8):iii-iv, 1-76. doi: 10.3310/hta16080.

Group art therapy as an adjunctive treatment for people with schizophrenia: a 
randomised controlled trial (MATISSE).

Crawford MJ(1), Killaspy H, Barnes TR, Barrett B, Byford S, Clayton K, Dinsmore 
J, Floyd S, Hoadley A, Johnson T, Kalaitzaki E, King M, Leurent B, Maratos A, 
O'Neill FA, Osborn D, Patterson S, Soteriou T, Tyrer P, Waller D; MATISSE 
project team.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mental Health, Imperial College London, London, UK. 
m.crawford@imperial.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To examine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
referral to group art therapy plus standard care, compared with referral to an 
activity group plus standard care and standard care alone, among people with 
schizophrenia.
DESIGN: A three-arm, parallel group, single-blind, pragmatic, randomised 
controlled trial. Participants were randomised via an independent and remote 
telephone randomisation service using permuted blocks, stratified by study 
centre.
SETTING: Study participants were recruited from secondary care mental health and 
social services in four UK centres.
PARTICIPANTS: Potential participants were aged 18 years or over, had a clinical 
diagnosis of schizophrenia, confirmed by an examination of case notes, and 
provided written informed consent. We excluded those who were unable to speak 
sufficient English to complete the baseline assessment, those with severe 
cognitive impairment and those already receiving arts therapy.
INTERVENTIONS: Group art therapy was delivered by registered art therapists 
according to nationally agreed standards. Groups had up to eight members, lasted 
for 90 minutes and ran for 12 months. Members were given access to a range of 
art materials and encouraged to use these to express themselves freely. Activity 
groups were designed to control for the non-specific effects of group art 
therapy. Group facilitators offered various activities and encouraged 
participants to collectively select those they wanted to pursue. Standard care 
involved follow-up from secondary care mental health services and the option of 
referral to other services, except arts therapies, as required.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Our co-primary outcomes were global functioning (measured 
using the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale - GAF) and mental health 
symptoms (measured using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale - PANSS) at 24 
months. The main secondary outcomes were level of group attendance, social 
functioning, well-being, health-related quality of life, service utilisation and 
other costs measured 12 and 24 months after randomisation.
RESULTS: Four hundred and seventeen people were recruited, of whom 355 (85%) 
were followed up at 2 years. Eighty-six (61%) of those randomised to art therapy 
and 73 (52%) of those randomised to activity groups attended at least one group. 
No differences in primary outcomes were found between the three study arms. The 
adjusted mean difference between art therapy and standard care at 24 months was 
-0.9 [95% confidence interval (CI) -3.8 to 2.1] on the GAF Scale and 0.7 (95% CI 
-3.1 to 4.6) on the PANSS Scale. Differences in secondary outcomes were not 
found, except that those referred to an activity group had fewer positive 
symptoms of schizophrenia at 24 months than those randomised to art therapy. 
Secondary analysis indicated that attendance at art therapy groups was not 
associated with improvements in global functioning or mental health. Although 
the total cost of the art therapy group was lower than the cost of the two 
comparison groups, referral to group art therapy did not appear to provide a 
cost-effective use of resources.
CONCLUSIONS: Referring people with established schizophrenia to group art 
therapy as delivered in this randomised trial does not appear to improve global 
functioning or mental health of patients or provide a more cost-effective use of 
resources than standard care alone.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN 46150447.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
16, No. 8. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

Â© Queenâs Printer and Controller of HMSO 2012.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16080
PMID: 22364962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Ann Thorac Surg. 2012 Mar;93(3):761-9. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.11.062.

Quality of life after early mitral valve repair using conventional and robotic 
approaches.

Suri RM(1), Antiel RM, Burkhart HM, Huebner M, Li Z, Eton DT, Topilsky T, Sarano 
ME, Schaff HV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Mayo Medical School, Department of Health 
Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. 
suri.rakesh@mayo.edu

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2012 Mar;93(3):769.

BACKGROUND: Early mitral valve (MV) repair of degenerative mitral regurgitation 
is associated with superior clinical outcomes compared with prosthetic 
replacement and restores normal life expectancy, even in those without symptoms. 
Although current guidelines recommend prompt referral for effective MV repair in 
those with severe mitral regurgitation, some are reluctant to pursue early 
correction due to the perception that short-term quality of life (QOL) may be 
adversely affected by the operation.
METHODS: Between January 2008 and November 2009, 202 patients underwent 
conventional transsternotomy or minimally invasive port-access robot-assisted MV 
repair, with or without patent foramen ovale closure or left Maze, and were 
mailed a postsurgical QOL survey.
RESULTS: Unadjusted QOL scores for patients undergoing MV repair were excellent 
early after the operation using both approaches. Robotic repair was associated 
with slightly improved scores on the Duke Activity Status Index, the Short 
Form-12 Item Health Survey Physical domain, and the Linear Analogue 
Self-Assessment frequency of chest pain and fatigue indices during the first 
postoperative year; however, differences between treatment groups became 
indistinguishable after 1 year. Robotic repair patients returned to work 
slightly quicker (median, 33 vs 54 days, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Functional QOL outcomes within the first 2 years after early MV 
repair are excellent using open and robotic platforms. A robotic approach may be 
associated with slightly improved early QOL and return to employment-based 
activities. These results may have implications regarding future evolution of 
clinical guidelines and economic health care policy.

Copyright Â© 2012 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.11.062
PMID: 22364970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Ann Thorac Surg. 2012 Mar;93(3):e61-2. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.10.028.

Total arch replacement for acute aortic dissection (Stanford A) in a patient 
with hemophilia A.

Furutachi A(1), Furukawa K, Oda Y, Morita S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Saga 
University, Saga, Japan. a.furutachi@hotmail.co.jp

As a result of improvements in medical management, patients suffering from 
hemophilia have a life expectancy approaching that of the normal population. An 
increased life expectancy, however, brings an increased risk of developing 
age-related disorders. Several article have reported elective cardiac operations 
successfully performed on hemophiliacs. To our knowledge, there are no articles 
describing such patients undergoing emergent aortic surgery. Our report 
describes the successful management of an individual with hemophilia A 
undergoing emergent total arch replacement for acute aortic dissection (Stanford 
A). We used a continuous infusion of factor VIII concentrate during the 
perioperative period. The patient was discharged without bleeding complications.

Copyright Â© 2012 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2011.10.028
PMID: 22365017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Transfus Apher Sci. 2012 Apr;46(2):221-9. doi:
10.1016/j.transci.2012.01.008.  Epub 2012 Feb 24.

Characteristics of the THERAFLEX UV-Platelets pathogen inactivation system - an 
update.

Seghatchian J(1), Tolksdorf F.

Author information:
(1)Blood Components Technology & Haemostasis/Thrombosis Consultancy, 50 Primrose 
Hill Road, London, UK. jseghatchian@btopenworld.com

Considerable progress has been made in the last decade in producing purer, 
safer, leucocyte and plasma reduced platelet concentrates (PC) with an extended 
shelf life. The development of different pathogen inactivation technologies 
(PIT) has made a substantial contribution to this trend. Preceding platelet PIT 
(INTERCEPT Blood System/Cerus Corporation, Concord, CA, USA; MIRASOL/Caridian 
BCT, Lakewood, CO, USA) are based on adding a photosensitive compound to PC. The 
mixture is then activated by UV light in the UVB and/or UVA spectral regions. A 
novel procedure, THERAFLEX UV-Platelets (MacoPharma, Mouvaux, France), was 
recently developed that uses short-wave ultraviolet light (UVC), without 
addition of any photoactive agent. This technology has proven to be highly 
effective in sterilising bacteria (the major cause of morbidity/mortality after 
platelet transfusion) as well as inactivating other transfusion transmitted 
DNA/RNA containing pathogens and residual leucocytes. Any PIT reflects a balance 
between the efficacy of pathogen inactivation and preservation of platelet 
quality and function. A broad spectrum of in vitro tests have become available 
for the assessment of platelet storage lesion (PSL), aiming to better predict 
clinical outcome and untoward effects of platelet therapy. Recent paired studies 
on the release of platelet-derived cytokines, as new platelet performance 
indicators, revealed a parallel increase in both THERAFLEX UV-treated and 
control PC throughout storage, supporting the notion that the bioavailability of 
platelet function is not grossly affected by UVC treatment. This is corroborated 
by some newer technologies for proteomic analysis, showing that the THERAFLEX 
UV-Platelets system results in limited disruption of integrin-regulating 
extracellular disulfide bonds and minimal protein alterations when compared to 
UVB and gamma irradiation. Moreover, standard in vitro parameters reflecting 
activation, metabolic activity and function of platelets are useful indicators 
of the overall performance of processing and storage and may be used as 
surrogate markers of platelet quality in vivo. However, there is some doubt as 
to what degree each marker alone or in combination reflects the true clinical 
outcome of transfused platelets. Therefore, an appropriate clinical programme 
has been initiated. The preclinical evaluation demonstrated tolerability and 
immunological safety of THERAFLEX UV-Platelets using an animal model. 
Additionally, the system has successfully completed two autologous Phase I 
trials on recovery and survival. Preliminary results suggest that the recovery 
and survival rates are consistent with other pathogen reduced platelet products 
that are licensed and in use. The method is currently under evaluation for 
safety and tolerability of UVC-treated platelets in healthy volunteers. 
Presently the THERAFLEX UV-Platelets system is the simplest and purest PIT 
easily adaptable to the existing blood bank setting. In the future, extension of 
the application range of the THERAFLEX UV-Platelets system is expected, in order 
to make this new technology compatible with a broad spectrum of collection and 
processing platforms, and with other blood products.

Copyright ÃÂ© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transci.2012.01.008
PMID: 22365926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Brain. 2012 Mar;135(Pt 3):900-11. doi: 10.1093/brain/awr336.

A representative cohort of patients with non-progressive multiple sclerosis at 
the age of normal life expectancy.

Skoog B(1), Runmarker B, Winblad S, Ekholm S, Andersen O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Physiology, University of Gothenburg, 413 45 
Gothenburg, Sweden.

Multiple sclerosis may have a non-progressive symptomatology for decades; 
however, it is not clear whether the disease activity may abate completely. We 
identified a cohort of patients, resident in Gothenburg at the time of disease 
onset, between the years 1950-64 (n = 307). These geographical and temporal 
restrictions, along with favourable conditions for a 'spider' epidemiological 
study, were optimal for an unbiased selection; this 15-year incidence cohort was 
essentially followed prospectively for 37-59 years after onset. The shortest 
follow-up time for patients without primary or secondary progression was 45 
years. For patients with an initial relapsing-remitting course and multiple 
sclerosis diagnosis according to the Poser criteria (n = 202), the probability 
of non-progressive disease after 40 years was 22% (standard error 3.0%), and 
after 50 years it was 14% (standard error 3.2%). For attack onset including 
patients with possible multiple sclerosis, the corresponding probabilities after 
40 and 50 years were 35% (standard error 3.3%) and 28% (standard error 3.5%), 
respectively. At the last follow-up in 2009-10, when patients reached the 
average age of the Swedish population life expectancy, only 13 patients from the 
multiple sclerosis diagnosis cohort, according to the Poser criteria, remained 
alive and non-progressive. Their annualized attack frequency diminished with 
time from 0.29 to 0.015. These patients had been functioning well socially. Nine 
patients had an Expanded Disability Status Scale score of 0-2.5, and four 
patients had a score of 3 or 3.5, with deficits dating back to attacks decades 
ago. Eight patients participated in a complete neuropsychological examination, 
which showed a slight difference (P < 0.01) concerning verbal memory and 
executive function compared to an age and socially matched reference group, 
whereas results for five other cognitive domains were within the normal range. 
Magnetic resonance images fulfilled the Barkhof-TintorÃ© criteria for multiple 
sclerosis in 10 of 11 patients, with conspicuously few subcortical lesions 
relative to extensive periventricular lesions and lesions extending from the 
inferior midline aspect of the corpus callosum. Prediction of the 
non-progressive stage was possible with moderate hazard ratios and low 
sensitivity. Early features that predicted a non-progressive course were 
complete remission of the onset attack, low or moderate initial relapse 
frequency and-when the patients with possible multiple sclerosis were 
included-dominating afferent symptoms. The clinical disease activity had abated 
in these 13 patients, with the caveat that transition to secondary progression 
continued to occur after four decades, albeit with decreasing risk.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awr336
PMID: 22366800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Pediatr Cardiol. 2012 Jun;33(5):820-3. doi: 10.1007/s00246-012-0207-x. Epub
2012  Feb 25.

A novel technique for zero-fluoroscopy catheter ablation used to manage 
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome with a left-sided accessory pathway.

Kerst G(1), Parade U, Weig HJ, Hofbeck M, Gawaz M, Schreieck J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, University Hospital TÃ¼bingen, 
Hoppe-Seyler-Str 1, 72076 TÃ¼bingen, Germany. gunter.kerst@med.uni-tuebingen.de

Conventional catheter ablation of cardiac arrhythmias is associated with the 
potential adverse effects of low-dose ionizing radiation on both patients and 
laboratory personnel. Due to the greater radiation sensitivity and the longer 
life expectancy of children, reduction of radiation exposure for them is of 
particular importance. A novel technique for zero-fluoroscopy catheter ablation 
is described using real-time tissue-tip contact force measurements for a 
10-year-old boy who had Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome with a left-sided 
accessory pathway.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-012-0207-x
PMID: 22367551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Neurologist. 2012 Mar;18(2):64-7. doi: 10.1097/NRL.0b013e318247bc7a.

HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders: a historical review.

Rosca EC(1), Rosca O, Simu M, Chirileanu RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy Victor Babes, 
Timisoara, Romania. roscacecilia@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The central nervous system represents a major target of the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and the neurocognitive impairments associated with 
the disease represent a major cause of disability.
REVIEW SUMMARY: The HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders are presented from a 
historical point of view. The evolution of our knowledge and understanding of 
these primary complications of HIV infection is reviewed, starting with 
nomenclature and clinical staging and continuing with therapeutic options.
CONCLUSIONS: Although considerable progress has been made in the research of 
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, they continue to represent a clinical 
challenge for neurologists. Because the evolution and the clinical 
manifestations of HIV infection have changed with the introduction of 
antiretroviral therapy and the life expectancy has increased, the problems in 
these patients are complex and need neurologists with a thorough knowledge in 
HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1097/NRL.0b013e318247bc7a
PMID: 22367830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Health Econ. 2013 Mar;22(3):353-65. doi: 10.1002/hec.2803. Epub 2012 Feb 27.

On the choice of health inequality measure for the longitudinal analysis of 
income-related health inequalities.

Allanson P(1), Petrie D.

Author information:
(1)Economics Studies, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK. 
p.f.allanson@dundee.ac.uk

Changes in rank-dependent income-related health inequality measures over time 
may usefully be decomposed into contributions due to changes in health outcomes 
and changes in individuals' positions in the income distribution. This paper 
establishes the normative implications of this type of decomposition by 
embedding it within a broader analysis of changes in the 'health achievement' 
index. We further show that the choice of health inequality measure implies a 
particular vertical equity judgement, which may be expressed on a common scale 
in terms of the concentration index of health changes that would be inequality 
preserving. We illustrate the empirical implications of this choice by reporting 
results from a longitudinal analysis of changes in income-related health 
inequality in Great Britain using the concentration, the Erreygers and Wagstaff 
indices of health attainments and the concentration index of health shortfalls. 
.

Copyright Â© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2803
PMCID: PMC3599481
PMID: 22368075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Popul Econ. 2008 Jun 1;w14093:1149339. doi: 10.1007/s00148-012-0405-0.

The Cost of Uncertain Life Span.

Edwards RD.

A considerable amount of uncertainty surrounds the length of human life. The 
standard deviation in adult life span is about 15 years in the U.S., and theory 
and evidence suggest it is costly. I calibrate a utility-theoretic model of 
preferences over length of life and show that one fewer year in standard 
deviation is worth about half a mean life year. Differences in the standard 
deviation exacerbate cross-sectional differences in life expectancy between the 
U.S. and other industrialized countries, between rich and poor countries, and 
among poor countries. Accounting for the cost of life-span variance also appears 
to amplify recently discovered patterns of convergence in world average human 
well-being. This is partly for methodological reasons and partly because 
unconditional variance in human length of life, primarily the component due to 
infant mortality, has exhibited even more convergence than life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00148-012-0405-0
PMCID: PMC3285408
PMID: 22368324


715. Bioinformation. 2012;8(3):158-62. doi: 10.6026/97320630008158. Epub 2012 Feb
3.

Codon usage bias as a function of generation time and life expectancy.

Mahdi RN, Rouchka EC.

It has recently been demonstrated that human natural codon usage bias is 
optimized towards a higher buffering capacity to mutations (measured as the 
tendency of single point mutations in a DNA sequence to yield the same or 
similar amino acids) compared to random sequences. In this work, we investigate 
this phenomenon further by analyzing the natural DNA of four different species 
(human, mouse, zebrafish and fruit fly) to determine whether such a tolerance to 
mutations is correlated with the life span and age of sexual maturation for the 
corresponding organisms. We also propose a new measure to quantify the buffering 
capacity of a DNA sequence to mutations that takes into account the observed 
mutation rates within every genome and the effect of the corresponding 
mutation.Our results suggest there is a propensity for tolerance to mutations 
that is positively correlated with the life expectancy of the considered 
organisms. Moreover, random sequences that are constrained to produce the same 
protein as the naturally occurring sequences are found to be more buffered than 
completely random sequences while being less buffered than the natural 
sequences. These results suggest that optimization toward protective mechanisms 
tolerant to mutations is correlated with both life expectancy and age to sexual 
maturity at both the levels of codon usage bias and the bias of the natural 
sequence of codons itself.

DOI: 10.6026/97320630008158
PMCID: PMC3283889
PMID: 22368389


716. Images Paediatr Cardiol. 2004 Apr;6(2):1-11.

Interventional treatment methods in patients with Marfan Syndrome.

Fleck T(1), Czerny M, Wolner E, Grabenwoger M.

Author information:
(1)Dept Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Vienna Medical School, 1090 
Vienna, Austria.

Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant heritable connective tissue disorder 
which involves primarily the skeletal, ocular and cardiovascular system. The 
incidence of MS is on average 1: 10000 with 25-30% of cases caused by sporadic 
mutations.The leading cause of premature death in these patients is progressive 
dilatation and subsequent dissection of the ascending thoracic aorta resulting 
in cardiac tamponade, and left ventricular failure due to aortic regurgitation. 
Life expectancy is primarily determined by the severity of cardiovascular 
involvement, and has improved substantially over the last 20 years due to the 
advances in surgical and medical management.The optimum management of Marfan 
patients includes a lifelong surveillance with particular emphasis placed on 
aortic behaviour. Preventive replacement of various portions of the aorta has 
been a major contribution for improved life expectancy in these patients. The 
different surgical and interventional treatment options currently available will 
be further outlined in this review.

PMCID: PMC3232525
PMID: 22368637


717. J Geriatr Oncol. 2012 Jan 1;3(1):8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2011.10.002.

Does Life Expectancy Affect Treatment of Women Aged 80 and Older with Early 
Stage Breast Cancers?

Schonberg MA(1), Marcantonio ER, Ngo L, Silliman RA, McCarthy EP.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA.

BACKGROUND: Data are needed on how life expectancy affects treatment decisions 
among women â¥80 years with early stage breast cancer. METHODS: We used the 
linked Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results-Medicare claims dataset from 
1992-2005 to identify women aged â¥80 newly diagnosed with lymph node negative, 
estrogen receptor positive tumors, â¤5 centimeters. To estimate life expectancy, 
we matched these women to women of similar age, region, and insurance, not 
diagnosed with breast cancer. We examined 5-year mortality of matched controls 
by illness burden (measured with the Charlson Comorbidity Index [CCI]) using 
Kaplan-Meier statistics. We examined treatments received by estimated life 
expectancy within CCI levels. We further examined factors associated with 
receipt of radiotherapy after breast conserving surgery (BCS). RESULTS: Of 9,932 
women, 39.6% underwent mastectomy, 30.4% received BCS plus radiotherapy, and 
30.0% received BCS alone. Estimated 5-year mortality was 72% for women with CCIs 
of 3+, yet 38.0% of these women underwent mastectomy and 22.9% received 
radiotherapy after BCS. Conversely, estimated 5-year mortality was 36% for women 
with CCIs of 0 and 26.6% received BCS alone. Age 80-84, urban residence, higher 
grade, recent diagnosis, mammography use, and low comorbidity, were factors 
associated with receiving radiotherapy after BCS. Among women with CCIs of 3+ 
treated with BCS, 36.9% underwent radiotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: Many women aged â¥80 
with limited life expectancies receive radiotherapy after BCS for treatment of 
early stage breast cancers while many in excellent health do not. More 
consideration needs to be given to patient life expectancy when considering 
breast cancer treatments. KEY WORDS: Breast cancer, older women, treatment, life 
expectancy, radiation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2011.10.002
PMCID: PMC3285108
PMID: 22368726

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to report.


718. Ned Tijdschr Tandheelkd. 2012 Jan;119(1):13-6. doi:
10.5177/ntvt.2012.01.11137.

[Long-term goals for oral health].

[Article in Dutch]

Bots CP(1), van Dalen A, Cools HJ.

Author information:
(1)Uit de Stichting Bijzondere Tandheelkunde Amsterdam, afdeling Orale 
Biochemie, Academisch Centrum Tandheelkunde Amsterdam. casperbots@gmail.com

The current, optimistic prognosis is that newborns will reach an average age of 
100 years. This increased life-expectancy requires a renewed vision of long-term 
goals for oral health. The starting-point could be a prospective end-point with 
minimal oral function which should be reached, for example, in the last years of 
one's life. The consequence is that adequate oral healthcare for the elderly 
starts in childhood. Choices such as the extraction of premolars for orthodontic 
reasons and the dental re-restoration cycle have a great negative impact on 
reaching this goal. The average sustainability of dental restorations or 
prosthetic constructions is commonly much shorter than the life-expectancy of a 
patient. If oral treatment is necessary, it is recommended to give priority to 
maintaining a minimally functional dentition up to an advanced age, instead 
offocusing on short- or medium-term goals.

DOI: 10.5177/ntvt.2012.01.11137
PMID: 22368835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. BMC Genomics. 2012;13 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S9. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-S1-S9.
