aneurysm growth. There were no migrations (>0.5 cm) noted in either group. Sac 
regression was observed at an average rate of 0.24 cm/year in the IF group and 
0.26 cm/year in the SF group (P = NS). There were no aneurysm ruptures during 
the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: There are no significant differences in endograft migration or in 
the incidence of early and late type 1a endoleaks between endografts that use IF 
(Gore Excluder) and SF (Cook Zenith) fixation for patients with short aortic 
necks undergoing EVAR.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2011.11.088
PMID: 22277692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2013 Aug;45(1):6-29. doi:
10.1007/s12016-012-8300-8.

Allergic and immunologic reactions to food additives.

Gultekin F(1), Doguc DK.

Author information:
(1)Medical Biochemistry Department, Medical Faculty, Suleyman Demirel 
University, Cunur, Isparta, Turkey. drfatih2000@gmail.com

For centuries, food additives have been used for flavouring, colouring and 
extension of the useful shelf life of food, as well as the promotion of food 
safety. During the last 20 years, the studies implicating the additives 
contained in foods and medicine as a causative factor of allergic reactions have 
been proliferated considerably. In this review, we aimed to overview all of the 
food additives which were approved to consume in EU and find out how common and 
serious allergic reactions come into existence following the consuming of food 
additives.

DOI: 10.1007/s12016-012-8300-8
PMID: 22278172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2012 Feb;137(5):219-27. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1292894.
Epub  2012 Jan 25.

[The German National Disease Management Guideline "Chronic Heart Failure"].

[Article in German]

Weinbrenner S(1), Langer T, Scherer M, Störk S, Ertl G, Muth Ch, Hoppe UC, Kopp 
I, Ollenschläger G; Expertenkreis NVL Chronische Herzinsuffizienz des ÄZQ.

Collaborators: Ertl G, Störk S, Hardt R, Herrmann-Lingen C, Hoppe UC, Miche E, 
Mörike K, Müller GA, Muth C, Scherer M, Schubert I, Schwaab B, Sindermann J, 
Tschöpe D, Werner KG.

Author information:
(1)Ärztliches Zentrum für Qualität in der Medizin, Berlin. weinbrenner@azq.de

Chronic heart failure (CHF) is an illness mostly affecting elderly people. In 
Germany CHF is one of the most common causes of death and at the same time one 
of the most common diagnosis in inpatient care. Due to the expected increase in 
life expectancy in the next few years experts predict a further step-up of the 
incidence. Against this background development of a national guideline on 
chronic heart failure was prioritised and accordingly the National Disease 
Management Guideline (NDMG) Chronic Heart Failure was developed by a multi- and 
interdisciplinary group. The guideline group comprised experts from all relevant 
scientific medical societies as well as a patient expert. The National Disease 
Management Guideline (NDMG) on Chronic Heart Failure aims at supporting patients 
and health care providers with respect to decisions on a specific health care 
problem by giving recommendations for actions. Recommendations are informed by 
the best available scientific evidence on this topic.Patients with CHF often 
suffer from multiple conditions. Due to this fact and the old age patients do 
have very complex and demanding health care needs. Thus accounting for 
co-morbidities is paramount in planning and providing health care for theses 
patients and communication between doctor and patient but also between all 
health care providers is crucial.Basic treatment strategies in chronic heart 
failure comprise management of risk factors and prognostic factors as well as 
appropriate consideration of co-morbidities accompanied by measures empowering 
patients in establishing a healthy life style and a self-dependant management of 
their illness.Psycho-social aspects have a very strong influence on patients' 
acceptance of the disease and their self-management. In addition they have a 
strong influence on therapy management of the treating physician thus they have 
to be addressed adequately during the consultation.The National Disease 
Management Guideline (NDMG) Chronic Heart Failure (CHF) is an interdisciplinary 
guideline putting particular emphasis on giving recommendations for health care 
management at the interfaces of the health care system. The NDMG CHF provides a 
collection of evidence-based and consensus-based recommendations for diagnostics 
and therapy of patients with CHF. This CPG is meant to improve health care for 
all affected patients regardless of stage of disease or health care setting. 
Quality improvement though can only happen when the NDMG CHF is adopted into 
daily routine. To support implementation a patient version of the guideline was 
developed. The article compiles the most relevant recommendations and algorithms 
of the National Disease Management Guideline (NDMG) Chronic Heart Failure (CHF).

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1292894
PMID: 22278695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Health Econ. 2013 Mar;22(3):272-88. doi: 10.1002/hec.2796. Epub 2012 Jan 25.

Testing procedural invariance in the context of health.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)LSE Health, London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK. 
a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

Violations of procedural invariance, epitomised by 'classic' preference 
reversals, have been observed for more than 40 years, and yet the study of this 
phenomenon in health remains nascent. This is an oversight because such 
violations pose a challenge to health economics, where choice and valuation 
methodologies often are used interchangeably. This article reports two 
experiments that aim to test for preference reversals over outcomes defined by 
health status, using both 'open' and 'assisted' valuation procedures. Although 
systematic preference reversals in the direction generally reported in the 
literature were not observed, the rates of non-systematic reversal were 
substantial, measuring 35-40%. By analysing the respondents' explanations for 
their answers, it is clear that many of them used heuristics to answer the 
questions, and they may have good reasons to do so, which undermines the notion 
that preferences are always fixed and stable. These results, and others like it, 
pose a challenge to those who unquestioningly assume procedural invariance and 
maintain that population preferences should be used to inform health policy.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2796
PMID: 22278911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. PLoS One. 2012;7(1):e29591. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0029591. Epub 2012 Jan
18.

Comparative survival and economic benefits of deceased donor kidney 
transplantation and dialysis in people with varying ages and co-morbidities.

Wong G(1), Howard K, Chapman JR, Chadban S, Cross N, Tong A, Webster AC, Craig 
JC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Kidney Research, Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, 
Australia. germaine.wong@health.nsw.gov.au

BACKGROUND: Deceased donor kidneys for transplantation are in most countries 
allocated preferentially to recipients who have limited co-morbidities. Little 
is known about the incremental health and economic gain from transplanting those 
with co-morbidities compared to remaining on dialysis. The aim of our study is 
to estimate the average and incremental survival benefits and health care costs 
of listing and transplantation compared to dialysis among individuals with 
varying co-morbidities.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was constructed, using current outcomes 
for patients with defined co-morbidities treated with either dialysis or 
transplantation, to compare the health and economic benefits of listing and 
transplantation with dialysis.
FINDINGS: Using the current waiting time for deceased donor transplantation, 
transplanting a potential recipient, with or without co-morbidities achieves 
survival gains of between 6 months and more than three life years compared to 
remaining on dialysis, with an average incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of less than $50,000/LYS, even among those with advanced age. Age at 
listing and the waiting time for transplantation are the most influential 
variables within the model. If there were an unlimited supply of organs and no 
waiting time, transplanting the younger and healthier individuals saves the most 
number of life years and is cost-saving, whereas transplanting the middle-age to 
older patients still achieves substantial incremental gains in life expectancy 
compared to being on dialysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our modelled analyses suggest transplanting the younger and 
healthier individuals with end-stage kidney disease maximises survival gains and 
saves money. Listing and transplanting those with considerable co-morbidities is 
also cost-effective and achieves substantial survival gains compared with the 
dialysis alternative. Preferentially excluding the older and sicker individuals 
cannot be justified on utilitarian grounds.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0029591
PMCID: PMC3261160
PMID: 22279541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


458. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2012 Feb;12(1):53-69. doi: 
10.1586/erp.11.92.

The socioeconomic burden of systemic lupus erythematosus: state-of-the-art and 
prospects.

Zhu TY(1), Tam LS, Li EK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine & Therapeutics, 9/F Clinical Sciences Building, The 
Prince of Wales Hospital, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, Hong 
Kong. tracyzhu@cuhk.edu.hk

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a prototypical, autoimmune, multisystem 
disease characterized by chronic inflammation in multiple organs. SLE can cause 
significant and potentially irreversible morbidity, stemming from the 
relapsing-remitting disease course, the undesirable changes in appearance and 
the side effects of medication. The prolonged life expectancy and increased 
prevalence of SLE have imposed challenges on the healthcare system. There is 
concern that the growing costs of healthcare are becoming unaffordable. Cost 
analyses evaluating the economic burden of SLE are imperative. This review will 
summarize the current state-of-the-art regarding the economic burden of SLE and 
discuss how it could affect clinical and political decisions. Several 
methodological considerations and unsolved issues will also be emphasized.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.11.92
PMID: 22280197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2012 Feb;12(1):105-14. doi: 
10.1586/erp.11.100.

Methods and issues associated with the use of quality-adjusted life-years.

Revicki DA(1), Lenderking WR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes Research, United BioSource Corporation, 7101 
Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 600, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. 
dennis.revicki@unitedbiosource.com

In this article, we will focus on how preferences and utilities are measured, 
including the strengths and limitations of various approaches, discuss their use 
in estimating quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and make some recommendations 
for further research. Preferences are either measured using direct (visual 
analog scale, time trade-off or standard gamble) or indirect methods. The most 
commonly used generic indirect measures include the Quality of Well-Being scale, 
EuroQol-5 Dimension, Health Utilities Index and Short Form-6 Dimension. 
Disease-specific preference measures are increasingly being developed and 
applied in studies as more sensitive measures of health status. Preference-based 
measures and QALY measurement need to be enhanced, and additional research is 
needed to improve scientific methods for estimating preferences for health 
assessment. Given the increased focus on comparative effectiveness research, 
QALYs have the potential for helping researchers, clinicians, health 
policy-makers and patients to understand the relative effectiveness of 
alternative interventions for treating medical conditions.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.11.100
PMID: 22280200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. BMC Public Health. 2012 Jan 27;12:85. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-85.

Political and social determinants of life expectancy in less developed 
countries: a longitudinal study.

Lin RT(1), Chen YM, Chien LC, Chan CC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene, College of Public 
Health, National Taiwan University, Room 722, No, 17, Xuzhou Road, Taipei City 
100, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to examine the longitudinal contributions of four 
political and socioeconomic factors to the increase in life expectancy in less 
developed countries (LDCs) between 1970 and 2004.
METHODS: We collected 35 years of annual data for 119 LDCs on life expectancy at 
birth and on four key socioeconomic indicators: economy, measured by log10 gross 
domestic product per capita at purchasing power parity; educational environment, 
measured by the literacy rate of the adult population aged 15 years and over; 
nutritional status, measured by the proportion of undernourished people in the 
population; and political regime, measured by the regime score from the Polity 
IV database. Using linear mixed models, we analyzed the longitudinal effects of 
these multiple factors on life expectancy at birth with a lag of 0-10 years, 
adjusting for both time and regional correlations.
RESULTS: The LDCs' increases in life expectancy over time were associated with 
all four factors. Political regime had the least influence on increased life 
expectancy to begin with, but became significant starting in the 3rd year and 
continued to increase, while the impact of the other socioeconomic factors began 
strong but continually decreased over time. The combined effects of these four 
socioeconomic and political determinants contributed 54.74% - 98.16% of the life 
expectancy gains throughout the lag periods of 0-10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Though the effect of democratic politics on increasing life 
expectancy was relatively small in the short term when compared to the effects 
of the other socioeconomic factors, the long-term impact of democracy should not 
be underestimated.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-85
PMCID: PMC3331806
PMID: 22280469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Maturitas. 2012 Apr;71(4):315-9. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.12.017. Epub
2012  Jan 26.

Can we live longer by eating less? A review of caloric restriction and 
longevity.

Roth LW(1), Polotsky AJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado, Denver, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Section of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility, 12631 East 17th Avenue, 
B-189-3 Aurora, CO 80045, USA. Lauren.Roth@ucdenver.edu

Caloric restriction, decreasing caloric intake by 20-30%, was first shown to 
extend life in rats nearly 80 years ago. Since that time, limiting food intake 
for longevity has been investigated in species from yeast to humans. In yeast 
and lower animals, caloric restriction has repeatedly been demonstrated to 
lengthen the life span. Studies of caloric restriction in non-human primates and 
in humans are ongoing and initial results suggest prolongation of life as well 
as prevention of age-related disease. There is also data in rodents suggesting 
that short term caloric restriction has beneficial effects on fertility. 
Although caloric restriction has many positive effects on health and longevity, 
quality of life on a restricted diet as well as the ability to maintain that 
diet long term are concerns that must be considered in humans.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2011.12.017
PMID: 22281163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Biomaterials. 2012 Apr;33(11):3243-53. doi:
10.1016/j.biomaterials.2012.01.026.  Epub 2012 Jan 26.

Multi-arm polymeric nanocarrier as a nitric oxide delivery platform for 
chemotherapy of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

Duan S(1), Cai S, Yang Q, Forrest ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, The University of Kansas, 2095 
Constant Ave, Lawrence, KS 66047, United States.

Nitric oxide is a cell signaling molecule that can be a potent inducer of cell 
death in cancers at elevated concentrations. However, NO is also toxic to normal 
tissues and chronic exposure at low levels can induce tumor growth. We have 
designed a polymeric carrier system to deliver nitric oxide locoregionally to 
tumorigenic tissues at micromolar concentrations. A highly water solubility and 
biodegradable multi-arm polymer nanocarrier, sugar 
poly-(6-O-methacryloyl-d-galactose), was synthesized using MADIX/RAFT 
polymerization, and utilized to deliver high concentrations of nitric oxide to 
xenografts of human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The in vitro 
release of the newly synthesized nitric oxide donor, O(2)-(2,4-dinitrophenyl) 
1-[4-(2-hydroxy)ethyl]-3-methylpiperazin-1-yl]diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate and its 
corresponding multi-arm polymer-based nanoconjugate demonstrated a 1- and 
2.3-fold increase in half-life, respectively, compared to the release half-life 
of the nitric oxide-donor prodrug JS-K. When administered to tumor-bearing nude 
mice, the subcutaneously injected multi-arm polymer nitric oxide nanoparticles 
resulted in 50% tumor inhibition and a 7-week extension of the average survival 
time, compared to intravenous JS-K therapy. In summary, we have developed an 
effective nitric oxide anti-cancer chemotherapy that could be administered 
regionally to provide the local disease control, improving prognosis for head 
and neck cancers.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2012.01.026
PMCID: PMC3572206
PMID: 22281420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. HNO. 2012 Jan;60(1):32-40. doi: 10.1007/s00106-011-2423-8.

[Laryngeal carcinoma: epidemiology, risk factors and survival].

[Article in German]

Pantel M(1), Guntinas-Lichius O.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Hals-, Nasen-, Ohrenheilkunde, 
Friedrich-Schiller-Universität, Lessingstr. 2, 07740, Jena, Deutschland.

Laryngeal cancer is one of the most frequent types of head and neck cancer. The 
incidence is decreasing for men but still increasing for women. The incidence in 
Germany is about 5-7/100,000 persons/year for men and 0.6-0.8/100,000 
persons/year for women. Due to the increased life expectancy, the average age of 
patients diagnosed with laryngeal cancer is increasing. Nevertheless, adequately 
prepared older patients treated by standard protocols can have the same survival 
and complication rates as younger patients. Tobacco and alcohol are still the 
primary risk factors responsible for disease in at least 80% of the patients. 
Despite the many new diagnostic tools, still more than half of the patients are 
diagnosed at an advanced tumor stage. Survival rates have not improved 
significantly in the last 10 years in Germany, and the average 5-year overall 
survival rate is about 60%. However, a decrease in the survival rate, as 
observed in the USA, cannot be confirmed for Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-011-2423-8
PMID: 22282008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Age Ageing. 2012 May;41(3):285-91. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afr147. Epub 2012 Jan
26.

Cost-effectiveness of multi-component interventions to prevent delirium in older 
people admitted to medical wards.

Akunne A(1), Murthy L, Young J.

Author information:
(1)KSG-Trans Ltd., 35 Hengrove Close, Headington, Oxford, UK. 
akunneaf@netscape.net

INTRODUCTION: there is evidence to suggest that delirium incidence can be 
reduced in older people admitted to medical services using multi-component 
interventions that target delirium risk factors. The cost-effectiveness of this 
approach is uncertain. We therefore developed a novel cost-effectiveness model 
for delirium prevention.
METHOD: we compared multi-component delirium prevention intervention with usual 
care using a model based on a decision tree analysis. The model was used to 
estimate the incremental net monetary benefit (INMB). The robustness of the 
cost-effectiveness result was explored using deterministic and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULT: the multi-component prevention intervention was cost-effective when 
compared with usual care. It was associated with an INMB of £2,200 using a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). 
It remained cost-effective in the majority of the deterministic sensitivity 
analyses and was cost-effective in 96.8% of the simulations carried out in the 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
DISCUSSION: our analysis has shown convincingly that multi-component prevention 
interventions for delirium should be considered as a cost-effective health-care 
strategy for medically ill people admitted to hospital. It is an attractive 
intervention for health-care planners as they strive to reconfigure their 
services to better meet the needs of an ageing population.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afr147
PMID: 22282171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Apr;30(4):257-70. doi:
10.2165/11595920-000000000-00000.

Golimumab for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis: a NICE single technology 
appraisal.

Yang H(1), Craig D, Epstein D, Bojke L, Light K, Bruce IN, Sculpher M, Woolacott 
N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK. 
huiqin.yang@york.ac.uk

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of golimumab (Schering-Plough/Centocor) to submit evidence for the 
clinical and cost effectiveness of this drug for the treatment of active and 
progressive psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in patients who have responded 
inadequately to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). The 
Centre for Reviews and Dissemination and the Centre for Health Economics at the 
University of York were commissioned to act as the Evidence Review Group (ERG) 
to critically appraise the evidence presented by the manufacturer. This article 
provides a description of the company submission, the ERG review and the 
resulting NICE guidance. The ERG critically reviewed the evidence presented in 
the manufacturer's submission and identified areas requiring clarification, for 
which the manufacturer provided additional evidence. The main clinical 
effectiveness data were derived from a single phase III randomized controlled 
trial (GO-REVEAL) that compared golimumab with placebo for the treatment of 
active and progressive patients who were symptomatic despite the use of previous 
DMARDs or NSAIDs. The 14-week data showed that, compared with placebo, golimumab 
50 mg significantly improved joint disease response as measured by American 
College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 (relative risk [RR] 5.73, 95% CI 3.24, 10.56) 
and Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria (PsARC) [RR 3.45, 95% CI 2.49, 4.87], 
and significantly improved skin disease response as measured by Psoriasis Area 
and Severity Index (PASI) 75 (RR 15.95, 95% CI 4.62, 59.11). The 24-week 
absolute data showed that these treatment benefits were maintained. There was a 
significant improvement in patients' functional status as measured by Health 
Assessment Questionnaire change from baseline at 24 weeks (-0.33; p < 0.001). 
The open-label extension data showed that these beneficial effects were also 
maintained at 52 and 104 weeks. The ERG identified several issues relating to 
the clinical effectiveness results. Analyses of the 24-week data were less 
robust, failing to adjust for treatment contamination due to patient crossover 
at week 16. It was also unclear if these results were generalizable to clinical 
practice. No randomized controlled trial compared the effectiveness of different 
biologic therapies head-to-head. To compare the effectiveness of the biologics 
etanercept, infliximab, adalimumab and golimumab, the manufacturer conducted a 
network meta-analysis, including the comparator palliative care (usual care 
including use of NSAIDs or DMARDs). The ERG considered the assumption of 
exchangeability between the trials for the purpose of the network meta-analysis 
to be acceptable and the statistical approach to be reliable. The results 
indicated somewhat lower efficacy with golimumab than with comparator biologics. 
The ERG identified a number of issues relating to the cost-effectiveness 
results. The manufacturer calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) incorrectly by comparing golimumab with palliative care instead of the 
most cost-effective alternative (etanercept). Despite the manufacturer's claim 
that golimumab was a cost-effective treatment option, the manufacturer's own 
model showed that golimumab was unlikely to be cost effective, relative to 
currently accepted thresholds, when the ICERs were correctly calculated using an 
incremental analysis (i.e. comparing each treatment to the next best 
alternative). None of the sensitivity analyses carried out by the manufacturer 
or the ERG regarding uncertainty in the estimates of clinical effectiveness, the 
acquisition and administration cost of drugs, the cost of treating psoriasis and 
the utility functions estimated to generate health outcomes changed this 
conclusion. However, a key area in determining the cost effectiveness of 
biologics was whether they should be treated as a class. The ERG concluded that 
if all biologics were considered equally effective, then etanercept, adalimumab 
and golimumab had almost equal costs and equal QALYs, and all had an ICER of 
about £15 000 per QALY versus palliative care, whilst infliximab, with a higher 
acquisition cost, was dominated by the other biologics. The Appraisal Committee 
altered its position between the Appraisal Consultation Document and the Final 
Appraisal Determination. It ultimately recommended that golimumab be provided as 
an option for the treatment of active and progressive PsA in adults only if (i) 
it is used as described for other tumour necrosis factor inhibitor treatments in 
'Etanercept, infliximab and adalimumab for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis' 
(NICE clinical guideline 199); and (ii) the manufacturer provides the 100 mg 
dose of golimumab at the same cost as the 50 mg dose.

DOI: 10.2165/11595920-000000000-00000
PMID: 22283690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Mar;30(3):197-211. doi: 
10.2165/11587150-000000000-00000.

Contribution of pharmaceutical innovation to longevity growth in Germany and 
France, 2001-7.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027, USA. 
frank.lichtenberg@columbia.edu

This paper investigates the contribution of pharmaceutical innovation to recent 
longevity growth in Germany and France. The effect of the vintage of 
prescription drugs (and other variables) on the life expectancy and age-adjusted 
mortality rates of residents of Germany is examined, using longitudinal, annual, 
state-level data during the period 2001-7. The estimates imply that about 
one-third of the 1.4-year increase in German life expectancy during the period 
2001-7 was due to the replacement of older drugs by newer drugs. The effect of 
the vintage of chemotherapy treatments on age-adjusted cancer mortality rates of 
residents of France is also investigated, using longitudinal, annual, 
cancer-site-level data during the period 2002-6. The estimates imply that 
chemotherapy innovation accounted for at least one-sixth of the decline in 
French cancer mortality rates, and may have accounted for as much as half of the 
decline.

DOI: 10.2165/11587150-000000000-00000
PMID: 22283691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Apr;16(4):323-8. doi: 10.3171/2011.12.SPINE11750.
Epub  2012 Jan 27.

Factors influencing 2-year health care costs in patients undergoing revision 
lumbar fusion procedures.

Parker SL(1), Shau DN, Mendenhall SK, McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
TN 37232-8618, USA. scott.parker@vanderbilt.edu

OBJECT: Revision lumbar fusion procedures are technically challenging and can be 
associated with tremendous health care resource utilization and cost. There is a 
paucity of data regarding specific factors that significantly contribute to 
increased cost of care. In light of this, the authors set out to identify 
independent risk factors predictive of increasing 2-year direct health care 
costs after revision lumbar fusion.
METHODS: One hundred fifty patients undergoing revision instrument-assisted 
fusion for adjacent-segment disease (50 cases), pseudarthrosis (47 cases), or 
same-level stenosis (53 cases) were included in this study. Patient 
demographics, comorbidities, preoperative health states as assessed by 
patient-reported outcome questionnaires and perioperative complications were 
collected and analyzed. Two-year back-related medical resource utilization and 
direct health care costs were assessed. The independent association of all 
variables to increasing cost was assessed using multivariate linear regression 
analysis.
RESULTS: There was a wide range ($24,935-$63,769) in overall 2-year direct costs 
for patients undergoing revision lumbar fusion (mean $32,915 ± $8344 [± SD]). 
Preoperative variables independently associated with 2-year direct health care 
costs included diagnosis of congestive heart failure, more severe leg pain 
(visual analog scale), greater back-related disability (Oswestry Disability 
Index), and worse mental health (12-Item Short Form Health Survey Mental 
Component Summary score). There was a 1.1- to 1.2-fold increase in cost for 
patients in the greatest quartiles compared with those in the lowest quartiles 
for these variables. Surgical site infection, return to the operating room, and 
spine-related hospital readmission during the 90-day global health period were 
postoperative variables independently associated with 2-year cost. Patients in 
the greatest versus lowest quartiles had a 1.7- to 1.9-fold increase in cost for 
these variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Revision lumbar fusion can be associated with considerable 2-year 
health care costs. These costs can also vary widely among patients, as evidenced 
by the 2.6-fold overall cost range in this series. Although comorbidities and 
preoperative severity of disease states contribute to cost of care, the primary 
drivers of increased cost include perioperative complications such as surgical 
site infection, return to the operating room, and readmission during the global 
health period. Measures focused on health service improvement will be most 
successful in reducing the cost of care for patients undergoing revision lumbar 
fusion.

DOI: 10.3171/2011.12.SPINE11750
PMID: 22284228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Enferm Clin. 2012 Jul-Aug;22(4):219-23. doi: 10.1016/j.enfcli.2011.12.001.
Epub  2012 Jan 28.

[Inefficient management of personal health in oral anticoagulation. Home nursing 
care in primary health care].

[Article in Spanish]

López Castañón L(1).

Author information:
(1)Dirección Asistencial Noroeste de Atención Primaría de la Comunidad de 
Madrid, Majadahonda, España. lorena@elnuberu.net

This case report describes an 83 year-old immobilised patient with multiple 
diseases and on polypharmacy. Nursing care is developed at home. The patient is 
included in patient care programs for the anticoagulated and polymedicated 
patient. Nursing assessments were made using the Marjory Gordon functional 
health patterns, by which we identified, among others, problems related to 
non-compliance with the pharmacological treatment. The Nurse's Diagnosis was: 
Ineffective Management of own health. With the support of NANDA, NOC and NIC 
taxonomy we determined the nursing objectives and interventions. The expected 
results of the Care Plan were achieved. Polypharmacy in the elderly can lead to 
treatment problems, increasing hospital admissions, morbidity and mortality and 
health expenditure Nursing care at home is a continuous development process and 
is increasing due to aging of the population, the prevalence of chronic 
diseases, as well as the increased life expectancy. It is estimated that in 
2030, 24% of the Spanish population will be over 64 years. The physical, 
sensory, cognitive and chronic disabilities of aging make this type of care 
necessary. It is a major element in the comprehensive care of these patients, by 
checking the correct use of medication, symptom control, helping them to be 
autonomous in managing their disease and establishing a fluid relationship 
between the patients and their family.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enfcli.2011.12.001
PMID: 22284363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Public Health. 2012 Feb;126(2):150-8. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2011.09.031. Epub
2012  Jan 28.

Identifying and verifying causes of death in Turkey: National verbal autopsy 
survey.

Akgün S(1), Colak M, Bakar C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Başkent University School of Medicine, Ankara, 
Turkey. sevala@baskent-ank.edu.tr

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to identify the national, rural, and urban 
mortality rates, and to define the medical causes of death for the 0-28 days and 
29 days-5 years age groups, as well as adult mortality in Turkey.
STUDY DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey, which identified the causes of death 
using the verbal autopsy(VA) method, and a methodological study, which 
determined the validity of the verbal autopsy method was used in conjunction 
with each other.
METHODS: The verbal autopsy method, based on a representative sampling according 
to age and gender in Turkey, was used. A methodological study was additionally 
used, which determined the validity of the VA method.
RESULTS: The crude death rate calculated from the VA survey was 0.51% with rates 
of 0.60% in males, 0.42% in females, 0.48% in urban areas, and 0.56% in rural 
areas. Life expectancy at birth was 72.6 years for males and 77.2 years for 
females. The mean life expectancy at birth for both sexes together was 74.8 
years. The VA form has a high degree of validity although no study or form can 
take the place of a records-based surveillance system with accurate information; 
the VA form is a useful tool for collecting data during certain periods or 
specific areas. However, healthcare providers must work towards establishing a 
well-designed, routine surveillance system in the long term.
CONCLUSIONS: The mortality rates and life expectancies were consistent with 
other similar studies in the country and the Turkish VA method may be safely 
used to determine causes of death in countries with inadequate record and 
registry systems.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2011.09.031
PMID: 22284445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Arthritis Res Ther. 2012 Jan 27;14(1):R21. doi: 10.1186/ar3703.

A randomised controlled trial of a self-management education program for 
osteoarthritis of the knee delivered by health care professionals.

Coleman S(1), Briffa NK, Carroll G, Inderjeeth C, Cook N, McQuade J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Curtin University, Beazley Avenue, Bentley, 
Western Australia 6102, Australia. sophiec@iinet.net.au

Comment in
    Orthopade. 2012 Nov;41(11):923-4.

INTRODUCTION: Our aim in the present study was to determine whether a 
disease-specific self-management program for primary care patients with 
osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee (the Osteoarthritis of the Knee Self-Management 
Program (OAK)) implemented by health care professionals would achieve and 
maintain clinically meaningful improvements in health-related outcomes compared 
with a control group.
METHODS: Medical practitioners referred 146 primary care patients with OA of the 
knee. Volunteers with coexistent inflammatory joint disease or serious 
comorbidities were excluded. Randomisation was to either a control group or the 
OAK group. The OAK group completed a 6-week self-management program. The control 
group had a 6-month waiting period before entering the OAK program. Assessments 
were taken at baseline, 8 weeks and 6 months. The primary outcomes were the 
results measured using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis 
Index (WOMAC) Pain and Function subscales on the Short Form 36 version 1 
questionnaire (SF-36) Secondary outcomes were Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) pain, 
Timed Up & Go Test (TUG), knee range of motion and quadriceps and hamstring 
strength-isometric contraction. Responses to treatment (responders) and minimal 
clinically important improvements (MCIIs) were determined.
RESULTS: In the OAK group, VAS pain improved from baseline to week 8 from mean 
(SEM) 5.21 (0.30) to 3.65 (0.29) (P ≤ 0.001). During this period, improvements 
in the OAK group compared with the control group and responses to treatment were 
demonstrated according to the following outcomes: WOMAC Pain, Physical Function 
and Total dimensions, as well as SF-36 Physical Function, Role Physical, Body 
Pain, Vitality and Social Functioning domains. In addition, from baseline to 
week 8, the proportion of MCIIs was greater among the OAK group than the control 
group for all outcomes. For the period between baseline and month 6, WOMAC Pain, 
Physical Function and Total dimensions significantly improved in the OAK group 
compared to the control group, as did the SF-36 Physical Function, Role 
Physical, Body Pain, Vitality and Social Functioning domains, as well as 
hamstring strength in both legs. During the same period, the TUG Test, range of 
motion extension and left-knee flexion improved compared with the control group, 
although these improvements had little clinical relevance.
CONCLUSIONS: We recorded statistically significant improvements compared with a 
control group with regard to pain, quality of life and function for participants 
in the OAK program on the basis of WOMAC and SF-36 measures taken 8 weeks and 6 
months from baseline.

DOI: 10.1186/ar3703
PMCID: PMC3392814
PMID: 22284848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Neuromuscul Disord. 2012 May;22(5):406-17. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2011.10.011.
Epub  2012 Jan 27.

Comparison of skeletal muscle pathology and motor function of dystrophin and 
utrophin deficient mouse strains.

van Putten M(1), Kumar D, Hulsker M, Hoogaars WM, Plomp JJ, van Opstal A, van 
Iterson M, Admiraal P, van Ommen GJ, 't Hoen PA, Aartsma-Rus A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

The genetic defect of mdx mice resembles that of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, 
although their functional performance and life expectancy is nearly normal. By 
contrast, mice lacking utrophin and dystrophin (mdx/utrn -/-) are severely 
affected and die prematurely. Mice with one utrophin allele (mdx/utrn +/-) are 
more severely affected than mdx mice, but outlive mdx/utrn -/- mice. We 
subjected mdx/utrn +/+, +/-, -/- and wild type males to a 12week functional test 
regime of four different functional tests. Mdx/utrn +/+ and +/- mice completed 
the regime, while mdx/utrn -/- mice died prematurely. Mdx/utrn +/- mice 
performed significantly worse compared to mdx/utrn +/+ mice in functional tests. 
Creatine kinase levels, percentage of fibrotic/necrotic tissue, morphology of 
neuromuscular synapses and expression of biomarker genes were comparable, 
whereas mdx/utrn +/- and -/- mice had increased levels of regenerating fibers. 
This makes mdx/utrn +/- mice valuable for testing the benefit of potential 
therapies on muscle function parameters.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2011.10.011
PMID: 22284942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Clin Ther. 2012 Jan;34(1):177-89. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.12.007.

Comparing health outcomes and costs of general vaccination with pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccines in Sweden: a Markov model.

By A(1), Sobocki P, Forsgren A, Silfverdal SA.

Author information:
(1)GlaxoSmithKline AB, Solna, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Two new pneumococcal conjugate vaccines were licensed to immunize 
infants and young children against pneumococcal disease.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to estimate the expected health 
benefits, costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness of routine vaccination with 
the 10-valent pneumococcal nontypeable hemophilus influenza protein-D conjugate 
vaccine (PHiD-CV) compared with the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 
(PCV13) in Sweden.
METHODS: A Markov cohort model was used to estimate the effect of vaccination at 
vaccine steady state, taking a societal perspective and using a 2+1 vaccination 
schedule. Price parity was assumed between the vaccines. Outcomes were measured 
by reduction in disease burden, costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: The results predicted that PCV13 would prevent 3 additional cases of 
invasive pneumococcal disease and 34 additional cases of pneumonia, whereas 
PHiD-CV would avoid 3 additional cases of mastoiditis, 1010 tube insertions, and 
10,420 cases of ambulatory acute otitis media compared with PCV13. By combining 
morbidity and mortality benefits of all clinical outcomes, PHiD-CV would 
generate 45.3 additional QALYs compared with PCV13 and generate savings of an 
estimated 62 million Swedish kronors.
CONCLUSION: The present study predicted lower costs and better health outcome 
(QALYs) gained by introducing PHiD-CV compared with PCV13 in routine 
vaccination. Our results indicated that PHiD-CV is cost-effective compared with 
PCV13 in Sweden.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.12.007
PMID: 22284997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Vet Clin North Am Small Anim Pract. 2012 Jan;42(1):73-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvsm.2011.09.006. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

Hemolytic anemia in dogs and cats due to erythrocyte enzyme deficiencies.

Owen JL(1), Harvey JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, University of Florida College of 
Veterinary Medicine, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.

Erythrocyte enzyme deficiencies do not usually shorten life expectancy except 
for PK deficiency in dogs and the potential for PFK-deficient dogs to die during 
hemolytic crises. In addition, erythrocyte enzyme deficiencies are uncommon or 
rare, so they are generally not seriously considered in the differential 
diagnosis of anemia until common causes of anemia have been excluded. However, 
unique clinical and/or laboratory findings like sporadic hemoglobinuria in 
English Springer spaniels (PFK deficiency) may quickly point to the possibility 
of an inherited erythrocyte enzyme defect. The ability to diagnose deficient or 
carrier animals allows for the possibility of eliminating these undesirable 
traits in future breeding. Continued research is needed to document additional 
enzyme deficiencies that likely occur and to develop additional DNA-based assays 
that are especially important in the recognition of heterozygous or carrier 
animals that have no clinical signs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvsm.2011.09.006
PMID: 22285158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Soc Sci Med. 2012 Mar;74(5):688-95. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.11.019.
Epub  2012 Jan 17.

Economic growth and health progress in England and Wales: 160 years of a 
changing relation.

Tapia Granados JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Program on Social Environment & Health (SEH/SRC), Institute for Social 
Research, University of Michigan, Victor Vaugham Building, 1111 East Catherine 
Street, #308, Ann Arbor 48109-2054, United States. jatapia@umich.edu

Using data for England and Wales during the years 1840-2000, a negative relation 
is found between economic growth--measured by the rate of growth of gross 
domestic product (GDP)--and health progress--as indexed by the annual increase 
in life expectancy at birth (LEB). That is, the lower is the rate of growth of 
the economy, the greater is the annual increase in LEB for both males and 
females. This effect is much stronger, however, in 1900-1950 than in 1950-2000, 
and is very weak in the 19th century. It appears basically at lag zero, though 
some short-lag effects of the same negative sign are found. In the other 
direction of causality, there are very small effects of the change in LEB on 
economic growth. These results add to an emerging consensus that in the context 
of long-term declining trends, mortality oscillates procyclically during the 
business cycle, declining faster in recessions. Therefore, LEB increases faster 
during recessions than during expansions. The investigation also shows how the 
relation between economic growth and health progress changed in England and 
Wales during the study period. No evidence of cointegration between income--as 
indexed by GDP or GDP per capita--and health--as indexed by LEB--is found.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.11.019
PMID: 22285290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Rev Bras Reumatol. 2012 Jan-Feb;52(1):98-106.

Current and relevant concepts in psoriatic arthritis.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Goldenstein-Schainberg C(1), Favarato MH, Ranza R.

Author information:
(1)Disciplina de Reumatologia, Universidade de São Paulo. cgs@usp.br

Comment in
    Rev Bras Reumatol. 2013 Sep-Oct;53(5):448-9.

Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a systemic, polymorphic joint disease with variable 
presentation and clinical course. The outcome depends on the association with 
severe comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and dyslipidemia. Early 
diagnosis requires a high degree of clinical suspicion, especially when skin 
manifestations are subtle and poorly defined. Progressive erosive disease can 
occur in up to half of patients, associated with anatomical and functional 
changes in about 20%. Thus, the prognosis of PsA remains unclear, especially if 
diagnosis and treatment are delayed. Based on extensive literature review 
(PubMed and Lilacs) and experience of our services, new concepts of 
immunogenetics, pathophysiology, and clinical and therapeutic aspects are 
discussed. Factors that reduce the quality of life and life expectancy of 
patients, as well as new guidelines for treatment, will be emphasized. Control 
of inflammation, especially in enthesitis and axial forms of PsA, was made 
possible due to the introduction of anti-TNF biologics. Finally, the role of 
GRAPPA (Group for Research and Assessment of Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis) 
should be emphasized, since it promotes meetings and joint studies between 
rheumatologists and dermatologists to provide scientific evidence for the 
sweeping changes in clinical management and treatment of patients with PsA.

PMID: 22286649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Rev Med Chil. 2011 Oct;139(10):1276-85. Epub 2012 Jan 3.

[Socioeconomic inequalities in active life expectancy and disability related to 
obesity among older people].

[Article in Spanish]

Albala C(1), Sánchez H, Lera L, Angel B, Cea X.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Nutrición y Tecnología de Alimentos, Universidad de Chile, 
Chile. calbala@uchile.cl

BACKGROUND: The rapid increase in life expectancy in Chile, with obesity as the 
main nutritional problem in all age groups, makes it necessary to ask whether 
the years gained are healthy.
AIM: To study the trajectories of disability associated with obesity in Chilean 
elderly groups from different socio-economic and demographic backgrounds.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Longitudinal study of 3 cohorts of older adults from 
Santiago: the SABE cohort including 1235 people born before 1940; the Alexandros 
cohort including 950 people born between 1940 and 1948 from Primary Health Care 
centers and the ISAPRES cohort of 266 people from private health insurance 
registries (ISAPRES) born before 1947. An interview yielded socio demographic 
data and history of diseases. Anthropometric measurements and hand dynamometry 
were performed. Cognitive status was assessed by the Mini Mental State 
Examination, depressive symptoms through the geriatric depression score-5 and 
functional limitations through self-reporting of basic (ADL), instrumental 
(IADL) and advanced daily living (AADL) activities.
RESULTS: We report here baseline results from ISAPRES and SABE cohorts. 
Important social and gender differentials were observed. After adjustment by age 
and gender, a significant lower frequency of limitations in ADL (odds ratio (OR) 
= 0.17; 95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.079-0.343), IADL (OR = 0.27; 95%CI: 
0.159-0.452), and AADL (OR = 0.42; 95%CI: 0.298-0.599) persisted in the ISAPRE 
cohort, compared to the SABE cohort. Obesity was associated with functional 
limitations only in AADL (OR = 1.65; 95%CI: 1.18-2.31) and hand dynamometry was 
associated with lower functional limitation in ADL, IADL and AADL.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates profound socio-economic and gender 
inequalities in older people, thus showing that the years of healthy life gained 
are not the same for the whole society.

PMID: 22286726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Salud Publica Mex. 2012 Jan-Feb;54(1):47-59.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the use of palivizumab in the prophylaxis of 
preterm patients in Mexico.

Salinas-Escudero G(1), Martínez-Valverde S, Reyes-López A, Garduño-Espinosa J, 
Muñoz-Hernández O, Granados-García V, Rely K.

Author information:
(1)Dirección de Investigación, Centro de Estudios Económicos y Sociales en 
Salud, Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez, Secretaría de Salud, México, 
DF.

OBJECTIVE: The study evaluated the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
of the prophylaxis of palivizumab, for the reduction of complications associated 
to the respiratory syncytial virus in preterm patients in Mexico.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A decision tree was developed in preterm groups [<29 and 
29-32 weeks of gestational age (wGA)], by using epidemiological and cost local 
data; the effectiveness was obtained with a systematic review. Patients were 
evaluated according to their life expectancy. Mexican Health System perspective 
was used. Effectiveness measures employed were LYG and QALYs. The costs are 
reported in USD 2009.
RESULTS: ICERs per LYG resulted on values of USD $25,029 and USD $29,637 for <29 
wGA and 29-32 wGA respectively, whereas ICERs per QALYs obtained in the model 
accounted for USD $17,532 and USD $20,760.
CONCLUSIONS: Palivizumab prophylaxis for preterm newborn patients ≤32 weeks of 
age resulted in a cost-effective alternative.

PMID: 22286828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Demography. 2012 May;49(2):553-74. doi: 10.1007/s13524-011-0089-1.

Black-white disparities in life expectancy: how much can the standard SES 
variables explain?

Geruso M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA. 
mgeruso@princeton.edu

This article quantifies the extent to which socioeconomic and demographic 
characteristics can account for black-white disparities in life expectancy in 
the United States. Although many studies have investigated the linkages between 
race, socioeconomic status, and mortality, this article is the first to measure 
how much of the life expectancy gap remains after differences in mortality are 
purged of the compositional differences in socioeconomic characteristics between 
blacks and whites. The decomposition is facilitated by a reweighting technique 
that creates counterfactual estimation samples in which the distribution of 
income, education, employment and occupation, marital status, and other 
theoretically relevant variables among blacks is made to match the distribution 
of these variables among whites. For males, 80% of the black-white gap in life 
expectancy at age 1 can be accounted for by differences in socioeconomic and 
demographic characteristics. For females, 70% percent of the gap is accounted 
for. Labor force participation, occupation, and (among women only) marital 
status have almost no additional power to explain the black-white disparity in 
life expectancy after precise measures for income and education are controlled 
