proteinuria, or hypertension.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2011.452
PMID: 22237748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Urologia. 2011 Oct-Dec;78(4):241-56. doi: 10.5301/RU.2011.8886.

[Overactive bladder syndrome: the social and economic perspective].

[Article in Italian]

Sacco E(1), Bientinesi R, Marangi F, D'Addessi A, Racioppi M, Gulino G, Pinto F, 
Totaro A, Bassi P.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Urologica, Dipartimento di Scienze chirurgiche, Policlinico Agostino 
Gemelli, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Roma - Italia. 
emilio.sacco@gmail.com

Overactive bladder syndrome (OAB) is a highly prevalent condition associated 
with a significant impairment of patients' Quality of Life (QoL) because of its 
adverse effects on social, sexual, interpersonal, and professional functions. 
Cost-of-illness analyses showed the huge economic burden related to OAB for 
patients, public healthcare systems, and society, secondary to both direct and 
indirect costs. These types of cost analyses, however, exclude intangible costs 
related to QoL impairment. Recently, many novel therapies have been introduced, 
arising the need to apply the modern methodology of Health Technology Assessment 
(HTA) to new therapies in order to evaluate objectively their value in terms of 
both improvement in length/Quality of Life and costs. By producing information 
on the clinical, economic, organizational, social and ethical impact of health 
technologies, HTA has been used worldwide to inform decision makers at different 
levels in health systems. The HTA approach demonstrated, worldwide, to be a 
useful approach to increase the level of appropriateness in the use of medical 
technology and, as a consequence of that, of resources. Health utilities are 
instruments that allow a measurement of QoL and its integration in the economic 
evaluation using the Quality-of-life-Adjusted-Life-Years (QALYs) model and 
cost-utility analysis. The development of suitable instruments for quantifying 
utility in the specific group of OAB patients is vitally important to extend the 
application of cost-utility analysis in OAB and to guide healthcare resources 
allocation for this disorder. Studies are required to define the 
cost-effectiveness of available pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapy 
options.

DOI: 10.5301/RU.2011.8886
PMID: 22237808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Health Econ. 2013 Feb;22(2):119-31. doi: 10.1002/hec.2793. Epub 2012 Jan 11.

On the uses of routine patient-reported health outcome data.

Smith PC(1), Street AD.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College Business School & Centre for Health Policy, London, UK. 
peter.smith@imperial.ac.uk

It has long been standard practice to ask patients in clinical trials about 
their health status, but the practice is now being extended to patients 
receiving treatment on a routine basis. In this paper, we examine four types of 
analyses that these health data might inform: comparisons of alternative 
treatments for the same condition, of health care providers, of changes in 
performance over time and of treatments of different types of condition. 
Analytical challenges arise because counterfactuals cannot be observed and 
because health status cannot be measured continuously. The implications of these 
challenges and the ability to meet them vary according to the comparative 
exercise. We argue that, provided with a sufficient number of health status 
measures for each patient and proper risk adjustment, health status measurement 
has great potential to inform the first three types of comparison. However, we 
believe that it is not yet possible to use such data to make secure comparative 
judgements about the outcomes from treatment for different types of condition.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2793
PMID: 22238023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2012 Feb;25(2):81-8. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzr061. Epub
2012  Jan 11.

Half-life extension of a single-chain diabody by fusion to domain B of 
staphylococcal protein A.

Unverdorben F(1), Färber-Schwarz A, Richter F, Hutt M, Kontermann RE.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Zellbiologie und Immunologie, Universität Stuttgart, Allmandring 
31, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany.

Binding of a therapeutic protein to a long-circulating plasma protein can result 
in a strongly extended half-life. Among these plasma proteins, albumin and 
immunoglobulins are of special interest because of their exceptionally long 
half-life, which is to a great extent determined by recycling through the 
neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn). Many strategies have been established employing 
reversible binding to albumin, e.g. using an albumin-binding domain from 
streptococcal protein G. We show here that the half-life of a recombinant 
antibody molecule can also be prolonged by fusion to a single 
immunoglobulin-binding domain (IgBD) from staphylococcal protein A. This domain 
(domain B, SpA(B)) is composed of 56 amino acid residues and was fused to the 
C-terminus of a bispecific single-chain diabody (scDb). The scDb-SpA(B) fusion 
protein was produced in HEK293 cells and retained its antigen-binding activity 
as shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and flow cytometry. Furthermore, 
the fusion protein was capable of binding to human and mouse IgG in a 
pH-dependent manner. In mice, the terminal half-life of the fusion protein was 
improved from ∼1-2 h of the unmodified scDb to 11.8 h. Although the fusion 
protein did not reach the long half-life seen for IgG, our results established 
the applicability of a single bacterial IgBD for half-life extension purposes.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzr061
PMID: 22238430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Eur J Contracept Reprod Health Care. 2012 Feb;17(1):1-6. doi: 
10.3109/13625187.2011.641625.

Seven billion people today, many more tomorrow--how we got here and what we 
expect and wish.

Sivin I.

DOI: 10.3109/13625187.2011.641625
PMID: 22239261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Free Radic Biol Med. 2012 Mar 1;52(5):937-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.12.009. Epub 2011 Dec 23.

Depletion of a nucleolar protein activates xenobiotic detoxification genes in 
Caenorhabditis elegans via Nrf /SKN-1 and p53/CEP-1.

Leung CK(1), Empinado H, Choe KP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.

The nucleolus has recently emerged as a major coordinator of cellular stress 
responses by regulating the tumor suppressor p53. However, it is not known if 
the nucleolus regulates the cap 'n' collar (CnC) transcription factors SKN-1 and 
Nrf2, which activate conserved antioxidant and detoxification responses in C. 
elegans and mammals, respectively. A screen for negative regulators of 
detoxification genes in C. elegans identified the conserved WD40 repeat 
containing protein WDR-46. This protein is highly conserved with yeast UTP7, 
which functions in 18S rRNA processing and assembly of the 40S small ribosomal 
subunit. WDR-46 is expressed in the nucleoli of multiple tissues in C. elegans 
and is required for rRNA processing. Mutation or silencing of WDR-46 activates 
the single C. elegans CnC homologue SKN-1 and increases expression of its target 
genes. Depletion of wdr-46 reduces lifespan and stress resistance and SKN-1 
partially compensates. Lastly, the C. elegans p53 homologue CEP-1 is partially 
required for activation of gst-4 when wdr-46 or other ribosome processing genes 
are silenced but not when translation initiation genes are silenced suggesting 
that disruptions to nucleolar function can activate SKN-1 by a mechanism that 
involves p53/cep-1 and is independent of protein translation.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2011.12.009
PMID: 22240150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Vaccine. 2012 Feb 27;30(10):1813-22. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.01.001.
Epub  2012 Jan 10.

Impact of vaccine protection against multiple HPV types on the 
cost-effectiveness of cervical screening.

Coupé VM(1), Bogaards JA, Meijer CJ, Berkhof J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, VU University Medical Centre, 
PO Box 7057, 1007 MB Amsterdam, The Netherlands. v.coupe@vumc.nl

Cross-protection against non-HPV16/18 types and the emergence of broad spectrum 
vaccines protecting against multiple HPV types will influence the 
cost-effectiveness of future screening. To assess this influence we used an 
individual-based simulation model describing the relation between 14 HPV types 
and cervical disease, allowing the occurrence of multiple type infections. 
Screening scenarios for vaccinated women were evaluated, firstly for HPV16/18 
vaccination with partial cross-protection against HPV 31, 33, 45 and 58 and 
secondly, for broad spectrum vaccination against 5-13 HPV types. The 
vaccine-induced incidence reduction of type-specific infection was varied from 0 
to 95% in the cross-protection setting and set at 100% in the setting of broad 
spectrum vaccines. Scenarios of either cytology or HPV DNA screening were 
considered under varying lifetime number of screening rounds. At a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of €20,000/QALY, four times HPV DNA screening 
between 30 and 60 years was the selected scenario in addition to HPV16/18 
vaccination, whether or not cross-protection was conferred (€6707 and 
€9994/QALY, respectively). In the absence of cross-protection, a fifth screening 
round might be considered (ICER €22,967/QALY). In addition to broad spectrum 
vaccination, one screen during lifetime was cost-effective up to an 11-valent 
vaccine. If the vaccine-induced type-specific incidence reduction was lowered to 
99%, one screen during lifetime was cost-effective even in addition to 13-valent 
vaccination. In conclusion, in a cohort of HPV16/18 vaccinated women, four 
rounds of HPV DNA screening is cost-effective. One screen during lifetime 
remains cost-effective in addition to broad spectrum vaccination offering 
protection against many high-risk HPV types.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.01.001
PMID: 22240341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Oncologist. 2012;17(1):101-16. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-0181. Epub
2012  Jan 12.

Neoplasms associated with germline and somatic NF1 gene mutations.

Patil S(1), Chamberlain RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Saint Barnabas Medical Center, 94 Old Short Hills 
Road, Livingston, New Jersey 07039, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Neurofibromatosis 1 is a tumor predisposition genetic syndrome 
with autosomal dominant inheritance and virtually 100% penetrance by the age of 
5 years. NF1 results from a loss-of-function mutation in the NF1 gene, resulting 
in decreased levels of neurofibromin in the cell. Neurofibromin is a negative 
regulator of various intracellular signaling pathways involved in the cellular 
proliferation. Although the loss of heterozygosity in the NF1 gene may 
predispose NF1 patients to certain malignancies, additional genetic alterations 
are a prerequisite for their development. The precise nature of these additional 
genetic alterations is not well defined, and genetic testing of all malignancies 
in NF1 patients becomes an essential component of future research in this subset 
of patients. In addition to germline NF1 mutations, alteration of the somatic 
NF1 gene is associated with sporadic malignancies such as adenocarcinoma of the 
colon, myelodysplastic syndrome, and anaplastic astrocytoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A comprehensive English and non-English language search 
for all articles pertinent to malignancies associated with NF1 was conducted 
using PubMed, a search engine provided by the U.S. National Library of Medicine 
and the National Institutes of Health. Key words searched included the 
following: "malignancies associated with NF1", "tumors associated with NF1", and 
"NF1 and malignancies". A comprehensive analysis in terms age and mode of 
presentation, investigation and therapeutic modalities, and outcome of the 
published data was performed and compared with similar information on the 
sporadic cases.
RESULTS: Malignancies in NF1 patients typically occur at an earlier age and, 
with an exception of optic pathway gliomas, certain types of malignancies carry 
a poor prognosis compared with their sporadic counterparts. Malignancies are the 
leading cause of death in NF1 patients, resulting in a 10- to 15-year decreased 
life expectancy compared with the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: The lack of well-defined screening tests for early detection and 
the nonspecific clinical presentation contributes to a poorer outcome in 
malignancies associated with NF1. Small study group size, mixed patient 
population, and a lack of uniformity in reporting research results make 
comparison of treatment outcome for this group difficult. An International 
Consensus Meeting to address and recommend best practices for screening, 
diagnosis, management, and follow-up of malignancies associated with NF1 is 
needed.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-0181
PMCID: PMC3267808
PMID: 22240541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures Sachin Patil: None; Ronald S. 
Chamberlain: None. Section Editors Tracy Batchelor: Merck, Roche/Genentech, 
Spectrum, Imedex, Educational Concepts (H); NIH, Pfizer, AstraZeneca (RF); 
Millennium (H, RF); Jean-Yves Delattre: French National Institute of Cancer, 
Ligue Nationale contre le Cancer, Association pour la Recherche sur le Cancer 
(RF). Reviewer “A”: PTC Therapeutics (RF).


357. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2012 Jan 10;132(1):30-5. doi:
10.4045/tidsskr.11.0506.

Life expectancy and cause of death in men examined at medical check-ups in 1964.

[Article in English, Norwegian]

Bjerkedal T(1), Kristensen P, Selmer R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society, University of Oslo, Norway. 
tor.bjerkedal@getmail.no

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the study was to determine the associations between 
blood pressure, body mass index and smoking habits, recorded at routine health 
check-ups with the occupational health officer, and life expectancy and 
cause-specific mortality through several decades.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Participants in the Linseed Oil Study were followed from 
1967 through 2005 with respect to total and cause-specific mortality in the 
Cause of Death Registry. The population studied consisted of 15,934 men who were 
born between 1905 and 1914 and were in work in 1967. The analyses used various 
multivariate regression methods.
RESULTS: A total of 15,535 participants (97.5%) had died, and the average age at 
death was 76.6 years (SD 9.1). Blood pressure, body mass index and cigarette 
smoking were related to the age of death and mortality due to cardiovascular 
disease, lung cancer and respiratory system diseases. High systolic blood 
pressure (≥ 160 mm) was associated with a life-expectancy shortening of 5 years, 
15 cigarettes daily with 3.5 years and a confirmed elevated sedimentation rate 
with a 3.3 year shortening of life expectancy. The excess mortality persisted 
throughout the follow-up period. The association with blood pressure gradually 
lessened, while the association with smoking and body mass index did not change 
over time. The association with smoking was weaker than in most early studies.
INTERPRETATION: The results of routine health check-ups in the occupational 
health service can predict lost years of life through several decades.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.11.0506
PMID: 22240825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Lifetime Data Anal. 2012 Apr;18(2):215-33. doi: 10.1007/s10985-011-9213-1.
Epub  2012 Jan 13.

An extended cure model and model selection.

Peng Y(1), Xu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, Queen's University, 
Kingston, ON, K7L 3N6, Canada. pengp@queensu.ca

We propose a novel interpretation for a recently proposed Box-Cox transformation 
cure model, which leads to a natural extension of the cure model. Based on the 
extended model, we consider an important issue of model selection between the 
mixture cure model and the bounded cumulative hazard cure model via the 
likelihood ratio test, score test and Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC). Our 
empirical study shows that AIC is informative and both the score test and the 
likelihood ratio test have adequate power to differentiate between the mixture 
cure model and the bounded cumulative hazard cure model when the sample size is 
large. We apply the tests and AIC methods to leukemia and colon cancer data to 
examine the appropriateness of the cure models considered for them in the 
literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-011-9213-1
PMID: 22241600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. J Child Neurol. 2012 Jul;27(7):867-74. doi: 10.1177/0883073811428379. Epub
2012  Jan 12.

Vincristine-related neuropathy versus acute inflammatory demyelinating 
polyradiculoneuropathy in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Brigo F(1), Balter R, Marradi P, Ferlisi M, Zaccaron A, Fiaschi A, Frasson E, 
Bertolasi L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological, Neuropsychological, Morphological and Movement 
Sciences, Section of Clinical Neurology, University of Verona, Verona, Italy. 
dr.francescobrigo@gmail.com

The objective of this study was to evaluate whether electroneurography could 
help in differentiating between vincristine-induced neuropathy and acute 
inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. We performed 
electroneurography in 7 children from September 2006 to March 2009 admitted to 
receive chemotherapy including vincristine for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, in 
whom severe acute limb weakness developed, suggesting vincristine-induced 
neuropathy. Three of 7 patients had electroneurography, suggesting acute 
inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. They received intravenous 
immunoglobulins without discontinuing chemotherapy, and within 10 days their 
electroclinical conditions improved. Although electroneurography showed only 
absent F waves, preventing us from reaching a definitive neurophysiological 
diagnosis of acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, children's 
presenting clinical manifestations, their disease course, and rapid and complete 
recovery after intravenous immunoglobulins argued strongly in its favor. A 
prompt, correct differential diagnosis of vincristine neuropathy and acute 
inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy in patients with acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia receiving vincristine is essential to improve disease 
outcome and prolong life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073811428379
PMID: 22241706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Drug Saf. 2012 Mar 1;35(3):207-19. doi: 10.2165/11597090-000000000-00000.

How are the costs of drug-related morbidity measured?: a systematic literature 
review.

Gyllensten H(1), Jönsson AK, Rehnberg C, Carlsten A.

Author information:
(1)Nordic School of Public Health NHV, Gothenburg, Sweden. 
hanna.gyllensten@nhv.se

BACKGROUND: Drug-related morbidity has been associated with increased healthcare 
costs and has been suggested as one of the leading causes of death. Previous 
reviews have identified heterogeneity in research methods in studies measuring 
the cost of drug-related morbidity. To date, no attempt has been made to analyse 
different methods and cost sources used when estimating the costs of 
drug-related morbidity.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review was to evaluate and compare methods and data 
sources in cost estimates of drug-related morbidity.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted in three electronic databases 
(CINAHL, EMBASE and MEDLINE) to identify peer-reviewed articles written in 
English and published between January 1990 and November 2011. Articles were 
included if estimating the direct or indirect costs of drug-related morbidity 
based on clinical data from general patient groups. The general patient groups 
were defined as patients visiting, being admitted to, treated at or discharged 
from a general hospital, excluding studies from nursing homes or specialized 
hospitals. Study information was collected using a standardized data collection 
sheet. Studies were categorized according to the type of costs included in the 
cost analysis. Thereafter, the cost analyses of included studies were reviewed 
regarding viewpoint, costing methods and adjustments for timing of costs.
RESULTS: In total, 9569 articles were identified, of which 25 publications were 
included in this review, and four additional articles were identified from 
reference or citation lists of publications already included. Eighteen studies 
measured either the total or attributable costs of drug-related morbidity, while 
seven studies estimated the increased costs using matched controls or regression 
analyses. Six studies measured costs from a payer perspective, while the other 
23 measured costs to the hospital. One study included costs resulting after 
discharge, and discounted future costs, while the remaining 28 studies measured 
costs during the initial admission only and involved no adjustment for timing of 
costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The data sources and costs measured in the included studies varied 
considerably in terms of perspectives and use of data sources. Even though there 
is a trend towards more studies estimating costs from the payer perspective, the 
identified studies still focused on costs resulting from patients attending 
hospital, therefore underestimating the cost of drug-related morbidity. There is 
thus a need for more research on the costs of drug-related morbidity to 
providers other than hospitals, and costs occurring outside of hospitals and 
after the initial care episode. Such studies require clear descriptions of how 
the costs of drug-related morbidity are measured, and should adhere to published 
guidelines for observational studies and economic evaluation studies.

DOI: 10.2165/11597090-000000000-00000
PMID: 22242773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. J Intern Med. 2012 Jul;272(1):100-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2012.02518.x.
Epub  2012 Feb 20.

The era of centenarians: mortality of the oldest old in Sweden.

Drefahl S, Lundström H, Modig K, Ahlbom A.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2012.02518.x
PMID: 22243214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Neurobiol Aging. 2012 Jul;33(7):1483.e25-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2011.12.018. Epub 2012 Jan 14.

Nuclear localization of Klotho in brain: an anti-aging protein.

German DC(1), Khobahy I, Pastor J, Kuro-O M, Liu X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas Texas, USA. dwight.german@utsouthwestern.edu

Klotho is a putative age-suppressing gene whose overexpression in mice results 
in extension of life span. The Klotho gene encodes a single-pass transmembrane 
protein whose extracellular domain is shed and released into blood, urine, and 
cerebrospinal fluid, potentially functioning as a humoral factor. The 
extracellular domain of Klotho has an activity that increases the expression of 
antioxidant enzymes and confers resistance to oxidative stress in cultured cells 
and in whole animals. The transmembrane form of the Klotho protein directly 
binds to multiple fibroblast growth factor receptors and modifies their ligand 
affinity and specificity. The purpose of the present study was to determine the 
precise cellular localization of Klotho in the mouse brain. Using light 
microscopic immunohistochemical methods, we found the highest levels of Klotho 
immunoreactivity in 2 brain regions: the choroid plexus, and cerebellar Purkinje 
cells. In the choroid plexus cells, Klotho was found not only on the plasma 
membrane but also in large amounts near the nuclear membrane. Likewise, in the 
Purkinje cell Klotho was found throughout the cell including dendrites, axon and 
soma with large amounts near the nuclear membrane. Using immunoelectron 
microscopy, we found Klotho in the cell membrane, but the highest concentration 
was localized in the peripheral portion of the nucleus and the nucleolus in both 
cell types. This new finding suggests that in addition to Klotho being secreted 
from cells in brain, it also has a nuclear function.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2011.12.018
PMCID: PMC3328593
PMID: 22245317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Soc Sci Med. 2012 Mar;74(5):654-5. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.12.010.
Epub  2012 Jan 13.

Sweden--socioeconomic factors and health.

Burström B(1).

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Public Health Sciences, Division of 
Social Medicine, SE 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden. Bo.Burstrom@ki.se

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2011.12.010
PMID: 22245383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Hepatol. 2012 May;56(5):1089-1096. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.11.022. Epub
2012  Jan 13.

Cost-effectiveness of semi-annual surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma in 
cirrhotic patients of the Italian Liver Cancer population.

Cucchetti A(1), Trevisani F(2), Cescon M(3), Ercolani G(3), Farinati F(4), 
Poggio PD(5), Rapaccini G(6), Nolfo MAD(7), Benvegnù L(8), Zoli M(9), Borzio 
F(10), Giannini EG(11), Caturelli E(12), Chiaramonte M(13), Pinna AD(3); Italian 
Liver Cancer (ITA.LI.CA) Group.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Discipline Chirurgiche, Rianimatorie e dei Trapianti, Alma 
Mater Studiorum - Università di Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: 
aleqko@libero.it.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica, Unità di Semeiotica Medica, Alma Mater 
Studiorum - Università di Bologna, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Discipline Chirurgiche, Rianimatorie e dei Trapianti, Alma 
Mater Studiorum - Università di Bologna, Italy.
(4)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche e Gastroenterologiche, Unità di 
Gastroenterologia, Università di Padova, Italy.
(5)Divisione di Medicina, Ospedale Treviglio-Caravaggio, Treviglio, Italy.
(6)Unità di Medicina Interna e Gastroenterologia, Università Cattolica di Roma, 
Roma, Italy.
(7)Divisione di Medicina, Azienda Ospedaliera Bolognini, Seriate, Italy.
(8)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Sperimentale, Unità di Medicina, 
Università di Padova, Italy.
(9)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, dell'Invecchiamento e Malattie 
Nefrologiche, Unità di Medicina Interna, Alma Mater Studiorum - Università di 
Bologna, Italy.
(10)Dipartimento di Medicina, Unità di Medicina Interna ed Epatologia, Ospedale 
Fatebenefratelli, Milano, Italy.
(11)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Unità di Gastroenterologia, Università di 
Genova, Italy.
(12)Unità di Gastroenterologia, Ospedale Belcolle, Viterbo, Italy.
(13)Unità di Gastroenterologia, Ospedale Sacro Cuore Don Calabria, Negrar, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: It was recently shown that semi-annual surveillance for 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in cirrhotic patients provides a prognostic 
advantage over the annual program; however, its cost-effectiveness (CE) in the 
general cirrhotic population still needs to be defined.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to compare CE of these two strategies, 
considering literature results and treatment modalities of 918 cirrhotic 
patients from the Italian Liver Cancer (ITA.LI.CA) database.
RESULTS: Results from the Markov model suggest that, compared to annual 
surveillance, semi-annual surveillance leads to a gain in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, in an unselected cirrhotic population, of 1.35 quality-adjusted 
life-months (QALMs) over 10 years since surveillance start in compensated 
patients, and of 0.73 QALMs in decompensated patients. Semi-annual surveillance 
was more cost-effective in compensated than in decompensated cirrhosis, with an 
incremental CE ratio (ICER) of 1997 and 3814€/QALM, respectively. In compensated 
cirrhosis, semi-annual surveillance was more cost-effective than the annual 
program when the annual HCC incidence was ≥3.2% and the relative survival gain 
after cancer diagnosis was ≥20% with respect to the annual program. In 
decompensated cirrhosis, semi-annual surveillance was cost-effective in patients 
amenable to liver transplantation. In both groups, CE of semi-annual 
surveillance improved with the increase of annual incidence and the survival 
benefit obtainable with HCC treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Both surveillance strategies for HCC in cirrhotic patients can be 
recommended, according to the individual risk profile for HCC occurrence and the 
expected survival gain obtainable after tumor diagnosis and therapy.

Copyright Â© 2012 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2011.11.022
PMID: 22245900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Blood. 2012 Mar 29;119(13):3024-30. doi: 10.1182/blood-2011-08-367813. Epub
2012  Jan 13.

Prolonged activity of a recombinant factor VIII-Fc fusion protein in hemophilia 
A mice and dogs.

Dumont JA(1), Liu T, Low SC, Zhang X, Kamphaus G, Sakorafas P, Fraley C, Drager 
D, Reidy T, McCue J, Franck HW, Merricks EP, Nichols TC, Bitonti AJ, Pierce GF, 
Jiang H.

Author information:
(1)Research and Development, Biogen Idec Hemophilia, Waltham, MA 02451, USA.

Despite proven benefits, prophylactic treatment for hemophilia A is hampered by 
the short half-life of factor VIII. A recombinant factor VIII-Fc fusion protein 
(rFVIIIFc) was constructed to determine the potential for reduced frequency of 
dosing. rFVIIIFc has an ∼ 2-fold longer half-life than rFVIII in hemophilia A 
(HemA) mice and dogs. The extension of rFVIIIFc half-life requires interaction 
of Fc with the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn). In FcRn knockout mice, the extension 
of rFVIIIFc half-life is abrogated, and is restored in human FcRn transgenic 
mice. The Fc fusion has no impact on FVIII-specific activity. rFVIIIFc has 
comparable acute efficacy as rFVIII in treating tail clip injury in HemA mice, 
and fully corrects whole blood clotting time (WBCT) in HemA dogs immediately 
after dosing. Furthermore, consistent with prolonged half-life, rFVIIIFc shows 
2-fold longer prophylactic efficacy in protecting HemA mice from tail vein 
transection bleeding induced 24-48 hours after dosing. In HemA dogs, rFVIIIFc 
also sustains partial correction of WBCT 1.5- to 2-fold longer than rFVIII. 
rFVIIIFc was well tolerated in both species. Thus, the rescue of FVIII by Fc 
fusion to provide prolonged protection presents a novel pathway for FVIII 
catabolism, and warrants further investigation.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2011-08-367813
PMCID: PMC3953019
PMID: 22246033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. BMJ. 2012 Jan 13;344:e379. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e379.

Portuguese health system is still too reliant on emergency care, finds review.

Villanueva T.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e379
PMID: 22246452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Med Decis Making. 2012 May-Jun;32(3):459-69. doi: 10.1177/0272989X11431609.
Epub  2012 Jan 12.

How much should we pay for a new HIV diagnosis? A mathematical model of HIV 
screening in US clinical settings.

Farnham PG(1), Sansom SL(1), Hutchinson AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia (PGF, SLS, ABH)

OBJECTIVE: To develop a model to assist clinical setting decision makers in 
determining how much they can spend on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
screening and still be cost-effective.
DESIGN: The authors developed a simple mathematical model relating the program 
cost per new HIV diagnosis to the cost per HIV infection averted and the cost 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) saved by screening. They estimated 
outcomes based on behavioral changes associated with awareness of HIV infection 
and applied the model to US sexually transmitted disease clinics.
METHODS: The authors based the cost per new HIV diagnosis (2009 US dollars) on 
the costs of testing and the proportion of persons who tested positive. 
Infections averted were calculated from the reduction in annual transmission 
rates between persons aware and unaware of their infections. The authors defined 
program costs from the sexually transmitted disease clinic perspective and 
treatment costs and QALYs saved from the societal perspective. They undertook 
numerous sensitivity analyses to determine the robustness of the base case 
results.
RESULTS: In the base case, the cost per new HIV diagnosis was $2528, the cost 
per infection averted was $40,516, and the cost per QALY saved was less than 
zero, or cost-saving. Given the model inputs, the cost per new diagnosis could 
increase to $22,909 to reach the cost-saving threshold and to $63,053 for the 
cost-effectiveness threshold. All sensitivity analyses showed that the 
cost-effectiveness results were consistent for extensive variation in the values 
of model inputs.
CONCLUSIONS: HIV screening in a clinical setting is cost-effective for a wide 
range of testing costs, variations in positivity rates, reductions in HIV 
transmissions, and variation in the receipt of test results.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X11431609
PMID: 22247422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Neuroinflammation. 2012 Jan 16;9:10. doi: 10.1186/1742-2094-9-10.

Can the benefits of cannabinoid receptor stimulation on neuroinflammation, 
neurogenesis and memory during normal aging be useful in AD prevention?

Marchalant Y(1), Baranger K, Wenk GL, Khrestchatisky M, Rivera S.

Author information:
(1)Aix-Marseille Univ, NICN, UMR 7259, 13344, Marseille, France. 
yannick.marchalant@univ-amu.fr

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease has become a growing socio-economical concern in 
developing countries where increased life expectancy is leading to large aged 
populations. While curing Alzheimer's disease or stopping its progression does 
not appear within reach in a foreseeable future, new therapies capable of 
delaying the pathogenesis would represent major breakthroughs.
PRESENTATION OF THE HYPOTHESIS: The growing number of medical benefits of 
cannabinoids, such as their ability to regulate age-related processes like 
neuroinflammation, neurogenesis and memory, raise the question of their 
potential role as a preventive treatment of AD.
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS: To test this hypothesis, epidemiological studies on long 
term, chronic cannabinoid users could enlighten us on the potential benefits of 
these compounds in normal and pathological ageing processes. Systematic 
pharmacological (and thus more mechanistic) investigations using animal models 
of Alzheimer's disease that have been developed would also allow a thorough 
investigation of the benefits of cannabinoid pharmacotherapy in the pathogenesis 
of Alzheimer's disease.
IMPLICATIONS OF THE HYPOTHESIS: The chronic administration of non-selective 
cannabinoids may delay the onset of cognitive deficits in AD patients; this will 
dramatically reduce the socio-economic burden of AD and improve the quality of 
life of the patients and their families.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-2094-9-10
PMCID: PMC3284401
PMID: 22248015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2012 Mar;25(2):83-8. doi:
10.1097/YCO.0b013e32835035ca.

Life expectancy and cardiovascular mortality in persons with schizophrenia.

Laursen TM(1), Munk-Olsen T, Vestergaard M.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus University, Aarhus C, 
Denmark. tml@ncrr.dk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To assess the impact of cardiovascular disease on the excess 
mortality and shortened life expectancy in schizophrenic patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Patients with schizophrenia have two-fold to three-fold higher 
mortality rates compared with the general population, corresponding to a 
10-25-year reduction in life expectancy. Although the mortality rate from 
suicide is high, natural causes of death account for a greater part of the 
reduction in life expectancy. The reviewed studies suggest four main reasons for 
the excess mortality and reduced life expectancy. First, persons with 
schizophrenia tend to have suboptimal lifestyles including unhealthy diets, 
excessive smoking and alcohol use, and lack of exercise. Second, antipsychotic 
drugs may have adverse effects. Third, physical illnesses in persons with 
schizophrenia are common, but diagnosed late and treated insufficiently. Lastly, 
the risk of suicide and accidents among schizophrenic patients is high.
SUMMARY: Schizophrenia is associated with a substantially higher mortality and 
curtailed life expectancy partly caused by modifiable risk factors.

DOI: 10.1097/YCO.0b013e32835035ca
PMID: 22249081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Int J Obes (Lond). 2012 Apr;36(4):559-66. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2011.272. Epub
2012  Jan 17.

Economic evaluation of lifestyle interventions to treat overweight or obesity in 
children.

Hollingworth W(1), Hawkins J, Lawlor DA, Brown M, Marsh T, Kipping RR.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. 
william.hollingworth@bristol.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To estimate lifetime cost effectiveness of lifestyle interventions to 
treat overweight and obese children, from the UK National Health Service 
perspective.
DESIGN: An adaptation of the National Heart Forum economic model to predict 
lifetime health service costs and outcomes of lifestyle interventions on 
obesity-related diseases.
SETTING: Hospital or community-based weight-management programmes.
POPULATION: Hypothetical cohorts of overweight or obese children based on body 
mass data from the National Child Measurement Programme.
INTERVENTIONS: Lifestyle interventions that have been compared with no or 
minimal intervention in randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Reduction in body mass index (BMI) standard deviation 
score (SDS), intervention resources/costs, lifetime treatment costs, 
obesity-related diseases and cost per life year gained.
RESULTS: Ten RCTs were identified by our search strategy. The median effect of 
interventions versus control from these 10 RCTs was a difference in BMI SDS of 
-0.13 at 12 months, but the range in effects among interventions was broad (0.04 
to -0.60). Indicative costs per child of these interventions ranged from £108 to 
£662. For obese children aged 10-11 years, an intervention that resulted in a 
median reduction in BMI SDS at 12 months at a moderate cost of £400 increased 
life expectancy by 0.19 years and intervention costs were offset by subsequent 
undiscounted savings in treatment costs (net saving of £110 per child), though 
this saving did not emerge until the sixth or seventh decade of life. The 
discounted cost per life year gained was £13 589. Results were broadly similar 
for interventions aimed at children aged 4-5 years and which targeted both obese 
and overweight children. For more costly interventions, savings were less 
likely.
CONCLUSION: Interventions to treat childhood obesity are potentially cost 
effective although cost savings and health benefits may not appear until the 
sixth or seventh decade of life.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2011.272
PMID: 22249222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2012 Apr;14(2):136-48. doi: 
10.1007/s11936-012-0164-y.

Management of infrapopliteal peripheral arterial occlusive disease.

Gasper WJ(1), Runge SJ, Owens CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, University of California 
San Francisco, 400 Parnassus Ave, , Box 0222, San Francisco, CA, 94143-0222, 
USA.

The management of infrapopliteal peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAD) is 
challenging. For patients with asymptomatic disease or claudication, exercise 
and optimal medical management, including antiplatelet agents, blood pressure 
control, statin therapy and tight glucose control for patients with diabetes 
mellitus, are the mainstays of therapy. However, patients with isolated tibial 
artery occlusive disease often have diabetes mellitus or renal insufficiency and 
present with critical limb ischemia (CLI). CLI is advanced occlusive disease 
marked by the development of rest pain, ischemic ulceration, or gangrene and is 
associated with a high mortality rate. Limb salvage requires an intervention in 
cases of CLI, but careful operative planning is required as patients often have 
multilevel disease and limited options for revascularization. A surgical bypass 
with a vein graft remains the best treatment for infrapopliteal PAD, especially 
in patients with a life expectancy of over 2 years. Balloon angioplasty can play 
an important role in limb salvage, especially for patients lacking adequate vein 
for bypass, at high operative risk, or with a life expectancy of less than 
2 years. However, a lack of rigorous trials has left unanswered questions as to 
the efficacy of infrapopliteal angioplasty with or without stents compared to 
bypass surgery. As such, endovascular therapy is currently not a proven 
treatment for intermittent claudication. Patients who are unable to undergo a 
revascularization procedure for infrapopliteal CLI have few options besides 
amputation or palliation. New therapies, such as drug-eluting stents, 
drug-coated balloons, and stem cell therapy are under development, but their 
efficacy and effectiveness remain unproven.

DOI: 10.1007/s11936-012-0164-y
PMID: 22249766


372. Health Econ. 2012 Dec;21(12):1508-12. doi: 10.1002/hec.1823. Epub 2012 Jan
17.

Sf-6d population norms.

van den Berg B(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, YORK, YO10 5DD, United 
Kingdom. bernard.vandenberg@york.ac.uk

The derivation of population norms using simple generic health-related quality 
of life measures to inform policy has been recommended in the literature. This 
letter illustrates the derivation of population norms for the SF-6D in the 
United Kingdom. It uses a sample of 22,166 respondents from the 2010 wave of the 
study Understanding Society. Understanding Society is a national representative 
sample of British citizens. The survey of this study contains the SF-12. It is 
possible to derive health state utilities from the SF-12 (and from the SF-36) 
using a relatively new instrument, the SF-6D. The SF-12 and the SF-36 belong to 
the most widely used generic health-related quality of life measures. Mean SF-6D 
utility scores for males and females are 0.81 and 0.79, respectively. Especially 
the older age categories have lower utility scores. The younger age categories 
have slightly higher utility scores. From a list of 17 conditions, people with 
congestive heart failure had the lowest (0.60) and people with diabetes the 
highest (0.76) SF-6D scores. This letter encourages the health economics 
research community to derive SF-6D population norms to inform policy.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1823
PMID: 22250070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Med Econ. 2012;15(3):444-53. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.653512. Epub 2012
Feb  7.

Cost-effectiveness achieved through changing the composition of renal 
replacement therapy in Japan.

Shimizu U(1), Saito S, Lings Y, Iino N, Kazama JJ, Akazawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics and Statistics, Niigata University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Niigata, Japan. shirakaba@clg.niigata-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: The cost-effectiveness of renal replacement therapy (RRT) is affected 
by the composition of treatment. This study aimed to estimate the costs and 
outcomes associated with changing the composition of RRT modality over time.
METHODS: By using clinical and cost data from a systematic review, a Markov 
model was developed to assess the costs and benefits of the four main treatments 
available for RRT in Japan. The model included direct health service costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY). Sensitivity analyses were performed to 
assess the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: Over the 15-year period of the model, the current composition of RRT 
(i.e., the base composition of RRT) was $84,008/QALY. The most cost-effective 
treatment was when the likelihood of a living donor transplant was increased by 
2.4-times ($70,581/QALY). Compared with the base composition of RRT, dominant 
treatments with respect to cost-effectiveness were when the likelihood of a 
deceased donor transplant was increased by 22-times and when the likelihood of a 
pre-emptive living donor transplant was increased by 2.4-times. Little 
difference was found between these two treatments. One-way sensitivity analysis 
did not change the cost effectiveness except for costs of chronic hemodialysis 
and a living donor transplant in subsequent years.
LIMITATIONS: It is difficult to increase the rate of transplant overall in the 
shorter term nationally and internationally.
CONCLUSIONS: Appropriate distribution of all transplant options and hemodialysis 
is necessary to achieve the most cost-effective solution.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.653512
PMID: 22250787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Haemophilia. 2012 May;18(3):e164-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2011.02745.x.
Epub  2012 Jan 18.

Non-thrombotic-, non-inhibitor-associated adverse reactions to coagulation 
factor concentrates for treatment of patients with hemophilia and von 
Willebrand's disease: a systematic review of prospective studies.

Franchini M(1), Makris M, Santagostino E, Coppola A, Mannucci PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine and Hematology, Carlo Poma Hospital, 
Mantova, Italy.

In the last three decades there have been dramatic improvements in the 
availability and quality of treatment for people with inherited coagulation 
disorders. Indeed, the improvement of methods of purification and viral 
inactivation for plasma-derived coagulation factor concentrates first and then 
the development of products utilizing recombinant DNA technology have greatly 
improved the life expectancy of hemophiliacs, which has progressively become 
similar to that of males in the general population. Nowadays, the most frequent 
complication of factor replacement therapy for hemophilia is the development of 
inhibitors. However, no studies so far have systematically analysed the type and 
incidence of other adverse reactions following the administration of coagulation 
factor concentrates. The aim of this systematic review was to screen the 
published literature data to evaluate the types and frequencies of 
non-thrombotic-, non-inhibitor-associated adverse reactions to coagulation 
factor concentrates in patients with hemophilia A, hemophilia B and von 
Willebrand's disease. On behalf the European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance 
System (EUHASS), a systematic review of the prospective studies published in the 
last 20 years was performed using electronic databases and article references. 
Both severe and mild adverse events following infusion of coagulation factor 
concentrates are relatively rare in patients with inherited coagulation 
disorders; the most common events are of an allergic type. There are no 
differences in the rate of adverse events caused by plasma-derived or 
recombinant products. On the whole, these data confirm the high degree of safety 
of the products currently used for replacement therapy.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2011.02745.x
PMID: 22250981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Obes Rev. 2012 Jun;13(6):537-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2011.00980.x. Epub
 2012 Jan 17.

The long-term cost-effectiveness of obesity prevention interventions: systematic 
literature review.

Lehnert T(1), Sonntag D, Konnopka A, Riedel-Heller S, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Department for Medical Sociology and Health Economics, Hamburg Center for 
Health Economics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. 
t.lehnert@uke.de

Obesity prevention provides a major opportunity to improve population health. As 
health improvements usually require additional and scarce resources, novel 
health technologies (interventions) should be economically evaluated. In the 
prevention of obesity, health benefits may slowly accumulate over time and it 
can take many years before an intervention has reached full effectiveness. 
Decision-analytic simulation models (DAMs), which combine evidence from diverse 
sources, can be utilized to evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of such 
interventions. This literature review summarizes long-term economic findings 
(defined as ≥ 40 years) for 41 obesity prevention interventions, which had been 
evaluated in 18 cost-utility analyses, using nine different DAMs. Interventions 
were grouped according to their method of delivery, setting and risk factors 
targeted into behavioural (n=21), community (n=12) and environmental 
interventions (n=8). The majority of interventions offered good value for money, 
while seven were cost-saving. Ten interventions were not cost-effective (defined 
as >50,000 US dollar), however. Interventions that modified a target 
population's environment, i.e. fiscal and regulatory measures, reported the most 
favourable cost-effectiveness. Economic findings were accompanied by a large 
uncertainty though, which complicates judgments about the comparative 
cost-effectiveness of interventions.

© 2012 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2012 International Association for the 
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2011.00980.x
PMID: 22251231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. BJOG. 2012 May;119(6):699-709. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2011.03228.x. Epub
2012  Jan 18.

Cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening: cytology versus human 
papillomavirus DNA testing.

van Rosmalen J(1), de Kok IM, van Ballegooijen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands. j.vanrosmalen@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    BJOG. 2012 May;119(6):650-2.
    BJOG. 2016 Jul;123(8):1400-1.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the most cost-effective screening programme for cervical 
cancer.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis from a societal perspective.
SETTING: The Netherlands.
POPULATION: Dutch women who have not been invited for human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccination.
METHODS: We calibrated the microsimulation screening analysis (MISCAN) model to 
Dutch epidemiological data. We used this model to consider nine screening 
strategies that use: (i) cytological testing with cytology triage for 
borderline/mildly abnormal smears; (ii) HPV testing with cytology triage for 
HPV-positive smears; or (iii) cytological testing with HPV triage for 
borderline/mildly abnormal smears. For each strategy, we varied the number of 
screening rounds, the time interval, the age of the first screening, and the 
type of cytological testing (conventional or liquid-based cytology).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and costs from 
a societal perspective.
RESULTS: Under the base-case assumptions, primary HPV testing with cytology 
triage is the most cost-effective strategy. Using cost-effectiveness thresholds 
of € 20,000 and € 50,000 per QALY gained yields optimal screening programmes 
with three and seven screening rounds, respectively. The results are sensitive 
to several uncertain model inputs, most importantly the costs of the HPV test. 
For women aged 32 years or younger, primary cytology screening is more 
cost-effective than primary HPV testing.
CONCLUSIONS: Increasing the interval between screening rounds and changing the 
primary test from cytology to HPV testing can improve the effectiveness and 
decrease the costs of cervical cancer screening in the Netherlands.

© 2012 The Authors BJOG An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology © 
2012 RCOG.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2011.03228.x
PMCID: PMC3489039
PMID: 22251259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
