amplification became cost effective at the same threshold. Aside from the 
prevalence, the results were shown to be robust. At low tuberculosis prevalence, 
Nucleic Acid Amplification Techniques may not be cost effective but their 
potential in higher prevalence situations is considerable.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2011.10.005
PMID: 22137190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2011 Aug;25(4):469-83. doi: 
10.1016/j.berh.2011.10.009.

Co-morbidities in established rheumatoid arthritis.

Gullick NJ(1), Scott DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, King's College London School of Medicine, Weston 
Education Centre, United Kingdom. ngullick@nhs.net

Co-morbid conditions are common in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 
Although the presence of co-morbid conditions can be assessed using standardised 
indexes such as the Charlson index, most clinicians prefer to simply record 
their presence. Some co-morbidities are causally associated with RA and many 
others are related to its treatment. Irrespective of their underlying 
pathogenesis, co-morbidities increase disability and shorten life expectancy, 
thereby increasing both the impact and mortality of RA. Cardiac co-morbidities 
are the most crucial, because of their frequency and their negative impacts on 
health. Treatment of cardiac risk factors and reducing RA inflammation are both 
critical in reducing cardiac co-morbidities. Gastrointestinal and chest 
co-morbidities are both also common. They are often associated with drug 
treatment, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug and disease-modifying 
drugs. Osteoporosis and its associated fracture risk are equally important and 
are often linked to long-term glucocorticoid treatment. The range of 
co-morbidities associated with RA is increasing with the recognition of new 
problems such as periodontal disease. Optimal medical care for RA should include 
an assessment of associated co-morbidities and their appropriate management. 
This includes risk factor modification where possible. This approach is 
essential to improve quality of life and reduce RA mortality. An area of genuine 
concern is the impact of treatment on co-morbidities. A substantial proportion 
is iatrogenic. As immunosuppression with conventional disease-modifying drugs 
and biologics has many associated risks, ranging from liver disease to chest and 
other infections, it is essential to balance the risks of co-morbidities against 
the anticipated benefits of treatment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.berh.2011.10.009
PMID: 22137918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Res Dev Disabil. 2012 Mar-Apr;33(2):435-41. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2011.09.026. 
Epub 2011 Dec 1.

Morbidity and hospitalizations of adults with Down syndrome.

Tenenbaum A(1), Chavkin M, Wexler ID, Korem M, Merrick J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hadassah Hebrew University Medical Centers, Mt 
Scopus campus, Jerusalem, Israel.

Over the last decade a significant increase in the life expectancy of people 
with Down syndrome (DS) has been observed, which has caused a higher incidence 
of morbidity as they age. However, there is a lack of literature regarding 
morbidity and hospitalization of adults with DS. Analysis of 297 
hospitalizations of 120 adults with DS aged 18-73 years hospitalized at Hadassah 
Medical Centers during the years 1988-2007 compared with data of the general 
population, hospitalized at the same period. At the age range 18-66 years, mean 
number of hospitalizations was significantly higher than the general population 
(P = 0.000001) with hospitalization also significantly longer (P = 0.0009). 
Exceptionally long hospitalizations were seen at the departments of internal 
medicine, dermatology and intensive care units. There was no significant 
difference in mortality between DS and the general population (P = 0.221). More 
than a fourth of the hospitalizations were caused by infectious diseases, mostly 
respiratory infections. Hypothyroidism was more prevalent compared with the 
estimated number reported by the literature (30.8% vs. 15%). Convulsive disorder 
was prevalent as well (15.8%). However, the prevalence of congenital heart 
disease, dementia, osteoporosis and obesity was found less than expected. Adults 
with DS are hospitalized more than the general population and for longer 
duration. The results of this study emphasize the need for preventive 
community-based medicine, awareness of co-morbidities and possible deterioration 
and to prepare the medical staff for a complex course of illness, expecting 
longer hospitalizations, arising from the complexity of this population.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2011.09.026
PMID: 22137940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2012 Jan 4;104(1):56-66. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djr484. Epub
2011  Dec 2.

Economic evaluation of genomic test-directed chemotherapy for early-stage lymph 
node-positive breast cancer.

Hall PS(1), McCabe C, Stein RC, Cameron D.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, UK. p.s.hall@leeds.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Multi-parameter genomic tests identify patients with early-stage 
breast cancer who are likely to derive little benefit from adjuvant 
chemotherapy. These tests can potentially spare patients the morbidity from 
unnecessary chemotherapy and reduce costs. However, the costs of the test must 
be balanced against the health benefits and cost savings produced. This economic 
evaluation compared genomic test-directed chemotherapy using the Oncotype DX 
21-gene assay with chemotherapy for all eligible patients with lymph 
node-positive, estrogen receptor-positive early-stage breast cancer.
METHODS: We performed a cost-utility analysis using a state transition model to 
calculate expected costs and benefits over the lifetime of a cohort of women 
with estrogen receptor-positive lymph node-positive breast cancer from a UK 
perspective. Recurrence rates for Oncotype DX-selected risk groups were derived 
from parametric survival models fitted to data from the Southwest Oncology Group 
8814 trial. The primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, 
expressed as the cost (in 2011 GBP) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). 
Confidence in the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was expressed as a 
probability of cost-effectiveness and was calculated using Monte Carlo 
simulation. Model parameters were varied deterministically and probabilistically 
in sensitivity analysis. Value of information analysis was used to rank 
priorities for further research.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for Oncotype DX-directed 
chemotherapy using a recurrence score cutoff of 18 was £5529 (US $8852) per 
QALY. The probability that test-directed chemotherapy is cost-effective was 0.61 
at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £30 000 per QALY. Results were sensitive to 
the recurrence rate, long-term anthracycline-related cardiac toxicity, quality 
of life, test cost, and the time horizon. The highest priority for further 
research identified by value of information analysis is the recurrence rate in 
test-selected subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: There is substantial uncertainty regarding the cost-effectiveness 
of Oncotype DX-directed chemotherapy. It is particularly important that future 
research studies to inform cost-effectiveness-based decisions collect long-term 
outcome data.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djr484
PMID: 22138097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Gac Sanit. 2011 Dec;25 Suppl 2:47-50. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.09.018. Epub
 2011 Dec 3.

[Burden of disease in the elderly population in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Gènova-Maleras R(1), Álvarez-Martín E, Catalá-López F, Fernández de Larrea-Baz 
N, Morant-Ginestar C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Informes de Salud y Estudios, Subdirección de Promoción de la 
Salud y Prevención, Consejería de Sanidad, Comunidad de Madrid, Madrid, España. 
ricard.genova@salud.madrid.org

OBJECTIVE: We analyzed the burden of disease in the elderly population in Spain 
in 2008.
METHODS: A population-based cross-sectional study was performed to calculate the 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of the Spanish population aged ≥ 60 years 
old. DALYs are the sum of the number of years of life lost (YLLs) and the number 
of years lived with disability (YLDs). Data sources included the national 
mortality register for YLLs, and inference of Euro-A subregion (including Spain) 
estimates for YLDs.
RESULTS: In the elderly population, DALYs lost due to all diseases were 
estimated at 2.1 million. The main causes of DALYs were malignancies (21.3%), 
neuropsychiatric disorders (21.1%) and cardiovascular diseases (20.4%). The main 
specific subcategories were dementias, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular 
disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer, hearing loss and 
osteoarthritis.
CONCLUSIONS: Burden of disease analysis allows distinct health problems to be 
reassessed in relation to classical mortality analysis.

Copyright © 2011 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.09.018
PMID: 22138281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Public Health (Oxf). 2012 Jun;34(2):287-95. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdr093.
Epub  2011 Dec 2.

Burden of disease due to cancer in England and Wales.

Jayatilleke N(1), Pashayan N, Powles JW.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, 
University Forvie Site, Robinson Way, Cambridge CB2 0SR, UK. 
nj201@doctors.org.uk

BACKGROUND: This study aims to estimate the burden of cancer in England and 
Wales using disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and to determine if the 
ranking of relative importance changes with metric used.
METHODS: DALYs are the sum of years of life lost due to mortality and years lost 
due to disability. Annual DALYs due to cancer were calculated using cancer 
registration, mortality, disability weights and World Health Organization 
methodology.
RESULTS: There were 8 605 362 DALYs due to cancer (3242 DALYs/100 000 
population/year). Of the total, 47% corresponded to lung, prostate and 
colorectal cancers in males and 56% to breast, lung, colorectal and ovarian 
cancers in females. Mortality (86% of DALYs) contributed predominantly to DALYs. 
Individuals of 65-75 years contributed to 28% of DALYs. Among females, lung 
cancer ranked highest by death rates, whereas the highest DALYs were from breast 
cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Highest DALYs were due to lung, breast, prostate and colorectal 
cancers in England and Wales. The addition of the disability component changes 
the relative position of some of the top cancers. Although metrics based on 
deaths alone capture most effects of cancer on population health levels, 
important additional perspectives, relevant to the planning of services, can be 
gained from burden of disease analyses.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdr093
PMID: 22138490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Med Ethics. 2012 Mar;38(3):158-62. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100093. Epub
 2011 Dec 3.

How to avoid unfair discrimination against disabled patients in healthcare 
resource allocation.

Sinclair S(1).

Author information:
(1)ARL Health, 48 Echline Drive, South Queensferry, Edinburgh, UK. 
sean.sinclair@arl-health.com

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2018 Nov;44(11):793-795.
    J Med Ethics. 2018 Nov;44(11):797-798.

The paper proposes a new method of researching public opinion for the purposes 
of valuing the outcomes of healthcare interventions. The issue I address is 
that, under the quality-adjusted life-year system, disabled patients face a 
higher cost-effectiveness hurdle than able-bodied patients. This seems 
inequitable. The author considers the alternative approaches to valuing 
healthcare interventions that have been proposed, and shows that all of them 
face the same problem. It is proposed that to value an outcome, instead of 
researching the general public, the population that is to be targeted with the 
intervention should be researched.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100093
PMID: 22138724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2011 Dec;41(6):545-52. doi: 10.1007/s11084-011-9259-9.
 Epub 2011 Dec 3.

Development of a model to compute the extension of life supporting zones for 
Earth-like exoplanets.

Neubauer D(1), Vrtala A, Leitner JJ, Firneis MG, Hitzenberger R.

Author information:
(1)Research Platform: ExoLife, University of Vienna, Türkenschanzstrasse 17, 
1180, Vienna, Austria. d.neubauer@univie.ac.at

A radiative convective model to calculate the width and the location of the life 
supporting zone (LSZ) for different, alternative solvents (i.e. other than 
water) is presented. This model can be applied to the atmospheres of the 
terrestrial planets in the solar system as well as (hypothetical, Earth-like) 
terrestrial exoplanets. Cloud droplet formation and growth are investigated 
using a cloud parcel model. Clouds can be incorporated into the radiative 
transfer calculations. Test runs for Earth, Mars and Titan show a good agreement 
of model results with observations.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-011-9259-9
PMID: 22139520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Glia. 2012 Mar;60(3):441-56. doi: 10.1002/glia.22278. Epub 2011 Dec 2.

The development of a rat in vitro model of spinal cord injury demonstrating the 
additive effects of Rho and ROCK inhibitors on neurite outgrowth and 
myelination.

Boomkamp SD(1), Riehle MO, Wood J, Olson MF, Barnett SC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, College of Medical, 
Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8TA, United 
Kingdom.

It is currently thought that treatment for spinal cord injury (SCI) will involve 
a combined pharmacological and biological approach; however, testing their 
efficacy in animal models of SCI is time-consuming and requires large animal 
cohorts. For this reason we have modified our myelinating cultures as an in 
vitro model of SCI and studied its potential as a prescreen for combined 
therapeutics. This culture comprises dissociated rat embryonic spinal cord cells 
plated onto a monolayer of astrocytes, which form myelinated axons interspaced 
with nodes of Ranvier. After cutting the culture, an initial cell-free area 
appears persistently devoid of neurites, accompanied over time by many features 
of SCI, including demyelination and reduced neurite density adjacent to the 
lesion, and infiltration of microglia and reactive astrocytes into the lesioned 
area. We tested a range of concentrations of the Rho inhibitor C3 transferase 
(C3) and ROCK inhibitor Y27632 that have been shown to promote SCI repair in 
vivo. C3 promoted neurite extension into the lesion and enhanced neurite density 
in surrounding areas but failed to induce remyelination. In contrast, while 
Y27632 did not induce significant neurite outgrowth, myelination adjacent to the 
lesion was dramatically enhanced. The effects of the inhibitors were 
concentration-dependent. Combined treatment with C3 and Y27632 had additive 
affects with an enhancement of neurite outgrowth and increased myelination 
adjacent to the lesion, demonstrating neither conflicting nor synergistic 
effects when coadministered. Overall, these results demonstrate that this 
culture serves as a useful tool to study combined strategies that promote CNS 
repair.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/glia.22278
PMID: 22139636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Urologia. 2011 Oct-Dec;78(4):283-7. doi: 10.5301/RU.2011.8835.

[Ductal carcinoma of the prostate: impact on survival and therapeutic 
controversies of a rare tumor].

[Article in Italian]

Finamanti M(1), Antonelli A, Contessa P, Cosciani Cunico S, Simeone C.

Author information:
(1)Unità operativa di Urologia, Spedali Civili di Brescia, Università degli 
Studi di Brescia, Brescia - Italy. marco.finamanti@gmail.com

Prostate cancer is a disease with a variable clinical course. The possible 
impact on oncological outcome of non-acinar prostate cancer has not been 
established yet, especially for ductal adenocarcinoma due to its low frequency, 
so that its clinical management is not well codified. The disease occurs more 
often already at an advanced stage of diagnosis, with clinically detectable 
tumors and advanced pathological stage, partly because of the lack of specific 
tumor markers, given the poor correlation between PDA and PSA values. In the 
period between 1997 and 2010 56 patients with PDA on a total of 1265 new 
diagnoses of cancer were identified, for an overall incidence of 4.5%. 41 
patients (75%) had a PDA type II histology, while 15 patients (25%) a PDA type I 
(pure form). Generally, a surgical treatment was carried out in patients with 
life expectancy greater than 10/15 years/under 70 years of age, non-metastatic 
tumors and found to be liable to local resection; radiation therapy was given 
with 70 Gy in cases with a shorter life expectancy and/or an illness judged 
unresectable for local extension; hormonal therapy was indicated in all other 
clinical situations. For all patients, the clinical and pathologic data and 
follow-ups were re-evaluated. The overall survival and disease-free survival 
were then analyzed. Given the low incidence of this pathology the relevant 
literature is poor and therefore the therapeutic approach is not univocal. This 
paper retrospectively reviews our experience with prostatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.5301/RU.2011.8835
PMID: 22139802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Z Gastroenterol. 2011 Jul;49(12):1535-42. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1281791. Epub
2011  Dec 2.

[The clinical spectrum of urea cycle defects in adult patients].

[Article in German]

Müller-Marbach AM(1), Keitel V, Göbel T, Jensen BE, Göbels S, Baur C, Schneitler 
S, Schneitler V, Behm P, Becker M, Brinkmeyer C, Foede M, Hüttig F, Beyer M, 
Breuer M, Filke S, Giesecke C, Haars U, Haes J, Heinzel-Pleines U, Kann S, 
Kocheril SJ, Mallach S, Sagert C, Qvartskhava N, Winzer R, Donner MG.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Hepatologie, Gastroenterologie und Infektiologie der 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf. alexis@mueller-marbach.de

Urea cycle defects belong to the most common metabolic disorders with a 
cumulative incidence of 1:8000. A common trait of urea cycle defects is a 
disturbed detoxification of ammonia leading to hyperammonemia in the event of a 
high nitrogen load. Most patients develop symptoms in the neonatal period or in 
infancy, e. g. vomiting, seizures and disturbed consciousness. Depending on the 
affected enzyme and its residual activity, patients differ in the age at first 
presentation, the character and severity of symptoms and in the susceptibility 
to metabolic derangement. The presence of hyperammonemia and an altered plasma 
amino acid profile give the essential diagnostic clues. Since modern therapeutic 
measures have prolonged the life expectancy of these patients and provided the 
possibility of a first presentation in adulthood, patients with urea cycle 
defects have become an increasing challenge in internal medicine. The reported 
case series illustrates the heterogeneous clinical course of these disorders 
from childhood to adulthood.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1281791
PMID: 22139877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Am J Med Genet A. 2012 Jan;158A(1):42-9. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.34386. Epub 2011
 Dec 2.

The 8th international research symposium on the Marfan syndrome and related 
conditions.

Pyeritz RE(1), Loeys B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine at the 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. 
reed.pyeritz@uphs.upenn.edu

In the nearly quarter-century since the first international symposium on Marfan 
syndrome, enormous progress has been achieved in clinical, translational, and 
basic research. The 8th symposium, at the end of 2010, provides a useful summary 
of the current status of investigations, reveals why life-expectancy has 
improved so markedly during the past 30 years, and lays out a clear path for 
future endeavors, not only in Marfan syndrome, but in the expanding array of 
conditions related either through phenotype or pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.34386
PMID: 22140025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Jul;27(7):1167-74. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07047.x.

Economic analysis between entecavir and lamivudine for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis B in Hong Kong.

Lee KK(1), Wu DB, Chow PY, Lee VW, Li H.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong. kenneth.lee@med.monash.edu.my

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Tremendous healthcare resources have been spent on the 
management of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and its related complications. 
Therefore, a proper evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of pharmacotherapy is 
vital in aid of decision-making. The aim of the present study was to examine the 
long-term economic and clinical influence if lamivudine was replaced by 
entecavir in a group of CHB patients.
METHODS: A recently published decision analytic model was adapted to study the 
cost-effectiveness of 2 years of treatment of entecavir in a hypothetical cohort 
of 1000 hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative CHB patients from a public 
hospital perspective. Compensated cirrhosis (CC) and de-compensated cirrhosis 
(DC) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) events were projected to 10 years. Hong 
Kong-specific health care costs were used. Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) 
were calculated using the utility values obtained from a local study.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, compared with lamivudine, the use of 
entecavir was expected to reduce the incidences of CC, DC and HCC by 41.8%, 
57.1% and 49.3%, respectively, and lead to a saving of $US 1.17 million in 
medical cost. The overall disease management cost for entecavir, which was 67.7% 
higher than lamivudine for 2 years treatment was reduced to 17.2% after 
projecting 2-year treatment duration to 10 years. The incremental cost per QALY 
gained for entecavir compared with lamivudine was $US 13 759.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the recommended cost-effectiveness threshold of the World 
Health Organization, entecavir is considered cost-effective compared with 
lamivudine in treating CHB in Hong Kong when long term medical consequences were 
considered.

© 2011 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Blackwell 
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2011.07047.x
PMID: 22141402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Dan Med Bull. 2011 Dec;58(12):A4346.

Improved survival of Danish cancer patients 2007-2009 compared with earlier 
periods.

Storm HH(1), Kejs AM, Engholm G.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prevention and Documentation, Danish Cancer Society, Strandboulevarden 
49, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark. hans@cancer.dk

INTRODUCTION: For the majority of cancers, improved long-term survival may be 
accessed from survival during the first year after diagnosis. A steady 
improvement in survival was seen both before and after the introduction of 
cancer control plans in 2000 and 2005. On the basis of data from 2007-2009, we 
studied the trend in 1-year survival after the introduction of the 2005 plan.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All cancers from 1995-2009 were studied in five 3-year 
cohorts of incident cases which were followed-up for death to the end of 2010. 
Age-standardised 1-, 3- and 5-year relative survival was calculated and 1-year 
survival presented for 2004-2006 and 2007-2009 to allow comparison with our 
previous publication.
RESULTS: The improvement over time in overall 1-year age-standardised relative 
survival was maintained with a three percentage point increase to 72% for men 
and 75% for women. Exclusion of prostate and breast cancer from calculations 
lowered relative survival to 65% and 67%, respectively; but improvement was 
maintained. Cancer sites which previously enjoyed a high survival saw the least 
or no improvement as was the case for haematological cancers, except for 
non-Hodgkin lymphoma in men. The differences in survival between men and women 
are diminishing, especially for cancers of the digestive tract.
CONCLUSION: The improvements over time in survival after introduction of the 
cancer plans were maintained for non-haematological cancers. The fast-track 
system for diagnosis and treatment introduced gradually by cancer sites until 
the end of 2008 along with some centralisation of elective surgery may have 
narrowed the gap in cancer survival between men and women for digestive tract 
cancers and may also have improved survival for other cancers, e.g. the 
sex-specific types and kidney and brain cancers.
FUNDING: not relevant.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: not relevant.

PMID: 22142575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. NCHS Data Brief. 2011 Jul;(64):1-8.

Death in the United States, 2009.

Miniño AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Center for Health 
Statistics 3311 Toledo Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

Mortality in the United States is best summarized by the age-adjusted death 
rate--a measure that accounts for changes in the age distribution of the 
population. This rate has declined in an almost uninterrupted manner since 1960. 
The death rate is now 45 percent lower than in 1960 (declining from 1,339.2 per 
100,000 standard population in 1960 to 741.0 in 2009). Although age-adjusted 
mortality has declined for all demographic groups over a period of many decades, 
long-standing gaps between black and white populations and between male and 
female populations have begun to narrow only since the mid-1990s. Many of the 
recent improvements in death rates and life expectancy for all population groups 
can be attributed to ongoing reductions in death rates from major causes of 
death, such as heart disease, cancer, stroke, and chronic lower respiratory 
diseases. The figures presented in this report are based on preliminary 
mortality data for 2009.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 22142873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2012 Mar;138(3):371-6. doi:
10.1007/s00432-011-1106-x.  Epub 2011 Dec 6.

Functional outcome after different oncological interventions in head and neck 
cancer patients.

Mücke T(1), Koschinski J, Wagenpfeil S, Wolff KD, Kanatas A, Mitchell DA, Deppe 
H, Kesting MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Klinikum Rechts der Isar der, 
Technischen Universität München, Ismaninger Str. 22, 81675 Munich, Germany. 
th.mucke@gmx.de

PURPOSE: Patient-reported outcomes following head and neck cancer are of great 
importance given the functional, psychological, and social impacts of the 
disease and its treatment. With an increasing number of publications on HRQOL 
following head and neck cancer and a growing awareness of the potential role of 
HRQOL in practice, it was our aim to investigate head and neck functional 
mobility that is often not taking into account in HRQOL scores.
METHODS: In this prospective study, three different groups of 32 patients each 
were included. Any patient who had histologically confirmed invasive OSCC in the 
anterior floor of the mouth was eligible. All patients were examined by a 
standardized test assessing function, including the distance of mouth opening, 
extension, flexion, and rotation of the head.
RESULTS: A total of 96 patients were included in this study. The mean age was 
62.79 ± 8.93 years. Head and neck mobility measured in patients is presented and 
analyzed. Compared to the baseline, a significant reduction of mouth opening and 
head and neck mobility was noted in all groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Although both treatment options (surgery and surgery with 
radiotherapy) were performed according to the tumor stage of patients, there are 
significant differences in the functional outcome of these patients as observed 
in this study. There is a lack of a measuring instrument that will be the "gold 
standard" in the assessment of head and neck functional mobility. This study 
will allow the reflection of our current practice and may stimulate further 
well-designed prospective studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-011-1106-x
PMID: 22143103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Prev Med Public Health. 2011 Nov;44(6):242-8. doi: 
10.3961/jpmph.2011.44.6.242.

Deprivation and mortality at the town level in Busan, Korea: an ecological 
study.

Choi MH(1), Cheong KS, Cho BM, Hwang IK, Kim CH, Kim MH, Hwang SS, Lim JH, Yoon 
TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive & Occupational Medicine, School of Medicine, Pusan 
National University, Busan, Korea. yoonth@pusan.ac.kr

Comment in
    J Korean Med Sci. 2017 Dec;32(12):1905.

OBJECTIVES: Busan is reported to have the highest mortality rate among 16 
provinces in Korea, as well as considerable health inequality across its 
districts. This study sought to examine overall and cause-specific mortality and 
deprivation at the town level in Busan, thereby identifying towns and causes of 
deaths to be targeted for improving overall health and alleviating health 
inequality.
METHODS: Standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) for all-cause and four specific 
leading causes of death were calculated at the town level in Busan for the years 
2005 through 2008. To construct a deprivation index, principal components and 
factor analysis were adopted, using 10% sample data from the 2005 census. 
Geographic information system (GIS) mapping techniques were applied to compare 
spatial distributions between the deprivation index and SMRs. We fitted the 
Gaussian conditional autoregressive model (CAR) to estimate the relative risks 
of mortality by deprivation level, controlling for both the heterogeneity effect 
and spatial autocorrelation.
RESULTS: The SMRs of towns in Busan averaged 100.3, ranging from 70.7 to 139.8. 
In old inner cities and towns reclaimed for replaced households, the deprivation 
index and SMRs were relatively high. CAR modeling showed that gaps in SMRs for 
heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and physical injury were particularly 
high.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that more deprived towns are likely to have 
higher mortality, in particular from cardiovascular disease and physical injury. 
To improve overall health status and address health inequality, such deprived 
towns should be targeted.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.2011.44.6.242
PMCID: PMC3249263
PMID: 22143174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest with 
the material presented in this paper.


100. Int Orthop. 2012 Feb;36(2):405-11. doi: 10.1007/s00264-011-1425-1. Epub 2011
Dec  6.

Treatment of spondylodiscitis.

Zarghooni K(1), Röllinghoff M, Sobottke R, Eysel P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery, ZKS (BMBF 01KN1106), University 
of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. kourosh.zarghooni@uk-koeln.de

PURPOSE: Pyogenic infections of the spine are relatively rare with an incidence 
between 1:100,000 and 1:250,000 per year, but the incidence is increasing due to 
increases in average life-expectancy, risk factors, and medical comorbidities. 
The mean time in hospital varies from 30 to 57 days and the hospital mortality 
is reported to be 2-17%. This article presents the relevant literature and our 
experience of conservative and surgical treatment of pyogenic spondylodiscitis.
METHOD: We have performed a review of the relevant literature and report the 
results of our own research in the diagnosis and treatment of pyogenic 
spondylodiscitis. We present a sequential algorithm for identification of the 
pathogen with blood cultures, CT-guided biopsies and intraoperative tissue 
samples. Basic treatment principles and indications for surgery and our surgical 
strategies are discussed.
RESULTS: Recent efforts have been directed toward early mobilisation of patients 
using primary stable surgical techniques that lead to a further reduction of the 
mortality. Currently our hospital mortality in patients with spondylodiscitis is 
around 2%. With modern surgical and antibiotic treatment, a relapse of 
spondylodiscitis is unlikely to occur. In literature the relapse rate of 0-7% 
has been recorded. Overall the quality of life seems to be more favourable in 
patients following surgical treatment of spondylodiscitis.
CONCLUSION: With close clinical and radiological monitoring of patients with 
spondylodiscitis, conservative and surgical therapies have become more 
successful. When indicated, surgical stabilisation of the infected segments is 
mandatory for control of the disease and immediate mobilisation of the patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-011-1425-1
PMCID: PMC3282845
PMID: 22143315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2012 Jun;15(2):202-9. doi:
10.1038/pcan.2011.62.  Epub 2011 Dec 6.

Development and external validation of a nomogram for predicting cancer 
probability at initial prostate biopsy using the life expectancy- and prostate 
volume-adjusted biopsy scheme.

Nomura M(1), Ito K, Miyakubo M, Sekine Y, Tamura Y, Shimizu N, Aoki S, Suzuki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Maebashi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We previously reported the diagnostic efficacy of the age- and 
prostate volume-adjusted prostate biopsy method (the adjusted biopsy method). 
Here, we developed a new nomogram for predicting cancer probability at initial 
biopsy using the adjusted method.
METHODS: Between 2002 and 2010, 1059 Japanese men with PSA levels between 1.1 
and 40 ng ml(-1) and biopsied for the first time using the adjusted method at 
Gunma University Hospital were enrolled. All subjects underwent digital rectal 
examination (DRE) and transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS). Data from the initial 
849 subjects were used for development of the nomogram and those from the final 
210 subjects were used for internal validation. External validation was 
conducted using data from two affiliated hospitals where the same adjusted 
biopsy method was used. The nomogram was developed through logistic regression 
analysis, and predictive accuracy and performance characteristics were assessed 
using the area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristics 
and calibration plots. Furthermore, we compared the predictive accuracy of the 
newly developed nomogram with the 'Prostate Risk Indicator' using the 
development data set, as well as the two external data sets.
RESULTS: The AUC of the logistic regression-based nomogram was significantly 
higher than those of any single clinical parameter. External validation showed 
significant correlations with the present model. The AUC-receiver operating 
characteristic of the 'Prostate Risk Indicator' was the second largest following 
the new nomogram using the development data set and one external data set and 
almost equal to the new nomogram using the other external data set.
CONCLUSIONS: Nevertheless the present model does not include somewhat subjective 
findings on TRUS abnormality, which is necessary for the estimation by 'Prostate 
Risk Indicator', the predictive accuracy of the present simple nomogram could be 
excellent enough to contribute to accurate shared decision-making between 
doctors and men who are candidates for the adjusted biopsy scheme.

DOI: 10.1038/pcan.2011.62
PMID: 22143446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Health Stat Q. 2011 Winter;(52):33-61. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2011.17.

The effect of lengthening life expectancy on future pension and long-term care 
expenditure in England, 2007 to 2032.

Malley J(1), Hancock R, Murphy M, Adams J, Wittenberg R, Comas-Herrera A, Curry 
C, King D, James S, Morciano M, Pickard L.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this analysis is to examine the effect of different 
assumptions about future trends in life expectancy (LE) on the sustainability of 
the pensions and long-term care (LTC) systems. The context is the continuing 
debate in England about the reform of state pensions and the reform of the 
system for financing care and support.
METHODS: Macro and micro simulation models are used to make projections of 
future public expenditure on LTC services for older people and on state pensions 
and related benefits, making alternative assumptions on increases in future LE. 
The projections cover the period 2007 to 2032 and relate to England.
RESULTS: Results are presented for a base case and for specified variants to the 
base case. The base case assumes that the number of older people by age and 
gender rises in line with the Office for National Statistics' principal 
2006-based population projection for England. It also assumes no change in 
disability rates, no changes in patterns of care, no changes in policy and rises 
in unit care costs and real average earnings by 2 per cent per year. Under these 
assumptions public expenditure on pensions and related benefits is projected to 
rise from 4.7 per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2007 to 6.2 per cent 
of GDP in 2032 and public expenditure on LTC from 0.9 per cent of GDP in 2007 to 
1.6 per cent of GDP in 2032. Under a very high LE variant to the GAD principal 
projection, however, public expenditure on pensions and related benefits is 
projected to reach 6.8 per cent of GDP in 2032 and public expenditure on LTC 1.7 
per cent of GDP in 2032.
CONCLUSIONS: Policymakers developing reform proposals need to recognise that, 
since future LE is inevitably uncertain and since variant assumptions about 
future LE significantly affect expenditure projections, there is a degree of 
uncertainty about the likely impact of demographic pressures on future public 
expenditure on pensions and LTC.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2011.17
PMID: 22143594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Tierarztl Prax Ausg K Kleintiere Heimtiere. 2011;39(4):229-36.

[Quality of life and life expectancy of dogs undergoing chemotherapy for 
malignant lymphoma. An owner survey].

[Article in German]

Bergmann M(1), Sauter-Louis C, Hirschberger J.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Kleintierklinik der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, 
Veterinärstraße 13, 80539 München.

OBJECTIVE: The outcome of palliative chemotherapy in dogs with lymphoma was 
evaluated. Special emphasis was placed on the quality of life during 
chemotherapy. In addition, factors which were important for the owners in 
estimating their dogs' quality of life and for the assessment of therapy were 
recorded.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In a retrospective study the owners of 207 dogs that had 
undergone chemotherapy at the Clinic of Small Animal Medicine, University of 
Munich during the previous 13 years, were asked about their dogs' course of 
disease and therapy by using a specially designed questionnaire.
RESULTS: A total of 123 owners (59.4%) responded to the questionnaire. Quality 
of life improved in 64 dogs (53.3%) during chemotherapy. In only 24 dogs (20.0%) 
was a decline in the quality of life recorded, that directly correlated with 
remission status and side effects. The overall remission rate in dogs undergoing 
chemotherapy was 83.7%.
CONCLUSION: Despite treatment complications, the majority of the owners (65.0%) 
were satisfied by the chemotherapy of their dogs. Ninety owners (73.2%) would 
have treated their animal with chemotherapy again; for this decision prolonged 
survival was an important factor.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In dogs with cancer the quality of life needs to be 
monitored constantly during palliative chemotherapy. This assessment helps to 
choose the appropriate chemotherapy protocol and facilitates the decision on 
further treatment options by the owner and the veterinarian.

PMID: 22143660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. N Z Med J. 2011 Nov 25;124(1346):103.

Valuation of lives 'saved' via control of urban air pollution.

Hoare J.

Erratum in
    N Z Med J. 2011 Dec 16;124(1347):132.

PMID: 22143863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Circulation. 2012 Jan 17;125(2):260-70. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.041293.  Epub 2011 Dec 5.

Using stress testing to guide primary prevention of coronary heart disease among 
intermediate-risk patients: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Galper BZ(1), Moran A, Coxson PG, Pletcher MJ, Heidenreich P, Lazar LD, Rodondi 
N, Wang YC, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Cardiovascular Division, 75 Francis St, Boston, 
MA 02115, USA. bgalper@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Noninvasive stress testing might guide the use of aspirin and 
statins for primary prevention of coronary heart disease, but it is unclear if 
such a strategy would be cost effective.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We compared the status quo, in which the current national 
use of aspirin and statins was simulated, with 3 other strategies: (1) full 
implementation of Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines, (2) a treat-all strategy 
in which all intermediate-risk persons received statins (men and women) and 
aspirin (men only), and (3) a test-and-treat strategy in which all persons with 
an intermediate risk of coronary heart disease underwent stress testing and 
those with a positive test were treated with high-intensity statins (men and 
women) and aspirin (men only). Healthcare costs, coronary heart disease events, 
and quality-adjusted life years from 2011 to 2040 were projected. Under a 
variety of assumptions, the treat-all strategy was the most effective and least 
expensive strategy. Stress electrocardiography was more effective and less 
expensive than other test-and-treat strategies, but it was less expensive than 
treat all only if statin cost exceeded $3.16/pill or if testing increased 
adherence from <22% to >75%. However, stress electrocardiography could be cost 
effective in persons initially nonadherent to the treat-all strategy if it 
raised their adherence to 5% and cost saving if it raised their adherence to 
13%.
CONCLUSIONS: When generic high-potency statins are available, noninvasive 
cardiac stress testing to target preventive medications is not cost effective 
unless it substantially improves adherence.

© 2011 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.041293
PMCID: PMC3265963
PMID: 22144567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None


106. PLoS Comput Biol. 2011 Dec;7(12):e1002289. doi:
10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002289.  Epub 2011 Dec 1.

Modelling the spread of HIV immune escape mutants in a vaccinated population.

Fryer HR(1), McLean AR.

Author information:
(1)The Institute for Emerging Infections, The Oxford Martin School, Department 
of Zoology, Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom. helen.fryer@zoo.ox.ac.uk

Because cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) have been shown to play a role in 
controlling human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and because CTL-based 
simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) vaccines have proved effective in non-human 
primates, one goal of HIV vaccine design is to elicit effective CTL responses in 
humans. Such a vaccine could improve viral control in patients who later become 
infected, thereby reducing onwards transmission and enhancing life expectancy in 
the absence of treatment. The ability of HIV to evolve mutations that evade CTLs 
and the ability of these 'escape mutants' to spread amongst the population poses 
a challenge to the development of an effective and robust vaccine. We present a 
mathematical model of within-host evolution and between-host transmission of CTL 
escape mutants amongst a population receiving a vaccine that elicits CTL 
responses to multiple epitopes. Within-host evolution at each epitope is 
represented by the outgrowth of escape mutants in hosts who restrict the epitope 
and their reversion in hosts who do not restrict the epitope. We use this model 
to investigate how the evolution and spread of escape mutants could affect the 
impact of a vaccine. We show that in the absence of escape, such a vaccine could 
markedly reduce the prevalence of both infection and disease in the population. 
However the impact of such a vaccine could be significantly abated by CTL escape 
mutants, especially if their selection in hosts who restrict the epitope is 
rapid and their reversion in hosts who do not restrict the epitope is slow. We 
also use the model to address whether a vaccine should span a broad or narrow 
range of CTL epitopes and target epitopes restricted by rare or common HLA 
types. We discuss the implications and limitations of our findings.

© 2011 Fryer, McLean.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002289
PMCID: PMC3228780
PMID: 22144883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


107. J Palliat Med. 2011 Dec;14(12):1339-44. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0308.

The care of the very old in the last three days of life.

Rashidi NM(1), Zordan RD, Flynn E, Philip JA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Palliative Care, St. Vincent's Hospital & University of Melbourne, 
Fitzroy, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy has increased, the age at which people are dying 
has also increased. There is limited knowledge of the experience of dying of the 
very old. We sought to examine the last 3 days of life for the very old, dying 
in a palliative care unit, focusing upon symptom burden and medications 
prescribed.
METHODS: A retrospective review of medical records of consecutive patients who 
died in two inpatient palliative care units. Information collated included 
demographic and medical information, symptom data, and medications (opioids, 
benzodiazepines and antipsychotics) administered. Analysis comparing patients 
aged 80 years and older (cases) and those in the median age range of the 
treating palliative care units, that is, those aged 50 to 70 years (comparators) 
were conducted.
RESULTS: One hundred five cases and 100 comparators were identified. Analysis 
revealed a significantly shorter length of stay in the cases (13 days) compared 
to comparators (19 days; p≤0.01).) In the last 3 days, cases received 
significantly less parenteral morphine equivalents (82.8 versus 170.5 mg, 
p<0.05), midazolam (12.1 versus 19.1 mg, p<0.05), and lorazepam equivalents (0.9 
versus 2.4 mg, p<0.01). Overall, symptom profiles between the groups were 
similar.
IMPLICATIONS: The very old appear to have a distinct experience of palliative 
inpatient care with shorter admissions, and lower requirements for medication. 
Reasons for lower medication requirements are discussed, and the need for future 
prospective studies in this area is highlighted. A better understanding of the 
needs of this population at end of life will enable adequate service planning 
and improved care.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0308
PMID: 22145894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Health Technol Assess. 2011 Dec;15(41):1-204. doi: 10.3310/hta15410.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of bortezomib and thalidomide 
in combination regimens with an alkylating agent and a corticosteroid for the 
first-line treatment of multiple myeloma: a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Picot J(1), Cooper K, Bryant J, Clegg AJ.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common haematological 
cancer in the UK. MM is not curable but can be treated with a combination of 
supportive measures and chemotherapy that aim to extend the duration and quality 
of survival. The majority of patients are not able to withstand intensive 
treatment, such as high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell 
transplantation (SCT), and so they are offered single-agent or combination 
chemotherapy. Combination therapies typically include chemotherapy with an 
alkylating agent and a corticosteroid. More recently, combination therapies have 
incorporated drugs such as thalidomide (Thalidomide Celgene®, Celgene) and 
bortezomib (Velcade®, Janssen-Cilag).
OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
bortezomib or thalidomide in combination chemotherapy regimens with an 
alkylating agent and a corticosteroid for the first-line treatment of MM.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic bibliographic databases, including MEDLINE, EMBASE and 
The Cochrane Library, were searched from 1999 to 2009 for English-language 
articles. Bibliographies of articles, grey literature sources and manufacturers' 
submissions were also searched. Experts in the field were asked to identify 
additional published and unpublished references.
REVIEW METHODS: Titles and abstracts were screened for eligibility by two 
reviewers independently. The inclusion criteria specified in the protocol were 
applied to the full text of retrieved papers by one reviewer and checked 
independently by a second reviewer. Data extraction and quality assessment were 
undertaken by one reviewer and checked by a second reviewer. Differences in 
opinion were resolved through discussion at each stage. A cost-utility 
decision-analytic model was used to compare the cost-effectiveness estimates of 
bortezomib in combination with melphalan and prednisolone/prednisone (VMP), 
thalidomide in combination with cyclophosphamide and attenuated dexamethasone 
(CTDa), and thalidomide in combination with melphalan and 
prednisolone/prednisone (MPT) versus melphalan and prednisolone/prednisone (MP).
RESULTS: A total of 1436 records were screened and 40 references were retrieved 
for the systematic review of clinical effectiveness. Five randomised controlled 
trials (RCTs) met the inclusion criteria for the review: one RCT evaluated VMP, 
three evaluated MPT and one evaluated CTDa. The comparator in all of the 
included trials was MP. The review found that VMP and MPT can both be considered 
more clinically effective than MP for the first-line treatment of MM in people 
for whom high-dose therapy and SCT would not be appropriate. CTDa was more 
effective than MP in terms of complete response but data on survival outcomes 
did not meet the inclusion criteria. Cost-effectiveness analysis indicated that 
MPT has a greater probability of being cost-effective than either VMP or CTDa.
LIMITATIONS: For most RCTs, details needed to judge study quality were 
incompletely reported. All studies stated that the analyses followed 
intention-to-treat principles but none adequately reported data censoring. Only 
one RCT contributed data on VMP and the published peer-reviewed follow-up data 
were immature. For MPT, overall survival data from two trials were eligible for 
inclusion but the doses of thalidomide differed between the trials and the 
treatment period was not reflective of current UK practice so the 
generalisability of the findings was uncertain. Two RCTs had a maintenance phase 
with thalidomide that did not meet the inclusion criteria so some of these 
results were not eligible for the review. Limited evidence on health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) was provided by the single trial of VMP versus MP.
CONCLUSIONS: Service provision is unlikely to change greatly. As uncertainties 
remain, further research is needed regarding the use of bortezomib- and 
