Merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy type 1A (MDC1A) is a lethal 
muscle-wasting disease that is caused by mutations in the LAMA2 gene, resulting 
in the loss of laminin-α2 protein. MDC1A patients exhibit severe muscle weakness 
from birth, are confined to a wheelchair, require ventilator assistance, and 
have reduced life expectancy. There are currently no effective treatments or 
cures for MDC1A. Laminin-α2 is required for the formation of heterotrimeric 
laminin-211 (ie, α2, β1, and γ1) and laminin-221 (ie, α2, β2, and γ1), which are 
major constituents of skeletal muscle basal lamina. Laminin-111 (ie, α1, β1, and 
γ1) is the predominant laminin isoform in embryonic skeletal muscle and supports 
normal skeletal muscle development in laminin-α2-deficient muscle but is absent 
from adult skeletal muscle. In this study, we determined whether treatment with 
Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm-derived mouse laminin-111 protein could rescue MDC1A in 
the dy(W-/-) mouse model. We demonstrate that laminin-111 protein systemically 
delivered to the muscles of laminin-α2-deficient mice prevents muscle pathology, 
improves muscle strength, and dramatically increases life expectancy. 
Laminin-111 also prevented apoptosis in laminin-α2-deficient mouse muscle and 
primary human MDC1A myogenic cells, which indicates a conserved mechanism of 
action and cross-reactivity between species. Our results demonstrate that 
laminin-111 can serve as an effective protein substitution therapy for the 
treatment of muscular dystrophy in the dy(W-/-) mouse model and establish the 
potential for its use in the treatment of MDC1A.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2011.12.019
PMCID: PMC3349899
PMID: 22322301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Pharm Stat. 2012 Mar-Apr;11(2):135-40. doi: 10.1002/pst.514. Epub 2012 Feb
10.

Asymptotic properties of mean survival estimate based on the Kaplan-Meier curve 
with an extrapolated tail.

Gong Q(1), Fang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Asymptotic distribution of the mean survival time based on the Kaplan-Meier 
curve with an extrapolated 'tail' is derived. A closed formula of the variance 
estimate is provided. Asymptotic properties of the estimator were studied in a 
simulation study, which showed that this estimator was unbiased with proper 
coverage probability and followed a normal distribution. An example is used to 
demonstrate the application of this estimator.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pst.514
PMID: 22323424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 Jun;40(11):4998-5011. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks070. Epub
2012  Feb 9.

The DEAD-box helicase DDX3 supports the assembly of functional 80S ribosomes.

Geissler R(1), Golbik RP, Behrens SE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Sciences (NFI), 
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Kurt-Mothes-Str. 3, D-06120 
Halle/Saale, Germany.

The DEAD-box helicase DDX3 has suggested functions in innate immunity, mRNA 
translocation and translation, and it participates in the propagation of 
assorted viruses. Exploring initially the role of DDX3 in the life cycle of 
hepatitis C virus, we observed the protein to be involved in translation 
directed by different viral internal ribosomal entry sites. Extension of these 
studies revealed a general supportive role of DDX3 in translation initiation. 
DDX3 was found to interact in an RNA-independent manner with defined components 
of the translational pre-initiation complex and to specifically associate with 
newly assembling 80S ribosomes. DDX3 knock down and in vitro reconstitution 
experiments revealed a significant function of the protein in the formation of 
80S translation initiation complexes. Our study implies that DDX3 assists the 
60S subunit joining process to assemble functional 80S ribosomes.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks070
PMCID: PMC3367175
PMID: 22323517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2012 Feb;94(2):200-4. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.94B2.28114.

Predictors of mortality after total knee replacement: a ten-year survivorship 
analysis.

Clement ND(1), Jenkins PJ, Brenkel IJ, Walmsley P.

Author information:
(1)Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, 51 Little France Crescent, Old Dalkeith Road, 
Edinburgh EH16 4SA, UK. nickclement@doctors.org.uk

We report the general mortality rate after total knee replacement and identify 
independent predictors of survival. We studied 2428 patients: there were 1127 
men (46%) and 1301 (54%) women with a mean age of 69.3 years (28 to 94). 
Patients were allocated a predicted life expectancy based on their age and 
gender. There were 223 deaths during the study period. This represented an 
overall survivorship of 99% (95% confidence interval (CI) 98 to 99) at one year, 
90% (95% CI 89 to 92) at five years, and 84% (95% CI 82 to 86) at ten years. 
There was no difference in survival by gender. A greater mortality rate was 
associated with increasing age (p < 0.001), American Society of 
Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade (p < 0.001), smoking (p < 0.001), body mass index 
(BMI) < 20 kg/m(2) (p < 0.001) and rheumatoid arthritis (p < 0.001). 
Multivariate modelling confirmed the independent effect of age, ASA grade, BMI, 
and rheumatoid disease on mortality. Based on the predicted average mortality, 
114 patients were predicted to have died, whereas 217 actually died. This 
resulted in an overall excess standardised mortality ratio of 1.90. Patient 
mortality after TKR is predicted by their demographics: these could be used to 
assign an individual mortality risk after surgery.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.94B2.28114
PMID: 22323686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Ann Agric Environ Med. 2011;18(2):194-202.

Epidemiological analysis of health situation development in Europe and its 
causes until 1990.

Zatoński WA(1); HEM project team.

Collaborators: Zatonski W, Manczuk M, Sulkowska U, Didkowska J, Wojciechowska U, 
Tarkowski W, Przewozniak K, Gumkowski J, Janik-Koncewicz K, Boffetta P, Campos 
H, LaVecchia C, Powles J, Rehm J, Willet W, Negri E, Aaro L, Boyle P, Gilmore A, 
Jougla E, Moreno JM, Lowenfels A, Paccaud F, Peto R, Petric VK, Puska P, 
Klumbiene J, Pudule I, Kiivet R, Aaviksoo A, Albreht T, Kaposvari C, Dimitrov P, 
Holcatova I, Pilipcinova A, Poledne R, Marcinkova D, Furtunescu F, Bagnardi V, 
Baliunas D, Brozova J, Vrbanova H, Bene M, West R, Jarvis M, Bohm G, Kunze M, 
Gisle L, Joossens L, Storm H, Laatikainen T, Wilquin JJ, Ratte S, Thyrian R, 
Gallus S, Zeegers T, Prins T, Munoz EF, Karlsson AS, Halicka E, Lund J, 
Moskalewicz J, Patra J, Pavillon G, Popova S, Scotti L, Taylor B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention, Maria Skłodowska-Curie 
Cancer Centre and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland. canepid@coi.waw.pl

The enormous health gap between the 'new' (eastern) and 'old' (western) parts of 
the EU has evolved over many decades. The epidemiological transition - that is 
the decrease in the relative importance of infant and early child mortality and 
the shift in the composition of mortality risks from communicable to 
non-communicable diseases - which started in the western part of the region at 
the beginning of the 20th century, was substantially delayed in most of eastern 
Europe. However, after the World War II, health improvement in the east 
initially out-paced the west, such that, by the mid-1960s, only 1-2 years 
separated the average life expectancy for both sexes between the east and west. 
This convergence was short-lived and it reversed dramatically between the mid 
1960s and 1990. During this period, adult health status in the east stagnated or 
deteriorated, whereas in the west it improved steadily: by 1990, life expectancy 
at the age of 20 years was more than fi ve years shorter in the east for men, 
and more than four years shorter for women. The biggest contributors to the 
health gap were cardiovascular diseases and injuries. A substantial fraction of 
the gap can, with confidence, be attributed to the higher volume and more 
irregular pattern of alcohol consumption in the east, and to the delayed onset 
of the tobacco smoking epidemics. Much of the remainder of the gap is likely to 
be attributable to the composition of the diet, but the contribution of 
different dietary factors cannot be estimated with confidence. Leading 
candidates are a high consumption of saturated animal fats, a low consumption of 
fresh fruit and vegetables (especially in winter and spring), a very low 
consumption of fats supplying omega 3 fatty acids – both vegetable oils and fi 
sh oils rich in alpha-linolenic acid – and a high consumption of salt. 
Behaviours unfavourable to health did not change in the east, as they did in the 
west in response to the credible dissemination of scientific findings linking 
disease and injury risks both to individual behaviours and to the social and 
economic circumstances that fostered those behaviours. The eastern countries 
failed to equip themselves with the science and with the forms of social 
organisation that were needed to effectively counter epidemics of chronic 
disease and injury. The poor health-related behavioural determinants resulted 
from the institutional infrastructures based on an authoritarian, conservative 
and medicalised model of health, which inhibited modern approaches to social 
problems, an almost exclusive focus of epidemiology on communicable as opposed 
to non-communicable diseases, a lack of understanding and access to modern 
epidemiology and public health, a lack of understanding and access to 
evidence-based medicine, and a lack of public health education and health 
promotion.

PMID: 22324071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Epidemics. 2012 Mar;4(1):43-7. doi: 10.1016/j.epidem.2011.12.002. Epub 2012
Jan  2.

The protective effects of temporary immunity under imposed infection pressure.

Swart AN(1), Tomasi M, Kretzschmar M, Havelaar AH, Diekmann O.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health and The Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands. arno.swart@rivm.nl

The aim of this paper is to show in explicit detail that, due to the effects of 
waning and boosting of immunity, an increasing force of infection does not 
necessarily lead to an increase in the incidence of disease. Under certain 
conditions, a decrease of the force of infection may in fact lead to an increase 
of the incidence of disease. Thus we confirm and reinforce the conclusions from 
Águas et al. (2006), concerning pertussis. We do so, however, in the context of 
Campylobacter infections in humans deriving from animal reservoirs. For such an 
externally 'driven' epidemic we can ignore the transmission feedback cycle and 
treat the force of infection as a parameter. As this parameter is, to a certain 
extent, under public health control, our findings constitute an important 
warning: reducing exposure may not necessarily lead to a reduction in the 
occurrence of clinical illness. In a second part of the paper we relate the 
model parameters to the available data concerning campylobacteriosis.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.epidem.2011.12.002
PMID: 22325013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2012 Jun;13(5):464-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2012.01.002.
Epub  2012 Feb 10.

Nonreferral of nursing home patients with suspected breast cancer.

Hamaker ME(1), Hamelinck VC, van Munster BC, Bastiaannet E, Smorenburg CH, 
Achterberg WP, Liefers GJ, de Rooij SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Diakonessenhuis Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
mhamaker@diakhuis.nl

INTRODUCTION: People with suspected breast cancer who are not referred for 
diagnostic testing remain unregistered and are not included in cancer 
statistics. Little is known about the extent of and motivation for nonreferral 
of these patients.
METHODS: A Web-based survey was sent to all elderly care physicians (ECPs) 
registered at the National Association of Elderly Care Physicians and Social 
Geriatricians in the Netherlands, inquiring about the number of patients with 
suspected breast cancer they encountered and subsequent choices regarding 
referral.
RESULTS: Surveys were completed by 419 (34%) of 1239 ECPs; 249 (60%) of these 
had encountered one or more patients with suspected breast cancer in the past 
year. Seventy-four (33%) ECPs reported not referring the last patient. Reasons 
for nonreferral were end-stage dementia (57%), patient/family preference (29%), 
and limited life expectancy (23%). Referral was frequently thought to be too 
burdensome (13%). For 16% of nonreferred patients, hormonal treatment was 
started by the ECP without diagnostic confirmation of cancer.
CONCLUSION: In this survey, more than 33% of nursing home patients with 
suspected breast cancer were not referred for further testing, in particular 
those with advanced dementia, limited life expectancy, and poor functional 
status. As the combination of dementia and suspected breast cancer is expected 
to double in the coming decades, now is the time to optimize cancer care for 
these vulnerable patients.

Copyright © 2012 American Medical Directors Association, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2012.01.002
PMID: 22325239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Int Psychogeriatr. 2012 Jul;24(7):1034-45. doi: 10.1017/S1041610211002924.
Epub  2012 Feb 13.

Dementia time to death: a systematic literature review on survival time and 
years of life lost in people with dementia.

Brodaty H(1), Seeher K, Gibson L.

Author information:
(1)Dementia Collaborative Research Centre, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia. h.brodaty@unsw.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy with dementia directly influences rates of 
prevalence and service needs and is a common question posed by families and 
patients. As well as years of survival, it is useful to consider years of life 
lost after a diagnosis of dementia.
METHODS: We systematically reviewed the literature on mortality and survival 
with dementia which were compared to estimated life expectancies in the general 
population. Both were then compared by age (under 65 years vs. 65+ years), 
gender, dementia type, severity, and two epochs (prior to and after introduction 
of cholinesterase inhibitors in 1997).
RESULTS: Survival after a diagnosis of dementia varies considerably and depends 
on numerous factors and their complex interaction. Relative loss of life 
expectancy decreases with age at diagnosis across varying gender, dementia 
subtypes (except for frontotemporal dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies), and 
severity stages. Numerous study deficiencies precluded a meta-analysis of 
survival in dementia.
CONCLUSION: Estimates of years of life lost through dementia may be helpful for 
patients and their families. Recommendations for future research methods are 
proposed.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610211002924
PMID: 22325331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Public Health. 2012 Mar;126(3):248-252. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2011.11.017.
Epub  2012 Feb 10.

Changing trends of diseases in Eastern Europe: closing the gap.

Zatonski WA(1), Bhala N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention, M. Sklodowska-Curie 
Memorial, Cancer Centre and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland; European 
Health Inequalities Observatory, Institute of Rural Health, Lublin, Poland. 
Electronic address: zatonskiw@coi.waw.pl.
(2)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, Nuffield 
Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Public Health. 2013 Feb;127(2):189-90.
    Public Health. 2013 Feb;127(2):191-2.

One of the greatest challenges in Europe at the beginning of the 21st Century is 
the wide east-west health gap. In 2008, the difference in life expectancy 
between men in some Western European countries and Russia was 20 years. Whilst 
trends for life expectancy at birth have improved in many areas around the 
world, those for Russia, as well as those for some other former Soviet Union 
countries, have fluctuated greatly and have not shown signs of growth since the 
middle of the 20th Century. This problem is most acute in Russia and former 
Soviet Union countries, but is also far from being solved in the states that 
have made significant progress since 1990 and joined the European Union in the 
21st Century. One of the priorities of the Polish presidency of the European 
Union, which began in July 2011, is the call for a European solidarity for 
health that could help to close the health gap dividing Europe.

Copyright Â© 2011 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2011.11.017
PMID: 22325674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Clin Ther. 2012 Feb;34(2):468-79. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.01.012.

Costs of trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy for HER2-positive advanced 
gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer: an economic evaluation in the 
Chinese context.

Wu B(1), Ye M, Chen H, Shen JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, 
Renji Hospital, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Adding trastuzumab to a conventional regimen of chemotherapy can 
improve survival in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2)-positive advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancer, but 
the economic impact of this practice is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this cost-effectiveness analysis was to estimate the 
effects of adding trastuzumab to standard chemotherapy in patients with 
HER2-positive advanced gastric or GEJ cancer on health and economic outcomes in 
China.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate the clinical course of typical 
patients with HER2-positive advanced gastric or GEJ cancer. Five-year 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were estimated. Model inputs were derived from the published 
literature and government sources. Direct costs were estimated from the 
perspective of Chinese society. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were conducted.
RESULTS: On baseline analysis, the addition of trastuzumab increased cost and 
QALY by $56,004.30 (year-2010 US $) and 0.18, respectively, relative to 
conventional chemotherapy, resulting in an ICER of $251,667.10/QALY gained. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analyses supported that the addition of trastuzumab 
was not cost-effective. Budgetary impact analysis estimated that the annual 
increase in fiscal expenditures would be ~$1 billion. On univariate sensitivity 
analysis, the median overall survival time for conventional chemotherapy was the 
most influential factor with respect to the robustness of the model.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from the present analysis suggest that the addition of 
trastuzumab to conventional chemotherapy might not be cost-effective in patients 
with HER2-positive advanced gastric or GEJ cancer.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.01.012
PMID: 22325735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Eur J Cancer. 2012 Sep;48(13):1969-76. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2012.01.012. Epub
 2012 Feb 9.

Incremental cost-effectiveness of the pre- and post-bevacizumab eras of 
metastatic colorectal cancer therapy in British Columbia, Canada.

Hedden L(1), Kennecke H, Villa D, Johnston K, Speers C, Kovacic L, Renouf DJ, 
Peacock S.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control (ARCC), 2nd floor, BC 
Cancer Research Centre, 675 West 10th Avenue, Vancouver, BC, Canada V5Z 1L3.

OBJECTIVES: Bevacizumab, with 5-Fluorouracil-based therapy, has been shown to 
prolong survival among patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), at a 
relatively high cost. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of therapy for mCRC in 
the eras prior to, and following, the introduction of bevacizumab on a 
population basis.
METHODS: All patients with newly-diagnosed mCRC in 2003/2004 (the 
pre-bevacizumab era) and 2006 (the post-bevacizumab era) referred to the British 
Columbia Cancer Agency were included. A cost-utility/cost-effectiveness analysis 
was conducted using 'real-world' data and a Markov approach. Costs were 
estimated from provincial pharmacy and radiation databases, as well as national 
inpatient, day-surgery and ambulatory care data sources. Cost per quality 
adjusted life year gained (QALY) and life year gained (LYG) ratios were 
calculated, and one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to 
test the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: Median overall survival improved from 15.6 to 19.5 months (p = 0.03). 
For patients in the post-bevacizumab era there was a gain of an average of 0.06 
QALYs or 0.325 LYG at a cost increase of $3791 per patient, resulting in a 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $62,469/QALY or $15,617/LYG. This 
improved to $43,058/QALY or $10,764/LYG when the analysis was restricted to 
patients potentially eligible for bevacizumab. Results were generally robust to 
changes in model parameters, but were sensitive to the costs of chemotherapy and 
to differential utilities used in the Markov model.
CONCLUSIONS: The introduction of bevacizumab was associated with increased 
costs, but cost-effectiveness estimates were in-line with those reported for 
other cancer therapies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2012.01.012
PMID: 22325838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Clin Geriatr Med. 2012 Feb;28(1):1-18. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2011.09.001.

Cancer and age: general considerations.

Hoffe S(1), Balducci L.

Author information:
(1)Moffitt Cancer Center at International Plaza, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

Cancer in the older person is increasingly common. The biological interactions 
of cancer with age are only partly understood and may provide some clues to 
future forms of cancer prevention and treatment. Management-related decisions in 
a population with limited life expectancy and limited functional reserve should 
be based on the natural history of the cancer, the patient’s life expectancy, 
and the patient’s tolerance of treatment. In addition, financial and caregiver 
considerations are important in assessing the treatment’s benefits and risks. 
Cooperation between geriatricians and oncologists seems to be essential to 
generate predictive models, as well as outcome information to improve the 
decision making in older cancer patients. It may also be essential in caring for 
a host of older cancer survivors. In France, this cooperation is already a 
reality that finds its expression in a network of units of oncogeriatrics 
distributed throughout the country.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2011.09.001
PMID: 22326032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Clin Geriatr Med. 2012 Feb;28(1):73-91. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2011.10.002.
Epub  2011 Nov 23.

Early breast cancer in the older woman.

VanderWalde A(1), Hurria A.

Author information:
(1)Global Development-Oncology, Amgen Inc, Thousand Oaks, CA 91320, USA. 
ariv@amgen.com

Care of the older woman with early breast cancer is of particular importance to 
both the oncologist and geriatrician because of both the prevalence of the 
disease in this population as well as the subtleties necessary in 
individualizing treatment decisions. In general, older women are able to 
tolerate many of the same modalities of treatment for early breast cancer as 
younger women, but special consideration must be given to future life 
expectancy, comorbidities, and other elements that might be identified using a 
CGA. Both short-term and long-term side effects of cancer therapies can be 
clinically important in the older woman, and appropriate screening and support 
for these toxicities are necessary.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2011.10.002
PMCID: PMC3874410
PMID: 22326036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Ageing Res Rev. 2012 Apr;11(2):325-8. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.01.002. Epub
2012  Feb 1.

Forecasting continuously increasing life expectancy: what implications?

Le Bourg E(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Paul-Sabatier, Centre de Recherche sur la Cognition Animale, UMR 
CNRS, Toulouse, France. lebourg@cict.fr

It has been proposed that life expectancy could linearly increase in the next 
decades and that median longevity of the youngest birth cohorts could reach 105 
years or more. These forecasts have been criticized but it seems that their 
implications for future maximal lifespan (i.e. the lifespan of the last 
survivors) have not been considered. These implications make these forecasts 
untenable and it is less risky to hypothesize that life expectancy and maximal 
lifespan will reach an asymptotic limit in some decades from now.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.01.002
PMID: 22326652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Can J Cardiol. 2012 Jul-Aug;28(4):403-4. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.11.019.
Epub  2012 Feb 9.

"Junk foods," "treats," or "pathogenic foods"? A call for changing nomenclature 
to fit the risk of today's diets.

Campbell NR, Raine KD, McLaren L.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2011.11.019
PMID: 22326710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. N Z Med J. 2012 Feb 10;125(1349):46-59.

Insomnia treatment in New Zealand.

O'Keeffe KM(1), Gander PH, Scott WG, Scott HM.

Author information:
(1)Sleep/Wake Research Centre, School of Public Health, Massey University 
Wellington, Wellington, New Zealand. k.m.okeeffe@massey.ac.nz

AIM: To describe insomnia treatment in New Zealand and estimate the annual 
societal costs of insomnia among New Zealanders aged 20-59 years.
METHOD: Twenty-one interviews were conducted with insomnia treatment providers 
in New Zealand using a snowballing recruitment method. Information from the 
interviews and the international literature was used to estimate treatment 
profiles, availability, uptake and costs, as the basis for a decision analytic 
model with micro costing of each potential outcome. Sensitivity analyses were 
conducted with 10,000 Monte Carlo simulations randomly varying between each 
model parameter between minimum and maximum estimates.
RESULTS: The treatment provider interviews highlighted the unstructured nature 
of insomnia treatment in New Zealand. The net cost of treating a person with 
insomnia was estimated to be -$482. The net annual benefit (saving) for treating 
insomniacs aged between 20-59 yrs was estimated at $21.8 million.
CONCLUSION: The estimated total societal costs per QALY gained by treating 
insomnia is substantially lower than the average QALY cost-effectiveness 
threshold ($6,865) of PHARMAC funding decisions for new pharmaceuticals. Thus, 
these analyses strongly support the cost-effectiveness of insomnia treatment.

PMID: 22327158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Anesth. 2012 Jun;26(3):453-5. doi: 10.1007/s00540-012-1333-6. Epub 2012
Feb  11.

Successful one-lung ventilation in a patient with the Fontan circulation 
undergoing thoracotomy: a case report.

Majima N(1), Kagawa T, Suzuki T, Kurosaki A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Osaka, Japan. 
ma393@y4.dion.ne.jp

The incidence of noncardiac surgery in patients with the Fontan circulation has 
increased over the years due to the elongated life expectancy of these patients. 
In patients with the Fontan circulation, pulmonary blood flow is passive, so it 
is important to keep pulmonary vascular resistance low. One-lung ventilation 
(OLV) can have adverse effects on the Fontan circulation due to hypoxia, hypoxic 
pulmonary vasoconstriction, hypercarbia, and increased airway pressure. We 
present a case of successful OLV in a patient with the Fontan circulation and 
describe our perioperative management.

DOI: 10.1007/s00540-012-1333-6
PMID: 22328070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2012 Jul;64(7):1094-8. doi: 10.1002/acr.21639.

Relationship between physical activity and health-related utility among knee 
osteoarthritis patients.

Manheim LM(1), Dunlop D, Song J, Semanik P, Lee J, Chang RW.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Healthcare Studies, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Rubloff, 750 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, IL 60611-3152, USA. 
l-manheim@northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the relationship between physical activity and 
health-related utility for people with knee osteoarthritis (OA) and implications 
for designing cost-effective interventions.
METHODS: We used generalized estimating equation regression analysis to estimate 
partial association of accelerometer-measured physical activity levels with 
health-related utility after controlling for demographics, health status, knee 
OA severity level, pain, and functioning.
RESULTS: Moving from the lowest to the middle tertile of physical activity level 
was associated with a 0.071 (P < 0.01) increase in health-related utility after 
controlling for demographics and a 0.036 (P < 0.05) increase in utility after 
controlling for demographics, health status, knee OA severity level, weight, 
pain, and functional impairments.
CONCLUSION: Intervention programs that move individuals out of the lowest 
tertile of physical activity have the potential to be cost effective.

Copyright © 2012 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/acr.21639
PMCID: PMC3386479
PMID: 22328141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e31115. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031115. Epub 2012 Feb
6.

Canadian valuation of EQ-5D health states: preliminary value set and 
considerations for future valuation studies.

Bansback N(1), Tsuchiya A, Brazier J, Anis A.

Author information:
(1)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. nick.bansback@ubc.ca

BACKGROUND: The EQ-5D is a preference based instrument which provides a 
description of a respondent's health status, and an empirically derived value 
for that health state often from a representative sample of the general 
population. It is commonly used to derive Quality Adjusted Life Year 
calculations (QALY) in economic evaluations. However, values for health states 
have been found to differ between countries. The objective of this study was to 
develop a set of values for the EQ-5D health states for use in Canada.
METHODS: Values for 48 different EQ-5D health states were elicited using the 
Time Trade Off (TTO) via a web survey in English. A random effect model was 
fitted to the data to estimate values for all 243 health states of the EQ-5D. 
Various model specifications were explored. Comparisons with EQ-5D values from 
the UK and US were made. Sensitivity analysis explored different transformations 
of values worse than dead, and exclusion criteria of subjects.
RESULTS: The final model was estimated from the values of 1145 subjects with 
socio-demographics broadly representative of Canadian general population with 
the exception of Quebec. This yielded a good fit with observed TTO values, with 
an overall R2 of 0.403 and a mean absolute error of 0.044.
CONCLUSION: A preference-weight algorithm for Canadian studies that include the 
EQ-5D is developed. The primary limitations regarded the representativeness of 
the final sample, given the language used (English only), the method of 
recruitment, and the difficulty in the task. Insights into potential issues for 
conducting valuation studies in countries as large and diverse as Canada are 
gained.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031115
PMCID: PMC3273479
PMID: 22328929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


604. Oncol Res. 2011;19(8-9):403-6. doi: 10.3727/096504011x13123323849799.

Compassionate use of everolimus in a patient with a neuroendocrine tumor: a case 
report and discussion of the literature.

Pusceddu S(1), Milione M, Procopio G.

Author information:
(1)Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori of Milan, Milan, Italy.

Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) represent a relatively rare form of neoplasias for 
which, in advanced unresectable stages, palliative treatment options remain 
limited largely to the use of somatostatin analogues or chemotherapy. Several 
newer targeted therapeutic options, alone or in combination with somatostatin 
analogues, are currently undergoing clinical evaluation for the treatment of 
NETs. This article reports the compassionate use of everolimus in combination 
with long-acting octreotide, in a 58-year old Italian female patient with a 
well-differentiated neuroendocrine gastric tumor who, since October 2004, has 
failed multiple previous therapies. Starting in October 2008, the patient has 
received intramuscular octreotide LAR 30 mg every 28 days plus everolimus 10 
mg/day. The patient has reported benefits of symptoms (reduction of pain 
severity), objective response [improvement of liver function (reductions in LDH, 
ALP and total bilirubin) and chromogranin A], and radiological response 
(reduction in target lesions on CT). The patient has experienced an improved 
quality of life, increased life expectancy, and remains on this well-tolerated 
treatment regimen.

DOI: 10.3727/096504011x13123323849799
PMID: 22329200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Lijec Vjesn. 2011 Nov-Dec;133(11-12):384-8.

[Multiple primary malignancies].

[Article in Croatian]

Bisof V(1), Basić-Koretić M, Juretić A, Krpan AM, Samardić KR, Rakusić Z, Santek 
F, Krajina Z, Podolski P, Sarić N, Crnjević TB.

Author information:
(1)Klinika za onkologiju, Medicinski fakultet Sveucilista u Zagrebu, KBC Zagreb. 
vesna.bisof@zg.t-com.hr

Multiple primary malignancies, metachronous or synchronous, in a single patient 
are relatively rare event with the increase of incidence in recent decades. The 
aim of this research is to study their incidence in patients hospitalized at the 
Division of Radiotherapy, Department of Oncology, University of Zagreb, School 
of medicine, University Hospital Centre Zagreb from 2003 to 2009. The incidence 
of multiple primary malignancies was 2.4%. Among 103 patients, 97 had two, and 6 
three primary tumors. Eighty-three cases were metachronous, while 20 cases were 
synchronous malignancies. The frequency was higher in females than males and 
their age at diagnosis of tumors was younger than in males. The most common 
tumor combinations in males were: prostate cancer-digestive system malignancy 
(especially colorectal cancer) and viceversa, and hematological malignant 
tumors-digestive system malignancy; while in women there were: breast 
cancer-cancer of contralateral breast and hematological malignant tumors 
(especially lymphoma non Hodgkin)-breast cancer. The incidence of multiple 
primary malignancies is expected to increase due to the better screening 
programs for early detection of malignancies as well as considerable improvement 
in their treatment and longer life expectancy.

PMID: 22329294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. BMC Public Health. 2012 Feb 13;12:122. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-122.

The economic impact of stroke in The Netherlands: the €-Restore4Stroke study.

van Eeden M(1), van Heugten CM, Evers SM.

Author information:
(1)CAPHRI, Research School for Public Health and Primary Care, Department of 
Health Services Research, Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, 
Maastricht University, PO Box 616, 6200, MD Maastricht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Stroke has a considerable socio-economic impact worldwide and is the 
leading cause of disabilities in the Western world. Economic studies of stroke 
focus merely on physical aspects and clinical interventions. To our current 
knowledge there is no comprehensive economic study investigating the economic 
impact of stroke including psychological and social aspects. The 
€-Restore4Stroke project, part of a large comprehensive research programme 
Restore4Stroke, aims to investigate the total economic impact of stroke in the 
Netherlands.
METHODS: Two trial-based economic evaluation studies will be conducted within 
the €-Restore4Stroke project: one focussing on a self-management intervention 
and one on an augmented cognitive behavioural therapy intervention. Both include 
cost-effectiveness analyses and cost-utility analyses as primary research 
methods. Furthermore, a cost-of-illness study investigating costs after stroke 
attached to a cohort study and a record linkage study in which four databases 
are linked to investigate patterns of health care consumption before and after 
stroke, are embedded in €-Restore4Stroke. All studies will be performed from a 
societal perspective. The primary outcome measure for the cost-effectiveness 
analysis is the increase in health status on the primary outcome scales. Within 
the cost-utility analysis, the primary outcome measure is quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) for which an indirect preference-based technique will be used. In 
the self-management study we will also look at the estimation of health effects 
on informal caregivers. Cost outcomes in the cost-of-illness study will be 
computed with a cost questionnaire and linkage of several databases will be used 
to derive outcomes in the record linkage study.
DISCUSSION: €-Restore4Stroke will provide new insights and evidence for the 
economic impact of psychosocial consequences after stroke. Besides being 
innovative in various ways (i.e. focussing on the chronic phase after stroke and 
including personal factors as possible determinants of long-term re-integration 
including quality of life in a prospective longitudinal design), a major 
strength of €-Restore4Stroke is that we include impact on informal caregivers. 
The outcomes of this study will provide health care decision makers with 
valuable and necessary information regarding stroke care related decisions.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NTR3051 (RCT Self-management), NTR2999 (RCT Augmented 
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-122
PMCID: PMC3305460
PMID: 22329910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Mol Microbiol. 2012 Apr;84(1):77-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2012.08008.x.
Epub  2012 Mar 5.

The Trypanosoma brucei AIR9-like protein is cytoskeleton-associated and is 
required for nucleus positioning and accurate cleavage furrow placement.

May SF(1), Peacock L, Almeida Costa CI, Gibson WC, Tetley L, Robinson DR, 
Hammarton TC.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Molecular Parasitology, Institute of Infection, 
Immunity and Inflammation, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, 
University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8TA, UK.

AIR9 is a cytoskeleton-associated protein in Arabidopsis thaliana with roles in 
cytokinesis and cross wall maturation, and reported homologues in land plants 
and excavate protists, including trypanosomatids. We show that the Trypanosoma 
brucei AIR9-like protein, TbAIR9, is also cytoskeleton-associated and 
colocalizes with the subpellicular microtubules. We find it to be expressed in 
all life cycle stages and show that it is essential for normal proliferation of 
trypanosomes in vitro. Depletion of TbAIR9 from procyclic trypanosomes resulted 
in increased cell length due to increased microtubule extension at the cell 
posterior. Additionally, the nucleus was re-positioned to a location posterior 
to the kinetoplast, leading to defects in cytokinesis and the generation of 
aberrant progeny. In contrast, in bloodstream trypanosomes, depletion of TbAIR9 
had little effect on nucleus positioning, but resulted in aberrant cleavage 
furrow placement and the generation of non-equivalent daughter cells following 
cytokinesis. Our data provide insight into the control of nucleus positioning in 
this important pathogen and emphasize differences in the cytoskeleton and cell 
cycle control between two life cycle stages of the T. brucei parasite.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2012.08008.x
PMCID: PMC3488599
PMID: 22329999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. J Spinal Cord Med. 2011 Nov;34(6):620-1. doi:
10.1179/204577211X13218754005537.

Spinal cord injury facts and figures at a glance.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1179/204577211X13218754005537
PMCID: PMC3237291
PMID: 22330120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Cad Saude Publica. 2012 Feb;28(2):208-9. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2012000200001.

Aging of the Brazilian population and challenges for the health sector.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Minayo MC.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2012000200001
PMID: 22331149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Br Med Bull. 2012;101:17-31. doi: 10.1093/bmb/lds003. Epub 2012 Feb 13.

Is the QALY blind, deaf and dumb to equity? NICE's considerations over equity.

Soares MO(1).

Author information:
(1)University of York, York, UK. ms602@york.ac.uk

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND: The quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is the preferred 
measure of health outcome used to inform decisions over the use of health care 
interventions in the UK NHS. This measure considers the overall impact of 
alternative interventions on both the quantity and quality of life.
SOURCES OF DATA: Review of the relevant literature. Areas of agreement The QALY 
assumes that health improvement is equally valued between individuals. Areas of 
controversy Some can perceive as equitable, that is fair, the assumption that 
health improvement is equally valued between individuals in the QALY. However, 
others may believe that this assumption leaves no space for alternative views 
over equity to be explicitly considered in societal decision making.
GROWING POINTS: The role of equity in decision making in the UK has been subject 
of intense debate, and controversy, and to-date there is no consensus on 
whether, or how, should NICE should change their general process.
AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: Further examination of the issues needs to 
be debated and researched.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/lds003
PMID: 22331197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Arch Ophthalmol. 2012 Apr;130(4):497-505. doi:
10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.2727.  Epub 2012 Feb 13.

Cost-effectiveness of medications compared with laser trabeculoplasty in 
patients with newly diagnosed open-angle glaucoma.

Stein JD(1), Kim DD, Peck WW, Giannetti SM, Hutton DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, 1000 
Wall St, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, USA. jdstein@med.umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the most cost-effective treatment option for patients 
with newly diagnosed mild open-angle glaucoma: observation only, treatment with 
generic topical prostaglandin analogs (PGAs), or treatment with laser 
trabeculoplasty (LTP).
METHODS: Using a Markov model with a 25-year horizon, we compared the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of treating newly diagnosed mild open-angle 
glaucoma with PGAs, LTP, or observation only.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of LTP over no treatment is $16,824 
per quality-adjusted life year. By comparison, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of PGAs over no treatment is $14,179 per quality-adjusted 
life year, and they provide greater health-related quality of life relative to 
LTP. If PGAs are 25% less effective owing to poor patient adherence, LTP can 
confer greater value.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostaglandin analogs and LTP are both cost-effective options for 
the management of newly diagnosed mild open-angle glaucoma. Assuming optimal 
medication adherence, PGAs confer greater value compared with LTP. However, when 
assuming more realistic levels of medication adherence (making them 25% less 
effective than the documented effectiveness reported in clinical trials), at 
current prices for PGAs, LTP may be a more cost-effective alternative.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2011.2727
PMCID: PMC3324653
PMID: 22332202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Trop Gastroenterol. 2011 Jul-Sep;32(3):196-203.

Asymptomatic gall stones--revisited.

Supe A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of GI Surgery, Seth GS Medical College and KEM Hospital, Parel, 
Mumbai 400012, India. avisupe@gmail.com

India has a large burden of individuals harboring asymptomatic gallstones. Based 
on Markov model decision and cost analysis, selective and concomitant 
cholecystectomy is recommended for special indications like hemolytic disorders 
and stones in endemic areas. Expectant management should be adopted in all 
others. The evolution of laparoscopy should not alter the indications of 
cholecystectomy. Since more than 90% patients with asymptomatic gallstones 
remain clinically "silent", routine laparoscopic cholecystectomy is not 
indicated for the vast majority of subjects with asymptomatic cholelithiasis. 
Although laparoscopic cholecystectomy has become much safer, there remains 
associated morbidity and mortality. The risks of the operation outweigh the 
complications if stones are left in-situ. Patients should be counseled about the 
natural history and available management options, their advantages and 
disadvantages, and should be part of the decision making process. Prophylactic 
routine cholecystectomy for asymptomatic stones is not recommended. However, 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed selectively or concomitantly in 
a specific subgroup of patients.

PMID: 22332335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Feb;60(2):361-3. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2011.03783.x.

Diabetes mellitus performance measures in individuals with limited life 
expectancy.

Lee SJ, Boyd CM.

Comment on
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Feb;60(2):193-201.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2011.03783.x
PMCID: PMC3281549
PMID: 22332676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2012 Mar;13(4):505-10. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.2012.656591. Epub 2012 Feb 15.

Management of antithrombotic therapy for acute coronary syndromes and atrial 
fibrillation in patients with hemophilia.

Mannucci PM(1).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Ca' Granda Maggiore Policlinico Hospital Foundation, Via Pace 9, 20122 
Milano, Italy. pmmannucci@libero.it

INTRODUCTION: Patients with hemophilia now have a life expectancy very close to 
that of the unaffected male population and, hence, are at risk of developing the 
classic age-related morbidities, i.e., cardiovascular diseases. The peculiarity 
of the management of these diseases in hemophilia is that antithrombotic drugs 
impinge on the already compromised hemostasis of these lifelong bleeders.
AREAS COVERED: This opinion article outlines the strategies we have developed, 
based on our clinical experience, for the antithrombotic treatment of two common 
cardiovascular diseases - acute coronary syndromes and chronic atrial 
fibrillation - in patients with hemophilia A and B.
EXPERT OPINION: In the absence of specific evidence-based guidelines for 
patients with coagulation defects, antithrombotic treatment is currently based 
on expertise and adaptation of the guidelines developed for non-hemophilic 
patients. Replacement therapy should be tailored with the deficient coagulation 
factor so as to control the increased risk of bleeding inherent in the use of 
antiplatelet and anticoagulant drugs.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2012.656591
PMID: 22332913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Mar;30(3):247-56. doi:
10.2165/11208630-000000000-00000.

Rufinamide: a pharmacoeconomic profile of its use as adjunctive therapy in 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.

McCormack PL(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Rufinamide (Inovelon®), a triazole derivative, is an oral antiepileptic drug 
approved in the EU as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of seizures associated 
with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) in patients aged ≥4 years. The efficacy of 
oral rufinamide as adjunctive therapy in patients with LGS uncontrolled on one 
to three concomitant antiepileptic drugs was demonstrated in a pivotal, 12-week, 
randomized, double-blind trial. Rufinamide significantly reduced the 28-day 
frequency of both drop attacks and total seizures compared with placebo, and 
significantly increased the proportions of patients experiencing a ≥50% 
reduction in each seizure frequency. A significantly higher proportion of 
rufinamide than placebo recipients recorded an improvement in seizure severity 
at the end of treatment. Reductions in the frequency of drop attacks and total 
seizures were maintained in a long-term (up to 3 years), open-label extension 
study. Oral rufinamide was generally well tolerated in patients with LGS. 
Somnolence and vomiting were the most common adverse events occurring more 
frequently with rufinamide than with placebo. Two pharmacoeconomic analyses, 
using decision-analysis models with 3-month cycles over a time horizon of 3 
years, assessed the cost effectiveness and cost utility, respectively, of 
rufinamide compared with topiramate and lamotrigine as adjunctive therapy in 
patients with LGS from the perspective of the UK NHS. The cost-effectiveness 
analysis suggested that rufinamide would be associated with incremental costs of 
£62 (drop attacks) or £2151 (total seizures) per 1% increase in the number of 
patients achieving a >50% reduction in seizure frequency over 3 years. The 
cost-utility analysis predicted that the incremental cost per QALY gained for 
rufinamide compared with the next less-costly and undominated therapy would be 
more than 5-fold higher than the commonly accepted willingness-to-pay threshold 
