per week, universal triple therapy costs $102,600 per QALY (mild fibrosis) or 
$51,500 per QALY (advanced fibrosis) compared with IL-28B-guided triple therapy 
and $70,100 per QALY (mild fibrosis) and $36,300 per QALY (advanced fibrosis) 
compared with standard therapy.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results were sensitive to the cost of protease 
inhibitors and treatment adherence rates.
LIMITATION: Data on the long-term comparative effectiveness of the new protease 
inhibitors are lacking.
CONCLUSION: Both universal triple therapy and IL-28B-guided triple therapy are 
cost-effective when the least-expensive protease inhibitor are used for patients 
with advanced fibrosis.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Stanford University.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-156-4-201202210-00005
PMCID: PMC3586733
PMID: 22351713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Financial Conflicts of Interest: 
Noneto report


669. Health Rep. 2011 Dec;22(4):31-6.

Remaining life expectancy at age 25 and probability of survival to age 75, by 
socio-economic status and Aboriginal ancestry.

Tjepkema M(1), Wilkins R.

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0T6. 
michael.tjepkema@statcan.gc.ca

Previously, little information has been available about life expectancy and the 
probability of survival by socio-economic status or for Aboriginal groups. 
However, data from the 1991 to 2001 Canadian census mortality follow-up study 
made it possible to construct life tables for the non-institutional population 
aged 25 or older by a range of census variables. Those life tables have now been 
updated to include deaths through to the end of 2006. This report summarizes the 
updated findings. Life expectancy at age 25 and the probability of survival to 
age 75 tended to be low for people with low income and education, for residents 
of shelters, rooming houses and hotels, and for Registered Indians, non-Status 
Indians and Métis. In general, socio-economic disparities in mortality were 
greater for men than for women.

PMID: 22352150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2011 Dec;139 Suppl 1:10-3. doi: 10.2298/sarh11s1010d.

[Pharmacotherapeutical possibilities in mental disorders: current status in 
Serbia].

[Article in Serbian]

Djukić-Dejanović S, Lečić-Toševski D, Mihajlović G, Borovčanin M, 
Simič-Vukomanovič I.

The new therapeutical approaches have direct implications on living in order to 
accomplish remission, stop further progression of illnesses or improve the 
quality of life. The life expectancy has been increased up to 10 years in the 
last 55 years, probably owing to the innovative drugs. The innovative drugs 
application in our everyday clinical practice should be analyzed, related to 
economical aspects and to the transitional status of a country, but also in the 
context of fears and misconceptions of therapists. The cost of therapy is not 
equal to the cost of prescribed drugs, however it also includes direct and 
indirect costs and medical and nonmedical burden. Countries in our region spend 
4-7.3% of the total budget for antipsychotic drugs, while the costs in Serbia 
are about 1.5%. The new antipsychotics and the new formulations of the available 
antipsychotics in the treatment of schizophrenia are pharmacoeconomically 
justified. On the other side, the substance abuse needs other strategies, 
including new substitution treatments. In our country only methadone maintenance 
therapy is available. It is necessary to provide adequate legislation to improve 
the process of drug registration. In the European Union it takes from 0 to 400 
days for a drug to be registered, but in Serbia the process last longerthan 3 
years. Important laws approved in 2006 and 2009, are only a part of the 
destigmatiazation of patients with mental disorders. Treatment guidelines also 
help in resolving these issues. Taking all of the above into consideration, the 
treatment of mental disorders with innovative drugs is financially justified, 
but still unreachable for patients in Serbia. The voice of the professionals 
should be heard in these matters in order to provide the adequate treatment of 
people with mental health problems.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh11s1010d
PMID: 22352196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. MMW Fortschr Med. 2012 Feb 9;154(2):27.

[Venous thromboses increase mortality for years to come].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 22352245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Anat. 2012 May;220(5):484-95. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-7580.2012.01482.x. Epub
2012  Feb 21.

Enamel hypoplasia in molars of sheep and goats, and its relationship to the 
pattern of tooth crown growth.

Kierdorf H(1), Witzel C, Upex B, Dobney K, Kierdorf U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Hildesheim, Hildesheim, Germany. 
kierdorf@uni-hildesheim.de

Enamel is the most highly mineralized and durable tissue of the mammalian body. 
As enamel does not undergo remodeling or repair, disturbances of enamel 
formation leave a permanent record in the tissue that can be used for life 
history reconstruction. This study reports light and scanning electron 
microscope findings on hypoplastic enamel defects, and on the chronology of 
crown growth in the molars of sheep and goats. A marked reduction of enamel 
extension rates in cervical compared with more cuspal crown portions of sheep 
and goat molars was recorded, with formation of the cervical 25% of the crown 
taking about the same time as that of the upper 75% of the crown. This explains 
the more frequent occurrence of enamel hypoplasia in cervical compared with 
upper and middle crown portions. Regarding the identification of hypoplastic 
enamel defects by external inspection, our results suggest a dependence on the 
type of defect and the associated presence of smaller or larger amounts of 
coronal cementum. Defects considered to reflect a slight to moderate impairment 
of secretory ameloblast function can normally be correctly diagnosed as they are 
not occluded by thick layers of cementum. In contrast, defects denoting a severe 
impairment of enamel matrix secretion can typically not be correctly identified 
because they are occluded by large amounts of cementum, so that neither depth 
nor extension of the defects can be assessed on external inspection. In these 
cases, microscopic analysis of tooth sections is required for a correct 
diagnosis of the hypoplastic enamel defects.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Anatomy © 2012 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7580.2012.01482.x
PMCID: PMC3403278
PMID: 22352403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Clin Drug Investig. 2012 Apr 1;32(4):253-65. doi: 
10.2165/11598940-000000000-00000.

Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of beclomethasone/formoterol versus 
fluticasone propionate/salmeterol in patients with moderate to severe asthma.

Gerzeli S(1), Rognoni C, Quaglini S, Cavallo MC, Cremonesi G, Papi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Political and Social Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia, 
Italy. simone.gerzeli@unipv.it

BACKGROUND: Asthma is a chronic disease characterized by acute symptomatic 
episodes with variable severity and duration. Pharmacological asthma management 
aims to achieve and maintain control without side effects, thus improving 
quality of life and reducing the economic impact. Recently, a clinical trial 
showed the non-inferiority of beclomethasone/formoterol (BDP/F) versus 
fluticasone propionate/salmeterol (FP/S) in adults with moderate to severe 
persistent asthma. However, this study did not provide evidence on costs and did 
not quantify quality-of-life parameters.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the present study was to assess the cost 
effectiveness and cost utility of BDP/F versus FP/S in patients with moderate to 
severe asthma from the perspective of the Italian National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: A Markov model (MM) was used, with five health states for the different 
levels of asthma control: successful control, sub-optimal control, 
outpatient-managed exacerbation, inpatient-managed exacerbation, and death. 
Model data were derived from the ICAT SE study and from expert panels. Three 
outcomes were considered: time spent in successful control state, costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The model shows that BDP/F treatment led to a slight increase of weeks 
in successful control compared with FP/S, with a lower cost. The probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis highlights that in 64% and 68% of the Monte Carlo 
simulations, BDP/F outperformed FP/S in terms of weeks in successful control and 
QALYs. Considering the expected cost of the two strategies, in 90% of 
simulations BDP/F was the least expensive choice. In particular, BDP/F was cost 
saving as compared with FP/S in about 63% and 59% of simulations as shown by the 
cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analysis, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Overall, from the Italian NHS perspective, BDP/F treatment is 
associated with a reduction in cost and offers a slight increase of 
effectiveness in terms of weeks spent in successful control and QALYs.

© 2012 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.2165/11598940-000000000-00000
PMID: 22352412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Mar;60(3):485-92. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2011.03867.x.  Epub 2012 Feb 21.

All-cause 1-, 5-, and 10-year mortality in elderly people according to 
activities of daily living stage.

Stineman MG(1), Xie D, Pan Q, Kurichi JE, Zhang Z, Saliba D, Henry-Sánchez JT, 
Streim J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Center for Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. mstinema@exchange.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVES: To examine the independent association between five stages of 
activities of daily living (ADLs) and mortality after accounting for known 
diagnostic and sociodemographic risk factors.
DESIGN: For five stages of ADLs (0 to IV), determined according to the severity 
and pattern of ADL limitations, unadjusted life expectancies and adjusted 
associations with mortality were estimated using a Cox proportional hazards 
regression model.
SETTING: Community.
PARTICIPANTS: Nine thousand four hundred forty-seven participants aged 70 and 
older from the second Longitudinal Study of Aging.
MEASUREMENTS: One-, 5-, and 10-year survival and time to death.
RESULTS: Median life expectancy was 10.6 years for participants with no ADL 
limitations and 6.5, 5.1, 3.8, and 1.6 years for those at ADL stages I, II, III, 
and IV, respectively. The sociodemographic- and diagnostic-adjusted hazard of 
death at 1 year was five times as great at stage IV as at stage 0 (hazard ratio 
= 5.6, 95% confidence interval = 3.8-8.3). The associations between ADL stage 
and mortality declined over time but remained statistically significant at 5 and 
10 years.
CONCLUSION: ADL stage continued to explain mortality risk after adjusting for 
known risk factors including advanced age, stroke, and cancer. ADL stages might 
aid clinical care planning and policy as a powerful prognostic indicator 
particularly of short-term mortality, improving on current ADL measures by 
profiling activity limitations of relevance to determining community support 
needs.

© 2012, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2012, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2011.03867.x
PMCID: PMC3302958
PMID: 22352414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: There are no personal 
conflicts of interest of any of the authors.


675. Curr Pharm Des. 2012;18(15):2214-22. doi: 10.2174/138161212800099928.

Role of contrast-enhanced ultrasound in the follow-up of endo-vascular aortic 
aneurysm repair: an effective and safe surveillance method.

Giannoni MF(1), Citone M, Rossini M, Speziale F, David V.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Ultrasound Investigation Unit, Vascular Surgery, Dept. "P. 
Stefanini", Sapienza University of Rome, Italy. 
mariafabrizia.giannoni@uniroma1.it

The treatment of Aortic Aneurysm disease is a growing procedure due to increase 
of life expectancy in Western Countries and relative incidence. In the past ten 
years we observed a progressive growth of endovascular over open surgery 
procedures with a related decline in rupture related deaths. Endo Vascular 
Aortic Repair [EVAR] is a well known technique of treatment of abdominal aortic 
aneurysms, that has changed the surgical approach to abdominal aortic aneurysms, 
as it is performed with low perioperative morbility and mortality rate and 
shorter hospital stay. However although EVAR offers immediate advantages over 
open surgical repair, it carries the need of close lifelong surveillance due to 
specific possible complications including rupture, endoleaks, graft migration 
and enlargement of aneurysm sac size. Contrast Enhanced Computed Tomography 
[CTA] is actually considered the standard reference in EVAR followup. However 
CTA carries high costs, radiation exposure and potential renal impairment. In 
the last five years several studies have been published on the role of Contrast 
Enhanced UltraSound [CEUS] in EVAR follow-up asserting high accuracy of this 
evaluation technique with absence of renal impairment, without radiation risk 
and at low costs. Especially since introduction of second generation Contrast 
Agents this evaluation technique is gaining popularity in EVAR follow-up 
surveillance. The diffusion of CEUS investigations by using new generation of 
contrast medium with appropriate software represents without any doubt an 
important step in the EVAR surveillance and could open up new strategies in the 
evaluation of endovascular aortic procedures gaining a fundamental role in EVAR 
follow-up.

DOI: 10.2174/138161212800099928
PMID: 22352775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Am Acad Audiol. 2012 Feb;23(2):126-38. doi: 10.3766/jaaa.23.2.7.

A comparison of benefit and economic value between two sound therapy tinnitus 
management options.

Newman CW(1), Sandridge SA.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA. newmanc@ccf.org

Comment in
    J Am Acad Audiol. 2012 Feb;23(2):80.

BACKGROUND: Sound therapy coupled with appropriate counseling has gained 
widespread acceptance in the audiological management of tinnitus. For many 
years, ear level sound generators (SGs) have been used to provide masking relief 
and to promote tinnitus habituation. More recently, an alternative treatment 
device was introduced, the Neuromonics Tinnitus Treatment (NTT), which employs 
spectrally-modified music in an acoustic desensitization approach in order to 
help patients overcome the disturbing consequences of tinnitus. It is unknown, 
however, if one treatment plan is more efficacious and cost-effective in 
comparison to the other. In today's economic climate, it has become critical 
that clinicians justify the value of tinnitus treatment devices in relation to 
observed benefit.
PURPOSE: To determine perceived benefit from, and economic value associated 
with, two forms of sound therapy, namely, SGs and NTT.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Retrospective between-subject clinical study.
STUDY SAMPLE: A sample of convenience comprised of 56 patients drawn from the 
Tinnitus Management Clinic at the Cleveland Clinic participated. Twenty-three 
patients selected SGs, and 33 patients selected NTT as their preferred sound 
therapy treatment option.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Sound therapy benefit was quantified using the 
Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI). The questionnaire was administered before and 
6 mo after initiation of tinnitus treatment. Prior to device fitting, all 
patients participated in a 1.5 hr group education session about tinnitus and its 
management. Economic value comparisons between sound therapy options were made 
using a cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) and cost-utility analysis (CUA).
RESULTS: THI scores indicated a significant improvement (p < 0.001) in tinnitus 
reduction for both treatment types between a pre- and 6 mo postfitting interval, 
yet there were no differences (p > 0.05) between the treatment alternatives at 
baseline or 6 mo postfitting. The magnitude of improvement for both SGs and NTT 
was dependent on initial perceived tinnitus handicap. Based on the CEA and CUA 
economic analyses alone, it appears that the SGs may be the more cost-effective 
alternative; however, the magnitude of economic value is a function of 
preexisting perceived tinnitus activity limitation/participation restriction.
CONCLUSIONS: Both SGs and NTT provide significant reduction in perceived 
tinnitus handicap, with benefit being more pronounced for those patients having 
greater tinnitus problems at the beginning of therapy. Although the economic 
models favored the SGs over the NTT, there are several other critical factors 
that clinicians must take into account when recommending a specific sound 
therapy option. These include initial tinnitus severity complaints and a number 
of patient preference variables such as sound preference, listening 
acceptability, and lifestyle.

American Academy of Audiology.

DOI: 10.3766/jaaa.23.2.7
PMID: 22353681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2012 Feb 21;132(4):391-2. doi:
10.4045/tidsskr.11.1102.

Can differences in health services explain inequalities in life expectancy 
between Norwegian towns and cities?

[Article in English, Norwegian]

Elstad JI(1).

Author information:
(1)NOVA – Norwegian Social Research, Norway. jon.i.elstad@nova.no

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.11.1102
PMID: 22353825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. J Pak Med Assoc. 2011 Oct;61(10):1018-20.

Mid aortic syndrome: a rare vascular disorder.

Bhatti AM(1), Mansoor J, Younis U, Siddique K, Chatta S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Combined Military Hospital, Rawalpindi.

Coarctation of abdominal aorta, Middle aortic syndrome (MAS) is a rare disease 
with only 200 reported cases. MAS may present clinically as uncontrolled 
hypertension, abdominal claudication or lower limb claudication. Surgical 
treatment is effective in controlling symptoms and improves life expectancy. We 
present another case of this rare entity, diagnosed and treated at Armed Forced 
Institute of Cardiology and Combined Military Hospital, Rawalpindi. This is the 
second reported case of MAS diagnosed and treated in Pakistan.

PMID: 22356041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2012 Apr;25 Suppl 1:25-9. doi: 
10.3109/14767058.2012.664943. Epub 2012 Mar 14.

Congenital malformations.

Corsello G(1), Giuffrè M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Materno Infantile, Università degli Studi di Palermo, Palermo, 
Italy. giovanni.corsello@unipa.it

Congenital malformations are single or multiple defects of the morphogenesis of 
organs or body districts identifiable at birth or during the intrauterine life. 
Their global birth prevalence is about 2-3%. Both genetic and environmental 
factors, as well as their combination in a multifactorial contest, may induce 
congenital defects. Congenital malformations may be classified on the basis of 
clinical, etiologic as well as pathogenetic criteria. Relevant diagnostic and 
therapeutic tools have been progressively improving in the last decades, 
contributing to a better identification and a reduction of long-term morbidity 
and mortality of these patients. A correct identification of a congenital defect 
is the first step in order to offer a helpful genetic counseling to the parental 
couple. Because of their increasing life expectancy, congenital malformations 
represent today a major issue in the health services for the amount of resources 
they need for the requested multidisciplinary assistance.

DOI: 10.3109/14767058.2012.664943
PMID: 22356564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2012 Mar;26 Suppl 2:3-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-3083.2011.04410.x.

The concept of psoriasis as a systemic inflammation: implications for disease 
management.

Reich K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dermatologikum Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany. reich@dermatologikum.de

Psoriasis is a systemic, immune-mediated disorder, characterized by inflammatory 
skin and joint manifestations. A range of co-morbidities is associated with 
psoriasis, including metabolic diseases, such as diabetes, and psychological 
disorders. Although the systemic nature of psoriasis often remains unrecognized, 
the inflammatory processes involved may be associated with the development of 
co-morbidities, which, themselves, have a significant impact on the patient's 
health and quality of life. The relative risks of myocardial infarction (MI) and 
stroke are increased in patients with psoriasis compared with the general 
population. These are especially seen in younger patients with more severe 
disease, and are believed to contribute to the 3- to 4-year reduction in life 
expectancy among patients with severe psoriasis. The recent results of large 
studies indicate that the increased cardiovascular (CV) risk is at least 
partially attributable to psoriasis and independent of the presence of metabolic 
co-morbidities. The possible interplay between psoriasis and CV disease is 
complex. Metabolic diseases such as obesity and diabetes have overlapping 
genetic predispositions with psoriasis. Both conditions are likely to also 
interact at a functional level because obesity and the up-regulation of 
pro-inflammatory mediators in psoriasis appear to influence adipocyte 
homoeostasis, inducing non-professional immune functions. This may perpetuate 
psoriatic inflammation, displaying similarities to the immunopathogenesis of 
atherosclerosis. Finally, the disturbed adipokine profile and inflammation 
associated with psoriasis enhances insulin resistance, causing subsequent 
endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis and eventual coronary events. The 
differential contribution of psoriasis and uncontrolled classical CV risk 
factors to the increased CV risk seen in psoriasis patients is not clear. 
Successful treatment with methotrexate appears to lower the rates of MI in 
patients with psoriasis. Tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) inhibitors are known 
to counteract insulin resistance and emerging studies demonstrate an even higher 
protective effect of TNF-α antagonist therapy against the development of 
diabetes or CV co-morbidities in patients. The recent data reviewed here 
indicate a role for earlier and more appropriate treatment of psoriasis with 
drugs such as TNF-α antagonists. Such an approach has the potential to 
significantly improve patient outcomes through the treatment of psoriasis itself 
and possibly also in protection against co-morbidities.

© 2012 The Author. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and 
Venereology © 2012 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2011.04410.x
PMID: 22356630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. JAMA. 2012 Feb 22;307(8):804-12. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.169.

Cost-effectiveness of adult vaccination strategies using pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine compared with pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.

Smith KJ(1), Wateska AR, Nowalk MP, Raymund M, Nuorti JP, Zimmerman RK.

Author information:
(1)Section of Decision Sciences and Clinical Systems Management, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 200 Meyran Ave, Ste 200, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, 
USA. smithkj2@upmc.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2012 Feb 22;307(8):847-9.

CONTEXT: The cost-effectiveness of 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 
(PCV13) compared with 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) 
among US adults is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of PCV13 vaccination strategies in 
adults.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A Markov state-transition model, lifetime 
time horizon, societal perspective. Simulations were performed in hypothetical 
cohorts of US 50-year-olds. Vaccination strategies and effectiveness estimates 
were developed by a Delphi expert panel; indirect (herd immunity) effects 
resulting from childhood PCV13 vaccination were extrapolated based on observed 
PCV7 effects. Data sources for model parameters included Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention Active Bacterial Core surveillance, National Hospital 
Discharge Survey and Nationwide Inpatient Sample data, and the National Health 
Interview Survey.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Pneumococcal disease cases prevented and incremental 
costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: In the base case scenario, administration of PCV13 as a substitute for 
PPSV23 in current recommendations (ie, vaccination at age 65 years and at 
younger ages if comorbidities are present) cost $28,900 per QALY gained compared 
with no vaccination and was more cost-effective than the currently recommended 
PPSV23 strategy. Routine PCV13 at ages 50 and 65 years cost $45,100 per QALY 
compared with PCV13 substituted in current recommendations. Adding PPSV23 at age 
75 years to PCV13 at ages 50 and 65 years gained 0.00002 QALYs, costing $496,000 
per QALY gained. Results were robust in sensitivity analyses and alternative 
scenarios, except when low PCV13 effectiveness against nonbacteremic 
pneumococcal pneumonia was assumed or when greater childhood vaccination 
indirect effects were modeled. In these cases, PPSV23 as currently recommended 
was favored.
CONCLUSION: Overall, PCV13 vaccination was favored compared with PPSV23, but the 
analysis was sensitive to assumptions about PCV13 effectiveness against 
nonbacteremic pneumococcal pneumonia and the magnitude of potential indirect 
effects from childhood PCV13 on pneumococcal serotype distribution.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.169
PMCID: PMC3924773
PMID: 22357831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Radiology. 2012 Mar;262(3):977-84. doi: 10.1148/radiol.11110352.

Using radiation risk models in cancer screening simulations: important 
assumptions and effects on outcome projections.

Kong CY(1), Lee JM, McMahon PM, Lowry KP, Omer ZB, Eisenberg JD, Pandharipande 
PV, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, 101 
Merrimac St, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. joey@mgh-ita.org

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of incorporating radiation risk into 
microsimulation (first-order Monte Carlo) models for breast and lung cancer 
screening to illustrate effects of including radiation risk on patient outcome 
projections.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All data used in this study were derived from publicly 
available or deidentified human subject data. Institutional review board 
approval was not required. The challenges of incorporating radiation risk into 
simulation models are illustrated with two cancer screening models (Breast 
Cancer Model and Lung Cancer Policy Model) adapted to include radiation exposure 
effects from mammography and chest computed tomography (CT), respectively. The 
primary outcome projected by the breast model was life expectancy (LE) for BRCA1 
mutation carriers. Digital mammographic screening beginning at ages 25, 30, 35, 
and 40 years was evaluated in the context of screenings with false-positive 
results and radiation exposure effects. The primary outcome of the lung model 
was lung cancer-specific mortality reduction due to annual screening, comparing 
two diagnostic CT protocols for lung nodule evaluation. The Metropolis-Hastings 
algorithm was used to estimate the mean values of the results with 95% 
uncertainty intervals (UIs).
RESULTS: Without radiation exposure effects, the breast model indicated that 
annual digital mammography starting at age 25 years maximized LE (72.03 years; 
95% UI: 72.01 years, 72.05 years) and had the highest number of screenings with 
false-positive results (2.0 per woman). When radiation effects were included, 
annual digital mammography beginning at age 30 years maximized LE (71.90 years; 
95% UI: 71.87 years, 71.94 years) with a lower number of screenings with 
false-positive results (1.4 per woman). For annual chest CT screening of 
50-year-old females with no follow-up for nodules smaller than 4 mm in diameter, 
the lung model predicted lung cancer-specific mortality reduction of 21.50% (95% 
UI: 20.90%, 22.10%) without radiation risk and 17.75% (95% UI: 16.97%, 18.41%) 
with radiation risk.
CONCLUSION: Because including radiation exposure risk can influence long-term 
projections from simulation models, it is important to include these risks when 
conducting modeling-based assessments of diagnostic imaging.

© RSNA, 2012.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.11110352
PMCID: PMC3285223
PMID: 22357897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2012 Mar;198(3):723-8. doi: 10.2214/AJR.11.7146.

Mammography screening: a new estimate of number needed to screen to prevent one 
breast cancer death.

Hendrick RE(1), Helvie MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Colorado-Denver, School of Medicine, 
12700 E 19th Ave, Mail Stop C278, Aurora, CO 80045, USA. 
dward.hendrick@gmail.com

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2012 May;198(5):1214-7.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of our study was to estimate the number of women needed 
to screen (NNS) to prevent one breast cancer death and the number needed to 
screen per life-year gained (NNS/LYG) with annual or biennial screening 
mammography and to compare NNS to the number needed to invite (NNI) to a 
screening trial to prevent one breast cancer death.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cancer Intervention and Surveillance Modeling Network 
(CISNET) modeling results commissioned by the United States Preventive Services 
Task Force (USPSTF) for their 2009 update of breast cancer screening 
recommendations were used to estimate NNS and NNS/LYG with annual or biennial 
screening mammography. NNS values were compared with NNI as reported by USPSTF, 
which used the CISNET results to aid their 2009 recommendation of starting age 
and screening interval.
RESULTS: For women between the ages of 40 and 49 years undergoing annual 
screening mammography, CISNET modeling results estimate an NNS of 746, 39% of 
the NNI of 1904 estimated by USPSTF on the basis of randomized controlled trial 
(RCT) data. The NNS based on CISNET results for women between 50 and 59 years is 
351 (26% of the NNI of 1339 estimated by USPSTF from RCT data), for women 
between 60 and 69 years is 233 (62% of the NNI of 377 estimated by USPSTF from 
RCT data), and for women between 70 and 79 years is 377. Annual screening of 
women between 40 and 84 years yields an NNS of 84 and an NNS/LYG of 5.3. 
Biennial screening of women ages 50-74 yields an NNS of 144 and an NNS/LYG of 
9.1.
CONCLUSION: The NNS based on CISNET modeling results is much smaller than the 
NNI based on RCT data. Eighty-four women need to be screened annually between 40 
and 84 years to save one life from breast cancer and 5.3 need to be screened 
annually to gain 1 life-year from breast cancer.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.11.7146
PMID: 22358016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2013 Apr;44(2):194-204. doi: 
10.1007/s12016-012-8308-0.

Inflammation, atherosclerosis, and psoriasis.

Siegel D(1), Devaraj S, Mitra A, Raychaudhuri SP, Raychaudhuri SK, Jialal I.

Author information:
(1)Medical Service, Department of Veterans Affairs, Northern California Health 
Care System, Mather, CA, USA. david.siegel@va.gov

Erratum in
    Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2018 Mar 19;:

Increasing evidence supports an important role for inflammation in all phases of 
atherosclerosis, from initiation of the fatty streak to final culmination in 
acute coronary syndromes. Numerous inflammatory biomarkers including cell 
adhesion molecules, cytokines, chemokines, and acute-phase reactants such as 
fibrinogen, serum amyloid A, and C-reactive protein (CRP) have been shown to 
predict cardiovascular (CVD) events. Several prospective studies have shown a 
consistent and robust relationship between levels of high-sensitivity CRP and 
the risk of future CVD events. Toll-like receptors are pattern recognition 
receptors and members of the innate immune system that contribute to 
inflammation and appear to play key roles in atherosclerosis. 
Lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 may also be an independent CVD risk 
factor. Psoriasis has been associated with an increasing risk for 
atherosclerosis, including coronary artery disease and stroke. Patients with 
psoriasis have a 5-year shorter life expectancy, most frequently due to CVD. 
Psoriasis is associated with a chronic inflammatory state and with elevated 
levels of CRP and other inflammatory cytokines and these may play a causative 
role in the increased risk of psoriatic patients for CVD. Patients with 
psoriasis may represent an emerging risk population and patients with moderate 
to severe psoriasis should be screened and aggressively treated for CVD risk 
factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s12016-012-8308-0
PMID: 22359071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Stat Med. 2012 May 20;31(11-12):1139-49. doi: 10.1002/sim.4459. Epub 2012
Feb  23.

Estimating survival of dental fillings on the basis of interval-censored data 
and multi-state models.

Joly P(1), Gerds TA, Qvist V, Commenges D, Keiding N.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U-897, Bordeaux, F33076, France. Pierre.Joly@isped.u-bordeaux2.fr

We aim to compare the life expectancy of a filling in a primary tooth between 
two types of treatments. We define the probabilities that a dental filling 
survives without complication until the permanent tooth erupts from beneath 
(exfoliation). We relate the time to exfoliation of the tooth to the age of the 
child and the time to failure of the filling to the duration since the 
treatment. We followed up fillings at repeated examinations where information is 
collected regarding the filling and the tooth. Several fillings can be placed in 
the same mouth, possibly by the same dentist. To deal with all these 
particularities, we propose to use a parametric four-state model with three 
random effects to take into account the hierarchical cluster structure. For 
inference, right and interval censoring as well as left truncation have to be 
dealt with. With the proposed approach, we can conclude that the estimated 
probability that a filling survives without complication until exfoliation is 
larger for one treatment than for the other, for all ages of the child at the 
time of treatment.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4459
PMID: 22359322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Cancer. 2012 Sep 15;118(18):4394-403. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27448. Epub 2012 Feb
22.

Optimizing resource allocation for breast cancer prevention and care among Hong 
Kong Chinese women.

Wong IO(1), Tsang JW, Cowling BJ, Leung GM.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China. 
iolwong@hku.hk

BACKGROUND: Recommendations about funding of interventions through the full 
spectrum of the disease often have been made in isolation. The authors of this 
report optimized budgetary allocations by comparing cost-effectiveness data for 
different preventive and management strategies throughout the disease course for 
breast cancer in Hong Kong (HK) Chinese women.
METHODS: Nesting a state-transition Markov model within a generalized 
cost-effectiveness analytic framework, costs and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were compared to estimate average cost-effectiveness ratios for the 
following interventions at the population level: biennial mass mammography (ages 
40-69 years or ages 40-79 years), reduced waiting time for postoperative 
radiotherapy (by 15% or by 25%), adjuvant endocrine therapy (either upfront 
aromatase inhibitor [AI] therapy or sequentially with tamoxifen followed by AI) 
in postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive disease, targeted 
immunotherapy in those with tumors that over express human epidermal growth 
factor receptor 2, and enhanced palliative services (either at home or as an 
inpatient). Usual care for eligible patients in the public sector was the 
comparator.
RESULTS: In descending order, the optimal allocation of additional resources for 
breast cancer would be the following: a 25% reduction in waiting time for 
postoperative radiotherapy (in US dollars: $5000 per QALY); enhanced, home-based 
palliative care ($7105 per QALY); adjuvant, sequential endocrine therapy 
($17,963 per QALY); targeted immunotherapy ($62,092 per QALY); and mass 
mammography screening of women ages 40 to 69 years ($72,576 per QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Given the lower disease risk and different age profiles of patients 
in HK Chinese, among other newly emergent and emerging economies with similar 
transitioning epidemiologic profiles, the current findings provided direct 
evidence to support policy decisions that may be dissimilar to current Western 
practice.

Copyright © 2012 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27448
PMID: 22359352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e32183. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032183. Epub 2012 Feb
16.

C. elegans VANG-1 modulates life span via insulin/IGF-1-like signaling.

Honnen SJ(1), Büchter C, Schröder V, Hoffmann M, Kohara Y, Kampkötter A, 
Bossinger O.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Anatomy, Medical School, RWTH Aachen 
University, Aachen, Germany.

The planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway is highly conserved from Drosophila to 
humans and a PCP-like pathway has recently been described in the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans. The developmental function of this pathway is to 
coordinate the orientation of cells or structures within the plane of an 
epithelium or to organize cell-cell intercalation required for correct 
morphogenesis. Here, we describe a novel role of VANG-1, the only C. elegans 
ortholog of the conserved PCP component Strabismus/Van Gogh. We show that two 
alleles of vang-1 and depletion of the protein by RNAi cause an increase of mean 
life span up to 40%. Consistent with the longevity phenotype vang-1 animals also 
show enhanced resistance to thermal- and oxidative stress and decreased 
lipofuscin accumulation. In addition, vang-1 mutants show defects like reduced 
brood size, decreased ovulation rate and prolonged reproductive span, which are 
also related to gerontogenes. The germline, but not the intestine or neurons, 
seems to be the primary site of vang-1 function. Life span extension in vang-1 
mutants depends on the insulin/IGF-1-like receptor DAF-2 and DAF-16/FoxO 
transcription factor. RNAi against the phase II detoxification transcription 
factor SKN-1/Nrf2 also reduced vang-1 life span that might be explained by 
gradual inhibition of insulin/IGF-1-like signaling in vang-1. This is the first 
time that a key player of the PCP pathway is shown to be involved in the 
insulin/IGF-1-like signaling dependent modulation of life span in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032183
PMCID: PMC3281126
PMID: 22359667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Andreas Kampkötter is 
employed by Bayer Animal Health GmbH. However, this does not alter the authors' 
adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


688. Mod Healthc. 2012 Feb 6;42(6):8-9.

CBO projects rise in spending. Cuts, changes needed to prevent 'substantial 
harm'.

Daly R, Zigmond J.

PMID: 22359772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Acta Med Croatica. 2011;65(4):365-70.

[Malignant disease in potential renal transplant recipients--diagnostic and 
therapeutic chalenge].

[Article in Croatian]

Mihaljević D(1), Basić-Jukić N, Jakić M.

Author information:
(1)Klinicki bolnicki centar Osijek, Klinika za internu medicinu, Odjel za 
dijalizu, Osijek, Hrvatska. dmihaljevic.os@gmail.com

Renal transplantation is the treatment of choice for many patients with 
end-stage renal disease. There are a few generally accepted contraindications to 
transplantation: active infection, malignancy, substance abuse or non-adherence 
to therapy, chronic illness with life expectancy of less than one year, and 
poorly controlled psychosis. Potential renal transplant candidates must undergo 
thorough screening for exclusion of malignant diseases, with an individual 
approach to each patient. Patients with a history of malignancy might be placed 
on the waiting list for renal transplantation after a waiting period, which 
depends on the type of tumor and individual patient characteristics, and there 
are no signs of tumor. This group of patients require careful surveillance 
during the waiting time, as well as after transplantation.

PMID: 22359910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Brain Pathol. 2012 Sep;22(5):619-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2012.00579.x.
Epub  2012 Apr 12.

IDH mutation detection in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded gliomas using 
multiplex PCR and single-base extension.

Perizzolo M(1), Winkfein B, Hui S, Krulicki W, Chan JA, Demetrick DJ.

Author information:
(1)Calgary Laboratory Services, The University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, 
Canada.

Isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) genes are mutated in a significant portion of 
gliomas, myeloid leukemias and chondroid neoplasms. In gliomas, IDH mutations 
are prognostic, as those tumors with the mutation are associated with a 
proneural subclass and have longer survival compared with those without the 
mutation. We developed a simple, PCR-based SNaPshot® assay (Life Technologies, 
Carlsbad, CA, USA) to detect IDH1/2 mutations. This protocol combines a single, 
multiplexed PCR reaction using gene specific primers followed by a single, 
multiplexed SNaPshot reaction and detection by capillary electrophoresis. In a 
blinded study of 32 paraffin-embedded glioma specimens previously screened for 
IDH mutations by a PCR/direct sequencing method, concordance of our IDH SNaPshot 
test with sequencing was 100%. We performed the assay on an additional 57 
specimens submitted for diagnostic IDH mutation evaluation. Data analysis was 
much faster and easier to perform than analysis of the sequencing data, and 
results could be obtained in 1 day from DNA extraction to analysis. Furthermore, 
we could readily identify a mixture of 5% mutant allele vs. 95% wild-type allele 
in our SNaPshot assay, in comparison to approximately 20% mutant allele in our 
PCR-sequencing assay. Our assay represents a fast, sensitive, straightforward 
method of reliably detecting common mutations of IDH genes in glial neoplasms, 
or other tumors.

© 2012 The Authors; Brain Pathology © 2012 International Society of 
Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2012.00579.x
PMCID: PMC8057634
PMID: 22360629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Agric Food Chem. 2012 Mar 14;60(10):2517-24. doi: 10.1021/jf205086b. Epub
2012  Mar 6.

Hypoglycemic activity of Gymnema sylvestre extracts on oxidative stress and 
antioxidant status in diabetic rats.

Kang MH(1), Lee MS, Choi MK, Min KS, Shibamoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Graduate School of Venture for 
BK21, Hoseo University, Asan, South Korea.

Diabetes mellitus, which is associated with oxidative damage, has a significant 
impact on health, quality of life, and life expectancy. An ethanol extract of 
Gymnema sylvestre leaf was examined in vitro and in vivo to investigate the role 
of antioxidants in diabetic rats. The extract exhibited strong antioxidant 
activity in the assays, including TBA (56%), SOD-like (92%), and ABTS (54%). 
Blood glucose levels in the diabetic rats fed G. sylvestre extract decreased to 
normal levels. The presence of the antihyperglycemic compounds gymnemagenin and 
gymnemic acids in G. sylvestre extract was detected by LC/MS analysis. Lipid 
peroxidation levels were decreased by 31.7% in serum, 9.9% in liver, and 9.1% in 
kidney in the diabetic rats fed the extract. Feeding G. sylvestre extract to the 
diabetic rats decreased the activity of glutathione peroxidase in cytosolic 
liver and glutamate pyruvate transaminase in serum to normal levels.

DOI: 10.1021/jf205086b
PMID: 22360666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2012 Jun;73(6):968-72. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2125.2012.04247.x.

Pharmacoeconomics.

Hughes DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Institute of Medical 
and Social Care Research, Bangor University, Dean Street, Bangor, Gwynedd LL57 
1UT, UK. d.a.hughes@bangor.ac.uk

Pharmacoeconomics is an essential component of health technology assessment and 
the appraisal of medicines for use by UK National Health Service (NHS) patients. 
As a comparatively young discipline, its methods continue to evolve. Priority 
research areas for development include methods for synthesizing indirect 
comparisons when head-to-head trials have not been performed, synthesizing 
qualitative evidence (for example, stakeholder views), addressing the 
limitations of the EQ-5D tool for assessing quality of life, including benefits 
not captured in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), ways of assessing valuation 
methods (for determining utility scores), extrapolation of costs and benefits 
beyond those observed in trials, early estimation of cost-effectiveness 
(including mechanism-based economic evaluation), methods for incorporating the 
impact of non-adherence and the role of behavioural economics in influencing 
patients and prescribers.

© 2012 The Author. British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology © 2012 The British 
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2125.2012.04247.x
PMCID: PMC3391529
PMID: 22360714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Prev Vet Med. 2012 Sep 15;106(2):185-95. doi:
10.1016/j.prevetmed.2012.01.024.  Epub 2012 Feb 22.

Disease severity declines over time after a wild boar population has been 
affected by classical swine fever--legend or actual epidemiological process?

Lange M(1), Kramer-Schadt S, Blome S, Beer M, Thulke HH.

Author information:
(1)UFZ, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research Leipzig - UFZ, Department of 
Ecological Modelling, Permoserstraße 15, 04318 Leipzig, Germany. 
martin.lange@ufz.de

Classical swine fever (CSF) is a severe multi-systemic disease that can affect 
both domestic pigs and wild boar. Past outbreaks in European wild boar involved 
high-virulent CSF virus (CSFV) strains and were mostly self-limiting. In these 
cases, morbidity and mortality rates were high in the affected regions. In 
contrast, endemic infections have been observed in several European wild boar 
populations in recent decades. Morbidity and mortality rates were much lower 
despite the fact that outbreaks were still detected via diseased or fallen 
animals. The virus strains involved were mostly classified as genotype 2.3 
strains of moderate virulence causing age-dependent disease outcomes. The 
mechanisms leading to the establishment and perpetuation of endemicity are still 
not fully understood, but the factor "moderate virulence" seems to be of 
considerable importance. In this study, we aim to clarify whether the perception 
of declined 'CSF severity' could hypothetically reflect the adaptation of an 
initially high-virulent virus or whether this might be better explained as a 
misinterpretation of observations. A mechanistic eco-epidemiological model was 
employed to follow up a highly virulent strain of CSFV introduced into large 
connected wild boar populations. In the model, the virulence of the CSF virus is 
represented by case mortality and life expectancy after lethal infection. 
Allowing for small stochastic variation, these two characteristics of the virus 
are passed on with every new simulated infection that occurs. Model analysis 
revealed a decrease from high to moderate case mortality within a few years of 
simulated perpetuation of the virus. The resulting mortality corresponded to the 
level where the population average of the infectious period and the basic 
reproduction number of the disease were maximal. This shift in virulence was 
sufficient to prolong virus circulation considerably beyond the epidemic phase 
of the simulated outbreaks. Alternative mechanistic explanations for the 
decrease in disease severity in a CSF-affected wild boar population were 
evaluated in the light of the simulation experiments and the available 
epidemiological or virological evidence. In conclusion, the current virus 
isolates of subgroup 2.3 might be the ideally adapted variants of the CSF virus 
for long-term perpetuation in wildlife and indeed may have evolved (once) during 
past outbreaks in large populations. A repeated perception of a declining 
severity of disease pattern during the course of a CSF outbreak, however, 
favours the explanation based on monitoring and detection biases rather than 
repeated observation of selection against highly virulent virus during the time 
of virus perpetuation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2012.01.024
PMID: 22361000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(7):1-186. doi: 10.3310/hta16070.

An evaluation of the feasibility, cost and value of information of a multicentre 
randomised controlled trial of intravenous immunoglobulin for sepsis (severe 
sepsis and septic shock): incorporating a systematic review, meta-analysis and 
value of information analysis.

Soares MO(1), Welton NJ, Harrison DA, Peura P, Shankar- Hari M, Harvey SE, Madan 
JJ, Ades AE, Palmer SJ, Rowan KM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: Sepsis is a syndrome characterised by a systemic inflammatory 
response to infection that leads to rapid acute organ failure and potentially 
rapid decline to death. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), a blood product 
derived from human donor blood, has been proposed as an adjuvant therapy for 
sepsis.
OBJECTIVES: To describe current practice in the management of adult patients 
severely ill with sepsis (severe sepsis or septic shock) in the UK; to assess 
the clinical effectiveness of IVIG for severe sepsis and septic shock and to 
obtain the appropriate inputs for the relative efficacy parameters, and the key 
uncertainties associated with these parameters, required to populate the 
decision model; to develop a decision-analytic model structure and identify key 
parameter inputs consistent with the decision problem and relevant to an NHS 
setting; and to populate the decision model and determine the cost-effectiveness 
of IVIG and to estimate the value of additional primary research.
DATA SOURCES: Existing literature on IVIG and severe sepsis. Existing case-mix 
and outcome data on critical care admissions. Survey data on management of 
admissions with severe sepsis. Databases searched for clinical effectiveness 
were Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Trials Register, the 
Cochrane Trials Register, MEDLINE and EMBASE. Dates searched were 1 January 2002 
to 2 October 2009 to update previous Cochrane review. Databases searched for 
cost-effectiveness were NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED) to 2 October 
2009, MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations and EMBASE to 20 
October 2009.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic literature searching with data extraction, 
