
[HIV--from a lethal disease to a chronic illness].

[Article in Finnish]

Sutinen J(1), Ristola M.

Author information:
(1)HUS, HYKS infektiosairauksien klinikka.

Combination anti-HIV therapies revolutionized patient life expectancy in the 
mid-1990's. Afterwards, in the early 2000's, research focused on the adverse 
effects caused by HIV drugs. Among these, the most serious ones are myocardial 
infarction at young age, disturbances of kidney function, liver disorders, 
pancreatitis and osteoporosis. The worsening of prognosis, for instance in 
respect of cardiac diseases, observed approximately five years ago in patients 
due to pauses in HIV medication, has changed perspective. Currently it is being 
discussed whether the overall prognosis will be improved with HIV medication 
started as early as possible.

PMID: 22312826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Med Econ. 2012;15(3):576-85. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.665110. Epub 2012
Mar  9.

Economic evaluation of tocilizumab combination in the treatment of 
moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in Italy.

Diamantopoulos A(1), Benucci M, Capri S, Berger W, Wintfeld N, Giuliani G, 
Ricciardi W.

Author information:
(1)Symmetron Limited, London, UK. alexd@symmetron.net

OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to evaluate the cost utility of tocilizumab 
in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, with inadequate responses to traditional 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (tDMARDs) from a payer's perspective in 
Italy.
METHODS: An individual patient simulation model was used to project lifetime 
medical costs (payer's perspective) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 
Treatment sequences starting with tocilizumab or the most commonly prescribed 
biologics (etanercept, adalimumab, or infliximab) were compared. The addition of 
tocilizumab to standard of care, without the replacement of anti-tumor necrosis 
factor (TNF)-α treatments, was also evaluated. Patient characteristics, 
treatment efficacy, and quality-of-life data were based on three phase 3 
tocilizumab clinical trials (TOcilizumab Pivotal Trial in Methotrexate 
Inadequate respONders [OPTION], Tocilizumab in cOmbination With traditional 
DMARD therapy [TOWARD], and TociLIzumab Safety and THE Prevention of Structural 
Joint Damage [LITHE]). Mixed-treatment comparison was used to estimate response 
probabilities. Resource utilization, treatment acquisition, administration, and 
monitoring costs were estimated using Italian secondary sources. Uncertainty in 
model parameters was evaluated by probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Replacement of anti-TNF-α treatments with tocilizumab reduced total 
costs over a patient's lifetime (base-case analysis: tocilizumab sequence, 
€141,100 vs standard of care sequence, €143,500). Patients receiving tocilizumab 
realized more QALYs than patients receiving standard of care (9.8881 vs 9.3502 
QALYs). Therefore, according to the base-case analysis, the tocilizumab sequence 
dominated the standard of care. In a sensitivity analysis, the model base-case 
result was robust to input changes. When tocilizumab was added to standard of 
care, without replacing anti-TNF-α treatments, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was €17,100 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The analysis demonstrates that, in Italy, replacing another biologic 
DMARD with tocilizumab or adding tocilizumab to the current standard of care is 
a cost-effective strategy in the treatment of RA patients with inadequate 
responses to tDMARDs.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.665110
PMID: 22313326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Med Econ. 2012;15(3):509-20. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.664799. Epub 2012
Feb  21.

Cost-effectiveness of cinacalcet in secondary hyperparathyroidism in the United 
States.

Boer R(1), Lalla AM, Belozeroff V.

Author information:
(1)Cerner LifeSciences, Beverly Hills, CA, USA. rob.boer@cerner.com

OBJECTIVE: Cinacalcet has been used in controlling secondary hyperparathyroidism 
(SHPT) in dialysis patients since 2004, but its full economic evaluation has not 
been conducted from the US perspective. This study assesses the 
cost-effectiveness of cinacalcet and low-dose vitamin D for the treatment of 
SHPT in dialysis patients compared with flexible vitamin D.
METHODS: A lifetime patient-level simulation model was developed using ADVANCE 
trial data, including biomarker levels: parathyroid hormone, calcium, and 
phosphorus. The impact of the biomarkers on mortality, cardiovascular events, 
fractures, and parathyroidectomy were estimated from literature: Block, an 
observational study; Cunningham, a combined analysis of four randomized trials 
of cinacalcet; and Danese, a study investigating the effect of duration in 
recommended targets. Baseline event rates were derived from the large dialysis 
organizations registries. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA) 
were conducted.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness ratio for cinacalcet compared with standard of 
care (vitamin D and phosphate binders) was $54,560 and 
$72,456/quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY) gained or an incremental cost of $3155 
and $2638 per year alive for the Block and Danese variants, respectively. In the 
Cunningham variant, cost-effectiveness ratio for cinacalcet was $5064/QALY 
gained or a cost saving of $1068 per year. The difference in the results of the 
Cunningham variant vs other variants can be explained by the favorable impact of 
cinacalcet on outcomes, specifically cardiovascular events observed in the 
Cunningham study. The PSA showed 98% likelihood for cinacalcet to be 
cost-effective at $100,000/QALY threshold.
LIMITATIONS: Observational data assessing effects on clinical outcomes, trial 
restriction to use calcium-containing phosphate binders, no utility data in SHPT 
dialysis population, and insufficient evidence on long-term impact of cinacalcet 
and vitamin D on biochemical markers.
CONCLUSIONS: Cinacalcet treatment is cost-effective for treatment of SHPT in the 
US. Due to cost offsets, cinacalcet can reduce annual costs in some scenarios.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.664799
PMID: 22313328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Astrobiology. 2012 Feb;12(2):160-6. doi: 10.1089/ast.2011.0729. Epub 2012
Feb 7.

Multiple generations of carbon in the apex chert and implications for 
preservation of microfossils.

Marshall AO(1), Emry JR, Marshall CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geology, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, USA.

While the Apex chert is one of the most well-studied Archean deposits on Earth, 
its formation history is still not fully understood. Here, we present Raman 
spectroscopic data collected on the carbonaceous material (CM) present within 
the matrix of the Apex chert. These data, collected within a paragenetic 
framework, reveal two different phases of CM deposited within separate phases of 
quartz matrix. These multiple generations of CM illustrate the difficulty of 
searching for signs of life in these rocks and, by extension, in other Archean 
sequences.

DOI: 10.1089/ast.2011.0729
PMCID: PMC3277919
PMID: 22313376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Heart. 2012 Apr;98(7):544-51. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-301323. Epub 2012
Feb  7.

Cost-effectiveness of bivalirudin versus heparin plus glycoprotein IIb/IIIa 
inhibitor in the treatment of acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.

Schwenkglenks M(1), Toward TJ, Plent S, Szucs TD, Blackman DJ, Baumbach A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine (ECPM), University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland. m.schwenkglenks@unibas.ch

Comment in
    Heart. 2012 Jul;98(14):1037-9.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of bivalirudin versus heparin and 
glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (H-GPI) in patients undergoing primary 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) for acute ST-segment elevation 
myocardial infarction (STEMI), from a UK health service perspective.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis with life-long time horizon.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
incremental cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Event risks and medical resource use data derived from the HORIZONS-AMI 
trial were entered into a decision analytic model. Clinical events until the end 
of year 1 (main model) or year 3 (alternative model) were modelled in detail. 
Adjustments were applied to approximate UK routine practice characteristics. 
Life expectancy of 1-year or 3-year survivors, health-state utilities, initial 
hospitalisation length of stay in the comparator strategy and unit costs were 
based on UK sources. Costs and effects were discounted at 3.5%.
RESULTS: The main model predicted bivalirudin and H-GPI patients to survive 
11.52 and 11.35 (undiscounted) years on average, respectively, and to accrue 
6.26 and 6.17 QALYs. Patient lifetime costs were £267 lower in the bivalirudin 
strategy (£12 843 vs £13 110). Extensive sensitivity and scenario analyses 
confirmed these results to be robust. In probabilistic analysis, 
quality-adjusted survival was higher and costs were lower with bivalirudin in 
95.0% of simulation runs. In 99.2%, cost-effectiveness was better than £20 000 
per QALY gained. Results from the alternative model were fully consistent.
CONCLUSION: The use of bivalirudin instead of H-GPI in STEMI patients undergoing 
PPCI is cost-effective, and offers a high probability of dominance. Background 
treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel is assumed.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-301323
PMID: 22313548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Bull Entomol Res. 2012 Aug;102(4):461-7. doi: 10.1017/S0007485311000824.
Epub  2012 Feb 7.

How do honeybees use their magnetic compass? Can they see the North?

Válková T(1), Vácha M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology and Immunology, Faculty of Science, Masaryk 
University, Kotlarska 2, 611 37, Brno, Czech Republic.

While seeking food sources and routes back to their hive, bees make use of their 
advanced nervous and sensory capacities, which underlie a diverse behavioral 
repertoire. One of several honeybee senses that is both exceptional and 
intriguing is magnetoreception - the ability to perceive the omnipresent 
magnetic field (MF) of the Earth. The mechanism by which animals sense MFs has 
remained fascinating as well as elusive because of the intricacies involved, 
which makes it one of the grand challenges for neural and sensory biology. 
However, investigations in recent years have brought substantial progress to our 
understanding of how such magneto-receptor(s) may work. Some terrestrial animals 
(birds) are reported to be equipped even with a dual perception system: one 
based on diminutive magnetic particles - in line with the original model which 
has also always been hypothesized for bees - and the other one, as the more 
recent model describes, based on a sensitivity of some photochemical reactions 
to MF (radical-pair or chemical mechanism). The latter model postulates a close 
link to vision and supposes that the animals can see the position of the 
geomagnetic North as a visible pattern superimposed on the picture of the 
environment. In recent years, a growing body of evidence has shown that 
radical-pair magnetoreception might also be used by insects. It is realistic to 
expect that such evidence will inspire a re-examination and extension or 
confirmation of established views on the honeybee magnetic-compass mechanism. 
However, the problem of bee magnetoreception will not be solved at the moment 
that a receptor is discovered. On the contrary, the meaning of magnetoreception 
in insect life and its involvement in the orchestration of other senses is yet 
to be fully understood. The crucial question to be addressed in the near future 
is whether the compass abilities of the honeybee could suffer from radio 
frequency (RF) smog accompanying modern civilization and whether the fitness of 
this dominant pollinator might be affected by RF fields. The goal of this review 
is to provide an overview of the path that the behavioral research on honeybee 
magnetoreception has taken and to discuss it in the context of contemporary data 
obtained on other insects.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007485311000824
PMID: 22313997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. BMC Cancer. 2012 Feb 8;12:62. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-12-62.

Improving adherence to surveillance and screening recommendations for people 
with colorectal cancer and their first degree relatives: a randomized controlled 
trial.

Carey M(1), Sanson-Fisher R, Macrae F, Hill D, D'Este C, Paul C, Doran C.

Author information:
(1)The Priority Research Centre for Health Behaviour, School of Medicine and 
Public, Health Faculty of Health, The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, New 
South Wales 2308, Australia. Mariko.Carey@newcastle.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is among the leading causes of 
cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite clinical practice 
guidelines to guide surveillance care for those who have completed treatment for 
this disease as well as screening for first degree relatives of people with CRC, 
the level of uptake of these recommendations remains uncertain. If outcomes for 
both patients and their families are to be improved, it is important to 
establish systematic and cost-effective interventions to improve adherence to 
guideline recommendations for CRC surveillance and screening.
METHODS/DESIGN: A randomized controlled trial will be used to test the 
effectiveness of a print-based intervention to improve adherence to colonoscopy 
surveillance among people with CRC and adherence to CRC screening 
recommendations among their first degree relatives (FDRs). People diagnosed with 
CRC in the past 10 months will be recruited through a population-based cancer 
registry. Consenting participants will be asked if their first degree relatives 
might also be willing to participate in the trial. Information on family history 
of CRC will be obtained from patients at baseline. Patients and their families 
will be randomized to either minimal ethical care or the print-based 
intervention. The print-based intervention for FDRs will be tailored to the 
participant's level of risk of CRC as determined by the self-reported family 
history assessment. Follow up data on surveillance and screening participation 
will be collected from patients and their FDRs respectively at 12, 24 and 36 
months' post recruitment. The primary analyses will relate to comparing levels 
of guideline adherence in usual care group versus print-based group in the 
patient sample and the FDR sample respectively.
DISCUSSION: Results of this study will provide contribute to the evidence base 
about effective strategies to a) improve adherence to surveillance 
recommendation for people with CRC; and b) improve adherence to screening 
recommendation for FDRs of people with CRC. The use of a population-based cancer 
registry to access the target population may have significant advantages in 
increasing the reach of the intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered with the Australian and New Zealand 
Clinical Trials Registry Registration Number (ACTRN): ACTRN12609000628246.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-12-62
PMCID: PMC3297531
PMID: 22314015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Postgrad Med. 2012 Jan;124(1):41-9. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2012.01.2516.

Anticoagulation prophylaxis in orthopedic surgery: an efficiency frontier 
approach.

Migliaccio-Walle K(1), Rublee D, Simon TA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
KMigliaccio@icer-review.org

This study assesses the use of new anticoagulants for the prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in patients undergoing elective orthopedic surgery using 
traditional cost-effectiveness analysis and efficiency frontier methodology.
RATIONALE: Efficiency frontier methodology has the potential to systematically 
improve the information used in policy and decision making, though it is still 
relatively uncommon in health economics. Anticoagulation in elective orthopedic 
surgery provides a fitting and timely case study for examining the influence of 
choosing one methodology over another.
METHODS: An economic model was developed to capture the relative benefits and 
consequences of choosing one anticoagulation strategy over another in the 
context of orthopedic surgery. Three novel oral anticoagulants (apixaban, 
rivaroxaban, dabigatran) are compared with enoxaparin 40 mg daily from the UK 
National Health Service perspective using traditional cost-effectiveness 
estimates (cost/quality-adjusted life years, cost/life years gained) and the 
efficiency frontier. The latter explicitly includes embolic and bleeding events 
as outcomes. A 5-year time horizon was adopted.
RESULTS: Total discounted costs ranged from about £200 000 to £431 000 over 5 
years per 1000 patients undergoing elective total hip arthroplasty, and from 
£243 000 to £463 000 per 1000 patients for elective total knee arthroplasty. 
Analysis of the efficiency frontier demonstrates that apixaban and rivaroxaban 
are the preferred choices, depending on the outcome examined and the type of 
surgery. In terms of safety, apixaban is associated with more bleeding events 
avoided; yet, rivaroxaban demonstrated better VTE outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Traditional cost-effectiveness analysis systematically excludes 
information related to the safety profiles of these anticoagulants. The 
efficiency frontier approach presented in this study provides critical 
information, without substantial effort, to permit a fully informed decision by 
taking into account all relevant outcomes as they relate to the costs associated 
with treatment choice.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2012.01.2516
PMID: 22314113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Postgrad Med. 2012 Jan;124(1):133-43. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2012.01.2526.

Clinical management of elderly patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Pratley RE(1), Gilbert M.

Author information:
(1)Florida Hospital Diabetes Institute, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research 
Institute, Orlando, FL 32804, USA. richard.pratley@flhosp.org

With an increase in life expectancy of the general population comes an increase 
in the number of elderly patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Although 
the pharmacologic treatment options for elderly patients with T2DM are the same 
as for younger adults, management of this growing group poses unique challenges. 
Changes in renal and hepatic function and an increased prevalence of multiple 
comorbidities mandate an individually tailored treatment strategy that balances 
treatment benefits with the patient's functional status and risk for 
hypoglycemia and polypharmacy. This approach is hampered by the relative paucity 
of data regarding the pharmacotherapy of T2DM in older adults, necessitating 
clinical guidance based on data extrapolated from a younger population. Most 
current guidelines are disease-focused and do not include specific instructions 
on how to prioritize the treatment of hyperglycemia relative to that of other 
comorbidities and the functional status of patients. This article reviews the 
epidemiology, pathophysiology, comorbidities, pharmacokinetic considerations, 
treatment goals, guidelines, and treatment options for the elderly population, 
and highlights the current knowledge gaps complicating the management of T2DM in 
this population.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2012.01.2526
PMID: 22314123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Environ Biol. 2011 Jul;32(4):513-21.

Population dynamics of the tropical cladoceran Ceriodaphnia rigaudi Richard, 
1894 (Crustacea: Anomopoda). Effect of food type and temperature.

Martinez-Jeronimo F(1), Ventura-Lopez C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Hidrobiologia Experimental. Escuela Nacional de Ciencias 
Biológicas, I.P.N. Carpio Esq. Plan de Ayala s/n, Col. Sto. Tomás, México, D. F. 
11340, Mexico. fjeroni@ipn.mx

The knowledge of population effects of food on tropical, filter-feeding 
cladocerans is scarce because a reduced number of species has been extensively 
studied. Ceriodaphnia rigaudi Richard 1894, a small-sized cladoceran distributed 
mainly in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, was studied. The aim of 
this study was to contribute to the knowledge of the reproductive biology of a 
poor-known Cladoceran; for this we assessed the effect of feeding and 
temperature on the reproduction and life cycle of this species. Three microalga 
species (Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, Ankistrodesmus falcatus, and Chlorella 
vulgaris) were supplied as food each at a concentration of 12 mg l(-1) (dry 
weight, equivalent to 1.3 x 10(6), 0.4 x 10(6) and 1.35 x 10(6) cell m1(-1), 
respectively, and equivalent to 7.8 microg C ml(-1), at two temperatures (20 and 
25 degrees C). We evaluated, among other responses, longevity, total progeny, 
survival, life expectancy at birth and fecundity. Organisms fed with the 
microalgae A. falcatus and P subcapitata presented both higher longevity (30.7 
+/- 5.91, 26.6 +/- 3.59 days, respectively) and total progeny (45 +/- 13.80, 
40.7 +/- 0.66 neonates female (-1) values than those organisms fed C. vulgaris 
(13.5 +/- 4.63 days and 17.6 +/- 6.19 neonates female (-1), respectively). On 
the other hand, temperature affected significantly the population parameters of 
C. rigaudi, recording maximal longevity values (56.1 +/- 9.41 days) at 20 
degrees C in organisms fed A. falcatus; however, age at first reproduction and 
total progeny were negatively affected by this temperature: sexual maturation of 
the females was delayed until the age of 16 days and the number of neonates 
produced was smaller (9.8 +/- 3.45 with C. vulgaris; 24.7 +/- 6.01 with P 
subcapitata, and 35.5 +/- 8.59 neonates female(-1) with A. falcatus). The best 
reproductive responses for C. rigaudi in this study were obtained with A. 
falcatus at degrees 25 degrees C.

PMID: 22315831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Med Econ. 2012;15(3):454-64. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2011.653511. Epub 2012
Feb  9.

Cost-effectiveness of zoledronic acid vs clodronic acid for newly-diagnosed 
multiple myeloma from the United Kingdom healthcare system perspective.

Delea TE(1), Rotter J, Taylor M, Chandiwana D, Bains M, El Ouagari K, Kaura S, 
Morgan GJ.

Author information:
(1)PAI (Policy Analysis Inc.) Brookline, MA, USA. tdelea@pai2.com

OBJECTIVE: In the Medical Research Council Myeloma IX Study (MMIX), zoledronic 
acid (ZOL) 4 mg 3-4/week reduced the incidence of skeletal-related events 
(SREs), increased progression free survival (PFS), and prolonged overall 
survival (OS), compared with clodronic acid (CLO) 1600 mg daily, in 1970 
patients with newly-diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM).
METHODS: An economic model was used to project PFS, OS, the incidence of SREs 
and adverse events and expected lifetime healthcare costs for patients with 
newly-diagnosed MM who are alternatively assumed to receive ZOL or CLO. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] of ZOL vs CLO was calculated as the 
ratio of the difference in cost to the difference in quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). Model inputs were based on results of MMIX and published sources.
RESULTS: Compared with CLO, treatment with ZOL increases QALYs by 0.30 at an 
additional cost of £1653, yielding an ICER of £5443 per QALY gained. If the 
threshold ICER is £20,000 per QALY, the estimated probability that ZOL is 
cost-effective is 90%.
LIMITATIONS: The main limitation of this study is the lack of data on the 
effects of zoledronic acid on survival beyond the end of follow-up in the MMIX 
trial. However, cost-effectiveness was favourable even under the highly 
conservative scenario in which the timeframe of the model was limited to 5 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with clodronic acid, zoledronic acid represents a 
cost-effective treatment alternative in patients with multiple myeloma.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2011.653511
PMID: 22316275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. J Med Food. 2012 Apr;15(4):413-7. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2011.2029. Epub 2012 Feb
8.

Berberine promotes axonal regeneration in injured nerves of the peripheral 
nervous system.

Han AM(1), Heo H, Kwon YK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, Kyung Hee University, 
Seoul, Korea.

Berberine, an isoquinoline alkaloid component of Coptidis Rhizoma (goldenthread) 
extract, has been reported to have therapeutic potential for central nervous 
system disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, cerebral ischemia, and 
schizophrenia. We have previously shown that berberine promotes the survival and 
differentiation of hippocampal precursor cells. In a memory-impaired rat model 
induced by ibotenic acid injection, the survival of pyramidal and granular cells 
was greatly increased in the hippocampus by berberine administration. In the 
present study, we investigated the effects of berberine on neurite outgrowth in 
the SH-SY5Y neuronal cell line and axonal regeneration in the rat peripheral 
nervous system (PNS). Berberine enhanced neurite extension in differentiating 
SH-SY5Y cells at concentrations of 0.25-3 μg/mL. In an injury model of the rat 
sciatic nerve, we examined the neuroregenerative effects of berberine on axonal 
remyelination by using immunohistochemical analysis. Four weeks after berberine 
administration (20 mg/kg i.p. once per day for 1 week), the thickness of 
remyelinated axons improved approximately 1.4-fold in the distal stump of the 
injury site. Taken together, these results indicate that berberine promotes 
neurite extension and axonal regeneration in injured nerves of the PNS.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2011.2029
PMCID: PMC3308712
PMID: 22316297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Drugs. 2012 Feb 12;72(3):415-35. doi: 10.2165/11208260-000000000-00000.

Romiplostim: a review of its use in immune thrombocytopenia.

Keating GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Romiplostim (Nplate®) is an Fc-peptide fusion protein (peptibody) that acts as a 
thrombopoietin receptor agonist; it has no amino acid sequence homology with 
endogenous thrombopoietin. This article reviews the clinical efficacy and 
tolerability of subcutaneous romiplostim in adults with immune thrombocytopenia 
(ITP), as well as summarizing its pharmacological properties. The efficacy of 12 
or 24 weeks' therapy with subcutaneous romiplostim was compared with that of 
placebo in patients with ITP in three randomized, double-blind, multicentre, 
phase III trials. In the two 24-week trials, the durable platelet response rate 
(primary endpoint) was significantly higher with romiplostim than with placebo 
in both splenectomized and nonsplenectomized patients. In addition, the majority 
of romiplostim recipients were able to discontinue or reduce their concurrent 
ITP therapy, and romiplostim improved health-related quality of life (HR-QOL). 
In the 12-week trial in splenectomized or nonsplenectomized Japanese patients 
with ITP, the median number of weeks with a platelet response (primary endpoint) 
was significantly higher with romiplostim than with placebo. Two extension 
studies (with median durations of romiplostim treatment of 78 and 100 weeks) 
demonstrated that long-term therapy with romiplostim maintained platelet counts 
in the target range in patients with ITP. In a randomized, open-label, 
multicentre, 52-week, phase IIIb trial, romiplostim was more effective than the 
medical standard of care in nonsplenectomized patients with ITP who had received 
at least one prior ITP treatment. Significantly fewer patients receiving 
romiplostim versus the medical standard of care experienced treatment failure or 
required splenectomy (co-primary endpoints), and clinically meaningful 
improvements from baseline in HR-QOL scores were seen with romiplostim. 
Subcutaneous romiplostim was generally well tolerated in patients with ITP; in 
short-term trials, the majority of adverse events were of mild to moderate 
severity and appeared to be related to the underlying thrombocytopenia. The 
incidence of bleeding events of at least grade 3 severity did not significantly 
differ between romiplostim and placebo recipients, and was significantly lower 
with romiplostim than with the medical standard of care. Romiplostim did not 
appear to be associated with an increased risk of haematological malignancies or 
an increased risk of thrombotic events. Although binding antibodies against 
romiplostim or thrombopoietin developed in some romiplostim recipients, with 
neutralizing antibodies to romiplostim detected in two romiplostim recipients, 
antibodies cross reacting to thrombopoietin have not been detected. Romiplostim 
was associated with modest increases in bone marrow reticulin in some patients 
with ITP; reductions in reticulin were usually seen when romiplostim was 
discontinued. In conclusion, subcutaneous romiplostim is a valuable agent for 
use in patients with refractory chronic ITP.

DOI: 10.2165/11208260-000000000-00000
PMID: 22316355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. BMC Neurol. 2012 Feb 8;12:2. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-12-2.

Evaluating the cost effectiveness of donepezil in the treatment of Alzheimer's 
disease in Germany using discrete event simulation.

Hartz S(1), Getsios D, Tao S, Blume S, Maclaine G.

Author information:
(1)B214 Baquba Building, Conington Road, SE13 7FF London, UK.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2012 Jun;12(3):275-7.

BACKGROUND: Previous cost-effectiveness studies of cholinesterase inhibitors 
have modeled Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression and treatment effects through 
single or global severity measures, or progression to "Full Time Care". This 
analysis evaluates the cost-effectiveness of donepezil versus memantine or no 
treatment in Germany by considering correlated changes in cognition, behavior 
and function.
METHODS: Rates of change were modeled using trial and registry-based patient 
level data. A discrete event simulation projected outcomes for three identical 
patient groups: donepezil 10 mg, memantine 20 mg and no therapy. Patient mix, 
mortality and costs were developed using Germany-specific sources.
RESULTS: Treatment of patients with mild to moderately severe AD with donepezil 
compared to no treatment was associated with 0.13 QALYs gained per patient, and 
0.01 QALYs gained per caregiver and resulted in average savings of €7,007 and 
€9,893 per patient from the healthcare system and societal perspectives, 
respectively. In patients with moderate to moderately-severe AD, donepezil 
compared to memantine resulted in QALY gains averaging 0.01 per patient, and 
savings averaging €1,960 and €2,825 from the healthcare system and societal 
perspective, respectively.In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, donepezil 
dominated no treatment in most replications and memantine in over 70% of the 
replications. Donepezil leads to savings in 95% of replications versus 
memantine.
CONCLUSIONS: Donepezil is highly cost-effective in patients with AD in Germany, 
leading to improvements in health outcomes and substantial savings compared to 
no treatment. This holds across a variety of sensitivity analyses.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-12-2
PMCID: PMC3296601
PMID: 22316501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Work. 2012;41 Suppl 1:3541-8. doi: 10.3233/WOR-2012-0633-3541.

Computer acceptance of older adults.

Nägle S(1), Schmidt L.

Author information:
(1)Human-Machine Systems Engineering, University of Kassel, Mönchebergstraβe 7, 
34125 Kassel, Germany. S.Naegle@uni-kassel.de

Even though computers play a massive role in everyday life of modern societies, 
older adults, and especially older women, are less likely to use a computer, and 
they perform fewer activities on it than younger adults. To get a better 
understanding of the factors affecting older adults' intention towards and usage 
of computers, the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Usage of Technology (UTAUT) 
was applied as part of a more extensive study with 52 users and non-users of 
computers, ranging in age from 50 to 90 years. The model covers various aspects 
of computer usage in old age via four key constructs, namely performance 
expectancy, effort expectancy, social influences, and facilitating conditions, 
as well as the variables gender, age, experience, and voluntariness it. 
Interestingly, next to performance expectancy, facilitating conditions showed 
the strongest correlation with use as well as with intention. Effort expectancy 
showed no significant correlation with the intention of older adults to use a 
computer.

DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2012-0633-3541
PMID: 22317258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Work. 2012;41 Suppl 1:3883-7. doi: 10.3233/WOR-2012-0056-3883.

Ergonomics and design for sustainability in healthcare: ambient assisted living 
and the social-environmental impact of patients lifestyle.

Andreoni G(1), Arslan P, Costa F, Muschiato S, Romero M.

Author information:
(1)LyPhe: Laboratory for Physical Ergonomics, INDACO Department, Politecnico di 
Milano, via Durando 38/A, 20158 Milan, Italy.

This work presents considerations on Ergonomics and Design for Sustainability in 
the healthcare field based on research experiences of the Technology and Design 
for Healthcare (TeDH) research group of INDACO (Industrial design, 
communication, arts and fashion) department of Politecnico di Milano. In order 
to develop a multidisciplinary approach to design able to answer to specific 
user needs such as elderly in an environmental sustainable way (1) this paper 
shows the results we achieved concerning ergonomics and environmental impact in 
product development (2), the extension of this approach to interior and home 
design and the advantage of the application of Information Communication 
Technologies (ICT). ICT can help people with special needs to make their 
everyday life easier and more safe, at the same time, ICT can make 
social-environmental impact of everyday behavior evident and can be applied to 
manage sustainability. The specific theme is thus to integrate ergonomics and 
sustainability competences in the development of Ambient Assisted Living through 
a Product- Service System approach. The concept of product service system has 
the potential to improve product performances and services, establish new 
relations and networks with different actors in order to satisfy user needs and 
apply a systems approach considering environmental, social and economic factors 
in the users' environment.

DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2012-0056-3883
PMID: 22317315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Work. 2012;41 Suppl 1:4848-9. doi: 10.3233/WOR-2012-0775-4848.

Outcome measures and prognosis of WRMSD.

Jose JA(1).

Author information:
(1)RECOUP Neuromusculoskeletal Rehabilitation Centre, #312, 80 Feet Road, 10th 
Block, Further Extension of Anjanapura Layout, Bangalore 560062 Bangalore, 
India. jerrish@recoup.in

Work Related Musculoskeletal Disorders (WRMSDs) are widespread in many 
countries, with substantial costs and impact on quality of life. WRMSDs create a 
significant financial burden to both employer and employee that includes the 
cost of treatment and lost work time. There is a growing demand to implement 
early identification and effective prevention strategies, aimed at early 
intervention in employees prior to possible absenteeism due to foreseen sickness 
or disability. Outcome measure of the WRMSD gives an understanding about the 
severity and the intensity of the problems. Before starting of the treatment it 
is very important to understand the gravity and seriousness of the WRMSD. Once 
we understand the gravity of the WRMSD the level of the treatment can be decided 
and optimum prescription can be made for that particular WRMSD.
OBJECTIVES: This will discuss various outcome measures through which prognosis 
of the WRMSD can be determined and final prescription of treatment regiment can 
be formulated.

DOI: 10.3233/WOR-2012-0775-4848
PMID: 22317468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2012 Mar;91(3):231-42. doi:
10.1097/PHM.0b013e3182489f5e.

Medical rehabilitation of people with spinal cord injury during 40 years of 
academic physiatric practice.

Ragnarsson KT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New 
York, New York 10029, USA.

There are many different paths that lead to an academic physiatric career and a 
lifelong interest in spinal cord injury (SCI) medicine. It is unfortunate that 
after decades of cellular-based research in multiple laboratories, there are 
still no interventions available that can reverse the neurologic loss that 
follows SCI. In contrast, medical rehabilitation research during the last 40 yrs 
has led to remarkable improvements in the lives of persons with SCI as evident 
in their increased life expectancy, shorter hospitalizations, fewer 
rehospitalizations, and more effective treatments for male sexual dysfunction 
and fertility, as well as spasticity, heterotrophic ossification, and 
neuropathic pain. Application of modern technology has improved the mobility of 
persons with SCI with better designed wheelchairs, decreased their dependency on 
others, facilitated their access to information, made communication and 
community integration easier, and so on. Although deaths related to urinary 
tract complications are now rare, better methods of managing the neurogenic 
bladder are still needed. Furthermore, better management methods are also needed 
for the neurogenic bowel, SCI pain, and osteoporosis of the paralyzed limbs. 
Even with proper prophylaxis, deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism are 
still common, and clinicians have paid too little attention to reducing the risk 
for persons with SCI of developing obesity, diabetes mellitus, and 
cardiovascular disease. These challenges need to be met by medical 
rehabilitation research, by advocating for insurance policies that support the 
healthcare needs of persons with SCI, and by developing comprehensive disability 
policies, all with the support and leadership of academic physiatrists.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0b013e3182489f5e
PMID: 22317933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Mol Cancer Ther. 2012 Apr;11(4):1017-25. doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-11-0891.
 Epub 2012 Feb 7.

Nanobodies targeting the hepatocyte growth factor: potential new drugs for 
molecular cancer therapy.

Vosjan MJ(1), Vercammen J, Kolkman JA, Stigter-van Walsum M, Revets H, van 
Dongen GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, VU University Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor c-Met are associated with 
increased aggressiveness of tumors and poor prognostic outcome of patients with 
cancer. Here, we report the development and characterization of therapeutic 
anti-HGF (αHGF)-Nanobodies and their potential for positron emission tomographic 
(PET) imaging to assess HGF expression in vivo. Two αHGF-Nanobodies designated 
1E2 and 6E10 were identified, characterized, and molecularly fused to an 
albumin-binding Nanobody unit (Alb8) to obtain serum half-life extension. The 
resulting Nanobody formats were radiolabeled with the positron emitter 
zirconium-89 ((89)Zr, t(1/2;) = 78 hours), administered to nude mice bearing U87 
MG glioblastoma xenografts, and their biodistribution was assessed. In addition, 
their therapeutic effect was evaluated in the same animal model at doses of 10, 
30, or 100 μg per mouse. The (89)Zr-Nanobodies showed similar biodistribution 
with selective tumor targeting. For example, 1E2-Alb8 showed decreased blood 
levels of 12.6%ID/g ± 0.6%ID/g, 7.2%ID/g ± 1.0%ID/g, 3.4%ID/g ± 0.3%ID/g, and 
0.3%ID/g ± 0.1%ID/g at 1, 2, 3, and 7 days after injection, whereas tumor uptake 
levels remained relatively stable at these time points: 7.8%ID/g ± 1.1%ID/g, 
8.9%ID/g ± 1.0%ID/g, 8.7%ID/g ± 1.5%ID/g, and 7.2%ID/g ±1.6%ID/g. Uptake in 
normal tissues was lower than in tumor, except for kidneys. In a therapy study, 
all Nanobody-treated mice showed tumor growth delay compared with the control 
saline group. In the 100-μg group, four of six mice were cured after treatment 
with 1E2-Alb8 and 73 days follow-up, and three of six mice when treated with 
6E10-Alb8. These results provide evidence that Nanobodies 1E2-Alb8 and 6E10-Alb8 
have potential for therapy and PET imaging of HGF-expressing tumors.

©2012 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-11-0891
PMID: 22319202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e31155. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031155. Epub 2012 Feb
2.

Serum from calorie-restricted rats activates vascular cell eNOS through enhanced 
insulin signaling mediated by adiponectin.

Cerqueira FM(1), Brandizzi LI, Cunha FM, Laurindo FR, Kowaltowski AJ.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Química, Departamento de Bioquímica, Universidade de São Paulo, 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

eNOS activation resulting in mitochondrial biogenesis is believed to play a 
central role in life span extension promoted by calorie restriction (CR). We 
investigated the mechanism of this activation by treating vascular cells with 
serum from CR rats and found increased Akt and eNOS phosphorylation, in addition 
to enhanced nitrite release. Inhibiting Akt phosphorylation or 
immunoprecipitating adiponectin (found in high quantities in CR serum) 
completely prevented the increment in nitrite release and eNOS activation. 
Overall, we demonstrate that adiponectin in the serum from CR animals increases 
NO• signaling by activating the insulin pathway. These results suggest this 
hormone may be a determinant regulator of the beneficial effects of CR.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031155
PMCID: PMC3271099
PMID: 22319612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


580. J Law Med. 2011 Dec;19(2):232-43.

Access to expensive anti-cancer drugs.

Mileshkin L(1), Sullivan D.

Author information:
(1)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne.

Expensive anti-cancer drugs expose controversy underlying the process for 
resource allocation decisions, and intermittently result in marked publicity, 
emotive discussions about access to novel and expensive treatments, and 
political involvement which may override existing processes. This column 
outlines the methods of determining whether or not a treatment is considered 
appropriate to fund, and focuses upon the evidence of patient and doctor wishes. 
The existing research illustrates the complexity of patient and oncologist 
decision-making when these drugs are to be considered. Past litigation to obtain 
access to expensive treatments is discussed, along with the interactions between 
patients, pharmaceutical companies, health services and oncologists. This 
evolving field is being transformed by developments in molecular biology 
enabling targeted drugs, and amply demonstrates the complexity of funding 
decisions and how expensive treatments are considered by a range of 
stakeholders.

PMID: 22319998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2012 May 1;10(3):201-15. doi: 
10.2165/11630890-000000000-00000.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of early versus non-early intervention in acute 
migraine based on evidence from the 'Act when Mild' study.

Slof J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Business Economics, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Bellaterra, Spain. EricJohn.Slof@uab.es

BACKGROUND: In spite of the important progress made in the abortive treatment of 
acute migraine episodes since the introduction of triptans, reduction of pain 
and associated symptoms is in many cases still not as effective nor as fast as 
would be desirable. Recent research pays more attention to the timing of the 
treatment, and taking triptans early in the course of an attack when pain is 
still mild has been found more efficacious than the usual strategy of waiting 
for the attack to develop to a higher pain intensity level.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost effectiveness of early versus non-early 
intervention with almotriptan in acute migraine.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted from the perspectives of French 
society and the French public health system based on patient-level data 
collected in the AwM (Act when Mild) study, a placebo-controlled trial that 
compared the response to early and non-early treatment of acute migraine with 
almotriptan. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were determined in 
terms of QALYs, migraine hours and productive time lost. Costs were expressed in 
Euros (year 2010 values). Bootstrapping was used to derive cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves.
RESULTS: Early treatment has shown to lead to shorter attack duration, less 
productive time lost, better quality of life, and is, with 92% probability, 
overall cost saving from a societal point of view. In terms of drug costs only, 
however, non-early treatment is less expensive. From the public health system 
perspective, the (bootstrap) mean ICER of early treatment amounts to €0.38 per 
migraine hour avoided, €1.29 per hour of productive time lost avoided, and 
€14,296 per QALY gained. Considering willingness-to-pay values of approximately 
€1 to avoid an hour of migraine, €10 to avoid the loss of a productive hour, or 
€30,000 to gain one QALY, the approximate probability that early treatment is 
cost effective is 90%, 90% and 70%, respectively. These results remain robust in 
different scenarios for the major elements of the economic evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with non-early treatment, a strategy of early treatment of 
acute migraine with almotriptan when pain is still mild is, with high 
probability, cost saving from the French societal perspective and can be 
considered cost effective from the public health system point of view.

DOI: 10.2165/11630890-000000000-00000
PMID: 22320449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Clin Neurosci. 2012 Apr;19(4):517-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2011.06.029.
Epub  2012 Feb 8.

Corpectomy with titanium cage reconstruction in the cervical spine.

Castellvi AE(1), Castellvi A, Clabeaux DH.

Author information:
(1)Florida Orthopaedic Institute, 13020 Telecom Parkway N., Tampa, FL 33637, 
USA. doctorbackbone@aol.com

Multi-level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) has been utilized by 
many surgeons to address multi-level cervical disease with the use of autograft 
or allograft. High failure rates have been reported in three-level 
decompressions when autograft is used, which increases with the use of 
allograft. This has led many surgeons to advocate anterior cervical corpectomy 
with strut grafting where only two surfaces are needed for fusion compared to 
the multiple surfaces required for multi-level ACDF. We retrospectively 
evaluated the efficacy of titanium cage use with autologous bone graft (resected 
vertebral bodies) and anterior cervical plating in 38 consecutive patients (aged 
18-73 years) undergoing cervical decompression and corpectomy. Medical records 
were examined along with an outcome interview conducted in-person or by phone. 
Postoperative immobilization was achieved with a rigid cervical collar. Fusion 
was assessed by antero-posterior (AP), lateral, and flexion-extension 
radiographs and cervical spine CT scans. Fusion was assessed by AP, lateral, and 
flexion-extension radiographs and cervical spine CT scans. Clinical results 
included an exit interview. Solid bony fusion with graft incorporation was found 
in 37 of 38 patients (97.5%) at six months and 100% in one year. Compared to 
preoperative levels, 84% of patients rated their overall quality of life to have 
improved by 50% or greater and would have the same surgery again given the same 
conditions. There were few complications. Thus, titanium cage reconstruction 
with the use of autologous bone from a corpectomy and the use of an anterior 
cervical plate is an effective means of reconstruction after decompressive 
cervical corpectomy, and we conclude this is a viable alternative to multi-level 
ACDF or to procedures involving long strut grafts obtained from the patient or 
bone bank.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2011.06.029
PMID: 22321362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Arthropod Struct Dev. 2012 Mar;41(2):119-31. doi: 10.1016/j.asd.2011.11.004.
 Epub 2012 Feb 8.

Kinematics of walking in the hermit crab, Pagurus pollicarus.

Chapple W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Neurobiology, University of Connecticut, Storrs, 
CT 06269-3156, USA. william.chapple@uconn.edu

Hermit crabs are decapod crustaceans that have adapted to life in gastropod 
shells. Among their adaptations are modifications to their thoracic appendages 
or pereopods. The 4th and 5th pairs are adapted for shell support; walking is 
performed with the 2nd and 3rd pereopods, with an alternation of diagonal pairs. 
During stance, the walking legs are rotated backwards in the pitch plane. Two 
patterns of walking were studied to compare them with walking patterns described 
for other decapods, a lateral gait, similar to that in many brachyurans, and a 
forward gait resembling macruran walking. Video sequences of free walking and 
restrained animals were used to obtain leg segment positions from which joint 
angles were calculated. Leading legs in a lateral walk generated a power stroke 
by flexion of MC and PD joints; CB angles often did not change during slow 
walks. Trailing legs exhibited extension of MC and PD with a slight levation of 
CB. The two joints, B/IM and CP, are aligned at 90° angles to CB, MC and PD, 
moving dorso-anteriorly during swing and ventro-posteriorly during stance. A 
forward step was more complex; during swing the leg was rotated forward (yaw) 
and vertically (pitch), due to the action of TC. At the beginning of stance, TC 
started to rotate posteriorly and laterally, CB was depressed, and MC flexed. As 
stance progressed and the leg was directed laterally, PD and MC extended, so 
that at the end of stance the dactyl tip was quite posterior. During walks of 
the animal out of its shell, the legs were extended more anterior-laterally and 
the animal often toppled over, indicating that during walking in a shell its 
weight stabilized the animal. An open chain kinematic model in which each 
segment was approximated as a rectangular solid, the dimensions of which were 
derived from measurements on animals, was developed to estimate the CM of the 
animal under different load conditions. CM was normally quite anterior; removal 
of the chelipeds shifted it caudally. Application of forces simulating the 
weight of the shell on the 5th pereopods moved CM just anterior to the 
thoracic-abdominal junction. However, lateral and vertical coordinates were not 
altered under these different load conditions. The interaction of the shell 
aperture with proximal leg joints and with the CM indicates that the oblique 
angles of the legs, due primarily to the rotation of the TC joints, is an 
adaptation that confers stability during walking.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.asd.2011.11.004
PMID: 22321513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. BMJ Clin Evid. 2012 Feb 10;2012:1202.

Multiple sclerosis.

Nicholas R(1), Rashid W.

Author information:
(1)Imperial Healthcare Trust, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Multiple sclerosis is the most common cause of neurological 
disability in young adults. Irreversible disability can occur, but life 
expectancy is generally not affected.
METHODS AND OUTCOMES: We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the 
following clinical questions: What are the effects of interventions aimed at 
reducing relapse rates and disability in people with multiple sclerosis? What 
are the effects of interventions to improve symptoms during acute relapse? What 
are the effects of treatments for fatigue, spasticity, and multidisciplinary 
care on disability in people with multiple sclerosis? We searched: Medline, 
Embase, The Cochrane Library, and other important databases up to July 2011 
(Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically, please check our website 
for the most up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from 
relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
RESULTS: We found 71 systematic reviews, RCTs, and observational studies that 
met our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of 
evidence for interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review, we present information relating to the 
effectiveness and safety of the following key interventions: amantadine, 
azathioprine, behaviour modification, botulinum toxin, corticosteroids, 
exercise, gabapentin, inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation, interferon beta, 
intrathecal baclofen, intravenous immunoglobulin, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, 
modafinil, natalizumab, oral drug treatments, parenteral glatiramer acetate, 
physiotherapy, and plasma exchange.

PMCID: PMC4429413
PMID: 22321967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Am J Pathol. 2012 Apr;180(4):1593-602. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2011.12.019.
Epub  2012 Feb 6.

Laminin-111 protein therapy reduces muscle pathology and improves viability of a 
mouse model of merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy.

Rooney JE(1), Knapp JR, Hodges BL, Wuebbles RD, Burkin DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Center for Molecular Medicine, University of 
Nevada School of Medicine, Reno, Nevada 89557, USA.

