DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.08.1741
PMID: 22264972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Value Health. 2012 Jan;15(1):65-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.08.1737. Epub
2011  Oct 22.

Cost-effectiveness of maintenance pemetrexed in patients with advanced 
nonsquamous-cell lung cancer from the perspective of the Swiss health care 
system.

Matter-Walstra K(1), Joerger M, Kühnel U, Szucs T, Pestalozzi B, Schwenkglenks 
M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland. klazien.matter@unibas.ch

OBJECTIVES: A recent randomized study showed switch maintenance with pemetrexed 
after nonpemetrexed-containing first-line chemotherapy in patients with advanced 
nonsmall-cell lung cancer to prolong overall survival by 2.8 months. We examined 
the cost-effectiveness of pemetrexed in this indication, from the perspective of 
the Swiss health care system, and assessed the influence of the costs of best 
supportive care (BSC) on overall cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed based on the pemetrexed maintenance 
study, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of adding pemetrexed 
until disease progression was calculated as cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained. Uncertainties concerning the costs of BSC on the ICER were addressed.
RESULTS: The base case ICER for maintenance therapy with pemetrexed plus BSC 
compared to BSC alone was €106,202 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. 
Varying the costs for BSC had a marked effect. Assuming a reduction of the costs 
for BSC by 25% in the pemetrexed arm resulted in an ICER of €47,531 per 
quality-adjusted life-year, which is below predefined criteria for cost 
effectiveness in Switzerland.
CONCLUSIONS: Switch maintenance with pemetrexed in patients with advanced 
nonsquamous-cell lung cancer after standard first-line chemotherapy is not 
cost-effective. Uncertainties on the resource use and costs for BSC have a large 
influence on the cost-effectiveness calculation and should be reported in more 
detail.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.08.1737
PMID: 22264973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Value Health. 2012 Jan;15(1):94-105. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.08.003. Epub
2011  Oct 1.

Reviewing the cost-effectiveness of endocrine early breast cancer therapies: 
influence of differences in modeling methods on outcomes.

Frederix GW(1), Severens JL, Hövels AM, Raaijmakers JA, Schellens JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Experimental Therapy, The 
Netherlands. g.frederix@nki.nl

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this systematic review is primarily to identify 
published cost-effectiveness analyses and cost-utility analyses of endocrine 
therapies for the treatment of early breast cancer. A secondary objective is to 
identify whether differences in seven modeling characteristics are related to 
differences in outcome of these cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted to identify peer-reviewed 
full economic evaluations of endocrine treatments of early breast cancer 
published in the English language between 2000 and December 2010. Information 
from these publications was abstracted regarding outcome, quality, and modeling 
methods.
RESULTS: We identified 20 economic evaluations comprising 5 different endocrine 
therapeutic strategies, which are all assessed more then once. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of the reported outcomes varied widely for 
identical therapies. For anastrazole compared to tamoxifen, incremental 
life-years gained even ranged from 0.16 to 0.550 with an ICER ranging from 
€3,958 to €75,331. Incremental quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained ranged 
from 0.092 to 0.378 with a cost per QALY gained varying from €3,696 to €120,265. 
These large differences in outcome were related to different modeling methods, 
with differences in time horizon and use of a carryover effect as most prominent 
causes.
CONCLUSION: Despite similar comparators and logical differences due to 
transferability issues, the outcomes of the included studies varied widely. To 
increase comparability and transparency of pharmacoeconomic evaluations, 
standardization of modeling methods for different therapeutic groups/diseases 
and the availability of a detailed and complete description of the model used in 
the evaluation is advocated. Recommendations for standardization in modeling 
treatment strategies in early breast cancer are presented.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.08.003
PMID: 22264977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Homo. 2012 Feb;63(1):50-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jchb.2011.11.001. Epub 2012 Jan
20.

Mortality and morbidity in the city of Bern, Switzerland, 1805-1815 with special 
emphasis on infant, child and maternal deaths.

Rüttimann D(1), Loesch S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Anthropology, Institute of Forensic Medicine, 
University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland. domenic.ruettimann@irm.unibe.ch

This article contributes to the research on demographics and public health of 
urban populations of preindustrial Europe. The key source is a burial register 
that contains information on the deceased, such as age and sex, residence and 
cause of death. This register is one of the earliest compilations of data sets 
of individuals with this high degree of completeness and consistency. Critical 
assessment of the register's origin, formation and upkeep promises high validity 
and reliability. Between 1805 and 1815, 4,390 deceased inhabitants were 
registered. Information concerning these individuals provides the basis for this 
study. Life tables of Bern's population were created using different models. The 
causes of death were classified and their frequency calculated. Furthermore, the 
susceptibility of age groups to certain causes of death was established. Special 
attention was given to causes of death and mortality of newborns, infants and 
birth-giving women. In comparison to other cities and regions in Central Europe, 
Bern's mortality structure shows low rates for infants (q0=0.144) and children 
(q1-4=0.068). This could have simply indicated better living conditions. Life 
expectancy at birth was 43 years. Mortality was high in winter and spring, and 
decreased in summer to a low level with a short rise in August. The study of the 
causes of death was inhibited by difficulties in translating early 19th century 
nomenclature into the modern medical system. Nonetheless, death from metabolic 
disorders, illnesses of the respiratory system, and debilitation were the most 
prominent causes in Bern. Apparently, the worst killer of infants up to 12 
months was the "gichteren", an obsolete German term for lethal spasmodic 
convulsions. The exact modern identification of this disease remains unclear. 
Possibilities such as infant tetanus or infant epilepsy are discussed. The 
maternal death rate of 0.72% is comparable with values calculated from 
contemporaneous sources. Relevance of childbed fever in the early 1800s was low. 
Bern's data indicate that the extent of deaths related to childbirth in this 
period is overrated. This research has an explicit interdisciplinary value for 
various fields including both the humanities and natural sciences, since 
information reported here represents the complete age and sex structure of a 
deceased population. Physical anthropologists can use these data as a true 
reference group for their palaeodemographic studies of preindustrial Central 
Europe of the late 18th and early 19th century. It is a call to both historians 
and anthropologists to use our resources to a better effect through combination 
of methods and exchange of knowledge.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchb.2011.11.001
PMID: 22265007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Value Health. 2012 Jan-Feb;15(1 Suppl):S20-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.015.

Evidence to inform decision makers in Thailand: a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
screening and treatment strategies for postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Kingkaew P(1), Maleewong U, Ngarmukos C, Teerawattananon Y.

Author information:
(1)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program, Department of Health, 
Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand. pritaporn.k@hitap.net

OBJECTIVES: To assess value for money of providing systematic screening for 
osteoporosis among postmenopausal women and medical treatments for those 
diagnosed with osteoporosis as evidence-based decision making for the revision 
of the National List of Essential Medicines.
METHODS: Decision analytic models were constructed, using a societal 
perspective, to assess the cost per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained 
from systematic screening using the Osteoporosis Self-Assessment Tool and 
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry or dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry alone 
compared with no screening. Alendronate, risedronate, raloxifene, and nasal 
calcitonin were economically evaluated to determine a treatment of choice for 
the prevention of osteoporosis-related fractures. Most input parameters were 
obtained from literature reviews, and systematic reviews and meta-analyses, if 
available. The service costs and related household expenses were based on the 
Thai setting. Probabilistic and one-way sensitivity analyses were used to 
incorporate the impact of parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: The Osteoporosis Self-Assessment Tool and sequential dual-energy X-ray 
absorptiometry provided better value for money for osteoporosis screening among 
young age groups (<60 years old). Although there was no significant difference 
in cost per QALY for older age groups, alendronate provided the lowest 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio while nasal calcitonin presented the 
highest incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. It was shown that providing 
medication for a secondary prevention yielded a much higher cost per QALY gained 
compared with providing medication for a primary prevention.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the benchmark set at 100,000 Thai baht per QALY gained, 
providing systematic screening and treatment for osteoporosis was 
cost-ineffective in the Thai setting.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.015
PMID: 22265062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Value Health. 2012 Jan-Feb;15(1 Suppl):S29-34. doi:
10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.007.

Cost and effectiveness evaluation of prophylactic HPV vaccine in developing 
countries.

Termrungruanglert W(1), Havanond P, Khemapech N, Lertmaharit S, Pongpanich S, 
Khorprasert C, Taneepanichskul S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Approximately 80% of cervical cancer cases occur in developing 
countries. In Thailand, cervical cancer has been the leading cancer in females, 
with an incidence of 24.7 cases per 100,000 individuals per year.
OBJECTIVES: We constructed a decision model to simulate the lifetime economic 
impact for women in the context of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection 
prevention. HPV-related diseases were of interest: cervical cancer, cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia, and genital warts. The two strategies used were 1) 
current practice and 2) prophylactic quadrivalent vaccine against HPV types 6, 
11, 16, and 18.
METHODS: We developed a Markov simulation model to evaluate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of prophylactic HPV vaccine. Women transition through a 
model either healthy or developing HPV or its related diseases, or die from 
cervical cancer or from other causes according to transitional probabilities 
under the Thai health-care context. Costs from a provider perspective were 
obtained from King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital. Costs and benefits were 
discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: Compared with no prophylactic HPV vaccine, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 160,649.50 baht per quality-adjusted life-year. The 
mortality rate was reduced by 54.8%. The incidence of cervical cancer, cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia grade 1, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2/3, 
and genital warts was reduced by up to 55.1%.
CONCLUSION: Compared with commonly accepted standard thresholds recommended by 
the World Health Organization Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, the 
nationwide coverage of HPV vaccination in girls is likely to be cost-effective 
in Thailand.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.007
PMID: 22265063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Value Health. 2012 Jan-Feb;15(1 Suppl):S56-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.018.

Cost-effectiveness of switching patients with type 2 diabetes from insulin 
glargine to insulin detemir in Chinese setting: a health economic model based on 
the PREDICTIVE study.

Yang L(1), Christensen T, Sun F, Chang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China. lyang@hsc.pku.edu.cn

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of switching from 
insulin glargine (IGla) to insulin detemir (IDet) in patients with type 2 
diabetes in the setting of Chinese secondary and tertiary hospitals.
METHODS: A published and validated computer simulation model of diabetes (the 
Center for Outcomes Research model) was used to make the long-term (30 years) 
projection of health economic outcomes. Patient demographic information and 
clinical end points were derived from a subgroup analysis of the Predictable 
Results and Experience in Diabetes through Intensification and Control to 
Target: an International Variability Evaluation (PREDICTIVE) study. Baseline 
risk factors and racial characteristic data were obtained from Chinese cohort 
studies. The diabetes management and complications costs were obtained from 
Chinese published data and adjusted to 2010 values by using the Chinese consumer 
price index. An annual discounting rate of 3% was used for both health and cost 
outcomes, and one-way sensitivities analysis was performed, which illustrated 
that the results were robust.
RESULTS: Conversion to IDet from IGla was projected to improve patient life 
expectancy by 0.06 year and 0.48 quality-adjusted life-years. Drug costs and 
management costs of diabetes mellitus were increased by US$368 (US$17,466 vs. 
US$17,097) and US$31 (US$5464 vs. US$5433), respectively. However, the costs of 
complications, including cerebrovascular disease, renal complications, 
ulcer/amputation/neuropathy, eye complications, and hypoglycemia events, were 
reduced by US$819 (US$21,294 vs. US$22,114), resulting in a total direct medical 
cost saving of US$420 when converting to IDet.
CONCLUSIONS: Conversion to IDet from an IGla regimen improved life expectancy 
and was a cost-saving treatment approach in a Chinese setting.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.018
PMID: 22265068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Value Health. 2012 Jan-Feb;15(1 Suppl):S91-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.014.

Eliciting public preference for health-care resource allocation in South Korea.

Lim MK(1), Bae EY, Choi SE, Lee EK, Lee TJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service, Seoul, South Korea.

OBJECTIVES: To identify the principles the public considers important and the 
trade-offs between different values in health-care resource allocation 
practices.
METHODS: This study approached the issue in both qualitative and quantitative 
ways. In a qualitative study, two focus groups discussed the issues of resource 
allocation in health care. To facilitate the discussion, a simple ranking task 
and a series of pairwise choice practices were implemented. A discrete choice 
experiment survey questionnaire was also administered to a sample of the general 
population. Attributes and levels were determined through literature reviews and 
the results from the focus group interview. We used a random-effect probit model 
to assess the effects of each attribute.
RESULTS: Through the focus group interviews, we found strong public support for 
the principle of equal opportunity. The participants thought that the severity 
of disease was the most important criterion when setting priorities. The 
majority supported the idea that the most disadvantaged should have the highest 
priority even when their health gains are less than those of others. The 
discrete choice experiment results showed that the severity of disease, health 
gains, and patients' socioeconomic status significantly influence their choices, 
with each parameter having an expected sign.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that Koreans support not only health maximization 
but also equal opportunity, fair resource allocation, and equality.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.014
PMID: 22265075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Gac Sanit. 2012 Mar;26 Suppl 1:151-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.10.006.
Epub  2012 Jan 23.

[Prevention in primary care. The example of the Program for Prevention and 
Health Promotion. SESPAS Report 2012].

[Article in Spanish]

Brotons C(1), Soriano N, Moral I, Rodríguez-Artalejo F, Banegas JR, 
Martín-Moreno JM.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación, EAP Sardenya. Instituto de Investigaciones 
Biomédicas Sant Pau (IIB Sant Pau), Barcelona, España. cbrotons@eapsardenya.cat

OBJECTIVES: The Program for Prevention and Health Promotion (PPHP) of the 
Spanish Society of Family and Community Medicine was launched at the end of the 
1980s and its main objective is to integrate preventive and health promotion 
activities in daily clinical practice in primary care. The aim of the present 
study was to determine the level of compliance with the preventive activities of 
the PPHP.
METHODS: We performed a comprehensive literature search of PPHP publications to 
assess the implementation and impact of the program.
RESULTS: The distinct evaluations carried out since the beginning of the program 
show that both compliance and registration of preventive activities have 
improved over time. The PPHP has been positively evaluated by both health 
professionals and patients. Family physicians in Spain carry out preventive 
activities more often than other European family physicians.
CONCLUSIONS: The PHPPS continues to operate 24 years after its initiation. 
However, some adaptations are needed since the Spanish health system is 
changing. Proposed modifications are related to accessibility and to providing a 
more effective response to users. In elderly patients, life expectancy should be 
assessed and priorities for preventive interventions should be set accordingly.

Copyright © 2011 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.10.006
PMID: 22265649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Gac Sanit. 2012 Mar;26 Suppl 1:158-61. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.10.005.
Epub  2012 Jan 23.

[Citizens' participation in health: education and shared decision-making. SESPAS 
Report 2012].

[Article in Spanish]

Ruiz-Azarola A(1), Perestelo-Pérez L.

Author information:
(1)Escuela Andaluza de Salud Pública, Granada, España. 
ainhoa.ruiz.easp@juntadeandalucia.es

In recent decades, citizen's participation has become increasingly important in 
the field of public health, with the new role of the patient as an active agent, 
manager and producer of his or her own health, and the paradigm of 
patient-centered care. These changes have represented some of the most important 
milestones in the continuous improvement of healthcare. The involvement of 
patients is a new way of understanding the relationship between patients, health 
professionals and health systems, not only in terms of knowledge management and 
patients' control of their own health, individually or collectively, but also in 
terms of the influence that patients may have in health policy planning. 
Increased life expectancy and the consequent rise in the prevalence of chronic 
diseases, which already account for 80% of primary care consultations, is one of 
the key factors changing the role of patients. The place traditionally occupied 
by professional consultations given any symptoms or signs of alarm is beginning 
to be occupied by self-care and information and health education resources 
within the reach of patients and citizens. Internet access is an inexhaustible 
source of health information resources aimed at patients and provides 
participation tools. Social networks are places to exchange information and 
practical advice among patients, families and health professionals. Patients may 
be experts in their own illnesses and may thus take a more active role in 
decisions about their health, such as in shared decision making, as part of 
initiatives, and as part of evaluation of public health activities and health 
services.

Copyright © 2011 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.10.005
PMID: 22265652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2012 Dec;16(5):475-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2011.11.005.
Epub  2012 Jan 20.

The long-term effects after hematopoietic stem cell transplant on leg muscle 
strength, physical inactivity and fatigue.

Tonosaki A(1).

Author information:
(1)St Luke's College of Nursing, Tokyo, Japan. tonosakia@adm.ncn.ac.jp

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to analyze the effects of leg muscle 
strength and fatigue on step-count as a measure of physical activity for people 
staying at home after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).
METHOD: Nineteen persons receiving HSCT were assessed from hospitalization until 
about 2 months after discharge. Mean daily step-count was taken as a measure of 
physical activity. Leg muscle strength was measured in three ways (knee 
extension, ankle plantar flexion, and ankle dorsiflexion strength) at two points 
in time (time of hospital discharge and after 2 months). Fatigue and anxiety 
were assessed using the Japanese Cancer Fatigue Scale and State-Trait Anxiety 
Inventory. Correlations between the above and factors affecting physical 
activity were also investigated by multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS: Clinical follow-up measurements in subjects were made an average of 
81.0 days after discharge. Subjects with higher mean step-count during 
hospitalization (β = 0.647, p = 0.000) and greater ankle plantar flexion 
strength/kg (β = 0.361, p = 0.021) reported higher mean step-count at home 
(adjusted R(2) = 0.701, p = 0.021). Subjects with body mass index <22.0 kg/m(2) 
also showed higher step-counts at home compared to other subjects. Mean fatigue 
score at home was 16.8 (SD = 8.75), a level not associated with clinical 
problems, and the proportion of physical fatigue was significantly lower than 
during hospitalization.
CONCLUSION: Mean step-count at home was most strongly affected by ankle plantar 
flexion strength/kg, and increasing ankle plantar flexion strength/kg was shown 
to promote recovery of normal physical activities.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2011.11.005
PMID: 22265662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Exp Cell Res. 2012 Mar 10;318(5):670-81. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2012.01.004.
Epub  2012 Jan 12.

Requirement of matrix metalloproteinase-1 for intestinal homeostasis in the 
adult Drosophila midgut.

Lee SH(1), Park JS, Kim YS, Chung HY, Yoo MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, College of Natural Science, Pusan National 
University, Busan 609-735, Republic of Korea.

Stem cells are tightly regulated by both intrinsic and extrinsic signals as well 
as the extracellular matrix (ECM) for tissue homeostasis and regenerative 
capacity. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), proteolytic enzymes, modulate the 
turnover of numerous substrates, including cytokine precursors, growth factors, 
and ECM molecules. However, the roles of MMPs in the regulation of adult stem 
cells are poorly understood. In the present study, we utilize the Drosophila 
midgut, which is an excellent model system for studying stem cell biology, to 
show that Mmp1 is involved in the regulation of intestinal stem cells (ISCs). 
The results showed that Mmp1 is expressed in the adult midgut and that its 
expression increases with age and with exposure to oxidative stress. Mmp1 
knockdown or Timp-overexpressing flies and flies heterozygous for a viable, 
hypomorphic Mmp1 allele increased ISC proliferation in the gut, as shown by 
staining with an anti-phospho-histone H3 antibody and BrdU incorporation assays. 
Reduced Mmp1 levels induced intestinal hyperplasia, and the 
Mmp1depletion-induced ISC proliferation was rescued by the suppression of the 
EGFR signaling pathway, suggesting that Mmp1 regulates ISC proliferation through 
the EGFR signaling pathway. Furthermore, adult gut-specific knockdown and 
whole-animal heterozygotes of Mmp1 increased additively sensitivity to 
paraquat-induced oxidative stress and shortened lifespan. Our data suggest that 
Drosophila Mmp1 is involved in the regulation of ISC proliferation for 
maintenance of gut homeostasis.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2012.01.004
PMID: 22265916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2012 Apr;1822(4):522-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbadis.2012.01.005.  Epub 2012 Jan 11.

Potentiation of dietary restriction-induced lifespan extension by polyphenols.

Aires DJ(1), Rockwell G, Wang T, Frontera J, Wick J, Wang W, Tonkovic-Capin M, 
Lu J, E L, Zhu H, Swerdlow RH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Dermatology, University of Kansas, KS 66160, USA. daires@kumc.edu

Dietary restriction (DR) extends lifespan across multiple species including 
mouse. Antioxidant plant extracts rich in polyphenols have also been shown to 
increase lifespan. We hypothesized that polyphenols might potentiate DR-induced 
lifespan extension. Twenty week old C57BL/6 mice were placed on one of three 
diets: continuous feeding (control), alternate day chow (Intermittent fed, IF), 
or IF supplemented with polyphenol antioxidants (PAO) from blueberry, 
pomegranate, and green tea extracts (IF+PAO). Both IF and IF+PAO groups outlived 
the control group and the IF+PAO group outlived the IF group (all p<0.001). In 
the brain, IF induced the expression of inflammatory genes and p38 MAPK 
phosphorylation, while the addition of PAO reduced brain inflammatory gene 
expression and p38 MAPK phosphorylation. Our data indicate that while IF overall 
promotes longevity, some aspects of IF-induced stress may paradoxically lessen 
this effect. Polyphenol compounds, in turn, may potentiate IF-induced longevity 
by minimizing specific components of IF-induced cell stress.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2012.01.005
PMCID: PMC3643308
PMID: 22265987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Vaccine. 2012 Mar 2;30(11):1936-43. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.01.031. Epub
 2012 Jan 21.

Cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines of 7, 10, and 13 valences 
in Colombian children.

Castañeda-Orjuela C(1), Alvis-Guzmán N, Velandia-González M, De la Hoz-Restrepo 
F.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health Evaluation Group, Department of Public Health, 
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Carrera 30 # 45 - 03, Office 150, Bogotá DC 
Colombia. cacastanedao@unal.edu.co

BACKGROUND: Currently there are three pneumococcal conjugate vaccines with 
different coverage of serotypes for use in children under one year. We evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of the introduction of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines of 
7, 10, and 13 valences in the Colombian EPI.
METHODS: A Markov model, which followed a cohort of children under one year to 
life expectancy, was developed. Parameters of occurrence and care costs were 
based on data from National Health System and literature review. PCV-7 is a 
dominated strategy. PCV-10 and PCV-13 were each compared to no vaccination or 
PCV-10 vaccination, respectively. A 2+1 schedule and a vaccination price of US$ 
14.00, US$ 14.85 and US$ 16.34 per dose were assumed in the base case for PCV-7, 
-10, and PCV-13 vaccines.
RESULTS: Introduction of PCV-13 rather than PCV-10 increases the number of life 
years gained (LYG). From the societal perspective, in the 'competing choice' 
framework cost per LYG was US$ 1837 with PCV-10 and US$ 9514 with PCV-13, while 
PCV-7 is a dominated strategy. The ICER of PCV-13 is above the per capita Gross 
Domestic Product. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were influenced 
mainly by effectiveness against radiologically-confirmed pneumonia and AOM, 
vaccine price, and discount rate.
CONCLUSION: Routine vaccination against Streptococcus pneumoniae in Colombia 
would be cost-effective with PCV-10, with ICER below the per-capita GDP, but its 
inclusion requires evaluating the budget impact. PCV-13 would prevent more 
disease and deaths with a higher LYG, but PCV-10 would save more cost to the 
healthcare system due its higher impact in the prevention of AOM. There is 
limitation in the clinical evidence of both strategies.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.01.031
PMID: 22266291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Diabetes Care. 2012 Mar;35(3):529-35. doi: 10.2337/dc11-1643. Epub 2012 Jan
20.

Screening for gestational diabetes mellitus: are the criteria proposed by the 
international association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups 
cost-effective?

Werner EF(1), Pettker CM, Zuckerwise L, Reel M, Funai EF, Henderson J, Thung SF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA. ewerner4@jhmi.edu

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 2012 Mar;35(3):461-2.

OBJECTIVE: The International Association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study 
Groups (IADPSG) recently recommended new criteria for diagnosing gestational 
diabetes mellitus (GDM). This study was undertaken to determine whether adopting 
the IADPSG criteria would be cost-effective, compared with the current standard 
of care.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We developed a decision analysis model comparing 
the cost-utility of three strategies to identify GDM: 1) no screening, 2) 
current screening practice (1-h 50-g glucose challenge test between 24 and 28 
weeks followed by 3-h 100-g glucose tolerance test when indicated), or 3) 
screening practice proposed by the IADPSG. Assumptions included that 1) women 
diagnosed with GDM received additional prenatal monitoring, mitigating the risks 
of preeclampsia, shoulder dystocia, and birth injury; and 2) GDM women had 
opportunity for intensive postdelivery counseling and behavior modification to 
reduce future diabetes risks. The primary outcome measure was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Our model demonstrates that the IADPSG recommendations are 
cost-effective only when postdelivery care reduces diabetes incidence. For every 
100,000 women screened, 6,178 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) are gained, at 
a cost of $125,633,826. The ICER for the IADPSG strategy compared with the 
current standard was $20,336 per QALY gained. When postdelivery care was not 
accomplished, the IADPSG strategy was no longer cost-effective. These results 
were robust in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: The IADPSG recommendation for glucose screening in pregnancy is 
cost-effective. The model is most sensitive to the likelihood of preventing 
future diabetes in patients identified with GDM using postdelivery counseling 
and intervention.

DOI: 10.2337/dc11-1643
PMCID: PMC3322683
PMID: 22266735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 2012 Jan 22;482(7383):107-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10729.

Adenylylation control by intra- or intermolecular active-site obstruction in Fic 
proteins.

Engel P(1), Goepfert A, Stanger FV, Harms A, Schmidt A, Schirmer T, Dehio C.

Author information:
(1)Focal Area Infection Biology, Biozentrum, University of Basel, CH-4056 Basel, 
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Mar;10(3):160.

Fic proteins that are defined by the ubiquitous FIC (filamentation induced by 
cyclic AMP) domain are known to catalyse adenylylation (also called AMPylation); 
that is, the transfer of AMP onto a target protein. In mammalian cells, 
adenylylation of small GTPases through Fic proteins injected by pathogenic 
bacteria can cause collapse of the actin cytoskeleton and cell death. It is 
unknown how this potentially deleterious adenylylation activity is regulated in 
the widespread Fic proteins that are found in all domains of life and that are 
thought to have critical roles in intrinsic signalling processes. Here we show 
that FIC-domain-mediated adenylylation is controlled by a conserved mechanism of 
ATP-binding-site obstruction that involves an inhibitory α-helix (α(inh)) with a 
conserved (S/T)XXXE(G/N) motif, and that in this mechanism the invariable 
glutamate competes with ATP γ-phosphate binding. Consistent with this, 
FIC-domain-mediated growth arrest of bacteria by the VbhT toxin of Bartonella 
schoenbuchensis is intermolecularly repressed by the VbhA antitoxin through 
tight binding of its α(inh) to the FIC domain of VbhT, as shown by structure and 
function analysis. Furthermore, structural comparisons with other bacterial Fic 
proteins, such as Fic of Neisseria meningitidis and of Shewanella oneidensis, 
show that α(inh) frequently constitutes an amino-terminal or carboxy-terminal 
extension to the FIC domain, respectively, partially obstructing the ATP binding 
site in an intramolecular manner. After mutation of the inhibitory motif in 
various Fic proteins, including the human homologue FICD (also known as HYPE), 
adenylylation activity is considerably boosted, consistent with the anticipated 
relief of inhibition. Structural homology modelling of all annotated Fic 
proteins indicates that inhibition by α(inh) is universal and conserved through 
evolution, as the inhibitory motif is present in ∼90% of all putatively 
adenylylation-active FIC domains, including examples from all domains of life 
and from viruses. Future studies should reveal how intrinsic or extrinsic 
factors modulate adenylylation activity by weakening the interaction of α(inh) 
with the FIC active site.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10729
PMID: 22266942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Cad Saude Publica. 2012 Jan;28(1):195-200. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2012000100022.

[The impact of mortality from external causes on human development in the 
Brazilian borderland].

[Article in Portuguese]

Castro JM(1), Rodrigues-Júnior AL.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto, Brasil. castro.jmarcelo@gmail.com

This article estimates the impact of mortality from external causes on the human 
development index (HDI) along the Brazilian borderland from 2000 to 2005. Data 
obtained from Brazilian government agencies were combined using the methodology 
defined by the United Nations Development Program, revealing the HDI according 
to actual conditions. Subsequently, deaths from external causes were excluded in 
order to estimate their impact on the index, recalculating life expectancy using 
the technique of competing causes. HDI showed a gradual increase from North to 
South, with the most developed regions concentrated in the South, consistent 
with studies using other sets of economic indicators. By excluding mortality 
from external causes, the highest gains appeared in regions where the HDI (under 
actual conditions) were lower, and the magnitude of gains declined towards the 
South.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2012000100022
PMID: 22267081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2012 Feb;51(2):210-5. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/ker348.

Capturing all of the costs in NICE appraisals: the impact of inflammatory 
rheumatic diseases on productivity.

Bojke L(1), Spackman E, Hinde S, Helliwell P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York YO10 5DD, 
UK. laura.bojke@york.ac.uk

Inflammatory rheumatic diseases are common. It is estimated that ∼2.1% of the 
population has an inflammatory rheumatic disease (Andrianakos A, Trontzas P, 
Christoyannis F et al. Prevalence of rheumatic diseases in Greece: a 
cross-sectional population based epidemiological study. The ESORDIG Study. J 
Rheumatol 2003;30:1589-601). For diseases such as RA, PsA and AS, onset is most 
frequent between the ages of 30 and 50 years. The impact of inflammatory 
rheumatic diseases on physical functioning can be significant. Patients can 
suffer from swollen joints that cause pain and disability. This can reduce 
sufferers' ability to lead fully productive lives. This has major financial 
consequences for sufferers and their families and there is an economic impact on 
society. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
technology appraisal process has typically ignored any improvements in 
productivity that may result from treatment. There have been calls to extend the 
perspective of economic evaluations to include productivity costs as one aspect 
of wider social effects. However, there are a number of issues that must be 
resolved before productivity costs can become a routine input into the 
calculation of cost-effectiveness of treatments. First, there is limited 
agreement regarding the practical details and appropriate methods for their 
inclusion in economic evaluation. Second, there are issues that must be 
addressed regarding society's preference for equity. This issue arises when 
considering individual's economic productivity, that is to say, how we weigh 
individuals who are more productive (e.g. those in employment) against those who 
are less so (e.g. the unemployed). Finally, it is important to consider 
cross-budgetary effects, since productivity has cost and benefit implications 
outside of health.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ker348
PMID: 22267153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Can Fam Physician. 2012 Jan;58(1):e47-53.

Breast cancer screening practices for women aged 35 to 49 and 70 and older.

Kadaoui N(1), Guay M, Baron G, St-Cerny J, Lemaire J.

Author information:
(1)Université de Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada. Nabila.kadaoui@usherbrooke.ca

OBJECTIVE: To describe physician practices with regard to opportunistic 
screening for breast cancer in women aged 35 to 49 years and 70 years of age and 
older, and to identify the determinants associated with the practice of 
prescribing screening mammography.
DESIGN: Postal survey.
SETTING: Quebec.
PARTICIPANTS: Simple random sample of 1400 general practitioners practising in 
Quebec in 2009.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Five cancer screening practices among 4 types of female 
clientele and the factors influencing physicians in their practice of 
prescribing screening mammography.
RESULTS: The response rate was 36%. For women aged 35 to 49 years, more than 80% 
of physicians reported using practices judged adequate, except for the teaching 
of breast self-examination and referrals to genetic counseling (60% and 54%). 
For women 70 years of age and older with good life expectancy, only 50% of 
general practitioners prescribed screening mammography. For the 70 years of age 
and older age group without good life expectancy, for whom screening is not 
indicated, nearly half of physicians continued to do the clinical breast 
examination and more than one-third reviewed family history. The main 
determinants for the practice of prescribing mammography are a favourable 
attitude to screening, screening skills, peer support, belief in the efficacy of 
mammography, and sufficient knowledge of the issue and of recommendations.
CONCLUSION: Improvements are needed in the practice of teaching breast 
self-examination to women aged 35 to 49 years and referring them to genetic 
counseling, as well as in prescribing mammography for women 70 years of age and 
older who are in good health. Public health actions to improve these practices 
should focus on physician attitudes and skills and on communicating clearer 
recommendations.

PMCID: PMC3264038
PMID: 22267639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Int J Epidemiol. 2011 Dec;40(6):1703-14. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyr146.

More variation in lifespan in lower educated groups: evidence from 10 European 
countries.

van Raalte AA(1), Kunst AE, Deboosere P, Leinsalu M, Lundberg O, Martikainen P, 
Strand BH, Artnik B, Wojtyniak B, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Research group of Life Course Dynamics and Demographic Change, Max Planck 
Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. vanraalte@demogr.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: Whereas it is well established that people with a lower 
socio-economic position have a shorter average lifespan, it is less clear what 
the variability surrounding these averages is. We set out to examine whether 
lower educated groups face greater variation in lifespans in addition to having 
a shorter life expectancy, in order to identify entry points for policies to 
reduce the impact of socio-economic position on mortality.
METHODS: We used harmonized, census-based mortality data from 10 European 
countries to construct life tables by sex and educational level (low, medium, 
high). Variation in lifespan was measured by the standard deviation conditional 
upon survival to age 35 years. We also decomposed differences between 
educational groups in lifespan variation by age and cause of death.
RESULTS: Lifespan variation was higher among the lower educated in every 
country, but more so among men and in Eastern Europe. Although there was an 
inverse relationship between average life expectancy and its standard deviation, 
the first did not completely predict the latter. Greater lifespan variation in 
lower educated groups was largely driven by conditions causing death at younger 
ages, such as injuries and neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS: Lower educated individuals not only have shorter life expectancies, 
but also face greater uncertainty about the age at which they will die. More 
priority should be given to efforts to reduce the risk of an early death among 
the lower educated, e.g. by strengthening protective policies within and outside 
the health-care system.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyr146
PMID: 22268238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2012 Mar 1;10(2):127-38. doi: 
10.2165/11597980-000000000-00000.

A cost-utility analysis of cinacalcet in secondary hyperparathyroidism in five 
European countries.

Iannazzo S(1), Carsi M, Chiroli S.

Author information:
(1)IMS Consulting Group, Milan, Italy. siannazzo@imscg.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: A probabilistic patient-level Markov model was 
previously developed to simulate lifetime clinical and economic outcomes of 
cinacalcet treatment in secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) patients using 
local data from Italy. The present study extends the application of the model to 
four other European countries - Spain, Portugal, Switzerland and the Czech 
Republic - in order to assess the consistency of results.
METHODS: Cinacalcet influences the levels of parathyroid hormone, serum calcium 
and phosphorous. Our simulation was based on data from the OPTIMA (Open-Label, 
Randomized Study Using Cinacalcet to Improve Achievement of KDOQI Targets in 
Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease) randomized controlled trial and from 
published correlations between bone-metabolism parameters, mortality and 
morbidity (cardiovascular [CV] events, fractures and parathyroidectomy). Local 
epidemiological and cost data for dialysis, drugs and event management were 
incorporated into the model. The simulation horizon was patient lifetime; 
standard treatment for SHPT (vitamin D sterols and phosphate binders) and 
cinacalcet plus standard treatment were compared. Effectiveness was measured in 
terms of life expectancy (LE) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE). 
Health utility indexes derived from published literature took into account 
dialysis, CV events and fractures.
RESULTS: The simulated mean LE extension in patients receiving cinacalcet was 
1.20 life-years (LY) in Italy, 1.10 LY in Spain, 1.18 LY in Portugal, 1.10 LY in 
the Czech Republic and 1.40 LY in Switzerland. QALE increase was 0.89, 0.82, 
0.89, 0.80 and 1.01 QALY in the same countries, respectively. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) result was €23,500/LY and €31,600/QALY in Italy, 
€21,800/LY and €29,300/QALY in Spain, €23,700/LY and €31,200/QALY in Portugal, 
€29,700/LY and €40,800/QALY in the Czech Republic and €24,700/LY and 
€34,200/QALY in Switzerland. Including dialysis costs as a part of the total 
costing doubled the ICER, from a minimum of €42,800/LY in Spain to a maximum of 
€82,800/LY in Switzerland and in the range from €57,500/QALY (Spain) to 
€114,700/QALY (Switzerland).
CONCLUSION: Taking into consideration the limited clinical, epidemiological and 
health economics data available, cinacalcet treatment showed a relatively good 
cost-effectiveness profile in all the countries analysed, despite the 
differences in their healthcare systems and economic wealth.

DOI: 10.2165/11597980-000000000-00000
PMID: 22268372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. J Palliat Med. 2012 Jan;15(1):99-105. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0249.

Discussions of life expectancy moderate relationships between prognosis and 
anxiety or depression in men with advanced cancer.

Cripe LD(1), Rawl SM, Schmidt KK, Tong Y, Monahan PO, Rand KL.

Author information:
(1)Indiana University Simon Cancer Center, Indiana University-Purdue University 
Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. lcripe@iupui.edu

PURPOSE: Oncologists avoid prognostic discussions due to concerns about 
increasing patients' anxiety or depression. We sought to determine if perceived 
prognosis or extent of prognostic discussions predicted anxiety or depression 
and whether prognostic discussions moderated the relationship between prognosis 
and anxiety or depression.
METHODS: Men with advanced cancer and their oncologists estimated the likelihood 
of survival at 6 months and reported extent of prognostic discussions. Anxiety 
and depression were measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale 
(HADS).
RESULTS: Men who died within 6 months reported higher scores on depression but 
not anxiety. Men who estimated a lower (10%-75%) likelihood of surviving at 
least 6 months were more depressed and anxious than men who estimated a higher 
(>90%) likelihood of survival. A similar relationship was seen with oncologists' 
prognostications. Men who reported having had full prognostic discussions with 
their oncologist had less depression compared with men who reported having had 
brief or no discussions. Men for whom the oncologists reported a full discussion 
had greater anxiety. The relationships between patient-perceived prognosis and 
depression or anxiety were moderated by extent of prognostic discussions as 
reported by the patient or oncologist, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Full prognostic discussions are associated with less depression 
among men who perceive a poor prognosis. Anxiety is increased in men if the 
oncologists report a full discussion. Oncologists should engage in prognostic 
discussions but assess for increased anxiety to facilitate coping with advanced 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0249
PMID: 22268405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Aging Cell. 2012 Jun;11(3):401-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2012.00798.x.
Epub  2012 Feb 22.

Comparative and meta-analytic insights into life extension via dietary 
restriction.

Nakagawa S(1), Lagisz M, Hector KL, Spencer HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, National Research Centre for Growth and Development, 
University of Otago, PO Box 56, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand. 
shinichi.nakagawa@otago.ac.nz

Dietary restriction (DR) extends the lifespan of a wide range of species, 
although the universality of this effect has never been quantitatively examined. 
Here, we report the first comprehensive comparative meta-analysis of DR across 
studies and species. Overall, DR significantly increased lifespan, but this 
effect is modulated by several factors. In general, DR has less effect in 
extending lifespan in males and also in non-model organisms. Surprisingly, the 
proportion of protein intake was more important for life extension via DR than 
the degree of caloric restriction. Furthermore, we show that reduction in both 
age-dependent and age-independent mortality rates drives life extension by DR 
among the well-studied laboratory model species (yeast, nematode worms, fruit 
flies and rodents). Our results suggest that convergent adaptation to laboratory 
conditions better explains the observed DR-longevity relationship than 
evolutionary conservation although alternative explanations are possible.

© 2012 The Authors. Aging Cell © 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2012.00798.x
PMID: 22268691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Accid Anal Prev. 2012 Mar;45:211-21. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2011.07.004. Epub
2011  Jul 30.

Systematic review and quality assessment of economic evaluation studies of 
injury prevention.

Polinder S(1), Segui-Gomez M, Toet H, Belt E, Sethi D, Racioppi F, van Beeck EF.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medical Center, Department of Public Health, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. s.polinder@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: To review and assess the quality of economic evaluation studies on 
injury prevention measures.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases searched included Medline (Pubmed), EMBASE, 
Web of Science, PsycINFO, and Safetylit.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: Empirical studies published in English in international 
peer-reviewed journals in the period 1998-2009. The subject of the study was 
economic evaluation of prevention of unintentional injury. Cost-effectiveness 
(CEA), cost-benefit (CBA) and cost utility (CUA) analyses were included.
METHODS: Methodological details, study designs, and analysis and interpretation 
of results of the included articles were reviewed and extracted into summary 
tables. Study quality was judged using the criteria recommended by the Panel on 
cost-effectiveness in health and medicine and the British Medical Journal (BMJ) 
checklist for economic evaluations.
RESULTS: Forty-eight studies met the inclusion criteria of our review. 
Interventions assessed most frequently were hip protectors and exercise programs 
for the elderly. A wide variety of methodological approaches was found, 
including differences in type of economic evaluation, perspective, time horizon, 
study design, cost categories, effect outcomes, and adjustments for timing and 
uncertainty used. The majority of studies performed a cost-effectiveness 
analysis from a societal perspective with a time horizon of one to five years, 
in which the effect was expressed in terms of injuries prevented and only direct 
health care costs were included. Most studies deviated from one or more of the 
Panel recommendations or BMJ guidelines; e.g. not adopting the societal 
perspective, not including all relevant costs, no incremental analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: This review has shown that approaches to economic evaluation of 
injury prevention vary widely and most studies do not fulfill methodological 
rigour. Improving quality and harmonization of economic evaluation studies in 
the field of injury prevention is needed. One way of achieving this would be to 
establish international guidelines on economic evaluation for injury prevention 
interventions, based on established economic evaluation checklists, to assist 
researchers in the design and reporting of economic evaluations.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2011.07.004
PMID: 22269503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Accid Anal Prev. 2012 Mar;45:677-82. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2011.09.046. Epub
2011  Nov 17.

Reliability of simulator driving tool for evaluation of sleepiness, fatigue and 
driving performance.

Davenne D(1), Lericollais R, Sagaspe P, Taillard J, Gauthier A, Espié S, Philip 
P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, ER I27, F-14000 Caen, France. damien.davenne@unicaen.fr

