the age of 70, as in the Framingham risk score. Risk scores support 
evidence-based and cost-effective prevention even in higher age groups.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-011-3554-0
PMID: 22127743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Heart. 2012 Apr;98(8):625-30. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-300368. Epub 2011
Nov  29.

A cost-effectiveness model of genetic testing for the evaluation of families 
with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Ingles J(1), McGaughran J, Scuffham PA, Atherton J, Semsarian C.

Author information:
(1)Agnes Ginges Centre for Molecular Cardiology, Centenary Institute, Sydney, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Heart. 2012 Apr;98(8):603-4.

BACKGROUND: Traditional management of families with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
(HCM) involves periodic lifetime clinical screening of family members, an 
approach that does not identify all gene carriers owing to incomplete penetrance 
and significant clinical heterogeneity. Limitations in availability and cost 
have meant genetic testing is not part of routine clinical management for many 
HCM families.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of the addition of genetic 
testing to HCM family management, compared with clinical screening alone.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov decision model was used to determine cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year and cost for each life-year gained when genetic 
testing is included in the management of Australian families with HCM, compared 
with the conventional approach of periodic clinical screening alone.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was $A785 (£510 or 
€587) per quality-adjusted life-year gained, and $A12 720 (£8261 or €9509) per 
additional life-year gained making genetic testing a very cost-effective 
strategy. Sensitivity analyses showed that the cost of proband genetic testing 
was an important variable. As the cost of proband genetic testing decreased, the 
ICER decreased and was cost saving when the cost fell below $A248 (£161 or 
€185). In addition, the mutation identification rate was also important in 
reducing the overall ICER, although even at the upper limits, the ICER still 
fell well within accepted willingness to pay bounds.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of genetic testing to the management of HCM families 
is cost-effective in comparison with the conventional approach of regular 
clinical screening. This has important implications for the evaluation of 
families with HCM, and suggests that all should have access to specialised 
cardiac genetic clinics that can offer genetic testing.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-300368
PMID: 22128210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2012 Jun;150(1):55-9. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncr373. Epub
2011  Nov 28.

Radiation dose to neonates undergoing X-ray imaging in special care baby units 
in Iran.

Faghihi R(1), Mehdizadeh S, Sina S, Alizadeh FN, Zeinali B, Kamyab GR, Aghevlian 
S, Khorramdel H, Namazi I, Heirani M, Moshkriz M, Mahani H, Sharifzadeh M.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Research Center, School of Mechanical Engineering, Shiraz 
University, Mollasadra Street, Shiraz, Iran. faghihir@shirazu.ac.ir

Radiographic imaging has a significant role in the timely diagnosis of the 
diseases of neonates in intensive care units. The estimation of the dose 
received by the infants undergoing radiographic examination is of great 
importance, due to greater more radiosensitivity and longer life expectancy of 
the neonates and premature babies. In this study, the values of entrance skin 
dose (ESD), dose area products (DAPs), energy imparted (EI), whole-body dose, 
effective dose and risk of childhood cancer were estimated using three methods 
including direct method [using thermoluminescence dosimetry (TLD) chips], 
indirect method (using tube output) and Monte Carlo (MC) method (using MCNP4C 
code). In the first step, the ESD of the neonates was directly measured using 
TLD-100 chips. Fifty neonates, mostly premature, with different weights and 
gestational ages in five hospitals mostly suffering from respiratory distress 
syndrome and pneumonia were involved in this study. In the second step, the 
values of ESD to neonates were indirectly obtained from the tube output in 
different imaging techniques. The imaging room, incubator, neonates and other 
components were then simulated in order to obtain the ESD values using the 
MCNP4C code. Finally, the values of ESD assessed by the three methods were used 
for calculation of DAP, EI, whole-body dose, effective dose and risk of 
childhood cancer. The results indicate that the mean ESD per radiograph 
estimated by the direct, indirect and MC methods are 56.6±4.1, 50.1±3.1 and 
54.5±3.3 μGy, respectively. The mean risk of childhood cancer estimated in this 
study varied between 4.21×10(-7) and 2.72×10(-6).

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/ncr373
PMID: 22128357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. J Appl Microbiol. 2012 Feb;112(2):316-28. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2011.05207.x.  Epub 2012 Jan 3.

Shelf-life extension of gilthead seabream fillets by osmotic treatment and 
antimicrobial agents.

Tsironi TN(1), Taoukis PS.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Technology, School of Chemical Engineering, 
National Technical University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

AIMS: The objectives of the study were to evaluate the effect of selected 
antimicrobial agents on the shelf life of osmotically pretreated gilthead 
seabream and to establish reliable kinetic equations for shelf-life 
determination validated in dynamic conditions.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Fresh gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata) fillets were 
osmotically treated with 50% high dextrose equivalent maltodextrin (HDM, DE 47) 
plus 5% NaCl and 0·5% carvacrol, 0·5% glucono-δ-lactone or 1% Citrox (commercial 
antimicrobial mix). Untreated and treated slices were aerobically packed and 
stored isothermally (0-15°C). Microbial growth and quality-related chemical 
indices were modelled as functions of temperature. Models were validated at 
dynamic storage conditions. Osmotic pretreatment with the use of antimicrobials 
led to significant shelf-life extension of fillets, in terms of microbial growth 
and organoleptic deterioration.
CONCLUSIONS: The shelf life was 7 days for control samples at 5°C. The osmotic 
pretreatment with carvacrol, glucono-δ-lactone and Citrox allowed for shelf-life 
extension by 8, 10 and 5 days at 5°C, respectively.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The results of the study show the 
potential of adding carvacrol, glucono-δ-lactone or Citrox in the osmotic 
solution to extend the shelf life and improve commercial value of chilled 
osmotically pretreated fish products. The developed models can be a reliable 
tool for predicting the shelf life of fresh or minimally processed gilthead 
seabream fillets in the real chill chain.

© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Applied Microbiology © 2012 The Society for 
Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2011.05207.x
PMID: 22129102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. BJU Int. 2012 Aug;110(3):392-400. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10774.x. Epub
 2011 Nov 30.

Sustained improvement in patient-reported outcomes during long-term fesoterodine 
treatment for overactive bladder symptoms: pooled analysis of two open-label 
extension studies.

Kelleher CJ(1), Dmochowski RR, Berriman S, Kopp ZS, Carlsson M.

Author information:
(1)St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK. Con.Kelleher@gstt.nhs.uk

OBJECTIVES: • To evaluate the effects of long-term fesoterodine treatment on 
health-related quality of life (HRQL) and treatment satisfaction in subjects 
with overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms. • To determine the impact of gender and 
age on these effects.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: • This is a post hoc analysis of data pooled from 
identically designed open-label extensions of two randomized, double-blind, 
12-week fesoterodine studies. • Initial treatment was once-daily fesoterodine 8 
mg; subjects had the opportunity to receive open-label fesoterodine for ≥24 
months. • After 1 month, subjects could elect dose reduction to 4 mg and 
subsequent re-escalation to 8 mg; dose reduction and re-escalation were each 
allowed once annually. • Changes in scores on the King's Health Questionnaire 
(KHQ), International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form 
(ICIQ-SF) and a Likert scale evaluating severity of bladder-related problems 
were assessed at open-label baseline and months 12 and 24; treatment 
satisfaction was assessed at open-label baseline and at months 4, 12 and 24.
RESULTS: • A total of 864 enrolled subjects were included (men, n= 182; women, 
n= 682; aged <45 years, n= 134; 45-64 years, n= 432; 65-74 years, n= 204; ≥75 
years, n= 94); most subjects (77%) who continued treatment maintained the 8-mg 
dose. • Among subjects in the overall population, there were significant 
improvements in all KHQ domains, ICIQ-SF scores, and bladder-related problems at 
open-label baseline vs double-blind baseline (P < 0.05); additional significant 
improvements were observed at months 12 and 24 vs open-label baseline in all 
outcomes (P < 0.05) except for the KHQ General Health Perception domain. • When 
data were stratified by gender or age, significant improvements at open-label 
baseline vs double-blind baseline were further significantly enhanced or 
sustained at months 12 and 24 for most KHQ domains, and for ICIQ-SF scores and 
bladder-related problems for all groups. Women had significantly greater 
improvements than men in the KHQ Emotion (P= 0.0173) and Severity/Coping (P= 
0.0112) domains and ICIQ-SF scores (P= 0.0276) during open-label treatment. 
Subjects aged <45 years had significantly greater improvement in the Personal 
Relationships domain compared with those aged 45-64 years (P= 0.0357) and in the 
Sleep/Energy domain compared with all other groups (all P < 0.02). • Treatment 
satisfaction was high (≥92%) throughout open-label treatment regardless of 
gender or age.
CONCLUSIONS: • Long-term fesoterodine treatment was associated with sustained 
improvement in measures of health-related quality of life and bladder-related 
problems and with high treatment satisfaction in subjects with overactive 
bladder symptoms. • Effects of gender and age were minimal.

© 2011 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2011 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2011.10774.x
PMID: 22129365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Arch Oral Biol. 2012 Mar;57(3):300-6. doi: 10.1016/j.archoralbio.2011.08.024.
 Epub 2011 Nov 29.

Decreased TNF-α gene expression in periodontal ligature in MSG-obese rats: a 
possible protective effect of hypothalamic obesity against periodontal disease?

Brandelero S Jr(1), Bonfleur ML, Ribeiro RA, Vanzela EC, Nassar CA, Nassar PO, 
Balbo SL.

Author information:
(1)Biological Sciences and Health Center, University of State of West of Parana, 
Cascavel, Brazil.

The prevalence of obesity is increasing globally. There is evidence that the 
uncontrolled energetic metabolism in obese patients can accelerate periodontal 
disease. Therefore, the aim of this study was evaluate the possible relationship 
between hypothalamic obesity induced by neonatal treatment with MSG and 
experimental periodontal disease. Newborn male Wistar rats received subcutaneous 
injections in the cervical region, of 4g/Kg/day of body weight (BW) of MSG (MSG 
group) or hypertonic saline solution, 1.25/kg/day BW (control group, CTL). At 70 
days of life periodontal disease was induced in these animals. After they were 
sacrificed, radiographic analyses of alveolar bone resorption and Tumor Necrosis 
Factor α (TNFα) gene expression in gingival tissue were performed. The neonatal 
treatment with MSG did not affect the concentration of plasma glucose and 
cholesterol (CHOL). However, plasma insulin, non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) 
and triglycerides (TG) leves were higher in MSG compared with CTL group. The 
alveolar bone resorption was 44% lower in MSG-obese rats compared with CTL rats. 
In the presence of periodontal ligature, there was an increase in this parameter 
in all groups. The TNFα gene expression, an inflammatory marker, in periodontal 
tissue was similar in obese and CTL rats. The presence of ligature increased 
TNFα gene expression in both groups, but in a lower extension in MSG-obese rats. 
In conclusion these results suggested that hypothalamic obesity may produce a 
protective effect against periodontal disease, however further research is 
needed to understand the mechanisms involved in this process.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archoralbio.2011.08.024
PMID: 22129469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Health Place. 2012 Mar;18(2):330-8. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2011.10.009.
Epub  2011 Nov 10.

Socio-demographic, environmental, lifestyle and psychosocial factors predict 
self rated health in Irish Travellers, a minority nomadic population.

Kelleher CC(1), Whelan J, Daly L, Fitzpatrick P.

Author information:
(1)UCD School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Population Science, Woodview 
house, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland. Cecily.kelleher@ucd.ie

Irish Travellers are an indigenous nomadic minority group with poor life 
expectancy. As part of a census survey of Travellers (80% participation rate), a 
health status interview was conducted (n=2065, 43.5% male). In the final 
regression model, positive predictors of self-rated health (SRH) were having a 
flush toilet (OR 2.2, p=0.021), considering where one lives to be healthy (OR 
1.9, p=0.017), travelling twice yearly (OR 2.3 p=0.026), taking a brisk walk 
weekly (OR 2.4, p=0.000) and non-smoking (OR 1.7, p=0.03). Conversely, SRH was 
negatively associated with age (p=0.000), activity-limiting ill health (OR 0.4, 
p=0.001), or chronic health condition (OR 0.4, p=0.002).

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2011.10.009
PMID: 22130218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nefrologia. 2011;31(6):716-22. doi: 10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2011.Jul.10847.

Psychonephrology: psychological aspects in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney 
disease.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Pérez Domínguez TS(1), Rodríguez Pérez A, Buset Ríos N, Rodríguez Esparragón F, 
García Bello MA, Pérez Borges P, Parodis López Y, Rodríguez Pérez JC; Grupo de 
Investigación Hiricare.

Collaborators: Anabitarte Prieto A, García Laverick C, Rosa Hernández Socorro 
CR, Hortal Cascón L, Dámaso EO, Parodis López Y, Pérez Borges P, Sablón González 
N, Talavera García R.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Research Unit. Dr Negrín University Hospital Gran Canaria, 
University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Las 
Palmas, Spain.

The biological, physical and psychological burden of a chronic disease has an 
impact on the quality of life of people who suffer from it. The perception of 
quality of life is affected by psychological disorders such as anxiety and 
depression that have a high prevalence in people with chronic kidney disease 
(CKD). These factors are also linked to lower life expectancy. It is therefore 
surprising that the psychological aspects of people with autosomal dominant 
polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) have received so little attention in the 
medical literature, despite their importance for the overall health of these 
patients. The relatively new discipline called psychonephrology provides a 
broader view of the impact that these aspects have on individuals with chronic 
kidney disease, with a consequent practical application. In this article, we 
examine the consequences and prevalence of psychological problems that can be 
related to CKD and ADPKD. Firstly, we will focus on the field of CKD and ADPKD 
within the scope of psychonephrology. Secondly, the article introduces the 
concept of quality of life as a basic pillar of health that is affected when a 
person is diagnosed with CKD. Thirdly, we will present a summary of the main 
research related to anxiety and depression disorders in CKD and ADPKD. The 
article will conclude by synthesising findings from the different lines of 
research undertaken.

DOI: 10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2011.Jul.10847
PMID: 22130288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Arch Pediatr. 2012 Jan;19(1):64-73. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2011.10.023. Epub
2011  Nov 29.

[Diagnostic radiation exposure in children and cancer risk: current knowledge 
and perspectives].

[Article in French]

Baysson H(1), Etard C, Brisse HJ, Bernier MO.

Author information:
(1)IRSN, DRPH, SER, laboratoire d'épidémiologie, BP17, 92262 Fontenay-aux-Roses 
cedex, France. helene.baysson@irsn.fr

The question of the risk of cancer associated with postnatal diagnostic medical 
exposure involving ionizing radiation in childhood is particularly relevant at 
the moment given the growing use of diagnostic examinations, especially computed 
tomography scans, in children. Compared to adults, pediatric patients are more 
sensitive to radiation and have more years of life expectancy and therefore more 
years at risk of cancer occurrence as compared to adults. This paper provides a 
description of diagnostic x-ray exposure in children in France and summarizes 
epidemiologic studies on subsequent risk of cancer. Overall, this review, based 
on 12 case-control studies and 6 cohort studies, shows no significant 
association between exposure to medical diagnostic radiation exposure and 
childhood cancer risk. The methodological limitations of these studies are 
discussed. As the expected cancer risks are low, epidemiological studies require 
very large sample sizes and long periods of follow-up in addition to a good 
dosimetry assessment to enable quantitative risk estimation. New cohort studies 
of young patients who underwent CT scans are currently underway within the 
European EPI-CT project. In the meantime, continued efforts to reduce doses and 
the number of radiological examinations in children are needed, including 
adhering to the "as long as reasonably achievable" (Alara) principle.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2011.10.023
PMID: 22130615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Br J Psychiatry. 2011 Dec;199(6):441-2. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.111.092718.

Physical health disparities and mental illness: the scandal of premature 
mortality.

Thornicroft G.

Comment on
    Br J Psychiatry. 2011 Dec;199(6):453-8.

A 20-year mortality gap for men, and 15 years for women, is still experienced by 
people with mental illness in high-income countries. The combination of 
lifestyle risk factors, higher rates of unnatural deaths and poorer physical 
healthcare contribute to this scandal of premature mortality that contravenes 
international conventions for the 'right to health.'

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.111.092718
PMID: 22130744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Prosthet Orthot Int. 2012 Mar;36(1):63-70. doi: 10.1177/0309364611429722.
Epub  2011 Nov 30.

Kinematic and electromyographic studies on unaided, unilateral and bilateral 
crutch walking in adolescents with spastic diplegia.

Yeung EH(1), Chow DH, Su IY.

Author information:
(1)Tuen Mun Hospital, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: Back pain and ambulation deterioration among ambulatory individuals 
with cerebral palsy (CP) are common as they grow older and walking aids are 
often prescribed to improve stability and promote maximal weight-bear on lower 
limbs during gait.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of walking aids on back muscle activity 
and whole body kinematics among adolescents with spastic diplegia.
STUDY DESIGN: A repeated-measures design was adopted with participants tested 
under different walking conditions.
METHODS: Ten participants were recruited and Lofstrand forearm crutches were 
selected. Both the activity of lumbar erector spinae and the kinematics of head, 
trunk, pelvis and lower limbs during walking were monitored using telemetric 
electromyography and motion analysis system respectively.
RESULTS: Comparisons between walking unaided and walking with unilateral and 
bilateral crutch(es) were made. Significant decreases in speed, cadence, erector 
spinae activity and lower trunk extension were observed during crutch walking 
together with significantly increased stride time and anterior pelvic tilt.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggested that Lofstrand crutch(es) reduced muscular 
demands and lumbar lordosis with increased lower back mobility. The results shed 
light on the prescription of walking aid in the management and prevention of 
chronic back pain for ambulatory individuals with CP from a life span 
perspective.

DOI: 10.1177/0309364611429722
PMID: 22130909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2011 Dec;136(49):2549-53. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1292807. 
Epub 2011 Nov 30.

[Geriatrics: an introduction from a gerontological point of view].

[Article in German]

Simm A(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und Thoraxchirurgie, Interdisziplinäres Zentrum für Altern 
Halle (IZAH), Universitätsklinikum Halle (Saale), Martin-Luther Universität 
Halle-Wittenberg. andreas.simm@medizin.uni-halle.de

Geriatrics is in comparison to the other medical professions a relatively new 
discipline. The calendarical age is not suitable for the characterization of its 
patient population, the multimorbid old patients. The biofunctional age in terms 
of the ICF is a better choice. It is characterized in part by physical, 
psychical, and social context-factors, which can be analysed by geriatric 
assessments. A better cooperation between basic science orientated 
gerontological disciplines with the geriatrics will be, beside the 
implementation into the university medicine and the standardized uniform 
professional training, of essential importance for the further development of 
geriatric medicine.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1292807
PMID: 22131076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2012 Apr;470(4):1073-8. doi:
10.1007/s11999-011-2118-1.

Does age or bilateral disease influence the value of hip arthroplasty?

Lawless BM(1), Greene M, Slover J, Kwon YM, Malchau H.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Measuring value in medicine is an increasingly important issue as 
healthcare spending continues to rise and cost containment becomes even more 
important. However, value assessments can be affected by patient factors and 
comorbidities.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We therefore quantified the approximate value of total hip 
arthroplasty and determined if patient age and Charnley classification affected 
the EuroQol5D (EQ5D) after hip arthroplasty.
METHODS: Using charge data and an institutional joint registry, we evaluated 
1442 patients after hip arthroplasty. Using the Charnley case-mix index to 
define bilateral disease and age of 65 years to distinguish between elderly and 
young patients, statistical comparisons were made among all groups. We obtained 
subspecialty physician charges and hospital charges.
RESULTS: Patients with both unilateral and bilateral disease in both age groups 
had improved EQ5D scores after total hip arthroplasty, and the average change in 
scores was 0.27. There was no difference in the change in utility scores when 
patients older than 65 years of age were compared with patients younger than 65 
years or when patients with unilateral disease were compared with those with 
bilateral disease. The average cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained 
was $9773/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest the value of total hip arthroplasty compares 
favorably with other medical and surgical interventions for other patient 
groups. No adjustments for patient age or disease status of the contralateral 
limb are necessary when reporting the value of total hip arthroplasty.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, economic and decision analyses study. See 
Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-011-2118-1
PMCID: PMC3293957
PMID: 22131126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2012 Aug 1;17(3):422-32. doi: 10.1089/ars.2011.4156.
Epub  2012 Jan 18.

Contributions of nitric oxide synthases, dietary nitrite/nitrate, and other 
sources to the formation of NO signaling products.

Milsom AB(1), Fernandez BO, Garcia-Saura MF, Rodriguez J, Feelisch M.

Author information:
(1)Whitaker Cardiovascular Institute, Boston University School of Medicine, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Mice lacking all three nitric oxide synthase (NOS) genes remain viable even 
though deletion of the major downstream target of NO, soluble guanylyl cyclase, 
is associated with a dramatically shortened life expectancy. Moreover, findings 
of relatively normal flow responses in eNOS knockouts are generally attributed 
to compensatory mechanisms including upregulation of remaining NOS isoforms, but 
the alternative possibility that dietary nitrite/nitrate (NOx) may contribute to 
basal levels of NO signaling has never been investigated.
AIM: The aim of the present study was to examine how NO signaling products 
(nitrosated and nitrosylated proteins) and NO metabolites (nitrite, nitrate) are 
affected by single NOS deletions and whether dietary NOx plays a compensatory 
role in any deficiency. Specifically, we sought to ascertain whether profound 
alterations of these products arise upon genetic deletion of either NOS isoform, 
inhibition of all NOS activity, NOx restriction, or all of the above.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that while some significant changes do indeed 
occur, they are surprisingly moderate and compartmentalized to specific tissues. 
Unexpectedly, even after pharmacological inhibition of all NOSs and restriction 
of dietary NOx intake in eNOS knockout mice significant levels of NO-related 
products remain. Innovation/Conclusion: These findings suggest that a yet 
unidentified source of NO, unrelated to NOSs or dietary NOx, may be sustaining 
basal NO signaling in tissues. Given the significance of NO for redox regulation 
in health and disease, it would seem to be important to identify the nature of 
this additional source of NO products as it may offer new therapeutic avenues 
for correcting NO deficiencies.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2011.4156
PMCID: PMC3365358
PMID: 22133018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nutr Rev. 2011 Dec;69(12):745-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.2011.00446.x.

Relationship between smoking and metabolic syndrome.

Cena H(1), Fonte ML, Turconi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Health Sciences, Section of Human Nutrition and 
Dietetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy. 
hcena@unipv.it

Erratum in
    Nutr Rev. 2013 Apr;71(4):255.

Obesity and smoking are important causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. 
The diseases and conditions associated with smoking make tobacco use one of the 
leading causes of death worldwide. In the World Health Organization European 
region, overweight and obesity are responsible for many chronic diseases, 
causing more than one million deaths each year. Smoking cessation is associated 
with a significantly reduced mortality risk in every body-mass-index group. 
Reductions in smoking and obesity would increase both the psychophysical 
well-being of the population and its economic productivity; it would also reduce 
the direct costs of pharmacological therapies and other forms of treatment. The 
aim of this review is to critically evaluate how tobacco smoking and obesity 
interact to reduce life expectancy, and to offer a comprehensive view of this 
issue that should be useful for clinical practice.

© 2011 International Life Sciences Institute.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.2011.00446.x
PMID: 22133198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Evolution. 2011 Dec;65(12):3558-64. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2011.01393.x.
Epub  2011 Jul 18.

Artificial selection reveals heritable variation for developmental instability.

Carter AJ(1), Houle D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee, 
Florida 32306, USA. acarter3@csulb.edu

Fluctuating (nondirectional) asymmetry (FA) of bilaterally paired structures on 
a symmetrical organism is commonly used to assay the developmental instability 
(DI) caused by environmental or genetic factors. Although evidence for natural 
selection to reduce FA has been reported, evidence that FA (and by extension DI) 
is heritable is weak. We report the use of artificial selection to demonstrate 
heritable variation in the fluctuating asymmetry of interlandmark distances 
within the wing in an outbred population of Drosophila melanogaster. Our 
estimates for the heritability of FA range from 0% to 1% and result in estimates 
for the heritability of DI as large as 20%, comparable to values typical for 
life-history traits. These values indicate the existence of evolutionarily 
relevant genetic variation for DI and the effectiveness of selection for reduced 
FA suggests that natural selection has not fixed all the genetic variants that 
would improve developmental stability in these populations.

© 2011 The Author(s). Evolution© 2011 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2011.01393.x
PMID: 22133225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Clin Lung Cancer. 2012 May;13(3):161-70. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2011.09.002.
Epub  2011 Dec 1.

Systematic review of the cost-effectiveness of positron-emission tomography in 
staging of non--small-cell lung cancer and management of solitary pulmonary 
nodules.

Cao JQ(1), Rodrigues GB, Louie AV, Zaric GS.

Author information:
(1)London Regional Cancer Program, London Health Sciences Centre, London, 
Ontario, Canada.

Implementation of positron-emission tomography (PET) is variable depending on 
jurisdiction in part due to uncertainty about cost-effectiveness. Our objective 
was to perform a systematic review describing cost-effectiveness of PET in 
staging of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and management of solitary 
pulmonary nodules (SPN). Systematic literature searches were conducted using 
separate search strategies for multiple databases. Our validity criteria 
included measurement of study quality by means of the validated Quality of 
Health Economic Studies (QHES) instrument. Metrics such as mean PET costs, 
median average cost savings per patient, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
based on life years saved and quality-adjusted life years were calculated. 
Eighteen studies met our inclusion criteria with average QHES scores > 75. 
Studies were primarily based on the national health insurance payer perspective 
from 10 different countries. Cost-effectiveness was assessed primarily using 
decision-tree modeling and sensitivity analysis to determine the effects of 
changing variables on expected cost and life expectancy. After adjusting for 
currency exchange rates and inflation to 2010 United States dollars, the mean 
cost of PET was $1478. The cost-effectiveness metrics used in these studies were 
variable depending on sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic tests used in 
the models, probability of malignancy, and baseline strategy. Despite observed 
study heterogeneity, the consensus of these studies conclude that the additional 
information gained from PET imaging in the staging of NSCLC and diagnosis of 
SPNs is worth the cost in context of proper medical indications.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2011.09.002
PMID: 22133290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Hand Surg Am. 2012 Jan;37(1):159-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2011.10.027. Epub 
2011 Nov 30.

Correction of forearm deformities in congenital ulnar club hand: one-bone 
forearm.

Sénès FM(1), Catena N.

Author information:
(1)Microsurgery and Hand Surgery Section, Orthopedics Unit, Gaslini Children's 
Hospital, Genoa, Italy. filipposenes@ospedale-gaslini.ge.it

PURPOSE: To describe our experience in the correction of congenital ulnar club 
hand, using the one-bone forearm procedure.
METHODS: Fifteen cases of congenital ulnar club hand treated at Gaslini 
Children's Hospital of Genoa, Italy, from 1996 to 2008 were evaluated 
retrospectively. The one-bone forearm procedure was proposed for all 9 cases of 
type 2 (following the Bayne classification) and then performed in 8 patients 
with an average age of 5.5 years (range, 3-12 y). At surgery, the patients 
presented paradoxical hyperextension of the elbow (up to 45° of extension).
RESULTS: Average follow-up was 5.3 years (range, 1 to 13 y). Union of the 
osteotomy was obtained in all cases. In 7 cases, union occurred in an average of 
65 days (range, 45-90 d); in 1 case (surgery at 12 y of age), union was delayed, 
with recovery 5.5 months after surgery and no need for further surgical 
procedures. All treated cases showed improvement of forearm function and of 
grasping ability of the hand (generally tridactyl). In addition, the paradoxical 
hyperextension movement that was present before surgery disappeared in all 
patients. Long-term radiographic follow-up showed in all cases the formation of 
a structure that was morphologically similar to that of the previously resected 
radial head.
CONCLUSIONS: The one-bone forearm procedure improves malformed forearm 
functions, thus increasing the possibility of carrying out daily life 
activities. The creation of the one-bone forearm should be preceded by the 
release of the distal ulnar anlage, which maintains fixed wrist deformity; this 
procedure should be performed within the first year of life.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2011.10.027
PMID: 22133706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2012 Jun;27(6):773-80. doi: 10.1007/s00384-011-1375-5. 
Epub 2011 Dec 3.

Evaluation of laparoscopic versus open colorectal surgery in elderly patients 
more than 70 years old: an evaluation of 727 patients.

Tan WS(1), Chew MH, Lim IA, Ng KH, Tang CL, Eu KW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Singapore General Hospital, Outram Road, 
Singapore, 169608.

BACKGROUND: With longer life expectancy, surgeons can expect to operate on older 
patients. Laparoscopic colorectal (LC) surgery has been demonstrated to be 
superior to open surgery. Controversy persists, however, regarding benefits of 
LC in the elderly due to increase in operative time. The aim of our study was to 
compare short-term outcomes of LC versus open colorectal (OC) surgery in elderly 
patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients ≥70 years old that underwent elective LC between 
2005 and 2008 were compared with controls who underwent OC. Data was extracted 
from a prospectively collected database.
RESULTS: Seven hundred and twenty-seven patients underwent colorectal resection 
in this study period (LC n = 225, OC n = 502). The laparoscopic arm was 
characterised by shorter incisions (LC 6.0 cm vs. OC 12.0 cm, p < 0.001) but 
longer operating times (LC 125 min vs. OC 85 min, p < 0.001). Median use of 
narcotics and length of stay were significantly shorter in the laparoscopic 
group (LC 2 days vs. OC 3 days, p < 0.001 and LC 6 days vs. OC 7 days, 
p < 0.001, respectively). There was no significant difference in median recovery 
of bowel function (LC 4 days vs. OC 4 days, p = 0.14) and post-operative 
morbidity (p = 0.725). Thirty-day mortality was significantly lower in the 
laparoscopic arm (LC 1.3% vs. OC 4.6%, p = 0.03)
CONCLUSION: This is the largest series from a single institution comparing LC 
and OC in elderly patients. In our series, LC in elderly patients was safe and 
not associated with a higher morbidity. LC was also associated with less 
narcotic use and shorter length of stay.

DOI: 10.1007/s00384-011-1375-5
PMID: 22134483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Hepatology. 2012 May;55(5):1344-55. doi: 10.1002/hep.25510. Epub 2012 Mar 18.

Economic model of a birth cohort screening program for hepatitis C virus.

McGarry LJ(1), Pawar VS, Panchmatia HR, Rubin JL, Davis GL, Younossi ZM, 
Capretta JC, O'Grady MJ, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Medford, MA 02155, USA. lisa.mcgarry@optum.com

Recent research has identified high hepatitis C virus (HCV) prevalence among 
older U.S. residents who contracted HCV decades ago and may no longer be 
recognized as high risk. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of screening 100% of 
U.S. residents born 1946-1970 over 5 years (birth-cohort screening), compared 
with current risk-based screening, by projecting costs and outcomes of screening 
over the remaining lifetime of this birth cohort. A Markov model of the natural 
history of HCV was developed using data synthesized from surveillance data, 
published literature, expert opinion, and other secondary sources. We assumed 
eligible patients were treated with pegylated interferon plus ribavirin, with 
genotype 1 patients receiving a direct-acting antiviral in combination. The 
target population is U.S. residents born 1946-1970 with no previous HCV 
diagnosis. Among the estimated 102 million (1.6 million chronically HCV 
infected) eligible for screening, birth-cohort screening leads to 84,000 fewer 
cases of decompensated cirrhosis, 46,000 fewer cases of hepatocellular 
carcinoma, 10,000 fewer liver transplants, and 78,000 fewer HCV-related deaths. 
Birth-cohort screening leads to higher overall costs than risk-based screening 
($80.4 billion versus $53.7 billion), but yields lower costs related to advanced 
liver disease ($31.2 billion versus $39.8 billion); birth-cohort screening 
produces an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $37,700 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained versus risk-based screening. Sensitivity 
analyses showed that reducing the time horizon during which health and economic 
consequences are evaluated increases the ICER; similarly, decreasing the 
treatment rates and efficacy increases the ICER. Model results were relatively 
insensitive to other inputs.
CONCLUSION: Birth-cohort screening for HCV is likely to provide important health 
benefits by reducing lifetime cases of advanced liver disease and HCV-related 
deaths and is cost-effective at conventional willingness-to-pay thresholds.

Copyright © 2011 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.25510
PMID: 22135116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2012 Feb;10(2):121-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1610-0387.2011.07853.x. Epub 2011 Dec 2.

Lip cancer: retrospective analysis of 181 cases.

Géraud C(1), Koenen W, Neumayr L, Doobe G, Schmieder A, Weiss C, Goerdt S, 
Faulhaber J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, University Medicine 
Mannheim, Medical Faculty of the University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In Germany little data on the epidemiology and histology of lip 
cancers are available, as lip cancers are commonly pooled together with head and 
neck tumors.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of 181 patients with malignant 
tumors of the lips with respect to gender, location, histology, risk factors and 
comorbidity.
RESULTS: There were 90 women and 91 men with a mean age of 71 years. 98 had a 
tumor on the upper lip and 83 patients on the lower lip. Tumors of the upper lip 
showed a slight female preference (61%). In contrast lower lip cancer was more 
common (64%) in men. Histological analysis revealed that in both regions nodular 
basal cell carcinomas as well as squamous cell carcinomas (NOS) are the most 
common subtypes. Vertical tumor thickness of squamous cell carcinomas was in 
most cases smaller than 6 mm (n = 71) and only in 4 cases was a tumor thickness 
of >6 mm detected. Altogether, 57% of the patients reported a high to very high 
sun exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: In comparison to previous studies we found a weaker preference for 
women for tumors of the upper lip and also a weaker preference for men for 
tumors of the lower lip. The causes remain unclear, but could be causally 
related to an increased life expectancy and/or changed risk profile.

© The Authors • Journal compilation © Blackwell Verlag GmbH, Berlin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1610-0387.2011.07853.x
PMID: 22136191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Glob Public Health. 2012;7(5):465-81. doi: 10.1080/17441692.2011.634815. Epub
 2011 Dec 5.

An estimation of the worldwide economic and health burden of visual impairment.

Gordois A(1), Cutler H, Pezzullo L, Gordon K, Cruess A, Winyard S, Hamilton W, 
Chua K.

Author information:
(1)Access Economics Pty Ltd, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

This study aims to provide a rigorous estimate of the worldwide costs of visual 
impairment (VI), and the associated health burden. The study used a 
prevalence-based model. Prevalence rates for mild VI (visual acuity (VA) worse 
than 6/12 but not worse than 6/18), moderate VI (VA worse than 6/18 but not 
worse than 6/60) and blindness (VA worse than 6/60) were applied to population 
forecasts for each World Health Organisation (WHO) subregion. The limited 
available country cost data were extrapolated between subregions using economic 
and population health indicators. Age and gender subgroup population numbers 
were derived from United Nations' data. Costs and the health burden of VI were 
estimated for each world subregion using published disease prevalence rates, 
health care expenditures and other economic data. The study includes direct 
health care costs, indirect costs and the health burden of VI. The total cost of 
VI globally was estimated at $3 trillion in 2010, of which $2.3 trillion was 
direct health costs. This burden is projected to increase by approximately 20% 
by 2020. VI is associated with a considerable disease burden. Unless steps are 
taken to reduce prevalence through prevention and treatment, this burden will 
increase alongside global population growth.

DOI: 10.1080/17441692.2011.634815
PMID: 22136197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jan;30(1):35-46. doi:
10.2165/11594280-000000000-00000.

Dronedarone for the treatment of atrial fibrillation: a NICE single technology 
appraisal.

McKenna C(1), Maund E, Sarowar M, Fox D, Stevenson M, Pepper C, Woolacott N, 
Palmer S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. 
claire.mckenna@york.ac.uk

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of dronedarone (Multaq®, Sanofi-Aventis Limited, UK) to submit 
evidence on the clinical and cost effectiveness of the anti-arrhythmic drug 
(AAD) for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) and atrial flutter, as part 
of the Institute's single technology appraisal (STA) process. The Centre for 
Reviews and Dissemination and the Centre for Health Economics, both at the 
University of York, were commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review 
Group (ERG). This article provides a description of the company submission, the 
ERG review and NICE's subsequent decisions regarding the use of dronedarone 
within the UK NHS. The ERG review comprised a critique of the submitted evidence 
on the clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of dronedarone. The ERG 
examined the search strategy used to obtain relevant evidence, the selection of 
studies included in the assessment, outcome measures chosen and statistical 
methods employed. The ERG also validated the manufacturer's decision analytic 
model and used it to explore the robustness of the cost-effectiveness results to 
key assumptions. The main clinical effectiveness evidence supporting the use of 
dronedarone as a treatment for AF came from four randomized controlled trials. 
These trials were compared with a broader set of trials examining the 
effectiveness of other AADs for AF: amiodarone, sotalol and class 1c agents 
(flecainide and propafenone). The evidence suggested that all AADs decreased the 
recurrence of AF but dronedarone had the smallest effect. A mixed treatment 
comparison analysis of the trials showed that dronedarone was associated with a 
lower risk of all-cause mortality than other AADs, but this was highly 
uncertain. There was limited evidence to assess the effect of dronedarone on 
stroke, and no statistically significant differences between dronedarone and 
other AADs were found for treatment discontinuation. From the evidence presented 
by the manufacturer, dronedarone appeared highly cost effective in each of the 
population groups examined compared with using standard baseline therapy alone 
as first-line treatment, or compared with sotalol or amiodarone as first-line 
AAD, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) well below £20,000 per 
QALY gained. The ICER for dronedarone relative to class 1c agents was around 
£19,000 per QALY. Although the evidence presented by the manufacturer indicated 
that dronedarone was cost effective, the estimates of treatment effect relative 
to other AADs and safety in the longer term were highly uncertain. The NICE 
Appraisal Committee in its preliminary guidance did not recommend the use of 
dronedarone for AF. However, following the response from a large number of 
consultees and commentators, NICE revised its preliminary guidance to allow the 
use of the drug in a specific subgroup of AF patients with additional 
cardiovascular risk factors.

DOI: 10.2165/11594280-000000000-00000
PMID: 22136303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. BMC Geriatr. 2011 Dec 2;11:80. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-11-80.

Rationale and design of the B-PROOF study, a randomized controlled trial on the 
effect of supplemental intake of vitamin B12 and folic acid on fracture 
incidence.

van Wijngaarden JP(1), Dhonukshe-Rutten RA, van Schoor NM, van der Velde N, 
Swart KM, Enneman AW, van Dijk SC, Brouwer-Brolsma EM, Zillikens MC, van Meurs 
JB, Brug J, Uitterlinden AG, Lips P, de Groot LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Wageningen University, P,O, Box 8129 6700 EV 
Wageningen, the Netherlands. janneke.vanwijngaarden@wur.nl

BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is a major health problem, and the economic burden is 
expected to rise due to an increase in life expectancy throughout the world. 
Current observational evidence suggests that an elevated homocysteine 
concentration and poor vitamin B12 and folate status are associated with an 
increased fracture risk. As vitamin B12 and folate intake and status play a 
large role in homocysteine metabolism, it is hypothesized that supplementation 
with these B-vitamins will reduce fracture incidence in elderly people with an 
elevated homocysteine concentration.
METHODS/DESIGN: The B-PROOF (B-Vitamins for the PRevention Of Osteoporotic 
Fractures) study is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial. The 
intervention comprises a period of two years, and includes 2919 subjects, aged 
65 years and older, independently living or institutionalized, with an elevated 
homocysteine concentration (≥ 12 μmol/L). One group receives daily a tablet with 
500 μg vitamin B12 and 400 μg folic acid and the other group receives a placebo 
tablet. In both tablets 15 μg (600 IU) vitamin D is included. The primary 
outcome of the study is osteoporotic fractures. Measurements are performed at 
baseline and after two years and cover bone health i.e. bone mineral density and 
bone turnover markers, physical performance and physical activity including 
falls, nutritional intake and status, cognitive function, depression, genetics 
and quality of life. This large multi-center project is carried out by a 
consortium from the Erasmus MC (Rotterdam, the Netherlands), VUmc (Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands) and Wageningen University, (Wageningen, the Netherlands), the 
latter acting as coordinator.
DISCUSSION: To our best knowledge, the B-PROOF study is the first intervention 
study in which the effect of vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation on 
osteoporotic fractures is studied in a general elderly population. We expect the 
first longitudinal results of the B-PROOF intervention in the second semester of 
2013. The results of this intervention will provide evidence on the efficacy of 
vitamin B12 and folate supplementation in the prevention of osteoporotic 
fractures.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The B-PROOF study is registered with the Netherlands Trial 
(NTR NTR1333) and with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00696514).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-11-80
PMCID: PMC3266639
PMID: 22136481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Surgery. 2011 Dec;150(6):1286-94. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2011.09.016.

Would scan, but which scan? A cost-utility analysis to optimize preoperative 
imaging for primary hyperparathyroidism.

Wang TS(1), Cheung K, Farrokhyar F, Roman SA, Sosa JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, 
USA. tswang@mcw.edu

BACKGROUND: Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy for primary hyperparathyroidism 
depends on accurate preoperative localization. This study examines the 
cost-utility of sestamibi in combination with single photon emission computed 
tomography (sestamibi-SPECT); ultrasound; and 4-dimensional computed tomography 
(4D-CT).
METHODS: A decision tree was constructed for patients undergoing initial 
parathyroidectomy. Patients were randomized to 1 of 5 preoperative localization 
protocols: (1) ultrasound; (2) sestamibi-SPECT; (3) 4D-CT; (4) sestamibi-SPECT 
and ultrasound; and (5) sestamibi-SPECT and ultrasound and 4D-CT, if discordant 
(sestamibi-SPECT and ultrasound ± 4D-CT). From a societal perspective, all 
relevant costs were included. Input data were obtained from literature and 
Medicare. The incremental cost-utility ratio was determined in dollars per 
quality-adjusted life years ($/QALY). Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In the base-case, ultrasound was least expensive, with a cost of $6666, 
compared to $6773 (4-D CT); $7214 (sestamibi-SPECT and ultrasound ± 4D-CT); 
$7330 (sestamibi-SPECT); and $7371(sestamibi-SPECT and ultrasound). 
Sestamibi-SPECT and ultrasound ± 4D-CT were most cost-effective because improved 
localization resulted in fewer bilateral explorations. QALY were comparable 
across modalities. Compared to sestamibi-SPECT, ultrasound, 4D- CT, and 
sestamibi-SPECT and ultrasound ± 4D-CT resulted a win-win situation-costing less 
and accruing more utility. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the model was 
sensitive to surgery cost and diagnostic accuracy of imaging.
CONCLUSION: In our model, sestamibi-SPECT and ultrasound ± 4D-CT were the most 
cost-effective methods, followed by 4D-CT and ultrasound. Sestamibi-SPECT alone 
was least cost-effective. Cost-utilities were dependent on the sensitivities of 
ultrasound and 4D-CT and may vary by institution.

Copyright © 2011 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2011.09.016
PMID: 22136852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Respir Med. 2012 Feb;106(2):300-7. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2011.10.005. Epub 2011
 Dec 1.

The cost effectiveness of Nucleic Acid Amplification Techniques for the 
diagnosis of tuberculosis.

Hughes R(1), Wonderling D, Li B, Higgins B.

Author information:
(1)National Clinical Guidelines Centre, 180 Great Portland Street, London W1W 
5QZ, UK. Ralph.hughes@rcplondon.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There is wide variation in the techniques deployed to diagnose 
tuberculosis in the UK, with little agreement on which tools or strategies are 
cost effective. This analysis therefore comprehensively evaluated the cost 
effectiveness of currently available diagnostic strategies for routine diagnosis 
of TB in the NHS.
METHODS: The analysis compared strategies consisting of Nucleic Acid 
Amplification Techniques, culture and microscopy. A decision tree was used to 
estimate costs and Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) from a UK health service 
perspective. The sensitivity and specificity of each test determined the true 
and false positive and negative results in patients suspected of having active 
tuberculosis. These results led to either early, correct diagnosis or delayed 
diagnosis and the associated costs and QALYs. The presence of active 
tuberculosis combined with the side effects of treatment was associated with 
reduction in quality of life. Costs included were test costs, drug costs and the 
management of tuberculosis. Drug costs were based on generic UK list prices. 
Uncertainty in the model was explored through probabilistic and deterministic 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: The cost effective strategy at threshold of £20,000 per 
QALY was a strategy using only sputum microscopy and culture routinely, meaning 
Nucleic Acid Amplification Techniques are not cost effective at baseline. When 
the prevalence of tuberculosis was increased, however, nucleic acid 
