
© 2011 Institute of Food Technologists®

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2011.02348.x
PMID: 22417599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Clin Ther. 2012 Apr;34(4):926-43. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.02.011. Epub
 2012 Mar 13.

Cost-effectiveness of tapentadol in severe chronic pain in Spain: a cost 
analysis of data from RCTs.

Obradovic M(1), Ikenberg R, Hertel N, Antoñanzas F, Gálvez R, Liedgens H.

Author information:
(1)Grünenthal GmbH, Aachen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Chronic pain is known to be a significant and common health problem. 
Tapentadol, a recently developed centrally active, oral analgesic agent is used 
to treat adults with severe chronic pain that can be adequately managed only 
with opioid analgesics. Tapentadol has been reported to provide an improved 
adverse-events (AE) profile compared with other potent opioid analgesics at 
similar levels of analgesia.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
tapentadol to that of opioids commonly used as first-line treatment of severe, 
chronic, nonmalignant pain from the perspective of the health care payer in 
Spain.
METHODS: A Markov state-transition model was developed to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of first-line treatment with tapentadol to that of oxycodone, 
morphine, and transdermal fentanyl (TDF) over a 1-year time horizon. Four health 
states were defined: (1) treatment discontinuation due to a severe AE; (2) 
treatment discontinuation due to a lack of efficacy; (3) occurrence of an AE 
that required medical treatment; and (4) no discontinuation and no AE. If a 
patient discontinued a treatment, he or she was switched to an alternative, 
second-line opioid. Data regarding efficacy, tolerability, and utility values 
(EQ-5D) were derived from randomized clinical trials. Clinical experts estimated 
the rates of switching to other opioids and the health care resource utilization 
associated with the treatment of severe chronic pain. Unit costs were derived 
from public price lists/tariff works and were calculated from the perspective of 
the National Spanish Health System. The robustness of the model results was 
tested in extensive sensitivity analyses in which event probabilities, costs, 
utilities, and treatment-switching rates were altered.
RESULTS: Data from 3 studies (1981 patients) were included in the model. 
Overall, the model predicted that initiating first-line treatment with 
tapentadol in patients with severe, chronic, nonmalignant pain was associated 
with lower costs and greater efficacy versus first-line treatment with 
oxycodone. Compared with morphine and TDF, tapentadol yielded incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of €2656 and €2069 per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained, respectively. On extensive 1-way and scenario analyses, findings on the 
cost-effectiveness of tapentadol were consistent. The probability that 
tapentadol would be cost-effective compared with each comparator at the 
willingness-to-pay threshold of €20,000 to €30,000/QALY gained exceeded 90%.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings from the present model, tapentadol is likely 
to be a cost-effective first-line treatment in patients with severe, chronic, 
nonmalignant pain in Spain according to the commonly accepted willingness-to-pay 
thresholds. Compared with morphine and TDF, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were low; compared with oxycodone, tapentadol dominated, showing better 
quality-of-life outcomes at lower costs.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.02.011
PMID: 22417717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Am J Kidney Dis. 2012 Jul;60(1):102-11. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2011.12.030.
Epub  2012 Mar 13.

Dialysis modality preference of patients with CKD and family caregivers: a 
discrete-choice study.

Morton RL(1), Snelling P, Webster AC, Rose J, Masterson R, Johnson DW, Howard K.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
rachael.morton@sydney.edu.au

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2012 Jul;60(1):5-7.

BACKGROUND: Dialysis modality preferences of patients with chronic kidney 
disease (CKD) and family caregivers are important, yet rarely quantified.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective, unlabeled, discrete-choice experiment with 
random-parameter logit analysis.
SETTING & PARTICIPANTS: Adults with stages 3-5 CKD and caregivers educated about 
dialysis treatment options from 8 Australian renal clinics.
PREDICTORS: Preferences for and trade-offs between the dialysis treatment 
attributes of life expectancy, number of hospital visits per week, ability to 
travel, hours per treatment, treatment time of day, subsidized transport 
service, and flexibility of treatment schedule.
OUTCOMES & MEASUREMENTS: Results presented as ORs for preferring home-based or 
in-center dialysis to conservative care.
RESULTS: 105 predialysis patients and 73 family caregivers completed the study. 
Median patient age was 63 years, and mean estimated glomerular filtration rate 
was 18.1 (range, 6-34) mL/min/1.73 m(2). Median caregiver age was 61 years. 
Home-based dialysis (either peritoneal or home hemodialysis) was chosen by 
patients in 65% of choice sets; in-center dialysis, in 35%; and conservative 
care, in 10%. For caregivers, this was 72%, 25%, and 3%, respectively. Both 
patients and caregivers preferred longer rather than shorter hours of dialysis 
(ORs of 2.02 [95% CI, 1.51-2.70] and 2.67 [95% CI, 1.85-3.85] for patients and 
caregivers, respectively), but were less likely to choose nocturnal than daytime 
dialysis (ORs of 0.07 [95% CI, 0.01-0.75] and 0.03 [95% CI, 0.01-0.20]). 
Patients were willing to forgo 23 (95% CI, 19-27) months of life expectancy with 
home-based dialysis to decrease their travel restrictions. For caregivers, this 
was 17 (95% CI, 16-18) patient-months.
LIMITATIONS: Data were limited to stated preferences rather than actual choice 
of dialysis modality.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that it is rare for caregivers to prefer 
conservative nondialytic care for family members with CKD. Home-based dialysis 
modalities that enable patients and their family members to travel with minimal 
restriction would be strongly aligned with the preferences of both parties.

Copyright © 2012 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2011.12.030
PMID: 22417786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Epigenetics. 2012 Apr;7(4):335-9. doi: 10.4161/epi.19376. Epub 2012 Apr 1.

A simple method for high-throughput quantification of genome-wide DNA 
methylation by fluorescence polarization.

Zhao C(1), Xue H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science and Applied Genomics Center, The Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China. zhaocunyou@gmail.com

To rapidly determine DNA methylation levels from a large number of biological or 
clinical samples, we have developed an accurate and sensitive method for 
high-throughput quantification of global methylation of 5'-Cm ( 5) CGG-3' sites 
in the genome, visualized by fluorescence polarization (FP) based measurement of 
DNA methylation (FPDM). In FPDM, the methyl-sensitive HpaII and 
methyl-insensitive MspI restriction enzymes were employed to achieve DNA 
cleavage, followed by incorporation of fluorescent dCMP into the enzyme-cleavage 
products through polymerase chain extension, yielding an FP-ratio between the 
HpaII- and MspI-restricted preparations as a measure of methylation. FPDM 
provided stable estimates of methylation level of submicrograms of lambda or 
human DNA, and of a 255-bp DNA segment containing a single HpaII/MspI 
restriction site in accord with, and more accurate than, determination by gel 
electrophoresis. FPDM was also applied to measure dose-dependent DNA 
hypomethylation in human embryonic kidney 293T cells treated with the 
DNA-methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-dC.

DOI: 10.4161/epi.19376
PMID: 22419070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Int J Cancer. 2012 Sep 15;131(6):E974-82. doi: 10.1002/ijc.27531. Epub 2012
Apr  25.

Bias in relative survival methods when using incorrect life-tables: lung and 
bladder cancer by smoking status and ethnicity in New Zealand.

Blakely T(1), Soeberg M, Carter K, Costilla R, Atkinson J, Sarfati D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand. 
tony.blakely@otago.ac.nz

Relative survival and excess mortality approaches are commonly used to estimate 
and compare net survival from cancer. These approaches are based on the 
assumption that the underlying (non-cancer) mortality rate of cancer patients is 
the same as that of the general population. This assumption is likely to be 
violated particularly in the context of smoking-related cancers. The magnitude 
of this bias has not been estimated. The objective of this article is to 
estimate the bias in relative survival ratios (RSRs) and excess mortality rate 
ratios (EMRRs) from using total population compared to correct subpopulation 
specific life-tables. Analyses were conducted on 1996-2001 linked census-cancer 
data (including smoking status) for people with lung and bladder cancer, using 
sex-specific (standard practice), sex- and ethnic-specific, sex- and 
smoking-specific and sex-, ethnic- and smoking-specific life-tables. Five-year 
RSRs using sex-specific life-tables, compared to fully stratified life-tables, 
were underestimated by 10-25% for current smoking and Maori populations. For 
example, the current smoker male bladder cancer RSR was 0.700 for sex-specific 
life-tables, compared to 0.838 for fully stratified life-tables. Similarly, 
EMRRs comparing current to never smokers and Maori to non-Maori were 
overestimated using sex-specific life-tables only: modestly only for lung 
cancer, but markedly for bladder cancer. For example, the EMRR comparing current 
to never smokers with bladder cancer in a fully adjusted regression model was 
1.475 when using sex-specific life-tables only, but reduced to 1.098 when using 
fully stratified life-tables. Substantial bias can occur when estimating 
relative cancer survival across subpopulations if non-matching life-tables are 
used.

Copyright © 2012 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.27531
PMID: 22419246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 Mar 14;2012(3):CD001447. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD001447.pub3.

Riluzole for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)/motor neuron disease (MND).

Miller RG(1), Mitchell JD, Moore DH.

Author information:
(1)Forbes Norris ALS Research Center, California PacificMedical Center, San 
Francisco, USA. millerrx@sutterhealth.org.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007;(1):CD001447.

BACKGROUND: Riluzole is approved for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis in most countries. Questions persist about its clinical utility 
because of high cost and modest efficacy.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the efficacy of riluzole in prolonging survival and in 
delaying the use of surrogates (tracheostomy and mechanical ventilation) to 
sustain survival, and to assess the effect of riluzole upon functional health.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized 
Register (20 April 2011), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials 
(CENTRAL) (2011, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1966 to April 2011), EMBASE (1980 to May 
2011) and made enquiries of authors of trials, Aventis (manufacturer of 
riluzole) and other experts in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Types of studies: randomized controlled trials
TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS: adults with a diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
Types of interventions: treatment with riluzole or placebo Types of outcome 
measures: Primary: pooled hazard ratio of tracheostomy-free survival over all 
time points with riluzole 100 mg. Secondary: per cent mortality with riluzole 50 
mg, 100 mg and 200 mg; neurologic function, muscle strength and adverse events.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One author performed data extraction and two other 
authors checked them. One author checked the data and entered them into the 
computer. The other authors verified the data entry. We obtained missing data 
from the trial authors whenever possible.
MAIN RESULTS: The four trials examining tracheostomy-free survival included a 
total of 974 riluzole-treated patients and 503 placebo-treated patients. No new 
randomized controlled trials were found when we updated the searches for this 
update in 2011. The methodological quality was acceptable and three trials were 
easily comparable, although one trial (169 participants) included older patients 
in more advanced stages of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and one (195 
participants) had multiple primary endpoints. Riluzole 100 mg per day provided a 
benefit for the homogeneous group of patients in the first two trials (hazard 
ratio (HR) 0.80, 95% confidence internal (CI) 0.64 to 0.99, P= 0.042) and there 
was no evidence of heterogeneity (P = 0.33). When the third trial (which 
included older and more seriously affected patients) was added, there was 
evidence of heterogeneity (P < 0.0001) and the overall treatment effect was 
reduced but still significant (HR 0.84, 95% CI 0.698 to 0.997, P= 0.046). This 
represented a 9% gain in the probability of surviving one year (49% in the 
placebo and 58% in the riluzole group), and increased median survival from 11.8 
to 14.8 months. There was a small beneficial effect on both bulbar and limb 
function, but not on muscle strength. A three-fold increase in serum alanine 
transferase was more frequent in riluzole-treated patients than controls (mean 
difference 2.62, 95% CI 1.59 to 4.31).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Riluzole 100 mg daily is reasonably safe and probably 
prolongs median survival by about two to three months in patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001447.pub3
PMCID: PMC7055506
PMID: 22419278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Both Drs Miller and Mitchell were investigators 
in the second large trial of riluzole in ALS, but neither participated in data 
analysis or manuscript preparation. Dr Mitchell participated in other scientific 
activities (Consensus conferences, ALS CARE National database and ALS Practice 
Parameters) where financial support came from Aventis. Dr Miller is a consultant 
for several pharmaceutical entities, but none are related to riluzole. Dan H 
Moore, PhD received an honorarium for his participation in the ALS CARE program, 
supported by Aventis. He is a biostatistical consultant for several 
pharmaceutical entities, but none are related to riluzole. For Dr Mitchell 
(deceased), declarations of interest are as published in the previous update of 
this review.


832. Am J Med Genet A. 2012 Apr;158A(4):909-16. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35264. Epub
2012  Mar 14.

Long-term survival in infantile malignant autosomal recessive osteopetrosis 
secondary to homozygous p.Arg526Gln mutation in CLCN7.

Kantaputra PN(1), Thawanaphong S, Issarangporn W, Klangsinsirikul P, Ohazama A, 
Sharpe P, Supanchart C.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, Division of Pediatric Dentistry, Department of 
Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry, Craniofacial Genetics Laboratory, Chiang 
Mai University, DENTALAND CLINIC, Chiang Mai, Thailand. dentaland17@gmail.com

Infantile malignant autosomal recessive osteopetrosis (ARO; OMIM 259700) has 
been reported to be associated with mutations in TCIRG1, CLCN7, or OSTM1. ARO 
caused by homozygous (or compound heterozygous) mutations in CLCN7, as described 
here, is usually diagnosed at birth or early in infancy due to generalized 
osteosclerosis and severe hematologic deficits. The maximal life expectancy of 
patients with ARO in the absence of bone marrow transplantation is thought to be 
10 years. We report on a 25-year-old Thai man who is affected with ARO. Clinical 
features include proportionate short stature, vision impairment, esotropia, 
exophthalmos, mild hearing loss, and hepatosplenomegaly. Pancytopenia was 
present and the patient had frequent illnesses. Radiographs showed generalized 
osteosclerosis with almost no visible of bone marrow spaces. Dense maxilla and 
mandible with impacted and malformed teeth were observed. Multiple fractures 
were reported. He developed osteomyelitis of the mandible on four separate 
occasions, and partial mandibulectomy was performed. Molecular studies showed 
that there were no pathogenic mutations in TCIRG1. However, mutation analysis of 
CLCN7 revealed a homozygous missense mutation (p.Arg526Gln). This patient is, it 
appears, the longest lived individual with ARO ever reported. Evaluation of 
osteoclastogenesis in our patient demonstrated very large immature osteoclasts 
with a high number of nuclei.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35264
PMID: 22419446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Klin Med (Mosk). 2011;89(6):4-8.

[Prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism in patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease].

[Article in Russian]

[No authors listed]

At present, almost 25% of the world population suffer from venous 
thromboembolism (VTE). This condition is currently regarded as a continuum of 
thromboembolism of pulmonary artery (TEPA) and venous thromboses including 
superficial venous thromboses. These diseases are not infrequently concomitant 
and asymptomatic. Up to 75% of the cases of venous thrombosis in the lower 
extremities are associated with latent TEPA and 80% of the cases of pulmonory 
embolism with asymptomatic venous thrombosis. The mortality rate from TEPA is 
estimated to be one person per 1,000. The data of autopsies indicate that 50-80% 
of the TEPA cases are not diagnosed at all. As many as 300 subjects of 100,000 
suffer trophic ulcers in the lower extremities as a result of previous venous 
thrombosis. Prophylaxis is supposed to be the principal means of VTE control. 
Chronic lung diseases are the leading risk factors of VTE. Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality throughout 
the world. It is expected to become the third major cause of death by 2020. 
Hospitalization of COPD patients in therapeutic clinics increases the risk of 
VTE by 7.98 times. Prophylaxis of VTE in COPD patients may reduce the frequency 
of exacerbation and hospitalization and increase life expectancy.

PMID: 22420186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2012 Sep 1;12(10):947-58. doi:
10.2174/138955712802762383.

Monoamino oxidase a: an interesting pharmacological target for the development 
of multi-target QSAR.

Molina E(1), Sobarzo-Sanchez E, Speck-Planche A, Matos MJ, Uriarte E, Santana L, 
Yanez M, Orallo F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Química, Facultad de Química, Universidad de Camaguey, Cuba. 
mariacmatos@gmail.com

With the significant increase of life expectancy of populations in societies 
today, the importance of the discovery of drugs associated with 
neurodegenerative diseases has emerged. Therefore, neurodegenerative diseases 
are an important topic in Medicinal Chemistry. Although drug discovery is 
considered a complex and slow process, new approaches and methods have been 
developed with the intention of finding new chemical entities in more efficient 
ways. This work provides a review of virtual methodologies applied in drug 
discovery and especially a new model for the prediction of MAO-A inhibitors 
using a multi-target QSAR methodology. This model involves a mixed approach 
containing simple descriptors based on atom-centered fragments and functional 
groups (DRAGON) and topological substructural molecular design descriptors 
(MODESLAB). This unified multi-species QSAR model was validated through a 
virtual screening of a new series of oxoisoaporphine derivatives, taking into 
account the information in the calculated fragmental contributions. Therefore, 
this method represents a useful tool for the in silico screening of MAO-A 
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.2174/138955712802762383
PMID: 22420572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Am J Public Health. 2012 May;102(5):967-74. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2012.300666.
Epub  2012 Mar 15.

A life course perspective on how racism may be related to health inequities.

Gee GC(1), Walsemann KM, Brondolo E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA. gilgee@ucla.edu

Recent studies show that racism may influence health inequities. As individuals 
grow from infancy into old age, they encounter social institutions that may 
create new exposures to racial bias. Yet, few studies have considered this idea 
fully. We suggest a framework that shows how racism and health inequities may be 
viewed from a life course perspective. It applies the ideas of age-patterned 
exposures, sensitive periods, linked lives, latency period, stress 
proliferation, historic period, and cohorts. It suggests an overarching idea 
that racism can structure one's time in asset-building contexts (e.g., 
education) or disadvantaged contexts (e.g., prison). This variation in time and 
exposure can contribute to racial inequities in life expectancy and other health 
outcomes across the life course and over generations.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2012.300666
PMCID: PMC3483932
PMID: 22420802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2012 May;67(3):343-53. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbs029. Epub 2012 Mar 15.

Are there education differentials in disability and mortality transitions and 
active life expectancy among Japanese older adults? Findings from a 10-year 
prospective cohort study.

Yong V(1), Saito Y.

Author information:
(1)Advanced Research Institute for the Sciences and Humanities, Nihon 
University, 12-5 Goban-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-8251, Japan. 
vanessa.yong@nihon-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the robust education-health association found in 
Western developed nations in the Japanese context. We examined disability and 
mortality transitions and computed active life expectancy (ALE) by educational 
attainment for a cohort of Japanese adults aged 65+ years.
METHOD: Nationally representative data from the Nihon University Japanese 
Longitudinal Study of Aging over a 10-year period in Japan (1999, 2001, 2003, 
2006, and 2009) were used (N = 4,968). Disability was measured by difficulties 
in performing daily activities. A multistate life table method was employed 
using an interpolated Markov chain approach.
RESULTS: There is little effect of education on disability and mortality 
transitions. Except for transiting from an active to inactive state (disability 
incidence), the other health transitions, including to mortality, are not 
statistically significant. ALE computations show that Japanese men and women 
with more education can expect more years of remaining life and active life.
DISCUSSION: The robust education-health relationship found in Western societies 
does not seem applicable in Japan. We discuss the casual mechanisms addressed in 
the literature in relation to Japan's relatively egalitarian society and 
specific characteristics.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbs029
PMID: 22421807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. World J Surg. 2012 Jun;36(6):1293-9. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1562-8.

Assessment of swallowing function impairment in patients with benign goiters and 
impact of thyroidectomy: a case control study.

Sabaretnam M(1), Mishra A, Chand G, Agarwal G, Agarwal A, Verma AK, Mishra SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrine Surgery, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow 226 014, India.

BACKGROUND: Swallowing-related quality of life (QoL) in patients with benign 
thyroid goiters is not much studied. The aim of this study was to assess 
swallowing function impairment in patients with benign goiters, compare it to a 
control population, and also find the impact of thyroidectomy and various 
factors on the outcome of swallowing function.
METHODS: We performed a prospective case-control study from September 2009 to 
September 2011 which consisted of 124 patients who were to undergo primary 
thyroid surgery and 100 age- and sex-matched controls. A translated and 
validated modified swallowing quality-of-life (SWAL-QOL) questionnaire was used 
to assess patients' perception of dysphagia. Presurgery scores of patients and 
controls and pre- and postsurgery scores (>6 months after surgery) of patients 
were compared.
RESULTS: The mean age of males and females in the control and patient groups 
were 37.7 vs. 39.5 years and 37.4 vs. 39.8 years, respectively. Twelve patients 
(9.7%) complained of dysphasia at presentation. Sixty-three patients (50.8%) 
underwent total thyroidectomy and 61 (49.2%) had hemithyroidectomy at the time 
of initial evaluation, 75, 23.4, and 1.6% of patients were euthyroid, 
hyperthyroid, and hypothyroid, respectively. Presurgery scores of patients in 
all of the 11 domains of the SWAL-QOL were lower compared to those of controls. 
Comparing separately with the matched controls, females had significant 
differences in nine domains (except for sleep and fatigue) of the SWAL-QOL 
questionnaire but males did not. Postoperatively, both male and female patients 
showed significant improvement in the scores of all the domains. Female gender, 
hyperthyroidism, thyroid nodularity, retrosternal extension, procedure, and 
weight of the resected specimen were the factors associated with significant 
improvement in various domains.
CONCLUSION: Dysphagia seems to be an underestimated problem in patients with 
benign goiters. Uncomplicated thyroidectomy results in significant improvement 
in swallowing-related QoL irrespective of patient profile and extent of 
thyroidectomy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1562-8
PMID: 22422173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Osteoporos Int. 2013 Feb;24(2):451-8. doi: 10.1007/s00198-012-1965-2. Epub
2012  Mar 16.

Life expectancy following diagnosis of a vertebral compression fracture.

Edidin AA(1), Ong KL, Lau E, Kurtz SM.

Author information:
(1)Medtronic, Inc, 1221 Crossman Ave, Sunnyvale, CA 94089, USA.

SUMMARY: The life expectancy of vertebral compression fracture (VCF) patients 
was evaluated as a function of their treatment. Compared to non-operated 
patients, the kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty patient cohort had 115% and 44% 
greater adjusted life expectancy, respectively. Kyphoplasty patients had a 34% 
greater adjusted life expectancy than vertebroplasty patients.
INTRODUCTION: Balloon kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty are minimally invasive 
procedures for the treatment of painful VCFs. This comparative effectiveness 
study characterized the life expectancy of VCF patients as a function of their 
treatment.
METHODS: Life expectancy of VCF patients in the 100% U.S. Medicare dataset 
(2005-2008) was estimated using a parametric Weibull survival model (adjusted 
for comorbidities), and compared between operated and non-operated patients as 
well as between kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty patients. A total of 858,978 
patients with a newly diagnosed VCF were identified, including 119,253 
kyphoplasty patients (13.9%) and 63,693 vertebroplasty patients (7.4%).
RESULTS: Adjusted life expectancy was 85% greater for operated than non-operated 
patients (p < 0.001; 95% confidence interval: 82-89%). Compared to non-operated 
patients, the kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty patient cohort had 115% (p < 0.001; 
95% confidence interval: 111-119%) and 44% (p < 0.001; 95% confidence interval: 
42-47%) greater adjusted life expectancy, respectively. Kyphoplasty patients had 
a 34% greater adjusted life expectancy than vertebroplasty patients (p < 0.001; 
95% confidence interval: 31-36%). Across all gender-age groups, the median life 
expectancy predicted by the parametric Weibull model was 2.2-7.3 years greater 
for operated than non-operated patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Statistically significant and substantial differences in life 
expectancy were observed between the treated and non-treated cohorts in the 
Medicare population. Among the treated cohorts, patients in the vertebroplasty 
group experienced less of a survival benefit than those who received 
kyphoplasty. The results will be a useful basis for future cost effectiveness 
studies of VCF treatments for the Medicare population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-012-1965-2
PMID: 22422305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Heart. 2012 Apr;98(7):523-4. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-301753.

Prognostication or identification of palliative needs in advanced heart failure: 
where should the focus lie?

Hogg KJ, Jenkins SM.

Comment on
    Heart. 2012 Apr;98(7):579-83.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-301753
PMID: 22422741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Heart. 2012 Apr;98(7):579-83. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-301021.

Identifying community based chronic heart failure patients in the last year of 
life: a comparison of the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guide 
and the Seattle Heart Failure Model.

Haga K(1), Murray S, Reid J, Ness A, O'Donnell M, Yellowlees D, Denvir MA.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Heart Centre, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.

Comment in
    Heart. 2012 Apr;98(7):523-4.
    Heart. 2012 Oct;98(20):1538; author reply 1538.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical utility of the Gold Standards Framework 
Prognostic Indicator Guide (GSF) and the Seattle Heart Failure Model (SHF) to 
identify patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) in the last year of life.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PATIENTS: An observational cohort study of 138 community 
based ambulatory patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III and 
IV CHF managed by a specialist heart failure nursing team.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: 12 month mortality, and sensitivity and specificity of 
GSF and SHF.
RESULTS: 138 CHF patients with NYHA class III and IV symptoms were identified 
from a population of 368 ambulatory CHF patients. 119 (86%) met GSF criteria for 
end of life care. The SHF model identified six (4.3%) patients with a predicted 
life expectancy of 1 year or less. At the 12 month follow-up, 43 (31%) patients 
had died. The sensitivity and specificity for GSF and SHF in predicting death 
were 83% and 22%, and 12% and 99%, respectively. Receiver operator 
characteristic analysis of SHF revealed a C index of 0.68±0.05 (95% CI 0.58 to 
0.77). Chronic kidney disease (serum creatinine ≥140 μmol/l) was a strong 
univariate predictor of 12 month mortality, with a sensitivity of 56% and 
specificity of 72%.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither the GSF nor the SHF accurately predicted which patients 
were in the last year of life. The poor prognostic ability of these models 
highlights one of the barriers to providing timely palliative care in CHF.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2011-301021
PMID: 22422744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Hum Reprod. 2012 May;27(5):1292-9. doi: 10.1093/humrep/des073. Epub 2012 Mar
14.

The burden of endometriosis: costs and quality of life of women with 
endometriosis and treated in referral centres.

Simoens S(1), Dunselman G, Dirksen C, Hummelshoj L, Bokor A, Brandes I, Brodszky 
V, Canis M, Colombo GL, DeLeire T, Falcone T, Graham B, Halis G, Horne A, Kanj 
O, Kjer JJ, Kristensen J, Lebovic D, Mueller M, Vigano P, Wullschleger M, 
D'Hooghe T.

Author information:
(1)Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Erratum in
    Hum Reprod. 2014 Sep;29(9):2073.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to calculate costs and health-related quality of 
life of women with endometriosis-associated symptoms treated in referral 
centres.
METHODS: A prospective, multi-centre, questionnaire-based survey measured costs 
and quality of life in ambulatory care and in 12 tertiary care centres in 10 
countries. The study enrolled women with a diagnosis of endometriosis and with 
at least one centre-specific contact related to endometriosis-associated 
symptoms in 2008. The main outcome measures were health care costs, costs of 
productivity loss, total costs and quality-adjusted life years. Predictors of 
costs were identified using regression analysis.
RESULTS: Data analysis of 909 women demonstrated that the average annual total 
cost per woman was €9579 (95% confidence interval €8559-€10 599). Costs of 
productivity loss of €6298 per woman were double the health care costs of €3113 
per woman. Health care costs were mainly due to surgery (29%), monitoring tests 
(19%) and hospitalization (18%) and physician visits (16%). 
Endometriosis-associated symptoms generated 0.809 quality-adjusted life years 
per woman. Decreased quality of life was the most important predictor of direct 
health care and total costs. Costs were greater with increasing severity of 
endometriosis, presence of pelvic pain, presence of infertility and a higher 
number of years since diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study invited women to report resource use based on 
endometriosis-associated symptoms only, rather than drawing on a control 
population of women without endometriosis. Our study showed that the economic 
burden associated with endometriosis treated in referral centres is high and is 
similar to other chronic diseases (diabetes, Crohn's disease, rheumatoid 
arthritis). It arises predominantly from productivity loss, and is predicted by 
decreased quality of life.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/des073
PMID: 22422778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Bull World Health Organ. 2012 Feb 1;90(2):88-96. doi: 10.2471/BLT.11.091470.
 Epub 2011 Oct 14.

Prioritizing risk factors to identify preventive interventions for economic 
assessment.

Wilson N(1), Blakely T, Foster RH, Hadorn D, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, PO Box 7343, 
Wellington South, New Zealand. nick.wilson@otago.ac.nz

OBJECTIVE: To explore a risk factor approach for identifying preventive 
interventions that require more in-depth economic assessment, including 
cost-effectiveness analyses.
METHODS: A three-step approach was employed to: (i) identify the risk factors 
that contribute most substantially to disability-adjusted life years (DALYs); 
(ii) re-rank these risk factors based on the availability of effective 
preventive interventions warranting further cost-effectiveness analysis (and in 
some instances on evidence from existing cost-effectiveness analyses); and 
(iii) re-rank these risk factors in accordance with their relative contribution 
to health inequalities. Health inequalities between the Māori and non-Māori 
populations in New Zealand were used by way of illustration.
FINDINGS: Seven of the top 10 risk factors prioritized for research on 
preventive interventions in New Zealand were also among the 10 risk factors most 
highly ranked as contributing to DALYs in high-income countries of the World 
Health Organization's Western Pacific Region. The final list of priority risk 
factors included tobacco use; alcohol use; high blood pressure; high blood 
cholesterol; overweight/obesity, and physical inactivity. All of these factors 
contributed to health inequalities. Effective interventions for preventing all 
of them are available, and for each risk factor there is at least one documented 
cost-saving preventive intervention.
CONCLUSION: The straightforward approach to prioritizing risk factors described 
in this paper may be applicable in many countries, and even in those countries 
that lack the capacity to perform additional cost-effectiveness analyses, this 
approach will still make it possible to determine which cost-effective 
interventions should be implemented in the short run.

OBJECTIF: Étudier une approche fondée sur les facteurs de risque pour identifier 
les interventions préventives nécessitant une évaluation économique plus 
approfondie, y compris des analyses de rentabilité.
MÉTHODES: Une approche en trois étapes a été utilisée pour (i) identifier les 
facteurs de risque contribuant en grande partie aux années de vie corrigées du 
facteur invalidité (AVCI), (ii) reclasser ces facteurs de risque en fonction de 
la disponibilité des interventions préventives efficaces justifiant une analyse 
supplémentaire de rentabilité (et, dans certains cas, sur la base de preuves 
provenant d’analyses de rentabilité existantes), et (iii) reclasser ces facteurs 
de risque en fonction de leur contribution relative aux inégalités de santé. Les 
inégalités de santé entre les populations maories et non maories en 
Nouvelle-Zélande ont été utilisées à titre d'illustration.
RÉSULTATS: Sept des dix principaux facteurs de risque priorisés pour la 
recherche sur les interventions préventives en Nouvelle-Zélande figuraient 
également parmi les dix facteurs de risque contribuant le plus aux AVCI dans les 
pays à revenu élevé de la région du Pacifique occidental de l'Organisation 
mondiale de la Santé. La liste définitive des facteurs de risque prioritaires 
incluait le tabagisme, la consommation d'alcool, l'hypertension artérielle, 
l’hypercholestérolémie, le surpoids/l’obésité et l'inactivité physique. Tous ces 
facteurs contribuaient à des inégalités de santé. Des interventions efficaces 
pour prévenir chacun d’eux sont disponibles, et il existe au moins une 
intervention préventive plus économique connue pour chaque facteur de risque.
CONCLUSION: L'approche simple de priorisation des facteurs de risque décrite 
dans cet article peut être applicable dans de nombreux pays. Même dans les pays 
qui n'ont pas la capacité d'effectuer des analyses de rentabilité 
complémentaires, cette approche permettra de déterminer quelles interventions 
rentables devraient être mises en œuvre à court terme.

OBJETIVO: Explorar una estrategia en relación con los factores de riesgo que 
permita la identificación de las intervenciones preventivas que requieran una 
evaluación económica de mayor profundidad, incluyendo los análisis de 
rentabilidad.
MÉTODOS: Se aplicó una estrategia en tres etapas con el fin de (i) identificar 
los factores de riesgo que contribuyen de manera más significativa a los años de 
vida ajustados en función de la discapacidad (AVAD); (ii) volver a clasificar 
estos factores de riesgo en base a la disponibilidad de intervenciones 
preventivas eficaces que justifiquen la realización de análisis de rentabilidad 
adicionales (y, en algunos casos, en base a las evidencias procedentes de los 
análisis de rentabilidad existentes); y (iii) volver a clasificar estos factores 
de riesgo de acuerdo con su contribución relativa a las desigualdades 
sanitarias. A modo de ilustración, se analizaron las desigualdades sanitarias 
entre las poblaciones maoríes y no maoríes de Nueva Zelanda.
RESULTADOS: Siete de los 10 factores de riesgo prioritarios para la 
investigación sobre las intervenciones preventivas en Nueva Zelanda también se 
encontraron entre los 10 factores de riesgo con mayor calificación en cuanto a 
su contribución a los AVAD en países de ingresos altos de la Región del Pacífico 
Occidental de la Organización Mundial de la Salud. En la lista definitiva de los 
factores de riesgo prioritarios se incluyeron el tabaquismo, el consumo de 
alcohol, la presión arterial alta, un nivel elevado de colesterol, el 
sobrepeso/obesidad y el sedentarismo. Todos estos factores contribuyeron a las 
desigualdades sanitarias. Se han desarrollado intervenciones eficaces para 
prevenir todos estos factores, y para cada factor de riesgo se ha documentado al 
menos una intervención preventiva destinada al ahorro de costes.
CONCLUSIÓN: La sencilla estrategia consistente en establecer la prioridad de los 
factores de riesgo descritos en este documento puede ser aplicable en muchos 
países, e incluso en aquellos países que carezcan de la capacidad necesaria para 
llevar a cabo los análisis de rentabilidad adicionales, esta estrategia también 
permitirá determinar qué intervenciones rentables se han de aplicar a corto 
plazo.

الغرض: استكشاف نهج لعوامل الخطر بهدف تحديد التدخلات الوقائية التي تتطلب تقييماً 
اقتصادياً أكثر تعمقاً بما في ذلك تحليلات المردودية.
الطرق: تم استخدام نهج يتكون من ثلاث خطوات من أجل (أ) تحديد عوامل الخطر التي تسهم 
بشكل كبير في سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز (DALYs)، (ب) إعادة ترتيب 
عوامل الخطر هذه استنادًا إلى توافر التدخلات الوقائية الفعالة التي تضمن إجراء 
تحليل إضافي للمردودية (وتستند في بعض الحالات على الأدلة الناتجة عن التحليلات 
الحالية للمردودية)، (ج) إعادة ترتيب عوامل الخطر هذه وفقاً لمساهمتها النسبية في 
التباينات الصحية. وقد استخدمت التباينات الصحية بين سكان الماوري الأصليين وغيرهم 
من السكان في نيوزيلندا على سبيل التوضيح.
النتائج: كانت سبعة من بين أعلى 10 عوامل خطر من اللاتي تم منحها الأولوية في 
البحوث المتعلقة بالتدخلات الوقائية في نيوزيلندا أيضاً من بين عوامل الخطر العشرة 
الأعلى ترتيبًا في الإسهام في سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز في البلدان 
ذات الدخل المرتفع لإقليم غرب المحيط الهادئ التابع لمنظمة الصحة العالمية. وشملت 
القائمة النهائية لعوامل الخطر ذات الأولوية تعاطي التبغ؛ وتعاطي الكحول؛ وارتفاع 
ضغط الدم؛ وارتفاع الكوليسترول في الدم؛ والوزن المفرط/السمنة، والخمول البدني. وقد 
ساهمت كل هذه العوامل في التباينات الصحية. وتتوافر تدخلات فعالة لمنع جميع هذه 
العوامل، ويوجد تدخل وقائي موثَّق واحد على الأقل يحقق وفورات في التكاليف لكل عامل 
خطر.
الاستنتاج: ربما يكون النهج المباشر لترتيب عوامل الخطر المبينة في هذا البحث 
قابلاً للتطبيق في العديد من البلدان، وحتى في تلك البلدان التي تفتقر إلى القدرة 
على إجراء تحليلات إضافية للمردودية، فإن هذا النهج سوف يسمح بتحديد التدخلات عالية 
المردود التي ينبغي تنفيذها على المدى القصير.

目的: 探讨确定用于需要进行更深入经济评估的预防性干预的风险因素方法，包括成本效益分析。
方法: 
采用三个步骤方法（i）确定对伤残调整生命年（DALY）最有影响的风险因素；（ii）以进一步成本效益分析（以及在某些情况下，以现有的成本效益分析为依据）的有效预防性干预的可用性为基础，对风险因素重新排序；并且（iii）按照其对健康不平等的相对贡献，对风险因素重新排序。新西兰的毛利人和非毛利人人群之间的健康不平等仅作举例之用。
结果: 
在新西兰开展的预防性干预研究中，前10大风险因素中有七个也同样出现在世界卫生组织西太平洋地区高收入国家对伤残调整生命年（DALY）排名最前的10个风险因素当中。优先考虑的风险因素的最终列表包括吸烟；饮酒；高血压；高血脂；超重/肥胖，以及缺乏运动。所有这些因素都会造成健康不平等。存在可用的预防这些因素的有效干预，并且对于每个风险因素，都至少有一种有记录的节约成本的预防性干预。
结论: 
本文中所描述的确定风险因素的优先顺序的方法简单易懂，适用于许多国家，即使在那些不具备能力进行更多成本效益分析的国家，这种方法依然可以确定在短期内可以进行何种成本效益的干预。

ЦЕЛЬ: Исследовать подход на основе факторов риска для определения 
профилактического вмешательства, которое требует углубленной экономической 
оценки, включая анализ затрат и эффективности.
МЕТОДЫ: Для определения (i) факторов риска, которые имеют наибольшее значение в 
годы потери трудоспособности (DALY); (ii) ранжирования этих факторов риска на 
основе доступности профилактических мер для гарантии дальнейшего анализа затрат 
и эффективности (и в некоторых случаях, исходя из доказательств, полученных в 
ходе уже проведенного анализа затрат и эффективности); и (iii) ранжирования этих 
факторов риска в соответствии с их относительным вкладом в диспропорции в 
состоянии здоровья применялся трехстадийный подход. Для иллюстрации 
использовались диспропорции в состоянии здоровья между популяциями маори и не 
маори в Новой Зеландии.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Семь из наиболее распространенных 10 факторов риска, выбранных в 
качестве приоритетных для разработки профилактических мер в Новой Зеландии, 
также входили в число 10 факторов риска с наибольшим рангом, имеющих наибольшее 
значение в период DALY в странах с высокими доходами на западе Тихоокеанского 
региона согласно данным Всемирной организации здравоохранения. Окончательный 
перечень приоритетных факторов риска включает в себя употребление табака; 
употребление алкоголя; высокое давление крови; высокий уровень холестерина в 
крови; избыточный вес/ожирение и низкую физическую активность. Все эти факторы 
вносят вклад в диспропорции в состоянии здоровья. Для всех этих факторов имеются 
эффективные меры профилактики, и для каждого из этих факторов имеется хотя бы 
одна задокументированная экономически эффективная профилактическая мера.
ВЫВОД: Описанный в этой статье непосредственный подход для выявления 
приоритетных факторов риска может быть применим во многих странах; даже в тех 
странах, где недостаточно возможностей для проведения дополнительного анализа 
затрат и эффективности, этот подход все равно позволяет определить, какие 
экономически эффективные меры следует внедрить в краткосрочной перспективе.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.11.091470
PMCID: PMC3302552
PMID: 22423159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Clin Interv Aging. 2012;7:77-81. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S29045. Epub 2012 Feb 28.

Myocardial infarction in patients over 90 years of age.

Yayan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Vinzentius-Hospital, Cornichonstraße 4, 
Landau, Germany. josef.yayan@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to examine the trend in increasing life 
expectancy in relation to heart attack and cardiac catheterization.
METHODS: A retrospective study of very elderly patients over 90 years of age 
(study group) and between 70 and 79 years of age (control group) with myocardial 
infarction and acute coronary syndrome who underwent coronary angiography was 
conducted.
RESULTS: A total of 1100 cardiac catheterizations were performed in the cardiac 
catheterization laboratory of Vinzentius-Hospital in Landau, Germany from 2007 
to 2011. The number of coronary angiographies performed in patients aged over 90 
years and those aged 70-79 years was 36 and 354, respectively, during this same 
time period. No increase in the number of evidence-based therapy for coronary 
heart disease by cardiac catheterization was observed in the very elderly 
patients over this time period.
CONCLUSION: An increase in the number of patients aged over 90 years and a rise 
in heart attacks, as evaluated by coronary angiography, could not be found in 
this study.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S29045
PMCID: PMC3302761
PMID: 22423180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Ecancermedicalscience. 2012;6:243. doi: 10.3332/ecancer.2012.243. Epub 2012
Feb  2.

Cancer in older patients: an analysis of elderly oncology.

Swaminathan V(1), Audisio R.

Author information:
(1)Mersey Deanery, FY1 Southport DGH, Town Lane, Kew, Southport, PR8 6PN, UK.

Is it possible to define when someone is elderly? The worldwide population is 
growing not only in number but also in age; it is estimated that the population 
will increase to around 750 million by 2021. Two thirds of cancer occurs in the 
over 65 age groups. With an increasing elderly population, it can be derived 
that cancer will become a more prevalent condition. The burden of cancer on the 
medical profession will be even more apparent than before. In addition the 
elderly age group has different needs compared with younger oncology patients; 
there can be no 'rule of thumb' with the management of elderly illness. Factors 
such as frailty are significant when treating cancer in the older patients. The 
assessment of quality of life in older patients with cancer is also an important 
factor. Is it best for a patient to enjoy life as it is with cancer or aim for 
increased life expectancy by undertaking treatment with the threat of morbidity 
however severe during that period? The volume of scientific evidence currently 
available to support all the issues in geriatric oncology is greatly limited; 
almost all treatments designed for oncology are being tested in randomized 
clinical trials preferentially using younger cohorts of patients. Changes need 
to be made in order to further this field of medicine. Geriatric oncology is no 
longer a palliative field, as a healthy active life can now be expected by some 
older patients. The burden of oncology in the elderly will need to take a modern 
approach regarding the management of these patients.

DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2012.243
PMCID: PMC3298408
PMID: 22423250


845. Am J Prev Med. 2012 Apr;42(4):374-81. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2012.01.003.

Alternative HbA1c cutoffs to identify high-risk adults for diabetes prevention: 
a cost-effectiveness perspective.

Zhuo X(1), Zhang P, Selvin E, Hoerger TJ, Ackermann RT, Li R, Bullard KM, Gregg 
EW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia 30341, USA. xzhuo@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: New recommendations about the use of hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) for 
diagnosing diabetes have stimulated a debate about the optimal HbA1c cutoff to 
identify prediabetes for preventive intervention.
PURPOSE: To assess the cost effectiveness associated with the alternative HbA1c 
cutoffs for identifying prediabetes.
METHODS: A Markov simulation model was used to examine the cost effectiveness 
associated with a progressive 0.1% decrease in the HbA1c cutoff from 6.4% to 
5.5%. The target population was the U.S. nondiabetic population aged ≥18 years. 
The simulation sample was created using the data of nondiabetic American adults 
from the National Health and Nutritional Examination Survey (NHANES 1999-2006). 
People identified as having prediabetes were assumed to receive a preventive 
intervention, with effectiveness the same as that in the Diabetes Prevention 
Program study under a high-cost intervention (HCI) scenario and in the Promoting 
a Lifestyle of Activity and Nutrition for Working to Alter the Risk of Diabetes 
study under a low-cost intervention (LCI) scenario. The analysis was conducted 
for a lifetime horizon from a healthcare system perspective.
RESULTS: Lowering the HbA1c cutoff would increase the health benefits of the 
preventive interventions at higher costs. For the HCI, lowering the HbA1c cutoff 
from 6.0% to 5.9% and from 5.9% to 5.8% would result in $27,000 and $34,000 per 
QALY gained, respectively. Continuing to decrease the cutoff from 5.8% to 5.7%, 
from 5.7% to 5.6%, and from 5.6% to 5.5% would cost $45,000, $58,000, and 
$96,000 per QALY gained, respectively. For the LCI, lowering the HbA1c cutoff 
from 6.0% to 5.9% and from 5.9% to 5.8% would result in $24,000 and $27,000 per 
QALY gained, respectively. Continuing to lower the cutoff from 5.8% to 5.7%, 
5.7% to 5.6%, and 5.6% to 5.5% would cost $34,000, $43,000 and $70,000 per QALY 
gained, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Lowering the HbA1c cutoff for prediabetes leads to less 
cost-effective preventive interventions. Assuming a conventional $50,000/QALY 
cost-effectiveness benchmark, the HbA1c cutoffs of 5.7% and higher were found to 
be cost effective. Lowering the cutoff from 5.7% to 5.6% also may be cost 
effective, however, if the costs of preventive interventions were to be lowered.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2012.01.003
PMID: 22424250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2012 Sep;7(5):399-407. doi: 
10.3109/17483107.2012.665976. Epub 2012 Mar 17.

Everyday life for users of electric wheelchairs - a qualitative interview study.

Blach Rossen C(1), Sørensen B, Würtz Jochumsen B, Wind G.

Author information:
(1)VIA University College, Århus, Denmark. 
Camilla.blach.rossen@psyk.regionsyddanmark.dk

PURPOSE: The aim of this paper is to explore how users of electric wheelchairs 
experience their everyday life and how their electric wheelchairs influence 
their daily occupation. Occupation is defined as a personalized dynamic 
interaction between person, task and environment, and implies the value and 
meaning attached.
METHOD: Nine semi-structured interviews were conducted with experienced electric 
wheelchair users. ValMo was used as the theoretical framework for both 
interviewing and the analysis. The transcribed interviews were analysed using 
thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Findings revealed key elements in electric wheelchair users' experience 
of how the use of a wheelchair influences everyday life and occupation. Four 
central themes emerged from the participants' experiences 1) The functionality 
of the wheelchair, 2) The wheelchair as an extension of the body, 3) The 
wheelchair and social life, and 4) The wheelchair and identity issues. The 
themes were interrelated and show how all levels of occupation were influenced 
both in a positive and negative way, and how it affected identity.
CONCLUSIONS: It is essential that professionals working with electric wheelchair 
users are aware of how all levels of occupation and identity are influenced by 
using a wheelchair. This will assist professionals in supporting the users 
living an autonomous and meaningful life.

DOI: 10.3109/17483107.2012.665976
PMID: 22424290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Biomed Environ Sci. 2012 Feb;25(1):69-76. doi:
10.3967/0895-3988.2012.01.010.

A qualitative exploration of the role of antiretroviral therapy on Chinese rural 
life.

Ming ZQ(1), Cheng F, Liu Q, Airawanwat R, Chen YH, Zhu QY, Liu W, Wang Y, Zhang 
KL.

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, Institute of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore factors influencing the quality of life of people living 
with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) and receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) in rural China.
METHODS: In-depth interviews with 20 PLHA were conducted in March 1999. 
Participants were recruited from the USAID-funded Longitudinal Enhanced 
Evaluation of ART Project, which tracks a cohort of eligible PLHA receiving 
treatment at five collaborating treatment centers in Guangxi Autonomous Region, 
China. An interview guide (semi-structured with open-ended questions) was 
developed to provide a qualitative examination of the quality of life of PLHA.
RESULTS: Participants identified that ART affects physical health, including the 
experience of pain, side effects, and opportunistic infections. ART imposes 
lifestyle constraints such as reduced mobility due to drug procurement, and 
social restrictions due to the daily drug regimen. Participants discussed the 
psychological burden of taking drugs, and the fear of accidental transmission to 
others, or having their disease status known by others, as well as optimistic 
feelings about their future due to ART. ART poses a significant drain on 
individual's economic resources due to related medical costs, and inability to 
seek seasonal migrant labor due to reduced mobility.
CONCLUSION: While China's national free ART program improved the physical health 
of those surveyed, their social and economic needs were left unaddressed. To 
improve life outcomes for PLHA, and by extension, the wider Chinese population, 
quality of life measures should be included when evaluating the success of the 
ART program.

Copyright Â© 2012 The Editorial Board of Biomedical and Environmental Sciences. 
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3967/0895-3988.2012.01.010
PMID: 22424629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Electrocardiol. 2012 Jul-Aug;45(4):376-384. doi: 
10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2012.02.003. Epub 2012 Mar 14.

Arrhythmia-related workup in hereditary myopathies.

Finsterer J(1), Stöllberger C(2), Keller H(2).

Author information:
(1)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria; Danube University Krems, 
Krems, Austria. Electronic address: fifigs1@yahoo.de.
(2)Second Medical Department, Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria.
