1999 and 2000.
MEASUREMENTS: Data were obtained from the Enhanced Feedback for Effective 
Cardiac Treatment EFFECT provincial quality improvement initiative. All patients 
were linked to administrative data, and tracked longitudinally until March 31, 
2010. Detailed clinical variables were obtained from medical chart abstraction, 
and death data were obtained from vital statistics. Average life-spans were 
calculated using Cox Proportion Hazards models in conjunction with the Declining 
Exponential Approximation of Life Expectancy (D.E.A.L.E) method to extrapolate 
life-expectancy, adjusting for age, gender, predicted 30-day mortality, left 
ventricular function and comorbidity, and was reported according to key 
prognostic risk-strata.
RESULTS: The average life-span of the cohort was 5.5 years (STD +/- 10.0) 
ranging from 19.5 years for low-risk women of less than 50 years old to 2.9 
years for high-risk octogenarian males. Average life-spans were lower by 0.13 
years among patients with impaired as compared with preserved left ventricular 
function, and by approximately one year among patients with three or more as 
compared with no concomitant comorbidities. In total, 17.4 % and 27 % of 
patients had died within 6 months and 1 year respectively, despite having 
predicted life-spans exceeding one-year.
LIMITATIONS: Data regarding changes in patient clinical status over time were 
unavailable.
CONCLUSIONS: The development of risk-adjusted life-tables for heart failure 
populations is feasible and mirrored those with advanced malignant diseases. 
Average life span varied widely across clinical risk strata, and may be less 
accurate among those at or near their end of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-012-2072-y
PMCID: PMC3515002
PMID: 22549300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. FASEB J. 2012 Aug;26(8):3563-74. doi: 10.1096/fj.12-207894. Epub 2012 May 1.

Maternal choline intake alters the epigenetic state of fetal cortisol-regulating 
genes in humans.

Jiang X(1), Yan J, West AA, Perry CA, Malysheva OV, Devapatla S, Pressman E, 
Vermeylen F, Caudill MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nutritional Sciences and Genomics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 
14853, USA.

The in utero availability of methyl donors, such as choline, may modify fetal 
epigenetic marks and lead to sustainable functional alterations throughout the 
life course. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis regulates cortisol 
production and is sensitive to perinatal epigenetic programming. As an extension 
of a 12-wk dose-response choline feeding study conducted in third-trimester 
pregnant women, we investigated the effect of maternal choline intake (930 vs. 
480 mg/d) on the epigenetic state of cortisol-regulating genes, and their 
expression, in placenta and cord venous blood. The higher maternal choline 
intake yielded higher placental promoter methylation of the cortisol-regulating 
genes, corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH; P=0.05) and glucocorticoid receptor 
(NR3C1; P=0.002); lower placental CRH transcript abundance (P=0.04); lower cord 
blood leukocyte promoter methylation of CRH (P=0.05) and NR3C1 (P=0.04); and 33% 
lower (P=0.07) cord plasma cortisol. In addition, placental global DNA 
methylation and dimethylated histone H3 at lysine 9 (H3K9me2) were higher 
(P=0.02) in the 930 mg choline/d group, as was the expression of select 
placental methyltransferases. These data collectively suggest that maternal 
choline intake in humans modulates the epigenetic state of genes that regulate 
fetal HPA axis reactivity as well as the epigenomic status of fetal derived 
tissues.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.12-207894
PMID: 22549509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Stroke. 2012 Jul;43(7):1781-7. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.112.650903. Epub 2012
May  1.

Carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic patients with limited life expectancy.

Wallaert JB(1), De Martino RR, Finlayson SR, Walsh DB, Corriere MA, Stone DH, 
Cronenwett JL, Goodney PP.

Author information:
(1)VA Outcomes Group, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, One Medical Center 
Drive, Lebanon NH 03765, USA. jessica.wallaert@hitchcock.org

Comment in
    Stroke. 2012 Jul;43(7):1742-3.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Data from randomized trials assert that asymptomatic 
patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA) must live 3 to 5 years to 
realize the benefit of surgery. We examined how commonly CEA is performed among 
asymptomatic patients with limited life expectancy.
METHODS: Within the American College of Surgeons National Quality Improvement 
Project we identified 8 conditions associated with limited life expectancy based 
on survival estimates using external sources. We then compared rates of 30-day 
stroke, death, and myocardial infarction after CEA between asymptomatic patients 
with and without life-limiting conditions.
RESULTS: Of 12,631 CEAs performed in asymptomatic patients, 2525 (20.0%) were in 
patients with life-limiting conditions or diagnoses. The most common conditions 
were severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and American Society of 
Anesthesiologists Class IV designation. Patients with life-limiting conditions 
had significantly higher rates of perioperative complications, including stroke 
(1.8% versus 0.9%, P<0.001), death (1.4% versus 0.3%, P<0.001), and stroke/death 
(2.9% versus 1.1%, P<0.001). Even after adjustment for other comorbidities, 
patients with life-limiting conditions were nearly 3 times more likely to 
experience perioperative stroke or death than those without these conditions 
(OR, 2.8; 95% CI, 2.1-3.8; P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: CEA is performed commonly in asymptomatic patients with 
life-limiting conditions. Given the high rates of postoperative stroke/death in 
these patients as well as their limited life expectancy, the net benefit of CEA 
in this population remains uncertain. Health policy research examining the role 
of CEA in asymptomatic patients with life-limiting conditions is necessary and 
may serve as a potential source for significant healthcare savings in the 
future.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.112.650903
PMCID: PMC3383867
PMID: 22550053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2012;(1):54-60.

[Type 1 diabetes mellitus, diabetic nephropathy: transplantology potential].

[Article in Russian]

Got'e SV.

The review covers the role of transplantology in treatment of patients with type 
1 diabetes and the state of its development in the world and in Russia. The 
results of major multicenter studies, devoted to the influence of simultaneous 
kidney and pancreas transplantation and kidney transplantation alone on life 
expectancy and quality of life of diabetic patients are summarized here. 
Experience in pancreas-kidney transplantation, gained in Academician VI. 
Shumakov Federal Research Center of Transplantology and Artificial Organs, is 
described, including surgical technical and postoperative treatment. Also we 
perform the results of research work, devoted to the influence of pancreas 
transplantation on dfferent homeostasis parameters, such as: oxidative stress 
parameters, homocysteine, receptor for advanced glycation endproduct (RAGE), and 
markers ofendocrine function of pancreas transplant.

PMID: 22550712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Adv Gerontol. 2011;24(4):563-9.

[Towards the estimation of survival curves parameters and geroprotectors 
classification].

[Article in Russian]

Myl'nikov SV.

The following parameters are proposed to estimate in survival curves analysis: 
Median Life Span, Hill slope, Expected Maximal Life Span. Those estimates enable 
to classify geroprotectors as weak, moderate and strong.

PMID: 22550863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2012 May 2;7:24. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-7-24.

Past, present and future of hemophilia: a narrative review.

Franchini M(1), Mannucci PM.

Author information:
(1)Immunohematology and Transfusion Center, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, University Hospital of Parma, Milan, Italy.

Over the past forty years the availability of coagulation factor replacement 
therapy has greatly contributed to the improved care of people with hemophilia. 
Following the blood-borne viral infections in the late 1970s and early 1980, 
caused by coagulation factor concentrates manufactured using non-virally 
inactivated pooled plasma, the need for safer treatment became crucial to the 
hemophilia community. The introduction of virus inactivated plasma-derived 
coagulation factors and then of recombinant products has revolutionized the care 
of these people. These therapeutic weapons have improved their quality of life 
and that of their families and permitted home treatment, i.e., factor 
replacement therapy at regular intervals in order to prevent both bleeding and 
the resultant joint damage (i.e. primary prophylaxis). Accordingly, a near 
normal lifestyle and life-expectancy have been achieved. The main current 
problem in hemophilia is the onset of alloantibodies inactivating the infused 
coagulation factor, even though immune tolerance regimens based on long-term 
daily injections of large dosages of coagulation factors are able to eradicate 
inhibitors in approximately two-thirds of affected patients. In addition 
availability of products that bypass the intrinsic coagulation defects have 
dramatically improved the management of this complication. The major challenges 
of current treatment regimens, such the short half life of hemophilia 
therapeutics with need for frequent intravenous injections, encourage the 
current efforts to produce coagulation factors with more prolonged 
bioavailability. Finally, intensive research is devoted to gene transfer 
therapy, the only way to ultimately obtain cure in hemophilia.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-7-24
PMCID: PMC3502605
PMID: 22551339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Contemp Nurse. 2011 Oct;39(2):163-71. doi: 10.5172/conu.2011.163.

The extension of Colaizzi's method of phenomenological enquiry.

Edward KL(1), Welch T.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Australian Catholic University, Fitzroy, VIC, 
Australia.

AIM: Originating from unfunded research undertaken in 2007, this paper offers an 
overview of Colaizzi's method of phenomenological analysis and proposes an 
extension to the original seven step approach enhancing rigour and, expanding 
information sources to enhance in-depth descriptions of phenomena for study.
BACKGROUND: The focus on human experience emanates from the human sciences in 
which the everyday lived world of humans constitutes the ontological and 
epistemological focus of enquiry - understanding of human experiences. Since the 
emergence of phenomenology as a method of enquiry, advances in phenomenological 
thought and research methods have emerged.
METHOD: Colaizzi's phenomenological method of enquiry was used as the basis of 
enquiry in this study.
FINDINGS: The extension to Colaizzi's method of analysis emanated from recent 
research conducted by the authors to allow participants to express their 
experiences through everyday language. These 'expressions of life' included - 
art, music, poetry, metaphor as symbolic representations - as a vehicle for 
participants' to explicate their experiences.
CONCLUSION: The additional step proposed as an extension to Colaizzi's seven 
step analysis offers researchers using Colaizzi's method greater access to 
implicit and explicit meanings embedded in participant descriptions by utilising 
'expressions of life' - art, music, poetry, metaphor as symbolic representations 
- as articulated by the participants in explicating their experience of the 
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.5172/conu.2011.163
PMID: 22551429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Health Syst Transit. 2011;13(8):1-193.

Poland health system review.

Sagan A(1), Panteli D, Borkowski W, Dmowski M, Domanski F, Czyzewski M, Gorynski 
P, Karpacka D, Kiersztyn E, Kowalska I, Ksiezak M, Kuszewski K, Lesniewska A, 
Lipska I, Maciag R, Madowicz J, Madra A, Marek M, Mokrzycka A, Poznanski D, 
Sobczak A, Sowada C, Swiderek M, Terka A, Trzeciak P, Wiktorzak K, Wlodarczyk C, 
Wojtyniak B, Wrzesniewska-Wal I, Zelwianska D, Busse R.

Author information:
(1)European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies.

Since the successful transition to a freely elected parliament and a market 
economy after 1989, Poland is now a stable democracy and is well represented 
within political and economic organizations in Europe and worldwide. The 
strongly centralized health system based on the Semashko model was replaced with 
a decentralized system of mandatory health insurance, complemented with 
financing from state and territorial self-government budgets. There is a clear 
separation of health care financing and provision: the National Health Fund 
(NFZ) the sole payer in the system is in charge of health care financing and 
contracts with public and non-public health care providers. The Ministry of 
Health is the key policy-maker and regulator in the system and is supported by a 
number of advisory bodies, some of them recently established. Health insurance 
contributions, borne entirely by employees, are collected by intermediary 
institutions and are pooled by the NFZ and distributed between the 16 regional 
NFZ branches. In 2009, Poland spent 7.4% of its gross domestic product (GDP) on 
health. Around 70% of health expenditure came from public sources and over 83.5% 
of this expenditure can be attributed to the (near) universal health insurance. 
The relatively high share of private expenditure is mostly represented by 
out-of-pocket (OOP) payments, mainly in the form of co-payments and informal 
payments. Voluntary health insurance (VHI) does not play an important role and 
is largely limited to medical subscription packages offered by employers. 
Compulsory health insurance covers 98% of the population and guarantees access 
to a broad range of health services. However, the limited financial resources of 
the NFZ mean that broad entitlements guaranteed on paper are not always 
available. Health care financing is overall at most proportional: while 
financing from health care contributions is proportional and budgetary subsidies 
to system funding are progressive, high OOP expenditures, particularly in areas 
such as pharmaceuticals, are highly regressive. The health status of the Polish 
population has improved substantially, with average life expectancy at birth 
reaching 80.2 years for women and 71.6 years for men in 2009. However, there is 
still a vast gap in life expectancy between Poland and the western European 
Union (EU) countries and between life expectancy overall and the expected number 
of years without illness or disability. Given its modest financial, human and 
material health care resources and the corresponding outcomes, the overall 
financial efficiency of the Polish system is satisfactory. Both allocative and 
technical efficiency leave room for improvement. Several measures, such as 
prioritizing primary care and adopting new payment mechanisms such as 
diagnosis-related groups (DRGs), have been introduced in recent years but need 
to be expanded to other areas and intensified. Additionally, numerous 
initiatives to enhance quality control and build the required expertise and 
evidence base for the system are also in place. These could improve general 
satisfaction with the system, which is not particularly high. Limited resources, 
a general aversion to cost-sharing stemming from a long experience with broad 
public coverage and shortages in health workforce need to be addressed before 
better outcomes can be achieved by the system. Increased cooperation between 
various bodies within the health and social care sectors would also contribute 
in this direction. The HiT profiles are country-based reports that provide a 
detailed description of a health system and of policy initiatives in progress or 
under development. HiTs examine different approaches to the organization, 
financing and delivery of health services, and the role of the main actors in 
health systems; they describe the institutional framework, process, content and 
implementation of health and health care policies; and highlight challenges and 
areas that require more in-depth analysis.

World Health Organization 2011, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22551527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 2012 Sep;41(5):399-408. doi: 
10.1016/j.jgyn.2012.03.002. Epub 2012 Apr 30.

[Laparoscopic surgery in the treatment of urogenital prolapse. Current status].

[Article in French]

Hamada H(1).

Author information:
(1)Maternité de l'hôpital El Idrissi, Kénitra, Morocco. Halima 
hamada@hotmail.com

Urogenital prolapse is an emerging problem because of the increasing life 
expectancy of populations. Nearly 42% of women between 15 and 97 years have a 
pelvic floor disorder (PFD). On the basis of Medline search, we present the main 
laparoscopical techniques to treat PFD: Burch, sacrocolpopexy, lateral 
suspension, uterosacral suspension, paravaginal repair, the benefits of 
laparoscopic surgery, its success rates and complications, and response to 
various questions that frequently arise about some techniques: should we perform 
a hysterectomy? Should we make a paravaginal repair? Should we treat 
prophylactically a stress urinary incontinence? What type of mesh should we use? 
What to prefer: staples or sutures? Is the posterior mesh necessary?

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgyn.2012.03.002
PMID: 22552102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. An Sist Sanit Navar. 2012 Jan-Apr;35(1):99-113. doi: 
10.4321/s1137-66272012000100009.

[Home care rehabilitation and physiotherapy in knee prosthesis].

[Article in Spanish]

López-Liria R(1), Vega-Ramírez F, Catalán-Matamoros D, Padilla Góngora D, 
Martínez-Cortés M, Mesa-Ruiz A.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de Almería, Almería, Spain. 
rll040@ual.es

This review analyzes the existing studies on home care rehabilitation and 
physiotherapy in patients with a knee prosthesis intervention, identifying and 
synthesising the results of the interventions measured in terms of muscular 
strength, function, extension of the joint, walking, patient's quality of life 
and cost of the service, compared with other alternative treatments. Nine 
databases have been analysed: IME, ENFISPO, CUIDEN PLUS, PUBMED, EMBASE, CINAHL, 
PEDro, COCHRANE library Plus and TRIP DATA BASE where 18 studies met the 
criteria for inclusion with information on 4,996 patients. Home care 
rehabilitation varies from one place to another and between studies (forms of 
care, application, duration, variable measures); but the idea is supported that 
this is as effective and acceptable as that received in an outpatients' 
department. It accelerates the attainment of functional achievements in the 
short and medium term, entailing very brief hospital stays and a reduction in 
costs.

DOI: 10.4321/s1137-66272012000100009
PMID: 22552131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jun;14(3):481-93. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0391-x.
Epub  2012 May 3.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of dronedarone versus other anti-arrhythmic drugs 
for the treatment of atrial fibrillation--results for Canada, Italy, Sweden and 
Switzerland.

Nilsson J(1), Åkerborg Ö, Bégo-Le Bagousse G, Rosenquist M, Lindgren P.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Stockholm, Sweden. Jonas.nilsson@optum.com

The ATHENA clinical trial enrolled 4,628 patients in 37 countries and evaluated 
the efficacy of dronedarone 400 mg twice daily versus placebo for the prevention 
of cardiovascular hospitalisation or death from any cause in patients with 
paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. The trial showed 
a statistically significant 24% reduction in the primary endpoint cardiovascular 
hospitalisations or all-cause death. In the current paper, parameters that drive 
the cost-effectiveness of dronedarone on top of standard therapy versus likely 
comparators, i.e. amiodarone, sotalol and flecainide, were investigated by means 
of a health economic model based on the ATHENA clinical trial. Dronedarone is 
cost-effective, and ICERs are low versus amiodarone with €5,340; €4,620; €3,850 
and €5,630 per QALY gained for Canada, Italy, Sweden and Switzerland, 
respectively. The most significant driving factor for the cost-effectiveness of 
dronedarone is the increased survival rate for patients on dronedarone.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0391-x
PMID: 22552487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2012 Aug;15(2):240-3. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivs115. Epub 2012 May 2.

Should we use mechanical valves in patients with end-stage renal disease?

Pai VB(1), Tai CK, Bhakri K, Kolvekar S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Heart Hospital , University College 
London Hospital, London, UK. vasudevpai@gmail.com

Comment in
    Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2012 Aug;15(2):243.

A best evidence topic in cardiac surgery was written according to a structured 
protocol. The question addressed was whether a mechanical or bioprosthetic valve 
is superior for immediate and long-term survival in patients with end-stage 
renal disease (ESRD) undergoing a valve replacement. Altogether more than 150 
papers were found using the reported search; of which, eight represented the 
best evidence to answer the clinical question. The authors, journal, date and 
country of publication, patient group studied, study type, relevant outcomes and 
results of these papers are tabulated. There were no randomized controlled 
trials addressing the question. There was one systematic review and 
meta-analysis. All the other evidence was in the form of retrospective studies. 
The papers show that there is no significant difference in the results and 
survival between patients receiving a mechanical and those receiving a 
bioprosthetic valve. This was seen in the meta-analysis as well as the larger 
series of patients who underwent valve replacement. Bleeding complications were 
more common with mechanical valves. We conclude that the choice of valve for 
patients with ESRD should be determined by age, level of activity and patient 
choice. Due to the limited life expectancy of these patients, bioprosthetic 
valves should be considered, especially since there is no evidence of early 
degeneration of tissue valves in this subgroup of patients.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivs115
PMCID: PMC3397730
PMID: 22552798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Screening for Cervical Cancer: A Decision Analysis for the U.S. Preventive 
Services Task Force [Internet].

Kulasingam SL(1), Havrilesky L(1), Ghebre R(1), Myers ER(1).

Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2011 May. 
Report No.: 11-05157-EF-1.
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic 
Evidence Reviews.

Author information:
(1)Duke Evidence-based Practice Center and Minnesota Evidence-based Practice 
Center

BACKGROUND: Despite recommendations from the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force 
(USPSTF) regarding the age at which to begin and end cervical cancer screening, 
as well as the interval at which to conduct screening, there is limited direct 
evidence beyond that inferred from epidemiologic and natural history studies to 
support these recommendations. In addition, concerns about the poor sensitivity 
(approximately 50 percent) of cytology-based screening have led to the 
development of new tests with potentially improved sensitivity for the detection 
of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grades 2 and 3. Although there is 
widespread use of these tests—including the Hybrid Capture 2 high-risk human 
papillomavirus (HPV) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) test—the USPSTF has, to date, 
not recommended their use due to a lack of definitive evidence regarding their 
performance in screening. The availability of new data, including data from 
randomized controlled trials, suggests a need to re-evaluate the previous 
recommendations. Simulation modeling can provide additional guidance on the 
risks, benefits, and resources associated with different screening test 
strategies, as well as the trade-offs involved in varying the age at which to 
begin and end screening.
PURPOSE: A decision model was used to address two specific aims: 1) How many 
colposcopies per life-year gained are associated with each of the different ages 
for beginning screening for cervical cancer (varying in 1 year increments from 
ages 15 to 25 years)? and 2) How many colposcopies per life-year gained are 
associated with cervical cancer screening strategies that use HPV DNA testing in 
conjunction with cytology, compared to strategies based on cytology only? In 
addition, as a sub-aim of Specific Aim 1, the age at which to end screening for 
cervical cancer in women who have previously been screened every 3 years prior 
to age 65 years or who have never been screened was also examined.
METHODS: The model used for the analysis (the Duke Cervical Cancer model) was 
developed as part of a previous evidence report prepared for the Agency for 
Healthcare Research and Quality. The model describes the natural history of HPV 
infection, including progression to CIN2-3 and cancer, as well as the impact of 
screening and treatment on the prevention of disease progression in a cohort of 
unvaccinated girls who are followed until either death or age 100 years. Test 
characteristics for the different screening tests are primarily based on a 
companion evidence report prepared by the Oregon Evidence-based Practice Center. 
For each question, outcomes presented include (per 1,000 women): false-positive 
test results, colposcopies performed, cases of CIN2-3, cases of cervical cancer, 
and cervical cancer deaths. The main outcome is colposcopies per (undiscounted) 
life-year. This outcome, which is not based on cost, was chosen by the USPSTF 
for the primary analysis as a metric that best represents a reasonable trade-off 
between the burden and benefits of screening. Strategies are compared using 
incremental ratios. Strategies that are associated with 1) more colposcopies but 
less effectiveness or 2) fewer colposcopies but higher incremental colposcopies 
per life-year than an adjacent strategy are considered to be dominated and are 
eliminated from consideration for this analysis. The remaining strategies (after 
this elimination process) lie on an “efficiency” frontier (although efficiency 
in this context is measured using colposcopies per life-year instead of cost per 
life-year) and, as such, may represent a reasonable trade-off between the burden 
and benefits of screening.
RESULTS: An analysis of the age at which to begin screening shows that screening 
with cytology in the teens is associated with a high number of false-positive 
test results and few detected cases of cancer. Analyses using the metric of 
colposcopies per life-year suggest that screening less frequently than annually 
beginning in the twenties might provide a reasonable trade-off between the 
burden and benefits of screening. However, since American Society for Colposcopy 
and Cervical Pathology guidelines recommend rescreening instead of immediate 
referral to colposcopy for women younger than age 21 years, colposcopies per 
life-year may underestimate the burden of screening in this age group. A 
sensitivity analysis that uses number of screening cytology tests instead of 
colposcopies as the metric of interest also identifies screening strategies that 
begin at later ages, including the USPSTF’s current recommended strategy of 
beginning screening no later than age 21 years, and conducted at least every 3 
years, as strategies that may better represent a reasonable trade-off between 
the burden and benefits of screening. In terms of the age at which to end 
screening, among women who have never been screened prior to age 65 years, 
strategies associated with screening every 2 to 5 years and ending in the 70s 
are identified as representing a reasonable trade-off between the burden and 
benefits of screening. Beyond this decade, the gains in life expectancy are 
small compared to the number of colposcopies performed. Among women who have 
been screened every 3 years prior to age 65 years, the incremental colposcopies 
per life-year gained associated with any further screening are high for all 
strategies due to the smaller gains in life expectancy. These findings are 
robust across a range of sensitivity analyses. Analyses comparing cytology with 
and without HPV testing show that identifying co-testing (cytology and HPV, with 
screening every 3 years assumed for women with HPV negative and cytology normal 
results) as an efficient strategy depends on how the burden of screening is 
quantified. If colposcopies per life-year is used as the outcome, co-testing 
strategies are identified as efficient. However, if screening and triage tests 
are used to quantify burden, cytology-only strategies are identified as more 
efficient than co-testing strategies. In sensitivity analyses, a strategy of HPV 
testing followed by cytology for high-risk HPV positive women, with referral to 
colposcopy if both tests are abnormal, is consistently identified as efficient, 
regardless of whether colposcopies or tests (screening and triage) are used to 
quantify burden.
CONCLUSIONS: This decision analysis supports current recommendations regarding 
the age at which to begin and end screening. A strategy of co-testing with 
cytology and HPV (and screening every 3 years for women with dually negative 
results) is identified as efficient compared to cytology if colposcopies are 
used to quantify burden. However, if tests are used to quantify burden, 
cytology-only strategies are identified as efficient compared to co-testing. A 
sensitivity analysis suggests that a strategy of HPV followed by cytology (for 
women with HPV positive test results) warrants further study.

PMID: 22553886


197. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Sep;56(3):753-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.077. Epub 2012
May  2.

Small skin incision and fistula elevation for hemodialysis using the femoral 
vein.

Alcocer F(1), Perez S, Martinez C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Hospital Central, Colonia Universitaria, San 
Luis Potosí, Mexico. alcocerfrancisco@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Wound morbidity commonly accompanies transposition of the femoral 
vein when used for hemodialysis access, mainly because of the length of the skin 
incision. A short incision may reduce wound complications but may compromise the 
arteriovenous (AV) function because of the shorter length of femoral vein 
available for puncture. This report presents our experience with a modification 
of the original technique, in which a smaller skin incision and fistula 
elevation were used.
METHODS: The clinical course of 25 AV fistulas in the thigh using the femoral 
vein was retrospectively analyzed. The original technique to create femoral AV 
access was used in 12 patients and the modified technique in 13. The procedures 
were performed between 2005 and 2007, and patients were monitored until January 
31, 2011.
RESULTS: Three fistulas failed in each group. Five patients in the original 
group had wound complications. No wound complications occurred in the modified 
group. The fistula was first used at an average of 10.45 weeks and 6.14 weeks, 
respectively. Patency was similar in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: It is possible to obtain a functional AV fistula in the thigh using 
the femoral vessels and limiting the extent of the incision. Long-term patency 
is reasonable, despite the use of a short femoral segment for puncture.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.077
PMID: 22554421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Sep;56(3):686-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.02.034. Epub
2012  May 2.

An integrated biochemical prediction model of all-cause mortality in patients 
undergoing lower extremity bypass surgery for advanced peripheral artery 
disease.

Owens CD(1), Kim JM, Hevelone ND, Gasper WJ, Belkin M, Creager MA, Conte MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, Calif 94148, USA. christopher.owens@ucsfmedctr.org

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced peripheral artery disease (PAD) have a high 
prevalence of cardiovascular (CV) risk factors and shortened life expectancy. 
However, CV risk factors poorly predict midterm (<5 years) mortality in this 
population. This study tested the hypothesis that baseline biochemical 
parameters would add clinically meaningful predictive information in patients 
undergoing lower extremity bypass operations.
METHODS: This was a prospective cohort study of patients with clinically 
advanced PAD undergoing lower extremity bypass surgery. The Cox proportional 
hazard model was used to assess the main outcome of all-cause mortality. A 
clinical model was constructed with known CV risk factors, and the incremental 
value of the addition of clinical chemistry, lipid assessment, and a panel of 11 
inflammatory parameters was investigated using the C statistic, the integrated 
discrimination improvement index, and Akaike information criterion.
RESULTS: The study monitored 225 patients for a median of 893 days 
(interquartile range, 539-1315 days). In this study, 50 patients (22.22%) died 
during the follow-up period. By life-table analysis (expressed as percent 
surviving ± standard error), survival at 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years, respectively, 
was 90.5% ± 1.9%, 83.4% ± 2.5%, 77.5% ± 3.1%, 71.0% ± 3.8%, and 65.3% ± 6.5%. 
Compared with survivors, decedents were older, diabetic, had extant coronary 
artery disease, and were more likely to present with critical limb ischemia as 
their indication for bypass surgery (P < .05). After adjustment for the above, 
clinical chemistry and inflammatory parameters significant (hazard ratio [95% 
confidence interval]) for all-cause mortality were albumin (0.43 [0.26-0.71]; P 
= .001), estimated glomerular filtration rate (0.98 [0.97-0.99]; P = .023), 
high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP; 3.21 [1.21-8.55]; P = .019), and 
soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule (1.74 [1.04-2.91]; P = .034). Of the 
inflammatory molecules investigated, hsCRP proved most robust and representative 
of the integrated inflammatory response. Albumin, eGFR, and hsCRP improved the C 
statistic and integrated discrimination improvement index beyond that of the 
clinical model and produced a final C statistic of 0.82.
CONCLUSIONS: A risk prediction model including traditional risk factors and 
parameters of inflammation, renal function, and nutrition had excellent 
discriminatory ability in predicting all-cause mortality in patients with 
clinically advanced PAD undergoing bypass surgery.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.02.034
PMCID: PMC3413780
PMID: 22554422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competition of interest: none


199. Surg Oncol. 2012 Sep;21(3):216-22. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2012.04.001. Epub
2012  May 2.

Skeletal metastases - the role of the orthopaedic and spinal surgeon.

Eastley N(1), Newey M, Ashford RU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Northampton General Hospital, Northampton General 
Hospital NHS Trust, Cliftonville, Northampton NN1 5BD, United Kingdom. 
neastley@doctors.org.uk

Developments in oncological and medical therapies mean that life expectancy of 
patients with metastatic bone disease (MBD) is often measured in years. 
Complications of MBD may dramatically and irreversibly affect patient quality of 
life, making the careful assessment and appropriate management of these patients 
essential. The roles of orthopaedic and spinal surgeons in MBD generally fall 
into one of four categories: diagnostic, the prophylactic fixation of metastatic 
deposits at risk of impending fracture (preventative surgery), the stabilisation 
or reconstruction of bones affected by pathological fractures (reactive 
surgery), or the decompression and stabilisation of the vertebral column, spinal 
cord, and nerve roots. Several key principals should be adhered to whenever 
operating on skeletal metastases. Discussions should be held early with an 
appropriate multi-disciplinary team prior to intervention. Detailed 
pre-assessment is essential to gauge a patient's suitability for surgery - 
recovery from elective surgery must be shorter than the anticipated survival. 
Staging and biopsies provide prognostic information. Primary bone tumours must 
be ruled out in the case of a solitary bone lesion to avoid inappropriate 
intervention. Prophylactic surgical fixation of a lesion prior to a pathological 
fracture reduces morbidity and length of hospital stay. Regardless of a lesion 
or pathological fracture's location, all regions of the affected bone must be 
addressed, to reduce the risk of subsequent fracture. Surgical implants should 
allow full weight bearing or return to function immediately. Post-operative 
radiotherapy should be utilised in all cases to minimise disease progression. 
Spinal surgery should be considered for those with spinal pain due to 
potentially reversible spinal instability or neurological compromise. The 
opinion of a spinal surgeon should be sought early, as delays in referral 
directly correlate to worse functional recovery following intervention. Patients 
who suffer a slowly progressive deficit, present within hours of complete 
neurological deficit, or have compression caused by bone alone are those most 
likely to benefit from surgery. Back pain in the presence of MBD should be 
regarded as impending spinal cord compression, and investigated urgently to 
allow intervention prior to the development of neurological compromise.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2012.04.001
PMID: 22554913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2012 Jul;207(1):53.e1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2012.04.007.  Epub 2012 Apr 5.

Effectiveness of timing strategies for delivery of monochorionic diamniotic 
twins.

Robinson BK(1), Miller RS, D'Alton ME, Grobman WA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. 
barrobin@iupui.edu

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare strategies for delivery 
timing of uncomplicated monochorionic diamniotic twin pregnancies.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision tree compared 9 strategies that included scheduled 
delivery between 32 and 38 weeks' gestation, with or without confirmation of 
fetal lung maturity. Outcomes in the model included fetal death, infant death, 
respiratory distress syndrome, mental retardation, and cerebral palsy.
RESULTS: A scheduled delivery at 38 weeks' gestation was the preferred strategy, 
which resulted in the highest quality adjusted life years under base-case 
assumptions. Decreased, but comparable, quality adjusted life years estimates 
resulted from scheduled deliveries at 36 and 37 weeks' gestation, with or 
without amniocentesis. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the optimal 
gestational age for delivery was always ≥36 weeks' gestation.
CONCLUSION: This decision analysis suggests that, for women with uncomplicated 
monochorionic twins, delivery between 36 and 38 weeks' gestation is the 
preferred strategy for timing of delivery.

Copyright © 2012 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2012.04.007
PMID: 22554921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Int J Surg Case Rep. 2012;3(7):316-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2012.04.002. Epub
 2012 Apr 9.

Incisional hernia of the urinary bladder following internal hemipelvectomy.

Arkoulis N(1), Savanis G, Simatos G, Zerbinis H, Nisiotis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Surgery, University of Edinburgh, 51 Little France Dr, 
EH16 4SA, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Hemipelvectomies are uncommon operations, usually performed for 
primary or metastatic malignant disease and less frequently for 
benign-aggressive tumours. There are very few reports in literature regarding 
complications of these procedures and even fewer reports about post 
hemipelvectomy hernias in particular.
PRESENTATION OF CASE: We present the only reported case of an incisional hernia 
of the urinary bladder following internal hemipelvectomy for aneurysmal bone 
cyst of the pubic bone. A careful literature review is also performed.
DISCUSSION: The development of the incisional hernia in the case of our patient 
can most likely be explained by the absence of advanced malignant disease of the 
pelvis that not only reduces the life expectancy but also overshadows other 
complications post hemipelvectomy. Furthermore, her young age and level of 
fitness allowed for a full postoperative rehabilitation which, combined with the 
proven anatomical changes of the internal organs following hemipelvectomies and 
the weakening of the tissues around the operative site, predisposed to the 
hernia formation.
CONCLUSION: Hemipelvectomies are extensive, anatomically disruptive operations, 
with significant detriment to the psychosomatic well being of the patients. We 
presented the only reported case of incisional hernia of the urinary bladder 
following internal hemipelvectomy and our reconstructive method of choice. We 
believe that, in the case of our patient, if a mesh had been used to reconstruct 
the primary defect during the initial surgery, this complication could have been 
prevented.

Copyright © 2012 Surgical Associates Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijscr.2012.04.002
PMCID: PMC3356531
PMID: 22554939


202. Gene. 2012 Jul 10;502(2):147-53. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2012.04.038. Epub 2012
Apr  24.

Construction of multiple recombinant SLA-I proteins by linking heavy chains and 
light chains in vitro and analyzing their secondary and 3-dimensional 
structures.

Gao FS(1), Bai J, Zhang Q, Xu CB, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Life Science and 
Technology, Dalian University, Dalian, Liaoning 116622, PR China. 
gfsh0626@126.com

Six breeds of swine were used to study the structure of swine leukocyte antigen 
class I (SLA-I). SLA-I complexes were produced by linking SLA-2 genes and β(2)m 
genes via a linker encoding a 15 amino acid glycine-rich sequence, (G4S)3, using 
splicing overlap extension (SOE)-PCR in vitro. The six recombinant 
SLA-2-linker-β(2)m genes were each inserted into p2X vectors and their 
expression induced in Escherichia coli TB1. The expressed proteins were detected 
by SDS-PAGE and western blotting. The maltose binding protein (MBP)-SLA-I fusion 
proteins were purified by amylose affinity chromatography followed by cleavage 
with factor Xa and separation of the SLA-I protein monomers from the MBP using a 
DEAE Ceramic Hyper D F column. The purified SLA-I monomers were detected by 
circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy and the 3-dimensional (3D) structure of the 
constructed single-chain SLA-I molecules were analyzed by homology modeling. 
Recombinant SLA-2-Linker-β(2)m was successfully amplified from all six breeds of 
swine by SOE-PCR and expressed as fusion proteins of 84.1 kDa in pMAL-p2X, 
followed by confirmation by western blotting. After purification and cleavage of 
the MBP-SLA-I fusion proteins, SLA-I monomeric proteins of 41.6 kDa were 
separated. CD spectroscopy demonstrated that the SLA-I monomers had an α-helical 
structure, and the average α-helix, β-sheet, turn and random coil contents were 
21.6%, 37.9%, 15.0% and 25.5%, respectively. Homology modeling of recombinant 
single-chain SLA-I molecules showed that the heavy chain and light chain 
constituted SLA-I complex with an open antigenic peptide-binding groove. It was 
concluded that the expressed SLA-I proteins in pMAL-p2X folded correctly and 
could be used to bind and screen nonameric peptides in vitro.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2012.04.038
PMID: 22555023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Br J Cancer. 2012 May 22;106(11):1854-9. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2012.182. Epub
2012  May 3.

Should relative survival be used with lung cancer data?

Hinchliffe SR(1), Rutherford MJ, Crowther MJ, Nelson CP, Lambert PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Centre for Biostatistics and Genetic 
Epidemiology, 2nd Floor Adrian Building, University Road, University of 
Leicester, Leicester LE1 7RH, UK. srh20@leicester.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Under certain assumptions, relative survival is a measure of net 
survival based on estimating the excess mortality in a study population when 
compared with the general population. Background mortality estimates are usually 
taken from national life tables that are broken down by age, sex and calendar 
year. A fundamental assumption of relative survival methods is that if a patient 
did not have the disease of interest then their probability of survival would be 
comparable to that of the general population. It is argued, as most lung cancer 
patients are smokers and therefore carry a higher risk of smoking-related 
mortalities, that they are not comparable to a population where the majority are 
likely to be non-smokers.
METHODS: We use data from the Finnish Cancer Registry to assess the impact that 
the non-comparability assumption has on the estimates of relative survival 
through the use of a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Under realistic estimates of increased all-cause mortality for smokers 
compared with non-smokers, the bias in the estimates of relative survival caused 
by the non-comparability assumption is negligible.
CONCLUSION: Although the assumption of comparability underlying the relative 
survival method may not be reasonable, it does not have a concerning impact on 
the estimates of relative survival, as most lung cancer patients die within the 
first 2 years following diagnosis. This should serve to reassure critics of the 
use of relative survival when applied to lung cancer data.

© 2012 Cancer Research UK

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2012.182
PMCID: PMC3364109
PMID: 22555396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


204. Qual Life Res. 2013 Apr;22(3):683-94. doi: 10.1007/s11136-012-0189-4. Epub
2012  May 4.

Mapping analyses to estimate EQ-5D utilities and responses based on Oxford Knee 
Score.

Dakin H(1), Gray A, Murray D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Health Economics Research Centre, University of 
Oxford, Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford, UK. helen.dakin@dph.ox.ac.uk

PURPOSE: The Oxford Knee Score (OKS) is a validated 12-item measure of knee 
replacement outcomes. An algorithm to estimate EQ-5D utilities from OKS would 
facilitate cost-utility analysis on studies analyses using OKS but not generic 
health state preference measures. We estimate mapping (or cross-walking) models 
that predict EQ-5D utilities and/or responses based on OKS. We also compare 
different model specifications and assess whether different datasets yield 
different mapping algorithms.
METHODS: Models were estimated using data from the Knee Arthroplasty Trial and 
the UK Patient Reported Outcome Measures dataset, giving a combined estimation 
dataset of 134,269 questionnaires from 81,213 knee replacement patients and an 
internal validation dataset of 45,213 questionnaires from 27,397 patients. The 
best model was externally validated on registry data (10,002 observations from 
4,505 patients) from the South West London Elective Orthopaedic Centre. Eight 
models of the relationship between OKS and EQ-5D were evaluated, including 
ordinary least squares, generalized linear models, two-part models, three-part 
models and response mapping.
RESULTS: A multinomial response mapping model using OKS responses to predict 
EQ-5D response levels had best prediction accuracy, with two-part and three-part 
models also performing well. In the external validation sample, this model had a 
mean squared error of 0.033 and a mean absolute error of 0.129. Relative model 
performance, coefficients and predictions differed slightly but significantly 
between the two estimation datasets.
CONCLUSIONS: The resulting response mapping algorithm can be used to predict 
EQ-5D utilities and responses from OKS responses. Response mapping appears to 
perform particularly well in large datasets.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-012-0189-4
PMCID: PMC3607737
PMID: 22555470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2012 Nov;33(10):1851-4. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A3076. Epub
 2012 May 3.

Strengthening the argument for rapid brain MR imaging: estimation of reduction 
in lifetime attributable risk of developing fatal cancer in children with 
shunted hydrocephalus by instituting a rapid brain MR imaging protocol in lieu 
of Head CT.

Koral K(1), Blackburn T, Bailey AA, Koral KM, Anderson J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, Texas 75235, USA. korgun.koral@utsouthwestern.edu

Comment in
    AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2021 Jun;42(6):E35.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Children with shunted hydrocephalus have been undergoing 
surveillance neuroimaging, generally in the form of head CT, for evaluation of 
ventricular size. As the life expectancy of these children has improved due to 
better shunt technology and medical care, risks related to the ionizing 
radiation incurred during multiple head CT examinations that they are expected 
to undergo throughout their lifetime have become a concern. The purpose of this 
study is to estimate the LAR of developing fatal cancer due to head CT for 
ventricular size assessment in children with shunted hydrocephalus and to assess 
the impact of instituting a rapid brain MR imaging protocol in reducing 
radiation exposure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective review of medical records yielded 182 
patients who underwent neuroimaging for assessment of ventricular size. 
Available neuroimaging studies (head CT and rapid brain MR) were counted and 
annual neuroimaging frequency was calculated. It was assumed that these patients 
undergo a similar number of neuroimaging studies annually through 20 years of 
age. A risk estimate was calculated based on the BEIR VII report and effective 
doses obtained using the International Commission on Radiologic Protection 
Report 103 organ weighting factors.
RESULTS: The mean annual neuroimaging study frequency was 2.1. Based on the 
average age of 1.89 years, it was assumed neuroimaging surveillance commences in 
the second year of life. LAR was calculated assuming that a patient undergoes 
neuroimaging in the form of head CT at this frequency (2/year) through 20 years 
of age. Assuming 2 scans are performed per year and the low-dose head CT 
protocol is used, approximately 1 excess lifetime fatal cancer would be 
generated per 230 patients; with standard head CT, there would be 1 excess 
lifetime fatal cancer per 97 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Children with shunted hydrocephalus are at increased risk of 
developing fatal cancer if they are to undergo surveillance using head CT. 
Implementation of a rapid brain MR imaging protocol with no radiation detriment 
will reduce this risk.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A3076
PMCID: PMC7964620
PMID: 22555583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Demography. 2012 Aug;49(3):819-40. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0104-1.

The significance of education for mortality compression in the United States.

Brown DC(1), Hayward MD, Montez JK, Hummer RA, Chiu CT, Hidajat MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Texas, Austin, TX 78712-1699, USA. 
dbrown@prc.utexas.edu

Recent studies of old-age mortality trends assess whether longevity improvements 
over time are linked to increasing compression of mortality at advanced ages. 
The historical backdrop of these studies is the long-term improvement in a 
population's socioeconomic resources that fueled longevity gains. We extend this 
line of inquiry by examining whether socioeconomic differences in longevity 
within a population are accompanied by old-age mortality compression. 
Specifically, we document educational differences in longevity and mortality 
compression for older men and women in the United States. Drawing on the 
fundamental cause of disease framework, we hypothesize that both longevity and 
compression increase with higher levels of education and that women with the 
highest levels of education will exhibit the greatest degree of longevity and 
compression. Results based on the Health and Retirement Study and the National 
Health Interview Survey Linked Mortality File confirm a strong educational 
gradient in both longevity and mortality compression. We also find that 
mortality is more compressed within educational groups among women than men. The 
results suggest that educational attainment in the United States maximizes life 
chances by delaying the biological aging process.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0104-1
PMCID: PMC3500099
PMID: 22556045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2012 Jul;21(7):1066-77. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-12-0149. Epub 2012 May 3.

A simulation model to predict the impact of prophylactic surgery and screening 
on the life expectancy of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers.

Sigal BM(1), Munoz DF, Kurian AW, Plevritis SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.

BACKGROUND: Women with inherited mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 (BRCA1/2) genes 
are recommended to undergo a number of intensive cancer risk-reducing 
strategies, including prophylactic mastectomy, prophylactic oophorectomy, and 
screening. We estimate the impact of different risk-reducing options at various 
