

873. Value Health. 2012 Mar-Apr;15(2):323-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.09.006.
Epub  2011 Nov 17.

Improving the measurement of QALYs in dementia: developing patient- and 
carer-reported health state classification systems using Rasch analysis.

Mulhern B(1), Smith SC, Rowen D, Brazier JE, Knapp M, Lamping DL, Loftus V, 
Young TA, Howard RJ, Banerjee S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

Comment in
    Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):785-7; author reply 787-8.

OBJECTIVES: Cost-utility analysis is increasingly used to inform resource 
allocation. This requires a means of valuing health states before and after 
intervention. Although generic measures are typically used to generate values, 
these do not perform well with people with dementia. We report the development 
of a health state classification system amenable to valuation for use in studies 
of dementia, derived from the DEMQOL system, measure of health-related quality 
of life in dementia by patient self-report (DEMQOL) and carer proxy-report 
(DEMQOL-Proxy).
METHODS: Factor analysis was used to determine the dimensional structure of 
DEMQOL and DEMQOL-Proxy. Rasch analysis was subsequently used to investigate 
item performance across factors in terms of item-level ordering, functioning 
across subgroups, model fit, and severity-range coverage. This enabled the 
selection of one item from each factor for the classification system. A sample 
of people with a diagnosis of mild/moderate dementia (n = 644) and a sample of 
carers of those with mild/moderate dementia (n = 683) were used.
RESULTS: Factor analysis found different five-factor solutions for DEMQOL and 
DEMQOL-Proxy. Following item reduction and selection by using Rasch analysis, a 
five-dimension classification for DEMQOL and a four-dimension classification for 
DEMQOL-Proxy were developed. Each item contained four health state levels.
CONCLUSION: Combining Rasch and classical psychometric analysis is a valid 
method of selecting items for dementia health state classifications from both 
the patient and carer perspectives. The next stage is to obtain preference 
weights so that the measure can be used in the economic evaluation of treatment, 
care, and support arrangements for dementia.

Copyright Â© 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.09.006
PMID: 22433764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Value Health. 2012 Mar-Apr;15(2):334-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.09.010.
Epub  2012 Jan 5.

Quality-adjusted life expectancies in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis--comparison of index scores from EQ-5D, 15D, and SF-6D.

Sørensen J(1), Linde L, Ostergaard M, Hetland ML.

Author information:
(1)Center for Applied Health Services Research and Technology Assessment, 
University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. jas@cast.sdu.dk

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to compare quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) for patients with rheumatoid arthritis generated from three 
generic health-related quality-of-life instruments.
METHODS: Patients from 11 Danish rheumatology outpatient clinics were asked to 
report current health status using the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire 
(EQ-5D), 15D, and six-dimensional health state short form (derived from SF-12) 
(SF-6D) instruments. Clinical staff provided data on current disease status 
(C-reactive protein and Disease Activity Score that involves clinical assessment 
of 28 joints). National mortality data were retrieved from Statistics Denmark. 
For each of the three instruments, mean index scores were estimated by gender 
and 5-year age groups. Partial QALE was estimated for the age interval 30 to 79 
years for different subsamples.
RESULTS: Although the three quality-of-life index scores were highly correlated, 
there were statistically significant differences between the average index 
scores from the three instruments. The 15D provided the highest index score and 
SF-6D the lowest score. For a 30-year-old patient, the partial QALE ranged from 
37.9 quality-adjusted life-years using the SF-6D to 45.6 quality-adjusted 
life-years using the 15D. The QALE for men and women differed by 6.2%, 4.0%, and 
5.3% when the calculation was based on EQ-5D, SF-6D, and 15D index scores, 
respectively. The largest differences were observed when patients were grouped 
by functional status (Health Assessment Questionnaire score), where the EQ-5D 
showed a 50% difference in index score between the best and worst functional 
group while the SF-6D and 15D showed smaller differences (32% and 14%, 
respectively).
DISCUSSION: This analysis has shown the difference in QALE estimates related to 
different instruments. The study emphasizes that unless outcome studies use the 
same instruments and scoring algorithms, the results will not be directly 
comparable.

Copyright Â© 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.09.010
PMID: 22433765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Value Health. 2012 Mar-Apr;15(2):346-56. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.10.016.
Epub  2012 Jan 27.

Estimating preference-based single index measures for dementia using DEMQOL and 
DEMQOL-Proxy.

Rowen D(1), Mulhern B, Banerjee S, Hout Bv, Young TA, Knapp M, Smith SC, Lamping 
DL, Brazier JE.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Although condition-specific measures are commonly used in dementia, 
they cannot be used in analyses of cost per quality-adjusted life-year because 
they do not incorporate preferences. We addressed this gap by estimating two 
preference-based single index measures: the DEMQOL-U from the self-report DEMQOL 
(mild-to-moderate dementia severity) and the DEMQOL-Proxy-U from the 
carer-report DEMQOL-Proxy (all levels of dementia severity).
METHODS: We conducted valuation studies on 593 members of the general population 
(306 for the DEMQOL-U, 287 for the DEMQOL-Proxy-U) using the time trade-off 
elicitation technique. We then fitted a range of mean and individual-level 
multivariate regression models to the valuation data to derive preference 
weights for each measure. We applied the estimated weights to a large, 
clinically representative sample.
RESULTS: Mean observed time trade-off values ranged from 0.18 to 0.95 for 
DEMQOL-U and from 0.33 to 0.96 for DEMQOL-Proxy-U. The best performing models 
for each measure were main effects models estimated using individual-level data. 
DEMQOL-Proxy-U had inconsistent but insignificant coefficient estimates for one 
dimension. Models were estimated to remove these inconsistencies.
CONCLUSION: Preference-based single index measures from DEMQOL and DEMQOL-Proxy 
for use in economic evaluation will enable economic evaluation using 
quality-adjusted life-years to be undertaken for people across the full range of 
dementia severity. Future research will examine how the utilities from each 
measure can be used and combined to populate cost-effectiveness models.

Copyright Â© 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.10.016
PMID: 22433767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Value Health. 2012 Mar-Apr;15(2):357-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.10.015.
Epub  2012 Jan 30.

Informing shared decisions about advance directives for patients with severe 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a modeling approach.

Hajizadeh N(1), Crothers K, Braithwaite RS.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, New York University, New York, NY 
10010, USA. negin.hajizadeh@nyumc.org

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the survival and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of 
Full Code versus Do Not Intubate (DNI) advance directives in patients with 
severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and to evaluate how patient 
preferences and place of residence influence these outcomes.
METHODS: A Markov decision model using published data for COPD exacerbation 
outcomes. The advance directives that were modeled were as follows: DNI, 
allowing only noninvasive mechanical ventilation, or Full Code, allowing all 
forms of mechanical ventilation including invasive mechanical ventilation with 
endotracheal tube (ETT) insertion.
RESULTS: In community-dwellers, Full Code resulted in a greater likelihood of 
survival and higher QALYs (4-year survival: 23% Full Code, 18% DNI; QALYs: 1.34 
Full Code, 1.24 DNI). When considering patient preferences regarding 
complications, however, if patients were willing to give up >3 months of life 
expectancy to avoid ETT complications, or >1 month of life expectancy to avoid 
long-term institutionalization, DNI resulted in higher QALYs. For patients in 
long-term institutions, DNI resulted in a greater likelihood of survival and 
higher QALYs (4-year survival: 2% DNI, 1% Full Code; QALYs: 0.29 DNI, 0.24 Full 
Code). In sensitivity analyses, the model was sensitive to the probabilities of 
ETT complication and noninvasive mechanical ventilation failure and to patient 
preferences about ETT complications and long-term institutionalization.
CONCLUSION: Our model demonstrates that patient preferences regarding ETT 
complications and long-term institutionalization, as well as baseline place of 
residence, affect the advance directive recommendation when considered in terms 
of both survival and QALYs. Decision modeling can demonstrate the potential 
trade-off between survival and quality of life, using patient preferences and 
disease-specific data, to inform the shared advance directive decision.

Copyright Â© 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.10.015
PMID: 22433768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Trop Biomed. 2011 Dec;28(3):524-30.

Life table of Synthesiomyia nudiseta (Van der Wulp) (Diptera: Muscidae) under 
uncontrolled laboratory environments - a preliminary study.

Aruna Devi A(1), Abu Hassan A, Kumara TK, Che Salmah MR.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Science, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 Minden, 
Penang, Malaysia.

The life history of the male and female of the indoor forensic fly, 
Synthesiomyia nudiseta was studied under fluctuating temperature of indoor 
environments and analysed based on the age-stage and two sex life table. The 
life cycle of S. nudiseta was 14.0±1.0 days from the egg stage to adult 
emergence. The population parameters calculated were; net reproduction rate 
(R(o)= 108.6), mean generation time (T(o)= 12.2), intrinsic rate of increase 
(r(m)= 0.38), and finite rate of increase (λ= 1.46). The pre-oviposition period 
(APOP) was 6.0± 0.1 days. All population parameters suggested that S. nudiseta 
exhibits the r-strategist characteristics.

PMID: 22433881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Support Care Cancer. 2012 Dec;20(12):3115-22. doi:
10.1007/s00520-012-1441-8.  Epub 2012 Mar 21.

Oral health is an important issue in end-of-life cancer care.

Wilberg P(1), Hjermstad MJ, Ottesen S, Herlofson BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery and Oral Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry, 
University of Oslo, PO Box 1109, Blindern, 0317, Oslo, Norway.

Comment in
    Support Care Cancer. 2014 Feb;22(2):293-4.

PURPOSE: This study aims to assess the prevalence of oral morbidity in patients 
receiving palliative care for cancers outside the head and neck region and to 
investigate if information concerning oral problems was given.
METHODS: Patients were recruited from two Norwegian palliative care inpatient 
units. All patients went through a face-to-face interview, completed the 
Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) covering 10 frequent cancer-related 
symptoms, and went through an oral examination including a mouth swab to test 
for Candida carriage.
RESULTS: Ninety-nine of 126 patients (79 %) agreed to participate. The examined 
patients had a mean age of 64 years (range, 36-90 years) and 47 % were male. 
Median Karnofsky score was 40 (range, 20-80) and 87 % had metastatic disease. 
Estimated life expectancy was <3 months in 73 %. Dry mouth was reported by 78 %. 
The highest mean scores on the modified 0-10 ESAS scale were 4.9 (fatigue), 4.7 
(dry mouth), and 4.4 (poor appetite). Clinical oral candidiasis was seen in 34 % 
(86 % positive cultures). Mouth pain was reported by 67 % and problems with food 
intake were reported by 56 %. Moderate or rich amounts of dental plaque were 
seen in 24 %, and mean number of teeth with visible carious lesions was 1.9. One 
patient was diagnosed with bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw. 
Overall, 78 % said they had received no information about oral adverse effects 
of cancer treatment.
CONCLUSION: Patients in palliative care units need better mouth care. Increased 
awareness among staff about the presence and severity of oral problems is 
necessary. Systematic information about oral problems is important in all stages 
of cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-012-1441-8
PMID: 22434497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Rocz Panstw Zakl Hig. 2011;62(4):433-8.

[Assessment of sociodemographic and nutritional status of lung cancer patients].

[Article in Polish]

Zabłocka K(1), Krawczyszyn M, Pieczyńska J, Prescha A, Ilow R, Porebska I, 
Gołecki M, Kosacka M, Jankowska R, Grajeta H, Biernat J.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Zakład Bromatologii i Dietetyki, Akademia Medyczna, Wrocław. 
kasiazablocka@o2.pl

Low sociodemographic status positively correlates with the risk of lung cancer. 
Nutritional status assessed during diagnosis of cancer may be a useful 
predictive factor for response to therapy and influences the quality of life and 
life expectancy after oncological therapy. The aim of this study was to assess 
the sociodemographic and nutritional status of patients. Lower Silesian Centre 
of Lung Diseases, diagnosed with lung cancer. 81 cases and 125 subjects formed 
the control group were included in this study. The questionnaire about 
sociodemographic status was performed among all respondents as well as MNA 
questionnaire and anthropometric measurements for evaluating nutritional status. 
Lower level of education, lower employment status and more frequent tobacco 
addiction was found in patient group then in control individuals. Nutritional 
status of patients was worse than the control group, which has been demonstrated 
mainly through a MNA questionnaire and arm circumference measurements. The risk 
of malnutrition or diagnosed malnutrition found in most patients assessed by MNA 
test may increase the likelihood of complications during treatment.

PMID: 22435300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Med Econ. 2012;15(5):997-1018. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.672942. Epub
2012  Mar 21.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of palivizumab among pre-term infant populations 
covered by Medicaid in the United States.

Weiner LB(1), Masaquel AS, Polak MJ, Mahadevia PJ.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York, Upstate Medical University, Department of 
Pediatrics, Syracuse, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Medicaid infants are at high risk of severe respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) disease. The study objective was to estimate the cost-effectiveness 
of palivizumab in a Medicaid population.
METHODS: A societal cost-utility analysis was conducted of prophylaxis with 
palivizumab vs no prophylaxis among four groups of premature infants: (1) <32 
weeks gestational age (wGA) and ≤ 6 months chronologic age (CA); (2) 32-34 wGA, 
≤ 3 months CA with 2009 American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) risk factors (RF); 
(3) 32-35 wGA, ≤ 6 months CA with 2006 AAP RF; and (4) 32-35 wGA, ≤ 6 months CA 
with ≤ 1 RF. Full dosing of palivizumab was assumed throughout the RSV season 
(consistent with the FDA-approved label). All costs were in 2010 US dollars. The 
societal public payer spend for palivizumab was estimated using Medicaid 
reimbursement methodologies for the top 10 palivizumab-using states in 2010 
minus mandatory manufacturer rebates. This study reports the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) in cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained. Sensitivity and probabilistic analyses were also conducted.
RESULTS: Palivizumab saved costs and improved QALYs among infants <32 wGA. 
Palivizumab was cost-effective in infants 32-34 wGA with 2009 AAP RF ($16,037 
per QALY) and in infants 32-35 wGA with 2006 AAP RF ($38,244 per QALY). The ICER 
for infants 32-35 wGA with ≤ 1 RF was $281,892 per QALY. Influential variables 
in the sensitivity analysis included the background rate of RSV hospitalization, 
the cost of palivizumab, and the efficacy of palivizumab.
KEY LIMITATIONS: These results are not generalizable to commercially insured 
infants or infants outside of the US.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first cost-utility analysis of palivizumab in a 
Medicaid population. Palivizumab, when dosed consistent with the FDA-approved 
labeling, was either cost-saving or cost-effective among current 
guideline-eligible infants in the Medicaid population. Palivizumab did not 
demonstrate cost-effectiveness in 32-35 wGA infants with ≤ 1 RF.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.672942
PMID: 22435648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Am J Manag Care. 2012 Mar 1;18(3):e91-e100.

Optimal approach to improving trauma triage decisions: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Mohan D(1), Barnato AE, Rosengart MR, Angus DC, Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)The CRISMA Laboratory, Critical Care Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. mohand@upmc.edu

OBJECTIVES: To identify the optimal target of a future intervention to improve 
physician decision making in trauma triage.
STUDY DESIGN: Comparison of incremental costeffectiveness ratios (ICERs) of 
current practice with hypothetical interventions targeting either physicians' 
decisional thresholds (attitudes toward transferring patients to trauma centers) 
or perceptual sensitivity (ability to identify patients who meet transfer 
guidelines).
METHODS: Taking the societal perspective, we constructed a Markov decision 
model, drawing estimates of triage patterns, mortality, utilities, and costs 
from the literature. We assumed that an intervention to change the decisional 
threshold would reduce undertriage but also increase overtriage more than an 
intervention to change perceptual sensitivity. We performed a series of 1-way 
sensitivity analyses and studied the most influential variables in a Monte Carlo 
simulation.
RESULTS: The ICER of an intervention to change perceptual sensitivity was 
$62,799 per qualityadjusted life-year (QALY) gained compared with current 
practice. The ICER of an intervention to change the decisional threshold was 
$104,975/ QALY gained compared with an intervention to change perceptual 
sensitivity. These findings were most sensitive to the relative cost of 
hospitalizing patients with moderate to severe injuries and their relative risk 
of dying at non-trauma centers. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000/QALY gained, there was a 62% likelihood 
that an intervention to change perceptual sensitivity was the most 
cost-effective alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: Even a minor investment in changing decision making in trauma 
triage could greatly improve quality of care. The optimal intervention depends 
on the characteristics of the individual trauma systems.

PMCID: PMC3595173
PMID: 22435966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2012 Oct 1;125(3):260-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.02.021. Epub 2012 Mar 20.

Cost-effectiveness of integrating methadone maintenance and antiretroviral 
treatment for HIV-positive drug users in Vietnam's injection-driven HIV 
epidemics.

Tran BX(1), Ohinmaa A, Duong AT, Nguyen LT, Vu PX, Mills S, Houston S, Jacobs P.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Alberta, Canada. bach.tran@ualberta.ca

Drug use negatively affects adherence to and outcomes of antiretroviral 
treatment (ART). This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of integrating 
methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) with ART for HIV-positive drug users (DUs) 
in Vietnam. A decision analytical model was developed to compare the costs and 
consequences of 3 HIV/AIDS treatment strategies for DUs: (1) only ART, (2) 
providing ART and MMT in separated sites (ART-MMT), and (3) integrating ART and 
MMT with direct administration (DAART-MMT). The model was parameterized using 
empirical data of costs and outcomes extracted from the MMT and ART cohort 
studies in Vietnam, and international published sources. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was conducted to examine the model's robustness. The 
base-case analysis showed that the cost-effectiveness ratio of ART, DAART-MMT, 
and ART-MMT strategies was USD 1358.9, 1118.0 and 1327.1 per 1 Quality-Adjusted 
Life Year (QALY), equivalent to 1.22, 1.00, and 1.19 times Gross Domestic 
Product per capita (GDPpc). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
DAART-MMT and ART-MMT versus ART strategy was 569.4 and 1227.8, approximately 
0.51 and 1.10 times GDPpc/QALY. At the willingness to pay threshold of 3 times 
GDPpc, the probability of being cost-effective of DAART-MMT versus ART was 
86.1%. These findings indicated that providing MMT along with ART for 
HIV-positive DUs is a cost-effective intervention in Vietnam. Integrating MMT 
and ART services could facilitate the use of directly observed therapy that 
supports treatment adherence and brings about clinically important improvements 
in health outcomes. This approach is also incrementally cost-effective in this 
large injection-driven HIV epidemic.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.02.021
PMID: 22436971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Radiology. 2012 Apr;263(1):306-7; author reply 307. doi: 
10.1148/radiol.12112256.

The older, the better.

Milne EN.

Comment on
    Radiology. 2011 Oct;261(1):193-8.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.12112256
PMID: 22438453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Asian Spine J. 2012 Mar;6(1):71-87. doi: 10.4184/asj.2012.6.1.71. Epub 2012
Mar  9.

Metastatic spinal tumor.

Lee CS(1), Jung CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Spine Center, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

In accordance with extending survival periods of cancer patients, number of 
consecutively developing metastatic spinal tumor is also increasing. There have 
been improvements in the treatment results of metastatic spine tumor by virtue 
of the developments in diagnostic radiology, chemotherapy, adjuvant treatment, 
operative device and technique, discrete preoperative plan, and standardized 
operation. Accordingly, surgical indication has also increased. Clinically, in 
case of metastatic spine tumor, treatment of tumor itself should be focused on 
pain relief, preservation of neurologic function, prevention of pathologic 
fracture, prevention of pathologic fracture, and correction of spinal 
instability for improving quality of life, rather than for extension of 
survival. Additionally, etiology of spinal tumor, correct diagnosis and 
subsequent treatment principles should be thoroughly understood before 
establishing treatment plans for effective treatments.

DOI: 10.4184/asj.2012.6.1.71
PMCID: PMC3302920
PMID: 22439092


885. Med Health R I. 2012 Jan;95(1):14-5.

Case of malignant priapism and review of the literature.

Ahmed H(1), Elsamra S, Sigman M.

Author information:
(1)UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School, USA.

Malignant priapism, or priapism secondary to locally invasive or metastatic 
cancer, is a rarely reported phenomenon with a very poor prognosis. We report on 
a case of malignant priapism secondary to metastasis of urothelial carcinoma of 
the bladder in a 73 year old gentleman who underwent a radical cystectomy with 
negative margins but positive nodal disease three months prior to presentation. 
The rapid progression of disease and resultant demise of this patient is unusual 
even when compared to the limited available literature. Rapid progression to 
muscle invasion despite intravesical immunotherapy, histologic involvement of 
the prostate and seminal vesicles with extensive lymphovascular invasion, and 
the rapid development of metastasis are all consistent with the aggressive 
nature of a cancer that has metastasized to the penis. Further, while 
conservative penile sparing therapy may be a goal in patients with limited life 
expectancy, ongoing pain and infectious concerns may force the physician to 
resort to a penectomy.

PMID: 22439456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2012 May 1;10(3):145-62. doi: 
10.2165/11599250-000000000-00000.

Economic evaluations of adult weight management interventions: a systematic 
literature review focusing on methods used for determining health impacts.

Griffiths UK(1), Anigbogu B, Nanchahal K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Development, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, UK. ulla.griffiths@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: One of the challenges when undertaking economic evaluations of 
weight management interventions is to adequately assess future health impacts. 
Clinical trials commonly measure impacts using surrogate outcomes, such as 
reductions in body mass index, and investigators need to decide how these can 
best be used to predict future health effects. Since obesity is associated with 
an increased risk of numerous chronic diseases occurring at different future 
time points, modelling is needed for predictions.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the methods used in economic evaluations to determine 
health impacts of weight management interventions and to investigate whether 
differences in methods affect the cost-effectiveness estimates.
METHODS: Eight databases were systematically searched. Included studies were 
categorized according to a decision analytic approach and effect measures 
incorporated.
RESULTS: A total of 44 articles were included; 21 evaluated behavioural 
interventions, 12 evaluated surgical procedures and 11 evaluated pharmacological 
compounds. Of the 27 papers that estimated future impacts, eleven used Markov 
modelling, seven used a decision tree, five used a mathematical application, two 
used patient-level simulation and the modelling method was unclear in two 
papers. The most common types of effects included were co-morbidity treatment 
costs, heath-related quality of life due to weight loss and gain in survival. 
Only 12 of the studies included heath-related quality of life gains due to 
reduced co-morbidities and only one study included productivity gains. Despite 
consensus that trial-based analysis on its own is inadequate in guiding resource 
allocation decisions, it was used in 39% of the studies. Several of the 
modelling papers used model structures not suitable for chronic diseases with 
changing health risks. Three studies concluded that the intervention dominated 
standard care; meaning that it generated more quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) for less cost. The incremental costs per QALY gained varied from $US235 
to $US56,836 in the remaining studies using this outcome measure. An implicit 
hypothesis of the review was that studies including long-term health effects 
would illustrate greater cost effectiveness compared with trial-based studies. 
This hypothesis is partly confirmed with three studies arriving at dominating 
results, as these reach their conclusion from modelling future co-morbidity 
treatment cost savings. However, for the remaining studies there is little 
indication that decision-analytic modelling disparities explain the differences.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first literature review comparing methods used in 
economic evaluations of weight management interventions, and it is the first 
time that observed differences in study results are addressed with a view to 
methodological explanations. We conclude that many studies have methodological 
deficiencies and we urge analysts to follow recommended practices and use models 
capable of depicting long-term health consequences.

DOI: 10.2165/11599250-000000000-00000
PMID: 22439628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Agric Food Chem. 2012 Apr 11;60(14):3745-53. doi: 10.1021/jf300965b. Epub
2012  Apr 3.

Effect of germination temperatures on proteolysis of the gluten-free grains 
sorghum and millet during malting and mashing.

Chiba Y(1), Bryce JH, Goodfellow V, MacKinlay J, Agu RC, Brosnan JM, Bringhurst 
TA, Harrison B.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Brewing and Distilling, School of Life Sciences, 
Heriot-Watt University, Riccarton, Edinburgh, Scotland.

Our study showed that sorghum and millet followed a similar pattern of changes 
when they were malted under similar conditions. When the malt from these cereals 
was mashed, both cereal types produced wide spectra of substrates (sugars and 
amino acids) that are required for yeast fermentation when malted at either 
lower or higher temperatures. At the germination temperatures of 20, 25, and 30 
°C used in malting both cereal types, production of reducing sugars and that of 
free amino nitrogen (FAN) were similar. This is an important quality attribute 
for both cereals because it implies that variation in temperature during the 
malting of sorghum and millet, especially when malting temperature is difficult 
to control, and also reflecting temperature variations, experienced in different 
countries, will not have an adverse effect on the production and release of 
amino acids and sugars required by yeast during fermentation. Such consistency 
in the availability of yeast food (substrates) for metabolism during 
fermentation when sorghum and millet are malted at various temperatures is 
likely to reduce processing issues when their malts are used for brewing. 
Although sorghum has gained wide application in the brewing industry, and has 
been used extensively in brewing gluten-free beer on industrial scale, this is 
not the case with millet. The work described here provides novel information 
regarding the potential of millet for brewing. When both cereals were malted, 
the results obtained for millet in this study followed patterns similar to those 
of sorghum. This suggests that millet, in terms of sugars and amino acids, can 
play a role similar to that of sorghum in the brewing industry. This further 
suggests that millet, like sorghum, would be a good raw material for brewing 
gluten-free beer. Inclusion of millet as a brewing raw material will increase 
the availability of suitable materials (raw material sustainability) for use in 
the production of gluten-free beer, beverages, and other products. The 
availability of wider range of raw materials will not only help to reduce costs 
of beer production, but by extension, the benefit of reduced cost of production 
can be gained by consumers of gluten-free beer as the product would be cheaper 
and more widely available.

DOI: 10.1021/jf300965b
PMID: 22440185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Acta Orthop Traumatol Turc. 2012;46(1):50-6. doi: 10.3944/aott.2012.2645.

Predictive value of Tokuhashi and Tomita scores in patients with metastatic 
spine disease.

Papastefanou S(1), Alpantaki K, Akra G, Katonis P.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Spinal Surgery, Department of Trauma and Orthopedic Surgery, James 
Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough, England, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to determine the best preoperative prognostic score to 
safely propose operative intervention for patients with metastatic spinal 
disease.
METHODS: This prospective cohort study included 52 consecutive patients who 
underwent surgery between 1997 and 2007 to alleviate pain and preserve or 
restore neurological function. All patients were prospectively evaluated with 
the Tokuhashi score and retrospectively with the Tomita score to compare their 
surgery indications. The relationship between the scores and overall survival 
time were compared. P values of less than 0.05 were considered significant.
RESULTS: In predicting survival time, the Tokuhashi score was statistically 
significant (r=0.574, p=0.01), and the Tomita score borderline significant 
(r=-0.394, p=0.05). For overall survival after initial diagnosis, the Tokuhashi 
score was borderline significant for survival (r=0.380, p=0.05) and the Tomita 
score was not significant.
CONCLUSION: The prognostic Tokuhashi score appears to be more valuable for 
surgical indications than the Tomita score in patients with spinal metastases.

DOI: 10.3944/aott.2012.2645
PMID: 22441452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):445-7. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1461-z.

[Long-term survivors].

[Article in German]

Härter M, Koch-Gromus U.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1461-z
PMID: 22441513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):448-58. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1455-x.

[Life years gained. Long-term trends in mortality by causes of death in Germany 
and in an international perspective].

[Article in German]

Doblhammer G(1), Kreft D, Dethloff A.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Empirische Sozialforschung und Demographie, Universität 
Rostock, Ulmenstr. 69, 18057, Rostock, Deutschland. 
doblhammer@rostockerzentrum.de

In Germany life expectancy is continuously increasing. Differently to the 
increases in the nineteenth century, which were mainly driven by decreasing 
mortality from infectious diseases, the recent rise in life expectancy is the 
result of a mortality decline in all major groups of causes of death. Contrary 
to mortality, the incidence and prevalence of a large number of diseases, in 
particular cancer and cardiovascular diseases (CVD), is rising. However, this 
increase is mainly the result of changes in the population's age structure, 
differences in lifestyle, improvements in diagnostic techniques, and increasing 
prevention. Age-standardized death rates and survival rates indicate significant 
improvements in most of the diseases over the last decades. Important exceptions 
are cancer of the lung and bronchia for females as well as mental diseases for 
both sexes. Therefore, these diseases will grow in importance for public health 
measures in the next decades. A major potential for a further increase in female 
life expectancy lies in the reduction of CVD mortality. In contrast, decreases 
in mortality due to various types of cancer, diseases of the respiratory system, 
and diseases of the digestive system in addition to CVD mortality may lead to a 
significant rise in male life expectancy. Although declining mortality is 
strongly linked to an increase in the prevalence of multi-morbidity and the 
number of years with disability, it is also paralleled by an increase in healthy 
life years.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1455-x
PMID: 22441514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):459-67. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1457-8.

[Instrumentality of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability 
and Health (ICF) in classification of long-term consequences of diseases].

[Article in German]

Ewert T(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Physikalische Medizin und Rehabilitation, Klinikum 
der Universität München, Marchioninistr. 15, 81377, München, Deutschland. 
Thomas.Ewert@med.uni-muenchen.de

The ICF (International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health) is 
an international classification of disease consequences and phenomena associated 
with health conditions. It is complementary to the already established 
classification of diseases (ICD). The ICF provides both a framework and a 
classification that comprehensively cover relevant domains of functioning to 
describe long-term consequences of diseases. The classification can be used as a 
universal language understood by medical doctors, health professionals, 
researchers, patients and other groups. The ICF is based on an integrative 
biopsychosocial model of functioning. Functioning is used as an umbrella term 
for all non-problematic body functions, body structures, activities and 
participation. Based on the biopsychosocial model the ICF comprises a 
hierarchical classification to describe functioning as well as environmental 
factors. Problems of long-term survivors as well as persons suffering from 
chronic diseases, relevant findings, treatment goals and treatment concepts can 
be managed by applying the ICF to the patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1457-8
PMID: 22441515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):468-73. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1459-6.

[Costs of diseases with long-term survival].

[Article in German]

Brettschneider C(1), Konnopka A, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Soziologie, Sozialmedizin und Gesundheitsökonomie, 
Hamburg Center for Health Economics, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Martinistr. 52, 20246, Hamburg, Deutschland. c.brettschneider@uke.de

In the past decades medical progress in the treatment of fatal diseases has led 
to substantial improvement of survival. This long-term survival has financial 
consequences for health care and society. In this article methodological 
challenges of measuring the costs of long-term survival are presented. In this 
regard the costs of long-term treatment, indirect costs, unrelated future health 
care costs and discounting of costs are highlighted and illustrated by examples. 
A methodological challenge related to the economic evaluation of therapies 
leading to long-term survival is the consideration of unrelated future health 
care costs occurring in life years gained. In the literature the issue of 
unrelated future health care costs is discussed comprehensively on a 
methodological-theoretical basis. In economic evaluations published in the 
literature, these costs have rarely been considered so far, which may cause 
biased results. Concerning the comparability of study results, a standardization 
of the methods of measuring costs is desirable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1459-6
PMID: 22441516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):474-80. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1452-0.

[The life of the oldest old. Well-being in the face of physical restrictions].

[Article in German]

Rott C(1), Jopp DS.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Gerontologie, Universität Heidelberg, Bergheimer Str. 20, 69115, 
Heidelberg, Deutschland. christoph.rott@gero.uni-heidelberg.de

Demographic change is increasingly determined by development associated with 
very old age. The reduction of mortality in very old age will continue, so that 
an age between 80 and 100 years will become common. Present research findings 
suggest that, with respect to their physical resources, humans are not well 
equipped for a very long life. Very old individuals are characterized by a high 
prevalence of chronic diseases and functional limitations that endanger 
independent living. Centenarians are faced with these restrictions to a large 
extent. In contrast to increasing physical constraints, old and very old 
individuals' psyche seems to be rather robust. Well-being and valuation of life 
reveal only little decline up to the highest ages. Of particular importance are 
psychological strengths, which include adaptive strategies and self-referent 
convictions. They remain relatively stable even in very old age and seem to 
balance the effects of diseases, resource restrictions and loss.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1452-0
PMID: 22441517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):481-92. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1449-8.

[Survivors of pediatric cancer. Developmental paths and outcomes between trauma 
and resilience].

[Article in German]

Noeker M(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychologischer Psychotherapeut für Kinder, Jugendliche und Erwachsene, 
Zentrum für Kinderheilkunde der Universität Bonn, Adenauerallee 119, 53113, 
Bonn, Deutschland. m.noeker@uni-bonn.de

In Europe and North America, about 80% of all patients with cancer in childhood 
and adolescence survive their leukemia, lymphomas or tumors. Therefore, 
neuropsychological impairments, psychopathological comorbidity and 
health-related quality of life become relevant parameters for treatment 
evaluation and conceptualization of future therapy protocols. During the last 
decade, a number of patient registries, multicenter studies and meta-analyses 
have analyzed the interaction of disease- and treatment-associated risk factors 
with pre-existing socio-demographic and psychosocial vulnerability factors. 
Brain tumors and treatment strategies including CNS surgery, cranial 
radiotherapy and intrathecal chemotherapy carry an increased risk for 
neurological and neuropsychological long-term outcomes, which in turn also 
threatens the patients' psychosocial and vocational participation. In the area 
of psychosocial adaptation, a wide range of developmental paths results, ranging 
from increased psychological comorbidity, to subclinical impairments in quality 
of life, to normal courses to resilient outcomes, even with a developmental 
benefit. A hypothetical model is presented to explain this enormous variance in 
outcomes. Protective cognitive-emotional schemata already established at the 
premorbid stage predispose patients to be able to cope successfully with 
cancer-related challenges and thus further enhance the patients' future 
adaptability. In contrast, dysfunctional schemata at the premorbid level 
increase risks of coping failure and thus intensify the long-term risk for 
psychopathological comorbidity in terms of post-traumatic stress disorder, 
anxiety disorder or depression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1449-8
PMID: 22441518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):493-500. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1448-9.

[Long-term sequelae of cancer survivors].

[Article in German]

Schilling G(1), Arnold D.

Author information:
(1)Hubertus Wald Tumorzentrum, Universitäres Cancer Center Hamburg, 
Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistr. 52, Haus Ost 24, EG rechts, 
20246, Hamburg, Deutschland. g.schilling@uke.de

Multimodal treatment modalities enable an increasing number of patients with 
malignant diseases to become candidates for a curatively intended treatment 
strategy. Furthermore, for numerous patients with incurable cancer disease, new 
therapeutic developments (including molecular "targeted" agents) allow control 
of further progression of tumor growth for months up to years - and therefore, 
even those patients may be regarded as having a "chronic" disease. Taken 
together, both patient groups increase the number of "long-term cancer 
survivors" markedly. However, complex interdisciplinary therapeutic strategies 
and the increasing number of options for sequential treatments also result in 
higher rates of acute and chronic toxicities and sequelae. Even years after 
completion of the initial treatment, many cancer survivors still suffer from 
sequelae of both malignant disease and therapy. This refers to both psychosocial 
and somatic involvement. In consequence, a focus of (future) oncology care - 
beyond successful oncology treatment rates - is to carefully investigate the 
somatic and psychosocial aspects of long-term sequelae in order to treat them, 
or - using appropriate preventative measures - to limit or even prevent their 
occurrence.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1448-9
PMID: 22441519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):501-8. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1458-7.

[Psychosocial issues of long-term cancer survivors].

[Article in German]

Weis J(1), Faller H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Tumorbiologie an der Universität Freiburg, Breisacher Str. 117, 
79106, Freiburg, Deutschland. weis@tumorbio.uni-freiburg.de

Although cancer incidence rates are increasing, recent statistical studies 
suggest that cancer patients are showing higher cure rates as well as improved 
overall survival rates for most cancer locations. These advances are explained 
by improved strategies in early diagnoses as well as improved cancer therapies. 
Therefore, the number of long-term cancer survivors has also increased, but only 
few studies, especially within the last years, have focused on psychosocial 
issues of this subgroup. Some studies show that overall quality of life of 
long-term cancer survivors is quite high and comparable to that of the normal 
population. Nevertheless, a substantial percentage of former patients shows 
reduced quality of life and suffers from various sequelae of cancer and its 
treatment. This review focuses on the most common psychosocial issue of 
long-term survivors such as reduced psychological wellbeing, neuropsychological 
deficits and cancer-related fatigue syndrome. Finally, recommendations for 
problem-oriented interventions as well as improvement of psychosocial care of 
long-term survivors are given.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1458-7
PMID: 22441520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):535-42. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1451-1.

[AIDS. New challenges for social and medical prevention].

[Article in German]

Rosenbrock R(1), Schmidt AJ.

Author information:
(1)Forschungsgruppe Public Health, Wissenschaftszentrum Berlin für 
Sozialforschung gGmbH, Reichpietschufer 50, 10785, Berlin, Deutschland. 
rosenbrock@wzb.eu

Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) produces spectacular improvements in life 
expectancy and quality of life for people infected with HIV, and contributes to 
primary prevention in the wider population by reducing the viral load. Many 
people infected with HIV begin therapy later than indicated, while, despite 
ongoing prevention efforts, the number of new HIV diagnoses is increasing, along 
with the incidence of other STIs and, in identifiable sub-groups, of hepatitis 
C, above all among men who have sex with men (MSM). The prevention consequences 
of this complex situation are discussed in the context of the alternative 
between control and containment (Suchstrategie) and inclusion and cooperation 
(Lernstrategie), arguing for HIV prevention to be integrated in the broader 
paradigm of sexual health and sub-group-specific efforts to increase the 
willingness to undergo testing both through community-based campaigns and in the 
health care context on the basis of informed consent and counseling. Above all 
ethical considerations mitigate against an undifferentiated test-and-treat 
approach. The contribution identifies research gaps and institutional obstacles 
that stand in the way of achievable advances and productive linkage of social 
and medical prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1451-1
PMID: 22441523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):552-7. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1456-9.

[Improvements in survival in patients with heart failure].

[Article in German]

Blozik E(1), Eisele M, Scherer M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Allgemeinmedizin, Universität Hamburg, Martinistr. 52, Haus West 
34 (W34), 2. OG, 20246, Hamburg, Deutschland.

The aim of this study is to describe improvements in survival of patients with 
heart failure. In addition, factors that may have contributed to these 
improvements are discussed. The extent of improvement in survival is 
substantial. This is presumably mainly due to a broad spectrum of new 
therapeutic options and the introduction of clinical guidelines, and the 
increasing level of awareness and adherence. For the near future, the increasing 
implementation of disease management programs and complex interventions has the 
potential to have a further positive influence on the survival of patients with 
heart failure.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1456-9
PMID: 22441525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):558-67. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1460-0.

[Adults with cystic fibrosis. It's not just about longevity].

[Article in German]

von der Hardt H(1), Schwarz C, Ullrich G.

Author information:
(1)ehem. Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Hannover, Deutschland.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one example of serious disorders for which medical 
progress and the integration of chronic treatment into the patients' daily 
routines have led to markedly better longevity. Formerly known as a 'killer 
disease' of childhood, CF is now considered a disorder with childhood onset, but 
is well known in adult medicine. Since 2009, for the first time CF adults have 
made up the majority of patients in the German CF registry. The drawbacks of 
improved longevity are long-term complications (e.g., CFRD, osteoporosis) that 
were rarely seen before. In particular, unwanted effects of treatments that 
today are performed for decades rather than years are becoming pressing 
problems. Unwanted effects as well as the ever-increasing treatment burden must 
be carefully weighed against the expected benefits of treatment. However, CF 
medicine has always been aware that it is not just about longevity, but that 
prolonged life has to have meaning. Therefore, the marked increase in longevity 
is also a psychosocial challenge. So far, empirical data suggest that the 
majority of people with CF courageously struggle for a normal life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1460-0
PMID: 22441526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):568-75. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1453-z.

[Long-term survival of preterm neonates].

[Article in German]

Singer D(1).

Author information:
(1)Sektion Neonatologie und Pädiatrische Intensivmedizin, Zentrum für 
Geburtshilfe, Kinder- und Jugendmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Martinistr. 52, 20246, Hamburg, Deutschland. dsinger@uke.de

In view of the increased survival rate of very preterm neonates, several 
longitudinal studies were done to assess the quality of life of the survivors. 
