shorter than that for normal weight participants (p=0.3184). Multiadjusted 
lifetime medical expenditure for obese participants was £112 858.9 
(94 954.1-131 840.9), being 14.7% non-significantly higher than that for normal 
weight participants (p=0.1141). In women aged 40 years, multiadjusted life 
expectancy for those who were obese participants was 49.2 years (46.14-52.59), 
which was 3.1 years non-significantly shorter than for normal weight 
participants (p=0.0724), and multiadjusted lifetime medical expenditure was 
£137 765.9 (123 672.9-152 970.2), being 21.6% significantly higher (p=0.0005).
CONCLUSIONS: According to the point estimate, lifetime medical expenditure might 
appear to be higher for obese participants, despite their short life expectancy. 
With weight control, more people would enjoy their longevity with lower demands 
for medical care.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-000940
PMCID: PMC3353127
PMID: 22581797

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


285. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2012 Aug;78(15):5127-32. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00246-12.
Epub  2012 May 11.

Quantitative estimation of the viability of Toxoplasma gondii oocysts in soil.

Lélu M(1), Villena I, Dardé ML, Aubert D, Geers R, Dupuis E, Marnef F, Poulle 
ML, Gotteland C, Dumètre A, Gilot-Fromont E.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lyon, Lyon, and CNRS, UMR5558, Laboratoire de Biométrie et 
Biologie Evolutive, Bâtiment Mendel, Université Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France.

Toxoplasma gondii oocysts spread in the environment are an important source of 
toxoplasmosis for humans and animal species. Although the life expectancy of 
oocysts has been studied through the infectivity of inoculated soil samples, the 
survival dynamics of oocysts in the environment are poorly documented. The aim 
of this study was to quantify oocyst viability in soil over time under two rain 
conditions. Oocysts were placed in 54 sentinel chambers containing soil and 18 
sealed water tubes, all settled in two containers filled with soil. Containers 
were watered to simulate rain levels of arid and wet climates and kept at stable 
temperature for 21.5 months. At nine sampling dates during this period, we 
sampled six chambers and two water tubes. Three methods were used to measure 
oocyst viability: microscopic counting, quantitative PCR (qPCR), and mouse 
inoculation. In parallel, oocysts were kept refrigerated during the same period 
to analyze their detectability over time. Microscopic counting, qPCR, and mouse 
inoculation all showed decreasing values over time and highly significant 
differences between the decreases under dry and damp conditions. The proportion 
of oocysts surviving after 100 days was estimated to be 7.4% (95% confidence 
interval [95% CI] = 5.1, 10.8) under dry conditions and 43.7% (5% CI = 35.6, 
53.5) under damp conditions. The detectability of oocysts by qPCR over time 
decreased by 0.5 cycle threshold per 100 days. Finally, a strong correlation 
between qPCR results and the dose infecting 50% of mice was found; thus, qPCR 
results may be used as an estimate of the infectivity of soil samples.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00246-12
PMCID: PMC3416395
PMID: 22582074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Palliat Care. 2012 Spring;28(1):13-20.

Evaluation of frequency of clinical symptoms and signs within six months prior 
to death in patients with advanced solid cancers.

Kaleva-Kerola J(1), Huhtala H, Helminen M, Pylkkänen L, Holli K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, West Bothnia Central Hospital, Kauppakatu 25, 
FI-94100 Kemi, Finland. jaana.kaleva-kerola@lpshp.fi

This retrospective study documented the frequency of the clinical symptoms and 
signs that increase in advanced cancer patients as they move toward death in 
order to create a sum score and correlate it with survival. Of 572 adult 
patients who were treated in four selected hospitals and who died in 1998 and 
1999, data at six, three, and one month(s) prior to death was available for 257. 
The results showed that the number of symptoms and certain clinical findings 
accelerated toward death, increasing the sum score. Younger patients obtained 
higher sum scores at one month prior to death than did elderly ones (p=0.014); 
this suggests that elderly patients die at a point where they show less 
worsening in their clinical condition than do younger patients. The score was 
independent of cancer type or gender. The results of this analysis provide data 
for further development of a clinical tool to predict long-term survival in 
palliative care settings.

PMID: 22582467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Biodemography Soc Biol. 2012;58(1):1-13. doi: 10.1080/19485565.2012.666118.

Height and survival at older ages among men born in an inland village in 
Sardinia (Italy), 1866-2006.

Salaris L(1), Poulain M, Samaras TT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences and Institutions, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy. salaris@unica.it

This study investigated the relationship between individual height and survival 
at older ages among conscripts born between 1866 and 1915 in an inland village 
of Sardinia, Italy. Individual age at death was related to military height 
measurement at age 20. Differential longevity of conscripts at older ages was 
investigated through the comparison of age-specific mortality rates and life 
expectancy estimates. Results indicated that short conscripts (<161.1 cm) 
generally had higher survival rates than their tall peers (≥ 161.1 cm). At 70 
years of age, tall peers were expected to live two years less than short 
conscripts. Biological mechanisms were examined in relation to the greater 
longevity of shorter people.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2012.666118
PMID: 22582890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. J Med Econ. 2012;15(6):1088-96. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.693553. Epub 2012
May  24.

Cost-effectiveness of fingolimod versus interferon beta-1a for relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis in the United States.

Lee S(1), Baxter DC, Limone B, Roberts MS, Coleman CI.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut School of Pharmacy, Storrs, CT, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Fingolimod has been shown to be more efficacious than interferon 
(IFN) beta-1a, but at a higher drug acquisition cost. The aim of this study was 
to assess the cost-effectiveness of fingolimod compared to IFN beta-1a in 
patients diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) in the US.
METHODS: A Markov model comparing fingolimod to intramuscular IFN beta-1a using 
a US societal perspective and a 10-year time horizon was developed. A cohort of 
37-year-old patients with RRMS and a Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale 
score of 0-2.5 were assumed. Data sources included the Trial Assessing 
Injectable Interferon vs FTY720 Oral in Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis 
(TRANSFORMS) and other published studies of MS. Outcomes included costs in 2011 
US dollars, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), number of relapses avoided, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Compared to IFN beta-1a, fingolimod was associated with fewer relapses 
(0.41 vs 0.73 per patient per year) and more QALYs gained (6.7663 vs 5.9503), 
but at a higher cost ($565,598 vs $505,234). This resulted in an ICER of $73,975 
per QALY. Results were most sensitive to changes in drug costs and the 
disutility of receiving IFN beta-1a. Monte Carlo simulation demonstrated 
fingolimod was cost-effective in 35% and 70% of 10,000 iterations, assuming 
willingness-to-pay thresholds of $50,000 and $100,000 per QALY, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: Event rates were primarily derived from a single randomized 
clinical trial with 1-year duration of follow-up and extrapolated to a 10-year 
time horizon. Comparison was made to only one disease-modifying 
drug-intramuscular IFN beta-1a.
CONCLUSION: Fingolimod use is not likely to be cost-effective compared to IFN 
beta-1a unless fingolimod cost falls below $3476 per month or a higher than 
normal willingness-to-pay threshold is accepted by decision-makers.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.693553
PMID: 22583065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2012 Aug;11(5):497-505. doi: 
10.2174/187152712801661239.

Recent gains in clinical multiple sclerosis research.

Runia TF(1), van Pelt-Gravesteijn ED, Hintzen RQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common neurological disease mainly affecting young 
people. Around the world, over 2.5 million people suffer from this central 
nervous system (CNS) disorder. Although the exact disease mechanism is not 
completely clear, it is known that both environmental and genetic factors 
influence the development of MS. Here we aim to summarize a few major highlights 
of recent progress that have been made in clinical MS research. A genetic 
predisposition in combination with Epstein-Barr virus infection seems to be 
essential to get MS. Recently more than 50 susceptibility genetic loci for MS 
have been described. MS prevalence has a latitudinal gradient indicating that 
sunlight exposure and therefore vitamin D are important contributors to MS risk. 
Several studies found an inverse association between MS prevalence and serum 
vitamin D levels. In most cases, MS starts with an acute episode involving one 
or more sites of the CNS. The role of the recently revised McDonald Diagnostic 
Criteria for the diagnosis of MS, which sometimes allow the diagnosis after a 
first attack, is discussed. Most patients with MS suffer from exacerbations and 
remissions of neurological deficits: relapsing-and remitting MS. With time, the 
majority of these patients enter a disease phase characterized by continuous, 
irreversible neurological decline; this is called secondary progressive MS. In 
10-20% of patients, the disease is progressive from onset. Life expectancy of 
patients after diagnosis with MS is around 35 years, and MS patients die 5-10 
years earlier than the general population. A substantial percentage of MS 
patients have their first attack during childhood. Clinics of childhood-onset MS 
versus adult-onset are explained, as are diagnostics, differential diagnoses and 
therapeutic options for children with MS. Also another demyelinating disease of 
the CNS, neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is highlighted. Since NMO has been 
considered as a variant of MS and also has been misdiagnosed as MS, recent 
insights in the pathology of NMO are explained.

DOI: 10.2174/187152712801661239
PMID: 22583434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Value Health. 2012 May;15(3):475-84. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.031. Epub
2012  Feb 10.

QALY weights for diabetic retinopathy--a comparison of health state valuations 
with HUI-3, EQ-5D, EQ-VAS, and TTO.

Heintz E(1), Wiréhn AB, Peebo BB, Rosenqvist U, Levin LÅ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment, Department of Medical and Health 
Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden. emelie.heintz@liu.se

OBJECTIVE: To estimate quality-adjusted life-year weights for patients with 
diabetic retinopathy by using various methods and to investigate the empirical 
validity of the different measures.
METHODS: The study population comprised 152 patients with diabetes in 
Östergötland County, Sweden. Participants were interviewed by telephone by using 
the time trade-off (TTO) method and a visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) (direct 
valuations) as well as the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D) and 
the health utilities index mark 3 (HUI-3) (indirect valuations). The 
quality-adjusted life-year weights were adjusted for potential confounders by 
using analysis of covariance. The empirical validity of the measures was 
examined by testing their ability to detect hypothetical differences between 
severity levels of diabetic retinopathy and by investigating the correlation 
between the measures and the 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Function 
Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25).
RESULTS: All measures detected significant differences in scores between patient 
groups classified according to visual impairment in the better eye (analysis of 
covariance, P < 0.05), but only HUI-3 and EQ-VAS detected significant 
differences between patient groups classified according to visual impairment or 
pathological progression in the worse eye. HUI-3 recorded a difference of 0.43 
in values between normal vision and blindness in the better eye, which was more 
than twice the differences captured by the other measures (0.15-0.20). In 
addition, HUI-3 showed the highest correlation with NEI VFQ-25 (r = 0.54; P < 
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In cost-utility analyses, the choice of quality-adjusted life-year 
measure may affect whether an intervention is considered cost-effective. 
Furthermore, if decisions are to be based on values from the general public, 
HUI-3 can be recommended for cost-utility analyses of interventions directed at 
diabetic retinopathy.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.11.031
PMID: 22583458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Value Health. 2012 May;15(3):550-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.12.014. Epub
2012  Mar 23.

Tails from the peak district: adjusted limited dependent variable mixture models 
of EQ-5D questionnaire health state utility values.

Hernández Alava M(1), Wailoo AJ, Ara R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Health utility data generated by using the EuroQol five-dimensional 
(EQ-5D) questionnaire are right bounded at 1 with a substantial gap to the next 
set of observations, left bounded, and multimodal. These features present 
challenges to the estimation of the effect of clinical and socioeconomic 
characteristics on health utilities. Our objective was to develop and 
demonstrate an appropriate method for dealing with these features.
METHODS: We developed a statistical model that incorporates an adjusted limited 
dependent variable approach to reflect the upper bound and the large gap in 
feasible EQ-5D questionnaire values. Further flexibility was then gained by 
adopting a mixture modeling framework to address the multimodality of the EQ-5D 
questionnaire distribution. We compared the performance of these approaches with 
that of those frequently adopted in the literature (linear and Tobit models) by 
using data from a clinical trial of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
RESULTS: We found that three latent classes are appropriate in estimating EQ-5D 
questionnaire values from function, pain, and sociodemographic factors. Superior 
performance of the adjusted limited dependent variable mixture model was 
achieved in terms of Akaike and Bayesian information criteria, root mean square 
error, and mean absolute error. Unlike other approaches, the adjusted limited 
dependent variable mixture model fits the data well at high EQ-5D questionnaire 
levels and cannot predict unfeasible EQ-5D questionnaire values.
CONCLUSIONS: The distribution of the EQ-5D questionnaire is characterized by 
features that raise statistical challenges. It is well known that standard 
approaches do not perform well for this reason. This article developed an 
appropriate method to reflect these features by combining limited dependent 
variable and mixture modeling and demonstrated superior performance in a 
rheumatoid arthritis setting. Further refinement of the general framework and 
testing in other data sets are warranted. Analysis of utility data should apply 
methods that recognize the distributional features of the data.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2011.12.014
PMID: 22583466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Value Health. 2012 May;15(3):568-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.03.002.

Reflections: NICE, health economics, and outcomes research.

Rawlins M(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, London, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.03.002
PMID: 22583468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2012 Jun;66(6):1011-2. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2011.11.931.

Refusal of shingles vaccine: implications for public health.

Funovits AL, Wagamon KL, Mostow EN, Brodell RT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2011.11.931
PMID: 22583716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Bone. 2012 Sep;51(3):570-7. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2012.05.004. Epub 2012 May
11.

Low magnitude mechanical signals mitigate osteopenia without compromising 
longevity in an aged murine model of spontaneous granulosa cell ovarian cancer.

Pagnotti GM(1), Adler BJ, Green DE, Chan ME, Frechette DM, Shroyer KR, Beamer 
WG, Rubin J, Rubin CT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 
11794-2580, USA.

Cancer progression is often paralleled by a decline in bone mass, raising risk 
of fracture. Concerns persist regarding anabolic interventions for skeletal 
protection, as these may inadvertently exacerbate neoplastic tissue expansion. 
Given bone's inherent mechanosensitivity, low intensity vibration (LIV), a 
mechanical signal that encourages osteoblastogenesis, could possibly slow 
cancer-associated bone loss, but this goal must be achieved without fostering 
disease progression. Seventy 12w female F1-SWRxSWXJ-9 mice, a strain prone to 
developing granulosa cell tumors, were randomized into baseline control (BC: 
n=10), age-matched control (AC: n=30), and LIV (n=30), which received mechanical 
signals (90Hz @ 0.3g) for 15m/day, 5 day/w over the course of 1 year. Survival 
curves for AC (10 died) and LIV (8 died) followed similar trends (p=0.62), 
indicating longevity was unperturbed by LIV. At 1 year, bone volume of proximal 
tibiae in LIV mice was 25% greater than AC (p<0.02), while bone volume of L5 
vertebrae was 16% higher in LIV over AC (p<0.02). Primary lesions and peripheral 
metastases were apparent in both LIV and AC; however, overall tumor incidence 
was approximately 30% less in LIV (p=0.27) and, when disease was evident, 
involved fewer organ systems (p=0.09). Marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells 
(MSC) were 52% lower (p<0.01) in LIV, and 31% lower (p=0.08) in mice lacking 
pathology, suggesting higher MSC levels in this model of cancer susceptibility 
may have contributed to tumor progression. These experiments indicate that LIV 
helps protect bone mass in mice inherently susceptible to cancer without 
compromising life expectancy, perhaps through mechanical control of stem cell 
fate. Further, these data reflect the numerous system-level benefits of exercise 
in general, and mechanical signals in particular, in the preservation of bone 
density and the suppression of cancer progression.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2012.05.004
PMCID: PMC3412935
PMID: 22584009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Spinal Cord. 2012 Nov;50(11):803-11. doi: 10.1038/sc.2012.55. Epub 2012 May
15.

Life expectancy after spinal cord injury: a 50-year study.

Middleton JW(1), Dayton A, Walsh J, Rutkowski SB, Leong G, Duong S.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Studies Unit, The University of Sydney, NSW State Spinal Cord 
Injury Service, Agency for Clinical Innovation, Sydney, Australia. 
james.middleton@sydney.edu.au

Comment in
    Spinal Cord. 2013 Dec;51(12):938-9.
    Spinal Cord. 2013 Dec;51(12):937.

STUDY DESIGN: Cohort of incident cases from 1955 to 2006.
OBJECTIVES: To analyse acute and long-term mortality, estimate life expectancy 
and identify survival patterns of individuals experiencing traumatic spinal cord 
injury (SCI).
SETTING: Specialised SCI unit in Australia.
METHODS: Data for patients with traumatic SCI admitted to a spinal unit in 
Sydney, Australia between January 1955 and June 2006 were collated and deaths 
confirmed. Cumulative survival probability was estimated using life-table 
techniques and mortality rates were calculated from the number of deaths and 
aggregate years of exposure. Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) were estimated 
from the ratio of observed to expected number of deaths. Life expectancy was 
then estimated using adjusted attained age-specific mortality rates.
RESULTS: From 2014 persons, 88 persons with tetraplegia (8.2%) and 38 persons 
with paraplegia (4.1%) died within 12 months of injury, most often with complete 
C1-4 tetraplegia. Among first-year survivors, overall 40-year survival rates 
were 47 and 62% for persons with tetraplegia and paraplegia, respectively. The 
most significant increases in mortality were seen in those with tetraplegia and 
American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale (AIS) grades A-C lesions, 
with SMRs between 5.4 and 9.0 for people <50 years, reducing with advancing 
attained age. Estimated life expectancies from 25 to 65 years ranged between 
69-64%, 74-65%, 88-91% and 97-96% for C1-4 AIS A-C, C5-8 A-C, T1-S5 A-C and all 
AIS D lesions, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Survival related strongly to extent of neurological impairment. 
Future research should focus on identifying contextual factors, personal or 
environmental, that may contribute to the reduced life expectancy after SCI.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2012.55
PMID: 22584284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2012 May 4;71(0):1-12. doi:
10.3402/ijch.v71i0.18537.

A traditional Sami diet score as a determinant of mortality in a general 
northern Swedish population.

Nilsson LM(1), Winkvist A, Brustad M, Jansson JH, Johansson I, Lenner P, Lindahl 
B, Van Guelpen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Nutritional Research, Umeå 
University, Umeå, Sweden. lena.nilsson@nutrires.umu.se

OBJECTIVES: To examine the relationship between "traditional Sami" dietary 
pattern and mortality in a general northern Swedish population.
STUDY DESIGN: Population-based cohort study.
METHODS: We examined 77,319 subjects from the Västerbotten Intervention Program 
(VIP) cohort. A traditional Sami diet score was constructed by adding 1 point 
for intake above the median level of red meat, fatty fish, total fat, berries 
and boiled coffee, and 1 point for intake below the median of vegetables, bread 
and fibre. Hazard ratios (HR) for mortality were calculated by Cox regression.
RESULTS: Increasing traditional Sami diet scores were associated with slightly 
elevated all-cause mortality in men [Multivariate HR per 1-point increase in 
score 1.04 (95% CI 1.01-1.07), p=0.018], but not for women [Multivariate HR 1.03 
(95% CI 0.99-1.07), p=0.130]. This increased risk was approximately equally 
attributable to cardiovascular disease and cancer, though somewhat more apparent 
for cardiovascular disease mortality in men free from diabetes, hypertension and 
obesity at baseline [Multivariate HR 1.10 (95% CI 1.01-1.20), p=0.023].
CONCLUSIONS: A weak increased all-cause mortality was observed in men with 
higher traditional Sami diet scores. However, due to the complexity in defining 
a "traditional Sami" diet, and the limitations of our questionnaire for this 
purpose, the study should be considered exploratory, a first attempt to relate a 
"traditional Sami" dietary pattern to health endpoints. Further investigation of 
cohorts with more detailed information on dietary and lifestyle items relevant 
for traditional Sami culture is warranted.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v71i0.18537
PMCID: PMC3417469
PMID: 22584519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Eur Heart J. 2013 Jan;34(3):211-9. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs090. Epub 2012
May  14.

The cost-effectiveness of primary prophylactic implantable defibrillator therapy 
in patients with ischaemic or non-ischaemic heart disease: a European analysis.

Smith T(1), Jordaens L, Theuns DA, van Dessel PF, Wilde AA, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

AIMS: It remains unclear whether primary prophylactic implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) therapy is cost-effective compared with a 'no 
ICD strategy' in the European health care setting. We performed a 
cost-effectiveness analysis for a cohort of patients with a left ventricular 
ejection fraction <40% and ischaemic or non-ischaemic heart disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov decision analytic model was used to evaluate 
long-term survival, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and lifetime costs for 
a cohort of patients with a reduced left ventricular function without previous 
arrhythmias, managed with a prophylactic ICD. Input data on effectiveness were 
derived from a meta-analysis of primary prophylactic ICD-only therapy randomized 
trials, from a prospective cohort study of ICD patients, from a health care 
utilization survey, and from the literature. Input data on costs were derived 
from a micro-cost analysis. Data on quality-of-life were derived from the 
literature. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed 
to assess the uncertainty. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis demonstrated a 
mean lifetime cost of €50 685 ± €4604 and 6.26 ± 0.64 QALYs for patients in the 
'no ICD strategy'. Patients in the 'ICD strategy' accumulated €86 759 ± €3343 
and an effectiveness of 7.08 ± 0.71 QALYs yielding an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of €43 993/QALY gained compared with the 'no ICD 
strategy'. The probability that ICD therapy is cost-effective was 65% at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of €80 000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that primary prophylactic ICD therapy in 
patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction <40% and ischaemic or 
non-ischaemic heart disease is cost-effective in the European setting.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs090
PMID: 22584647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2012;67 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):173-8. doi: 
10.6061/clinics/2012(sup01)29.

Surgical management of pancreatico-duodenal tumors in multiple endocrine 
neoplasia syndrome type 1.

Akerström G(1), Stålberg P, Hellman P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Uppsala, Uppsala, Sweden. 
goran.akerstrom@surgsci.uu.se

Pancreatico-duodenal tumors are the second most common endocrinopathy in 
multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 1, and have a pronounced effect on 
life expectancy as the principal cause of disease-related death. Previous 
discussions about surgical management have focused mainly on syndromes of 
hormone excess and, in particular, the management of multiple endocrine 
neoplasia syndrome type 1-related Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Since hormonal 
syndromes tend to occur late and indicate the presence of metastases, screening 
with biochemical markers and endoscopic ultrasound is recommended for early 
detection of pancreatico-duodenal tumors, and with early surgery before 
metastases have developed. Surgery is recommended in patients with or without 
hormonal syndromes in the absence of disseminated liver metastases. The 
suggested operation includes distal 80% subtotal pancreatic resection together 
with enucleation of tumors in the head of the pancreas, and in cases with 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, excision of duodenal gastrinomas together with 
clearance of regional lymph node metastases. This strategy, with early and 
aggressive surgery before metastases have developed, is believed to reduce the 
risks for tumor recurrence and malignant progression.

DOI: 10.6061/clinics/2012(sup01)29
PMCID: PMC3328819
PMID: 22584725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported.


299. Am J Med Genet A. 2012 Jun;158A(6):1326-36. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35333. Epub
2012  May 14.

Aging in Prader-Willi syndrome: twelve persons over the age of 50 years.

Sinnema M(1), Schrander-Stumpel CT, Maaskant MA, Boer H, Curfs LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Maastricht University Medical Centre, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. margje.sinnema@mumc.nl

The life expectancy of persons with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) has increased in 
recent years. Because of the paucity of reports on older persons with PWS, the 
natural history, the onset, and type of age-related problems are poorly 
understood. Twelve persons with a genetically confirmed diagnosis of PWS aged 
over 50 years are described (4 deletion; 8 mUPD). Data on physical, behavioral, 
psychiatric, and aging characteristics were collected through semi-structured 
interviews with the individuals with PWS and their main carers. Cardiovascular 
diseases, diabetes, dermatological, and orthopedic problems were common physical 
complaints in older people with PWS. Functioning in activities of daily living, 
psychological functioning, physical functions, and care dependence were 
substantially worse in the older age group (50+) compared to the control group 
(18-49 years). Seven out of eight persons with mUPD had a history of psychiatric 
illness. Behavioral problems were observed in the older age group. Given the 
combination of age-related physical morbidity, physical appearance, behavioral 
and psychiatric problems, and functional decline in our cohort, we hypothesize 
that premature aging occurs in PWS. The care for older people with PWS requires 
a lifespan approach that recognizes the presence, progression, and consequences 
of specific morbidity. Special medical surveillance of people with PWS from 40 
years onwards would ensure that intervention and support is offered with respect 
to specific areas of decline at the earliest possible time.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35333
PMID: 22585395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Hematol Rep. 2011 Oct 28;3(3s):e6. doi: 10.4081/hr.2011.s3.e6.

SIOG (International Society of Geriatric Oncology) recommendations for 
anthracycline use in the elderly.

Aapro M(1).

Author information:
(1)Multidisciplinary Oncology Institute, Genolier, Switzerland.

A taskforce of the International Society of Geriatric Oncology (SIOG) has 
recently submitted recommendations on the use of anthracyclines in elderly 
patients. Despite the aging of the population and the high proportion of elderly 
individuals in the population of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, the 
development of specialist expertise in the treatment of elderly patients with 
cancer is relatively recent. Treatment of the elderly is complex because they 
are a highly heterogeneous population, with large variations in health status, 
comorbidities and life expectancy. In addition, these patients are generally 
more susceptible than young patients to the cardiotoxic effects of 
anthracyclines. Strategies for assessing elderly patients with cancer, reducing 
the risk of congestive heart failure, and assessing the cardiotoxic effects of 
treatments are discussed. In addition, a summary of the SIOG recommendations is 
presented.

DOI: 10.4081/hr.2011.s3.e6
PMCID: PMC3269217
PMID: 22586514

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: the author has received 
honoraria from Cephalon.301. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2012 Feb;23(2):559-65.

[Characteristics of Pomacea canaliculata reproduction under natural conditions].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu J(1), He YJ, Tan JC, Xu CX, Zhong L, Wang ZG, Liao QG.

Author information:
(1)College of Bio-Safety Science and Technology, Hunan Agricultural University, 
Changsha 410128, China. lj3209@163.com

Abstract: A three-year breeding experiment was conducted in a paddy field in 
Zixing City of Hunan Province, South-central China to study the characteristics 
of golden apple snail (Pomacea canaliculata) reproduction under natural 
conditions. Under the natural conditions in southern Hunan Province, the snails 
could approximately reproduce three generations per year. The average sexual 
maturity periods of the first, the second, and the third generation of the 
female snails were 59.3, 45.4 and 213.0 days, respectively, and those of the 
male snails were 4.3 days earlier than the females'. The natural sex ratio of 
the females to the males was 1.54:1. The average copulation duration was 19.2 
hours, but spawning did not always occur after each time of copulation. The 
number of the egg masses produced by the females per month was significantly 
positively correlated with the mean monthly air temperature (r = 0.756) , while 
the average incubation duration of the egg masses was significantly negatively 
correlated with the daily air temperature (gamma = -0.726x + 23.064, r = 
-0.980). The average incubation time of the egg masses was 20.7 days, average 
incubation rate was 44.1%, and the average life expectancy of the female and 
male snails was 2.40 and 1.98 years, respectively. A female snail in its 
lifetime could averagely spawn 13764 eggs and reproduce 6070 young snails.

PMID: 22586987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2012 Aug;53(2):217-22. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2012.05.002.
 Epub 2012 May 12.

AAV micro-dystrophin gene therapy alleviates stress-induced cardiac death but 
not myocardial fibrosis in >21-m-old mdx mice, an end-stage model of Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy cardiomyopathy.

Bostick B, Shin JH, Yue Y, Wasala NB, Lai Y, Duan D.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal genetic disease caused by the 
absence of the sarcolemmal protein dystrophin. Dilated cardiomyopathy leading to 
heart failure is a significant source of morbidity and mortality in DMD. We 
recently demonstrated amelioration of DMD heart disease in 16 to 20-m-old 
dystrophin-null mdx mice using adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated 
micro-dystrophin gene therapy. DMD patients show severe heart disease near the 
end of their life expectancy. Similarly, mdx mice exhibit profoundly worsening 
heart disease when they reach beyond 21 months of age. To more rigorously test 
micro-dystrophin therapy, we treated mdx mice that were between 21.2 and 
22.7-m-old (average, 22.1 ± 0.2 months; N=8). The ∆R4-23/∆C micro-dystrophin 
gene was packaged in the cardiotropic AAV-9 virus. 5×10(12) viral genome 
particles/mouse were delivered to mdx mice via the tail vein. AAV transduction, 
myocardial fibrosis and heart function were examined 1.7 ± 0.2 months after gene 
therapy. Efficient micro-dystrophin expression was observed in the myocardium of 
treated mice. Despite the robust dystrophin expression, myocardial fibrosis was 
not mitigated. Most hemodynamic parameters were not improved either. However, 
ECG abnormalities were partially corrected. Importantly, treated mice became 
more resistant to dobutamine-induced cardiac death. In summary, we have revealed 
for the first time the potential benefits and limitations of AAV 
micro-dystrophin therapy in end-stage Duchenne dilated cardiomyopathy. Our 
findings have important implications for the use of AAV gene therapy in dilated 
cardiomyopathy and heart failure.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2012.05.002
PMCID: PMC3389274
PMID: 22587991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Orthopedics. 2012 May;35(5):e703-8. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20120426-25.

Hemiarthroplasty versus reverse total shoulder arthroplasty for acute proximal 
humerus fractures in elderly patients.

Garrigues GE(1), Johnston PS, Pepe MD, Tucker BS, Ramsey ML, Austin LS.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. 
grant.garrigues@duke.edu

Proximal humerus fractures are the third most common fracture in elderly 
patients. Hemiarthroplasty has been the treatment of choice in patients with 
bone quality and fracture patterns not amenable to open reduction and internal 
fixation. Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty is a newer option that appears to 
be less dependent on tuberosity healing than hemiarthroplasty. The authors 
hypothesized that reverse total shoulder arthroplasty provides improved 
functional outcomes compared with hemiarthroplasty for fractures in elderly 
patients.A retrospective review was performed of all patients treated with 
arthroplasty for acute proximal humerus fractures in an orthopedic practice 
using a Current Procedural Terminology code search, patient charts, and 
radiographs. Validated outcome scores were used to assess satisfaction, 
function, and general well-being. Twenty-three patients were treated for acute 
proximal humerus fractures (11 reverse total shoulder arthroplasties and 12 
hemiarthroplasties). Three patients were lost to follow-up, and 6 patients were 
deceased. Mean follow-up was 3.6 years (range, 1.3-8 years). Reverse total 
shoulder arthroplasty outperformed hemiarthroplasty with regard to forward 
flexion, American Shoulder and Elbow Society score, University of Pennsylvania 
shoulder score, and Single Assessment Numerical Evaluation score.Reverse total 
shoulder arthroplasty is a reliable option for acute, proximal humerus fractures 
that are not amenable to closed treatment or reconstruction in elderly patients. 
Improved functional outcomes when compared with hemiarthroplasty must be 
balanced against the increased cost and limited life expectancy of patients with 
this injury.

Copyright 2012, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20120426-25
PMID: 22588413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Orthopedics. 2012 May;35(5):e720-5. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20120426-27.

Functional disabilities and issues of concern for Asian patients before total 
ankle arthroplasty.

Lee KT(1), Choi JH, Lee YK, Young KW, Kim JB, Kim JS, Kim WJ, Kim JH, Lee JY.

Author information:
(1)Foot and Ankle Clinic, KT Lee’s Orthopedic Hospital, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.

Total ankle arthroplasty is a commonly performed invasive procedure that can be 
distressing to patients. Therefore, surgeons should consider patients' issues of 
greatest interest and concerns at the time of surgery and the function that 
patients hope to recover. Many studies have reported surgeon concerns before 
total knee arthroplasty and total hip arthroplasty, but few have focused on 
patients. The purpose of this study was to evaluate patients' functional 
disabilities and issues of concern regarding total ankle arthroplasty.Between 
May 2008 and June 2010, eighty-five patients (52 men and 33 women; mean age, 60 
years) were recruited for the study. All patients were asked to complete a 
questionnaire divided into 3 parts: sociodemographic data, current functional 
disabilities and their perceived importance, and issues concerning patients 
before total ankle arthroplasty. Regarding functional disability based on 
severity, the top 5 issues were limping, difficulty squatting, daytime pain, 
difficulty kneeling, and difficulty climbing stairs. Regarding functional 
disability based on perceived importance, the top 5 issues were daytime pain, 
limping, difficulty walking, difficulty kneeling, and difficulty working. 
Regarding issues of concern, the top 5 issues were pain intraoperatively, 
ability to walk as much as desired, ability to climb stairs, pain after 
discharge from the hospital, and pain immediately postoperatively. The most 
important issue before total ankle arthroplasty was pain. Patients had a strong 
interest in high ankle extension and increased range of motion due to the 
lifestyle and religious activities of Eastern populations.

Copyright 2012, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20120426-27
PMID: 22588415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2012 May;32(5):627-30.

[Construction of abridged life table for health evaluation of local resident 
using Excel program].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen Q(1), Wang F, Li X, Yang J, Yu S, Hu J.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Jinan University, Guangzhou, China. tchqsh@jnu.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To provide an easy computational tool for evaluating the health 
condition of local residents.
METHODS: An abridged life table was programmed by applying mathematical 
functions and formula in Excel program and tested with the real study data to 
evaluate the results computed.
RESULTS: The Excel was capable of computing group death probability of age in 
the life table ((n)q(x)), number of survivors (l(x)), number of death ((n)d(x)), 
survival per person-year ((n)L(x)), survival total per person-year (T(x)) and 
life expectancy (e(x)). The calculated results were consistent with those by 
SAS.
CONCLUSION: The abridged life table constructed using Microsoft Excel can 
conveniently and accurately calculate the relevant indices for evaluating the 
health condition of the residents.

PMID: 22588911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Biol Chem. 2012 Jun 29;287(27):22584-92. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.366484.
Epub  2012 May 15.

Deletion of the C-terminal phosphorylation sites in the cardiac β-subunit does 
not affect the basic β-adrenergic response of the heart and the Ca(v)1.2 
channel.

Brandmayr J(1), Poomvanicha M, Domes K, Ding J, Blaich A, Wegener JW, Moosmang 
S, Hofmann F.

Author information:
(1)Forschergruppe 923, Institut für Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, Technische 
Universität München, 80802 München, Germany.

Phosphorylation of the cardiac β subunit (Ca(v)β(2)) of the Ca(v)1.2 L-type 
Ca(2+) channel complex has been proposed as a mechanism for regulation of L-type 
Ca(2+) channels by various protein kinases including PKA, CaMKII, Akt/PKB, and 
PKG. To test this hypothesis directly in vivo, we generated a knock-in mouse 
line with targeted mutation of the Ca(v)β(2) gene by insertion of a stop codon 
after proline 501 in exon 14 (mouse sequence Cacnb2; βStop mouse). This mutation 
prevented translation of the Ca(v)β(2) C terminus that contains the relevant 
phosphorylation sites for the above protein kinases. Homozygous cardiac βStop 
mice were born at Mendelian ratio, had a normal life expectancy, and normal 
basal L-type I(Ca). The regulation of the L-type current by stimulation of the 
β-adrenergic receptor was unaffected in vivo and in cardiomyocytes (CMs). βStop 
mice were cross-bred with mice expressing the Ca(v)1.2 gene containing the 
mutation S1928A (SAβStop) or S1512A and S1570A (SFβStop) in the C terminus of 
the α(1C) subunit. The β-adrenergic regulation of the cardiac I(Ca) was 
unaltered in these mouse lines. In contrast, truncation of the Ca(v)1.2 at 
Asp(1904) abolished β-adrenergic up-regulation of I(Ca) in murine embryonic CMs. 
We conclude that phosphorylation of the C-terminal sites in Ca(v)β(2), 
Ser(1928), Ser(1512), and Ser(1570) of the Ca(v)1.2 protein is functionally not 
involved in the adrenergic regulation of the murine cardiac Ca(v)1.2 channel.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M112.366484
PMCID: PMC3391128
PMID: 22589548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e33317. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033317. Epub 2012 May
10.

DYNAMO-HIA--a Dynamic Modeling tool for generic Health Impact Assessments.

Lhachimi SK(1), Nusselder WJ, Smit HA, van Baal P, Baili P, Bennett K, Fernández 
E, Kulik MC, Lobstein T, Pomerleau J, Mackenbach JP, Boshuizen HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. S.Lhachimi@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Currently, no standard tool is publicly available that allows 
researchers or policy-makers to quantify the impact of policies using 
epidemiological evidence within the causal framework of Health Impact Assessment 
(HIA). A standard tool should comply with three technical criteria (real-life 
population, dynamic projection, explicit risk-factor states) and three usability 
criteria (modest data requirements, rich model output, generally accessible) to 
be useful in the applied setting of HIA. With DYNAMO-HIA (Dynamic Modeling for 
Health Impact Assessment), we introduce such a generic software tool 
specifically designed to facilitate quantification in the assessment of the 
health impacts of policies.
METHODS AND RESULTS: DYNAMO-HIA quantifies the impact of user-specified 
risk-factor changes on multiple diseases and in turn on overall population 
health, comparing one reference scenario with one or more intervention 
scenarios. The Markov-based modeling approach allows for explicit risk-factor 
states and simulation of a real-life population. A built-in parameter estimation 
module ensures that only standard population-level epidemiological evidence is 
required, i.e. data on incidence, prevalence, relative risks, and mortality. 
DYNAMO-HIA provides a rich output of summary measures--e.g. life expectancy and 
disease-free life expectancy--and detailed data--e.g. prevalences and 
mortality/survival rates--by age, sex, and risk-factor status over time. 
DYNAMO-HIA is controlled via a graphical user interface and is publicly 
available from the internet, ensuring general accessibility. We illustrate the 
use of DYNAMO-HIA with two example applications: a policy causing an overall 
increase in alcohol consumption and quantifying the disease-burden of smoking.
CONCLUSION: By combining modest data needs with general accessibility and user 
friendliness within the causal framework of HIA, DYNAMO-HIA is a potential 
standard tool for health impact assessment based on epidemiologic evidence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033317
PMCID: PMC3349723
PMID: 22590491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


308. World J Gastrointest Surg. 2012 Apr 27;4(4):87-95. doi:
10.4240/wjgs.v4.i4.87.

Malignant ascites: A review of prognostic factors, pathophysiology and 
therapeutic measures.

Sangisetty SL(1), Miner TJ.

Author information:
(1)Suma L Sangisetty, Thomas J Miner, Department of Surgery, Warren Alpert 
Medical School of Brown University, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI 02903, 
United States.

Malignant ascites indicates the presence of malignant cells in the peritoneal 
cavity and is a grave prognostic sign. While survival in this patient population 
is poor, averaging about 20 wk from time of diagnosis, quality of life can be 
improved through palliative procedures. Selecting the appropriate treatment 
modality remains a careful process, which should take into account potential 
risks and benefits and the life expectancy of the patient. Traditional 
therapies, including paracentesis, peritoneovenous shunt placement and 
diuretics, are successful and effective in varying degrees. After careful review 
of the patient's primary tumor origin, tumor biology, tumor stage, patient 
performance status and comorbidities, surgical debulking and intraperitoneal 
chemotherapy should be considered if the benefit of therapy outweighs the risk 
of operation because survival curves can be extended and palliation of 
symptomatic malignant ascites can be achieved in select patients. In patients 
with peritoneal carcinomatosis who do not qualify for surgical cytoreduction but 
suffer from the effects of malignant ascites, intraperitoneal chemotherapy can 
be safely and effectively administered via laparoscopic techniques. Short 
operative times, short hospital stays, low complication rates and ultimately 
symptomatic relief are the advantages of laparoscopically administering heated 
intraperitoneal chemotherapy, making it not only a valuable treatment modality 
but also the most successful treatment modality for achieving palliative cure of 
malignant ascites.

DOI: 10.4240/wjgs.v4.i4.87
PMCID: PMC3351493
PMID: 22590662


309. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2012 Jul 1;10(4):273-84. doi: 
10.2165/11633220-000000000-00000.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of treatments for vertebral compression fractures.

Edidin AA(1), Ong KL, Lau E, Schmier JK, Kemner JE, Kurtz SM.

Author information:
(1)Medtronic Spinal and Biologics, Sunnyvale, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Vertebral compression fractures (VCFs) can be treated by nonsurgical 
management or by minimally invasive surgical treatment including vertebroplasty 
and balloon kyphoplasty.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the present study was to characterize the cost to 
Medicare for treating VCF-diagnosed patients by nonsurgical management, 
vertebroplasty, or kyphoplasty. We hypothesized that surgical treatments for 
VCFs using vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty would be a cost-effective alternative 
to nonsurgical management for the Medicare patient population.
METHODS: Cost per life-year gained for VCF patients in the US Medicare 
population was compared between operated (kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty) and 
non-operated patients and between kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty patients, all 
as a function of patient age and gender. Life expectancy was estimated using a 
parametric Weibull survival model (adjusted for comorbidities) for 858 978 VCF 
patients in the 100% Medicare dataset (2005-2008). Median payer costs were 
identified for each treatment group for up to 3 years following VCF diagnosis, 
based on 67 018 VCF patients in the 5% Medicare dataset (2005-2008). A discount 
rate of 3% was used for the base case in the cost-effectiveness analysis, with 
0% and 5% discount rates used in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: After accounting for the differences in median costs and using a 
discount rate of 3%, the cost per life-year gained for kyphoplasty and 
vertebroplasty patients ranged from $US1863 to $US6687 and from $US2452 to 
$US13 543, respectively, compared with non-operated patients. The cost per 
life-year gained for kyphoplasty compared with vertebroplasty ranged from 
-$US4878 (cost saving) to $US2763.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients for whom surgical treatment was indicated, 
kyphoplasty was found to be cost effective, and perhaps even cost saving, 
compared with vertebroplasty. Even for the oldest patients (85 years of age and 
older), both interventions would be considered cost effective in terms of cost 
per life-year gained.

DOI: 10.2165/11633220-000000000-00000
PMID: 22591065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Dis Esophagus. 2013 Apr;26(3):250-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2012.01353.x.
 Epub 2012 May 16.

Systematic review and pooled analysis assessing the association between elderly 
age and outcome following surgical resection of esophageal malignancy.

Markar SR(1), Karthikesalingam A, Thrumurthy S, Ho A, Muallem G, Low DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA 
98111, USA.

The incidence of esophageal malignancy continues to increase worldwide. At the 
same time, average life expectancy levels continue to climb, ensuring that more 
patients will present in their 70s, 80s, and 90s. The aim of this pooled 
analysis is to compare short- and long-term outcomes for elderly and younger 
patients undergoing esophagectomy for malignancy. Studies comparing the outcomes 
of esophagectomy for malignancy in elderly and young cohorts of patients were 
included. The minimum threshold age used to define the elderly cohort was 70 
years. Primary outcomes were in-hospital mortality, overall and cancer-related 
5-year survival. Secondary outcomes were the length of hospital stay, the 
incidence of anastomotic leak, conduit ischemia, cardiac and pulmonary 
complications, and the use of neoadjuvant therapy. Twenty-five publications 
comprising 9531 and 2573 operations on younger and elderly cohorts of patients 
respectively were analyzed. Elderly patients were less likely to receive 
neoadjuvant therapy (14.6% vs. 29.47%; pooled odds ratio [POR]= 0.48; 95% 
confidence interval [C.I.]= 0.35-0.65; P < 0.05). Esophagectomy in elderly 
patients was associated with increased in-hospital mortality (7.83% vs. 4.21%; 
POR = 1.87; 95% C.I. = 1.54-2.26; P < 0.05), as well as increased pulmonary 
(21.77% vs. 19.49%) and cardiac (18.7% vs. 13.17%) complications. Subset 
analysis of studies using an age threshold of 80 years showed an even more 
significant association between in-hospital mortality and elderly age (pooled 
odds ratio = 3.19; 95% C.I. = 1.6-6.35; P < 0.05). There were no significant 
differences between the groups in length of hospital stay, incidence of 
anastomotic leak, or conduit ischemia. The elderly group showed reduced overall 
5-year survival (21.23% vs. 29.01%; pooled odds ratio = 0.73; 95% C.I. = 
0.62-0.87; P < 0.05) and reduced cancer-free 5-year survival (34.4% vs. 41.8%; 
POR = 0.75; 95% C.I. = 0.64-0.89; P < 0.05). Elderly patients are at increased 
risk of pulmonary and cardiac complications, and perioperative mortality 
following esophagectomy, and show reduced cancer-related 5-year survival 
compared with younger patients. These patients represent a high-risk cohort, who 
requires thorough assessment of medical comorbidity, targeted counseling, and 
optimized treatment pathways.

© 2012 Copyright the Authors. Journal compilation © 2012, Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc. and the International Society for Diseases of the Esophagus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2012.01353.x
PMID: 22591068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jul 1;30(7):551-64. doi: 
10.2165/11590120-000000000-00000.
