controlled, and postoperative complications, including infection and thrombosis, 
should be treated prophylactically to promote safety and postoperative recovery.

PMID: 22460518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Clin Cases Miner Bone Metab. 2008 Jan;5(1):14-8.

Osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases' cosegregation: epidemiological 
features.

Piscitelli P(1), Iolascon G, Gimigliano F, Gimigliano A, Marinelli A, Di Nuzzo 
R, Colì G, Di Paola L, Gianicolo E, Chitano G, Sbenaglia V, Gismondi R, Greco M, 
Camilli D, Modena MG, Brandi ML, Distante A, Cozma A.

Author information:
(1)Second University of Naples.

Life expectancy in Italy is estimated to rise to 77.9 and 84.4 years in next 
years. Increased life expectancy is associated with a greater frailty of elderly 
people and an increased prevalence of chronic and degenerative illnesses such as 
cardiovascular diseases and osteoporosis. The impact of osteoporotic hip 
fractures in Italy is very similar to that of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 
and there is a need for further epidemiological investigations concerning both 
the pathologies, as well as for a better understanding of possible mechanisms of 
their cosegregation. Actually, calcium metabolism is involved both in the 
development of osteoporosis and in the raise of cardiovascular risk. We have 
reviewed the most recent publications concerning epidemiological trends of both 
osteoporosis and acute myocardial infarction (AMI), and also the trials 
addressing cosegregation of these pathologies. According to the publications 
examined, in the Italian population (both ≥ 45 and > 65 years old), the number 
of hospitalizations following hip fracture and AMI are comparable. Both hip 
fractures and cardiovascular diseases represent in Italy a serious medical 
problem and a leading health cost driver, according to what has already been 
reported for many other Countries in the industrialized world, thus requiring a 
global clinical approach. Low calcium intake could represent one of the possible 
pathogenic paths underlining the association between hypertension and 
osteoporosis. Low calcium serum levels has been proved to enhance PTH and 
vitamin D3 production, which result in a remarkable lypogenesis performed by 
adypocites and switch on mechanisms leading to the raise of blood systolic 
pressure, the development of atherosclerotic plaques and cardiovascular events. 
Although many trials have suggested that bone mineral density may be included in 
the list of cardiovascular risk factors, more studies are needed in order to 
deeply investigate the causal relationships between calcium metabolism and 
cardiovascular diseases.

PMCID: PMC2781189
PMID: 22460841


951. Clin Cases Miner Bone Metab. 2008 May;5(2):155-8.

New dosing options in osteoporosis treatment: clinical evidence on Risedronate 
75mg monthly treatment.

Brandi ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Mineral and Bone Metabolic Disorders Department of Internal Medicine 
University of Florence, Florence, Italy.

Prevention of osteoporosis fractures is currently possible by implementing 
lifestyle changes as well as with effective treatments. The role played by 
different agents is particularly important in reducing the risk of hip fracture, 
which is certainly the most severe consequence of osteoporosis in terms of 
deteriorating quality of life for the patient, reduced life expectancy and 
health care costs.In order to choose an adequate treatment, therapies with 
well-established efficacy should be considered. In addition, for medical 
treatment success, patient adherence is essential. Recently published clinical 
data show that risedronate 75mg, administered monthly on two consecutive days, 
equivalent to risedronate 5 mg daily in terms of BMD changes, bone turnover 
markers and incidence of new vertebral fractures, and has an equivalent safety 
profile. The new risedronate 75mg monthly formulation, administered on two 
consecutive days, is therefore the first and only oral monthly therapy with 
proven efficacy in reducing the risk of vertebral, non-vertebral and hip 
fractures, and a safety profile confirmed by Phase III trials and 8-year 
post-marketing experience of risedronate. Monthly dosing may offer the advantage 
of improving patient compliance and persistence on the treatment, thanks to the 
less frequent administration.

PMCID: PMC2781207
PMID: 22461000


952. J Clin Ethics. 2012 Spring;23(1):71-8.

Surrogate medical decision making on behalf of a never-competent, profoundly 
intellectually disabled patient who is acutely ill.

Venkat A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine at Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA. avenkat@wpahs.org

Comment in
    J Clin Ethics. 2012 Spring;23(1):79-83.

With the improvements in medical care and resultant increase in life expectancy 
of the intellectually disabled, it will become more common for healthcare 
providers to be confronted by ethical dilemmas in the care of this patient 
population. Many of the dilemmas will focus on what is in the best interest of 
patients who have never been able to express their wishes with regard to medical 
and end-of-life care and who should be empowered to exercise surrogate medical 
decision-making authority on their behalf. A case is presented that exemplifies 
the ethical and legal tensions surrounding surrogate medical decision making for 
acutely ill, never-competent, profoundly intellectually disabled patients.

PMID: 22462387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Ann Epidemiol. 2012 Apr;22(4):285-94. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2012.01.009.

Income inequality and cause-specific mortality during economic development.

Lau EW(1), Schooling CM, Tin KY, Leung GM.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.

PURPOSE: Life expectancy is strongly related to national income, whether there 
is an additional contribution of income inequality is unclear.
METHODS: We used negative binomial regression to examine the association of 
neighborhood-level Gini, adjusted for age, sex, and income, with mortality rates 
in Hong Kong from 1976 to 2006.
RESULTS: The association of neighborhood Gini with all-cause mortality varied 
over time (p-value for interaction < .01). Neighborhood Gini was positively 
associated with nonmedical mortality in 1976 to 1986; incident rate ratio (IRR) 
1.09, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.02-1.16 per 0.1 change and in 1991 to 
2006, IRR 1.24, 95% CI 1.13-1.36, adjusted for age, sex and absolute income. 
Similarly adjusted, Gini was not associated with all-cause mortality in 1976 to 
1986 (IRR 0.96, 95% CI 0.93-1.00) but was in 1991 to 2006 (IRR 1.25, 95% CI 
1.20-1.29), when Gini was also positively associated with death from 
cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases and some cancers.
CONCLUSIONS: Independent of income, income inequality was positively associated 
with nonmedical mortality rates at a low level of spatial aggregation, 
indicating the consistent harms of social disharmony. However, the impact on 
medical mortality was less consistent, suggesting the relevance of contextual 
factors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2012.01.009
PMID: 22463844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Eur J Cancer. 2012 Sep;48(13):1939-46. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2012.03.004. Epub
 2012 Mar 29.

Early discontinuation of tamoxifen intake in younger women with breast cancer: 
is it time to rethink the way it is prescribed?

Huiart L(1), Bouhnik AD, Rey D, Tarpin C, Cluze C, Bendiane MK, Viens P, Giorgi 
R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Genetics, Prevention and Screening, Institut 
Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France. huiartl@marseille.fnclcc.fr

BACKGROUND: Tamoxifen is the main recommended adjuvant hormonal treatment for 
premenopausal women with hormone-responsive early breast cancer. Little data is 
available on compliance and persistence to tamoxifen intake in younger women.
METHODS: Using the French National Health Insurance System database, we 
constituted a cohort of 288 women who were diagnosed with breast cancer and 
received at least one supply of tamoxifen for breast cancer between September 
2005 and July 2011. Medical records and mailed questionnaires provided 
complementary sources of data. Time to treatment discontinuation and associated 
predictors were studied using techniques for censored data.
RESULTS: Among women who received a prescription of tamoxifen, 6.1% (16) did not 
fill any prescription. After 2 years of tamoxifen intake, 29.7% (95%confidence 
interval (CI) 24.1-36.4) had discontinued their treatment; after 3 years this 
percentage increased to 39.5% (95% CI 32.9-47.0). The risk of treatment 
discontinuation rose sharply during the 1st year of treatment and remained 
approximately constant in the second year. After multivariate adjustment, 
tamoxifen discontinuation increased significantly with low social support 
(Hazard Ratio (HR) = 2.1; 95%CI 1.2-3.4), and self-reporting of non-compliance 
behaviour (HR = 2.2; 95% CI 1.3-3.7).
CONCLUSION: The consequences of high treatment discontinuation rates in younger 
women with long potential life expectancy may be significant. There is an urgent 
need to acknowledge and tackle compliance issues in the field of oncology, 
unless we are willing to accept inefficient prescriptions of efficacious drugs.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2012.03.004
PMID: 22464016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Gac Sanit. 2012 Jul-Aug;26(4):330-5. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.12.016. Epub
 2012 Mar 29.

[Analysis of disability-free life expectancy over the lifespan: from maturity to 
old age].

[Article in Spanish]

Escobar Bravo MÁ(1), Puga González MD, Martín Baranera M.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Lleida, Lleida, España. miguel.escobar@infermeria.udl.cat

OBJECTIVE: To determine the life stages in which disability-free life expectancy 
is shortened before the age of 70 years.
METHOD: A retrospective longitudinal analysis was carried out in a cohort of 
1,286 non-institutionalized people aged from 70 to 74 years old living in 
metropolitan areas. Disability was measured by instrumental and basic activities 
of daily living. Disability-free life expectancy was calculated. The 
Kaplan-Meier method was used to calculate survival probabilities.
RESULTS: The incidence of basic disability increased from 50 to 54 years old and 
progressively accelerated until the age of 65-69 years old when the probability 
of instrumental disability was slightly higher among men than among women (0.23 
in men versus 0.19 in women). Disability-free survival was lower among women 
than among men both for all types of disability (LogRank = 5.80; p = 0.016) and 
for basic disability (LogRank = 4.315; p = 0.038).
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals the importance of instrumental disability for 
domestic tasks among older men. Women had a lower probability of disability-free 
survival and were more likely to be affected by any type of disability as well 
as by basic disability. For both genders, there is a slight decrease in 
disability-free survival from the age of 40 to 60 years. From this age onwards, 
this decrease markedly accelerates.

Copyright © 2011 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2011.12.016
PMID: 22464022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2012 Apr;43(4):795-801. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.269.

To stent or not to stent: an evidence-based approach to palliative procedures at 
the end of life.

Dy SM(1), Harman SM, Braun UK, Howie LJ, Harris PF, Jayes RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. sdy@jhsph.edu

Patients near the end of life often undergo invasive procedures, such as biliary 
stenting for obstructive jaundice, with the intent of relieving symptoms. We 
describe a case in which the medical team and a patient and family are 
considering a second palliative biliary stent despite the patient's limited life 
expectancy. We review available evidence to inform the decision, focusing on the 
specific question of whether the benefits of palliative biliary stents in 
patients with advanced cancer outweigh the risks. We then apply the evidence to 
the issue of how the primary and/or palliative care team and the interventionist 
communicate with patients and their families about the risks and benefits of 
palliative procedures. Review of the evidence found several prospective case 
series without control groups that measured patient-centered outcomes. Studies 
had high attrition rates, results for improvements in symptoms and quality of 
life were mixed, and rates of complications and short-term mortality were high. 
In conclusion, the limited evidence does not support that the benefits of 
palliative biliary stents in this population outweigh the risks. We propose that 
primary care teams consider and discuss the larger picture of the goals of care 
with patients and families when considering offering these procedures, as well 
as benefits and potential harms, and consider involving palliative care services 
early, before consultation with an interventionist.

Copyright © 2012 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.269
PMCID: PMC4696003
PMID: 22464354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Am J Kidney Dis. 2012 Jun;59(6):758-60. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2012.02.322.
Epub  2012 Mar 30.

Desensitization offers hope to highly HLA-sensitized patients for a longer life 
expectancy after incompatible kidney transplant.

Jordan SC, Vo AA.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Jul 28;365(4):318-26.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2012.02.322
PMID: 22464877


958. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2012 Nov-Dec;55(3):660-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2012.02.013. Epub 2012 Mar 30.

Opportunities for improved trauma care of the elderly - a single center analysis 
of 2090 severely injured patients.

Schönenberger A(1), Billeter AT, Seifert B, Neuhaus V, Trentz O, Turina M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Trauma Surgery, University of Zurich 
Hospital, Rämistrasse 100, CH-8091 Zurich, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: Western trauma centers are increasingly confronted with elderly trauma 
patients in parallel to an increase of the elderly population. The purpose of 
this study was to identify shortcomings and opportunities for improvement in the 
treatment of elderly trauma patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of a prospectively collected 
single-center trauma database. Patients were grouped according to age and 
analyzed using univariate and multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: 158 patients (7.6%) were older than 75 years, and 604 patients (28.9%) 
were between 50 and 75 years. Although comparable with respect to injury 
severity (injury severity score (ISS) 29-33) and age-adjusted Acute Physiologic 
and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) score, there was a significant increase 
in mortality beyond the age of 50 (>75 years: 63.9%), with age being an 
independent predictor of mortality. Despite a similar rate and severity of head 
injuries (affecting 71% of all patients), mortality of head injuries was highest 
in patients >75 years (70.2%), accounting for the increased mortality in this 
group. Patients >75 years old were less likely to undergo craniotomy, and 
withdrawal of medical support occurred five times more frequently. Surviving 
patients ≥50 years required shorter ICU care than patients below 50 years (7.8 
vs. 12.4 days).
CONCLUSIONS: With increasing life expectancy and sustained independence, elderly 
trauma patients have become a regular occurrence in trauma services. Despite 
comparable injury severity and physiologic status upon admission, these patients 
suffer from disproportionately high mortality rates. Closed head injuries 
account for the majority of fatalities, regardless of the extent of therapeutic 
measures applied.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2012.02.013
PMID: 22465302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Drug Discov Ther. 2011 Jun;5(3):109-18. doi: 10.5582/ddt.2011.v5.3.109.

Anti-aging effects of oligomeric proanthocyanidins isolated from persimmon 
fruits.

Yokozawa T(1), Lee YA, Cho EJ, Matsumoto K, Park CH, Shibahara N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Natural Medicine, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.

Senescence-accelerated mouse prone/8 (SAMP8), a murine model of accelerated 
senescence, shows age-related deficits in learning and memory. The oral 
administration of oligomers improved spatial and object recognition impairment 
in SAMP8. The expression of phosphorylated neurofilament-H was significantly 
elevated in the hippocampal CA1. This indicates that oligomers induce an 
increase in the density of axons. To investigate the protective mechanisms of 
oligomers against brain dysfunction with aging, we carried out a receptor 
tyrosine kinase phosphorylation antibody array, and clarified that the 
administration of oligomers led to an increase in the phosphorylation of 
vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-2, suggesting the 
neuroprotective role of oligomers. The phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 was more 
markedly increased in the hypothalamus and choroid plexus than in other brain 
regions of SAMP8. Memory in oligomer-treated mice was impaired by SU1498, a 
VEGFR-2-specific antagonist. Elucidating the relationship between memory 
impairment with aging and VEGFR-2 signaling may provide new suggestions for 
protection against memory deficit in the aging brain. In addition, we revealed 
that the administration of oligomers extended the life span of SAMP8. Oligomers 
elevated SIRT1 expression, which is recognized as an essential factor for life 
span extension in the brain. However, the administration of oligomers did not 
induce stereotypical behaviors such as rearing, jumping, or hanging from the lid 
of a cage, while food restriction increased these frequencies without a 
significant change in motor function. The present study suggests the promising 
role of oligomers as an anti-aging agent to extend life span.

DOI: 10.5582/ddt.2011.v5.3.109
PMID: 22466239


960. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012 Jun;67(6):652-60. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls086. Epub 2012 Mar 30.

GH and IGF1: roles in energy metabolism of long-living GH mutant mice.

Brown-Borg HM(1), Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology & Therapeutics, School of Medicine & 
Health Sciences, University of North Dakota, 501 North Columbia Road, Grand 
Forks, ND 58202-9037, USA. holly.brown.borg@med.und.edu

Of the multiple theories to explain exceptional longevity, the most robust of 
these has centered on the reduction of three anabolic protein hormones, growth 
hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor, and insulin. GH mutant mice live 50% 
longer and exhibit significant differences in several aspects of energy 
metabolism as compared with wild-type mice. Mitochondrial metabolism is 
upregulated in the absence of GH, whereas in GH transgenic mice and dwarf mice 
treated with GH, multiple aspects of these pathways are suppressed. Core body 
temperature is markedly lower in dwarf mice, yet whole-body metabolism, as 
measured by indirect calorimetry, is surprisingly higher in Ames dwarf and 
Ghr-/- mice compared with normal controls. Elevated adiponectin, a key 
antiinflammatory cytokine, is also very likely to contribute to longevity in 
these mice. Thus, several important components related to energy metabolism are 
altered in GH mutant mice, and these differences are likely critical in aging 
processes and life-span extension.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls086
PMCID: PMC3348496
PMID: 22466316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Retina. 2012 Jul;32(7):1363-72. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e31824d09a8.

Clinical spectrum and prognosis of uveal melanoma based on age at presentation 
in 8,033 cases.

Shields CL(1), Kaliki S, Furuta M, Mashayekhi A, Shields JA.

Author information:
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Institute, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. carol.shields@shieldsoncology.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate clinical features and life prognosis of uveal melanoma 
based on age at presentation.
DESIGN: Retrospective, nonrandomized, interventional case series.
RESULTS: Of 8,033 eyes with uveal melanoma, 106 (1%) were in young patients (≤20 
years), 4,287 (53%) in mid adults (21-60 years), and 3,640 (45%) in older adults 
(>60 years). Based on age (young, mid adults, and older adults) at presentation, 
tumor epicenter was located in iris (21, 4, 2%; P < 0.0001), ciliary body (8, 5, 
and 7%; P = 0.0225), or choroid (71, 91, and 90%; P < 0.0001). Mean tumor 
diameter (10.2, 10.8, 11.5 mm; P < 0.0001), mean tumor thickness (5.0, 5.3, 5.7 
mm; P < 0.0001), and extraocular extension (1, 2, and 4%; P = 0.0004) increased 
with age. Kaplan-Meier estimates of tumor-related metastasis at 3, 5, 10, and 20 
years were 2%, 9%, 9%, and 20% in young patients (P < 0.011); 6%, 12%, 23%, and 
34% in mid adults (P < 0.0001); and 11%, 19%, 28%, and 39% in older adults. 
Kaplan-Meier estimate of tumor-related death at 3, 5, 10, and 20 years were 0%, 
2%, 5%, and 17% in young patients (P = 0.08); 3%, 6%, 11%, and 17% in mid adults 
(P < 0.001); and 7%, 11%, 16%, and 20% in older adults.
CONCLUSION: Compared with mid adults and older adults, young patients manifested 
a higher proportion of iris melanoma. Compared with older adults, young and mid 
adults showed smaller melanoma basal dimension and lower tumor-related 
metastasis and death.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e31824d09a8
PMID: 22466491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2012 Sep 15;37(20):1734-41. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318255a184.

Is anterior cervical fusion with a porous tantalum implant a cost-effective 
method to treat cervical disc disease with radiculopathy?

Fernández-Fairen M(1), Murcia A, Torres A, Hernández-Vaquero D, Menzie AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Instituto de Cirugía Ortopédica y 
Traumatología de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 Feb 15;38(4):369.
    Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 Feb 15;38(4):370-1.

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective cost-effectiveness analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative cost-effectiveness of anterior cervical 
discectomy with fusion (ACDF) using a porous tantalum implant compared with 
autograft with plating, for single-level cervical disc disease with 
radiculopathy.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: ACDF with autograft as an interbody spacer is a 
generally accepted method to treat degenerated cervical discs with 
radiculopathy. Concerns about donor site morbidity and the structural 
characteristics of autograft stimulated investigations of alternative materials. 
Techniques may differ in their operative risks, complications, outcomes, and 
resource use.
METHODS: A retrospective review of clinical outcomes and total cost of illness 
for 5 years postsurgery was performed for 61 consecutive patients enrolled for 
this study. Twenty-eight patients were treated with single-level ACDF using 
either a stand-alone, porous tantalum implant, without graft inside the implant, 
and 33 patients received autograft and plating. A cost-effectiveness analysis 
comparing the 2 ACDF treatment methods was conducted. This article reports 
clinical assessments, quality adjusted life years gained, and an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio analysis.
RESULTS: Patients in both cohorts reported improved clinical outcomes, including 
neck disability index, visual analogue scale, Short-Form 36, Odom's clinical 
assessment, and patient satisfaction at 5 years postindex surgery. The mean cost 
of illness for the study period, including preoperative through 5 years 
postoperative assessments, was 6806 per patient treated with tantalum and 10,143 
per patient receiving autograft and plate. Quality-adjusted life years (QALY) 
gained were 9.41 and 7.14 for the tantalum and control cohorts, respectively. 
The cost per QALY for the tantalum group was 723 and 1420 for the control group. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of ACDF with a porous tantalum implant 
compared with ACDF with autograft and plate was -1473 per patient per year for 
the duration of this study.
CONCLUSION: This cost-effectiveness analysis reports favorable results for ACDF 
procedures utilizing a tantalum implant. The data reported suggest that using 
porous tantalum as a stand-alone device is less costly and more effective than 
autograft and plate in ACDF procedures.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318255a184
PMID: 22466632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Int Angiol. 2012 Apr;31(2):163-8.

Extreme endovascular revascularization for limb salvage in critical limb 
ischemia.

Mandolfino T(1), Canciglia A, Lamberto S, Calogero S, D'Alfonso M, Bottari A.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Messina, 
Messina, Italy. tommasomandolfino@libero.it

AIM: Distal bypass has been considered as a primary choice for the treatment of 
critical limb ischemia (CLI). When bypass failed with limb threatening ischemia, 
the amputation rate is high in patients with increased surgical risks and lack 
of conduit. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) has been shown to be 
effective and safe in the setting of CLI even in patients with failed bypass 
graft. The aim of this study was to review our experience and results of extreme 
endovascular revascularization in patients with CLI following occluded lower 
limb bypass graft.
METHODS: Retrospective review from January 2005 to June 2008 of patients with 
CLI following occluded bypass graft who underwent PTA was performed. All 
patients were studied by Duplex scanning and dual-energy computed tomographic 
angiography (DE-CTA) bone removal technique. Stents were used in cases of 
residual stenosis or dissection. Technical success was defined as a residual 
stenosis less than 30%. Demographics, comorbidities, functional status, details 
of the procedure information were recorded. Descriptive, logistic regression and 
life-table analyses performed.
RESULTS: Thirty-six patients with occluded bypass grafts were treated. The mean 
age was 69 years (range 56-89), 44% were older than 80 years, 83% had diabetes 
mellitus, 88% of limbs treated had multiple lesions included Tasc C and D 
lesions. Technical success was achieved in 91%. Mean follow-up was 24 months. At 
follow-up, there were 19 PTA failures which were followed by subsequent 
procedures: redo PTA in 16 limbs, redo bypass in 2, amputation in 5. Cumulative 
primary patency was 60% (±0.08 SE) and 24% (±0.07 SE). Secondary patency was 96% 
(±0.03 SE) and 83% (±0.08 SE). Limb salvage was 84% (±0.06 SE) and 70% (±0.10 
SE). Freedom from surgical revision was 78% (±0.07 SE) and 54% (±0.11 SE). 
Overall survival was 89% (±0.05 SE) and 58% (±0.11 SE) at 12 and 24 months, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular revascularization of patients with CLI and occluded 
bypass graft is a safe and feasible procedure with reasonable technical and 
clinical success and limb salvage. PTA may be the only alternative to amputation 
in these patients with extensive comorbidities and limited life expectancy.

PMID: 22466982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Neurooncol. 2012 Jul;108(3):527-34. doi: 10.1007/s11060-012-0855-y. Epub
2012  Mar 31.

Identifying the palliative care needs of patients living with cerebral tumors 
and metastases: a retrospective analysis.

Gofton TE(1), Graber J, Carver A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, Department of Pain and Palliative Care, Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10065, USA. tgofton@uwo.ca

Primary tumors and metastatic involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) 
lead to a multitude of symptoms and care needs. Patients and caregivers struggle 
with physical and psychological impairments, a shortened life expectancy and 
diverse palliative care needs. This study assesses the symptom burden and 
palliative care needs of patients with primary brain tumors and with metastatic 
brain tumors requiring inpatient hospital care. It is a retrospective analysis 
of patients with primary CNS tumors or cerebral metastases over a 6 month 
period. The data analysed included physical symptom burden and end of life care 
decisions such as health care proxy, transition to hospice and 
do-not-resuscitate orders. Hundred and sixty eight patients were included. The 
most common symptoms were gait impairment (65.5 %), cognitive/personality change 
(61.9 %), motor deficits (58.3 %), seizures (57.1 %) and delirium (27.4 %). Of 
the patients that died, 79 % had an appointed health care proxy, 79 % had 
hospice discussions, 70 % had a do-not-resuscitate order and 24 % received 
cancer directed therapy in the last month of life. There is a role for more 
aggressive palliative care support in patients living with primary or metastatic 
brain tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-012-0855-y
PMID: 22467138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Adv Ther. 2012 Apr;29 Suppl 1:1-16. doi: 10.1007/s12325-012-0010-3. Epub
2012  Mar 16.

Advances in hemophilia care: report of two symposia at the Hemophilia 2010 World 
Congress.

Dolan G(1), Cruz JA, Steinhagen-Thiessen E, Kessler C, Haaning J, Lemm G, 
Altisent C, Guerrero C, Hermans C, Riske B, Bolton-Maggs P.

Author information:
(1)Nottingham Haemophilia Comprehensive Care Centre, University Hospital, 
Queen's Medical Centre, Derby Road, Nottingham, NG7 2UH, UK. 
Gerry.Dolan@nottingham.ac.uk

The World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) 2010 World Congress held in Buenos 
Aires, Argentina, in July 2010, attracted more than 4,300 participants from 106 
countries. This report summarizes two symposia held during the congress. The 
first, titled "Emerging Co-Morbidities in the Aging Hemophilia Population: 
Healthcare Challenges and Treatment Opportunities," chaired by Gerry Dolan, MD, 
and Jussara Almeida Cruz, MD, examined the co-morbidities experienced by the 
aging hemophilic patient population, such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, 
arthritis, osteoporosis, hypertension, and obesity. In addition, Bayer's 
products in preclinical and clinical development were reviewed, including a 
novel factor VIIa variant and a long-acting factor VIII molecule, i.e., one that 
has undergone site-specific PEGylation (attachment of polyethylene glycol [PEG] 
polymer chains to another molecule). The other symposium, titled "Practical 
Steps to Making Better Care for Hemophilia Patients a Reality," chaired by 
Carmen Altisent, MD, and Cesar Guerrero, RN, reviewed the steps that hemophilia 
caregivers can take to improve the care of their patients. Issues such as the 
treatment of hemarthroses, the role of the research nurse, and the management of 
pediatric patients transitioning to adulthood were discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-012-0010-3
PMID: 22467446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Drugs. 2012 Apr 16;72(6):825-45. doi: 10.2165/11208880-000000000-00000.

OnabotulinumtoxinA (BOTOX®): a review of its use in the prophylaxis of headaches 
in adults with chronic migraine.

Frampton JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

This article reviews the pharmacology, therapeutic efficacy and tolerability 
profile of intramuscularly injected onabotulinumtoxinA (onaBoNTA; BOTOX®) for 
headache prophylaxis in adults with chronic migraine, with a focus on UK 
labelling for the drug. The pharmacological actions of onaBoNTA include a direct 
antinociceptive (analgesic) effect; while not fully understood, the mechanism of 
action underlying its headache prophylaxis effect in chronic migraine is 
presumed to involve inhibition of peripheral and central sensitization in 
trigeminovascular neurones. Pooled findings from two large phase III studies of 
virtually identical design (PREEMPT [Phase III REsearch Evaluating Migraine 
Prophylaxis Therapy] 1 and 2) showed that treatment with up to five cycles of 
onaBoNTA (155-195 units/cycle) at 12-week intervals was effective in reducing 
headache symptoms, decreasing headache-related disability, and improving 
health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) in patients with chronic migraine, 
approximately two-thirds of whom were overusing acute headache medications at 
baseline. During the double-blind phase of both trials, significantly more 
patients treated with onaBoNTA (two cycles) than placebo experienced clinically 
meaningful improvements in the monthly frequencies of headache days, moderate to 
severe headache days and migraine days, and in the cumulative hours of headache 
on headache days/month. OnaBoNTA therapy also resulted in statistically 
significant and clinically meaningful improvements in functioning and HR-QOL 
compared with placebo. Notably, improvements in headache symptoms, functioning 
and HR-QOL favouring onaBoNTA over placebo were seen regardless of whether or 
not patients were medication overusers and irrespective of whether or not they 
were naive to (oral) prophylactic therapy. Further improvements relative to 
baseline in headache symptoms, functioning and HR-QOL were observed during the 
open-label extension phase of both trials (all patients received three cycles of 
onaBoNTA). Treatment with up to five cycles of onaBoNTA was generally well 
tolerated in the PREEMPT trials. Treatment-related adverse events reported by 
onaBoNTA recipients (e.g. neck pain, facial paresis and eyelid ptosis) were 
consistent with the well established tolerability profile of the neurotoxin when 
injected into head and neck muscles; no new safety events were observed. Debate 
surrounding the PREEMPT studies has centred on the small treatment effect of 
onaBoNTA relative to placebo, the possibility that blinding was inadequate and 
the relevance of the evaluated population. Nonetheless, the totality of the data 
showed that onaBoNTA therapy produced clinically meaningful improvements in 
headache symptoms, functioning and HR-QOL; on the basis of these trials, it has 
become the first (and so far only) headache prophylactic therapy to be 
specifically approved for chronic migraine in the UK and US. Overall, onaBoNTA 
offers a beneficial, acceptably tolerated and potentially convenient option for 
the management of this highly disabling condition, for example in patients who 
are refractory to oral medications used for prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.2165/11208880-000000000-00000
PMID: 22468643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. J Palliat Med. 2012 Apr;15(4):400-3. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0314. Epub 2012
Apr  2.

Mood and pain responses to repeat dose intramuscular ketamine in a depressed 
patient with advanced cancer.

Zanicotti CG(1), Perez D, Glue P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, Dunedin School of Medicine, University 
of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand. claudiagrott@hotmail.com

Depression is highly prevalent in patients with advanced cancer, commonly 
affecting quality of life. Considering the response delay with conventional 
antidepressants and the short life expectancy for these patients, treatments for 
Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) with faster onset of action are desirable. In 
this case report, a female patient with metastatic ovarian cancer presented 
rapid and sustained response to intramuscular (IM) injections of ketamine 
(1mg/kg). Over a course of six treatments, her mood response was identical on 
each occasion and provided remission of her depressive symptoms. Pain was also 
improved, although for a shorter duration. These findings support the use of IM 
ketamine as a possible antidepressant option for this population.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0314
PMID: 22468772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2012 Mar;7(3):217-29. doi: 
10.1517/17460441.2012.660144. Epub 2012 Feb 2.

Aging biology: a new frontier for drug discovery.

Verdaguer E(1), Junyent F, Folch J, Beas-Zarate C, Auladell C, Pallàs M, Camins 
A.

Author information:
(1)Unitat de Farmacologia i Farmacognòsia Facultat de Farmàcia, Institut de 
Biomedicina, Centros de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas, Universitat de Barcelona, Nucli Universitari de Pedralbes, 
Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of age-related pathologies, such as cardiovascular 
disease, neurodegenerative disease and diabetes type II, has increased 
dramatically with the rising average age of populations. Antiaging molecules and 
appropriate animal models need to be developed to prevent and or delay 
alterations that occur during aging and are manifested as age-associated 
illnesses.
AREAS COVERED: This review covers the main experimental models used in aging 
research, from invertebrates up to nonhuman primates. The authors discuss 
studies of the biochemical pathways involved in dietary restriction, which has 
been associated with life span extension. The authors also describe the 
implications of sirtuin 1, insulin growth factor, mTOR (the mammalian target of 
rapamycin) and AMPK activation, which are well-characterized antiaging pathways. 
All these pathways are highly conserved from invertebrates to nonhuman primates. 
Although some invertebrate models are used to study the antiaging properties of 
drugs, mice models and nonhuman primates are more suitable, as the study of 
changes in memory loss is critical. The review highlights the conservation of 
the aging pathways between species.
EXPERT OPINION: Further studies on aging should focus on two ways: i) improving 
animal models, for example, the genetically heterogeneous mice and ii) drug 
research. It is almost impossible to evaluate clinically the efficacy of 
antiaging drugs. Moreover, caloric restriction currently constitutes the most 
effective antiaging pathway. Thus, the strategy is to study drugs for 
aging-associated diseases, such as diabetes, that also have antiaging effects.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2012.660144
PMID: 22468953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(17):1-266. doi: 10.3310/hta16170.

Elucigene FH20 and LIPOchip for the diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia: 
a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Sharma P(1), Boyers D, Boachie C, Stewart F, Miedzybrodzka Z, Simpson W, Kilonzo 
M, McNamee P, Mowatt G.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. p.sharma@abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant genetic 
condition causing a high risk of coronary heart disease. The prevalence of this 
disease is about 1 in 500 in the UK, affecting about 120,000 people across the 
whole of the UK. Current guidelines recommend DNA testing, however, these 
guidelines are poorly implemented, therefore 102,000 or 85% of this group remain 
undiagnosed.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the diagnostic accuracy, effect on patient outcomes and 
cost-effectiveness of Elucigene FH20 and LIPOchip for the diagnosis of FH.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases including MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other 
Non-Indexed Citations, EMBASE, BIOSIS, Science Citation Index, Conference 
Proceedings Citation Index - Science and Cochrane Controlled Trials Register 
were searched until January 2011.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the literature on diagnostic accuracy was 
carried out according to standard methods. An economic model was constructed to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of alternative diagnostic strategies for the 
confirmation of clinically diagnosed FH in index cases and for the 
identification and subsequent testing of first-, second- and possibly 
third-degree biological relatives of the index case. Twelve strategies were 
evaluated linking diagnostic accuracy to treatment outcomes and hence 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were undertaken to investigate model and parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: Fifteen studies were included for diagnostic accuracy; three reported 
Elucigene FH20, five reported LIPOchip, four reported low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-C) tests and three reported an age- and gender-specific LDL-C 
test against a reference standard of comprehensive genetic analysis (CGA). 
Sensitivity ranged from 44% to 52% for Elucigene FH20 and from 33.3% to 94.5% 
for various versions of LIPOchip in detecting FH-causing mutations in patients 
with a clinical diagnosis of FH. For LIPOchip version 10 (designed to detect 189 
UK specific mutations), sensitivity would be 78.5% (based on single-centre data 
- Progenika, personal communication). For all other Elucigene FH20 or LIPOchip 
studies (apart from one LIPOchip study), specificity could not be calculated as 
no false-positive results could be derived from the given data. The LDL-C test 
was generally reported to be highly sensitive but with low specificity. For age- 
and gender-specific LDL-C cut-offs for cascade testing, sensitivity ranged from 
68% to 96%. One UK-based study reported sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 
93%. For the cost-effectiveness review, only one study reporting 
cost-effectiveness of any one of the comparators for this assessment was 
identified. Pre-screen strategies such as Elucigene FH20 followed by CGA were 
not cost-effective and were dominated by the single more comprehensive tests 
(e.g. CGA). Of the non-dominated strategies, Elucigene FH20, LIPOchip platform 
(Spain) and CGA were all cost-effective with associated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) relative to LDL-C of dominance (test is less 
costly and more effective), £871 and £1030 per QALY gained respectively. CGA 
generates the greatest QALY gain and, although other tests have lower ICERs 
relative to LDL-C, this is at the expense of QALY loss compared with the CGA 
test. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis shows that CGA is associated with an 
almost 100% probability of cost-effectiveness at the conventional value of 
willingness to pay of £20,000 per QALY gain.
LIMITATIONS: There was much uncertainty regarding the diagnostic accuracy of the 
included tests, with wide variation in sensitivity across reported studies. A 
lack of published information for the most recent version of LIPOchip created 
additional uncertainty, especially in relation to the chip's ability to detect 
copy number changes. For the economic modelling, we aimed to choose the best 
studies for the base-case sensitivity of the tests; however, a number of 
informed choices based on clinical expert opinion had to be made in the absence 
of published studies for a number of other parameters in the modelling. This 
adds some uncertainty to our results, although it is unlikely that these would 
be sufficient in magnitude to alter our main results and conclusions.
CONCLUSIONS: As targeted tests designed to detect a limited number of genetic 
mutations, Elucigene FH20 and LIPOchip cannot detect all cases of FH, in 
contrast with CGA. CGA is therefore the most effective test in terms of 
sensitivity and QALY gain, and is also highly cost-effective with an associated 
ICER of £1030 per QALY gain relative to current practice (LDL-C). Other tests 
such as Elucigene FH20 and LIPOchip are also cost-effective; however, because of 
inferior sensitivity compared with CGA, these tests offer cost savings but at 
the expense of large QALY losses compared with CGA. Further prospective 
multicentred studies are required to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of new and 
emerging tests for FH with the LDL-C test in patients with a clinical diagnosis 
based on the Simon Broome criteria. Such studies should verify both 
test-positive and -negative results against a reference standard of CGA and 
should include a full economic evaluation.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16170
PMCID: PMC4781076
PMID: 22469073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Insect Physiol. 2012 Jun;58(6):816-23. doi:
10.1016/j.jinsphys.2012.03.002.  Epub 2012 Mar 31.

The effect of different dietary sugars and honey on longevity and fecundity in 
two hyperparasitoid wasps.

Harvey JA(1), Cloutier J, Visser B, Ellers J, Wäckers FL, Gols R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Terrestrial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology, 
Droevendalsesteeg 10, 6708-PB, Wageningen, The Netherlands. 
j.harvey@nioo.knaw.nl

In nature adult insects, such as parasitic wasps or 'parasitoids' often depend 
on supplemental nutritional sources, such as sugars and other carbohydrates, to 
maximize their life-expectancy and reproductive potential. These food resources 
are commonly obtained from animal secretions or plant exudates, including 
honeydew, fruit juices and both floral and extra-floral nectar. In addition to 
exogenous sources of nutrition, adult parasitoids obtain endogenous sources from 
their hosts through 'host-feeding' behavior, whereby blood is imbibed from the 
host. Resources obtained from the host contain lipids, proteins and sugars that 
are assumed to enhance longevity and/or fecundity. Here we conducted an 
experiment exploring the effects of naturally occurring sugars on longevity and 
fecundity in the solitary hyperparasitoids, Lysibia nana and Gelis agilis. 
Although both species are closely related, L. nana does not host-feed whereas G. 
agilis does. In a separate experiment, we compared reproduction and longevity in 
G. agilis reared on either honey, a honey-sugar 'mimic', and glucose. 
Reproductive success and longevity in both hyperparasitoids varied significantly 
when fed on different sugars. However, only mannose- and water-fed wasps 
performed significantly more poorly than wasps fed on four other sugar types. G. 
agilis females fed honey produced twice as many progeny as those reared on the 
honey-sugar mimic or on glucose, whereas female longevity was only reduced on 
the mimic mixture. This result shows not only that host feeding influences 
reproductive success in G. agilis, but also that non-sugar constituents in honey 
do. The importance of non-sugar nutrients in honey on parasitoid reproduction is 
discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinsphys.2012.03.002
PMID: 22469560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Nutr Hosp. 2011 Jul-Aug;26(4):685-91. doi: 10.1590/S0212-16112011000400004.

[Positive effects of physical exercise on reducing the relationship between 
subcutaneous abdominal fat and morbility risk].

[Article in Spanish]

González Calvo G(1), Hernández Sánchez S, Pozo Rosado P, García López D.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Didáctica de la Expresión Musical, Plástica y Corporal, 
Universidad de Valladolid, Valladolid, España. gustavogonzalezcalvo@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: The consequences related to the accumulation of abdominal fat 
above healthy levels create a considerable organic damage. Among the 
physiological consequences we can highlight heart diseases, hypertension, type-2 
diabetes, obesity and metabolic syndrome, which drastically reduce life 
expectancy and quality. Evidence shows that health improvement is correlated to 
greater levels of physical activity. However, physical exercise can create 
oxidative damage on organs and muscular tissue, more relevant in subjects with a 
high percentage of abdominal fat. This piece of work determines which are the 
fundamental variables of the exercise program in order to optimize its 
advantages while minimizing oxidative stress.
MAIN PURPOSE: To know the key variables in the accumulation of abdominal fat 
above healthy levels, and the role of exercise in prevention and improvement of 
such issue. SPECIFIC PURPOSES: 1) to identify the key variables in an exercise 
program aimed at reducing abdominal fat; 2) to understand the relationship 
between abdominal fat, health and exercise; 3) to review the latest research 
related to physical exercise and its effect on abdominal adipose tissue.
METHODOLOGY: A search and identification of original and reviewed articles will 
be carried out in indexed impact journals within the main databases.
DISCUSSION: Regular physical exercise, most notably aerobic one, reduces body 
adipose tissue deposits in general, and abdominal ones in particular, both in 
obese and overweight subjects.

DOI: 10.1590/S0212-16112011000400004
PMID: 22470011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Nutr Hosp. 2011 Jul-Aug;26(4):819-26. doi: 10.1590/S0212-16112011000400023.

[Effect of antioxidant supplementation over oxidative stress and quality of life 
in cervical cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Fuchs-Tarlovsky V(1), Bejarano-Rosales M, Gutiérrez-Salmeán G, Casillas MA, 
López-Alvarenga JC, Ceballos-Reyes GM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oncología y Dirección de Investigación, Hospital General de 
México, México. fuchsvanessa@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Mexico has a high rate of cervical cancer which represents an 
important public health issue. The treatment for this disease depends on the 
extension of the tumor; for the initial stages surgery is recommended, and for 
locally advanced tumors, a combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy is used. 
All this process affects natural antioxidant consumption and Quality of Life 
(QoL).
OBJECTIVE: To find out the effect that supplementation with antioxidants 
(β-carotene, vitamin C y vitamin E) has on oxidative stress, and quality of life 
in patient diagnosed with cervical cancer during treatments with cisplatin and 
radiotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a randomized, blind clinical trial in women 
with cervical cancer whose antineoplasic treatment was radiotherapy in and 
radiotherapy with cisplatin. Patients were randomly assigned to receive 
antioxidant therapy or a placebo. Plasma concentrations of malondialdehyde 
(MDA), free carbonyls, dityrosines, and carbonyl/protein rate in two different 
moments, before oncologic therapy, and after finishing oncology treatment, we 
also evaluated food consumption by using a validated food frequency 
questionnaire and a QOL questionnaire before treatment and after it was over. 
The effect of the antioxidant treatment was assessed by the use t-student test 
for independent and paired samples, as well as frequencies and X² for 
categorical variables.
RESULTS: We evaluated 103 patients who were randomly assigned to receive 
treatment with antioxidants 49 (47.60%) and placebo 54 (52.40%). We did not find 
statistically significant differences in food or antioxidant consumption 
according to the food frequency questionnaires. Most of the patients consumed 
more energy than needed to meet their requirement, but they did not consume 
enough of most of the antioxidants according to the Recommended Dailiy Allowance 
(RDA) recommendation. Serum levels of plasma free carbonyls and carbonil/mg of 
protein ratio were statistically significant (p < 0.009) which shows protein 
protection regarding oxidative stress in the supplemented group, this 
information was similar to the one found in the QOL questionnaire, which showed 
that Global QOL was better in the supplemented group (p < 0.025). Most of the 
patients had lower α-tocopherol and retinol plasma levels than the recommended 
values.
CONCLUSIONS: Antioxidant supplementation showed to be effective in reducing 
oxidative stress in proteins, but it did not on food ingestion, patients did not 
meet their antioxidants requirement in their diets, in spite of an excess in 
energy consumption. Antioxidant plasma levels in most of the patients were lower 
than normal. QoL score was better in the supplemented group.

DOI: 10.1590/S0212-16112011000400023
PMID: 22470030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Rev Med Suisse. 2012 Mar 7;8(331):494-6, 498-500.

[How to deal with familial dyslipidemia in clinical practice?].

[Article in French]

Brun N(1), Rodondi N.

Author information:
(1)Unité de néphrologie-métabolisme pédiatrique, Département de l'enfant et de 
l'adolescent, Hôpital des enfants, 1211 Genève 14. nathalie.brun@hcuge.ch

Familial dyslipidemias are common in the population and correlated with 
increased risk of cardiovascular disease at young age. The early detection of 
individuals at high-risk may delay the vascular events and offer an increased 
quality of life and life expectancy. Screening is recommended in infancy in case 
of positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease. Lifestyle 
modifications and eviction of any additive cardiovascular risk are the first 
step before considering treatment. Statins may be introduced between age 10 to 
50 depending on the severity of the familial history, the elevation of the lipid 
values and the presence of vascular dysfunction.

PMID: 22471110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. BJU Int. 2012 Sep;110(5):614-28. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11068.x. Epub
 2012 Apr 3.

Ureteroscopic and percutaneous management of upper tract urothelial carcinoma 
(UTUC): systematic review.

Cutress ML(1), Stewart GD, Zakikhani P, Phipps S, Thomas BG, Tolley DA.

Author information:
(1)The Scottish Lithotriptor Centre, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK. 
mcutress@doctors.org.uk

What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? Endoscopic management 
of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) using either ureteroscopy and laser 
ablation, or percutaneous resection, is a management option for treating 
selected low-grade tumours with favourable characteristics. However, the 
evidence base for such practice is relatively weak, as the reported experience 
is mainly limited to small case series (level of evidence 4), or non-randomised 
