(1)Aduro BioTech, Inc., Berkeley, CA 94710, United States. 
tdubensky@adurobiotech.com

Beginning in the 20th century and continuing into the new millennia, vaccines 
against numerous diseases have had an unquestioned principal role of both 
enhancing the quality of life and increasing life expectancy (Rappuoli R, Mandl 
CW, Black S, De Gregorio E: Vaccines for the twenty-first century society. Nat 
Rev Immunol 2011, 11:865-872). Despite this success and the development of 
sophisticated new vaccine technologies, there remain multiple infectious 
diseases including tuberculosis, malaria and AIDS that await an effective 
prophylactic vaccine. In addition, there have been recent clinical successes 
among individuals with cancer using vaccine treatment strategies-so-called 
therapeutic vaccines-that stimulate tumor specific immunity and increase 
survival (Kantoff PW, Higano CS, Shore ND, Berger ER, Small EJ, Penson DF, 
Redfern CH, Ferrari AC, Dreicer R, Sims RB, et al.: Sipuleucel-T immunotherapy 
for castration-resistant prostate cancer. New Engl J Med 2010, 363:411-422). 
Here we summarize a new class of vaccines termed Killed But Metabolically Active 
(KBMA). KBMA vaccines are whole pathogenic or attenuated organisms killed 
through photochemical inactivation and cannot cause disease, yet retain 
sufficient metabolic activity to initiate a potent immune response. KBMA 
vaccines have two broad applications. First, recombinant KBMA vaccines encoding 
selected antigens relevant to infectious disease or cancer can be used to elicit 
a desired immune response. In the second application, KBMA vaccines can be 
derived from attenuated forms of a targeted pathogen, allowing for the 
presentation of the entire antigenic repertoire to the immune system, of 
particular importance when the correlates of protection are unknown.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.copbio.2012.04.005
PMID: 22608846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Lung Cancer. 2012 Sep;77(3):537-44. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2012.04.017. Epub
 2012 May 18.

Estimating typical, best-case and worst-case life expectancy scenarios for 
patients starting chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a 
systematic review of contemporary randomized trials.

Kiely BE(1), Alam M, Blinman P, Tattersall MH, Stockler MR.

Author information:
(1)National Health and Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Centre, 
University of Sydney, Locked Bag 77, Camperdown, NSW 1450, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: We sought to estimate life expectancy scenarios for patients 
starting chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
METHODS: We searched for randomized first-line chemotherapy trials published 
from January 2000 to April 2008. We recorded median time to progression (TTP) 
and median overall survival (OS) and extracted the following percentiles 
(represented scenario) from each OS curve: 90th (worst-case), 75th 
(lower-typical), 25th (upper-typical) and 10th (best-case). For each OS curve we 
divided these percentiles (scenarios) in turn by the median to determine if a 
simple relationship existed between each scenario and the median.
RESULTS: From 60 trials (29,657 patients), the mean for median TTP was 4.8 
months (interquartile range [IQR] 4.0-5.3), the mean for median OS was 9.2 
months (IQR 8.1-10.1) and the mean ratio for median OS to median TTP was 2.0 
(IQR 1.7-2.2). The mean (IQR) in months for each OS scenario was: worst-case, 
2.4 (1.9-2.7); lower-typical, 4.8 (4.2-5.4); upper-typical, 16.3 (14.4-18.1); 
and best-case, 25 (21.0-28.0). The mean values (IQR) for each scenario divided 
by the median were: worst-case/median 0.26 (0.21-0.29); lower-typical/median 
0.53 (0.5-0.57); upper-typical/median 1.81 (1.69-1.93) and best-case/median 2.84 
(2.57-3.19). These values can be approximated by the simple multiples: 0.25, 
0.5, 2 and 3. Independent predictors of longer OS were ECOG PS<2, 
adenocarcinoma, and longer TTP; all p-values<0.001.
CONCLUSION: Simple multiples of an OS curve's median provided accurate estimates 
of typical (half to double the median), best-case (triple the median), and 
worst-case (one quarter of the median) life expectancy scenarios for patients 
starting chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2012.04.017
PMID: 22609149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Maturitas. 2012 Jul;72(3):220-4. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.04.012. Epub
2012  May 19.

The obesity paradox: methodological considerations based on epidemiological and 
clinical evidence--new insights.

Kastorini CM(1), Panagiotakos DB.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece.

Despite the well-known association of obesity with increased mortality and the 
development of chronic diseases, an "obesity paradox" has been reported in 
several patient categories; i.e., overweight and obese patients have a better 
prognosis than normal or low-weight individuals. The present review aims to 
identify potential factors lying beneath the beneficial effect of overweight and 
obesity. In particular, the role of nutritional status, malnutrition and 
catabolic state, as well as intentional vs. unintentional weight loss and the 
possibility of a U-shape relationship between body mass index and survival will 
be examined. Furthermore, methodological considerations framing the obesity 
paradox will be presented and discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.04.012
PMID: 22609156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):191-2; discussion 195-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.007. Epub 2012 May 17.

Using the random walk model for understanding aging: Comments on "The quadratic 
hazard model for analyzing longitudinal data on aging, health, and the life 
span" by A.I. Yashin et al.

Tolley HD(1).

Author information:
(1)Brigham Young University, Department of Statistics, 206 TMCB, Provo, UT, 
United States. tolley@byu.edu

Comment on
    Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):177-88; discussion 195-7.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.007
PMID: 22609433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):189-90; discussion 195-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.008. Epub 2012 May 17.

The Gompertz law of mortality and longitudinal data: Comment on "The quadratic 
hazard model for analyzing longitudinal data on aging, health, and the life 
span" by Yashin, Arbeev, Akushevich, Kulminski, Ukraintseva, Stallard & Land.

Finkelstein M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical Statistics, University of the Free State, 339 
Bloemfontein, South Africa. FinkelM@ufs.ac.za

Comment on
    Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):177-88; discussion 195-7.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.008
PMID: 22609435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. AIDS Behav. 2012 Aug;16(6):1365-72. doi: 10.1007/s10461-012-0207-0.

Costs, consequences and feasibility of strategies for achieving the goals of the 
National HIV/AIDS strategy in the United States: a closing window for success?

Holtgrave DR(1), Hall HI, Wehrmeyer L, Maulsby C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Behavior & Society, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. dholtgra@jhsph.edu

Three key policy questions are explored here: Is it still epidemiologically 
feasible to attain the incidence and transmission rate reduction goals of the 
U.S. National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) by 2015? If so, what costs will be 
incurred in necessary program expansion, and will the investment be 
cost-effective? Would substantial expansion of prevention services for persons 
living with HIV (PLWH) augment the other strategies outlined in the NHAS in 
terms of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness? Eight policy scenarios were 
constructed based on three factors (two levels each): expansion (or not) of HIV 
diagnostic services; assumptions regarding levels of effectiveness of HIV 
treatment in achieving suppressed viral load; and possible levels of expansion 
of prevention services for PLWH. All scenarios assumed that the NHAS goal of 85 
% linkage to HIV care would be fully achieved by 2015. Standard methods of 
economic evaluation and epidemiologic modeling were employed. Each of the eight 
policy scenarios was compared to a flat transmission rate comparison condition; 
then, key policy dyads were compared pairwise. Without expansion of diagnostic 
services and of prevention services for PLWH, scaling up coverage of HIV care 
and treatment alone in the U.S. will not achieve the incidence and transmission 
rate reduction goals of the NHAS. However, timely expansion of testing and 
prevention services for PLWH does allow for the goals to still be achieved by 
2015, and does so in a highly cost-effective manner.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-012-0207-0
PMID: 22610372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. JAMA. 2012 Jun 13;307(22):2383-9. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.5535.

Effect of an indwelling pleural catheter vs chest tube and talc pleurodesis for 
relieving dyspnea in patients with malignant pleural effusion: the TIME2 
randomized controlled trial.

Davies HE(1), Mishra EK, Kahan BC, Wrightson JM, Stanton AE, Guhan A, Davies CW, 
Grayez J, Harrison R, Prasad A, Crosthwaite N, Lee YC, Davies RJ, Miller RF, 
Rahman NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, 
Wales.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2012 Jun 13;307(22):2432-3.

CONTEXT: Malignant pleural effusion causes disabling dyspnea in patients with a 
short life expectancy. Palliation is achieved by fluid drainage, but the most 
effective first-line method has not been determined.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether indwelling pleural catheters (IPCs) are more 
effective than chest tube and talc slurry pleurodesis (talc) at relieving 
dyspnea.
DESIGN: Unblinded randomized controlled trial (Second Therapeutic Intervention 
in Malignant Effusion Trial [TIME2]) comparing IPC and talc (1:1) for which 106 
patients with malignant pleural effusion who had not previously undergone 
pleurodesis were recruited from 143 patients who were treated at 7 UK hospitals. 
Patients were screened from April 2007-February 2011 and were followed up for a 
year.
INTERVENTION: Indwelling pleural catheters were inserted on an outpatient basis, 
followed by initial large volume drainage, education, and subsequent home 
drainage. The talc group were admitted for chest tube insertion and talc for 
slurry pleurodesis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Patients completed daily 100-mm line visual analog scale 
(VAS) of dyspnea over 42 days after undergoing the intervention (0 mm represents 
no dyspnea and 100 mm represents maximum dyspnea; 10 mm represents minimum 
clinically significant difference). Mean difference was analyzed using a 
mixed-effects linear regression model adjusted for minimization variables.
RESULTS: Dyspnea improved in both groups, with no significant difference in the 
first 42 days with a mean VAS dyspnea score of 24.7 in the IPC group (95% CI, 
19.3-30.1 mm) and 24.4 mm (95% CI, 19.4-29.4 mm) in the talc group, with a 
difference of 0.16 mm (95% CI, −6.82 to 7.15; P = .96). There was a 
statistically significant improvement in dyspnea in the IPC group at 6 months, 
with a mean difference in VAS score between the IPC group and the talc group of 
−14.0 mm (95% CI, −25.2 to −2.8 mm; P = .01). Length of initial hospitalization 
was significantly shorter in the IPC group with a median of 0 days 
(interquartile range [IQR], 0-1 day) and 4 days (IQR, 2-6 days) for the talc 
group, with a difference of −3.5 days (95% CI, −4.8 to −1.5 days; P < .001). 
There was no significant difference in quality of life. Twelve patients (22%) in 
the talc group required further pleural procedures compared with 3 (6%) in the 
IPC group (odds ratio [OR], 0.21; 95% CI, 0.04-0.86; P = .03). Twenty-one of the 
52 patients in the catheter group experienced adverse events vs 7 of 54 in the 
talc group (OR, 4.70; 95% CI, 1.75-12.60; P = .002).
CONCLUSION: Among patients with malignant pleural effusion and no previous 
pleurodesis, there was no significant difference between IPCs and talc 
pleurodesis at relieving patient-reported dyspnea.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: isrctn.org Identifier: ISRCTN87514420.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.5535
PMID: 22610520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Int J Biostat. 2012;8(1). doi: 10.1515/1557-4679.1363.

The lead time distribution when lifetime is subject to competing risks in cancer 
screening.

Wu D(1), Kafadar K, Rosner GL, Broemeling LD.

Author information:
(1)University of Louisville, Louisville, USA. dongfeng.wu@louisville.edu

This paper extends the previous probability model for the distribution of lead 
time in periodic cancer screening exams, namely, in that the lifetime T is 
treated as a random variable, instead of a fixed value. Hence the number of 
screens for a given individual is a random variable as well. We use the 
actuarial life table from the Social Security Administration to obtain the 
lifetime distribution, and then use this information to project the lead time 
distribution for someone with a future screening schedule. Simulation studies 
using the HIP study group data provide estimates of the lead time under 
different screening frequencies. The projected lead time has two components: a 
point mass at zero (corresponding to interval cases detected between screening 
exams) and a continuous probability density. We present estimates of the 
projected lead time for participants in a breast cancer screening program. The 
model is more realistic and can inform optimal screening frequency. This study 
focuses on breast cancer screening, but is applicable to other kinds of cancer 
screening also.

DOI: 10.1515/1557-4679.1363
PMID: 22611589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Rev Med Suisse. 2012 Apr 25;8(338):914-5.

[What will you do with your Life expectancy?].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 22611631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Soins Gerontol. 2012 Mar-Apr;(94):26-30.

[Family help for frail elderly: challenges and perspectives].

[Article in French]

Blondel F(1), Delzescaux S.

Author information:
(1)Chercheur au LCS, Université Paris-Diderot.

The current support available for frail elderly people, meaning those facing a 
number of physical and psychological dependencies, is the fruit of relatively 
recent and diverse transformations. The reconstitution of social relations over 
the last fifty years, the development of social policies and those relating to 
risk prevention, notably in the area of public health, and the enactment of new 
lifestyle standards have resulted in a significant increase in life expectancy.

PMID: 22611891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 2012;33(2):211-3.

The role of surgery in patients with advanced gynaecological cancers 
participating in phase I clinical trials.

Vitfell-Pedersen J(1), Yap TA, Moreno V, Baird RD, Khan AZ, Barton DP, Kaye SB.

Author information:
(1)Drug Development Unit, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Downs Road, 
Sutton, Surrey, UK.

OBJECTIVE: While gynaecological cancer patients who participate in Phase I 
clinical trials are not routinely considered for elective surgery because of a 
short life expectancy, this should not be overlooked in carefully selected 
responding patients.
METHODS/RESULTS: We describe two cases of patients with different gynaecological 
cancers, who received treatment within separate phase I trials, and who then 
proceeded to surgical resection of their cancers, resulting in complete 
remission.
CONCLUSION: Surgery, when feasible, should be taken into consideration as a 
potential management option, even when patients are receiving treatment within a 
phase I trial.

PMID: 22611966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2011 Nov-Dec;(6):26-8.

[The analysis and forecast of the demographic situation tendencies in the 
Republic of Udmurtiya].

[Article in Russian]

Savel'ev VN, Vinogradova TV, Dunaev SM.

The unfavorable demographic situation tendencies in the Republic of Udmurtiya 
are characterized by the decrease of population size and incidentally the 
regressive type of age structure is supported. The evolution of demographic 
processes (natality, mortality, life expectancy) affected the age gender 
structure of population of the republic. The reproduction of population and 
generations replacement decelerated in the region with low population density

PMID: 22611983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Gerodontology. 2012 Jun;29(2):e1146-51. doi:
10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00443.x.

Orthodontic treatment in an elderly patient with extraction of upper premolar.

Pithon MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Southwest Bahia University UESB, Bahia, Brazil. matheuspithon@gmail.com

In the past few years, life expectancy of the world's population has gradually 
increased and as a result the number of elderly patients seeking orthodontic 
treatment is becoming higher. The objective of this work is to report a clinical 
case of orthodontic treatment of an elderly patient in which a dental extraction 
was performed to correct the relationship between upper and lower arches. The 
results favoured an improved dental arch relationship and promoted adequate 
aesthetics and function.

© 2012 The Gerodontology Society and John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2010.00443.x
PMID: 22612830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Gerodontology. 2012 Jun;29(2):e1180-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1741-2358.2011.00561.x.

Implant-supported palatal lift prosthesis in a patient with velopharyngeal 
incompetence: a case report.

Montagner A(1), Frasca LC, Rivaldo EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Implant Odontology and Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry, 
Lutheran University of Brazil, Canoas, RS, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the use of dental implants in the treatment of 
velopharyngeal incompetence.
BACKGROUND: Velopharyngeal incompetence is characterized by the inability to 
contract the tissues of the soft palate. The most common causes are 
neuromuscular problems resulting from concussion and degenerative conditions of 
the central nervous system.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The treatment using palatal lift prosthesis is well 
established in the literature; however, reports on the use of osseointegrated 
implants are scarce. Rehabilitation using only this type of fibromucosal support 
is difficult in edentulous patients, since the prosthesis has a palatal lift 
extension.
RESULTS: The implants provided retention and stability to the prosthesis, 
improving swallowing and speech and contributing to improve the patient's 
quality of life.
CONCLUSION: This article reports the rehabilitation of a patient with a totally 
edentulous maxilla with velopharyngeal incompetence using an implant-retained 
palatal lift prosthesis.

© 2011 The Gerodontology Society and John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2011.00561.x
PMID: 22612834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jul 1;30(7):537-49. doi: 
10.2165/11591160-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of rituximab for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: a systematic review.

Auweiler PW(1), Müller D, Stock S, Gerber A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, The University 
Hospital of Cologne-AR, Cologne, Germany. P.Auweiler@web.de

BACKGROUND: The monoclonal antibody rituximab has shown clinical effectiveness 
in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
(NHL) in several randomized controlled studies. Rituximab maintenance therapy is 
associated with significant improvement in progression-free and overall survival 
in patients with NHL. However, treatment with rituximab causes considerable 
costs for healthcare systems.
OBJECTIVE: This article provides an overview of economic evaluations of 
rituximab and appraises their methodological quality.
METHODS: A systematic literature search of cost-effectiveness studies on 
rituximab was carried out in nine electronic databases: MEDLINE, EMBASE, 
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), the German Agency of Health 
Technology Assessment (DAHTA) database, German Institute for Quality Improvement 
(DIQ)-Literatur, DIQ-Projekte, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects 
(DARE), Health Technology Assessments (HTA) database and Sozialmedizin (SOMED) 
[languages: English, German, Dutch, French, Spanish and Italian; publication 
period: 1998 to 2010]. Based on pre-specified inclusion criteria, 
cost-effectiveness studies were identified that compared standard chemotherapy 
with standard chemotherapy plus rituximab in patients with a subtype of NHL. The 
methodological quality of the studies was assessed using a quality checklist.
RESULTS: Fourteen economic evaluations from seven different countries were 
included in the review. All economic evaluations reported incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for the add-on therapy with rituximab that 
were below the country-specific thresholds. The studies differed significantly 
in their characteristics and methodological rigour. Most studies lacked 
transparency regarding identification and justification of data. In several 
studies, the rationale for the model structure was not described appropriately.
CONCLUSION: Adding rituximab to standard chemotherapy is considered a 
cost-effective treatment option for NHL. However, the results of the analyses 
should be interpreted with caution due to methodological limitations.

DOI: 10.2165/11591160-000000000-00000
PMID: 22612993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Accid Anal Prev. 2013 Jan;50:323-9. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2012.05.008. Epub
2012  May 20.

Neck injury response to direct head impact.

Ivancic PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomechanics Research Laboratory, Department of Orthopaedics and 
Rehabilitation, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. 
paul.ivancic@yale.edu

Previous in vivo studies have observed flexion of the upper or upper/middle 
cervical spine and extension at inferior spinal levels due to direct head 
impacts. These studies hypothesized that hyperflexion may contribute to injury 
of the upper or middle cervical spine during real-life head impact. Our 
objectives were to determine the cervical spine injury response to direct head 
impact, document injuries, and compare our results with previously reported in 
vivo data. Our model consisted of a human cadaver neck (n=6) mounted to the 
torso of a rear impact dummy and carrying a surrogate head. Rearward force was 
applied to the model's forehead using a cable and pulley system and free-falling 
mass of 3.6kg followed by 16.7kg. High-speed digital cameras tracked head, 
vertebral, and pelvic motions. Average peak spinal rotations observed during 
impact were statistically compared (P<0.05) to physiological ranges obtained 
from intact flexibility tests. Peak head impact force was 249 and 504N for the 
3.6 and 16.7kg free-falling masses, respectively. Occipital condyle loads 
reached 205.3N posterior shear, 331.4N compression, and 7.4Nm extension moment. 
We observed significant increases in intervertebral extension peaks above 
physiologic at C6/7 (26.3° vs. 5.7°) and C7/T1 (29.7° vs. 4.6°) and macroscopic 
ligamentous and osseous injuries at C6 through T1 due to the 504N impacts. Our 
results indicate that a rearward head shear force causes complex neck loads of 
posterior shear, compression, and extension moment sufficient to injure the 
lower cervical spine. Real-life neck injuries due to motor vehicle crashes, 
sports impacts, or falls are likely due to combined loads transferred to the 
neck by direct head impact and torso inertial loads.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2012.05.008
PMID: 22613632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Ecotoxicology. 2012 Oct;21(7):1899-910. doi: 10.1007/s10646-012-0923-2. Epub
 2012 May 22.

The potential for adaptation in a natural Daphnia magna population: broad and 
narrow-sense heritability of net reproductive rate under Cd stress at two 
temperatures.

Messiaen M(1), Janssen CR, Thas O, De Schamphelaere KA.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Environmental Toxicology and Aquatic Ecology, Department 
Applied Ecology and Environmental Biology, Ghent University, Jozef Plateaustraat 
22, 9000, Ghent, Belgium.

The existence of genetic variability is a key element of the adaptive potential 
of a natural population to stress. In this study we estimated the additive and 
non-additive components of the genetic variability of net reproductive rate 
(R(0)) in a natural Daphnia magna population exposed to Cd stress at two 
different temperatures. To this end, life-table experiments were conducted with 
20 parental and 39 offspring clonal lineages following a 2 × 2 design with Cd 
concentration (control vs. 3.7 μg Cd/L) and temperature (20 vs. 24 °C) as 
factors. Offspring lineages were obtained through inter-clonal crossing of the 
different parental lineages. The population mean, additive and non-additive 
genetic components of variation in each treatment were estimated by fitting an 
Animal Model to the observed R(0) values using restricted maximum likelihood 
estimation. From those estimates broad-sense heritabilities (H(2)), narrow-sense 
heritabilities (h(2)), total (CV(G)) and additive genetic coefficients of 
variation (CV(A)) of R(0) were calculated. The exposure to Cd imposed a 
considerable level of stress to the population, as shown by the fact that the 
population mean of R(0) exposed to Cd was significantly lower than in the 
control at the corresponding temperature, i.e. by 23 % at 20 °C and by 88 % at 
24 °C. The latter difference indicates that increasing temperature increased the 
stress level imposed by Cd. The H² and CV(G) were significantly greater than 0 
in all treatments, suggesting that there is a considerable degree of genetic 
determination of R(0) in this population and that clonal selection could rapidly 
lead to increasing population mean fitness under all investigated conditions. 
More specifically, the H² was 0.392 at 20 °C+Cd and 0.563 at 24 °C+Cd; the CV(G) 
was 30.0 % at 20 °C+Cd and was significantly higher (147.6 %) in the 24 °C+Cd 
treatment. Significant values of h(2) (= 0.23) and CV(A) (= 89.7 %) were only 
found in the 24 °C+Cd treatment, suggesting that the ability to produce more 
offspring under this stressful condition may be inherited across sexual 
generations. In contrast, in the less stressful 20 °C+Cd treatment the h(2) 
(0.06) and CV(A) (7.0 %) were very low and not significantly higher than zero. 
Collectively our data indicate that both the asexual and sexual reproduction 
phases in cyclic parthenogenetic D. magna populations may play a role in the 
long-term adaptive potential of Daphnia populations to chemical stress (with Cd 
as the current example) and that environmental variables which influence the 
stress level of that chemical may influence this adaptive potential (with 
temperature as current example).

DOI: 10.1007/s10646-012-0923-2
PMID: 22614034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e37177. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037177. Epub 2012 May
16.

Survival differences among native-born and foreign-born older adults in the 
United States.

Dupre ME(1), Gu D, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, 
United States of America. matthew.dupre@duke.edu

BACKGROUND: Studies show that the U.S. foreign-born population has lower 
mortality than the native-born population before age 65. Until recently, the 
lack of data prohibited reliable comparisons of U.S. mortality by nativity at 
older ages. This study provides reliable estimates of U.S. foreign-born and 
native-born mortality at ages 65 and older at the end of the 20(th) century. 
Life expectancies of the U.S. foreign born are compared to other developed 
nations and the foreign-born contribution to total life expectancy (TLE) in the 
United States is assessed.
METHODS: Newly available data from Medicare Part B records linked with Social 
Security Administration files are used to estimate period life tables for nearly 
all U.S. adults aged 65 and older in 1995. Age-specific survival differences and 
life expectancies are examined in 1995 by sex, race, and place of birth.
RESULTS: Foreign-born men and women had lower mortality at almost every age from 
65 to 100 compared to native-born men and women. Survival differences by 
nativity were substantially greater for blacks than whites. Foreign-born blacks 
had the longest life expectancy of all population groups (18.73 [95% confidence 
interval {CI}, 18.15-19.30] years at age 65 for men and 22.76 [95% CI, 
22.28-23.23] years at age 65 for women). The foreign-born population increased 
TLE in the United States at older ages, and by international comparison, the 
U.S. foreign born were among the longest-lived persons in the world.
CONCLUSION: Survival estimates based on reliable Medicare data confirm that 
foreign-born adults have longer life expectancy at older ages than native-born 
adults in the United States.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037177
PMCID: PMC3353911
PMID: 22615929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


357. Compend Contin Educ Dent. 2012 May;33(5):356-61.

Down syndrome-associated periodontitis: a critical review of the literature.

Frydman A(1), Nowzari H.

Author information:
(1)Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.

Down syndrome, or trisomy 21 (T21), was first described by John Langdon Down in 
1866. Down identified the phenotypic expression of patients with circulation and 
coordination problems as having Down syndrome. More than a century later, Jerome 
Lejeune hypothesized that nondysjunction during meiosis could lead to trisomy of 
the 21st chromosome. The incidence of T21 is one in 800 to 1,000 live births in 
the United States. Generally, these patients now live to age 50 and some to age 
60. As life expectancy increases, medical and social costs garner greater 
attention. Also, societal changes have allowed for better quality of life. 
Dental practitioners are challenged by the high incidence of early onset 
aggressive periodontal disease in T21; these patients have higher levels of 
periodontal pathogens and periodontitis-associated interproximal bone loss. The 
complex anatomy, physiology, immunology, and microbiology underscore the need 
for further investigation in specific areas related to dental treatment of these 
patients. This article is a critical review of the periodontal research 
concerning T21. Creating awareness enables dental professionals who have the 
power and knowledge to appropriately address the needs of those affected by T21.

PMID: 22616218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. NCHS Data Brief. 2012 Mar;(88):1-8.

75 years of mortality in the United States, 1935-2010.

Hoyert DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Center for Health 
Statistics 3311 Toledo Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

While the overall risk of mortality decreased 60 percent over this 75-year 
period, there were fluctuations in the rate of decline most likely associated 
with changes in the broader environment. For example, the 29 percent decline in 
age-adjusted mortality in the earlier period from 1935 to 1954 was probably 
influenced by the introduction of various drugs such as antibiotics (2). In 
contrast, in the period 1955 to 1968, age-adjusted death rates decreased by only 
2 percent, influenced in part by increases in diseases linked to tobacco use 
such as cancer and chronic lower respiratory diseases (3,4). In the most recent 
period from 1969 to 2010, significant progress in the prevention, diagnosis, and 
treatment of cardiovascular diseases (5) likely contributed to the 41 percent 
decline in age-adjusted mortality despite cancer continuing to increase from 
1969 to 1990 and chronic lower respiratory diseases continuing to increase from 
1969 to 1998. Because year-to-year changes in death rates are often small, one 
might not appreciate the full extent of progress in reducing mortality in the 
United States over the past ¾ of a century. For example, the 2010 age-adjusted 
death rate of 746.2 deaths per 100,000 population was just 0.5 percent lower 
than in 2009. However, the 2010 rate represented a 60 percent decrease from the 
1935 age-adjusted death rate of 1,860.1 deaths per 100,000 population signaling 
significant progress in reducing the overall risk of death in the United States 
across all groups.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 22617094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Int J Epidemiol. 2012 Jun;41(3):847-60. doi: 10.1093/ije/dys046. Epub 2012
May  21.

Status of epidemiology in the WHO South-East Asia region: burden of disease, 
determinants of health and epidemiological research, workforce and training 
capacity.

Dhillon PK(1), Jeemon P, Arora NK, Mathur P, Maskey M, Sukirna RD, Prabhakaran 
D.

Author information:
(1)South Asia Network for Chronic Disease, Public Health Foundation of India, 
New Delhi, India.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Aug;42(4):1196-9.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Aug;42(4):1200-1.

BACKGROUND: The South-East Asia region (SEAR) accounts for one-quarter of the 
world's population, 40% of the global poor and ∼30% of the global disease 
burden, with a disproportionately large share of tuberculosis (35%), injuries 
(30%), maternal (33%) and <5-year-old mortality (30%). In this article, we 
describe the disease burden and status of epidemiological research and capacity 
in the SEAR to understand, analyse and develop capacity in response to the 
diverse burdens of diseases in the region.
METHODS: Data on morbidity, mortality, risk factors, social determinants, 
research capacity, health education, workforce and systems in the SEAR were 
obtained using global data on burden of disease, peer-reviewed journals, World 
Health Organization (WHO) technical and advisory reports, and where available, 
validated country reports and key informants from the region.
RESULTS: SEAR countries are afflicted with a triple burden of disease-infectious 
diseases, non-communicable diseases and injuries. Of the seven WHO regions, SEAR 
countries account for the highest proportion of global mortality (26%) and due 
to relatively younger ages at death, the second highest percentage of total 
years of life lost (30%). The SEAR exceeds the global average annual mortality 
rate for all three broad cause groupings-communicable, maternal, perinatal and 
nutritional conditions (334 vs 230 per 100 000); non-communicable diseases (676 
vs 573 per 100 000); and injuries (101 vs 78 per 100 000). Poverty, education 
and other social determinants of health are strongly linked to inequities in 
health among SEAR countries and within socio-economic subgroups. India, Thailand 
and Bangladesh produce two-thirds of epidemiology publications in the region. 
Significant efforts to increase health workforce capacity, research and training 
have been undertaken in the region, yet considerable heterogeneity in resources 
and capacity remains.
CONCLUSIONS: Health systems, statistics and surveillance programmes must respond 
to the demographic, economic and epidemiological transitions that define the 
current disease burden and risk profile of SEAR populations. Inequities in 
health must be critically analysed, documented and addressed through 
multi-sectoral approaches. There is a critical need to improve public health 
intelligence by building epidemiological capacity in the region.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dys046
PMCID: PMC3396314
PMID: 22617689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2012 Jan;28(1):3-11. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462311000663.

Cost effectiveness of peer support for type 2 diabetes.

Gillespie P(1), O'Shea E, Paul G, O'Dowd T, Smith SM.

Author information:
(1)National University of Ireland, Galway. paddy.gillespie@nuigalway.ie

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to examine the cost-effectiveness of a 
group-based peer support intervention in general practice for patients with type 
2 diabetes.
METHODS: Incremental cost utility analysis combining within trial and beyond 
trial components to compare the lifetime costs and benefits of alternative 
strategies:
CONTROL: standardized diabetes care;
INTERVENTION: group-based peer support in addition to standardized diabetes 
care. Within trial analysis was based on a cluster randomized controlled trial 
of 395 patients with type 2 diabetes in the east of Ireland. Beyond trial 
analysis was conducted using the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study 
(UKPDS) Outcomes Model. Uncertainty was explored using a range of sensitivity 
analyses and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were generated.
RESULTS: Compared with the control strategy, the intervention was associated 
with an increase of 0.09 (95 percent confidence interval [CI], -0.05 to 0.25) in 
mean quality-adjusted life-years per patient and savings of €637.43 (95 percent 
CI, -2455.19 to 1125.45) in mean healthcare cost per patient and €623.39 (95 
percent CI, -2507.98 to 1298.49) in mean total cost per patient respectively. 
The likelihood of the intervention being cost-effective was appreciably higher 
than 80 percent for a range of potential willingness-to-pay cost-effectiveness 
thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that while a group-based peer support 
intervention shows a trend toward improved risk factor management, we found no 
significant differences in final cost or effectiveness endpoints between 
intervention and control. The probabilistic results suggest that the 
intervention was more cost-effective, with probability values of higher than 80 
percent across a range of potential cost-effectiveness threshold values.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462311000663
PMID: 22617733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Int J Public Health. 2013 Feb;58(1):143-55. doi: 10.1007/s00038-012-0361-1.
Epub  2012 May 22.

Gender differences in healthy life years within the EU: an exploration of the 
"health-survival" paradox.

Van Oyen H(1), Nusselder W, Jagger C, Kolip P, Cambois E, Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)Directorate of Public Health and Surveillance, Scientific Institute of Public 
Health, J. Wytsmanstraat 14, 1050 Brussels, Belgium. herman.vanoyen@wiv-isp.be

Comment in
    Int J Public Health. 2014 Feb;59(1):213.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluated the female-male health-survival paradox by estimating 
the contribution of women's mortality advantage versus women's disability 
disadvantage.
METHODS: Disability prevalence was measured from the 2006 Survey on Income and 
Living Conditions in 25 European countries. Disability prevalence was applied to 
life tables to estimate healthy life years (HLY) at age 15. Gender differences 
in HLY were split into two parts: that due to gender inequality in mortality and 
that due to gender inequality in disability. The relationship between women's 
mortality advantage or disability disadvantage and the level of population 
health between countries was analysed using random-effects meta-regression.
RESULTS: Women's mortality advantage contributes to more HLY in women; women's 
higher prevalence of disability reduces the difference in HLY. In populations 
with high life expectancy women's advantage in HLY was small or even a men's 
advantage was found. In populations with lower life expectancy, the hardship 
among men is already evident at young ages.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that the health-survival paradox is a function 
of the level of population health, dependent on modifiable factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-012-0361-1
PMCID: PMC3557379
PMID: 22618297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Pediatr Cardiol. 2012 Dec;33(8):1402-10. doi: 10.1007/s00246-012-0366-9.
Epub  2012 May 23.

Prenatal diagnosis of hypoplastic left heart syndrome: impact of counseling 
patterns on parental perceptions and decisions regarding termination of 
pregnancy.

Hilton-Kamm D(1), Chang RK, Sklansky M.

Author information:
(1)California Heart Connection, Irvine, CA, USA. debhilton@aol.com

An online survey for parents of children with congenital heart disease (CHD) was 
developed to study parents' experiences at the time of diagnosis. The survey was 
distributed to online support groups. A total of 841 responses from parents of 
children with CHD were received during a 4-week period. The current study 
examined those respondents (211 [25 %]) who reported their child's diagnosis as 
hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS). Among these, 138 (65 %) reported 
receiving the diagnosis prenatally. 32 % of those receiving a prenatal diagnosis 
reported that after they declined to terminate the pregnancy, termination was 
mentioned again by their physicians. Parents who had termination mentioned again 
after their initial decline reported significantly lower optimism regarding 
their child's life expectancy than those who did not have it mentioned again (66 
vs. 94 %, p < 0.001); were more likely to interpret the term "rare" to mean 
"little or no chance of survival" (34 vs. 13 %, p = 0.01); and were more likely 
to change pediatric cardiologists (PCs) (43 vs. 12 %, p < 0.001). Similarly, 22 
% of respondents receiving a prenatal diagnosis reported feeling pressure to 
terminate the pregnancy by the PC. Those who felt pressure to terminate reported 
lower optimism about their child's life expectancy than respondents who did not 
feel pressure (48 vs. 88 %, p < 0.001) and were more likely to choose a new PC 
(48 vs. 17 %, p < 0.001). In our cohort of parents, when termination of 
pregnancy was mentioned after the parents declined it, or if the parents felt 
pressure to terminate, the parents perceived a lower chance of survival, felt 
less optimistic about their child's life expectancy, and were more likely to 
choose another PC for long-term follow-up care. Our study could not determine 
whether repeated discussions of the possibility for termination of pregnancy 
independently impacts parental optimism regarding prognosis or whether those who 
counsel with repeated discussions of termination tend to have more guarded 
notions of the prognosis of children with HLHS. Further study is warranted to 
identify the implications of counseling patterns on parental perceptions and 
decisions regarding termination of pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-012-0366-9
PMID: 22618584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2012 Aug;39(8):1316-25. doi: 
10.1007/s00259-012-2139-3. Epub 2012 May 23.

Sentinel lymph node status as most important prognostic factor in patients with 
high-risk cutaneous melanomas (tumour thickness >4.00 mm): outcome analysis from 
a single institution.

Hinz T(1), Ahmadzadehfar H, Wierzbicki A, Hoeller T, Wenzel J, Biersack HJ, 
Bieber T, Schmid-Wendtner MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Center of Integrated Oncology 
Cologne Bonn University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

PURPOSE: Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is considered the most powerful 
prognostic indicator of survival in patients with cutaneous melanoma of 
intermediate thickness (1-4 mm). The use of SLNB in patients with melanoma with 
a tumour thickness >4.0 mm is still controversial. The purpose of the current 
study was to determine the prognostic value of SLNB in patients with thick 
cutaneous melanomas (tumour thickness >4.0 mm) in terms of progression-free 
survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).
METHODS: A retrospective single-centre study was performed at the Department of 
Dermatology and Allergy, University of Bonn, and the Department of Nuclear 
Medicine, University of Bonn, based on data collected between September 2000 and 
January 2010. A total of 142 patients with cutaneous melanoma of thickness >4.00 
mm were identified, and 63 of these patients underwent SLNB.
RESULTS: Of the 63 patients in whom SLNB was performed, 25 (39.7 %) had a 
positive SLN. Ulceration was more frequent in SLN-positive patients (44 %) than 
in SLN-negative patients (18.4 %). The mean follow-up time for the 63 patients 
was 50.7 months. Positive SLN status predicted a significantly reduced life 
expectancy in the analyses of PFS and OS. In SLN-positive patients 5-year OS was 
76 % and in SLN-negative patients was 84.2 % (p = 0.048). Patients with a 
combination of ulcerated tumour and positive SLN had the worst prognosis.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of our follow-up data, SLNB has to be recommended in 
patients with a tumour thickness >4.00 mm after exclusion of lymph node 
macrometastases or distant metastases. SLN status is the most significant 
prognostic factor in this group of patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-012-2139-3
PMID: 22618833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 Aug;40(15):7528-40. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks356. Epub
2012  May 21.

A small ribozyme with dual-site kinase activity.

Biondi E(1), Maxwell AW, Burke DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Bond Life Sciences 
Center, University of Missouri School of Medicine, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. 
biondie@missouri.edu

Phosphoryl transfer onto backbone hydroxyls is a recognized catalytic activity 
of nucleic acids. We find that kinase ribozyme K28 possesses an unusually 
complex active site that promotes (thio)phosphorylation of two residues widely 
separated in primary sequence. After allowing the ribozyme to radiolabel itself 
by phosphoryl transfer from [γ-(32)P]GTP, DNAzyme-mediated cleavage yielded two 
radiolabeled cleavage fragments, indicating phosphorylation sites within each of 
the two cleavage fragments. These sites were mapped by alkaline digestion and 
primer extension pausing. Enzymatic digestion and mutational analysis identified 
nucleotides important for activity and established the active structure as being 
a constrained pseudoknot with unusual connectivity that may juxtapose the two 
reactive sites. Nuclease sensitivities for nucleotides near the pseudoknot core 
were altered in the presence of GTPγS, indicating donor-induced folding. The 5' 
target site was more strongly favored in full-length ribozyme K28 (128 nt) than 
in truncated RNAs (58 nt). Electrophoretic mobilities of self-thiophosphorylated 
products on organomercurial gels are distinct from the 5' 
mono-thiophosphorylated product produced by reaction with polynucleotide kinase, 
potentially indicating simultaneous labeling of both sites within individual RNA 
strands. Our evidence supports a single, compact structure with local dynamics, 
rather than global rearrangement, as being responsible for dual-site 
phosphorylation.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks356
PMCID: PMC3424543
PMID: 22618879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. JAMA. 2012 May 23;307(20):2185-94. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.4842.

Hip fracture management: tailoring care for the older patient.

Hung WW(1), Egol KA, Zuckerman JD, Siu AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA. william.hung@mssm.edu

Hip fracture is a potentially devastating condition for older adults. Hip 
fracture leads to pain and immobilization with complications ranging from 
delirium to functional loss and death. Although a mainstay of treatment is 
orthopedic repair, a multidisciplinary comanagement approach, including medical 
specialists and rehabilitation, may maximize patient recovery. Using the case of 
Mr W, an older man who sustained a fall and hip fracture, we present 
evidence-based components of care both in the hospital and outpatient settings. 
Preoperatively, clinicians should correct medical abnormalities and consider the 
appropriateness, timing, and type of surgical repair in the context of the 
patient's life expectancy and goals of care. Perioperative care should include 
prophylaxis with antibiotics, chemoprophylaxis for venous thromboembolism, and 
correction of major clinical abnormalities prior to surgery. Pain control, 
delirium, and pressure ulcer prevention are important inpatient care elements. 
Multidisciplinary models incorporating these care elements can decrease 
complications during inpatient stay. Rehabilitation strategies should be 
tailored to patient needs; early mobilization followed by rehabilitation 
exercises in institutional, home, and group settings should be considered to 
maximize restoration of locomotive abilities. Attention to care transitions is 
necessary and treatment for osteoporosis should be considered. The road to 
recovery for hip fracture patients is long and most patients may not regain 
their prefracture functional status. Understanding and anticipating issues that 
may arise in the older patient with hip fracture, while delivering 
evidence-based care components, is necessary to maximize patient recovery.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.4842
PMID: 22618926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Genetica. 2012 Mar;140(1-3):65-73. doi: 10.1007/s10709-012-9658-5. Epub 2012
May  23.

Narrow genetic basis for the Australian dingo confirmed through analysis of 
paternal ancestry.

Ardalan A(1), Oskarsson M, Natanaelsson C, Wilton AN, Ahmadian A, Savolainen P.

Author information:
(1)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Gene Technology, KTH, Royal 
Institute of Technology, 17121 Solna, Sweden.

The dingo (Canis lupus dingo) is an iconic animal in the native culture of 
Australia, but archaeological and molecular records indicate a relatively recent 
history on the continent. Studies of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) imply that the 
current dingo population was founded by a small population of already tamed dogs 
from Southeast Asia. However, the maternal genetic data might give a unilateral 
picture, and the gene pool has yet to be screened for paternal ancestry. We 
sequenced 14,437 bp of the Y-chromosome (Y-chr) from two dingoes and one New 
Guinea Singing Dog (NGSD). This positioned dingo and NGSD within the domestic 
dog Y-chr phylogeny, and produced one haplotype not detected before. With this 
data, we characterized 47 male dingoes in 30 Y-chr single-nucleotide 
polymorphism sites using protease-mediated allele-specific extension technology. 
Only two haplotypes, H3 and H60, were found among the dingoes, at frequencies of 
68.1 and 31.9 %, respectively, compared to 27 haplotypes previously established 
in the domestic dog. While H3 is common among Southeast Asian dogs, H60 was 
specifically found in dingoes and the NGSD, but was related to Southeast Asian 
dog Y-chr haplotypes. H3 and H60 were observed exclusively in the western and 
eastern parts of Australia, respectively, but had a common range in Southeast. 
Thus, the Y-chr diversity was very low, similar to previous observations for 
d-loop mtDNA. Overall genetic evidence suggests a very restricted introduction 
of the first dingoes into Australia, possibly from New Guinea. This study 
further confirms the dingo as an isolated feral dog.

DOI: 10.1007/s10709-012-9658-5
PMCID: PMC3386486
PMID: 22618967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
