
Economic evaluation of smoking-cessation therapies: a critical and systematic 
review of simulation models.

Bolin K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
Kristian.Bolin@nek.lu.se

BACKGROUND: Smoking is probably the most important among preventable health 
risks. Health economic evaluation of smoking-cessation interventions, applying a 
lifetime perspective, is made possible by available epidemiological knowledge. 
The well established method of performing cost-effectiveness analyses of 
smoking-cessation interventions involves mathematical modelling (both 
deterministic and stochastic) of future events important for cost effectiveness.
OBJECTIVES: This study surveys cost-effectiveness analyses of smoking cessation, 
with a particular focus on the mathematical modelling and simulation analyses 
performed.
DATA SOURCES: A systematic literature search was performed using the databases 
MEDLINE, Econlit and Academic Search Complete.
STUDY SELECTION: Health economic evaluations, published as full-length journal 
articles, were searched for.
RESULTS: 423 studies were identified and 78 were finally included, of which 30 
were assessed as being highly relevant, based on the application of simulation 
modelling.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, studies are well performed as regards modelling. Common 
weaknesses include reporting of modelling details; validation of used simulation 
models; and the handling of structural uncertainty and different types of 
heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.2165/11590120-000000000-00000
PMID: 22591112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Leuk Lymphoma. 2012 Dec;53(12):2371-7. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2012.694429.
Epub  2012 Jun 12.

Cost-effectiveness of rituximab as maintenance therapy in patients with 
follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma after responding to first-line rituximab plus 
chemotherapy.

Hornberger J(1), Chien R, Friedmann M, Han L, Shewade A, Satram-Hoang S, Reyes 
C.

Author information:
(1)Cedar Associates LLC, Menlo Park, CA, USA. jhornberger@cedarecon.com

Comment in
    Leuk Lymphoma. 2012 Dec;53(12):2331-2.

A recent phase III trial demonstrated that maintenance rituximab® therapy after 
response to first-line treatment with rituximab plus chemotherapy (R-chemo) 
increases progression-free survival (PFS) for follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma 
(f-NHL). A cost-effectiveness analysis of R-maintenance versus observation was 
conducted from a US payer perspective to estimate PFS and overall survival (OS) 
over a representative patient's lifetime. Primary outcomes were cost per 
life-year gained (LYG) and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. 
Compared with observation, R-maintenance increased mean PFS by 1.50 years, OS by 
1.21 years and QALYs gained by 1.11 years. The incremental cost of maintenance 
therapy was $38,545. The costs per LYG and QALY gained were $31,934 and $34,842, 
respectively. Within the limitations of modeling long-term outcomes, 
R-maintenance therapy in patients who received R-chemo for previously untreated 
f-NHL compared with observation alone after R-chemo for first-line treatment for 
f-NHL is cost-effective from the US payer perspective.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2012.694429
PMID: 22591119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jun 1;30(6):513-30. doi: 
10.2165/11594930-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of quetiapine in patients with acute bipolar depression and 
in maintenance treatment after an acute depressive episode.

Ekman M(1), Lindgren P, Miltenburger C, Meier G, Locklear JC, Chatterton ML.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Stockholm, Sweden. mattias.ekman@astrazeneca.com

BACKGROUND: Bipolar disorder has a significant impact upon a patient's quality 
of life, imposing a considerable economic burden on the individual, family 
members and society as a whole. Several medications are indicated for the acute 
treatment of mania and depression associated with bipolar disorder as well as 
for maintenance therapy; however, these have varying efficacy, tolerability and 
costs.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to develop a new discrete-event 
simulation model to analyse the long-term consequences of pharmacological 
therapy for the management of bipolar I and II disorders (acute treatment of 
episodes of mania and depression as well as maintenance therapy).
METHODS: Probabilities of remission and relapse were obtained from clinical 
trial data and meta-analyses. Costs (year 2011 values) were assessed from a UK 
healthcare payer's perspective, and included pharmacological therapy and 
resource use associated with the treatment of mood events and selected adverse 
events. The health effects were measured in terms of QALYs.
RESULTS: For a patient starting with acute depression or in remission at 40 
years of age (which was the average age in the clinical trials), quetiapine 
300 mg/day was a cost-effective strategy compared with olanzapine 15 mg/day over 
a 5-year time frame. With acute bipolar depression as a starting episode, the 
5-year medical costs were £323 higher and QALYs were 0.038 higher for quetiapine 
compared with olanzapine, corresponding to a cost-effectiveness ratio of £8600 
per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Compared with olanzapine, the results suggest that quetiapine is 
cost effective as a maintenance treatment for bipolar depression.

DOI: 10.2165/11594930-000000000-00000
PMID: 22591130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Mol Microbiol. 2012 Jun;84(6):1108-23. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.2012.08080.x.  Epub 2012 May 17.

Processing by rhomboid protease is required for Providencia stuartii TatA to 
interact with TatC and to form functional homo-oligomeric complexes.

Fritsch MJ(1), Krehenbrink M, Tarry MJ, Berks BC, Palmer T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Microbiology, College of Life Sciences, University of 
Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

The twin arginine transport (Tat) system transports folded proteins across the 
prokaryotic cytoplasmic membrane and the plant thylakoid membrane. In 
Escherichia coli three membrane proteins, TatA, TatB and TatC, are essential 
components of the machinery. TatA from Providencia stuartii is homologous to 
E. coli TatA but is synthesized as an inactive pre-protein with an N-terminal 
extension of eight amino acids. Removal of this extension by the rhomboid 
protease AarA is required to activate P. stuartii TatA. Here we show that 
P. stuartii TatA can functionally substitute for E. coli TatA provided that the 
E. coli homologue of AarA, GlpG, is present. The oligomerization state of the 
P. stuartii TatA pro-protein was compared with that of the proteolytically 
activated protein and with E. coli TatA. The pro-protein still formed small 
homo-oligomers but cannot form large TatBC-dependent assemblies. In the absence 
of TatB, E. coli TatA or the processed form of P. stuartii TatA form a complex 
with TatC. However, this complex is not observed with the pro-form of 
P. stuartii TatA. Taken together our results suggest that the P. stuartii TatA 
pro-protein is inactive because it is unable to interact with TatC and cannot 
form the large TatA complexes required for transport.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.2012.08080.x
PMCID: PMC3712462
PMID: 22591141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Eur J Neurol. 2012 Nov;19(11):1455-61. doi:
10.1111/j.1468-1331.2012.03744.x.  Epub 2012 May 17.

Health-related quality of life and cost-effectiveness of treatment in 
subarachnoid haemorrhage.

Malmivaara K(1), Juvela S, Hernesniemi J, Lappalainen J, Siironen J.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland. 
kirsi.malmivaara@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: Treatment of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) demands high 
healthcare resource utilization. Case fatality and disability remain as common 
outcomes of SAH. The purpose of this study was to perform a treatment 
cost-effectiveness analysis of patients with SAH.
METHODS: We performed a long-term follow-up of the SAH patients treated in our 
institution over a 3-year period starting February 1998. Outcome 10 years after 
the SAH and treatment costs were evaluated. The health-related quality of life 
was evaluated using the EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaire and visual-analogue scale 
(VAS). The cost of a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) was calculated.
RESULTS: Median follow-up time of the 178 patients was 10.8 years. Overall 
mortality rate was 24%. Of the 43 non-survivors, 42% died within 6 months. For 
the 135 survivors, the median EQ-5D index value was 1.00, which is similar to 
that for normal population. The median VAS value was 80, which is comparable to 
normal population's value. Of the survivors, 88% (119/135) were able to live at 
home and 63% (85/135) returned to work after SAH. The cost of neurosurgical 
treatment for one QALY was 1700€.
CONCLUSION: Long-term outcome of survivors after aneurysmal SAH was relatively 
good: most of them lived at home, 63% had returned to work and 36% were still 
working. The quality of life index of the survivors was similar to that of 
normal populations, and the survivors were as satisfied with their health as 
people in general are. Cost of neurosurgical treatment and cost of a QALY gained 
were acceptable.

© 2012 The Author(s) European Journal of Neurology © 2012 EFNS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2012.03744.x
PMID: 22591408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. J Health Econ. 2012 May;31(3):521-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2012.01.006.
Epub  2012 Apr 21.

Is a QALY still a QALY at the end of life?

Round J(1).

Author information:
(1)Marie Curie Palliative Care Research Unit, Department of Mental Health 
Sciences, Charles Bell House, 67-73 Riding House Street, W1W 7EJ, United 
Kingdom. j.round@ucl.ac.uk

Recent research into end of life and palliative care has focused on the 
development of a replacement for the quality adjusted life year (QALY) as an 
outcome measure. Reasons given range from the lack of anticipated survival 
benefit from treatment to the inappropriateness of death as an anchor for 
valuing health states, or the increased value of time to the individual at the 
end of life. The Palliative Care Yardstick, has been proposed as an alternative. 
In this paper, I argue that the QALY should not be abandoned as an outcome 
measure in end of life and palliative care populations and suggest possible 
methods for generating empirical data to support or refute this. I show why the 
arguments made for replacement of the QALY are not supported by current evidence 
and how in some cases the abandonment of the QALY framework would lead to an 
unjustifiable inequitable distribution of resources.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2012.01.006
PMID: 22591713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2012 Nov-Dec;47(6):262-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2011.06.011. Epub 2012 May 14.

[Effects of exercise on the function and quality of life in the 
institutionalised elderly diagnosed with gonarthrosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Espejo Antúnez L(1), Cardero Durán MÁ, Caro Puértolas B, Téllez de Peralta G.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Terapéutica Médico-Quirúrgica, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Extremadura, Badajoz, España. luisea@unex.es

INTRODUCTION: At present, aging and increased life expectancy implies a greater 
susceptibility to dependence, which then leads to the irreversible loss of 
quality of life, in many cases due to chronic diseases such as osteoarthritis 
(OA). The aim of this study was to determine the effect of a treatment based on 
aerobic exercise in institutionalised elderly people diagnosed with knee 
osteoarthritis.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: An experimental, prospective, single blind study was 
conducted. The sample (n=31), was divided into two groups. The experimental 
group (n=17) was treated based on aerobic exercise for 4 weeks with 2 sessions 
per week and each lasting 50minutes. We conducted a pre-test and post-test 
assessment using a visual analogue scale, WOMAC questionnaire and SF-36 as 
measuring instruments. The statistical program SPSS15.0 was used for the 
analysis of the data.
RESULTS: We obtained significant differences in the t-test for paired samples in 
the three dimensions of the WOMAC questionnaire, P<.001, in the perceived pain 
P<.001 and in the physical function, vitality and mental health dimensions of 
the SF-36 with a 95% confidence interval.
CONCLUSION: Exercise gave positive results in functional (pain, stiffness, 
physical function) and psychological aspects (mental health and vitality) in the 
institutionalised elderly.

Copyright © 2011 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2011.06.011
PMID: 22592162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. BMJ. 2012 May 16;344:e3481. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e3481.

US citizens are less healthy but living longer, report says.

Roehr B.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e3481
PMID: 22592905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Proc Biol Sci. 2012 Aug 7;279(1740):2913-21. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2012.0273.
Epub  2012 May 16.

The extended evolutionary synthesis and the role of soft inheritance in 
evolution.

Dickins TE(1), Rahman Q.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of East London, , London E15 4LZ, UK. 
dickins@uel.ac.uk

Comment in
    Proc Biol Sci. 2013 Nov 22;280(1771):20130903; discussion 20131820.

In recent years, a number of researchers have advocated extending the modern 
synthesis in evolutionary biology. One of the core arguments made in favour of 
an extension comes from work on soft inheritance systems, including 
transgenerational epigenetic effects, cultural transmission and niche 
construction. In this study, we outline this claim and then take issue with it. 
We argue that the focus on soft inheritance has led to a conflation of proximate 
and ultimate causation, which has in turn obscured key questions about 
biological organization and calibration across the life span to maximize average 
lifetime inclusive fitness. We illustrate this by presenting hypotheses that we 
believe incorporate the core phenomena of soft inheritance and will aid in 
understanding them.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2012.0273
PMCID: PMC3385474
PMID: 22593110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Anticancer Res. 2012 May;32(5):2085-9.

Robotic-assisted radical prostatectomy in men ≥75 years of age. Surgical, 
oncological and functional outcomes.

Labanaris AP(1), Witt JH, Zugor V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Pediatric Urology, St. Antonius Medical Center, 
Moellenweg 22, 48599 Gronau, Germany. labanaris@web.de

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to evaluate the surgical, the oncological 
and the functional outcomes in men ≥75 years of age undergoing robot-assisted 
radical prostatectomy (RARP).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records of N=2000 men who underwent RARP from February 
2006 to April 2010 were retrospectively reviewed. A total of 45 patients who 
were ≥75 years of age were indentified. A comparison was performed between the 
overall patient cohort and the aforementioned patients. The analyzed parameters 
included: minor and major postoperative complications, postoperative Gleason 
score, pathological stage, positive-margin status, continence and potency in 12 
months, disease-specific mortality and presence of biochemical progression at 
the follow-up period.
RESULTS: The following results reflect the comparison of the overall cohort of 
patients vs. the cohort of patients who were ≥75 years of age. A statistical 
difference of the analyzed parameters was observed only minor complications 
11.4% vs. 15.5% (p<0.05), neurovascular bundle (NVB) preservation 65.7% vs. 
51.1% (p<0.05) and potency after 12 months 66.2% vs. 39.6% (p<0.001). Major 
complications were noted in 1.3% vs. 2.2% of cases. A Gleason score <7 was noted 
in 42.8% vs. 37.3%, a Gleason score 7 in 47.7% vs. 51.1% and a Gleason score >7 
in 9.5% vs. 11.6%. Organ-confined disease was noted in 73.5% vs. 68.8%, 
extraprostatic extension in 25.2% vs. 31.2% and positive surgical margin status 
was encountered in 8.9% vs. 11.1% of cases. At 12 months, 92.8% vs. 86.9% of 
patients were continent and 66.2% vs. 39.6% were potent. After a median 
follow-up of 17.2 months no disease-specific mortality was evident and 95.5% 
were free of biochemical progression in the cohort of patients who were ≥75 
years of age.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that RARP in patients ≥75 years of age is a 
safe surgical procedure with limited complications, excellent oncologic and 
continence outcomes as well as acceptable potency outcomes. Nevertheless, RARP 
should be limited to a selected cohort of patients with a good overal health 
status and an individual life expectancy of more than 10 years in order for the 
oncological advantages of surgery to be achieved.

PMID: 22593493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. ScientificWorldJournal. 2012;2012:609323. doi: 10.1100/2012/609323. Epub
2012  Apr 19.

Towards improved prognostic scores predicting survival in patients with brain 
metastases: a pilot study of serum lactate dehydrogenase levels.

Nieder C(1), Marienhagen K, Dalhaug A, Norum J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Palliative Medicine, Nordland Hospital, 8092 Bodø, 
Norway. carsten.nieder@nlsh.no

Accurate prognostic information is desirable when counselling patients with 
brain metastases regarding their therapeutic options and life expectancy. Based 
on previous studies, we selected serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) as a 
promising factor on which we perform a pilot study investigating methodological 
aspects of biomarker studies in patients with brain metastases, before embarking 
on large-scale studies that will look at a larger number of candidate markers in 
an expanded patient cohort. For this retrospective analysis, 100 patients with 
available information on LDH treated with palliative whole-brain radiotherapy 
were selected. A comprehensive evaluation of different LDH-based variables was 
performed in uni- and multivariate tests. Probably, the most intriguing finding 
was that LDH kinetics might be more important, or at least complement, 
information obtained from a single measurement immediately before radiotherapy. 
LDH and performance status outperformed several other variables that are part of 
prognostic models such as recursive partitioning analyses classes and graded 
prognostic assessment score. LDH kinetics might reflect disease behaviour in 
extracranial metastatic and primary sites without need for comprehensive imaging 
studies and is a quite inexpensive diagnostic test. Based on these encouraging 
results, confirmatory studies in a larger cohort of patients are warranted.

DOI: 10.1100/2012/609323
PMCID: PMC3345873
PMID: 22593701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Mol Diagn Ther. 2012 Jun 1;16(3):181-90. doi: 10.1007/BF03262207.

Cost effectiveness of interferon-gamma release assay for school-based 
tuberculosis screening.

Kowada A(1).

Author information:
(1)Kojiya Haneda Healthcare Service, Ota City Public Health Office, Tokyo, 
Japan. kowadaa@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the cost effectiveness of school-based tuberculosis (TB) 
screening using QuantiFERON®-TB Gold In-Tube (QFT) versus the tuberculin skin 
test (TST) and chest x-ray examination (CXR).
METHODS: We constructed Markov models of first-year high-school and university 
students, using a societal perspective, and followed them up until the age of 80 
years. Three strategies (QFT, TST, and CXR) were modeled. All costs and clinical 
benefits were discounted at a fixed annual rate of 3%.
RESULTS: In the base-case analyses of 16-year-old high-school students and 
19-year-old university students, the QFT strategy yielded the greatest benefits 
at the lowest cost [in year 2009 values] (16-year-olds: $US627.89, 29.69835 
quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]; 19-year-olds: $US646.04, 29.15361 QALYs), 
compared with the TST strategy (16-year-olds: $US943.50, 29.69767 QALYs; 
19-year-olds: $US998.62, 29.15288 QALYs) and the CXR strategy (16-year-olds: 
$US7286.24, 29.69532 QALYs; 19-year-olds: $US7305.19, 29.14911 QALYs). On 
one-way sensitivity analyses, the bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccination 
rate was not sensitive to the TST strategy. On probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, the QFT strategy was the most cost effective, with a 
willingness-to-pay level of $US50 000/QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: The QFT strategy provided the greatest benefits at the lowest cost 
for school-based TB screening. There appears to be little role for TST or CXR in 
screening of school populations. Current practices using either TST or CXR 
screening should be reconsidered on the basis of cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03262207
PMID: 22594558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Pain Med. 2012 May;13(5):699-710. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2012.01375.x.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of the effect of pregabalin versus usual care in 
the treatment of refractory neuropathic pain in routine medical practice in 
Spain.

de Salas-Cansado M(1), Pérez C, Saldaña MT, Navarro A, Rejas J.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes Research Department, TFS, Madrid, Spain. 
marina.desalas@trialformsupport.com

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
pregabalin vs usual care (UC) in outpatients with refractory neuropathic pain 
(NeP), treated according to routine medical practice in primary care settings in 
Spain.
METHODS: Patients were extracted from a 12-week noninterventional prospective 
study conducted to ascertain the costs of NeP. Pairs of pregabalin-naïve 
patients receiving UC or pregabalin, matched by age, gender, pain intensity, and 
refractory to previous treatment, were selected in a 1:1 ratio. Refractory was 
considered a patient with actual pain (scoring >40 in a 100 mm in a pain visual 
analog scale) after receiving a course of a standard analgesic, at its 
recommended doses. Perspectives of the Spanish National Healthcare System and 
society were included in the analysis. Effectiveness was expressed as 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gain. Results of the cost-effectiveness 
analysis were expressed as an incremental cost per QALY (ICER) gained. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis using bootstrapping techniques was also 
carried out.
RESULTS: A total of 160 pairs were extracted. Compared with UC, pregabalin was 
associated with significantly higher QALY gain; 0.0374 ± 0.0367 vs 0.0224 ± 
0.0313 (P < 0.001). Despite drug acquisition costs being higher for pregabalin 
(€251 ± 125 vs €104 ± 121; P < 0.001), total and health care costs incurred for 
pregabalin were similar in both groups; €1,335 ± 1,302 vs €1,387 ± 1,489 (P = 
0.587) and €529 ± 438 vs €560 ± 672 (P = 0.628), respectively, yielding a 
dominant ICER for both total and health care costs in the base case scenario; 
95% confidence intervals, respectively, dominant to €17,268, and dominant to 
€6,508. Sensitivity analysis confirmed results of the basecase scenario.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that pregabalin may be cost-effective in the 
treatment of refractory NeP patients when compared with UC in routine medical 
practice in Spain.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1526-4637.2012.01375.x
PMID: 22594706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Am J Public Health. 2012 Jul;102(7):1246-9. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300584.
Epub  2012 May 17.

Global health-a circumpolar perspective.

Chatwood S(1), Bjerregaard P, Young TK.

Author information:
(1)Dalla Lana School of Public Health at the University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Global health should encompass circumpolar health if it is to transcend the 
traditional approach of the "rich North" assisting the "poor South." Although 
the eight Arctic states are among the world's most highly developed countries, 
considerable health disparities exist among regions across the Arctic, as well 
as between northern and southern regions and between indigenous and 
nonindigenous populations within some of these states. While sharing 
commonalities such as a sparse population, geographical remoteness, harsh 
physical environment, and underdeveloped human resources, circumpolar regions in 
the northern hemisphere have developed different health systems, strategies, and 
practices, some of which are relevant to middle and lower income countries. As 
the Arctic gains prominence as a sentinel of global issues such as climate 
change, the health of circumpolar populations should be part of the global 
health discourse and policy development.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300584
PMCID: PMC3478014
PMID: 22594729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Prim Care Diabetes. 2012 Dec;6(4):303-12. doi: 10.1016/j.pcd.2012.03.001.
Epub  2012 May 15.

An economic evaluation of pregabalin versus usual care in the management of 
community-treated patients with refractory painful diabetic peripheral 
neuropathy in primary care settings.

de Salas-Cansado M(1), Pérez C, Saldaña MT, Navarro A, González-Gómez FJ, Ruiz 
L, Rejas J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research Department, TFS, Madrid (Madrid), 
Spain. marina_de_salas@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of pregabalin versus usual care 
(UC) in the management of community-treated patients with refractory painful 
diabetic peripheral neuropathy (pDPN) in primary care settings (PCS) in Spain.
METHODS: Data was extracted from a 12-week registry study assessing costs of 
neuropathic pain in Spain. Pregabalin-naïve outpatients treated with UC or newly 
prescribed pregabalin were selected for inclusion in the cost-effectiveness 
analysis. Effectiveness was expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALY) 
gain. Perspectives of the Spanish National Health System (NHS) and society 
(2006) were applied for cost calculations. Results were expressed as incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Bootstrapping techniques (10,000 re-samples) 
were used to obtain the probabilistic ICER and the cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curve.
RESULTS: A total of 189 patients were included in the economic analysis. 
Compared with UC, pregabalin was associated with higher QALY gain in a period of 
12-weeks; 0.0406±0.0343 versus 0.0285±0.0350 (p=0.167). Overall total costs 
(€1368±1229 vs. €1258±1474; p=0.587) and healthcare costs (€628±590 vs. 
€469±420; p=0.134) were similar for both pregabalin and UC, respectively. ICERs 
for pregabalin varied from €5302 (95% CI: dominant; €144,105) for total costs to 
€14,381 (dominant; €115,648) for healthcare costs. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses showed that 79-84% of ICERs were below the threshold of €30,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that pregabalin may be cost-effective in the 
management of community-treated refractory outpatients, with pDPN when compared 
with usual care in the primary care setting in Spain. These findings may help 
policy makers when making health decision in the management of diabetes in the 
community.

Copyright © 2012 Primary Care Diabetes Europe. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcd.2012.03.001
PMID: 22595032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Prehosp Disaster Med. 2012 Apr;27(2):198-203. doi:
10.1017/S1049023X12000477.  Epub 2012 May 17.

Cost utility analyses in international disaster responses-where are they?

Zoraster R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, USA. 
rzoradter@yahoo.com

International health care providers have flocked to Haiti and other 
disaster-affected countries in record numbers. Anecdotal articles often give 
"body counts" to describe what was accomplished, followed months later by 
articles suggesting outcomes could have been better. Mention will be made that 
various interventions were "expensive," or not the best use of limited funds. 
But there is very little science to post-intervention evaluations, especially 
with regard to the value for the money spent. This is surprising, because a 
large body of literature exists with regard to the Cost Utility Analysis (CUA) 
of health care interventions. Applying reproducible metrics to disaster 
interventions will help improve performance.This study will: (1) introduce and 
explain basic CUA; (2) review why the application of CUA is difficult in 
disaster settings; (3) consider how disasters may be unique with regard to CUA; 
(4) demonstrate past and theoretical utilization of CUA in disaster settings; 
and (5) suggest future utilization of CUA by healthcare providers in Disaster 
Response.

DOI: 10.1017/S1049023X12000477
PMID: 22595691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Med Hypotheses. 2012 Aug;79(2):178-80. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.04.028. Epub
 2012 May 16.

A postulated role of p130 in telomere maintenance by human papillomavirus 
oncoprotein E7.

Zhang W(1), Tian Y, Chen JJ, Zhao W, Yu X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathogenic Microbiology, Shandong University School of 
Medicine, Jinan, Shandong 250012, China. zhangweifang@sdu.edu.cn

High-risk human papillomaviruses (HR-HPVs) infections is highly associated with 
the development of cervical cancer. It is now recognized that telomere length 
maintenance or extension is indispensable for carcinogenesis. The early 
oncoproteins E6 and E7 are the main malignant transformation factors of HR-HPVs 
and they maintain telomeres by different mechanisms, of which E6 protein 
activating telomerase is well documented. Reports showed that E7 protein 
utilized an alternative lengthen of telomere (ALT) mechanism to restore telomere 
length, yet the underlying molecular basis remains largely unknown. We propose 
that degradation of tumor suppressor pRb family member p130 plays an essential 
role in E7-regulated telomere extension by ALT. ALT is a mechanism based on 
homologous recombination (HR) between telomere sister chromatids, and a number 
of proteins involved in the HR pathway, such as MRN [MRE11 (meiotic 
recombination 11)-Rad50-NBS1 (Nijmegen breakage syndrome 1)] complex are 
required for the ALT pathway. Rb family member p130 could inhibit ALT by 
interacting with Rad50, while HPV E7 could activate ALT by degrading p130. We 
will make E7 mutants which are defective in p130 degradation to test whether 
these cells have a limited life span. Besides, immunofluorescence assay will 
show an ALT-related promyelocytic leukemia (PML) body (APBs) in E7-expressing 
cells. Although cervical cancer usually has high telomerase activities since the 
expressing of HPV E6, the anti-telomerase therapy will be unavailable for 
cervical cancer since it may activate E7-induced ALT. Our hypothesis not only 
enrich the knowledge of the regulation of ALT, but also indicate that p130 may 
serve as a potential suppressor of ALT, and gene therapy of p130 may be used in 
cervical cancers.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.04.028
PMID: 22595804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. BMJ Case Rep. 2012 Apr 28;2012:bcr1020114890. doi: 10.1136/bcr.10.2011.4890.

Complete heart block as a complicating feature of a mediastinal lymphoma.

Jorge VC(1), Bernardino V, Araújo AC, Gomes S, Noronha C, Riso N, Vaz Riscado M.

Author information:
(1)Department 2, Curry Cabral's Hospital, Lisbon, Portugal. 
vandacristinajorge@gmail.com

Malignant lymphomas represent about 9% of cardiac neoplasms. Despite its 
life-threatening nature, the cardiac manifestations are often subclinical. In 
about 20% of deaths from lymphoma, cardiac involvement is found only in autopsy. 
The authors present the case of a 77-year-old female admitted due to intense 
back pain, vomiting, generalised pruritus, fatigue and weight loss. She had a 
personal history of hypertension and breast cancer was noted 10 years before 
admission. The thoracoabdominopelvic CT showed a mass in the left atrium with 
extension to the right atrium and inferior vena cava, and a paravertebral mass 
at D10-D11 with invasion of the spinal canal and hepatic hilum. The 
transthoracic paravertebral mass biopsy was compatible with a diffuse large B 
cell lymphoma. The patient developed a complete atrioventricular block, with 
haemodynamic instability, requiring urgent chemoreduction of the paracardiac 
mass and implantation of an epicardial pacemaker.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr.10.2011.4890
PMCID: PMC3351653
PMID: 22605004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests None.


329. J Hist Sex. 2012;21(2):297-312. doi: 10.1353/sex.2012.0028.

Childbirth miracles in Swedish miracle collections.

Fröjmark A(1).

Author information:
(1)Linnaus University.

DOI: 10.1353/sex.2012.0028
PMID: 22606752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Rev Infirm. 2012 Apr;(180):20-2.

[Health depends on quality of life].

[Article in French]

Vache-Picat M(1), Le Roux M.

Author information:
(1)Médecins du monde, Rouen. mireille.vache.picat@wanadoo.fr

Social-economic conditions, access to care and prevention are important 
indicators of a population's health status. These factors partly explain the 
level of health and the low life expectancy of travelling people. By taking into 
account the difference in lifestyle and the material and psychological 
conditions of travellers, areas to explore for improving the provision of care 
can be envisaged.

PMID: 22606771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Jul;17(1):19-23. doi: 10.3171/2012.4.SPINE111108.
Epub  2012 May 18.

Minimally invasive decompression and stabilization for the management of 
thoracolumbar spine metastasis.

Zairi F(1), Arikat A, Allaoui M, Marinho P, Assaker R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Lille University Hospital, Rue Emile Laine, 
Lille, France. fahed.zairi@gmail.com

OBJECT: Spinal metastasis with spinal cord involvement is a frequent 
complication in cancer patients. As the spinal compression frequently occurs 
ventrally, performing a simple posterior laminectomy alone is generally 
ineffective and dangerous. Many aggressive surgical strategies have been 
developed to improve outcomes for patients with metastatic spine disease. These 
strategies are associated with high morbidity and complication rates, especially 
in patients with numerous neoplasm-associated comorbidities, which can limit 
their indication in patients with a limited life expectancy. The authors 
performed a prospective evaluation of minimally invasive decompression and 
stabilization for the palliative management of symptomatic thoracolumbar spine 
metastasis.
METHODS: Ten patients with metastasis to the thoracolumbar spine and 
neurological compromise underwent minimally invasive transpedicular 
vertebrectomy and spinal cord decompression through a tubular expandable 
retractor. Percutaneous stabilization was also systematically performed to 
ensure spinal stability.
RESULTS: No complications during the procedure were reported. The mean operative 
duration was 170 minutes and the mean estimated blood loss was 400 ml. The 
postoperative course of all patients was uneventful, with the exception of 1 
benign urinary tract infection. Eight patients (80%) improved at least 1 Frankel 
grade.
CONCLUSIONS: Minimally invasive treatment of thoracolumbar spine metastasis is a 
safe and effective palliative option in patients with limited life expectancy, 
to limit morbidity and preserve quality of life.

DOI: 10.3171/2012.4.SPINE111108
PMID: 22607222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Gerodontology. 2013 Sep;30(3):187-93. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2012.00658.x.
 Epub 2012 May 21.

Survival analysis of mandibular complete dentures with acrylic-based resilient 
liners.

Kimoto S(1), Kimoto K, Murakami H, Gunji A, Ito N, Kawai Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Removable Prosthodontics, Nihon University School of Dentistry 
at Matsudo, Matsudo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this long-term randomised controlled trial was to 
compare the longevity of dentures constructed using a conventional acrylic resin 
(CAR) to that of dentures constructed using an acrylic-based resilient liner 
(ARL).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The follow-up study was essentially carried out by annual 
telephone calls to each of the 67 participants. The Kaplan-Meier method and 
life-table analysis were used for univariate analyses. The Cox 
proportional-hazards test was used as a final model for statistically adjusting 
predictor variables such as sex, clinician type, mandibular denture type and age 
at denture delivery.
RESULTS: The denture type was likely to affect the survival time of the 
dentures, while the sex and clinician type were not. The group using 
acrylic-based resilient denture liners had twice the risk of having shorter 
denture-survival times than those using conventional acrylic resin dentures. 
Younger participants were likely to have a reduced risk of having shorter 
denture-survival times than older participants.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that mandibular complete dentures constructed using ARL 
are twice as likely as dentures constructed using CAR to have shorter denture 
survival times, mainly because of material deterioration.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S and The Gerodontology Society. Published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2012.00658.x
PMID: 22607455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2012 Nov;207(5):355-67. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2012.04.014.  Epub 2012 Apr 16.

Geriatric gynecology: promoting health and avoiding harm.

Miller KL(1), Baraldi CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Utah School of 
Medicine, and Center on Aging, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Age increases vulnerability, commonly accompanied by greater reliance on others 
and susceptibility to maltreatment. Physiologic processes become less resilient; 
the potential for harm from medical care increases. Awareness of frailty, 
functional, social, and potential maltreatment issues enables early referrals to 
help the patient maintain her independence. Health issues that may impede both 
gynecologic care and self-sufficiency include sensory deficits, physical 
disability, and cognitive impairment. Speaking slowly and providing contextual 
information enhance patient comprehension. Cancer screening depends on life 
expectancy. Osteoporosis treatment requires managing fall risk. Gynecologic 
symptoms more likely have multiple contributing factors than one etiology. 
Incontinence is a particularly complex issue, but invariably includes bladder 
diary assessment and pelvic floor muscle training. Function and frailty measures 
best predict perioperative morbidity. Communication with the patient, her 
family, other providers, and health care organizations is an important frontier 
in avoiding errors and adverse outcomes.

Copyright © 2012 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2012.04.014
PMID: 22607665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Ital J Pediatr. 2012 May 18;38:19. doi: 10.1186/1824-7288-38-19.

In Italy, healthy life expectancy drop dramatically: from 2004 to 2008 there was 
a 10 years drop among newborn girls.

Gennaro V(1), Ghirga G, Corradi L.

Author information:
(1)San Paolo General Hospital, Largo Donatori del sangue, 00053, Civitavecchia, 
Italy.

INTRODUCTION: In this short essay, we would like to address a severe divergence 
observed in Italy between Life Expectancy (LE) and Healthy Life Expectancy 
(Healthy LE) and a unique trend of worsening in Healthy LE, compared to the 
other European countries. Both issues emerge in recent data by EUROSTAT Report.
METHODS: The analysis used by the authors of the EUROSTAT report is based on 
Sullivan method which combines 2 type of variables: mortality and morbidity 
data.
RESULTS: While several European countries started to deal with comparable data 
about LE since 1960, in Italy, analogous data were available for the first time 
in EUROSTAT Report only in 1985. In Italy, in the period 1985-2008, there was a 
good progressive increase in L.E., following the best European values. 
Nevertheless, while until 2004 Italy was among the European best countries in 
terms of both LE and Healthy LE at birth, four years later in 2008 there was a 
shocking loss of 10 years of Healthy LE at birth in newborn girls. In the 
process, they lost their 2-years previous advantage with respect to males (the 
latter lost only 6 years of Healthy LE, in the same time span). Looking at 
healthy LE at age 65 in respect to 2004, Italian women in 2008 could expect to 
live healthy only about 7 years (as much as men) versus the almost 15 years of 
the European best values (14 years for men).
CONCLUSIONS: It is legitimate to wonder why no one official comment has been 
produced as a reaction after the first year of spectacular decline in Healthy 
Life Years in Italy: in counter-tendency with European values, from 2004 to 2008 
there is a clear evidence of a 10 years drop in Healthy LE among newborn girls. 
The problem has not been taken into consideration even when the situation 
clearly appeared to worsen in the following years, dropping 4-6 more years for 
males and females in 2006 (for newborn babies); two more years of healthy life 
expectancy have been lost between 2006 and 2007 for each gender. One more year 
of Healthy Life Expectancy is lost in 2008. And data have not been made 
available any more, since then, from Italy.

DOI: 10.1186/1824-7288-38-19
PMCID: PMC3408327
PMID: 22607773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Jun;55(6):1794-800. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.02.026.

A primer on cost-effectiveness analyses for vascular surgeons.

Barshes NR(1), Chambers JD, Cantor SB, Cohen J, Belkin M.

Author information:
(1)Michael E. DeBakey Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.

The rate of growth in health care costs in the United States is simply 
unsustainable. In this economic climate, health care providers will increasingly 
be asked to justify the existence of health care programs and management 
strategies on an economic basis. An understanding of cost-effectiveness analyses 
and its components - direct and indirect costs, quality-adjusted life-years, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios - is integral to this. We present a primer 
on the methodology of cost-effectiveness analyses and a review of published 
cost-effectiveness analyses of vascular surgery interventions with the goal of 
providing the vascular surgeon with a basic understanding of this topic.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.02.026
PMID: 22608043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Psychol Med. 2013 Feb;43(2):363-74. doi: 10.1017/S0033291712001079. Epub
2012  May 21.

Cost-effectiveness and long-term effectiveness of internet-based cognitive 
behaviour therapy for severe health anxiety.

Hedman E(1), Andersson E, Lindefors N, Andersson G, Rück C, Ljótsson B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychology, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. kire.hedman@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Severe health anxiety is a common condition associated with 
functional disability, making it a costly disorder from a societal perspective. 
Internet-based cognitive behaviour therapy (ICBT) is a promising treatment but 
no previous study has assessed the cost-effectiveness or long-term outcome of 
ICBT for severe health anxiety. The aim of this study was to investigate the 
cost-effectiveness and 1-year treatment effects of ICBT for severe health 
anxiety.
METHOD: Cost-effectiveness and 1-year follow-up data were obtained from a 
randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing ICBT (n = 40) to an attention 
control condition (CC, n = 41). The primary outcome measure was the Health 
Anxiety Inventory (HAI). A societal perspective was taken and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated using bootstrap sampling.
RESULTS: The main ICER was -£1244, indicating the societal economic gain for 
each additional case of remission when administering ICBT. Baseline to 1-year 
follow-up effect sizes on the primary outcome measure were large (d = 
1.71-1.95).
CONCLUSIONS: ICBT is a cost-effective treatment for severe health anxiety that 
can produce substantial and enduring effects.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291712001079
PMID: 22608115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Biosci Bioeng. 2012 Sep;114(3):243-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2012.04.007.
Epub  2012 May 17.

Microorganisms in landfill bioreactors for accelerated stabilization of solid 
wastes.

Sang NN(1), Soda S, Ishigaki T, Ike M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Environment and Resources, Vietnam National University - Ho Chi 
Minh City, 142 To Hien Thanh street, District 10, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam. 
nguyennhusang@yahoo.com

Landfill bioreactors (LBRs) with management of leachate and biogas have 
presented numerous advantages such as accelerated stabilization of solid wastes, 
reduced amount of leachate, and in situ leachate treatment. Such advantages have 
minimized environmental risks, have allowed extension of the useful life of the 
landfill site, and have fostered cost reduction. LBRs of three types have been 
developed using both anaerobic and aerobic modes: anaerobic, aerobic, and 
hybrid. Microorganisms in landfills cause various reactions related with organic 
fractions and heavy metals. Such functions have been stimulated in LBRs by 
recirculation of leachate with or without aeration. To date, most studies of 
microorganisms in LBRs have analyzed bacteria and archaea based on 16S rRNA 
genes and have analyzed fungi based on 18S rRNA genes from a taxonomical 
viewpoint. Indicator genes for specific functions in LBRs such as nitrification, 
denitrification, and methane production have also been monitored. The population 
dynamics of microorganisms in LBRs have been partially clarified, but the 
obtained data remain limited because of highly heterogeneous features of solid 
wastes inside LBRs. Systematic monitoring of microorganisms should be 
established to improve LBR performance.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2012.04.007
PMID: 22608549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Oct;56(4):943-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.03.018. Epub
2012  May 19.

Treatment of primary infected aortic aneurysm without aortic resection.

Yu SY(1), Lee CH, Hsieh HC, Chou AH, Ko PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Province of China.

BACKGROUND: We sought to determine the safety and efficacy of two different 
treatment strategies for patients with primary infected aortic aneurysms, 
including antibiotic treatment alone and endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) 
with aggressive antibiotic treatment, as alternatives to the established 
treatment of open surgical repair.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective chart review of patients who were treated 
for infected aortic aneurysm without undergoing aortic resection from January 
2000 to December 2010 at a single institution.
RESULTS: A total of 40 patients underwent traditional open repair during the 
study period. Sixteen patients with infected aortic aneurysm (11 men; median 
age, 70; range, 44-80 years) were identified as not having undergone aortic 
resection during the 11 years reviewed in the study. Nine patients received 
antibiotic treatment only (group I) and seven patients underwent EVAR with 
aggressive antibiotic treatment (group II). Salmonella species were isolated 
from seven patients in group I, and oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus 
was isolated from the remaining two patients. In group II, six patients had 
blood culture results showing Salmonella species and one patient had a blood 
culture result showing Escherichia coli. Group I (7 of 9 patients; 78%) had a 
higher hospital mortality rate than group II (0%; P = .003). Mean follow-up 
among survivors was 10 ± 15 months (range, 1-37 months). One patient in group II 
developed a reinfection episode (14%). There was no significant difference 
between group I (67%; SE, 27.2%) and group II (86%; SE, 13.2%) in the 3-month 
survival rates (log-rank, P = .39).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support the premise that EVAR is beneficial for the 
patients with infected aortic aneurysm. Treating an infected aortic aneurysm 
with antibiotics alone could not stop aneurysm expansion and eradicate the 
aortic infection before the aneurysm ruptures. For the patients with infected 
aortic aneurysms who have limited life expectancy and multiple comorbidities, 
EVAR with aggressive antibiotic treatment should be considered preferentially 
over antibiotic treatment alone.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.03.018
PMID: 22608792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2012 Dec;23(6):917-23. doi:
10.1016/j.copbio.2012.04.005.  Epub 2012 May 18.

Killed but metabolically active vaccines.

Dubensky TW Jr(1), Skoble J, Lauer P, Brockstedt DG.

Author information:
