

367. Breast Care (Basel). 2010 Mar;5(1):23-25. doi: 10.1159/000272303. Epub 2010
Feb  23.

Metastasis of Primary Colon Cancer to the Breast - Leave Well Alone.

Barthelmes L(1), Simpson JS, Douglas-Jones AG, Sweetland HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Cardiff University, UK.

BACKGROUND: Metastasis to the breast is rare. Its management differs from that 
of primary breast cancer, as illustrated by this case of a colonic metastasis to 
the breast. CASE REPORT: A 78-year-old woman presented with a breast lump 16 
months after a palliative colonic resection for an obstructing colon cancer (T4 
N0 M1). Core biopsy of the breast lump revealed morphological features identical 
to the original bowel cancer. In view of her progressive metastatic disease, the 
breast lump was simply observed. She passed away 4 months later from advanced 
intra-abdominal carcinomatosis. DISCUSSION: There are 19 cases of colonic 
metastasis to the breast in the literature. In the literature, colonic 
metastases to the breast are usually excised. CONCLUSION: Excision of a colonic 
metastasis to the breast can be avoided if the patient's life expectancy is 
short.

HINTERGRUND: Metastasierung in die Brust ist selten. Ihre Behandlung 
unterscheidet sich von der eines primären Mammakarzinoms, wie hier für den Fall 
der Metastasierung eines Kolonkarzinoms in die Brust beschrieben wird.
FALLBERICHT: Eine 78-jährige Frau stellte sich 16 Monate nach einer palliativen 
Kolonresektion aufgrund eines obstruktiven Kolonkarzinoms (T4 N0 M1) mit einem 
Knoten in der Brust vor. Eine Hohlnadelbiopsie des Knotens zeigte identische 
Strukturen zu denen des ursprünglichen Darmkrebses. In Anbetracht des 
fortgeschrittenen metastatischen Krankheitsstadiums wurde der Knoten in der 
Brust der Patientin nur beobachtet. Sie verstarb 4 Monate später an den Folgen 
der fortgeschrittenen intraabdominalen Karzinomatose.
DISKUSSION: In der Literatur werden 19 Fälle von Metastasierung eines 
Kolonkarzinoms in die Brust beschrieben. In den in der Literatur beschriebenen 
Fällen werden die Kolonkarzinommetastasen in der Brust meist operativ entfernt.
SCHLUSSFOLGERUNG: Die operative Entfernung von Kolonkarzinommetastasen in der 
Brust kann bei einer nur kurzen Lebenserwartung des Patienten vermieden werden.

DOI: 10.1159/000272303
PMCID: PMC3357162
PMID: 22619637


368. J Cancer Epidemiol. 2012;2012:920468. doi: 10.1155/2012/920468. Epub 2012
Apr  26.

Retinoblastoma in the democratic republic of congo: 20-year review from a 
tertiary hospital in kinshasa.

Kazadi Lukusa A(1), Aloni MN, Kadima-Tshimanga B, Mvitu-Muaka M, Gini Ehungu JL, 
Ngiyulu R, Ekulu Mfutu P, Budiongo Nzazi A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, Department of Paediatrics, 
University Hospital of Kinshasa, P.O. Box 123, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of 
Congo.

Background. To determine clinical profile and management of retinoblastoma among 
children at Kinshasa in Democratic Republic of Congo. Patients and methods. The 
medical records of patients with a diagnosis of retinoblastoma seen at the 
University Hospital of Kinshasa from January 1985 till December 2005 were 
retrospectively reviewed. Demographic profile, clinical data, modes of treatment 
and outcome were analysed. Results. A total of 49 children, of whom 40 had 
adequate data on record were identified as retinoblastoma (28 males and 12 
females). Nine cases had bilateral disease. The median age at the first symptoms 
was 9 months (range, 1 month to 6 years) for unilateral retinoblastoma and 18 
months (range, 1 month to 3.5 years) for bilateral retinoblastoma. The median 
age at the first oncology consultation was 2.4 years (range, 6 months to 6 
years) for unilateral retinoblastoma and 2.4years (range, 9 months to 4 years) 
for bilateral disease. Leukokoria was present in 67.5% of subjects. Seventy-five 
percent abandoned the treatment. The mortality was 92.5%. Conclusion. In 
Democratic Republic of Congo, retinoblastoma remains a life threatening disease 
characterized by late referral to a specialized unit and affordability of 
chemotherapy; all leading to an extension of the disease and high mortality.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/920468
PMCID: PMC3350961
PMID: 22619679


369. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2013 Jul;22(5):668-74. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2012.04.002. Epub 2012 May 22.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the neuroprotective agent edaravone for 
noncardioembolic cerebral infarction.

Shinohara Y(1), Inoue S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Federation of National Public Service Personnel 
Mutual Aid Associations, Tachikawa Hospital, Tachikawa, Tokyo, Japan. 
yshinoha@tachikawa-hosp.gr.jp

BACKGROUND: The free radical scavenger edaravone has been reported useful for 
improvement in activities of daily living and for prevention of recurrent stroke 
in the edaravone versus sodium ozagrel in acute noncardioembolic ischemic stroke 
(EDO) trial. The aim of this report was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
edaravone compared to the intravenous antiplatelet drug ozagrel sodium (ozagrel) 
for noncardioembolic stroke (non-CES) based on the EDO trial data.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using the Markov model, 
which also incorporated the long-term course after the acute stage of non-CES. 
From the perspective of a health care payer, direct medical costs and nursing 
care costs were taken into account in the cost analysis. The quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) served as an indicator of effectiveness. Simulation at 5 and 10 
years after the onset of non-CES was carried out. The study involved 68-year-old 
patients with non-CES, selected against the EDO trial subject selection 
criteria. A 14-day treatment with edaravone 60 mg/day or ozagrel 160 mg/day was 
assumed as acute treatment for non-CES.
RESULTS: The use of edaravone was associated with a reduction in total costs 
(0.51 million yen [$6,374] at 5 years and 0.64 million yen [$8,039]) at 10 years 
after the onset of non-CES) and improvement in QALYs (0.23 at 5 years and 0.38 
at 10 years). Compared to ozagrel therapy, edaravone therapy was a cost-saving 
strategy for treating non-CES.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to ozagrel therapy, edaravone therapy for non-CES is not 
only useful from a clinical viewpoint, but also valuable from a socioeconomic 
perspective.

Copyright © 2013 National Stroke Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2012.04.002
PMID: 22622391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7399):502-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11071.

Melanoma genome sequencing reveals frequent PREX2 mutations.

Berger MF(1), Hodis E, Heffernan TP, Deribe YL, Lawrence MS, Protopopov A, 
Ivanova E, Watson IR, Nickerson E, Ghosh P, Zhang H, Zeid R, Ren X, Cibulskis K, 
Sivachenko AY, Wagle N, Sucker A, Sougnez C, Onofrio R, Ambrogio L, Auclair D, 
Fennell T, Carter SL, Drier Y, Stojanov P, Singer MA, Voet D, Jing R, Saksena G, 
Barretina J, Ramos AH, Pugh TJ, Stransky N, Parkin M, Winckler W, Mahan S, 
Ardlie K, Baldwin J, Wargo J, Schadendorf D, Meyerson M, Gabriel SB, Golub TR, 
Wagner SN, Lander ES, Getz G, Chin L, Garraway LA.

Author information:
(1)The Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Elife. 2014;3. doi: 10.7554/eLife.04180.

Melanoma is notable for its metastatic propensity, lethality in the advanced 
setting and association with ultraviolet exposure early in life. To obtain a 
comprehensive genomic view of melanoma in humans, we sequenced the genomes of 25 
metastatic melanomas and matched germline DNA. A wide range of point mutation 
rates was observed: lowest in melanomas whose primaries arose on 
non-ultraviolet-exposed hairless skin of the extremities (3 and 14 per megabase 
(Mb) of genome), intermediate in those originating from hair-bearing skin of the 
trunk (5-55 per Mb), and highest in a patient with a documented history of 
chronic sun exposure (111 per Mb). Analysis of whole-genome sequence data 
identified PREX2 (phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent Rac 
exchange factor 2)--a PTEN-interacting protein and negative regulator of PTEN in 
breast cancer--as a significantly mutated gene with a mutation frequency of 
approximately 14% in an independent extension cohort of 107 human melanomas. 
PREX2 mutations are biologically relevant, as ectopic expression of mutant PREX2 
accelerated tumour formation of immortalized human melanocytes in vivo. Thus, 
whole-genome sequencing of human melanoma tumours revealed genomic evidence of 
ultraviolet pathogenesis and discovered a new recurrently mutated gene in 
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11071
PMCID: PMC3367798
PMID: 22622578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Scand J Surg. 2012;101(2):138-43. doi: 10.1177/145749691210100211.

End-stage renal disease and critical limb ischemia: a deadly combination?

Biancari F(1), Arvela E, Korhonen M, Söderström M, Halmesmäki K, Albäck A, 
Lepäntalo M, Venermo M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardio-Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Oulu 
University Hospital, Oulu, Finland. faustobiancari@yahoo.it

OBJECTIVES: This study was planned to evaluate the prognostic impact of 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in patients with critical leg ischemia (CLI) 
undergoing infrainguinal revascularization.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 1425 patients who underwent infrainguinal 
revascularization for CLI were the subjects of the present analysis. Ninety-five 
patients had ESRD (eGFR < 15 ml/min/m²), and of them 66 (70%) underwent 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and 29 (30%) underwent bypass surgery.
RESULTS: ESRD patients had significantly lower overall survival (at 3-year, 
27.1% vs. 59.7%, p < 0.0001), leg salvage (at 3-year, 57.7% vs. 83.0%, p < 
0.0001), and amputation free survival (at 3-year, 16.2% vs. 52.9%, p < 0.0001) 
than patients with no or less severe renal failure. The difference in survival 
was even greater between 86 one-to-one propensity matched pairs (at 3-year, 
23.1% vs. 67.3%, p < 0.0001). ESRD was an independent predictor of all-cause 
mortality (RR 2.46, 95%CI 1.85-3.26). Logistic regression showed that age ≥ 75 
years was the only independent predictor of 1-year all-cause mortality (OR 4.92, 
95%CI 1.32-18.36). Classification and regression tree analysis showed that age ≥ 
75 years and, among younger patients, bypass surgery for leg ulcer and gangrene 
were associated with significantly higher 1-year mortality
CONCLUSIONS: Lower limb revascularization in patients with CLI and end-stage 
renal failure is associated with favourable leg salvage. However, these patients 
have a very poor survival and this may jeopardize any attempt of 
revascularization. Further studies are needed to identify ESRD patients with 
acceptable life expectancy and who may benefit from lower limb 
revascularization.

DOI: 10.1177/145749691210100211
PMID: 22623448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e37025. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037025. Epub 2012 May
18.

A novel generalized normal distribution for human longevity and other negatively 
skewed data.

Robertson HT(1), Allison DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
Alabama, United States of America. hrobertson@ms.soph.uab.edu

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2016;11(3):e0151123.

Negatively skewed data arise occasionally in statistical practice; perhaps the 
most familiar example is the distribution of human longevity. Although other 
generalizations of the normal distribution exist, we demonstrate a new 
alternative that apparently fits human longevity data better. We propose an 
alternative approach of a normal distribution whose scale parameter is 
conditioned on attained age. This approach is consistent with previous findings 
that longevity conditioned on survival to the modal age behaves like a normal 
distribution. We derive such a distribution and demonstrate its accuracy in 
modeling human longevity data from life tables. The new distribution is 
characterized by 1. An intuitively straightforward genesis; 2. Closed forms for 
the pdf, cdf, mode, quantile, and hazard functions; and 3. Accessibility to 
non-statisticians, based on its close relationship to the normal distribution.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037025
PMCID: PMC3356396
PMID: 22623974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


373. World J Gastrointest Endosc. 2012 May 16;4(5):167-79. doi: 
10.4253/wjge.v4.i5.167.

Endoscopic extraction of large common bile duct stones: A review article.

Stefanidis G(1), Christodoulou C, Manolakopoulos S, Chuttani R.

Author information:
(1)Gerasimos Stefanidis, Christos Christodoulou, Department of Gastroenterology, 
Athens Naval Hospital, 70 Deinokratous St, 115 21 Athens, Greece.

Since therapeutic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography replaced 
surgery as the first approach in cases of choledocolithiasis, a plethora of 
endoscopic techniques and devices appeared in order to facilitate rapid, safe 
and effective bile duct stones extraction. Nowadays, endoscopic sphincterotomy 
combined with balloon catheters and/or baskets is the routine endoscopic 
technique for stone extraction in the great majority of patients. Large common 
bile duct stones are treated conventionally with mechanical lithotripsy, while 
the most serious complication of the procedure is "basket and stone impaction" 
that is predominately resolved surgically. In cases of difficult, impacted, 
multiple or intrahepatic stones, more sophisticated procedures have been used. 
Electrohydraulic lithotripsy and laser lithotripsy are performed using 
conventional mother-baby scope systems, ultra-thin cholangioscopes, thin 
endoscopes and ultimately using the novel single use, single operator SpyGlass 
Direct Visualization System, in order to deliver intracorporeal shock wave 
energy to fragment the targeted stone, with very good outcomes. Recently, large 
balloon dilation after endoscopic sphincterotomy confirmed its effectiveness in 
the extraction of large stones in a plethora of trials. When compared with 
mechanical lithotripsy or with balloon dilation alone, it proved to be superior. 
Moreover, dilation is an ideal alternative in cases of altered anatomy where 
access to the papilla is problematic. Endoscopic sphincterotomy followed by 
large balloon dilation represents the onset of a new era in large bile duct 
stone extraction and the management of "impaction" because it seems that is an 
effective, inexpensive, less traumatic, safe and easy method that does not 
require sophisticated apparatus and can be performed widely by skillful 
endoscopists. When complete extraction of large stones is unsuccessful, the 
drainage of the common bile duct is mandatory either for bridging to the final 
therapy or as a curative therapy for very elderly patients with short life 
expectancy. Placing of more than one plastic endoprostheses is better while the 
administration of Ursodiol is ineffective. The great majority of patients with 
large stones can be treated endoscopically. In cases of unsuccessful stone 
extraction using balloons, baskets, mechanical lithotripsy, electrohydraulic or 
laser lithotripsy and large balloon dilation, the patient should be referred for 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy or a percutaneous approach and finally 
surgery.

DOI: 10.4253/wjge.v4.i5.167
PMCID: PMC3355239
PMID: 22624068


374. Int J Prev Med. 2012 Apr;3(4):230-40.

Preventing a Cardiovascular Disease Epidemic among Indigenous Populations 
through Lifestyle Changes.

Stoner L(1), Stoner KR, Young JM, Fryer S.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport and Exercise, Massey University, Wellington, New Zealand.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the driving force behind the discrepancy in life 
expectancy between indigenous and non-indigenous groups in many countries. 
Preceding CVD many indigenous groups exhibit a cluster of cardiometabolic risk 
factors, including overweight-obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol, and high 
blood pressure. In turn, modifiable lifestyle risk factors contribute to the 
development of this cluster of cardiometabolic conditions. Modifiable lifestyle 
risk factors include, but are not limited to, physical inactivity, poor 
nutrition, excessive alcohol consumption, and cigarette smoking. Notably, these 
metabolic and lifestyle risk factors are relatively simple to monitor and track. 
The current review will look at modifiable cardiometabolic (overweight-obesity, 
diabetes mellitus, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure) and lifestyle 
(physical inactivity, poor nutrition, risky alcohol behavior, and cigarette 
smoking) risk factors among indigenous populations from Australia (Aboriginal 
Australians and Torres Strait Islanders), New Zealand (Māori) and the United 
States (Native Americans). Discussion will focus on the causal relationship 
between modifiable lifestyle risk factors and cardiometabolic outcomes, as well 
as, simple measurements for tracking these risk factors.

PMCID: PMC3354392
PMID: 22624079

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


375. Int J Nurs Stud. 2013 Jun;50(6):738-46. doi: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2012.04.014.
 Epub 2012 May 22.

Liminality and transfer to adult services: a qualitative investigation involving 
young people with cystic fibrosis.

Tierney S(1), Deaton C, Jones A, Oxley H, Biesty J, Kirk S.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK. stephanie.tierney@manchester.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Moving to adult care can be challenging for adolescents with a 
long-term condition; if not managed well it may result in non-adherence, failure 
to attend appointments and a decline in health post-transfer. Life expectancy 
for those with cystic fibrosis has improved considerably in recent decades. This 
patient group was selected as an exemplar for thinking about the movement of 
care from paediatric to adult services.
OBJECTIVES: To explore young people's experience of transferring.
DESIGN: A qualitative descriptive methodology, involving semi-structured 
interviews.
SETTING: One adult cystic fibrosis unit in the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 19 patients (12=male) who had moved to the study site no more than 
12 months prior to data collection, which took place between October 2010 and 
February 2011.
METHODS: Interviews were conducted face-to-face, by telephone or email. 
Framework analysis was applied to interview transcripts.
RESULTS: Data suggested transfer was a period of flux, during which participants 
progressed from a service that was relatively prescriptive to one that called 
for autonomy. They appeared to go through three stages during this process: 
fracturing, acclimatising and integrating. The concept of liminality was used as 
a lens to explore data. Liminality describes those on the threshold of a new 
social position and rituals that bring meaning to such change. Rites of passage, 
such as being visited by a member of the adult team and a first appointment 
within this new healthcare setting, were important because they allowed for 
initiation into the workings of the adult unit. However, the absence of certain 
rituals, including a ceremony marking departure from paediatrics, might hinder 
progression towards becoming an adult patient.
CONCLUSIONS: The concept of liminality proved useful for thinking about data. 
Additional work should explore whether it can be applied to different long-term 
conditions and if initiation rituals vary across services. Nurses could play a 
role in preparing adolescents by assessing their readiness to transfer on a 
regular basis and intervening to address individual needs. This would help with 
young people's shift from a paediatric to adult identity, hopefully preventing 
them from experiencing a prolonged liminal state post-transfer.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2012.04.014
PMID: 22624956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Ann Epidemiol. 2012 Jun;22(6):406-12. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2012.04.009.

Does the African-American-white mortality gap persist after playing professional 
basketball? A 59-year historical cohort study.

Lawler T(1), Lawler F, Gibson J, Murray R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health City Hospital, Nottingham, United 
Kingdom. Tyler.Lawler@gmail.com

PURPOSE: The African-American-white mortality gap for males in the United States 
is 6 years in favor of whites. Participation in professional sport may moderate 
this ethnic disparity. The historical cohort of professional basketball players, 
with nearly equal numbers of African-American and white players, can provide a 
natural experiment that may control for the classic confounders of income, 
education, socioeconomic status (SES), and physical factors related to 
mortality. The objectives of this study are to assess mortality and calculate 
survival for the overall study population and within ethnicity.
METHODS: Data were combined from several publicly available sources. The cohort 
was analyzed to compare longevity among all players, and for players stratified 
by ethnicity, with the general U.S. population.
RESULTS: The final dataset included 3366 individuals, of whom 56.0% were African 
American. Results suggest white players live 18 months longer than their 
African-American colleagues. African-American players gained 9 years on their 
respective referent and live longer than white men in the general public. After 
controlling for covariates, we found that African-American players have a 75% 
increased risk of death compared with white players, a statistically significant 
gap (p < .0001, 95% confidence interval 1.41-2.44).
CONCLUSIONS: The African-American-white mortality gap for males is largely 
ameliorated (1.5 years vs. 6.1 years) in professional basketball but still 
persists.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2012.04.009
PMID: 22625998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2012 Jun;23(6):761-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jvir.2012.02.013.

Percutaneous cryoablation of metastatic lesions from non-small-cell lung 
carcinoma: initial survival, local control, and cost observations.

Bang HJ(1), Littrup PJ, Currier BP, Goodrich DJ, Aoun HD, Klein LC, Kuo JC, 
Heilbrun LK, Gadgeel S, Goodman AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Wayne State University, Karmanos Cancer Institute, 
Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2012 Jun;23(6):778-9.

PURPOSE: To assess feasibility, complications, local tumor recurrences, overall 
survival (OS), and estimates of cost effectiveness for multisite cryoablation 
(MCA) of oligometastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 49 computed tomography- and/or 
ultrasound-guided percutaneous MCA procedures were performed on 60 tumors in 31 
patients (19 women and 12 men) with oligometastatic NSCLC. Average patient age 
was 65 years. Tumor location was grouped according to common metastatic sites. 
Median OS was determined by Kaplan-Meier method and defined life-years gained 
(LYGs). Estimates of MCA costs per LYG were compared with established values for 
systemic therapies.
RESULTS: Total numbers of tumors and cryoablation procedures for each anatomic 
site were as follows: lung, 20 and 18; liver, nine and seven; superficial, 12 
and 11; adrenal, seven and seven; paraaortic/isolated, two and two; and bone, 10 
and seven. A mean of 1.6 procedures per patient were performed, with a median 
clinical follow-up of 11 months. Major complication and local recurrence rates 
were 8% (four of 49) and 8% (five of 60), respectively. Median OS for MCA was 
1.33 years, with an estimated 1-year survival rate of approximately 53%. MCA 
appeared cost-effective even when added to the cost of best supportive care or 
systemic regimens, with an adjunctive cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$49,008-$87,074.
CONCLUSIONS: MCA was associated with very low morbidity and local tumor 
recurrence rates for all anatomic sites, and possibly increased OS. Even as an 
adjunct to systemic therapies, MCA appeared cost-effective for palliation of 
oligometastatic NSCLC.

Copyright © 2012 SIR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2012.02.013
PMCID: PMC3786436
PMID: 22626267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Crohns Colitis. 2013 Mar;7(2):167-74. doi: 10.1016/j.crohns.2012.04.007.
Epub  2012 May 22.

Economic impact of combination therapy with infliximab plus azathioprine for 
drug-refractory Crohn's disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Saito S(1), Shimizu U, Nan Z, Mandai N, Yokoyama J, Terajima K, Akazawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics and Statistics, Niigata University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Japan. s-saito13@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Combination therapy with infliximab (IFX) and azathioprine (AZA) is 
significantly more effective for treatment of active Crohn's disease (CD) than 
IFX monotherapy. However, AZA is associated with an increased risk of lymphoma 
in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of combination therapy with IFX plus AZA 
for drug-refractory CD.
METHODS: A decision analysis model is constructed to compare, over a time 
horizon of 1year, the cost-effectiveness of combination therapy with IFX plus 
AZA and that of IFX monotherapy for CD patients refractory to conventional 
non-anti-TNF-α therapy. The treatment efficacy, adverse effects, quality-of-life 
scores, and treatment costs are derived from published data. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses are performed to estimate the uncertainty in 
the results.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of combination therapy 
with IFX plus AZA is 24,917 GBP/QALY when compared with IFX monotherapy. The 
sensitivity analyses reveal that the utility score of nonresponding active 
disease has the strongest influence on the cost-effectiveness, with ICERs 
ranging from 17,147 to 45,564 GBP/QALY. Assuming that policy makers are willing 
to pay 30,000 GBP/QALY, the probability that combination therapy with IFX plus 
AZA is cost-effective is 0.750.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination therapy with IFX plus AZA appears to be a 
cost-effective treatment for drug-refractory CD when compared with IFX 
monotherapy. Furthermore, the additional lymphoma risk of combination therapy 
has little significance on its cost-effectiveness.

Copyright © 2012 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2012.04.007
PMID: 22626508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Gastroenterology. 2012 Sep;143(3):567-575. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2012.05.010.  Epub 2012 May 21.

The cost effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation for Barrett's esophagus.

Hur C(1), Choi SE(2), Rubenstein JH(3), Kong CY(4), Nishioka NS(5), Provenzale 
DT(6), Inadomi JM(7).

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts; Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic 
address: chur@partners.org.
(2)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan.
(4)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts; Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Durham VA Medical Center, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(7)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, Washington.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2012 Sep;143(3):524-6.
    Endoscopy. 2013;45(4):272-5.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) reduces the risk of esophageal 
adenocarcinoma (EAC) in patients with Barrett's esophagus (BE) with high-grade 
dysplasia (HGD), but its effects in patients without dysplasia are debatable. We 
analyzed the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of RFA for the management of 
BE.
METHODS: We constructed a decision analytic Markov model. We conducted separate 
analyses of hypothetical cohorts of patients with BE with dysplasia (HGD or 
low-grade [LGD]) and without dysplasia. In the analysis of the group with HGD, 
we compared results of initial RFA with endoscopic surveillance with surgery 
when cancer was detected. In analyzing the group with LGD or no dysplasia, we 
compared 3 strategies: endoscopic surveillance with surgery when cancer was 
detected (S1), endoscopic surveillance with RFA when HGD was detected (S2), and 
initial RFA followed by endoscopic surveillance (S3).
RESULTS: Among patients with HGD, initial RFA was more effective and less costly 
than endoscopic surveillance. Among patients with LGD, when S3 was compared with 
S2, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $18,231/quality-adjusted 
life-year, assuming an annual rate of progression rate from LGD to EAC of 
0.5%/year. For patients without dysplasia, S2 was more effective and less costly 
than S1. In a comparison of S3 with S2, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios were $205,500, $124,796, and $118,338/quality-adjusted life-year using 
annual rates of progression of no dysplasia to EAC of 0.12%, 0.33%, or 0.5% per 
year, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: By using updated data, initial RFA might not be cost effective for 
patients with BE without dysplasia, within the range of plausible rates of 
progression of BE to EAC, and be prohibitively expensive, from a policy 
perspective. RFA might be cost effective for confirmed and stable LGD. Initial 
RFA is more effective and less costly than endoscopic surveillance in HGD.

Copyright © 2012 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.05.010
PMCID: PMC3429791
PMID: 22626608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures/Conflicts of Interest: No potential 
conflicts to disclose.


380. Clin Nutr. 2012 Dec;31(6):868-74. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2012.04.013. Epub 2012
May  22.

Cost-effectiveness of nutritional intervention on healing of pressure ulcers.

Hisashige A(1), Ohura T.

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Healthcare Technology Assessment, 2-24-10, Shomachi, 
Tokushima 770-0044, Japan. akih@k3.dion.ne.jp

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Pressure ulcers not only affect quality of life among the 
elderly, but also bring a large economic burden. There is limited evidence 
available for the effectiveness of nutritional interventions for treatment of 
pressure ulcers. In Japan, recently, a 60-patient randomized controlled trial of 
nutritional intervention on pressure ulcers demonstrated improvement in healing 
of pressure ulcers, compared with conventional management. To evaluate value for 
money of nutritional intervention on healing of pressure ulcers, cost-effective 
analysis was carried out using these trial results.
METHODS: The analysis was carried out from a societal perspective. As 
effectiveness measures, pressure ulcer days (PUDs) and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were estimated. Prevalence of pressure ulcers was estimated by the 
Kaplan-Meier method. Utility score for pressure ulcers is derived from a 
cross-sectional survey among health professionals related to pressure ulcers. 
Costs (e.g., nutritional interventions and management of pressure ulcers) were 
estimated from trial data during observation and follow-up. Stochastic and 
qualitative sensitivity analyses were performed to examine the robustness of 
results.
RESULTS: For observation (12 weeks) and follow-up (12-week observation plus 
4-week follow-up), nutritional intervention reduced PUDs by 9.6 and 16.2 per 
person, and gained 0.226 × 10(-2) QALYs and 0.382 × 10(-2) QALYs per person, 
respectively. In addition, costs were reduced by $542 and $881 per person, 
respectively. This means nutritional intervention is dominant (cost savings and 
greater effectiveness). The sensitivity analyses showed the robustness of these 
results.
CONCLUSION: Economic evaluation of nutritional intervention on healing pressure 
ulcers from a small randomized controlled trial showed that this intervention is 
cost saving with health improvement. Further studies are required to determine 
whether this is a cost-effective intervention for widespread use.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and 
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2012.04.013
PMID: 22626888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Br Dent J. 2012 May 25;212(10):464. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2012.424.

Resigned to pension logic.

Butler H.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2012.424
PMID: 22627207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Stroke. 2012 Aug;43(8):2198-206. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.646091. Epub
2012  May 24.

Cost avoidance associated with optimal stroke care in Canada.

Krueger H(1), Lindsay P, Cote R, Kapral MK, Kaczorowski J, Hill MD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population and Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. hans@krueger.ca

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Evidence-based stroke care has been shown to improve 
patient outcomes and may reduce health system costs. Cost savings, however, are 
poorly quantified. This study assesses 4 aspects of stroke management (rapid 
assessment and treatment services, thrombolytic therapy, organized stroke units, 
and early home-supported discharge) and estimates the potential for cost 
avoidance in Canada if these services were provided in a comprehensive fashion.
METHODS: Several independent data sources, including the Canadian Institute of 
Health Information Discharge Abstract Database, the 2008-2009 National Stroke 
Audit, and the Acute Cerebrovascular Syndrome Registry in the province of 
British Columbia, were used to assess the current status of stroke care in 
Canada. Evidence from the literature was used to estimate the effect of 
providing optimal stroke care on rates of acute care hospitalization, length of 
stay in hospital, discharge disposition (including death), changes in quality of 
life, and costs avoided.
RESULTS: Comprehensive and optimal stroke care in Canada would decrease the 
number of annual hospital episodes by 1062 (3.3%), the number of acute care days 
by 166 000 (25.9%), and the number of residential care days by 573 000 (12.8%). 
The number of deaths in the hospital would be reduced by 1061 (14.9%). Total 
avoidance of costs was estimated at $682 million annually ($307.4 million in 
direct costs, $374.3 million in indirect costs).
CONCLUSIONS: The costs of stroke care in Canada can be substantially reduced, at 
the same time as improving patient outcomes, with the greater use of known 
effective treatment modalities.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.646091
PMID: 22627985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Ann Oncol. 2012 Apr;23 Suppl 3:66-9. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mds091.

Cultural beliefs and values in cancer patients.

Daher M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Balamand, Saint George Hospital, President, Lebanese Cancer 
Society, Beirut, Lebanon. mndaher@inco.com.lb

In 2008, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) released its 
World Cancer Report, which indicated that cancer accounts for approximately 12% 
of all-cause mortality worldwide. IARC estimated that globally 7.6 million 
people died from cancer and that 12.4 million new cases were diagnosed in 2008. 
The report went on to project that, due to increases in life expectancy, 
improvements in clinical diagnostics, and shifting trends in health behaviors 
(e.g. increases in smoking and sedentary lifestyles), in the absence of 
significant efforts to improve global cancer control, cancer mortality could 
increase to 12.9 million and cancer incidence to 20 million by the year 2030. 
Looking deeper into the data, it becomes clear that cancer-related stigma and 
myths about cancer are important problems that must be addressed, although 
different from a country to another. Stigmas about cancer present significant 
challenges to cancer control: stigma can have a silencing effect, whereby 
efforts to increase cancer awareness are negatively affected. The social, 
emotional, and financial devastation that all too often accompanies a diagnosis 
of cancer is, in large part, due to the cultural myths and taboos surrounding 
the disease. Combating stigma, myths, taboos, and overcoming silence will play 
important roles in changing this provisional trajectory. There are several 
reasons that cancer is stigmatized. Many people in our area perceived cancer to 
be a fatal disease. Cancer symptoms or body parts affected by the disease can 
cultivate stigma. Fears about treatment can also fuel stigma. There was evidence 
of myths associated with cancer, such as the belief that cancer is contagious, 
or cancer may be seen as a punishment. After reviewing these different examples 
of cultural myths and taboos met in cancer care, we can report these lessons 
learned: 1. Around the world, cancer continues to carry a significant amount of 
stigma, myths, and taboos; however, there are opportunities to capitalize upon 
shifting perceptions and positive change. 2. Awareness of cancer prevention, 
early detection, treatment, and survival are on the rise; however, too many 
people still report that they feel uninformed when it comes to cancer. 3. 
Communication is critical to decreasing cancer-related stigma, raising cancer 
awareness, and disseminating cancer education. People with a personal history of 
cancer-especially well-known or celebrity survivors-and multiple mass media 
channels are key resources for dissemination. 4. The school system represents a 
potential venue for cancer education, and increasing cancer awareness among 
children may be an investment with high returns. 5. When facing cancer, people 
around the world want information and emotional support for themselves and their 
families. 6. Tobacco use and poor nutrition are widely acknowledged as cancer 
risks. Programs and policies that help people translate this awareness into 
action are needed. The global cancer community should capitalize upon positive 
shifts in attitudes about awareness of cancer and leverage these shifts to 
develop, and disseminate effective media campaigns and behavioral interventions 
to decrease the incidence of and morbidity and mortality associated with cancer.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mds091
PMID: 22628419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Can J Surg. 2012 Jun;55(3):181-90. doi: 10.1503/cjs.033910.

Comparison of lifetime incremental cost:utility ratios of surgery relative to 
failed medical management for the treatment of hip, knee and spine 
osteoarthritis modelled using 2-year postsurgical values.

Tso P(1), Walker K, Mahomed N, Coyte PC, Rampersaud YR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ont.

BACKGROUND: Demand for surgery to treat osteoarthritis (OA) of the hip, knee and 
spine has risen dramatically. Whereas total hip (THA) and total knee 
arthroplasty (TKA) have been widely accepted as cost-effective, spine surgeries 
(decompression, decompression with fusion) to treat degenerative conditions 
remain underfunded compared with other surgeries.
METHODS: An incremental cost-utility analysis comparing decompression and 
decompression with fusion to THA and TKA, from the perspective of the provincial 
health insurance system, was based on an observational matched-cohort study of 
prospectively collected outcomes and retrospectively collected costs. Patient 
outcomes were measured using short-form (SF)-36 surveys over a 2-year follow-up 
period. Utility was modelled over the lifetime, and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) were determined. We calculated the incremental cost per QALY gained by 
estimating mean incremental lifetime costs and QALYs of surgery compared with 
medical management of each diagnosis group after discounting costs and QALYs at 
3%. Sensitivity analyses were also conducted.
RESULTS: The lifetime incremental cost:utility ratios (ICURs) discounted at 3% 
were $5321 per QALY for THA, $11,275 per QALY for TKA, $2307 per QALY for spinal 
decompression and $7153 per QALY for spinal decompression with fusion. The 
sensitivity analyses did not alter the ranking of the lifetime ICURs.
CONCLUSION: In appropriately selected patients with leg-dominant symptoms 
secondary to focal lumbar spinal stenosis who have failed medical management, 
the lifetime ICUR for surgical treatment of.

CONTEXTE: La demande en chirurgie de traitement de l’arthrose de la hanche et du 
genou a considérablement augmenté. Les interventions pour prothèse totale de 
hanche (PTH) et prothèse totale du genou (PTG) sont largement reconnues pour 
leur rapport coût:efficacité, mais les chirurgies de la colonne (décompression, 
décompression avec arthrodèse) pour le traitement des maladies dégénératives 
restent sous-financées comparativement aux autres chirurgies.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons adopté l’angle du régime d’assurance santé provincial pour 
effectuer une analyse comparative du rapport coût:utilité différentiel entre la 
décompression et la décompression avec arthrodèse, d’une part, et la PTH et la 
PTG, d’autre part, à partir des résultats regroupés de façon prospective et des 
coûts regroupés de façon rétrospective dans une cohorte d’observation assortie. 
Les résultats chez les patients ont été mesurés au moyen de questionnaires SF-36 
sur une période de suivi de 2 ans. Le volet utilité a quant à lui été modélisé 
pour la vie durant et on a calculé le nombre d’années de vie ajustées en 
fonction de la qualité (AVAQ). Nous avons aussi calculé le coût différentiel par 
AVAQ gagnée en estimant les coûts différentiels moyens pour la vie durant, et le 
nombre d’AVAQ associé à la chirurgie par opposition à une prise en charge 
médicale de chaque diagnostic après actualisation des coûts et des AVAQ à 3 %. 
Nous avons aussi réalisé des analyses de sensibilité.
RÉSULTATS: Les rapports coût:utilité différentiels pour la vie durant actualisés 
à 3 % ont été de 5 321 $ par AVAQ pour la PTH, de 11 275 $ par AVAQ pour la PTG, 
de 2 307 $ par AVAQ pour la décompression médullaire et de 7 153 $ par AVAQ pour 
la décompression médullaire avec arthrodèse. Les analyses de sensibilité n’ont 
pas modifié le classement des rapports coût:utilité différentiels pour la vie 
durant.
CONCLUSION: Chez certains patients sélectionnés ayant des symptômes 
principalement à une jambe par suite d’une sténose médullaire lombaire focale et 
pour qui le traitement médical a échoué, l’augmentation du rapport coût:utilité 
différentiel pour la vie durant avec le traitement chirurgical de la sténose 
médullaire lombaire est semblable à celui des PTH et PTG pour le traitement de 
l’arthrose.

DOI: 10.1503/cjs.033910
PMCID: PMC3364306
PMID: 22630061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Periodontol. 2013 Apr;84(4):502-12. doi: 10.1902/jop.2012.110691. Epub
2012  May 25.

Splinted and unsplinted short implants in mandibles: a retrospective evaluation 
with 5 to 16 years of follow-up.

Sivolella S(1), Stellini E, Testori T, Di Fiore A, Berengo M, Lops D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Padova University Institute of Clinical 
Dentistry, Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this retrospective study is to investigate the medium- to 
long-term prognosis of short implants in partially and totally edentulous 
patients with mandibular bone atrophy.
METHODS: The study involved 109 patients with 280 implants placed in the 
mandible. The implants were 7 or 8.5 mm long and 3.75 or 4 mm in diameter. The 
implant surfaces were machined (M; n = 176) or rough (R; n = 104). Patients were 
asked to attend a radiographic and clinical follow-up, and their previous 
clinical records and radiographs were assessed. Implant-related and prosthetic 
failures and complications were recorded.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 9 years (range of 5 to 16 years). The survival 
rate (SSR) and success rate (SR) were calculated using life-table analysis for 
both M and R short implants. The M implants had a 16-year SSR of 95.7% and a 
corresponding SR of 93.9%, whereas the 16-year SSR and SR for the R implants 
were 97.2% and 95.2%, respectively. The mean ± SD bone resorption for all 
implants was 1.37 ± 0.5 mm. For marginal bone loss, there was no statistically 
significant difference between the two implant lengths (P = 0.38) or diameters 
(P = 0.34) or between the M and R implant surfaces (P = 0.47).
CONCLUSIONS: Different implant lengths, diameters, and surface treatments do not 
appear to influence the prognosis of the implant. Within the limitation that 
most of the short implants were splinted to longer implants, the reduced length 
of the fixtures did not worsen the long-term survival of the implant-supported 
fixed prostheses.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2012.110691
PMID: 22631883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 Jun;26(3):381-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2011.10.006.

Thyroid microcarcinoma.

Pacini F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology & Metabolism and Biochemistry, 
Section of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of Siena, Via Bracci, 53100 
Siena, Italy. pacini8@unisi.it

Nowadays the most commonly occurring differentiated thyroid cancer in many 
countries is a microcarcinoma in patients older than 45 years, incidentally 
found during neck ultrasound. In view of their low morbidity and mortality, the 
crucial point is how to manage such microcarcinomas. Recently published European 
and American guidelines aim to minimize the diagnostic and therapeutic 
procedures without affecting the diagnostic accuracy and the therapeutic 
effectiveness, keeping in mind that we are dealing with patients who have a 
normal life expectancy and to whom we have to guarantee an excellent quality of 
life. The present review will summarize the clinical and pathological features 
of thyroid microcarcinoma, including its definition, prevalence, presentation, 
pathology, genetic, clinical impact and will try to derive from them a rationale 
for therapeutic and diagnostic intervention.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2011.10.006
PMID: 22632373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. PM R. 2012 May;4(5 Suppl):S97-103. doi: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2012.02.018.

Total joint arthroplasty for persons with osteoarthritis.

Grayson CW(1), Decker RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA.

Osteoarthritis is a process largely associated with aging, and Americans today 
are living longer than ever before, with the most recent data from the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention showing an average life expectancy of 78.2 
years. With an increasingly older society, there will be an increased need for 
medical and surgical treatment of osteoarthritis. At the same time, a decline in 
the number of surgeons performing total joint arthroplasty is anticipated, by as 
much as 30% in some studies. Due to this anticipated shortage, nonoperative 
physicians will play a more prominent role in patient care and should become 
better educated in maximizing nonoperative care, recognizing appropriate 
surgical indications, and educating their patients on surgical outcomes. Total 
joint arthroplasty offers pain relief and potential functional improvement. 
Unfortunately, the outcomes for joint replacement differ significantly by the 
joint being replaced. The best examples of positive outcome for both pain relief 
and functional improvement are total hip arthroplasty and total knee 
arthroplasty. Shoulder arthroplasty has demonstrated encouraging outcomes but 
the outcome data is not yet as robust as the data for hip and knee arthroplasty. 
Elbow arthroplasty provides good pain relief but functional outcomes are not 
nearly as good, and significant potential complications exist. Lastly, ankle 
arthroplasty has not demonstrated outcomes that are as positive as the other 
major joints, and the criterion standard treatment continues to be ankle fusion. 
In this article, surgical options for arthroplasty will be reviewed for each of 
the major joints, including the joint-specific indications and outcomes for each 
procedure.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2012.02.018
PMID: 22632709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2012 Jun;35(6):420-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2011.12.005. Epub
2012  May 23.

Uveal metastasis revealing lung cancer.

Meziani L(1), Cassoux N, Le Rouic LL, Gabriel CL, Dendale R, Sastre X, Catherine 
D, Livartowski A, Plancher C, Asselain B, Desjardins L.

Author information:
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, institut Curie, 26, rue d'Ulm-Paris, 75005 Paris, 
France. lyesmeziani@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Uveal metastases (UM) are the most common intraocular malignancies 
and can be the first manifestation of a disseminated disease. The purpose of 
this study is to determine the frequency with which uveal metastasis results in 
a diagnosis of lung cancer, to describe the clinical characteristics of patients 
with lung cancer metastatic to the uvea, as well as diagnostic difficulties that 
may be encountered.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We carried out a single-center retrospective study of the 
medical records of all patients who presented with a UM between 1999 and 2010 at 
the institut Curie in Paris. From these patients, we retrospectively studied UM 
secondary to lung cancer. A work-up including thoracic-abdominal-pelvic CT was 
performed for each patient in whom the primary source of choroidal metastasis 
was unknown.
RESULTS: Of 109 patients presenting with UM, 43 were diagnosed with primary lung 
cancer (39.4%). Of those 43 patients, the UM was observed prior to the lung 
cancer in 31 patients (72.1%). Demographic data included 61% male and 39% 
female, mean age 59.1 years (range: 31-78), and mean life expectancy after 
diagnosis of UM was 7.5 months (range: 0.7-29). Other metastatic sites were 
associated with UM in 90.7% of the patients. In all, 90.7% of the patients 
presented with blurred vision, and 25.6% with pain or inflammation. UM were 
located within the choroid for 39 patients (90.7%), the iris for three patients 
(7.3%) and the vitreous for one patient. Seventy percent of patients had a 
solitary lesion, 76.7% had unilateral involvement, and 23.3% of cases were 
bilateral. Mean thickness on B-scan ultrasonography was 3.61 mm (range: 1-8.5 
mm). In all, 81.4% of UM were unpigmented, while 18.6% showed pigment mottling. 
In all, 20.9% of patients were referred with the diagnosis of choroidal melanoma 
from their regular ophthalmologist, and three of the 43 patients (6.9%) were 
initially misdiagnosed and treated for melanoma at Curie. Chest X-ray was 
unremarkable in 18.9% of patients.
CONCLUSION: UM is often the first manifestation of disseminated disease and 
requires a search for the primary tumor, in particular lung cancer. Standard 
chest X-ray cannot rule out the diagnosis. Metastases may be solitary with 
heterogenous pigmentation, and the differential diagnosis from uveal melanoma 
may be difficult, requiring the expertise of a referral center.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2011.12.005
PMID: 22633214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Ann Emerg Med. 2013 Jan;61(1):46-55. doi: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2012.04.020.
 Epub 2012 May 24.

A model of cost-effectiveness of tissue plasminogen activator in patient 
subgroups 3 to 4.5 hours after onset of acute ischemic stroke.

Boudreau DM(1), Guzauskas G, Villa KF, Fagan SC, Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. dboudrea@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    Ann Emerg Med. 2013 Jan;61(1):56-7.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study III (ECASS III) 
showed that recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) administered 3 to 
4.5 hours after acute ischemic stroke led to improvement in patient disability 
versus placebo. We evaluate the long-term incremental cost-effectiveness of rtPA 
administered 3 to 4.5 hours after acute ischemic stroke onset versus no 
treatment according to patient clinical and demographic factors.
METHODS: We developed a disease-based decision analytic model to project 
lifetime outcomes of patients post-acute ischemic stroke from the payer 
perspective. Clinical data were derived from the ECASS III trial, longitudinal 
cohort studies, and health state preference studies. Cost data were based on 
Medicare reimbursement and other published sources. We performed probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses to evaluate uncertainty in the analysis.
RESULTS: rtPA in a hypothetical cohort resulted in a gain of 0.07 years of life 
(95% credible range 0.0005 to 0.17) and 0.24 quality-adjusted life-years (95% 
credible range 0.01 to 0.60) and a difference in cost of $1,495 (95% credible 
range -$4,637 to $6,100) compared with placebo. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for all patients was $6,255 per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained; for patients younger than 65 years, cost saving; for patients 
