and makes good governance hard to achieve. On the other hand, Hungary is a 
target country for cross-border health care, mainly for dental care but also for 
rehabilitative services, such as medical spa treatment. The health industry can 
thus be a potential strategic area for economic development and growth.

World Health Organization 2011, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22394651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Health Econ. 2013 Apr;22(4):376-92. doi: 10.1002/hec.2804. Epub 2012 Mar 6.

Lead time TTO: leading to better health state valuations?

Attema AE(1), Versteegh MM, Oppe M, Brouwer WB, Stolk EA.

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
attema@bmg.eur.nl

Preference elicitation tasks for better than dead (BTD) and worse than dead 
(WTD) health states vary in the conventional time trade-off (TTO) procedure, 
casting doubt on uniformity of scale. 'Lead time TTO' (LT-TTO) was recently 
introduced to overcome the problem. We tested different specifications of LT-TTO 
in comparison with TTO in a within-subject design. We elicited preferences for 
six health states and employed an intertemporal ranking task as a benchmark to 
test the validity of the two methods. We also tested constant proportional 
trade-offs (CPTO), while correcting for discounting, and the effect of extending 
the lead time if a health state is considered substantially WTD. LT-TTO produced 
lower values for BTD states and higher values for WTD states. The validity of 
CPTO varied across tasks, but it was higher for LT-TTO than for TTO. Results 
indicate that the ratio of lead time to disease time has a greater impact on 
results than the total duration of the time frame. The intertemporal ranking 
task could not discriminate between TTO and LT-TTO.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2804
PMID: 22396243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Healthc Manag. 2012 Jan-Feb;57(1):17-33; discussion 33-4.

Coevolution of patients and hospitals: how changing epidemiology and 
technological advances create challenges and drive organizational innovation.

Lega F(1), Calciolari S.

Author information:
(1)Bocconi University and SDA Bocconi School of Management, Department of Policy 
Analysis and Public Management. federico.lega@unibocconi.it

Over the last 20 years, hospitals have revised their organizational structures 
in response to new environmental pressures. Today, demographic and epidemiologic 
trends and recent technological advances call for new strategies to cope with 
ultra-elderly frail patients characterized by chronic conditions, high-severity 
health problems, and complex social situations. The main areas of change 
surround new ways of managing emerging clusters of patients whose needs are not 
efficiently or effectively met within traditional hospital organizations. 
Following the practitioner and academic literature, we first identify the most 
relevant clusters of new kinds of patients who represent an increasingly larger 
share of the hospital population in developed countries. Second, we propose a 
framework that synthesizes the major organizational innovations adopted by 
successful organizations around the world. We conclude by substantiating the 
trends of and the reasoning behind the prospective pattern of hospital 
organizational development.

PMID: 22397102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Intensive Crit Care Nurs. 2012 Jun;28(3):176-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.iccn.2011.12.003. Epub 2012 Mar 6.

The ICU patient room: views and meanings as experienced by the next of kin: a 
phenomenological hermeneutical study.

Olausson S(1), Ekebergh M, Lindahl B.

Author information:
(1)University of Borås, School of Health Sciences, Allégatan 1 SE-501 90 Borås, 
Sweden. sepideh.olausson@hb.se

The rooms in Intensive Care Units are considered as high-tech environments and 
believed to affect recovery process and wellbeing of patients. Moreover, the 
design and interiors affect the interplay between the patient and the next of 
kin.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to describe and interpret the meanings of 
the intensive care patient room as experienced by next of kin.
DESIGN: Next of kin (n=14) from two different intensive care units participated. 
Data were collected through photo-voice and analysed using a phenomenological 
hermeneutical method.
RESULTS: Three major themes emerged; dwelling in the room and time, becoming at 
home and extension of the room. The results show that the room is perceived as a 
lived and extended place and space. The design, interiors and furnishing in the 
patient room are fundamental in shaping the next of kin's experiences in the 
room and affect wellbeing.
CONCLUSIONS: How intensive care patient rooms are designed, the place given to 
next of kin and the way they are received in the room are decisive for the 
support given to the loved one. Simple interventions can make the patient room a 
more healing environment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.iccn.2011.12.003
PMID: 22397997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Lancet. 2012 Apr 7;379(9823):1331-40. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60752-6.
Epub  2012 Mar 6.

Knee replacement.

Carr AJ(1), Robertsson O, Graves S, Price AJ, Arden NK, Judge A, Beard DJ.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal 
Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. andrew.carr@ndorms.ox.ac.uk

Knee-replacement surgery is frequently done and highly successful. It relieves 
pain and improves knee function in people with advanced arthritis of the joint. 
The most common indication for the procedure is osteoarthritis. We review the 
epidemiology of and risk factors for knee replacement. Because replacement is 
increasingly considered for patients younger than 55 years, improved decision 
making about whether a patient should undergo the procedure is needed. We 
discuss assessment of surgery outcomes based on data for revision surgery from 
national joint-replacement registries and on patient-reported outcome measures. 
Widespread surveillance of existing implants is urgently needed alongside the 
carefully monitored introduction of new implant designs. Developments for the 
future are improved delivery of care and training for surgeons and clinical 
teams. In an increasingly ageing society, the demand for knee-replacement 
surgery will probably rise further, and we predict future trends. We also 
emphasise the need for new strategies to treat early-stage osteoarthritis, which 
will ultimately reduce the demand for joint-replacement surgery.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60752-6
PMID: 22398175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Osteoporos Int. 2012 Nov;23(11):2681-92. doi: 10.1007/s00198-012-1939-4.
Epub  2012 Mar 8.

Vitamin K supplementation for the primary prevention of osteoporotic fractures: 
is it cost-effective and is future research warranted?

Gajic-Veljanoski O(1), Bayoumi AM, Tomlinson G, Khan K, Cheung AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

Lifetime supplementation with vitamin K, vitamin D(3), and calcium is likely to 
reduce fractures and increase survival in postmenopausal women. It would be a 
cost-effective intervention at commonly used thresholds, but high uncertainty 
around the cost-effectiveness estimates persists. Further research on the effect 
of vitamin K on fractures is warranted.
INTRODUCTION: Vitamin K might have a role in the primary prevention of 
fractures, but uncertainties about its effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
persist.
METHODS: We developed a state-transition probabilistic microsimulation model to 
quantify the cost-effectiveness of various interventions to prevent fractures in 
50-year-old postmenopausal women without osteoporosis. We compared no 
supplementation, vitamin D(3) (800 IU/day) with calcium (1,200 mg/day), and 
vitamin K(2) (45 mg/day) with vitamin D(3) and calcium (at the same doses). An 
additional analysis explored replacing vitamin K(2) with vitamin K(1) (5 
mg/day).
RESULTS: Adding vitamin K(2) to vitamin D(3) with calcium reduced the lifetime 
probability of at least one fracture by 25%, increased discounted survival by 
0.7 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) (95% credible interval (CrI) 0.2; 1.3) 
and discounted costs by $8,956, yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of $12,268/QALY. At a $50,000/QALY threshold, the probability of 
cost-effectiveness was 95% and the population expected value of perfect 
information (EVPI) was $28.9 billion. Adding vitamin K(1) to vitamin D and 
calcium reduced the lifetime probability of at least one fracture by 20%, 
increased discounted survival by 0.4 QALYs (95% CrI -1.9; 1.4) and discounted 
costs by $4,014, yielding an ICER of $9,557/QALY. At a $50,000/QALY threshold, 
the probability of cost-effectiveness was 80% while the EVPI was $414.9 billion. 
The efficacy of vitamin K was the most important parameter in sensitivity 
analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime supplementation with vitamin K, vitamin D(3), and calcium 
is likely to reduce fractures and increase survival in postmenopausal women. 
Given high uncertainty around the cost-effectiveness estimates, further research 
on the efficacy of vitamin K on fractures is warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-012-1939-4
PMID: 22398856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. J Med Syst. 2012 Dec;36(6):3649-64. doi: 10.1007/s10916-012-9839-x. Epub
2012  Mar 8.

An authentication scheme to healthcare security under wireless sensor networks.

Hsiao TC(1), Liao YT, Huang JY, Chen TS, Horng GB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Chung Hsing 
University, Taichung, Taiwan. phd9408@cs.nchu.edu.tw

In recent years, Taiwan has been seeing an extension of the average life 
expectancy and a drop in overall fertility rate, initiating our country into an 
aged society. Due to this phenomenon, how to provide the elderly and patients 
with chronic diseases a suitable healthcare environment has become a critical 
issue presently. Therefore, we propose a new scheme that integrates healthcare 
services with wireless sensor technology in which sensor nodes are employed to 
measure patients' vital signs. Data collected from these sensor nodes are then 
transmitted to mobile devices of the medical staff and system administrator, 
promptly enabling them to understand the patients' condition in real time, which 
will significantly improve patients' healthcare quality. As per the personal 
data protection act, patients' vital signs can only be accessed by authorized 
medical staff. In order to protect patients', the system administrator will 
verify the medical staff's identity through the mobile device using a smart card 
and password mechanism. Accordingly, only the verified medical staff can obtain 
patients' vital signs data such as their blood pressure, pulsation, and body 
temperature, etc.. Besides, the scheme includes a time-bounded characteristic 
that allows the verified staff access to data without having to have to 
re-authenticate and re-login into the system within a set period of time. 
Consequently, the time-bounded property also increases the work efficiency of 
the system administrator and user.

DOI: 10.1007/s10916-012-9839-x
PMID: 22399067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;856:53-79. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-585-5_3.

Genome-wide comparative analysis of phylogenetic trees: the prokaryotic forest 
of life.

Puigbò P(1), Wolf YI, Koonin EV.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Genome-wide comparison of phylogenetic trees is becoming an increasingly common 
approach in evolutionary genomics, and a variety of approaches for such 
comparison have been developed. In this article, we present several methods for 
comparative analysis of large numbers of phylogenetic trees. To compare 
phylogenetic trees taking into account the bootstrap support for each internal 
branch, the Boot-Split Distance (BSD) method is introduced as an extension of 
the previously developed Split Distance method for tree comparison. The BSD 
method implements the straightforward idea that comparison of phylogenetic trees 
can be made more robust by treating tree splits differentially depending on the 
bootstrap support. Approaches are also introduced for detecting tree-like and 
net-like evolutionary trends in the phylogenetic Forest of Life (FOL), i.e., the 
entirety of the phylogenetic trees for conserved genes of prokaryotes. The 
principal method employed for this purpose includes mapping quartets of species 
onto trees to calculate the support of each quartet topology and so to quantify 
the tree and net contributions to the distances between species. We describe the 
application of these methods to analyze the FOL and the results obtained with 
these methods. These results support the concept of the Tree of Life (TOL) as a 
central evolutionary trend in the FOL as opposed to the traditional view of the 
TOL as a "species tree."

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-585-5_3
PMCID: PMC3842619
PMID: 22399455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 May;97(5):1536-46. doi: 10.1210/jc.2011-2884.
Epub  2012 Mar 7.

Cost-effectiveness of universal and risk-based screening for autoimmune thyroid 
disease in pregnant women.

Dosiou C(1), Barnes J, Schwartz A, Negro R, Crapo L, Stagnaro-Green A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 300 
Pasteur Drive, S025, Stanford, California 94305, USA. cdosiou@stanford.edu

CONTEXT: Hypothyroidism in pregnancy can lead to adverse maternal and fetal 
outcomes. Although screening of high-risk women is advocated, universal 
screening remains controversial.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
universal screening of pregnant women for autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) with 
screening only high-risk women and with no screening.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A decision-analytic model compared the 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained among the 
following: 1) universal screening, 2) high-risk screening, and 3) no screening. 
Screening consisted of a first-trimester thyroid-stimulating hormone level and 
antithyroid peroxidase antibodies. Women with abnormal results underwent further 
testing and, when indicated, levothyroxine therapy. Randomized controlled trials 
provided probabilities for adverse obstetrical outcomes. The model accounted for 
the development of postpartum thyroiditis and overt hypothyroidism. Additional 
scenarios in which therapy prevented cases of decreased child intelligence 
quotient were explored.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Medical consequences of AITD in pregnancy, QALY, and 
costs were measured.
RESULTS: Risk-based screening and universal screening were both cost-effective 
relative to no screening, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of 
$6,753/QALY and $7,138/QALY, respectively. Universal screening was 
cost-effective compared with risk-based screening, with an ICER of $7,258/QALY. 
Screening remained cost-effective in various clinical scenarios, including when 
only overt hypothyroidism was assumed to have adverse obstetrical outcomes. 
Universal screening was cost-saving in the scenario of untreated maternal 
hypothyroidism resulting in decreased child intelligence, with levothyroxine 
therapy being preventive.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal screening of pregnant women in the first trimester for 
AITD is cost-effective, not only compared with no screening but also compared 
with screening of high-risk women.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2011-2884
PMID: 22399510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Br J Ophthalmol. 2012 May;96(5):688-93. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300726.  Epub 2012 Mar 7.

Cost-effectiveness of ranibizumab in treatment of diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
causing visual impairment: evidence from the RESTORE trial.

Mitchell P(1), Annemans L, Gallagher M, Hasan R, Thomas S, Gairy K, Knudsen M, 
Onwordi H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Vision Research, Westmead Millennium Institute, Westmead Hospital, 
Hawkesbury Rd, Westmead, 2145 Australia. paul.mitchell@sydney.edu.au

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of ranibizumab as either 
monotherapy or combined with laser therapy, compared with laser monotherapy, in 
the treatment of diabetic macular oedema (DME) causing visual impairment from a 
UK healthcare payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model simulated long-term outcomes and costs of treating DME 
in one eye (BCVA ≤75 letters) based on data from the RESTORE Phase III trial. 
Outcomes measured in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were simulated for a 
15-year time horizon based on 12-month follow-up from RESTORE and published 
long-term data. Costs included treatment, disease monitoring, visual impairment 
and blindness (at 2010 price levels).
RESULTS: Ranibizumab monotherapy resulted in a 0.17 QALY gain at an incremental 
cost of £4191 relative to laser monotherapy, yielding an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £24 028. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
showed a 64% probability of being cost-effective at a threshold of £30 000 per 
QALY. Combined ranibizumab and laser therapy resulted in a 0.13 QALY gain at an 
incremental cost of £4695 relative to laser monotherapy (ICER £36 106; 42% 
probability of ICER <£30 000).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on RESTORE 1-year follow-up data, ranibizumab monotherapy 
appears to be cost-effective relative to laser monotherapy, the current standard 
of care. Cost-effectiveness of combination therapy is less certain. Ongoing 
studies will further inform on disease progression and the need for additional 
ranibizumab treatment.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2011-300726
PMCID: PMC3329632
PMID: 22399690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: PM has received a 
consultancy fee from Novartis Pharma AG, Pfizer, Solvay and Allergan. He has 
also been paid lecture fees/honoraria by Novartis Pharma AG, Pfizer, Solvay and 
Allergan. LA has received unrestricted grants from Novartis Pharma AG. SKT is an 
employee of Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, NJ, USA. KG is 
an employee of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Frimley, UK. RH is an employee of 
Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland and a Novartis shareholder. MK and HO 
were employed as consultants by Novartis Pharma AG for this study. MG was 
formerly employed by Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland; current affiliation 
Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA, USA.


783. Gastrointest Endosc. 2012 May;75(5):1080-5. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2012.01.016.
Epub  2012 Mar 7.

Feasibility of placing a modified fully covered self-expandable metal stent 
above the papilla to minimize stent-induced bile duct injury in patients with 
refractory benign biliary strictures (with videos).

Moon JH(1), Choi HJ, Koo HC, Han SH, Lee TH, Cho YD, Park SH, Kim SJ.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Disease Center, Department of Internal Medicine, Soon Chun Hyang 
University School of Medicine, Bucheon/Seoul, Korea. jhmoon@schmc.ac.kr

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic placement of fully covered self-expandable metal stents 
(FCSEMS) has been attempted to manage benign biliary strictures, but currently 
available FCSEMSs may be associated with unintended complications, including de 
novo strictures, in patients with normal life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the feasibility of an intraductally placed modified 
FCSEMS to minimize stent-induced bile duct injury in patients with benign 
biliary strictures.
DESIGN: Prospective observational clinical feasibility study.
SETTING: Tertiary-care academic center.
PATIENTS: This study involved 21 patients with symptomatic benign biliary 
strictures in whom conventional endoscopic management failed.
INTERVENTION: Strictured segments were 15 mm above the ampulla of Vater. The 
modified FCSEMS has convex margins, a lasso, and an anti-migrating waist on the 
central portion. Stents were placed entirely above the papilla and removed after 
3 to 5 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Success, complications, removability, midterm 
outcome.
RESULTS: FCSEMSs were successfully placed inside the bile duct in all patients. 
No episodes of pancreatitis, cholangitis, or sepsis were noted during the 
stenting period. Stent migration occurred in 4 patients (19.0%), but 3 were 
asymptomatic during follow-up. All stents were removed successfully with 
rat-tooth forceps without complications. Post-stenting cholangiograms showed 
improvement of strictures in 20 of 21 patients, without de novo focal stricture. 
The clinical success rate was 95.2%, with one recurrent stricture.
LIMITATIONS: The small number and lack of comparison with other types of 
FCSEMSs.
CONCLUSION: Temporary intraductal placement of a newly modified FCSEMS 
effectively improved strictures and prevented potential stent-induced 
complications in patients with benign biliary strictures. Controlled large-scale 
trials are needed to confirm the long-term efficacy.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2012.01.016
PMID: 22401821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Ther Umsch. 2012 Mar;69(3):137-44. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000266.

[Epidemiology and burden of osteoporosis in Switzerland].

[Article in German]

Lippuner K(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätspoliklinik für Osteoporose, Inselspital, Bern. 
kurt.lippuner@insel.ch

With increasing life expectancy and a growing proportion of elderly in the Swiss 
population, the burden of osteoporosis increases continuously. Every other woman 
and every fifth man aged 50 years or older will suffer an osteoportic fracture 
during her or his remaining lifetime. While the absolute number of 
hospitalizations for hip fractures has stabilized between year 2000 and 2007, 
the total number of hospitalizations for osteoporotic fractures has increased to 
16'200 (+ 16 %) and 5'600 (+ 20 %) in women and men, respectively. Thus, 
osteoporosis continues belonging to those chronic diseases imposing the highest 
economic burden to the Swiss healthcare system, trend increasing. In addition, 
the risk of subsequent fractures as well as the adjusted mortality risk 
increases significantly after a first osteoporotic fracture. Should appropriate 
measures not be implemented in the near future, so will osteoporosis become one 
of the key challenges for the Swiss healthcare system within the coming years.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000266
PMID: 22403106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Percept Mot Skills. 2011 Dec;113(3):815-24. doi: 
10.2466/05.19.25.PMS.113.6.815-824.

Left-handedness in professional basketball: prevalence, performance, and 
survival.

Lawler TP(1), Lawler FH.

Author information:
(1)School of Community Health Sciences, University of Nottingham.

Performance and handedness data were examined for 3,647 professional basketball 
players who participated in at least five games during the period between 1946 
and 2009. Left-handed players comprised 5.1% of all professional basketball 
players compared to the 11% prevalence in the general population. Left-handers 
had better performance averages, in terms of the number of points, rebounds, and 
blocks over their careers, as well as other measures, and had significantly 
longer careers than right-handed players. Handedness was not significantly 
related to mean or median life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2466/05.19.25.PMS.113.6.815-824
PMID: 22403927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult. 2011 Nov-Dec;(6):49-50.

[The development of mass physical culture and sports in the constituent entities 
of the Russian Federation as a factor of formation of the healthy life style].

[Article in Russian]

Kakorina EP, Rudiakova SE.

Provision of proper conditions for the creation of healthy life style is a 
priority of the state policy in this country with special attention given to the 
development of the mass physical culture and sports. The present paper contains 
information on the proportion of the population of the Russian Federation 
regularly engaged in physical culture and sports, provision of necessary sport 
facilities, and budgetary expenditures for the purpose in different constituent 
entities of the country. Public satisfaction with the conditions available for 
mass physical education and sports is discussed. Taking into account the low 
average life expectancy of the country's population and the increasing morbidity 
and traumaticity rates among the younger generation, it appears impossible to 
address the global challenge of improving the health of the nation without 
promotion of mass physical culture and sports and renewal of interest in these 
activities among the general population.

PMID: 22403958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Dis Esophagus. 2013 Jan;26(1):57-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2012.01333.x.
Epub  2012 Mar 9.

Intraluminal high-dose-rate brachytherapy for palliation of dysphagia in cancer 
of the esophagus: initial experience at a single UK center.

Bhatt L(1), Tirmazy S, Sothi S.

Author information:
(1)Arden Cancer Centre, University Hospital, Coventry, UK. 
Lubna.bhatt@christie.nhs.uk

Esophageal cancer tends to present with advanced disease, and the majority of 
patients are suitable only for palliative treatment at diagnosis. Dysphagia is 
the most common presenting symptom and significantly undermines quality of life. 
High-dose-rate intraluminal brachytherapy (ILBT) has been an option for the 
palliation of dysphagia for many years and has been used at our center since 
2006. Experience was presented in terms of improvement of dysphagia and 
survival. Patients were identified from the local radiotherapy database. 
Original treatment sheets and clinical notes were reviewed retrospectively to 
obtain treatment details, pretreatment and post-treatment dysphagia scores, and 
survival information. Between January 2006 and January 2010, 21 patients of 
median age 77 years with a mean pretreatment dysphagia score of 2.5 underwent 
ILBT for esophageal cancer. All received 12 Gy in a single fraction. Thirteen 
(62%) had adenocarcinoma and eight (38%) squamous cell carcinoma. Four (19%) 
tumors were in the mid-esophagus and 17 (81%) in the lower esophagus. Eight had 
extension of tumor into the gastroesophageal junction. Seven patients (33%) 
received chemotherapy as first-line treatment prior to brachytherapy. Nineteen 
patients had clear documentation of dysphagia scores both pretreatment and 
post-treatment, and the improvement overall was significant (P= 0.04). Ten 
patients (53%) had an improvement in dysphagia score. Five of these (50%) went 
on to require further endoscopic intervention due to disease progression. Median 
duration of response was 4 months. Of the nonresponders, six (67%) went on to 
require further endoscopic intervention. No patients experienced documented 
toxicity aside from a short-lived acute esophagitis. Median survival from date 
of diagnosis was 12 months and from treatment date was 5 months (1-32 months). 
In our series of elderly patients with significant dysphagia, ILBT was a 
well-tolerated and effective treatment. It should be considered as a palliative 
option in esophageal cancer.

© 2012 Copyright the Authors. Journal compilation © 2012, Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc. and the International Society for Diseases of the Esophagus.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2012.01333.x
PMID: 22404484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Cell Metab. 2012 Mar 7;15(3):382-94. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.02.001.

Pten positively regulates brown adipose function, energy expenditure, and 
longevity.

Ortega-Molina A(1), Efeyan A, Lopez-Guadamillas E, Muñoz-Martin M, Gómez-López 
G, Cañamero M, Mulero F, Pastor J, Martinez S, Romanos E, Mar Gonzalez-Barroso 
M, Rial E, Valverde AM, Bischoff JR, Serrano M.

Author information:
(1)Tumor Suppression Group, Spanish National Cancer Research Center (CNIO), 
Madrid E28029, Spain.

Aging in worms and flies is regulated by the PI3K/Akt/Foxo pathway. Here we 
extend this paradigm to mammals. Pten(tg) mice carrying additional genomic 
copies of Pten are protected from cancer and present a significant extension of 
life span that is independent of their lower cancer incidence. Interestingly, 
Pten(tg) mice have an increased energy expenditure and protection from metabolic 
pathologies. The brown adipose tissue (BAT) of Pten(tg) mice is hyperactive and 
presents high levels of the uncoupling protein Ucp1, which we show is a target 
of Foxo1. Importantly, a synthetic PI3K inhibitor also increases energy 
expenditure and hyperactivates the BAT in mice. These effects can be 
recapitulated in isolated brown adipocytes and, moreover, implants of Pten(tg) 
fibroblasts programmed with Prdm16 and Cebpβ form subcutaneous brown adipose 
pads more efficiently than wild-type fibroblasts. These observations uncover a 
role of Pten in promoting energy expenditure, thus decreasing nutrient storage 
and its associated damage.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.02.001
PMID: 22405073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Soc Sci Med. 2012 May;74(9):1452-60. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.01.006.
Epub  2012 Feb 21.

Adolescent expectations of early death predict young adult socioeconomic status.

Nguyen QC(1), Hussey JM, Halpern CT, Villaveces A, Marshall SW, Siddiqi A, Poole 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA. qu.nguyen@neu.edu

Among adolescents, expectations of early death have been linked to future risk 
behaviors. These expectations may also reduce personal investment in education 
and training, thereby lowering adult socioeconomic status attainment. The 
importance of socioeconomic status is highlighted by pervasive health inequities 
and dramatic differences in life expectancy among education and income groups. 
The objectives of this study were to investigate patterns of change in perceived 
chances of living to age 35 (Perceived Survival Expectations; PSE), predictors 
of PSE, and associations between PSE and future socioeconomic status attainment. 
We utilized the U.S. National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add 
Health) initiated in 1994-1995 among 20,745 adolescents in grades 7-12 with 
follow-up interviews in 1996 (Wave II), 2001-2002 (Wave III) and 2008 (Wave IV; 
ages 24-32). At Wave I, 14% reported ≤50% chance of living to age 35 and older 
adolescents reported lower PSE than younger adolescents. At Wave III, PSE were 
similar across age. Changes in PSE from Wave I to III were moderate, with 89% of 
respondents reporting no change (56%), one level higher (22%) or one level lower 
(10%) in a 5-level PSE variable. Higher block group poverty rate, perceptions 
that the neighborhood is unsafe, and less time in the U.S. (among the 
foreign-born) were related to low PSE at Waves I and III. Low PSE at Waves I and 
III predicted lower education attainment and personal earnings at Wave IV in 
multinomial logistic regression models controlling for confounding factors such 
as previous family socioeconomic status, individual demographic characteristics, 
and depressive symptoms. Anticipation of an early death is prevalent among 
adolescents and predictive of lower future socioeconomic status. Low PSE 
reported early in life may be a marker for worse health trajectories.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.01.006
PMCID: PMC3846180
PMID: 22405687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Crit Care Nurs Clin North Am. 2012 Mar;24(1):105-16. doi: 
10.1016/j.ccell.2012.01.006.

Straddling the fence: ICU nurses advocating for hospice care.

Borowske D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Geriatrics, Hospice and Home Health, 
Southwest General Health Center, Middleburg Heights, OH 44130, USA. 
dborowske@swgeneral.com

A key factor in nurses' experiencing moral distress is their feeling of 
powerlessness to initiate discussions about code status, EOL issues, or 
patients' preferences. Moreover, nurses encounter physicians who give patients 
and their families a false picture of recovery or, worse, block EOL discussions 
from occurring. Since its release in 1995, the landmark study of almost 10,000 
patients in the Study to Understand Prognoses and Preferences for Outcomes and 
Risks of Treatments (SUPPORT) reported a widespread gap with physicians' 
discussions in honest prognosis and EOL issues. Since the SUPPORT report, other 
studies have validated patients' and their families' preference for realistic 
discussions of disease trajectory and life expectancy. Unfortunately, the 
phenomenon of physicians failing to discuss bad news or terminal disease 
trajectory persists. Moreover, with a burgeoning geriatric population, coupled 
with advances in medical treatments, a growing segment of chronically ill 
patients are admitted to the ICU. With these communication shortcomings, it 
becomes an essential element of practice for the ICU nurse to initiate 
discussions about healthcare goals, preferences, and choices. The ICU nurse must 
be integral in fostering those discussions, particularly in cases where the 
family asks if hospice should be considered. Nurses have a long history of 
patient advocacy, with both the American Nurses Association and the American 
Association of Critical-Care Nurses stating that nurses have a duty to educate 
and promote dialogue about patients' preferences, goals, and EOL issues. With 
these tenets in the forefront, the ICU nurse is an integral member of the 
healthcare team, working with patients and their families to distinguish between 
what can be done and what should be done. Too often, hospice is thought of as a 
last resort. Rather, it is a model of care that centers on the belief that each 
of us has the right to die pain free and with dignity, and that our families 
will receive the necessary support to allow us to do so. Despite the high 
satisfaction reported by decedents of hospice enrollees, 35% of all hospice 
patients die within 7 days of enrollment owing to late referrals. An ICU stay 
presents the perfect opportunity to weave EOL care planning into the fabric of 
everyday patient care. Clearly, the ICU setting cares for the very sickest 
patients, and knowing what patients and families desire must take precedence in 
all treatment decisions. The ICU nurse should be proficient in communication 
skills, using evidence-based communication related to functional status, 
performance scales, disease trajectory, and prognosis. ICU nurses recognize that 
not every patient survives their ICU stay; yet, for those patients who will not 
survive, every ICU nurse wants their patient to experience a "good death." 
Hospice and the palliative care are important aspects of our care continuum and 
should not be ignored until the last days or hours of a patient's life. 
Recognizing eligibility for hospice and its alignment with patient EOL 
preferences can result in optimal EOL care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccell.2012.01.006
PMID: 22405716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. JOP. 2012 Mar 10;13(2):143-6.

An update on surgical staging of patients with pancreatic cancer.

Winner M(1), Allendorf JD, Saif MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Columbia University College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, NY, USA.

Accurate staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma is a crucial step in determining 
the appropriate therapeutic approach to pancreatic cancer and to maximizing life 
expectancy. Despite the availability of high-quality abdominal imaging, the use 
of multi-modality imaging and of diagnostic laparoscopy, a portion of surgically 
explored patients fail to undergo resection secondary to metastatic disease. 
This review is an update from the 2012 American Society of Clinical Oncology 
(ASCO) Gastrointestinal Cancers Symposium of new developments in the staging of 
localized pancreatic adenocarcinoma. (Abstracts #168, #177, and #212).

PMID: 22406586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Hosp Pract (1995). 2012 Feb;40(1):24-34. doi: 10.3810/hp.2012.02.945.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of varenicline versus existing smoking cessation 
strategies in Central America and the Caribbean using the BENESCO model.

Lutz MA(1), Lovato P, Cuesta G.

Author information:
(1)Medical Manager and Outcomes Research Specialist, Pfizer Central America and 
the Caribbean, Escazú, Costa Rica. manfred.lutz@pfizer.com

OBJECTIVES: In Central American countries, the economic burden of tobacco has 
not been assessed. In Costa Rica, a study demonstrated that tobacco-related 
diseases represent high costs for the health care system. The aim of this study 
was to assess the cost-effectiveness of varenicline compared with other existing 
strategies for smoking cessation within a 10-year time horizon in an adult 
population cohort from Central American and Caribbean countries using the health 
care payer's perspective.
METHODS: The Benefits of Smoking Cessation on Outcomes simulation model was used 
for an adult cohort in Costa Rica (n = 2 474 029), Panama (n = 2 249 676), 
Nicaragua (n = 3 639 948), El Salvador (n = 4 537 803), and the Dominican 
Republic (n = 6 528 125) (N = 19 429 581). Smoking cessation therapies compared 
were varenicline (0.5-2 mg/day) versus bupropion (300 mg/day), nicotine 
replacement therapy (5-15 mg/day), and unaided cessation. Effectiveness measures 
were: life-years (LYs) gained and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained. 
Resource use and cost data were obtained from a country's Ministry of Health 
and/or Social Security Institutions (2008-2010). The model used a 5% discount 
rate for costs (expressed in 2010 US$) and health outcomes. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were conducted and acceptability curves were constructed.
RESULTS: Varenicline reduced smoking-related morbidity, mortality, and health 
care costs in each country included in the study. Accumulatively, mortality in 
the varenicline arm was reduced by 1190, 1538, and 2902 smoking-related deaths 
compared with bupropion, nicotine replacement therapy, and unaided cessation, 
respectively. The net average cost per additional quitter showed that 
varenicline was cost-saving when compared with competing alternatives. Regarding 
LYs and QALYs gained in 10 years, varenicline obtained the greatest number of 
QALYs and LYs in each country, while unaided cessation obtained the fewest. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses in all 5 countries showed that varenicline was the 
dominant strategy. Acceptability curves showed that, independent of the 
willingness to pay, the probability that varenicline is cost-effective was 99% 
for this region. The results of the probabilistic sensitivity analyses support 
the robustness of the findings.
CONCLUSION: Smoking cessation therapy with varenicline is cost-saving for the 
Central American and Caribbean countries included. These results could help to 
reduce the tobacco-related disease burden and align cost-containment policies.

DOI: 10.3810/hp.2012.02.945
PMID: 22406880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Health Policy Plan. 2013 Jan;28(1):51-61. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czs025. Epub
2012  Mar 8.

Cost-effectiveness of Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine introduction 
in the universal immunization schedule in Haryana State, India.

Gupta M(1), Prinja S, Kumar R, Kaur M.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India. madhugupta21@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: In India, Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine introduction in 
the universal immunization programme requires evidence of its potential health 
impact and cost-effectiveness, as it is a costly vaccine. Since childhood 
mortality, vaccination coverage and health service utilization vary across 
states, the cost-effectiveness of introducing Hib vaccine was studied in Haryana 
state.
METHODOLOGY: A mathematical model was used to compare scenarios with and without 
Hib vaccination to estimate the cost-effectiveness of Hib vaccine in Haryana 
from 2010 to 2024. Demographic and National Family Health Surveys were used to 
estimate vaccination coverage and mortality rates among children under 5. Hib 
pneumonia, Hib meningitis and invasive Hib disease incidence were based on 
Indian studies. Vaccine and syringe prices of the UNICEF supply division were 
used. Cost-effectiveness from government and societal perspectives was 
calculated as the net incremental cost per unit of health benefit gained 
[disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) averted, life years saved, Hib cases 
averted, Hib deaths averted]. Sensitivity analysis was done using variation in 
parameter estimates among different states of India.
FINDINGS: The incremental cost of Hib vaccine introduction from a government and 
a societal perspective was estimated to be US$81.4 and US$27.5 million, 
respectively, from 2010 to 2024. Vaccination of 73.3, 71.6 and 67.4 million 
children with first, second and third dose of pentavalent vaccine, respectively, 
would avert 7 067 817 cases, 31 331 deaths and 994 564 DALYs. Incremental cost 
per DALY averted from a government (US$819) and a societal perspective (US$277) 
was found to be less than the per capita gross national income of India in 2009. 
In sensitivity analysis, Hib vaccine introduction remained cost-effective for 
India.
CONCLUSION: Hib vaccine introduction is a cost-effective strategy in India.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czs025
PMID: 22407018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. World J Surg. 2012 Jul;36(7):1632-9. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1526-z.

Prognostic nutritional index predicts outcomes of gastrectomy in the elderly.

Watanabe M(1), Iwatsuki M, Iwagami S, Ishimoto T, Baba Y, Baba H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gatsroenterological Surgery, Graduate School of Medical 
Sciences, Kumamoto University, 1-1-1 Honjo, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. 
masanabe@fc.kuh.kumamoto-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Chirurg. 2012 Dec;83(12):1083.

BACKGROUND: Owing to the increased life expectancy, elderly patients with 
gastric cancer is also increasing. Onodera's prognostic nutritional index (PNI) 
is an assessment tool for nutritional status of surgical patients and possibly 
predicts prognosis of the patients. The aim of the present study is to clarify 
the predictive and prognostic significance of PNI in elderly patients who 
underwent gastrectomy for gastric cancer.
METHODS: Two hundred ninety-five patients, including 196 nonelderly patients 
under 75 years old (group NE) and 99 elderly patients (group E), were eligible. 
We collected the data on nutritional status and the outcome of gastrectomy, 
including morbidity, mortality, and survival of these patients. A Cox 
proportional hazards model was used to evaluate the prognostic significance.
RESULTS: The PNI was significantly lower in group E than in group NE. Both 
morbidity and mortality rates after gastrectomy were similar between the groups. 
Although PNI could not predict the postoperative events in group NE, low PNI 
might be a risk of mortality and morbidity in the elderly. Although survival 
after gastrectomy was similar among groups divided by the median PNI value 
(49.2) in group NE, the prognosis of PNI-L (<44.7) was significantly poorer than 
PNI-H (PNI ≧ 44.7) in group E. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that PNI-L was 
an independent prognostic factor in the elderly.
CONCLUSIONS: The PNI predicts both short-term and long-term outcomes after 
gastrectomy in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1526-z
PMID: 22407085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Int J Health Care Finance Econ. 2012 Jun;12(2):129-43. doi: 
10.1007/s10754-012-9106-1. Epub 2012 Mar 11.

Terminal costs, improved life expectancy and future public health expenditure.

Bjørner TB(1), Arnberg S.

Author information:
(1)Danish Economic Councils, Copenhagen K, Denmark. tbb@dors.dk

This paper presents an empirical analysis of public health expenditure on 
individuals in Denmark. The analysis separates out the individual effects of age 
and proximity to death (reflecting terminal costs of dying) and employs unique 
micro data from the period 2000 to 2009, covering a random sample of 10% of the 
Danish population. Health expenditure includes treatment in hospitals, subsidies 
to prescribed medication and health care provided by general practitioners and 
specialists and covers about 80% of public health care expenditure on 
individuals. The results confirm findings from previous studies showing that 
proximity to death has a significant impact on health care expenditure. However, 
it is also found that cohort effects (the baby boom generation) as well as 
improvements in life expectancy have a substantial effect on future health care 
expenditure even when proximity to death is controlled for. These results are 
obtained by combining the empirical estimates with a long term population 
forecast. When life expectancy increases, terminal costs are postponed but the 
increases in health expenditure that follow from longer life expectancy are not 
as large as the increase in the number of elderly persons would suggest (due to 
"healthy ageing"). Based on the empirical estimates, healthy ageing is expected 
to reduce the impact of increased life expectancy on real health expenditure by 
50% compared to a situation without healthy ageing.

DOI: 10.1007/s10754-012-9106-1
PMID: 22407513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Int J Epidemiol. 2012 Apr;41(2):540-56. doi: 10.1093/ije/dys018. Epub 2012
Mar  9.

Burden of disease, health indicators and challenges for epidemiology in North 
America.

Toporowski A(1), Harper S, Fuhrer R, Buffler PA, Detels R, Krieger N, Franco EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, QC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Commissioned by the International Epidemiological Association, this 
article is part of a series on burden of disease, health indicators and the 
challenges faced by epidemiologists in bringing their discoveries to provide 
equitable benefit to the populations in their regions and globally. This report 
covers the health status and epidemiological capacity in the North American 
region (USA and Canada).
METHODS: We assessed data from country-specific sources to identify health 
priorities and areas of greatest need for modifiable risk factors. We examined 
inequalities in health as a function of social deprivation. We also reviewed 
information on epidemiological capacity building and scientific contributions by 
epidemiologists in the region.
FINDINGS: The USA and Canada enjoy technologically advanced healthcare systems 
that, in principle, prioritize preventive services. Both countries experience a 
life expectancy at birth that is higher than the global mean. Health indicator 
measures are consistently worse in the USA than in Canada for many outcomes, 
although typically by only marginal amounts. Socio-economic and racial/ethnic 
disparities in indicators exist for many diseases and risk factors in the USA. 
To a lesser extent, these social inequalities also exist in Canada, particularly 
among the Aboriginal populations. Epidemiology is a well-established discipline 
in the region, with many degree-granting schools, societies and job 
opportunities in the public and private sectors. North American epidemiologists 
have made important contributions in disease control and prevention and provide 
nearly a third of the global scientific output via published papers.
CONCLUSIONS: Critical challenges for North American epidemiologists include 
social determinants of disease distribution and the underlying inequalities in 
access to and benefit from preventive services and healthcare, particularly in 
the USA. The gains in life expectancy also underscore the need for research on 
health promotion and prevention of disease and disability in older adults. The 
diversity in epidemiological subspecialties poses new challenges in training and 
accreditation and has occurred in parallel with a decrease in research funding.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dys018
PMID: 22407862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Eur Respir J. 2012 Aug;40(2):485-94. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00208011. Epub
2012  Mar 9.

Macrolide effects on the prevention of COPD exacerbations.

Yamaya M(1), Azuma A, Takizawa H, Kadota J, Tamaoki J, Kudoh S.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Advanced Preventive Medicine for Infectious Disease, Tohoku 
University Graduate School of Medicine, 2-1 Seryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 
980-8575, Japan. myamaya@med.tohoku.ac.jp

The number of senile patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
has recently increased due to an increase in life expectancy, the habit of 
smoking and the inhalation of toxic particles. COPD exacerbations are caused by 
airway bacterial and viral infections, as well as the inhalation of oxidative 
substrates. COPD exacerbations are associated with the worsening of symptoms and 
quality of life, as well as an increased mortality rate. Several drugs, 
including long-acting anti-cholinergic agents, long-acting β(2)-agonists and 
inhaled corticosteroids, have been developed to improve symptoms in COPD 
patients and to prevent COPD exacerbations. Treatment with macrolide antibiotics 
has been reported to prevent COPD exacerbations and improve patient quality of 
life and symptoms, especially in those patients who have frequent exacerbations. 
In addition to their antimicrobial effects, macrolides have a variety of 
physiological functions, such as anti-inflammatory and anti-viral effects, 
reduced sputum production, the inhibition of biofilm formation and the 
inhibition of bacterial virulence factor production. These unique activities may 
relate to the prevention of exacerbations in COPD patients who receive 
macrolides. Herein, we review the inhibitory effects that macrolides have on 
COPD exacerbations and explore the possible mechanisms of these effects.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00208011
PMID: 22408201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Mar 7;18(9):938-43. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i9.938.

Duodenal stenting for malignant gastric outlet obstruction: prospective study.

Moura EG(1), Ferreira FC, Cheng S, Moura DT, Sakai P, Zilberstain B.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Unit, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP 
05679-065, Brazil. eghm@uol.com.br

AIM: To evaluate the results of duodenal stenting for palliation of 
gastroduodenal malignant obstruction by using a gastric outlet obstruction score 
(GOOS).
METHODS: A prospective, non-randomized study was performed at a tertiary center 
between August 2005 and April 2010. Patients were eligible if they had malignant 
gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) and were not candidates for surgical treatment. 
Medical history and patient demographics were collected at baseline. Scheduled 
interviews were made on the day of the procedure and 15, 30, 90 and 180 d later 
or unscheduled as necessary.
RESULTS: Fifteen patients (6 male, 9 female; median age 61 years) with GOO who 
had undergone duodenal stenting were evaluated. Ten patients had metastasis at 
baseline (66.6%) and 14 were unable to accept oral intake (93.33%), including 7 
patients who were using a feeding tube. Laboratory data showed biliary 
obstruction in eight cases (53.33%); all were submitted to biliary drainage. Two 
patients developed obstructive symptoms due to tumor ingrowth after 30 d and 
another due to tumor overgrowth after 180 d. Two cases of stent migration 
occurred. A good response to treatment was observed, with a mean time of 
approximately 1 d (19 h) until toleration of a liquid diet and slightly more 
than 2 d for both soft solids (51 h) and a solid food/normal diet (55 h). The 
mean time to first failure to maintain liquid intake (GOOS ≥ 1) was 93 d. During 
follow-up, the mean time to first failure to maintain the previously achieved 
GOOS of 2-3 (solid/semi-solid food), considered technical failure, was 71 d. On 
the basis of oral intake a GOOS is defined: 0 for no oral intake; 1 for liquids 
only; 2 for soft solids only; 3 for low-residue or full diet.
CONCLUSION: Enteral stenting to alleviate gastroduodenal malignant obstruction 
improves quality of life in patients with limited life expectancy, which can be 
evaluated by using a GOO scoring system.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i9.938
PMCID: PMC3297053
PMID: 22408353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Int J Mol Sci. 2012;13(2):2290-2300. doi: 10.3390/ijms13022290. Epub 2012
Feb  21.

In vitro control of post-harvest fruit rot fungi by some plant essential oil 
components.

Camele I(1), Altieri L(1), De Martino L(2), De Feo V(2), Mancini E(2), Rana 
GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Plant Protection and Agro-Forestry Biotechnology, 
Basilicata University, Viale dell'Ateneo Lucano, 10-85100, Potenza, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical and Biomedical Sciences, Salerno University, 
