Semaphorin-3A expression was lower in the psoriatic samples compared with the 
healthy samples, whereas NGF was higher. C-fibre innervation in the epidermis 
was also increased in psoriatic skin. Semaphorin-3A mRNA expression was 
negatively correlated with itch intensity and severity of psoriasis. We propose 
that decreased semaphorin-3A and increased NGF expression levels may trigger the 
outgrowth of C-fibres, leading to pruritus.

DOI: 10.2340/00015555-1350
PMID: 22565412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Vasa. 2012 May;41(3):163-76. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526/a000183.

Management of thoracic aortic lesions--the future is endovascular.

Weidenhagen R(1), Bombien R, Meimarakis G, Geisler G, Koeppel TA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Ludwig-Maximilian-University 
of Munich, Germany. rolf.weidenhagen@med.uni-muenchen.de

Open surgical repair of lesions of the descending thoracic aorta, such as 
aneurysm, dissection and traumatic rupture, has been the "state-of-the-art" 
treatment for many decades. However, in specialized cardiovascular centers, 
thoracic endovascular aortic repair and hybrid aortic procedures have been 
implemented as novel treatment options. The current clinical results show that 
these procedures can be performed with low morbidity and mortality rates. 
However, due to a lack of randomized trials, the level of reliability of these 
new treatment modalities remains a matter of discussion. Clinical 
decision-making is generally based on the experience of the vascular center as 
well as on individual factors, such as life expectancy, comorbidity, aneurysm 
aetiology, aortic diameter and morphology. This article will review and discuss 
recent publications of open surgical, hybrid thoracic aortic (in case of aortic 
arch involvement) and endovascular repair in complex pathologies of the 
descending thoracic aorta.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526/a000183
PMID: 22565618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nutr Hosp. 2012 Jan-Feb;27(1):22-30. doi: 10.1590/S0212-16112012000100004.

[Aging and body composition: the sarcopenic obesity in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez-Cabello A(1), Vicente Rodríguez G, Vila-Maldonado S, Casajús JA, Ara I.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación GENUD (Growth, Exercise, Nutrition and Development) 
Zaragoza, Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza, España.

The increase in life expectancy occurred during the last decades has resulted in 
a growth of the elderly population, being estimated that a third of the Spanish 
population will be elderly (> 65 years) in the year 2050. Human aging involves 
many changes, such as a variation in body composition. Different factors work 
together leading to an increase in fat mass, decreased muscle mass and reduced 
bone mass among seniors. These characteristic changes among elderly people may 
lead to suffer several diseases such as obesity, sarcopenia and osteoporosis and 
may result in decreased quality of life, increased dependence and increased risk 
of mortality in this population. In the late 90's, "sarcopenic obesity" was a 
concept that emerged in order to define those people who simultaneously have an 
excess of body fat and a significant loss of muscle mass. Recently, for the 
first time in Spain (the elderly EXERNET multi-centre study), it has been shown 
that the prevalence of sarcopenic obesity in a representative sample of 
non-institutionalized seniors reaches values of 15%.

DOI: 10.1590/S0212-16112012000100004
PMID: 22566301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2012;8:255-64. doi: 10.2147/VHRM.S28744. Epub 2012
Apr  23.

Health and economic outcomes for exenatide once weekly, insulin, and 
pioglitazone therapies in the treatment of type 2 diabetes: a simulation 
analysis.

Gaebler JA(1), Soto-Campos G, Alperin P, Cohen M, Blickensderfer A, Wintle M, 
Maggs D, Hoogwerf B, Han J, Pencek R, Peskin B.

Author information:
(1)Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc, San Diego, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) are at risk of long-term 
vascular complications. In trials, exenatide once weekly (ExQW), a GLP-1R 
agonist, improved glycemia, weight, blood pressure (BP), and lipids in patients 
with T2DM. We simulated potential effects of ExQW on vascular complications, 
survival, and medical costs over 20 years versus standard therapies.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The Archimedes model was used to assess outcomes for 
~25,000 virtual patients with T2DM (NHANES 1999-2006 [metformin ± sulfonylureas, 
age 57 years, body mass index 33 kg/m(2), weight 94 kg, duration T2DM 9 years, 
hemoglobin A1c [A1C] 8.1%]). The effects of three treatment strategies were 
modeled and compared to moderate-adherence insulin therapy: advancement to 
high-adherence insulin at A1C ≥ 8% (treat to target A1C < 7%) and addition of 
pioglitazone (PIO) or ExQW from simulation start. ExQW effects on A1C, weight, 
BP, and lipids were modeled from clinical trial data. Costs, inflated to 
represent 2010 $US, were derived from Medicare data, Drugstore.com, and 
publications. As ExQW was investigational, we omitted ExQW, PIO, and insulin 
pharmacy costs.
RESULTS: By year 1, ExQW treatment decreased A1C (~1.5%), weight (~2 kg), and 
systolic BP (~5 mmHg). PIO and high-adherence insulin decreased A1C by ~1%, 
increased weight, and did not affect systolic BP. After 20 years, A1C was ~7% 
with all strategies. ExQW decreased rates of cardiovascular and microvascular 
complications more than PIO or high-adherence insulin versus moderate-adherence 
insulin. Over 20 years, ExQW treatment resulted in increased quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) of ~0.3 years/person and cost savings of $469/life-year 
versus moderate adherence insulin. For PIO or high-adherence insulin, QALYs were 
virtually unchanged, and costs/life-year versus moderate-adherence insulin 
increased by $69 and $87, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This long-term simulation demonstrated that ExQW treatment may 
decrease rates of cardiovascular and some microvascular complications of T2DM. 
Increased QALYs, and decreased costs were also projected.

DOI: 10.2147/VHRM.S28744
PMCID: PMC3346268
PMID: 22566747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Front Immunol. 2012 May 2;3:93. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2012.00093. eCollection
2012.

The use of donor-derived veto cells in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Ophir E(1), Reisner Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.

The induction of immune tolerance by specific agents, as opposed to general 
immune suppression, is a most desirable goal in transplantation biology. One 
approach to attain this goal is afforded by the use of donor-derived cells 
endowed with veto activity, which is the ability of a cell to specifically 
suppress only T cells directed against its antigens. A megadose of purified veto 
CD34(+) hematopoietic stem cells is already used in patients to allow 
hematopoietic stem cells transplantation (HSCT) across major genetic barriers, 
while avoiding severe graft versus host disease (GVHD). However, allowing 
engraftment of such T cell-depleted HSCT under safer reduced intensity 
conditioning (RIC) protocols still remains a challenge. Therefore, combining 
megadose of CD34(+) HSCT with other GVHD-depleted veto cells could enable 
facilitation of engraftment of HSCT under RIC without the adverse complication 
of GVHD. This approach might provide a safer modality for enabling engraftment 
of HSCT, enabling its application in elderly patients who cannot tolerate 
intensive protocols and to a variety of patients with non-malignant disorders, 
associated with longer life expectancy, in whom the use of a high risk 
conditioning cannot be considered.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2012.00093
PMCID: PMC3341989
PMID: 22566971


236. Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue. 2012 Feb;18(2):109-14.

[Establishment of a hydrogel chip for high-throughput detection of Y chromosome 
microdeletions].

[Article in Chinese]

Li YZ(1), Chen ZY, Wang H, Huang H, Song QX, Zhou GH.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, China Pharmaceutical University, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu 210009, China.

OBJECTIVE: To establish a high-sensitivity, high-specificity and low-cost 
hydrogel chip platform for the clinical screening of Y chromosome 
microdeletions.
METHODS: Site-specific extended primers with a common sequence at the 5' end 
were used for hybridizing with the target. The Cy5-dUTP was incorporated into 
the products by primer extension, and the products were labeled with 
fluorescence. Then the extended products were added to the chip for hybridizing 
with acrylamide-modified common probes immobilized on the chip. After removal of 
the free Cy5-dUTP by electrophoresis, the signals were obtained by fluorescence 
scanning. And the detecting conditions of this method were optimized.
RESULTS: SY254 of 9 samples was successfully detected with the hydrogel chip. 
The results showed that 3 were normal and the other 6 with microdeletions (1 
female sample as a negative control), which coincided with the results of 
conventional multiplex PCR-electrophoresis.
CONCLUSION: The hydrogel chip platform we established has provided a new 
technique for the detection of Y chromosome microdeletions, and is beneficial to 
the diagnosis and treatment of male infertility.

PMID: 22568205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Eur J Gen Pract. 2012 Sep;18(3):181-6. doi: 10.3109/13814788.2012.685069.
Epub  2012 May 8.

Late HIV diagnosis in Europe: a call for increased testing and awareness among 
general practitioners.

Kall MM(1), Smith RD, Delpech VC.

Author information:
(1)HIV and STI Department, Health Protection Services-Colindale, Health 
Protection Agency, London, UK. meaghan.kall@hpa.org.uk

Comment in
    Eur J Gen Pract. 2012 Sep;18(3):133-5.

Major advancements in the treatment of HIV infection mean near normal life 
expectancy of persons diagnosed at an early stage of infection. Nevertheless, a 
significant proportion of HIV infected persons remain undiagnosed and are 
diagnosed at a late stage of infection, putting them at higher risk for 
preventable HIV-related morbidity and mortality and risking onward transmission 
to others. In Europe, half of people diagnosed with HIV in 2010 were diagnosed 
late with a CD4<350 cells/ul, at a point after which treatment should have 
begun. The causes of late diagnosis are manifold, and comprise barriers to 
testing at the patient, healthcare provider, and institutional level. Strategies 
to address barriers to HIV testing are essential to ensure prompt diagnosis. 
Routine universal HIV testing in general practice consisting of informed consent 
and a pre-test discussion is feasible and acceptable and should be considered in 
high prevalence areas to normalize HIV testing, reduce stigma, and reduce the 
number of infected individuals who are diagnosed late.

DOI: 10.3109/13814788.2012.685069
PMID: 22568402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 May;60(5):896-904. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.03942.x.  Epub 2012 May 9.

The association between geriatric syndromes and survival.

Kane RL(1), Shamliyan T, Talley K, Pacala J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55455, USA. kanex001@umn.edu

OBJECTIVES: To ascertain the effect on survival of eight common geriatric 
syndromes (multiple comorbidities, cognitive impairment, frailty, disability, 
sarcopenia, malnutrition, homeostenosis, and chronic inflammation), identified 
by an expert panel of academic geriatricians.
DESIGN: A systematic literature review sought studies from a variety of sources 
to compare survival and life expectancy of individuals with geriatric syndromes 
with those of the general population.
SETTING: Studies used reflected the general population.
PARTICIPANTS: Community-dwelling persons aged 65 and older.
MEASUREMENTS: Eight geriatric syndromes (multiple definitions) and survival.
RESULTS: Two thousand three hundred seventy-four publications were retrieved, 
and 509 publications of 123 studies were included. Seven geriatric syndromes 
(multiple comorbidities, cognitive impairment, frailty, disability, 
malnutrition, impaired homeostasis, and chronic inflammation) were associated 
with poor survival. In each case, the prevalence of a syndrome was negatively 
associated with mortality. Malnutrition and impaired homeostasis exerted twice 
the influence of factors such as multiple comorbidities and frailty. From age 65 
to 74, only those who are very ill or frail (e.g., impaired homeostasis, low 
body mass index, or advanced dementia) have a higher risk of mortality than 
average older adults. In the old-old, particularly aged 90 and older, the added 
value of predicting survival beyond 1 year is minimal.
CONCLUSION: Geriatric syndrome information is helpful to understanding survival 
for younger old persons but provides little information about survival for the 
very old. Complex survival models add comparatively little benefit to more 
simply measured and calculated models.

© 2012, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2012, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.03942.x
PMID: 22568483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. AIDS Care. 2013;25(1):1-10. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2012.674095. Epub 2012 May
9.

A randomized control trial of personalized cognitive counseling to reduce sexual 
risk among HIV-infected men who have sex with men.

Schwarcz SK(1), Chen YH, Murphy JL, Paul JP, Skinta MD, Scheer S, Vittinghoff E, 
Dilley JW.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
sandy.schwarcz@sfdph.org

The increased life expectancy and well-being of HIV-infected persons presents 
the need for effective prevention methods in this population. Personalized 
cognitive counseling (PCC) has been shown to reduce unprotected anal intercourse 
(UAI) with a partner of unknown or different serostatus among HIV-uninfected men 
who have sex with men (MSM). We adapted PCC for use among HIV-infected MSM and 
tested its efficacy against standard risk-reduction counseling in a randomized 
clinical trial in San Francisco. Between November 2006 and April 2010, a total 
of 374 HIV-infected MSM who reported UAI with two or more men of negative or 
unknown HIV serostatus in the previous 6 months were randomized to two sessions 
of PCC or standard counseling 6 months apart. The primary outcome was the number 
of episodes of UAI with a non-primary male partner of different or unknown 
serostatus in the past 90 days, measured at baseline, 6, and 12 months. Surveys 
assessed participant satisfaction with the counseling. The mean number of 
episodes of UAI at baseline did not differ between PCC and control groups (2.97 
and 3.14, respectively; p=0.82). The mean number of UAI episodes declined in 
both groups at 6 months, declined further in the PCC group at 12 months, while 
increasing to baseline levels among controls; these differences were not 
statistically significant. Episode mean ratios were 0.76 (95% confidence 
interval [CI] 0.25-2.19, p=0.71) at 6 months and 0.48 (95% CI 0.12-1.84, p=0.34) 
at 12 months. Participants in both groups reported a high degree of satisfaction 
with the counseling. The findings from this randomized trial do not support the 
efficacy of a two-session PCC intervention at reducing UAI among HIV-infected 
MSM and indicate the continued need to identify and implement effective 
prevention methods in this population.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2012.674095
PMID: 22568569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Int J Stroke. 2013 Feb;8(2):131-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00806.x.
Epub  2012 May 9.

Burden of stroke in the Philippines.

Loo KW(1), Gan SH.

Author information:
(1)Human Genome Centre, School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 
Kubang Kerian, Kelantan, Malaysia.

Based on disability-adjusted life-years, stroke is the second leading cause of 
death and among the top five diseases with the greatest burden. Although two 
community-based studies have been conducted to determine the prevalence of 
stroke in the Philippines, the incidence has not been nationally recorded to 
date. The prevalence ranged from 1·9% to 6·59%, and 'Wiihabilitation', a 
rehabilitation stroke therapy, is widely practiced. A clinical trial for stroke 
rehabilitation using the Chinese Medicine NeuroAid®, which consists of several 
herbs, is ongoing in many hospitals across the Philippines. Due to their ready 
availability, phytomedicines are widely used, especially in the rural areas, for 
the treatment of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and hypercholesterolemia, 
which are predisposing factors for stroke in the Philippines. Due to the 
increasing number of stroke cases annually, the government of the Philippines 
should emphasize primary and secondary prevention strategies.

© 2012 The Authors. International Journal of Stroke © 2012 World Stroke 
Organization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00806.x
PMID: 22568853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Cancer. 2012 Nov 15;118(22):5652-62. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27615. Epub 2012 May
8.

The Cancer Survival Query System: making survival estimates from the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program more timely and relevant for 
recently diagnosed patients.

Feuer EJ(1), Lee M, Mariotto AB, Cronin KA, Scoppa S, Penson DF, Hachey M, 
Cynkin L, Carter GA, Campbell D, Percy-Laurry A, Zou Z, Schrag D, Hankey BF.

Author information:
(1)Surveillance Research Program, Division of Cancer Control and Population 
Sciences, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Erratum in
    Cancer. 2013 Apr 15;119(8):1602-4.

BACKGROUND: Population-based cancer registries that include patient follow-up 
generally provide information regarding net survival (ie, survival associated 
with the risk of dying of cancer in the absence of competing risks). However, 
registry data also can be used to calculate survival from cancer in the presence 
of competing risks, which is more clinically relevant.
METHODS: Statistical methods were developed to predict the risk of death from 
cancer and other causes, as well as natural life expectancy if the patient did 
not have cancer based on a profile of prognostic factors including 
characteristics of the cancer, demographic factors, and comorbid conditions. The 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program database was used to 
calculate the risk of dying of cancer. Because the risks of dying of cancer 
versus other causes are assumed to be independent conditional on the prognostic 
factors, a wide variety of independent data sources can be used to calculate the 
risk of death from other causes. Herein, the risk of death from other causes was 
estimated using SEER and Medicare claims data, and was matched to the closest 
fitting portion of the US life table to obtain a "health status-adjusted age."
RESULTS: A nomogram was developed for prostate cancer as part of a Web-based 
Cancer Survival Query System that is targeted for use by physicians and patients 
to obtain information on a patient's prognosis. More nomograms currently are 
being developed.
CONCLUSIONS: Nomograms of this type can be used as one tool to assist cancer 
physicians and their patients to better understand their prognosis and to weigh 
alternative treatment and palliative strategies.

Copyright © 2012 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27615
PMID: 22569947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 2012 Apr;51(2):96-102. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1306292.
 Epub 2012 May 8.

[Helping as a matter of expedience? Ethical objections against prioritization in 
medicine].

[Article in German]

Maio G(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Ethik und Geschichte der Medizin, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität 
Freiburg. maio@ethik.uni-freiburg.de

The paper discusses the question whether it could be ethically appropriate to 
"resolve" the problem of scarce resources in health care via priority lists. It 
is argued that such a schematical priority list could only be undisputed in 
ethical respects if it represented a broad consensus on the question what a good 
life would be. Priority lists are always implicit decisions about specific 
concepts of the good life. Using a priority list only in consideration of a mere 
cost-benefit ratio means to accept a mere utilitarian way of defining good life. 
Such a definition goes with neglect of the interests of people with chronic 
diseases, of patients with incurable diseases, of patients with a limited life 
expectancy. To neglect the interests of these patients means to abandon the core 
of medical identity, because medicine has the mission to help those above all 
who are most in need and those who cannot help themselves. And so we have to 
realize that for medicine there are some values which are more important than 
economic considerations. The physician is a person who gives a promise, the 
promise to be there for the patient. If the physician now is becoming a 
businessman, this promise is no longer valid. The businessman doesn't give any 
other promise than not to act against the contract. But the main need of the 
patient, his longing for a human person whom he can trust, cannot become part of 
a contract. Especially in our time medicine has to fight for the core of its 
identity.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1306292
PMID: 22570156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2012 Aug;47(8):816-25. doi: 10.1002/ppul.22577. Epub 2012
May  8.

Longitudinal lung function and structural changes in children with primary 
ciliary dyskinesia.

Magnin ML(1), Cros P, Beydon N, Mahloul M, Tamalet A, Escudier E, Clément A, Le 
Pointe HD, Blanchon S.

Author information:
(1)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Armand-Trousseau, Service de 
Radiologie Pédiatrique, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Pediatr Pulmonol. 2012 Aug;47(8):733-5.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Functional and structural lung evaluations are part 
of the follow-up of patients with primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD). We aimed to 
evaluate transversal and longitudinal relationships between lung function test 
(LFT) and chest computed tomography (CT) in children with PCD, in stable 
clinical condition.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data from children followed in the French National Center 
were retrospectively collected. Inclusion criteria were (i) definitive diagnosis 
of PCD, (ii) age less than 15 years at the beginning of follow-up, (iii) at 
least 8 years of follow-up, (iv) at least two couples of concurrent CT and LFT 
available in a phase of clinical stability of the lung disease without 
modification of the treatment regimen in the last 4 weeks. Twenty children 
(median age at entry 4.6 years, median follow-up 15.4 years) were included. 
Concurrent LFT (blood gas and spirometry) and CT (score) results were recorded.
RESULTS: LFT indices (PaO(2) (n = 210), FVC, FEV(1) , FEF(2575%) (n = 195)) 
significantly decreased with age, and the mean annual decrease (z-score (% 
predicted)) was -0.17 (-0.49%), -0.09 (-0.50%), -0.10 (-0.89%), and -0.07 
(-1.73%), respectively. First CT (median age 8.7 years) revealed bronchiectasis 
(70%), mucous plugging (70%), peribronchial thickening (90%), parenchymal 
abnormalities (65%), and hyperinflation (50%). CT scores (n = 74) significantly 
increased with age, and was negatively correlated to PaO(2), FVC, FEV(1), and 
FEF(2575%) longitudinal changes.
CONCLUSION: In stable clinical condition, functional, and structural progressive 
impairments significantly correlated in children with PCD. Further prospective 
studies, including large populations of patients with various levels of disease 
severity, are needed to confirm whether lung function follow-up can be used to 
adjust CT frequency and help at minimizing the radiation burden in children with 
a good life expectancy.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.22577
PMID: 22570319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. JAMA. 2012 May 9;307(18):1911; author reply 1912. doi:
10.1001/jama.2012.3538.

Prognostic models for older adults.

Stern R.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2012 Jan 11;307(2):182-92.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.3538
PMID: 22570453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. JAMA. 2012 May 9;307(18):1911-2; author reply 1912. doi:
10.1001/jama.2012.3568.

Prognostic models for older adults.

Gabbay E, Kent DM.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2012 Jan 11;307(2):182-92.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.3568
PMID: 22570454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Roum Arch Microbiol Immunol. 2011 Jul-Sep;70(3):129-33.

Hepatitis B, C and D coinfection in HIV-infected patients: prevalence and 
progress.

Ionescu B(1), Mihăescu G.

Author information:
(1)University of Bucharest, Faculty of Biology, Microbiology and Immunology 
Department, Bucharest, Romania. bogdanionescu87@yahoo.com

The HAART therapy has improved life expectancy enabling long latency conditions 
caused by the hepatitis viruses that became the leading cause of death in HIV 
infected patients. In this study a group of 300 patients aged from 18 to 63 
years were selected in order to assess the prevalence and consequences of HIV 
and the hepatitis B (HBV), C (HCV) and D (HDV) viruses coinfections. Study 
groups were designed for each coinfection. These groups were in turn divided in 
case groups formed of coinfected participants and control groups consisting of 
mono-infected participants. This classification was obtained by testing the 
participants for the presence of specific infection markers using the ELISA 
technique. As a result, in regard to the HIV/HBV coinfection the study group 
consisted of 16 coinfected participants and 114 HBV-infected participants 
resulting in a prevalence of the coinfection of 14%. In the case of the HIV/HDV 
coinfection the study group consisted of 5 coinfected participants and 45 
HDV-infected participants. The prevalence of the HIV/HCV coinfection was 25% out 
of the 170 HCV-infected participants. The effect of the coinfections on the 
expression and levels of the infection markers was analyzed in constrast to 
those encountered in the case of the mono-infection. The observed changes in the 
expression of the specific hepatitis markers indicate the impact of the 
coinfection with HIV on the progression of the hepatitis infections. In 
addition, the inadequate immune response towards the hepatitis viruses in the 
case of the coinfected participants leads to the development of cirrhosis and 
end stage liver disease.

PMID: 22570927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Psychosoc Oncol. 2012;30(3):347-58. doi: 10.1080/07347332.2012.664260.

The factors contributing to death anxiety in cancer patients.

Gonen G(1), Kaymak SU, Cankurtaran ES, Karslioglu EH, Ozalp E, Soygur H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Samsun Mental Health and Psychiatric Disorders 
Training and Research Hospital, Samsun, Turkey.

Suffering comes in many ways for patients confronting cancer. One of these is an 
unspecifiable fear about death, which is an existential issue. The aim of this 
study was to investigate the relationship between death anxiety and its 
correlates in cancer patients. Seventy cancer patients were assessed using 
SCID-I, Templer's Death Anxiety Scale, the Hospital Anxiety (A) and Depression 
(D) Scale, the Distress Thermometer, the Visual Analogue Scale for pain (VAS), 
the Global Assessment of Functioning, and Glock and Stark's Dimensions of 
Religious Commitment scales, and these assessments were compared between cancer 
patients with and without death anxiety. Multiple regression analysis was 
conducted after correlation analysis between death anxiety and sociodemographic 
and clinical variables. Axis I psychiatric diagnosis, pain scores, and negative 
believes about what will happen after death were found to be higher in patients 
having death anxiety than patients not having death anxiety. Also life 
expectancy was perceived as shortened in patients with death anxiety. Death 
anxiety was associated with anxiety, depressive symptoms, and beliefs about what 
will happen after death. In conclusion, death anxiety could not be regarded as a 
natural consequence of having cancer; it is associated with the unresolved 
psychological and physical distress.

DOI: 10.1080/07347332.2012.664260
PMID: 22571248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2012 May 9;13:67. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-13-67.

Total knee replacement plus physical and medical therapy or treatment with 
physical and medical therapy alone: a randomised controlled trial in patients 
with knee osteoarthritis (the MEDIC-study).

Skou ST(1), Roos EM, Laursen MB, Rathleff MS, Arendt-Nielsen L, Simonsen OH, 
Rasmussen S.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Surgery Research Unit, Aalborg Hospital, Aarhus University 
Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark. sots@rn.dk

BACKGROUND: There is a lack of high quality evidence concerning the efficacy of 
total knee arthroplasty (TKA). According to international evidence-based 
guidelines, treatment of knee osteoarthritis (KOA) should include patient 
education, exercise and weight loss. Insoles and pharmacological treatment can 
be included as supplementary treatments. If the combination of these 
non-surgical treatment modalities is ineffective, TKA may be indicated. The 
purpose of this randomised controlled trial is to examine whether TKA provides 
further improvement in pain, function and quality of life in addition to 
optimised non-surgical treatment in patients with KOA defined as definite 
radiographic OA and up to moderate pain.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study will be conducted in The North Denmark Region. 100 
participants with radiographic KOA (K-L grade ≥2) and mean pain during the 
previous week of ≤ 60 mm (0-100, best to worst scale) who are considered 
eligible for TKA by an orthopaedic surgeon will be included. The treatment will 
consist of 12 weeks of optimised non-surgical treatment consisting of patient 
education, exercise, diet, insoles, analgesics and/or NSAIDs. Patients will be 
randomised to either receiving or not receiving a TKA in addition to the 
optimised non-surgical treatment. The primary outcome will be the change from 
baseline to 12 months on the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score 
(KOOS)(4) defined as the average score for the subscale scores for pain, 
symptoms, activities of daily living, and quality of life. Secondary outcomes 
include the five individual KOOS subscale scores, EQ-5D, pain on a 100 mm Visual 
Analogue Scale, self-efficacy, pain pressure thresholds, and isometric knee 
flexion and knee extension strength.
DISCUSSION: This is the first randomised controlled trial to investigate the 
efficacy of TKA as an adjunct treatment to optimised non-surgical treatment in 
patients with KOA. The results will significantly contribute to evidence-based 
recommendations for the treatment of patients with KOA.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov reference: NCT01410409.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-13-67
PMCID: PMC3461437
PMID: 22571284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Sep 1;30(9):857-8; author reply 858. doi: 
10.2165/11633340-000000000-00000.

Caregivers' quality of life and economic evaluations.

Gandjour A.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2011 Dec;29(12):1015-23.

DOI: 10.2165/11633340-000000000-00000
PMID: 22571472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Curr Gene Ther. 2012 Jun;12(3):206-44. doi: 10.2174/156652312800840595.

Pharmacologically targeting the primary defect and downstream pathology in 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Fairclough RJ(1), Perkins KJ, Davies KE.

Author information:
(1)MRC Functional Genomics Unit, Department of Physiology, Anatomy, and 
Genetics, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3PT, UK.

DMD is a devastatingly progressive muscle wasting disorder of childhood that 
significantly shortens life expectancy. Despite efforts to develop an effective 
therapy that dates back over a century, clinical interventions are still 
restricted to management of symptoms rather than a cure. The rationale to 
develop effective therapies changed in 1986 with the discovery of the dystrophin 
gene. Since then extensive research into both the molecular basis and 
pathophysiology of DMD has paved the way not only for development of strategies 
which aim to correct the primary defect, but also towards the identification of 
countless therapeutic targets with the potential to alleviate the downstream 
pathology. In addition to gene and cell-based therapies, which aim to deliver 
the missing gene and/or protein, an exciting spectrum of pharmacological 
approaches aimed at modulating therapeutic targets within DMD muscle cells 
through the use of small drugs are also being developed. This review presents 
promising pharmacological approaches aimed at targeting the primary defect, 
including suppression of nonsense mutations and functional compensation by 
upregulation of the dystrophin homologue, utrophin. Downstream of the primary 
membrane fragility, inflammation and fibrosis are reduced by blocking NF-κB, 
TGF-α and TGF-β, and free radical damage has been targeted using antioxidants 
and dietary/nutritional supplements. There are new hopes that ACE and PDE5 
inhibitors can protect against skeletal as well as cardiac pathology, and 
modulating Ca2+ influx, NO, BMP, protein degradation and the mitochondrial 
permeability pore hold further promise in tackling the complex pathogenesis of 
this multifaceted disorder.

DOI: 10.2174/156652312800840595
PMID: 22571500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Gynecol Endocrinol. 2012 Dec;28(12):937-40. doi:
10.3109/09513590.2012.683077.  Epub 2012 May 10.

Fertility preservation for women with malignant diseases: ethical aspects and 
risks.

Küçük M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Adnan Menderes 
University, Aydin, Turkey. dr.mertkucuk@gmail.com

As cancer treatment becomes more and more effective, there is greater life 
expectancy for cancer patients. Because of this, depending upon the modality 
used in the treatment of cancer, the matter of infertility emerges before us as 
an issue of increasing significance. Sperm cryopreservation and embryo 
cryopreservation are well-established methods of fertility preservation (FP). 
Besides these validated FP options, some FP techniques such as oocyte 
cryopreservation and ovarian tissue cryopreservation are as yet in the 
experimental stage. FP medicine has experienced some rapid developments in 
recent years. The advances in this branch of medicine, however, have also 
brought about new ethical, medical and legal issues. Some of these include 
problems with obtaining the informed consent of minors, issues that arise 
because of the experimental nature of some methods, financial problems and the 
accessibility of FP methods, and the question of what happens to gametes when a 
patient dies. This review seeks to discuss, in the light of current literature, 
some ethical and technical issues and risks related to the implementation of FP 
methods in women with cancer.

DOI: 10.3109/09513590.2012.683077
PMID: 22571650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Curr Pharm Des. 2012;18(22):3190-7. doi: 10.2174/1381612811209023190.

Utility of DNA methyltransferase inhibitors for the treatment of myelodysplastic 
syndromes.

Tohyama K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama 701-0192, 
Japan. ktohyama@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp

Unprecedented progress continues to be made in the treatment strategies for the 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). This review provides an introduction to DNA 
methyltransferase inhibitors. These agents include 5-azacytidine (azacitidine; 
AZA) and 5-aza-2'- deoxycytidine (decitabine; DAC). In particular, AZA was shown 
for the first time to significantly prolong the life expectancy of high-risk MDS 
patients in international multicenter clinical studies. The selection of 
responders and assessment of the long-term efficacy warrant further study.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612811209023190
PMID: 22571698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2012;33(6):532-9. doi: 10.1159/000337765. Epub 2012 May 9.

Societal value of stem cell therapy in stroke--a modeling study.

Svensson J(1), Ghatnekar O, Lindgren A, Lindvall O, Norrving B, Persson U, 
Kokaia Z.

Author information:
(1)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics (IHE), Lund, Sweden. js@ihe.se

BACKGROUND: Stroke is one of the major causes of disability in the adult 
population and represents a heavy social and economic burden. Currently 
available therapeutic tools to support the recovery of impaired brain functions 
are quite limited. Animal studies have demonstrated that neuronal replacement 
and partial reconstruction of neural circuitry or modulation of the recovery 
process is possible with cell transplantation in the damaged adult brain. Stem 
cell therapy (SCT) may promote functional recovery also in stroke patients, 
thereby improving quality of life and reducing costs. Our aim was to estimate 
the potential societal value of SCT in stroke patients.
METHODS: We created a decision-analytic model in Microsoft Excel 2010 to assess 
life-long costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of SCT versus standard 
care for stroke patients from a societal perspective. The model structure 
consisted of 7 health states in accordance with the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). 
We modeled for age (55, 65, and 75 years), functional status at discharge (mRS 
2, 3, and 4), effectiveness of SCT (50 and 25% increase in the probability to 
improve 1 mRS grade), mode of stem cell administration, risk of recurrent 
stroke, complications of intervention, and use of immunosuppressive drugs. The 
difference between an assumed societal willingness to pay for a QALY gain in 
Sweden (110,400 USD) and the cost per QALY gain resulting from the model was 
interpreted as the value of SCT.
RESULTS: Increased survival (1.06 life years) and improved functional status 
gave rise to an estimated gain of 1.34 QALY in a cohort of patients aged 55 with 
mRS 2 at hospital discharge. Although the SCT intervention increased costs by 
64,014 USD (excluding cost of stem cells), the costs of intervention were offset 
mainly by decreased productivity losses. In total, the intervention saved 19,055 
USD, i.e., at a price of 19,055 USD for stem cells, the SCT would be cost 
neutral. The societal value of SCT was 166,500 USD.
CONCLUSIONS: The application of the health-economic model to Sweden shows that 
in younger stroke patients with moderate disability, the societal value of SCT 
given a zero price of stem cells is 166,500 USD. Although the transplantation 
itself is more costly, SCT offers potential for cost offset and cost savings in 
a long-term perspective by reducing the disability after stroke. The therapy 
appeared cost effective under a wide range of assumptions. Hence, further 
research and development in stem cells suitable for stroke therapy could 
potentially produce great value to society.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000337765
PMID: 22571941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Rev Med Interne. 2012 Sep;33(9):514-8. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.03.355.
Epub  2012 May 8.

[A genetic systemic disease: clinical description of type 1 myotonic dystrophy 
in adults].

[Article in French]

Kaminsky P(1), Pruna L.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne orientée vers les maladies orphelines et 
systémiques, pôle des spécialités médicales, centre de référence des maladies 
neuromusculaires de Nancy, centre hospitalier universitaire de Nancy, hôpitaux 
de Brabois, rue du Morvan, 54511 Vandœuvre cedex, France.

Type 1 myotonic dystrophy is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder related to 
the expansion of a trinucleotide (CTG) repeat in the exon 15 in the 
3'-untranslated region of the myotonic dystrophy protein kinase (DMPK) gene. 
Mutant transcripts containing an expanded CUG repeat are retained in nuclear 
foci and cause numerous dysfunctions by interfering with biogenesis of other 
mRNAs. Prominent clinical features are progressive muscular weakness and 
myotonia, which affect skeletal muscles but also white muscles leading to 
digestive, urinary and obstetrical disorders. Functional prognosis correlates 
with motor handicap and vital prognosis is linked to cardiac rhythm disturbances 
and conduction defects due to progressive subendocardial fibrosis, and to 
complex respiratory dysfunctions, which associate restrictive lung disease, 
involvement of the central inspiratory pathway, and sleep apnea. Other clinical 
features are lens opacity, glucose intolerance, metabolic syndrome, several 
endocrine disorders (gonadal deficiency, hyperparathydoidism), or immunoglobulin 
deficiency due to immunoglobulin G hypercatabolism. Life expectancy is reduced 
in myotonic dystrophy, and death is mainly caused by respiratory complications, 
but also by cardiac arrhythmias. Moreover, an abnormal incidence of tumors has 
been reported. Therefore, myotonic dystrophy does not only concern neurologists 
but a multidisciplinary approach is necessary, including at least pneumologist, 
cardiologist, and physiotherapist. General internists should also be implicated, 
not only in the initial diagnosis step, but also in the diagnosis of 
complications and their treatments.

Copyright © 2012 Société nationale française de médecine interne (SNFMI). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.03.355
PMID: 22572587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jun;14(3):507-14. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0395-6.
Epub  2012 May 10.

Lenalidomide for multiple myeloma: cost-effectiveness in patients with one prior 
therapy in England and Wales.

Brown RE(1), Stern S, Dhanasiri S, Schey S.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. 
ruth.brown@unitedbiosource.com

PURPOSE: To determine the cost effectiveness of lenalidomide plus dexamethasone 
(LEN/DEX) versus DEX alone in managing multiple myeloma (MM) patients who have 
failed one prior therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An individual simulation model was designed to capture 
the costs and outcomes of LEN/DEX versus DEX therapy in relapsed refractory MM 
patients. MM009/010 efficacy data were adjusted for treatment cross-over and 
extrapolated to patient lifetime. Resource use for MM disease progression and 
adverse events were obtained from expert physicians and costed from the 
perspective of the National Health Service (England and UK) and included a 
patient access scheme for LEN. Utility values were obtained from published 
literature.
RESULTS: The simulation model estimated an incremental improvement in time to 
progression of 9.5 months, an additional 3.2 life-years, and 2.2 quality 
adjusted life years (QALY) for LEN/DEX compared to DEX alone. Including the 
costs of therapy with the patient access scheme, adverse events, and disease 
follow-up, the incremental cost effectiveness ratio was £30,153/QALY for LEN/DEX 
compared to DEX alone in MM patients who have failed one prior therapy.
CONCLUSION: LEN/DEX is a cost effective oncology therapy from the perspective of 
the NHS for MM patients with one prior treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0395-6
PMID: 22572968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2012 Sep;69(18):3079-99. doi: 10.1007/s00018-012-0987-4.
Epub  2012 May 10.

Endothelial membrane reorganization during leukocyte extravasation.

Reglero-Real N(1), Marcos-Ramiro B, Millán J.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, CSIC-Universidad Autónoma de 
Madrid, C/Nicolás Cabrera 1, Cantoblanco, 28049, Madrid, Spain.

Leukocyte trafficking from the bloodstream to inflamed tissues across the 
endothelial barrier is an essential response in innate immunity. Leukocyte 
adhesion, locomotion, and diapedesis induce signaling in endothelial cells and 
this is accompanied by a profound reorganization of the endothelial cell 
surfaces that is only starting to be unveiled. Here we review the current 
knowledge on the leukocyte-mediated alterations of endothelial membrane dynamics 
and their role in promoting leukocyte extravasation. The formation of protein- 
and lipid-mediated cell adhesion nanodomains at the endothelial apical surface, 
the extension of micrometric apical membrane docking structures, which are 
derived from microvilli and embrace adhered leukocytes, as well as the 
vesicle-trafficking pathways that are required for efficient leukocyte 
diapedesis, are discussed. The coordination between these different endothelial 
membrane-remodeling events probably provides the road map for transmigrating 
leukocytes to find exit points in the vessel wall, in a context of severe 
mechanical and inflammatory stress. A better understanding of how vascular 
endothelial cells respond to immune cell adhesion should enable new therapeutic 
strategies to be developed that can abrogate uncontrolled leukocyte 
extravasation in inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-012-0987-4
PMID: 22573182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Nephrol. 2012;25 Suppl 19:S6-10. doi: 10.5301/jn.5000165.

Ethical considerations in nephro-geriatrics.

Del Vecchio L(1), Locatelli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Dialysis and Renal Transplant, A Manzoni Hospital, 
Lecco, Italy.

Life expectancy and quality of life may be rather poor in elderly patients with 
chronic kidney disease stage V. This raises a number of issues surrounding the 
decision of whether or not to commence renal replacement therapy and about the 
right timing of this. Those starting dialysis appear to have a better outcome; 
however, important selection bias is very likely and the survival advantage 
offered by dialysis is markedly reduced in patients with severe comorbidities. 
Moreover, those commencing dialysis are more likely to be hospitalized than 
those managed conservatively. Cognitive impairment, dependence on daily 
activities, comorbidities, and life expectancy are relevant factors that need to 
be considered in order to decide whether or not to start dialysis. However, 
guidelines and severity scores are still of little help. Cultural, religious, 
legal, and educational aspects further complicate the scene.

DOI: 10.5301/jn.5000165
PMID: 22573527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. East Mediterr Health J. 2012 Mar;18(3):213-20. doi: 10.26719/2012.18.3.213.

Postmenopausal symptoms among Egyptian geripausal women.

Sweed HS(1), Elawam AE, Nabeel AM, Mortagy K.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics and Gerontology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams 
University, Cairo, Egypt. halasweed@yahoo.co.uk

Increases in life expectancies mean that women are spending longer periods of 
their life in a hypo-oestrogenic state. A cross-sectional study was designed to 
assess the prevalence of postmenopausal symptoms among elderly Egyptian women in 
the geripausal phase. A sample of 400 community-dwelling elderly women aged > 65 
years were recruited from 6 geriatric social clubs in Cairo. A full personal and 
medical history was taken from all participants. The menopause rating scale was 
applied to all participants after translation and linguistic validation in the 
Arabic language. The most prevalent postmenopausal symptoms were joint pain 
(90.3%), followed by sleep problems (84.0%) and physical and mental exhaustion 
(80.0%). A statistically significant positive correlation was found between 
total menopause rating scale score and age, duration of menopause and number of 
chronic diseases but not with age of menopause.

DOI: 10.26719/2012.18.3.213
PMID: 22574473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Afr J Reprod Health. 2011 Sep;15(3):15-23.

Contraception in the context of HIV/AIDS: a review.

Agboghoroma CO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, National Hospital, Abuja, Nigeria. 
agboschris@yahoo.com

Over 50% of the 33.3 million HIV-positive persons are women within the 
reproductive age group. With increasing availability and use of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART), the prognosis, life expectancy and quality of 
life of infected persons has improved. HIV-positive women, like their uninfected 
counterparts, may desire to plan pregnancies, limit their families, or avoid 
pregnancy. The effective use of contraception by HIV-positive clients can 
contribute significantly to reduction in both sexual and vertical transmission 
of the virus. HIV-positive clients can use most of the available contraception 
methods including barrier, hormonal, intrauterine devices and sterilization. 
However, some antiretroviral drugs interact with hormonal contraceptives with 
potentials for reduction in efficacy. Dual protection with concomitant use of a 
more effective contraceptive method and male or female condom to prevent HIV and 
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) is the standard. It is necessary to make 
provision for contraceptive service as part of comprehensive care for the 
HIV-positive client.

PMID: 22574489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Zhen Ci Yan Jiu. 2012 Feb;37(1):59-63, 76.

[Effect of stiletto needle intervention combined with massage on dysfunction and 
pain of knee-joints in patients with knee osteoarthrosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Deng N(1), Ran QF, Jin T, Zhou XB, Ren MQ, Wang JT, Wang XY, Shen YH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Acu-moxibustion, Beijing Massage Hospital, Beijing 100035, 
China. dengning_1@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To observe the effectiveness of stiletto needle stimulation combined 
with massage in the treatment of dysfunction and pain of knee joints in knee 
osteoarthrosis (KOA) patients.
METHODS: One hundred KOA outpatients and inpatients were randomly and equally 
divided into treatment and control groups. Patients of the treatment group were 
treated by using stiletto needle stimulation of 5-10 tender-points (at the 
medial collateral ligament, internal condyle of femur, medial condyle of femur, 
etc.) in combination with massage on the bilateral sides of the patella 
