10.1093/bioinformatics/bts199.  Epub 2012 Apr 27.

Geneious Basic: an integrated and extendable desktop software platform for the 
organization and analysis of sequence data.

Kearse M(1), Moir R, Wilson A, Stones-Havas S, Cheung M, Sturrock S, Buxton S, 
Cooper A, Markowitz S, Duran C, Thierer T, Ashton B, Meintjes P, Drummond A.

Author information:
(1)Biomatters Ltd., 2/76 Anzac Avenue, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand.

The two main functions of bioinformatics are the organization and analysis of 
biological data using computational resources. Geneious Basic has been designed 
to be an easy-to-use and flexible desktop software application framework for the 
organization and analysis of biological data, with a focus on molecular 
sequences and related data types. It integrates numerous industry-standard 
discovery analysis tools, with interactive visualizations to generate 
publication-ready images. One key contribution to researchers in the life 
sciences is the Geneious public application programming interface (API) that 
affords the ability to leverage the existing framework of the Geneious Basic 
software platform for virtually unlimited extension and customization. The 
result is an increase in the speed and quality of development of computation 
tools for the life sciences, due to the functionality and graphical user 
interface available to the developer through the public API. Geneious Basic 
represents an ideal platform for the bioinformatics community to leverage 
existing components and to integrate their own specific requirements for the 
discovery, analysis and visualization of biological data.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: Binaries and public API freely available for 
download at http://www.geneious.com/basic, implemented in Java and supported on 
Linux, Apple OSX and MS Windows. The software is also available from the 
Bio-Linux package repository at http://nebc.nerc.ac.uk/news/geneiousonbl.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts199
PMCID: PMC3371832
PMID: 22543367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Int J Public Health. 2013 Feb;58(1):99-108. doi: 10.1007/s00038-012-0359-8.
Epub  2012 Apr 29.

Trends in mortality by labour market position around retirement ages in three 
European countries with different welfare regimes.

Harding S(1), Lenguerrand E, Costa G, d'Errico A, Martikainen P, Tarkiainen L, 
Blane D, Akinwale B, Bartley M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Social and Population Science Unit, University of 
Glasgow, 4 Lilybank Gardens, Glasgow G128RZ, UK. s.harding@sphsu.mrc.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: In the face of economic downturn and increasing life expectancy, 
many industrial nations are adopting a policy of postponing the retirement age. 
However, questions still remain around the consequence of working longer into 
old age. We examine mortality by work status around retirement ages in countries 
with different welfare regimes; Finland (social democratic), Turin (Italy; 
conservative), and England and Wales (liberal).
METHODS: Death rates and rate ratios (RRs) (reference rates = 'in-work'), 1970 
s-2000 s, were estimated for those aged 45-64 years using the England and Wales 
longitudinal study, Turin longitudinal study, and the Finnish linked register 
study.
RESULTS: Mortality of the not-in-work was consistently higher than the in-work. 
Death rates for the not-in-work were lowest in Turin and highest in Finland. 
Rate ratios were smallest in Turin (RR men 1972-76 1.73; 2002-06 1.63; women 
1.22; 1.68) and largest in Finland (RR men 1991-95 3.03; 2001-05 3.80; women 
3.62; 4.11). Unlike RRs for men, RRs for women increased in every country 
(greatest in Finland).
CONCLUSIONS: These findings signal that overall, employment in later life is 
associated with lower mortality, regardless of welfare regime.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-012-0359-8
PMCID: PMC3557394
PMID: 22543726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Health Promot Pract. 2012 May;13(3):289-92. doi: 10.1177/1524839912443244.

Health Promotion Practice expands focus on global health promotion.

Jack L Jr, Grim M, Auld ME.

DOI: 10.1177/1524839912443244
PMID: 22543985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Health Econ. 2013 Jun;22(6):631-42. doi: 10.1002/hec.2828. Epub 2012 Apr 30.

Applying risk adjusted cost-effectiveness (RAC-E) analysis to hospitals: 
estimating the costs and consequences of variation in clinical practice.

Karnon J(1), Caffrey O, Pham C, Grieve R, Ben-Tovim D, Hakendorf P, Crotty M.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health and Clinical Practice, University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, Australia. jonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au

Cost-effectiveness analysis is well established for pharmaceuticals and medical 
technologies but not for evaluating variations in clinical practice. This paper 
describes a novel methodology--risk adjusted cost-effectiveness (RAC-E)--that 
facilitates the comparative evaluation of applied clinical practice processes. 
In this application, risk adjustment is undertaken with a multivariate matching 
algorithm that balances the baseline characteristics of patients attending 
different settings (e.g., hospitals). Linked, routinely collected data are used 
to analyse patient-level costs and outcomes over a 2-year period, as well as to 
extrapolate costs and survival over patient lifetimes. The study reports the 
relative cost-effectiveness of alternative forms of clinical practice, including 
a full representation of the statistical uncertainty around the mean estimates. 
The methodology is illustrated by a case study that evaluates the relative 
cost-effectiveness of services for patients presenting with acute chest pain 
across the four main public hospitals in South Australia. The evaluation finds 
that services provided at two hospitals were dominated, and of the remaining 
services, the more effective hospital gained life years at a low mean additional 
cost and had an 80% probability of being the most cost-effective hospital at 
realistic cost-effectiveness thresholds. Potential determinants of the estimated 
variation in costs and effects were identified, although more detailed analyses 
to identify specific areas of variation in clinical practice are required to 
inform improvements at the less cost-effective institutions.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2828
PMID: 22544373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Am J Med Genet A. 2012 Jun;158A(6):1355-62. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35340. Epub
2012  Apr 27.

Women's knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about Down syndrome: a qualitative 
research study.

Levis DM(1), Harris S, Whitehead N, Moultrie R, Duwe K, Rasmussen SA.

Author information:
(1)National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30329, USA. igc1@cdc.gov

Women who are or may become pregnant need up-to-date information about Down 
syndrome (DS). Asking women about their knowledge, opinions, resources, and 
information needs on the topic of DS is an important precursor to develop 
effective strategies for education. We conducted 24 focus groups (N = 111) in 
two US cities with women who were recently pregnant (who had a child ≤ 3 years 
old without DS) and women who planned to have a child in the next year. Groups 
were further segmented by age and race-ethnicity. Questions explored women's 
knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about DS; resources used to obtain information 
about health and DS; and information needs on the topic of DS. All participants 
reported having some knowledge of DS: facial features, chromosomal condition, 
and maternal age as a risk factor. Many participants had misconceptions, 
including the life expectancy for persons with DS, other maternal and paternal 
risk factors, and the idea that having a child with DS would disrupt their 
lives. Participants requested stories to help illustrate what life is like for 
families with DS. Many Hispanic and African American participants said they only 
saw or knew of Caucasian persons with DS and requested culturally diverse 
educational materials about DS. Participants said they would seek information on 
DS from the Internet and from their health care providers. Results suggest that 
women need tailored materials that contain clinical information about DS as well 
as information about living with a child with DS. Published 2012. This article 
is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.

Published 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. This article is a U.S. Government work 
and is in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35340
PMCID: PMC4706760
PMID: 22544646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. PLoS One. 2012;7(4):e33672. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033672. Epub 2012 Apr
24.

Cost effectiveness analysis of clinically driven versus routine laboratory 
monitoring of antiretroviral therapy in Uganda and Zimbabwe.

Medina Lara A(1), Kigozi J, Amurwon J, Muchabaiwa L, Nyanzi Wakaholi B, Mujica 
Mota RE, Walker AS, Kasirye R, Ssali F, Reid A, Grosskurth H, Babiker AG, Kityo 
C, Katabira E, Munderi P, Mugyenyi P, Hakim J, Darbyshire J, Gibb DM, Gilks CF; 
DART Trial Team.

Collaborators: Grosskurth H, Munderi P, Kabuye G, Nsibambi D, Kasirye R, 
Zalwango E, Nakazibwe M, Kikaire B, Nassuna G, Massa R, Fadhiru K, Namyalo M, 
Zalwango A, Generous L, Khauka P, Rutikarayo N, Nakahima W, Mugisha A, Todd J, 
Levin J, Muyingo S, Ruberantwari A, Kaleebu P, Yirrell D, Ndembi N, Lyagoba F, 
Hughes P, Aber M, Medina Lara A, Foster S, Amurwon J, Nyanzi Wakholi B, Wangati 
K, Amuron B, Kajungu D, Nakiyingi J, Omony W, Fadhiru K, Nsibambi D, Khauka P, 
Mugyenyi P, Kityo C, Ssali F, Tumukunde D, Otim T, Kabanda J, Musana H, Akao J, 
Kyomugisha H, Byamukama A, Sabiiti J, Komugyena J, Wavamunno P, Mukiibi S, 
Drasiku A, Byaruhanga R, Labeja O, Katundu P, Tugume S, Awio P, Namazzi A, 
Bakeinyaga GT, Katabira H, Abaine D, Tukamushaba J, Anywar W, Ojiambo W, Angweng 
E, Murungi S, Haguma W, Atwiine S, Kigozi J, Namale L, Mukose A, Mulindwa G, 
Atwiine D, Muhwezi A, Nimwesiga E, Barungi G, Takubwa J, Murungi S, Mwebesa D, 
Kagina G, Mulindwa M, Ahimbisibwe F, Mwesigwa P, Akuma S, Zawedde C, 
Nyiraguhirwa D, Tumusiime C, Bagaya L, Namara W, Kigozi J, Karungi J, Kankunda 
R, Enzama R, Latif A, Hakim J, Robertson V, Reid A, Chidziva E, Bulaya-Tembo R, 
Musoro G, Taziwa F, Chimbetete C, Chakonza L, Mawora A, Muvirimi C, Tinago G, 
Svovanapasis P, Simango M, Chirema O, Machingura J, Mutsai S, Phiri M, Bafana T, 
Chirara M, Muchabaiwa L, Muzambi M, Chigwedere E, Pascoe M, Warambwa C, Zengeza 
E, Mapinge F, Makota S, Jamu A, Ngorima N, Chirairo H, Chitsungo S, Chimanzi J, 
Maweni C, Warara R, Matongo M, Mudzingwa S, Jangano M, Moyo K, Vere L, 
Machingura I, Katabira E, Ronald A, Kambungu A, Lutwama F, Mambule I, Nanfuka A, 
Walusimbi J, Nabankema E, Nalumenya R, Namuli T, Kulume R, Namata I, Nyachwo L, 
Florence A, Kusiima A, Lubwama E, Nairuba R, Oketta F, Buluma E, Waita R, 
Ojiambo H, Sadik F, Wanyama J, Nabongo P, Oyugi J, Sematala F, Muganzi A, 
Twijukye C, Byakwaga H, Ochai R, Muhweezi D, Coutinho A, Etukoit B, Gilks C, 
Boocock K, Puddephatt C, Grundy C, Bohannon J, Winogron D, Darbyshire J, Gibb 
DM, Burke A, Bray D, Babiker A, Walker AS, Wilkes H, Rauchenberger M, Sheehan S, 
Spencer-Drake C, Taylor K, Spyer M, Ferrier A, Naidoo B, Dunn D, Goodall R, 
Nanfuka R, Mufuka-Kapuya C, Kaleebu P, Pillay D, Robertson V, Yirrell D, Tugume 
S, Chirara M, Katundu P, Ndembi N, Lyagoba F, Dunn D, Goodall R, McCormick A, 
Medina Lara A, Foster S, Amurwon J, Nyanzi Wakholi B, Kigozi J, Muchabaiwa L, 
Muzambi M, Weller I, Babiker A, Bahendeka S, Bassett M, Chogo Wapakhabulo A, 
Darbyshire J, Gazzard B, Gilks C, Grosskurth H, Hakim J, Latif A, Mapuchere C, 
Mugurungi O, Mugyenyi P, Burke C, Distel M, Jones S, Loeliger E, Naidoo P, 
Newland C, Pearce G, Rahim S, Rooney J, Smith M, Snowden W, Steens JM, 
Breckenridge A, McLaren A, Hill C, Matenga J, Pozniak A, Serwadda D, Peto T, 
Palfreeman A, Borok M, Katabira E.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, Exeter 
University, Exeter, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Despite funding constraints for treatment programmes in Africa, the 
costs and economic consequences of routine laboratory monitoring for efficacy 
and toxicity of antiretroviral therapy (ART) have rarely been evaluated.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted in the DART trial 
(ISRCTN13968779). Adults in Uganda/Zimbabwe starting ART were randomised to 
clinically-driven monitoring (CDM) or laboratory and clinical monitoring (LCM); 
individual patient data on healthcare resource utilisation and outcomes were 
valued with primary economic costs and utilities. Total costs of 
first/second-line ART, routine 12-weekly CD4 and biochemistry/haematology tests, 
additional diagnostic investigations, clinic visits, concomitant medications and 
hospitalisations were considered from the public healthcare sector perspective. 
A Markov model was used to extrapolate costs and benefits 20 years beyond the 
trial.
RESULTS: 3316 (1660LCM;1656CDM) symptomatic, immunosuppressed ART-naive adults 
(median (IQR) age 37 (32,42); CD4 86 (31,139) cells/mm(3)) were followed for 
median 4.9 years. LCM had a mean 0.112 year (41 days) survival benefit at an 
additional mean cost of $765 [95%CI:685,845], translating into an adjusted 
incremental cost of $7386 [3277,dominated] per life-year gained and $7793 
[4442,39179] per quality-adjusted life year gained. Routine toxicity tests were 
prominent cost-drivers and had no benefit. With 12-weekly CD4 monitoring from 
year 2 on ART, low-cost second-line ART, but without toxicity monitoring, CD4 
test costs need to fall below $3.78 to become cost-effective (<3xper-capita GDP, 
following WHO benchmarks). CD4 monitoring at current costs as undertaken in DART 
was not cost-effective in the long-term.
CONCLUSIONS: There is no rationale for routine toxicity monitoring, which did 
not affect outcomes and was costly. Even though beneficial, there is little 
justification for routine 12-weekly CD4 monitoring of ART at current test costs 
in low-income African countries. CD4 monitoring, restricted to the second year 
on ART onwards, could be cost-effective with lower cost second-line therapy and 
development of a cheaper, ideally point-of-care, CD4 test.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033672
PMCID: PMC3335836
PMID: 22545079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: GlaxoSmithKline, Gilead 
Sciences, Boehringer-Ingelheim and Abbott Laboratories donated drugs for DART. 
There are no patents, products in development or marketed products to declare. 
This does not alter the authors’ adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies on 
sharing data and materials, as detailed online in the guide for authors.


165. Environ Entomol. 2010 Oct;39(5):1513-22. doi: 10.1603/EN10023.

Measuring the impact of biotic factors on populations of immature emerald ash 
borers (Coleoptera: Buprestidae).

Duan JJ(1), Ulyshen MD, Bauer LS, Gould J, Van Driesche R.

Author information:
(1)USDA-ARS, Beneficial Insects Introduction Research Unit, Newark, DE 19713, 
USA. jian.duan@ars.usda.gov

Cohorts of emerald ash borer larvae, Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire, were 
experimentally established in July of 2008 on healthy green ash (Fraxinus 
pennsylvanica) trees in two wooded plots at each of three sites near Lansing, 
MI, by caging gravid emerald ash borer females or placing laboratory-reared eggs 
on trunks (0.5-2 m above the ground) of selected trees. One plot at each site 
was randomly chosen for release of two introduced larval parasitoids, 
Tetrastichus planipennisi Yang (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae) and Spathius agrili 
Yang (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), whereas the other served as the control. 
Stage-specific mortality factors and rates were measured for all experimentally 
established cohorts and for associated wild (i.e., naturally occurring) emerald 
ash borer immature stages via destructive sampling of 2.5 m (above the ground) 
trunk sections of cohort-bearing trees in the spring and fall of 2009. Host tree 
defense was the most important mortality factor, causing 32.0 to 41.1% mortality 
in the experimental cohorts and 17.5 to 21.5% in wild emerald ash borer stages 
by spring 2009, and 16.1 to 29% for the remaining experimental cohorts, and 9.9 
to 11.8% for wild immature emerald ash borer stages by fall 2009. Woodpecker 
predation was the second most important factor, inflicting no mortality in the 
experimental cohorts but causing 5.0 to 5.6% mortality to associated wild 
emerald ash borer stages by spring 2009 and 9.2 to 12.8% and 3.2 to 17.7%, 
respectively, for experimental cohorts and wild emerald ash borer stages by fall 
2009. Mortality from disease in both the experimental and wild cohorts was low 
(<3%) in both the spring and fall sample periods. In the fall 2009 samples, ≈ 
1.5% of experimental cohorts and 0.8% of the wild emerald ash borer stages were 
parasitized by T. planipennisi. While there were no significant differences in 
mortality rates because of parasitism between parasitoid-release and control 
plots, T. planipennisi was detected in each of the three release sites by the 
end of the study but was not detected in the experimental cohorts or associated 
wild larvae in any of the three control plots.

DOI: 10.1603/EN10023
PMID: 22546447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Environ Entomol. 2010 Oct;39(5):1545-53. doi: 10.1603/EN10098.

Host plant effects on development and reproduction of the glassy-winged 
sharpshooter, Homalodisca vitripennis (Homoptera: Cicadellidae).

Chen W(1), Leopold RA, Boetel MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 58105, 
USA.

Development, survivorship, longevity, reproduction, and life table parameters of 
the glassy-winged sharpshooter, Homalodisca vitripennis (Germar), were examined 
in the laboratory using three host plants, sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.), 
Chrysanthemum morifolium L., and euonymus (Euonymus japonica Thurb.). Females 
deposited similar-sized egg masses on all three plants. Hatching was highest 
with eggs deposited on euonymus and lowest for those deposited on sunflower. 
Embryonic development time among host plants was similar while nymph development 
time was shortest on sunflower and longest on euonymus. Nymph survival to 
adulthood ranged from 32% on euonymus to 82% for those reared on sunflower. 
Adult females had similar life spans on sunflower and chrysanthemum. H. 
vitripennis completed a lengthy egg-to-adult development on euonymus, however, 
mating did not occur. The onset of mating was contingent on maturation of adult 
females. The majority of mating activity occurred within the first three days 
after onset. Premating periods ranged from 6 to 7 d on sunflower to 27 d on 
chrysanthemum, with overall mating rates of 77.4 and 19.8%, respectively. 
Females typically mated more than once and they had the longest oviposition 
period and highest egg production on sunflower; ≈ 50 and 67% of total number of 
eggs were deposited within first 45 d after the start of oviposition on 
sunflower and chrysanthemum, respectively. Adult size and weight related to 
which host plant was consumed throughout development. Greater intrinsic and 
finite rates of increase and net reproduction rate, and shorter population 
doubling time occurred when the sharpshooters were allowed to develop on 
sunflower. The overall developmental and reproductive parameters obtained in 
this study indicate that a mixed host plant system, composed of sunflower and 
euonymus or chrysanthemum plants, is an efficient means for optimizing egg 
production and colony maintenance of the glassy-winged sharpshooter.

DOI: 10.1603/EN10098
PMID: 22546451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Environ Entomol. 2010 Oct;39(5):1561-9. doi: 10.1603/EN10091.

Soybean cyst nematode effects on soybean aphid preference and performance in the 
laboratory.

Hong SC(1), Donaldson J, Gratton C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Wisconsin/Madison, 237 Russell Labs, 
1630 Linden Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

Herbivores on plants frequently interact via shared resources. Studies that have 
examined performance of herbivores in the presence of other herbivores, however, 
have often focused on above-ground feeding guilds and relatively less research 
has examined interactions between below- and above-ground consumers. We examine 
how soybean aphid, Aphis glycines (Matsumura) an above-ground phloem-feeding 
herbivore, interacts with a below-ground plant parasite, soybean cyst nematode, 
Heterodera glycines (Ichinohe) through their shared host plant, soybean (Glycine 
max L). Laboratory experiments evaluated the preference of alate 
(flight-capable) soybean aphids toward plants either infected with soybean cyst 
nematode or uninfected controls in a simple choice arena. Alate soybean aphids 
preferred uninfected soybean over soybean cyst nematode-infected plants: 48 h 
after the releases of alate aphids in the center of the arena, 67% more aphids 
were found on control soybean compared with nematode infected plants. No-choice 
feeding assays were also conducted using clip cages and apterous 
(flight-incapable) aphids to investigate effect of soybean cyst nematode 
infection of soybean on aphid performance. These studies had mixed results: in 
one set of experiments overall aphid population growth at 7 d was not 
statistically different between control and soybean cyst nematode-infected 
plants. A different experiment using a life-table analysis found that apterous 
aphids feeding on soybean cyst nematode-infected plants had significantly 
greater finite rate of increase (λ), intrinsic rate of increase (r(m)), and net 
reproductive rate (R(o)) compared with aphids reared on uninfected (control) 
soybean plants. We conclude that the below-ground herbivore, soybean cyst 
nematode, primarily influences soybean aphid behavior rather than performance.

DOI: 10.1603/EN10091
PMID: 22546453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Environ Entomol. 2010 Oct;39(5):1631-42. doi: 10.1603/EN09351.

Developmental times and life table statistics of Aulacorthum solani (Hemiptera: 
Aphididae) at six constant temperatures, with recommendations on the application 
of temperature-dependent development models.

Jandricic SE(1), Wraight SP, Bennett KC, Sanderson JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Comstock Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 
14850, USA. sej48@cornell.edu

Erratum in
    Environ Entomol. 2011 Jun;40(3):v-vi.

Aulacorthum solani (Kaltenbach) (known as foxglove aphid or glasshouse potato 
aphid) is a pest of increasing economic importance in several agricultural crops 
worldwide, including greenhouse vegetables and ornamentals. Developmental rates 
and age-specific life tables for a North American population of A. solani on 
pansy (Viola × wittrockiana) (Gams.) were determined at six constant 
temperatures, and comparisons were made to previous studies of A. solani from 
differing geographic regions and host crops. On pansy, A. solani developed 
fastest at 25°C, passing through the four nymphal instars in an average of 6.9 
d. The highest intrinsic rates of population increase (0.410 and 0.445) and 
shortest population doubling times (1.69 and 1.56 d) were recorded at 20 and 
25°C, respectively. Average total fecundity remained high from 10 to 20°C (74-68 
nymphs/adult); a significant decrease to 39 nymphs/adult occurred at 25°C. For 
calculating developmental thresholds, we present here a method of adjusting the 
lower developmental threshold (t(min)) using estimates from nonlinear models to 
provide an improved estimate of the thermal constant (K, in degree-days). We 
also call attention to the necessity of using a simulation method to estimate 
the true upper developmental threshold (t(max)) and optimum developmental 
temperature (t(opt)) from the Lactin-2 model of temperature-dependent 
development.

DOI: 10.1603/EN09351
PMID: 22546462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Environ Entomol. 2010 Oct;39(5):1676-84. doi: 10.1603/EN10015.

Temperature-dependent development and life table parameters of Octodonta nipae 
(Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae).

Hou Y(1), Weng Z.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Subtropical Agro-Biological Disasters and Management, 
Ministry of Agriculture, People's Republic of China, Fuzhou, Fujian, 350002 PR 
China. ymhou@fjau.edu.cn

The effect of temperature on the development, survivorship, fecundity, and life 
table parameters of Octodonta nipae (Maulik) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), was 
studied at seven constant temperatures of 17.5, 20, 22.5, 25, 27.5, 30, and 
32.5°C. Preliminary experiments showed that no development was observed at 15 
and 35°C. All individuals completed development and females laid eggs from 20 to 
30°C. There was a significant decrease in male and female longevity with 
increasing temperatures from 20 to 30°C. The longest and shortest longevity were 
203.5 and 73.7 d for males, and 178.7 and 57.6 d for females, respectively. 
Females produced on average 62.7, 88.9, 116.8, 70.0, and 47.3 eggs and the life 
expectancy for a newborn egg was 171.6, 148.7, 114.9, 89.2, and 94.8 d at 20, 
22.5, 25, 27.5 and 30°C, respectively. Life history data were analyzed by using 
an age-stage, two-sex life table. The intrinsic rate of increase (r) and the 
finite rate of increase (λ) of O. nipae increased with increasing temperatures 
from 20 to 30°C, while the mean generation time (T) decreased within this 
temperature range. The r was 0.0155, 0.0249, 0.0339, 0.0361, and 0.0383 d(-1) at 
20, 22.5, 25, 27.5, and 30°C, respectively. The net reproductive rate (r(0)) was 
highest at 25°C (35.0 offspring), and lowest at 20°C (17.0 offspring). T was 
shortest at 30°C (76.4 d). The results showed that temperature greatly affected 
the fecundity and life table parameters of O. nipae, and a suitable temperature 
for population development and fecundity was at 25°C. The life table data can be 
used for the projection of population growth and evaluation of control programs.

DOI: 10.1603/EN10015
PMID: 22546467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2012 Aug;163(2):129-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejogrb.2012.04.003. Epub 2012 Apr 28.

Sexuality, pre-conception counseling and urological management of pregnancy for 
young women with spina bifida.

Visconti D(1), Noia G, Triarico S, Quattrocchi T, Pellegrino M, Carducci B, De 
Santis M, Caruso A.

Author information:
(1)Telefono Rosso, Teratology Information Service, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynaecology, Sacro Cuore Catholic University, Rome, Italy. dadavis@libero.it

A great number of newborns with spina bifida now survive with a growing life 
expectancy. Support with regard to sexual issues is essential in the management 
of adolescents with spina bifida, who require specific knowledge of sexual 
problems related to their disability. Women with spina bifida are usually 
fertile and need pre-conception counseling. Furthermore, compared to healthy 
women they have a higher chance of conceiving a child with spina bifida, so they 
are treated with periconceptional folic acid supplements. In addition 
pregnancies in women with spina bifida require adequate management of secondary 
conditions, mainly urological issues, which are exacerbated during pregnancy. 
This article gives an overview of sexual education, sex functioning and sexual 
activity among adolescents with spina bifida. Moreover, we aim to support young 
women with spina bifida, providing pre-conception counseling and practical 
guidelines essential for the urological management of their pregnancy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2012.04.003
PMID: 22546496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. BMC Med. 2012 Apr 30;10:42. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-10-42.

New race and ethnicity standards: elucidating health disparities in diabetes.

Katzmarzyk PT(1), Staiano AE.

Author information:
(1)Population Science, Pennington Biomedical Research Center, 6400 Perkins Road, 
Baton Rouge, LA 70808, USA. peter.katzmarzyk@pbrc.edu

The concepts of race and ethnicity are useful for understanding the distribution 
of disease in the population and for identifying at-risk groups for prevention 
and treatment efforts. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recently 
updated the race and ethnicity classifications in order to more effectively 
monitor health disparities. Differences in chronic disease mortality rates are 
contributing to race and ethnic health disparities in life expectancy in the 
United States. The prevalence of diabetes is higher in African Americans and 
Hispanics compared to white Americans, and parallel trends are seen in diabetes 
risk factors, including physical inactivity, dietary patterns, and obesity. 
Further research is required to determine the extent to which the observed 
differences in diabetes prevalence are attributable to differences in lifestyle 
versus other characteristics across race and ethnic groups.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-10-42
PMCID: PMC3378451
PMID: 22546706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Med Decis Making. 2012 May-Jun;32(3):E11-21. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12443010.
Epub  2012 Apr 30.

Expected net present value of sample information: from burden to investment.

Hall PS(1)(2)(3), Edlin R(1), Kharroubi S(4), Gregory W(2), McCabe C(1).

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, Leeds, UK (PSH, RE, CM)
(2)Clinical Trials Research Unit, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK (PSH, WG)
(3)St James Institute of Oncology, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust (PSH)
(4)Department of Mathematics, University of York, York, UK (SK)

The Expected Value of Information Framework has been proposed as a method for 
identifying when health care technologies should be immediately reimbursed and 
when any reimbursement should be withheld while awaiting more evidence. This 
framework assesses the value of obtaining additional evidence to inform a 
current reimbursement decision. This represents the burden of not having the 
additional evidence at the time of the decision. However, when deciding whether 
to reimburse now or await more evidence, decision makers need to know the value 
of investing in more research to inform a future decision. Assessing this value 
requires consideration of research costs, research time, and what happens to 
patients while the research is undertaken and after completion. The 
investigators describe a development of the calculation of the expected value of 
sample information that assesses the value of investing in further research, 
including an only-in-research strategy and an only-with-research strategy.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12443010
PMID: 22546749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. World J Surg. 2012 Sep;36(9):2161-70. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1621-1.

Right hepatectomy in patients over 70 years of age: an analysis of liver 
function and outcome.

Melloul E(1), Halkic N, Raptis DA, Tempia A, Demartines N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Visceral Surgery, University Hospital Lausanne (CHUV), Bugnon 
46, 1012 Lausanne, Switzerland. emmanuel.melloul@chuv.ch

BACKGROUND: As a consequence of the increase in life expectancy, hepatobiliary 
surgeons have to deal with an emerging aged population. We aimed to analyze the 
liver function and outcome after right hepatectomy (RH) in patients over 70 
years of age.
METHODS: From January 2006 to December 2009, we prospectively collected data of 
207 consecutive elective hepatectomies. In patients who had RH, cardiac risk was 
assessed by a dedicated preoperative workup. Liver failure (LF) was defined by 
the "fifty-fifty" criteria at postoperative day 5 (POD) and morbidity by the 
Clavien-Dindo classification. Liver function tests (LFTs) and short-term outcome 
were retrospectively analyzed in patients over (elderly group, EG) and younger 
(young group, YG) than 70 years of age.
RESULTS: Eighty-seven consecutive RH were performed during the study period. 
Indication for surgery included 90 % malignancy in 47 % of patients requiring 
preoperative chemotherapy. ASA grade > 2 (44 vs. 16 %, p = 0.027), ischemic 
heart disease (17 vs. 5 %, p = 0.076), and preoperative cardiac failure (26 vs. 
2 %, p < 0.001) were more frequent in the EG (n = 23) than in the YG (n = 64). 
Both groups were similar regarding rates of normal liver parenchyma, 
chemotherapy and intraoperative parameters. The overall morbidity rates were 
comparable, but the serious complication (grades III-V) rate was relatively 
higher in the EG (39 vs. 25 %, p = 0.199), particularly in patients with 
diabetes mellitus (100 vs. 29 %, p = 0.04) and those who had additional 
nonhepatic surgery (67 vs. 35 %, p = 0.110) and transfusions (44 vs. 30 %, p = 
0.523). The 90-day mortality rate was similar (9 % in the EG vs. 3 % in the YG, 
p = 0.28) and was related to heart failure in the EG. LFTs showed a similar 
trend from POD 1 to 8, and patients ≥70 years of age had no liver failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Age ≥70 years alone is not a contraindication to RH. However, major 
morbidity is particularly higher in the elderly with diabetes. This high-risk 
group should be closely monitored in the postoperative course. Liver function is 
not altered in the elderly patient after RH.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1621-1
PMID: 22547017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Spinal Cord. 2012 Oct;50(10):784-8. doi: 10.1038/sc.2012.49. Epub 2012 May
1.

Gainful employment and risk of mortality after spinal cord injury: effects 
beyond that of demographic, injury and socioeconomic factors.

Krause JS(1), Saunders LL, Acuna J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and Research, College of Health Professions, 
Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC 29425, USA. krause@musc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association of three levels of gainful employment 
with the risk of mortality after traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) while 
controlling for known predictors of mortality status (including education and 
income).
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: A total of 20 federally funded SCI Model Systems of care in the United 
States.
METHODS: Participants included 7955 adults with traumatic SCI. Preliminary 
assessments were conducted between 1995 and 2006. Mortality status was 
determined by the Social Security Death Index (1308 deaths). A two-stage 
logistic regression model was used to estimate the chance of dying in any given 
year. Life expectancy was calculated under different economic assumptions.
RESULTS: Compared with those who were working 30+ h per week, the odds of 
mortality was 1.37 for those who worked 1-29 h and 1.67 for those who were 
unemployed. The addition of gainful employment only modestly reduced the effects 
of household income and education, both of which remained significant. For 
instance, the odds of mortality for household income (referent $75 000+) 
decreased from 1.50 to 1.38 for $25 000-$75 000 and from 2.10 to 1.82 for < 
$25 000. Life expectancy varied widely depending on socioeconomic 
characteristics more than doubling under certain assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Substantial variation in mortality is attributable to employment, 
above and beyond the effects of previously established demographic, injury and 
socioeconomic predictors. Although some excess mortality may be the inevitable 
consequence of SCI, risk is substantially increased with poor socioeconomic 
characteristics.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2012.49
PMID: 22547046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Qual Life Res. 2013 Apr;22(3):677-81. doi: 10.1007/s11136-012-0183-x. Epub
2012  May 1.

Health-related quality of life and utility scores in short-term survivors of 
pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

van Litsenburg RR(1), Huisman J, Raat H, Kaspers GJ, Gemke RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, VU University Medical Center Amsterdam, P.O. Box 
7057, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. litsenburg@vumc.nl

PURPOSE: Increase of survival in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
has made outcomes such as health-related quality of life (HRQL) and economic 
burden more important. To make informed decisions on the use of healthcare 
resources, costs as well as utilities need to be taken into account. Among the 
preference-based HRQL instruments, the Health Utilities Index (HUI) is the most 
employed in pediatric cancer. Information on utility scores during ALL treatment 
and in long-term survivors is available, but utility scores in short-term 
survivors are lacking. This study assesses utility scores, health state, and 
HRQL in short-term (6 months to 4 years) ALL survivors.
METHODS: Cross-sectional single-center cohort study of short-term ALL survivors 
using HUI3 proxy assessments.
RESULTS: Thirty-three survivors (median 1.5 years off treatment) reported 14 
unique health states. The majority of survivors (61 %) enjoyed a perfect health, 
but 21 % had three affected attributes. Overall, HRQL was nonsignificantly lower 
compared to the norm, although the difference was large and may be clinically 
relevant. Cognition was significantly impaired (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: Although 61 % of short-term survivors of ALL report no impairment, 
the health status of the other patients lead to a clinically important impaired 
HRQL compared to norms. Prospective studies assessing utility scores associated 
with pediatric ALL should be performed, enabling valid and reliable cost-utility 
analyses for policy makers to make informed decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-012-0183-x
PMCID: PMC3607731
PMID: 22547048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Ann Hematol. 2012 Sep;91(9):1333-43. doi: 10.1007/s00277-012-1472-8. Epub
2012  May 1.

The challenge of individualised risk assessment and therapy planning in elderly 
high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) patients.

Stauder R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine V (Haematology and Oncology), Innsbruck 
Medical University, Anichstraße 35, 6020, Innsbruck, Austria. 
reinhard.stauder@i-med.ac.at

Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) represent one of the most frequent and serious 
haematologic diseases of the elderly. Effective therapies exist ranging from 
best supportive care to haematologic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Decision 
making, however, is rather complex in this group of patients because ageing is a 
multidimensional process involving not only physiological changes but also 
changes in functional, social, emotional and cognitive capacities. All these 
factors can have a significant impact on the efficacy and tolerability of a 
potential therapy and therefore have to be thoroughly assessed before deciding 
on individual treatment regimens. Risk assessment tools are available both to 
classify the stage and prognosis of MDS and to meet the needs of elderly 
patients. A tool explicitly focussing on elderly MDS patients, however, is still 
missing. The current report approached this issue by combining the well 
established MDS-risk score 'International Prognostic Scoring System' (IPSS) with 
the 'Multidimensional Geriatric Assessment' (MGA). As decision making is most 
complex in high-risk MDS patients, the new algorithm is presented exemplarily 
for this group of patients. In a first step, MDS-related risk is identified 
using IPSS, in a second step, patients are assigned to one of three risk 
categories of the MGA (go-go/fit, slow-go/vulnerable, no-go/frail). While go-go 
patients might be subjected to therapies comparable to those given to younger 
patients, in no-go patients, a palliative therapy combined with best supportive 
care will probably be most appropriate. In slow-go patients, age-related life 
expectancy taken from public age statistics should be compared to the 
MDS-related life expectancy. Based on this combined assessment procedure and 
also on treatment tolerance in terms of the expectations/wishes of the patient 
and his/her family, an individualised therapeutic approach should be developed. 
Specific treatment recommendations for these three groups of patients are given, 
including HSCT, azanucleosides and best supportive care. To illustrate its 
practicability, i.e. the implementation of the novel algorithm in clinical 
practice, the case of an elderly high-risk MDS patient is presented and 
discussed in detail. This new algorithm will facilitate the identification of 
the very particular needs and conditions of elderly MDS patients in clinical 
practice. Based on this, individually tailored therapeutic approaches can be 
developed--the prerequisite for the best possible clinical outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-012-1472-8
PMCID: PMC3411309
PMID: 22547053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2012 Aug;14(4):391-401. doi: 
10.1007/s11940-012-0176-7.

Spinal cord compression.

Ribas ES(1), Schiff D.

Author information:
(1)University of Virginia Neuro-Oncology Center, Box 800432, Charlottesville, 
VA, 22908-0432, USA.

Malignant epidural spinal cord compression (MESCC) remains a common 
neuro-oncologic emergency with high associated morbidity. Despite widespread 
availability of MRI, the diagnosis frequently goes unmade until myelopathy 
supervenes, which is unfortunate because the strongest predictor of neurologic 
outcome with treatment is the neurologic status when treatment is initiated. 
Once the diagnosis of MESCC is suspected, patients with neurologic deficits 
should be started on high-dose corticosteroids (eg, dexamethasone, 10-100 mg 
intravenously, followed by 16 to 100 mg/d in divided doses). Definitive therapy 
of MESCC almost always includes radiation therapy and in some cases surgical 
intervention; factors considered include the patient's performance status and 
extent of visceral and skeletal disease, spinal stability, the tumor's 
underlying radiosensitivity, and the degree of spinal cord compression. Patients 
with spinal instability or radioresistant tumors are likely to have a much 
better neurologic outcome with tumor resection and spinal stabilization prior to 
radiation; the same may also pertain to patients with moderately radiosensitive 
tumors who have good life expectancy in terms of their systemic tumor. 
Conventional radiation has historically been beneficial after surgery and in 
patients who are not surgical candidates. Recent studies suggest a role for 
stereotactic body radiation therapy in patients with spinal metastasis from 
radioresistant tumors and in patients who have received prior standard 
radiotherapy, so long as the spinal cord has been decompressed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11940-012-0176-7
PMID: 22547256


178. J Clin Oncol. 2012 Jun 1;30(16):1949-52. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2011.36.5726. Epub
 2012 Apr 30.

Long-term analysis of the IFM 99 trials for myeloma: cytogenetic abnormalities 
[t(4;14), del(17p), 1q gains] play a major role in defining long-term survival.

Avet-Loiseau H(1), Attal M, Campion L, Caillot D, Hulin C, Marit G, Stoppa AM, 
Voillat L, Wetterwald M, Pegourie B, Voog E, Tiab M, Banos A, Jaubert J, 
Bouscary D, Macro M, Kolb B, Traulle C, Mathiot C, Magrangeas F, Minvielle S, 
Facon T, Moreau P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Hématologie, Institut de Biologie, 9 quai Moncousu, 44093 
Nantes Cedex 1, France. herve.avetloiseau@chu-nantes.fr

PURPOSE: In multiple myeloma, many prognostic parameters have been proposed. 
However, all of these predict shorter survival. To identify patients with a 
longer life expectancy, we updated the data of patients treated in the IFM 
(Intergroupe Francophone du Myelome) 99-02 and 99-04 trials.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A series of 520 patients was analyzed. Median follow-up 
was 90.5 months. To perform a comprehensive analysis of the major prognostic 
factors, we reanalyzed all patients for 1q gains [in addition to updating 
del(13), t(4;14), and del(17p) analyses].
RESULTS: It was possible to identify a subgroup of patients (representing 20% of 
total patients) with an 8-year survival of 75%. These patients were defined by 
the absence of t(4;14), del(17p), and 1q gain and β(2)-microglobulin less than 
5.5 mg/L.
CONCLUSION: We propose that all patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma 
be evaluated for these three chromosomal changes, not only to define high-risk 
patients but also to identify those with a longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2011.36.5726
PMID: 22547600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Public Health Rep. 2012 May-Jun;127(3):293-303. doi:
10.1177/003335491212700309.

Using disability-adjusted life years to assess the burden of disease and injury 
in Rhode Island.

Jiang Y(1), Hesser JE.

Author information:
(1)Rhode Island Department of Health, Center for Health Data and Analysis, 
Providence, RI 02908, USA. Yongwen.Jiang@health.ri.gov

OBJECTIVES: Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) measure the burden of disease 
and injury in a population. We tested the feasibility of calculating DALYs to 
assess the burden of disease and injury in Rhode Island (RI).
METHODS: We computed DALYs for the 2008 RI population using methods developed by 
the World Health Organization, Harvard University, and the World Bank. DALYs are 
a composite measure that sum years of life lost (YLLs) due to premature 
mortality with years lived with disability (YLDs). We calculated crude 
mortality, YLLs, YLDs, and DALYs for 90 major health conditions for RI and 
stratified them by gender and age. Calculations for YLLs and YLDs were based on 
five-year averages. We compared our results with U.S. and Los Angeles County, 
California, estimates.
RESULTS: A DALYs ranking produces a different picture of RI's disease and injury 
burden than does mortality-based ranking. Of 90 major health conditions assessed 
for RI, six of the top 10 causes for mortality and DALYs were the same, but were 
ranked differently: ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, Alzheimer 
dementia and other dementias, trachea/bronchus/lung cancer, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and diabetes mellitus. These six conditions accounted for 59% 
of deaths but only 35% of DALYs. Causes and rank orders for DALYs differed 
between males and females and among age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Including nonfatal health conditions in an assessment of population 
health provides a different picture than traditional mortality-based 
assessments. This study demonstrates the feasibility and constraints of using 
DALYs to assess the burden of disease and injury at the state level.

DOI: 10.1177/003335491212700309
PMCID: PMC3314073
PMID: 22547860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2012;8:157-67. doi: 10.2147/TCRM.S22599. Epub 2012 Apr
2.

Human normal immunoglobulin in the treatment of primary immunodeficiency 
diseases.

Wood P(1).

Author information:
(1)St James University Hospital, Leeds, United Kingdom.

The primary antibody deficiency syndromes are a rare group of disorders that can 
present at any age, and for which delay in diagnosis remains common. Replacement 
therapy with immunoglobulin in primary antibody deficiencies increases life 
expectancy and reduces the frequency and severity of infection. Higher doses of 
immunoglobulin are associated with reduced frequency of infection. Late 
diagnosis and delayed institution of immunoglobulin replacement therapy results 
in increased morbidity with a wide variety of organ-specific complications and 
increased mortality. Risks of immunoglobulin therapy are minimized by modern 
manufacturing processes, although patients can experience both immediate and 
delayed adverse reactions, and concerns remain over the transmission of prions 
in plasma. Immunoglobulin therapy leads to improvements in overall quality of 
life, and many of the improvements relate to reduced infection rates and fear of 
future infections, strongly suggesting that the immunoglobulin therapy itself is 
the major factor in this improvement. There are limited data on the economic 
benefits of immunoglobulin therapy, with the fluctuating costs of 
immunoglobulins making comparison between different studies difficult. However, 
estimates suggest that early intervention with immunoglobulin replacement 
compares favorably with prolonged therapy for other more common chronic 
diseases.

DOI: 10.2147/TCRM.S22599
PMCID: PMC3333462
PMID: 22547934181. Skull Base. 2011 Nov;21(6):385-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1287681.

Normal life expectancy for paraganglioma patients: a 50-year-old cohort 
revisited.

de Flines J, Jansen J, Elders R, Siemers M, Vriends A, Hes F, Bayley JP, van der 
Mey A, Corssmit E.

The objective of this study was to assess the long-term survival of patients 
with a paraganglioma of the head and neck compared with the survival of the 
general Dutch population. This historic cohort study was conducted using 
nationwide historical data of paraganglioma patients. We retrieved a cohort of 
86 patients diagnosed with a paraganglioma of the head and neck between 1945 and 
1960 in the Netherlands. Dates of death were retrieved from the national bureau 
of genealogy. Survival after diagnosis was compared with age and sex adjusted 
survival in the general population, by means of Wilcoxon signed rank test and 
Kaplan-Meier actuarial survival curves. Although surgery had more complications 
in the studied era than today and the death of five patients with carotid body 
tumors caused immediate excess mortality, the survival of the followed cohort 
was not significantly reduced if compared with the general population. 
Paragangliomas of the head and neck do not reduce life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1287681
PMCID: PMC3312129
PMID: 22547965


182. Acta Oncol. 2012 Sep;51(7):897-905. doi: 10.3109/0284186X.2012.679311. Epub
2012  May 1.

Outcomes of cancer patients after unplanned admission to general intensive care 
units.

Bos MM(1), de Keizer NF, Meynaar IA, Bakhshi-Raiez F, de Jonge E.

Author information:
(1)Reinier de Graaf Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine, Division of 
Medical Oncology Delft, the Netherlands. bos@rdgg.nl

BACKGROUND: Acute admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) of cancer patients 
is considered with increasing frequency due to a better life expectancy and more 
aggressive therapies. The aim of this study was to determine the characteristics 
and outcomes of cancer patients with unplanned admissions to general ICUs, and 
to compare these with outcomes of critically ill patients without cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All unplanned ICU admissions in the Netherlands collected 
in the National Intensive Care Evaluation registry between January 2007 and 
January 2011 were analyzed.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Of the 140,154 patients with unplanned ICU admission 
10.9% had a malignancy. Medical cancer patients were more severely ill on ICU 
admission in comparison with medical non-cancer patients, as reflected by higher 
needs for mechanical ventilation (50.8% vs. 46.4%, p < 0.001) and vasopressors 
within 24 hours after admission (41.5% vs. 33.0%, p < 0.001), higher Acute 
Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) IV scores (88.1 vs. 67.5, p < 
0.001) and a longer ICU stay (5.1 vs. 4.6 days, p < 0.001). In contrast, 
surgical cancer patients only displayed a modestly higher APACHE IV score on 
admission when compared with non-cancer surgical patients, whereas the other 
afore mentioned parameters were lower in the surgical cancer patients group. 
In-hospital mortality was almost twice as high in medical cancer patients 
(40.6%) as in medical patients without cancer (23.7%). In-hospital mortality of 
surgical cancer patients (17.4%) was slightly higher than in patients without 
cancer (14.6%). These data indicate that unplanned ICU admission is associated 
with a high mortality in patients with cancer when admitted for medical reasons.

DOI: 10.3109/0284186X.2012.679311
PMID: 22548367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Cuad Bioet. 2012 Jan-Apr;23(77):53-70.

[Eugenics' extension in the Spanish health care system through the prenatal 
diagnosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez Martín E(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Punta de Europa de Algeciras, Spain. 
estebanrodriguez2008@hotmail.com

The wide implantation of strategies of sifted or prenatal selection close to 
laws that protect the destruction of the human life before the childbirth in the 
whole world, they are giving place to an increasing number of eugenic abortions. 
In Spain, the law 2/2010 of the sexual and reproductive health and voluntary 
interruption of pregnancy there has supposed the liberalization of the eugenic 
abortion without term limit. In we make concrete, the sanitary national and 
international policies of prenatal selection of Down's Syndrome, which they 
chase to facilitate the total or partial destruction before the childbirth of 
this human group, submitting it to a few particular conditions of existence 
during his prenatal life in those who will be an object of a series of 
technologies of selection, they might be qualified of genocidal policies if we 
consider the definition of genocide given by United Nations. In consequence, the 
sanitary agent who takes part without objection in the above mentioned programs 
promoted by the principal agents, meets turned into a necessary cooperator of 
the abortion who justifies itself in the supposition of "foetal risk". We can 
conclude that we are present at an eugenic drift of the prenatal diagnosis that 
is opposite to the ethical beginning of the medical profession.

PMID: 22548657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. J Gen Intern Med. 2012 Sep;27(9):1171-9. doi: 10.1007/s11606-012-2072-y.
Epub  2012 May 2.

The average lifespan of patients discharged from hospital with heart failure.

Alter DA(1), Ko DT, Tu JV, Stukel TA, Lee DS, Laupacis A, Chong A, Austin PC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
david.alter@ices.on.ca

BACKGROUND: There are no life-tables quantifying the average life-spans of 
post-hospitalized heart failure populations across various strata of risk.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the life-expectancies (i.e., average life-spans) of heart 
failure patients at the time of hospital discharge according to age, gender, 
predictive 30-day mortality heart failure risk index, and comorbidity burden.
DESIGN: Population-based retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Ontario, Canada.
PATIENTS: 7,865 heart failure patients discharged from Ontario hospitals between 
