
DOI: 10.1265/jjh.67.50
PMID: 22449823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2012 Sep;69(17):2843-52. doi: 10.1007/s00018-012-0954-0.
Epub  2012 Mar 27.

Tetraspanins and cell membrane tubular structures.

Zhang XA(1), Huang C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vascular Biology and Cancer Centers, University of 
Tennessee Health Science Center, Cancer Research Building Room 220, 19 South 
Manassas Street, Memphis, TN 38163, USA. xzhang@uthsc.edu

Tetraspanins regulate a variety of cellular functions. However, the general 
cellular mechanisms by which tetraspanins regulate these functions remain poorly 
understood. In this article we collected the observations that tetraspanins 
regulate the formation and/or development of various tubular structures of cell 
membrane. Because tetraspanins and their associated proteins (1) are localized 
at the tubular structures, such as the microvilli, adhesion zipper, foot 
processes, and penetration peg, and/or (2) regulate the morphogenesis of these 
membrane tubular structures, tetraspanins probably modulate various cellular 
functions through these membrane tubular structures. Some tetraspanins inhibit 
membrane tubule formation and/or extension, while others promote them. We 
predict that tetraspanins regulate the formation and/or development of various 
membrane tubular structures: (1) microvilli or nanovilli at the plasma membranes 
free of cell and matrix contacts, (2) membrane tubules at the plasma membrane of 
cell-matrix and cell-cell interfaces, and (3) membrane tubules at the 
intracellular membrane compartments. These different membrane tubular structures 
likely share a common morphogenetic mechanism that involves tetraspanins. 
Tetraspanins probably regulate the morphogenesis of membrane tubular structures 
by altering (1) the biophysical properties of the cell membrane such as 
curvature and/or (2) the membrane connections of cytoskeleton. Since membrane 
tubular structures are associated with cell functions such as adhesion, 
migration, and intercellular communication, in all of which tetraspanins are 
involved, the differential effects of tetraspanins on membrane tubular 
structures likely lead to the functional difference of tetraspanins.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-012-0954-0
PMCID: PMC10438980
PMID: 22450717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2012 Aug;40(4):369-76. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0528.2012.00684.x. Epub 2012 Mar 27.

Cost-effectiveness of extending the coverage of water supply fluoridation for 
the prevention of dental caries in Australia.

Cobiac LJ(1), Vos T.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Herston, Qld, 
Australia. l.cobiac@uq.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Fluoride was first added to the Australian water supply in 1953, and 
by 2003, 69% of Australia's population was receiving the minimum recommended 
dose. Extending coverage of fluoridation to all remaining communities of at 
least 1000 people is a key strategy of Australia's National Oral Health Plan 
2004-2013. We evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this strategy from an 
Australian health sector perspective.
METHODS: Health gains from the prevention of caries in the Australian population 
are modelled over the average 15-year lifespan of a treatment plant. Taking 
capital and on-going operational costs of fluoridation into account, as well as 
costs of caries treatment, we determine the dollars per disability-adjusted life 
years (DALY) averted from extending coverage of fluoridation to all large (≥ 
1000 people) and small (<1000 people) communities in Australia.
RESULTS: Extending coverage of fluoridation to all communities of at least 1000 
people will lead to improved population health (3700 DALYs, 95% uncertainty 
interval: 2200-5700 DALYs), with a dominant cost-effectiveness ratio and 100% 
probability of cost-savings. Extending coverage to smaller communities leads to 
60% more health gains, but is not cost-effective, with a median 
cost-effectiveness ratio of A$92 000/DALY and only 10% probability of being 
under a cost-effectiveness threshold of A$50 000/DALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Extension of fluoridation coverage under the National Oral Health 
Plan is highly recommended, but given the substantial dental health disparities 
and inequalities in access to dental care that currently exist for more regional 
and remote communities, there may be good justification for extending coverage 
to include all Australians, regardless of where they live, despite less 
favourable cost-effectiveness.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0528.2012.00684.x
PMID: 22452320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2012 May 1;10(3):175-88. doi: 
10.2165/11630780-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of prostacyclins in pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Roman A(1), Barberà JA, Escribano P, Sala ML, Febrer L, Oyagüez I, Sabater E, 
Casado MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pneumology, Hospital Universitari Vall dHebron, CIBERES, 
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. aroman@vhebron.net

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is considered an orphan 
disease. Prostacyclins are the keystone for PAH treatment. Choosing between the 
three available prostacyclin therapies could be complicated because there are no 
comparison studies, so the final decision must be driven by factors such as 
efficacy, administration route, safety profile and economic aspects.
OBJECTIVE: This study provides a cost-effectiveness and cost-utility comparison 
of initiating prostacyclin therapy with three different treatment alternatives 
(inhaled iloprost [ILO], intravenous epoprostenol [EPO] and subcutaneous 
treprostinil [TRE]) for patients with PAH. The goal of this work is to help 
physicians with their therapeutic decision-making.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to simulate a patient cohort with class III 
PAH according to the classification of the New York Heart Association (NYHA). 
Four health states corresponding with the NYHA classes plus death were allowed 
for patients in the model. Changing the treatment was possible when patients 
worsened from functional class III to IV. The time horizon was 3 years, allowing 
patients to transition between health states on a 12-week cycle basis. The study 
perspective was that of the National Health System (NHS) [only direct medical 
costs were included]. Unitary costs were obtained from the Drug Catalogue and 
e-Salud Database in 2009 and are given in euros (€). Data on health resources 
and treatment pathways were informed by a four-member expert panel. Efficacy was 
obtained from pivotal clinical trials of ILO, EPO and TRE, the latter used in 
Spain as a foreign medication. Utilities for each health state were obtained 
from the literature. The final efficacy measure was life-years gained (LYG), and 
utilities were used to obtain quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Costs and 
effects were discounted at a 3% rate. To check for the robustness of the 
results, sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: At the end of the 3 years, in the base case of the deterministic 
analysis, initiating prostacyclin therapy with iloprost was the less costly 
strategy (€132,840), followed by treprostinil (€359,869) and epoprostenol 
(€429,775). Epoprostenol has shown the best efficacy results with 2.73 LYG and 
1.78 QALY, followed by iloprost (2.69 LYG and 1.74 QALY) and treprostinil (2.69 
LYG and 1.73 QALY). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) and 
cost-utility ratios (ICUR) of epoprostenol versus iloprost and treprostinil were 
much above the €30,000 per LYG or QALY threshold commonly used in Spain. 
Iloprost was dominant compared with treprostinil. In the probabilistic analysis, 
epoprostenol, when compared with iloprost, was a dominant strategy in 15% of the 
simulations, but it was not a cost-effective option in 83% of the cases. When 
compared with treprostinil, epoprostenol was dominant in 43% of the simulations. 
Iloprost was dominant compared with treprostinil in 45% of the cases and it was 
a cost-effective alternative in 39% of the simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: Initiating prostacyclin treatment with iloprost in patients with 
PAH, functional class III of the NYHA, is the less costly alternative for the 
NHS in Spain, with a good efficacy profile when compared with the other 
alternatives.

DOI: 10.2165/11630780-000000000-00000
PMID: 22452448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. CNS Drugs. 2012 Apr 1;26(4):337-50. doi: 10.2165/11599240-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of lacosamide in the adjunctive treatment of patients with 
refractory focal epilepsy in Belgium.

Simoens S(1), De Naeyer L, Dedeken P.

Author information:
(1)KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

OBJECTIVES: Lacosamide is an anti-epileptic drug, indicated as adjunctive 
therapy for patients with focal seizures with or without secondary 
generalization. This study aims to assess the cost effectiveness of standard 
anti-epileptic drug therapy plus lacosamide 300 mg/day compared with standard 
therapy alone from the perspective of the Belgian healthcare payer.
METHODS: The treatment pathway of a hypothetical cohort of 1000 patients over 2 
years was simulated using a decision tree. Data about health state 
probabilities, seizure frequency and utility values were taken from lacosamide 
trials or from the literature. Effectiveness measures included the number of 
seizures avoided and the number of quality-adjusted life-years gained. Unit 
costs were taken from national references. Resource use was estimated by a panel 
of eight neurologists with extensive experience in epilepsy. The price year was 
2008. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Over a 24-month period, standard anti-epileptic drug therapy plus 
lacosamide led to a reduction of seven seizures, an increase of 0.038 
quality-adjusted life-years and a cost decrease of &U20AC;3619 per patient 
compared with standard therapy alone. Using a willingness to pay of 
&U20AC;30 000 per quality-adjusted life-year, the net monetary benefit of 
standard anti-epileptic drug therapy plus lacosamide amounted to &U20AC;4754. 
The probability of standard anti-epileptic drug therapy plus lacosamide being 
cost effective was 97.3%, 99.8%, 99.9% and 100% at 6, 12 , 18 and 24 months, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: In patients with difficult-to-treat epilepsy, standard 
anti-epileptic drug therapy plus lacosamide appears to be a cost-effective 
option in Belgium.

DOI: 10.2165/11599240-000000000-00000
PMID: 22452528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. J Intern Med. 2012 Jul;272(1):93-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2012.02542.x.
Epub  2012 Apr 23.

Excessively high soluble Klotho in patients with acromegaly.

Sze L(1), Bernays RL, Zwimpfer C, Wiesli P, Brändle M, Schmid C.

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, University Hospital, Zurich, 
Switzerland. lisa.sze@kssg.ch

OBJECTIVES: Klotho-deficient mice develop a syndrome resembling accelerated 
ageing, and genetic variants of Klotho have been associated with human ageing. 
In humans, serum levels of soluble Klotho decrease with age and with chronic 
renal failure. The aim of our study was to examine the relationship between 
excess growth hormone (GH) and serum levels of Klotho in patients with 
acromegaly, a disease usually caused by a pituitary adenoma, which is associated 
with high phosphate levels and reduced life expectancy.
PATIENTS AND DESIGN: We determined the levels of soluble Klotho, GH and 
insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in serum samples from 24 consecutive 
patients with acromegaly (nine women/15 men, age 28-76 years) before and after 
transsphenoidal surgery.
RESULTS: Soluble Klotho levels were excessively high at baseline (mean ± SEM, 
4.2 ± 0.7 ng mL(-1) ) and correlated with GH (r = 0.64), IGF-1 (r = 0.57) and 
tumour size (r = 0.5). In multiple regression analysis, soluble Klotho was 
associated with GH after correction for age, gender and levels of creatinine and 
phosphate (P = 0.029). After surgery, GH and IGF-1 levels decreased in all 
patients (from 26.3 ± 5.2 to 2.6 ± 0.6 μg L(-1) , P <0.0001, and from 588 ± 35 
to 193 ± 12 μg L(-1) , P < 0.001, 0.0001, respectively). Creatinine increased 
from 71 ± 3 to 80 ± 3 μmol L(-1) (P < 0.001), and phosphate decreased from 1.37 
± 0.04 to 1.06 ± 0.02 mmol L(-1) (P < 0.001). The markedly increased 
preoperative levels of soluble Klotho returned towards normal after surgery (0.7 
± 0.1 ng mL(-1) , P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to show dramatically increased soluble 
Klotho levels in an acquired disease in humans. Reversal following tumour 
removal suggests a causal relation between the GH-producing adenoma and high 
serum Klotho concentration in acromegaly.

© 2012 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2012.02542.x
PMID: 22452701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. JAMA. 2012 Mar 28;307(12):1242. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.337.

Birth cohort screening may help find hepatitis C cases.

Voelker R.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.337
PMID: 22453559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. JAMA. 2012 Mar 28;307(12):1254; author reply 1254. doi:
10.1001/jama.2012.356.

Accelerated aging of US presidents.

Goldbaum G.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2011 Dec 7;306(21):2328-9.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.356
PMID: 22453562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Clin Schizophr Relat Psychoses. 2012 Apr;6(1):21-6. doi: 10.3371/CSRP.6.1.3.

Vaptans: a potential new approach for treating chronic hyponatremia in psychotic 
patients.

Josiassen RC(1), Curtis JL, Shaughnessy RA, Filmyer DM, Geboy AG, Skuban N, 
Ouyang J, Czerwiec F.

Author information:
(1)Translational Neuroscience LLC, Conshohocken, PA 19428, USA. 
rcjosiassen@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Hyponatremia (serum sodium concentration [Na+] <136 mEq/L) is a 
potentially life-threatening condition often found chronically in patients with 
psychotic disorders. Vasopressin antagonists have recently been shown in 
short-term studies to correct hyponatremia in diverse patient populations, 
including individuals with both psychosis and idiopathic hyponatremia. However, 
the safety and efficacy of long-term administration of vaptans is only beginning 
to be investigated. The objective of this study was to assess whether one of the 
vaptans, specifically tolvaptan, maintained its safety and efficacy over a 
prolonged period in patients with psychosis and chronic idiopathic hyponatremia.
METHODS: SALTWATER was a multicenter, open-label extension of the Study of 
Ascending Levels of Tolvaptan in Hyponatremia. Of the 111 patients enrolled in 
SALTWATER, eight were patients with both psychosis and idiopathic hyponatremia. 
These eight subjects provided a total of 7,406 patient days of exposure to oral 
tolvaptan.
RESULTS: Mean serum [Na+] in the eight psychotic patients increased from 131.6 
mEq/L at baseline to >135 mEq/L throughout the observation period (p<0.05 versus 
baseline at most points). No drug-related adverse events led to study 
discontinuation.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic hyponatremia is known to have deleterious effects on the 
quality of life for many patient groups. These preliminary results suggest that 
oral tolvaptan provides rapid, effective, and safe treatment of chronic 
hyponatremia in patients with psychotic disorders and that the effect is safely 
sustained over long periods of time. These findings represent an important step 
forward in treating a significant unmet need in psychotic populations.

DOI: 10.3371/CSRP.6.1.3
PMID: 22453866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Alcohol Alcohol. 2012 Jul-Aug;47(4):458-63. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/ags033. Epub
 2012 Mar 27.

Alcohol-related injuries and alcohol control policy in Lithuania: effect of the 
year of sobriety, 2008.

Sauliune S(1), Petrauskiene J, Kalediene R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management, Faculty of Public Health, Lithuanian 
University of Health Sciences, A. Mickeviciaus str. 9, LT-44307 Kaunas, 
Lithuania. smante@centras.lt

AIMS: To evaluate the changes in mortality and the years of potential life lost 
(YPLL) due to alcohol-related injuries, as well as the impact of alcohol-related 
injuries on life expectancy during the period of the implementation of 
comprehensive alcohol control policy in Lithuania.
METHODS: Data on deaths from injuries (ICD-10 codes V01-Y98) of the able-bodied 
population (aged 15-64 years) during 2006-2009 were obtained from the Lithuanian 
Department of Statistics. Age-standardized rates of alcohol-related mortality 
and YPLL per 100, 000 population due to injuries and the impact of 
alcohol-related injuries on life expectancy were calculated. The results of 
forensic autopsies were the basis for the alcohol-attributable fraction.
RESULTS: The age-standardized YPLL/100,000 of the able-bodied population due to 
alcohol-related injuries was 2285.6 (4067.5 for males and 573.6 for females) in 
2009. In 2009, YPLL/100,000 due to alcohol-related injuries declined by 16.3%, 
while due to alcohol-related traffic accidents by 51.2% when compared with 2006. 
However, YPLL/100, 000 due to alcohol-related suicides increased among males. A 
15 to 64-year-old decedent lost an average of 21.2 years of life due to 
alcohol-related injuries (21.6 years on average per male and 19.1 per female). 
The impact of alcohol-related injuries on life expectancy decreased from 1.14 
years (1.86 for males and 0.34 for females) in 2006 to 0.97 years (1.62 for 
males and 0.26 for females) in 2009.
CONCLUSION: The positive changes in YPLL due to alcohol-related injuries and the 
impact of alcohol-related injuries on life expectancy indicate successful 
implementation of evidence-based alcohol control measures.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/ags033
PMID: 22454304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Health Syst Transit. 2011;13(6):1-186, xiii-xiv.

Turkey. Health system review.

Tatar M(1), Mollahaliloğlu S, Sahin B, Aydin S, Maresso A, Hernández-Quevedo C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Management, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.

Turkey has accomplished remarkable improvements in terms of health status in the 
last three decades, particularly after the implementation of the Health 
Transformation Program (HTP (Saglikta Donus, um Programi)). Average life 
expectancy reached 71.8 for men and 76.8 for women in 2010. The infant mortality 
rate (IMR) decreased to 10.1 per 1000 live births in 2010, down from 117.5 in 
1980. Despite these achievements, there are still discrepancies in terms of 
infant mortality between rural and urban areas and different parts of the 
country, although these have been diminishing over the years. The higher infant 
mortality rates in rural areas can be attributed to low socioeconomic 
conditions, low female education levels and the prevalence of infectious 
diseases. The main causes of death are diseases of the circulatory system 
followed by malignant neoplasms. Turkeys health care system has been undergoing 
a far-reaching reform process (HTP) since 2003 and radical changes have occurred 
both in the provision and the financing of health care services. Health services 
are now financed through a social security scheme covering the majority of the 
population, the General Health Insurance Scheme (GHIS (Genel Saglik Sigortasi)), 
and services are provided both by public and private sector facilities. The 
Social Security Institution (SSI (Sosyal Guvenlik Kurumu)), financed through 
payments by employers and employees and government contributions in cases of 
budget deficit, has become a monopsonic (single buyer) power on the purchasing 
side of health care services. On the provision side, the Ministry of Health 
(Saglik Bakenligi) is the main actor and provides primary, secondary and 
tertiary care through its facilities across the country. Universities are also 
major providers of tertiary care. The private sector has increased its range 
over recent years, particularly after arrangements paved the way for private 
sector provision of services to the SSI. The most important reforms since 2003 
have been improvements in citizens health status, the introduction of the GHIS, 
the instigation of a purchaser provider split in the health care system, the 
introduction of a family practitioner scheme nationwide, the introduction of a 
performance-based payment system in Ministry of Health hospitals, and 
transferring the ownership of the majority of public hospitals to the Ministry 
of Health. Future challenges for the Turkish health care system include, 
reorganizing and enforcing a referral system from primary to higher levels of 
care, improving the supply of health care staff, introducing and extending 
public hospital governance structures that aim to grant autonomous status to 
public hospitals, and further improving patient rights.

World Health Organization 2011, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22455830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Health Syst Transit. 2011;13(7):1-190, xiii-xiv.

Russian Federation. Health system review.

Popovich L(1), Potapchik E, Shishkin S, Richardson E, Vacroux A, Mathivet B.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Economics, State University, Moscow, Russia.

The HiT reviews are country-based reports that provide a detailed description of 
a health system and of policy initiatives in progress or under development. HiTs 
examine different approaches to the organization, financing and delivery of 
health services and the role of the main actors in health systems; describe the 
institutional framework, process, content and implementation of health and 
health care policies; and highlight challenges and areas that require more 
in-depth analysis. At independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, the Russian 
health system inherited an extensive, centralized Semashko system, but was quick 
to reform health financing by adopting a mandatory health insurance (MHI) model 
in 1993. MHI was introduced in order to open up an earmarked stream of funding 
for health care in the face of severe fiscal constraints. While the health 
system has evolved and changed significantly since the early 1990 s, the legacy 
of having been a highly centralized system focused on universal access to basic 
care remains. High energy prices on world markets have ensured greater 
macroeconomic stability, a budget surplus and improvements in living standards 
for most of the Russian population. However, despite an overall reduction in the 
poverty rate, there is a marked urban rural split and rural populations have 
worse health and poorer access to health services than urban populations. The 
increase in budgetary resources available to policy-makers have led to a number 
of recent federal-level health programmes that have focused on the delivery of 
services and increasing funding for priority areas including primary care 
provision in rural areas. Nevertheless, public health spending in the Russian 
Federation remains relatively low given the resources available. However, it is 
also clear that, even with the current level of financing, the performance of 
the health system could be improved. Provider payment mechanisms are the main 
obstacle to improving technical efficiency in the Russian health system, as most 
budget funding channelled through local government is input based. For this 
reason, the most recent reforms as well as legislation in the pipeline seek to 
ensure all health care funding is channelled through a strengthened MHI system 
with contracts for provider payments being made using output-based measures.

World Health Organization 2011, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22455875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Herzschrittmacherther Elektrophysiol. 2012 Mar;23(1):33-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00399-011-0158-6.

[Commentary on the 2010 ESC guidelines on device therapy in heart failure ].

[Article in German]

Israel CW(1), Anker SD, Hasenfuss G; European Society of Cardiology.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin – Kardiologie, Diabetologie und Nephrologie, 
Evangelisches Krankenhaus Bielefeld, Burgsteig 13, 33617 Bielefeld. 
Carsten.Israel@evkb.de

As part of the 2010 focused update of ESC guidelines on device therapy in heart 
failure, the guidelines on pacemakers in the treatment of heart failure were 
renewed. A new feature is that cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is 
indicated for New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III and IV irrespective of 
the presence of left ventricular dilatation and specified for NYHA class IV 
(patient ambulatory, stable, life expectancy >6 months). Furthermore, NYHA class 
II (but not class I) has been added when there is left bundle branch block and 
QRS duration ≥150 ms. CRT is also indicated for patients in NYHA class III-IV 
with permanent atrial fibrillation and heart failure [left ventricular ejection 
fraction (LVEF) ≤ 35%] when QRS is ≥ 130 ms and ventricular rate has slowed 
either spontaneously or by AV node ablation. In patients with heart failure 
(NYHA class II-IV, LVEF ≤ 35%) who need a pacemaker for AV block, CRT is 
generally indicated to avoid progression of heart failure caused by right 
ventricular stimulation, also in cases of intrinsic QRS <120 ms. For patients 
with terminal heart failure who are not eligible for heart transplantation, 
treatment with a left ventricular assist device can be performed as destination 
therapy. The new guidelines expand the indication for device therapy in heart 
failure based on the newest study findings, particularly for patients in NYHA 
class II, and specify the old guidelines. There are still uncertainties that 
must be investigated in randomized trials regarding patients with permanent 
atrial fibrillation, the indication for CRT in heart block, and the question of 
CRT with pacemaker or defibrillator.

DOI: 10.1007/s00399-011-0158-6
PMID: 22456701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Proc Biol Sci. 2012 Aug 7;279(1740):2998-3002. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2012.0220.
Epub  2012 Mar 28.

Life-history theory, chronic childhood illness and the timing of first 
reproduction in a British birth cohort.

Waynforth D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health and Primary Care, The Norwich Medical School, 
University of East Anglia, Norwich, Norfolk NR4 7TJ, UK. d.waynforth@uea.ac.uk

Life-history theoretical models show that a typical evolutionarily optimal 
response of a juvenile organism to high mortality risk is to reach reproductive 
maturity earlier. Experimental studies in a range of species suggest the 
existence of adaptive flexibility in reproductive scheduling to maximize fitness 
just as life-history theory predicts. In humans, supportive evidence has come 
from studies comparing neighbourhoods with different mortality rates, historical 
and cross-cultural data. Here, the prediction is tested in a novel way in a 
large (n = 9099), longitudinal sample using data comparing age at first 
reproduction in individuals with and without life-expectancy-reducing chronic 
disease diagnosed during childhood. Diseases selected for inclusion as chronic 
illnesses were those unlikely to be significantly affected by shifting 
allocation of effort away from reproduction towards survival; those which have 
comparatively large effects on mortality and life expectancy; and those which 
are not profoundly disabling. The results confirmed the prediction that chronic 
disease would associate with early age at first reproduction: individuals 
growing up with a serious chronic disease were 1.6 times more likely to have had 
a first child by age 30. Analysis of control variables also confirmed past 
research findings on links between being raised father-absent and early pubertal 
development and reproduction.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2012.0220
PMCID: PMC3385472
PMID: 22456889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. N-2-(4-[(18)F]-Fluorobenzamido)ethylmaleimide coupled to cysteine-tagged on
the  C- or N-terminal of exendin-4.

Chopra A(1).

In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda 
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004–2013.
2012 Feb 21 [updated 2012 Mar 22].

Author information:
(1)National Center for Biotechnology Information, NLM, Bethesda, MD 20894

Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNET) are rare and are classified as 
nonfunctional or functional as discussed in detail by Batcher et al. (1). 
Nonfunctional PNETs usually grow in size and eventually cause a mass effect in 
the organ, whereas functional tumors secrete one (or more) active hormones and 
are subclassified on the basis of the hormone secreted by the cells constituting 
the tumor (e.g., insulinomas (secrete insulin), glucagonomas (secrete glucagon), 
somatostatinomas (secrete somatostatin), etc.). Insulinomas are the most common 
PNETs observed in the clinic, and biochemical tests of these patients show that 
the individuals have fasting hypoglycemia along with hyperinsulinoma (elevated 
levels of insulin) (1). Complete surgical resection of the tumor is considered 
to be the most suitable treatment and cure for the patient (2). Most insulinomas 
are small and benign, and they exist as single lesions. Imaging techniques such 
as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and endoscopic 
ultrasound (EUS) are often used to detect and determine the location of these 
tumors on the pancreas (3). However, the preoperative detection of these lesion 
with noninvasive imaging is difficult because the techniques are either unable 
to distinguish the tumor from the normal parenchymal tissue in the pancreas 
(e.g., CT), are expensive (e.g., MRI), or are invasive and operator-dependent 
(e.g., EUS) (3, 4). Investigators have shown that insulinomas characteristically 
express high levels of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptors (GLP-1R), and 
radiolabeled GLP-1–like ligands have been developed and evaluated for the 
detection of these PNETs (5). Although GLP-1 is the natural ligand for the 
GLP-1R, a major drawback of using this peptide to detect the lesions is that it 
is rapidly inactivated (half-life, ~2 min) by proteolytic enzymes while in 
circulation. As a consequence, investigators identified 111In-labeled exendin-4 
or its analogs (exendin is a peptide of 39 amino acids that has a 54% homology 
with GLP-1, acts as an agonist of the GLP-1R, and is not inactivated by 
proteolytic enzymes) for the detection of insulinomas in Rip1Tag2 mice that have 
spontaneous insulinoma (6) and in humans (4). In another study, EM3106B, an 
analog of GLP-1 that contains lactam bridges, was labeled with 18F by coupling 
it with N-2-(4-[18F]-fluorobenzamido)ethylmaleimide ([18F]-FBEM), and the 
labeled compound was successfully used with positron emission tomography (PET) 
to detect subcutaneous insulinomas in nude mice (7). As an extension of the 
earlier work, structural analogs of exendin-4 were conjugated with [18F]FBEM for 
labeling with 18F, and the biodistribution of [18F]FBEM-[Cys0]-exendin-4 and 
[18F]FBEM-[Cys40]-exendin-4 was studied in mice bearing INS-1 cell xenograft 
tumors (for structural details of the compounds, see the Synthesis section 
below) (5). The radiolabeled compounds were also evaluated with PET to detect 
tumors that overexpressed GLP-1R in these mice.

PMID: 22457886


940. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2012 Apr;12(2):199-211. doi: 
10.1586/erp.11.104.

Determining quality of life in stroke survivors.

Carod-Artal FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Virgen de lLuz Hospital, Av. Hermandad Donantes de 
Sangre s/n, CP 16002, Cuenca, Spain. fjcarod-artal@hotmail.com

Post-stroke health-related quality of life (HRQoL) reflects a comprehensive view 
of subjective health and a measure of a person's perceived physical, mental and 
social health following stroke. Generic scales may enable comparisons between 
groups of patients with a diverse range of conditions, although they may 
underestimate the effect of stroke owing to its limited content validity. 
Stroke-specific HRQoL measures were designed to assess relevant domains that are 
important to stroke patients. The Stroke Impact Scale, the Stroke Specific 
Quality of Life scale and The Burden of Stroke Scale are specific HRQoL 
instruments developed in the last decade. Demographic factors, comorbidity, 
stroke severity, disability and psychosocial factors (e.g., post-stroke 
depression and social support) are significant predictors of HRQoL in stroke 
survivors. Stroke caregiver burden and HRQoL are inversely correlated. HRQoL 
measures are increasingly used to evaluate the effect of some therapeutic 
interventions in stroke survivors.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.11.104
PMID: 22458621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Med Econ. 2012;15(5):844-61. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.681531. Epub 2012
Apr  26.

Cost effectiveness of paliperidone palmitate versus risperidone long-acting 
injectable and olanzapine pamoate for the treatment of patients with 
schizophrenia in Sweden.

Mehnert A(1), Nicholl D, Pudas H, Martin M, McGuire A.

Author information:
(1)Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., Belgium. amehner1@its.jnj.com

OBJECTIVE: To model the cost effectiveness of paliperidone palmitate 
(paliperidone long-acting injectable; PLAI), a new once-monthly long-acting 
antipsychotic therapy, compared with risperidone long-acting injectable (RLAI) 
and olanzapine pamoate (OLAI), in multi-episode patients (two or more relapses) 
with schizophrenia in Sweden.
METHODS: A Markov decision analytic model was developed to simulate the history 
of a cohort of multi-episode patients transitioning through different health 
states on a monthly basis over a 5-year time horizon from the perspective of the 
Swedish healthcare system. Therapeutic strategies consisted of starting 
treatment with RLAI (mean dose 37.5 mg every 2 weeks), PLAI (mean dose 75 mg 
equivalent (eq.) every month) or OLAI (150 mg every 2 weeks or 300 mg every 4 
weeks). Probability of relapse, level of adherence, side-effects (extrapyramidal 
symptoms, tardive dyskinesia, weight gain and diabetes) and treatment 
discontinuation (switch) were derived from long-term observational data when 
feasible. Incremental cost-effectiveness outcomes, discounted at 3% annually, 
included cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and cost per relapse avoided 
(expressed in 2009 Swedish Krona SEK).
RESULTS: Relative to RLAI and OLAI, PLAI is economically dominant: more 
effective (additional QALYs, less relapses) and less costly treatment option 
over a 5-year time horizon. The results were robust when tested in sensitivity 
analysis.
LIMITATIONS: The impact of once-monthly treatment on adherence levels is not yet 
known, and not all variables that could impact on real-world outcomes and costs 
were included in this model.
CONCLUSION: PLAI was cost saving from a Swedish payer perspective compared with 
RLAI and OLAI in the long-term treatment of multi-episode (two or more relapses) 
schizophrenia patients.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.681531
PMID: 22458756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Am J Cardiol. 2012 Jun 15;109(12):1797-800. doi:
10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.02.027.  Epub 2012 Mar 28.

Knowledge of and preference for advance care planning by adults with congenital 
heart disease.

Tobler D(1), Greutmann M, Colman JM, Greutmann-Yantiri M, Librach SL, Kovacs AH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University Hospital of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

Congenital heart disease (CHD) is a chronic illness. Few adults with CHD are 
cured and those with disease of moderate or great complexity remain at risk of 
premature death. Current adult CHD guidelines recommend that providers encourage 
their patients to complete advance directives. We evaluated the prevalence of 
completed advance directives by and the preference for information about life 
expectancy of outpatients at a large adult CHD program. Two hundred patients 
with CHD (52% men, 35 ± 15 years old, range 18 to 79, 81% with disease of 
moderate or great complexity) completed a survey that assessed knowledge of 
advance directives and nature of and preferences for advance care planning. Only 
5% of patients reported that they had completed advance directives; 56% had 
never heard of them. However, most patients (87%) reported that they would 
prefer to have an advance directive available if they were dealing with their 
own dying and were unable to speak for themselves. Patients who had formally 
identified substitute decision makers (n = 34) were typically older (47 ± 16 vs 
33 ± 13 years, p <0.001) and more likely to have partners (30% vs 6%, p <0.001). 
Most patients (70%) reported that they wanted general information about the 
average life expectancy for patients with their heart condition. In conclusion, 
in contrast to recommendations from published guidelines, advance care planning 
documents are infrequently completed by outpatients. Health care providers 
caring for patients with CHD should educate their patients about advance 
directives and assist them in preparing formal end-of-life-planning documents.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.02.027
PMID: 22459306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl Ed). 2012 May;65(5):456-69. doi: 
10.1016/j.recesp.2011.11.026. Epub 2012 Mar 28.

Update: Arrhythmias (V). Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias and 
preexcitation syndromes.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Almendral J(1), Castellanos E, Ortiz M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Electrofisiología Cardiaca y Arritmología Clínica, Grupo Hospital 
de Madrid, Universidad CEU-San Pablo, Madrid, Spain. almendral@secardiologia.es

Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias are fast and usually regular rhythms 
that require some structure above the bifurcation of the His bundle to be 
continued. The 3 most common types are atrial tachycardias, atrioventricular 
nodal reentrant tachycardias, and tachycardias mediated by an accessory pathway. 
The last two varieties are discussed in the present manuscript. Their prognosis 
is benign regarding life expectancy but typically they are symptomatic and 
chronically recurrent, producing a certain disability. They usually occur in 
people without structural heart disease. Pharmacologic therapy is possible, but 
given the high efficacy of catheter ablation, these procedures are frequently 
chosen. Ventricular preexcitation is due to the presence of an accessory 
pathway, usually atrioventricular. The clinical course can be asymptomatic, 
generating a characteristic electrocardiographic pattern, produce paroxysmal 
supraventricular tachycardias, or facilitate other types of arrhythmias. Very 
rarely, they can cause sudden cardiac death. The treatment of choice for 
symptomatic patients is catheter ablation of the accessory pathway. The 
therapeutic attitude towards asymptomatic preexcitation remains controversial.

Copyright © 2011 Sociedad Española de Cardiología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.recesp.2011.11.026
PMID: 22459483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Clin Ther. 2012 Apr;34(4):915-925.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.02.019.
Epub  2012 Mar 27.

Economic evaluation of sequential treatments for follicular non-hodgkin 
lymphoma.

Soini EJ(1), Martikainen JA, Vihervaara V, Mustonen K, Nousiainen T.

Author information:
(1)ESiOR Ltd., Tulliportinkatu 2, Kuopio, Finland. erkki.soini@esior.fi

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness analyses of follicular lymphoma (FL) 
treatments have focused on the second-line rituximab maintenance in patients 
with relapsed FL. The assessment of full FL treatment chain has been lacking.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of FL 
treatment sequences.
METHODS: Transitions between progression-free first-line treatment (PF1), 
progression-free second-line treatment (PF2), progression, and death health 
states were simulated with a probabilistic Markov model with half-cycle 
correction. At first, patients were assumed to be receiving rituximab with 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (RCHOP) induction. 
The first-line RCHOP induction responders continued without (RCHOP) or with 
(RCHOPR) the first-line rituximab-maintenance treatment. In the case of PF1 
failure, patients received RCOPR/bendamustine or RCOPR/COP according to the 
European Society for Medical Oncology guidance. In the case of PF2 failure, 
patients were expected to receive the best supportive care (BSC). The survivals 
and adverse events were estimated with direct and indirect comparisons. Health 
outcomes and Finnish payer (drug, drug administration, monitoring, test, 
progression, serious adverse event) costs valued in 2010 euros were discounted 
with 3% per annum.
RESULTS: The mean discounted lifetime overall survival with FL was 9.6 to 11.5 
years, quality-adjusted survival was 7.2 to 8.8 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), progression-free time was 7.7 to 10.2 years, and costs were €153,425 to 
€168,549, depending on the treatment sequence. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for RCHOPR→RCOPR/bendamustine→BSC, 
RCHOPR→RCOPR/COP→BSC, and RCHOP→RCOPR/bendamustine→BSC were €9575/€8014/€5900, 
€9881/€8310/€6013, and €8812/€7194/€5808, respectively, per 
QALY/life-year/progression-free year gained in comparison with 
RCHOP→RCOPR/COP→BSC. According to the cost-effectiveness acceptability frontier, 
the treatment of 61.8% to 72.7% patients with RCHOPR→RCOPR/bendamustine→BSC was 
cost effective at €20,000 to €30,000/QALY gained (expected value of perfect 
information [EVPI], €1287 to €1976/patient). The relative results were found to 
be robust in sensitivity analyses, and, in the direct comparison that included 
only head-to-head data, the first-line rituximab maintenance had 93.1% 
cost-effectiveness probability at €20,000/QALY gained (EVPI, €282/patient).
CONCLUSION: Sequences that included first-line rituximab maintenance is and 
second-line bendamustine are potentially cost effective in the treatment of FL.
LIMITATIONS: Because of data available, health outcomes of the first-line 
rituximab induction were excluded, the second-line patients on COP were assumed 
to incur the cost of COP, and the efficacy and adverse events of CHOP and the 
efficacy and adverse events of bendamustine were estimated indirectly according 
to a comparison of rituximab+bendamustine and RCHOP, and treatment benefits were 
truncated.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.02.019
PMID: 22459623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(16):1-166. doi: 10.3310/hta16160.

Outcomes of social care for adults: developing a preference-weighted measure.

Netten A(1), Burge P, Malley J, Potoglou D, Towers AM, Brazier J, Flynn T, 
Forder J, Wall B.

Author information:
(1)University of Kent at Canterbury, Canterbury, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a measure of social care 
outcome, an equivalent to the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) in health, which 
could be used in a range of circumstances.
DESIGN: The project drew on previous and parallel work developing the Adult 
Social Care Outcome Toolkit and the national Adult Social Care Survey. We 
developed and tested an instrument designed to reflect service users' social 
care-related quality of life (SCRQoL) and tested it with 30 service users from a 
variety of user groups and 300 older home care service users. In parallel, we 
explored discrete choice experiment (DCE) and best-worst scaling (BWS) 
approaches to preference elicitation with 300 members of the general population, 
and cognitively tested these with service users. We also cognitively tested a 
computer-aided time trade-off (TTO) exercise using SCRQoL attributes with 
members of the general population. In the second phase, using the finalised 
instruments, BWS interviews were conducted with 500 members of the general 
population, TTO interviews with a follow-up sample of 126 of these respondents, 
and BWS interviews with 458 people using equipment services.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The final measure had eight domains: personal cleanliness 
and comfort, accommodation cleanliness and comfort, food and drink, safety, 
social participation and involvement, occupation, control over daily life and 
dignity. In addition to measuring current SCRQoL, the instrument includes 
questions used to establish service users' views of their 'expected' SCRQoL in 
the absence of services. The difference between a person's current and 
'expected' SCRQoL provides an indicator of service impact.
RESULTS: There was good evidence for the validity of the descriptive system and 
the validity of the current, expected and SCRQoL gain scales. The DCE and BWS 
approaches yielded similar results and, once introductions made clear, were 
understood by service users. BWS was used for the main stages, as it had 
technical and cognitive advantages. The computer-aided approach to TTO worked 
well, and respondents found questions acceptable and understandable. There were 
no substantive differences in the preferences of service users and the general 
population. The key domain was control over daily life, with the lowest and 
highest levels strongly estimated in all models. After allowing for observable 
heterogeneity, service users' preferences appeared to be more closely associated 
with their own SCRQoL than with those of the general population. The consistency 
of the results with the results of a previous study allowed the final model to 
be based on the preferences of 1000 members of the general population. A formula 
based on the relationship between TTO and BWS values was estimated for a social 
care QALY, with '0' equivalent to 'being dead' and '1' being the 'ideal' SCRQoL 
state. Members of the population experienced significantly higher SCRQoL than 
service users.
CONCLUSIONS: Although further work is needed, particularly to develop an 
equivalent measure for informal carers and to explore the links with health 
QALYs, the measure has considerable potential. A number of methodological 
advances were achieved, including the first application of TTO in a social care 
context and use of BWS to establish service user preferences.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16160
PMID: 22459668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Clin Cases Miner Bone Metab. 2010 May;7(2):114-22.

Appropriate use of anabolic treatment for severe osteoporosis.

Adami S(1), Brandi ML, Canonico PL, Minisola G, Minisola S, Tarantino U.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department, University of Verona, Verona, Italy;

Osteoporotic fractures remain a major public health problem for their correlated 
morbidity and mortality. The primary aim of therapy must be the prevention of 
the first fragility fracture and avoiding subsequent fractures in patients who 
already have an existing fracture. There are evidences from randomized 
controlled trials (RCTs) about the efficacy of antiresorptives, such as 
bisphosphonates in reducing the risk of fracture, but none of these agents 
completely abolish the fracture risk. The reduction of RRR by different 
therapies in RCTs is relatively constant but it is important to note that the 
proportion of inadequate-responders (i.e.: patients fracturing despite adequate 
pharmacological treatment) is increasing with the severity of the disease: the 
higher the risk of fracture the higher the proportion of inadequate-responders. 
Thus, the proportion of non responders across different trials is directly 
related to the fracture incidence observed in the control group of RCTs which is 
the most proximate indicator of osteoporosis severity.Teriparatide (TPTD) 
demonstrate a real increases of both trabecular and cortical bone volume, which 
are associated with a true reduction of fracture risk, as many RCTs confirm. The 
beneficial effect of introducing a treatment with antiresorptives after the 
treatment course with TPTD has been clearly demonstrated with the prevention of 
the reabsorption of the new bone tissue built during TPTD therapy and rapidly 
lowers cortical porosity, which leads to further increases in BMD. For these 
results, the introduction of an anti-resorptive after the treatment course with 
TPTD is strongly recommended and taken into account.In Italy TPTD is fully 
reimbursed in patients incurring in a new vertebral or hip fracture while on 
chronic treatment with antiresorptive or in naive patients with 3 or more 
vertebral or hip fractures. In conclusion, since patients with severe 
osteoporosis are at very high risk of new fractures with worsening of quality of 
life and life expectancy, antiresorptives represent a sub-optimal treatment in 
these patients, werehas, since TPTD demonstrated real and substantial 
improvements in bone mass and reduction of fracture risk independently of 
initial risk, TPTD represents the only therapeutic option able to reverse at 
least in part this disabling disease.

PMCID: PMC3004457
PMID: 22460015


947. Clin Cases Miner Bone Metab. 2010 May;7(2):140-3.

Pharmacological treatment of hip fractured patients in Italy: a simulation based 
on Tuscany regional database for the TARGET project.

Piscitelli P(1), Metozzi A, Brandi ML, Nuti R, Rizzuti C, Orlandini E, Giorni L, 
Merlotti D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Florence, Florence Italy.

BACKGROUND: Italy is the Country with the highest life expectancy in the world, 
and over 75,000 elderly people experience a hip fracture each year.
OBJECTIVE: following the Tuscany TARGET protocol, we aimed to estimate the costs 
of pharmacological treatment in the hypothesis of treating all elderly Italian 
people with hip fractures.
METHODS: we analyzed the Tuscany healthcare system databases at the beginning of 
the Tuscany TARGET project for the prevention of hip fractures in elderly 
patients, and the Italian national hospitalizations records and DRGs databases 
concerning hip fractures occurred between 2000 and 2005.
RESULTS: costs sustained for pharmacological treatments effective in reducing 
the risk of subsequent hip fractures all over Italy would account for 17.5 
million Euros, representing only 0.18% of the overall national pharmaceuticals 
expenditures, while the national healthcare service is currently spending more 
than 30% of the overall pharmaceuticals expenditures in providing 
cardiovascular-active drugs.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of hip fractures in the Italian elderly population is 
substantial and must be acknowledged as an important health problem. Specific 
preventive strategies, such as the Tuscany TARGET project should be implemented 
in all Italian regions.

PMCID: PMC3004462
PMID: 22460020


948. Laryngoscope. 2012 Jul;122(7):1507-11. doi: 10.1002/lary.23264. Epub 2012
Mar  27.

Diagnostic modalities for distant metastasis in head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma: are we changing life expectancy?

Spector ME(1), Chinn SB, Rosko AJ, Worden FP, Ward PD, Divi V, McLean SA, Moyer 
JS, Prince ME, Wolf GT, Chepeha DB, Bradford CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Michigan 
Health System, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. mspector@med.umich.edu

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: To determine if the various imaging modalities for 
distant metastasis (DM) diagnosis alters life expectancy in head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective.
METHODS: One hundred seventy patients (mean age, 59.1 years; male:female, 
135:35) with HNSCC who developed DM were reviewed. The main outcome measures 
were the method of DM diagnosis and time from DM diagnosis to death while 
controlling for clinical parameters (age, gender, tobacco status, primary tumor 
site, initial TNM classification, number and site of DM, administration of 
palliative chemotherapy).
RESULTS: Tumor subsites were: 40 oral cavity, 75 oropharynx, 36 larynx, 10 
hypopharynx, one nasopharynx, and eight unknown primary. Of the patients, 16.5% 
(28/170) had distant metastasis at presentation; the remaining 142 patients were 
diagnosed with DM at a median of 324 days from diagnosis. Although patients 
diagnosed with DM by positron-emission tomography (PET) scan were more likely to 
have multiple DM sites (P = .0001), there were no differences in life expectancy 
in patients who were diagnosed with or without PET scan (median, 185 vs. 165 
days, P = .833). There were no differences in life expectancy based on age, 
gender, site of primary tumor, or number/site of DM. The use of palliative 
chemotherapy resulted in a significantly longer life expectancy (median, 285 vs. 
70 days; P = .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Although a PET scan is more likely to diagnose multiple DM sites, 
there was no difference in life expectancy based on imaging modality. Patients 
who are symptomatic from their distant metastasis have a worse life expectancy, 
and palliative chemotherapy was able to increase life expectancy, even in 
patients who were symptomatic from the distant metastasis.

Copyright © 2012 The American Laryngological, Rhinological, and Otological 
Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.23264
PMCID: PMC3470851
PMID: 22460441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None


949. Clin Calcium. 2012 Apr;22(4):103-9.

[Locomotive syndrome and frailty. Total knee arthroplasty supports active life 
of the elderly].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe T(1), Sekiya I, Muneta T.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cartilage Regeneration, Graduate School, Tokyo Medical and Dental 
University, Tokyo, Japan.

For a society with an aging population, it is important to extend healthy life 
expectancy. Knee arthroplasty is one of the most successful and beneficial 
treatments for osteoarthritic knees, helping the elderly improve their 
activities of daily life. Previous reports have proved health-related quality of 
life improves dramatically with this surgery. In particular, pain and physical 
functioning scores improve significantly. Although the preoperative physical 
activity of each patient does affect the postoperative activity level, 
sufficient improvements can be expected for this procedure on the elderly. These 
effective improvements make the number of knee arthroplasties increase year to 
year. The elderly have high risks of postoperative medical complications. 
However, long term results are comparable or superior to those in younger 
patients. In elderly patients, pre-existing conditions should be carefully 
