considering spatial and membership processes simultaneously yields valuable 
insights into the patterning of area variations in health.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2012.03.010
PMCID: PMC3758234
PMID: 22522099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. NeuroRehabilitation. 2012;31(1):85-94. doi: 10.3233/NRE-2012-0777.

Long-term health implications of individuals with TBI: a rehabilitation 
perspective.

Murphy MP(1), Carmine H.

Author information:
(1)ReMed Recovery Care Centers, Paoli, PA 19301, USA. mmurphy@remed.com

Individuals with acquired brain injuries often present with lifelong health 
challenges. Trauma to the body directly related to the injury, physical and 
medical sequelae resulting from the brain injury itself, and an increase in the 
observed onset of physical aging are among the problems which require 
consideration throughout their lives. For many rehabilitation professionals, 
issues related to medical stability and health maintenance are unfamiliar and 
intimidating. As both hospital stays shorten and an existing population of 
individuals with brain injuries' survival and life expectancy rates increase, 
rehabilitation professionals have been increasingly challenged by medical 
issues. Rehabilitation nurses are positioned to best navigate these issues and 
facilitate needed care coordination, early intervention, and ongoing education 
for individuals, their families, and other caregivers. This article describes 
common medical complications related to the initial and related disability and 
aging in individuals with brain injury including chronic and late emerging 
complications involving all body systems including spasticity and changing 
mobility, aspiration and dysphagia, incontinence, diabetes, and acute and 
chronic pain. Strategies for successful management of these issues in a home or 
community setting are also discussed. Special attention is paid to falls and 
fall prevention, issues specific to aging women, and nutrition and weight 
control. Ways to promote positive health behaviors to preserve function are also 
explored. Additionally, patient and family education as part of a lifetime 
management plan is discussed.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-2012-0777
PMID: 22523016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Cancers (Basel). 2011 Mar 16;3(1):1372-82. doi: 10.3390/cancers3011372.

The potential use of N-myristoyltransferase as a biomarker in the early 
diagnosis of colon cancer.

Kumar S(1), Dimmock JR, Sharma RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, College of Medicine, 
University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7N OW8, Canada.

Colon cancer is one of the most common malignant diseases and a major cause of 
mortality in the Western world. Metastasis to lymph nodes and other 
gastrointestinal organs, especially to the liver and lungs, is most common and 
occurs in up to 25% of cancer patients when initially diagnosed. The majority of 
colon cancers develop from noncancerous adenomatous polyps on the lining of the 
colon which grow over the years to become cancerous. If detected early, the 
surgical resections of the growth, often in combination with chemotherapy, 
significantly increases life expectancy. We have shown that the enzyme 
N-myristoyltransferase (NMT) which carries out lipid modification of several 
proteins (including many of those involved in oncogenesis) is expressed at 
higher levels in cancerous tissues from the colon. We have also shown that in 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and bone marrow (BM) cells collected 
from colon cancer patients and from azoxymethane-induced rats the expression and 
localization of NMT is altered. We have observed strong positivity for NMT in 
immunohistochemical analysis for PBMC from colon cancer patients as compared to 
control groups. Furthermore, in the bone marrow (BM) mononuclear cells, NMT was 
found to be confined to the nuclei whereas in control groups it was observed to 
be located in the cytoplasm. In conclusion, this strikingly differential 
localization offers the basis of a potential investigational tool for screening 
or diagnosis of individuals at risk for or suspected of having colon cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers3011372
PMCID: PMC3329441
PMID: 22523637


107. Immun Ageing. 2012 Apr 23;9(1):10. doi: 10.1186/1742-4933-9-10.

Centenarians and diet: what they eat in the Western part of Sicily.

Vasto S(1), Rizzo C, Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Biomolecular Sciences (STEMBIO), University of 
Palermo, Via Archifari 32, 90213, Palermo, Italy. sonya.vasto@unipa.it.

This paper pays attention to the modifiable lifestyle factors such as diet and 
nutrition that might influence life extension and successful ageing. Previous 
data reported that in Sicily, the biggest Mediterranean island, there are some 
places where there is a high frequency of male centenarians with respect to the 
Italian average. The present data show that in Sicani Mountain zone there are 
more centenarians with respect to the Italian average. In fact, in five villages 
of Sicani Mountains, there were 19 people with an age range of 100-107 years old 
from a total population of 18,328 inhabitants. So, the centenarian number was 
4.32-fold higher than the national average (10.37 vs. 2.4/10,000); the 
female/male ratio was 1.1:1 in the study area, while the national ratio is 
4.54:1. Unequivocally, their nutritional assessment showed a high adherence to 
the Mediterranean nutritional profile with low glycemic index food consumed. To 
reach successful ageing it is advisable to follow a diet with low quantity of 
saturated fat and high amount of fruits and vegetables rich in phytochemicals.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4933-9-10
PMCID: PMC3412743
PMID: 22524271


108. Immun Ageing. 2012 Apr 23;9:9. doi: 10.1186/1742-4933-9-9.

Extending healthy ageing: nutrient sensitive pathway and centenarian population.

Davinelli S(1), Willcox DC, Scapagnini G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Molise, Campobasso, Italy. 
g.scapagnini@gmail.com.

Ageing is a challenge for any living organism and human longevity is a complex 
phenotype. With increasing life expectancy, maintaining long-term health, 
functionality and well-being during ageing has become an essential goal. To 
increase our understanding of how ageing works, it may be advantageous to 
analyze the phenotype of centenarians, perhaps one of the best examples of 
successful ageing. Healthy ageing involves the interaction between genes, the 
environment, and lifestyle factors, particularly diet. Besides evaluating 
specific gene-environment interactions in relation to exceptional longevity, it 
is important to focus attention on modifiable lifestyle factors such as diet and 
nutrition to achieve extension of health span. Furthermore, a better 
understanding of human longevity may assist in the design of strategies to 
extend the duration of optimal human health. In this article we briefly discuss 
relevant topics on ageing and longevity with particular focus on dietary 
patterns of centenarians and nutrient-sensing pathways that have a pivotal role 
in the regulation of life span. Finally, we also discuss the potential role of 
Nrf2 system in the pro-ageing signaling emphasizing its phytohormetic 
activation.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4933-9-9
PMCID: PMC3379947
PMID: 22524452


109. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2012;13(2):411-20. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.2.411.

The burden of cancer in member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations (ASEAN).

Kimman M(1), Norman R, Jan S, Kingston D, Woodward M.

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health. mkimman@georgeinstitute.org.au

This paper presents the most recent data on cancer rates and the burden of 
cancer in the ASEAN region. Epidemiological data were sourced from GLOBOCAN 2008 
and disability adjusted life years (DALYs) lost were estimated using the 
standard methodology developed within the World Health Organization's Global 
Burden of Disease study. Overall, it was estimated there were over 700,000 new 
cases of cancer and 500,000 cancer deaths in ASEAN in the year 2008, leading to 
approximately 7.5 million DALYs lost in one year. The most commonly diagnosed 
cancers were lung (98,143), breast (86,842) and liver cancers (74,777). The most 
common causes of cancer death were lung cancer (85,772), liver cancer (69,115) 
and colorectal cancer (44,280). The burden of cancer in terms of DALYs lost was 
highest in Laos, Viet Nam and Myanmar and lowest in Brunei, Singapore and the 
Philippines. Significant differences in the patterns of cancer from country to 
country were observed. Another key finding was the major impact played by 
population age distribution on cancer incidence and mortality. Cancer rates in 
ASEAN are expected to increase with ageing of populations and changes in 
lifestyles associated with economic development. Therefore, ASEAN member 
countries are strongly encouraged to put in place cancer-control health care 
policies, focussed on strengthening the health systems to cope with projected 
increases in cancer prevention, treatment and management needs.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.2.411
PMID: 22524799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Int J Inj Contr Saf Promot. 2012;19(3):260-6. doi:
10.1080/17457300.2012.674047.  Epub 2012 Apr 24.

Challenges to elderly safety in Safe Community movements in Japan.

Shiraishi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Japan Institution for Safe Communities, Osaka, Japan. 
yoko_shiraishi@jisc-ascsc.jp

In Japan, with the longest life expectancy in the world over the last two 
decades, a great emphasis has been placed on the safety of the elderly, which 
has in turn influenced their well-being. Meantime, the concept of Safe Community 
(SC) has drawn more attention as one of the potential measures to sustain and 
improve the health conditions of the elderly. In hope of improving the 
effectiveness and efficiency of current efforts for elderly safety, the SC model 
is expected to provide features with which communities can make the better use 
of current limited resources. This article examines how the SC model makes a 
difference in these efforts by utilising existing programmes and how elderly 
safety can be promoted at the community level. Six communities working safety 
promotion based on the SC model were selected for the study. Although there are 
limitations to the information due to the insufficient experience in SC in 
Japan, it was found that two features make SC significant in promoting safety: 
(1) systematic evidence-based plan-do-check-action processes and (2) a framework 
of cross-sectoral collaboration. However, to examine and identify the 
effectiveness of SC on elderly health, further observation is required to 
develop strategies while accumulating longitudinal data.

DOI: 10.1080/17457300.2012.674047
PMID: 22524981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Environ Entomol. 2012 Feb;41(1):1-10. doi: 10.1603/EN10210.

Developmental times and age-specific life tables for Lygus lineolaris 
(Heteroptera: Miridae), reared at multiple constant temperatures.

Ugine TA(1).

Author information:
(1)USDA-ARS SIMRU, Stoneville, MS 38776, USA. tau2@cornell.edu

Developmental times and survivorship of tarnished plant bug nymphs, Lygus 
lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois), and longevity and reproduction of adult 
tarnished plant bug adults reared on green beans were studied at multiple 
constant temperatures. The developmental time for each life stage and the total 
time from egg to adult decreased with increasing temperature. Eggs required the 
longest time to develop followed by fifth instars and then first-instars. Total 
developmental time from egg to adult was shortest at 32°C, requiring 18.0 ± 0.3 
d and 416.7 ± 31.3 DD above 7.9°C, the estimated minimum temperature for 
development from egg to adult. Sex did not affect total developmental times and 
did not affect median survival time. Adults lived significantly fewer days at 
high temperatures (30-32°C: 17-19 d) compared with temperatures below 30°C 
(range: 24.5-39.4 d) and the number of eggs laid per day increased from ≈ 4 at 
18°C to a maximum of 9.5 eggs per day at 30°C. Total egg production over the 
lifetime of female tarnished plant bugs increased with temperature reaching a 
maximum of 175 eggs on average at 27°C, total egg production declined at 
temperatures above 27°C (30°C: 110.8, 32°C: 77.3 eggs per female). The highest 
net reproductive rate 74.5 (R(0)) was obtained from insects maintained at 27°C. 
The intrinsic rate of natural increase (r(m)) increased linearly with 
temperature to a maximum value of 0.1852 at 30°C, and then decreased at 32°C. 
Generation and doubling times of the population were shortest at 30°C, 21.0 and 
3.7 d, respectively.

DOI: 10.1603/EN10210
PMID: 22525054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Environ Entomol. 2012 Feb;41(1):30-9. doi: 10.1603/EN11206.

A comparison of artificial diet and hybrid sweet corn for the rearing of 
Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) based on life table 
characteristics.

Jha RK(1), Chi H, Tang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, 
Taiwan, Republic of China.

The demographic characteristics of Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) reared on 
hybrid sweet corn (Zea mays L. variety saccharata) (hybrid super sweet corn KY 
bright jean) and on an artificial diet were compared by using the age-stage, 
two-sex life table. Because the hatch rate of eggs varies with maternal age, 
age-specific fecundity was calculated based on the numbers of hatched eggs to 
reveal the biological characteristics of H. armigera accurately. The intrinsic 
rate of increase (r), finite rate (λ) and mean generation time (T) of H. 
armigera were 0.0853 d(-1), 1.0890 d(-1), and 46.6 d, respectively, on Z. mays 
and 0.1015 d(-1), 1.1068 d(-1), and 46.3 d, respectively, on the artificial 
diet. There were significant differences in the intrinsic rate of increase and 
finite rate between two treatments. The age-stage life expectancy and 
reproductive value also were calculated. The relationships among the net 
reproductive rate, the mean female fecundity, the number of emerged females, and 
the total number of individuals used in the life table study are consistent with 
theoretical expectations. We recommend the age-stage, two-sex life table for use 
in insect demographic studies to incorporate both sexes and the variation in 
developmental rate among individuals and to obtain accurate population 
parameters. The artificial diet is more suitable for the mass rearing of H. 
armigera.

DOI: 10.1603/EN11206
PMID: 22525057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Mech Ageing Dev. 2012 May;133(5):359-67. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2012.04.002.
Epub  2012 Apr 15.

Long-lived genotypes for studies of life extension in Drosophila melanogaster.

Mockett RJ(1), Cockrell JC, Puri S, Nguyen M, Nisa M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, HAHN 4025, University of South Alabama, 
5721 USA Drive N., Mobile, AL 36688-0002, USA. mockett@usouthal.edu

Numerous single-gene mutations obtained by insertion of P elements in white (w) 
genetic backgrounds have been reported to extend the life span of Drosophila 
melanogaster, but life extension is sometimes observed only in relatively 
short-lived backgrounds. The objective of this study was to develop long- and 
short-lived, high and low fertility backgrounds in which to test the 
reproducibility and possible additivity of effects of prospective life-extending 
treatments. Flies previously reported to be long- or short-lived, following 
artificial selection for early or delayed reproduction and inbreeding, were 
rendered essentially isogenic, and a w visible marker was introduced. Isogeny 
adversely affected both life span and fertility, but w had little or no effect 
on either trait. Unexpectedly, none of these lines or a stock under 
uninterrupted selection for delayed reproduction lived any longer than an 
unselected, highly fertile y w strain used in earlier studies of longevity. 
Strains derived from one artificial selection experiment were found to contain 
functional P elements, as did the two longest-lived genotypes in this study, 
which were inbred without artificial selection. The y w background appears to be 
at least equally as long-lived as any other currently available for tests of 
life extension by P{w(+)} mutations.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2012.04.002
PMID: 22525703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2012 Sep;110(1):24-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2012.04.004. Epub 2012 Apr 21.

Selection within organisms in the nineteenth century: Wilhelm Roux's complex 
legacy.

Heams T(1).

Author information:
(1)INRA, UMR 1313, Génétique Animale et Biologie Intégrative, Domaine de 
Vilvert, 78352 Jouy-en-Josas cedex, France. thomas.heams@agroparistech.fr

Selectionism, or the extension of darwinian chance/selection dynamics beyond the 
individual level, has a long history in biological thought. It has generated 
important theories in immunology or neurology, and turns out to be a convincing 
framework to account for the intrinsic stochastic nature of core events in 
cellular biology. When looking back at the intellectual origins of selectionism, 
the essay by the German embryologist Wilhelm Roux, Der Kampf der Theile im 
Organismus (The Struggle of the Parts in the Organism - 1881) might be one, if 
not the earliest reference after the darwinian revolution. It describes the 
individual as a multilevel structure, where each level results from a 
'darwinian' struggle of its parts (molecules, cells, tissues, organs). But 
Roux's theory, far from being a simple extension of natural selection, has 
complex and even conflictual relationships with darwinism. This essay is worth 
rediscovering as a subtle historical testimony of the evolutionary and 
developmental life sciences debates of its time. Moreover, some of its theses 
may also enrich some current debates among evolutionary biologists over levels 
of selection, and among cellular and molecular biologists over the status of 
determinism in biology today.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2012.04.004
PMID: 22525790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2012 Sep;138(9):1493-500. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-012-1222-2. Epub 2012 Apr 22.

External validity of the Tokuhashi score in patients with vertebral metastasis.

Hernandez-Fernandez A(1), Vélez R, Lersundi-Artamendi A, Pellisé F.

Author information:
(1)Spine Unit, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery (Gipuzkoa Building), Hospital 
Universitario Donostia, Paseo Dr. Beguiristain 107, 20014, San Sebastián, Spain. 
ahf.donostia@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To calculate the accuracy of the Tokuhashi score (TS) in recent 
patients with vertebral metastasis (VM), candidates or not to surgical 
treatment, and thus to assess the external validity of TS.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data from 90 patients 
(55 men, 35 women) with VM between 2004 and 2006. For each patient, data on the 
primary tumor (PT), date of diagnosis, TS at the time of VM diagnosis and date 
of death were retrieved from the electronic medical records and civil registry. 
True survival time and TS survival time were estimated to calculate the accuracy 
rate of the TS. A Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to study the survival function 
by prognostic groups. A correlation study between survival time and other 
variables was performed.
RESULTS: PT distribution was as follows: breast (22.2 %), lung (20 %), prostate 
(17.8 %), rectum (10 %), unknown (11 %), and others (18 %). Average overall 
survival after the VM diagnosis was 11.8 months (SD, 11 m): breast, 20 months 
(SD, 20 m); lung, 5.8 months (SD, 5.9 m); prostate, 14.5 months (SD, 13.4 m); 
rectum, 9.4 months (SD, 9.3); and unknown tumors, 2.7 months (SD, 5 m). Survival 
time was accurately predicted with the TS in 63 % of patients with a short life 
expectancy (survival, <6 months; TS, 0-8), 16 % of patients in the intermediate 
group (survival, 6-12 months; TS, 9-11), and 77 % of patients with a good 
prognosis (survival >12 months; TS, 12-15). By specific PT, the accuracy rate of 
the TS was low for breast cancer metastasis (35 %). The Kaplan-Meier curves show 
a significant separation among the prognostic groups (p < 0.05), but the 
log-rank test showed a statistically significant difference in survival only 
between short expectancy group and good prognostic group. Age at PT diagnosis 
and at VM diagnosis negatively correlated with survival (r = 0.22; p = 0.032 and 
r = 0.3, p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: The TS was not highly accurate for predicting survival in patients 
with VM, treated or not surgically, and it was particularly imprecise in 
patients with an intermediate score (9-11 points) and those with breast cancer, 
so it is possible that the TS currently has a poor external validity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-012-1222-2
PMID: 22526160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. J Gastroenterol. 2012 May;47(5):498-503. doi: 10.1007/s00535-012-0586-z.
Epub  2012 Apr 17.

Autoimmune hepatitis: a review.

Gossard AA(1), Lindor KD.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55901, USA. Gossard.andrea@mayo.edu

Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is an inflammatory liver disease that predominantly 
affects females. The disease is characterized histologically by interface 
hepatitis, biochemically by increased aspartate and alanine aminotransferase 
levels, and serologically by the presence of autoantibodies and elevated levels 
of immunoglobulin G. AIH affects both adults and children, and is particularly 
aggressive in the latter group. It is a relatively rare but devastating disease, 
which progresses rapidly unless immunosuppressive treatment is started promptly. 
Treatment is often successful at inducing remission of disease, and this can 
lead to a normal life expectancy. However, progression to cirrhosis can and does 
occur in some. For those with advanced-stage disease and complications, 
consideration of liver transplantation is appropriate.

DOI: 10.1007/s00535-012-0586-z
PMID: 22526272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Ann Hematol. 2012 Sep;91(9):1451-8. doi: 10.1007/s00277-012-1465-7. Epub
2012  Apr 19.

A national registry of haemoglobinopathies in Greece: deducted demographics, 
trends in mortality and affected births.

Voskaridou E(1), Ladis V, Kattamis A, Hassapopoulou E, Economou M, Kourakli A, 
Maragkos K, Kontogianni K, Lafioniatis S, Vrettou E, Koutsouka F, Papadakis A, 
Mihos A, Eftihiadis E, Farmaki K, Papageorgiou O, Tapaki G, Maili P, Theohari M, 
Drosou M, Kartasis Z, Aggelaki M, Basileiadi A, Adamopoulos I, Lafiatis I, 
Galanopoulos A, Xanthopoulidis G, Dimitriadou E, Mprimi A, Stamatopoulou M, 
Haile ED, Tsironi M, Anastasiadis A, Kalmanti M, Papadopoulou M, Panori E, 
Dimoxenou P, Tsirka A, Georgakopoulos D, Drandrakis P, Dionisopoulou D, 
Ntalamaga A, Davros I, Karagiorga M; Greek Haemoglobinopathies Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Thalassaemia Center, Laikon General Hospital, 16 Sevastoupoleos street, 
GR-11526, Athens, Greece. ersi.voskaridou@gmail.com

Haemoglobinopathies are the most common hereditary disorders in Greece. Although 
there is a successful national prevention program, established 35 years ago, 
there is lack of an official registry and collection of epidemiological data for 
haemoglobinopathies. This paper reports the results of the first National 
Registry for Haemoglobinopathies in Greece (NRHG), recently organized by the 
Greek Society of Haematology. NRHG records all patients affected by thalassaemia 
major (TM), thalassaemia intermedia (TI), "H" Haemoglobinopathy (HH) and sickle 
cell disease (SCD). Moreover, data about the annual rate of new affected births 
along with deaths, between 2000 and 2010, are reported. A total of 4,506 
patients are registered all over the country while the number of affected 
newborns was significantly decreased during the last 3 years. Main causes for 
still having affected births are: (1) lack of medical care due to financial 
reasons or low educational level; (2) unawareness of time limitations for 
prenatal diagnosis (PD); due either to obstetricians' malpractice or to delayed 
demand of medical care of couples at risk; and (3) religious, social or 
bioethical reasons. Cardiac and liver disorders consist main causes for deaths 
while life expectancy of patients lengthened after 2005 (p < 0.01). The NRHG of 
patients affected by haemoglobinopathies in Greece provides useful data about 
the haemoglobinopathies in the Greek population and confirms the efficacy of the 
National Thalassaemia Prevention Program on impressively decreasing the 
incidence of TM and sickle cell syndromes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-012-1465-7
PMID: 22526366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2012 Dec;262(8):705-24. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-012-0317-8. Epub 2012 Apr 21.

Long-term functional outcome in adult prison inmates with ADHD receiving 
OROS-methylphenidate.

Ginsberg Y(1), Hirvikoski T, Grann M, Lindefors N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Division of Psychiatry, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. ylva.ginsberg@ki.se

In a recent randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, we established a 
robust efficacy (Cohen's d = 2.17) of osmotic release oral 
system-methylphenidate (OROS-methylphenidate) delivered 72 mg daily for 5 weeks 
versus placebo on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms, 
global severity and global functioning in 30 adult male prison inmates with ADHD 
and coexisting disorders. Outcomes continued to improve during the subsequent 
47-week open-label extension with OROS-methylphenidate delivered at a flexible 
daily dosage of up to 1.3 mg/kg body weight. In the present study, we evaluated 
long-term effectiveness and maintenance of improvement over the cumulated 
52-week trial on cognition, motor activity, institutional behaviour and quality 
of life. Post hoc, we explored the associations between investigators' and 
self-ratings of ADHD symptoms and between ratings of symptoms and functioning, 
respectively. Outcomes, calculated by repeated measures ANOVA, improved from 
baseline until week 16, with maintenance or further improvement until week 52. 
Both verbal and visuospatial working memory, and abstract verbal reasoning 
improved significantly over time, as well as several cognition-related measures 
and motor activity. No substance abuse was detected and a majority of 
participants took part in psychosocial treatment programmes. The quality of life 
domains of Learning, and Goals and values improved over time; the latter domain 
was at open-label endpoint significantly related to improvements in attention. 
Investigators' and self-ratings of ADHD symptoms, as well as global symptom 
severity related most significantly to global functioning at week 52. Finally, 
investigators' and self-ratings of ADHD symptoms associated significantly at 
baseline with increasing convergence over time.

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-012-0317-8
PMCID: PMC3491195
PMID: 22526730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
May;55(5):614-21. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1469-4.

[Health care expenditures and the aging population].

[Article in German]

Felder S(1).

Author information:
(1)Wirtschaftswissenschaftliches Zentrum, Abteilung Health Economics, 
Universität Basel, Postfach, 4002, Basel, Schweiz. stefan.felder@unibas.ch

The impact of a longer life on future health care expenditures will be quite 
moderate because of the high costs of dying and the compression of mortality in 
old age. If not age per se but proximity to death determines the bulk of 
expenditures, a shift in the mortality risk to higher ages will not 
significantly affect lifetime health care expenditures, as death occurs only 
once in every life. A calculation of the demographic effect on health care 
expenditures in Germany up until 2050 that explicitly accounts for costs in the 
last years of life leads to a significantly lower demographic impact on 
per-capita expenditures than a calculation based on crude age-specific health 
expenditures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1469-4
PMID: 22526849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Eur J Pediatr. 2012 Oct;171(10):1567-71. doi: 10.1007/s00431-012-1732-6.
Epub  2012 Apr 17.

Medical management of moyamoya disease and recurrent stroke in an infant with 
Majewski osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II (MOPD II).

Kılıç E(1), Utine E, Unal S, Haliloğlu G, Oğuz KK, Cetin M, Boduroğlu K, Alanay 
Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Genetic, Hacettepe University 
Children's Hospital, 06100 Ankara, Turkey. korkmazkilic@yahoo.com.tr

We report an infant diagnosed with Majewski osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism 
type II at age 8 months, who experienced cerebrovascular morbidities related to 
this entity. Molecular analysis identified c.2609+1 G>A, intron 14, homozygous 
splice site mutation in the pericentrin gene. At age 18 months, she developed 
recurrent strokes and hemiparesis. Brain magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic 
resonance angiography showed abnormal gyral pattern, cortical acute infarcts, 
bilateral stenosis of the internal carotid arteries and reduced flow on the 
cerebral arteries, consistent with moyamoya disease. In Majewski osteodysplastic 
primordial dwarfism type II, life expectancy is reduced because of high risk of 
stroke secondary to cerebral vascular anomalies (aneurysms, moyamoya disease). 
Periodic screening for vascular events is recommended in individuals with 
Majewski osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II every 12-18 months 
following diagnosis. Our patient was medically managed with low molecular weight 
heparin followed with aspirin prophylaxis, in addition to carbamazepine and 
physical rehabilitation.
CONCLUSION: We report an infant with moyamoya disease and recurrent stroke 
presenting 10 months after diagnosis (at age 18 months), and discuss the outcome 
of nonsurgical medical management. The presented case is the second youngest 
case developing stroke and moyamoya disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-012-1732-6
PMID: 22527565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Pituitary. 2012 Sep;15(3):319-29. doi: 10.1007/s11102-012-0394-8.

Clinical consequences of Cushing's syndrome.

Valassi E(1), Crespo I, Santos A, Webb SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine/Endocrinology, Research Group on Pituitary Diseases, 
Hospital Sant Pau, IIB-Sant Pau, Pare Claret 167, 08025, Barcelona, Spain. 
EValassi@santpau.cat

Recent evidence suggests that correction of hypercortisolism in Cushing's 
syndrome (CS) may not lead to complete remission of the clinical abnormalities 
associated with this condition. In particular, elevated cardiovascular risk may 
persist in "cured" CS patients long-term after eucortisolism has been reached. 
This is believed to be related with the maintenance of visceral obesity and 
altered adipokine secretory pattern which perpetuate features of metabolic 
syndrome, including impaired glucose tolerance, hypertension, dyslipidemia, 
atherosclerosis and hypercoagulability. Nephrolithiasis and incomplete recovery 
of bone mineral density have also been described in "cured" CS patients. 
Moreover, previous exposure to excess cortisol may have irreversible effects on 
the structures of the central nervous system controlling cognitive function and 
mood. Thus, sustained deterioration of the cardiovascular system, bone 
remodelling and cognitive function may be associated with high morbidity and 
poor quality of life in CS patients in remission for many years. Although 
mortality in "cured" CS patients may not differ from that in the general 
population, data beyond 20 years follow-up are very scarce, so further studies 
evaluating larger cohorts for longer follow-up periods are needed to draw 
definitive conclusions on longevity. Life-long monitoring is mandatory in CS 
patients in order to control long term complications of previous cortisol excess 
and, possibly, normalize life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11102-012-0394-8
PMID: 22527617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Clin Child Fam Psychol Rev. 2012 Sep;15(3):192-214. doi: 
10.1007/s10567-012-0115-x.

Health-related quality of life in children and adolescents following traumatic 
injury: a review.

Martin-Herz SP(1), Zatzick DF, McMahon RJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. susanne@u.washington.edu

This paper comprehensively reviews the published literature investigating 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) following general traumatic injury in 
individuals between birth and 18 years. Studies were not considered if they 
primarily compared medical treatment options, evaluated physical function but 
not other aspects of HRQOL, or focused on non-traumatic wounds. Specific injury 
types (e.g., burn injury) were also not included. A total of 16 studies met 
criteria. Participants were age 1-18 years, with 12 studies considering children 
5 years of age or older. Males were overrepresented. Injury severity averaged 
mostly in the moderate range. HRQOL deficits were noted in injured samples in 
all studies except the two with the longest time to follow-up (6-11 years). Some 
improvement was seen 6 months to 2 years after injury. Factors associated with 
HRQOL deficits were investigated, with acute and posttraumatic stress disorder 
symptoms showing the strongest relationship. Research to date in this area is 
impressive, particularly the number of studies using prospective longitudinal 
investigations and validated measures. Challenges remain regarding methodologic 
differences, assessment of preinjury status, retention of participants, and 
management of missing data. Suggested future directions include extension of 
follow-up duration, utilization of pediatric self-report when possible, 
inclusion of younger children, and development of intervention programs.

DOI: 10.1007/s10567-012-0115-x
PMCID: PMC5502475
PMID: 22527775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Metab Brain Dis. 2012 Jun;27(2):113-9. doi: 10.1007/s11011-012-9307-9. Epub
2012  Apr 25.

Melatonin: an overlooked factor in schizophrenia and in the inhibition of 
anti-psychotic side effects.

Anderson G(1), Maes M.

Author information:
(1)CRC, Glasgow, Scotland, UK. anderson.george@rocketmail.com

This paper reviews melatonin as an overlooked factor in the developmental 
etiology and maintenance of schizophrenia; the neuroimmune and oxidative 
pathophysiology of schizophrenia; specific symptoms in schizophrenia, including 
sleep disturbance; circadian rhythms; and side effects of antipsychotics, 
including tardive dyskinesia and metabolic syndrome. Electronic databases, i.e. 
PUBMED, Scopus and Google Scholar were used as sources for this review using 
keywords: schizophrenia, psychosis, tardive dyskinesia, antipsychotics, 
metabolic syndrome, drug side effects and melatonin. Articles were selected on 
the basis of relevance to the etiology, course and treatment of schizophrenia. 
Melatonin levels and melatonin circadian rhythm are significantly decreased in 
schizophrenic patients. The adjunctive use of melatonin in schizophrenia may 
augment the efficacy of antipsychotics through its anti-inflammatory and 
antioxidative effects. Further, melatonin would be expected to improve sleep 
disorders in schizophrenia and side effects of anti-psychotics, such as tardive 
dyskinesia, metaboilic syndrome and hypertension. It is proposed that melatonin 
also impacts on the tryptophan catabolic pathway via its effect on stress 
response and cortisol secretion, thereby impacting on cortex associated 
cognition, amygdala associated affect and striatal motivational processing. The 
secretion of melatonin is decreased in schizophrenia, contributing to its 
etiology, pathophysiology and management. Melatonin is likely to have impacts on 
the metabolic side effects of anti-psychotics that contribute to subsequent 
decreases in life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-012-9307-9
PMID: 22527998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Neurovirol. 2012 Aug;18(4):264-76. doi: 10.1007/s13365-012-0092-3. Epub
2012  Apr 14.

Cerebrovascular disease in HIV-infected individuals in the era of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy.

Cruse B(1), Cysique LA, Markus R, Brew BJ.

Author information:
(1)St. Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The widespread use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in 
HIV-infected individuals mostly in developed countries has dramatically improved 
their prognosis. In such advantaged regions of the world, therefore, many 
patients are now transitioning from middle into older age, with altered patterns 
of disease. While previously a rare complication of HIV infection, 
cerebrovascular disease (particularly that associated with atherosclerosis) is 
becoming relatively more important in this treated group of individuals. This 
review summarises the evidence regarding the shifting epidemiology of 
cerebrovascular diseases affecting HIV-infected individuals. While outlining the 
association between HIV infection and AIDS and cerebrovascular disease, as well 
as opportunistic diseases and HIV-associated vasculopathies, the current 
evidence supporting an increase in atherosclerotic disease in treated 
HIV-infected individuals is emphasised and a management approach to ischaemic 
stroke in HIV-infected individuals is presented. Evidence supporting the 
important role of HAART and HIV infection itself in the pathogenesis of 
atherosclerotic disease is discussed, together with preventative approaches to 
this increasingly important disease process as the population ages. Finally, a 
discussion regarding the significant association between cerebrovascular disease 
and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder is presented, together with possible 
mechanisms behind this relationship.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-012-0092-3
PMID: 22528476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. J Neurovirol. 2012 Aug;18(4):256-63. doi: 10.1007/s13365-012-0094-1. Epub
2012  Apr 14.

Impact of HIV and aging on neuropsychological function.

Wendelken LA(1), Valcour V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, UCSF, San Francisco, CA 94143-1207, USA. 
lwendelken@memory.ucsf.edu

Cognitive efficiency decreases with age, and advancing age is the leading risk 
factor for most neurodegenerative disorders that result in dementia. In HIV 
infection, risk for cognitive impairment is consistently linked to advancing 
chronological age. As the HIV epidemic enters its fourth decade in the USA, 
extended life expectancy will likely result in an increased prevalence of 
cognitive disorders by virtue of these factors. However, it is less clear if HIV 
potentiates or accelerates the risk for cognitive impairment given that most 
reports are mixed or demonstrate only a small interaction effect. More 
critically, it is unclear if HIV will modulate the neuropathology associated 
with non-HIV cognitive disorders in a manner that will increase risk for 
diseases such as cerebrovascular and Alzheimer's disease. In the coming years, 
with increasing numbers of HIV+ patients entering their 60s and 70s, background 
risk for neurodegenerative disorders will be sufficiently high as to inform this 
issue on clinical grounds. This review summarizes knowledge of cognition in HIV 
as it relates to age and presents some emerging controversies.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-012-0094-1
PMCID: PMC3661281
PMID: 22528478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest None.


126. Pharmacotherapy. 2012 Jun;32(6):515-26. doi:
10.1002/j.1875-9114.2011.01053.x.  Epub 2012 Apr 23.

Cost-utility analysis of biologic treatments for moderate-to-severe Crohn's 
disease.

Tang DH(1), Armstrong EP, Lee JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Arizona College of 
Pharmacy, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost versus utility of four 
guideline-recommended biologic treatments-infliximab, adalimumab, certolizumab 
pegol, and natalizumab-for the treatment of Crohn's disease from a United States 
payer perspective.
DESIGN: Cost-utility decision analytic model using a Monte Carlo simulation of 
10,000 cases.
DATA SOURCE: Published primary and tertiary literature.
PATIENTS: Patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease, as categorized by 
the Crohn's Disease Activity Index, that failed to respond to standard therapy 
and who were treatment naive to biologics.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The decision analytic model base case was a 
35-year-old patient weighing 70 kg with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease. 
Therapeutic efficacy data were obtained from published clinical trials. Online 
prescription drug, hospitalization data, and Current Procedural Terminology 
codes were used to estimate cost. Utility measures were estimated using 
published data obtained from patients with Crohn's disease. The time end point 
used for the model was 54 weeks. The analysis demonstrated considerable overlap 
in quality-adjusted life years gained with the four agents (i.e., mean values 
across four treatments 0.79-0.80). Although infliximab had the lowest median 
cost, there was overlap in the 95% confidence intervals (CIs) compared with the 
other three biologic products: mean (95% CI) cost for infliximab $22,663 
($19,105-26,433), adalimumab $27,515 ($23,796-31,584), certolizumab pegol 
$29,062 ($24,952-33,882), and natalizumab $31,166 ($25,915-37,195). However, the 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curve demonstrated that infliximab had the most 
scenarios (95.2%) when it was the most cost-effective biologic therapy using a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000/quality-adjusted life years gained.
CONCLUSION: Patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease that failed to 
respond to standard treatment should preferentially receive infliximab as their 
initial biologic treatment, since this agent had the highest probability of 
being the most cost-effective therapy compared with the other biologic treatment 
options.

© 2012 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1875-9114.2011.01053.x
PMID: 22528603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Health Econ. 2013 May;22(5):568-81. doi: 10.1002/hec.2827. Epub 2012 Apr 23.

Efficiency and equity: a stated preference approach.

Norman R(1), Hall J, Street D, Viney R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of 
Technology, Broadway, Sydney, Australia. richard.norman@chere.uts.edu.au

Outcome measurement in the economic evaluation of health care considers outcomes 
independent of to whom they accrue. This article reports on a discrete choice 
experiment designed to elicit population preferences regarding the allocation of 
health gain between hypothetical groups of potential patients. A random-effects 
probit model is estimated, and a technique for converting these results into 
equity weights for use in economic evaluation is adopted. On average, the 
modelling predicts a relatively high social value on health gains accruing to 
nonsmokers, carers, those with a low income and those with an expected age of 
death less than 45 years. Respondents tend to favour individuals with similar 
characteristics to themselves. These results challenge the conventional practice 
of assuming constant equity weighting. For decision makers, whether a formal 
equity weighting system represents an improvement on more informal approaches to 
weighing up equity and efficiency concerns remains uncertain.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2827
PMID: 22529053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Front Physiol. 2012 Apr 18;3:106. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2012.00106. eCollection
 2012.

Healthy aging - insights from Drosophila.

Iliadi KG(1), Knight D, Boulianne GL.

Author information:
(1)Program in Developmental and Stem Cell Biology, The Hospital for Sick 
Children Toronto, ON, Canada.

Human life expectancy has nearly doubled in the past century due, in part, to 
social and economic development, and a wide range of new medical technologies 
and treatments. As the number of elderly increase it becomes of vital importance 
to understand what factors contribute to healthy aging. Human longevity is a 
complex process that is affected by both environmental and genetic factors and 
interactions between them. Unfortunately, it is currently difficult to identify 
the role of genetic components in human longevity. In contrast, model organisms 
such as C. elegans, Drosophila, and rodents have facilitated the search for 
specific genes that affect lifespan. Experimental evidence obtained from studies 
in model organisms suggests that mutations in a single gene may increase 
longevity and delay the onset of age-related symptoms including motor 
impairments, sexual and reproductive and immune dysfunction, cardiovascular 
disease, and cognitive decline. Furthermore, the high degree of conservation 
between diverse species in the genes and pathways that regulate longevity 
suggests that work in model organisms can both expand our theoretical knowledge 
of aging and perhaps provide new therapeutic targets for the treatment of 
age-related disorders.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2012.00106
PMCID: PMC3328947
PMID: 22529821


129. PLoS One. 2012;7(4):e32930. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032930. Epub 2012 Apr
17.

Geographic and racial variation in premature mortality in the U.S.: analyzing 
the disparities.

Cullen MR(1), Cummins C, Fuchs VR.

Author information:
(1)General Medical Disciplines, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, California, United States of America. mrcullen@stanford.edu

Life expectancy at birth, estimated from United States period life tables, has 
been shown to vary systematically and widely by region and race. We use the same 
tables to estimate the probability of survival from birth to age 70 (S(70)), a 
measure of mortality more sensitive to disparities and more reliably calculated 
for small populations, to describe the variation and identify its sources in 
greater detail to assess the patterns of this variation. Examination of the 
unadjusted probability of S(70) for each US county with a sufficient population 
of whites and blacks reveals large geographic differences for each race-sex 
group. For example, white males born in the ten percent healthiest counties have 
a 77 percent probability of survival to age 70, but only a 61 percent chance if 
born in the ten percent least healthy counties. Similar geographical disparities 
face white women and blacks of each sex. Moreover, within each county, large 
differences in S(70) prevail between blacks and whites, on average 17 percentage 
points for men and 12 percentage points for women. In linear regressions for 
each race-sex group, nearly all of the geographic variation is accounted for by 
a common set of 22 socio-economic and environmental variables, selected for 
previously suspected impact on mortality; R(2) ranges from 0.86 for white males 
to 0.72 for black females. Analysis of black-white survival chances within each 
county reveals that the same variables account for most of the race gap in S(70) 
as well. When actual white male values for each explanatory variable are 
substituted for black in the black male prediction equation to assess the role 
explanatory variables play in the black-white survival difference, residual 
black-white differences at the county level shrink markedly to a mean of -2.4% 
(+/-2.4); for women the mean difference is -3.7% (+/-2.3).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032930
PMCID: PMC3328498
PMID: 22529892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


130. Haemophilia. 2012 May;18 Suppl 2:37-45. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2516.2012.02798.x.

Management of bleeding disorders in the elderly.

Kruse-Jarres R(1), Quon D, Schramm W, Dolan G.

Author information:
(1)Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA. 
rkruseja@tulane.edu

We are entering a new phase in the management of patients with bleeding 
disorders such as haemophilia. This is the result of the positive effects that 
disease management strategies have had on patient longevity over the last 10-15 
years. A greater number of individuals are entering middle- to old-age and, as a 
result, we face a new era of having to manage haemophiliac patients at risk of, 
or suffering from, age-related diseases. We can clearly learn from the 
experiences of geriatricians who have made many advances in the management of 
chronic disorders such as cardiovascular diseases and osteoporosis. However, the 
hypocoagulable state brings challenges of its own and it is important that we 
communicate our experiences so that the shared information can help drive 
improved levels of care and better clinical outcomes. In this article we look at 
factors that have impacted the life expectancy of patients with haemophilia over 
the last few decades, and we also review some of the early literature relating 
to cardiovascular risk management and the treatment of osteoporosis.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2012.02798.x
PMID: 22530577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Drugs Aging. 2012 May 1;29(5):e1-e12. doi: 10.2165/11599290-000000000-00000.

Glucose and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering in elderly patients 
with type 2 diabetes: focus on combination therapy with colesevelam HCl.

Marrs JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Colorado Skaggs School of 
Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Aurora, CO, USA.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus is high among the elderly population. 
Treatment of elderly patients with type 2 diabetes presents challenges because 
of co-morbidities and the potential increase in the risk of adverse effects. 
Hyperlipidaemia is also common in the elderly population. Glucose- and 
lipid-lowering treatment in elderly patients should be individualized on the 
basis of the patient's life expectancy, health status and cardiovascular risk 
factors, and evidence-based guideline recommendations. Because elderly patients 
often have impaired renal and hepatic function, careful considerations must be 
made when selecting appropriate glucose- and lipid-lowering therapy. There are a 
number of potential safety issues associated with various glucose- and 
lipid-lowering therapies that are relevant to elderly patients, including 
increased risk of heart failure exacerbations, weight loss, increased risk of 
hypoglycaemia, increased risk of myopathy, and contraindications of some agents 
in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. The bile acid sequestrant 
colesevelam HCl is unique compared with other glucose- and lipid-lowering 
therapies because it is the only product approved by the US Food and Drug 
Administration, as an adjunct to diet and exercise, to lower both glucose and 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with type 2 diabetes and 
primary hyperlipidaemia, respectively. Furthermore, colesevelam has been shown 
to have similar glucose- and lipid-lowering efficacy in patients aged <65 years 
and those aged ≥65 years. Colesevelam was not associated with weight gain, was 
associated with a low incidence of hypoglycaemia, and can be safely combined 
with a broad range of glucose-lowering agents (metformin, sulfonylureas and 
insulin) and lipid-lowering statins. Currently, colesevelam is available in 
tablet form and as a powder for oral suspension formulation; the latter may be 
of benefit to elderly patients with swallowing difficulties. As colesevelam has 
both glucose- and lipid-lowering effects, its use may reduce the drug burden in 
elderly patients receiving multiple agents for glucose and lipid lowering. 
Colesevelam may be a valuable treatment option as an add-on to existing glucose- 
and/or lipid-lowering therapy to help improve haemoglobin A(1c) and to lower 
LDL-C levels in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes and primary 
hyperlipidaemia.

DOI: 10.2165/11599290-000000000-00000
PMCID: PMC3586066
PMID: 22530704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

