metastases (PM), discuss the role of surgery, and briefly review the pertinent 
literature.
METHODS: At a single institution between January 1992 and July 2011, 15 patients 
with PM were surgically treated (all cases were confirmed by histologic 
analysis). Of patients, 14 complained of visual impairment, 8 complained of 
headache, 4 complained of ophthalmoplegia, and 11 complained of endocrine 
disturbances manifesting as diabetes insipidus (7 patients) and anterior 
hypopituitarism (4 patients).
RESULTS: After transsphenoidal surgery, visual disturbances improved in 12 
cases, headache improved in 5 cases, and ophthalmoplegia improved in 2 cases. 
Endocrinologic function remained unchanged in all cases. The mean survival time 
was 11.8 months (range, 3-43 months); one patient still survives after 33 
months.
CONCLUSIONS: The study cohort includes patients representing two clinical 
situations: (i) patients with a preoperative suspicion of PM and (ii) patients 
in whom the metastasis was an unexpected finding during surgery performed for a 
presumed pituitary adenoma. The former situation is indicative of the 
possibilities and limits of surgery, which may confirm the diagnosis but is only 
palliative, improving quality of life without improving life expectancy. The 
latter situation reveals how misleading clinical and radiographic features of PM 
can be. Considering these results, surgical treatment of PM should be 
specifically decided based on patient performance status, tumor staging, and 
patient preference.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2012.03.018
PMID: 22480977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Med Internet Res. 2012 Apr 5;14(2):e51. doi: 10.2196/jmir.2015.

Improving adherence to antiretroviral therapy for youth living with HIV/AIDS: a 
pilot study using personalized, interactive, daily text message reminders.

Dowshen N(1), Kuhns LM, Johnson A, Holoyda BJ, Garofalo R.

Author information:
(1)Craig-Dalsimer Division of Adolescent Medicine, The Children's Hospital of 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, USA. dowshenn@email.chop.edu

BACKGROUND: For youth living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), nonadherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
can lead to poor health outcomes and significantly decreased life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the feasability, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy 
of short message service (SMS) or text message reminders to improve adherence to 
ART for youth living with HIV/AIDS.
METHODS: We conducted this prospective pilot study using a pre-post design from 
2009 to 2010 at a community-based health center providing clinical services to 
youth living with HIV/AIDS. Eligibility criteria included HIV-positive 
serostatus, age 14-29 years, use of a personal cell phone, English-speaking, and 
being on ART with documented poor adherence. During the 24-week study period, 
participants received personalized daily SMS reminders and a follow-up message 1 
hour later assessing whether they took the medication, and asking participants 
to respond via text message with the number 1 if they took the medication and 2 
if they did not. Outcome measures were feasibility, acceptability, and 
adherence. Self-reported adherence was determined using the visual analog scale 
(VAS) and AIDS Clinical Trial Group (ACTG) questionnaire 4-day recall. Viral 
load and CD4 cell count were followed as biomarkers of adherence and disease 
progression at 0, 12, and 24 weeks.
RESULTS: Participants (N = 25) were mean age 23 (range 14-29) years, 92% (n = 
23) male, 60% (n = 15) black, and 84% (n = 21) infected through unprotected sex. 
Mean VAS scores significantly increased at 12 and 24 weeks in comparison with 
baseline (week 0: 74.7, week 12: 93.3, P < .001; week 24: 93.1, P < .001). ACTG 
questionnaire 4-day recall also improved (week 0: 2.33, week 12: 3.24, P = .002; 
week 24: 3.19, P = .005). There was no significant difference in CD4 cell count 
or viral load between baseline and 12- or 24-week follow-up, although there was 
a trend toward improvement of these biomarkers and a small to moderate 
standardized effect size (range of Cohen d: -0.51 to 0.22). Of 25 participants, 
21 (84%) were retained, and 20 of the 21 (95%) participants who completed the 
study found the intervention helpful to avoid missing doses.
CONCLUSIONS: In this pilot study, personalized, interactive, daily SMS reminders 
were feasible and acceptable, and they significantly improved self-reported 
adherence. Larger controlled studies are needed to determine the impact of this 
intervention on ART adherence and other related health outcomes for youth living 
with HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.2196/jmir.2015
PMCID: PMC3376506
PMID: 22481246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


1000. Sao Paulo Med J. 2012;130(2):109-14. doi: 10.1590/s1516-31802012000200007.

Use of epidemiological data as the basis for developing a medical curriculum.

Machado JL(1), Souza SR, Brenna SM, Pose RA, Bollela VR, Vieira JE.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Cidade de São Paulo, Brazil.

CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVE: Epidemiology may help educators to face the challenge of 
establishing content guidelines for the curricula in medical schools. The aim 
was to develop learning objectives for a medical curriculum from an epidemiology 
database.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Descriptive study assessing morbidity and mortality data, 
conducted in a private university in São Paulo.
METHODS: An epidemiology database was used, with mortality and morbidity 
recorded as summaries of deaths and the World Health Organization's 
Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY). The scoring took into consideration 
probabilities for mortality and morbidity.
RESULTS: The scoring presented a classification of health conditions to be used 
by a curriculum design committee, taking into consideration its highest and 
lowest quartiles, which corresponded respectively to the highest and lowest 
impact on morbidity and mortality. Data from three countries were used for 
international comparison and showed distinct results. The resulting scores 
indicated topics to be developed through educational taxonomy.
CONCLUSION: The frequencies of the health conditions and their statistical 
treatment made it possible to identify topics that should be fully developed 
within medical education. The classification also suggested limits between 
topics that should be developed in depth, including knowledge and development of 
skills and attitudes, regarding topics that can be concisely presented at the 
level of knowledge.

DOI: 10.1590/s1516-31802012000200007
PMID: 22481757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Cell Metab. 2012 Apr 4;15(4):439-50. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.02.014.

The C. elegans microRNA mir-71 acts in neurons to promote germline-mediated 
longevity through regulation of DAF-16/FOXO.

Boulias K(1), Horvitz HR.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

The life span of Caenorhabditis elegans is controlled by signaling between the 
germline and the soma. Germ cell removal extends life span by triggering the 
activation of the DAF-16/FOXO transcription factor in the intestine. Here we 
analyze microRNA function in C. elegans aging and show that the microRNA mir-71 
functions to mediate the effects of germ cell loss on life span. mir-71 is 
required for the life span extension caused by germline removal, and 
overexpression of mir-71 further extends the life span of animals lacking germ 
cells. mir-71 functions in the nervous system to facilitate the localization and 
transcriptional activity of DAF-16 in the intestine. Our findings reveal a 
microRNA-dependent mechanism of life span regulation by the germline and 
indicate that signaling among the gonad, the nervous system, and the intestine 
coordinates the life span of the entire organism.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.02.014
PMCID: PMC3344382
PMID: 22482727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Soc Sci Med. 2012 Jun;74(12):1891-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.02.020.
Epub  2012 Mar 16.

Social relationships and inflammatory markers: an analysis of Taiwan and the 
U.S.

Glei DA(1), Goldman N, Ryff CD, Lin YH, Weinstein M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population and Health, Georgetown University, Washington DC, USA. 
dag77@georgetown.edu

We evaluated the association between two aspects of social relationships and six 
inflammatory markers in Taiwan and the U.S. These two countries share similar 
levels of current life expectancy, but exhibit important differences in social 
structure. The data comprised population based samples from Taiwan (aged 53+; 
n=962) and the U.S. (aged 35-86; n=990) collected between 2003 and 2009. 
Circulating levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), C-reactive protein (CRP), 
fibrinogen, and soluble forms of intercellular adhesion molecule 1, E-selectin, 
and IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R) were measured in fasting blood samples. A social 
integration score was based on marital status, contact with family and friends, 
church attendance, and other social participation. A perceived social support 
index was based on questions regarding the availability of care and support from 
family and friends. Linear regression models tested the association between 
these two measures and each inflammatory marker controlling for sociodemographic 
characteristics, obesity, medication use, and baseline health status. After 
adjusting for potential confounders, social integration had a significant but 
weak inverse association with CRP in Taiwan. Perceived social support was 
significant in two of 12 models, and the coefficient was positive (i.e., higher 
support was associated with higher CRP and sIL-6R in the U.S.). We found no 
evidence that the coefficients for social relationship measures varied by sex or 
age. Our results yielded limited evidence of a weak association between two 
dimensions of social relationships and six inflammatory markers in Taiwan and 
the U.S. Given that the literature suggests a strong link between social 
relationships and mortality, and that inflammation plays an important role in 
the leading causes of death, we had expected to find consistent and moderately 
strong associations between social relationships and inflammatory markers. The 
small effect sizes and lack of robustness across markers were surprising.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.02.020
PMCID: PMC3348237
PMID: 22483707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Arch Sex Behav. 2012 Dec;41(6):1409-14. doi: 10.1007/s10508-012-9949-z. Epub 
2012 Apr 7.

Marital, reproductive, and educational behaviors covary with life expectancy.

Krupp DB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics & Statistics, Queen's University, Jeffery Hall, 
Kingston, ON, K7L 3N6, Canada. daniel.krupp@queensu.ca

Theories of "life history evolution" suggest that individuals might adjust the 
timing of marriage and reproduction, as well as their propensity to terminate a 
marriage or pregnancy and invest in skill development, in response to indicators 
of the locally prevailing level of life expectancy. In particular, such theories 
generate the hypothesis that foreshortened time horizons lead to hastened 
reproduction and marriage whereas lengthier time horizons increase the 
likelihood of reproductive and marital termination and lead to greater 
investment in education. Here, I show that the scheduling and occurrence of 
marital and reproductive behavior (including both initiation and termination), 
as well as levels of educational attainment and investment, covary with life 
expectancy, even after controlling for the effects of affluence. In analyses of 
variation in marital, reproductive, and educational behaviors at two 
jurisdictional levels in Canada, life expectancy was positively correlated with 
patterns of age-specific fertility, age at first marriage, divorce, abortion, 
conferral of high school and higher education degrees (with the exception of the 
trades) and mean number of years of schooling. The large and highly consistent 
relationships observed between life expectancy and the behaviors under 
investigation suggest that these associations may be mediated by individual 
"perceptions" of life expectancy, though more research is needed before 
conclusions can be firmly reached.

DOI: 10.1007/s10508-012-9949-z
PMID: 22484517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nat Neurosci. 2012 May;15(5):697-699. doi: 10.1038/nn.3082. Epub 2012 Apr 8.

microRNA-9 regulates axon extension and branching by targeting Map1b in mouse 
cortical neurons.

Dajas-Bailador F(1), Bonev B, Garcez P, Stanley P, Guillemot F, Papalopulu N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Michael Smith Building, 
Manchester, UK.

The capacity of neurons to develop a long axon and multiple dendrites defines 
neuron connectivity in the CNS. The highly conserved microRNA-9 (miR-9) is 
expressed in both neuronal precursors and some post-mitotic neurons, and we 
detected miR-9 expression in the axons of primary cortical neurons. We found 
that miR-9 controlled axonal extension and branching by regulating the levels of 
Map1b, an important protein for microtubule stability. Following microfluidic 
separation of the axon and the soma, we found that miR-9 repressed Map1b 
translation and was a functional target for the BDNF-dependent control of axon 
extension and branching. We propose that miR-9 links regulatory signaling 
processes with dynamic translation mechanisms, controlling Map1b protein levels 
and axon development.

DOI: 10.1038/nn.3082
PMID: 22484572


5. PLoS One. 2012;7(4):e33308. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033308. Epub 2012 Apr
2.

Measuring adiposity in patients: the utility of body mass index (BMI), percent 
body fat, and leptin.

Shah NR(1), Braverman ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New 
York, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a serious disease that is associated with an increased 
risk of diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, stroke, and cancer, among other 
diseases. The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
estimates a 20% obesity rate in the 50 states, with 12 states having rates of 
over 30%. Currently, the body mass index (BMI) is most commonly used to 
determine adiposity. However, BMI presents as an inaccurate obesity 
classification method that underestimates the epidemic and contributes to failed 
treatment. In this study, we examine the effectiveness of precise biomarkers and 
duel-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to help diagnose and treat obesity.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A cross-sectional study of adults with BMI, DXA, 
fasting leptin and insulin results were measured from 1998-2009. Of the 
participants, 63% were females, 37% were males, 75% white, with a mean age = 
51.4 (SD = 14.2). Mean BMI was 27.3 (SD = 5.9) and mean percent body fat was 
31.3% (SD = 9.3). BMI characterized 26% of the subjects as obese, while DXA 
indicated that 64% of them were obese. 39% of the subjects were classified as 
non-obese by BMI, but were found to be obese by DXA. BMI misclassified 25% men 
and 48% women. Meanwhile, a strong relationship was demonstrated between 
increased leptin and increased body fat.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our results demonstrate the prevalence of 
false-negative BMIs, increased misclassifications in women of advancing age, and 
the reliability of gender-specific revised BMI cutoffs. BMI underestimates 
obesity prevalence, especially in women with high leptin levels (>30 ng/mL). 
Clinicians can use leptin-revised levels to enhance the accuracy of BMI 
estimates of percentage body fat when DXA is unavailable.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033308
PMCID: PMC3317663
PMID: 22485140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and have the following conflicts: This work was supported by a 
research grant from the PATH Foundation. All research and financial support for 
this article preceded NRS's joining the New York State Department of Health. 
Similarly, except for minor editorial changes, the article was completed before 
that time. The views expressed in this article are solely those of the authors 
as individuals and do not represent the views or policies of the State of New 
York or the New York State Department of Health. During the period when the work 
was completed, NRS was also supported by grant 1 R01 HS01 8589-01. All authors 
have completed the Unified Competing Interest form at 
www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available on request from the corresponding 
author and declare that (1) NRS has received grants from the PATH Foundation for 
the submitted work; ERB has received no personal compensation for the submitted 
work; (2) NRS has relationships with AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Merck, Ortho-McNeil, 
Roche, Shering-Plough, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Partners Healthcare, Bellevue 
Hospital Association, NIH, AHRQ, CDC, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Cerner 
LifeSciences, Vemco MedEd, FAIR Health, Venebio Group, LLC, American Academy of 
Neurology, Pinnacle Health Geisinger Health System, MetaResearch, LLC, Johnson & 
Johnson, Takeda, Xcenda, Engage Healthcare, Medical Learning Institute, American 
Health & Drug Benefits, Center of Excellence Media LLC, Nassau University 
Medical Center, National Institute for Quality Improvement and Education and St. 
John's Episcopal Hospital. ERB has relationships with PATH Medical, Total Health 
Nutrients, Inc. and LLC, Life Extension Foundation, Weill-Cornell Medical 
College, the Stanley and Fiona Druckenmiller Fund, the American Academy of 
Anti-aging Medicine Fellowship in Anti-Aging, Regenerative, and Functional 
Medicine: Master's Degree in Metabolic & Nutritional Medicine in conjunction 
with the University of South Florida Medical School; the American Academy of 
Anti-aging Medicine Tarsus Medical Conference; and Douglas Labs, Life Extension 
Magazine; and has authored a book on weight loss; (3) Their spouses, partners, 
or children have no financial relationships that may be relevant to the 
submitted work; and (4) NRS and ERB have no non-financial interests that may be 
relevant to the submitted work. This does not alter the authors' adherence to 
all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


6. J Dermatol. 2012 Jul;39(7):602-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.2012.01550.x. Epub 
2012 Apr 9.

DNA mobility shift assay as a tool for the detection of anti-dsDNA antibodies in 
sera from discoid lupus erythematosus patients.

Keyhani J(1), Ahadi M, Keyhani E, Naraghi Z, Shamohammadi S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Life Sciences Razi Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. keyhanius2002@yahoo.com

Discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE) is a form of local inflammatory autoimmune 
disease limited to the skin, involving essentially the face, scalp and ear. DLE 
occurs in genetically predisposed individuals, sunlight being an identified 
trigger. Diagnosis is made by clinical examination and histopathology; 
laboratory tests occasionally performed include anti-nuclear antibodies titers 
and presence of circulating antibodies against dsDNA. DLE patients have about a 
10% chance of developing systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a systemic 
inflammatory autoimmune disease affecting a range of internal organs. Although 
elevated titers of anti-dsDNA antibodies is an earmark for lupus disease, they 
are detected in only 20-55% of DLE patients by routine laboratory tests such as 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In this research, we applied an 
electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) in parallel with an ELISA for the 
detection of circulating anti-dsDNA in DLE patients. The assays were conducted 
on sera as well as on the immunoglobulin G fraction from sera of 24 DLE patients 
and of 24 healthy individuals. The EMSA was positive for all DLE patients while 
the ELISA was positive for only 36% of them; both assays were negative for the 
healthy individuals. EMSA conducted on the sera of 15 patients with lichen 
planus was negative in all cases. Results suggest that the EMSA is more 
sensitive than the routine tests used for the detection of anti-dsDNA in DLE, 
thus helping to improve early detection of the disease and, by extension, to 
better evaluate the factors triggering the disease.

© 2012 Japanese Dermatological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.2012.01550.x
PMID: 22486312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Urol Clin North Am. 2012 May;39(2):133-48, v. doi: 10.1016/j.ucl.2012.01.006. 
Epub 2012 Feb 23.

The surgical approach to multifocal renal cancers: hereditary syndromes, 
ipsilateral multifocality, and bilateral tumors.

Shuch B(1), Singer EA, Bratslavsky G.

Author information:
(1)Urologic Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of 
Health, Building 10, CRC, Room 1-5940, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Although the management of sporadic renal tumors is challenging enough, dealing 
with those with bilateral, multifocal, and hereditary kidney cancer adds an 
additional level of complexity. A clinician managing this patient population 
must understand the hereditary syndromes and the genetic testing available. 
Treating physicians must be familiar with enucleative surgery, complex or 
multiple tumor partial nephrectomy, complex renal reconstruction, re-operative 
renal surgery, and active surveillance strategies. With proper management, most 
patients affected with bilateral, multifocal, or hereditary RCC can have a long 
life expectancy while maintaining adequate renal function.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ucl.2012.01.006
PMID: 22487757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Urol Clin North Am. 2012 May;39(2):181-90, vi. doi: 10.1016/j.ucl.2012.01.004.
 Epub 2012 Feb 16.

Does renal mass ablation provide adequate long-term oncologic control?

Faddegon S(1), Cadeddu JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 
Harry Hines Boulevard, J8.106, Dallas, TX 75390, USA.

Renal ablation (RA) is no longer used exclusively in patients with limited life 
expectancy. There are few studies reporting a minimum follow-up of 5 years. 
Biases and discrepancies within the literature are abundant. The outcomes of any 
series must be interpreted in the context of median follow-up time, reported 
tumor characteristics, ablation technique and training background of the 
practitioner, and the definition of tumor recurrence. The long-term oncologic 
efficacy of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and cryoablation appear similar, 
although the percutaneous RFA technique may necessitate reablation in more 
cases. RA is associated with slightly higher rates of local recurrence compared 
to surgical excision.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ucl.2012.01.004
PMID: 22487761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2012 May;23(3):163-74. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0b013e3283523fc1.

Preference-based comparative effectiveness and cost–effectiveness: a review and 
relevance of value-based medicine for vitreoretinal interventions.

Brown MM(1), Brown GC, Lieske HB, Lieske PA.

Author information:
(1)Thomas Jefferson University,Wills Eye Institute, Philadelphia and Center for 
Value-Based Medicine, Flourtown, PA 19031, USA. mbrown@valuebasedmedicine.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This analysis discusses the comparative effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of vitreoretinal interventions, measured in quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) and percentage patient value (PPV gain, or improvement in 
quality of life and/or length of life). The material is relevant since the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act enacted by Congress with the support 
of the President has emphasized the critical importance of patient-based 
preferences.
RECENT FINDINGS: The majority of preference-based, comparative effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness vitreoretinal interventions assessed in the US healthcare 
literature are Value-Based Medicine analyses, thus comparable. These 
interventions confer a mean patient (human) value gain (improvement in quality 
of life) of 8.3% [SD 6.3%, 95% confidence interval (CI) + 2.6%]. The average 
cost-utility of these vitreoretinal interventions is US$23 026/QALY (SD US$24 
508, 95% CI + US$8770). Most vitreoretinal interventions are very cost effective 
using a conventional US standard of US$50 000/QALY as the upper anchor for a 
very cost-effective intervention, and the World Health Organization of 
approximately US$142 200/QALY as the upper anchor for a cost-effective 
intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Most vitreoretinal interventions confer considerable patient value 
and are very cost effective. Further standardization across healthcare is needed 
in the preference-based, comparative and cost-utility (cost-effectiveness) 
arena. The metrics of PPV (percentage patient value) gain and US$/PPV (dollars 
expended per percentage patient value gain) or financial value gain may be more 
user-friendly than the QALY.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e3283523fc1
PMID: 22487884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Audiol Neurootol. 2012;17(4):219-27. doi: 10.1159/000336212. Epub 2012 Apr 5.

Clinical follow-up and histopathology of the temporal bones in Nathalie 
syndrome.

de Heer AM(1), Merchant SN, Kammeraad JA, Cruysberg JR, Huygen PL, Cremers CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical 
Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. A.deHeer@kno.umcn.nl

The Nathalie syndrome (OMIM 255990) comprises a combination of features that do 
not resemble any other known syndrome and is as such an independent, rare 
entity. It is characterized by sensorineural hearing impairment, juvenile 
cataract, spinal muscular atrophy, skeletal abnormalities, retardation of 
growth, underdeveloped secondary gender characteristics and cardiomyopathy. 
Worldwide, only one family with this syndrome is known. An update of the 
clinical follow-up in this family and the results of autopsy are given. 
Audiometry showed a downsloping configuration that corresponded to the findings 
at histopathological examination of the cochlea: a diffuse atrophy of the organ 
of Corti, severe and diffuse atrophy of the stria vascularis and moderate loss 
of cochlear neurons in all turns. Another new striking feature is that 
individuals with the Nathalie syndrome have a shortened life expectancy with a 
risk of sudden death or death from heart failure resulting from (dilated) 
cardiomyopathy.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000336212
PMID: 22487897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Minerva Chir. 2012 Apr;67(2):187-95.

The comparative study of former and latest FIGO staging of vulva cancer.

Sun X(1), Zhang Y, Sun J, Feng S, Yan M, Cheng H.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 
People's Republic of China.

AIM: By means of comparing the 2009 staging with the 1994 staging for vulva 
carcinoma on prognostic predicting, the essay aims to investigate the 
alterations of clinical decision due to the staging changing.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was adopted which involves 100 patients with 
primary squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva treated at Sun Yat-sen University 
Cancer Center from January 1980 to December 2005. Meanwhile, survival rate was 
calculated by life table method. In addition, Kaplan-Meirer method was used to 
evaluate the prognostic factors in univariate analysis. And the independent 
prognostic factors were provided through COX regression model.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis indicated that the prognostic factors of vulva 
squamous cell carcinoma were: age (P=0.018), lymph node metastasis (P=0.010), 
the 1988 staging (P=0.031), the 2009 staging (P=0.001), the number of positive 
lymphnodes (P<0.001), treatment method (P=0.011), recurrence site (P=0.024). COX 
regression model indicated that the independent prognostic factor was: the 
number of positive lymph nodes (P<0.001). Here was not significant difference in 
overall survival rate (P=0.454) between unilateral or bilateral lymph node 
metastasis. Also, lesion diameter was not an independent prognostic factor 
(P=0.380).
CONCLUSION: Compared with the 1994 staging, the 2009 staging made some 
modifications in lesion size, extension, lymph node status and so on. The 2009 
staging is better than the 1994 staging on prognostic predicting and, which 
could guide the clinical treatment more accurately.

PMID: 22487921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Cancer Control. 2012 Apr;19(2):84-91. doi: 10.1177/107327481201900202.

Overview of diagnosis and management of metastatic disease to bone.

Yu HH(1), Tsai YY, Hoffe SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research 
Institute Tampa, FL 33612, USA. Michael.Yu@moffitt.org

BACKGROUND: Bone metastases occur frequently in patients with advanced cancer 
and are a serious complication of cancer. The decision to treat is often 
individualized, based on each patient's clinical presentation, life expectancy, 
and quality of life.
METHODS: We reviewed the current literature pertaining to management of 
metastatic disease to bone, and the medical, radiotherapeutic, and surgical 
treatment options for management of bone metastasis are discussed.
RESULTS: Current management of skeletal metastasis includes analgesia, systemic 
therapy, radiation therapy, and surgery. We propose treatment algorithms for 
management of vertebral and nonvertebral bone metastases and suggest 
individualized interventions based on clinical presentation.
CONCLUSIONS: Management of bone metastases is complex and requires a 
multidisciplinary approach. The goal of treatment is often palliative, and 
intervention and treatment regimens should be individualized based on the 
specific clinical presentation of each patient.

DOI: 10.1177/107327481201900202
PMID: 22487970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Cancer Control. 2012 Apr;19(2):113-21. doi: 10.1177/107327481201900205.

Surgical intervention of nonvertebral osseous metastasis.

Attar S(1), Steffner RJ, Avedian R, Hussain WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD 
21287, USA. sattar@nmff.org

BACKGROUND: Nonvertebral osseous metastases can result in pain and disability. 
The goals of surgical intervention are to reduce pain and to improve function if 
nonsurgical treatment fails. The indications for proceeding with surgical 
intervention depend on anatomic location, amount of local destruction, extent of 
skeletal and visceral disease and, most important, the patient's performance 
status and life expectancy.
METHODS: This article reviews the evaluation and treatment of metastatic 
nonvertebral osseous lesions from the perspective of the orthopedic surgeon, 
based mainly on an assessment of the surgical literature.
RESULTS: This article summarizes the approaches to preoperative evaluation, 
patient selection, and medical optimization. Guidelines for estimating osseous 
stability and fracture risk are discussed, and surgical implants and their 
relation to postoperative outcomes are examined. This review also describes less 
invasive ablative procedures currently available.
CONCLUSIONS: The surgical management of nonvertebral osseous metastases involves 
multidisciplinary collaboration. The surgical construct must be a stable, 
reliable, and durable intervention that is individually tailored and matched to 
a patient's prognosis and performance status.

DOI: 10.1177/107327481201900205
PMID: 22487973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2012 Aug;32(6):957-63. doi: 10.1007/s10571-012-9838-y.
Epub  2012 Apr 10.

Alternatively spliced variants of gamma-subunit of muscle-type acetylcholine 
receptor in fetal and adult skeletal muscle of mouse.

Azim S(1), Banday AR, Sarwar T, Tabish M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Life Sciences, AM University, Aligarh, 
UP, India.

Gamma-subunit of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is encoded by chrng gene of 
mouse. This gene is located on chromosome 1, spans 6.5 kb, and contains 12 exons 
and 11 introns. Previous studies have reported three transcript variants (C1-3) 
produced by alternative splicing; C1 contains all the 12 reported exons, C2 uses 
an in-frame alternate splice site in exon-2, and C3 produced by exon-5 skipping. 
These variants differ in their channel kinetics and opening times. In our study, 
we report the presence of two new transcript variants (T1 and T2) of chrng 
expressed in mouse postnatal day 3 and adult skeletal muscles. These transcripts 
contain novel first coding exon either N1 or N2. N1 is located in the 5' UTR, 
while N2 is an extended exon-2. 5' extension of exon-2 contains an initiation 
codon which produces a novel transcript variant. Either of the two exons can 
splice with the internal exons to produce mature transcripts making different 5' 
ends of the transcripts. Consequently, the proteins encoded by these two 
transcripts differ at N-termini. The presence of N2 exon containing transcript 
was further supported by the availability of EST from the database. These new 
variants display heterogeneous properties. They differ in the presence of signal 
peptide, phosphorylation, and acetylation of their amino acid residues of the 
new N-termini of the gamma subunit.

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-012-9838-y
PMID: 22488527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Pathol. 2012 Aug;227(4):499-510. doi: 10.1002/path.4036. Epub 2012 May 23.

Association between congenital defects in papillary outgrowth and functional 
obstruction in Crim1 mutant mice.

Wilkinson L(1), Kurniawan ND, Phua YL, Nguyen MJ, Li J, Galloway GJ, Hashitani 
H, Lang RJ, Little MH.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, QLD 4072, 
Australia.

Crim1 hypomorphic (Crim1(KST264/KST264)) mice display progressive renal disease 
characterized by glomerular defects, leaky peritubular vasculature, and 
progressive interstitial fibrosis. Here we show that 27% of these mice also 
present with hydronephrosis, suggesting obstructive nephropathy. Dynamic 
magnetic resonance imaging using Magnevist showed fast development of 
hypo-intense signal in the kidneys of Crim1(KST264/KST264) mice, suggesting 
pooling of filtrate within the renal parenchyma. Rhodamine dextran (10 kDa) 
clearance was also delayed in Crim1(KST264/KST264) mice. Pyeloureteric 
peristalsis, while present, was less co-ordinated in Crim1(KST264/KST264) mice. 
However, isolated renal pelvis preparations suggest normal pelvic smooth muscle 
contractile responses. An analysis of maturation during the immediate postnatal 
period [postnatal day (P) 0-15] revealed defects in papillary extension in 
Crim1({KST264/KST264) mice. While Crim1 expression is weak in pelvic smooth 
muscle, strong expression is seen in the interstitium and loops of Henle of the 
extending papilla, commencing at the tip of the P1 papilla and disseminating 
throughout the papilla by P15. These results, as well as implicating Crim1 in 
papillary extension and pelvic smooth muscle contractility, highlight the 
previously unrecognized association between defects in papillary development and 
progression to chronic kidney disease later in life.

Copyright © 2012 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by 
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/path.4036
PMID: 22488641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. World J Hepatol. 2012 Mar 27;4(3):81-90. doi: 10.4254/wjh.v4.i3.81.

Alcoholic liver disease.

Bruha R(1), Dvorak K, Petrtyl J.

Author information:
(1)Radan Bruha, 4th Department of Internal Medicine, General Teaching Hospital, 
First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, 12808 Prague, Czech Republic.

Alcohol use disorders affect millions of individuals worldwide. Alcohol 
consumption is directly associated with liver disease mortality and accounts for 
elevated social and economic costs. Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) may take the 
form of acute involvement (alcoholic hepatitis) or chronic liver disease 
(steatosis, steatohepatitis, fibrosis and cirrhosis). The severity and prognosis 
of alcohol-induced liver disease depends on the amount, pattern and duration of 
alcohol consumption, as well as on the presence of liver inflammation, diet, 
nutritional status and genetic predisposition of an individual. While steatosis 
is an almost completely benign disease, liver cirrhosis is associated with 
marked morbidity, mortality and life expectancy shortening. The median survival 
of patients with advanced cirrhosis is 1-2 years. Severe acute alcoholic 
hepatitis (AH) is associated with mortality as high as 50%. It has been managed 
with corticoids, pentoxifylline and enteral nutrition, although evidence based 
data are still conflicting. Some author suggest that pentoxifylline could be a 
better first-line treatment in patients with severe AH. Absolute abstinence is a 
basic condition for any treatment of acute or chronic ALD, the other 
therapeutical procedure being of a supportive nature and questionable 
significance. Acamprosate appears to be an effective treatment strategy for 
supporting continuous abstinence in alcohol dependent patients. Patients with 
advanced liver cirrhosis who demonstrably abstain can be considered for liver 
transplantation, which leads to a markedly prolonged life expectancy. The 
crucial step in ALD prevention is in the prevention of alcohol abuse, whereas 
the prevention of liver injury in active alcohol abusers is not clinically 
applicable.

DOI: 10.4254/wjh.v4.i3.81
PMCID: PMC3321494
PMID: 22489260


17. Lancet. 2012 Apr 7;379(9823):1285-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(12)60541-8.

Grey matter: ageing in developing countries.

Shetty P.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(12)60541-8
PMID: 22489326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2012 Apr;10(4):558-63. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2012.0053.

Hypogonadism and infertility in testicular cancer survivors.

Jacobs LA(1), Vaughn DJ.

Author information:
(1)Abramson Cancer Center, University of Pennsylvania, The Perelman Center for 
Advanced Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. 
Linda.jacobs@uphs.upenn.edu

Testicular cancer is the most common cancer in men in their 20s and 30s, and has 
been considered a model of a curable neoplasm. The longer life expectancy of 
testicular cancer survivors makes minimizing the long-term health issues related 
to hypogonadism particularly important, and because testicular cancer affects 
men mostly in their reproductive years, infertility can also be a major concern. 
Hypogonadism, infertility, and testicular cancer have been associated with one 
another. These associations suggest the existence of common etiologic factors, 
including improper testicular development during fetal life. The effect of 
cancer treatment on testosterone, luteinizing hormone, and follicle-stimulating 
hormone levels, and on fertility and overall paternity rates among testicular 
cancer survivors, are potentially significant issues. As the biologic mechanisms 
underlying hypogonadism, infertility, and testicular cancer become clearer, more 
research is needed to provide clinicians with evidence-based guidelines for the 
management of testicular cancer survivors.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2012.0053
PMID: 22491052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Clin Infect Dis. 2012 Jul;55(2):279-90. doi: 10.1093/cid/cis382. Epub 2012
Apr  4.

Cost-effective screening for acute hepatitis C virus infection in HIV-infected 
men who have sex with men.

Linas BP(1), Wong AY, Schackman BR, Kim AY, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)HIV Epidemiology and Outcomes Research Unit, Section of Infectious Diseases, 
Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA 02118, USA. Benjamin.Linas@BMC.org

BACKGROUND: We used a Monte Carlo computer simulation to estimate the 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening for acute hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) infection in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected men who have sex 
with men.
METHODS: One-time screening for prevalent HCV infection was performed at the 
time of enrollment in care, followed by either symptom-based screening, 
screening with liver function tests (LFTs), HCV antibody (Ab) screening, or HCV 
RNA screening in various combinations and intervals. We considered both 
treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin (PEG/RBV) alone and with an 
HCV protease inhibitor. Outcome measures were life expectancy, quality-adjusted 
life expectancy, direct medical costs, and cost-effectiveness, assuming a 
societal willingness to pay $100000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained.
RESULTS: All strategies increased life expectancy (from 0.49 to 0.94 
life-months), quality-adjusted life expectancy (from 0.47 to 1.00 
quality-adjusted life-months), and costs (from $1900 to $7600), compared with 
symptom-based screening. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of screening 
with 6-month LFTs and a 12-month HCV Ab test, compared with symptom-based 
screening, was $43 700/QALY (for PEG/RBV alone) and $57 800/QALY (for PEG/RBV 
plus HCV protease inhibitor). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
screening with 3-month LFTs, compared with 6-month LFTs plus a 12-month HCV Ab 
test, was $129 700/QALY (for PEG/RBV alone) and $229 900/QALY (for PEG/RBV plus 
HCV protease inhibitor). With HCV protease inhibitor-based therapy, screening 
with 6-month LFTs and a 12-month HCV Ab test was the optimal strategy when the 
HCV infection incidence was ≤1.25 cases/100 person-years. The 3-month LFT 
strategy was optimal when the incidence was >1.25 cases/100 person-years.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for acute HCV infection in HIV-infected MSM prolongs life 
expectancy and is cost-effective. Depending on incidence, regular screening with 
LFTs, with or without an HCV Ab test, is the optimal strategy.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cis382
PMCID: PMC3403839
PMID: 22491339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Am J Sports Med. 2012 Jun;40(6):1252-8. doi: 10.1177/0363546512441586. Epub
2012  Apr 5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of autologous chondrocyte implantation: a comparison 
of periosteal patch versus type I/III collagen membrane.

Samuelson EM(1), Brown DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Rehabilitation, University of Nebraska 
Medical Center, 981080 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE 68198-1080, USA. 
esamuels@unmc.edu

BACKGROUND: Autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI) involves the use of a 
periosteal patch (ACI-P) as a cover for transplanted chondrocytes. 
Theoretically, this periosteal patch provides mesenchymal stem cells and growth 
factors that encourage chondrocyte development/differentiation. However, there 
is a significant rate of graft hypertrophy with the use of periosteum compared 
with using a type I/III collagen patch (ACI-C). This type I/III collagen patch, 
although not approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for ACI, 
has been used extensively in Europe and in an "off-label" nature in the United 
States as a cover during ACI.
PURPOSE: To examine the cost effectiveness of ACI and determine whether ACI-C is 
more cost effective than ACI-P.
STUDY DESIGN: Economic and decision analysis; Level of evidence, 2.
METHODS: Outcome data and complication rates from patients undergoing ACI (ACI-P 
and ACI-C) were derived from the best evidence in the literature. Costs were 
determined by examining the typical patient charges undergoing ACI at a local 
orthopaedic hospital. The costs, results, and complication rates were used to 
develop a decision analysis model comparing ACI-P to ACI-C.
RESULTS: The cost of ACI-P was $66,752 and for ACI-C was $66,939.50 ($187.50 
difference). The cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for ACI-P was $9466 
compared with $9243 for ACI-C. Sensitivity analysis was performed regarding the 
additional cost of the type I/III collagen patch ($780) in ACI-C as well as the 
rate of graft hypertrophy after ACI-P (25%). This analysis revealed that the 
cost of the type I/III collagen patch would have to reach $1721, or the rate of 
graft hypertrophy after ACI-P reduced to almost 11%, before ACI-P became more 
cost effective than ACI-C.
CONCLUSION: This cost-effectiveness analysis reveals that, while both ACI-P and 
ACI-C are cost effective, ACI-C is slightly more cost effective than ACI-P. This 
is likely secondary to the significant rate of patch-related complications 
associated with ACI-P, which is significantly reduced with ACI-C. Although the 
model is very sensitive to differences in outcomes between ACI-P and ACI-C, 
there is no high-quality evidence to suggest that there is a significant 
difference between the two. Thus, ACI-P becomes more cost effective if the cost 
of the type I/III collagen membrane is significantly increased or if the rate of 
graft hypertrophy after ACI-P were to be markedly reduced.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546512441586
PMID: 22491792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Eur Spine J. 2012 Sep;21(9):1692-9. doi: 10.1007/s00586-012-2285-0. Epub 2012
 Apr 11.

Biomechanical assessment of the effects of decompressive surgery in 
non-chondrodystrophic and chondrodystrophic canine multisegmented lumbar spines.

Smolders LA(1), Kingma I, Bergknut N, van der Veen AJ, Dhert WJ, Hazewinkel HA, 
van Dieën JH, Meij BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences of Companion Animals, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Utrecht University, Yalelaan 108, PO Box 80.154, 3508 TD, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. L.A.Smolders@uu.nl

PURPOSE: Dogs are often used as an animal model in spinal research, but 
consideration should be given to the breed used as chondrodystrophic (CD) dog 
breeds always develop IVD degeneration at an early age, whereas 
non-chondrodystrophic (NCD) dog breeds may develop IVD degeneration, but only 
later in life. The aim of this study was to provide a mechanical 
characterization of the NCD [non-degenerated intervertebral discs (IVDs), rich 
in notochordal cells] and CD (degenerated IVDs, rich in chondrocyte-like cells) 
canine spine before and after decompressive surgery (nucleotomy).
METHODS: The biomechanical properties of multisegmented lumbar spine specimens 
(T13-L5 and L5-Cd1) from 2-year-old NCD dogs (healthy) and CD dogs (early 
degeneration) were investigated in flexion/extension (FE), lateral bending (LB), 
and axial rotation (AR), in the native state and after nucleotomy of L2-L3 or 
dorsal laminectomy and nucleotomy of L7-S1. The range of motion (ROM), neutral 
zone (NZ), and NZ stiffness (NZS) of L1-L2, L2-L3, L6-L7, and L7-S1 were 
calculated.
RESULTS: In native spines in both dog groups, the greatest mobility in FE was 
found at L7-S1, and the greatest mobility in LB at L2-L3. Surgery significantly 
increased the ROM and NZ, and significantly decreased the NZS in FE, LB, and AR 
in both breed groups. However, surgery at L2-L3 resulted in a significantly 
larger increase in NZ and decrease in NZS in the CD spines compared with the NCD 
spines, whereas surgery at L7-S1 induced a significantly larger increase in ROM 
and decrease in NZS in the NCD spines compared with the CD spines.
CONCLUSIONS: Spinal biomechanics significantly differ between NCD and CD dogs 
and researchers should consider this aspect when using the dog as a model for 
spinal research.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-012-2285-0
PMCID: PMC3459126
PMID: 22492242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. BMJ Open. 2012 Apr 5;2(2):e001021. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001021. Print
2012.

Societal preferences for standard health insurance coverage in the Netherlands: 
a cross-sectional study.

van der Wulp I(1), van den Hout WB, de Vries M, Stiggelbout AM, van den 
Akker-van Marle EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, University Medical Center Leiden, 
Leiden, the Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Cost-effectiveness is an important criterion in the decision to 
cover interventions in health insurance packages. One of the outcome measures, 
the quality-adjusted life year, has been criticised on its assumptions and 
implications concerning life expectancy and quality of life. Several studies 
have been conducted that measured societal preferences concerning healthcare 
rationing decisions. These studies mainly focused on one attribute. To adjust 
quality-adjusted life year maximisation in accordance with societal preferences, 
the relative importance of attributes should be studied. The present study aims 
to measure the relative importance of age, gender, socioeconomic status, 
pre-intervention health state, treatment effect, chance of treatment success and 
number of people in need of the intervention. A secondary objective is to 
compare the validity of the willingness to pay method with the validity of a 
relatively new preference elicitation method, best-worst scaling.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A representative sample of 2000 Dutch citizens, over 18 
years of age, are recruited to complete a web-based survey containing treatment 
scenarios. The scenarios present different levels of attributes. Respondents are 
asked to select one of the four scenarios that they prefer to be covered by the 
Dutch standard health insurance package and one that they prefer not to be 
covered. They are also asked to indicate how much they are willing to pay for 
each treatment scenario. At the end of the survey, respondents are asked to rate 
every attribute on a 1-10 scale. Two versions of the questionnaire are developed 
which differ on the framing, that is, treatments can be added to or removed from 
the insurance package. The data will be analysed by means of sequential 
conditional logit analysis (best-worst scaling) and analysis of variance 
(willingness to pay).
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The protocol is reviewed and approved by the medical 
ethical committee of the University Medical Center Leiden.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001021
PMCID: PMC3323810
PMID: 22492390

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


23. Health Aff (Millwood). 2012 Apr;31(4):709-17. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0251.

In a survey, marked inconsistency in how oncologists judged value of high-cost 
cancer drugs in relation to gains in survival.

Ubel PA(1), Berry SR, Nadler E, Bell CM, Kozminski MA, Palmer JA, Evans WK, 
Strevel EL, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA. peter.ubel@duke.edu

Amid calls for physicians to become better stewards of the nation's health care 
resources, it is important to gain insight into how physicians think about the 
cost-effectiveness of new treatments. Expensive new cancer treatments that can 
extend life raise questions about whether physicians are prepared to make "value 
for money" trade-offs when treating patients. We asked oncologists in the United 
States and Canada how much benefit, in additional months of life expectancy, a 
new drug would need to provide to justify its cost and warrant its use in an 
individual patient. The majority of oncologists agreed that a new cancer 
treatment that might add a year to a patient's life would be worthwhile if the 
cost was less than $100,000. But when given a hypothetical case of an individual 
patient to review, the oncologists also endorsed a hypothetical drug whose cost 
might be as high as $250,000 per life-year gained. The results show that 
oncologists are not consistent in deciding how many months an expensive new 
therapy should extend a person's life before the cost of therapy is justified. 
Moreover, the benefit that oncologists demand from new treatments in terms of 
length of survival does not necessarily increase according to the price of the 
treatment. The findings suggest that policy makers should find ways to improve 
how physicians are educated on the use of cost-effectiveness information and to 
influence physician decision making through clinical guidelines that incorporate 
cost-effectiveness information.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0251
PMCID: PMC3821071
PMID: 22492887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Psychiatr Hung. 2012;27(1):4-17.

[Health related quality of life and disease burden of patients with 
schizophrenia in Hungary].

[Article in Hungarian]

Péntek M(1), Harangozó J, Egerházi A, Kelemen O, Gulácsi L, Baji P, Máttyássy A, 
Erdélyi R, Lehoczky S, Orlewska E, Vártokné Hevér N, Ferencz A, Brodszky V.

Author information:
(1)Budapesti Corvinus Egyetem, Egeszseg-gazdasagtani es Egeszsegugyi 
Technologiaelemzesi Kutatokozpont, Kozszolgalati Tanszek, Budapest, Hungary. 
marta.pentek@uni-corvinus.hu

