Hg. Nearly all of the Hg in mosquitoes appeared in the form of MeHg (mean=91%). 
Concentrations of MeHg in mosquitoes were unrelated to either distance or 
direction from the Conesville plant and did not differ from those at the three 
reference sites. Moreover, measured levels of MeHg in mosquitoes near Conesville 
are in good agreement with those predicted from an empirical relationship to wet 
atmospheric Hg fluxes alone. This suggests that either little of the Hg emitted 
from the Conesville plant is deposited locally or near-source deposition of Hg 
does not have a significant impact on MeHg in mosquitoes and, by extension, 
other insects with similar life histories in the local food web.

Copyright © 2012 SETAC.

DOI: 10.1002/etc.1839
PMID: 22504728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2012 Jun;78(12):4233-41. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00548-12.
Epub  2012 Apr 13.

Insights into the maturation of hyperthermophilic pyrolysin and the roles of its 
N-terminal propeptide and long C-terminal extension.

Dai Z(1), Fu H, Zhang Y, Zeng J, Tang B, Tang XF.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China.

Pyrolysin-like proteases from hyperthermophiles are characterized by large 
insertions and long C-terminal extensions (CTEs). However, little is known about 
the roles of these extra structural elements or the maturation of these enzymes. 
Here, the recombinant proform of Pyrococcus furiosus pyrolysin (Pls) and several 
N- and C-terminal deletion mutants were successfully expressed in Escherichia 
coli. Pls was converted to mature enzyme (mPls) at high temperatures via 
autoprocessing of both the N-terminal propeptide and the C-terminal portion of 
the long CTE, indicating that the long CTE actually consists of the C-terminal 
propeptide and the C-terminal extension (CTEm), which remains attached to the 
catalytic domain in the mature enzyme. Although the N-terminal propeptide 
deletion mutant PlsΔN displayed weak activity, this mutant was highly 
susceptible to autoproteolysis and/or thermogenic hydrolysis. The N-terminal 
propeptide acts as an intramolecular chaperone to assist the folding of 
pyrolysin into its thermostable conformation. In contrast, the C-terminal 
propeptide deletion mutant PlsΔC199 was converted to a mature form (mPlsΔC199), 
which is the same size as but less stable than mPls, suggesting that the 
C-terminal propeptide is not essential for folding but is important for 
pyrolysin hyperthermostability. Characterization of the full-length (mPls) and 
CTEm deletion (mPlsΔC740) mature forms demonstrated that CTEm not only confers 
additional stability to the enzyme but also improves its catalytic efficiency 
for both proteineous and small synthetic peptide substrates. Our results may 
provide important clues about the roles of propeptides and CTEs in the 
adaptation of hyperthermophilic proteases to hyperthermal environments.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00548-12
PMCID: PMC3370559
PMID: 22504813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Gut. 2012 May;61 Suppl 1:i47-58. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2012-302062.

HIV and viral hepatitis coinfections: advances and challenges.

Lacombe K(1), Rockstroh J.

Author information:
(1)Service de maladies infectieuses et tropicales, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, 184 
rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine, Paris 75012, France. karine.lacombe@sat.aphp.fr

With a prevalence affecting over 30% of HIV infected patients, coinfection with 
hepatitis B (HBV) or C (HCV) virus remains one of the most frequent 
comorbidities in this population, with a significant impact in terms of 
morbidity and mortality associated with liver disease. Recent findings in the 
physiopathology of HIV in the liver have confirmed that it may contribute, along 
with hepatotoxicity of antiretrovirals and the burden of metabolic diseases, to 
a more rapid progression of liver fibrosis, especially when there is underlying 
chronic hepatitis coinfection. Both fields of research and clinical appraisal of 
HBV and HCV coinfection are rapidly evolving and prompt a change in the former 
paradigms of clinical care and management of chronic hepatic coinfection in the 
context of HIV. The advent of anti-HCV direct antiviral agents has indeed 
completely shaken up the treatment guidelines for HCV, and the tricky management 
of these new agents with antiretrovirals means referring patients to specialised 
centres. In HBV coinfection, therapeutic options have not changed recently but 
new challenges have emerged regarding the management of low replicating HBV-DNA 
in optimally treated patients and long term exposure to antivirals. Finally, the 
global increase in life expectancy in HIV infected patients has been accompanied 
in coinfected patients by a higher risk of emergence of end stage liver diseases 
for which access to orthotopic liver transplantation and innovative procedures 
such as targeted hepatocellular carcinoma therapies should be facilitated.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2012-302062
PMID: 22504919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Nephrol. 2012;25 Suppl 19:S48-57. doi: 10.5301/jn.5000141.

Acute renal failure in the elderly: epidemiology and clinical features.

Del Giudice A(1), Aucella F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, 
San Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia, Italy. a.delgiudice@operapadrepio.it

Structural and functional alterations affecting the aging kidney predispose to 
an increased risk of acute renal failure (ARF) in the elderly. This is a common 
problem becoming more relevant because of an increase in life expectancy. The 
epidemiology of ARF in the elderly is far from being well assessed, because of 
the lack of uniform definition criteria, variable etiology, coexistence of 
several comorbidities, and the various clinical settings and geographic areas 
where the condition is managed, with a higher incidence in developed regions 
where elderly patients predominate. In 2004, the Acute Dialysis Quality 
Initiative group proposed the RIFLE criteria for diagnosis and stratification of 
ARF. More recently, the Acute Kidney Injury Network proposed several refinements 
to the RIFLE criteria, and the use of the term acute kidney injury (AKI) has 
been suggested to mean any abrupt reduction in kidney function, while 
restricting use of the term ARF to severe dysfunction requiring renal 
replacement treatment. Although in elderly patients the more frequent forms of 
AKI are functional or obstructive, parenchymal AKI, such as acute tubular 
necrosis and contrast-induced nephropathy, still frequently occur. Elderly 
patients with chronic renal disease (CKD) who develop AKI are at high risk for 
mortality, and are prone to non-recovery from AKI and progression to more 
advanced stages of CKD and even to end-stage renal disease. Panels of AKI 
biomarkers are likely to improve early diagnosis and treatment, thus reducing 
morbidity and mortality of older patients from this condition in the future.

DOI: 10.5301/jn.5000141
PMID: 22505250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Neuro Oncol. 2012 May;14(5):631-40. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/nos062. Epub 2012 Apr
 14.

The combined use of surgery and radiotherapy to treat patients with epidural 
cord compression due to metastatic disease: a cost-utility analysis.

Furlan JC(1), Chan KK, Sandoval GA, Lam KC, Klinger CA, Patchell RA, Laporte A, 
Fehlings MG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics and Development, Toronto Western Research Institute, 
Krembil Neuroscience Centre, Spinal Program, Toronto Western Hospital, 
University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5T 2S8. jcfurlan@gmail.com

Neoplastic metastatic epidural spinal cord compression is a common complication 
of cancer that causes pain and progressive neurologic impairment. The previous 
standard treatment for this condition involved corticosteroids and radiotherapy 
(RT). Direct decompressive surgery with postoperative radiotherapy (S + RT) is 
now increasingly being chosen by clinicians to significantly improve patients' 
ability to walk and reduce their need for opioid analgesics and corticosteroids. 
A cost-utility analysis was conducted to compare S + RT with RT alone based on 
the landmark randomized clinical trial by Patchell et al. (2005). It was 
performed from the perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term 
Care. Ontario-based costs were adjusted to 2010 US dollars. S + RT is more 
costly but also more effective than corticosteroids and RT alone, with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of US$250 307 per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained. First order probabilistic sensitivity analysis revealed that 
the probability of S + RT being cost-effective is 18.11%. The cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curve showed that there is a 91.11% probability of S + RT being 
cost-effective over RT alone at a willingness-to-pay of US$1 683 000 per QALY. 
In practice, the results of our study indicate that, by adopting the S + RT 
strategy, there would still be a chance of 18.11% of not paying extra at a 
willingness-to-pay of US$50 000 per QALY. Those results are sensitive to the 
costs of hospice palliative care. Our results suggest that adopting a standard S 
+ RT approach for patients with MSCC is likely to increase health care costs but 
would result in improved outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/nos062
PMCID: PMC3337309
PMID: 22505658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Tetrahedron Lett. 2011 Dec 28;52(52):7091-7094. doi: 
10.1016/j.tetlet.2011.10.090.

Investigation of copper(II) tetrafluoroborate catalysed epoxide opening.

Capes AS(1), Crossman AT, Webster LA, Ferguson MA, Gilbert IH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Chemistry and Drug Discovery, College of Life 
Sciences, University of Dundee, Sir James Black Centre, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

We report the extension of the copper(II) tetrafluoroborate catalysed opening of 
epoxides with alcohols to include a wider variety of alcohols, a range of 
solvents and a method to purify the products from the reaction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tetlet.2011.10.090
PMCID: PMC3314918
PMID: 22505782


58. PLoS Biol. 2012;10(4):e1001307. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001307. Epub 2012
Apr  10.

Steroids as central regulators of organismal development and lifespan.

Lee SS(1), Schroeder FC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York, United States of America. sylvia.lee@cornell.edu

Comment in
    A Novel 3-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase That Regulates Reproductive 
Development and Longevity.
    Hormonal Signal Amplification Mediates Environmental Conditions during 
Development and Controls an Irreversible Commitment to Adulthood.

Larvae of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans must choose between reproductive 
development and dauer diapause. This decision is based on sensing of 
environmental inputs and dauer pheromone, a small molecule signal that serves to 
monitor population density. These signals are integrated via conserved 
neuroendocrine pathways that converge on steroidal ligands of the nuclear 
receptor DAF-12, a homolog of the mammalian vitamin D receptor and liver X 
receptor. DAF-12 acts as the main switch between gene expression programs that 
drive either reproductive development or dauer entry. Extensive studies in the 
past two decades demonstrated that biosynthesis of two bile acid-like DAF-12 
ligands, named dafachronic acids (DA), controls developmental fate. In this 
issue of PLoS Biology, Wollam et al. showed that a conserved steroid-modifying 
enzyme, DHS-16, introduces a key feature in the structures of the DAF-12 
ligands, closing a major gap in the DA biosynthesis pathway. The emerging 
picture of DA biosynthesis in C. elegans enables us to address a key question in 
the field: how are complex environmental signals integrated to enforce binary, 
organism-wide decisions on developmental fate? Schaedel et al. demonstrated that 
pheromone and DA serve as competing signals, and that a positive feedback loop 
based on regulation of DA biosynthesis ensures organism-wide commitment to 
reproductive development. Considering that many components of DA signaling are 
highly conserved, ongoing studies in C. elegans may reveal new aspects of bile 
acid function and lifespan regulation in mammals.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001307
PMCID: PMC3323504
PMID: 22505849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


59. Dig Endosc. 2012 May;24(3):182-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1443-1661.2011.01189.x.

Endoscopic removal of a spontaneously fractured biliary uncovered 
self-expandable metal stent.

Kawakubo K(1), Isayama H, Tsujino T, Nakai Y, Sasahira N, Kogure H, Hamada T, 
Nagano R, Miyabayashi K, Yamamoto K, Mohri D, Sasaki T, Ito Y, Yamamoto N, 
Hirano K, Tada M, Koike K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) are widely used for the palliative treatment 
of unresectable malignant biliary obstruction. However, the long-term durability 
of SEMSs in biliary strictures is not clear. We describe a case of endoscopic 
removal of spontaneously fractured uncovered biliary SEMS. A 59-year-old woman 
presented to our institution with a 1-year history of recurrent cholangitis. Her 
medical history included a proctectomy for rectal cancer and right 
hemihepatectomy for liver metastasis 10 years earlier. Five years after these 
operations, she developed a benign hilar stricture and had an uncovered SEMS 
placed in another hospital. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography 
demonstrated that the SEMS was torn in half and the distal part of the stent was 
floating in the dilated common bile duct. The papillary orifice was dilated by 
endoscopic papillary large balloon dilation (EPLBD) using a 15-mm wire-guided 
balloon catheter. Subsequently, we inserted biopsy forceps into the bile duct 
and grasped the distal end of the broken SEMS under fluoroscopy. We successfully 
removed the fragment of the SEMS from the bile duct, along with the endoscope. 
The patient was discharged without complications. Placement of an uncovered 
biliary SEMS is not the preferred treatment for benign biliary strictures. 
Spontaneous fracture of an uncovered biliary SEMS is an extremely rare 
complication. We should be aware that stent fracture can occur when placing 
uncovered biliary SEMSs in patients with a long life expectancy. EPLBD is very 
useful for retrieving the fractured fragment of SEMS.

© 2012 The Authors. Digestive Endoscopy © 2012 Japan Gastroenterological 
Endoscopy Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1443-1661.2011.01189.x
PMID: 22507093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Immun Ageing. 2012 Apr 16;9(1):3. doi: 10.1186/1742-4933-9-3.

Simple model systems: a challenge for Alzheimer's disease.

Di Carlo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Biomedicina ed Immunologia Molecolare (IBIM) Alberto Monroy CNR, 
via Ugo La Malfa 153, 90146 Palermo, Italy. di-carlo@ibim.cnr.it.

The success of biomedical researches has led to improvement in human health and 
increased life expectancy. An unexpected consequence has been an increase of 
age-related diseases and, in particular, neurodegenerative diseases. These 
disorders are generally late onset and exhibit complex pathologies including 
memory loss, cognitive defects, movement disorders and death. Here, it is 
described as the use of simple animal models such as worms, fishes, flies, 
Ascidians and sea urchins, have facilitated the understanding of several 
biochemical mechanisms underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the most 
diffuse neurodegenerative pathologies. The discovery of specific genes and 
proteins associated with AD, and the development of new technologies for the 
production of transgenic animals, has helped researchers to overcome the lack of 
natural models. Moreover, simple model systems of AD have been utilized to 
obtain key information for evaluating potential therapeutic interventions and 
for testing efficacy of putative neuroprotective compounds.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4933-9-3
PMCID: PMC3388466
PMID: 2250765961. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Apr 16;12:94. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-94.

Incentive payments are not related to expected health gain in the pay for 
performance scheme for UK primary care: cross-sectional analysis.

Fleetcroft R(1), Steel N, Cookson R, Walker S, Howe A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health and Primary Care, Norwich Medical School, 
University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. r.fleetcroft@uea.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The General Medical Services primary care contract for the United 
Kingdom financially rewards performance in 19 clinical areas, through the 
Quality and Outcomes Framework. Little is known about how best to determine the 
size of financial incentives in pay for performance schemes. Our aim was to test 
the hypothesis that performance indicators with larger population health 
benefits receive larger financial incentives.
METHODS: We performed cross sectional analyses to quantify associations between 
the size of financial incentives and expected health gain in the 2004 and 2006 
versions of the Quality and Outcomes Framework. We used non-parametric two-sided 
Spearman rank correlation tests. Health gain was measured in expected lives 
saved in one year and in quality adjusted life years. For each quality indicator 
in an average sized general practice we tested for associations first, between 
the marginal increase in payment and the health gain resulting from a one 
percent point improvement in performance and second, between total payment and 
the health gain at the performance threshold for maximum payment.
RESULTS: Evidence for lives saved or quality adjusted life years gained was 
found for 28 indicators accounting for 41% of the total incentive payments. No 
statistically significant associations were found between the expected health 
gain and incentive gained from a marginal 1% increase in performance in either 
the 2004 or 2006 version of the Quality and Outcomes Framework. In addition no 
associations were found between the size of financial payment for achievement of 
an indicator and the expected health gain at the performance threshold for 
maximum payment measured in lives saved or quality adjusted life years.
CONCLUSIONS: In this subgroup of indicators the financial incentives were not 
aligned to maximise health gain. This disconnection between incentive and 
expected health gain risks supporting clinical activities that are only 
marginally effective, at the expense of more effective activities receiving 
lower incentives. When designing pay for performance programmes decisions about 
the size of the financial incentive attached to an indicator should be informed 
by information on the health gain to be expected from that indicator.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-94
PMCID: PMC3365874
PMID: 22507660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Hematology. 2012 Apr;17 Suppl 1:S159-62. doi:
10.1179/102453312X13336169156735.

Thrombosis in stem cell transplantation.

Kansu E(1).

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University Institute of Oncology, Hematopoietic Stem Cell 
Transplantation Unit, Ankara, Turkey. eminkansu47@gmail.com

Hemostatic changes and thrombotic events are frequent in patients undergoing 
stem cell transplantation. Arterial and venous thromboses are major causes of 
morbidity and mortality. Thrombotic complications can be classified into four 
groups including: catheter-related thrombosis, venous thromboembolic (VTE) 
events, sinusoidal obstructive syndrome (SOS)/veno-occlusive disease, and 
transplant-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TAM). The incidence of 
catheter-related thrombosis is 8-20% in patients undergoing autologous 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), and the incidence is low in 
syngeneic and allogeneic transplant patients. Venous duplex Doppler ultrasound, 
venogram, and computed tomography scan are required to visualize the venous 
thrombus. The treatment should be aimed at the prevention of pulmonary embolism, 
the avoidance of thrombus extension, and the preservation of catheter patency. 
Patients undergoing HSCT may have risk factors for VTE including underlying 
malignancy, traumatic brain injury, prolonged hospitalization, administration of 
conditioning regimens, and central venous catheters. Important risk factors are 
presence of history of VTE and graft-versus-host disease. One-year incidence of 
symptomatic VTE is 3.7%. SOS, also known as veno-occlusive disease, is a serious 
liver disease, seen in approximately 50-60% of HSCT patients. The mortality rate 
from the severe form of SOS is 84.3% and majority of the patients have 
multi-organ failure. The frequency is quite low after autologous 
transplantation. Risk factors for SOS include pre-existing hepatic damage, 
previous high-dose chemotherapy and abdominal irradiation, female gender and 
donor-recipient human leukocyte antigen disparity. Cyclophosphamide and 
busulphan are the most common agents with the highest incidence and fatal SOS. 
Histopathologic features of SOS include dilatation of sinusoids, necrosis of 
perivenular hepatocytes, and obstruction of small intrahepatic central venules 
by microthrombi and fibrin deposition. Signs of SOS usually occur within first 
30 days after HSCT including hyperbilirubinemia, hepatomegaly, ascites, and 
weight gain. Symptoms of liver failure, including encephalopathy, coagulopathy, 
and renal failure will appear in severe form. A hepatic venous pressure gradient 
above 10 mmHg is highly specific for SOS. Early use of defibrotide has been 
shown to be effective in the treatment of high-risk SOS. TAM is a distinct, 
infrequent, and significant life-threatening complication of HSCT. TAM is seen 
in the range of 0·5-76% and was reported to be 10-25% in patients undergoing 
allogeneic HSCT with a mortality rate around 50%. It can also be seen after 
autologous HSCT and mainly affects the glomerular capillaries. There has been no 
standard therapy for TAM. Few case series reported good response to rituximab 
and high-dose corticosteroids were used with limited success. Trials with 
complement inhibitors such as eculizumab are currently underway.

DOI: 10.1179/102453312X13336169156735
PMID: 22507809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Hematology. 2012 Apr;17 Suppl 1:S198-201. doi:
10.1179/102453312X13336169157176.

Economic evaluation of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Barr RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, 1280 Main St West, Hamilton, 
Ont. L8S 4K1, Canada. rbarr@mcmaster.ca

Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a highly expensive clinical 
intervention with considerable therapeutic benefit but serious adverse effects 
on health status in some circumstances. Consequently, it is an important target 
for economic evaluation in which the monetary costs and clinical consequences of 
optional treatment strategies are compared. The need for such formal assessment 
is further demanded by the expanded use of hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation globally, including its utilization in developing countries. 
With respect to costs, those incurred by patients and families are often 
substantial, while those incurred by hospitals may be inadequately reimbursed. 
Determination of consequences should not be limited to measurements of clinical 
effectiveness but rather include adjustments for quality of life. Rigorous 
economic evaluation can provide hard evidence in deliberations of value for 
money, especially in the context of limited resources for health care.

DOI: 10.1179/102453312X13336169157176
PMID: 22507820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Gesundheitswesen. 2012 Apr;74(4):e19-24. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1311556. Epub
2012  Apr 16.

An elusive goal? Gender equity and gender equality in health policy.

Payne S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Bristol. Sarah.Payne@bristol.ac.uk

Variations in the health of men and women are well known: men have poorer life 
expectancy than women in virtually every country, and there are differences 
between women and men in patterns of morbidity across the life course. These 
variations reflect both biology and gender, and health systems play a part 
through the services they offer. In recent years a number of national 
governments and international bodies have paid increasing attention to gender 
inequalities, and gender mainstreaming has been adopted by as a key policy 
objective at various levels of governance. While gender mainstreaming has 
resulted in some successes, analysis of the depth of change suggests a less 
optimistic view, reflecting the persistence of barriers to gender mainstreaming 
in health, which include a lack of resources, uncertainty over the goals of 
gender mainstreaming, and notional rather than genuine adoption of gender 
mainstreaming principles. Underlying these barriers however, is the use of 
bureaucratic and systems-based approaches to gender mainstreaming. The failure 
to challenge underlying gender relations of power allows gender strategies to 
become technocratic exercises which achieve results in terms of the boxes 
ticked, but not in relation to what matters: the health and health opportunities 
of both women and men.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1311556
PMID: 22508262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Apr 7;18(13):1448-58. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v18.i13.1448.

Hepatic echinococcosis: clinical and therapeutic aspects.

Nunnari G(1), Pinzone MR, Gruttadauria S, Celesia BM, Madeddu G, Malaguarnera G, 
Pavone P, Cappellani A, Cacopardo B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Biomedicine, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, University of Catania, Via Palermo 636,95125ARNAS Garibaldi Nesima, 
Catania,Italy. gnunnari@hotmail.com

Echinococcosis or hydatid disease (HD) is a zoonosis caused by the larval stages 
of taeniid cestodes belonging to the genus Echinococcus. Hepatic echinococcosis 
is a life-threatening disease, mainly differentiated into alveolar and cystic 
forms, associated with Echinoccus multilocularis (E. multilocularis) and 
Echinococcus granulosus (E. granulosus) infection, respectively. Cystic 
echinococcosis (CE) has a worldwide distribution, while hepatic alveolar 
echinococcosis (AE) is endemic in the Northern hemisphere, including North 
America and several Asian and European countries, like France, Germany and 
Austria. E. granulosus young cysts are spherical, unilocular vesicles, 
consisting of an internal germinal layer and an outer acellular layer. Cyst 
expansion is associated with a host immune reaction and the subsequent 
development of a fibrous layer, called the pericyst; old cysts typically present 
internal septations and daughter cysts. E. multilocularis has a tumor-like, 
infiltrative behavior, which is responsible for tissue destruction and finally 
for liver failure. The liver is the main site of HD involvement, for both 
alveolar and cystic hydatidosis. HD is usually asymptomatic for a long period of 
time, because cyst growth is commonly slow; the most frequent symptoms are 
fatigue and abdominal pain. Patients may also present jaundice, hepatomegaly or 
anaphylaxis, due to cyst leakage or rupture. HD diagnosis is usually 
accomplished with the combined use of ultrasonography and immunodiagnosis; 
furthermore, the improvement of surgical techniques, the introduction of 
minimally invasive treatments [such as puncture, aspiration, injection, 
re-aspiration (PAIR)] and more effective drugs (such as benzoimidazoles) have 
deeply changed life expectancy and quality of life of patients with HD. The aim 
of this article is to provide an up-to-date review of biological, diagnostic, 
clinical and therapeutic aspects of hepatic echinococcosis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i13.1448
PMCID: PMC3319940
PMID: 22509076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2012;6(4):e1462. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0001462. Epub 
2012 Apr 3.

Human and canine echinococcosis infection in informal, unlicensed abattoirs in 
Lima, Peru.

Reyes MM(1), Taramona CP, Saire-Mendoza M, Gavidia CM, Barron E, Boufana B, 
Craig PS, Tello L, Garcia HH, Santivañez SJ.

Author information:
(1)Alberto Hurtado School of Medicine, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, 
Lima, Perú.

Echinococcus granulosus infections are a major public health problem in 
livestock-raising regions around the world. The life cycle of this tapeworm is 
sustained between dogs (definitive host, canine echinococcosis), and herbivores 
(intermediary host, cystic hydatid disease). Humans may also develop cystic 
hydatid disease. Echinococcosis is endemic in rural areas of Peru; nevertheless, 
its presence or the extension of the problem in urban areas is basically 
unknown. Migration into Lima, an 8-million habitant's metropolis, creates 
peripheral areas where animals brought from endemic areas are slaughtered 
without veterinary supervision. We identified eight informal, unlicensed 
abattoirs in a peripheral district of Lima and performed a cross-sectional study 
in to assess the prevalence of canine echinococcosis, evaluated by coproELISA 
followed by PCR evaluation and arecoline purge. Eight of 22 dogs (36%) were 
positive to coproELISA, and four (18%) were confirmed to be infected with E. 
granulosus tapeworms either by PCR or direct observation (purge). Later 
evaluation of the human population living in these abattoirs using abdominal 
ultrasound, chest X-rays and serology, found 3 out of 32 (9.3%) subjects with 
echinococcal cysts in the liver (two viable, one calcified), one of whom had 
also lung involvement and a strongly positive antibody response. Autochthonous 
transmission of E. granulosus is present in Lima. Informal, unlicensed abattoirs 
may be sources of infection to neighbouring people in this urban environment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0001462
PMCID: PMC3317905
PMID: 22509413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


67. J Am Chem Soc. 2012 May 16;134(19):8231-40. doi: 10.1021/ja302077d. Epub 2012
 May 2.

Dissecting chemical interactions governing RNA polymerase II transcriptional 
fidelity.

Kellinger MW(1), Ulrich S, Chong J, Kool ET, Wang D.

Author information:
(1)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, The University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0625, United States.

Maintaining high transcriptional fidelity is essential to life. For all 
eukaryotic organisms, RNA polymerase II (Pol II) is responsible for messenger 
RNA synthesis from the DNA template. Three key checkpoint steps are important in 
controlling Pol II transcriptional fidelity: nucleotide selection and 
incorporation, RNA transcript extension, and proofreading. Some types of DNA 
damage significantly reduce transcriptional fidelity. However, the chemical 
interactions governing each individual checkpoint step of Pol II transcriptional 
fidelity and the molecular basis of how subtle DNA base damage leads to 
significant losses of transcriptional fidelity are not fully understood. Here we 
use a series of "hydrogen bond deficient" nucleoside analogues to dissect 
chemical interactions governing Pol II transcriptional fidelity. We find that 
whereas hydrogen bonds between a Watson-Crick base pair of template DNA and 
incoming NTP are critical for efficient incorporation, they are not required for 
efficient transcript extension from this matched 3'-RNA end. In sharp contrast, 
the fidelity of extension is strongly dependent on the discrimination of an 
incorrect pattern of hydrogen bonds. We show that U:T wobble base interactions 
are critical to prevent extension of this mismatch by Pol II. Additionally, both 
hydrogen bonding and base stacking play important roles in controlling Pol II 
proofreading activity. Strong base stacking at the 3'-RNA terminus can 
compensate for loss of hydrogen bonds. Finally, we show that Pol II can 
distinguish very subtle size differences in template bases. The current work 
provides the first systematic evaluation of electrostatic and steric effects in 
controlling Pol II transcriptional fidelity.

DOI: 10.1021/ja302077d
PMCID: PMC3367139
PMID: 22509745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother. 2012 Jun;26(2):153-64. doi: 
10.3109/15360288.2012.671240. Epub 2012 Apr 18.

A cost-utility analysis of pregabalin versus duloxetine for the treatment of 
painful diabetic neuropathy.

Bellows BK(1), Dahal A, Jiao T, Biskupiak J.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacotherapy Outcomes Research Center, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 
Utah 84108, USA. brandon.bellows@pharm.utah.edu

The objective of the current study was to determine the cost-utility of 
pregabalin versus duloxetine for treating painful diabetic neuropathy (PDN) 
using a decision tree analysis. Literature searches identified clinical trials 
and real-world studies reporting the efficacy, tolerability, safety, adherence, 
opioid usage, health care utilization, and costs of pregabalin and duloxetine. 
The proportions of patients reported in the included studies were used to 
determine probabilities in the decision tree model. The base-case model included 
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved doses of pregabalin (300 mg/day) 
and duloxetine (60 mg/day), whereas "real-world" sensitivity analyses explored 
the effects over a range of doses (pregabalin 75-600 mg/day, duloxetine 20-120 
mg/day). A 6-month time horizon and a US third-party payer perspective were 
chosen for the study. Outcomes from the model were expressed as cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). In the base-case model, duloxetine cost less 
and was more effective than pregabalin (incremental cost -$187, incremental 
effectiveness 0.011 QALYs). Results from two real-world sensitivity analyses 
indicated that duloxetine cost $16,300 and $20,667 more per additional QALY than 
pregabalin. Using a decision tree model that incorporated both clinical trial 
and real-world data, duloxetine was a more cost-effective option than pregabalin 
in the treatment of PDN from the perspective of third-party payers.

DOI: 10.3109/15360288.2012.671240
PMID: 22509775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Med J Aust. 2012 Apr 16;196(7):446. doi: 10.5694/mja12.10025.

Universal human papillomavirus vaccination of Australian boys - neither 
cost-effective nor equitable.

Massey PD, Durrheim DN.

DOI: 10.5694/mja12.10025
PMID: 22509874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Apr 17;12:97. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-97.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of neonatal hearing screening program in China: 
should universal screening be prioritized?

Huang LH(1), Zhang L, Tobe RY, Qi FH, Sun L, Teng Y, Ke QL, Mai F, Zhang XF, 
Zhang M, Yang RL, Tu L, Li HH, Gu YQ, Xu SN, Yue XY, Li XD, Qi BE, Cheng XH, 
Tang W, Xu LZ, Han DM.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Neonatal hearing screening (NHS) has been routinely offered as a 
vital component of early childhood care in developed countries, whereas such a 
screening program is still at the pilot or preliminary stage as regards its 
nationwide implementation in developing countries. To provide significant 
evidence for health policy making in China, this study aims to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of NHS program implementation in case of eight provinces of 
China.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model was conducted and all neonates annually born 
from 2007 to 2009 in eight provinces of China were simulated in this model. The 
model parameters were estimated from the established databases in the general 
hospitals or maternal and child health hospitals of these eight provinces, 
supplemented from the published literature. The model estimated changes in 
program implementation costs, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), average 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ACER), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
for universal screening compared to targeted screening in eight provinces.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: A multivariate sensitivity analysis was performed to 
determine uncertainty in health effect estimates and cost-effectiveness ratios 
using a probabilistic modeling technique. Targeted strategy trended to be 
cost-effective in Guangxi, Jiangxi, Henan, Guangdong, Zhejiang, Hebei, Shandong, 
and Beijing from the level of 9%, 9%, 8%, 4%, 3%, 7%, 5%, and 2%, respectively; 
while universal strategy trended to be cost-effective in those provinces from 
the level of 70%, 70%, 48%, 10%, 8%, 28%, 15%, 4%, respectively. This study 
showed although there was a huge disparity in the implementation of the NHS 
program in the surveyed provinces, both universal strategy and targeted strategy 
showed cost-effectiveness in those relatively developed provinces, while neither 
of the screening strategy showed cost-effectiveness in those relatively 
developing provinces. This study also showed that both strategies especially 
universal strategy achieve a good economic effect in the long term costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal screening might be considered as the prioritized 
implementation goal especially in those relatively developed provinces of China 
as it provides the best health and economic effects, while targeted screening 
might be temporarily more realistic than universal screening in those relatively 
developing provinces of China.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-97
PMCID: PMC3353179
PMID: 22510223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. BMC Nephrol. 2012 Apr 18;13:18. doi: 10.1186/1471-2369-13-18.

Patient preferences for the allocation of deceased donor kidneys for 
transplantation: a mixed methods study.

Tong A(1), Jan S, Wong G, Craig JC, Irving M, Chadban S, Cass A, Marren N, 
Howard K.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, 
Australia. allison.tong@sydney.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Deceased donor kidneys are a scarce health resource, yet patient 
preferences for organ allocation are largely unknown. The aim of this study was 
to determine patient preferences for how kidneys should be allocated for 
transplantation.
METHODS: Patients on dialysis and kidney transplant recipients were purposively 
selected from two centres in Australia to participate in nominal/focus groups in 
March 2011. Participants identified and ranked criteria they considered 
important for deceased donor kidney allocation. Transcripts were thematically 
analysed to identify reasons for their rankings.
RESULTS: From six groups involving 37 participants, 23 criteria emerged. Most 
agreed that matching, wait-list time, medical urgency, likelihood of surviving 
surgery, age, comorbidities, duration of illness, quality of life, number of 
organs needed and impact on the recipient's life circumstances were important 
considerations. Underpinning their rankings were four main themes: enhancing 
life, medical priority, recipient valuation, and deservingness. These were 
predominantly expressed as achieving equity for all patients, or priority for 
specific sub-groups of potential recipients regarded as more "deserving".
CONCLUSIONS: Patients believed any wait-listed individual who would gain life 
expectancy and quality of life compared with dialysis should have access to 
transplantation. Equity of access to transplantation for all patients and 
justice for those who would look after their transplant were considered 
important. A utilitarian rationale based on maximizing health gains from the 
allocation of a scarce resource to avoid "wastage," were rarely expressed. Organ 
allocation organisations need to seek input from patients who can articulate 
preferences for allocation and advocate for equity and justice in organ 
allocation.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2369-13-18
PMCID: PMC3359260
PMID: 22510248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Pain Pract. 2013 Jan;13(1):30-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1533-2500.2012.00553.x. Epub
 2012 Apr 18.

Sustained safety and efficacy of once-daily hydromorphone extended-release 
(OROS® hydromorphone ER) compared with twice-daily oxycodone controlled-release 
over 52 weeks in patients with moderate to severe chronic noncancer pain.

Richarz U(1), Waechter S, Sabatowski R, Szczepanski L, Binsfeld H.

Author information:
(1)Janssen Global Services, LLC, Sihlbruggstrasse 111, 6340 Baar, Switzerland. 
urichar1@its.jnj.com

Once-daily hydromorphone extended-release (OROS(®) hydromorphone ER) and 
oxycodone controlled-release (CR) are semisynthetic, ER opioid analgesics with 
established efficacy. An open-label, randomized, 24-week, parallel group, 
flexible-dose study demonstrated noninferiority of OROS hydromorphone ER vs. 
twice-daily oxycodone CR in patients with chronic noncancer pain. In total, 112 
patients were enrolled in a 28-week, open-label extension study; 60 patients 
received OROS hydromorphone ER and 52 received oxycodone CR. The primary 
efficacy measure was the change from baseline to Weeks 38 and 52 in Brief Pain 
Inventory item "pain right now." Global assessments of efficacy, dosing 
convenience, and tolerability were secondary endpoints. Mean change in "pain 
right now" from baseline to Week 38 was -3.0 (OROS hydromorphone ER) vs. -2.8 
(oxycodone CR), and from baseline to Week 52 was -2.9 vs. -2.8; these changes 
were similar to the changes in the core phase (-2.1 vs. -2.1). Similar 
improvements were demonstrated for secondary assessments, including pain, pain 
interference, and quality of life. At Week 52, global assessment of efficacy was 
rated as "very good" or "good" by the majority of patients (OROS hydromorphone 
ER, 91.7%; oxycodone CR, 86.5%). More patients in the OROS hydromorphone ER 
group (35.0% vs. 21.2%) assessed mode of drug intake as "very convenient." The 
majority of patients receiving OROS hydromorphone ER (88.3%) and oxycodone CR 
(88.5%) rated tolerability as "good" or "very good" at Week 52; few patients 
discontinued treatment because of an adverse event (1.6% vs. 0.4%, 
respectively). The effectiveness of OROS hydromorphone ER and oxycodone CR was 
maintained through 1 year.

© 2012 Janssen Global Services. Pain Practice © 2012 World Institute of Pain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1533-2500.2012.00553.x
PMID: 22510252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Age Ageing. 2012 May;41(3):416-9. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afs022. Epub 2012 Apr
17.

Gender differences in care home admission risk: partner's age explains the 
higher risk for women.

McCann M(1), Donnelly M, O'Reilly D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Child Care Research, Queen's University Belfast, 6 College Park, 
Belfast, UK. mark.mccann@qub.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: older women have a higher risk of care home admission than men, this 
difference remains even after accounting for variations in health. A likely 
reason for this is the difference in social support provided by spouses. Older 
men may provide less care for their wives than women do for their husbands.
OBJECTIVES: this study assessed two competing explanations for this. First, 
older men are less willing to undertake traditionally feminine caring roles; 
secondly, older men are less physically able to provide care.
DESIGN: the Northern Ireland Longitudinal Study (NILS), a representative (c28%) 
sample of the Northern Ireland population.
FINDINGS: a total of 20,830 couples were followed over 6 years, with 415 care 
home admissions among NILS cohort members. Women had a higher admission risk 
after controlling for cohort members' age and health; however, there was no 
gender difference after adjusting for partner's age.
CONCLUSION: these results suggest that advanced age and physical frailty explain 
why men provide less care for their partners than women do; rather than being 
unwilling to undertake a caring role. The narrowing gap in life expectancy 
between men and women may have an effect on the future demand for formal care.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs022
PMID: 22510517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Birth Defects Res A Clin Mol Teratol. 2012 Jun;94(6):417-23. doi: 
10.1002/bdra.23014. Epub 2012 Apr 18.

A systematic review to calculate background miscarriage rates using life table 
analysis.

Ammon Avalos L(1), Galindo C, Li DK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente, Oakland, California, USA. 
Lyndsay.A.Avalos@kp.org

The objectives of the current study were to calculate: (1) the expected rates of 
miscarriage by gestational week; (2) the cumulative risk of miscarriage; and (3) 
the remaining risk of miscarriage for gestational weeks five through 20, through 
a systematic review of the literature. We searched MEDLINE for articles 
published in English through the end of 2009. References of articles were also 
searched. Four studies were identified to have the three necessary pieces of 
information for the proposed calculations: (1) gestational age at study entry, 
(2) pregnancy outcome; and (3) the gestational age at which the pregnancy 
outcome occurred. Data were extracted from each study and Life Table Analysis 
Methods were conducted. Weekly miscarriage rates varied in the early gestational 
weeks with the highest rate documented at >20 miscarriages per 1000 women-weeks 
at each week of gestation prior to week 13. By week 14, the rate for all studies 
became relatively comparable and fell below 10 miscarriages per 1000 woman-weeks 
at risk and fell even lower through week 20. The cumulative risk of miscarriage 
for weeks 5 through 20 of gestation ranged from 11 miscarriages per 100 women to 
22 miscarriages per 100 women (11-22%). Based on data from comparable study 
populations, a range of background miscarriage rates by week of gestation for 
weeks 5 through 20, the cumulative risk of miscarriage, and the remaining risk 
of miscarriage are presented. Wider variation of miscarriage rates and risks 
occurred early in gestation (<14 weeks).

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bdra.23014
PMID: 22511535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. PLoS One. 2012;7(4):e34588. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0034588. Epub 2012 Apr
12.

Subgroup economic analysis for glioblastoma in a health resource-limited 
setting.

Wu B(1), Miao Y, Bai Y, Ye M, Xu Y, Chen H, Shen J, Qiu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, 
Renji Hospital, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this research was to evaluate the economic outcomes of 
radiotherapy (RT), temozolomide (TMZ) and nitrosourea (NT) strategies for 
glioblastoma patients with different prognostic factors.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A Markov model was developed to track monthly 
patient transitions. Transition probabilities and utilities were derived 
primarily from published reports. Costs were estimated from the perspective of 
the Chinese healthcare system. The survival data with different prognostic 
factors were simulated using Weibull survival models. Costs over a 5-year period 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were estimated. Probabilistic 
sensitivity and one-way analyses were performed. The baseline analysis in the 
overall cohort showed that the TMZ strategy increased the cost and QALY relative 
to the RT strategy by $25,328.4 and 0.29, respectively; and the TMZ strategy 
increased the cost and QALY relative to the NT strategy by $23,906.5 and 0.25, 
respectively. Therefore, the incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) per 
additional QALY of the TMZ strategy, relative to the RT strategy and the NT 
strategy, amounts to $87,940.6 and $94,968.3, respectively. Subgroups with more 
favorable prognostic factors achieved more health benefits with improved ICERs. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analyses confirmed that the TMZ strategy was not 
cost-effective. In general, the results were most sensitive to the cost of TMZ, 
which indicates that better outcomes could be achieved by decreasing the cost of 
TMZ.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: In health resource-limited settings, TMZ is not a 
cost-effective option for glioblastoma patients. Selecting patients with more 
favorable prognostic factors increases the likelihood of cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0034588
PMCID: PMC3325281
PMID: 22511951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


76. Acta Ortop Mex. 2011 Nov-Dec;25(6):353-8.

[Long-term analysis of minimally invasive surgery in knee arthroplasty].

[Article in Spanish]

Pescador D(1), Moreno AA, Blanco JF, García I.

Author information:
(1)Médico Traumatólogo y Cirujano Ortopédico, Servicio de Ortopedia y 
Traumatología, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca, Salamanca, España. 
pesc21@yahoo.es

BACKGROUND: Knee arthroplasty is the treatment of choice for gonarthrosis. The 
development of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) requires assessing results based 
on the classical approaches and this is the purpose of our study.
METHODS: Randomized, prospective study comparing two groups; one underwent MIS 
(45 patients) and the second one a classical approach (51 patients); both groups 
were comparable. The following variables were assessed in the immediate 
postoperative period and at 4 and 8 years: blood loss, pain according to the 
VAS, flexion and extension and quality of life measured with the SF-36.
RESULTS: In the immediate postoperative period we observed statistically 
significant differences (p < 0.05) in favor of the MIS approach in pain, 
hospital stay and blood loss. However, this was not observed at 4 and 8 years 
concerning pain, quality of life and range of motion. We observed an improvement 
in the functional scale and quality of life compared with the preoperative 
status, without any differences when both groups were compared.
CONCLUSIONS: The MIS technique results in a better immediate postoperative 
period, but no differences were seen in the choice of the approach 4 and 8 years 
after surgery.

PMID: 22512098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Curr Pharm Des. 2012;18(18):2536-57. doi: 10.2174/138161212800492868.

Bioresorbable and nonresorbable polymers for bone tissue engineering.

Girones Molera J(1), Mendez JA, San Roman J.

Author information:
(1)Polymeric Nanomaterials and Biomaterials, Instituto de Ciencia y Tecnología 
de Polímeros, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Madrid, Spain. 
jgirones@ictp.csic.es

In recent years, bone tissue engineering has emerged as one of the main research 
areas in the field of regenerative biomedicine. Frequency and relevance 
age-related diseases, such as healing and regeneration of bone tissues, are 
rising due to increasing life expectancy. Even though bone tissue has excellent 
self-regeneration ability, when bone defects exceed a critical size, impaired 
bone formation can occur and surgical intervention becomes mandatory. Bone 
tissue engineering represents an alternative approach to conventional bone 
transplants. The main aim of tissue engineering is to repair, regenerate or 
reconstruct damaged or degenerative tissue. This review presents an overview on 
the main materials, techniques and strategies in the field of bone tissue 
engineering. Whilst presenting some reviews recently published that deepen on 
each of the sections of the paper, this review article aims to present some of 
the most relevant advances, both in terms of new materials and strategies, 
currently being developed for bone repair and regeneration.

DOI: 10.2174/138161212800492868
PMID: 22512444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Br J Dermatol. 2012 Aug;167(2):374-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2012.10997.x.
 Epub 2012 Jul 5.

Long-term follow-up of patients with Herlitz-type junctional epidermolysis 
bullosa.

Yuen WY(1), Duipmans JC, Molenbuur B, Herpertz I, Mandema JM, Jonkman MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Center for Blistering Diseases, University of 
Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9700 RB Groningen, 
The Netherlands. w.y.yuen@umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: Junctional epidermolysis bullosa, type Herlitz (JEB-H) is a rare, 
autosomal recessive disease caused by absence of the epidermal basement membrane 
adhesion protein laminin-332. It is characterized by extensive and devastating 
blistering of the skin and mucous membranes, leading to death in early 
childhood.
OBJECTIVES: To present the results of the long-term follow-up of a cohort of 
patients with JEB-H, and to provide guidelines for prognosis, treatment and 
care.
METHODS: All patients with JEB-H included in the Dutch Epidermolysis Bullosa 
(EB) Registry between 1988 and 2011 were followed longitudinally by our EB team. 
Diagnosis was established using immunofluorescence antigen mapping, electron 
microscopy and DNA analysis.
RESULTS: In total, we included 22 patients with JEB-H over a 23-year period. 
Their average age at death was 5.8 months (range 0.5-32.6 months). The causes of 
death were, in order of frequency: failure to thrive, respiratory failure, 
pneumonia, dehydration, anaemia, sepsis and euthanasia. The pattern of initial 
weight gain was a predictor of lifespan in these patients. Invasive treatments 
to extend life did not promote survival in our patients.
CONCLUSIONS: It is important to diagnose JEB-H as soon as possible after birth 
so that the management can be shifted from life-saving to comfort care. The 
