comparative studies that are unmatched for tumour stage (level of evidence 3b), 
with variability of follow-up duration and reported outcome measures. The 
present systematic review comprehensively reviews the outcomes of all studies of 
endoscopic management of UTUC, including the role of topical adjuvant therapy. 
It establishes for the first time a structured reference for endoscopic 
management of UTUC, and is a foundation for further clinical studies.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the oncological outcomes of upper tract 
urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) treated with ureteroscopic and percutaneous 
management. The standard treatment of UTUC is radical nephroureterectomy (RNU). 
However, over the last two decades several institutions have treated UTUC 
endoscopically, either via ureteroscopic ablation or percutaneous nephroscopic 
resection of tumour (PNRT), for both imperative and elective indications.
METHODS: For evidence acquisition the Pubmed database was searched for English 
language publications in December 2011 using the following terms: upper tract 
(UT) transitional cell carcinoma (TCC), upper tract TCC, UTTCC, upper tract 
urothelial cell carcinoma, upper tract urothelial carcinoma, UTUC, endoscopic 
management, ureteroscopic management, laser ablation, percutaneous management, 
PNRT, conservative management, ureteroscopic biopsy, biopsy, BCG, mitomycin C, 
topical therapy.
RESULTS: There are no randomised trials comparing endoscopic management with 
RNU. Most published studies were retrospective case series (and database 
reviews), or unmatched comparative studies. There was strong selection bias for 
favourable tumour characteristics in many endoscopically treated groups. There 
was variation in medical comorbidity and indication for treatment across 
different study groups. The biopsy verification of underlying UTUC pathology was 
inconsistent. The follow-up in most studies was limited, typically to a mean 3 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a high rate of UT recurrence with endoscopically managed 
UTUC, and a grade-related risk of tumour progression and disease-specific 
mortality. Overall, renal preservation may be high with ≈20% of patients 
proceeding eventually to RNU. For highly selected Grade 1 (or low-grade) disease 
managed in experienced centres, 5-year disease-specific survival (DSS) may be 
equivalent to RNU, although the small study groups and short follow-ups preclude 
comments on less favourable Grade 1 (or low-grade) tumour characteristics, or 
DSS, in the longer-term. For Grade 3 (or high-grade) disease, DSS outcomes are 
poor and endoscopic management should only be considered for compelling 
imperative indications in the context of the patient's overall life expectancy 
and competing comorbidity.

© 2012 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2012 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11068.x
PMID: 22471401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. BMC Infect Dis. 2012 Apr 3;12:83. doi: 10.1186/1471-2334-12-83.

Cost-effectiveness of posaconazole versus fluconazole or itraconazole in the 
prevention of invasive fungal infections among high-risk neutropenic patients in 
Spain.

Grau S(1), de la Cámara R, Sabater FJ, Jarque I, Carreras E, Casado MA, Sanz MA.

Author information:
(1)Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain. sgrau@parcdesalutmar.cat

BACKGROUND: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of posaconazole compared with 
standard azole therapy (SAT; fluconazole or itraconazole) for the prevention of 
invasive fungal infections (IFI) and the reduction of overall mortality in 
high-risk neutropenic patients with acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML) or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). The perspective was that of the Spanish 
National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: A decision-analytic model, based on a randomised phase III trial, was 
used to predict IFI avoided, life-years saved (LYS), total costs, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER; incremental cost per LYS) over 
patients' lifetime horizon. Data for the analyses included life expectancy, 
procedures, and costs associated with IFI and the drugs (in euros at November 
2009 values) which were obtained from the published literature and opinions of 
an expert committee. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PAS) was performed.
RESULTS: Posaconazole was associated with fewer IFI (0.05 versus 0.11), 
increased LYS (2.52 versus 2.43), and significantly lower costs excluding costs 
of the underlying condition (€6,121 versus €7,928) per patient relative to SAT. 
There is an 85% probability that posaconazole is a cost-saving strategy compared 
to SAT and a 97% probability that the ICER for posaconazole relative to SAT is 
below the cost per LYS threshold of €30,000 currently accepted in Spain.
CONCLUSIONS: Posaconazole is a cost-saving prophylactic strategy (lower costs 
and greater efficacy) compared with fluconazole or itraconazole in high-risk 
neutropenic patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2334-12-83
PMCID: PMC3355034
PMID: 22471553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Am J Gastroenterol. 2012 Jun;107(6):912-21. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2012.69. Epub
2012  Apr 3.

Effect of dyspepsia on survival: a longitudinal 10-year follow-up study.

Ford AC(1), Forman D, Bailey AG, Axon AT, Moayyedi P.

Author information:
(1)Leeds Gastroenterology Institute, St James's University Hospital, UK. 
alexf12399@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: Most chronic and recurrent gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms in the 
community are caused by functional GI disorders, such as functional dyspepsia 
and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). It is not known, however, whether these 
conditions affect mortality. We present the results of a large community-based 
prospective study that examines this issue.
METHODS: This was a 10-year follow-up, conducted in 2004, of individuals 
recruited into a community-based screening program for Helicobacter pylori. Data 
on mortality and cause of death at 10 years were obtained from the Office for 
National Statistics. Baseline demographic data, lifestyle factors, GI symptoms, 
and quality of life were recorded at study entry. The effect of all these 
factors on 10-year mortality was examined using univariate analysis and 
multivariate Cox regression analysis. All results were expressed as hazard 
ratios (HRs) with 99% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: Symptom data were available for 8,323 (99.0%) of 8,407 individuals 
originally enrolled, comprising over 84,000 years of follow-up: 3,169 (38.1%) 
subjects had dyspepsia, and 264 (3.2%) IBS. There were 137 (1.65%) individuals 
who had died at 10 years. After multivariate analysis, there was no significant 
difference in likelihood of death at 10 years in those with dyspepsia (HR: 0.94; 
99% CI: 0.58-1.54) or IBS (HR: 1.35; 99% CI: 0.36-5.10), compared with those not 
meeting the criteria for either condition.
CONCLUSIONS: Dyspepsia was not associated with an increased mortality in the 
community. Data for any effect of IBS on survival were less clear. Further 
studies are required to assess the impact of functional GI disorders on life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2012.69
PMID: 22472745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Med Decis Making. 2012 May-Jun;32(3):507-16. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12439754.
Epub  2012 Apr 3.

Do different methods of modeling statin treatment effectiveness influence the 
optimal decision?

van Kempen BJ(1)(2), Ferket BS(1)(2), Hofman A(1), Spronk S(1)(2), Steyerberg 
E(3), Hunink MG(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands (BJHvK, BSF, AH, SS, MGMH)
(2)Department of Radiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands 
(BJHvK, BSF, SS, MGMH)
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands (ES)
(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA (MGMH)

PURPOSE: Modeling studies that evaluate statin treatment for the prevention of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) use different methods to model the effect of 
statins. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of using different 
modeling methods on the optimal decision found in such studies.
METHODS: We used a previously developed and validated Monte Carlo-Markov model 
based on the Rotterdam study (RISC model). The RISC model simulates coronary 
heart disease (CHD), stroke, cardiovascular death, and death due to other 
causes. Transition probabilities were based on 5-year risks predicted by Cox 
regression equations, including (among others) total and high-density 
lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol as covariates. In a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
implementing the ATP-III guidelines, we evaluated the impact of using 3 
different modeling methods of statin effectiveness: 1) through lipid level 
modification: statins lower total cholesterol and increase HDL cholesterol, 
which through the covariates in the Cox regression equations leads to a lower 
incidence of CHD and stroke events; 2) fixed risk reduction of CVD events: 
statins decrease the odds of CHD and stroke with an associated odds ratio that 
is assumed to be the same for each individual; 3) risk reduction of CVD events 
proportional to individual change in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol: 
the relative risk reduction with statin therapy on the incidence of CHD and 
stroke was assumed to be proportional to the absolute reduction in LDL 
cholesterol levels for each individual. The probability that the ATP-III 
strategy was cost-effective, compared to usual care as observed in the Rotterdam 
study, was calculated for each of the 3 modeling methods for varying 
willingness-to-pay thresholds.
RESULTS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for the ATP-III strategy compared 
with the reference strategy were €56,642/quality-adjusted life year (QALY), 
€21,369/QALY, and €22,131/QALY for modeling methods 1, 2, and 3, respectively. 
At a willingness-to-pay threshold of €50,000/QALY, the probability that the 
ATP-III strategy was cost-effective was about 40% for modeling method 1 and more 
than 90% for both methods 2 and 3. Differences in results between the modeling 
methods were sensitive to both the time horizon modeled and age distribution of 
the target
CONCLUSIONS: Modeling the effect of statins on CVD through the modification of 
lipid levels produced different results and associated uncertainty than modeling 
it directly through a risk reduction of events. This was partly attributable to 
the modeled effect of cholesterol on the incidence of stroke.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12439754
PMID: 22472915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Med Princ Pract. 2012;21(6):508-15. doi: 10.1159/000337404. Epub 2012 Mar
30.

Radiation dose features and solid cancer induction in pediatric computed 
tomography.

Pauwels EK(1), Bourguignon MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. ernestpauwels @ gmail.com

Over the past two decades technical advances and improvements have made computed 
tomography (CT) a valuable and essential tool in the array of diagnostic imaging 
modalities. CT uses ionizing radiation (X-rays) which may damage DNA and 
increase the risk of carcinogenesis. This is especially pertinent in pediatric 
CT as children are more radiosensitive and have a longer life expectancy than 
adults. The purpose of this paper is to review and elucidate the potential 
harmful effects of ionizing radiation in terms of solid cancer induction from 
pediatric CT scanning. In the light of scientific and technical developments, we 
will also discuss the possible strategies and ongoing efforts to reduce CT 
radiation exposure in pediatric patients. In this context, we will not ignore 
the fact that a well-justified CT scan may exceed its risk and have a favorable 
impact.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000337404
PMID: 22472997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 2012 Jun;23(4):320-3. doi: 
10.1097/MBC.0b013e328352cafc.

Do patients with haemophilia and von Willebrand disease with arterial 
hypertension have bleeding complications: a German single centre cohort.

Alesci RS(1), Krekeler S, Seifried E, Miesbach W.

Author information:
(1)Goethe University Hospital, Haemophilia Centre, Frankfurt, Germany. 
rosa.alesci@kgu.de

Arterial hypertension is very common and occurs often in patients with 
haemophilia A (HA) and von Willebrand disease (VWD) due to their increased life 
expectancy. Bleeding complications in haemophilia and von Willebrand patients 
with hypertension so far are not well evaluated. Even data regarding the use of 
antihypertensive treatment in these patients are lacking. That is why we want to 
establish a register of the patients regarding the bleeding complications under 
arterial hypertension. The prevalence of arterial hypertension in our patients' 
population (n = 258 of >18 years, 121 men, 137 women) was as follow: 190 
patients had VWD 1, eight VWD 2A, one VWD 2B, five VWD 3, 39 haemophilia A (two 
severe, one moderate, 36 mild). All patients (n = 258) had arterial hypertension 
because this was our issue. Certainly, patients even had more coronary risk 
factors. One important risk factor was hyperlipoproteinemia (n = 111). Nicotine 
abuse was rare (nine patients, 3.4%). Adipositas (78 ± 18 kg, range 37-164 kg, 
median BMI = 23.2 kg/m(2)) as well as obstructive sleep apnoea (two patients) 
were not common. Regarding the cohort, 57 patients with bleeding disorder and 
hypertension suffered from coronary artery disease. No major bleeding or 
ischemic complications were observed. Obviously, patients with haemophilia and 
VWD with arterial hypertension do not have an increased risk of bleeding. 
Adequate treatment is necessary. International registers with a larger number of 
patients can be useful.

DOI: 10.1097/MBC.0b013e328352cafc
PMID: 22473050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Hepatology. 2012 Sep;56(3):1015-24. doi: 10.1002/hep.25751. Epub 2012 Aug 2.

Hepatitis B virus X protein stabilizes amplified in breast cancer 1 protein and 
cooperates with it to promote human hepatocellular carcinoma cell invasiveness.

Liu Y(1), Tong Z, Li T, Chen Q, Zhuo L, Li W, Wu RC, Yu C.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cellular Stress Biology, School of Life Sciences, 
Xiamen University, Xiamen, China. cdyu@xmu.edu.cn

Chronic infection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) is closely associated with the 
development of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HBV X protein (HBx) plays a 
key role in the progression of HCC. We recently found that amplified in breast 
cancer 1 (AIB1) protein is overexpressed in 68% of human HCC specimens and 
promotes HCC progression by enhancing cell proliferation and invasiveness. Given 
that both HBx and AIB1 play important oncogenic roles in HCC, we aimed to 
determine whether they could cooperatively promote human HCC development. 
Herein, we show that HBx-positive HCC tissues had a higher level of AIB1 
protein, compared to HBx-negative HCC tissues. A positive correlation between 
HBx protein level and AIB1 protein level was established in HCC specimens. 
Without affecting its messenger RNA level, HBx induced a significant increase of 
the protein level of AIB1, which correlated with a significant extension of the 
half-life of AIB1 protein. Mechanistically, HBx could interact with AIB1 to 
prevent the interaction between envelope protein 3 ubiquitin ligase F-box and WD 
repeat domain containing 7 (Fbw7)α and AIB1, then inhibited the Fbw7α-mediated 
ubiquitination and degradation of AIB1. In addition, reporter assays and 
chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that both HBx and AIB1 were 
recruited to matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) promoter to enhance MMP-9 
promoter activity cooperatively. Consistently, HBx and AIB1 cooperatively 
enhanced MMP-9 expression in HepG2 cells, which, in turn, increased 
cell-invasive ability.
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that HBx can stabilize AIB1 protein and 
cooperate with it to promote human HCC cell invasiveness, highlighting the 
essential role of the cross-talk between HBx and AIB1 in HBV-related HCC 
progression.

Copyright © 2012 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.25751
PMID: 22473901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. JAMA. 2012 Apr 4;307(13):1368; author reply 1368-9. doi:
10.1001/jama.2012.389.

Life expectancy after treatment for systolic hypertension.

Coca S.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2011 Dec 21;306(23):2588-93.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.389
PMID: 22474193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Clin Infect Dis. 2012 May;54(10):1504-13. doi: 10.1093/cid/cis225. Epub 2012
Apr  3.

The cost-effectiveness of pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV infection in South 
African women.

Walensky RP(1), Park JE, Wood R, Freedberg KA, Scott CA, Bekker LG, Losina E, 
Mayer KH, Seage GR 3rd, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. rwalensky@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Recent trials report the short-term efficacy of tenofovir-based 
pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for prevention of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection. PrEP's long-term impact on patient outcomes, population-level 
transmission, and cost-effectiveness remains unknown.
METHODS: We linked data from recent trials to a computer model of HIV 
acquisition, screening, and care to project lifetime HIV risk, life expectancy 
(LE), costs, and cost-effectiveness, using 2 PrEP-related strategies among 
heterosexual South African women: (1) women receiving no PrEP and (2) women not 
receiving PrEP (a tenofovir-based vaginal microbicide). We used a South African 
clinical cohort and published data to estimate population demographic 
characteristics, age-adjusted incidence of HIV infection, and HIV natural 
history and treatment parameters. Baseline PrEP efficacy (percentage reduction 
in HIV transmission) was 39% at a monthly cost of $5 per woman. Alternative 
parameter values were examined in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Among South African women, PrEP reduced mean lifetime HIV risk from 40% 
to 27% and increased population discounted (undiscounted) LE from 22.51 (41.66) 
to 23.48 (44.48) years. Lifetime costs of care increased from $7280 to $9890 per 
woman, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $2700/year of 
life saved, and may, under optimistic assumptions, achieve cost savings. Under 
baseline HIV infection incidence assumptions, PrEP was not cost saving, even 
assuming an efficacy >60% and a cost <$1. At an HIV infection incidence of 
9.1%/year, PrEP achieved cost savings at efficacies ≥50%.
CONCLUSIONS: PrEP in South African women is very cost-effective by South African 
standards, conferring excellent value under virtually all plausible data 
scenarios. Although optimistic assumptions would be required to achieve cost 
savings, these represent important benchmarks for future PrEP study design.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cis225
PMCID: PMC3334365
PMID: 22474224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Apr 17;109(16):6211-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1117147109. Epub 2012 Apr 2.

Predictable and tunable half-life extension of therapeutic agents by controlled 
chemical release from macromolecular conjugates.

Santi DV(1), Schneider EL, Reid R, Robinson L, Ashley GW.

Author information:
(1)ProLynx, Hayward, CA 94545, USA. Daniel.V.Santi@prolynxllc.com

Conjugation to macromolecular carriers is a proven strategy for improving the 
pharmacokinetics of drugs, with many stable polyethylene glycol conjugates 
having reached the market. Stable conjugates suffer several limitations: loss of 
drug potency due to conjugation, confining the drug to the extracellular space, 
and the requirement for a circulating conjugate. Current research is directed 
toward overcoming such limitations through releasable conjugates in which the 
drug is covalently linked to the carrier through a cleavable linker. 
Satisfactory linkers that provide predictable cleavage rates tunable over a wide 
time range that are useful for both circulating and noncirculating conjugates 
are not yet available. We describe such conjugation linkers on the basis of a 
nonenzymatic β-elimination reaction with preprogrammed, highly tunable cleavage 
rates. A set of modular linkers is described that bears a succinimidyl carbonate 
group for attachment to an amine-containing drug or prodrug, an azido group for 
conjugation to the carrier, and a tunable modulator that controls the rate of 
β-eliminative cleavage. The linkers provide predictable, tunable release rates 
of ligands from macromolecular conjugates both in vitro and in vivo, with 
half-lives spanning from a range of hours to >1 y at physiological pH. A 
circulating PEG conjugate achieved a 56-fold half-life extension of the 39-aa 
peptide exenatide in rats, and a noncirculating s.c. hydrogel conjugate achieved 
a 150-fold extension. Using slow-cleaving linkers, the latter may provide a 
generic format for once-a-month dosage forms of potent drugs. The releasable 
linkers provide additional benefits that include lowering C(max) and 
pharmacokinetic coordination of drug combinations.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1117147109
PMCID: PMC3341049
PMID: 22474378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


984. J Heart Valve Dis. 2012 Jan;21(1):12-9.

Regional variation in prosthesis choice for aortic valve replacement in older 
patients.

Ehieli EI(1), Karamlou T, Diggs BS, Walker WL, Caddell KA, de la Cruz JS, Welke 
KF.

Author information:
(1)Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: The study aim was to investigate regional 
practice patterns regarding aortic valve replacement (AVR) by comparing 
bioprosthetic versus mechanical valve usage in patients aged > or = 65 years, 
and to determine whether the choice of valve type for AVR in these patients 
varied by geographic region.
METHODS: The details were acquired of all mechanical and bioprosthetic AVRs 
performed in patients aged > or = 65 years between 1999 and 2006, as contained 
in the Florida State Inpatient Database. By using a small area analysis, the 
patients' zip codes were aggregated into hospital referral regions based on 
where they were most likely to receive AVR. The regional rates of both 
mechanical and bioprosthetic AVR were then determined.
RESULTS: Of 23,925 AVRs performed during this period, 15,368 involved a 
bioprosthetic aortic valve and 8,557 a mechanical aortic valve. Statewide, 64% 
of AVRs in these patients involved a bioprosthesis. Regional rates of mechanical 
AVRs varied widely, from 10% to 81%.
CONCLUSION: Substantial regional differences were identified in practice 
patterns for AVR in patients aged > or = 65 years. This suggested that provider 
preference, in addition to patient pathology, would often determine the type of 
valve implanted.

PMID: 22474736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Homo. 2012 Apr;63(2):94-109. doi: 10.1016/j.jchb.2012.01.002. Epub 2012 Apr
3.

Cementum annulations, age estimation, and demographic dynamics in Mid-Holocene 
foragers of North India.

Robbins Schug G(1), Brandt ET, Lukacs JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC 28608, 
USA. Robbinsgm@appstate.edu

One of the principal problems facing palaeodemography is age estimation in adult 
skeletons and the centrist tendency that affects many age estimation methods by 
artificially increasing the proportion of individuals in the 30-45-year age 
category. Several recent publications have indicated that cementum annulations 
are significantly correlated with known age of extraction or death. This study 
addresses the question of how demographic dynamics are altered for an 
archaeological sample when cementum-based age estimates are used as opposed to 
those obtained via conventional macroscopic methods. Age pyramids were 
constructed and demographic profiles were compared for the early Holocene 
skeletal population from Damdama (India). The results demonstrate that the use 
of cementum annulations for age estimation in only a subset of the skeletal 
sample has a significant impact on the demographic profile with regard to 
specific parameters such as mean age at death and life expectancy at birth. This 
confirms the importance of using cementum annulations to refine age estimates in 
archaeological samples, which, when combined with a fertility-centred approach 
to demography, can provide new insights into population dynamics in the past.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchb.2012.01.002
PMID: 22475664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Trop Anim Health Prod. 2012 Oct;44(7):1697-702. doi:
10.1007/s11250-012-0126-0.  Epub 2012 Apr 3.

Effect of L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on hormonal profile and estrous cycle 
length in buffaloes (Bubalus bubalis).

Sagar P(1), Prasad JK, Prasad S, Gupta HP, Das A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Husbandry, Badaun, Uttar Pradesh, India.

The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of L-arginine methyl 
ester (L-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor on serum nitric oxide, 
progesterone, estradiol profiles and estrous cycle length in buffaloes. Murrah 
buffaloes (n = 16) exhibiting regular estrous cycles were randomly allocated to 
two groups of eight animals. In the treatment group, buffaloes were administered 
400 mg/h L-NAME over 2 h (total dose = 800 mg) via the coccygeal artery and the 
aorta abdominalis on day 15 of the estrous cycle. In the control group, normal 
saline was infused on the same day of the cycle by the same route. Blood samples 
were collected every 4 h on days 15 and 16, and once daily from days 17 to 21 of 
the estrous cycle for the assay of progesterone, estradiol and nitric oxide. 
L-NAME treatment significantly (p < 0.05) reduced serum nitric oxide 
concentration from 4 h of day 15 until day 20 of the cycle. Serum progesterone 
concentration increased significantly (p < 0.05) between 0 and 20 h post 
treatment on day 15. The estrous cycle length was 19.8 ± 0.36 and 23.6 ± 0.17 
days for control and treated group buffalo (p < 0.05), respectively. It was 
concluded that treatment of buffalo with L-NAME in the late luteal phase of the 
estrous cycle inhibited serum nitric oxide concentration resulting in increased 
progesterone production and extension of the effective life of the corpus 
luteum, thus prolonging the estrous cycle length.

DOI: 10.1007/s11250-012-0126-0
PMID: 22476734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2012 Jun;63(2):159-69. doi: 10.1007/s12013-012-9353-2.

Cryotherapy is associated with improved clinical outcomes of Sorafenib therapy 
for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.

Yang Y(1), Lu Y, Wang C, Bai W, Qu J, Chen Y, Chang X, An L, Zhou L, Zeng Z, Lou 
M, Lv J.

Author information:
(1)Center of Therapeutic Research for Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Beijing the 
302nd Hospital, 100 Xisihuan Middle Road, Beijing 100039, China. 
yongpingyang@hotmail.com

We assessed the safety and efficacy of sorafenib with cryotherapy (cryoRx) in 
advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). One hundred four HCC patients were 
enrolled, who met the following criteria: (i) Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer 
stage C; (ii) HCC without distant metastasis; (iii) the presence of portal vein 
thrombosis (PVT); (iv) Child-Pugh class A or B; and (v) life expectancy of at 
least 12 weeks. The patients were randomly divided into sorafenib-cryoRx and 
sorafenib (control) groups. Primary endpoint was time to progression (TTP); 
secondary endpoints included overall survival (OS) and tolerability. Microvessel 
density (MVD) was assessed by CD34-immunostaining. After a median 10.5 (4-26) 
months follow-up, the data showed that median TTP was 9.5 (8.4-13.5) months in 
combinatorial therapy group vs. 5.3 (3.8-6.9) months in sorafenib group (P = 
0.02). The median OS was 12.5 (95 % CI 10.6-16.4) months in combination therapy 
group vs. 8.6 (7.3-10.4) months in sorafenib group (P = 0.01). Low MVD patients 
in combination therapy exhibited significantly longer median TTP and OS than 
controls. High MVD was predictive of poor responses to sorafenib. CryoRx did not 
increase frequency/degree of sorafenib-related adverse events. Therefore, it was 
concluded that the addition of cryoRx significantly improved clinical outcomes 
of Sorafenib therapy in advanced HCC with acceptable tolerance and similar 
safety profiles as previously reported.

DOI: 10.1007/s12013-012-9353-2
PMCID: PMC3353117
PMID: 22477032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Int J Angiol. 2007 Winter;16(4):121-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1278264.

Management of small asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms - a review.

Silaghi H(1), Branchereau A, Malikov S, Andercou A.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Clinic II, UMPh Cluj-Napoca, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

The approach for abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) larger than 55 mm is well 
defined due to the risk of rupture being higher than 10% per year, and a 30-day 
perioperative mortality rate between 2.5% and 5%. However, the approach for 
small asymptomatic AAAs is less well defined.There are different definitions 
given to describe a small AAA. The one the authors accepted and applied is "a 
localized, permanent and irreversible dilation of the aorta of at least 50% in 
relation to the normal adjacent infrarenal or suprarenal aorta, with a maximum 
diameter between 30-55 mm".The investigators of the largest study on small AAAs 
(United Kingdom Small Aneurysm Trial [UK-SAT]) concluded, in brief, that 
ultrasound monitoring is the most appropriate solution because the results do 
not support a policy of surgical restoration for AAAs with a diameter of between 
40 mm and 55 mm.The aim of the present review article is to highlight several 
challenges that could change the limits or create a more flexible deciding 
factor in the management of AAAs. There are multiple factors that influence 
surgical decision-making, and the limit on aneurysm diameter that indicates 
surgery should depend on the patient's age, life expectancy, general status, 
associated diseases, diameter in relation to body mass, risk factors, sex, 
anxiety and compliance during the follow-up period. Monitoring is an acceptable 
alternative for AAAs between 40 mm and 55 mm, and is probably the best solution 
for high-risk patients. Surgery is the most reasonable solution for patients who 
are at moderate risk, have a significant life expectancy, are less than 70 to 75 
years of age, and/or have aortic aneurysms larger than 50 mm.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1278264
PMCID: PMC2733031
PMID: 22477326


989. Behav Anal. 2003 Fall;26(2):281-95. doi: 10.1007/BF03392082.

Comments on the 1950s applications and extensions of Skinner's operant 
psychology.

Morris EK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development and Family Life, Dole Human Development 
Center, University of Kansas, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, Kansas. 
ekm@ku.edu

These comments address Laties', Dewsbury's, and Rutherford's papers on the 
extension and application of Skinner's operant psychology during the 1950s. I 
begin by reflecting on the papers' overall theme-that the success of behavior 
analysis lies in its practical applications-and add some comments on Planck's 
principle. I then turn to the three papers and address such topics as (a) other 
applications and extensions (e.g., the U.S. space program), (b) relations 
between the research and researchers at the Yerkes Laboratories of Primate 
Biology (e.g., a Yerkes' researcher in Skinner's laboratory), and (c) human 
schedule performance (e.g., continuity and discontinuity with nonhuman 
behavior). I end with a discussion of the fundamental reason for the success of 
the extensions and applications of behavior analysis-the experimental analysis 
of behavior.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03392082
PMCID: PMC2731456
PMID: 22478408


990. PLoS One. 2012;7(3):e33123. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033123. Epub 2012 Mar
29.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of "test" versus "treat" patients hospitalized 
with suspected influenza in Hong Kong.

You JH(1), Chan ES, Leung MY, Ip M, Lee NL.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, Centre for Pharmacoeconomics 
Research, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: Seasonal and 2009 H1N1 influenza viruses may cause severe diseases 
and result in excess hospitalization and mortality in the older and younger 
adults, respectively. Early antiviral treatment may improve clinical outcomes. 
We examined potential outcomes and costs of test-guided versus empirical 
treatment in patients hospitalized for suspected influenza in Hong Kong.
METHODS: We designed a decision tree to simulate potential outcomes of four 
management strategies in adults hospitalized for severe respiratory infection 
suspected of influenza: "immunofluorescence-assay" (IFA) or 
"polymerase-chain-reaction" (PCR)-guided oseltamivir treatment, "empirical 
treatment plus PCR" and "empirical treatment alone". Model inputs were derived 
from literature. The average prevalence (11%) of influenza in 2010-2011 (58% 
being 2009 H1N1) among cases of respiratory infections was used in the base-case 
analysis. Primary outcome simulated was cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) expected (ICER) from the Hong Kong healthcare providers' perspective.
RESULTS: In base-case analysis, "empirical treatment alone" was shown to be the 
most cost-effective strategy and dominated the other three options. Sensitivity 
analyses showed that "PCR-guided treatment" would dominate "empirical treatment 
alone" when the daily cost of oseltamivir exceeded USD18, or when influenza 
prevalence was <2.5% and the predominant circulating viruses were not 2009 H1N1. 
Using USD50,000 as the threshold of willingness-to-pay, "empirical treatment 
alone" and "PCR-guided treatment" were cost-effective 97% and 3% of time, 
respectively, in 10,000 Monte-Carlo simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: During influenza epidemics, empirical antiviral treatment appears 
to be a cost-effective strategy in managing patients hospitalized with severe 
respiratory infection suspected of influenza, from the perspective of healthcare 
providers in Hong Kong.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033123
PMCID: PMC3315544
PMID: 22479363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Dr. Lee has previously 
received grant support from F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. on principal-investigator 
initiated clinical influenza research, paid to the Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, unrelated to the study of cost-effectiveness of oseltamivir treatment. F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. has no role in the initiation, original conception, 
design and execution of this study, nor has any influence on the results. All 
other authors: no conflict of interest declared. This does not affect the 
authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


991. Head Neck Oncol. 2012 Apr 5;4:10. doi: 10.1186/1758-3284-4-10.

Parapharyngeal space hemangiopericytoma treated with surgery and postoperative 
radiation--a case report.

Fareed MM(1), Al Amro AS, Akasha R, Al Assiry M, Al Asiri M, Tonio M, Bayoumi Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, King Fahad Medical City, Riyadh 11525, 
Saudi Arabia. mfareed136@hotmail.com

Expression of concern in
    BMC Med. 2014 Feb 05;12 :24.

Hemangiopericytoma (HPC) is a rare tumor of uncertain malignant potential 
arising from mesenchymal cells with pericytic differentiation. It accounts for 
3-5% of soft tissue sarcomas and 1% of vascular tumors. It usually presents in 
5th to 6th decade of life. Most common sites are limbs, pelvis and head and 
neck. About 20% of all hemangiopericytomas are seen in head and neck, mostly in 
adults. Usually it presents in orbit, nasal cavity, oral cavity, jaw, parotid 
gland, parapharyngeal space, masticator space and jugular foramen. Long term 
follow up is important because of imprecise nature of the histological criteria 
for prediction of biologic behavior.We report herein a case of HPC in 
66-year-old man, who presented in our department with headache, nasal 
obstruction and dysphagia. A neck computer tomography scan and magnetic 
resonance imaging showed a large left parapharyngeal mass bulging into 
nasopharynx and oropharynx with extension to pharyngeal mucosal surface and 
causing narrowing of airways and total obstruction of left posterior nostril. 
Angiography showed a highly vascular neoplasm. Initially he was managed as a 
case of schwannoma and embolization was done but with no response. An attempt to 
do complete surgical resection was made, but due to its critical position, it 
was not possible. During surgery, highly vascularised tumor was found. The 
histopathologic examination revealed a vascular tumor consistent with 
hemangiopericytoma G-II. The patient had normal postoperative course of healing 
and was given adjuvant radiation. He is on regular follow up without signs of 
recurrence or metastases.In summary, parapharyngeal space is a rare site of 
presentation for hemangiopericytoma which is highly vascular tumor, requiring 
extensive work up including magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography scan 
and angiography. Complete surgical excision should be attempted. Postoperative 
radiation is indicated in cases of incomplete resection.

DOI: 10.1186/1758-3284-4-10
PMCID: PMC3349527
PMID: 22480217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Clin Drug Investig. 2012 May 1;32(5):353-60. doi: 
10.2165/11631920-000000000-00000.

α1-Proteinase inhibitor (human) in the treatment of hereditary emphysema 
secondary to α1-antitrypsin deficiency: number and costs of years of life 
gained.

Sclar DA(1), Evans MA, Robison LM, Skaer TL.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacoeconomics and Pharmacoepidemiology Research Unit, Washington State 
University, Spokane, WA, USA. sclar@mail.wsu.edu

BACKGROUND: α(1)-Antitrypsin deficiency (α-ATD) is a disorder inherited in an 
autosomal recessive pattern, with co-dominant alleles known as the protease 
inhibitor system (Pi). The main function of α(1)-antitrypsin (α-AT) is to 
protect the lungs against a powerful elastase released from neutrophil 
leucocytes. α-ATD typically presents with a serum α-AT level of <50 mg/dL. In 
severe α-ATD, phenotype PiZZ, protection of the lungs is compromised, leading to 
an accelerated decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV(1)). As a 
result, a patient may develop pulmonary emphysema of the panacinar type at a 
young age (third to fourth decades of life), with cigarette smoking being the 
most significant additional risk factor. It has been shown that weekly or 
monthly infusion of human α-AT is effective in raising serum α-AT levels to 
desired levels (>80 mg/dL), with few, if any, adverse effects.
OBJECTIVE: The present study was designed to discern the number of years of life 
gained, and the expense per year of life gained, associated with use of α-AT 
augmentation therapy (α(1)-proteinase inhibitor [human]), relative to 'no 
therapeutic intervention' in persons with α-ATD.
METHODS: Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) was used to: (i) estimate the number of 
years of life gained; and (ii) estimate the health service expenditures per year 
of life gained for persons receiving, or not receiving, α-AT augmentation 
therapy. MCS afforded a decision-analytical framework parameterized with both 
stochastic (random) and deterministic (fixed) components, and yielded a fiscal 
risk-profile for each simulated cohort of interest (eight total: by sex, smoking 
status [non-smoker; or past use (smoker)]; and use of α-AT augmentation 
therapy). The stochastic components employed in the present inquiry were: (i) 
age-specific body weight, and height; (ii) age-specific mortality; and (iii) the 
probability distribution for receipt of a lung transplant, as a function of 
FEV(1). The deterministic components employed in the present inquiry were: (i) 
age in years for the simulated cohort; (ii) outlays for α-AT augmentation 
therapy; (iii) health service expenditures associated with receipt of a lung 
transplant; (iv) annual decline in FEV(1); (v) percent predicted FEV(1); (vi) 
initiation of α-AT augmentation therapy as a function of percent predicted 
FEV(1); (vii) need for a lung transplant as a function of percent predicted 
FEV(1); (viii) annual rate of lung infection; and (ix) mortality as a function 
of percent predicted FEV(1). Results are reported from a payer perspective ($US, 
year of costing 2010).
RESULTS: Receipt of α-AT augmentation therapy was associated with a significant 
increase (p < 0.05) in years of life gained, with female smokers gaining an 
estimated mean 7.14 years (cost per year: $US248 361 [95% CI 104 531, 392 190]); 
female non-smokers gained an estimated mean 9.19 years (cost per year: 
$US160 502 [95% CI 37 056, 283 947)]); male smokers gained an estimated mean 
5.93 years (cost per year: $US142 250 [95% CI 48 467, 236 032]); and male 
non-smokers gained an estimated mean 10.60 years (cost per year: $US59 234 [95% 
CI 20 719, 97 548]).
CONCLUSION: Use of α-AT augmentation therapy was associated with an increase in 
years of life gained by sex and history of tobacco use, and at a cost per year 
of life gained comparable to that of other evidenced-based interventions.

DOI: 10.2165/11631920-000000000-00000
PMID: 22480280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Drugs. 2012 Apr 16;72(6):789-802. doi: 10.2165/11631830-000000000-00000.

Economic evaluation of treatment options in patients with Alzheimer's disease: a 
systematic review of cost-effectiveness analyses.

Pouryamout L(1), Dams J, Wasem J, Dodel R, Neumann A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Care Management and Research, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is common among the elderly; it is 
responsible for 60-80% of all dementia cases. AD is characterized by cognitive 
decline, behavioural and psychological symptoms, and reductions in functioning 
and independence. Because of its progressive neurodegenerative nature and 
unknown aetiology, the burden of AD becomes increasingly significant in an aging 
population. Estimates indicate that 35.6 million people worldwide suffered from 
AD in 2010. By 2030 and 2050, this figure is predicted to increase to 
65.7 million and 115.4 million, respectively. Costs will also rise along with 
the increase in the number of people diagnosed with AD. In 2010, the worldwide 
costs associated with dementia were estimated to be $US604 billion.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to conduct a systematic review of 
current publications dealing with the pharmacoeconomic factors associated with 
AD medications and to describe the decision-analytic models used to evaluate 
long-term outcomes.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed to identify articles 
published between 1 January 2007 and 15 July 2010. The search was also based on 
a previous systematic review, which included literature up to 2007. Articles 
were included if they were complete and original economic evaluations of AD and 
if they were comparative in nature. A quality assessment of the included 
publications was conducted and relevant information was extracted into tables.
RESULTS: Seven out of 2067 identified articles were included in this systematic 
review. Four articles evaluated treatment with donepezil, one with galantamine 
and two with memantine. The studies were conducted in America, Europe and Asia. 
Five different groups of medications were compared. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for the group of patients treated with 
donepezil versus no drug treatment ranged from a dominant value to 281, 416.13 
euros per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Patients treated with donepezil 
versus placebo showed ICERs with a range from a dominant value (not specified) 
up to 20, 866.77 euros per QALY. Treatment with memantine in addition to 
donepezil versus treatment with donepezil alone showed an ICER range from a 
dominant value to 6818.33 euros per QALY. In comparison with the memantine 
treatment as an add-on therapy, the ICER of memantine monotherapy versus 
standard care (without cholinesterase inhibitors [CEIs]) ranged from a dominant 
value to 63, 087.20 euros per QALY. Finally, the economic evaluation of 
galantamine in comparison with usual care without any AD drugs showed ICERs 
ranging from 1894.70 euros to 6953 euros per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The seven identified publications included in this review indicate 
that treatment with CEIs or memantine seems to be reasonable in terms of 
clinical effects and costs for patients with AD. Depending on different 
hypotheses, assumptions and variables (e.g. time horizon, discount rates, 
initial number of patients in different states, etc.) in the sensitivity 
analyses, treatment with these drugs seems to be primarily a cost-effective 
strategy or even a cost-saving strategy. Nevertheless, the results generally are 
associated with a degree of uncertainty. The comparability of the results from 
the different economic evaluations is limited because of the different 
assumptions made.

DOI: 10.2165/11631830-000000000-00000
PMID: 22480339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. BMC Geriatr. 2012 Apr 5;12:14. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-12-14.

Use of warfarin in long-term care: a systematic review.

Neidecker M(1), Patel AA, Nelson WW, Reardon G.

Author information:
(1)Informagenics, LLC, 450 W, Wilson Bridge Rd,, Suite 340, Worthington, OH 
43085, USA.

BACKGROUND: The use of warfarin in older patients requires special consideration 
because of concerns with comorbidities, interacting medications, and the risk of 
bleeding. Several studies have suggested that warfarin may be underused or 
inconsistently prescribed in long-term care (LTC); no published systematic 
review has evaluated warfarin use for stroke prevention in this setting. This 
review was conducted to summarize the body of published original research 
regarding the use of warfarin in the LTC population.
METHODS: A systematic literature search of the PubMed, Cumulative Index to 
Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Cochrane Library was conducted from 
January 1985 to August 2010 to identify studies that reported warfarin use in 
LTC. Studies were grouped by (1) rates of warfarin use and prescribing patterns, 
(2) association of resident and institutional characteristics with warfarin 
prescribing, (3) prescriber attitudes and concerns about warfarin use, (4) 
warfarin management and monitoring, and (5) warfarin-related adverse events. 
Summaries of study findings and quality assessments of each study were 
developed.
RESULTS: Twenty-two studies met the inclusion criteria for this review. Atrial 
fibrillation (AF) was the most common indication for warfarin use in LTC and use 
of warfarin for stroke survivors was common. Rates of warfarin use in AF were 
low in 5 studies, ranging from 17% to 57%. These usage rates were low even among 
residents with high stroke risk and low bleeding risk. Scored bleeding risk had 
no apparent association with warfarin use in AF. In physician surveys, factors 
associated with not prescribing warfarin included risk of falls, dementia, short 
life expectancy, and history of bleeding. International normalized ratio was in 
the target range approximately half of the time. The combined overall rate of 
warfarin-related adverse events and potential events was 25.5 per 100 resident 
months on warfarin therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Among residents with AF, use of warfarin and maintenance of INR 
levels to prevent stroke appear to be suboptimal. Among prescribers, perceived 
challenges associated with warfarin therapy often outweigh its benefits. Further 
research is needed to explicitly consider the appropriate balancing of risks and 
benefits in this frail patient population.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-12-14
PMCID: PMC3364846
PMID: 22480376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jun 1;30(6):483-95. doi: 
10.2165/11591550-000000000-00000.

Eltrombopag for the treatment of chronic immune or idiopathic thrombocytopenic 
purpura: a NICE single technology appraisal.

Boyers D(1), Jia X, Jenkinson D, Mowatt G.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, Scotland. d.boyers@abdn.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jan;31(1):87-9.
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jan;31(1):91.

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of eltrombopag (GlaxoSmithKline) to submit evidence for the 
clinical and cost effectiveness of this drug for the treatment of patients with 
chronic immune or idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), as part of the 
their Single Technology Appraisal (STA) process. The Aberdeen Technology 
Assessment Review (TAR) Group, commissioned to act as the evidence review group 
(ERG), critically reviewed and supplemented the submitted evidence. This paper 
describes the company submission, the ERG review and NICE's subsequent 
decisions. The ERG critically appraised the clinical and cost-effectiveness 
evidence submitted by the manufacturer, independently searched for relevant 
literature, conducted a critical appraisal of the submitted economic models and 
explored the impact of altering some of the key model assumptions as well as 
combining relevant sensitivity analyses. Three trials were used to inform the 
safety and efficacy aspects of this submission; however, one high-quality 
randomized controlled trial (RAISE study) was the principal source of evidence 
and was used to inform the economic model. Eltrombopag had greater odds of 
achieving the primary outcome of a platelet count between 50 × 10^⁹/L and 
400 × 10^⁹/L during the 6-month treatment period than placebo (odds ratio [OR] 
8.2, 99% CI 3.6, 18.7). In the eltrombopag group, 50/83 (60%) of 
non-splenectomized patients and 18/49 (37%) of splenectomized patients achieved 
this outcome. The median duration of response was 10.9 weeks for eltrombopag 
(splenectomized 6 and non-splenectomized 13.4) compared with 0 for placebo. 
Eltrombopag patients required less rescue medication and had lower odds of 
bleeding events for both the splenectomized and the non-splenectomized patients. 
For a watch-and-rescue strategy of care, the comparator was placebo and the ERG 
found that substantial reductions in the cost of eltrombopag are needed before 
the incremental cost per QALY is less than £30,000. There was significant 
uncertainty, with the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) reported 
varying from £33,561 to £103,500 per QALY (splenectomized) and £39,657 to 
£150,245 per QALY (non-splenectomized). All costs are presented in £, year 2008 
values, as this was the costing year for the manufacturer's model. Other than 
bleeding, no adverse events were modelled. In relation to the long-term 
treatment model, the ERG questioned the robustness of the use of non-randomized 
non-comparative data. The base-case results restricting the time horizon to 2 
years and prescribing eltrombopag as second-line treatment post-rituximab were 
found to be favourable towards eltrombopag. As rituximab is not a licensed 
treatment for ITP, the ERG were concerned that its inclusion may not be 
reflective of clinical practice. None of the treatment sequences resulted in an 
ICER approaching the recommended threshold of £30,000 per QALY gained. 
Eltrombopag appears to be a safe treatment for ITP (although long-term follow-up 
studies are awaited) and has short-term efficacy. However, NICE found based on 
the evidence submitted and reviewed that there was no robust evidence on the 
long-term efficacy or cost effectiveness of eltrombopag and a lack of direct 
evidence for eltrombopag tested against other relevant comparators.

DOI: 10.2165/11591550-000000000-00000
PMID: 22480381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Med Sci (Paris). 2012 Mar;28(3):235-6. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2012283002. Epub
2012  Apr 6.

[Aging, an issue of the XXI(st) century].

[Article in French]

Lagrue G, Ménard J.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2012283002
PMID: 22480638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Med Sci (Paris). 2012 Mar;28(3):281-7. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2012283016. Epub
2012  Apr 6.

[How to define old age: successful aging and/or longevity].

[Article in French]

Berr C(1), Balard F, Blain H, Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)Inserm, U1061, neuropsychiatrie : recherche épidémiologique et clinique, 
hôpital de La Colombière, 34093 Montpellier Cedex 5, France. 
claudine.berr@inserm.fr

In half a century, the number of nonagenarians and/or centenarians has 
dramatically increased, particularly due to the increase in life expectancy at 
old age. However, successful aging is more important than longevity. All along 
their life, people can act to preserve their health, their physical and mental 
abilities as well as their autonomy. This requires a healthy diet, having 
physical and intellectual appropriate activities and a right use of medical 
care. Finally, maintaining a social role and a raison d'être in old age are also 
major factors in successful aging.

© 2012 médecine/sciences – Inserm / SRMS.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2012283016
PMID: 22480652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. World Neurosurg. 2013 Feb;79(2):327-30. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2012.03.018.
Epub  2012 Apr 2.

Pituitary metastases: role of surgery.

Zoli M(1), Mazzatenta D, Faustini-Fustini M, Pasquini E, Frank G.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Surgery for Pituitary Tumours, Department of Neurosurgery, IRCCS 
Neurological Sciences Institute, Bologna, Italy. matteozeta@libero.it

Comment in
    World Neurosurg. 2013 Feb;79(2):251-2.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical and radiographic manifestations of pituitary 
