ligament, digital pressing of Liangqiu (ST 34), Xuehai (SP 10), Neixiyan (EX-LE 
4), Weizhong (BL 40), etc. Patients of the control group were treated by using 
massage therapy alone (the same to those mentioned above). Elasticity of the 
soft tissue[displacement value under 500 g pressure exerted on the tender-point 
surface; the banana area, i. e. , the absorbed energy of the soft tissue] was 
measured by using Soft-tissue Tension Detector. Dysfunction scores of the 
knee-joint (cure:91 -99 points; marked improvement: 75-90 points; improvement: 
60- 74 points; invalid: no improvement) were assessed according to Jiang's 
method, and the therapeutic effect was evaluated in the light of "Criteria for 
Diagnosis and Therapeutic Effect Assessment of Illnesses or Clinical Conditions 
of Chinese Medicine" issued in 1994 in China.
RESULTS: Comparison between pre- and post-treatment in the same one group showed 
that the displacement values and scores of pain, joint-movement and 
malformation, and total scores were increased significantly and the banana area 
reduced considerably in these two groups after the treatment (P < 0. 05), and 
the effects of the treatment group were apparently superior to those of the 
control group (P < 0. 05). Of the two 50 cases in the control and treatment 
groups, 10 (20%) and 33 (66%) had marked improvement, 33 (66%) and 14 (28%) were 
improved, and 7 (14%) and 3 (6%) invalid, with the effective rates being 86% and 
94% , respectively. The markedly effective rate of the treatment group was 
apparently higher than that of the control group (P< 0. 05). No significant 
differences were found between the two groups in the scores of initiative 
extension range, walking abi-lity and daily life activities (P>0.05).
CONCLUSION: Stiletto needle intervention in combination with massage can 
effectively relieve dysfunction and pain of the knee joint in KOA patients.

PMID: 22574571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Med Econ. 2012;15(5):987-96. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.690013. Epub 2012
May  10.

Cost utility of palivizumab prophylaxis among pre-term infants in the United 
States: a national policy perspective.

Mahadevia PJ(1), Masaquel AS, Polak MJ, Weiner LB.

Author information:
(1)MedImmune, LLC, Gaithersburg, MD 20878, USA. mahadeviap@medimmune.com

OBJECTIVE: The cost-effectiveness of palivizumab has previously been reported 
among certain guideline-eligible, high-risk premature infants in Medicaid. 
Because guideline authorities base decisions on a national perspective, the 
economic model of palivizumab was adapted to include all infants, that is, 
public and privately insured patients (60% of palivizumab use is public, 40% is 
private).
METHODS: This study examined four groups of premature infants without chronic 
lung disease of prematurity or congenital heart disease: (1) <32 weeks 
gestational age (wGA) and ≤ 6 months chronologic age (CA); (2) 32-34 wGA, ≤ 3 
months CA, with 2009 American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) risk factors (RFs); 
(3) 32-35 wGA, ≤ 6 months CA, with 2006 AAP RFs; and (4) 32-35 wGA, ≤ 6 months 
CA, with ≤ 1 RF. An average estimate was used between public and private payors 
for (1) background rates of respiratory syncytial virus hospitalization (RSV-H), 
(2) direct medical costs associated with RSV-H, and (3) cost of palivizumab. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) are reported in cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Palivizumab saved costs and improved QALYs among infants <32 wGA. 
Palivizumab was cost-effective in infants 32-34 wGA with 2009 AAP RFs ($44,774 
per QALY) and in infants 32-35 wGA with 2006 AAP RFs ($79,477 per QALY). The 
ICER for infants 32-35 wGA with ≤ 1 RF was $464,476 per QALY. Influential 
variables in the sensitivity analysis included background rate of RSV-H and cost 
and efficacy of palivizumab.
LIMITATIONS: The results are not generalizable to populations outside of the US. 
The model did not examine all RFs. The wholesale acquisition cost was used as a 
payment benchmark; actual price paid by end providers varies.
CONCLUSIONS: From a national policy perspective, palivizumab remained 
cost-effective for publically and commercially insured, guideline-eligible, 
high-risk premature infants. Palivizumab was not cost-effective in infants of 
32-35 wGA with ≤ 1 RF.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.690013
PMID: 22574798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Burns. 2013 Feb;39(1):30-6. doi: 10.1016/j.burns.2012.03.002. Epub 2012 May
9.

The use of a frailty scoring system for burns in the elderly.

Masud D(1), Norton S, Smailes S, Shelley O, Philp B, Dziewulski P.

Author information:
(1)St Andrews Centre for Plastic Surgery and Burns, Chelmsford, Essex, UK. 
dhalia.masud@doctors.org.uk

INTRODUCTION: Burn in the elderly has a high mortality. Scoring systems 
incorporating age, and/or co-morbidities have been developed to assist in 
predicting outcomes in this high risk group. Life expectancy has increased in 
the general population and within the elderly age group medical co morbidity, 
physiological response to injury and socioeconomic factors give rise to the 
concept of biological versus chronological age. For a given age, baseline pre 
morbid state can vary. It is more valid to consider biological rather than 
chronological age when calculating risk. The Canadian Study of Health and Aging 
(CSHA) clinical frailty scale, incorporating fitness, co-morbidities and level 
of dependence was used to analyse our elderly burn patients admitted to Burns 
ITU, their surgical management and one-year survival.
METHOD: Data from patients with burns greater than 10% and aged over 65 years 
managed on the Burns ITU between 2005 and 2009 were obtained. A frailty score 
(1-7) was assigned to each patient based on the records of their admission 
assessment. 42 patients met the study criteria for analysis. 18 (42.9%) 
patients, with mean age 74.9 years (range 65-95 years) survived (S) their ITU 
stay and of these, 83.3% survived at 1 year. 24 (57.2%) patients, mean age 78.4 
years (range 66-95 years) died (D) whilst on ITU. There was no significant 
difference between the two groups with regard to age, percentage burn (30% TBSA 
range 10-85%) (P>0.05 using T Test) or inhalational injury (p>0.05 using Z 
test). Using Mann-Whitney U test analysis, the frailty score between the two 
groups showed a significant difference at p=0.0001 (Mann-Whitney U test=78), 
median=3 (S) and median=5 (D). This suggests patients with better pre-morbid 
capacity, as evaluated by the frailty scoring system, were more likely to 
survive their burn insult and treatment. Significantly, more patients in the 
group that survived underwent surgical debridement (Mann-Whitney U test=111, 
p=0.02).
CONCLUSION: Frailty scoring system appears to be a useful adjunct in predicting 
outcome in burns requiring admission to HDU/ITU in the senior population. The 
frailty score may predict which patients will benefit from surgery which also 
continues to be an important determinant of outcome in these patients.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd and ISBI. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.burns.2012.03.002
PMID: 22575336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Am J Bot. 2012 Jun;99(6):1010-9. doi: 10.3732/ajb.1100516. Epub 2012 May 10.

Radial wood allocation in Schizolobium parahyba.

Williamson GB(1), Wiemann MC, Geaghan JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana 70803 USA.

PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Pioneer species of tropical trees allocate wood specific 
gravity (SG) differently across the radius. Some species exhibit relatively 
uniform, low SG wood, whereas many others exhibit linear increases in SG across 
the radius. Here, we measured changes in SG across the radius of Schizolobium 
parahyba (Fabaceae-Caesalpinioideae), a wide-ranging, neotropical pioneer, used 
extensively in land reclamation and forest restoration in Brazil.
METHODS: Pith-to-bark radial wood cores were extracted with increment borers 
from 42 trees at five sites, in Central and South America. Cores were cut into 
1-cm segments whose specific gravities were determined and analyzed via linear 
and nonlinear regression. Wood specific gravity, very low initially at 
0.15-0.20, doubled or tripled across the tree radius to 0.45-0.65 for large 
adults.
KEY RESULTS: Unlike linear increases in other tropical pioneers, the increases 
in Schizolobium were nonlinear (convex up). At one site with even-aged trees, 
the magnitude of the radial increase was similar in all trees, despite a 4-fold 
difference in diameter among trees, implying that the radial increases in 
Schizolobium were regulated by tree age, not by tree size.
CONCLUSIONS: This unique pattern of development should provide an extended 
period of growth when SG is low, facilitating hyper-extension of the bole, at 
some risk of structural failure. Later in growth, the SG rate of increase 
accelerates, reinforcing what was a precarious bole. Overall, these results 
suggest a third model for xylem allocation in tropical trees, a model that may 
be associated with monopodial stem development and limited life span.

DOI: 10.3732/ajb.1100516
PMID: 22575368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Aug;56(2):343-52. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.040. Epub
2012  May 9.

The impact of gender on outcome after infrainguinal arterial reconstructions for 
peripheral occlusive disease.

Ballotta E(1), Gruppo M, Lorenzetti R, Piatto G, DaGiau G, Toniato A.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, Geriatric Surgery Clinic, Department of Surgical 
and Gastroenterological Sciences, University of Padua, School of Medicine, 
Padova, Italy. enzo.ballotta@unipd.it

OBJECTIVE: The role of gender on the outcome of infrainguinal arterial 
revascularization (IAR) for peripheral arterial occlusive disease remains 
uncertain. This study analyzed the outcome of IARs performed over 15 years, 
stratifying the results by sex.
METHODS: Details of consecutive patients undergoing primary IAR for peripheral 
arterial occlusive disease from 1995 to 2009 at our institution were 
prospectively stored in a vascular registry. Demographics, risk factors, 
indications for surgery, inflow sources, outflow target vessels, types of 
conduit, and adverse outcomes were analyzed. Postoperative surveillance included 
clinical examination supplemented with duplex scans and ankle-brachial index 
measurements in all patients at discharge, 30 days, 6 months, and every 6 months 
thereafter. End points of the study, ie, patency, limb salvage, and survival 
rates, were assessed using Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis. The χ(2) or Fisher 
exact, Student t, and log-rank tests were used to establish statistical 
significance.
RESULTS: Our sample consisted of 1459 IARs performed in 1333 patients, 
comprising 496 women (37.2%; 531 IARs), who were a mean 3 years older than the 
men (74 vs 71 years; P < .001) and had a higher incidence of diabetes mellitus 
(52% vs 46%; P = .03) and surgery for limb salvage (91% vs 87%; P = .02). An 
autogenous vein conduit (great or small saphenous, or both, spliced, arm, or 
composite veins) was used in 87% of the IARs. No deaths occurred perioperatively 
(30 days). The major and minor complication rates were comparable between men 
and women. At 10 years, the primary patency rate was 47% in women vs 49% in men 
(P = .67), the assisted primary patency rate was, respectively, 53% vs 50% (P = 
.69), the secondary patency rate was 61% vs 61% (P = .66), limb salvage rate was 
93% vs 91% (P = .54), and survival rate was 43% vs 49% (P = .65). Stratifying by 
type of conduit revealed no differences in patency or limb salvage rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an older age and more advanced stages of disease on 
presentation in women, IAR performed in women can achieve patency and limb 
salvage rates statistically no different from those recorded in their male 
counterparts, supporting the conviction that sex per se does not influence the 
outcome of lower extremity revascularization.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.040
PMID: 22575482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Health Syst Transit. 2012;14(1):i-xix, 1-138.

Veneto Region, Italy. Health system review.

Toniolo F(1), Mantoan D, Maresso A.

Author information:
(1)Veneto Regional Agency for Health and Social Care.

The Health Systems in Transition (HiT) profiles are country-based reports that 
provide a detailed description of a health system and of policy initiatives in 
progress or under development. This HiT is one of the first to be written on a 
subnational level of government and focuses on the Veneto Region of northern 
Italy. HiTs examine different approaches to the organization, financing and 
delivery of health services and the role of the main actors in health systems; 
describe the institutional framework, process, content and implementation of 
health and health care policies; and highlight challenges and areas that require 
more in-depth analysis. The Veneto Region is one of Italy's richest regions and 
the health of its resident population compares favourably with other regions in 
Italy. Life expectancy for both men and women, now at 79.1 and 85.2 years, 
respectively, is slightly higher than the national average, while mortality 
rates are comparable to national ones. The major causes of death are tumours and 
cardiovascular diseases. Under Italy's National Health Service, the organization 
and provision of health care is a regional responsibility and regions must 
provide a nationally defined (with regional input) basic health benefit package 
to all of their citizens; extra services may be provided if budgets allow. 
Health care is mainly financed by earmarked central and regional taxes, with 
regions receiving their allocated share of resources from the National Health 
Fund. Historically, health budget deficits have been a major problem in most 
Italian regions, but since the early 2000s the introduction of efficiency 
measures and tighter procedures on financial management have contributed to a 
significant decrease in the Veneto Regions health budget deficit.The health 
system is governed by the Veneto Region government (Giunta) via the Departments 
of Health and Social Services, which receive technical support from a single 
General Management Secretariat. Health care is provided by 21 local health and 
social care units, 2 hospital enterprises, 2 national hospitals for scientific 
research and private accredited providers. Major national health reform 
legislation in the 1990s started the process of regionalization of the health 
system and the introduction of managerial methods and quasi-market mechanisms 
into the National Health Service, a process that has been consolidated since the 
early 2000s under the framework of fiscal federalism. Future challenges for the 
Veneto Region include the sustainable provision of the basic health benefit 
package; the adaptation of services to meet changes in demand, particularly 
those associated with the ageing population and the incidence of chronic 
diseases; and the ever-present problem of keeping the regional health budget 
balanced.

World Health Organization 2012, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22575766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Health Syst Transit. 2012;14(2):i-xxii, 1-192.

Denmark health system review.

Olejaz M(1), Juul Nielsen A, Rudkjøbing A, Okkels Birk H, Krasnik A, 
Hernández-Quevedo C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen.

Denmark has a tradition of a decentralized health system. However, during recent 
years, reforms and policy initiatives have gradually centralized the health 
system in different ways. The structural reform of 2007 merged the old counties 
into fewer bigger regions, and the old municipalities likewise. The hospital 
structure is undergoing similar reforms, with fewer, bigger and more specialized 
hospitals. Furthermore, a more centralized approach to planning and regulation 
has been taking place over recent years. This is evident in the new national 
planning of medical specialties as well as the establishment of a nationwide 
accreditation system, the Danish Healthcare Quality Programme, which sets 
national standards for health system providers in Denmark. Efforts have also 
been made to ensure coherent patient pathways - at the moment for cancer and 
heart disease - that are similar nationwide. These efforts also aim at improving 
intersectoral cooperation. Financially, recent years have seen the introduction 
of a higher degree of activity-based financing in the public health sector, 
combined with the traditional global budgeting.A number of challenges remain in 
the Danish health care system. The consequences of the recent reforms and 
centralization initiatives are yet to be fully evaluated. Before this happens, a 
full overview of what future reforms should target is not possible. Denmark 
continues to lag behind the other Nordic countries in regards to some health 
indicators, such as life expectancy. A number of risk factors may be the cause 
of this: alcohol intake and obesity continue to be problems, whereas smoking 
habits are improving. The level of socioeconomic inequalities in health also 
continues to be a challenge. The organization of the Danish health care system 
will have to take a number of challenges into account in the future. These 
include changes in disease patterns, with an ageing population with chronic and 
long-term diseases; ensuring sufficient staffing; and deciding how to improve 
public health initiatives that target prevention of diseases and favour health 
improvements.

World Health Organization 2012, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22575801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Br J Cancer. 2012 Jun 26;107(1):183-8. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2012.191. Epub 2012
May  10.

Registration of cancer in girls remains lower than expected in countries with 
low/middle incomes and low female education rates.

Bhopal SS(1), Mann KD, Pearce MS.

Author information:
(1)Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Royal Victoria Infirmary, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4LP, UK.

BACKGROUND: A decade ago it was reported that childhood cancer incidence was 
higher in boys than girls in many countries, particularly those with low gross 
domestic product (GDP) and high infant mortality rate. Research suggests that 
socio-economic and cultural factors are likely to be responsible. This study 
aimed to investigate the association between cancer registration rate sex ratios 
and economic, social and healthcare-related factors using recent data 
(1998-2002).
METHODS: For 62 countries, childhood (0-15 years) cancer registration rate sex 
ratios were calculated from Cancer Incidence in Five Continents Vol IX, and 
economic, social and healthcare indicator data were collated.
RESULTS: Increased age standardised cancer registration rate sex ratio (M:F) was 
significantly associated with decreasing life expectancy (P=0.05), physician 
density (P=0.05), per capita health expenditure (P=0.05), GDP (P=0.01), 
education sex ratios (primary school enrolment sex ratio (P<0.01); secondary 
school enrolment sex ratio (P<0.01); adult literacy sex ratio (P<0.01)) and 
increasing proportion living on less than Int$1 per day (P=0.03).
CONCLUSION: The previously described cancer registration sex disparity remains, 
particularly, in countries with poor health system indicators and low female 
education rates. We suggest that girls with cancer continue to go undiagnosed 
and that incidence data, particularly in low- and middle-income countries, 
should continue to be interpreted with caution.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2012.191
PMCID: PMC3389403
PMID: 22576590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


268. Occup Environ Med. 2012 Aug;69(8):582-6. doi: 10.1136/oemed-2011-100462.
Epub  2012 May 10.

Estimation of benefit of prevention of occupational cancer for comparative risk 
assessment: methods and examples.

Lee LJ(1), Chang YY, Liou SH, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Environmental Health and Occupational Medicine, National Health 
Research Institutes, Miaoli County, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: To quantify the life years gained and financial savings by 
preventing a case of occupational cancer.
METHODS: The authors retrieved data from the Taiwan Cancer Registry and linked 
them with the National Mortality Registry to estimate the survival functions for 
major occupational cancers: lung, pleural mesothelioma, urinary bladder and 
leukaemia. Assuming a constant excess hazard for each type of cancer, the 
authors extrapolated lifetime survival functions by the Monte Carlo method. For 
each patient with cancer, the authors simulated an age- and gender-matched 
person without cancer based on vital statistics of Taiwan to estimate life 
expectancy and expected years of life lost (EYLL). By using the reimbursement 
data from the National Health Insurance Research Database, the authors 
calculated the average monthly healthcare expenditures, which were summed to 
estimate the lifetime healthcare expenditures after adjusting for the 
corresponding monthly survival probability.
RESULTS: A total of 51,408, 136, 12,891 and 5285 new cases of lung, pleural 
mesothelioma, bladder and leukaemia cancers, respectively, were identified 
during 1997-2005 and followed until the end of 2007. The EYLL was predicted to 
be 13.7±0.1, 18.9±0.7, 4.7±0.3 and 19.4±0.5 years for these cancers, 
respectively, and the lifetime healthcare expenditures with a 3% annual discount 
were predicted to be US$22,359, US$14,900, US$51,987 and US$59,741, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of these occupational cancers, in terms of EYLL and 
lifetime healthcare expenditures, was substantial. Such estimates may provide 
useful empirical evidence for comparative risk assessment that can be applied in 
health policy-making and clinical decision-making.

DOI: 10.1136/oemed-2011-100462
PMCID: PMC3400143
PMID: 22576592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


269. Support Care Cancer. 2012 Dec;20(12):3335-41. doi:
10.1007/s00520-012-1477-9.  Epub 2012 May 11.

Cancer patients' willingness to answer survey questions about life expectancy.

Mackenzie LJ(1), Carey ML, Sanson-Fisher RW, D'Este CA, Hall AE.

Author information:
(1)Priority Research Centre for Health Behaviour, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Faculty of Health, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, New South Wales 
2308, Australia. Lisa.Mackenzie@uon.edu.au

PURPOSE: This study aimed to determine the proportion and characteristics of 
radiation oncology outpatients who were willing to answer questions about their 
life expectancy.
METHODS: A cross-sectional patient self-report survey was conducted using touch 
screen computers in Australian radiation oncology treatment centers. The primary 
outcome was the respondent's willingness to complete a survey subsection about 
life expectancy. Demographic and disease characteristics were also collected, 
and level of anxiety and depression was assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and 
Depression Scale.
RESULTS: Of the 469 oncology outpatients who completed the survey, 327 (70 %; 95 
% CI, 65 %, 74 %) indicated that they were willing to answer questions about 
life expectancy. Being female (p < 0.001), older (p < 0.05), born in Asia (p < 
0.05), and being diagnosed with cancer types other than breast and prostate 
cancer (p < 0.01) were associated with lower odds of answering life expectancy 
questions.
CONCLUSIONS: The opportunity to opt-out of survey questions about sensitive 
issues such as life expectancy is a feasible method for accessing important 
information about patient preferences while minimizing burden. Further research 
may be needed to improve acceptability of life expectancy research to some 
patient groups.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-012-1477-9
PMCID: PMC3480580
PMID: 22576980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Oncotarget. 2012 Apr;3(4):490-501. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.481.

BCL2L10 is a predictive factor for resistance to azacitidine in MDS and AML 
patients.

Cluzeau T(1), Robert G, Mounier N, Karsenti JM, Dufies M, Puissant A, Jacquel A, 
Renneville A, Preudhomme C, Cassuto JP, Raynaud S, Luciano F, Auberger P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U1065, Centre Mediterranéen de Médecine Moléculaire, Team Cell Death, 
Differentiation, Inflammation and Cancer, Nice, France.

Azacitidine is the leading compound to treat patients suffering myelodysplastic 
syndrome (MDS) or AML with less than 30% of blasts, but a majority of patients 
is primary refractory or rapidly relapses under treatment. These patients have a 
drastically reduced life expectancy as compared to sensitive patients. Therefore 
identifying predictive factors for AZA resistance is of great interest to 
propose alternative therapeutic strategies for non-responsive patients. We 
generated AZA-resistant myeloid cell line (SKM1-R) that exhibited increased 
expression of BCL2L10 an anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 member. Importantly, BCL2L10 
knockdown sensitized SKM1-R cells to AZA effect suggesting that increased 
BCL2L10 expression is linked to AZA resistance in SKM1-R. We next established in 
77 MDS patients that resistance to AZA is significantly correlated with the 
percentage of MDS or AML cells expressing BCL2L10. In addition, we showed that 
the proportion of BCL2L10 positive bone marrow cells can predict overall 
survival in MDS or AML patients. We propose a convenient assay in which the 
percentage of BCL2L10 expressing cells as assessed by flow cytometry is 
predictive of whether or not a patient will become resistant to AZA. Therefore, 
systematic determination of BCL2L10 expression could be of great interest in 
newly diagnosed and AZA-treated MDS patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.481
PMCID: PMC3380582
PMID: 22577154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Authors have nothing to disclose.


271. J Neurosurg. 2012 Jul;117(1):89-93. doi: 10.3171/2012.3.JNS111266. Epub 2012
May  11.

Cost-effectiveness of carotid artery stent placement versus endarterectomy in 
patients with carotid artery stenosis.

Khan AA(1), Chaudhry SA, Sivagnanam K, Hassan AE, Suri MF, Qureshi AI.

Author information:
(1)Zeenat Qureshi Stroke Research Center and Department of Neurology, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55414, USA.

OBJECT: The Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy versus Stenting Trial 
(CREST) demonstrated that the risk of the primary composite outcome of stroke, 
myocardial infarction (MI), or death did not differ significantly in patients 
with an average surgical risk undergoing carotid artery stenting (CAS) and those 
undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA). However, the cost associated with CAS 
may limit its broad applicability. The authors' goal in this paper was to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of CAS with an embolic-protection device versus 
CEA in patients with moderate to severe carotid artery stenosis who are at 
average surgical risk.
METHODS: The probability of the primary outcome was obtained from the results of 
the CREST trial. The quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) associated with each 
treatment modality were estimated by adjusting for the incidence of each 
quality-adjusted outcome (QALY weights of ipsilateral stroke, MI, death, and 
postprocedure QALYs). The total cost associated with each intervention was 
derived from hospitalization cost and cost associated with primary outcomes 
including stroke, MI, and death in each group. Costs are expressed in US dollars 
accounting for inflation up to October 2010. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were estimated for the 4-year period after the procedure. All 
values are expressed as means and 95% confidence intervals.
RESULTS: The estimated net costs for patients after treatment with CAS and CEA 
after consideration of the primary outcome were $18,335 and $13,276, 
respectively, from the definitive presimulation analysis. Postsimulation values 
were $19,210 (range $18,264-$20,156) and $14,080 (range $13,076-$15,084), 
respectively. Overall, QALYs for the CAS and CEA groups were 0.712 and 0.702, 
respectively (ranging from 0.0 [death] to 0.815 [no adverse events]). The 
estimated ICER for CAS versus CEA treatment was $229,429.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the CREST demonstrated equivalent results with CAS 
(compared with CEA) in patients at average surgical risk with severe carotid 
artery stenosis, broad applicability of CAS might be limited by the higher cost 
associated with this procedure.

DOI: 10.3171/2012.3.JNS111266
PMID: 22577748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Biosecur Bioterror. 2012 Jun;10(2):182-7. doi: 10.1089/bsp.2011.0107. Epub
2012  May 11.

Shelf-life extension program (SLEP) as a significant contributor to Strategic 
National Stockpile Maintenance: the Israeli experience with ciprofloxacin.

Bodas M(1), Yuval L, Zadok R, Hess Z, Haran B, Kaplan M, Eisenkraft A.

Author information:
(1)Multidisciplinary Program for Emergency and Disaster Management, School of 
Public Health, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, 
Israel. mbodas@gmail.com

In the past decade, the 2001 anthrax incident in the U.S. and the 2003 SARS 
epidemic have highlighted the biological threat to civilian populations. The 
risk posed by the natural or manmade spread of biological agents among the 
population dictates a need for better national preparedness. One key component 
of this preparation is the establishment of a Strategic National Stockpile (SNS) 
of pharmaceuticals that would provide appropriate medical countermeasures in 
case of an outbreak. However, to reduce the expense of such a stockpile and to 
make it worthwhile, there is also a need for a shelf-life extension program 
(SLEP) through which pharmaceuticals could be extended beyond 
manufacturer-ascribed shelf life, as long as they meet regulation standards. In 
this article, we review the Israeli experience with the national ciprofloxacin 
stockpile procurement and shelf-life extension program.

DOI: 10.1089/bsp.2011.0107
PMID: 22578017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Health Serv Res. 2012 Dec;47(6):2137-58. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2012.01427.x.  Epub 2012 May 11.

Cost-effectiveness of an electronic medical record based clinical decision 
support system.

Gilmer TP(1), O'Connor PJ, Sperl-Hillen JM, Rush WA, Johnson PE, Amundson GH, 
Asche SE, Ekstrom HL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine,University of California-San 
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0622, USA. tgilmer@ucsd.edu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Medical groups have invested billions of dollars in 
electronic medical records (EMRs), but few studies have examined the 
cost-effectiveness of EMR-based clinical decision support (CDS). This study 
examined the cost-effectiveness of EMR-based CDS for adults with diabetes from 
the perspective of the health care system.
DATA SOURCES/SETTING: Clinical outcome and cost data from a randomized clinical 
trial of EMR-based CDS were used as inputs into a diabetes simulation model. The 
simulation cohort included 1,092 patients with diabetes with A1c above goal at 
baseline.
STUDY DESIGN: The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study Outcomes Model, a 
validated simulation model of diabetes, was used to evaluate remaining life 
years, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and health care costs over patient 
lifetimes (40-year time horizon) from the health system perspective.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Patients in the intervention group had significantly lowered 
A1c (0.26 percent, p = .014) relative to patients in the control arm. 
Intervention costs were $120 (SE = 45) per patient in the first year and $76 
(SE = 45) per patient in the following years. In the base case analysis, 
EMR-based CDS increased lifetime QALYs by 0.04 (SE = 0.01) and increased 
lifetime costs by $112 (SE = 660), resulting in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $3,017 per QALY. The cost-effectiveness of EMR-based 
CDS persisted in one-way, two-way, and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Widespread adoption of sophisticated EMR-based CDS has the 
potential to modestly improve the quality of care for patients with chronic 
conditions without substantially increasing costs to the health care system.

© Health Research and Educational Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2012.01427.x
PMCID: PMC3459233
PMID: 22578085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Clin Ther. 2012 Jun;34(6):1334-49. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.04.008.
Epub  2012 May 11.

Cost-effectiveness of denosumab versus zoledronic acid in the management of 
skeletal metastases secondary to breast cancer.

Snedecor SJ(1), Carter JA, Kaura S, Botteman MF.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit North America LLC, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.

BACKGROUND: Denosumab has been approved in the United States for the prevention 
of skeletal-related events (SREs) in metastatic breast cancer. In a Phase III 
trial in patients with bone-metastatic breast cancer (N = 2033), denosumab was 
associated with a significantly delayed time to first SRE (by 18%; P < 0.001 
noninferiority; P = 0.01 superiority) and time to first and subsequent SREs (by 
23%; P = 0.001). Overall survival (HR = 0.95; 95% CI, 0.81-1.11; P = 0.49) and 
disease progression (HR = 1.00; 95% CI, 0.89-1.11; P = 0.93) did not differ 
significantly between groups. Denosumab was associated with a nonsignificant 
reduction in serious adverse events (44.4% vs 46.5%).
OBJECTIVES: Given the current ambiguity regarding the cost-effectiveness of 
these agents in light of these trial outcomes, the present analysis assessed, 
from a US payer perspective, the cost-effectiveness of denosumab versus 
zoledronic acid in patients with bone metastases secondary to breast cancer.
METHODS: A literature-based Markov model was developed to estimate the survival, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, number and costs of SREs, and drug 
and administration costs in patients receiving denosumab or zoledronic acid over 
27 and 60 months. Clinical inputs reproduced the trial outcomes. SRE-related 
costs and utilities were literature based. Costs and QALYs were discounted 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: In the 27-month base-case analysis, denosumab was associated with fewer 
SREs (-0.298), more QALYs (+0.0102), and lower SRE-related costs (-$2016), but 
higher drug-related (+$9123) and total costs (+$7107) versus zoledronic acid. 
The cost per QALY gained (ie, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER]) was 
$697,499. In sensitivity analyses, the ICER ranged from $192,472 to 
$1,340,901/QALY, depending on assumptions regarding treatment benefits, drug 
costs, and analytical horizon. In the probabilistic sensitivity analysis, 
denosumab was cost-effective in 2 of 5000 modeled replicates (0.04%).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the limitations of restricted availability of clinical data 
and uncertainty regarding the price of generic zoledronic acid, the findings 
from the present analysis suggest that the use of denosumab is associated with a 
high ICER compared with zoledronic acid. This finding may raise important 
questions regarding the economic value of denosumab in bone-metastatic breast 
cancer.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.04.008
PMID: 22578308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 2012 May;139(5):387-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.annder.2012.03.007. Epub 2012 Apr 21.

[Metastatic extramammary Paget's disease of the scrotum].

[Article in French]

Renaud-Vilmer C(1), Cavelier-Balloy B, Boazec L, Moguelet P, Bagot M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Dermatologie, Hôpital Saint-Louis, 1, Rue Claude-Vellefaux, 75010 
Paris, France. catherine.vilmer@sls.aphp.fr

BACKGROUND: Extra-mammary Paget's disease (EMPD) is currently considered a 
slowly progressing in situ adenocarcinoma. It is much more rarely associated 
with an invasive underlying adenocarcinoma than in mammary sites, where this 
association is almost always seen. However, an invasive course is to be feared 
where EMPD has been progressing for several years.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A 59-year-old man consulted for treatment of scrotal 
Paget's disease present for over 15 years and treated with topical emollients 
alone. Two infiltrated areas had recently appeared and their excision led to a 
diagnosis of invasive Paget's disease at these two points. Metastasis occurred 
10 months later and rapidly proved fatal.
DISCUSSION: Until now, non-invasive EMPD has been considered a fairly 
non-aggressive disease due to its indolent progression. However, it is 
characterised by considerable risk of relapse following surgical excision, 
regardless of the surgical margin. Despite a good prognosis at the 
intraepithelial stage, the rising life expectancy of the population means a 
greater likelihood of an invasive course or of the appearance of an underlying 
adenocarcinoma, and management of this condition can thus no longer be 
neglected. The present clinical case underscores the need for closer 
surveillance of the disease as of the intraepithelial stage.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annder.2012.03.007
PMID: 22578344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. J Pediatr Adolesc Gynecol. 2012 Jun;25(3):e69-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpag.2012.02.001.

Successful pregnancy and delivery in a patient with bladder exstrophy.

Bildircin FD(1), Ayyildiz HS, Tosun M, Malatyalioglu E, Ariturk E, Sakinci M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Faculty of Medicine, Ondokuz Mayis 
University, Samsun, Turkey. drfdevran@hotmail.com

Bladder exstrophy (BE) is a rare congenital anomaly. Owing to the advanced 
reconstructive surgical techniques and effective antibiotics, the incidence of 
urinary and systemic complications in patients with BE has decreased and the 
life expectancy has increased. However, this brings along social, sexual, and 
psychological problems; particularly, successful pregnancy and delivery is 
extremely rare in females with BE. We present a pregnancy of an 18-year-old 
female with BE, who has been followed at our university hospital since birth.

Copyright © 2012 North American Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Gynecology. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpag.2012.02.001
PMID: 22578486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. C R Biol. 2012 Apr;335(4):300-9. doi: 10.1016/j.crvi.2012.03.010. Epub 2012
Apr  24.

[Impact of Ligula intestinalis (L.1758) (Cestode), on the growth of Barbus 
setivimensis (Cyprinidae) in a lake system in Algeria].

[Article in French]

Hadou-Sanoun G(1), Arab A, Lek-Ang S, Lek S.

Author information:
(1)USTHB, faculté des sciences biologiques, laboratoire dynamique et 
biodiversité, BP 32, El Alia, Alger, Algérie. ghaniahad63@yahoo.fr

The Algerian freshwater fish fauna is mainly represented by the Cyprinidae 
family, in particular, the genus Barbus. This is represented only by natural 
populations of the subgenus Barbus. The systematic, based mainly on the methods 
of biometrics, is quite different from one author to another. However, two 
nominal species are usually cited: Barbus callensis (Valenciennes, 1842), which 
is limited to the region of El Kala (eastern Algeria) and Barbus setivimensis 
(Valenciennes, 1842) in other parts of the North. During the ecological study of 
this fauna, many individuals were found infested with the tapeworm Ligula 
intestinalis (Linné, 1758), which led us to study the effect of this parasite on 
B. setivimensis using the ecological parasites' index (prevalence, abundance and 
parasite intensity) and to focus on the impact of the parasite on the growth of 
fish. Tapeworm L. intestinalis presents a wide geographical distribution and a 
complex lifecycle to multiple hosts: the cycle starts in the body of birds. The 
life expectancy in the major host is a maximum of 5 days, but in this time, they 
will lay a multitude of eggs. These eggs are passed into water via the faeces of 
the bird. Once in the aquatic medium, they hatch and are eaten by a wide range 
of copepod zooplankton (first intermediate host). The cycle continues when fish 
(second intermediate host) ingests the copepod. The worm then burrows through 
the gut wall and continues to develop in the fish's body cavity. The cycle is 
then complete when the bird (final host) eats the tapeworm-hosting fish. We 
studied the effects of diet, the hosting period, the habitat on the prevalence, 
abundance and intensity of the parasitic larvae plerocercoid L. intestinalis and 
the parasiting effect on the Cyprinids fishs of the genus Barbus in the Keddara 
dam (Boumerdes, Algeria) during one year. Although L. intestinalis was recorded 
in several host fish, the available data on the parameters of parasitism are 
limited and no studies are reported on B. setivimensis. In this study, a total 
of 613 individuals were sampled and checked on the presence of L. intestinalis 
plerocercoid stages. Only 64 were infested. The value of the prevalence was 
10.44% and the average intensity was 1.89 parasites (average two parasites per 
infested fish). The infection rate is high during the autumn and low during the 
spring season. The latter corresponds with the breeding period.

Copyright © 2012 Académie des sciences. Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crvi.2012.03.010
PMID: 22578576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Am J Cardiol. 2012 Jun 1;109(11):1687. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.03.004.

Cardiovascular death and cancer death--competing risk?

Messerli FH, Bangalore S.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.03.004
PMID: 22578909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Prev Med. 2012 May;54 Suppl:S9-11. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2012.03.003.

Supercentenarians and transthyretin amyloidosis: the next frontier of human life 
extension.

Coles LS(1), Young RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA 900024-2767, USA. scoles@ucla.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2012.03.003
PMID: 22579241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Public Health. 2012 Jun;126(6):459-70. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.03.007. Epub
 2012 May 10.

Why the Scots die younger: synthesizing the evidence.

McCartney G(1), Collins C, Walsh D, Batty GD.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Observatory, NHS Health Scotland, Elphinstone House, 65 West 
Regent Street, Glasgow G2 2AF, UK. gmccartney@nhs.net

Comment in
    Public Health. 2013 Mar;127(3):292-4.
    Public Health. 2013 Mar;127(3):290-1.

OBJECTIVE: To identify explanations for the higher mortality in Scotland 
relative to other European countries, and to synthesize those best supported by 
evidence into an overall explanatory framework.
STUDY DESIGN: Review and dialectical synthesis.
METHODS: Candidate hypotheses were identified based on a literature review and a 
series of research dissemination events. Each hypothesis was described and 
critically evaluated in relation to the Bradford-Hill criteria for causation in 
observational epidemiology. A synthesis of the more convincing hypotheses was 
then attempted using a broadly 'dialectical' approach.
RESULTS: Seventeen hypotheses were identified including: artefactual 
explanations (deprivation, migration); 'downstream explanations' (genetics, 
health behaviours, individual values); 'midstream' explanations (substance 
misuse; culture of boundlessness and alienation; family, gender relations and 
parenting differences; lower social capital; sectarianism; culture of limited 
social mobility; health service supply or demand; deprivation concentration); 
and 'upstream' explanations (climate, inequalities, de-industrialization, 
political attack). There is little evidence available to determine why mortality 
rates diverged between Scotland and other European countries between 1950 and 
1980, but the most plausible explanations at present link to particular 
industrial, employment, housing and cultural patterns. From 1980 onwards, the 
higher mortality has been driven by unfavourable health behaviours, and it seems 
quite likely that these are linked to an intensifying climate of conflict, 
injustice and disempowerment. This is best explained by developing a synthesis 
beginning from the political attack hypothesis, which suggests that the 
neoliberal policies implemented from 1979 onwards across the UK 
disproportionately affected the Scottish population.
CONCLUSIONS: The reasons for the high Scottish mortality between 1950 and 1980 
are unclear, but may be linked to particular industrial, employment, housing and 
cultural patterns. From 1980 onwards, the higher mortality is most likely to be 
accounted for by a synthesis which begins from the changed political context of 
the 1980s, and the consequent hopelessness and community disruption experienced. 
This may have relevance to faltering health improvement in other countries, such 
as the USA.

Copyright © 2012 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.03.007
PMID: 22579324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. J Popul Ther Clin Pharmacol. 2012;19(2):e166-78. Epub 2012 May 1.

Canadian cost- utility analysis of intravenous immunoglobulin for acute 
childhood idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.

Blackhouse G(1), Xie F, Levine MA, Campbell K, Assasi N, Gaebel K, O'Reilly D, 
Tarride J, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health (PATH) Research Institute, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. blackhou@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is a hematological 
disorder and can be classified as acute or chronic. The main goal of treatment 
for acute childhood ITP is the prevention of potentially fatal bleeding 
complications, the most serious of which is intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). 
Treatment options for acute childhood ITP include splenectomy, corticosteroids, 
and blood products such as intravenous immunoglobulin.
OBJECTIVES: The objective was to evaluate, from a Canadian perspective, the 
cost-effectiveness of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) compared to alternative 
inpatient treatments for acute childhood idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
(ITP).
METHODS: A Markov model with a lifelong time horizon was used to evaluate the 
costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for 5 treatments for children 
hospitalized for ITP: 1) no treatment; 2) IVIG; 3) Anti-D; 4) prednisone; and 5) 
methylprednisolone. The model predicted the probability of intracranial 
hemorrhage for each treatment strategy based on the time children spent with 
platelet counts <20,000µL. The time patients spent with platelet counts 
<20,000µL with each treatment was estimated by pooling data from published 
randomized clinical trials. In the basecase analysis, the cohort was assumed to 
weigh 20kg. Cost and utility model variables were based upon various literature 
sources. Parameter uncertainty was assessed using probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis.
RESULTS: The treatment strategies that comprised the efficiency frontier were 
prednisone, Anti-D and IVIG. The incremental cost per QALY was $53,333 moving 
from prednisone to Anti-D and $53,846 moving from Anti-D to IVIG. Results were 
sensitive to patient weight. If patient weight is 10kg, IVIG dominates all other 
strategies and if weight is increased to 30kg, the cost per QALY of IVIG is 
$163,708.
CONCLUSION: Based on common willingness to pay thresholds, IVIG might be 
considered a cost effective treatment for acute childhood ITP. Cost 
effectiveness is highly dependent on patient weight.

PMID: 22580389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2012 Sep 1;61(1):99-105. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e31825bd862.

Cost effectiveness of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy goal of increasing linkage 
to care for HIV-infected persons.

Gopalappa C(1), Farnham PG, Hutchinson AB, Sansom SL.

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
1600 Clifton Rd, NE, MS E-48, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. kiu0@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: One of the goals of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) is to 
increase the proportion of HIV-infected individuals linked to care within 3 
months of diagnosis (early linkage) from 65% to 85%. Earlier access to care, and 
eventually, to treatment, increases life expectancy and quality of life for 
HIV-infected persons. However, longer treatment is also associated with higher 
costs, especially for antiretroviral drugs. We evaluated the cost effectiveness 
of achieving the NHAS goal and estimated the maximum cost that HIV programs 
could spend on linkage to care and remain cost effective.
METHODS: We used the Progression and Transmission of HIV/AIDS model to estimate 
the effects on life measures and costs associated with increasing early linkage 
to care from 65% to 85%. We estimated an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio as 
the additional cost required to reach the target divided by the quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) gained and assumed that programs costing $100,000 or less per 
QALY gained are cost effective.
RESULTS: Achieving the NHAS linkage-to-care goal increased life expectancy by 
0.4 years and delayed the onset of AIDS by 1.2 years on average for every 
HIV-diagnosed person. Increasing early linkage to care cost an extra $62,200 per 
QALY gained, considering only benefits to index persons. The maximum that could 
be cost effectively spent on early linkage-to-care interventions was 
approximately $5100 per HIV-diagnosed person.
CONCLUSIONS: Considerable investment can be cost effectively made to achieve the 
NHAS goal on early linkage to care.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e31825bd862
PMID: 22580563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2012 Jul;154(7):1145-52. doi:
10.1007/s00701-012-1371-8.  Epub 2012 May 13.

A mathematical model of utility for single screening of asymptomatic unruptured 
intracranial aneurysms at the age of 50 years.

Li LM(1), Bulters DO, Kirollos RW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Addenbrooke's Hospital & University of Cambridge, 
Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 0QQ, UK. lml34@doctors.org.uk

BACKGROUND: Although rupture of intracranial aneurysms carries high mortality 
and morbidity rates, the clinical and financial benefit of screening certain 
high-risk groups is uncertain. We designed a mathematical model to interrogate 
the clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness of screening.
METHODS: A decision tree analysis model was used to calculate the outcome and 
cost of two scenarios applied to the same population: one-off screening for 
intracranial aneurysms versus not screening. Each scenario had an associated 
gain or loss of Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY) and cost; the difference 
between the two scenarios was calculated. The variable inputs were the aneurysm 
prevalence and risk of rupture after 5 years. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed to determine the effects of altering various factors on outcomes.
RESULTS: Screening of the asymptomatic general population results in a QALY 
loss, equating to a negative clinical impact. The threshold 5-year risk of 
rupture at which screening resulted in a gain in QALYs was 13 %. This held true 
for any prevalence between 1 and 25 %. Risk of rupture had a greater impact on 
outcome than prevalence. Halving the risk of intervention (either surgery or 
coiling) reduced the threshold 5-year risk of rupture at which screening results 
in gain of QALYs to 6 %. The age of screening also had important effects on 
outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: The QALY benefit and cost-effectiveness of screening are most 
sensitive to the 5-year risk of rupture. Screening is beneficial only in 
populations with a high risk of rupture; this should be the focus of future 
research.

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-012-1371-8
PMID: 22581452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. BMJ Open. 2012 May 11;2(3):e000940. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-000940. Print 
2012.

Impact of obesity, overweight and underweight on life expectancy and lifetime 
medical expenditures: the Ohsaki Cohort Study.

Nagai M(1), Kuriyama S, Kakizaki M, Ohmori-Matsuda K, Sone T, Hozawa A, Kawado 
M, Hashimoto S, Tsuji I.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Public Health and Forensic Medicine, 
Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: People who are obese have higher demands for medical care than those 
of the normal weight people. However, in view of their shorter life expectancy, 
it is unclear whether obese people have higher lifetime medical expenditure. We 
examined the association between body mass index, life expectancy and lifetime 
medical expenditure.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study using individual data from the Ohsaki Cohort 
Study.
SETTING: Miyagi Prefecture, northeastern Japan.
PARTICIPANTS: The 41 965 participants aged 40-79 years.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: The life expectancy and lifetime medical 
expenditure aged from 40 years.
RESULTS: In spite of their shorter life expectancy, obese participants might 
require higher medical expenditure than normal weight participants. In men aged 
40 years, multiadjusted life expectancy for those who were obese participants 
was 41.4 years (95% CI 38.28 to 44.70), which was 1.7 years non-significantly 
