ages on life expectancy.
METHODS: We apply our previously developed Monte Carlo simulation model of 
screening and prophylactic surgery in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. Here, we 
present the mathematical formulation to compute age-specific breast cancer 
incidence in the absence of prophylactic oophorectomy, which is an input to the 
simulation model, and provide sensitivity analysis on related model parameters.
RESULTS: The greatest gains in life expectancy result from conducting 
prophylactic mastectomy and prophylactic oophorectomy immediately after BRCA1/2 
mutation testing; these gains vary with age at testing, from 6.8 to 10.3 years 
for BRCA1 and 3.4 to 4.4 years for BRCA2 mutation carriers. Life expectancy 
gains from delaying prophylactic surgery by 5 to 10 years range from 1 to 9.9 
years for BRCA1 and 0.5 to 4.2 years for BRCA2 mutation carriers. Adding annual 
breast screening provides gains of 2.0 to 9.9 years for BRCA1 and 1.5 to 4.3 
years for BRCA2. Results were most sensitive to variations in our assumptions 
about the magnitude and duration of breast cancer risk reduction due to 
prophylactic oophorectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy gains depend on the type of BRCA mutation and age 
at interventions. Sensitivity analysis identifies the degree of breast cancer 
risk reduction due to prophylactic oophorectomy as a key determinant of life 
expectancy gain.
IMPACT: Further study of the impact of prophylactic oophorectomy on breast 
cancer risk in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers is warranted.

©2012 AACR

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-12-0149
PMCID: PMC4146524
PMID: 22556274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Circulation. 2012 May 29;125(21):2621-9. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.087940.  Epub 2012 May 3.

Costs and benefits of targeted screening for causes of sudden cardiac death in 
children and adolescents.

Leslie LK(1), Cohen JT, Newburger JW, Alexander ME, Wong JB, Sherwin ED, Rodday 
AM, Parsons SK, Triedman JK.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies at Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, MA 02111, USA. lleslie@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

Comment in
    Circulation. 2012 May 29;125(21):2560-2.
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2012 Jul;9(7):373.

BACKGROUND: Sudden cardiac death in children is a rare but devastating event. 
Experts have debated the merits of community-based screening programs using an 
ECG and targeting 2 potential high-risk groups: school-aged children initiating 
stimulant medications to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and 
adolescents participating in sports.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Simulation models incorporating detailed prevalence, 
sensitivity and specificity, and treatment algorithms were built to determine 
the cost-effectiveness of targeted sudden cardiac death screening. Clinical care 
algorithms were constructed for asymptomatic children initiating stimulants for 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (8 years of age) or participating in 
sports (14 years of age) and presenting with a positive ECG finding suggestive 
of 1 of the 3 most common pediatric disorders causing sudden cardiac death and 
identifiable by ECG. Information to develop simulation model assumptions was 
drawn from the existing literature, Medicaid fees, and expert judgment. 
Sensitivity analyses examined parameter ranges to identify influential sources 
of uncertainty. Outcomes included costs and lost life-years caused by 
condition-related mortality. Our models estimate that screening for all 3 
conditions simultaneously would reduce sudden death risk by 3.6 to 7.5 × 10(-5) 
with projected life expectancy increases of 0.8 to 1.6 days per screened 
individual. The incremental cost-effectiveness of screening is $91,000 to 
$204,000 per life-year. Sensitivity analysis showed that assumed disease 
prevalence, baseline mortality, and the relative risk of mortality resulting 
from stimulant medication use and sports participation had the greatest impact 
on estimated cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Results based on assumptions favoring sudden cardiac death screening 
indicated that its cost is high relative to its health benefits.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.087940
PMCID: PMC3365629
PMID: 22556340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: John K. 
Triedman is a consultant for Biosense Webster, Inc..


209. Indian J Psychiatry. 2012 Jan;54(1):8-14. doi: 10.4103/0019-5545.94639.

Status and requirements of geriatric mental health services in India: an 
evidence-based commentary.

Tiwari SC(1), Pandey NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Mental Health, Chhatrapati Sahuji Maharaj Medical 
University UP, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

In view of appreciable improvements in health care services in India, the 
longevity and life expectancy have almost doubled. As a result, there is 
significant demographic transition, and the population of older adults in the 
country is growing rapidly. Epidemiological surveys have revealed enormous 
mental health morbidity in older adults (aged 60 years and above) and have 
necessitated immediate need for the development of mental health services in 
India. The present population of older adults was used to calculate psychiatric 
morbidity based on the reported epidemiological data. The demographic and social 
changes, health care planning, available mental health care services and 
morbidity data were critically examined and analyzed. The service gap was 
calculated on the basis of available norms for the country vis-à-vis average 
mental health morbidity. Data from a recent epidemiological study indicated an 
average of 20.5% mental health morbidity in older adults. Accordingly, it was 
found that, at present, 17.13 million older adults (total population, 83.58 
millions) are suffering from mental health problems in India. A differing, but 
in many aspects similar, picture emerged with regard to human resource and 
infrastructural requirements based on the two norms for the country to meet the 
challenges posed by psychiatrically ill older adults. A running commentary has 
been provided based on the available evidences and strategic options have been 
outlined to meet the requirements and minimize the gap. There is an urgent need 
to develop the subject and geriatric mental health care services in India.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5545.94639
PMCID: PMC3339228
PMID: 22556431

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


210. Anc Sci Life. 1982 Apr;1(4):206-9.

Pharmacological investigations of volatile oil of cyperus eleusinoides kunth 
effect on central nervous system.

Kokate CK(1), Varma KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Science, University of Saugar, Sagar, M. P. 
India.

Volatile oil exhibited depressant effect on central nervous system of rats and 
mice. It blocked CAR in 80% animals and potentiated effects of chlorpromazine 
hydrochloride on CAR and pentobarbitone induced hypnosis in mice. It exhibited 
hypothermic and analgesic activities and potentiated morphine induced analgesia 
considerably. The volatile oil checked tonichind limb extension produced by 
electric shocks but failed to check strychnine and mentrazol induced convulsions 
The antipyretic activity of the volatile oil was not significant.

PMCID: PMC3336692
PMID: 22556491


211. Anc Sci Life. 1990 Apr;9(4):178-84.

A comparitive study on concepts of circulation of blood.

Pandey VN(1), Pandey A.

Author information:
(1)Central council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha S-10, Green Park 
Extension Market New Delhi-110 016, India.

This study traces the progressively evolving concepts of blood circulation. 
Evidences from medical and non-medical Sanskrit literature have been presented 
to high the fact that the Ayurvedic concepts of physiology are time tested.

PMCID: PMC3331337
PMID: 22557695


212. PLoS One. 2012;7(4):e36001. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0036001. Epub 2012 Apr
30.

The cost-effectiveness of tuberculosis preventive therapy for HIV-infected 
individuals in southern India: a trial-based analysis.

Pho MT(1), Swaminathan S, Kumarasamy N, Losina E, Ponnuraja C, Uhler LM, Scott 
CA, Mayer KH, Freedberg KA, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Section of Hospital Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Chicago 
Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA. mpho@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

BACKGROUND: Regimens for isoniazid-based preventive therapy (IPT) for 
tuberculosis (TB) in HIV-infected individuals have not been widely adopted given 
concerns regarding efficacy, adherence and drug resistance. Further, the 
cost-effectiveness of IPT has not been studied in India.
METHODS: We used an HIV/TB model to project TB incidence, life expectancy, cost 
and incremental cost-effectiveness of six months of isoniazid plus ethambutol 
(6EH), thirty-six months of isoniazid (36H) and no IPT for HIV-infected patients 
in India. Model input parameters included a median CD4 count of 324 cells/mm(3), 
and a rate ratio of developing TB of 0.35 for 6EH and 0.22 for 36H at three 
years as compared to no IPT. Results of 6EH and 36H were also compared to six 
months of isoniazid (6H), three months of isoniazid plus rifampin (3RH) and 
three months of isoniazid plus rifapentine (3RPTH).
RESULTS: Projected TB incidence decreased in the 6EH and 36H regimens by 51% and 
62% respectively at three-year follow-up compared to no IPT. Without IPT, 
projected life expectancy was 136.1 months at a lifetime per person cost of 
$5,630. 6EH increased life expectancy by 0.8 months at an additional per person 
cost of $100 (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $1,490/year of life 
saved (YLS)). 36H further increased life expectancy by 0.2 months with an 
additional per person cost of $55 (ICER of $3,120/YLS). The projected clinical 
impact of 6EH was comparable to 6H and 3RH; however when compared to these other 
options, 6EH was no longer cost-effective given the high cost of ethambutol. 
Results were sensitive to baseline CD4 count and adherence.
CONCLUSIONS: Three, six and thirty-six-month regimens of isoniazid-based therapy 
are effective in preventing TB. Three months of isoniazid plus rifampin and 
six-months of isoniazid are similarly cost-effective in India, and should be 
considered part of HIV care.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0036001
PMCID: PMC3340407
PMID: 22558301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


213. BMC Genomics. 2012 May 4;13:167. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-167.

Transcriptome analysis of a long-lived natural Drosophila variant: a prominent 
role of stress- and reproduction-genes in lifespan extension.

Doroszuk A(1), Jonker MJ, Pul N, Breit TM, Zwaan BJ.

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary Biology, Institute of Biology, Leiden University, The 
Netherlands. a.doroszuk@biology.leidenuniv.nl

BACKGROUND: While studying long-lived mutants has advanced our understanding of 
the processes involved in ageing, the mechanisms underlying natural variation in 
lifespan and ageing rate remain largely unknown. Here, we characterise 
genome-wide expression patterns of a long-lived, natural variant of Drosophila 
melanogaster resulting from selection for starvation resistance (SR) and compare 
it with normal-lived control flies (C). We do this at two time points 
representing middle age (90% survival) and old age (10% survival) respectively, 
in three adult diets (malnutrition, optimal food, and overfeeding).
RESULTS: We found profound differences between Drosophila lines in their 
age-related expression. Most of the age-associated changes in normal-lived flies 
were abrogated in long-lived Drosophila. The stress-related genes, including 
those involved in proteolysis and cytochrome P450, were generally higher 
expressed in SR flies and showed a smaller increase in expression with age 
compared to C flies. The genes involved in reproduction showed a lower 
expression in middle-aged SR than in C flies and, unlike C flies, a lack of 
their downregulation with age. Further, we found that malnutrition strongly 
affected age-associated transcript patterns overriding the differences between 
the lines. However, under less stressful dietary conditions, line and diet 
affected age-dependent expression similarly. Finally, we present lists of 
candidate markers of ageing and lifespan extension.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study unveils transcriptional changes associated with lifespan 
extension in SR Drosophila. The results suggest that natural genetic variation 
for SR and lifespan can operate through similar transcriptional mechanisms as 
those of dietary restriction and life-extending mutations.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-167
PMCID: PMC3427046
PMID: 22559237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2012 Apr;28(2):110-4. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462312000049.

Cost-utility analysis of adjuvant therapies for breast cancer in Iran.

Bastani P(1), Kiadaliri AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Management, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences,Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-utility of Docetaxel 
with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (TAC) and 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, 
cyclophosphamide (FAC) in node-positive breast cancer patients in the south of 
Iran.
METHODS: A double blind study was done on a cohort of 100 patients suffering 
from breast cancer with node-positive over 8 months in the radiotherapy center 
of Namazi hospital, Shiraz-Iran. Health-related quality of life was assessed 
using questionnaire (QLQ-C30) from European Organization for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). QLQ-C30 scale scores were mapped to 15D and EuroQol 
5D utilities to measure the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).Third party 
payer point of view was applied to measure and value the cost of treatments. 
Cost data were extracted from hospital and health insurance organizations. 
Robustness of the results was checked through a two way sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: TAC was associated with higher deterioration in HRQoL during treatment 
and higher improvements over 4 months follow-up. On average, the cost of 
treatment per patient in TAC was 15 times higher than FAC (p < .001). In 
overall, TAC was resulted in lower QALYs and higher cost over study period.
CONCLUSIONS: FAC was a dominant option versus TAC in short-term. The higher 
improvement in HRQoL over follow-up in TAC may not compensate the more intensive 
deterioration caused during treatment in short-term. The short time horizon of 
study may limit the generalizability of our findings and, hence, there is a need 
to conduct long-term economic evaluation studies whenever data is available to 
inform decision making.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462312000049
PMID: 22559752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2012 Apr;28(2):145-51. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462312000141.

Quality-adjusted life-years for the estimation of effectiveness of screening 
programs: a systematic literature review.

Mäklin S(1), Räsänen P, Laitinen R, Kovanen N, Autti-Rämö I, Sintonen H, Roine 
RP.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Welfare, Finnish Office for Health 
Technology Assessment, Helsinki, Finland. suvi.maklin@thl.fi

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to identify and characterize studies that 
have used quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) based on measurements of patients' 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) as an indicator of effectiveness of 
screening programs.
METHODS: Systematic search of the literature until March 2010, using several 
electronic databases. Initial screening of articles based on abstracts, and 
evaluation of full-text articles were done by at least two of the authors.
RESULTS: The search identified 1,610 articles. Based on review of abstracts, 431 
full-text articles were obtained for closer inspection and, of these, 81 
reported QALYs based on patient-derived data using a valid HRQoL assessment. The 
most frequently used method to assess HRQoL was Time Trade-Off (55 percent) 
followed by EQ-5D (26 percent). The most frequently studied medical conditions 
were malignant diseases (23 percent) followed by cardiovascular diseases (19 
percent). All studies employed some kind of modeling with the Markov model being 
the most prevalent type (65 percent). Majority of the articles (59 percent) 
concluded that the screening program studied was cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of QALYs in the evaluation of screening programs has 
expanded during the last few years. However, only a minority of studies have 
used HRQoL data derived from patients, using direct or indirect valuation. 
Further investigation and harmonization of the methodology in evaluation of 
screening programs is needed to ensure better comparability across different 
screening programs.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462312000141
PMID: 22559756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Aug;56(2):416-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.027. Epub
2012  May 3.

Clopidogrel use before renal artery angioplasty with/without stent placement 
resulted in tertiary procedure risk reduction.

Mousa AY(1), Broce M, Campbell J, Nanjundappa A, Stone PA, Abu-Halimah S, 
Srivastava M, Bates MC, Aburahma AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center, West Virginia 
University, Charleston, WV 25304, USA. amousa@hsc.wvu.edu

OBJECTIVE: Contrary to coronary artery literature, the effect of preprocedural 
clopidogrel on renal artery restenosis (RAR) has not been characterized. This 
study was designed to evaluate the effect of preprocedural clopidogrel on target 
vessel revascularization (TVR), reintervention, and restenosis for patients who 
underwent recurrent renal artery angioplasty.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of patients treated for RAR in a single 
tertiary center from January 1999 to December 2009 was conducted. Patients were 
divided into preadmission use of (1) clopidogrel or (2) aspirin only 
(acetylsalicylic acid [ASA]) for the initial procedure. TVR was defined as 
occurrence of a tertiary procedure for symptomatic RAR. Rate of freedom from 
event (ie, tertiary restenosis and TVR) was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: Eighty-eight interventions were performed on 77 patients with RAR; 66% 
were females with average (mean ± SEM) age and body mass index of 68.8 ± 1.1 and 
28.6 ± 0.8, respectively. Comorbidities included 96% chronic hypertension, 33% 
diabetes, 76% hyperlipidemia, 20% renal insufficiency, 39% tobacco use, 58% 
coronary artery disease, and 51% peripheral vascular disease. Clopidogrel use 
increased significantly during the index procedure from admission 35.2% to 
discharge 97.7% (P < .001, McNemar test). There was a trend toward risk 
reduction of a tertiary intervention (23%) for patients admitted on clopidogrel 
compared with ASA (P = .052). Likewise, there was a trend (P = .051) toward 
increased freedom from a tertiary intervention, with cumulative freedom at 8 
years 93.5% for clopidogrel vs 61% for ASA. No differences were found for 
restenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of preprocedural clopidogrel was associated with a possible 
risk reduction of TVR reintervention, but this finding needs to be validated in 
randomized clinical trial.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.027
PMID: 22560231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2012 Jul;13(6):535-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2012.03.009.
 Epub 2012 May 5.

Understanding risk of falls in people with cognitive impairment living in 
residential care.

Whitney J(1), Close JC, Jackson SH, Lord SR.

Author information:
(1)Kings Health Partners, Kings College Hospital, London, UK. 
julie.whitney@kcl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To better understand fall risk factors in older adults with 
cognitive impairment living in residential care.
DESIGN: A prospective observational cohort study.
SETTING: Residential care homes in South London, UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Residents older than 60, with cognitive impairment who had a life 
expectancy of at least 6 months and were not bedbound or recently discharged 
from hospital.
MEASUREMENTS: Baseline assessments were undertaken in domains of demographics, 
medical history, medication use, behavior, affect, gait, balance, sensorimotor 
performance and neuropsychological function. Participants were followed for 6 
months for falls using care home reporting systems.
RESULTS: A total of 109 participants completed baseline assessment and had 
adequate falls follow-up. Fallers took more medications, were more likely to be 
taking antidepressants, had more functional impairment, poorer balance and gait, 
were more impulsive and anxious, exhibited more dementia-related behaviors, and 
performed worse on cognitive tests involving attention and orientation, memory, 
and fluency. Logistic regression analysis identified 4 significant and 
independent predictors of falls: poor attention and orientation, increased 
postural sway with eyes closed, anxiety, and antidepressant use. The AUC for 
this model was 0.84 (95% CI 0.76-0.91).
CONCLUSIONS: This study identified important risk factors for falls potentially 
amenable to intervention in older people with cognitive impairment living in 
residential care. This information may be useful in designing effective 
approaches to fall prevention in this high-risk population.

Copyright © 2012 American Medical Directors Association. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2012.03.009
PMID: 22561138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Vaccine. 2012 Jun 29;30(31):4691-700. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.04.072.
Epub  2012 May 2.

Cost-effectiveness of potential infant vaccination against respiratory syncytial 
virus infection in The Netherlands.

Meijboom MJ(1), Rozenbaum MH, Benedictus A, Luytjes W, Kneyber MC, Wilschut JC, 
Hak E, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology & PharmacoEconomics (PE(2)), Department of 
Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection is one of the major 
causes of respiratory illness in infants, infecting virtually every child before 
the age of 2 years. Currently, several Phase 1 trials with RSV vaccines in 
infants are ongoing or have been completed. As yet, no efficacy estimates are 
available for these vaccine candidates. Nevertheless, cost-effectiveness 
estimates might be informative to enable preliminary positioning of an RSV 
vaccine.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was developed in which a Dutch birth cohort 
was followed for 12 months. A number of potential vaccination strategies were 
reviewed such as vaccination at specific ages, a two- or three-dosing scheme and 
seasonal vaccination versus year-round vaccination. The impact of the 
assumptions made was explored in various sensitivity analyses, including 
probabilistic analysis. Outcome measures included the number of GP visits, 
hospitalizations and deaths, costs, quality-adjusted life years and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Currently, without vaccination, an annual number of 28,738 of 
RSV-related GP visits, 1623 hospitalizations, and 4.5 deaths are estimated in 
children in the age of 0-1 year. The total annual cost to society of RSV in the 
non-vaccination scenario is €7.7 million (95%CI: 1.7-16.7) and the annual 
disease burden is estimated at 597 QALYs (95%CI: 133-1319). In case all infants 
would be offered a potentially safe and effective 3-dose RSV vaccination scheme 
at the age of 0, 1 and 3 months, the total annual net costs were estimated to 
increase to €21.2 million, but 544 hospitalizations and 1.5 deaths would be 
averted. The ICER was estimated at €34,142 (95%CI: € 21,652-€ 87,766) per QALY 
gained. A reduced dose schedule, seasonal vaccination, and consideration of 
out-of-pocket expenses all resulted in more favorable ICER values, whereas a 
reduced vaccine efficacy or a delay in the timing of vaccination resulted in 
less favorable ICERs.
DISCUSSION: Our model used recently updated estimates on the burden of RSV 
disease in children and it included plausible utilities. However, due to the 
absence of clinical trial data, a number of crucial assumptions had to be made 
related to the characteristics of potential RSV vaccine. The outcomes of our 
modeling exercise show that vaccination of infants against RSV might be 
cost-effective. However, clinical trial data are warranted.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.04.072
PMID: 22561315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 Aug;40(14):6908-21. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks370. Epub
2012  May 4.

A twist in the tail: SHAPE mapping of long-range interactions and structural 
rearrangements of RNA elements involved in HCV replication.

Tuplin A(1), Struthers M, Simmonds P, Evans DJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry 
CV4 7AL, UK.

The RNA structure and long-range interactions of the SL9266 cis-acting 
replication element located within the NS5B coding region of hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) were determined using selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analysed by primer 
extension. Marked differences were found in the long-range interactions of 
SL9266 when the two widely used genotype 2a JFH-1 (HCVcc) and genotype 1b Con1b 
sub-genomic replicon systems were compared. In both genomes, there was evidence 
for interaction of the sub-terminal bulge loop of SL9266 and sequences around 
nucleotide 9110, though the replication phenotype of genomes bearing mutations 
that disrupted this interaction was fundamentally different. In contrast, a 
'kissing loop' interaction between the terminal loop of SL9266 and sequences in 
the 3'-untranslated X-tail was only detectable in JFH-1-based genomes. In the 
latter, where both long-range interactions are present, they were independent, 
implying that SL9266 forms the core of an extended pseudoknot. The presence of 
the 'kissing loop' interaction inhibited the formation of SL9571 in the 
3'-X-tail, an RNA structure implicated in genome replication. We propose that, 
SL9266 may contribute a switch function that modulates the mutually incompatible 
translation and replication events that must occur for replication of the 
positive-strand RNA genome of HCV.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks370
PMCID: PMC3413155
PMID: 22561372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2012 Sep;47(9):1164-70. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2012.71.
Epub  2012 May 7.

Comparing efficacy of reduced-toxicity allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation with conventional chemo-(immuno) therapy in patients with 
relapsed or refractory CLL: a Markov decision analysis.

Kharfan-Dabaja MA(1), Pidala J, Kumar A, Terasawa T, Djulbegovic B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology-Oncology and Bone 
Marrow Transplantation, American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon. 
MK143@aub.edu.lb

Comment in
    Bone Marrow Transplant. 2012 Sep;47(9):1145-6.

Despite therapeutic advances, relapsed/refractory CLL, particularly after 
fludarabine-based regimens, remains a major challenge for which optimal therapy 
is undefined. No randomized comparative data exist to suggest the superiority of 
reduced-toxicity allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (RT-allo-HCT) 
over conventional chemo-(immuno) therapy (CCIT). By using estimates from a 
systematic review and by meta-analysis of available published evidence, we 
constructed a Markov decision model to examine these competing modalities. 
Cohort analysis demonstrated superior outcome for RT-allo-HCT, with a 10-month 
overall life expectancy (and 6-month quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE)) 
advantage over CCIT. Although the model was sensitive to changes in base-case 
assumptions and transition probabilities, RT-allo-HCT provided superior overall 
life expectancy through a range of values supported by the meta-analysis. QALE 
was superior for RT-allo-HCT compared with CCIT. This conclusion was sensitive 
to change in the anticipated state utility associated with the post-allogeneic 
HCT state; however, RT-allo-HCT remained the optimal strategy for values 
supported by existing literature. This analysis provides a quantitative 
comparison of outcomes between RT-allo-HCT and CCIT for relapsed/refractory CLL 
in the absence of randomized comparative trials. Confirmation of these findings 
requires a prospective randomized trial, which compares the most effective 
RT-allo-HCT and CCIT regimens for relapsed/refractory CLL.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2012.71
PMID: 22562081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Matern Child Health J. 2013 May;17(4):593-600. doi:
10.1007/s10995-012-1035-6.

Fertility desires among HIV-infected men and women in Los Angeles County: client 
needs and provider perspectives.

Mindry D(1), Wagner G, Lake J, Smith A, Linnemayr S, Quinn M, Hoffman R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Culture and Health, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral 
Sciences, NPI-Semel Institute for Neuroscience, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90024-1759, USA. dmindry@ucla.edu

Combination antiretroviral therapy for persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) has 
extended life expectancy, and enabled PLHA to live productive lives that can 
include having children. Despite calls to address childbearing for PLHA there 
has been limited attention to developing safe conception programs. This research 
sought to assess the childbearing desires of PLHA and the experiences of health 
care providers serving this population. Research entailed a brief 
cross-sectional client survey given to HIV-infected men and women over age 18 at 
two Los Angeles County clinics administered over an 8-week period. Focus group 
discussions were conducted with providers at each clinic site. Although 39% of 
the 93 clients surveyed reported a desire to have children, two-thirds of 
clients had not discussed their desires, or methods of safe conception, with 
providers. Providers reported challenges in providing safe conception services 
in resource poor settings where clients cannot afford assisted fertility 
services and in the absence of national, state, or county guidelines for safe 
conception. They noted complex and varied client circumstances and a critical 
need for provider training in safe conception. Guidelines that focus on safe 
conception and harm reduction strategies as well as the legal ramifications of 
counseling on these practices are needed. HIV providers need training and 
patients need educational tools and workshops informing them of the risks, 
challenges, and options available to them and their partners to safely conceive 
and bear an HIV-negative child.

DOI: 10.1007/s10995-012-1035-6
PMID: 22562286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2012 Nov;69(22):3751-63. doi: 10.1007/s00018-012-0996-3.
Epub  2012 May 5.

Genetic susceptibility to hypertensive renal disease.

Doris PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Texas HSC at Houston, Houston, 
TX 77030, USA. peter.a.doris@uth.tmc.edu

Hypertensive renal disease occurs at increased frequency among the relatives of 
patients with this disease compared to individuals who lack a family history of 
disease. This suggests a heritable risk in which genetic variation may play a 
role. These observations have motivated a search for genetic variation 
contributing to this risk in both experimental animal models and in human 
populations. Studies of animal models indicate the capacity of natural genetic 
variants to contribute to disease risk and have produced a few insights into the 
disease mechanism. In its current phase, human population genetic studies have 
sought to associate genetic variation with disease in large populations by 
testing genotypes at a large number of common genetic variations in the genome, 
expecting that common genetic variants contributing to renal disease risk will 
be identified. These genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been productive 
and are a clear technical success; they have also identified narrowly defined 
loci and genes containing variation contributing to disease risk. Further 
extension and refinement of these GWAS are likely to extend this success. 
However, it is also clear that few additional variants with substantial effects 
accounting for the greatest part of heritability will be uncovered by GWAS. This 
raises an interesting biological question regarding where the remaining 
unaccounted heritable risk may be located. At present, much consideration is 
being given to this question and to the challenge of testing hypotheses that 
lead from the various alternative mechanisms under consideration. One result of 
the progress of GWAS is likely to be a renewed interest in mechanisms by which 
related individuals can share and transmit traits independently of Mendelian 
inheritance. This paper reviews the current progress in this area and considers 
other mechanisms by which familial aggregation of risk for renal disease may 
arise.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-012-0996-3
PMCID: PMC3422437
PMID: 22562581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2013 Jan;36(1):83-9. doi: 10.1007/s10545-012-9490-1.
Epub  2012 May 5.

Fertility and pregnancy in women affected by glycogen storage disease type I, 
results of a multicenter Italian study.

Sechi A(1), Deroma L, Lapolla A, Paci S, Melis D, Burlina A, Carubbi F, Rigoldi 
M, Di Rocco M.

Author information:
(1)Regional Coordinator Centre for Rare Diseases, University Hospital Santa 
Maria della Misericordia, Udine, Italy. sechi.annalisa@aoud.sanita.fvg.it

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy of patients with glycogen storage disease (GSD) type 
I has improved considerably, opening new problems correlated with adult age. In 
females polycystic ovaries (PCOs) has been described as frequently associated 
with the disease, however successful pregnancies have been reported. Whether or 
not GSD I is associated with impaired reproductive function is still unclear.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data about female patients with GSD Ia and Ib, who were 16 
years or older, were obtained from clinical records and interviews.
RESULTS: A total of 32 women with GSD I (25 GSD Ia, 7 GSD Ib), median age 26 
years (range 16-55), were included. 9/32 patients had delayed menarche, 17/32 
had irregular cycles, 8/22 had documented polycystic ovaries. Five successful 
spontaneous pregnancies in four patients with GSD Ia and two in a woman with GSD 
Ib were reported. The latter had development and enlargement of hepatic adenomas 
during pregnancies.
CONCLUSION: Despite the high prevalence of irregular menstruation cycles and 
polycystic ovaries, fertility seems not to be impaired in women with GSD I. 
During pregnancy monitoring for adenoma development is mandatory.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-012-9490-1
PMID: 22562700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Int J Sports Med. 2012 Oct;33(10):802-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1304589. Epub
2012  May 4.

Blood pressure during leg extension in children.

Forberg SI(1), Støren O, Fredriksen PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport and Outdoor Life Studies, Telemark University College, 
Bø, Norway. forbergen@hotmail.com

This study investigated blood pressure responses (BP) during bilateral leg 
extension in healthy children at different numbers of repetitions. BP was 
measured non-invasively during 1 repetition maximum (1RM), 5 repetitions at 
85-90% of 1RM (5 R), 30 repetitions at 35-40% of 1RM (30 R) and during 5 s of 
maximal isometric work (5SM). It is important to investigate if maximal strength 
testing in healthy children provokes an unfavourable rise in BP, in order to be 
able to do further research on hypertensive risk groups of children. 39 (18 male 
and 21 female) healthy children (10.5 ± 2.0 years old) participated in this 
study. Peak BP values and peak HR increased significantly with increasing number 
of repetitions. Peak BP increased from 1RM (144 ± 16/110 ± 19 mmHg) to 30R (170 
± 26/123 ± 21 mmHg) and peak HR increased from 1RM (122 ± 10 bpm) to 30 R (147 ± 
14 bpm). 30R also gave significantly higher BP and HR than 5SM (156 ± 24/120 ± 
23 mmHg and 131 ± 16 bpm, respectively). The boys had significantly higher 
diastolic BP during 1RM than the girls and significantly higher BP during 5SM. 
In conclusion, maximal strength testing induced lower increases in BP than 
submaximal strength testing with more repetitions, and may be performed in 
healthy children within safe BP limits (< 225 mmHg in systolic BP).

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1304589
PMID: 22562747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Curr Stem Cell Res Ther. 2012 Jul;7(4):243-59. doi:
10.2174/157488812800793090.

Chondrogenesis and developments in our understanding.

Mabvuure N(1), Hindocha S, Jordan D, Khan WS.

Author information:
(1)Brighton and Sussex Medical School, Audrey Emerton building, Eastern road, 
Brighton, BN2 5BE, UK.

Conditions affecting cartilage through damage or age-related degeneration pose 
significant challenges to individual patients and their healthcare systems. The 
disease burden will rise in the future as life expectancy increases. This has 
resulted in vigorous efforts to develop novel therapies to meet current and 
future needs. Due to the limited regenerative capacity of cartilage, in vitro 
tissue engineering techniques have emerged as the favoured technique by which to 
develop replacements. Tissue engineering is mainly concerned with developing 
cartilage replacements in the form of chondrocyte suspensions and 
three-dimensional scaffolds seeded with chondrocytes. One major limiting factor 
in the development of clinically useful cartilage constructs is our 
understanding of the process by which cartilage is formed, chondrogenesis. For 
example, techniques of culturing chondrocytes in vitro have been used for 
decades, resulting in chondrocyte-like cells which produce an extracellular 
matrix of similar composition to native cartilage, but with inferior physical 
properties. It has now been realised that one aspect of chondrogenesis which had 
been ignored was the physical context in which cartilage exists in vivo. This 
has resulted in the development of bioreactor systems which aim to introduce 
various physical stresses to engineered cartilage in a controlled environment. 
This has resulted in some improvements in the quality of tissue engineered 
cartilage. This is but one example of how the knowledge of chondrogenesis has 
been translated into research practice. This paper aims to review what is 
currently known about the process of chondrogenesis and discusses how this 
knowledge can be applied to tissue engineering.

DOI: 10.2174/157488812800793090
PMID: 22563660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Med Econ. 2012;15(4):796-806. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.691927. Epub 2012
Jun  7.

Economic and health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) comparison of 
lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) and atazanavir plus ritonavir (ATV+RTV) based 
regimens for antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naïve and -experienced United Kingdom 
patients in 2011.

Simpson KN(1), Baran RW, Collomb D, Beck EJ, Van de Steen O, Dietz B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science and Research, College of Health Professions, 
Medical University of South Carolina, SC 29425, USA. simpsonk@musc.edu

BACKGROUND: Using a United Kingdom (UK)-based National Health Services 
perspective for 2011 this study first estimated the cost-effectiveness and 
budget impact implications for lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) vs atazanavir plus 
ritonavir (ATV+RTV) treatment of antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naïve patients and 
secondly examined the long-term health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) and 
economic implications for LPV/r vs ATV+RTV treatment of ART-experienced 
patients.
METHODS: A previously published Markov model that integrates epidemiological 
data of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) with predictors of coronary heart 
disease (CHD) was modified under a clearly specified set of assumptions to 
reflect viral load (VL) suppression profiles and other differences for these two 
regimens, applying results from the CASTLE study in ART-naïve patients and using 
data from BMS-045 in ART-experienced patients. ART costs were referenced to 
current (2011) pricing guidelines in the UK. Medical care costs reflected UK 
treatment patterns and relevant drug pricing. Costs and outcomes were discounted 
at 3.5% per year. Costs are expressed in British pounds (£) and life expectancy 
in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: In the ART-naïve subjects, the model predicted a marginal improved life 
expectancy of 0.031 QALYs (11 days) for the ATV+RTV regimen as a result of 
predicted CHD outcomes based on lower increases in cholesterol levels compared 
with the LPV/r regimen. The model demonstrated cost savings with the LPV/r 
regimen. The total lifetime cost savings was £4070 per patient for the LPV/r 
regimen. LPV/r saved £2133 and £3409 per patient at 5 and 10 years, 
respectively. Referenced to LPV/r, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) for ATV+RTV was £149,270/QALY. For ART-experienced patients VL 
suppression differences favored LPV/r, while CHD risk associated with elevated 
total cholesterol marginally favored ATV+RTV, resulting in a net improvement in 
life expectancy of 0.31 QALYs (106 days) for LPV/r. Five-year costs were £5538 
per patient greater for ATV+RTV, with a discounted lifetime saving of £1445 per 
LPV/r patient. LPV/r was modestly dominant economically, producing better 
outcomes and cost savings.
LIMITATIONS: The limitations of this study include uncertainty related to how 
well the model's assumptions capture current practice, as well as the validity 
of the model parameters used. This study was limited to using aggregated data in 
the public domain from the two clinical trials. Thus, some of the model 
parameters may reflect limitations due to trial design and data aggregation 
bias. This study has attempted to illuminate the effect of these limitations by 
presenting the results of the comprehensive sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on 2011 costs of HIV in the UK and the published efficacy 
data from the CASTLE and BMS-045 studies, ATV+RTV-based regimens are not 
expected to be a cost-effective use of resources for ART-naïve patients similar 
to patients in the CASTLE study, nor for ART-experienced patients based on the 
only published comparison of ATV+RTV and LPV/r.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.691927
PMID: 22563716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2014 Jan;12(1):106-16. doi: 
10.2174/157016111201140327163302.

Cardiac side effects of chemotherapy: state of art and strategies for a correct 
management.

Perrino C, Schiattarella GG, Magliulo F, Ilardi F, Carotenuto G, Gargiulo G, 
Serino F, Ferrone M, Scudiero F, Carbone A, Trimarco B, Esposito G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Clinical Medicine, Cardiovascular and 
Immunological Sciences, Federico II University, Via Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, 
Italy. espogiov@unina.it.

In recent years, the development of more effective drugs has provided a better 
prognosis and an increase in life expectancy for patients at all-stages of 
cancer. On the other hand, the price for the improving effectiveness of 
therapies against malignant tumors is the development of severe and potentially 
life-threatening drug reactions. Among these, cardiac toxic effects have 
recently gained particular attention. The term cardiotoxicity includes many 
possible pathological manifestations, but the most frequent is the reduction in 
cardiac function, potentially leading to heart failure and death. Importantly, 
the development of cardiac dysfunction may occur immediately after drug 
administration, or after years. The purpose of this review is to discuss the 
clinical features of cardiotoxicity, its molecular basis and novel possible 
strategies to reduce the likelihood of serious cardiac complications.

DOI: 10.2174/157016111201140327163302
PMID: 22563720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Med Econ. 2012;15(5):977-86. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.692340. Epub 2012
May  23.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir versus NPH insulin in type 2 
diabetes in Sweden.

Smith-Palmer J(1), Fajardo-Montañana C, Pollock RF, Ericsson A, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland. 
smith-palmer@ossianconsulting.com

AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir vs. NPH insulin once 
daily, in patients with type 2 diabetes in the Swedish setting based on clinical 
data from a published randomized controlled trial.
METHODS: Projections of long-term outcomes were made using the IMS CORE Diabetes 
Model (CDM), based on clinical data from a 26-week randomized controlled trial 
that compared once daily insulin detemir and NPH insulin, when used to intensify 
insulin treatment in 271 patients with type 2 diabetes and body mass index (BMI) 
25-40 kg/m(2). Trial results showed that insulin detemir was associated with a 
significantly lower incidence of hypoglycemic events and significantly less 
weight gain in comparison with NPH insulin. The analysis was conducted from a 
third party payer perspective and the base case analysis was performed over a 
time horizon of 40 years and future costs and clinical outcomes were discounted 
at a rate of 3% per year.
RESULTS: Insulin detemir was associated with higher mean (SD) quality-adjusted 
life expectancy (5.42 [0.10] vs. 5.31 [0.10] quality-adjusted life years 
[QALYs]) and lower overall costs (SEK 378,539 [10,372] vs. SEK 384,216 [11,230]; 
EUR 33,794 and EUR 34,300, respectively, where 1 EUR=11.2015 SEK) compared with 
NPH insulin. Sensitivity analysis showed that the principal driver of the 
benefits associated with insulin detemir was the lower rate of hypoglycemic 
events (major and minor events) vs. NPH insulin, suggesting that detemir might 
also be cost-saving over a shorter time horizon. Limitations of the analysis 
include the use of data from a trial outside Sweden in the Swedish setting.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on clinical input data derived from a previously published 
randomized controlled trial, it is likely that in the Swedish setting insulin 
detemir would be cost-saving in comparison with NPH insulin for the treatment of 
patients with type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.692340
PMID: 22563742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(23):iii-xiii, 1-137. doi: 10.3310/hta16230.

Dasatinib, high-dose imatinib and nilotinib for the treatment of 
imatinib-resistant chronic myeloid leukaemia: a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Loveman E(1), Cooper K, Bryant J, Colquitt JL, Frampton GK, Clegg A.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC), University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: The present report was commissioned as a supplement to an existing 
technology assessment report produced by the Peninsula Technology Assessment 
Group (PenTAG), which evaluated the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of dasatinib and nilotinib in patients who are either 
resistant or intolerant to standard-dose imatinib.
OBJECTIVES: This report evaluates the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of dasatinib, nilotinib and high-dose imatinib within their 
licensed indications for the treatment of people with chronic myeloid leukaemia 
(CML) who are resistant to standard-dose imatinib.
DATA SOURCES: Bibliographic databases were searched from inception to January 
2011, including The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE (Ovid), EMBASE (Ovid), and MEDLINE 
In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations. Bibliographies of related papers were 
screened, key conferences were searched, and experts were contacted to identify 
additional published and unpublished references.
REVIEW METHODS: This report includes systematic reviews of clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness studies, an independent appraisal of 
information submitted by drug manufacturers to the National Institute for Health 
and Clinical Excellence (NICE), an independent appraisal of the PenTAG economic 
evaluation, and new economic analyses adapting the PenTAG economic model. 
Standard systematic procedures involving two reviewers to maintain impartiality 
and transparency, and to minimise bias, were conducted.
RESULTS: Eleven studies met the inclusion criteria. Four of these studies 
included new data published since the PenTAG report; all of these were in 
chronic-phase CML. No relevant studies on the clinical effectiveness of 
nilotinib were found. The clinical effectiveness studies on dasatinib [one arm 
of a randomised controlled trial (RCT)] and high-dose imatinib (one arm of a RCT 
and three single-arm cohort studies) had major methodological limitations. These 
limitations precluded a comparison of the different arms within the RCT. Data 
from the studies are summarised in this report, but caution in interpretation is 
required. One economic evaluation was identified that compared dasatinib with 
high-dose imatinib in patients with chronic-phase CML who were CML resistant to 
standard-dose imatinib. Two industry submissions and the PenTAG economic 
evaluation were critiqued and differences in the assumptions and results were 
identified. The PenTAG economic model was adapted and new analyses conducted for 
the interventions dasatinib, nilotinib and high-dose imatinib and the 
comparators interferon alfa, standard-dose imatinib, stem cell transplantation 
and hydroxycarbamide. The results suggest that the three interventions, 
dasatinib, nilotinib and high-dose imatinib, have similar costs and 
cost-effectiveness compared with hydroxycarbamide, with a cost-effectiveness of 
around £30,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. However, it is not 
possible to derive firm conclusions about the relative cost-effectiveness of the 
three interventions owing to great uncertainty around data inputs. Uncertainty 
was explored using deterministic sensitivity analyses, threshold analyses and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
LIMITATIONS: The paucity of good-quality evidence should be considered when 
interpreting this report.
CONCLUSIONS: This review has identified very limited new information on clinical 
effectiveness of the interventions over that already shown in the PenTAG report. 
Limitations in the data exist; however, the results of single-arm studies 
suggest that the interventions can lead to improvements in haematological and 
cytogenetic responses in people with imatinib-resistant CML. The economic 
analyses do not highlight any one of the interventions as being the most 
cost-effective; however, the analysis results are highly uncertain owing to lack 
of agreement on appropriate assumptions. Recommendations for future research 
made by PenTAG, for a good-quality RCT comparing the three treatments remain.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16230
PMCID: PMC4781455
PMID: 22564553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Leuk Res. 2012 Aug;36(8):1067-70. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2012.04.006. Epub
2012  May 6.

Improved survival in MDS patients receiving iron chelation therapy - a matched 
pair analysis of 188 patients from the Düsseldorf MDS registry.

Neukirchen J(1), Fox F, Kündgen A, Nachtkamp K, Strupp C, Haas R, Germing U, 
Gattermann N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Clinical Immunology, Heinrich-Heine 
University, Düsseldorf, Germany. judith.neukirchen@med.uni-duesseldorf.de

MDS patients are prone to develop transfusional iron overload. Iron overload may 
partly explain why transfusion dependency is associated with a decreased 
likelihood of survival. Our matched-pair analysis included 94 patients on 
long-term chelation therapy and 94 matched patients without it. All patients had 
iron overload, defined as serum ferritin (SF) above 1000 ng/ml or a history of 
multiple transfusions and SF ≥ 500 ng/ml. Median SF was 1954 ng/ml in chelated 
and 875 ng/ml in non-chelated patients. The difference in median survival (74 
vs. 49 months, respectively; p=0.002) supports the idea that iron chelation 
therapy is beneficial for MDS patients.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2012.04.006
PMID: 22564985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Acta Derm Venereol. 2012 Sep;92(5):521-8. doi: 10.2340/00015555-1350.

Decreased expression of semaphorin-3A, a neurite-collapsing factor, is 
associated with itch in psoriatic skin.

Kou K(1), Nakamura F, Aihara M, Chen H, Seto K, Komori-Yamaguchi J, Kambara T, 
Nagashima Y, Goshima Y, Ikezawa Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Immuno-Dermatology, Yokohama City University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.

Pruritus is a common symptom of psoriasis, which affects quality of life. This 
symptom accompanies the hyper-innervation of sensory C-fibres in psoriatic 
lesions. Two extracellular molecules, nerve growth factor (NGF) and 
semaphorin-3A, regulate C-fibre extension. In this study, the expression levels 
of these 2 molecules in biopsy specimens from psoriatic and healthy skin were 
quantified by immunohistochemistry and quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. 
