
132. Popul Health Metr. 2012 Apr 24;10(1):7. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-10-7.

Impact of diabetes mellitus on life expectancy and health-adjusted life 
expectancy in Canada.

Loukine L(1), Waters C, Choi BC, Ellison J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention and Control, Public Health Agency of 
Canada (PHAC), Government of Canada, Ottawa, ON, Canada. 
Lidia.Loukine@phac-aspc.gc.ca.

The objectives of this study were to estimate life expectancy (LE) and 
health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) for Canadians with and without diabetes 
and to evaluate the impact of diabetes on population health using administrative 
and survey data.Mortality data from the Canadian Chronic Disease Surveillance 
System (2004 to 2006) and Health Utilities Index data from the Canadian 
Community Health Survey (2000 to 2005) were used. Life table analysis was 
applied to calculate LE, HALE, and their confidence intervals using the Chiang 
and the adapted Sullivan methods.LE and HALE were significantly lower among 
people with diabetes than for people without the disease. LE and HALE for 
females without diabetes were 85.0 and 73.3 years, respectively (males: 80.2 and 
70.9 years). Diabetes was associated with a loss of LE and HALE of 6.0 years and 
5.8 years, respectively, for females, and 5.0 years and 5.3 years, respectively, 
for males, living with diabetes at 55 years of age. The overall gains in LE and 
HALE after the hypothetical elimination of prevalent diagnosed diabetes cases in 
the population were 1.4 years and 1.2 years, respectively, for females, and 
1.3 years for both LE and HALE for males.The results of the study confirm that 
diabetes is an important disease burden in Canada impacting the female and male 
populations differently. The methods can be used to calculate LE and HALE for 
other chronic conditions, providing useful information for public health 
researchers and policymakers.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-10-7
PMCID: PMC3787852
PMID: 22531113


133. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Apr 25;12:100. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-100.

Outcomes of prolonged mechanic ventilation: a discrimination model based on 
longitudinal health insurance and death certificate data.

Lu HM(1), Chen L, Wang JD, Hung MC, Lin MS, Yan YH, Chen CR, Fan PS, Huang LC, 
Kuo KN.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research Institutes, 
35 Keyan Road, Zhunan, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated prognosis among patients under prolonged 
mechanical ventilation (PMV) through exploring the following issues: (1) 
post-PMV survival rates, (2) factors associated with survival after PMV, and (3) 
the number of days alive free of hospital stays requiring mechanical ventilation 
(MV) care after PMV.
METHODS: This is a retrospective cohort study based on secondary analysis of 
prospectively collected data in the national health insurance system and 
governmental data on death registry in Taiwan. It used data for a nationally 
representative sample of 25,482 patients becoming under PMV (> = 21 days) during 
1998-2003. We calculated survival rates for the 4 years after PMV, and adopted 
logistic regression to construct prediction models for 3-month, 6-month, 1-year, 
and 2-year survival, with data of 1998-2002 for model estimation and the 2003 
data for examination of model performance. We estimated the number of days alive 
free of hospital stays requiring MV care in the immediate 4-year period after 
PMV, and contrasted patients who had low survival probability with all PMV 
patients.
RESULTS: Among these patients, the 3-month survival rate was 51.4%, and the 
1-year survival rate was 31.9%. Common health conditions with significant 
associations with poor survival included neoplasm, acute and unspecific renal 
failure, chronic renal failure, non-alcoholic liver disease, shock and 
septicaemia (odd ratio < 0.7, p < 0.05). During a 4-year follow-up period for 
patients of year 2003, the mean number of days free of hospital stays requiring 
MV was 66.0 in those with a predicted 6-month survival rate < 10%, and 111.3 in 
those with a predicted 2-year survival rate < 10%. In contrast, the mean number 
of days was 256.9 in the whole sample of patients in 2003.
CONCLUSIONS: Neoplasm, acute and unspecific renal failure, shock, chronic renal 
failure, septicemia, and non-alcoholic liver disease are significantly 
associated with lower survival among PMV patients. Patients with anticipated 
death in a near future tend to spend most of the rest of their life staying in 
hospital using MV services. This calls for further research into assessing PMV 
care need among patients at different prognosis stages of diseases listed above.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-100
PMCID: PMC3375202
PMID: 22531140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Surg Radiol Anat. 2012 Nov;34(9):857-64. doi: 10.1007/s00276-012-0972-5.
Epub  2012 Apr 25.

Feasibility of computer-assisted surgery for trapeziometacarpal prosthesis: a 
preliminary experimental study.

Facca S(1), Liverneaux PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hand Surgery, Strasbourg University Hospitals, 10 Avenue 
Baumann, 67403, Illkirch Cedex, France.

BACKGROUNDS: The main complication of trapeziometacarpal replacement is 
trapezial cup loosening due to an imperfect positioning of the trapezial 
component. This problem is quite similar to those related to other 
arthroplasties. Hip surgery was progressed toward computer-assisted surgery 
(CAS) for the improvement of acetabular cup positioning. In this study, we 
propose an analysis of the feasibility of CAS in trapeziometacarpal replacement.
METHODS: We implanted the hand of a cadaver with a trapeziometacarpal prosthesis 
(Elektra, by SBI). The surgical procedure and the analysis of motion with CAS 
were carried out in 6 steps: incision, bone morphing preparation and 
initialisation, trapezial and metacarpal recordings, first kinematic analysis, 
prosthesis insertion, and second kinematic analysis. The evaluation of the 
results was carried out as the comparison of the 2 curves sequences before and 
after prosthesis insertion.
RESULTS: We did not notice any dislocation of the prosthesis. The comparison of 
2 curves showed differences regarding motion. For instance, as for 
abduction-adduction movements, before prosthesis insertion, an opposed-phase 
automatic rotation was clearly observed whereas after prosthesis insertion, no 
rotation was observed.
CONCLUSION: CAS makes it possible to analyze the trapeziometacarpal joint motion 
in terms of biomechanics rather than in terms of anatomy. Such progress should 
result in measurement standardization that in turn should improve the 
positioning of prostheses and perhaps the lengthening of their life expectancy 
by decreasing the rates of prosthesis loosening.

DOI: 10.1007/s00276-012-0972-5
PMID: 22532375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. World J Gastrointest Oncol. 2012 Apr 15;4(4):71-5. doi:
10.4251/wjgo.v4.i4.71.

An overview of colorectal cancer survival rates and prognosis in Asia.

Moghimi-Dehkordi B(1), Safaee A.

Author information:
(1)Bijan Moghimi-Dehkordi, Azadeh Safaee, Research Center for Gastroenterology 
and Liver Diseases, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Science, Tehran 
1985711151, Iran.

Colorectal cancer is a rapidly rising trend in Asia. The incidence in many Asian 
countries is on par with the West. Several studies have provided data regarding 
the survival of patients with colorectal cancer. In Asia, the overall cure rate 
of colorectal cancer has not improved dramatically in the last decade, 5-year 
survival remaining at approximately 60%. Colorectal cancer survival time has 
increased in recent years, but mortality rate remains high. Although studies 
have determined a number of factors that can predict survival of patients after 
diagnosis, life expectancy has not been increased dramatically. It seems that 
among the prognostic factors explored so far, the most important are those that 
relate to early diagnosis of cancer. Primary detection is feasible since 
efficient screening modalities are available. Colonoscopic surveillance is 
needed, especially in subjects at higher risk.

DOI: 10.4251/wjgo.v4.i4.71
PMCID: PMC3334382
PMID: 22532879


136. Int J Ment Health Nurs. 2012 Jun;21(3):266-73. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0349.2012.00818.x.

Evolving role of mental health nurses in the physical health care of people with 
serious mental health illness.

Bradshaw T(1), Pedley R.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK. t.bradshaw@manchester.ac.uk

Life expectancy in members of the general population has steadily improved in 
most countries since 1960. However, during the same period, the life expectancy 
of people with serious mental illness (SMI) has actually reduced. The majority 
of premature deaths result from natural causes, such as coronary heart disease. 
Obesity, a key risk factor for heart disease in this client group, might be 
caused both by unhealthy lifestyle behaviours and the side-effects of 
antipsychotic medication. Mental health nurses (MHN) nurses have an important 
role to play in improving the physical health of people with SMI. Evidence, 
however, suggests that they are often ambivalent about this role, and might 
perceive themselves as being inadequately trained and lacking in confidence. In 
this paper, we will argue that MHN need to re-evaluate their practice and 
recognize that the provision of physical health care is as important as other 
roles they occupy in relation to the care of people with SMI. We will also 
consider examples of best practice in physical health care, and discuss how 
these might be adopted by MHN and other professionals, in order to begin to 
improve services and to reduce health inequalities in this client group.

© 2012 The Authors. International Journal of Mental Health Nursing © 2012 
Australian College of Mental Health Nurses Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0349.2012.00818.x
PMID: 22533334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Rejuvenation Res. 2012 Apr;15(2):132-3. doi: 10.1089/rej.2011.1252.

Postponing aging and prolonging life expectancy with the knowledge-based 
economy.

Kristjuhan U(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Work Environment and Safety, Tallinn University of Technology, 
Tallinn, Estonia. ulo.kristjuhan@tseba.ttu.ee

People are interested in the aging phenomenon and hope that scientists are doing 
as much as they can to solve the mysteries of aging. However, this is not the 
case. A lot of knowledge is produced for local interests in curing specific 
disorders; aging is studied much less. Today's economy is undergoing a 
transition to a knowledge-based economy. Knowledge of aging should be integrated 
into the economies of contemporary societies. Aging research and intervention 
can ensure better health, primarily among middle-aged and older people, and 
prolong life. There are many reasons why postponing aging and rejuvenation 
research is not as widespread as it should be. Developed countries should create 
economic stimuli for such studies and intervention.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2011.1252
PMID: 22533415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Rejuvenation Res. 2012 Apr;15(2):134-5. doi: 10.1089/rej.2011.1253.

The last recession was good for life expectancy.

Kristjuhan U(1), Taidre E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Work Environment and Safety, Tallinn University of Technology, 
Tallinn, Estonia. ulo.kristjuhan@tseba.ttu.ee

Most people think that economic growth and a good economy are prerequisites for 
good health and high life expectancy. As such, a recession should decrease life 
expectancy or stop it from rising. In fact, recessions can boost life 
expectancy. This was the case during the Great Depression in the United States 
from 1929 to 1932 and during the recession in the European Union in 2009. In 
2009, life expectancy increased most rapidly in European countries where the 
decrease in gross domestic product was greatest-Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. 
Studies of life expectancy increasing during recessions can yield valuable 
information regarding extending average life expectancy without essential costs.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2011.1253
PMID: 22533416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Rejuvenation Res. 2012 Apr;15(2):239-48. doi: 10.1089/rej.2012.1331.

Accelerated aging versus rejuvenation of the immune system in heterochronic 
parabiosis.

Pishel I(1), Shytikov D, Orlova T, Peregudov A, Artyuhov I, Butenko G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology NAMS of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine. 
ira_pishel@geront.kiev.ua

The emergence of immune disorders in aging is explained by many factors, 
including thymus dysfunction, decrease in the proportion and function of naïve T 
cells, and so forth. There are several approaches to preventing these changes, 
such as thymus rejuvenation, stem cells recovery, modulation of hormone 
production, and others. Our investigations of heterochronic parabiosis have 
shown that benefits of a young immune system, e.g., actively working thymus and 
regular migration of young hematopoietic stem cells between parabiotic partners, 
appeared unable to restore the immune system of the old partner. At the same 
time, we have established a progressive immune impairment in the young 
heterochronic partners. The mechanism of age changes in the immune system in 
this model, which may lead to reduced life expectancy, has not been fully 
understood. The first age-related manifestation in the young partners observed 3 
weeks after the surgery was a dramatic increase of CD8(+)44(+) cells population 
in the spleen. A detailed analysis of further changes revealed a progressive 
decline of most immunological functions observable for up to 3 months after the 
surgery. This article reviews possible mechanisms of induction of age-related 
changes in the immune system of young heterochronic partners. The data obtained 
suggest the existence of certain factors in the old organisms that trigger 
aging, thus preventing the rejuvenation process.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2012.1331
PMID: 22533440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Med Econ. 2012;15(5):906-17. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.688904. Epub 2012
May  24.

Cost effectiveness analysis of immunotherapy in patients with grass pollen 
allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in Germany.

Westerhout KY(1), Verheggen BG, Schreder CH, Augustin M.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit International, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
kwesterhout@pharmerit.com

OBJECTIVES: An economic evaluation was conducted to assess the outcomes and 
costs as well as cost-effectiveness of the following grass-pollen 
immunotherapies: OA (Oralair; Stallergenes S.A., Antony, France) vs GRZ (Grazax; 
ALK-Abelló, Hørsholm, Denmark), and ALD (Alk Depot SQ; ALK-Abelló) 
(immunotherapy agents alongside symptomatic medication) and symptomatic 
treatment alone for grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis.
METHODS: The costs and outcomes of 3-year treatment were assessed for a period 
of 9 years using a Markov model. Treatment efficacy was estimated using an 
indirect comparison of available clinical trials with placebo as a common 
comparator. Estimates for immunotherapy discontinuation, occurrence of asthma, 
health state utilities, drug costs, resource use, and healthcare costs were 
derived from published sources. The analysis was conducted from the insurant's 
perspective including public and private health insurance payments and 
co-payments by insurants. Outcomes were reported as quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and symptom-free days. The uncertainty around incremental model results 
was tested by means of extensive deterministic univariate and probabilistic 
multivariate sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis the model predicted a cost-utility ratio of 
OA vs symptomatic treatment of €14,728 per QALY; incremental costs were €1356 
(95%CI: €1230; €1484) and incremental QALYs 0.092 (95%CI: 0.052; 0.140). OA was 
the dominant strategy compared to GRZ and ALD, with estimated incremental costs 
of -€1142 (95%CI: -€1255; -€1038) and -€54 (95%CI: -€188; €85) and incremental 
QALYs of 0.015 (95%CI: -0.025; 0.056) and 0.027 (95%CI: -0.022; 0.075), 
respectively. At a willingness-to-pay threshold of €20,000, the probability of 
OA being the most cost-effective treatment was predicted to be 79%. Univariate 
sensitivity analyses show that incremental outcomes were moderately sensitive to 
changes in efficacy estimates. The main study limitation was the requirement of 
an indirect comparison involving several steps to assess relative treatment 
effects.
CONCLUSION: The analysis suggests OA to be cost-effective compared to GRZ and 
ALD, and a symptomatic treatment. Sensitivity analyses showed that uncertainty 
surrounding treatment efficacy estimates affected the model outcomes.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.688904
PMID: 22533527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Am Fam Physician. 2012 Apr 1;85(7):705-10.

End-stage renal disease: symptom management and advance care planning.

O'Connor NR(1), Corcoran AM.

Author information:
(1)Arkansas Hospice, Little Rock, AR 72116, USA. noconnor@arkansashospice.org

Erratum in
    Am Fam Physician. 2012 May 15;85(10):950. Dosage error in article text.

Summary for patients in
    Am Fam Physician. 2012 Apr 1;85(7):715.

The prevalence of end-stage renal disease continues to increase, and dialysis is 
offered to older and more medically complex patients. Pain is problematic in up 
to one-half of patients receiving dialysis and may result from renal and 
nonrenal etiologies. Opioids can be prescribed safely, but the patient's renal 
function must be considered when selecting a drug and when determining the 
dosage. Fentanyl and methadone are considered the safest opioids for use in 
patients with end-stage renal disease. Nonpain symptoms are common and affect 
quality of life. Phosphate binders, ondansetron, and naltrexone can be helpful 
for pruritus. Fatigue can be managed with treatment of anemia and optimization 
of dialysis, but persistent fatigue should prompt screening for depression. 
Ondansetron, metoclopramide, and haloperidol are effective for uremia-associated 
nausea. Nondialytic management may be preferable to dialysis initiation in older 
patients and in those with additional life-limiting illnesses, and may not 
significantly decrease life expectancy. Delaying dialysis initiation is also an 
option. Patients with end-stage renal disease should have advance directives, 
including documentation of situations in which they would no longer want 
dialysis.

PMID: 22534347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2012 Mar-Apr;45(2):220-4. doi: 
10.1590/s0037-86822012000200016.

Effects of an exercise program on the functional capacity of patients with 
chronic Chagas' heart disease, evaluated by cardiopulmonary testing.

Fialho PH(1), Tura BR, Sousa AS, Oliveira CR, Soares CC, Oliveira JR, Souza MV, 
Coelho MP, Souza FC, Cunha AB, Kopiler DA.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Reabilitação Cardíaca, Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia, Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ. palomahv@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Despite all efforts to restrict its transmission, Chagas' disease 
remains a severe public health problem in Latin America, affecting 8-12 million 
individuals. Chronic Chagas' heart disease, the chief factor in the high 
mortality rate associated with the illness, affects more than half a million 
Brazilians. Its evolution may result in severe heart failure associated with 
loss of functional capacity and quality of life, with important social and 
medical/labor consequences. Many studies have shown the beneficial effect of 
regular exercise on cardiac patients, but few of them have focused on chronic 
Chagas' heart disease.
METHODS: This study evaluated the effects of an exercise program on the 
functional capacity of patients with chronic Chagas' disease who were treated in 
outpatient clinics at the Evandro Chagas Institute of Clinical Research and the 
National Institute of Cardiology, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The exercises were 
performed 3 times a week for 1 h (30 min of aerobic activity and 30 min of 
resistance exercises and extension) over 6 months in 2010. Functional capacity 
was evaluated by comparing the direct measurement of the O₂ uptake volume (VO₂) 
obtained by a cardiopulmonary exercise test before and after the program (p < 
0.05).
RESULTS: Eighteen patients (13 females) were followed, with minimum and maximum 
ages of 30 and 72 years, respectively. We observed an average increase of 
VO(2peak) > 10% (p = 0.01949).
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest a statistically significant improvement in 
functional capacity with regular exercise of the right intensity.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822012000200016
PMID: 22534996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Stroke. 2012 Jun;43(6):1617-23. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.648238. Epub 2012
Apr  25.

The cost-effectiveness of primary stroke centers for acute stroke care.

Guzauskas GF(1), Boudreau DM, Villa KF, Levine SR, Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195,USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Primary stroke centers (PSC) have demonstrated improved 
survival in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). The objective of this 
study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of treating AIS patients in a PSC 
compared with a nonPSC hospital setting.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic model to project the lifetime outcomes 
and costs of 2 hypothetical cohorts of 75 AIS patients. Clinical data were 
derived from a recent observational study comparing PSC- and nonPSC-admitted 
patients, clinical trials, longitudinal cohort studies, and health state 
preference studies. Cost data were based on Medicare reimbursement and other 
published sources. We used a healthcare payer perspective, and the primary 
outcomes were incremental life expectancy, quality-adjusted life years, and 
healthcare costs. We performed sensitivity and scenario analyses to evaluate 
uncertainty in the results.
RESULTS: Admission to a PSC resulted in a gain of 0.22 years of life (95% 
credible range [CR], 0.12-0.33) and 0.15 quality-adjusted life years (95% CR, 
0.08-0.23) per patient, at a cost of $3600 (95% CR, $2400-$5000) per patient, 
compared with admission to a nonPSC hospital. The incremental 
cost/quality-adjusted life year gained was $24 000, and all probabilistic 
simulation results were below the $100 000/quality-adjusted life year threshold. 
In scenario analyses accounting for as few as 7 and as many as 500 AIS 
patients/year per PSC, cost-effectiveness improved as the number of AIS patients 
admitted per year increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that care at a PSC for patients with AIS is 
cost-effective and improves outcomes across a wide range of possible scenarios.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.648238
PMID: 22535277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2015 Mar;27(2):NP1002-12. doi: 
10.1177/1010539512443978. Epub 2012 Apr 24.

Unequal geographic distribution of life expectancy in Seoul.

Kim S(1), Yi S(1), Kim M(1), Kim B(2), Lee H(1), Jeon T(3), Cho Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Market Access, LEO Pharma Asia Pte Ltd, Singapore.
(3)Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea Statistics Korea, Daejeon, Korea.
(4)Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea youngtae@snu.ac.kr.

This study examined life expectancies in 25 gus, administrative districts of 
Seoul, the capital of Korea, by gender in 1995, 2002, and 2008 to explore trends 
in mortality inequality among areas. The authors constructed single-decrement 
life tables and employed between-group variance, the Theil index, and mean log 
deviation to measure absolute and relative disparities in life expectancy among 
areas during the periods 1995-2002 and 2002-2008. It was found that life 
expectancy gaps between gus have widened in absolute and relative terms in both 
genders over the decade, and that this pattern was particularly dramatic in 
females after 2002. This increasing gap could be attributable to the more 
negative health impact on females since the late 1990s stemming from the 
economic crisis, eventually reflected in their places of residence. Thus, a 
social buffer system to narrow the health gap between geographic areas and 
social classes must be established.

© 2012 APJPH.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539512443978
PMID: 22535557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Multidiscip Healthc. 2012;5:85-95. doi: 10.2147/JMDH.S29388. Epub 2012 Mar
26.

Ability for self-care in urban living older people in southern Norway.

Sundsli K(1), Söderhamn U, Espnes GA, Söderhamn O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work and Health Science, Faculty of Social Sciences and 
Technology Management, NTNU, Trondheim, Norway.

BACKGROUND: The number of older people living in urban environments throughout 
the world will increase in the coming years. There is a trend in most European 
countries towards improved health among older people, and increased life 
expectancy for both women and men. Norway has experienced less increase in life 
expectancy than some other European countries, and it is therefore important to 
investigate older urban Norwegian people's health and ways of living in a 
self-care environment, with special regard to health promotion.
AIM: The aim of this study was to describe self-care ability among home-dwelling 
older (65+ years) individuals living in urban areas in southern Norway in 
relation to general living conditions, sense of coherence (SOC), screened 
nutritional state, physical activity, perceived self-reported health, mental 
health, and perceived life situation.
METHODS: In 2010, a randomized sample of 1044 men and women aged 65+ years who 
were living in urban areas in southern Norway answered a postal questionnaire 
consisting of five instruments, some background variables, and 17 health-related 
questions. Univariate and multivariate statistical methods were used in the 
analyses of the data.
RESULTS: The mean age of the participants was 74.8 years (SD = 7.1). 
Eighty-three percent of the participants had higher abilities to care for 
themselves. Self-care agency, perceived good health, being active, being 
frequently active, good mental health, not being at risk of undernutrition, and 
satisfaction with life were all positively related to self-care ability. 
Negative factors were perceived helplessness, receiving home nursing, being 
anxious, and being at a more advanced age. People aged 85+ years had worse 
mental health, were less physically active, and more at risk of undernutrition.
CONCLUSION: Health professionals should focus on the health-promoting factors 
that reinforce older people's ability to care for themselves, and be aware of 
important symptoms and signs associated with a reduction in a person's self-care 
ability. Politicians should assume responsibility for health care with a special 
regard to senior citizens.

DOI: 10.2147/JMDH.S29388
PMCID: PMC3333801
PMID: 22536079


146. Depress Res Treat. 2012;2012:527827. doi: 10.1155/2012/527827. Epub 2012 Mar
28.

Affective spectrum disorders in an urban Swedish adult psychiatric unit: a 
descriptive study.

Scharin M(1), Archer T, Hellström P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg, 417 57 Gotheburg, Sweden.

Background. Several studies have found that patients with 
affective-/anxiety-/stress-related syndromes present overlapping features such 
as cooccurrence within families and individuals and response to the same type of 
pharmacological treatment, suggesting that these syndromes share pathogenetic 
mechanisms. The term affective spectrum disorder (AfSD) has been suggested, 
emphasizing these commonalities. The expectancy rate, sociodemographic 
characteristics, and global level of functioning in AfSD has hitherto not been 
studied neglected. Material and Method. Out of 180 consecutive patients 94 were 
included after clinical investigations and ICD-10 diagnostics. Further 
investigations included well-known self-evaluation instruments assessing 
psychiatric symptoms, personality disorders, psychosocial stress, adaptation, 
quality of life, and global level of functioning. A neuropsychological screening 
was also included. Results. The patients were young, had many young children, 
were well educated, and had about expected (normal distribution of) 
intelligence. Sixty-one percent were identified as belonging to the group of 
AfSD. Conclusion. The study identifies a large group of patients that presents 
much suffering and failure of functioning. This group is shared between the 
levels of medical care, between primary care and psychiatry. The term AfSD 
facilitates identification of patient groups that share common traits and 
identifies individuals clinically, besides the referred patients, in need of 
psychiatric interventions.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/527827
PMCID: PMC3320004
PMID: 22536500


147. J Palliat Med. 2012 May;15(5):521-6. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0512. Epub 2012
Apr  26.

ACR Appropriateness Criteria® non-spine bone metastases.

Expert Panel On Radiation Oncology-Bone Metastases(1); Lutz ST, Lo SS, Chang EL, 
Galanopoulos N, Howell DD, Kim EY, Konski AA, Pandit-Taskar ND, Ryu S, Silverman 
LN, Van Poznak C, Weber KL.

Author information:
(1)Blanchard Valley Regional Cancer Center, Findlay, Ohio, USA. 
slutz@bvhealthsystem.org

Bone is one of the most common sites of metastatic spread of malignancy, with 
possible deleterious effects including pain, hypercalcemia, and pathologic 
fracture. External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) remains the mainstay for treatment 
of painful bone metastases. EBRT may be combined with other local therapies like 
surgery or with systemic treatments like chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, 
osteoclast inhibitors, or radiopharmaceuticals. EBRT is not commonly recommended 
for patients with asymptomatic bone metastases unless they are associated with a 
risk of pathologic fracture. For those who do receive EBRT, appropriate 
fractionation schemes include 30 Gy in 10 fractions, 24 Gy in 6 fractions, 20 Gy 
in 5 fractions, or a single 8 Gy fraction. Single fraction treatment maximizes 
convenience, while fractionated treatment courses are associated with a lower 
incidence of retreatment. The appropriate postoperative dose fractionation 
following surgical stabilization is uncertain. Reirradiation with EBRT may be 
safe and provide pain relief, though retreatment might create side effect risks 
which warrant its use as part of a clinical trial. All patients with bone 
metastases should be considered for concurrent management by a palliative care 
team, with patients whose life expectancy is less than six months appropriate 
for hospice evaluation. The American College of Radiology Appropriateness 
Criteria are evidence-based guidelines for specific clinical conditions that are 
reviewed every two years by a multidisciplinary expert panel. The guideline 
development and review include an extensive analysis of current medical 
literature from peer reviewed journals and the application of a well-established 
consensus methodology (modified Delphi) to rate the appropriateness of imaging 
and treatment procedures by the panel. In those instances where evidence is 
lacking or not definitive, expert opinion may be used to recommend imaging or 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0512
PMID: 22536988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2012 Jun;23(6):770-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvir.2012.03.002.
 Epub 2012 Apr 25.

Percutaneous cryoablation of metastatic renal cell carcinoma for local tumor 
control: feasibility, outcomes, and estimated cost-effectiveness for palliation.

Bang HJ(1), Littrup PJ, Goodrich DJ, Currier BP, Aoun HD, Heilbrun LK, 
Vaishampayan U, Adam B, Goodman AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2012 Jun;23(6):778-9.

PURPOSE: To assess complications, local tumor recurrences, overall survival 
(OS), and estimates of cost-effectiveness for multisite cryoablation (MCA) of 
oligometastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 60 computed tomography- and/or 
ultrasound-guided percutaneous MCA procedures were performed on 72 tumors in 27 
patients (three women and 24 men). Average patient age was 63 years. Tumor 
location was grouped according to common metastatic sites. Established surgical 
selection criteria graded patient status. Median OS was determined by 
Kaplan-Meier method and defined life-years gained (LYGs). Estimates of MCA costs 
per LYG were compared with established values for systemic therapies.
RESULTS: Total number of tumors and cryoablation procedures for each anatomic 
site are as follows: nephrectomy bed, 11 and 11; adrenal gland, nine and eight; 
paraaortic, seven and six; lung, 14 and 13; bone, 13 and 13; superficial, 12 and 
nine; intraperitoneal, five and three; and liver, one and one. A mean of 2.2 
procedures per patient were performed, with a median clinical follow-up of 16 
months. Major complication and local recurrence rates were 2% (one of 60) and 3% 
(two of 72), respectively. No patients were graded as having good surgical risk, 
but median OS was 2.69 years, with an estimated 5-year survival rate of 27%. 
Cryoablation remained cost-effective with or without the presence of systemic 
therapies according to historical cost comparisons, with an adjunctive 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $28,312-$59,554 per LYG.
CONCLUSIONS: MCA was associated with very low morbidity and local tumor 
recurrence rates for all anatomic sites, with apparent increased OS. Even as an 
adjunct to systemic therapies, MCA appeared cost-effective for palliation of 
oligometastatic RCC.

Copyright © 2012 SIR. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2012.03.002
PMCID: PMC3865774
PMID: 22538119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Eur Radiol. 2012 Sep;22(9):1946-54. doi: 10.1007/s00330-012-2447-9. Epub
2012  Apr 27.

Radiation exposure and mortality risk from CT and PET imaging of patients with 
malignant lymphoma.

Nievelstein RA(1), Quarles van Ufford HM, Kwee TC, Bierings MB, Ludwig I, Beek 
FJ, de Klerk JM, Mali WP, de Bruin PW, Geleijns J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology (E 01.132), University Medical Center, P.O. Box 
85500, 3508 CX, Utrecht, The Netherlands. r.a.j.nievelstein@umcutrecht.nl

OBJECTIVE: To quantify radiation exposure and mortality risk from computed 
tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with 
(18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) in patients with malignant lymphoma 
(Hodgkin's disease [HD] or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma [NHL]).
METHODS: First, organ doses were assessed for a typical diagnostic work-up in 
children with HD and adults with NHL. Subsequently, life tables were constructed 
for assessment of radiation risks, also taking into account the disease-related 
mortality.
RESULTS: In children with HD, cumulative effective dose from medical imaging 
ranged from 66 mSv (newborn) to 113 mSv (15 years old). In adults with NHL the 
cumulative effective dose from medical imaging was 97 mSv. Average fractions of 
radiation-induced deaths for children with HD [without correction for 
disease-related mortality in brackets] were 0.4% [0.6%] for boys and 0.7% [1.1%] 
for girls, and for adults with NHL 0.07% [0.28%] for men and 0.09% [0.37%] for 
women.
CONCLUSION: Taking into account the disease-related reduction in life expectancy 
of patients with malignant lymphoma results in a higher overall mortality but 
substantial lower incidence of radiation induced deaths. The modest radiation 
risk that results from imaging with CT and (18)F-FDG PET can be considered as 
justified, but imaging should be performed with care, especially in children.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-012-2447-9
PMCID: PMC3411290
PMID: 22538627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Stroke. 2012 Jul;43(7):1742-3. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.112.655076. Epub 2012
Apr  26.

Wasting stroke prevention resources.

Chaturvedi S, Naylor AR.

Comment on
    Stroke. 2012 Jul;43(7):1781-7.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.112.655076
PMID: 22539543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Eur J Public Health. 2012 Jun;22(3):299-300. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cks048.
Epub  2012 Apr 26.

Longer work careers through tackling socioeconomic inequalities in disability 
retirement.

Lahelma E, Uusitalo H, Martikainen P.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cks048
PMID: 22539633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. FASEB J. 2012 Aug;26(8):3212-21. doi: 10.1096/fj.12-203877. Epub 2012 Apr
25.

Novel insights into the regulation of malarial calcium-dependent protein kinase 
1.

Ahmed A(1), Gaadhe K, Sharma GP, Kumar N, Neculai M, Hui R, Mohanty D, Sharma P.

Author information:
(1)Eukaryotic Gene Expression Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, New 
Delhi, India.

Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are major effectors of calcium 
signaling in apicomplexan parasites like Toxoplasma and Plasmodium and control 
important processes of the parasite life cycle. Despite recently reported 
crystal structures of Toxoplasma gondii (Tg)CDPKs, several important questions 
about their regulation remain unanswered. Plasmodium falciparum (Pf)CDPK1 has 
emerged as a key player in the life cycle of the malaria parasite, as it may be 
involved in the invasion of the host cells. Molecular modeling and site-directed 
mutagenesis studies on PfCDPK1 suggested that several residues in the regulatory 
domain play a dual role, as they seem to contribute to the stabilization of both 
the active and inactive kinase. Mass spectrometry revealed that PfCDPK1 was 
autophosphorylated at several sites; some of these were placed at strategic 
locations and therefore were found to be critical for kinase activation. The 
N-terminal extension of PfCDPK1 was found to be important for PfCDPK1 
activation. Unexpectedly, an ATP binding site in the NTE of PfCDPK1 was 
identified. Our studies highlight several novel features of PfCDPK1 regulation, 
which may be shared by other members of the CDPK family. These findings may also 
aid design of inhibitors against these important targets, which are absent from 
the host.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.12-203877
PMCID: PMC3405269
PMID: 22539638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Int J Food Microbiol. 2012 Jun 1;156(3):231-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2012.03.029. Epub 2012 Apr 5.

Disease burden of foodborne pathogens in the Netherlands, 2009.

Havelaar AH(1), Haagsma JA, Mangen MJ, Kemmeren JM, Verhoef LP, Vijgen SM, 
Wilson M, Friesema IH, Kortbeek LM, van Duynhoven YT, van Pelt W.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Infectious Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. arie.havelaar@rivm.nl

To inform risk management decisions on control, prevention and surveillance of 
foodborne disease, the disease burden of foodborne pathogens is estimated using 
Disability Adjusted Life Years as a summary metric of public health. Fourteen 
pathogens that can be transmitted by food are included in the study (four 
infectious bacteria, three toxin-producing bacteria, four viruses and three 
protozoa). Data represent the burden in the Netherlands in 2009. The incidence 
of community-acquired non-consulting cases, patients consulting their general 
practitioner, those admitted to hospital, as well as the incidence of sequelae 
and fatal cases is estimated using surveillance data, cohort studies and 
published data. Disease burden includes estimates of duration and disability 
weights for non-fatal cases and loss of statistical life expectancy for fatal 
cases. Results at pathogen level are combined with data from an expert survey to 
assess the fraction of cases attributable to food, and the main food groups 
contributing to transmission. Among 1.8 million cases of disease (approx. 10,600 
per 100,000) and 233 deaths (1.4 per 100,000) by these fourteen pathogens, 
approximately one-third (680,000 cases; 4100 per 100,000) and 78 deaths (0.5 per 
100,000) are attributable to foodborne transmission. The total burden is 13,500 
DALY (82 DALY per 100,000). On a population level, Toxoplasma gondii, 
thermophilic Campylobacter spp., rotaviruses, noroviruses and Salmonella spp. 
cause the highest disease burden. The burden per case is highest for perinatal 
listeriosis and congenital toxoplasmosis. Approximately 45% of the total burden 
is attributed to food. T. gondii and Campylobacter spp. appear to be key targets 
for additional intervention efforts, with a focus on food and environmental 
pathways. The ranking of foodborne pathogens based on burden is very different 
compared to when only incidence is considered. The burden of acute disease is a 
relatively small part of the total burden. In the Netherlands, the burden of 
foodborne pathogens is similar to the burden of upper respiratory and urinary 
tract infections.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2012.03.029
PMID: 22541392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Clin Ther. 2012 May;34(5):1132-44. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.03.004.
Epub  2012 Apr 27.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of interferon beta-1b for the treatment of patients 
with a first clinical event suggestive of multiple sclerosis.

Caloyeras JP(1), Zhang B, Wang C, Eriksson M, Fredrikson S, Beckmann K, 
Knappertz V, Pohl C, Hartung HP, Shah D, Miller JD, Sandbrink R, Lanius V, 
Gondek K, Russell MW.

Author information:
(1)Formerly Abt Bio-Pharma Solutions Inc., Lexington, Massachusetts, USA. 
jcaloyer@prgs.edu

OBJECTIVES: To assess, from a Swedish societal perspective, the cost 
effectiveness of interferon β-1b (IFNB-1b) after an initial clinical event 
suggestive of multiple sclerosis (MS) (ie, early treatment) compared with 
treatment after onset of clinically definite MS (CDMS) (ie, delayed treatment).
METHODS: A Markov model was developed, using patient level data from the BENEFIT 
trial and published literature, to estimate health outcomes and costs associated 
with IFNB-1b for hypothetical cohorts of patients after an initial clinical 
event suggestive of MS. Health states were defined by Kurtzke Expanded 
Disability Status Scale (EDSS) scores. Model outcomes included quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), total costs (including both direct and indirect costs), and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Sensitivity analyses were performed on 
key model parameters to assess the robustness of model results.
RESULTS: In the base case scenario, early IFNB-1b treatment was economically 
dominant (ie, less costly and more effective) versus delayed IFNB-1b treatment 
when QALYs were used as the effectiveness metric. Sensitivity analyses showed 
that the cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to model time horizon. 
Compared with the delayed treatment strategy, early treatment of MS was also 
associated with delayed EDSS progressions, prolonged time to CDMS diagnosis, and 
a reduction in frequency of relapse.
CONCLUSION: Early treatment with IFNB-1b for a first clinical event suggestive 
of MS was found to improve patient outcomes while controlling costs.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.03.004
PMID: 22541587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Eur J Public Health. 2013 Aug;23(4):563-8. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cks049. Epub
2012  Apr 28.

Gender gaps in life expectancy: generalized trends and negative associations 
with development indices in OECD countries.

Liu Y(1), Arai A, Kanda K, Lee RB, Glasser J, Tamashiro H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Epidemiology, Hokkaido University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Sapporo, Japan.

Comment in
    Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2014 Jul;14(3):728-9.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy (LE) is a major marker of individual survival. It 
also serves as a guide to highlight both the progress and the gaps in total 
social and societal health. Comparative LE in concert with measures of 
gender-specific experience, indices of empowerment and societal happiness and 
development offer a comparative tool to examine trends and similarities of 
societal progress as seen through the lens of cross-national experience.
METHODS: To determine the gender gaps in LE (GGLE) trends, we performed a 
longitudinal analysis, covering a period of 49 years (1960-2008). To examine the 
association of GGLE with development indices, we used the 2007 GGLE data, the 
newest happiness data mostly drawn from 2006; the 2006 Human Development Index 
(HDI) data and the 2006 Gender Empowerment Measure (GEM) data.
RESULTS: It revealed that most of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) countries had a GGLE trend that occurred in an inverted 
U-curve fashion. We divided them into three subgroups based on the peak years of 
respective GGLE. The earlier the peak year, the happier the countries, the 
higher the HDI and the smaller the current GGLE are. Association analysis 
indicates that Happiness, HDI and GEM are all negatively associated with GGLE.
CONCLUSION: This pattern suggests that GGLE undergoes three phases of growth, 
peak and stability and decline. Japan will soon be seeing its GGLE gradually 
shrinking in the foreseeable future. The continuing increases in Happiness, HDI 
and GEM are associated with a decrease in GGLE, which should be carefully taken 
into consideration.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cks049
PMID: 22542541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Ageing Res Rev. 2013 Jan;12(1):8-21. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.03.010. Epub
2012  Apr 17.

The mouse as a model organism in aging research: usefulness, pitfalls and 
possibilities.

Vanhooren V(1), Libert C.

Author information:
(1)Department for Molecular Biomedical Research, VIB, Ghent, Belgium.

The mouse has become the favorite mammalian model. Among the many reasons for 
this privileged position of mice is their genetic proximity to humans, the 
possibilities of genetically manipulating their genomes and the availability of 
many tools, mutants and inbred strains. Also in the field of aging, mice have 
become very robust and reliable research tools. Since laboratory mice have a 
life expectancy of only a few years, genetic approaches and other strategies for 
intervening in aging can be tested by examining their effects on life span and 
aging parameters during the relatively short period of, for example, a PhD 
project. Moreover, experiments on mice with an extended life span as well as on 
mice demonstrating signs of (segmental) premature aging, together with genetic 
mapping strategies, have provided novel insights into the fundamental processes 
that drive aging. Finally, the results of studies on caloric restriction and 
pharmacological anti-aging treatments in mice have a high degree of relevance to 
humans. In this paper, we review a number of recent genetic mapping studies that 
have yielded novel insights into the aging process. We discuss the value of the 
mouse as a model for testing interventions in aging, such as caloric 
restriction, and we critically discuss mouse strains with an extended or a 
shortened life span as models of aging.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.03.010
PMID: 22543101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Orv Hetil. 2012 Apr 29;153(17):662-77. doi: 10.1556/OH.2012.29344.

[Change of the political system and epidemiologic transition in Hungary].

[Article in Hungarian]

Józan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Központi Statisztikai Hivatal, Budapest. Peter.Jozan@ksh.hu

A new epidemiological stage has begun in Hungary as a result of the implosion of 
state-socialism. It has made the transition to market economy and open society 
possible. The emerging economic and social system has created the basis for 
terminating the chronic qualitative epidemiological crisis and for the renewal 
of the epidemiological development. The new political and socio-economic system 
has had a decisive impact on the decrease in mortality and consequently to the 
increase in life expectancy in the countries east of the River Elbe. Besides the 
spread of health conscious behaviour, the efficacy of new medications and 
invasive medical interventions just as much as the network of emergency centres 
have contributed to the favourable changes. The most characteristic feature of 
the new epidemiological stage is that it delays the progression of chronic 
diseases and postpones the time of death. In a large extent the successful 
prevention, treatment and care of diseases of the circulatory system are mainly 
responsible for increasing the life expectancy at birth. Paradoxically, whereas 
life expectancy has increased in the country on the whole, social inequality has 
also increased.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2012.29344
PMID: 22543222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Healthc Pap. 2011;11(4):8-18; discussion 55-8. doi:
10.12927/hcpap.2012.22697.

Let's all go to the PROM: the case for routine patient-reported outcome 
measurement in Canadian healthcare.

McGrail K(1), Bryan S, Davis J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services and Policy Research and the School of Population 
and Public Health, The University of British Columbia.

Comment in
    Healthc Pap. 2011;11(4):20-3; discussion 55-8.
    Healthc Pap. 2011;11(4):24-8; discussion 55-8.
    Healthc Pap. 2011;11(4):29-33; discussion 55-8.
    Healthc Pap. 2011;11(4):34-41; discussion 55-8.
    Healthc Pap. 2011;11(4):42-7; discussion 55-8.
    Healthc Pap. 2011;11(4):48-53; discussion 55-8.

Overall life expectancy in Canada is among the highest in the world and research 
evidence suggests that the healthcare system is part of the reason for this. 
However, patient waits, low international rankings and continued expenditure 
growth all provide a buttress against complacency. There can be little doubt 
that improvement can and must happen. Improvement depends on information, and 
more specifically information about outcomes of care. Without sound analysis of 
what works in the real world when applied to real patients, we have not done our 
jobs as stewards of the healthcare system. Current outcomes information in 
Canada is limited and tends to focus on measures of failure (e.g., hospital 
readmissions) rather than measures of success (e.g., improvement in 
functioning). Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) must become part of 
regular data collection in the healthcare system. The importance of this is even 
more pronounced given that healthcare is now dominated by chronic conditions 
that need to be managed over long periods of time. We offer three 
recommendations for action: that we begin immediately to collect PROMs in 
elective surgery; that we start small-scale and coordinated experiments on the 
implementation of PROMs in care for chronic conditions; and that we convene a 
pan-Canadian working group to help coordinate and organize these activities. We 
recognize the challenges these issues raise, but our contention is that there 
are even greater challenges in continuing on as we are.

DOI: 10.12927/hcpap.2012.22697
PMID: 22543287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Bioinformatics. 2012 Jun 15;28(12):1647-9. doi:
