They revealed a fairly constant rate of 25-30% of sensorineural and/or motor 
impairment. Beyond those "major handicaps," further problems may arise in every 
single period of life, which, albeit less severe, add to the burden of 
prematurity. These include growth retardation and cognitive delay in the school 
age, affected psychosocial behavior during adolescence, and the "metabolic 
syndrome" of formerly malnourished fetuses in adulthood. Thus, the epidemiologic 
studies not only confirmed the role of regionalization in the quality of 
perinatology, but also supported a more farsighted approach to the sequelae of 
prematurity. Like in young adults who grew up with congenital heart defects, 
also in former preterm neonates, appropriate medical care has to be provided for 
an increasing number of long-term survivors. Moreover, the life-long effects of 
metabolic imprinting in growth-retarded fetuses underline the primary-preventive 
role of perinatal medicine, extending far beyond the "baby" stage of human 
development.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1453-z
PMID: 22441527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2012 
Apr;55(4):576-86. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1464-9.

Prevalence and patterns of morbidity among adults in Germany. Results of the 
German telephone health interview survey German Health Update (GEDA) 2009.

Fuchs J(1), Busch M, Lange C, Scheidt-Nave C.

Author information:
(1)Robert Koch Institute, Department of Epidemiology and Health Monitoring, 
General-Pape-Str. 62-66, 12101, Berlin, Germany. fuchsj@rki.de

To describe the prevalence and patterns of morbidity among adults in Germany, we 
collected self-reported information on 22 chronic health conditions in a 
nationally representative health survey among 21,262 participants (51.5% women, 
aged 18-100 years). Age- and sex-specific prevalences were calculated for single 
health conditions, disease categories, the most prevalent disease dyads and 
triads, and for multimorbidity defined by condition count. In both sexes, 
hypertension, hyperlipidemia, chronic back pain, obesity, and osteoarthritis 
were the most prevalent single health conditions and significantly increased 
with age. Cardiometabolic and musculoskeletal conditions were the two most 
prevalent disease categories in all age and sex groups. The most prevalent 
disease category dyads and triads included combinations between cardiometabolic 
conditions, cardiovascular and musculoskeletal disease, depression, sensory 
limitations, and cancer. The prevalence and magnitude of multimorbidity strongly 
increased with age in both sexes. Among German adults, the prevalence of chronic 
health conditions varies greatly by age and sex. In contrast, patterns of 
morbidity and comorbidity differ according to age, but are highly consistent 
between men and women. The predominant role of cardiometabolic conditions in all 
groups underlines the need for preventive efforts. The co-occurrence of chronic 
health conditions among older is highly prevalent and this calls for tailoring 
health care towards specific disease combinations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1464-9
PMID: 22441528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Eur Spine J. 2012 Aug;21(8):1536-44. doi: 10.1007/s00586-012-2260-9. Epub
2012  Mar 23.

Impact of deep extensor muscle-preserving approach on clinical outcome of 
laminoplasty for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: comparative cohort study.

Kotani Y(1), Abumi K, Ito M, Sudo H, Takahata M, Nagahama K, Iwata A, Minami A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hokkaido University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Sapporo, Japan. y-kotani@med.hokudai.ac.jp

INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to compare patients undergoing deep extensor 
muscle-preserving laminoplasty and conventional open-door laminoplasty for the 
treatment of cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM). We specifically assessed 
axial pain, cervical spine function, and quality of life (QOL) with a minimum 
follow-up period of 3 years.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety patients were divided into two groups and underwent 
either conventional open-door laminoplasty (CL group) or laminoplasty using the 
deep extensor muscle-preserving approach (MP group). The latter approach was 
undertaken by preserving the multifidus and semispinalis cervicis attachments 
followed by open-door laminoplasty and resuturing of the bisected spinous 
processes at each decompression level. The mean follow-up period was 7.7 years 
(range, 36-128 months). Preoperative and follow-up evaluations included the 
Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score, a tentative version of the JOA 
Cervical Myelopathy Evaluation Questionnaire (JOACMEQ) including cervical spine 
function and QOL, and a visual analog scale (VAS) for axial pain. Radiological 
analyses included cervical lordosis and flexion-extension range of motion 
(C2-7), as well as deep extensor muscle areas on axial magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI).
RESULTS: The mean number of decompressed laminae was 3.9 and 3.3 in CL and MP 
groups, respectively, which was statistically equivalent. Japanese Orthopaedic 
Association recovery was statistically equivalent between the two groups. The MP 
group demonstrated a superior QOL score (57 vs. 46%) compared with the CL group 
at final follow-up (p < 0.05). Mean VAS scores at final follow-up were 2.2 and 
4.3 in MP and CL groups, respectively (p < 0.05). Cervical lordosis and 
flexion-extension range of motion were statistically equivalent. The percentage 
deep muscle area on MRI was significantly lesser in the CL group compared with 
the MP group (58 vs. 102%; p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: We demonstrated the superiority of deep extensor muscle-preserving 
laminoplasty in terms of postoperative axial pain, QOL, and prevention of 
atrophy of the deep extensor muscles over conventional open-door laminoplasty 
for the treatment of CSM.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-012-2260-9
PMCID: PMC3535256
PMID: 22441562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Br J Cancer. 2012 Apr 24;106(9):1571-8. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2012.94. Epub 2012
Mar  22.

Cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening with primary human 
papillomavirus testing in Norway.

Burger EA(1), Ortendahl JD, Sy S, Kristiansen IS, Kim JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo, 
Norway.

BACKGROUND: New screening technologies and vaccination against human 
papillomavirus (HPV), the necessary cause of cervical cancer, may impact optimal 
approaches to prevent cervical cancer. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
alternative screening strategies to inform cervical cancer prevention guidelines 
in Norway.
METHODS: We leveraged the primary epidemiologic and economic data from Norway to 
contextualise a simulation model of HPV-induced cervical cancer. The current 
cytology-only screening was compared with strategies involving cytology at 
younger ages and primary HPV-based screening at older ages (31/34+ years), an 
option being actively deliberated by the Norwegian government. We varied the 
switch-age, screening interval, and triage strategies for women with 
HPV-positive results. Uncertainty was evaluated in sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Current cytology-only screening was less effective and more costly than 
strategies that involve switching to primary HPV testing in older ages. For 
unvaccinated women, switching at age 34 years to primary HPV testing every 4 
years was optimal given the Norwegian cost-effectiveness threshold ($83,000 per 
year of life saved). For vaccinated women, a 6-year screening interval was 
cost-effective. When we considered a wider range of strategies, we found that an 
earlier switch to HPV testing (at age 31 years) may be preferred.
CONCLUSIONS: Strategies involving a switch to HPV testing for primary screening 
in older women is expected to be cost-effective compared with current 
recommendations in Norway.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2012.94
PMCID: PMC3341862
PMID: 22441643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Our work was independent of the funders and the 
funding sources had no involvement in the study design or conduct of the study; 
collection, management, analysis or interpretation of the data; or preparation, 
review or approval of the manuscript.


904. Br J Surg. 2012 Jan;99 Suppl 1:114-21. doi: 10.1002/bjs.7708.

Epidemiological burden of minor, major and fatal trauma in a national injury 
pyramid.

Polinder S(1), Haagsma JA, Toet H, van Beeck EF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Centre, University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. s.polinder@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2012 Jan;99 Suppl 1:121.

BACKGROUND: The impact of trauma on population health is underestimated because 
comprehensive overviews of the entire severity spectrum of injuries are scarce. 
The aim of this study was to measure the total health impact of fatal and 
non-fatal unintentional injury in the Netherlands.
METHODS: Epidemiological data for the four levels of the injury pyramid (general 
practitioner (GP) registry, emergency department (ED) registers, hospital 
discharge and mortality data) were obtained for the whole country. For all 
levels, the incidence and years of life lost (YLL) owing to premature death, 
years lived with disability (YLD) and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) 
were calculated.
RESULTS: Unintentional injury resulted in 67 547 YLL and 161 775 YLD 
respectively, amounting to 229 322 DALYs (14.1 per 1000 inhabitants). Home and 
leisure, and traffic injuries caused most DALYs. Minor injury (GP and ED 
treatment) contributed 37.3 per cent (85 504 DALYs; 5.2 per 1000) to the total 
burden of injury, whereas injuries requiring hospital admission contributed 33.3 
per cent (76 271 DALYs; 4.7 per 1000) and fatalities contributed 29.5 per cent 
(67 547 DALYs; 4.1 per 1000). Men aged 15-65 years had the greatest burden of 
injury, resulting in a share of 39.6 per cent for total DALYs owing to 
unintentional injury. The highest individual burden resulted from death (19 
DALYs per patient).
CONCLUSION: Trauma causes a major burden to society. For priority setting in 
public health and the identification of opportunities for prevention it is 
important that burden-of-injury estimates cover the entire spectrum of injuries, 
ranging from minor injury to death.

Copyright © 2011 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.7708
PMID: 22441864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Stroke. 2012 May;43(5):1273-8. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.647958. Epub 2012
Mar  22.

Clinical prediction rule to estimate the absolute 3-year risk of major 
cardiovascular events after carotid endarterectomy.

van Lammeren GW(1), Catanzariti LM, Peelen LM, de Vries JP, de Kleijn DP, Moll 
FL, Pasterkamp G, Bots ML.

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Stroke. 2012 May;43(5):1197-8.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Prognosis after carotid endarterectomy is mainly 
determined by the occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs). 
Optimal medical treatment to reduce risk is the mainstay of MACE prevention. The 
level of risk of MACE may determine the initiation and aggressiveness of medical 
treatment, yet a prediction rule to assess that absolute MACE risk after carotid 
endarterectomy is currently unavailable.
METHODS: The prediction model was developed in a consecutive cohort of 1138 
patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy between 2002 and 2009. Primary end 
point was MACE and encompassed myocardial infarction, stroke, and cardiovascular 
death. Fourteen potential clinical predictors were entered into a Cox 
proportional hazard model. After backward stepwise regression, internal 
validation was conducted with bootstrapping techniques to correct for 
overfitting. To provide an easily applicable clinical tool, a score chart was 
constructed, dividing patients into 4 risk groups. Model performance was 
assessed in terms of discrimination, calibration, and risk stratification.
RESULTS: During a mean follow-up of 2.28 (± 0.95) years, 148 events occurred, 
corresponding to a cumulative incidence of 13%. Clinical predictors in the final 
model were age, history of coronary or peripheral artery disease, smoking, 
systolic blood pressure, use of antihypertensive drugs, clinical presentation, 
presence of contralateral carotid stenosis, and serum creatinine levels. 
Discrimination of the final model, in terms of a C statistic, was 0.69 
(0.64-0.73) and calibration showed a good overall fit (Gronnesby and Borgan, 
P=0.39). The observed incidence of MACE in the 4 risk groups was 6%, 9%, 19%, 
and 35%, respectively, indicating good overall risk stratification.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical prediction model for MACE in the first 3 years after 
carotid endarterectomy may be used to identify high-risk patients to help 
optimize medical treatment and risk factor management as part of secondary 
prevention to increase life expectancy free from MACE. Despite our success in 
stratifying risk among these patients, even the lowest stratum remains at high 
risk and all of these patients should receive maximal secondary preventive 
measures.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.647958
PMID: 22442175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 May;97(5):1405-13. doi: 10.1210/jc.2011-2202.
Epub  2012 Mar 22.

Update on insulin therapy for type 2 diabetes.

Donner T(1), Muñoz M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA. Tdonner1@jhmi.edu

Type 2 diabetes is characterized by insulin resistance and impaired insulin 
secretion at diagnosis and by progressive β-cell dysfunction over time. Insulin 
therapy is thus frequently required during the course of the disease to maintain 
glycemic control and prevent diabetes complications. Insulin should be initiated 
when alternative antihyperglycemic agents have failed or when symptomatic or 
marked hyperglycemia is present. Recent studies demonstrate that the addition of 
basal, prandial, basal/bolus, or premixed insulins to existing antihyperglycemic 
regimens effectively lowers glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)). The long-acting 
insulin analogs cause less nocturnal hypoglycemia than bedtime NPH, with 
comparable HbA(1c) reductions. Insulin detemir confers a weight advantage over 
glargine or NPH. Rapid-acting insulin analogs control postprandial hyperglycemia 
more effectively than regular insulin and modestly lower HbA(1c). For selected 
patients with severe insulin resistance, U-500 is a less expensive and 
potentially more effective alternative to U-100 insulin. Adverse effects of 
insulin, including weight gain and hypoglycemia, can be minimized by initial use 
of basal insulins in combination with metformin, incretin mimetics, or 
dipeptidyl-peptidase-IV inhibitors. Although in vitro studies suggest that 
hyperinsulinemia may promote tumorigenesis, no currently available insulin has 
been shown to increase cancer rates. Targeting near-normal glucose levels in 
insulin-treated patients should be reserved for those of younger age with a 
longer life expectancy, a shorter duration of diabetes, and little or no 
end-organ complications. A higher HbA(1c) target of 7-8% is more appropriate for 
patients less likely to benefit from intensive control and in those at high risk 
for severe hypoglycemia.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2011-2202
PMCID: PMC3791411
PMID: 22442275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Aug;27(8):3182-6. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfs052.
Epub  2012 Mar 22.

Chronic kidney disease and life expectancy.

Turin TC(1), Tonelli M, Manns BJ, Ravani P, Ahmed SB, Hemmelgarn BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Aug;27(8):3014-5.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy is commonly used as an indicator of health and 
reflects disease burden in the population. The life expectancy for patients with 
lower levels of kidney function has not been reported.
METHODS: The abridged life table method was applied to calculate the life 
expectancies of men and women from age 30 to 85 years, by levels of kidney 
function as defined by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR): ≥ 60, 45-59, 
30-44 and 15-29 mL/min/1.73 m(2).
RESULTS: Men and women aged 40 years had a life expectancy of 30.5 and 34.6 
years at eGFR ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2), 24.5 and 28.7 years at eGFR 45-59 
mL/min/1.73 m(2), 14.5 and 16.5 years at eGFR 30-44 mL/min/1.73 m(2) and 10.4 
and 9.1 years at eGFR 15-29 mL/min/1.73 m(2), respectively. Life expectancy was 
longer for women compared with men at all ages and eGFR categories, other than 
for eGFR 15-29 mL/min/1.73 m(2) where there was no difference in life expectancy 
by gender.
CONCLUSION: A lower level of kidney function is associated with a reduction in 
life expectancy for both men and women.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfs052
PMID: 22442392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Acta Chir Belg. 2012 Jan;112(1):24-32. doi: 10.1080/00015458.2012.11680791.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of postoperative surveillance protocols following 
radical surgery for colorectal cancer.

Di Cristofaro L(1), Scarpa M, Angriman I, Perissinotto E, Ruffolo C, Frego M, 
Erroi F.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery and Gastroenterological Sciences, University of Padova, 
Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Up to 30-50% of patients who undergo radical surgery for 
colorectal cancer (CRC) develop tumor relapse. The aim of this study was to 
assess various surveillance protocols utilized in a tertiary referral hospital 
in Northern Italy.
METHODS: Data concerning 373 consecutive patients who underwent radical surgery 
for CRC between 1990 and 2006 and whose data had been entered into a prospective 
database were considered eligible for this study. The overall costs and the 
percentages of recurrence following the various surveillance protocols were 
calculated.
RESULTS: One hundred two (27.35%) of the patients suffered a recurrence after a 
mean of 17.6 (95% CI 13.9-21.1) months. The combination of physical examination, 
colonoscopy, thorax-abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan, and serum 
carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) dosage was found to be the most cost/effective 
one to monitor stages I and II colon cancer; while physical examination, rigid 
sigmoidoscopy, thorax-abdominal CT scan, and serum CEA dosage were found to be 
the most cost/effective surveillance to monitor stages III and IV of colon 
cancer and rectal cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Adherence to follow-up guidelines and early detection are vital 
factors affecting the curability of relapsed cancer in CRC patients who undergo 
surgery. The first five years after surgery was found to be the most risky 
period for recurrence. Cost/effectiveness analysis indicate that follow-up 
protocols should be tailored to the risk of recurrence with the aim of 
identifying relapse when the disease is at an asymptomatic, presumably more 
curable stage.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2012.11680791
PMID: 22442906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. BMC Syst Biol. 2012 Mar 24;6:22. doi: 10.1186/1752-0509-6-22.

Redox balance is key to explaining full vs. partial switching to low-yield 
metabolism.

van Hoek MJ(1), Merks RM.

Author information:
(1)Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica, Life Sciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Low-yield metabolism is a puzzling phenomenon in many unicellular 
and multicellular organisms. In abundance of glucose, many cells use a highly 
wasteful fermentation pathway despite the availability of a high-yield pathway, 
producing many ATP molecules per glucose, e.g., oxidative phosphorylation. Some 
of these organisms, including the lactic acid bacterium Lactococcus lactis, 
downregulate their high-yield pathway in favor of the low-yield pathway. Other 
organisms, including Escherichia coli do not reduce the flux through the 
high-yield pathway, employing the low-yield pathway in parallel with a fully 
active high-yield pathway. For what reasons do some species use the high-yield 
and low-yield pathways concurrently and what makes others downregulate the 
high-yield pathway? A classic rationale for metabolic fermentation is overflow 
metabolism. Because the throughput of metabolic pathways is limited, influx of 
glucose exceeding the pathway's throughput capacity is thought to be redirected 
into an alternative, low-yield pathway. This overflow metabolism rationale 
suggests that cells would only use fermentation once the high-yield pathway runs 
at maximum rate, but it cannot explain why cells would decrease the flux through 
the high-yield pathway.
RESULTS: Using flux balance analysis with molecular crowding (FBAwMC), a recent 
extension to flux balance analysis (FBA) that assumes that the total flux 
through the metabolic network is limited, we investigate the differences between 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae and L. lactis that downregulate the high-yield pathway 
at increasing glucose concentrations, and E. coli, which keeps the high-yield 
pathway functioning at maximal rate. FBAwMC correctly predicts the metabolic 
switching mode in these three organisms, suggesting that metabolic network 
architecture is responsible for differences in metabolic switching mode. Based 
on our analysis, we expect gradual, "overflow-like" switching behavior in 
organisms that have an additional energy-yielding pathway that does not consume 
NADH (e.g., acetate production in E. coli). Flux decrease through the high-yield 
pathway is expected in organisms in which the high-yield and low-yield pathways 
compete for NADH. In support of this analysis, a simplified model of metabolic 
switching suggests that the extra energy generated during acetate production 
produces an additional optimal growth mode that smoothens the metabolic switch 
in E. coli.
CONCLUSIONS: Maintaining redox balance is key to explaining why some microbes 
decrease the flux through the high-yield pathway, while other microbes use 
"overflow-like" low-yield metabolism.

DOI: 10.1186/1752-0509-6-22
PMCID: PMC3384451
PMID: 22443685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Health Policy. 2012 May;105(2-3):282-7. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2012.02.016.  Epub 2012 Mar 22.

A new approach to the tradeoff between quality and accessibility of health care.

Tanke MA(1), Ikkersheim DE.

Author information:
(1)KPMG Plexus, Straatweg 68, 3621 BR Breukelen, The Netherlands. 
tanke.marit@kpmgplexus.nl

INTRODUCTION: Quality of care is associated with patient volume. Regionalization 
of care is therefore one of the approaches that is suited to improve quality of 
care. A disadvantage of regionalization is that the accessibility of the 
facilities can decrease. By investigating the tradeoff between quality and 
accessibility it is possible to determine the optimal amount of treatment 
locations in a health care system. In this article we present a new model to 
quantitatively 'solve' this tradeoff. We use the condition breast cancer in the 
Netherlands as an example.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We calculated the expected quality gains in Quality 
Adjusted Lifetime Years (QALY's) due to stepwise regionalization using 
'volume-outcome' literature for breast cancer. Decreased accessibility was 
operationalized as increased (travel) costs due to regionalization by using 
demographic data, drive-time information, and the national median income. The 
total sum of the quality and accessibility function determines the optimum range 
of treatment locations for this particular condition, given the 'volume-quality' 
relationship and Dutch demographics and geography.
RESULTS: Currently, 94 locations offer breast cancer treatment in the 
Netherlands. Our model estimates that the optimum range of treatment locations 
for this particular condition in the Netherlands varies from 15 locations to 44 
locations.
CONCLUSION: Our study shows that the Dutch society would benefit from 
regionalization of breast cancer care as possible quality gains outweigh 
heightened travel costs. In addition, this model can be used for other medical 
conditions and in other countries.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2012.02.016
PMID: 22444760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Maturitas. 2012 Jun;72(2):104-7. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.02.015. Epub
2012  Mar 24.

Financial inequality and gender in older people.

Vlachantoni A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Ageing and ESRC Centre for Population Change, Faculty 
of Social and Human Sciences, University of Southampton, United Kingdom. 
a.vlachantoni@soton.ac.uk

Gender inequalities in the financial resources in later life result from the 
combined effect of women's atypical life courses, which include interrupted 
employment records and periods of care provision, and the fact that pension 
systems have generally been slow in mitigating 'diversions' from continuous and 
full-time working lives. Gender differentials in financial resources can often 
result in a greater likelihood of facing poverty for older women compared to 
older men, and such risk can be experienced for longer periods for women, as a 
result of their higher life expectancy on average. For example, across the 
EU-27, 16% of men compared to 23% of women aged 65 and over faced a poverty 
risk, and at age 65, men can expect to live another 17 years on average, while 
women another 21 years. Although modern pension systems are increasingly 
recognising the diversity of women's patterns of paid and unpaid work, for 
example by accounting for periods of childcare in the calculation of the state 
pension, research continues to show a 'penalty' for women who have spent 
significant periods of their life providing care to children or dependent adults 
in and outside the household. Reducing such penalty is particularly important as 
population ageing and an increasing demand for formal and informal care are 
likely to present challenges with critical policy implications for societies and 
individuals alike.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.02.015
PMID: 22445280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Am J Kidney Dis. 2012 Aug;60(2):262-71. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2011.12.034.
Epub  2012 Mar 24.

Cost-effectiveness of cinacalcet hydrochloride for hemodialysis patients with 
severe secondary hyperparathyroidism in Japan.

Komaba H(1), Moriwaki K, Goto S, Yamada S, Taniguchi M, Kakuta T, Kamae I, 
Fukagawa M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Endocrinology and Metabolism, Tokai University School 
of Medicine, Isehara, Japan.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2012 Aug;60(2):179-81.

BACKGROUND: Cinacalcet effectively reduces elevated levels of parathyroid 
hormone (PTH) in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT), even those 
with severe disease for whom parathyroidectomy can be the treatment of choice. 
The objective of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of cinacalcet 
treatment in hemodialysis patients with severe SHPT in Japan.
STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING & POPULATION: Patients with severe SHPT (intact PTH >500 pg/mL) who were 
receiving hemodialysis in Japan.
MODEL, PERSPECTIVE, & TIMEFRAME: A Markov model was constructed from the health 
care system perspective in Japan. Patients were followed up over their lifetime. 
Dialysis costs were not included in the base case.
INTERVENTION: Cinacalcet as an addition to conventional treatment compared to 
conventional treatment alone. In both arms, patients underwent parathyroidectomy 
if intact PTH level was >500 pg/mL for 6 months and they were eligible for 
surgery.
OUTCOMES: Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: ICERs for cinacalcet for those who were eligible for surgery and those 
who were not were $352,631/QALY gained and $21,613/QALY gained, respectively. 
Sensitivity and scenario analyses showed that results were fairly robust to 
variations in model parameters and assumptions. In the probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, cinacalcet was cost-effective in only 0.9% of simulations for those 
eligible for surgery, but in more than 99.9% of simulations for those ineligible 
for surgery, if society would be willing to pay $50,000 per additional QALY.
LIMITATIONS: Data for the long-term effect of cinacalcet on patient-level 
outcomes are limited. The model predicted rates for clinical events using data 
for the surrogate biochemical end points.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of cinacalcet to treat severe SHPT is likely to be 
cost-effective for only those who cannot undergo parathyroid surgery for medical 
or personal reasons.

Copyright © 2012 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2011.12.034
PMID: 22445709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Rev Clin Esp. 2012 Oct;212(9):471-2. doi: 10.1016/j.rce.2012.01.009. Epub
2012  Mar 24.

[Gender differences according to cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in Spanish]

Valero Juan LF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rce.2012.01.009
PMID: 22445750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Plant Physiol Biochem. 2012 May;54:123-32. doi:
10.1016/j.plaphy.2012.02.017.  Epub 2012 Mar 3.

Characterization and differential expression analysis of complete coding 
sequences of Vitis vinifera L. sirtuin genes.

Cucurachi M(1), Busconi M, Morreale G, Zanetti A, Bavaresco L, Fogher C.

Author information:
(1)Plantechno S.r.l., Via Staffolo 60, 26041 Vicomoscano, Cremona, Italy.

The sirtuin/Sir2 (Silent information regulator 2) family of NAD+-dependent 
deacetylases and mono-ADP-ribosyltransferases plays an important role in several 
cellular processes including gene silencing, cell cycle regulation and life span 
extension in yeast and animals. Compared to other eukaryotes, plants have 
relatively fewer SIR2 related genes encoding only two putative SIR2 family 
proteins. Recently, two putative sirtuin genes were identified also in the 
grapevine genome. Starting from the predicted coding sequences present in the 
database, we have been able to obtain two truly expressed coding sequences from 
the start to the stop codon for both sirtuin genes that were named VvSRT1 and 
VvSRT2. The search for the expressed coding sequences was performed by comparing 
the predicted sequences with the recently available grape RNA seq database with 
the aim to develop the primers to be used in reverse transcriptase PCR reactions 
to amplify the genes of interest. Finally, in order to better understand the 
physiological role of both sirtuins, we investigated the expression of these 
genes in young leaves, mature leaves, and berries sampled at different growing 
stages. In leaves, usually it has been observed that VvSRT1 is less expresses 
than VvSRT2, moreover in young leaves VvSRT2 showed the higher expression during 
setting while in mature leaves during the flowering time. No particular 
variations have been observed concerning VvSRT1. In berries the two genes showed 
more similar expression level, and they showed the highest expression during the 
flowering time. Finally, the expression of VvSRT2 in berries is smaller than in 
leaves.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2012.02.017
PMID: 22446584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Hematol Oncol Stem Cell Ther. 2012;5(1):66-8. doi:
10.5144/1658-3876.2012.66.

JAK2 mutation-negative essential thrombocythemia in a child presenting with 
cerebral venous thrombosis.

Khan AA(1), Kumar V, Anand I, Kumar M, Sharma P, Bhargava M.

Author information:
(1)Sir Ganga Ram Hospital Hematology, New Delhi, India. drafaqak@yahoo.co.in

Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is a rare myeloproliferative disorder occurring 
predominantly in the elderly population. Its occurence in the pediatric age 
group is even more rare. We report a 13-year-old girl who presented with 
isolated cerebral venous thrombosis and was diagnosed with essential 
thrombocythemia. family screening for any thrombocytosis was 20 negative. With 
no secondary cause apparent for persistent thrombocytosis, we looked for the 
JAK2 mutation, but the result was negative. in contrast to linkage of JAK2 
mutation positivity with increased thrombotic risk, our case showed that 
thrombosis can occur in the absence of JAK2 mutation in a case of essential 
thrombocythemia. the indications for treatment and the best treatment of 
children with ET are currently not known, and guidelines for the management of 
children with ET are needed. Adult patients have near-normal life expectancy 
because of the low rate of leukemic conversion, but no child has been monitored 
long enough to assess prognosis.

DOI: 10.5144/1658-3876.2012.66
PMID: 22446615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep. 2012 Jun;12(3):246-54. doi:
10.1007/s11882-012-0256-5.

Treatment update in multiple sclerosis.

Morris K(1), Yiannikas C.

Author information:
(1)Concord Repatriation General Hospital, Burwest, Burwood, New South Wales, 
Australia. katrina.morris@gmail.com

Multiple sclerosis is the most common cause of disability in young people in the 
Western world. Reduced life expectancy and worsening quality of life due to 
increasing disability later in the disease course have significant personal and 
societal costs. Changes in treatment strategies and newly available treatments 
hope to improve the outlook for our often young patients. This paper details 
currently available treatments and some that are expected to reach the market 
shortly.

DOI: 10.1007/s11882-012-0256-5
PMID: 22446992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2012 Aug;93(8):1466-8. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2012.02.003.  Epub 2012 Mar 23.

Resistance training can improve fine manual dexterity in essential tremor 
patients: a preliminary study.

Sequeira G(1), Keogh JW, Kavanagh JJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Physical Activity and Nutrition Research, Auckland University of 
Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if a short-term resistance training (RT) program of the 
upper limb can improve strength, fine manual dexterity, and quality of life in 
individuals with essential tremor (ET).
DESIGN: Single group, dual pretest-posttest intervention study.
SETTING: General community.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants (N=6; mean age ± SD, 74±7y) clinically diagnosed as 
having ET (mean years diagnosed ± SD, 19±7y) were recruited into the study.
INTERVENTION: A 6-week RT program involving unilateral dumbbell bicep curls, 
wrist flexion, and wrist extension exercises twice a week.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Upper limb strength determined from five-repetition 
maximum; fine manual dexterity determined from the Purdue Pegboard Test (PPT) 
for the hand of the most affected limb, the hand of the least affected limb, 
both hands, and a bilateral assembly task; and quality of life determined from 
the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey and the ET specific 
Quality of Life in Essential Tremor questionnaire.
RESULTS: The RT program resulted in significant increases in 4 of the 6 upper 
limb strength measures. Significant improvements in the PPT were observed for 
the single hand components of this test. PPT performance improved immediately 
after RT when using the most affected limb, but these changes took longer to be 
observed for the least affected limb.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, fine manual dexterity improved in ET patients after a 
simple RT program. The findings of this preliminary study provide clear evidence 
that RT is worthy of further investigation as a therapy for improving 
functionality in ET patients.

Copyright © 2012 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2012.02.003
PMID: 22446995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Gen Intern Med. 2012 May;27(5):483-4. doi: 10.1007/s11606-012-2028-2.

From the editors' desk: Growing old in America: lessons from our Japanese 
obaachan.

Feldman MD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-012-2028-2
PMCID: PMC3326097
PMID: 22447514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Health Econ. 2013 Apr;22(4):486-500. doi: 10.1002/hec.2806. Epub 2012 Mar
22.

Statistical methods for cost-effectiveness analyses that use observational data: 
a critical appraisal tool and review of current practice.

Kreif N(1), Grieve R, Sadique MZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

Many cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) use data from observational studies. 
Statistical methods can only address selection bias if they make plausible 
assumptions. No quality assessment tool is available for appraising CEAs that 
use observational studies. We developed a new checklist to assess statistical 
methods for addressing selection bias in CEAs that use observational data. The 
checklist criteria were informed by a conceptual review and applied in a 
systematic review of economic evaluations. Criteria included whether the study 
assessed the 'no unobserved confounding' assumption, overlap of baseline 
covariates between the treatment groups and the specification of the regression 
models. The checklist also considered structural uncertainty from the choice of 
statistical approach. We found 81 studies that met the inclusion criteria: 
studies tended to use regression (51%), matching on individual covariates (25%) 
or matching on the propensity score (22%). Most studies (77%) did not assess the 
'no observed confounding' assumption, and few studies (16%) fully considered 
structural uncertainty from the choice of statistical approach. We conclude that 
published CEAs do not assess the main assumptions behind statistical methods for 
addressing selection bias. This checklist can raise awareness about the 
assumptions behind statistical methods for addressing selection bias and can 
complement existing method guidelines for CEAs.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2806
PMID: 22447531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Mar 26;12:79. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-79.

Predicting the demand of physician workforce: an international model based on 
"crowd behaviors".

Tsai TC(1), Eliasziw M, Chen DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, E-Da Hospital, Kaohsiung City, Taiwan, Republic of 
China. tsaitc2003@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Appropriateness of physician workforce greatly influences the 
quality of healthcare. When facing the crisis of physician shortages, the 
correction of manpower always takes an extended time period, and both the public 
and health personnel suffer. To calculate an appropriate number of Physician 
Density (PD) for a specific country, this study was designed to create a PD 
prediction model, based on health-related data from many countries.
METHODS: Twelve factors that could possibly impact physicians' demand were 
chosen, and data of these factors from 130 countries (by reviewing 195) were 
extracted. Multiple stepwise-linear regression was used to derive the PD 
prediction model, and a split-sample cross-validation procedure was performed to 
evaluate the generalizability of the results.
RESULTS: Using data from 130 countries, with the consideration of the 
correlation between variables, and preventing multi-collinearity, seven out of 
the 12 predictor variables were selected for entry into the stepwise regression 
procedure. The final model was: PD = (5.014 - 0.128 × proportion under age 15 
years + 0.034 × life expectancy)2, with R2 of 80.4%. Using the prediction 
equation, 70 countries had PDs with "negative discrepancy", while 58 had PDs 
with "positive discrepancy".
CONCLUSION: This study provided a regression-based PD model to calculate a 
"norm" number of PD for a specific country. A large PD discrepancy in a country 
indicates the needs to examine physician's workloads and their well-being, the 
effectiveness/efficiency of medical care, the promotion of population health and 
the team resource management.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-79
PMCID: PMC3383469
PMID: 22448781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Personal Disord. 2011 Oct;2(4):316-326. doi: 10.1037/a0022144.

Extending research on the utility of an adjunctive emotion regulation group 
therapy for deliberate self-harm among women with borderline personality 
pathology.

Gratz KL(1), Tull MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, University of Mississippi 
Medical Center.

Deliberate self-harm (DSH) is a clinically important behavior commonly 
associated with borderline personality disorder (BPD). Despite the clinical 
relevance and associated negative consequences of this behavior, however, there 
are few empirically supported treatments for DSH among individuals with BPD, and 
those that exist are difficult to implement in many clinical settings (due to 
their duration and intensity). To address this limitation, Gratz and Gunderson 
(2006) examined the efficacy of a 14-week, adjunctive emotion regulation group 
therapy (ERGT) for DSH among women with BPD. Although the results of this 
initial trial were promising (indicating positive effects of this treatment on 
DSH, emotion dysregulation, experiential avoidance, and psychiatric symptoms), 
they require replication and extension. Thus, the purpose of this study was to 
further develop this ERGT by examining its utility across other settings, a more 
diverse group of patients, a wider range of outcomes, and group leaders other 
than the principal investigator. Twenty-three women received this ERGT in 
addition to their ongoing treatment in the community. Self-report and 
interview-based measures of DSH and other self-destructive behaviors, 
psychiatric symptoms, adaptive functioning (including social and vocational 
impairment and quality of life), and the proposed mechanisms of change (emotion 
dysregulation and experiential avoidance) were administered pre- and 
posttreatment. Results indicate significant changes over time (accompanied by 
large effect sizes) on all outcome measures except quality of life and 
self-destructive behaviors (although the latter was a large-sized effect). 
Further, 55% of participants reported abstinence from DSH during the last two 
months of the group.

DOI: 10.1037/a0022144
PMID: 22448804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Expert Rev Neurother. 2012 Apr;12(4):485-92. doi: 10.1586/ern.12.21.

Current therapies and future perspectives in subacute sclerosing 
panencephalitis.

Tatli B(1), Ekici B, Ozmen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Istanbul Medical Faculty, Istanbul, 
Turkey.

Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis is a progressive neurological disorder of 
children and young adults caused by a measles virus that became defective by 
persisting in the host. According to the results of clinical trials, antiviral 
and/or immunomodulatory therapy can slow the progression of the disease and 
improve life expectancy in patients. However, its long-term effects and eventual 
outcome remain debatable due to conflicting results and its lack of effect on 
the rapidly progressive form of the disease. Possible future therapies for 
subacute sclerosing panencephalitis are RNAi and antiapoptotic agents, which are 
currently in the hypothetical and experimental stages of research.

DOI: 10.1586/ern.12.21
PMID: 22449219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2012 Mar;19(2):61-7. doi:
10.1053/j.ackd.2011.09.003.

Renal biopsy in the elderly and very elderly: useful or not?

Bomback AS(1), Herlitz LC, Markowitz GS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical 
Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Longer life expectancy has led to a growing epidemic of kidney disease in the 
elderly (aged ≥ 65 years) and very elderly (aged ≥ 80 years). While much of the 
rising burden of kidney disease in these age-groups can be attributed to 
age-associated decline and a high prevalence of comorbidities such as 
hypertension and diabetes mellitus, a significant proportion of kidney disease 
is due to potentially reversible causes of injury in the glomerular, 
tubulointerstitial, and vascular compartments. A renal biopsy is crucial not 
only to diagnose such potentially reversible lesions but also to provide 
prognostic information and guide therapeutic decisions. In this review, we 
survey the literature on renal biopsy in the elderly and very elderly, focusing 
on the utility and safety of this procedure. We report the most common 
histopathologic findings in these age-groups and demonstrate that many of these 
lesions are associated with diseases that respond to appropriate therapies, 
regardless of age. We conclude that, in a variety of commonly encountered 
clinical situations, a renal biopsy is crucial for appropriate management of 
elderly and very elderly patients with kidney disease.

Copyright © 2012 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ackd.2011.09.003
PMID: 22449342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(14):1-188. doi: 10.3310/hta16140.

EOS 2D/3D X-ray imaging system: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

McKenna C(1), Wade R, Faria R, Yang H, Stirk L, Gummerson N, Sculpher M, 
Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: EOS is a biplane X-ray imaging system manufactured by EOS Imaging 
(formerly Biospace Med, Paris, France). It uses slot-scanning technology to 
produce a high-quality image with less irradiation than standard imaging 
techniques.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EOS 
two-dimensional (2D)/three-dimensional (3D) X-ray imaging system for the 
evaluation and monitoring of scoliosis and other relevant orthopaedic 
conditions.
DATA SOURCES: For the systematic review of EOS, electronic databases (MEDLINE, 
Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, BIOSIS Previews, Cumulative Index to 
Nursing and Allied Health Literature, The Cochrane Library, EMBASE, Health 
Management Information Consortium, Inspec, ISI Science Citation Index and 
PASCAL), clinical trials registries and the manufacturer's website were searched 
from 1993 to November 2010.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of studies comparing EOS with standard X-ray 
[film, computed radiography (CR) or digital radiography] in any orthopaedic 
condition was performed. A narrative synthesis was undertaken. A 
decision-analytic model was developed to assess the cost-effectiveness of EOS in 
the relevant indications compared with standard X-ray and incorporated the 
clinical effectiveness of EOS and the adverse effects of radiation. The model 
incorporated a lifetime horizon to estimate outcomes in terms of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and costs from the perspective of the NHS.
RESULTS: Three studies met the inclusion criteria for the review. Two studies 
compared EOS with film X-ray and one study compared EOS with CR. The three 
included studies were small and of limited quality. One study used an earlier 
version of the technology, the Charpak system. Both studies comparing EOS with 
film X-ray found image quality to be comparable or better with EOS overall. 
Radiation dose was considerably lower with EOS: ratio of means for 
posteroanterior spine was 5.2 (13.1 for the study using the Charpak system); 
ratio of means for the lateral spine was 6.2 (15.1 for the study using the 
Charpak system). The study comparing EOS with CR found image quality to be 
comparable or better with EOS. Radiation dose was considerably lower with EOS 
than CR; ratio of means for the centre of the back was 5.9 and for the proximal 
lateral point 8.8. The lowest ratio of means was at the nape of the neck, which 
was 2.9. No other outcomes were assessed in the included studies, such as 
implications for patient management from the nature and quality of the image. 
Patient throughput is the major determinant of the cost-effectiveness of EOS. 
The average cost per procedure of EOS decreases with utilisation. Using 
estimates of patient throughput at national level from Hospital Episode 
Statistics data suggests that EOS is not cost-effective for the indications 
considered. Throughput in the region of 15,100 to 26,500 (corresponding to a 
workload of 60 to 106 patient appointments per working day) for EOS compared 
with a throughput of only 7530 for CR (30 patient appointments per working day) 
is needed to achieve an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £30,000 per 
QALY. EOS can be shown to be cost-effective only when compared with CR if the 
utilisation for EOS is about double the utilisation of CR.
LIMITATIONS: The main limitation of the systematic review of the clinical 
effectiveness of EOS was the limited number and quality of the data available. 
In particular, there were no studies assessing the potential health benefits 
arising from the quality and nature of the image, over and above those 
associated with reduced radiation exposure. Uncertainty in the model inputs was 
not fully explored owing to a lack of reporting of standard deviations or 
confidence intervals in the published literature for most of the parameters. As 
a result, uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness results was not presented.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiation dose is considerably lower with EOS than standard X-ray, 
whereas image quality remains comparable or better with EOS. However, the 
long-term health benefits from reduced radiation exposure with EOS are very 
small and there was a lack of data on other potential patient health benefits. 
The implications of any changes in the quality and nature of the EOS image 
compared with standard X-ray, for patient health outcomes, needs to be assessed. 
Given the higher cost of an EOS machine, utilisation is the major determinant of 
cost-effectiveness. Estimates of patient throughput at national level suggest 
that EOS is not cost-effective.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16140
PMCID: PMC4781036
PMID: 22449757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2012 Jan;67(1):50-5. doi: 10.1265/jjh.67.50.

[Lifetime medical expenditures of smokers and nonsmokers].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayashida K(1), Murakami G, Takahashi Y, Tsuji I, Imanaka Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics and Management, University Hospital of 
Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyusyu, Fukuoka, Japan. 
kenshi@clnc.uoeh-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine which of the two groups have 
higher lifetime medical expenditures; male smokers or male nonsmokers. We 
conducted this investigation using a Japanese single cohort database to 
calculate long-term medical expenditures and 95% confidence intervals.
METHODS: We first constructed life tables for male smokers and male nonsmokers 
from the age of 40 years after analyzing their mortality rates. Next, we 
calculated the average annual medical expenditures of each of the two groups, 
categorized into survivors and deceased. Finally, we calculated long-term 
medical expenditures and performed sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The results showed that although smokers had generally higher annual 
medical expenditures than nonsmokers, the former's lifetime medical expenditure 
was slightly lower than the latter's because of a shorter life expectancy that 
resulted from a higher mortality rate. Sensitivity analyses did not reverse the 
order of the two lifetime medical expenditures.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, although smoking may not result in an increase in 
lifetime medical expenditures, it is associated with diseases, decreased life 
expectancy, lower quality of life (QOL), and generally higher annual medical 
expenditures. It is crucial to promote further tobacco control strategically by 
maximizing the use of available data.
