perform TAVI in Germany participate and more than 15,000 datasets are already in 
the registry.Conclusion The implementation of new or innovative medical 
therapies needs supervision under the conditions of a well-structured scientific 
project. Up to now relevant data for implementation of TAVI and long-term 
results are missing. In contrast to randomized controlled trials, GARY is a 
prospective, controlled, 5-year observational multicenter registry, and a real 
world investigation with only one exclusion criterion, the absence of patients' 
written consent.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1323155
PMID: 22859310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Br Med Bull. 2012 Sep;103(1):21-44. doi: 10.1093/bmb/lds020. Epub 2012 Aug
2.

Ordinal preference elicitation methods in health economics and health services 
research: using discrete choice experiments and ranking methods.

Ali S(1), Ronaldson S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, Heslington, York, UK. 
shehzad.ali@york.ac.uk

INTRODUCTION: The predominant method of economic evaluation is cost-utility 
analysis, which uses cardinal preference elicitation methods, including the 
standard gamble and time trade-off. However, such approach is not suitable for 
understanding trade-offs between process attributes, non-health outcomes and 
health outcomes to evaluate current practices, develop new programmes and 
predict demand for services and products. Ordinal preference elicitation methods 
including discrete choice experiments and ranking methods are therefore commonly 
used in health economics and health service research.
AREAS OF AGREEMENT: Cardinal methods have been criticized on the grounds of 
cognitive complexity, difficulty of administration, contamination by risk and 
preference attitudes, and potential violation of underlying assumptions. Ordinal 
methods have gained popularity because of reduced cognitive burden, lower degree 
of abstract reasoning, reduced measurement error, ease of administration and 
ability to use both health and non-health outcomes.
AREAS OF CONTROVERSY: The underlying assumptions of ordinal methods may be 
violated when respondents use cognitive shortcuts, or cannot comprehend the 
ordinal task or interpret attributes and levels, or use 'irrational' choice 
behaviour or refuse to trade-off certain attributes. CURRENT USE AND GROWING 
AREAS: Ordinal methods are commonly used to evaluate preference for attributes 
of health services, products, practices, interventions, policies and, more 
recently, to estimate utility weights. AREAS FOR ON-GOING RESEARCH: There is 
growing research on developing optimal designs, evaluating the rationalization 
process, using qualitative tools for developing ordinal methods, evaluating 
consistency with utility theory, appropriate statistical methods for analysis, 
generalizability of results and comparing ordinal methods against each other and 
with cardinal measures.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/lds020
PMID: 22859714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Am J Cancer Res. 2012;2(4):372-82. Epub 2012 Jun 28.

The diverse and complex roles of radiation on cancer treatment: therapeutic 
target and genome maintenance.

Baskar R, Yap SP, Chua KL, Itahana K.

Cancer is a genetic disease, grows exponentially with the development of 
intrinsic and acquired treatment resistance. Past decade has witnessed a 
considerable progress towards the treatment and understanding of proposed 
hallmarks of cancer and together with advances in early detection and various 
treatment modalities. Radiation therapy is an integral part of cancer treatment 
armamentarium. In developed countries more than half of all cancer patients 
receive radiation therapy during their course of illness. Although radiation 
damages both cancer and normal cells, the goal of radiation therapy is to 
maximize the radiation dose to abnormal cancer cells while minimizing exposure 
to normal cells, which is adjacent to cancer cells or in the path of radiation. 
In recent years, life expectancy increases among cancer patients and this 
increase is due to the results of early diagnosis, screening efforts, improved 
treatments and with less late effects mostly secondary cancer development. 
Therefore, cancer survivorship issues have been gaining prominence in the area 
of radiation oncology research. Understanding the tradeoff between the expected 
decreases in normal tissue toxicity resulting from an improved radiation dose 
distribution to the targeted site is an increasingly pertinent, yet needed 
attention and research in the area of radiation oncology. In recent years, a 
number of potential molecular targets that involve either with radiation 
increased tumor cell killing or protecting normal cells have been identified. 
For clinical benefits, translating these findings to maximize the toxicity of 
radiation on tumor cells while safeguarding early or late normal cell toxicities 
using molecular targeted radioprotectors will be useful in radiation treatment.

PMCID: PMC3410581
PMID: 22860229


893. Sci Total Environ. 2012 Dec 1;440:219-35. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2012.06.096.  Epub 2012 Aug 3.

Climate change impact assessment in Veneto and Friuli Plain groundwater. Part 
II: a spatially resolved regional risk assessment.

Pasini S(1), Torresan S, Rizzi J, Zabeo A, Critto A, Marcomini A.

Author information:
(1)Centro Euro-Mediterraneo per i Cambiamenti Climatici (CMCC), Impacts on Soil 
and Coast Division (ISC), Via Augusto Imperatore 16, 73100 Lecce, Italy. 
sara.pasini@stud.unive.it

Climate change impact assessment on water resources has received high 
international attention over the last two decades, due to the observed global 
warming and its consequences at the global to local scale. In particular, 
climate-related risks for groundwater and related ecosystems pose a great 
concern to scientists and water authorities involved in the protection of these 
valuable resources. The close link of global warming with water cycle 
alterations encourages research to deepen current knowledge on relationships 
between climate trends and status of water systems, and to develop predictive 
tools for their sustainable management, copying with key principles of EU water 
policy. Within the European project Life+ TRUST (Tool for Regional-scale 
assessment of groundwater Storage improvement in adaptation to climaTe change), 
a Regional Risk Assessment (RRA) methodology was developed in order to identify 
impacts from climate change on groundwater and associated ecosystems (e.g. 
surface waters, agricultural areas, natural environments) and to rank areas and 
receptors at risk in the high and middle Veneto and Friuli Plain (Italy). Based 
on an integrated analysis of impacts, vulnerability and risks linked to climate 
change at the regional scale, a RRA framework complying with the 
Sources-Pathway-Receptor-Consequence (SPRC) approach was defined. Relevant 
impacts on groundwater and surface waters (i.e. groundwater level variations, 
changes in nitrate infiltration processes, changes in water availability for 
irrigation) were selected and analyzed through hazard scenario, exposure, 
susceptibility and risk assessment. The RRA methodology used hazard scenarios 
constructed through global and high resolution model simulations for the 
2071-2100 period, according to IPCC A1B emission scenario in order to produce 
useful indications for future risk prioritization and to support the addressing 
of adaptation measures, primarily Managed Artificial Recharge (MAR) techniques. 
Relevant outcomes from the described RRA application highlighted that potential 
climate change impacts will occur with different extension and magnitude in the 
case study area. Particularly, qualitative and quantitative impacts on 
groundwater will occur with more severe consequences in the wettest and in the 
driest scenario (respectively). Moreover, such impacts will likely have little 
direct effects on related ecosystems - croplands, forests and natural 
environments - lying along the spring area (about 12% of croplands and 2% of 
natural environments at risk) while more severe consequences will indirectly 
occur on natural and anthropic systems through the reduction in quality and 
quantity of water availability for agricultural and other uses (about 80% of 
agricultural areas and 27% of groundwater bodies at risk).

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2012.06.096
PMID: 22863150


894. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 Aug;26(4):421-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2012.07.001. Epub 2012 Jul 15.

Thyroid microcarcinoma.

Pacini F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology & Metabolism and Biochemistry, 
Section of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of Siena, Via Bracci, 53100 
Siena, Italy. pacini8@unisi.it

Nowadays the most commonly occurring differentiated thyroid cancer in many 
countries is a microcarcinoma in patients older than 45 years, incidentally 
found during neck ultrasound. In view of their low morbidity and mortality, the 
crucial point is how to manage such microcarcinomas. Recently published European 
and American guidelines aim to minimize the diagnostic and therapeutic 
procedures without affecting the diagnostic accuracy and the therapeutic 
effectiveness, keeping in mind that we are dealing with patients who have a 
normal life expectancy and to whom we have to guarantee an excellent quality of 
life. The present review will summarize the clinical and pathological features 
of thyroid microcarcinoma, including its definition, prevalence, presentation, 
pathology, genetic, clinical impact and will try to derive from them a rationale 
for therapeutic and diagnostic intervention.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2012.07.001
PMID: 22863385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Complement Ther Med. 2012 Oct;20(5):364-74. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2012.05.002.
 Epub 2012 Jun 6.

Costs and consequences of acupuncture as a treatment for chronic pain: a 
systematic review of economic evaluations conducted alongside randomised 
controlled trials.

Ambrósio EM(1), Bloor K, MacPherson H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, Heslington, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: The economic burden that chronic pain conditions impose on 
individuals and society is significant. Acupuncture appears to be a clinically 
effective treatment for some chronic pain conditions. Given the need for policy 
decisions to be informed by economic evaluations, the objective of this 
systematic review was to synthesise data from economic evaluations to determine 
whether acupuncture for the treatment of chronic pain conditions is good value 
for money.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted using health and economics databases, 
with additional hand-searching. Economic evaluations conducted alongside 
randomised controlled trials were eligible.
RESULTS: Eight economic evaluations were included in this review, seven 
cost-utility analyses and one cost-effectiveness analysis. Conditions treated 
included low back pain, neck pain, dysmenorrhoea, migraine and headache, and 
osteoarthritis. From the seven cost-utility analyses, acupuncture was found to 
be clinically effective but cost more. The cost per quality adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained ranged from £2527 to £14,976 per QALY, below the commonly quoted 
threshold used by the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
of £20,000 to £30,000. The one cost-effectiveness study indicated that there 
might be both clinical benefits and cost savings associated with acupuncture for 
migraine. There was heterogeneity across the eight trials in terms of 
professional who provided the acupuncture, style of acupuncture, and country of 
origin.
CONCLUSION: The cost per QALY gained in all seven cost-utility studies was found 
to be below typical thresholds of willingness to pay. Acupuncture appears to be 
a cost-effective intervention for some chronic pain conditions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2012.05.002
PMID: 22863652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Dis Model Mech. 2013 Jan;6(1):236-51. doi: 10.1242/dmm.010009. Epub 2012 Aug
3.

A mathematical model of weight loss under total starvation: evidence against the 
thrifty-gene hypothesis.

Speakman JR(1), Westerterp KR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Key State Laboratory of 
Molecular Development, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. 
J.Speakman@abdn.ac.uk

The thrifty-gene hypothesis (TGH) posits that the modern genetic predisposition 
to obesity stems from a historical past where famine selected for genes that 
promote efficient fat deposition. It has been previously argued that such a 
scenario is unfeasible because under such strong selection any gene favouring 
fat deposition would rapidly move to fixation. Hence, we should all be 
predisposed to obesity: which we are not. The genetic architecture of obesity 
that has been revealed by genome-wide association studies (GWAS), however, calls 
into question such an argument. Obesity is caused by mutations in many hundreds 
(maybe thousands) of genes, each with a very minor, independent and additive 
impact. Selection on such genes would probably be very weak because the 
individual advantages they would confer would be very small. Hence, the genetic 
architecture of the epidemic may indeed be compatible with, and hence support, 
the TGH. To evaluate whether this is correct, it is necessary to know the likely 
effects of the identified GWAS alleles on survival during starvation. This would 
allow definition of their advantage in famine conditions, and hence the likely 
selection pressure for such alleles to have spread over the time course of human 
evolution. We constructed a mathematical model of weight loss under total 
starvation using the established principles of energy balance. Using the model, 
we found that fatter individuals would indeed survive longer and, at a given 
body weight, females would survive longer than males, when totally starved. An 
allele causing deposition of an extra 80 g of fat would result in an extension 
of life under total starvation by about 1.1-1.6% in an individual with 10 kg of 
fat and by 0.25-0.27% in an individual carrying 32 kg of fat. A mutation causing 
a per allele effect of 0.25% would become completely fixed in a population with 
an effective size of 5 million individuals in 6000 selection events. Because 
there have probably been about 24,000 famine events since the evolution of 
hominins 4 million years ago, there has been ample time even for genes with only 
very minor impacts on adiposity to move to fixation. The observed polymorphic 
variation in the genes causing the predisposition to obesity is incompatible 
with the TGH, unless all these single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) arose in 
the last 900,000 years, a requirement we know is incorrect. The TGH is further 
weakened by the observation of no link between the effect size of these SNPs and 
their prevalence, which would be anticipated under the TGH model of selection if 
all the SNPs had arisen in the last 900,000 years.

DOI: 10.1242/dmm.010009
PMCID: PMC3529354
PMID: 22864023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. South Med J. 2012 Aug;105(8):437-45. doi: 10.1097/SMJ.0b013e31825fed90.

Pharmacotherapy considerations in elderly adults.

Wooten JM(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine, Kansas City, Missouri 
64108-2792, USA. wootenj@umkc.edu

Life expectancy for Americans has increased dramatically since 1900, as have the 
available pharmacotherapeutic options. Unfortunately, pharmacotherapy mishaps 
occur commonly in the older adult population. This problem greatly affects the 
morbidity and mortality of elderly patients and greatly increases healthcare 
costs. To improve patient care among elderly adults, healthcare practitioners 
must consider several issues when developing a pharmacotherapy plan. A thorough 
understanding of pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, adverse drug reactions, 
drug interactions, and several other factors is necessary for practitioners to 
develop a safe and effective drug therapy plan for older adults. This review 
provides a general but comprehensive review of the issues pertaining to 
pharmacotherapy in elderly people and offers several suggestions for improving 
their pharmaceutical care.

DOI: 10.1097/SMJ.0b013e31825fed90
PMID: 22864103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. N Z Med J. 2012 Jul 29;125(1358):89-90.

PHARMAC's updated guidelines for cost-utility analyses, with new QALYs per $1M 
metric.

Grocott R, Metcalfe S.

PMID: 22864151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2012 Sep;22(7):1150-7. doi:
10.1097/IGC.0b013e3182611451.

Impact of routine follow-up examinations on life expectancy in ovarian cancer 
patients: a simulation study.

Geurts SM(1), de Vegt F, van Altena AM, Tjan-Heijnen VC, Massuger LF, Adang EM, 
van Dijck JA, Verbeek AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and HTA, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
S.Geurts@ebh.umcn.nl

OBJECTIVE: The clinical benefit of routine follow-up in patients treated for 
ovarian cancer is subject to debate. In this study, the magnitude of the 
potential survival benefit of routine examinations was evaluated by Markov 
modeling.
METHODS: The clinical course of ovarian cancer was simulated using a 4-state 
nonstationary Markov model. Risk of recurrence and mortality probabilities were 
derived from individual patient data and Statistics Netherlands. The life 
expectancy was simulated for 3 follow-up scenarios: a current, withholding (all 
recurrences detected symptomatically), and perfect follow-up program (all 
recurrences detected asymptomatically). The impact of effective recurrence 
treatment in the future was modeled by varying the mortality ratio between 
patients with asymptomatically versus symptomatically detected recurrences. The 
model was validated using empirical data.
RESULTS: The mean life expectancy of patients, aged 58 years and in complete 
clinical remission after primary treatment, was 10.8 years. Varying the 
transition probabilities with ±25% changed the life expectancy by up to 1.1 
years. The modeled life expectancy for the withholding and perfect follow-up 
scenarios was also 10.8 years and insensitive to model assumptions. In patients 
with stages IIB to IV, the life expectancy was 7.0 years, irrespective of 
follow-up strategy. A mortality ratio of 0.8 for patients with asymptomatically 
versus symptomatically detected recurrences resulted in a gain in life 
expectancy of 5 months for withholding versus perfect follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine follow-up in ovarian cancer patients is not expected to 
improve the life expectancy. The timing of detection of recurrent ovarian cancer 
is immaterial until markedly improved treatment options become available.

DOI: 10.1097/IGC.0b013e3182611451
PMID: 22864333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Orthopade. 2012 Aug;41(8):623-31. doi: 10.1007/s00132-012-1908-9.

[Vertebral stability in management of spinal metastases. Criteria and strategies 
for operative interventions].

[Article in German]

Wiedenhöfer B(1), Möhlenbruch M, Hemmer S, Lehner B, Klöckner K, Akbar M.

Author information:
(1)Department für Orthopädie, Unfallchirurgie und Paraplegiologie, Sektion 
Wirbelsäulenchirurgie, Stiftung Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Heidelberg, 
Schlierbacher Landstr. 200a, 69118, Heidelberg, Deutschland. 
bernd.wiedenhoefer@med.uni-heidelberg.de

BACKGROUND: Metastases are responsible for most tumor manifestations of the 
spine. About 25% are symptomatic; however, due to interdisciplinary management 
the tumor-associated mortality is regressing. Associated acute spinal cord 
injury (SCI) syndromes raise patient morbidity with a loss of independence and 
quality of life associated with a fair potential for recovery. Therefore, the 
management is focused on the avoidance of SCI. The assessment of mechanical 
stability of vertebral bodies is a central part of decision-making when 
considering operative therapy. This review gives an update on the current 
evidence-based data for metastasis management.
DECISION MAKING: The NOMS concept is well established. Especially the parameters 
origin, neurologic symptoms, stability and vascularization are described and 
illustrated by clinical cases.
OPERATIVE THERAPY CONCEPTS: Evidence-based operative therapy concepts are shown 
reflecting palliative and curative approaches.
ASSESSMENT OF PARAMETERS FOR THERAPY ALGORITHM: Clinical and radiological 
parameters help to find the individual therapy. Generally a number of scores 
with significant time expenditure are needed. The spine instability neoplastic 
score (SINS) simplifies the management. Operative therapy shows the best results 
for the parameters pain and quality of life. However, potential perioperative 
and postoperative complications have to be estimated and should be avoided. 
Using these facts our therapy algorithm is helpful for therapy management.
CONCLUSIONS: With rising life expectancy operative therapy is of increasing 
relevance. Decision-making uses information about tumor origin, neurologic 
symptoms, stability, prognostic factors and vascularisation to determine the 
individual therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-012-1908-9
PMID: 22864656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2015 Mar;27(2):136-46. doi:
10.1177/1010539512454163.  Epub 2012 Aug 2.

Factors affecting life expectancy: evidence from 1980-2009 data in Singapore, 
Malaysia, and Thailand.

Chan MF(1), Devi MK(2).

Author information:
(1)National University of Singapore, Singapore nurcmf@nus.edu.sg.
(2)National University of Singapore, Singapore.

The authors aim to examine the impact of demographic changes, socioeconomic 
inequality, and the availability of health care resources on life expectancy in 
Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand. This is a cross-country study collecting 
annual data from 3 Southeast Asian countries from 1980 to 2008. Life expectancy 
is the dependent variable with demographics, socioeconomic status, and health 
care resources as the 3 main determinants. A structural equation model is used, 
and results show that the availability of more health care resources and higher 
levels of socioeconomic advantages are more likely to increase life expectancy. 
In contrast, demographic changes are more likely to increase life expectancy by 
way of health care resources. The authors suggest that more effort should be 
taken to expand and improve the coverage of health care programs to alleviate 
regional differences in health care use and improve the overall health status of 
people in these 3 Southeast Asian countries.

© 2012 APJPH.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539512454163
PMID: 22865722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Heart. 2012 Oct;98(20):1498-503. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302188. Epub
2012  Aug 3.

Cost-effectiveness of presentation versus delayed troponin testing for acute 
myocardial infarction.

Thokala P(1), Goodacre SW, Collinson PO, Stevens JW, Mills NL, Newby DE, Morris 
F, Kendall J, Stevenson MD.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of delayed troponin testing for 
myocardial infarction compared with troponin testing at presentation.
DESIGN: Decision analysis modelling of cost-effectiveness using secondary data 
sources.
SETTING: Acute hospitals in the UK.
POPULATION: Patients attending hospital with suspected myocardial infarction but 
a normal or non-diagnostic ECG and no major comorbidities requiring admission.
INTERVENTIONS: Delayed troponin testing (10 h after symptom onset) compared with 
standard and high-sensitivity troponin testing at presentation and no testing. 
Sensitivity analysis evaluated high-sensitivity troponin testing 3 h after 
initial assessment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained by each strategy, compared with the next most effective 
alternative, and the probability of each strategy being cost-effective at 
varying willingness-to-pay per QALY gained.
RESULTS: In all scenarios tested, presentation high-sensitivity troponin testing 
was the most effective strategy with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
below the £20 000/QALY threshold. 10 h troponin testing was only likely to be 
cost-effective if a discharge decision could be made as soon as a negative 
result was available and the £30 000/QALY threshold was used, or if a lower 
sensitivity estimate for presentation high-sensitivity troponin was assumed. 
Sensitivity analysis showed that including high-sensitivity troponin testing at 
presentation and 3 h in the analysis makes this the most cost-effective 
strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Delayed troponin testing is unlikely to be cost-effective compared 
with high-sensitivity troponin testing at presentation in most scenarios. 
Current NICE chest pain guidelines do not promote cost-effective care.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302188
PMID: 22865867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2013 Feb 10;18(5):481-90. doi: 10.1089/ars.2011.4151.
 Epub 2012 Sep 7.

Aspirin inhibits oxidant stress, reduces age-associated functional declines, and 
extends lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Ayyadevara S(1), Bharill P, Dandapat A, Hu C, Khaidakov M, Mitra S, Shmookler 
Reis RJ, Mehta JL.

Author information:
(1)Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System, Little Rock, Arkansas 72205, 
USA. AyyadevaraSrinivas@uams.edu

AIMS: Oxidative stress and inflammation are leading risk factors for 
age-associated functional declines. We assessed aspirin effects on endogenous 
oxidative-stress levels, lifespan, and age-related functional declines, in the 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.
RESULTS: Both aspirin and its salicylate moiety, at nontoxic concentrations 
(0.5-1 mM), attenuated endogenous levels of reactive oxygen species (p<0.001), 
and upregulated antioxidant genes encoding superoxide dismutases (especially 
sod-3, p<0.001), catalases (especially ctl-2, p<0.0001), and two 
glutathione-S-transferases (gst-4 and gst-10; each p<0.005). Aspirin, and to a 
lesser degree salicylate, improved survival of hydrogen peroxide, and in the 
absence of exogenous stress aspirin extended lifespan by 21%-23% (each 
p<10(-9)), while salicylate added 14% (p<10(-6)). Aspirin and salicylate delayed 
age-dependent declines in motility and pharyngeal pumping (each p<0.005), and 
decreased intracellular protein aggregation (p<0.0001)-all established markers 
of physiological aging-consistent with slowing of the aging process. Aspirin 
fails to improve stress resistance or lifespan in nematodes lacking DAF-16, 
implying that it acts through this FOXO transcription factor.
INNOVATION: Studies in mice and humans suggest that aspirin may protect against 
multiple age-associated diseases by reducing all-cause mortality. We now 
demonstrate that aspirin markedly slows many measures of aging in the nematode.
CONCLUSIONS: Aspirin treatment is associated with diminished endogenous oxidant 
stress and enhanced resistance to exogenous peroxide, both likely mediated by 
activation of antioxidant defenses. Our evidence indicates that aspirin 
attenuates insulin-like signaling, thus protecting against oxidative stress, 
postponing age-associated functional declines and extending C. elegans lifespan 
under benign conditions.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2011.4151
PMID: 22866967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Drugs. 2012 Aug 20;72(12):1679-707. doi: 10.2165/11209750-000000000-00000.

Exenatide extended-release: a review of its use in type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Scott LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, Auckland, New Zealand.

Subcutaneous exenatide extended-release (ER; Bydureon™; also known as exenatide 
once weekly), a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist, provides a convenient, 
simple, once-weekly regimen that is approved in adult patients with type 2 
diabetes as adjunctive monotherapy to diet plus exercise (in the US; not as 
first-line therapy) and/or as combination therapy with specific oral 
antihyperglycaemic drugs (OADs) in patients with inadequately controlled type 2 
diabetes despite treatment with these OADs (US and Europe). This article reviews 
the clinical efficacy and tolerability of exenatide ER in the treatment of adult 
patients with type 2 diabetes and gives a brief overview of its pharmacological 
properties. In several short-term (24-30 weeks) well designed trials, adjunctive 
subcutaneously injectable exenatide ER once weekly, as monotherapy or in 
combination with OADs, significantly improved glycaemic control, bodyweight and 
some surrogate markers of cardiovascular risk in adult patients with 
inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes despite diet and exercise and/or 
treatment with OADs. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of adjunctive exenatide 
ER therapy were sustained in extension studies of up to 3 years of treatment. 
Overall, the intensity of glycaemic control with exenatide ER was generally 
better than that observed with the exenatide immediate-release formulation 
(twice daily), sitagliptin or insulin glargine. Exenatide ER was shown to be 
noninferior to metformin in terms of glycaemic efficacy, but did not meet the 
criteria for noninferiority versus liraglutide. In treatment-naive patients, 
exenatide ER treatment did not meet noninferiority criteria versus pioglitazone, 
whereas in treatment-experienced patients, exenatide ER provided better 
glycaemic control than pioglitazone. Improvements in glycaemic control with 
exenatide ER and, in general, with other antihyperglycaemic agents were 
reflected in significant improvements from baseline in treatment satisfaction 
and health-related quality-of-life measures. Exenatide ER was generally well 
tolerated in patients participating in these trials, with most 
treatment-emergent adverse events being of a gastrointestinal nature, of mild to 
moderate severity, transient and of a similar nature and incidence to those 
occurring with the exenatide immediate-release formulation. Thus, exenatide ER 
is a useful option for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, particularly in 
patients where bodyweight loss is an essential aspect of the individual 
patient's management.

DOI: 10.2165/11209750-000000000-00000
PMID: 22867046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):604-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.001.
Epub  2012 Apr 11.

The clinical and economic burden of poor adherence and persistence with 
osteoporosis medications in Ireland.

Hiligsmann M(1), McGowan B, Bennett K, Barry M, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, CAPHRI Research Institute, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

OBJECTIVES: Medication nonadherence is common for osteoporosis, but its 
consequences have not been well described. This study aimed to quantify the 
clinical and economic impacts of poor adherence and to evaluate the potential 
cost-effectiveness of improving patient adherence by using hypothetical 
behavioral interventions.
METHODS: A previously validated Markov microsimulation model was adapted to the 
Irish setting to estimate lifetime costs and outcomes (fractures and 
quality-adjusted life-year [QALY]) for three adherence scenarios: no treatment, 
real-world adherence, and full adherence over 3 years. The real-world scenario 
employed adherence and persistence data from the Irish Health Services 
Executive-Primary Care Reimbursement Services pharmacy claims database. We also 
investigated the cost-effectiveness of hypothetical behavioral interventions to 
improve medication adherence (according to their cost and effect on adherence).
RESULTS: The number of fractures prevented and the QALY gain obtained at 
real-world adherence levels represented only 57% and 56% of those expected with 
full adherence, respectively. The costs per QALY gained of real-world adherence 
and of full adherence compared with no treatment were estimated at € 11,834 and 
€ 6,341, respectively. An intervention to improve adherence by 25% would result 
in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of € 11,511 per QALY and € 54,182 per 
QALY, compared with real-world adherence, if the intervention cost an additional 
€ 50 and € 100 per year, respectively.
DISCUSSION: Poor adherence with osteoporosis medications results in around a 50% 
reduction in the potential benefits observed in clinical trials and a doubling 
of the cost per QALY gained from these medications. Depending on their costs and 
outcomes, programs to improve adherence have the potential to be an efficient 
use of resources.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.001
PMID: 22867768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):613-21. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.007.
Epub  2012 Jun 7.

Cost-effectiveness of expanded newborn screening in Texas.

Tiwana SK(1), Rascati KL, Park H.

Author information:
(1)Alberta Health Services, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. simran.k.tiwana@gmail.com

Comment in
    Value Health. 2013 Sep-Oct;16(6):1103-4.
    Value Health. 2013 Sep-Oct;16(6):1105.

OBJECTIVE: Texas House Bill 790 resulted in the expansion of the newborn 
screening panel from 7 disorders to 27 disorders. Implementation of this change 
began in 2007. The objective of this study was to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of the expanded newborn screening program compared with the 
previous standard screening in Texas.
METHODS: A Markov model (for a hypothetical cohort of Texas births in 2007) was 
constructed to compare lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
between the expanded newborn screening and preexpansion newborn screening. 
Estimates of costs, probabilities of sequelae, and utilities for disorder 
categories were obtained from a combination of Texas statistics, the literature, 
and expert opinion. A baseline discount rate of 3% was used for both costs and 
QALYs, with a range of 0% to 5%. Analyses were conducted from a payer's 
perspective, and so only direct medical cost estimates were included.
RESULTS: The lifetime incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for expanded versus 
preexpansion screening was about $11,560 per QALY. The results remained robust 
to both deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Expanded newborn screening does result in additional expenses to 
the payer, but it also improves patient outcomes by preventing avoidable 
morbidity and mortality. The screened population benefits from greater QALYs as 
compared with the unscreened population. Overall, expanded newborn screening in 
Texas was estimated to be a cost-effective option as compared with unexpanded 
newborn screening.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.007
PMID: 22867769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):622-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.012.
Epub  2012 Jun 12.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the bivalent compared with the quadrivalent human 
papillomavirus vaccines in Taiwan.

Demarteau N(1), Tang CH, Chen HC, Chen CJ, Van Kriekinge G.

Author information:
(1)GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, Wavre, Belgium. nadia.x.demarteau@gskbio.com

OBJECTIVE: To compare the epidemiological and economic impact of additional 
cross-protection against oncogenic human papillomavirus (HPV) types beyond 16/18 
of the bivalent vaccine (BV) versus protection against nononcogenic HPV types 
6/11 of the quadrivalent vaccine (QV) in Taiwan.
METHODS: A lifetime Markov model calibrated to the Taiwanese setting simulated 
the natural history of low-risk (engendering cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 
[CIN] 1 and genital warts) and high-risk HPV (engendering CIN1, CIN2/3, and 
cervical cancer [CC]) infections, screening, and vaccination (100% coverage) for 
a cohort of 12-year-old girls (N = 153,000). Transition probabilities, costs, 
and utilities were estimated from published data and expert opinion. Vaccine 
efficacy was obtained from each vaccine's respective clinical trials. 
Price-parity and lifelong protection was assumed for both vaccines. The number 
of CIN lesions, CC cases, CC deaths and genital wart (GW) cases, and 
quality-adjusted life-years were estimated. Costs and outcomes (discounted at 3% 
and 1.5%, respectively) were compared from a payer's perspective.
RESULTS: The model estimated that the BV led to an additional, undiscounted, 
11,484 CIN1, 1,779 (+34.3% vs. QV) CIN2/3, 188 (+29.0% vs. QV) CC, and 69 
(+29.0% vs. QV) CC deaths prevented compared with the QV, while the QV prevented 
4,150 GW (+71%). This resulted in an additional 768 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY) and 11.6 million new Taiwan dollars costs saved for the BV versus the QV 
after discounting.
CONCLUSION: Both vaccines have a different epidemiological impact with an 
increased number of CC-related lesions potentially prevented for the BV because 
of additional cross-protection. In the Taiwanese setting, HPV mass vaccination 
using the BV was estimated to dominate vaccination using the QV.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.012
PMID: 22867770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):632-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.011.
Epub  2012 May 23.

Cost-effectiveness of sensor-augmented pump therapy in adults with type 1 
diabetes in the United States.

Kamble S(1), Schulman KA, Reed SD.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
NC 27715, USA.

OBJECTIVES: A recent randomized trial demonstrated significant reductions in 
hemoglobin A(1c) levels with sensor-augmented pump therapy (SAPT) compared with 
multiple daily injections of insulin (MDI) in type 1 diabetes. We analyzed 
resource use in the trial and estimated the long-term cost-effectiveness of SAPT 
from the perspective of the US health care system.
METHODS: We undertook a cost-effectiveness analysis combining estimates from the 
trial and the literature to populate the previously validated Center for 
Outcomes Research (CORE) Diabetes Model. Results represent the use of 3-day 
sensors, as in the trial, and 6-day sensors, approved in most markets but not 
yet approved in the United States.
RESULTS: Within-trial hospital days, emergency department visits, and outpatient 
visits did not differ significantly between the treatment groups. Assuming 65% 
use of 3-day sensors, treatment-related costs in year 1 were an estimated 
$10,760 for SAPT and $5072 for MDI. Discounted lifetime estimates were $253,493 
in direct medical costs and 10.794 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for SAPT 
and $167,170 in direct medical costs and 10.418 QALYs for MDI. For 3-day and 
6-day sensors, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were $229,675 per QALY 
(95% confidence interval $139,071-$720,865) and $168,104 per QALY (95% 
confidence interval $102,819-$523,161), respectively. The ratios ranged from 
$69,837 to $211,113 per QALY with different strategies for incorporating utility 
benefits resulting from less fear of hypoglycemia with SAPT.
CONCLUSION: Despite superior clinical benefits of SAPT compared with MDI, SAPT 
does not appear to be economically attractive in the United States for adults 
with type 1 diabetes in its current state of development. However, further 
clinical developments reducing disposable costs of the system could 
significantly improve its economic attractiveness.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.011
PMID: 22867771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):759-70. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.03.1389.
Epub  2012 Jun 12.

Bendamustine versus chlorambucil for the first-line treatment of chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia in England and Wales: a cost-utility analysis.

Woods B(1), Hawkins N, Dunlop W, O'Toole A, Bramham-Jones S.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes, Oxford, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of bendamustine compared with 
chlorambucil as first-line treatment for patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia who would be considered unsuitable for treatment with fludarabine 
combination chemotherapy regimens.
METHODS: A semi-Markov approach was used to estimate time in each health state. 
The model was parameterized primarily by using data from a phase III randomized, 
open-label trial comparing bendamustine with chlorambucil. It captured the 
increased progression-free survival and improved response rates with 
bendamustine, and the cost and quality of life impacts of postprogression 
treatments. The analysis was conducted from the perspective of the National 
Health Service in England and Wales. A lifetime (35-year) time horizon was used. 
Deterministic sensitivity analyses, probabilistic sensitivity analyses, and 
subgroup analyses in older patients and patients with poor performance status 
were carried out.
RESULTS: The estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was £ 11,960 per 
quality-adjusted life-year. None of the deterministic sensitivity analyses 
increased the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio by more than £ 2000. Subgroup 
analyses showed that bendamustine remained cost-effective across different 
patient groups. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that at the £ 20,000 
threshold, bendamustine has a 90% probability of being cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Bendamustine represents good value for first-line treatment of 
patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who are unsuitable for treatment with 
fludarabine combination chemotherapy. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
is below the thresholds commonly applied in England and Wales (£ 20,000-£ 30,000 
per quality-adjusted life-year).

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.03.1389
PMID: 22867787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):777-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.04.002.
Epub  2012 Jun 7.

Time trade-off and ranking exercises are sensitive to different dimensions of 
EQ-5D health states.

Rand-Hendriksen K(1), Augestad LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway. kim.rand-hendriksen@medisin.uio.no

BACKGROUND: One method suggested for creating preference-based tariffs for the 
new five-level EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire is combining time 
trade-off (TTO) and discrete choice exercises. Rank values from previous 
valuation studies can be used as proxies for discrete choice exercises. This 
study examined rank and TTO data to determine whether the methods differ in 
sensitivity to the EQ-5D questionnaire dimensions.
METHODS: We used rank and TTO data for 42 EQ-5D questionnaire health states from 
the US and UK three-level EQ-5D questionnaire valuation studies, extracting 
overall ranks of mean TTO and mean rank values, ranging from 1 (best) to 42 
(worst). We identified pairs of health states with reversed overall ranks 
between TTO and rank data and regressed overall rank differences (TTO - ranking) 
on dummy variables representing impairments on EQ-5D questionnaire dimensions.
RESULTS: Forty-three (US) and 41 (UK) health state pairs displayed reversed rank 
order. Both US and UK regression models on rank differences indicated that 
respondents rated impairments involving pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression 
as relatively worse in TTO than in the ranking task.
DISCUSSION: Different dimension sensitivity between TTO and ranking methods 
suggests that combining them could lead to inconsistent tariffs. Differences 
could be caused by respondents focusing on the first presented dimensions when 
ranking states or could be related to the longest endurable time for health 
states involving pain/discomfort or anxiety/depression. The observed differences 
call into question which method best represents the preferences of the 
population.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.04.002
PMID: 22867789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Value Health. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(5):785-7; author reply 787-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.010. Epub 2012 May 25.

Improving the measurement of QALYs in dementia: some important considerations.

Arons AM, Schölzel-Dorenbos CJ, Olde Rikkert MG, Krabbe PF.

Comment on
    Value Health. 2012 Mar-Apr;15(2):323-33.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.02.010
PMID: 22867792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2012 Jul 26;71:18383. doi:
10.3402/ijch.v71i0.18383.

A decade of research in Inuit children, youth, and maternal health in Canada: 
areas of concentrations and scarcities.

Sheppard AJ(1), Hetherington R.

Author information:
(1)AboutKidsHealth, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada. 
amanda.sheppard@utoronto.ca

Inuit Canadians are on average about 20 years younger and have a 10-year lower 
life expectancy than other Canadians. While there have been improvements in 
Inuit health status over time, significant health disparities still remain. This 
paper will review the peer-reviewed literature related to Inuit child, youth, 
and maternal health between 2000 and 2010, investigate which thematic areas were 
examined, and determine what proportion of the research is related to each 
group. Establishing areas of research concentrations and scarcities may help 
direct future research where it is needed. We followed a systematic literature 
review and employed peer-reviewed research literature on child, youth, and 
maternal health which were selected from 3 sources, MEDLINE, CINAHL, and the 
Circumpolar Health Bibliographic Database. The resulting references were read, 
and summarized according to population group and thematic area. The thematic 
areas that emerged by frequency were: infectious disease; 
environment/environmental exposures; nutrition; birth outcomes; tobacco; chronic 
disease; health care; policy, human resources; interventions/programming; social 
determinants of health; mental health and wellbeing; genetics; injury; and 
dental health. The 72 papers that met the inclusion criteria were not mutually 
exclusive with respect to group studied. Fifty-nine papers (82%) concerned child 
health, 24 papers (33%) youth health, and 58 papers (81%) maternal health. The 
review documented high incidences of illness and significant public health 
problems; however, in the context of these issues, opportunities to develop 
research that could directly enhance health outcomes are explored.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v71i0.18383
PMCID: PMC3417531
PMID: 22868191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Aging (Albany NY). 2012 Jul;4(7):499-508. doi: 10.18632/aging.100474.

The lifespan extension effects of resveratrol are conserved in the honey bee and 
may be driven by a mechanism related to caloric restriction.

Rascón B(1), Hubbard BP, Sinclair DA, Amdam GV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University 
of Life Sciences, Ås, Norway. brenda.rascon@asu.edu

Our interest in healthy aging and in evolutionarily conserved mechanisms of 
lifespan extension prompted us to investigate whether features of age-related 
decline in the honey bee could be attenuated with resveratrol. Resveratrol is 
regarded as a caloric restriction mimetic known to extend lifespan in some but 
not all model species. The current, prevailing view is that resveratrol works 
largely by activating signaling pathways. It has also been suggested that 
resveratrol may act as an antioxidant and confer protection against nervous 
system impairment and oxidative stress. To test whether honey bee lifespan, 
learning performance, and food perception could be altered by resveratrol, we 
supplemented the diets of honey bees and measured lifespan, olfactory learning, 
and gustatory responsiveness to sucrose. Furthermore, to test the effects of 
resveratrol under metabolic challenge, we used hyperoxic environments to 
generate oxidative stress. Under normal oxygen conditions, two resveratrol 
treatments-30 and 130 μM-lengthened average lifespan in wild-type honey bees by 
38% and 33%, respectively. Both resveratrol treatments also lengthened maximum 
and median lifespan. In contrast, hyperoxic stress abolished the resveratrol 
life-extension response. Furthermore, resveratrol did not affect learning 
performance, but did alter gustation. Honey bees that were not fed resveratrol 
exhibited greater responsiveness to sugar, while those supplemented with 
resveratrol were less responsive to sugar. We also discovered that individuals 
fed a high dose of resveratrol-compared to controls-ingested fewer quantities of 
food under ad libitum feeding conditions.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100474
PMCID: PMC3433935
PMID: 22868943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interest to declare.


914. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2012 Aug;166(8):757-66. doi: 
10.1001/archpediatrics.2012.1011.

Adolescent bariatric surgery.

Hsia DS(1), Fallon SC, Brandt ML.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Department of Pediatrics, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Texas Children’s Hospital, Houston 77030, USA.

Pediatric obesity has increased from a relatively uncommon problem to one of the 
most important public health problems facing children today. Typical "adult" 
diseases, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, have 
become increasingly prevalent in the pediatric population. The earlier 
presentation of these comorbidities will have a significant impact for the 
future because this population of children will require more medical resources 
at an earlier age and will have a significantly decreased life expectancy. The 
significant morbidity of obesity in the pediatric population has led to 
consideration of more aggressive treatment protocols for obesity in children, 
including the introduction of surgical management at an earlier age. Surgery for 
obesity in adolescents has particular risks and benefits that must be accounted 
for when considering this approach. The unique psychological and emotional needs 
of adolescent patients make the patient selection process and perioperative 
management substantially different from those of adult patients. Initial 
outcomes of bariatric surgery in adolescents are comparable to those seen in 
adults in the short term. However, the long-term effects of these procedures on 
the adolescent population are not known. This review discusses the epidemiology 
of pediatric obesity, the indications for operative therapy in adolescent 
patients, the common surgical procedures used for weight loss, the reported 
outcomes of these procedures, and the importance of multidisciplinary management 
for this unique patient population.

DOI: 10.1001/archpediatrics.2012.1011
PMID: 22869408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Health Aff (Millwood). 2012 Aug;31(8):1803-13. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0746.

Differences in life expectancy due to race and educational differences are 
widening, and many may not catch up.

Olshansky SJ(1), Antonucci T, Berkman L, Binstock RH, Boersch-Supan A, Cacioppo 
JT, Carnes BA, Carstensen LL, Fried LP, Goldman DP, Jackson J, Kohli M, Rother 
J, Zheng Y, Rowe J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA. 
sjayo@uic.edu

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Apr;32(4):822.

It has long been known that despite well-documented improvements in longevity 
for most Americans, alarming disparities persist among racial groups and between 
the well-educated and those with less education. In this article we update 
estimates of the impact of race and education on past and present life 
expectancy, examine trends in disparities from 1990 through 2008, and place 
observed disparities in the context of a rapidly aging society that is emerging 
at a time of optimism about the next revolution in longevity. We found that in 
2008 US adult men and women with fewer than twelve years of education had life 
expectancies not much better than those of all adults in the 1950s and 1960s. 
When race and education are combined, the disparity is even more striking. In 
2008 white US men and women with 16 years or more of schooling had life 
expectancies far greater than black Americans with fewer than 12 years of 
education-14.2 years more for white men than black men, and 10.3 years more for 
white women than black women. These gaps have widened over time and have led to 
