recommendations suggests that anticoagulation decisions are not based on 
systematic evaluation of stroke and bleeding risks. Model-based clinical 
decision aids may improve oral anticoagulation decisions by more systematically 
weighing bleed and stroke risk.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03261840
PMID: 22920047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Klin Onkol. 2012;25 Suppl:S96-8.

[Diagnostics of breast cancer in high-risk women - our own experience].

[Article in Czech]

Palácová M(1), Krásenská M, Ondračková A, Petráková K, Schneiderová M, Foretová 
L, Navrátilová M, Hanousková D.

Author information:
(1)Klinika komplexní onkologické péče, Masarykův onkologický ústav, Brno. 
palacova@mou.cz

Preventive oncology clinic of MMCI provides complex preventive care for women 
with high hereditary risk of breast and ovarian cancer due to germline mutations 
in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. Clinical follow-up is also provided to women with 
mutations in other genes causing a higher risk of different tumors, and also to 
women with increased lifetime empirical risk of breast cancer due to positive 
family history. Our clinic was established in 2000 and takes care for about 700 
women. The goal of the clinic is to extend the life expectancy of these women to 
the level of the regular population. The risk of breast cancer can be reduced by 
prophylactic surgeries. Prophylactic mastectomy and oophorectomy are offered to 
women at a high risk. Other modality in breast cancer risk reduction is a 
chemoprevention by Tamoxifen. Most women accept only secondary prevention with 
the goal of the detection of breast cancer in clinical stage I, where the tumor 
is smaller than 1 cm and the risk of recurrence is less than 10%. The algorithm 
of prevention care was changed over the time and our diagnostic methods were 
improved by magnetic resonance imaging of breasts. During the 11 years of 
clinical follow-up 32 breast cancers in 31 women were detected. High risk women 
are examined every 6 month by physical examination, breast ultrasound and MRI 
plus mammography yearly.

PMID: 22920215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2012 Nov;8(4):253-64. doi: 10.2174/157340312803760749.

Obesity, diabetes and atrial fibrillation; epidemiology, mechanisms and 
interventions.

Asghar O(1), Alam U, Hayat SA, Aghamohammadzadeh R, Heagerty AM, Malik RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Sciences, The University of Manchester, UK.

The last few decades have witnessed a global rise in adult obesity of epidemic 
proportions. The potential impact of this is emphasized when one considers that 
body mass index (BMI) is a powerful predictor of death, type 2 diabetes (T2DM) 
and cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and mortality [1, 2]. Similarly we have 
witnessed a parallel rise in the incidence of atrial fibrillation (AF), the 
commonest sustained cardiac arrhythmia, which is also a significant cause of 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Part of this increase is attributable to 
advances in the treatment of coronary heart disease (CHD) and heart failure (HF) 
improving life expectancy and consequently the prevalence of AF. However, 
epidemiological studies have demonstrated an independent association between 
obesity and AF, possibly reflecting common pathophysiology and risk factors for 
both conditions. Indeed, weight gain and obesity are associated with structural 
and functional changes of the cardiovascular system including left atrial and 
ventricular remodeling, haemodynamic alterations, autonomic dysfunction, and 
diastolic dysfunction. Moreover, diabetic cardiomyopathy is characterized by an 
adverse structural and functional cardiac phenotype which may predispose to the 
development of AF [3]. In this review, we discuss the pathophysiological and 
mechanistic relationships between obesity, diabetes and AF, and the challenges 
posed in the management of this high-risk group of individuals.

DOI: 10.2174/157340312803760749
PMCID: PMC3492809
PMID: 22920475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2012 Nov;8(4):368-73. doi: 10.2174/157340312803760730.

Cost of atrial fibrillation: invasive vs non-invasive management in 2012.

Khaykin Y(1), Shamiss Y.

Author information:
(1)Heart Rhythm Program, Southlake Regional Health Centre, 105-712 Davis Drive, 
Newmarket, Ontario, L3Y 8C3, Canada. y.khaykin@utoronto.ca

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia. It 
places an enormous burden on the patients, caregivers and the society at large. 
As a chronic illness, AF accrues significant costs related to clinical 
presentation, complications and loss of productivity. Novel invasive approaches 
to AF promise a cure in some patients and a significant reduction in AF burden 
in others, but are very expensive. This paper will address the cost of 
conventional and invasive strategies in AF care and will review the evidence on 
the comparative cost effectiveness of these approaches.

DOI: 10.2174/157340312803760730
PMCID: PMC3492820
PMID: 22920478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Am J Cardiol. 2012 Dec 1;110(11):1663-6. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.07.034. 
Epub 2012 Aug 22.

Application of the Seattle heart failure model in patients >80 years of age 
enrolled in a tertiary care heart failure clinic.

Benbarkat H(1), Addetia K, Eisenberg MJ, Sheppard R, Filion KB, Michel C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, McGill University Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 2013 Apr 15;111(8):1235.

The Seattle Heart Failure Model (SHFM) is 1 of the most widely used tools to 
predict survival in patients with heart failure. However, it does not 
accommodate very elderly patients. We decided to assess the applicability of the 
SHFM in patients >80 years old enrolled in a tertiary care heart failure clinic. 
We evaluated the difference between observed survival and mean life expectancy 
as predicted by the SHFM on 261 patients >80 years old enrolled in a heart 
failure clinic at the Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada from 
January 2002 through March 2010. Average age of the patient population was 85 ± 
4 years (range 80 to 105). Sixty-two percent of the population consisted of men, 
63% had ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM), and average ejection fraction was 36 ± 
18%. Median observed survival was 1.91 years (interquartile range 0.68 to 5.53) 
for the total population (n = 261). The SHFM (predicted median survival 6.7 
years, interquartile range 3.8 to 11.2) overestimated life expectancy by an 
average of 4.79 years. For patients with ICM (n = 164) versus non-ICM (n = 97), 
the score overestimated survival by 4.29 versus 5.69 years, respectively. In 
conclusion, the SHFM overestimates life expectancy in elderly patients followed 
in a tertiary care heart failure clinic. Further studies are needed to more 
accurately estimate prognosis in this patient population.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.07.034
PMID: 22920927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Mech Dev. 2012 Sep-Dec;129(9-12):219-35. doi: 10.1016/j.mod.2012.07.007. Epub
 2012 Aug 16.

Pou2, a class V POU-type transcription factor in zebrafish, regulates 
dorsoventral patterning and convergent extension movement at different blastula 
stages.

Khan A(1), Nakamoto A, Okamoto S, Tai M, Nakayama Y, Kobayashi K, Kawamura A, 
Takeda H, Yamasu K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama 
University, Shimo-Okubo, Sakura-ku, Saitama City, Saitama 338-8570, Japan.

Zebrafish pou2, which encodes a class V POU transcription factor considered to 
be an orthologue of mouse Oct-3/4, has been implicated by mutant analysis in 
dorsoventral (DV) patterning, gastrulation, and endoderm formation in early 
embryos and later in the regionalization of the neural plate. A series of 
gain-of-function experiments were conducted in the present study to directly 
reveal the roles pou2 plays in embryogenesis. We first revealed that injecting 
low-dose wild-type pou2 mRNA ventralizes embryos. Similar overexpression of 
activated (vp-) pou2 resulted in the same effects, whereas repressive (en-) pou2 
caused dorsalization, supporting the previously proposed idea that pou2 is 
involved in DV patterning and that pou2 is a transcriptional activator. In 
contrast, high-dose mRNA for pou2 and its modified genes affected convergent 
extension (CE) movement. We observed similar activities for mouse Oct-3/4, 
suggesting conservation of the roles of this POU family in vertebrate 
development. To determine the critical stage for the functions of pou2 in 
embryos, we established a transgenic (Tg) fish line harboring en-pou2 under 
regulation of a heat-shock promoter (HEP) and found that the exposure of HEP Tg 
embryos to heat shock at the midblastula (sphere) stage dorsalized embryos, 
whereas induction of HEP at the late blastula stage (30-50% epiboly) affected CE 
movement. The defects due to HEP induction were rescued by introducing wild-type 
pou2 mRNA before the heat treatments. Collectively, these data demonstrated that 
pou2 regulates DV patterning and CE movement in zebrafish embryos at the 
midblastula and late blastula stages, respectively.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mod.2012.07.007
PMID: 22921661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2012 Sep;8(9):1360-3. doi: 10.4161/hv.21921. Epub 2012
 Aug 24.

Cancer vaccines and immunotherapeutics: challenges for pricing, reimbursement 
and market access.

Jönsson B(1), Wilking N.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. Bengt.Jonsson@hhs.se

Public payment is key to market access for new therapeutics including cancer 
vaccines and cancer immunotherapeutics. However, the methodology for economic 
evaluation aimed at informing decisions about pricing and reimbursement is 
different for cancer vaccines, such as HPV for preventing the occurrence or 
incidence of cancer, and immunotherapeutics for treatment of patients with 
manifest cancer. Vaccination against HPV is a traditional public health 
intervention, where the role of economic evaluation is to inform decisions about 
optimal vaccination strategies. The decision is about funding for a vaccination 
program, aimed at vaccinating a defined population at risk, either at a national 
or regional level. The methodology of economic evaluation is based on 
statistical modeling of number of cases prevented over a long time period, and 
the costs and health outcome related to this, for different vaccination 
strategies For immunotherapeutics, the role of economic evaluation is to assist 
decisions about reimbursement and guidelines for treatment of patients with 
establish disease, very often at advanced stages with short life expectancy. The 
focus is on alternative treatment options, and the costs and outcomes associated 
with these. Alternatives may be best supportive care, immunotherapeutics or 
other treatments like surgery, radiotherapy and other anti-cancer drugs. From an 
economic perspective the type of therapy does not matter, only costs and outcome 
associated with the relevant alternatives. The main controversy about 
reimbursement of immunotherapeutics, as with other new cancer drugs, has been 
the cost of treatment, mainly determined by the price of the therapy, in 
relation to the expected benefits in terms of survival and quality of life. This 
paper reviews the evidence on cost-effectiveness, the reimbursement decisions 
made, and the impact on market access for new immunotherapeutics. Sipuleucel-T 
(Provenge(®)) and abiraterone (Zytiga(®)) for treatment of prostate cancer and 
ipilimumab (Yervoy(®)) as well as vemurafenib (Zelboraf(®)) for treatment of 
metastatic melanoma are used as examples of the economic issues involved in 
analysis and decision-making.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.21921
PMCID: PMC3579921
PMID: 22922209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Med Care. 2012 Dec;50(12):1076-85. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318269e06d.

Novel health economic evaluation of a vaccination strategy to prevent 
HPV-related diseases: the BEST study.

Favato G(1), Baio G, Capone A, Marcellusi A, Costa S, Garganese G, Picardo M, 
Drummond M, Jonsson B, Scambia G, Zweifel P, Mennini FS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Accounting and Finance, Kingston University, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Med Care. 2013 Apr;51(4):378.

Comment in
    Med Care. 2013 Apr;51(4):374.
    Med Care. 2013 Apr;51(4):374-8.

BACKGROUND: The development of human papillomavirus (HPV)-related diseases is 
not understood perfectly and uncertainties associated with commonly utilized 
probabilistic models must be considered. The study assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of a quadrivalent-based multicohort HPV vaccination strategy 
within a Bayesian framework.
METHODS: A full Bayesian multicohort Markov model was used, in which all unknown 
quantities were associated with suitable probability distributions reflecting 
the state of currently available knowledge. These distributions were informed by 
observed data or expert opinion. The model cycle lasted 1 year, whereas the 
follow-up time horizon was 90 years. Precancerous cervical lesions, cervical 
cancers, and anogenital warts were considered as outcomes.
RESULTS: The base case scenario (2 cohorts of girls aged 12 and 15 y) and other 
multicohort vaccination strategies (additional cohorts aged 18 and 25 y) were 
cost-effective, with a discounted cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained 
that corresponded to €12,013, €13,232, and €15,890 for vaccination programs 
based on 2, 3, and 4 cohorts, respectively. With multicohort vaccination 
strategies, the reduction in the number of HPV-related events occurred earlier 
(range, 3.8-6.4 y) when compared with a single cohort. The analysis of the 
expected value of information showed that the results of the model were subject 
to limited uncertainty (cost per patient = €12.6).
CONCLUSIONS: This methodological approach is designed to incorporate the 
uncertainty associated with HPV vaccination. Modeling the cost-effectiveness of 
a multicohort vaccination program with Bayesian statistics confirmed the value 
for money of quadrivalent-based HPV vaccination. The expected value of 
information gave the most appropriate and feasible representation of the true 
value of this program.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318269e06d
PMID: 22922435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Neuroepidemiology. 2012;39(3-4):156-62. doi: 10.1159/000341241. Epub 2012 Aug
 22.

Mortality of harmful drinkers increased after reduction of alcohol prices in 
northern Finland: a 10-year follow-up of head trauma subjects.

Vaaramo K(1), Puljula J, Tetri S, Juvela S, Hillbom M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Oulu and Oulu University Hospital, 
Oulu, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: Alcohol-related mortality may be influenced by the level of alcohol 
consumption. We investigated the effect of alcohol price reduction on mortality 
in a cohort of 827 subjects with head injury.
METHODS: We used the Finnish National Hospital Discharge Register to identify 
all diagnoses recorded during hospital and health center visits for survivors of 
the index injury during a follow-up of 10 years. Mortality data were gathered 
from death records obtained from the Official Cause-of-Death Statistics. Cox 
proportional hazards model was used to identify independent predictors for 
death. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were used to characterize the effect of 
alcohol price reduction on mortality of harmful and non-harmful drinkers.
RESULTS: Alcohol-related deaths increased after the reduction of alcohol prices 
on March 1, 2004. Subjects recorded as harmful drinkers during the follow-up 
period were significantly (p < 0.001) more likely than others to die after the 
price reduction. Older age (HR 1.06, 95% CI 1.05-1.07), moderate-to-severe brain 
injury (HR 2.39, 95% CI 1.59-3.60) and harmful drinking recorded after the index 
trauma (HR 2.59, 95% CI 1.62-4.62) were significant (p < 0.001) predictors for 
death.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that a political decision to lower the price of alcohol 
may cause a significant increase in the death rate of harmful drinkers.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000341241
PMID: 22922602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Dermatology. 2012;225(1):45-53. doi: 10.1159/000339865. Epub 2012 Aug 25.

The role of the EQ-5D in the economic evaluation of dermatological conditions 
and therapies.

Pereira FR(1), Basra MK, Finlay AY, Salek MS.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Socioeconomic Research, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.

Economic evaluation is an increasingly important aspect of assessment of the 
burden of skin diseases. Although dermatology data were not used in its 
development, the use of the EQ-5D questionnaire has been encouraged by the 
requirement of health technology assessment agencies for utility comparisons 
informing reimbursement decisions. The aim of this review was to examine the use 
of the EQ-5D in dermatology and to consider its future role in the economic 
evaluation of skin diseases. Published studies reporting the use of the EQ-5D in 
the economic analysis of skin diseases were carefully examined. Nineteen 
articles and 1 abstract published between 2003 and 2011 were identified, in 
which cost-of-illness, cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses were 
described. The EQ-5D is not a dermatology-specific measure, and it is not yet 
clear whether it is the most appropriate measure to support economic evaluation 
in the context of dermatology.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000339865
PMID: 22922888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2012 Oct;135(3):907-12. doi:
10.1007/s10549-012-2207-1.  Epub 2012 Aug 26.

Preoperative breast MRI in early-stage breast cancer.

Young P(1), Kim B, Malin JL.

Author information:
(1)Cedars Sinai Medical Center, 8700 Beverly Blvd Suite 5512, Los Angeles, CA 
90048, USA. pyoung@mednet.ucla.edu

Rapid uptake of new imaging technology is a major contributor to rising 
healthcare costs. Preoperative breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for 
patients with early-stage breast cancer has dramatically increased in use 
without the evidence of improved outcomes compared to standard assessment and is 
associated with higher rates of mastectomy. A decision analytic model was 
developed to evaluate the impact of adding breast MRI to the preoperative 
evaluation of women with early-stage breast cancer who were candidates for 
breast-conserving therapy on patient outcomes measured in quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Model inputs, including survival, recurrence rates, and health 
utilities, were obtained from a comprehensive literature review. One-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed to estimate threshold values for key 
parameters at which adding MRI would become the optimal imaging strategy over 
standard assessment. Preoperative MRI resulted in 17.77 QALYs compared to 17.86 
QALYs with standard assessment, a decrease of 0.09 QALYs or 34 days. In 
sensitivity analyses, standard assessment was associated with better patient 
outcomes than preoperative breast MRI across all plausible probabilities for 
mastectomy, local recurrence, and health utilities. For routine preoperative 
breast MRI to become the optimal strategy, the conversion rate to mastectomy 
after preoperative MRI would need to be <1 % (versus the range of 3.6-33 % 
reported in the literature). Routine preoperative breast MRI appears to confer 
no advantage over the standard diagnostic evaluations for early-stage breast 
cancer and may lead to worse patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-012-2207-1
PMID: 22923237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Appl Biomech. 2013 Jun;29(3):336-45. doi: 10.1123/jab.29.3.336. Epub 2012
Aug  22.

A biomechanical study of side steps at different distances.

Inaba Y(1), Yoshioka S, Iida Y, Hay DC, Fukashiro S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan.

Lateral quickness is a crucial component of many sports. However, biomechanical 
factors that contribute to quickness in lateral movements have not been 
understood well. Thus, the purpose of this study was to quantify 3-dimensional 
kinetics of hip, knee, and ankle joints in side steps to understand the function 
of lower extremity muscle groups. Side steps at nine different distances were 
performed by nine male subjects. Kinematic and ground reaction force data were 
recorded, and net joint torque and work were calculated by a standard inverse- 
dynamics method. Extension torques and work done at hip, knee, and ankle joints 
contributed substantially to the changes in side step distances. On the other 
hand, hip abduction work was not as sensitive to the changes in the side step 
distances. The main roles of hip abduction torque and work were to accelerate 
the center of mass laterally in the earlier phase of the movement and to keep 
the trunk upright, but not to generate large power for propulsion.

DOI: 10.1123/jab.29.3.336
PMID: 22923416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Diabetes Care. 2012 Dec;35(12):2580-7. doi: 10.2337/dc12-0197. Epub 2012 Aug
24.

Alterations in gastrointestinal, endocrine, and metabolic processes after 
bariatric Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery.

Anderwald CH(1), Tura A, Promintzer-Schifferl M, Prager G, Stadler M, Ludvik B, 
Esterbauer H, Bischof MG, Luger A, Pacini G, Krebs M.

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Unit, Institute of Biomedical Engineering, National Research 
Council, Padua, Italy. christian-heinz.anderwald@meduniwien.ac.at

OBJECTIVE: Obesity leads to severe long-term complications and reduced life 
expectancy. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery induces excessive and 
continuous weight loss in (morbid) obesity, although it causes several abnormal 
anatomical and physiological conditions.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: To distinctively unveil effects of RYGB surgery on 
β-cell function and glucose turnover in skeletal muscle, liver, and gut, 
nondiabetic, morbidly obese patients were studied before (pre-OP, five 
female/one male, BMI: 49 ± 3 kg/m(2), 43 ± 2 years of age) and 7 ± 1 months 
after (post-OP, BMI: 37 ± 3 kg/m(2)) RYGB surgery, compared with matching obese 
(CON(ob), five female/one male, BMI: 34 ± 1 kg/m(2), 48 ± 3 years of age) and 
lean controls (CON(lean), five female/one male, BMI: 22 ± 0 kg/m(2), 42 ± 2 
years of age). Oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTTs), 
hyperinsulinemic-isoglycemic clamp tests, and mechanistic mathematical modeling 
allowed determination of whole-body insulin sensitivity (M/I), OGTT and clamp 
test β-cell function, and gastrointestinal glucose absorption.
RESULTS: Post-OP lost (P < 0.0001) 35 ± 3 kg body weight. M/I increased after 
RYGB, becoming comparable to CON(ob), but remaining markedly lower than 
CON(lean) (P < 0.05). M/I tightly correlated (τ = -0.611, P < 0.0001) with fat 
mass. During OGTT, post-OP showed ≥15% reduced plasma glucose from 120 to 180 
min (≤4.5 mmol/L), and 29-fold elevated active glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
dynamic areas under the curve, which tightly correlated (r = 0.837, P < 0.001) 
with 84% increased β-cell secretion. Insulinogenic index (0-30 min) in post-OP 
was ≥29% greater (P < 0.04). At fasting, post-OP showed approximately halved 
insulin secretion (P < 0.05 vs. pre-OP). Insulin-stimulated insulin secretion in 
post-OP was 52% higher than before surgery, but 1-2 pmol/min(2) lower than in 
CON(ob)/CON(lean) (P < 0.05). Gastrointestinal glucose absorption was comparable 
in pre-OP and post-OP, but 9-26% lower from 40 to 90 min in post-OP than in 
CON(ob)/CON(lean) (P < 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: RYGB surgery leads to decreased plasma glucose concentrations in 
the third OGTT hour and exaggerated β-cell function, for which increased GLP-1 
release seems responsible, whereas gastrointestinal glucose absorption remains 
unchanged but lower than in matching controls.

DOI: 10.2337/dc12-0197
PMCID: PMC3507557
PMID: 22923664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Appl Res Qual Life. 2012 Sep;7(3):281-294. doi: 10.1007/s11482-011-9163-5.
Epub  2011 Nov 27.

Relationship Between Morbidly Obese Subjects' Attributions of Low General 
Well-being, Expectations and Health-Related Quality of Life: Five-year Follow-up 
After Gastric Banding.

Pristed SG, Fromholt J, Kroustrup JP.

Low health-related quality of life among morbidly obese subjects is well-known. 
However, the relationship may not be simple. We aim to examine the association 
between pre-operative expectations and health-related quality of life and 
long-term changes in health-related quality of life after gastric banding. The 
questionnaires were answered twice: before and five years after gastric banding. 
Short Form-36 assessed health-related quality of life. Obesity specific 
questions were used to assess the subjects' attribution of impairment to morbid 
obesity and their expectations to changes as a result of weight loss. The 
subjects attribute morbid obesity as a major reason for their impairments in 
state of health, physical activity, pain and work capacity. As a result of 
weight loss, the subjects expect improvements even within fields which they did 
not consider to be impaired due to morbid obesity. We found an inverse 
association between high expectations and mental component summary score at 
baseline. At follow-up having expectations fully fulfilled was associated with a 
higher mental component summary score than having expectations fulfilled only to 
a fair extension and not having expectations fulfilled. Physical component 
summary was statistically significant improved at follow-up Morbidly obese 
subjects' attributions of low general well-being combined with their 
expectations may be a central part of understanding the mechanisms involved in 
the association between morbid obesity and low health-related quality of life. 
Furthermore the impact of morbid obesity on health-related quality of life may 
be reduced if healthprofessionals bridge the gap between morbidly obese 
subjects' expectations and their experience.

DOI: 10.1007/s11482-011-9163-5
PMCID: PMC3411283
PMID: 2292408561. J Popul Ageing. 2012 Sep;5(3):151-162. doi: 10.1007/s12062-012-9068-6. Epub
2012  Jul 7.

The Old-Age Healthy Dependency Ratio in Europe.

Muszyńska MM, Rau R.

The aim of this study is to answer the question of whether improvements in the 
health of the elderly in European countries could compensate for population 
ageing on the supply side of the labour market. We propose a 
state-of-health-specific (additive) decomposition of the old-age dependency 
ratio into an old-age healthy dependency ratio and an old-age unhealthy 
dependency ratio in order to participate in a discussion of the significance of 
changes in population health to compensate for the ageing of the labour force. 
Applying the proposed indicators to the Eurostat's population projection for the 
years 2010-2050, and assuming there will be equal improvements in life 
expectancy and healthy life expectancy at birth, we discuss various scenarios 
concerning future of the European labour force. While improvements in population 
health are anticipated during the years 2010-2050, the growth in the number of 
elderly people in Europe may be expected to lead to a rise in both healthy and 
unhealthy dependency ratios. The healthy dependency ratio is, however, projected 
to make up the greater part of the old-age dependency ratio. In the European 
countries in 2006, the value of the old-age dependency ratio was 25. But in the 
year 2050, with a positive migration balance over the years 2010-2050, there 
would be 18 elderly people in poor health plus 34 in good health per 100 people 
in the current working age range of 15-64. In the scenarios developed in this 
study, we demonstrate that improvements in health and progress in preventing 
disability will not, by themselves, compensate for the ageing of the workforce. 
However, coupled with a positive migration balance, at the level and with the 
age structure assumed in the Eurostat's population projections, these 
developments could ease the effect of population ageing on the supply side of 
the European labour market.

DOI: 10.1007/s12062-012-9068-6
PMCID: PMC3412045
PMID: 22924086


62. Aust Dent J. 2012 Sep;57(3):256-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.2012.01715.x.
Epub  2012 Aug 5.

HIV and dentistry in Australia: clinical and legal issues impacting on dental 
care.

McLean AT(1), Wheeler EK, Cameron S, Baker D.

Author information:
(1)St Vincent's Hospital, Fitzroy, Victoria, Australia.

The number of people in Australia living with HIV is growing. This reflects a 
consistent rate of new HIV infections combined with an increased life expectancy 
of people with HIV. Dentists are ideally positioned to identify, manage and 
treat HIV-associated oral manifestations and have a responsibility to themselves 
and to their patients to be up-to-date with the evolving area of HIV and related 
issues. Those issues include medico-legal implications associated with HIV 
diagnosis and treatment. This article provides a review of the current clinical 
and medico-legal aspects of HIV in Australia. The oral manifestations of HIV can 
be divided into five categories: microbiological infections (fungal, bacterial 
and viral); oral neoplasms; neurological conditions; other oral conditions that 
may be associated with HIV infection; and oral conditions associated with HIV 
treatment. Current treatment options in the scope of general dental practice are 
outlined. Medico-legal issues related to the management of patients with HIV are 
explored, including rights of the patient regarding disclosure of HIV status; an 
algorithm for the management of a patient with signs or symptoms indicating 
possible HIV infection, including referral pathways; and an algorithm for 
dealing with patient management and referral issues.

© 2012 Australian Dental Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.2012.01715.x
PMID: 22924347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Clin Toxicol (Phila). 2012 Sep;50(8):754-8. doi:
10.3109/15563650.2012.718783.

Effect of pirfenidone on pulmonary fibrosis due to paraquat poisoning in rats.

Seifirad S(1), Keshavarz A, Taslimi S, Aran S, Abbasi H, Ghaffari A.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary and Critical Care Research Center, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. sseifirad@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: This study investigated the effectiveness of pirfenidone compared 
with antioxidants, in the prevention of pulmonary fibrosis and increasing the 
survival in acutely paraquat poisoned rats.
METHODS: Five groups of ten rats were included in this study. Three groups were 
poisoned with intraperitoneal injection of 15 mg/kg paraquat. Among these 
poisoned groups, one group was treated with vitamin C (500 mg/kg, 
intraperitoneal), vitamin E (200 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) and N-acetylcysteine 
(250 mg/kg, intravenous); two others were treated with either normal saline or 
pirfenidone (200 mg/kg, intravenous); two groups were not poisoned and received 
normal saline or pirfenidone (200 mg/kg, intravenous). All injections except 
paraquat were repeated in four consecutive days. On the 15th day of study a 
semi-quantitative determination of lung fibrosis was done using Ashcroft staging 
criteria on the lung sections.
RESULTS: Pirfenidone decreased paraquat induced lung fibrosis (p < 0.001) while 
antioxidants did not decrease the lung fibrosis (p = 0.413). Life expectancy 
decreased in paraquat + normal saline (11 days, 95% CI 7.94-14.05) and paraquat 
+ antioxidant (11 days, 95% CI 7.77-14.23) groups. The increase in the survival 
of rats in paraquat/pirfenidone group was insignificant (13.4 days, 95% CI 
11.13-15.67).
CONCLUSION: This study showed that pirfenidone is able to decrease pulmonary 
fibrosis following paraquat poisoning in a rat model.

DOI: 10.3109/15563650.2012.718783
PMID: 22924653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Oct 1;30(10):903-23. doi: 
10.2165/11597110-000000000-00000.

The cost effectiveness of newer epilepsy treatments: a review of the literature 
on partial-onset seizures.

Bolin K(1), Forsgren L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
Kristian.Bolin@nek.lu.se

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological 
disorders, affecting more than 3 million people in Europe. This paper reviews 
the published evidence regarding the cost effectiveness of second-generation 
antiepileptic drugs (AEDs).
METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed, using the databases 
Academic Search Complete, Econlit, EMBASE and MEDLINE. Health economic 
evaluations of newer (second-generation) AEDs, published as full-length journal 
articles, were searched for. We focused on evaluations of newer AEDs as 
treatment for partial-onset seizures. 470 studies were initially identified and 
19 were finally included. Information regarding (i) AEDs studied, (ii) cost 
effectiveness, and (iii) a variety of health economic modelling specifics was 
extracted from each study. Then, the included studies were summarized and a 
quality assessment was performed, according to the British Medical Journal's 
guidelines for economic studies.
RESULTS: The results were as follows: (i) the cost per additional QALY for newer 
AEDs used as adjunctive treatment, compared with standard therapy, ranged 
between $US19 139 (levetiracetam) and $US57 210 (pregabalin) [year 2010 values]; 
no cost-effectiveness evidence was identified for felbamate, eslicarbazepine, 
oxcarbazepine or tiagabine; and (ii) all studies met at least 60% of the British 
Medical Journal's guidelines criteria, and seven studies were found to satisfy 
more than 80% of the criteria. Guidelines criteria not met involve inadequate 
reporting of input data and modelling details, including validation and 
availability of models used for cost-effectiveness calculations.
CONCLUSIONS: Although failure to meet good practice guidelines influences the 
reliability of the presented evidence adversely, a sufficient number of the 
included studies were found to comply enough with the guidelines in order for 
the qualitative content of the cost-effectiveness results - that some of the 
newer AEDs are cost effective - to be reliable. In fact, this conclusion is 
likely to be relatively robust, since the effect of improved seizure control on 
labour market performance was not included in the base-case results in any of 
the included studies and improved seizure control need only to have a moderate 
effect on sickness absenteeism in order for the corresponding treatment to be 
cost effective even when willingness to pay for an additional QALY is low. 
However, the cost effectiveness of newer AEDs has only been studied for a small 
number of settings, and hence future studies incorporating additional settings 
are needed.

DOI: 10.2165/11597110-000000000-00000
PMID: 22924967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Aug 28;12:278. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-278.

Application of Variable Life Adjusted Displays (VLAD) on Victorian Admitted 
Episodes Dataset (VAED).

Andrianopoulos N(1), Jolley D, Evans SM, Brand CA, Cameron PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Preventive Medicine, Centre for Research 
Excellence in Patient Safety, School of Public Health, Preventive Medicine 
Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. nick.andrianopoulos@monash.edu

BACKGROUND: The need to improve patient safety has been identified as a major 
priority for health reform in developed countries, including Australia. We 
investigated the implementation and appropriateness of Variable Life Adjusted 
Displays as a quality control procedure to monitor "in-control" versus 
"out-of-control" processes in Victorian public hospitals.
METHODS: Victorian Admitted Episode Data from Department of Human Services, 
Victoria for 2004-7 were used. The VLAD is a plot of a cumulative sum of the 
difference in expected outcome (range 0-1) and observed outcome (0 or 1) for 
sequential separations. Three outcomes were assessed: in-hospital mortality for 
acute myocardial infarction, stroke and heart failure. Logistic regression was 
used to obtain a realistic measure of expected mortality over the period 2004-5, 
adjusting for covariates and comorbidities, to estimate expected mortality risk 
for the separations between 2005-7. VLAD were plotted for the years 2005-7, by 
the 11 hospitals with the highest frequency of separations. Signalling limits 
for 30%, 50% and 75% risk decrease and risk increase were determined and plotted 
for each VLAD utilizing risk-adjusted cumulative sum techniques. This is a 
likelihood-ratio test statistic for signalling. If the VLAD signalled by 
intersecting with a limit, the limit was reset.
RESULTS: The three logit models displayed reasonable fit to the observed data. 
There were n = 2999 separations in the AMI model, n = 3598 in the HF model and 
n = 1922 in the stroke model. The number of separations plotted by VLAD ranged 
from n = 126 to n = 648. No signals were observed in 64%, 55% and 18% of VLAD 
for AMI, HF and stroke respectively. For AMI and HF 9% of hospitals signalled at 
least once for each of 30%, 50% and 75% risk increase, whereas this was 45% for 
stroke. Hospitals signalling at least once for risk decrease ranged from 18% to 
36% across the levels of risk and outcomes. No VLAD signalled for both risk 
decrease and increase.
CONCLUSIONS: VLAD intersecting with limits to signal "out-of-control" states, 
may be an appropriate technique to help hospitals assess quality control. 
Preliminary work displays some between hospital differences. Relevant signals 
can be used to investigate why a system is potentially performing better than or 
worse than expected. Types and levels of investigation could depend on the type 
of signalling. Validation work, for example attempting to correlate signals with 
clinical notes, prior to VLAD distribution needs to be undertaken.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-278
PMCID: PMC3576249
PMID: 22925089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. BMJ Qual Saf. 2012 Sep;21(9):737-45. doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2011-001159.

Preventable deaths due to problems in care in English acute hospitals: a 
retrospective case record review study.

Hogan H(1), Healey F, Neale G, Thomson R, Vincent C, Black N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research & Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK. helen.hogan@lshtm.ac.uk

Erratum in
    BMJ Qual Saf. 2013 Feb;22(2):182.

Comment in
    BMJ Qual Saf. 2013 Jul;22(7):607-8.
    BMJ Qual Saf. 2013 Jul;22(7):607-8.

INTRODUCTION: Monitoring hospital mortality rates is widely recommended. 
However, the number of preventable deaths remains uncertain with estimates in 
England ranging from 840 to 40 000 per year, these being derived from studies 
that identified adverse events but not whether events contributed to death or 
shortened life expectancy of those affected.
METHODS: Retrospective case record reviews of 1000 adults who died in 2009 in 10 
acute hospitals in England were undertaken. Trained physician reviewers 
estimated life expectancy on admission, to identified problems in care 
contributing to death and judged if deaths were preventable taking into account 
patients' overall condition at that time.
RESULTS: Reviewers judged 5.2% (95% CI 3.8% to 6.6%) of deaths as having a 50% 
or greater chance of being preventable. The principal problems associated with 
preventable deaths were poor clinical monitoring (31.3%; 95% CI 23.9 to 39.7), 
diagnostic errors (29.7%; 95% CI 22.5% to 38.1%), and inadequate drug or fluid 
management (21.1%; 95% CI 14.9 to 29.0). Extrapolating from these figures 
suggests there would have been 11 859 (95% CI 8712 to 14 983) adult preventable 
deaths in hospitals in England. Most preventable deaths (60%) occurred in 
elderly, frail patients with multiple comorbidities judged to have had less than 
1 year of life left to live.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of preventable hospital deaths is much lower than 
previous estimates. The burden of harm from preventable problems in care is 
still substantial. A focus on deaths may not be the most efficient approach to 
identify opportunities for improvement given the low proportion of deaths due to 
problems with healthcare.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjqs-2011-001159
PMCID: PMC3436096
PMID: 22927487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the unified competing interest form at http://www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare that neither 
authors nor their family relations have a financial or non-financial interest 
that might be relevant to the submitted work.


67. J Neurochem. 2012 Dec;123(6):904-10. doi: 10.1111/jnc.12001. Epub 2012 Oct 4.

Differential neurite outgrowth is required for axon specification by cultured 
hippocampal neurons.

Yamamoto H(1), Demura T, Morita M, Banker GA, Tanii T, Nakamura S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science and Biotechnology, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, Tokyo, Japan. h-yama@cc.tuat.ac.jp

Formation of an axon is the first morphological evidence of neuronal 
polarization, visible as a profound outgrowth of the axon compared with sibling 
neurites. One unsolved question on the mechanism of axon formation is the role 
of axon outgrowth in axon specification. This question was difficult to assess, 
because neurons freely extend their neurites in a conventional culture. Here, we 
leveraged surface nano/micro-modification techniques to fabricate a template 
substrate for constraining neurite lengths of cultured neurons. Using the 
template, we asked (i) Do neurons polarize even if all neurites cannot grow 
sufficiently long? (ii) Would the neurite be fated to become an axon if only one 
was allowed to grow long? A pattern with symmetrical short paths (20 μm) was 
used to address the former question, and an asymmetrical pattern with one path 
extended to 100 μm for the latter. Axon formation was evaluated by tau-1/MAP2 
immunostaining and live-cell imaging of constitutively-active kinesin-1. We 
found that (1) neurons cannot polarize when extension of all neurites is 
restricted and that (2) when only a single neurite is permitted to grow long, 
neurons polarize and the longest neurite becomes the axon. These results provide 
clear evidence that axon outgrowth is required for its specification.

© 2012 The Authors Journal of Neurochemistry © 2012 International Society for 
Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.12001
PMCID: PMC3521042
PMID: 22928776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Aug;6(4):449-65; quiz 466. doi: 
10.1586/egh.12.25.

Flexible endoscopic and surgical management of Zenker's diverticulum.

Dzeletovic I(1), Ekbom DC, Baron TH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, 
USA.

Zenker's diverticulum is an outpouching of the mucosa through the Killian's 
triangle. The etiology of Zenker's diverticulum is not well understood. It is 
thought to be due to the incoordination or incomplete relaxation of the 
cricopharyngeal muscle. Most patients are men who present with symptoms of 
dysphagia between the seventh and eighth decades of life. The diagnosis is made 
with a dynamic contrast swallowing study. Treatment options include open 
surgical diverticulectomy and diverticulopexy with myotomy or myotomy alone 
using flexible or rigid endoscopes. Rigid endoscopic treatment is currently the 
preferred initial choice for Zenker's diverticulum of any size. The flexible 
endoscopic technique is used when there is a high risk of general anesthesia, or 
neck extension is contraindicated. Some centers use flexible endoscopy as the 
initial treatment option. Due to a lack of prospective studies, the treatment 
choice should be tailored to the individual patient and local expertise.

DOI: 10.1586/egh.12.25
PMID: 22928898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2012 Aug 28;10:102. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-10-102.

Development of the multi-attribute Adolescent Health Utility Measure (AHUM).

Beusterien KM(1), Yeung JE, Pang F, Brazier J.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Inc, an ICON plc Company, 7315 Wisconsin Ave, Ste 250 W, 
Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. kathy.beusterien@oxfordoutcomes.com

OBJECTIVE: Obtain utilities (preferences) for a generalizable set of health 
states experienced by older children and adolescents who receive therapy for 
chronic health conditions.
METHODS: A health state classification system, the Adolescent Health Utility 
Measure (AHUM), was developed based on generic health status measures and input 
from children with Hunter syndrome and their caregivers. The AHUM contains six 
dimensions with 4-7 severity levels: self-care, pain, mobility, strenuous 
activities, self-image, and health perceptions. Using the time trade off (TTO) 
approach, a UK population sample provided utilities for 62 of 16,800 AHUM 
states. A mixed effects model was used to estimate utilities for the AHUM 
states. The AHUM was applied to trial NCT00069641 of idursulfase for Hunter 
syndrome and its extension (NCT00630747).
RESULTS: Observations (i.e., utilities) totaled 3,744 (12*312 participants), 
with between 43 to 60 for each health state except for the best and worst states 
which had 312 observations. The mean utilities for the best and worst AHUM 
states were 0.99 and 0.41, respectively. The random effects model was 
statistically significant (p < 0.0001; adjusted R2 = 0.361; RMSE = 0.194). When 
AHUM utilities were applied to the idursulfase trial, mean utilities in the 
idursulfase weekly and placebo groups improved +0.087 and +0.006, respectively, 
from baseline to week 53. In the extension, when all patients received 
idursulfase, the utilities in the treatment group remained stable and the 
placebo group improved +0.039.
DISCUSSION: The AHUM health state classification system may be used in future 
research to enable calculation of quality-adjust life expectancy for applicable 
health conditions.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-10-102
PMCID: PMC3458914
PMID: 22929184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2012 Sep;67(5):585-94. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbs056. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

Accumulated financial strain and women's health over three decades.

Shippee TP(1), Wilkinson LR, Ferraro KF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Management, University of Minnesota, 420 
Delaware Street SE, MMC 729, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. tshippee@umn.edu

OBJECTIVE: Drawing from cumulative inequality theory, this research examines how 
accumulated financial strain affects women's self-rated health in middle and 
later life.
METHOD: Using data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Mature Women 
(1967-2003), we employ random-coefficient growth curve models to examine whether 
recurring financial strain influences women's health, above and beyond several 
measures of objective social status. Predicted probabilities of poor health were 
estimated by the frequency of financial strain.
RESULTS: Financial strain is associated with rapid declines in women's health 
during middle and later life, especially for those women who reported recurrent 
strain. Changes in household income and household wealth were also associated 
with women's health but did not eliminate the effects due to accumulated 
financial strain.
DISCUSSION: Accumulated financial strain has long-term effects on women's health 
during middle and later life. The findings demonstrate the importance of 
measuring life course exposure to stressors in studies of health trajectories.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbs056
PMCID: PMC3536554
PMID: 22929397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2012 Sep;67(5):605-17. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbs066. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

Differences in self-reported physical limitation among older women and men in 
Ismailia, Egypt.

Khadr Z(1), Yount K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Faculty of Economics and Political Science, Cairo 
University, Egypt. zeinabk@aucegypt.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study explores the reasons for gender differences in 
self-reported physical limitation among older adults in Ismailia, Egypt.
METHOD: 435 women and 448 men, 50 years and older in Ismailia, Egypt, 
participated in a social survey and tests of physical performance. Ordered logit 
models were estimated to compare unadjusted gender differences in reported 
disability with these differences adjusted sequentially for (a) age and 
objective measures of physical performance, (b) self-reported morbidities and 
health care use, and (c) social and economic attributes.
RESULTS: Compared with men, women more often reported higher levels of 
limitation in activities of daily living (ADLs), upper-extremity range of motion 
(ROM), and lower-extremity gross mobility (GM). Adjusting for age and objective 
measures of physical performance, women and men had similar odds of 
self-reporting difficulty with ADLs. With sequential adjustments for the 
remaining variables, women maintained significantly higher odds of self-reported 
difficulty with upper-extremity ROM and lower-extremity GM.
DISCUSSION: Cross-culturally, gender differences in self-reported disability may 
arise from objective and subjective perceptions of disability. Collectively, 
these results and those from prior studies in Bangladesh and the United States 
suggest that gender gaps in self-reported physical limitation may be associated 
with the degree of gender equality in society.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbs066
PMCID: PMC3536555
PMID: 22929399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Endoscopy. 2012 Nov;44(11):1012-20. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1310158. Epub 2012
Aug  28.

A randomized head-to-head study of small-bowel imaging comparing MiroCam and 
EndoCapsule.

Dolak W(1), Kulnigg-Dabsch S, Evstatiev R, Gasche C, Trauner M, Püspök A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine 
III, Medical University of Vienna, Austria. werner.dolak@meduniwien.ac.at

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: The MiroCam is a new video capsule device offering a 
higher frame rate and a longer battery life-expectancy. We aimed to quantify its 
clinical impact and performed a randomized head-to-head comparison with the 
EndoCapsule device with respect to the rate of complete small-bowel 
examinations, diagnostic yield in the small bowel, and capsule transit time.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients referred for video capsule endoscopy because of 
obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, chronic diarrhea, and anemia of unknown 
origin were randomly assigned to swallow either the MiroCam first, followed by 
the EndoCapsule 2 hours later, or vice versa. All videos were analyzed by two 
independent investigators.
RESULTS: A total of 50 patients (median age 61, range 21-84) were included. 
Complete small-bowel examination was achieved in 48/50 patients using the 
MiroCam and 45/50 using the EndoCapsule (96% vs. 90%, odds ratio [OR] 2.67, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 0.49-14.45; P=0.38). There was diagnostic yield in the 
small bowel for 25/50 patients using the MiroCam and 24/50 using the EndoCapsule 
(50% vs. 48%, OR 1.08, 95%CI 0.49-2.37; P>0.99). However, the findings were 
concordant in 68% only (kappa = 0.50). The combined diagnostic yield was 58%. 
Even solitary findings had a relevant clinical impact during a 6-month 
follow-up.
CONCLUSION: In this direct comparison the MiroCam and EndoCapsule devices were 
not statistically different with regard to their rates of complete small-bowel 
examinations or diagnostic yield. Their moderate concordance, mainly caused by 
missed pathological findings, which affected both devices, needs consideration 
in clinical practice.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1310158
PMID: 22930176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Indian J Surg Oncol. 2010 Apr;1(2):194-9. doi: 10.1007/s13193-010-0032-8.
Epub  2010 Nov 21.

Endoscopic v/s conventional approach to sino-nasal tumours - What's the debate?

Pai PS(1), Moiyadi A, Nair D.

Author information:
