isometric endurance of the knee extensors at 45% maximal voluntary isometric 
contraction (MVIC).
METHODS: Thirteen males (age 23 ± 6 y; height 1.80 ± 0.05 m; body mass 
81.0 ± 10.5 kg), matched for pre-supplementation isometric endurance, were 
allocated to either a placebo (n = 6) or β-alanine (n = 7; 6.4 g·d-1 over 
4 weeks) supplementation group. Participants completed an isometric knee 
extension test (IKET) to fatigue, at an intensity of 45% MVIC, before and after 
supplementation. In addition, two habituation tests were completed in the week 
prior to the pre-supplementation test and a further practice test was completed 
in the week prior to the post-supplementation test. MVIC force, IKET hold-time, 
and impulse generated were recorded.
RESULTS: IKET hold-time increased by 9.7 ± 9.4 s (13.2%) and impulse by 
3.7 ± 1.3 kN·s-1 (13.9%) following β-alanine supplementation. These changes were 
significantly greater than those in the placebo group (IKET: t(11) = 2.9, p 
≤0.05; impulse: t(11) = 3.1, p ≤ 0.05). There were no significant changes in 
MVIC force in either group.
CONCLUSION: Four weeks of β-alanine supplementation at 6.4 g·d-1 improved 
endurance capacity of the knee extensors at 45% MVIC, which most likely results 
from improved pH regulation within the muscle cell as a result of elevated 
muscle carnosine levels.

DOI: 10.1186/1550-2783-9-26
PMCID: PMC3420321
PMID: 22697405


545. BMC Fam Pract. 2012 Jul 9;13:56. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-56.

Deprescribing medication in very elderly patients with multimorbidity: the view 
of Dutch GPs. A qualitative study.

Schuling J(1), Gebben H, Veehof LJ, Haaijer-Ruskamp FM.

Author information:
(1)Department General Practice, University Medical Centre Groningen, A. 
Deusinglaan 1, 9713AV, Groningen, The Netherlands. j.schuling@umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: Elderly patients with multimorbidity who are treated according to 
guidelines use a large number of drugs. This number of drugs increases the risk 
of adverse drug events (ADEs). Stopping medication may relieve these effects, 
and thereby improve the patient's wellbeing. To facilitate management of 
polypharmacy expert-driven instruments have been developed, sofar with little 
effect on the patient's quality of life. Recently, much attention has been paid 
to shared decision-making in general practice, mainly focusing on patient 
preferences. This study explores how experienced GPs feel about deprescribing 
medication in older patients with multimorbidity and to what extent they involve 
patients in these decisions.
METHODS: Focusgroups of GPs were used to develop a conceptual framework for 
understanding and categorizing the GP's view on the subject. Audiotapes were 
transcribed verbatim and studied by the first and second author. They selected 
independently relevant textfragments. In a next step they labeled these 
fragments and sorted them. From these labelled and sorted fragments central 
themes were extracted.
RESULTS: GPs discern symptomatic medication and preventive medication; 
deprescribing the latter category is seen as more difficult by the GPs due to 
lack of benefit/risk information for these patients.Factors influencing 
GPs'deprescribing were beliefs concerning patients (patients have no problem 
with polypharmacy; patients may interpret a proposal to stop preventive 
medication as a sign of having been given up on; and confronting the patient 
with a discussion of life expectancy vs quality of life is 'not done'), 
guidelines for treatment (GPs feel compelled to prescribe by the present 
guidelines) and organization of healthcare (collaboration with prescribing 
medical specialists and dispensing pharmacists.
CONCLUSIONS: The GPs' beliefs concerning elderly patients are a barrier to 
explore patient preferences when reviewing preventive medication. GPs would 
welcome decision support when dealing with several guidelines for one patient. 
Explicit rules for collaborating with medical specialists in this field are 
required. Training in shared decision making could help GPs to elicit patient 
preferences.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-56
PMCID: PMC3391990
PMID: 22697490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Am J Public Health. 2012 Aug;102(8):1498-507. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300570.
 Epub 2012 Jun 14.

Public health options for improving cardiovascular health among older Americans.

Greenlund KJ(1), Keenan NL, Clayton PF, Pandey DK, Hong Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Population Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. keg9@cdc.gov

Life expectancy at birth has increased from 74 years in 1980 to 78 years in 
2006. Older adults (aged 65 years and older) are living longer with 
cardiovascular conditions, which are leading causes of death and disability and 
thus an important public health concern. We describe several major issues, 
including the impact of comorbidities, the role of cognitive health, prevention 
and intervention approaches, and opportunities for collaboration to strengthen 
the public health system. Prevention can be effective at any age, including for 
older adults. Public health models focusing on policy, systems, and 
environmental change approaches have the goal of providing social and physical 
environments and promoting healthy choices.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2011.300570
PMCID: PMC3464825
PMID: 22698028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Chemosphere. 2012 Nov;89(9):1026-33. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2012.05.065.
 Epub 2012 Jun 12.

Evaluation of effects of exposure time on aquatic toxicity with zooplanktons 
using a reduced life expectancy model.

Verma V(1), Yu QJ, Connell DW.

Author information:
(1)Griffith School of Engineering, Griffith University, Nathan Campus, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4111, Australia. v.verma@griffith.edu.au

Traditionally in toxicological studies time is not studied as quantifiable 
variable but as a fixed endpoint. The Reduced Life Expectancy (RLE) model which 
relates exposure time and exposure concentration with lethal toxic effects was 
tested previously using fish data. In this current paper the effects of exposure 
time on aquatic toxicity with zooplanktons and various toxicants were evaluated 
using the RLE model based on ambient exposure concentration. The model was 
evaluated by plotting lnLT(50) against LC(50) using toxicity data with 
zooplanktons from the literature for metal, metalloid and organic compounds. 
Most of the experimental data sets can be satisfactorily correlated by use of 
the RLE model, but deviations occurred for some data sets. Those data sets were 
satisfactorily fitted by a two stage RLE model. This model was based on two 
phases: one in the peripheral system and other in the central system. Both the 
single and two stage RLE model support the hypothesis that toxicity is time 
dependent and decreases in a systematic way with increasing exposure time. A 
calculated normal life expectancy (NLT) can be obtained from the single stage 
model and is in accord with reported NLT but those obtained from the two stage 
RLE model are in excellent agreement.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2012.05.065
PMID: 22698374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Clin J Pain. 2013 Feb;29(2):138-45. doi: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e31824b5fc9.

Cost effectiveness of intrathecal drug therapy in management of chronic 
nonmalignant pain.

Kumar K(1), Rizvi S, Bishop S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Saskatchewan, Regina General 
Hospital, Regina, SK, Canada. krishna.kumar902@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of intrathecal drug therapy (IDT) 
compared with conventional medical management (CMM) for patients with refractory 
chronic noncancer pain.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was developed to evaluate the cost 
effectiveness of IDT versus CMM from the perspective of a Canadian provincial 
Ministry of Health using data from our pain clinic. The model followed costs and 
outcomes in 6-month cycles. Health effects were expressed as quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) gained. Resources use included drugs, physician visits, 
laboratory tests, scans, and hospitalizations. Unit costs were gathered from 
public sources and were expressed in 2011 Canadian dollars. Costs and effects 
were evaluated over a time horizon of 10 years and discounted at 5% per annum 
after the first year. Cost effectiveness was identified by deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses (50,000 Monte Carlo iterations).
RESULTS: Over 10 years, total costs were $61,442 for IDT and $48,408 for CMM. 
Thus, the incremental effectiveness of IDT was 1.1508 QALYs at an incremental 
cost of $13,034, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$11,326/QALY gained. The probability of IDT providing a cost-effective 
alternative to CMM was 50% and 84% at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $14,200 
and $20,000/QALY, respectively. The results were most sensitive to the cost of 
CMM, the probability of reaching an optimal health state with dual-drug IDT, and 
the effectiveness of CMM therapy. Sensitivity analyses showed that results were 
robust to plausible variations in model costs and effectiveness inputs.
DISCUSSION: IDT is cost effective compared with CMM in the management of chronic 
noncancer pain.

DOI: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e31824b5fc9
PMID: 22699140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Neurooncol. 2012 Sep;109(2):357-63. doi: 10.1007/s11060-012-0901-9. Epub
2012  Jun 15.

Phase II study of Ginkgo biloba in irradiated brain tumor patients: effect on 
cognitive function, quality of life, and mood.

Attia A(1), Rapp SR, Case LD, D'Agostino R, Lesser G, Naughton M, McMullen K, 
Rosdhal R, Shaw EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. aattia@wakehealth.edu

Ginkgo biloba has been reported to improve cognitive function in older adults 
and patients with Alzheimer's disease and multi-infarct dementia. We conducted 
an open-label phase II study of this botanical product in symptomatic irradiated 
brain tumor survivors. Eligibility criteria included: life expectancy ≥30 weeks, 
partial or whole brain radiation ≥6 months before enrollment, no imaging 
evidence of tumor progression in previous 3 months, or stable or decreasing 
steroid dose, and no brain tumor treatment planned while on study. The Ginkgo 
biloba dose was 120 mg/day (40 mg t.i.d.) for 24 weeks followed by a 6-week 
washout period. Assessments performed at baseline, 12, 24 (end of treatment), 
and 30 weeks (end of washout) included KPS, Functional Assessment of Cancer 
Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br), Profile of Mood States, Mini-Mental Status Exam, Trail 
Making Test Parts A (TMT-A) and B (TMT-B), Digit Span Test, Modified Rey 
Osterrieth Complex Figure (ROCF), California Verbal Learning Test Part II, and 
the F-A-S Test.
RESULTS: Of the 34 patients enrolled on study, 23 (68 %) completed 12 weeks of 
treatment and 19 (56 %) completed 24 weeks of treatment. There were significant 
improvements at 24 weeks in: executive function (TMT-B) (p = 0.007), 
attention/concentration (TMT-A) (p = 0.002), and non-verbal memory 
(ROCF-immediate/delayed recall) (p = 0.001/0.002), mood (p = 0.002), FACT-Br 
subscale (p = 0.001), and the FACT physical subscale (p = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: Some improvement in quality of life and cognitive function were 
noted with Ginkgo biloba. However, treatment with Ginkgo biloba was associated 
with a high dropout rate.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-012-0901-9
PMCID: PMC3752650
PMID: 22700031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Perspect Public Health. 2012 May;132(3):98. doi: 10.1177/1757913912444035.

Evidence based practice.

Hartwell H.

DOI: 10.1177/1757913912444035
PMID: 22700560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Eur Respir J. 2013 Mar;41(3):556-64. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00027212. Epub
2012  Jun 14.

Cost-effectiveness of tiotropium versus salmeterol: the POET-COPD trial.

Hoogendoorn M(1), Al MJ, Beeh KM, Bowles D, Graf von der Schulenburg JM, 
Lungershausen J, Monz BU, Schmidt H, Vogelmeier C, Rutten-van Mölken MP.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The aim of this study was to perform a 1-yr trial-based cost-effectiveness 
analysis (CEA) of tiotropium versus salmeterol followed by a 5-yr model-based 
CEA. The within-trial CEA, including 7,250 patients with moderate to very severe 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), was performed alongside the 1-yr 
international randomised controlled Prevention of Exacerbations with Tiotropium 
(POET)-COPD trial comparing tiotropium with salmeterol regarding the effect on 
exacerbations. Main end-points of the trial-based analysis were costs, number of 
exacerbations and exacerbation days. The model-based analysis was conducted to 
extrapolate results to 5 yrs and to calculate quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). 1-yr costs per patient from the German statutory health insurance (SHI) 
perspective and the societal perspective were €126 (95% uncertainty interval 
(UI) €55-195) and €170 (95% UI €77-260) higher for tiotropium, respectively. The 
annual number of exacerbations was 0.064 (95% UI 0.010-0.118) lower for 
tiotropium, leading to a reduction in exacerbation-related costs of €87 (95% UI 
€19-157). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was €1,961 per exacerbation 
avoided from the SHI perspective and €2,647 from the societal perspective. In 
the model-based analyses, the 5-yr costs per QALY were €3,488 from the SHI 
perspective and €8,141 from the societal perspective. Tiotropium reduced 
exacerbations and exacerbation-related costs, but increased total costs. 
Tiotropium can be considered cost-effective as the resulting cost-effectiveness 
ratios were below commonly accepted willingness-to-pay thresholds.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00027212
PMID: 22700844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Anemia. 2012;2012:783068. doi: 10.1155/2012/783068. Epub 2012 Jun 3.

Loss of ercc1 results in a time- and dose-dependent reduction of proliferating 
early hematopoietic progenitors.

Verhagen-Oldenampsen JH(1), Haanstra JR, van Strien PM, Valkhof M, Touw IP, von 
Lindern M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Erasmus Medical Center, Dr Molewaterplein 50, 3015 
GE Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The endonuclease complex Ercc1/Xpf is involved in interstrand crosslink repair 
and functions downstream of the Fanconi pathway. Loss of Ercc1 causes 
hematopoietic defects similar to those seen in Fanconi Anemia. Ercc1(-/-) mice 
die 3-4 weeks after birth, which prevents long-term follow up of the 
hematopoietic compartment. We used alternative Ercc1 mouse models to examine the 
effect of low or absent Ercc1 activity on hematopoiesis. Tie2-Cre-driven 
deletion of a floxed Ercc1 allele was efficient (>80%) in fetal liver 
hematopoietic cells. Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) with a 
deleted allele were maintained in mice up to 1 year of age when harboring a wt 
allele, but were progressively outcompeted when the deleted allele was combined 
with a knockout allele. Mice with a minimal Ercc1 activity expressed by 1 or 2 
hypomorphic Ercc1 alleles have an extended life expectancy, which allows 
analysis of HSPCs at 10 and 20 weeks of age. The HSPC compartment was affected 
in all Ercc1-deficient models. Actively proliferating multipotent progenitors 
were most affected as were myeloid and erythroid clonogenic progenitors. In 
conclusion, lack of Ercc1 results in a severe competitive disadvantage of HSPCs 
and is most deleterious in proliferating progenitor cells.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/783068
PMCID: PMC3371671
PMID: 22701168


553. Curr Gerontol Geriatr Res. 2012;2012:986823. doi: 10.1155/2012/986823. Epub
2012  Jun 4.

Alzheimer's disease promotion by obesity: induced mechanisms-molecular links and 
perspectives.

Businaro R(1), Ippoliti F, Ricci S, Canitano N, Fuso A.

Author information:
(1)Medico-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, Sapienza University of Rome, 
Corso della Repubblica 79, 04100 Latina, Italy.

The incidence of AD is increasing in parallel with the increase in life 
expectancy. At the same time the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and obesity is 
reaching epidemic proportions in western populations. Stress is one of the major 
inducers of visceral fat and obesity development, underlying accelerated aging 
processes. Adipose tissue is at present considered as an active endocrine organ, 
producing important mediators involved in metabolism regulation as well as in 
inflammatory mechanisms. Insulin and leptin resistance has been related to the 
dysregulation of energy balance and to the induction of a chronic inflammatory 
status which have been recognized as important cofactors in cognitive impairment 
and AD initiation and progression. The aim of this paper is to disclose the 
correlation between the onset and progression of AD and the stress-induced 
changes in lifestyle, leading to overnutrition and reduced physical activity, 
ending with metabolic syndrome and obesity. The involved molecular mechanisms 
will be briefly discussed, and advisable guide lines for the prevention of AD 
through lifestyle modifications will be proposed.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/986823
PMCID: PMC3373073
PMID: 22701480


554. Med Ges Gesch. 2011;30:129-70.

[Prevention and health promotion in the Federal Republic of Germany 
(1945-2010)--an initial study on gender specific research].

[Article in German]

Moses S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Geschichte der Medizin der Robert Bosch Stiftung, Stuttgart. 
Simone.Moses@igm-bosch.de

If one tries to explain the longer life expectancy of women there are not only 
medical but also social scientific approaches. These focus primarily on social 
parameters that influence male and female behaviour. Men are said to be more 
careless, while women are considered to be highly sensitive and mindful of the 
treatment of their bodies. This is apparent in their use of professional medical 
assistance. Women see a physician and undergo preventive examination more 
frequently than men. This may also be responsible for the fact that Germany's 
woman-centred policy of prevention and health promotion has not been able to 
motivate men to adopt preventive health behaviour. From 1945 up until the new 
millennium women were the main target of prevention campaigns. The first health 
promotions of the 1950s and 1960s were mainly based on the former understanding 
of gender roles which saw women as more sensible and traditionally responsible 
for health issues; they were the ones to pass on their knowledge. The first 
preventive examinations also focused explicitly on women. Preventive measures 
for men tended to be work-related. Only recently, since the beginning of the 
1990s, a gender-specific approach has emerged, starting with the prevention of 
addiction. Target-group-orientated work has by now doubtlessly become the 
standard in health-related interventions, but putting them into practice will 
remain a challenge.

PMID: 22701954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Jul;60(7):1215-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.04041.x.  Epub 2012 Jun 15.

Glycosylated hemoglobin and functional decline in community-dwelling nursing 
home-eligible elderly adults with diabetes mellitus.

Yau CK(1), Eng C, Cenzer IS, Boscardin WJ, Rice-Trumble K, Lee SJ.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco VA PRIME Program, University of California at San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 94121, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 Apr;61(4):666-7.
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 Apr;61(4):667-8.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels predict 
functional decline in older adults.
DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: Community-dwelling, nursing home (NH)-eligible individuals with 
diabetes mellitus enrolled at On Lok between October 2002 and December 2008 (367 
participants, 1,579 HbA1c measurements).
SETTING: On Lok Lifeways, the original model for Programs of All-Inclusive Care 
for the Elderly.
MEASUREMENTS: The outcomes were functional decline or death at 2 years. The 
primary predictor was HbA1c. Age, sex, race and ethnicity, baseline function, 
comorbid conditions, length of time enrolled at On Lok, insulin use, and 
clustering of HbA1c within participants were adjusted for with mixed-effects 
Poisson regression.
RESULTS: Mean age was 80, and 185 participants (50%) were taking insulin. 
Sixty-three percent of participants experienced functional decline, and 75% 
experienced death or functional decline during the study period. At 2 years, 
higher HbA1c was associated with less functional decline or death (P for trend = 
.006). Accounting for clustering and confounding factors, HbA1c of 8.0% to 8.9% 
was associated with a lower likelihood (relative risk = 0.88, 95% confidence 
interval = 0.79-0.99) of functional decline or death than HbA1c of 7.0% to 7.9%.
CONCLUSION: In community-dwelling, NH-eligible individuals with diabetes 
mellitus, HbA1c of 8.0% to 8.9% is associated with better functional outcomes at 
2 years than HbA1c of 7.0% to 7.9%, suggesting that the current American 
Geriatrics Society guideline recommending a HbA1c target of 8.0% or less for 
older adults with limited life expectancy may be lower than necessary to 
maintain function.

© 2012, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2012, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.04041.x
PMCID: PMC3566776
PMID: 22702660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Rural Remote Health. 2012;12:1999. Epub 2012 Jun 14.

Urban-rural differences in dental caries experience among 6-year-old children in 
the Russian north.

Gorbatova MA(1), Gorbatova LN, Pastbin MU, Grjibovski AM.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Dentistry Department, Northern State Medical University, 
Arkhangelsk, Russia.

INTRODUCTION: Russians residing in rural areas, particularly in the north, have 
poorer health in general and lower life expectancy compared with urban 
residents. Little is known about dental health in the north of Russia, given 
that the last national oral health survey was performed more than 10 years ago. 
The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence and experience of dental 
caries among 6-year-old children in a remote region in Northwest Russia.
METHODS: In total, 532 children aged 6 years were recruited in 5 randomly 
selected rural and urban settings of the Arkhangelsk region. Girls comprised 
50.8% of the sample. Caries experience was assessed at D3 (cavitation) level by 
a single calibrated examiner. The prevalence of caries was calculated as the 
number of children with at least one affected tooth (decayed or missing or 
filled) divided by the number of examined children x 100% with 95% confidence 
intervals (CI). Caries experience was estimated using a sum of decayed, missing, 
filled teeth (dmft index) and presented as means and 95% CIs. Dichotomous and 
continuous data were analysed using Χ² and Mann-Whitney tests, respectively.
RESULTS: The prevalence of caries was 93.4% (95% CI: 90.9-95.2) with a mean dmft 
of 6.71 (95%CI: 6.37-7.04). On average, there were 5.48 (95% CI: 5.16-5.80) 
decayed, 0.44 (95% CI: 0.37-0.51) missing and 0.79 (95% CI: 0.67-0.91) filled 
teeth. Although the overall caries experience was similar in rural and in urban 
areas (6.52 vs 6.41, p=0.742), the number of decayed teeth in rural areas was 
greater (5.94 vs 4.91, p=0.001). Moreover, there were fewer missing teeth (0.31 
vs 0.59, p<0.001) and filled teeth (0.45 vs 1.19, p<0.001) in rural areas. Boys 
had a greater number of affected teeth than girls (7.12 vs 6.32, p=0.023).
CONCLUSIONS: The levels of both caries prevalence and caries experience in the 
region exceeded the Russian average and corresponding levels in most European 
countries. Both urban-rural and sex variations in caries experience and its 
components were observed. Urgent preventive dental public health measures on 
both population and individual levels are needed to improve the situation.

PMID: 22702845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Cancer Radiother. 2012 Jun;16 Suppl:S90-100. doi:
10.1016/j.canrad.2012.01.004.  Epub 2012 Jun 14.

[Pituitary adenomas: multimodal management and modern irradiation techniques].

[Article in French]

Chand-Fouché ME(1), Colin P, Bondiau PY.

Author information:
(1)Département de radiothérapie, centre Antoine-Lacassagne, 33 avenue de 
Valombrose, Nice cedex, France. mec_chand@yahoo.fr

Pituitary adenomas represent 10 to 20% of all primary brain tumours. The main 
classifications consider their size, micro- and macroadenomas, and their 
properties, secreting or non-functioning. These characteristics determine the 
choice of treatment, surgery and medical therapy on first line in many cases. 
Conventional radiotherapy, whose efficiency has been demonstrated, is indicated 
in the post-operative setting for lesions at high risk of relapse, recurrences, 
contra-indications to surgery and intolerance or resistance to medical 
therapies. Optimal target volume delineation is critical, owing to the proximity 
of organs at risk and a risk of late toxicity for these patients who have normal 
life expectancy. Technological, computering and imaging advances have led to 
conformal radiotherapy, intensity-modulated treatment and stereotaxy. These new 
techniques are reviewed through a recent literature search. Local control rates 
are high, although follow-up is still short. Indications for radiosurgery are 
restricted by the size of the lesions. Fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy 
potentially reduces late toxicity, but longer follow-up is necessary.

Copyright © 2012 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2012.01.004
PMID: 22703753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Oct;56(4):920-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.03.263. Epub 2012
Jun  15.

Clinical outcome and morphologic analysis after endovascular aneurysm repair 
using the Excluder endograft.

Bastos Gonçalves F(1), Jairam A, Voûte MT, Moelker AD, Rouwet EV, ten Raa S, 
Hendriks JM, Verhagen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. f.bastosgoncalves@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Long-term follow-up after endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) is very 
scarce, and doubt remains regarding the durability of these procedures. We 
designed a retrospective cohort study to assess long-term clinical outcome and 
morphologic changes in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) treated 
by EVAR using the Excluder endoprosthesis (W. L. Gore and Associates, Flagstaff, 
Ariz).
METHODS: From 2000 to 2007, 179 patients underwent EVAR in a tertiary 
institution. Clinical data were retrieved from a prospective database. All 
patients treated with the Excluder endoprosthesis were included. Computed 
tomography angiography (CTA) scans were retrospectively analyzed preoperatively, 
at 30 days, and at the last follow-up using dedicated tridimensional 
reconstruction software. For patients with complications, all remaining CTAs 
were also analyzed. The primary end point was clinical success. Secondary end 
points were freedom from reintervention, sac growth, types I and III endoleak, 
migration, conversion to open repair, and AAA-related death or rupture. Neck 
dilatation, renal function, and overall survival were also analyzed.
RESULTS: Included were 144 patients (88.2% men; mean age, 71.6 years). Aneurysms 
were ruptured in 4.9%. American Society of Anesthesiologists classification was 
III/IV in 61.8%. No patients were lost during a median follow-up of 5.0 years 
(interquartile range, 3.1-6.4; maximum, 11.2 years). Two patients died of 
medical complications ≤ 30 days after EVAR. The estimated primary clinical 
success rates at 5 and 10 years were 63.5% and 41.1%, and secondary clinical 
success rates were 78.3% and 58.3%, respectively. Sac growth was observed in 37 
of 142 patients (26.1%). Cox regression showed type I endoleak during follow-up 
(hazard ratio, 3.74; P = .008), original design model (hazard ratio, 3.85; P = 
.001), and preoperative neck diameter (1.27 per mm increase, P = .006) were 
determinants of sac growth. Secondary interventions were required in 32 patients 
(22.5%). The estimated 10-year rate of AAA-related death or rupture was 2.1%. 
Overall life expectancy after AAA repair was 6.8 years.
CONCLUSIONS: EVAR using the Excluder endoprosthesis provides a safe and lasting 
treatment for AAA, despite the need for maintained surveillance and secondary 
interventions. At up to 11 years, the risk of AAA-related death or 
postimplantation rupture is remarkably low. The incidences of postimplantation 
sac growth and secondary intervention were greatly reduced after the 
introduction of the low-permeability design in 2004.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.03.263
PMID: 22703975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. J Health Econ. 2012 Jul;31(4):630-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2012.04.006.
Epub  2012 May 9.

The value of medical and pharmaceutical interventions for reducing obesity.

Michaud PC(1), Goldman DP, Lakdawalla DN, Zheng Y, Gailey AH.

Author information:
(1)Université du Québec à Montréal & RAND, Canada. michaud.pierre carl@uqam.ca

This paper attempts to quantify the social, private, and public-finance values 
of reducing obesity through pharmaceutical and medical interventions. We find 
that the total social value of bariatric surgery is large for treated patients, 
with incremental social cost-effectiveness ratios typically under $10,000 per 
life-year saved. On the other hand, pharmaceutical interventions against obesity 
yield much less social value with incremental social cost-effectiveness ratios 
around $50,000. Our approach accounts for: competing risks to life expectancy; 
health care costs; and a variety of non-medical economic consequences (pensions, 
disability insurance, taxes, and earnings), which account for 20% of the total 
social cost of these treatments. On balance, bariatric surgery generates 
substantial private value for those treated, in the form of health and other 
economic consequences. The net public fiscal effects are modest, primarily 
because the size of the population eligible for treatment is small. The net 
social effect is large once improvements in life expectancy are taken into 
account.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2012.04.006
PMCID: PMC3600147
PMID: 22705389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2013 Mar;115(3):276-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.clineuro.2012.05.005. Epub 2012 Jun 16.

Comparing the cost-effectiveness of two brain metastasis treatment modalities 
from a payer's perspective: stereotactic radiosurgery versus surgical resection.

Vuong DA(1), Rades D, van Eck AT, Horstmann GA, Busse R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Management, Berlin University of Technology, 
Berlin, Germany. vuong@mailbox.tu-berlin.de

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to identify the cost-effectiveness of two brain 
metastatic treatment modalities, stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) versus surgical 
resection (SR), from the perspective of Germany's Statutory Health Insurance 
(SHI) System.
METHODS: Retrospectively reviewing 373 patients with brain metastases (BMs) who 
underwent SR (n=113) and SRS (n=260). Propensity score matching was used to 
adjust for selection bias (n=98 each); means of survival time and survival 
curves were defined by the Kaplan-Meier estimator; and medical costs of 
follow-up treatment were calculated by the Direct (Lin) method. The bootstrap 
resampling technique was used to assess the impact of uncertainty.
RESULTS: Survival time means of SR and SRS were 13.0, 18.4 months, respectively 
(P=0.000). Medians of free brain tumor time were 10.4 months for SR and 13.8 
months for SRS (P=0.003). Number of repeated SRS treatments significantly 
influenced the survival time of SRS (R(2)=0.249; P=0.006). SRS had a lower 
average cost per patient (€9964 - SD: 1047; Skewness: 7273) than SR (€11647 - 
SD: 1594; Skewness: 0.465), leading to an incremental cost effectiveness ratio 
of €-3740 per life year saved (LYS), meaning that using SRS costs €1683 less 
than SR per targeted patient, but increases LYS by 0.45 years.
CONCLUSION: SRS is more cost-effective than SR in the treatment of brain 
metastasis (BM) from the SHI perspective. When the clinical conditions allow it, 
early intervention with SRS in new BM cases and frequent SRS repetition in new 
BM recurrent cases should be advised.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2012.05.005
PMID: 22705458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2013 Jan;67(1):21-7. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2012-201097. Epub 2012 Jun 15.

The changing relationship between income and mortality in Finland, 1988-2007.

Tarkiainen L(1), Martikainen P, Laaksonen M.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Department of Social Research, University of 
Helsinki, P.O. Box 18, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland. lasse.tarkiainen@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: Socioeconomic mortality differences have increased in many 
high-income countries in recent decades mainly because of slower mortality 
decline among the lower social groups. The aim of this study was to investigate 
whether the changing socio-demographic composition explains the increasing 
disparity in mortality by income and the stagnation of mortality in the lowest 
income group.
METHODS: The register data comprised a nationally representative 11% sample of 
individuals aged 35-64 years residing in Finland in 1988-2007, linked with 
mortality records. Household taxable income was used as the income measure. 
Poisson regression models were used to assess the changes in mortality disparity 
among the income quintiles between periods 1988-1991, 1996-1999 and 2004-2007. 
The measures of socio-demographic composition included educational level, social 
class, employment status and living alone.
RESULTS: The mortality rate ratio (with the highest quintile as the reference 
category) of the lowest quintile increased from 2.80 to 5.16 among the men and 
from 2.17 to 4.23 among the women between 1988-1991 and 2004-2007. Controlling 
for other socio-demographic variables strongly attenuated the differences, but 
the rate ratio of the lowest quintile still increased from 1.32 to 1.73 among 
the men and from 1.13 to 1.66 among the women. There was no decline in the fully 
adjusted mortality of the lowest quintiles between second and third study 
periods.
CONCLUSIONS: Socio-demographic characteristics explained much of the mortality 
disparity between income quintiles within each study period. However, these 
characteristics do not explain the increasing disparity between the periods and 
stagnating mortality in the lowest quintile.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2012-201097
PMID: 22705658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Curr Opin Urol. 2012 Sep;22(5):353-9. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328355ecdf.

Growth kinetics and active surveillance for small renal masses.

Lane BR(1), Tobert CM, Riedinger CB.

Author information:
(1)Spectrum Health Hospital System, Grand Rapids, Michigan 49546, USA. 
brian.lane@spectrumhealth.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Management options for small renal masses (SRMs) include 
excision, ablation, and active surveillance. Increasing interest in active 
surveillance, particularly for tumors of limited oncologic potential, in 
patients with other significant health concerns continues to rise, but precise 
protocols are still lacking.
RECENT FINDINGS: A review of 18 retrospective series of patients undergoing 
active surveillance for 957 SRMs indicates that the majority grew during 
observation (mean 0.32  cm/year), but only 1.4% metastasized during 32 months of 
follow-up (median). One published prospective series of 209 SRMs reported 
average growth of 0.13  cm/year and only 1% metastasized. Maximal tumor diameter 
(or volume) at presentation is a predictor of growth rate, high-grade disease, 
and likelihood of metastasis. SRMs less than 3  cm are very unlikely to 
metastasize and deferring treatment has not been associated with increased 
failure to cure.
SUMMARY: Active surveillance is a reasonable initial strategy in most patients 
with SRMs, particularly those with limited life-expectancy and increased 
perioperative risk. Intervention should be considered for growth to greater than 
3-4  cm or by greater than 0.4-0.5  cm/year while on active surveillance.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328355ecdf
PMID: 22706068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Med Decis Making. 2012 Jul-Aug;32(4):583-93. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12451654.
Epub  2012 Jun 15.

A direct method for measuring discounting and QALYs more easily and reliably.

Attema AE(1), Bleichrodt H(1)(2), Wakker PP(2).

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA (AEA, HB) Erasmus University, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Economics (HB, PPW) Erasmus University, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.

Time discounting and quality of life are two important factors in evaluations of 
medical interventions. The measurement of these two factors is complicated 
because they interact. Existing methods either simply assume one factor given, 
based on heuristic assumptions, or invoke complicating extraneous factors, such 
as risk, that generate extra biases. The authors introduce a method for 
measuring discounting (and then quality of life) that involves no extraneous 
factors and that avoids distorting interactions. Their method is considerably 
simpler and more realistic for subjects than existing methods. It is entirely 
choice based and thus can be founded on economic rationality requirements. An 
experiment demonstrates the feasibility of this method and its advantages over 
classical methods.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12451654
PMID: 22706639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Med Microbiol Immunol. 2013 Feb;202(1):77-86. doi:
10.1007/s00430-012-0250-5.  Epub 2012 Jun 17.

Performance evaluation of a new fourth-generation HIV combination 
antigen-antibody assay.

Mühlbacher A(1), Schennach H, van Helden J, Hebell T, Pantaleo G, Bürgisser P, 
Cellerai C, Permpikul P, Rodriguez MI, Eiras A, Alborino F, Cunningham P, 
Axelsson M, Andersson S, Wetlitzky O, Kaiser C, Möller P, de Sousa G.

Author information:
(1)Central Institute for Blood Transfusion and Immunology, Innsbruck, Austria. 
annelies.muehlbacher@uki.at

Education and diagnostic tests capable of early detection represent our most 
effective means of preventing transmission of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). The importance of early detection is underlined by studies demonstrating 
increased life expectancy following early initiation of antiviral treatment. The 
Elecsys(®) HIV combi PT assay is a fourth-generation antigen-antibody 
combination assay developed to allow earlier detection of seroconversion, and to 
have increased sensitivity and improved specificity. We aimed to determine how 
early the assay could detect infection compared with existing assays; whether 
all HIV variants could be detected; and the assay's specificity using samples 
from blood donors, routine specimens, and patients with potential cross-reacting 
factors. Samples were identified as positive by the Elecsys(®) assay 4.9 days 
after a positive polymerase chain reaction result (as determined by the panel 
supplier), which was earlier than the 5.3-7.1 days observed with comparators. 
The analytical sensitivity of the Elecsys(®) HIV combi PT assay for the HIV-1 
p24 antigen was 1.05 IU/mL, which compares favorably with the comparator assays. 
In addition, the Elecsys(®) assay identified all screened HIV subtypes and 
displayed greater sensitivity to HIV-2 homologous antigen and antibodies to 
HIV-1 E and O and HIV-2 than the other assays. Overall, the specificity of the 
Elecsys(®) assay was 99.88 % using samples from blood donors and 99.81 % when 
analyzing unselected samples. Potential cross-reacting factors did not interfere 
with assay performance. The Elecsys(®) HIV combi PT assay is a sensitive and 
specific assay that has been granted the CE mark according to Directive 
2009/886/EC.

DOI: 10.1007/s00430-012-0250-5
PMCID: PMC3562432
PMID: 22706797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. JAMA. 2012 Jun 6;307(21):2243-4. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.5242.

Guidelines ease up on glycemic control for some patients with type 2 diabetes.

Mitka M.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.5242
PMID: 22706812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. JAMA. 2012 Jun 6;307(21):2257-9. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.5059.

Trends in the black-white life expectancy gap, 2003-2008.

Harper S(1), Rushani D, Kaufman JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. sam.harper@mcgill.ca

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.5059
PMID: 22706828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Int J Sports Med. 2012 Nov;33(11):934-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1304634. Epub
2012  Jun 15.

Effect of brace design on patients with ACL-ruptures.

Strutzenberger G(1), Braig M, Sell S, Boes K, Schwameder H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Science and Kinesiology, University of Salzburg, 
Hallein-Rif, Austria. gerda.strutzenberger@sbg.c.at

Different designs of functional knee braces for ACL-injury rehabilitation exist. 
In addition to the mechanical stabilization provided by rigid shell braces, 
sleeve braces also address proprioceptive mechanisms, but little is known if 
this leads to benefits for ACL-deficient subjects. Therefore the aim of this 
study was to investigate the effect of 2 different functional brace designs 
(shell and sleeve brace) on functional achievements in ACL-deficient patients. 
28 subjects with ACL-ruptured knees performed tests for knee joint laxity, joint 
position sense, static and dynamic balance and isometric and dynamic lower limb 
extension strength in non-braced, sleeve braced and shell braced condition. The 
results showed a significant decrease in knee joint laxity for sleeve (33%; 
p<0.001) and rigid shell bracing (14%, p=0.039). The sleeve brace revealed a 
significant increase in dynamic balance after perturbation (20%; p=0.024) and a 
significant increase in dynamic lower limb peak rate of force development (17%; 
p=0.015) compared to the non-braced condition. The effects might be caused by 
the flexible area of support and the incorporated mechanisms to address 
proprioceptive aspects. Braces might not be needed in simple daily life tasks, 
but could provide beneficial support in more dynamic settings when patients 
return to sporting activities after an ACL-injury.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1304634
PMID: 22706937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Hepatology. 2012 Dec;56(6):2172-9. doi: 10.1002/hep.25887.

Pioglitazone and vitamin E for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: a cost utility 
analysis.

Mahady SE(1), Wong G, Craig JC, George J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. 
suzanne.mahady@sydney.edu.au

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is the commonest liver disease in developed 
countries. However, there are no current data on the cost-effectiveness of 
therapeutic options such as lifestyle modification, pioglitazone, or vitamin E. 
We undertook a cost utility analysis to compare these strategies. Using a 
third-party payer perspective, a deterministic Markov model was developed to 
compare costs and health benefits of lifestyle modification alone or with 
pioglitazone or vitamin E in a cohort of patients aged 50 years with 
biopsy-proven NASH and fibrosis level 3 or greater. We assumed an annual cycle 
length over a lifetime horizon. Probability and utility estimates were derived 
from a systematic literature review, and uncertainties in parameter estimates 
were tested using one- and two-way sensitivity analyses. Our outcome measure was 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), with $A50,000 or less 
considered cost-effective. In comparison with lifestyle modification alone, 
treatment with either pioglitazone or vitamin E in addition to lifestyle 
modification was cost-effective, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 
$A2748 and $A8475 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, respectively. In 
a direct comparison, pioglitazone was more cost-effective than vitamin E (ICER 
$A2,056/QALY gained). Sensitivity analyses indicated that pioglitazone was not 
cost-effective if either the total drug cost was greater than $A16,000 per 
annum, or the annual probability of developing cirrhosis in advanced fibrosis 
was less than 2%.
CONCLUSION: Our modeled analyses suggest that in patients with advanced fibrosis 
due to NASH, pharmacological treatment in addition to standard lifestyle 
modification is likely to be cost-effective.

Copyright © 2012 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.25887
PMID: 22707355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Inj Prev. 2013 Apr;19(2):124-9. doi: 10.1136/injuryprev-2011-040252. Epub
2012  Jun 15.

Costs of injury in New Zealand: Accident Compensation Corporation spending, 
personal spending and quality-adjusted life years lost.

Wilson R(1), Derrett S, Hansen P, Langley JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, University of Otago, Dunedin, 
New Zealand. ross.wilson@otago.ac.nz

BACKGROUND: New Zealand offers a unique opportunity for cost-of-injury research 
due to its comprehensive, no-fault injury compensation insurance scheme, which 
is managed by the government-controlled Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC).
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the costs of injury in New Zealand with respect to ACC's 
spending for entitlement claimants (ie, people with injuries requiring more than 
'treatment only'), as well as injured individuals' out-of-pocket personal 
spending and non-pecuniary costs in terms of effects on health-related quality 
of life (HRQoL).
METHODS: A prospective cohort study of people injured between June 2007 and May 
2009 was followed for 12 months after injury. ACC's spending for each 
participant (n=2215) was estimated from ACC data. Out-of-pocket personal 
spending and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost were estimated based on 
interviews conducted at 3, 5 and 12 months post injury.
RESULTS: For the cohort studied, most of the reported financial costs of injury 
were met by ACC. ACC spending was higher for individuals with more severe 
injuries and ones admitted to hospital. There was no difference in mean personal 
spending between people who were hospitalised or not, or between those with 
minor or moderate injuries, although individuals with more severe injuries 
reported higher personal spending.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the ACC appears to be performing well supporting injured 
people financially. Nonetheless, people with more severe injuries incur 
substantial out-of-pocket expenses. Costs are higher for hospitalised and more 
severe injuries, but non-hospitalised and less severe cases can still incur 
substantial costs. The HRQoL effects of injury-naturally, borne by injured 
individuals themselves-are relatively large on average.

DOI: 10.1136/injuryprev-2011-040252
PMID: 22707557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Asian Spine J. 2012 Jun;6(2):136-9. doi: 10.4184/asj.2012.6.2.136. Epub 2012
May  31.

Osteoblastoma of C2 Corpus: 4 Years Follow-up.

Yilmaz C(1), Civelek E, Caner H, Aydin E, Gerilmez A, Altinors N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Baskent University School of Medicine, Ankara, 
Turkey.

Osteoblastomas are rare neoplasms of the spine. The majority of the spinal 
lesions arise from the posterior elements and involvement of the corpus is 
usually by extension through the pedicles. An extremely rare case of isolated C2 
corpus osteoblastoma is presented herein. A 9-year-old boy who presented with 
neck pain and spasmodic torticollis was shown to have a lesion within the corpus 
of C2. He underwent surgery via an anterior cervical approach and the 
completely-resected mass was reported to be an osteoblastoma. The pain resolved 
immediately after surgery and he had radiologic assessments on a yearly basis. 
He was symptom-free 4 years post-operatively with benign radiologic findings. 
Although rare, an osteoblastoma should be considered in the differential 
diagnosis of neck pain and torticollis, especially in patients during the first 
two decades of life. The standard treatment for osteoblastomas is radical 
surgical excision because the recurrence rate is high following incomplete 
resection.

DOI: 10.4184/asj.2012.6.2.136
PMCID: PMC3372549
PMID: 22708018


571. J Korean Surg Soc. 2012 Jun;82(6):365-9. doi: 10.4174/jkss.2012.82.6.365.
Epub  2012 May 29.

Ten year outcomes after bypass surgery in aortoiliac occlusive disease.

Lee GC(1), Yang SS, Park KM, Park Y, Kim YW, Park KB, Park HS, Do YS, Kim DI.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Samsung Medical Center, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Most outcome studies of bypass surgery are limited to five years of 
follow-up. However, as human life expectancy has increased, analyses of more 
long-term outcomes are needed. The aim of this study is to evaluate 10-year 
outcomes of anatomical bypasses in aortoiliac occlusive disease.
METHODS: From 1996 to 2009, 92 patients (82 males and 10 females) underwent 
aortic anatomical bypasses to treat aortoiliac occlusive disease at Samsung 
Medical Center. The patients were reviewed retrospectively. Kaplan-Meier 
survival analyses were performed using PASW ver. 18.0 (IBM Co).
RESULTS: A total of 72 patients (78.3%) underwent aorto-femoral bypasses (uni- 
or bi-femoral), 15 patients (16.3%) underwent aorto-iliac bypasses (uni- or 
bi-iliac), and 5 patients (5.4%) underwent aorto-iliac and aorto-femoral 
bypasses. The overall primary patency rates of the 92 patients were 86.2% over 5 
years and 77.6% over 10 years. The 10-year limb salvage rate and overall 
survival rate were 97.7% and 91.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The overall patency rates of bypass graft and limb salvage rates 
decreased as time passed. The analysis of results after bypass surgery to treat 
arterial occlusive disease will be needed to extend for 10 years of follow-up.

DOI: 10.4174/jkss.2012.82.6.365
PMCID: PMC3373986
PMID: 22708098

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


572. Hum Biol. 2012 Apr;84(2):101-25. doi: 10.3378/027.084.0201.

Resource availability, mortality, and fertility: a path analytic approach to 
global life-history variation.

Caudell MA(1), Quinlan RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 
99164-4910, USA. mcaudell@wsu.edu

Humans exhibit considerable diversity in timing and rate of reproduction. 
