would have substantial implications for the health of individuals and the future 
burden on the health care system.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/107989
PMCID: PMC3359718
PMID: 22655173


439. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2012 Apr;16 Suppl 2:2-7.

Epidemiological and clinical features of pyogenic spondylodiscitis.

Fantoni M(1), Trecarichi EM, Rossi B, Mazzotta V, Di Giacomo G, Nasto LA, Di 
Meco E, Pola E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Infectious Diseases, School of Medicine, Catholic University of 
the Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy. m.fantoni@rm.unicatt.it

Pyogenic spondylodiscitis (PS) is an uncommon but important infection, that 
represents 3-5% of all cases of osteomyelitis. The annual incidence in Europe 
has been estimated to be from 0.4 to 2.4/100,000. A has been reported, with 
peaks at age less than 20 years and in the group aged 50-70 years. The incidence 
of PS seems to be increasing in the last years as a result of the higher life 
expectancy of older patients with chronic debilitating diseases, the rise in the 
prevalence of immunosuppressed patients, intravenous drug abuse, and the 
increase in spinal instrumentation and surgery. PS is in most cases a 
hematogenous infection. Staphylococcus aureus is the most frequent causative 
microorganism, accounting for about one half of the cases of PS. Gram-negative 
rods are causative agents in 7-33% of PS cases. Coagulase-negative staphylococci 
(CoNS) have been reported in 5-16% of cases. Staphylococcus epidermidis is often 
related to post-operative infections and intracardiac device-related bacteremia. 
Unremitting back pain, characteristically worsening during the night, is the 
most common presenting symptom, followed by fever that is present in about one 
half of the cases. The mortality of PS ranges from 0 to 11%. In a significant 
number of cases, recrudescence, residual neurological defects or persistent pain 
may occur.

PMID: 22655478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Oct;35(8):594-601. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2012.03.001. Epub 2012 May 30.

[Nutritional support in patients with liver cirrhosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Rivera Irigoin R(1), Abilés J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Costa del Sol, Marbella, Málaga, 
España. robinrivera_i@hotmail.com

Given the liver's multiple synthetic, regulatory and detoxifying functions, one 
of the characteristics accompanying severe hepatocellular dysfunction is the 
presence of malnutrition. This disorder is highly frequent in liver cirrhosis, 
even in the relatively early stages of the disease. Independently of the cause 
of the cirrhosis, poor nutritional status is associated with a worse prognosis 
and therefore early intervention to correct nutrient deficiency can prolong life 
expectancy, improve quality of life, reduce complications and increase the 
probability of successful transplantation. The present article reviews current 
knowledge of the diagnosis and management of malnutrition in patients with 
cirrhosis. Special attention is paid to the concept of the late evening snack 
and its characteristics, composition and probable benefits in the course of the 
disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. and AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2012.03.001
PMID: 22657567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Clin Sports Med. 2012 Jul;31(3):473-86. doi: 10.1016/j.csm.2012.03.002. Epub
 2012 Apr 14.

The aging spine in sports.

Borg-Stein J(1), Elson L, Brand E.

Author information:
(1)Department of PM&R, Harvard Medical School, Spaulding Rehabilitation 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA. jborgstein@partners.org

1. Masters athletes may experience low back pain from multiple sources. Masters 
athletes with discogenic back pain should avoid or modify sports with combined 
rotational and compressive forces; individuals with facet-mediated pain should 
avoid or modify sports with excessive extension and rotation. 2. Optimization of 
flexibility, strength, endurance, and core control is critical. Sports specific 
training, realistic goal setting, and counseling are of maximal importance. 3. 
Overall, the health benefits of continued sports and athletic participation 
outweigh the potential risks of spinal degeneration in middle-aged athletes. 
There is little correlation between radiographic appearance of the spine and 
symptoms; therefore, symptoms should serve as the primary guide when determining 
activity modifications. Overall, masters athletes should be encouraged to remain 
active and fit to enhance their quality of life and reduce the risk of 
cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.csm.2012.03.002
PMID: 22657996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Blood Cells Mol Dis. 2012 Aug 15;49(2):114-7. doi:
10.1016/j.bcmd.2012.05.005.  Epub 2012 May 30.

Recessive congenital methemoglobinemia caused by a rare mechanism: maternal 
uniparental heterodisomy with segmental isodisomy of a chromosome 22.

Huang YH(1), Tai CL, Lu YH, Wu TJ, Chen HD, Niu DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taiwan, ROC.

Recessive congenital methemoglobinemia (RCM) is a very rare disorder caused by 
NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase (cb5r) deficiency. Two distinct clinical forms, 
types I and II, caused by cb5r deficiency have been recognized. In type I, the 
enzyme deficiency is restricted only to erythrocytes with cyanosis being the 
only major symptom. In contrast, in type II, the enzyme deficiency is 
generalized to all tissues and associated with neurological impairment, mental 
and growth retardation and reduced life expectancy, in addition to cyanosis. 
Recently, we conducted a study on an 11-year-old boy with cb5r deficiency type 
I. The mutational analysis of the CYB5R3 gene revealed that the boy is 
homozygous for L72P mutation. Surprisingly, his mother is heterozygous for this 
L72P mutant, but not his father. Thirteen microsatellite markers of chromosome 
22 were selected to analyze the origins of the patient's chromosome 22. The 
result showed that both of the chromosome 22(s) of this patient came from the 
maternal side (uniparental heterodisomy of chromosome 22 with segmental 
isodisomy). This is the first case report of a patient with cb5r deficiency type 
I resulting from uniparental disomy and also discloses an alternate mechanism 
whereby this enzymatic disorder can be derived from a single parent.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcmd.2012.05.005
PMID: 22658170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Aug;13(8):790-801. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70211-5.
Epub  2012 Jun 1.

Global cancer transitions according to the Human Development Index (2008-2030): 
a population-based study.

Bray F(1), Jemal A, Grey N, Ferlay J, Forman D.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cancer Information, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
Lyon, France. brayf@iarc.fr

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2012 Aug;13(8):745-6.

BACKGROUND: Cancer is set to become a major cause of morbidity and mortality in 
the coming decades in every region of the world. We aimed to assess the changing 
patterns of cancer according to varying levels of human development.
METHODS: We used four levels (low, medium, high, and very high) of the Human 
Development Index (HDI), a composite indicator of life expectancy, education, 
and gross domestic product per head, to highlight cancer-specific patterns in 
2008 (on the basis of GLOBOCAN estimates) and trends 1988-2002 (on the basis of 
the series in Cancer Incidence in Five Continents), and to produce future burden 
scenario for 2030 according to projected demographic changes alone and 
trends-based changes for selected cancer sites.
FINDINGS: In the highest HDI regions in 2008, cancers of the female breast, 
lung, colorectum, and prostate accounted for half the overall cancer burden, 
whereas in medium HDI regions, cancers of the oesophagus, stomach, and liver 
were also common, and together these seven cancers comprised 62% of the total 
cancer burden in medium to very high HDI areas. In low HDI regions, cervical 
cancer was more common than both breast cancer and liver cancer. Nine different 
cancers were the most commonly diagnosed in men across 184 countries, with 
cancers of the prostate, lung, and liver being the most common. Breast and 
cervical cancers were the most common in women. In medium HDI and high HDI 
settings, decreases in cervical and stomach cancer incidence seem to be offset 
by increases in the incidence of cancers of the female breast, prostate, and 
colorectum. If the cancer-specific and sex-specific trends estimated in this 
study continue, we predict an increase in the incidence of all-cancer cases from 
12·7 million new cases in 2008 to 22·2 million by 2030.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings suggest that rapid societal and economic transition 
in many countries means that any reductions in infection-related cancers are 
offset by an increasing number of new cases that are more associated with 
reproductive, dietary, and hormonal factors. Targeted interventions can lead to 
a decrease in the projected increases in cancer burden through effective primary 
prevention strategies, alongside the implementation of vaccination, early 
detection, and effective treatment programmes.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70211-5
PMID: 22658655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2012 Sep;15(3):473-83. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivs236. Epub 2012 Jun 1.

Are bioprostheses associated with better outcome than mechanical valves in 
patients with chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis who undergo valve 
surgery?

Bianchi G(1), Solinas M, Bevilacqua S, Glauber M.

Author information:
(1)Ospedale del Cuore, Fondazione Toscana Gabriele Monasterio, Massa, Italy. 
gbianchi@ifc.cnr.it

A best evidence topic in cardiac surgery was written according to a structured 
protocol. The question addressed was whether patients with chronic kidney 
disease who required dialysis that undergo valve surgery have better surgical 
recovery rates with bioprostheses than with mechanical valves. Altogether more 
than 96 papers were found using the reported search, of which 12 represented the 
best evidence to answer the clinical question. The authors, journal, date and 
country of publication, patient group studied, study type, relevant outcomes and 
results of these papers are tabulated. Patients with end stage renal disease 
(ESRD) undergoing cardiac surgery are very fragile, with high in-hospital 
mortality rates (13-36%) and limited life expectancy (15-42 months in selected 
studies). Two studies outlined that diabetic ESRD, neurological impairment, age 
at the operation and poor ventricular function are the strongest predictors of 
early and late morbidity and mortality. Based on American Heart 
Association/American College of Cardiology (AHA/ACC) 1998 valvular guidelines, 
bioprostheses were considered a contraindication in dialysis patients; this 
statement derived from anecdotal reports of accelerated valve degeneration. 
Structural valve deterioration was reported in only 5 of 1347 patients who 
received bioprosthesis through the studies and independent from implantation 
site. Likelihood of degeneration is low, with a calculated valve-excision rate 
of 7%, and occurred in a broad range of time (from 10 to 156 months). The 
AHA/ACC 2006 valvular revised guidelines removed the previous statement (1998) 
of class IIa recommendation for mechanical valves and class III for tissue 
valves; in the focus update of 2008, there is still no specific indication for 
valve selection in dialysis patients, but difficulties in maintaining 
anticoagulation in these patients was noted. Stroke, haemorrhage and 
gastro-intestinal bleeding events occurred in almost 15% of patients with 
mechanical valves during the follow-up, while bioprostheses showed an average 
event rate of 3.9%. All but one of the selected studies reported no differences 
in survival between mechanical and biological valves; in five of seven studies, 
the patients who received bioprostheses were older (mechanical vs biological 
average 53 years vs 61.4 years), in one study, patients had undergone dialysis 
for longer period of time, and, in another study, they had suffered from more 
previous myocardial infarction (mechanical vs biological 9.1% vs 36.2%). 
Therefore, survivals have been biased in favour of mechanical valves. Taking 
together these data, biological valves are a suitable treatment for 
dialysis-dependent patients and, while not superior to mechanical valves in 
survival due to the aforementioned study biases, exhibit lower valve-related and 
anti-coagulation related events.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivs236
PMCID: PMC3422947
PMID: 22659267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2012 Nov;18(11):1709-15. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2012.05.013. Epub 2012 May 29.

Stem cell transplant for children with sickle cell anemia: parent and patient 
interest.

Roth M(1), Krystal J, Manwani D, Driscoll C, Ricafort R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital at Montefiore, 
Bronx, NY 10467, USA. MRoth@montefiore.org

We describe adolescents' and parents' interest in hematopoietic stem cell 
transplant (HSCT) as a cure for sickle cell disease (SCD) and factors associated 
with increased interest. We administered a 40 question survey to assess the 
interest in HSCT in parents and adolescents with HBSS or HBSβ(0) thalassemia. 
The survey tool assessed factors that may influence interest in HSCT including 
demographic data, disease severity, views on prognosis, and health-related 
quality of life (HRQOL). All participants were given a handout on the risks and 
benefits of an HSCT before completing the survey. One hundred twenty-nine 
parents and 59 adolescents completed the survey. Forty-five percent of parents 
(54 of 119) would likely have their child undergo HSCT, and 35% of adolescents 
(19 of 55) would likely undergo HSCT if it was recommended by their 
hematologist. Parents of adolescents, as well as adolescent patients with better 
HRQOL, were more interested in HSCT. Prior exchange transfusion was associated 
with increased interest in HSCT (62% [23 of 37] versus 38% [29 of 76]; P = .02). 
The majority of parents believe their child's SCD will get better (66%; [80 of 
122]), will not likely prevent their child from achieving life goals (83%; [100 
of 121]), and will not shorten their child's lifespan (86%; [102 of 119]). There 
is strong parent and adolescent interest in HSCT as a cure for SCD. It is 
concerning that few parents and adolescents believe SCD will negatively impact 
their prognosis. Education on the potential long-term sequelae of SCD is needed 
when considering the role for HSCT.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2012.05.013
PMID: 22659467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Pract Neurol. 2012 Jun;12(3):166-76. doi: 10.1136/practneurol-2011-000199.

Respiratory management of motor neurone disease: a review of current practice 
and new developments.

Rafiq MK(1), Proctor AR, McDermott CJ, Shaw PJ.

Author information:
(1)Academic Neurology Unit, Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. m.k.rafi q@sheffi eld.ac.uk

Motor neurone disease is a neurodegenerative condition with a significant 
morbidity and shortened life expectancy. Hypoventilatory respiratory failure is 
the most common cause of death and respiratory function significantly predicts 
both survival and quality of life in patients with motor neurone disease. 
Accordingly, supporting and maintaining respiratory function is important in 
caring for these patients. The most significant advance in motor neurone disease 
care of recent years has been the domiciliary provision of non-invasive 
ventilation for treating respiratory failure. Neuromuscular respiratory weakness 
also leads to ineffective cough and retained airways secretions, predisposing to 
recurrent chest infections. In this review, we discuss current practice and 
recent developments in the respiratory management of motor neurone disease, in 
terms of ventilatory support and cough augmentation.

DOI: 10.1136/practneurol-2011-000199
PMID: 22661348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Diabetes Educ. 2012 Jul-Aug;38(4 Suppl):23S-30S; quiz 31S. doi: 
10.1177/0145721712449390. Epub 2012 Jun 1.

Managing diabetes in patients with diabetes of long duration.

Triplitt CL(1).

Author information:
(1)UTHSCSA/Texas Diabetes Institute, 701 South Zarzamora Street, MS 10-5, San 
Antonio, TX 78207, USA. curtis.triplitt@uhs-sa.com

PURPOSE: The purpose of this article is to review clinical issues related to the 
management of hyperglycemia in older patients with diabetes of long duration.
CONCLUSION: Older adults represent an extensive proportion of patients with type 
2 diabetes. Treatment goals need to be individualized to take into account 
comorbid conditions, life expectancy, diabetes complications, and the benefits 
of glycemic control. For both older patients and especially those with chronic 
renal insufficiency, the most important drug-related adverse effect to avoid is 
hypoglycemia, and avoidance of any severe hypoglycemia should be paramount. 
Patients with long duration of diabetes are often treated with insulin. Recent 
data show that glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists may be used in 
combination with insulin for patients not achieving glycemic goals, with 
reductions in the doses of insulin used and with a low risk of hypoglycemia and 
possible weight loss.

DOI: 10.1177/0145721712449390
PMID: 22661393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Hum Mol Genet. 2012 Sep 15;21(18):3956-68. doi: 10.1093/hmg/dds210. Epub
2012  Jun 1.

A persistent level of Cisd2 extends healthy lifespan and delays aging in mice.

Wu CY(1), Chen YF, Wang CH, Kao CH, Zhuang HW, Chen CC, Chen LK, Kirby R, Wei 
YH, Tsai SF, Tsai TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Institute of Genome Sciences, National 
Yang-Ming University, Taipei 112, Taiwan.

The CISD2 gene, which is an evolutionarily conserved novel gene, encodes a 
transmembrane protein primarily associated with the mitochondrial outer 
membrane. Significantly, the CISD2 gene is located within the candidate region 
on chromosome 4q where a genetic component for human longevity has been mapped. 
Previously, we have shown that Cisd2 deficiency shortens lifespan resulting in 
premature aging in mice. Additionally, an age-dependent decrease in Cisd2 
expression has been detected during normal aging. In this study, we demonstrate 
that a persistent level of Cisd2 achieved by transgenic expression in mice 
extends their median and maximum lifespan without any apparent deleterious side 
effects. Cisd2 also ameliorates age-associated degeneration of the skin, 
skeletal muscles and neurons. Moreover, Cisd2 protects mitochondria from 
age-associated damage and functional decline as well as attenuating the 
age-associated reduction in whole-body energy metabolism. These results suggest 
that Cisd2 is a fundamentally important regulator of lifespan and provide an 
experimental basis for exploring the candidacy of CISD2 in human longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/dds210
PMID: 22661501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Brain. 2012 Sep;135(Pt 9):2883-91. doi: 10.1093/brain/aws144. Epub 2012 Jun
1.

Young-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: historical and other observations.

Turner MR(1), Barnwell J, Al-Chalabi A, Eisen A.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
UK.

There is a wide range of age at initial symptom onset in amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis despite a mean age of 65 years in population-based studies. 
'Young-onset' amyotrophic lateral sclerosis typically refers to patients younger 
than ∼45 years and accounts for about 10% of cases in contemporary series. A 
review of published cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis from 1850 to 1950 
revealed a far higher proportion of cases with young onset (>50%), with a steady 
decline to the contemporary figure. It is possible that this is not solely 
explained by increases in life expectancy. While there is still a rich variation 
in phenotypes among cases of young-onset amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, bulbar 
onset was found to be significantly under-represented in analysis of a large 
patient database, with implications for age-related vulnerabilities pertaining 
to focality of symptom onset. The timing of initiating pathological processes in 
relation to the emergence of symptoms is discussed, including the potential role 
of very early development and the interaction of epigenetic and environmental 
factors.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/aws144
PMID: 22661746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Aust Nurs J. 2012 Mar;19(8):10.

Closing the gap but long way to go.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 22662423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Econ Hum Biol. 2013 Jul;11(3):360-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2012.02.006. Epub
2012  May 19.

The Jewish advantage and household security: life expectancy among 19th Century 
Sephardim of Gibraltar.

Sawchuk LA(1), Tripp L, Melnychenko U.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto Scarborough, Canada. sawchukl@utsc.utoronto.ca

Using the historical population of Gibraltar to examine the pattern of mortality 
of Jews and Roman Catholics revealed that: (1) the Jews exhibited a 
significantly better health status as measured by life expectancy at birth 
(47.66 and 47.56 for Jewish males and females vs. 38.10 and 40.89 for Catholics 
males and females, respectively), (2) most of the disparity is found in the very 
young age categories and (3) the significantly lower rates of deaths could be 
attributed to the diarrheal and nutritional complex. Stage two of the research 
involved the linkage of deaths over a 7-year period relative to their household 
context as of 1878. Being Jewish, having a servant, having access to a water 
well in the tenement and residing in a tenement only with other Jews, were all 
factors that contributed to a higher life expectancy. Our explanation for the 
enhanced survivorship among the Jews is grounded in economics as well as in an 
established welfare system, in religious precepts and in secular knowledge of 
health. One of the more notable and hitherto unobserved findings is that Roman 
Catholics residing in the same tenements with Jews enjoyed a distinct health 
advantage. This suggests that a positive amplification effect arose from their 
co-residence with the Jews.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2012.02.006
PMID: 22664099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Psychosomatics. 2013 Jan-Feb;54(1):67-73. doi: 10.1016/j.psym.2012.03.001.
Epub  2012 Jun 2.

Obese schizophrenia spectrum patients have significantly higher 10-year general 
cardiovascular risk and vascular ages than obese individuals without severe 
mental illness.

Ratliff JC(1), Palmese LB, Reutenauer EL, Srihari VH, Tek C.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06519-1109, USA. joseph.ratliff@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: Individuals with schizophrenia have a life expectancy that is 20 
years less than the general population, along with high rates of obesity and 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality.
OBJECTIVE: This study assessed the 10-year general CVD risk and vascular ages of 
106 obese schizophrenia spectrum patients and 197 demographically matched obese 
controls without severe mental illness (SMI) from the National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES).
METHODS: Vascular age and general CVD risk were calculated using the Framingham 
global CVD calculator, which incorporates age, sex, total and HDL cholesterol 
levels, systolic blood pressure, smoking status, and diabetes or hypertension 
treatment.
RESULTS: Obese schizophrenia spectrum patients had a mean vascular age that was 
14.1 years older than their mean actual age, whereas obese NHANES participants 
had only a 6.7-year difference. The probability of experiencing a CVD event 
within the next 10 years was 10.7% for obese patients and 8.5% for obese NHANES 
participants.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that schizophrenia spectrum patients 
experience increased metabolic risk independent of weight. Primary care 
clinicians can utilize general CVD risk and vascular age scores to communicate 
metabolic risk more easily and to help make treatment decisions.

Copyright © 2013 The Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psym.2012.03.001
PMCID: PMC3435456
PMID: 22664309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Exp Gerontol. 2012 Aug;47(8):631-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.05.017. Epub
2012  Jun 1.

Pleiotropy of segregating genetic variants that affect honey bee worker life 
expectancy.

Dixon LR(1), McQuage MR, Lonon EJ, Buehler D, Seck O, Rueppell O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, 312 Eberhart 
Building, Greensboro, NC 27403, USA.

In contrast to many other complex traits, the natural genetic architecture of 
life expectancy has not been intensely studied, particularly in non-model 
organisms, such as the honey bee (Apis mellifera L.). Multiple factors that 
determine honey bee worker lifespan have been identified and genetic analyses 
have been performed on some of those traits. Several of the traits are included 
in a suite of correlated traits that form the pollen hoarding syndrome, which 
was named after the behavior to store surplus pollen in the nest and is tied to 
social evolution. Here, seven quantitative trait loci that had previously been 
identified for their effects on different aspects of the pollen hoarding 
syndrome were studied for their genetic influence on the survival of adult honey 
bee workers. To gain a more comprehensive understanding of the genetic 
architecture of worker longevity, a panel of 280 additional SNP markers 
distributed across the genome was also tested. Allelic distributions were 
compared between young and old bees in two backcross populations of the 
bi-directionally selected high- and low-pollen hoarding strain. Our results 
suggest a pleiotropic effect of at least one of the behavioral quantitative 
trait loci on worker longevity and one significant and several other putative 
genetic effects in other genomic regions. At least one locus showed evidence for 
strong antagonistic pleiotropy and several others suggested genetic factors that 
influence pre-emergence survival of worker honey bees. Thus, the predicted 
association between worker lifespan and the pollen hoarding syndrome was 
supported at the genetic level and the magnitude of the identified effects also 
strengthened the view that naturally segregating genetic variation can have 
major effects on age-specific survival probability in the wild.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.05.017
PMCID: PMC3389156
PMID: 22664574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Exp Gerontol. 2012 Oct;47(10):773-81. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.05.015. Epub
 2012 Jun 2.

Trading stages: life expectancies in structured populations.

Steiner UK(1), Tuljapurkar S, Coulson T, Horvitz C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-5020, USA.

Interest in stage-and age structured models has recently increased because they 
can describe quantitative traits such as size that are left out of age-only 
demography. Available methods for the analysis of effects of vital rates on 
lifespan in stage-structured models have not been widely applied because they 
are hard to use and interpret, and tools for age and stage structured 
populations are missing. We present easily interpretable expressions for the 
sensitivities and elasticities of life expectancy to vital rates in age-stage 
models, and illustrate their application with two biological examples. Much of 
our approach relies on trading of time and mortality risk in one stage for time 
and risk in others. Our approach contributes to the new framework of the study 
of age- and stage-structured biodemography.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.05.015
PMCID: PMC3437015
PMID: 22664576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Contemp Clin Trials. 2012 Sep;33(5):1033-43. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.05.009.
 Epub 2012 Jun 1.

Longitudinal Pediatric Palliative Care: Quality of Life & Spiritual Struggle 
(FACE): design and methods.

Dallas RH(1), Wilkins ML, Wang J, Garcia A, Lyon ME.

Author information:
(1)St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Department of Infectious Diseases, 
Memphis, TN 38105, USA. ronald.dallas@stjude.org

As life expectancy increases for adolescents ever diagnosed with AIDS due to 
treatment advances, the optimum timing of advance care planning is unclear. Left 
unprepared for end-of-life (EOL) decisions, families may encounter 
miscommunication and disagreements, resulting in families being charged with 
neglect, court battles and even legislative intervention. Advanced care planning 
(ACP) is a valuable tool rarely used with adolescents. The Longitudinal 
Pediatric Palliative Care: Quality of Life & Spiritual Struggle study is a 
two-arm, randomized controlled trial assessing the effectiveness of a disease 
specific FAmily CEntered (FACE) advanced care planning intervention model among 
adolescents diagnosed with AIDS, aimed at relieving psychological, spiritual, 
and physical suffering, while maximizing quality of life through facilitated 
conversations about ACP. Participants will include 130 eligible dyads 
(adolescent and family decision-maker) from four urban cities in the United 
States, randomized to either the FACE intervention or a Healthy Living Control. 
Three 60-minute sessions will be conducted at weekly intervals. The dyads will 
be assessed at baseline as well as 3-, 6-, 12-, and 18-month post-intervention. 
The primary outcome measures will be in congruence with EOL treatment 
preferences, decisional conflict, and quality of communication. The mediating 
and moderating effects of threat appraisal, HAART adherence, and spiritual 
struggle on the relationships among FACE and quality of life and 
hospitalization/dialysis use will also be assessed. This study will be the first 
longitudinal study of an AIDS-specific model of ACP with adolescents. If 
successful, this intervention could quickly translate into clinical practice.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.05.009
PMCID: PMC3408828
PMID: 22664645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Indian J Pediatr. 2012 Aug;79(8):1076-83. doi: 10.1007/s12098-012-0780-2.
Epub  2012 Jun 5.

Primer on renal transplantation.

Moudgil A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Children's National Medical Center, 111 Michigan 
Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20010, USA. amoudgil@childrensnational.org

Renal transplantation transforms chronically ill children with end stage renal 
disease (ESRD) into near normal resulting in improvement in nutrition, growth, 
neurodevelopment and quality of life, and is the goal of therapy. However, the 
benefits of transplantation come at a price of life-long treatment with 
immunosuppressive medications, increased risk of infections and malignancy. 
Children younger than 10 y of age have the best, and adolescents have the worst 
5-y graft survival likely due to non-adherence with medications in the 
adolescents. Long-term complications include ongoing issues related to chronic 
kidney disease (CKD) and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality contributing to 
graft loss and shortened life expectancy, thus limiting the success of organ 
transplantation. Therefore, appropriate management of CKD and cardiovascular 
issues should be integral to the care of pediatric transplant patients. The 
other ongoing challenges include organ shortage, prevention and treatment of 
late acute rejections and chronic graft dysfunction, discovering reliable 
noninvasive immune monitoring tools, improving adherence, psychosocial 
rehabilitation, and the elusive goal of tolerance.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-012-0780-2
PMID: 22664864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Otol Neurotol. 2012 Jul;33(5):891-4. doi: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e3182565b2e.

Bone-anchored hearing device surgery: a 3- to 6-year follow-up with life table 
and worst-case scenario calculation.

Tjellström A(1), Stalfors J.

Author information:
(1)Implant Unit, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Published studies on complications for the bone-anchored hearing 
devices can present different outcomes. Unfortunately, data are often difficult 
to interpret, compare, or use in meta-analysis owing to missing data. This study 
presents a sensitivity analysis of presenting cohort data, which considers 
incomplete follow-up data. An example is given using life table calculations and 
worst-case scenarios for implant losses and revision surgeries after installing 
BAHA.
METHODS: A retrospective case review of all patients consecutively operated on 
for BAHA between 2005 and 2007 with a 1-stage procedure. Life table calculations 
were used to handle incomplete follow-up data, including 50% of patients lost to 
follow-up as failures. In addition, a worst-case scenario was calculated, in 
which 100% of patients lost to follow-up were considered to be failures.
RESULTS: A total of 138 patients were operated on at Sahlgrenska, with a 
follow-up time of 3 to 5 years. Within the study cohort, 9 patients (6.5%) lost 
the implant. Reasons for incomplete follow-up data were as follows: "lost to 
follow-up" (n = 4), "not using BAHA" (n = 3), and "patient was deceased" (n = 
2). Life table calculation gave a calculated implant loss of 9.8%. The 
worst-case scenario gave an implant loss frequency of 13%. Revision surgery was 
performed in 3 (2.2%) of 138 patients in the study cohort. With life table and 
worst-case scenario calculations, the frequency of revision surgery was 6.2% and 
10.1%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Incomplete follow-up data can theoretically affect outcome data 
considerably. Therefore, outcome data should also be presented with life table 
and worst-case scenario. This would enhance the possibility to interpret and 
compare data.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e3182565b2e
PMID: 22664902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. JAMA. 2012 May 16;307(19):2033-4. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.3534.

Policy making with health equity at its heart.

Marmot MG(1).

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Health Equity, University College London, London, England.. 
m.marmot@ucl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.3534
PMID: 22665099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Spinal Cord. 2013 Feb;51(2):99-102. doi: 10.1038/sc.2012.61. Epub 2012 Jun
5.

Prevalence of non-traumatic spinal cord injury in Victoria, Australia.

New PW(1), Farry A, Baxter D, Noonan VK.

Author information:
(1)Spinal Rehabilitation Unit, Caulfield Hospital, Alfred Health, Caulfield, 
Victoria, Australia. p.new@cgmc.org.au

STUDY DESIGN: Forecasting using population modelling.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the prevalence of non-traumatic spinal cord injury 
(NTSCI) on 30 June 2010.
SETTING: Victoria, Australia.
METHODS: Modelling used the following data: incidence of NTSCI based on 
state-wide, population-based, health-administration database of hospital 
admissions; state and national population profiles and life tables; levels of 
NTSCI based on national rehabilitation outcomes data; and life expectancy for 
persons with SCI.
RESULTS: The total population prevalence rate was 367.2 per million, whereas the 
prevalence in adults aged 16 years and older was estimated to be 2027, 
equivalent to a population prevalence rate of 455 per million persons. There 
were more males (1097) with NTSCI (prevalence rate males 197.8 per million 
population; females 169.1 per million population) and the prevalence was much 
higher among those with paraplegia (prevalence rate 269.3 per million compared 
to 97.8 per million with tetraplegia) and incomplete NTSCI. Ventilator 
dependency (prevalence rate 1.6 per million population) and paediatric NTSCI 
(prevalence rate 6 per million population ≤ 15 years old) were extremely rare.
CONCLUSION: We have reported a method for calculating an estimate of the 
prevalence of NTSCI that provides information that will be vital to optimise 
health care planning for this group of highly disabled members of society. It is 
suggested that refinements to the modelling methods are required to enhance its 
reliability. Future projects should be directed at refining the mortality ratios 
and performing cohort survival studies.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2012.61
PMID: 22665222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Curr Gerontol Geriatr Res. 2012;2012:943890. doi: 10.1155/2012/943890. Epub
2012  May 16.

Clinical Predictors of Mortality in Adults with Intellectual Disabilities with 
and without Down Syndrome.

Thorpe L(1), Pahwa P, Bennett V, Kirk A, Nanson J.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Community Health & Epidemiology and Psychiatry, College of 
Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada S7N 0W8.

Background. Mood, baseline functioning, and cognitive abilities as well as 
psychotropic medications may contribute to mortality in adults with and without 
Down Syndrome (DS). Methods. Population-based (nonclinical), community-dwelling 
adults with intellectual disabilities (IDs) were recruited between 1995 and 
2000, assessed individually for 1-4 times, and then followed by yearly phone 
calls. Results. 360 participants (116 with DS and 244 without DS) were followed 
for an average of 12.9 years (range 0-16.1 years as of July 2011). 108 people 
died during the course of the followup, 65 males (31.9% of all male 
participants) and 43 females (27.6% of all female participants). Cox 
proportional hazards modeling showed that baseline practical skills, seizures, 
anticonvulsant use, depressive symptoms, and cognitive decline over the first 
six years all significantly contributed to mortality, as did a diagnosis of DS, 
male gender, and higher age at study entry. Analysis stratified by DS showed 
interesting differences in mortality predictors. Conclusion. Although adults 
with DS have had considerable improvements in life expectancy over time, they 
are still disadvantaged compared to adults with ID without DS. Recognition of 
potentially modifiable factors such as depression may decrease this risk.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/943890
PMCID: PMC3361991
PMID: 22666243


461. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e37855. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037855. Epub 2012 May
29.

Surgery for valvular heart disease: a population-based study in a Brazilian 
urban center.

Ribeiro GS(1), Tartof SY, Oliveira DW, Guedes AC, Reis MG, Riley LW, Ko AI.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Collective Health, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, Bahia, 
Brazil. gsribeiro@ufba.br

BACKGROUND: In middle income countries, the burden of rheumatic heart disease 
(RHD) remains high, but the prevalence of other heart valve diseases may rise as 
the population life expectancy increases. Here, we compared population-based 
data on surgical procedures to assess the relative importance of causes of heart 
valve disease in Salvador, Brazil.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Medical charts of patients who underwent surgery 
for valvular heart disease from January 2002-December 2005 were reviewed. 
Incidence of surgery for valvular heart disease was calculated. Logistic 
regression was used to identify factors associated with in-hospital death 
following surgery. The most common etiologies for valvular dysfunction in 491 
valvular heart surgery patients were RHD (60.3%), degenerative valve disease 
(15.3%), and endocarditis (4.5%). Mean annual incidence for surgeries due to any 
valvular heart diseases, RHD, and degenerative valvular disease were 5.02, 3.03, 
and 0.77 per 100,000 population, respectively. Incidence of surgery due to RHD 
was highest in young adults; procedures were predominantly paid by the public 
health sector. In contrast, the incidence of surgery due to degenerative 
valvular disease was highest among those older than 60 years of age; procedures 
were mostly paid by the private sector. The overall in-hospital case-fatality 
ratio was 11.9%. Independent factors associated with death included increase in 
age (odds ratio: 1.04 per year of age; 95% confidence interval: 1.02-1.06), 
endocarditis (6.35; 1.92-21.04), multiple valve operative procedures (4.35; 
2.12-8.95), and prior heart valve surgery (2.49; 1.05-5.87).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: RHD remains the main cause for valvular heart surgery 
in Salvador, which primarily affects young adults without private health 
insurance. In contrast, surgery due to degenerative valvular disease primarily 
impacts the elderly with private health insurance. Strategies to reduce the 
burden of valvular heart disease will need to address the disparate factors that 
contribute to RHD as well as degenerative valve disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037855
PMCID: PMC3362603
PMID: 22666401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


462. N Am J Med Sci. 2009 Sep;1(4):160-8. doi: 10.4297/najms.2009.4160.

Childhood health in Jamaica: changing patterns in health conditions of children 
0-14 years.

Bourne PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
University of the West Indies, Mona, Kingston, Jamaica.

BACKGROUND: The new thrust by WHO is healthy life expectancy. Therefore, health 
must be more than morbidity. It is within this framework that a study on 
childhood health in Jamaica is of vital importance.
AIMS: This study 1) expands the health literature in Jamaica and by extension 
the Caribbean, 2) will aid public health practitioners with research findings 
upon which they are able to further improve the quality of life of children, 3) 
investigates the age at with children in Jamaica become influenced by particular 
chronic diseases and 4) assesses the subjective wellbeing of children.
METHODS: The current study extracted a sample of 8,373 and 2,104 children 0-14 
years from two surveys collected jointly by the Planning Institute of Jamaica 
and the Statistics Institute of Jamaica for 2002 and 2007 respectively. A 
self-administered questionnaire was used to collect the data.
RESULTS: Ninety-one percent of children in Jamaica, for 2007, reported good 
health. The number of children who had diarrhea fell by 84.2% in 2007 over 2002, 
and a similar reduction was observed for those with asthma (42.1% in 2002 and 
19.7% in 2007). Another critical finding was that 1.2% of children, in 2007, had 
diabetes mellitus compared to none in 2002.
CONCLUSION: Public health now has an epidemiological profile of health 
conditions of children and the demographic shifts which are occurring and this 
can be used for effective management and planning of the new health reality of 
the Jamaican child.

DOI: 10.4297/najms.2009.4160
PMCID: PMC3364660
PMID: 22666690

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest There is no conflict of 
interest to report.


463. N Am J Med Sci. 2009 Oct;1(5):232-8. doi: 10.4297/najms.2009.5232.

The validity of using self-reported illness to measure objective health.

Bourne PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
Mona, Kingston 7, Jamaica W.I.

BACKGROUND: There is a longstanding discourse on whether self-reported health is 
a good measure of objective health. This has never been empirical examined in 
Jamaica.
AIMS: Study seeks to 1) examine the relationship between particular subjective 
and objective indexes; 2) investigate the validity of a 4-week subjective index 
in measuring objective indexes; 3) evaluate the differences that exist between 
the measurement of subjective and objective indexes by the sexes; and 4) provide 
policy makers, other researchers, public health practitioners as well as social 
workers with research information with which can be used to inform their 
directions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data published by the Statistical Institute of Jamaica, 
and the Planning Institute of Jamaica and the Statistical Institute of Jamaica 
were used for this study. Descriptive statistics were used to provide background 
information on data. Scatter diagrams were employed to establish 1) statistical 
associations, and 2) linearity and non-linearity between variables under 
examination. Multiple regression, using the enter method, was employed to a 
predictive model of linear associations.
RESULTS: A strong significant association was found between life expectancy at 
birth for the Jamaican population and self-reported illness (r = -0.731); and 
this was weaker females (r = - 0.683) than males (r = - 0.796). However, the 
relationship between mortality and self-reported illness was a weak non-linear 
one.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-reported illness in a 4-week reference period is a good 
measure of objective health and that self-reported illness for males was a 
better measure for objective health than for females.

DOI: 10.4297/najms.2009.5232
PMCID: PMC3364615
PMID: 22666701


464. N Am J Med Sci. 2009 Oct;1(5):272-8. doi: 10.4297/najms.2009.5272.

Health of females in Jamaica: using two cross-sectional surveys.

Bourne PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
University of the West Indies, Mona Campus, Kingston 7, Jamaica.

BACKGROUND: The 21(st) Century cannot see the examination of health status of 
elderly, population, children and adolescents; but not for females.
AIMS: current study are 1) to examine the health conditions; 2) provide an 
epidemiological profile of changing health conditions in the last one half 
decade (2002-2007); 3) evaluate whether self-reported illness is a good measure 
of health status; 4) compute the mean age of females having particular health 
conditions; 5) calculate the mean age of being ill compared with those who are 
not ill; and 6) assess the correlation between health status and income 
quintile.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In 2002, a subsample of 12,675 females was extracted from 
the sample of 25,018 respondents and for 2007; a subsample of 3,479 females was 
extracted from 6,783 respondents.
RESULTS: There is reduction in the mean age of females reported being diagnosed 
with chronic illness such as diabetes mellitus (60.54 ± 17.14 years); 
hypertension (60.85 ± 16.93 years) and arthritis 59.72 ± 15.41 years). The 
greatest decline in mean age of chronically ill diagnosed females was in 
arthritic cases (by 7.41 years). Concurrently, the mean age of females with 
unspecified health conditions fell by (33%, from 54.62 ± 21.77 years in 2002 to 
36.42 ± 23.69 years in 2007).
CONCLUSION: Although healthy life expectancy for females at birth in Jamaica was 
66 years, improvements in their health status cannot be neglected as there are 
shits in health conditions (to diabetes mellitus) as well as the decline in ages 
at which females are being diagnosed with particular chronic illnesses.

DOI: 10.4297/najms.2009.5272
PMCID: PMC3364620
PMID: 22666706


465. Lancet. 2012 Jun 2;379(9831):2037-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(12)60879-4.

Redefining public health in New York City.

Alcorn T.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(12)60879-4
PMID: 22666878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Oct 1;30(10):941-59. doi: 
10.2165/11591510-000000000-00000.

Value-of-information analysis to reduce decision uncertainty associated with the 
choice of thromboprophylaxis after total hip replacement in the Irish healthcare 
setting.

McCullagh L(1), Walsh C, Barry M.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Pharmacoeconomics, St Jamess Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: The National Centre for Pharmacoeconomics, in collaboration with the 
Health Services Executive, considers the cost effectiveness of all new medicines 
introduced into Ireland. Health Technology Assessments (HTAs) are conducted in 
accordance with the existing agreed Irish HTA guidelines. These guidelines do 
not specify a formal analysis of value of information (VOI).
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to demonstrate the benefits of using VOI 
analysis in decreasing decision uncertainty and to examine the viability of 
applying these techniques as part of the formal HTA process for reimbursement 
purposes within the Irish healthcare system.
METHOD: The evaluation was conducted from the Irish health payer perspective. A 
lifetime model evaluated the cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban, dabigatran 
etexilate and enoxaparin sodium for the prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism 
after total hip replacement. The expected value of perfect information (EVPI) 
was determined directly from the probabilistic analysis (PSA). Population-level 
EVPI (PEVPI) was determined by scaling up the EVPI according to the decision 
incidence. The expected value of perfect parameter information (EVPPI) was 
calculated for the three model parameter subsets: probabilities, preference 
weights and direct medical costs.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, rivaroxaban dominated both dabigatran 
etexilate and enoxaparin sodium. PSA indicated that rivaroxaban had the highest 
probability of being the most cost-effective strategy over a threshold range of 
&U20AC;0-&U20AC;100 000 per QALY. At a threshold of &U20AC;45 000 per QALY, the 
probability that rivaroxaban was the most cost-effective strategy was 67%. At a 
threshold of &U20AC;45 000 per QALY, assuming a 10-year decision time horizon, 
the PEVPI was &U20AC;11.96 million and the direct medical costs subset had the 
highest EVPPI value (&U20AC;9.00 million at a population level). In order to 
decrease uncertainty, a more detailed costing study was undertaken. In the 
subsequent analysis, rivaroxaban continued to dominate both comparators. In the 
PSA, rivaroxaban continued to have the highest probability of being optimal over 
the threshold range &U20AC;0-&U20AC;100 000 per QALY. At &U20AC;45 000 per QALY, 
the probability that rivaroxaban was the most cost-effective strategy increased 
to 80%. At &U20AC;45 000 per QALY, the 10-year PEVPI decreased to 
&U20AC;3.58 million and the population value associated with the direct medical 
costs fell to &U20AC;1.72 million.
CONCLUSION: This increase in probability of cost effectiveness, coupled with a 
