Life-history theory (LHT) suggests that ecological cues of resource richness and 
survival probabilities shape human phenotypes across populations. Populations 
experiencing high extrinsic mortality due to uncertainty in resources should 
exhibit faster life histories. Here we use a path analytic (PA) approach 
informed by LHT to model the multiple pathways between resources, mortality 
rates, and reproductive behavior in 191 countries. Resources that account for 
the most variance in population mortality rates are predicted to explain the 
most variance in total fertility rates. Results indicate that resources (e.g., 
calories, sanitation, education, and health-care expenditures) influence 
fertility rates in paths through communicable and noncommnunicable diseases. 
Paths acting through communicable disease are more strongly associated with 
fertility than are paths through noncommunicable diseases. These results suggest 
that a PA approach may help disaggregate extrinsic and intrinsic mortality 
factors in cross-cultural analyses. Such knowledge may be useful in developing 
targeted policies to decrease teenage pregnancy, total fertility rates, and thus 
issues associated with overpopulation.

DOI: 10.3378/027.084.0201
PMID: 22708816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Dev Sci. 2012 Jul;15(4):496-505. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-7687.2012.01150.x. Epub
 2012 Apr 5.

The best time to acquire new skills: age-related differences in implicit 
sequence learning across the human lifespan.

Janacsek K(1), Fiser J, Nemeth D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.

Implicit skill learning underlies obtaining not only motor, but also cognitive 
and social skills through the life of an individual. Yet, the ontogenetic 
changes in humans' implicit learning abilities have not yet been characterized, 
and, thus, their role in acquiring new knowledge efficiently during development 
is unknown. We investigated such learning across the lifespan, between 4 and 85 
years of age with an implicit probabilistic sequence learning task, and we found 
that the difference in implicitly learning high- vs. low-probability 
events--measured by raw reaction time (RT)--exhibited a rapid decrement around 
age of 12. Accuracy and z-transformed data showed partially different 
developmental curves, suggesting a re-evaluation of analysis methods in 
developmental research. The decrement in raw RT differences supports an 
extension of the traditional two-stage lifespan skill acquisition model: in 
addition to a decline above the age 60 reported in earlier studies, sensitivity 
to raw probabilities and, therefore, acquiring new skills is significantly more 
effective until early adolescence than later in life. These results suggest that 
due to developmental changes in early adolescence, implicit skill learning 
processes undergo a marked shift in weighting raw probabilities vs. more complex 
interpretations of events, which, with appropriate timing, prove to be an 
optimal strategy for human skill learning.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-7687.2012.01150.x
PMCID: PMC3383816
PMID: 22709399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest and 
have no financial disclosure.


574. Soc Sci Med. 2012 Sep;75(6):990-6. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.05.013.
Epub  2012 Jun 4.

Population heterogeneity in the impact of body weight on mortality.

Zheng H(1), Yang Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. 
zheng.64@sociology.osu.edu

Existing research provides inconsistent evidence for a relationship between 
overweight and/or obesity and mortality, and poorly studies the population 
heterogeneity with respect to the mortality consequence of overweight/obesity. 
This study investigates how overweight and/or obesity affect mortality and how 
these effects may vary across sociodemographic groups defined by race, sex, age, 
education and income by using the U.S. Third National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey (NHANES III) with linked mortality data from 1988 to 2006 
(6915 respondents with 2694 deaths). Analysis from Cox proportional hazard model 
suggests overweight people are at lower risk of death compared to normal weight 
people, but this protection effect is concentrated in black men, older adults, 
and people in the lowest income stratum. Class I obesity does not increase 
mortality risk, but Class II/III obesity does and the harmful effect is 
concentrated in whites, young and middle adults, and people with higher 
education and income levels. We discuss these findings in the context of the 
extant literature and the long-term prospect of life expectancy in the U.S.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.05.013
PMID: 22709443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Otol Neurotol. 2012 Aug;33(6):1066-70. doi: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e3182595325.

Management of hearing in pediatric NF2.

Shepard TH(1), Tucci DL, Grant GA, Kaylie DM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study will demonstrate an individualized approach to hearing 
preservation and tumor management in pediatric patients with neurofibromatosis 
type 2 (NF2). The unique nature of each case discussed will provide valuable 
guiding principles for the treating surgeon.
PATIENTS: Pediatric patients under the care of the senior authors presenting 
with bilateral vestibular schwannoma and NF2.
INTERVENTIONS: Interventions used for hearing optimization, in conjunction with 
surgical interventions, include use of hearing aids, cochlear implants, auditory 
brainstem implants, radiation therapy, and chemotherapeutic agents such as 
bevacizumab.
RESULTS: Pediatric patients with NF2 present a unique and difficult challenge to 
the neurotologist. These children are still developing physically, mentally, and 
socially. They generally have a poorer prognosis and diminished life expectancy. 
Considerations of utmost importance include management of the tumor with the 
goal of minimizing outcomes such as significant bilateral hearing loss, facial 
paralysis, and injury to other cranial nerves, which would be detrimental to the 
quality of life. These patients are best served by a team of physicians who can 
provide individualized patient care. The team can proactively develop the 
treatment strategy before initial tumor resection.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Hearing results, tumor control.
CONCLUSION: Each patient with NF2 is unique; methods to preserve hearing must be 
individually tailored to preserve optimal hearing and avoid disruption of the 
development of the pediatric patient.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e3182595325
PMID: 22710553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Br J Cancer. 2012 Jun 19;107 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S8-17. doi:
10.1038/bjc.2012.113.

Occupational cancer in Britain. Statistical methodology.

Hutchings SJ(1), Rushton L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health and 
MRC-HPA Centre for Environment and Health, Imperial College London, St Mary's 
Campus, Norfolk Place, London W2 1PG, UK. s.hutchings@imperial.ac.uk

An approach using the attributable fraction (AF) has been developed to estimate 
the current burden of occupational cancer in Britain. The AF combines the 
relative risk (RR) associated with exposure with the proportion exposed. For 
each cancer-exposure pairing, the RR is selected from key epidemiological 
literature such as an industry, or population-based study, meta-analysis or 
review. The CARcinogen EXposure (CAREX) database provides point estimates for 
the number of workers exposed to a range of carcinogens; alternative sources are 
national surveys such as the Labour Force Survey and Census of Employment. The 
number of workers exposed are split between high and low exposure levels matched 
to appropriate RRs from the literature. The relevant period for cancer 
development during which exposure occurred is defined as the risk exposure 
period (REP). Estimation of the numbers ever exposed over the REP takes into 
account the changes in the number of people employed in primary and 
manufacturing industry and service sectors in Britain where appropriate, and 
adjustment is made for staff turnover over the period and for life expectancy. 
National estimates of the population ever of working age during the REP are used 
for the proportion denominator. Strategies have been developed to combine 
exposure AFs correctly while avoiding double counting and minimising bias. The 
AFs are applied to national cancer deaths and registrations to obtain 
occupation-attributable cancer numbers. The methods are adaptable for other 
diseases and other geographies, and are also adaptable to more sophisticated 
modelling if better exposure and dose-response data are available.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2012.113
PMCID: PMC3384022
PMID: 22710683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2012 Jul;20(4):421-6. doi: 
10.1097/PAI.0b013e318238bb8f.

The use of immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of composite and collision 
tumors: exemplified by pleural mesothelioma and carcinoid tumor of the lung.

Ordóñez NG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA. nordonez@mdanderson.org

A case of a collision lymph node metastasis of a mesothelioma and a carcinoid 
tumor in a 73-year-old man with a history of asbestos exposure is reported. An 
interesting finding in this case was that both the mesothelioma and its lymph 
node metastases exhibited a wide variety of histologic patterns, including one 
characterized by a solid growth of large cells with abundant, clear, and foamy 
cytoplasm and another exhibiting deciduoid features. Pathologists should be 
aware that mesotheliomas can present very unusual morphologic features, such as 
those seen in the present case, and therefore, should be included in the 
differential diagnosis of those tumors that can display similar morphology and 
can metastasize to the serosal membranes. Reexamination of the pneumonectomy 
specimen in the current case identified a primary peripheral carcinoid tumor. 
The recognition of a nonasbestos-related tumor in a patient with mesothelioma is 
important since its presence may have an impact on the patient's life expectancy 
and, therefore, may affect any compensation settlement.

DOI: 10.1097/PAI.0b013e318238bb8f
PMID: 22710819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Community Genet. 2013 Jul;4(3):413-23. doi: 10.1007/s12687-012-0101-5.
Epub  2012 Jun 19.

Genetic services and testing in South Africa.

Kromberg JG(1), Sizer EB, Christianson AL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Genetics, National Health Laboratory Service and University 
of the Witwatersrand, PO Box 1038, Johannesburg, 2000, South Africa, 
Jennifer.kromberg@nhls.ac.za.

South Africa is a developing middle-income country with a population of over 49 
million people. It has a health system, based on national, provincial and 
private health programmes, which is in transition. There are well organised but 
small genetic services, based mostly in academic centres, provincial health 
departments and the National Health Laboratory Service. Trained medical 
geneticists, genetic counsellors and medical scientists are available to deliver 
the service. Funding for this service is limited, due partly to the extensive 
demands made by the rampant HIV/AIDS epidemic (which has lead to a falling life 
expectancy, and increasing maternal, child and infant mortality rates) and 
partly due to some ignorance, among both health professionals and the public, 
concerning the benefits of genetic counselling and testing in affected families. 
There are four academic human genetics departments across the country providing 
counselling (7,313 cases were counselled in 2008), testing services (16,073 
genetic tests were performed in 2008) and professional training. They also 
undertake research. Only one tenth of the required staff, according to the WHO 
recommendations, is available at present to provide these services, and further 
employment opportunities are urgently required. However, training of 
professionals continues, comprehensive genetic testing facilities are available, 
research on many of the genetic conditions of specific concern to the country 
has been and is being undertaken, and patients from all over Southern and 
Central Africa make use of these services.

DOI: 10.1007/s12687-012-0101-5
PMCID: PMC3739847
PMID: 22711384


579. J Nephrol. 2012 Jul-Aug;25(4):441-9. doi: 10.5301/jn.5000197.

Long-term risk projection and its application to nephrology research.

Turin TC(1), Hemmelgarn BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
turin.chowdhury@ucalgary.ca

Measures of kidney disease burden or risk estimates in nephrology research have 
primarily focused on the concepts of prevalence, annual incidence or relatively 
short-term risk such as five or ten-year risk. The concept of long-term risk is 
rarely used in nephrology research. This paper focuses on two long-term risk 
measures-lifetime risk and life expectancy. Lifetime risk is an epidemiologic 
measure that expresses the probability that a person who is currently free of 
the condition will acquire it at some time during the remainder of their 
expected lifespan. Life expectancy is the expected number of years of life 
remaining for a given group of individuals at a specified age. Key data required 
for estimation of lifetime risk and life expectancy are disease incidence and 
mortality derived by considering age in the time scale in a longitudinal study. 
Lifetime risks can be estimated from incidence and mortality rates derived from 
prospective studies whereas mortality rates are required to estimate life 
expectancy. Although short-term risks are important, long-term risk can be 
particularly beneficial for future prediction of the burden of kidney disease, 
and to assist in health planning and public education.

DOI: 10.5301/jn.5000197
PMID: 22711434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Nephrol. 2012;25 Suppl 19:S73-8. doi: 10.5301/jn.5000164.

Instruments for geriatric assessment: new multidimensional assessment 
approaches.

Rengo F(1), Parisi V, Rengo G, Femminella GD, Rengo C, Zincarelli C, Pagano G, 
Festa G, De Lucia C, Leosco D.

Author information:
(1)Salvatore Maugeri Foundation-IRCCS-Institute of Telese Terme, Benevento, 
Italy. rengo@unina.it

During the last century the considerable increase in life expectancy has led to 
important demographic changes and, consequently, to new clinical scenarios. 
Nowadays, chronic conditions, comorbidities and socio-economic factors 
constitute a relevant health management issue. In particular, the definition of 
frail elderly individuals has proven to have a strong role in the identification 
of high-risk patients, their clinical management and prognosis. Reorganization 
of the medical system has been associated with the development of new 
instruments for clinical assessment, focused on clinical and socio-economic 
issues, resulting in a multidimensional geriatric assessment. A large number of 
approaches have been validated in different clinical settings and populations, 
until the development of multidimensional instruments demonstrated to have a 
crucial role in the identification of frail individuals and in their clinical 
management. Interestingly, some of these, such as the Multidimensional 
Prognostic Index (MPI), proved to play a relevant role in mortality risk 
stratification even in particular clinical settings such as chronic kidney 
disease.

DOI: 10.5301/jn.5000164
PMID: 22711437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. J Physiol. 2012 Sep 1;590(17):4363-76. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.233064.
Epub  2012 Jun 18.

Influence of exercise intensity on skeletal muscle blood flow, O2 extraction and 
O2 uptake on-kinetics.

Jones AM(1), Krustrup P, Wilkerson DP, Berger NJ, Calbet JA, Bangsbo J.

Author information:
(1)Sport and Health Sciences, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, 
University of Exeter, Heavitree Road, Exeter, UK. a.m.jones@exeter.ac.uk

Following the start of low-intensity exercise in healthy humans, it has been 
established that the kinetics of skeletal muscle O(2) delivery is faster than, 
and does not limit, the kinetics of muscle O(2) uptake (V(O(2)(m))). Direct data 
are lacking, however, on the question of whether O(2) delivery might limit 
(V(O(2)(m))) kinetics during high-intensity exercise. Using multiple exercise 
transitions to enhance confidence in parameter estimation, we therefore 
investigated the kinetics of, and inter-relationships between, muscle blood flow 
(Q(m)), a-(V(O(2))) difference and (V(O(2)(m))) following the onset of 
low-intensity (LI) and high-intensity (HI) exercise. Seven healthy males 
completed four 6 min bouts of LI and four 6 min bouts of HI single-legged 
knee-extension exercise. Blood was frequently drawn from the femoral artery and 
vein during exercise and Q(m), a-(V(O(2))) difference and (V(O(2)(m))) were 
calculated and subsequently modelled using non-linear regression techniques. For 
LI, the fundamental component mean response time (MRT(p)) for Q(m) kinetics was 
significantly shorter than (V(O(2)(m))) kinetics (mean ± SEM, 18 ± 4 vs. 30 ± 4 
s; P < 0.05), whereas for HI, the MRT(p) for Q(m) and (V(O(2)(m))) was not 
significantly different (27 ± 5 vs. 29 ± 4 s, respectively). There was no 
difference in the MRT(p) for either Q(m) or (V(O(2)(m))) between the two 
exercise intensities; however, the MRT(p)for a-(V(O(2)) difference was 
significantly shorter for HI compared with LI (17 ± 3 vs. 28 ± 4 s; P < 0.05). 
Excess O(2), i.e. oxygen not taken up (Q(m) x (V(O(2))), was significantly 
elevated within the first 5 s of exercise and remained unaltered thereafter, 
with no differences between LI and HI. These results indicate that bulk O(2) 
delivery does not limit (V(O(2)(m))) kinetics following the onset of LI or HI 
knee-extension exercise.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.233064
PMCID: PMC3473291
PMID: 22711961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Acta Clin Belg. 2012 Mar-Apr;67(2):77-8. doi: 10.1179/acb.2012.001.

Can we still afford expensive cancer drugs?

Annemans L, Van Belle S.

DOI: 10.1179/acb.2012.001
PMID: 22712160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2012;(3):15-22.

[Problems in medical care for patients with cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Maksimova TM, Lushkina NP, Ogryzko EV.

Despite showing that cardiovascular disease mortality in Russia is declining 
evaluation of medical care for cardiovascular patients, using different 
information sources, revealed a lot of problems in this field need it's solving. 
Together with modernization of medical services it is urgently necessary to 
transform the medical education, including post graduate, information support 
for medical professionals in field of modern medical technologies, using in 
countries with low mortality rates, creation the conditions for regular updating 
professional knowledge. It is necessary to reconsider formal criteria for 
medical care evaluation, especially taking into account co morbidity of 
cardiovascular diseases. Our data illustrate that social disparities influence 
on outcomes of diseases and so for further decreasing mortality rates and 
increasing the life expectancy adequate treatment must be provide for all 
patients independently of their material wellbeing.

PMID: 22712270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. J Med Econ. 2012;15(6):1097-109. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.704458. Epub
2012  Jul 5.

A cost-utility study of the use of pregabalin added to usual care in refractory 
neuropathic pain patients in a Swedish setting.

Prettyjohns M(1), Sandelin R, Lister S, Norrefalk JR.

Author information:
(1)Cardiff Research Consortium, Cardiff, Wales. matthew.prettyjohns@wales.nhs.uk

OBJECTIVES: Patients refractory to older therapies for neuropathic pain (NeP) 
have few remaining therapeutic options. This study evaluates the cost-utility of 
pregabalin in the treatment of patients with refractory neuropathic pain in 
Sweden, from a healthcare and a societal perspective.
STUDY LIMITATIONS: The use of non-randomized (observational) data to determine 
the effectiveness of treatments for NeP. The use of non-Swedish data for some 
input parameters in the model.
METHODS: A previously constructed discrete event simulation model was adapted to 
compare pregabalin combined with usual care to usual care alone in a Swedish 
setting. Pain profiles were generated using clinical data from five 
non-randomized pregabalin studies in refractory NeP patients. Utility data were 
generated from a UK survey of patients with NeP. Cost data were generated from 
the Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Board (TLV's) product price 
database, a national NeP register, and a regional registry study. Indirect costs 
were estimated from published sources. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses evaluated uncertainty in the model's output.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for pregabalin plus 
usual care treatment compared to usual care was 51,616 SEK/€5364 and 123,993 
SEK/€12,886 with and without indirect costs, respectively. One-way sensitivity 
analyses confirmed the clinical input data as the main driver of the model; even 
considerable changes to all other input parameters had only a modest effect on 
the ICER. The ICER remained well below a conservative threshold of 347,495 
SEK/€36,113/£30,000 in all scenarios modelled.
CONCLUSIONS: This study found pregabalin combined with usual care to be 
cost-effective compared to usual care in patients with refractory NeP from a 
Swedish Health Care perspective. Moreover, sensitivity analysis showed 
pregabalin's cost-effectiveness to be robust in all scenarios modelled.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.704458
PMID: 22712872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. BMC Bioinformatics. 2012 Jun 19;13:135. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-13-135.

β-empirical Bayes inference and model diagnosis of microarray data.

Mollah MM(1), Mollah MN, Kishino H.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 
1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan. mollah@lbm.ab.a.u-tokyo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Microarray data enables the high-throughput survey of mRNA 
expression profiles at the genomic level; however, he data presents a 
challenging statistical problem because of the large number of transcripts with 
small sample sizes that are obtained. To reduce the dimensionality, various 
Bayesian or empirical Bayes hierarchical models have been developed. However, 
because of the complexity of the microarray data, no model can explain the data 
fully. It is generally difficult to scrutinize the irregular patterns of 
expression that are not expected by the usual statistical gene by gene models.
RESULTS: As an extension of empirical Bayes (EB) procedures, we have developed 
the β-empirical Bayes (β-EB) approach based on a β-likelihood measure which can 
be regarded as an 'evidence-based' weighted (quasi-) likelihood inference. The 
weight of a transcript t is described as a power function of its likelihood, 
fβ(yt|θ). Genes with low likelihoods have unexpected expression patterns and low 
weights. By assigning low weights to outliers, the inference becomes robust. The 
value of β, which controls the balance between the robustness and efficiency, is 
selected by maximizing the predictive β₀-likelihood by cross-validation. The 
proposed β-EB approach identified six significant (p<10⁻⁵) contaminated 
transcripts as differentially expressed (DE) in normal/tumor tissues from the 
head and neck of cancer patients. These six genes were all confirmed to be 
related to cancer; they were not identified as DE genes by the classical EB 
approach. When applied to the eQTL analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana, the 
proposed β-EB approach identified some potential master regulators that were 
missed by the EB approach.
CONCLUSIONS: The simulation data and real gene expression data showed that the 
proposed β-EB method was robust against outliers. The distribution of the 
weights was used to scrutinize the irregular patterns of expression and diagnose 
the model statistically. When β-weights outside the range of the predicted 
distribution were observed, a detailed inspection of the data was carried out. 
The β-weights described here can be applied to other likelihood-based 
statistical models for diagnosis, and may serve as a useful tool for 
transcriptome and proteome studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-13-135
PMCID: PMC3464654
PMID: 22713095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. AIDS. 2012 Jul 31;26 Suppl 1(0 1):S1-5. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283560f54.

Aging with HIV in Africa: the challenges of living longer.

Negin J, Bärnighausen T, Lundgren JD, Mills EJ.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283560f54
PMCID: PMC4017661
PMID: 22713477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. ASAIO J. 2012 Jul-Aug;58(4):396-401. doi: 10.1097/MAT.0b013e31825b8d36.

Experience with noncardiac surgery in destination therapy left ventricular 
assist devices patients.

Bhat G(1), Kumar S, Aggarwal A, Pauwaa S, Rossell G, Kurien S, Kumar A, Pappas 
PS, Tatooles A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Heart Transplant and Assist Devices, Oak Lawn, IL 60453, USA. 
geetha.bhat@advocatehealth.com

Comment in
    ASAIO J. 2012 Jul-Aug;58(4):296.

Continuous flow left ventricular assist devices (CF-LVAD) are increasing the 
life expectancy of patients with advanced heart failure, with these patients 
undergoing more noncardiac operations after implantation. The purpose of this 
study was to determine the safety of noncardiac operations in destination 
therapy CF-LVAD patients. In a retrospective study of 110 CF-LVAD patients, we 
reviewed 36 patients who underwent 63 noncardiac operations 315.1 ± 333.5 days 
after LVAD placement. Fifty-four (84%) operations were elective and 10 were 
emergent. The mean age of the cohort was 61.4 ± 11.4 years, with the majority 
(81%) being men. Most patients (n = 24, 38%) underwent total abdominal 
operation. Of the 36 patients in the study, 23 (63.8%) patients required one 
surgical procedure, and 13(36.1%) patients underwent more than one procedure. 
Six critically ill patients (16%) of 37 expired within 30 days after emergent 
operation. Our study demonstrates overall good clinical outcomes with minimal 
intraoperative complications in LVAD patients undergoing noncardiac surgeries, 
except an increased propensity for intra- and postoperative transfusion of blood 
products because of complex coagulopathies.

DOI: 10.1097/MAT.0b013e31825b8d36
PMID: 22713727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Orv Hetil. 2012 Jun 24;153(25):973-7. doi: 10.1556/OH.2012.29371.

[Treatment of anaemia in medical oncology].

[Article in Hungarian]

Kullmann T(1), Culine S.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Oncologie Médicale, Hôpital Saint Louis, Paris, France. 
kullmanndoki@hotmail.com

Development of cytotoxic chemotherapy, which has several side effects, has 
resulted in the development in supportive care as well. Two families of novel 
drugs have spread in the care of chemotherapy induced anaemia: human recombinant 
erythropoietin and intravenous iron. They were praised for the decreased 
transfusion demand and the increased quality of life. However, if we read the 
literature critically, our enthusiasm should be decreased. New data show an 
unfavourable impact of erythropoietin on life expectancy. Furthermore, the 
health care policy has changed since the introduction of erythropoietin 25 years 
ago. Transfusion control has improved and cost awareness in health care has 
increased. Recommendations of the American Societies of Haematology and Clinical 
Oncology reflect on these considerations. Erythropoietin is not recommended in 
adjuvant settings. The choice between erythropoietin and transfusion is 
conferred to the clinician in case of the development of metastases. No 
sufficient scientific argument was found to support the use of intravenous iron 
supplementation.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2012.29371
PMID: 22714031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. J Blood Med. 2012;3:17-23. doi: 10.2147/JBM.S30479. Epub 2011 May 18.

Challenges and successes in the treatment of hemophilia: the story of a patient 
with severe hemophilia A and high-titer inhibitors.

Saba HI(1), Tran DQ Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of South Florida Medical Center, Tampa, 
FL, USA.

In the past, patients with severe hemophilia have suffered a substantially 
reduced quality of life with frequent bleeding episodes, disabling arthropathy, 
and shorter life expectancy. In addition, methods of treatment and management 
have been costly and time-consuming, and have placed a considerable burden on 
patients' physical and psychological well-being. With the advent of the 
on-demand therapy and prophylactic treatment paradigm, patients have been able 
to receive care with less interruption of daily activities. Treatments may be 
more challenging for hemophiliacs with inhibitors to replacement factor; 
however, recent advances in the use of bypassing agents and immune tolerance 
therapy have enabled them to aggressively manage their disease while maintaining 
their independence. This review focuses on the challenges of treating such a 
severe hemophiliac through examination of the lifetime experience of a young 
adult male with a severe form of congenital hemophilia A. At this stage of his 
life, the patient has minimal disabilities and is inhibitor-free through optimal 
care and strong family support. His aspiration to pursue a productive life has 
led him to a career in medicine. After receiving his medical degree, he pursued 
a specialty in the treatment of hemophilia. By assisting other hemophilia 
patients, he exemplifies both the rewards of persevering through episodes of 
bleeding and other complications and the fact that disabilities can be minimized 
when managed meticulously and in a timely fashion to enable a productive and 
dignified life.

DOI: 10.2147/JBM.S30479
PMCID: PMC3370834
PMID: 22715320


590. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2012 Jun;12(6):787-97. doi: 10.1586/era.12.54.

Selecting patients for cytoreductive nephrectomy in advanced renal cell 
carcinoma: who and when.

Bex A(1), Powles T.

Author information:
(1)The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Division of Surgical Oncology, Department 
of Urology, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands. a.bex@nki.nl

Renal cell carcinoma presents with metastatic disease in approximately 30% of 
patients at the time of diagnosis. Cytoreductive nephrectomy (CN) of the primary 
tumor in the face of metastatic disease is part of a multimodality approach 
including systemic therapy that is based on evidence from randomized trials in 
the cytokine era. Data from the pretargeted therapy era showed that CN had a 
clear role in metastatic renal cell carcinoma, increasing life expectancy by 
approximately 6 months. The substantial improvement in outcomes reported for 
targeted therapy has challenged the previous role of CN. However, despite the 
absence of data from Phase III trials, available evidence suggests that some 
patients may benefit substantially from CN in the era of targeted therapy. This 
review summarizes current arguments for CN and how to best select patients for 
surgery. Ongoing trials are key in generating evidence towards a personalized 
approach to debulking nephrectomy.

DOI: 10.1586/era.12.54
PMID: 22716495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Orthod Fr. 2012 Jun;83(2):143-52. doi: 10.1051/orthodfr/2012010. Epub 2012
Jun  21.

[Proper procedure for adhesive reconstructions with an emphasis on maintaining 
aesthetics: treating people from 7 to 77 years].

[Article in French]

Bonnet E.

Aesthetics is not an empty word: it is full of meaning, not only for patients 
but also for practitioners who regularly practice this «science». Maintenance of 
a high standard of quality has become so important that it requires the active, 
collaborative participation of several disciplines in the field of dentistry so 
that patients can be assured of getting the good results they justifiably 
expect. Orthodontics, composite stratification, bonding techniques, minimally 
invasive preparations, and all-ceramics, all represent what enables us to meet 
the growing demand of aesthetics. Even if young adults remain uninterested in 
these applications for many years, as life-expectancy increases, these adults 
will one day join the "aesthetic" community. A thorough knowledge of therapeutic 
indications, a deep respect for different treatment durations as well as 
different technical solutions will allow us to respond positively to their 
demands.

© EDP Sciences, SFODF, 2012.

DOI: 10.1051/orthodfr/2012010
PMID: 22717114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Health Econ Policy Law. 2013 Apr;8(2):145-65. doi:
10.1017/S1744133112000096.  Epub 2012 May 1.

NICE's social value judgements about equity in health and health care.

Shah KK(1), Cookson R, Culyer AJ, Littlejohns P.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK. kshah@ohe.org

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) routinely 
publishes details of the evidence and reasoning underpinning its 
recommendations, including its social value judgements (SVJs). To date, however, 
NICE's SVJs relating to equity in the distribution of health and health care 
have been less specific and systematic than those relating to cost-effectiveness 
in the pursuit of improved total population health. NICE takes a pragmatic, 
case-based approach to developing its principles of SVJ, drawing on the 
cumulative experience of its advisory bodies in making decisions that command 
respect among its broad range of stakeholders. This paper aims to describe the 
SVJs about equity in health and health care that NICE has hitherto used to guide 
its decision making. To do this, we review both the general SVJs reported in 
NICE guidance on methodology and the case-specific SVJs reported in NICE 
guidance about particular health care technologies and public health 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133112000096
PMID: 22717361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Support Care Cancer. 2013 Feb;21(2):369-76. doi: 10.1007/s00520-012-1526-4.
Epub  2012 Jun 21.

Using scenarios to explain life expectancy in advanced cancer: attitudes of 
people with a cancer experience.

Kiely BE(1), McCaughan G, Christodoulou S, Beale PJ, Grimison P, Trotman J, 
Tattersall MH, Stockler MR.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, Locked Bag 77, 
Camperdown, Sydney, NSW 1450, Australia. belinda.kiely@ctc.usyd.edu.au

PURPOSE: We sought the attitudes of people with a cancer experience to using 
best case, worst case, and typical scenarios for survival to explain life 
expectancy.
METHODS: Oncology clinic attendees and Breast Cancer Network Australia (BCNA) 
members completed a survey describing two formats for explaining life expectancy 
to a hypothetical patient with advanced cancer-providing either three scenarios 
for survival or just the median survival time.
RESULTS: Characteristics of the 505 respondents from outpatient clinics (n = 
251) and BCNA (n = 254) were median age of 58 years, female 74 %, and breast 
primary 64 %. More respondents agreed that explaining three scenarios (vs. 
median survival) would make sense (93 vs. 75 %), be helpful (93 vs. 69 %), 
convey hope (68 vs. 44 %), and reassure (60 vs. 40 %), while fewer respondents 
agreed that explaining three scenarios (vs. median survival) would upset people 
(24 vs. 36 %); all p values < 0.001. Most respondents agreed that each scenario 
should be presented: best case 89 %, worst case 82 %, and typical 92 %. For 
information about their own prognosis, 88 % preferred all three scenarios and 5 
% a single estimate of the median. Respondents with higher education were more 
likely to agree that presenting three scenarios would be helpful (95 vs. 90 %, p 
= 0.05). Respondents with breast cancer were more likely to agree that 
explaining three scenarios would upset people (31 vs. 13 %, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Most respondents judged presentation of best case, worst case, and 
typical scenarios preferable and more helpful and reassuring than presentation 
of just the median survival time when explaining life expectancy to patients 
with advanced cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-012-1526-4
PMID: 22717918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Biol Lett. 2012 Oct 23;8(5):790-3. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2012.0316. Epub 2012
Jun  20.

The effect of resveratrol on longevity across species: a meta-analysis.

Hector KL(1), Lagisz M, Nakagawa S.

Author information:
(1)National Research Centre for Growth and Development, Department of Zoology, 
University of Otago, PO Box 56, Dunedin, New Zealand. katiehector1@gmail.com

Resveratrol has shown evidence of decreasing cancer incidence, heart disease, 
metabolic syndrome and neural degeneration in animal studies. However, the 
effects on longevity are mixed. We aimed to quantify the current knowledge of 
life extension from resveratrol. We used meta-analytic techniques to assess the 
effect resveratrol has on survival, using data from 19 published papers, 
including six species: yeast, nematodes, mice, fruitflies, Mexican fruitflies 
and turquoise killifish. Overall, our results indicate that resveratrol acts as 
a life-extending agent. The effect is most potent in yeast and nematodes, with 
diminished reliability in most higher-order species. Turquoise killifish were 
especially sensitive to life-extending effects of resveratrol but showed much 
variation. Much of the considerable heterogeneity in our analysis was owing to 
unexplained variation between studies. In summary, we can report that few 
species conclusively show life extension in response to resveratrol. As such, we 
question the practice of the substance being marketed as a life-extending health 
supplement for humans.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2012.0316
PMCID: PMC3440975
PMID: 22718956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Eur Heart J. 2013 Jan;34(3):220-8. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs149. Epub 2012
Jun  19.

Cost-effectiveness of treating acute coronary syndrome patients with ticagrelor 
for 12 months: results from the PLATO study.

Nikolic E(1), Janzon M, Hauch O, Wallentin L, Henriksson M; PLATO Health 
Economic Substudy Group.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, 581 83 
Linköping, Sweden.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 2013 Jan;34(3):166-7.

AIMS: The efficacy and safety of ticagrelor vs. clopidogrel in patients with 
acute coronary syndromes (ACS) are well documented in the PLATelet inhibition 
and patient Outcomes trial (PLATO). The aim of this study was to assess the 
long-term cost-effectiveness of treating ACS patients for 12 months with 
ticagrelor compared with generic clopidogrel.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Event rates, health-care costs, and health-related quality 
of life during 12 months of therapy with either ticagrelor or generic 
clopidogrel were estimated from PLATO. Beyond 12 months, quality-adjusted 
survival and costs were estimated conditional on whether a non-fatal myocardial 
infarction (MI), a non-fatal stroke, or no MI or stroke occurred during the 12 
months of therapy. Lifetime costs, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were estimated for both treatment strategies. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were presented from a health-care perspective in 2010 
Euros (€) applying unit costs and life tables from a Swedish setting in the 
base-case analysis. Treatment with ticagrelor was associated with increased 
health-care costs of €362 and a QALY gain of 0.13 compared with generic 
clopidogrel, yielding a cost per QALY gained with ticagrelor of €2753. The cost 
per life year gained was €2372. The results were consistent in major subgroups. 
Sensitivity analyses showed a cost per QALY gained with ticagrelor of ∼€7300 
under certain scenarios.
CONCLUSION: Based on clinical and health-economic evidence from the PLATO study, 
treating ACS patients with ticagrelor for 12 months is associated with a cost 
per QALY below generally accepted thresholds for cost-effectiveness. 
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00391872.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs149
PMID: 22719022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Eur J Heart Fail. 2012 Aug;14(8):946-53. doi: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfs071. Epub
2012  Jun 20.

Left ventricular systolic dysfunction associated with pulmonary hypertension 
riociguat trial (LEPHT): rationale and design.

Ghio S(1), Bonderman D, Felix SB, Ghofrani HA, Michelakis ED, Mitrovic V, Oudiz 
RJ, Frey R, Roessig L, Semigran MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, University 
Hospital, Pavia, Italy.

AIMS: Pulmonary hypertension (PH) due to systolic left ventricular dysfunction 
(PH-sLVD) frequently complicates heart failure (HF), and greatly worsens the 
prognosis of patients with sLVD, but as yet has no approved treatment. The LEPHT 
study aims to characterize the haemodynamic profile, safety, tolerability, and 
pharmacokinetic profile of riociguat (BAY 63-2521), an oral stimulator of 
soluble guanylate cyclase, in patients with PH-sLVD.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This 16-week, phase IIb, randomized, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind study enrols patients with PH-sLVD, defined as left ventricular 
ejection fraction (LVEF) ≤40% and mean pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP(mean)) 
≥25 mmHg at rest. Patients using optimized HF medication will receive placebo or 
riociguat 0.5 mg, 1 mg, or up to 2 mg three times daily. The dose will be 
titrated for 8 weeks, based on systolic blood pressure and well-being, followed 
by 8 weeks of treatment at a stable dose. The primary efficacy variable is 
PAP(mean), while secondary efficacy endpoints include LVEF, exercise capacity, 
quality of life, and other haemodynamic and echocardiographic measurements. 
Safety and pharmacokinetics will also be assessed. After the 16-week study, 
patients will have the opportunity to be treated with riociguat in a long-term 
extension phase.
CONCLUSION: The LEPHT study will provide valuable information on the 
haemodynamic, echocardiographic, and preliminary clinical effects of riociguat 
in patients with PH-sLVD. Trial registration NCT01065454.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfs071
PMID: 22719060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. PLoS Med. 2012;9(6):e1001238. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001238. Epub 2012
Jun  12.

A multifaceted intervention to improve the quality of care of children in 
district hospitals in Kenya: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Barasa EW(1), Ayieko P, Cleary S, English M.

Author information:
(1)Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) Centre for Geographic Medicine 
Research - Coast, Nairobi, Kenya. edwine.halton@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: To improve care for children in district hospitals in Kenya, a 
multifaceted approach employing guidelines, training, supervision, feedback, and 
facilitation was developed, for brevity called the Emergency Triage and 
Treatment Plus (ETAT+) strategy. We assessed the cost effectiveness of the ETAT+ 
strategy, in Kenyan hospitals. Further, we estimate the costs of scaling up the 
intervention to Kenya nationally and potential cost effectiveness at scale.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Our cost-effectiveness analysis from the provider's 
perspective used data from a previously reported cluster randomized trial 
comparing the full ETAT+ strategy (n = 4 hospitals) with a partial intervention 
(n = 4 hospitals). Effectiveness was measured using 14 process measures that 
capture improvements in quality of care; their average was used as a summary 
measure of quality. Economic costs of the development and implementation of the 
intervention were determined (2009 US$). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
were defined as the incremental cost per percentage improvement in (average) 
quality of care. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used to assess 
uncertainty. The cost per child admission was US$50.74 (95% CI 49.26-67.06) in 
intervention hospitals compared to US$31.1 (95% CI 30.67-47.18) in control 
hospitals. Each percentage improvement in average quality of care cost an 
additional US$0.79 (95% CI 0.19-2.31) per admitted child. The estimated annual 
cost of nationally scaling up the full intervention was US$3.6 million, 
approximately 0.6% of the annual child health budget in Kenya. A "what-if" 
analysis assuming conservative reductions in mortality suggests the incremental 
cost per disability adjusted life year (DALY) averted by scaling up would vary 
between US$39.8 and US$398.3.
CONCLUSION: Improving quality of care at scale nationally with the full ETAT+ 
strategy may be affordable for low income countries such as Kenya. Resultant 
plausible reductions in hospital mortality suggest the intervention could be 
cost-effective when compared to incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of other 
priority child health interventions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001238
PMCID: PMC3373608
PMID: 22719233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ME was responsible for developing the 
intervention that is the subject of the cost-effectiveness analysis and testing 
its implementation. All other authors have declared that no competing interests 
exist.


598. Practitioner. 2012 Jan;256(1747):5.

Early ART improves life expectancy in HIV patients.

Ma R.

PMID: 22720453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Public Health (Oxf). 2012 Aug;34(3):462-4. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fds045.
Epub  2012 Jun 21.

The role of schools of public health in capacity building.

Tulchinsky TH(1), Goodman J.

Author information:
(1)Braun School of Public Health and Community Medicine, Hebrew 
University-Hadassah, Hadassah, Ein Karem, Jerusalem, Israel. 
tedt@hadassah.org.il

Public health has been an enormously effective instrument for improving life 
expectancy and quality of life. Historically a sphere of governmental activity 
led by physicians and staffed by sanitarians and nurses, public health has 
evolved to become a multi-facetted field of societal activity. It engages many 
agencies and community action in reducing infectious and non-communicable 
diseases as well as many aspects of lifestyle and health equity. Education for 
an adequate professional workforce is one of its key functions. Schools of 
public health have fulfilled this role only partly even in developed countries, 
but in countries in transition and in low-income countries the problem is much 
more acute. We discuss the role of mentoring of new schools calling for strong 
public and private donor support for this as a key issue in global health.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fds045
PMID: 22722092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;901:233-46. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-931-0_15.

PEGylation of antibody fragments for half-life extension.

Jevševar S(1), Kusterle M, Kenig M.

Author information:
(1)Sandoz Biopharmaceuticals, Mengeš, Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d, Mengeš, Slovenia. 
simona.jevsevar@sandoz.com

Antibody fragments (Fab's) represent important structure for creating new 
therapeutics. Compared to full antibodies Fab' fragments possess certain 
advantages, including higher mobility and tissue penetration, ability to bind 
antigen monovalently and lack of fragment crystallizable (Fc) region-mediated 
functions such as antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) or 
complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC). The main drawback for the use of Fab's 
in clinical applications is associated with their short half-life in vivo, which 
is a consequence of no longer having the Fc region. To exert meaningful clinical 
effects, the half-life of Fab's need to be extended, which has been achieved by 
postproduction chemical attachment of polyethylene glycol (PEG) chain to protein 
using PEGylation technology. The most suitable approach employs PEG-maleimide 
attachment to cysteines, either to the free hinge cysteine or to C-terminal 
cysteines involved in interchain disulfide linkage of the heavy and light chain. 
Hence, protocols for mono-PEGylation of Fab via free cysteine in the hinge 
region and di-PEGylation of Fab via interchain disulfide bridge are provided in 
this chapter.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-931-0_15
PMID: 22723105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2012 Oct 1;186(7):593-7. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201204-0785PP. Epub 2012 Jun 21.

Personalized medicine in cystic fibrosis: dawning of a new era.

Clancy JP(1), Jain M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, 240 East Huron Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611, 
USA.

Life expectancy in cystic fibrosis (CF) has improved substantially over the last 
75 years, with a median predicted survival now approaching 40 years. This 
improvement has resulted largely from therapies treating end-organ 
manifestations. In an effort to develop drugs that would target the underlying 
defects in the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), the Cystic 
Fibrosis Foundation embarked on a bold initiative in which it established 
collaborations with biopharmaceutical companies to support early-stage efforts 
to discover new medicines for CF. This has led to the development and clinical 
trial testing of several novel drugs targeting specific CFTR mutations. One 
drug, ivacaftor, was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration 
for the approximately 4% of patients with CF who have the G551D gating mutation. 
Drugs targeting F508del CFTR and premature termination codons, which would be 
applicable to 90% of patients with CF, are undergoing clinical trials. The 
impact of such drugs on CFTR biomarkers, such as sweat chloride and nasal 
potential difference, suggests that they may reset the clinical trajectory of 
CF, but their effect on long-term outcomes will remain unknown for many years. 
Nevertheless, development of CFTR-targeted drugs represents an important 
milestone in CF, perhaps revolutionizing the care of these patients in a 
fundamental way.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201204-0785PP
PMID: 22723294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 Sep;97(9):2990-3011. doi:
10.1210/jc.2012-1230.  Epub 2012 Jun 20.

Clinical practice guidelines for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1).

Thakker RV(1), Newey PJ, Walls GV, Bilezikian J, Dralle H, Ebeling PR, Melmed S, 
Sakurai A, Tonelli F, Brandi ML; Endocrine Society.

Author information:
