experiences with the linear electron accelerator, the LAE 13/9 was completed in 
1992 as the so far only Polish industrial installation for radiation 
sterilization of medical products and transplants as well as for food 
irradiation.

PMID: 22849244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Rev Sci Tech. 2012 Apr;31(1):121-33. doi: 10.20506/rst.31.1.2108.

Human use of antimicrobial agents.

Zarb P(1), Goossens H.

Author information:
(1)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, University of Antwerp, 
Universiteitsplein 1, Wilrijk 2610, Belgium. peter.zarb@gov.mt

Antibiotics have increased life expectancy. Self-medication, even over the 
Internet, occurs in many countries where antibiotics are classified as 
prescription-only medicines. Collateral damage caused by antibiotic use includes 
resistance, which could be reduced if the inappropriate use of antibiotics that 
takes place globally, especially in low-income countries, could be prevented. 
Surveillance of antimicrobial resistance can recognise trends in resistance 
patterns and novel resistances. Surveillance of antimicrobial consumption can 
identify and target practice areas for quality improvement, both in the 
community and in healthcare institutions. Antimicrobial stewardship initiatives 
and infection control programmes play an important role in decreasing 
inappropriate use and halting dissemination of resistance. Education of 
professionals and the public should focus on changing behaviour rather than 
exclusively increasing knowledge, as the latter could have a paradoxical effect 
by increasing demand and prescription. Behaviour change should target all 
prescribers, including veterinarians, since microbes know no boundaries between 
animals and humans and are capable of exchanging resistance genes.

DOI: 10.20506/rst.31.1.2108
PMID: 22849272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Endocr Pract. 2012 Jul-Aug;18(4):579-90. doi: 10.4158/12016.RA.

Endocrine-metabolic pathophysiologic conditions and treatment approaches after 
kidney transplantation.

Gosmanova EO(1), Tangpricha V, Gosmanov AR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Tennessee 
Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review pathophysiologic conditions and diagnostic and therapeutic 
approaches in the management of endocrine-metabolic disorders after kidney 
transplantation (KT).
METHODS: We discuss the assessment of diabetes mellitus (DM), hyperlipidemia, 
hypertension, and disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism after KT.
RESULTS: KT offers patients with end-stage kidney disease substantial 
improvement in life expectancy and quality of life. Despite amelioration of 
renal dysfunction, however, these patients are at risk for the deterioration of 
existing and the development of new endocrine pathologic conditions. 
Pretransplant DM and new-onset diabetes after transplantation are associated 
with worse patient and graft survival. Little is known about preventing 
new-onset diabetes after transplantation and managing DM shortly after KT. In 
addition to glycemic control in patients with diabetes, management of 
cardiovascular risk factors includes appropriate recognition and treatment of 
hypertension and dyslipidemia. After KT, patients are at considerable risk for 
derangements in calcium and vitamin D metabolism. Immunosuppressive medications 
may cause compromised glucose and lipid metabolism, which may, in turn, 
contribute to the progression of preexisting and the development of new 
posttransplant endocrinopathies.
CONCLUSION: Clinical care of kidney transplant patients should include a 
comprehensive endocrine assessment before and after KT in close collaboration 
with transplant nephrology providers. A referral to an endocrinologist should be 
initiated early during the pretransplant stage, and collaborative management 
should be maintained in kidney transplant patients to improve clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.4158/12016.RA
PMID: 22849872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. HIV Clin Trials. 2012 Jul-Aug;13(4):189-211. doi: 10.1310/hct1304-189.

Renal toxicity associated with antiretroviral therapy.

Calza L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Geriatrics and Nephrologic Diseases, Section 
of Infectious Diseases, S.Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Alma Mater Studiorum 
University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. leonardo.calza@unibo.it

Renal disease is becoming an increasingly prevalent comorbidity in patients with 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The increase in life expectancy 
following the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and 
the long-term development of metabolic complications (such as diabetes and 
dyslipidaemia), hypertension, and vascular diseases can contribute to the 
increasing frequency in the recognition of renal impairment in HIV-infected 
patients. Some antiretroviral agents, and particularly tenofovir, have been 
associated with nephrotoxic drug effects, including decline in glomerular 
filtration rate, proximal tubular damage, and acute kidney injury. The 
occurrence of clinically evident renal toxicity in patients treated with HAART 
seems to be very low, but glomerular or tubular subclinical dysfunction may 
occur more frequently. Therefore, careful clinical and laboratory monitoring for 
the early recognition of renal abnormalities is recommended for all subjects 
receiving antiretroviral treatment. In this article, the current knowledge about 
the nephrotoxic effects of antiretroviral agents has been reviewed, and an 
algorithm for screening and management of HAART-related kidney disease is 
proposed in the light of the most recent clinical studies and international 
guidelines.

DOI: 10.1310/hct1304-189
PMID: 22849961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Food Microbiol. 2012 Oct;32(1):20-31. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2012.05.007. Epub
2012  May 29.

Controlled fermentation of kimchi using naturally occurring antimicrobial 
agents.

Kim J(1), Bang J, Beuchat LR, Kim H, Ryu JH.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, 
Anam-dong, Sungbuk-ku, Seoul 136-701, Republic of Korea.

Kimchi is a traditional Korean fermented food. Since it ferments continuously 
during distribution and storage, the extension of shelf life by preventing 
over-acidification is a major concern in the kimchi industry. One of the most 
frequently attempted ways to delay fermentation is to add naturally occurring 
antimicrobial agents. Many researchers have investigated ways to delay 
over-acidification by adding minor ingredients, fruits or fruit seed extracts, 
extracts of medicinal herbs, culinary herbs and spices, and other miscellaneous 
substances to kimchi. The addition of naturally occurring antimicrobial agents 
may enhance the acceptability of kimchi to consumers over a longer period of 
time but may also have a disadvantage in that it may cause changes in sensory 
quality, especially if added in large amounts. To avoid undesirable sensory 
changes, application of hurdle technologies (i.e., multifactor preservative 
systems) which involve using combinations of low amounts of various naturally 
occurring antimicrobial agents as ingredients should be explored with the goal 
of controlling fermentation. If synergistic or additive antimicrobial effects 
can be achieved using small amounts of a combination of natural agents, changes 
in sensory qualities will be minimized, thereby prolonging shelf life. Research 
findings summarized in this review provide a basis for developing effective 
hurdle technologies using naturally occurring antimicrobial agents to extend 
shelf life of kimchi and perhaps other types of traditional fermented foods.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2012.05.007
PMID: 22850370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Mol Ther. 2012 Nov;20(11):2031-42. doi: 10.1038/mt.2012.153. Epub 2012 Jul
31.

Extended normal life after AAVrh10-mediated gene therapy in the mouse model of 
Krabbe disease.

Rafi MA(1), Rao HZ, Luzi P, Curtis MT, Wenger DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Jefferson Medical College, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. mohammad.rafi@jefferson.edu

Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) or Krabbe disease is a neurodegenerative 
disorder caused by the deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme galactocerebrosidase 
(GALC). This deficiency results in accumulation of certain galactolipids 
including psychosine which is cytotoxic for myelin-producing cells. Treatment of 
human patients at this time is limited to hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT) that appears to slow the progression of the disease when 
performed in presymptomatic patients. In this study, adeno-associated virus 
(AAV) serotype rh10-(AAVrh10) expressing mouse GALC was used in treating 
twitcher (twi) mice, the mouse model of GLD. The combination of 
intracerebroventricular, intracerebellar, and intravenous (iv) injection of 
viral particles in neonate twi mice resulted in high GALC activity in brain and 
cerebellum and moderate to high GALC activity in spinal cord, sciatic nerve, and 
some peripheral organs. Successfully treated mice maintained their weight with 
no or very little twitching, living up to 8 months. The physical activities of 
the long-lived treated mice were comparable to wild type for most of their 
lives. Treated mice showed normal abilities to mate, to deliver pups, to nurse 
and to care for the newborns. This strategy alone or in combination with other 
therapeutic options may be applicable to treatment of human patients.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2012.153
PMCID: PMC3498799
PMID: 22850681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Ther Umsch. 2012 Aug;69(8):483-90. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000319.

[Physical activity and obesity in school-age].

[Article in German]

Kriemler S(1), Puder J.

Author information:
(1)Schweizerisches Tropen- und Public Health Institut, Universität Basel. 
susi.kriemler@unibas.ch

Physical activity and obesity are two of the most used health expressions over 
the last years ranging from the lay press to the highest ranked scientific 
journals. Both reach their readers, as everybody is either affected him/herself 
or knows a person which has to be treated - or has to cover an explosive 
scientific topic and search for solutions to solve this worldwide problem of 
physical inactivity and obesity. It is obvious that we don't have the solution 
yet and that it will take many decades to normalize our built up construct of a 
motorized, extensive energy overload - if this is possible at all. Importantly, 
one has to acknowledge that mild overweight does not harm much, but if the 
muscles of the human body are not used, more disease and a reduced life 
expectancy occur. This is evident for the adult population, but this relation 
seems plausible for children as well. In this article, we will cover physical 
activity and overweight in the school child including diagnostic criteria, their 
relevance for health and describe practical approaches that may help to make of 
each school child an active and "normal weight" human being.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000319
PMID: 22851464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Diabetes. 2012 Nov;61(11):2987-92. doi: 10.2337/db11-1625. Epub 2012 Jul 30.

Improvements in the life expectancy of type 1 diabetes: the Pittsburgh 
Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications study cohort.

Miller RG(1), Secrest AM, Sharma RK, Songer TJ, Orchard TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Survival in type 1 diabetes has improved, but the impact on life expectancy in 
the U.S. type 1 diabetes population is not well established. Our objective was 
to estimate the life expectancy of the Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes 
Complications (EDC) study cohort and quantify improvements by comparing two 
subcohorts based on year of diabetes diagnosis (1950-1964 [n = 390] vs. 
1965-1980 [n = 543]). The EDC study is a prospective cohort study of 933 
participants with childhood-onset (aged <17 years) type 1 diabetes diagnosed at 
Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh from 1950 to 1980. Mortality ascertainment was 
censored 31 December 2009. Abridged cohort life tables were constructed to 
calculate life expectancy. Death occurred in 237 (60.8%) of the 1950-1964 
subcohort compared with 88 (16.2%) of the 1965-1980 subcohort. The life 
expectancy at birth for those diagnosed 1965-1980 was ~15 years greater than 
participants diagnosed 1950-1964 (68.8 [95% CI 64.7-72.8] vs. 53.4 [50.8-56.0] 
years, respectively) (P < 0.0001); this difference persisted regardless of sex 
or pubertal status at diagnosis. This improvement in life expectancy emphasizes 
the need for insurance companies to update analysis of the life expectancy of 
those with childhood-onset type 1 diabetes because weighting of insurance 
premiums is based on outdated estimates.

DOI: 10.2337/db11-1625
PMCID: PMC3478551
PMID: 22851572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Aug;27(8):3014-5. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfs309.

Chronic kidney disease and life expectancy.

Stevens PE(1), Farmer CK.

Author information:
(1)Kent Kidney Care Centre, East Kent University Hospitals Foundation NHS Trust, 
Ethelbert Road, Canterbury, Kent CT1 3NG, UK. paul.stevens@ekht.nhs.uk

Comment on
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Aug;27(8):3182-6.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfs309
PMID: 22851624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Healthc Policy. 2011 Aug;7(1):14-21.

Hancocked: manulife and the limits of private health insurance.

Evans RG.

Long-term care (LTC) insurance is a salesman's dream. Millions of well-heeled 
boomers, anxious to protect their estates from the random expropriation of 
institutional dependency - what a market! But for Manulife, bleeding $1.5 
million a day in LTC claims through subsidiary John Hancock, LTC is a nightmare. 
Company spokesmen blame unexpected increases in life expectancy. But 
management's fundamental error was insuring correlated risks. Risk pooling works 
only when individual risks are uncorrelated. Increases in life expectancy affect 
all contracts together. Manulife made the same mistake selling equity-linked 
annuities with guaranteed floors - essentially insuring against stock market 
declines. Results for shareholders have been catastrophic. Top management, 
meanwhile, have been honoured and richly rewarded.

L'assurance pour soins de longue durée (SLD) est le rêve de tout vendeur. Des 
millions de baby-boomers bien établis, soucieux de protéger leur bien contre 
l'expropriation aléatoire de la dépendance institutionnelle : quel marché! Mais 
pour Manuvie, qui perd 1,5 million de dollars par jour en réclamations pour SLD 
auprès de sa filiale John Hancock, ce type de soins devient un véritable 
cauchemar. Les porte-parole de la compagnie jettent le blâme sur un 
accroissement inattendu de l'espérance de vie. Mais l'erreur de gestion 
fondamentale a été d'assurer les risques de corrélation. La mise en commun des 
risques ne fonctionne que si les risques individuels ne sont pas en corrélation. 
La croissance de l'espérance de vie affecte l'ensemble des contrats. Manuvie a 
commis la même erreur en vendant des rentes liées aux valeurs boursières de pair 
avec des seuils de garantie — essentiellement une assurance contre le déclin du 
marché boursier. Pour les actionnaires, les résultats ont été catastrophiques. 
Entre-temps, la haute gestion récolte les honneurs et est richement récompensée.

PMCID: PMC3167564
PMID: 22851982


874. Trials. 2012 Aug 1;13:125. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-13-125.

Dissemination of the nurse-administered Tobacco Tactics intervention versus 
usual care in six Trinity community hospitals: study protocol for a comparative 
effectiveness trial.

Duffy SA(1), Ronis DL, Titler MG, Blow FC, Jordan N, Thomas PL, Landstrom GL, 
Ewing LA, Waltje AH.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-5482, USA. 
bump@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: The objectives of this smoking cessation study among hospitalized 
smokers are to: 1) determine provider and patient receptivity, barriers, and 
facilitators to implementing the nurse-administered, inpatient Tobacco Tactics 
intervention versus usual care using face-to-face feedback and surveys; 2) 
compare the effectiveness of the nurse-administered, inpatient Tobacco Tactics 
intervention versus usual care across hospitals, units, and patient 
characteristics using thirty-day point prevalence abstinence at thirty days and 
six months (primary outcome) post-recruitment; and 3) determine the 
cost-effectiveness of the nurse-administered, inpatient Tobacco Tactics 
intervention relative to usual care including cost per quitter, cost per 
life-year saved, and cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved.
METHODS/DESIGN: This effectiveness study will be a quasi-experimental design of 
six Michigan community hospitals of which three will get the nurse-administered 
Tobacco Tactics intervention and three will provide their usual care. In both 
the intervention and usual care sites, research assistants will collect data 
from patients on their smoking habits and related variables while in the 
hospital and at thirty days and six months post-recruitment. The intervention 
will be integrated into the experimental sites by a research nurse who will 
train Master Trainers at each intervention site. The Master Trainers, in turn, 
will teach the intervention to all staff nurses. Research nurses will also 
conduct formative evaluation with nurses to identify barriers and facilitators 
to dissemination.Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the results of 
surveys administered to nurses, nurses' participation rates, smokers' receipt of 
specific cessation services, and satisfaction with services. General estimating 
equation analyses will be used to determine differences between intervention 
groups on satisfaction and quit rates, respectively, with adjustment for the 
clustering of patients within hospital units. Regression analyses will test the 
moderation of the effects of the interventions by patient characteristics. 
Cost-effectiveness will be assessed by constructing three ratios including cost 
per quitter, cost per life-year saved, and cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
saved.
DISCUSSION: Given that nurses represent the largest group of front-line 
providers, this intervention, if proven effective, has the potential for having 
a wide reach and thus decrease smoking, morbidity and mortality among inpatient 
smokers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Dissemination of Tobacco Tactics for Hospitalized Smokers 
NCT01309217.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-13-125
PMCID: PMC3533810
PMID: 22852834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. BMC Palliat Care. 2012 Aug 1;11:12. doi: 10.1186/1472-684X-11-12.

The broad spectrum of unbearable suffering in end-of-life cancer studied in 
dutch primary care.

Ruijs CD(1), Kerkhof AJ, van der Wal G, Onwuteaka-Philipsen BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, VU University Medical Centre, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. c.ruys3@kpnplanet.nl.

BACKGROUND: Unbearable suffering most frequently is reported in end-of-life 
cancer patients in primary care. However, research seldom addresses unbearable 
suffering. The aim of this study was to comprehensively investigate the various 
aspects of unbearable suffering in end-of-life cancer patients cared for in 
primary care.
METHODS: Forty four general practitioners recruited end-of-life cancer patients 
with an estimated life expectancy of half a year or shorter. The inclusion 
period was three years, follow-up lasted one additional year. Practices were 
monitored bimonthly to identify new cases. Unbearable aspects in five domains 
and overall unbearable suffering were quantitatively assessed (5-point scale) 
through patient interviews every two months with a comprehensive instrument. 
Scores of 4 (serious) or 5 (hardly can be worse) were defined unbearable. The 
last interviews before death were analyzed. Sources providing strength to bear 
suffering were identified through additional open-ended questions.
RESULTS: Seventy six out of 148 patients (51%) requested to participate 
consented; the attrition rate was 8%, while 8% were alive at the end of 
follow-up. Sixty four patients were followed up until death; in 60 patients 
interviews were complete. Overall unbearable suffering occurred in 28%. A mean 
of 18 unbearable aspects was present in patients with serious (score 4) overall 
unbearable suffering. Overall, half of the unbearable aspects involved the 
domain of traditional medical symptoms. The most frequent unbearable aspects 
were weakness, general discomfort, tiredness, pain, loss of appetite and not 
sleeping well (25%-57%). The other half of the unbearable aspects involved the 
domains of function, personhood, environment, and nature and prognosis of 
disease. The most frequent unbearable aspects were impaired activities, feeling 
dependent, help needed with housekeeping, not being able to do important things, 
trouble accepting the situation, being bedridden and loss of control (27%-55%). 
The combination of love and support was the most frequent source (67%) providing 
strength to bear suffering.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall unbearable suffering occurred in one in every four 
end-of-life cancer patients. Half of the unbearable aspects involved medical 
symptoms, the other half concerned psychological, social and existential 
dimensions. Physicians need to comprehensively assess suffering and provide 
psychosocial interventions alongside physical symptom management.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-684X-11-12
PMCID: PMC3453495
PMID: 22853448


876. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2012 Aug 1;12:112. doi: 10.1186/1472-6882-12-112.

Multi-center randomized double-blind controlled clinical study of chemotherapy 
combined with or without traditional Chinese medicine on quality of life of 
postoperative non-small cell lung cancer patients.

Xu L(1), Li H, Xu Z, Wang Z, Liu L, Tian J, Sun J, Zhou L, Yao Y, Jiao L, Su W, 
Guo H, Chen P, Liu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of TCM, 725 
Wanping road, Shanghai 200032, China. liujiaxiang2012@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is a widely applied complementary 
therapy for cancer patients. It can reduce the chemical drugs induced toxic 
effects to improve the quality of life (QOL). This study applies the highest 
quality of clinical trial methodology to examine the role of TCM in improving 
QOL of postoperative non-small-cell lung cancer patients.
METHODS AND DESIGN: This study is a multi-center, randomized, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. Four hundred eighty patients will be 
recruited into seven different research centers in China. These patients that 
meet the inclusion criteria will be randomized into either a treatment group or 
a placebo group. Each group will receive treatments of 3-weekly chemotherapy 
with TCM or placebo for four cycles. The primary outcome will involve the 
evaluation of QOL and the secondary outcome assessments will include two-year 
disease-free survival rate and disease-free survival. Other efficacy assessments 
are changes of TCM symptoms and toxicity. Side effects and safety profile of the 
therapy would be evaluated at the same time. The investigators expect that TCM 
therapy combined with chemotherapy is superior to chemotherapy solely in terms 
of QOL improvement and disease-free survival extension. "Intention-to-treat" 
analysis will include all randomized participants.
DISCUSSION: The results from the clinical trial will provide evidence for the 
effectiveness of chemotherapy combined with or without TCM in QOL of 
postoperative NSCLC patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials.gov (Identifier: NCT01441752).

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-12-112
PMCID: PMC3502343
PMID: 22853619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2012 Sep 1;10(5):331-42. doi: 
10.1007/BF03261867.

Clopidogrel versus aspirin in patients with atherothrombosis: a CAPRIE-based 
cost-effectiveness model for Greece.

Kourlaba G(1), Fragoulakis V, Maniadakis N.

Author information:
(1)National School of Public Health, Department of Health Services Management, 
Athens, Greece. kurlaba@hua.gr

BACKGROUND: Atherothrombosis represents a leading cause of morbidity and 
mortality worldwide. Given the prominent role of platelet aggregation in 
atherothrombosis, antiplatelet therapy forms the cornerstone of treatment, with 
proven efficacy in the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events. Although 
clopidogrel seems to be superior to aspirin in terms of risk reduction for an 
atherothrombotic event, whether this clinical advantage is cost effective in 
Greece is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis 
comparing clopidogrel with aspirin in the secondary prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in patients with peripheral artery disease, a recent 
stroke or a recent myocardial infarction, from the third-party-payer perspective 
in Greece.
METHODS: A Markov model with a 6-month cycle length was developed. Transition 
probabilities used in the model were obtained from the event rates reported in 
the CAPRIE trial. The effect of clopidogrel was applied only during the first 2 
years of the model. Utility data were used to estimate quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). Costs (for the year 2012) assigned to each health state 
included antiplatelet treatment cost, cost for the management of adverse events 
related to antiplatelet therapy and the direct healthcare cost of patients (i.e. 
concomitant medication, hospitalization, outpatient visits, rehabilitation, 
laboratory and imaging diagnostic examinations as well as interventions) in the 
acute and follow-up phase, separately. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) was calculated for life-years (LYs) and QALYs, separately. A 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis was conducted in order to evaluate the impact 
of the variation that characterizes the majority of model parameters to the 
cost-effectiveness results.
RESULTS: The Markov analysis revealed that the discounted survival was 11.83 
(95% CI 11.40, 12.22) years and 12.17 (95% CI 11.75, 12.55) years in the aspirin 
and clopidogrel treatment groups, respectively, a difference of 0.34 (95% CI 
0.09, 0.618) LYs. The corresponding discounted QALYs were 8.63 (95% CI 8.34, 
8.90) and 8.84 (95% CI 8.54, 9.10), respectively, a difference of 0.21 (95% CI 
0.05, 0.37) QALYs. The cumulated lifetime costs per patient were €20 678 (95% CI 
19 675, 21 724) and €21 688 (95% CI 20 649, 22 773), for aspirin and clopidogrel 
treatment arm, respectively. The ICER for clopidogrel was calculated to be €4038 
(95% CI 2743, 7837) for each LY saved and €5518 (95% CI 3358, 12 921) for each 
QALY saved.
CONCLUSION: The analysis indicates that clopidogrel is cost effective for the 
secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in the Greek setting. These 
findings are in line with those reported in other European countries.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03261867
PMID: 22853743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Int J Nurs Stud. 2013 Jun;50(6):776-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2012.07.002.
 Epub 2012 Jul 31.

Sense of coherence is a predictor of perceived health in adolescents with 
congenital heart disease: a cross-lagged prospective study.

Apers S(1), Luyckx K, Rassart J, Goossens E, Budts W, Moons P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Centre for Health Services and Nursing Research, 
University of Leuven, Kapucijnenvoer 35, Leuven, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) 
has increased substantially. Health care should meet their needs through 
enhancing psychological functioning, quality of life, and perceived health. A 
possible determinant of these variables is sense of coherence (SOC). The 
interplay between SOC and outcome variables is not thoroughly scrutinized yet.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the direction of relationships between SOC and domains of 
perceived health in adolescents with CHD.
DESIGN: A longitudinal, observational study with two measurement points and a 
time lag of nine months.
SETTING: The pediatric and congenital cardiology department of a university 
hospital in Belgium.
PARTICIPANTS: Adolescents with CHD (n=429 at time 1) were recruited from the 
hospital's database. At time 1, mean age was 15.8 years, 53.4% were boys, and 
most adolescents had a moderately complex heart defect (47.6%).
METHODS: Participants filled out the 13-item SOC questionnaire and the PedsQL 
scale at both time points. Cross-lagged path analysis using structural equation 
modeling was conducted, controlling for age, sex, educational level, disease 
complexity, and prior heart surgery for CHD.
RESULTS: SOC at time 1 positively predicted all domains of generic perceived 
health (physical, emotional, social, and school functioning) and three out of 
five domains of disease-specific perceived health (symptoms, physical 
appearance, and cognitive problems) at time 2. Conversely, better school 
functioning and less cognitive problems at time 1 positively predicted SOC at 
time 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence was obtained for reciprocal pathways between SOC and the 
domains of perceived health, although the predominant direction of effects was 
found to be from SOC to perceived health. Hence, improving SOC has the potential 
to enhance future perceived health of adolescents with CHD.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2012.07.002
PMID: 22854117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Oct;56(4):1015-24.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.02.069. Epub
 2012 Jul 31.

Cost-effectiveness in the contemporary management of critical limb ischemia with 
tissue loss.

Barshes NR(1), Chambers JD, Cohen J, Belkin M; Model To Optimize Healthcare 
Value in Ischemic Extremities 1 (MOVIE) Study Collaborators.

Collaborators: Belkin M, Ozaki C, Nguyen LL, Menard MT, McPhee JT, Semel ME, 
Chambers J, Neumann P, Jeng P, Cohen JT, Barshes NR, Kougias P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, Michael E. DeBakey 
Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: The care of patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) and tissue 
loss is notoriously challenging and expensive. We evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of various management strategies to identify those that would 
optimize value to patients.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was used to create a detailed simulation 
of patient-oriented outcomes, including clinical events, wound healing, 
functional outcomes, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) after various 
management strategies in a CLI patient cohort during a 10-year period. Direct 
and indirect cost estimates for these strategies were obtained using transition 
cost-accounting methodology. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), in 
2009 U.S. dollars per QALYs, were calculated compared with the most conservative 
management strategy of local wound care with amputation as needed.
RESULTS: With an ICER of $47,735/QALY, an initial surgical bypass with 
subsequent endovascular revision(s) as needed was the most cost-effective 
alternative to local wound care alone. Endovascular-first management strategies 
achieved comparable clinical outcomes but at higher cost (ICERs ≥$101,702/QALY); 
however, endovascular management did become cost-effective when the initial foot 
wound closure rate was >37% or when procedural costs were decreased by >42%. 
Primary amputation was dominated (less effectiveness and more costly than wound 
care alone).
CONCLUSIONS: Contemporary clinical effectiveness and cost estimates show an 
initial surgical bypass is the most cost-effective alternative to local wound 
care alone for CLI with tissue loss and can be supported even in a cost-averse 
health care environment.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Mosby, Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.02.069
PMID: 22854267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Neurosurg Sci. 2012 Sep;56(3):239-45.

Survival prognostic factors in patients with glioblastoma: our experience.

Raysi Dehcordi S(1), De Paulis D, Marzi S, Ricci A, Cimini A, Cifone MG, Galzio 
RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy. 
soheila.raysi@alice.it

AIM: Approximate survival for glioblastoma is less than 1 year. Age, 
histological features and performance status at presentation represent the three 
statistically independent factors affecting longevity. The purpose of the study 
was to assess the role of surgery and to analyze prognostic factors in our 
patients operated for glioblastoma.
METHODS: We evaluated in 56 patients operated for glioblastoma their depressive 
and performance status in the preoperative and postoperative time. Moreover we 
analyzed the extent of surgery, the site and the size of lesions.
RESULTS: Median overall survival was 17 months. An age of ≥60 years (P<0.03), a 
preoperative Karnofsky Performance Status KPS≤70 (P=0.04), a subtotal tumor 
resection (P<0.001), a tumor size >5 cm (P=0.01), and no postoperative adjuvant 
treatment (P=0.01) were associated with the worst prognosis. Before surgery we 
found the presence of depression in 10 patients with a significative reduction 
of mean Back Depression Inventory scores after tumor resection (P=0.03). 
Finally, a KPS≤70 was significantly associated with an increased incidence of 
depression in the postoperative time.
CONCLUSION: Tumor size, total resection and affective disorders were identified 
as predictors of survival in our series of patients with glioblastoma in 
addition to age and KPS score. In our opinion an early diagnosis and the use of 
specific safeguards in the operating room contribute to have an extension of the 
tumor progression time and median survival.

PMID: 22854592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Psychopharmacol. 2012 Sep;26(9):1285. doi: 10.1177/0269881111430735.

Mortality in schizophrenia.

Bushe C, Taylor M, Haukka J.

Comment on
    J Psychopharmacol. 2011 Jun;25(6):846-7.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881111430735
PMID: 22854648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Rev Med Chil. 2012 Apr;140(4):458-65. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872012000400006.

[Children with special health care needs: prevalence in a pediatric hospital and 
associated risks].

[Article in Spanish]

Flores JC(1), Carrillo D, Karzulovic L, Cerda J, Araya G, Matus MS, Llévenes G, 
Menchaca G, Vargas NA.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Salud Metropolitano Sur Oriente, Complejo Asistencial Dr. Sótero 
del Río, Santiago, Chile. jcflorescano@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: "Children with special health care needs" (CSHCN) is a novel 
definition for pediatric patients with chronic diseases, adopted by the Chilean 
Pediatric Society in 2008. As life expectancy in Chile increases, prevalence of 
CSHCN is progressively growing, leading to higher health costs.
AIM: To describe the epidemiological profile and clinical characteristics of 
hospitalized CSHCN, and compare the risk assessment of adverse events during 
hospitalization using two definitions for CSHCN.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cohort of hospitalized CSHCN in a Pediatric Center at 
Santiago, Chile, was followed from September to December 2009. Clinical and 
demographic data were registered in a database, including admission to intensive 
care unit (ICU), nosocomial infections and prolonged hospitalization (> 7 days). 
Incidence ratios for these events were compared between CSHCN and non-CSHCN, and 
between children attended by three or more health care professionals (CSHCN-3) 
and non-CSHCN.
RESULTS: Nine hundred twenty patients were included (54% male), with a median 
age 14 months (0-221) and median days of hospitalization 4 days (1-229). 
Prevalence of CSHCN was 60.8% of hospitalized children. When using CSHCN 
definition and comparing with non-CSHCN, no excess of risk was documented. On 
the other hand, prevalence of CSHCN-3 was 19.9%. Compared to non-CSHCN, these 
patients had a higher risk of ICU admission (relative risk (RR) 1.58; 95% 
confidence intervals (CI) = 1.22-2.05; p < 0.01), nosocomial infections (RR 
2.28; 95% CI = 1.54-3.39; p < 0.001) and prolonged hospitalization (RR 1.99; 95% 
CI = 1.52-2.60; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: One in five hospitalized children met CSHCN-3 definition. These 
patients had an increased risk of adverse events during their hospitalization 
compared to non-CSHCN.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872012000400006
PMID: 22854691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Psychiatr Serv. 2012 Aug;63(8):823-6. doi: 10.1176/appi.ps.201100317.

Early mortality and years of potential life lost among Veterans Affairs patients 
with depression.

Zivin K(1), Ilgen MA, Pfeiffer PN, Welsh DE, McCarthy J, Valenstein M, Miller 
EM, Islam K, Kales HC.

Author information:
(1)National Serious Mental Illness TreatmentResearch and Evaluation Center and 
the Health Services Research and Development Center for Clinical Management 
Research, US Department of Veterans Affairs, North Campus Research Complex, 2800 
Plymouth Rd, Bldg 14, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. kzivin@umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: Substantial literature documents excess and early mortality among 
individuals with serious mental illness, but there are relatively few data about 
mortality and depression.
METHODS: During fiscal year 2007, data from the U.S. Department of Veterans 
Affairs and the National Death Index were used to calculate mean age of death 
and years of potential life lost (YPLL) associated with 13 causes of death among 
veterans with (N=701,659) or without (N=4,245,193) depression.
RESULTS: Compared with nondepressed patients, depressed patients died younger 
(71.1 versus 75.9) and had more YPLL (13.4 versus 10.2) as a result of both 
natural and unnatural causes. Depending on the cause of death, depressed 
patients died between 2.5 and 8.7 years earlier and had 1.5 to 6.1 YPLL compared 
with nondepressed patients.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings have important implications for clinical practice, 
given that improved quality of care may be needed to reduce early mortality 
among depressed VA patients.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ps.201100317
PMID: 22854727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Scand J Work Environ Health. 2013 Jan;39(1):46-56. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.3314.
Epub  2012 Aug 1.

Economic evaluation of a participatory return-to-work intervention for temporary 
agency and unemployed workers sick-listed due to musculoskeletal disorders.

Vermeulen SJ(1), Heymans MW, Anema JR, Schellart AJ, van Mechelen W, van der 
Beek AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, EMGO Institute for Health and 
Care Research, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness, 
-utility, and -benefit of a newly developed participatory return-to-work (RTW) 
program for temporary agency and unemployed workers, sick-listed due to 
musculoskeletal disorders.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a randomized controlled 
trial with a 12-month follow-up. Temporary agency and unemployed workers, 
sick-listed for 2â€"8 weeks due to musculoskeletal disorders, were randomized to 
the participatory RTW program (N=79) or usual care group (N=84). The new RTW 
program was aimed at making a consensus-based RTW action plan with the 
possibility of a temporary (therapeutic) workplace. Effect outcomes were 
sustainable RTW and quality-adjusted life years (QALY). Healthcare utilization 
was measured from the social insurerâ€™s perspective and societal perspective.
RESULTS: Total healthcare costs in the participatory RTW program group [10 189 
(standard deviation [SD] 7055) euros] were statistically significantly higher 
compared to care-as-usual [7862 (SD 7394) euros]. The cost-effectiveness 
analyses showed that the new intervention was more effective but also more 
costly than usual care (ie, to gain RTW one day earlier in the participatory RTW 
program group approximately 80 euros needed to be invested). The net societal 
benefit of the participatory RTW program compared to care-as-usual was 2073 
euros per worker.
CONCLUSIONS: The newly developed participatory RTW program was more effective 
but also more costly than usual care. The program enhanced work resumption and 
generated a net socioeconomic benefit. Hence, implementation of the 
participatory RTW program may have potential to achieve a sustainable 
contribution of vulnerable workers to the labor force.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.3314
PMID: 22854773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2012 Aug 1;94(15):1369-77. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.J.01876.

The cost-effectiveness of single-row compared with double-row arthroscopic 
rotator cuff repair.

Genuario JW(1), Donegan RP, Hamman D, Bell JE, Boublik M, Schlegel T, Tosteson 
AN.

Author information:
(1)The Steadman Hawkins Clinic-Denver, CO 80124, USA. genuarioj@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Interest in double-row techniques for arthroscopic rotator cuff 
repair has increased over the last several years, presumably because of a 
combination of literature demonstrating superior biomechanical characteristics 
and recent improvements in instrumentation and technique. As a result of the 
increasing focus on value-based health-care delivery, orthopaedic surgeons must 
understand the cost implications of this practice. The purpose of this study was 
to examine the cost-effectiveness of double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair 
compared with traditional single-row repair.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was constructed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair compared with 
single-row repair on the basis of the cost per quality-adjusted life year 
gained. Two cohorts of patients (one with a tear of <3 cm and the other with a 
tear of ≥3 cm) were evaluated. Probabilities for retear and persistent symptoms, 
health utilities for the particular health states, and the direct costs for 
rotator cuff repair were derived from the orthopaedic literature and 
institutional data.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for double-row compared with 
single-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair was $571,500 for rotator cuff tears 
of <3 cm and $460,200 for rotator cuff tears of ≥3 cm. The rate of radiographic 
or symptomatic retear alone did not influence cost-effectiveness results. If the 
increase in the cost of double-row repair was less than $287 for small or 
moderate tears and less than $352 for large or massive tears compared with the 
cost of single-row repair, then double-row repair would represent a 
cost-effective surgical alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of currently available data, double-row rotator cuff 
repair is not cost-effective for any size rotator cuff tears. However, 
variability in the values for costs and probability of retear can have a 
profound effect on the results of the model and may create an environment in 
which double-row repair becomes the more cost-effective surgical option. The 
identification of the threshold values in this study may help surgeons to 
determine the most cost-effective treatment.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.J.01876
PMCID: PMC7002075
PMID: 22854989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. J Med Econ. 2013;16(1):1-9. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.718019. Epub 2012 Sep
10.

A modeled economic evaluation of sevelamer for treatment of hyperphosphatemia 
associated with chronic kidney disease among patients on dialysis in the United 
Kingdom.

Bernard L(1), Mendelssohn D, Dunn E, Hutchison C, Grima DT.

Author information:
(1)Cornerstone Research Group Inc., Burlington, ON, Canada. 
lbernard@cornerstone-research.com

OBJECTIVE: There is limited information regarding the cost-effectiveness of 
sevelamer for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
patients on dialysis in the UK. Using a UK National Health Service (NHS) 
perspective and final results of the Dialysis Clinical Outcomes Revisited (DCOR) 
study, an evaluation was performed to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
sevelamer compared to calcium-based phosphate binders for the first-line 
treatment of hyperphosphatemia in CKD patients on dialysis.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate life years, quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), costs, incremental cost per life year (LY) gained, and QALY 
gained. Treatment-specific overall survival up to 44 months, hospitalizations, 
and resource utilization were derived from the DCOR study. Survival was 
extrapolated to a lifetime horizon using Weibull regression analysis. Unit costs 
and utility estimates specific to the UK were obtained from the published 
literature. Sub-group analyses were conducted based on data reported from the 
DCOR study for increasing age cut-points. Outcomes and costs were modeled for a 
lifetime horizon.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the use of sevelamer resulted in a gain of 
∼0.73 LYs and 0.44 QALYs per patient (discounted at 3.5% per year). Total 
per-patient costs were higher for sevelamer, resulting in an incremental cost of 
£22,157 per QALY gained and £13,427 per LY gained (in £2009). Increasingly 
favorable cost per QALY ratios were observed with increasing age cut-points, 
ranging from £15,864 for patients ≥45 to £13,296 for patients ≥65 years of age. 
Results were most sensitive to assumptions regarding overall survival and the 
inclusion of dialysis costs. Key limitations of the analysis included the use of 
non-UK trial data for survival and hospitalizations, and the exclusion of 
quality-of-life impacts associated with hospitalization.
CONCLUSIONS: In CKD patients receiving dialysis, treatment of hyperphosphatemia 
with sevelamer offers good value for money compared with calcium-based binders.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.718019
PMID: 22857538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2012;106(6):397-403. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2012.06.003. Epub 2012 Jun 29.

[Critical reflections on the prioritisation debate: are we setting the right 
priorities to address our prioritisation challenges?].

[Article in German]

Penner A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozial- und Gesundheitsrecht der Ruhr-Universität Bochum. 
andreas.penner@rub.de

A personal view of a stubborn opponent of rationing: why my conscience is fine 
with refraining from rationing but not from conducting research on 
prioritisation.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2012.06.003
PMID: 22857725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2012;106(6):426-34. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2012.06.008. Epub 2012 Jul 6.

[Rationing health care by thresholds for clinical benefit and its acceptance by 
the German population].

[Article in German]

Schöne-Seifert B(1), Friedrich DR, Diederich A.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Ethik, Geschichte und Theorie der Medizin, Westfälische 
Wilhelms-Universität Münster. bseifert@uni-muenster.de

Fair rationing in publicly accessible health care has become a subject of 
current international debate. One suggestion is to cut reimbursement for any 
medical intervention below some threshold of small clinical benefit. One can 
further differentiate between thresholds of small expectable clinical benefit as 
such and thresholds of low chances for clinical success. Public acceptance of 
both types of thresholds has been tested in a population survey. Results are 
presented and discussed in this paper. (As supplied by publisher).

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2012.06.008
PMID: 22857730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Vaccine. 2012 Sep 14;30(42):6070-80. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.07.049.
Epub  2012 Aug 2.

Cost-effectiveness of hepatitis A vaccination for adults in Belgium.

Luyten J(1), Van de Sande S, de Schrijver K, Van Damme P, Beutels P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases, 
Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, University of Antwerp, 
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, Antwerp, Belgium. Jeroen.Luyten@ua.ac.be

Hepatitis A vaccination targeting adults (or adult risk-groups like e.g. 
travellers, health care workers, soldiers or teachers) could be considered an 
alternative to a universal infant or adolescent vaccination program in low 
endemic countries. We estimated the current disease burden of hepatitis A in 
Belgium, and evaluated whether adult vaccination is cost-effective. We used a 
Markov cohort model to simulate the costs and effects of (1) vaccination of 
adults and (2) serological screening of adults and vaccination of susceptibles 
and compared these with the current situation. The results indicated that these 
expanded vaccination strategies are not cost-effective in the epidemiological 
circumstances of a typical low-endemic western country. In order to gain 1 
quality-adjusted life year the health care payer would have to pay 185,000€ for 
vaccination and 223,000€ for screening and vaccination of seronegatives. For 
adult vaccination to be cost-effective, risk-groups would need to be exposed to 
a force of infection that is 3.5-4 times higher than currently estimated in the 
general population; or the total costs of vaccination would have to drop with 
approximately 75%.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.07.049
PMID: 22858555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2012 Jul;60(5):319-25. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1323155.
Epub  2012 Aug 2.

The German Aortic Valve Registry (GARY): a nationwide registry for patients 
undergoing invasive therapy for severe aortic valve stenosis.

Beckmann A(1), Hamm C, Figulla HR, Cremer J, Kuck KH, Lange R, Zahn R, Sack S, 
Schuler GC, Walther T, Beyersdorf F, Böhm M, Heusch G, Funkat AK, Meinertz T, 
Neumann T, Papoutsis K, Schneider S, Welz A, Mohr FW; GARY Executive Board.

Author information:
(1)Deutsche Gesellschaft für Thorax-, Herz- und Gefäßchirurgie [DGTHG], 
Langenbeck-Virchow-Haus Luisenstrasse 58-59, Berlin, Germany. gf@dgthg.de

Background The increasing prevalence of severe aortic valve defects correlates 
with the increase of life expectancy. For decades, surgical aortic valve 
replacement (AVR), under the use of extracorporeal circulation, has been the 
gold standard for treatment of severe aortic valve diseases. In Germany ~12,000 
patients receive isolated aortic valve surgery per year. For some time, 
percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty has been used as a palliative therapeutic 
option for very few patients. Currently, alternatives for the established 
surgical procedures such as transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) have 
become available, but there are only limited data from randomized studies or 
low-volume registries concerning long-time outcome. In Germany, the 
implementation of this new technology into hospital care increased rapidly in 
the past few years. Therefore, the German Aortic Valve Registry (GARY) was 
founded in July 2010 including all available therapeutic options and providing 
data from a large quantity of patients.Methods The GARY is assembled as a 
complete survey for all invasive therapies in patients with relevant aortic 
valve diseases. It evaluates the new therapeutic options and compares them to 
surgical AVR. The model for data acquisition is based on three data sources: 
source I, the mandatory German database for external performance measurement; 
source II, a specific registry dataset; and source III, a follow-up data sheet 
(generated by phone interview). Various procedures will be compared concerning 
observed complications, mortality, and quality of life up to 5 years after the 
initial procedure. Furthermore, the registry will enable a compilation of 
evidence-based indication criteria and, in addition, also a comparison of all 
approved operative procedures, such as Ross or David procedures, and the use of 
different mechanical or biological aortic valve prostheses.Results Since the 
launch of data acquisition in July 2010, almost all institutions performing 
aortic valve procedures in Germany joined the registry. By now, 91 sites which 
