Author information:
(1)Service de Gastroenterologie-Pancreatologie, Hôpital Beaujon, AP-HP, Faculté 
Denis Diderot (Paris VII), Clichy, France. pascal.hammel@bjn.aphp.fr

There are numerous treatment options for patients with advanced digestive 
neuroendocrine tumours (NETs). Medical treatment includes systemic 
chemotherapies, targeted therapies, somatostatin analogs, liver-directed 
therapies such as (chemo)embolization or thermoablation, and peptide receptor 
radionuclide therapy. Cytotoxic chemotherapies can help control tumour 
progression in patients with non-resectable tumours and may improve symptoms by 
reducing tumour bulk. In addition, tumour response is usually greater than that 
obtained with targeted therapies. This should be taken into consideration in 
neoadjuvant strategies. Efficacy of temozolomide depends on the O(6) 
methylguanine DNA methyl transferase status, and thus, this drug will likely 
have to be considered in the future in patients with a favourable enzyme 
profile. Because numerous treatment options are available for patients with 
advanced digestive NETs, and thanks to their long survival, successive drugs 
should be used. Careful attention should be paid to the adverse events in order 
to maintain the quality of life in these patients who have with a long life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11523-012-0228-7
PMID: 22911013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Tierarztl Prax Ausg K Kleintiere Heimtiere. 2012;40(4):271-7.

[Renal lymphoma in a cat: diagnostics, therapy and survival time. A case 
report].

[Article in German]

Schmidt S(1), Nerschbach V, Eberle N, Mischke R, Nolte I, Betz D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Kleintiere, Stiftung Tierärztliche Hochschule Hannover, Bünteweg 
9, 30559 Hannover. Stefanie.Schmidt@tiho-hannover.de

The clinical case report describes diagnostics, therapy, response and outcome in 
a 7-year-old castrated male European Shorthair cat with renal lymphoma. By use 
of a combination chemotherapy, partial remission was achieved 8 days after 
induction, with a complete remission after 72 days. During chemotherapy the cat 
had a good quality of life. Adverse effects were limited to two episodes of 
vomiting and one short period of slight depression. At 629 days after the end of 
the chemotherapy, following 1449 days in remission, a relapse of the renal 
lymphoma was diagnosed. During the second chemotherapy, extension of the 
lymphoma to the CNS became apparent and the cat was euthanized after an overall 
survival time of 1509 days (4 years). The case shows that treating renal 
lymphoma in cats by adequate combination chemotherapy can achieve long survival 
times with a good quality of life.

PMID: 22911259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Dev Dyn. 2012 Oct;241(10):1562-74. doi: 10.1002/dvdy.23845. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

Differential regulation of axonal growth and neuromuscular junction assembly by 
HGF/c-Met signaling.

Li PP(1), Madhavan R, Peng HB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, The 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China.

BACKGROUND: During vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ) development, contact 
between motor axons and muscle fibers is followed by pre- and post-synaptic 
specialization. Using Xenopus nerve-muscle cocultures, we recently showed that 
spinal neurons initially contacted muscle cells by means of filopodial 
processes, and that muscle-derived basic fibroblast growth factor induced axonal 
filopodia and slowed axonal advance to promote nerve-muscle interaction and NMJ 
establishment. In contrast, neurotrophins enhanced axonal growth but suppressed 
the extension of axonal filopodia and blocked NMJ formation.
RESULTS: Here we report that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), which also supports 
motor neuron survival, was expressed by Xenopus muscle cells, and that forced 
expression of HGF in Xenopus spinal neurons inhibited the extension of axonal 
filopodia. Overexpression of the HGF-receptor c-Met in neurons also blocked the 
formation of axonal filopodia and furthermore sped up axonal growth, but a 
kinase-dead form of c-Met was unable to effect these changes. Importantly, 
treatment of nerve-muscle cocultures with recombinant HGF or the expression of 
HGF or active c-Met in neurons, or that of excess HGF in muscle, inhibited 
nerve-induced AChR clustering in muscle.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that HGF/c-Met signaling in neurons promotes 
axonal growth but suppresses filopodial assembly in neurons and hinders NMJ 
establishment.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dvdy.23845
PMID: 22911543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Sep 4;109(36):14687-92. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1212879109. Epub 2012 Aug 21.

Cross-talk between the fat body and brain regulates insect developmental arrest.

Xu WH(1), Lu YX, Denlinger DL.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510006, China. xuweihua@mail.sysu.edu.cn

Developmental arrest, a critical component of the life cycle in animals as 
diverse as nematodes (dauer state), insects (diapause), and vertebrates 
(hibernation), results in dramatic depression of the metabolic rate and a 
profound extension in longevity. Although many details of the hormonal systems 
controlling developmental arrest are well-known, we know little about the 
interactions between metabolic events and the hormones controlling the arrested 
state. Here, we show that diapause is regulated by an interplay between 
blood-borne metabolites and regulatory centers within the brain. Gene expression 
in the fat body, the insect equivalent of the liver, is strongly suppressed 
during diapause, resulting in low levels of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) 
intermediates circulating within the blood, and at diapause termination, the fat 
body becomes activated, releasing an abundance of TCA intermediates that act on 
the brain to stimulate synthesis of regulatory peptides that prompt production 
of the insect growth hormone ecdysone. This model is supported by our success in 
breaking diapause by injecting a mixture of TCA intermediates and upstream 
metabolites. The results underscore the importance of cross-talk between the 
brain and fat body as a regulator of diapause and suggest that the TCA cycle may 
be a checkpoint for regulating different forms of animal dormancy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1212879109
PMCID: PMC3437847
PMID: 22912402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


23. PLoS Genet. 2012;8(8):e1002834. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1002834. Epub 2012
Aug  9.

Dissecting the gene network of dietary restriction to identify evolutionarily 
conserved pathways and new functional genes.

Wuttke D(1), Connor R, Vora C, Craig T, Li Y, Wood S, Vasieva O, Shmookler Reis 
R, Tang F, de Magalhães JP.

Author information:
(1)Integrative Genomics of Ageing Group, Institute of Integrative Biology, 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom.

Dietary restriction (DR), limiting nutrient intake from diet without causing 
malnutrition, delays the aging process and extends lifespan in multiple 
organisms. The conserved life-extending effect of DR suggests the involvement of 
fundamental mechanisms, although these remain a subject of debate. To help 
decipher the life-extending mechanisms of DR, we first compiled a list of genes 
that if genetically altered disrupt or prevent the life-extending effects of DR. 
We called these DR-essential genes and identified more than 100 in model 
organisms such as yeast, worms, flies, and mice. In order for other researchers 
to benefit from this first curated list of genes essential for DR, we 
established an online database called GenDR 
(http://genomics.senescence.info/diet/). To dissect the interactions of 
DR-essential genes and discover the underlying lifespan-extending mechanisms, we 
then used a variety of network and systems biology approaches to analyze the 
gene network of DR. We show that DR-essential genes are more conserved at the 
molecular level and have more molecular interactions than expected by chance. 
Furthermore, we employed a guilt-by-association method to predict novel 
DR-essential genes. In budding yeast, we predicted nine genes related to 
vacuolar functions; we show experimentally that mutations deleting eight of 
those genes prevent the life-extending effects of DR. Three of these mutants 
(OPT2, FRE6, and RCR2) had extended lifespan under ad libitum, indicating that 
the lack of further longevity under DR is not caused by a general compromise of 
fitness. These results demonstrate how network analyses of DR using GenDR can be 
used to make phenotypically relevant predictions. Moreover, gene-regulatory 
circuits reveal that the DR-induced transcriptional signature in yeast involves 
nutrient-sensing, stress responses and meiotic transcription factors. Finally, 
comparing the influence of gene expression changes during DR on the interactomes 
of multiple organisms led us to suggest that DR commonly suppresses translation, 
while stimulating an ancient reproduction-related process.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1002834
PMCID: PMC3415404
PMID: 22912585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


24. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e43033. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043033. Epub 2012 Aug
13.

Rana grylio virus (RGV) 50L is associated with viral matrix and exhibited two 
distribution patterns.

Lei XY(1), Ou T, Zhang QY.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Freshwater Ecology and Biotechnology, Institute of 
Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Graduate School of the Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: The complete genome of Rana grylio virus (RGV) was sequenced and 
analyzed recently, which revealed that RGV 50 L had homologues in many 
iridoviruses with different identities; however, the characteristics and 
functions of 50 L have not been studied yet.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We cloned and characterized RGV50L, and revealed 
50 L functions in virus assembly and gene regulation. 50 L encoded a 499-amino 
acid structural protein of about 85 kDa in molecular weight and contained a 
nuclear localization signal (NLS) and a helix- extension-helix motif. Drug 
inhibition assay demonstrated that 50 L was an immediate-early (IE) gene. 
Immuno-fluorescence assay revealed that 50 L appeared early and persisted in 
RGV-infected cells following two distribution patterns. One pattern was that 50 
L exhibited a cytoplasm-nucleus- viromatrix distribution pattern, and 
mutagenesis of the NLS motif revealed that localization of 50 L in the nucleus 
was NLS-dependent; the other was that 50 L co-localized with viral matrix which 
plays important roles in virus assembly and the life circle of viruses.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: RGV 50L is a novel iridovirus IE gene encoded 
structural protein which plays important roles in virus assembly.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043033
PMCID: PMC3418244
PMID: 22912781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


25. Isr J Health Policy Res. 2012 Apr 18;1(1):18. doi: 10.1186/2045-4015-1-18.

Tackling obesity requires efficient government policies.

Cecchini M(1), Sassi F.

Author information:
(1)Health Division, OECD, 2 rue André Pascal, 75016 Paris, France. 
franco.sassi@oecd.org.

Changes in food supply and eating habits, combined with a dramatic fall in 
physical activity, have made obesity a global epidemic. Across OECD countries, 
one in two adults is currently overweight and one in six is obese. Children have 
not been spared, with up to one in three currently overweight. Obese people are 
more likely to develop diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and 
cancer, and have a shorter life expectancy than people of normal weight. A 
prevention strategy combining health promotion campaigns, government regulation, 
counseling of individuals at risk in primary care, and paying special attention 
to the most vulnerable, would enhance population health at an affordable cost, 
with likely beneficial effects on health inequalities. Failure to implement such 
a strategy would impose heavy burdens on future generations. The new IJHPR paper 
by Ginsberg and Rosenberg illustrates how particular countries can assess 
alternative strategies for tackling obesity in a rigorous fashion.This is a 
commentary on http://www.ijhpr.org/content/1/1/17/

DOI: 10.1186/2045-4015-1-18
PMCID: PMC3424968
PMID: 22913833


26. J Thorac Imaging. 2012 Sep;27(5):269-70. doi: 10.1097/RTI.0b013e3182676b80.

Evidence-base and cost-effectiveness of cardiothoracic imaging.

Schoepf UJ.

DOI: 10.1097/RTI.0b013e3182676b80
PMID: 22914118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Autophagy. 2012 Oct;8(10):1494-509. doi: 10.4161/auto.21275. Epub 2012 Aug
23.

SNCA (α-synuclein)-induced toxicity in yeast cells is dependent on sirtuin 2 
(Sir2)-mediated mitophagy.

Sampaio-Marques B(1), Felgueiras C, Silva A, Rodrigues M, Tenreiro S, Franssens 
V, Reichert AS, Outeiro TF, Winderickx J, Ludovico P.

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Health 
Sciences, University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.

SNCA (α-synuclein) misfolding and aggregation is strongly associated with both 
idiopathic and familial forms of Parkinson disease (PD). Evidence suggests that 
SNCA has an impact on cell clearance routes and protein quality control systems 
such as the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy. Recent advances in 
the key role of the autosomal recessive PARK2/PARKIN and PINK1 genes in 
mitophagy, highlighted this process as a prominent new pathogenic mechanism. 
Nevertheless, the role of autophagy/mitophagy in the pathogenesis of sporadic 
and autosomal dominant familial forms of PD is still enigmatic. The yeast 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a powerful "empty room" model that has been 
exploited to clarify different molecular aspects associated with SNCA toxicity, 
which combines the advantage of being an established system for aging research. 
The contribution of autophagy/mitophagy for the toxicity induced by the 
heterologous expression of the human wild-type SNCA gene and the clinical A53T 
mutant during yeast chronological life span (CLS) was explored. A reduced CLS 
together with an increase of autophagy and mitophagy activities were observed in 
cells expressing both forms of SNCA. Impairment of mitophagy by deletion of 
ATG11 or ATG32 resulted in a CLS extension, further implicating mitophagy in the 
SNCA toxicity. Deletion of SIR2, essential for SNCA toxicity, abolished 
autophagy and mitophagy, thereby rescuing cells. These data show that Sir2 
functions as a regulator of autophagy, like its mammalian homolog, SIRT1, but 
also of mitophagy. Our work highlights that increased mitophagy activity, 
mediated by the regulation of ATG32 by Sir2, is an important phenomenon linked 
to SNCA-induced toxicity during aging.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.21275
PMID: 22914317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Obstet Gynecol. 2012 Sep;120(3):612-8. doi: 10.1097/AOG.0b013e318264f794.

Ten-year relative survival for epithelial ovarian cancer.

Baldwin LA(1), Huang B, Miller RW, Tucker T, Goodrich ST, Podzielinski I, 
DeSimone CP, Ueland FR, van Nagell JR, Seamon LG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Most patients with epithelial ovarian cancer who are alive at 5 years 
have active disease. Thus, 10-year survival rather than 5-year survival may be a 
more appropriate endpoint. Relative survival adjusts for the general survival of 
the United States population for that race, sex, age, and date at which the 
diagnosis was coded. Our objective was to estimate relative survival in 
epithelial ovarian cancer over the course of 10 years.
METHODS: Using the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results 1995-2007 
database, epithelial ovarian cancer cases were identified. Using the actuarial 
life table method, relative survival over the course of 10 years was calculated, 
stratified by stage, classification of residence, surgery as the first course of 
treatment, race, and age.
RESULTS: There were 40,692 patients who met inclusion criteria. The overall 
relative survival was 65%, 44%, and 36% at 2, 5, and 10 years, respectively. The 
slope of decline in relative survival was reduced for years 5-10 as compared 
with years 1-5 after diagnosis. Relative survival at 5 years was 89%, 70%, 36%, 
and 17%, and at 10 years relative survival was 84%, 59%, 23%, and 8% for stages 
I, II III, and IV, respectively. At all stages, patients with nonsurgical 
primary treatment and those with advanced age had reduced relative survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The 10-year relative survival for stage III is higher than 
expected. This information provides the physician and the patient with more 
accurate prognostic information.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0b013e318264f794
PMID: 22914471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Heart. 2012 Oct;98(20):1538; author reply 1538. doi: 
10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302475. Epub 2012 Aug 21.

Additional recent data from The Netherlands, on the last year of living with 
heart failure.

Rutten FH.

Comment on
    Heart. 2012 Apr;98(7):579-83.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302475
PMID: 22914534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. AIDS. 2012 Nov 13;26(17):2201-10. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283578b5d.

Estimating the cost-effectiveness of needle-syringe programs in Australia.

Kwon JA(1), Anderson J, Kerr CC, Thein HH, Zhang L, Iversen J, Dore GJ, Kaldor 
JM, Law MG, Maher L, Wilson DP.

Author information:
(1)The Kirby Institute, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact and cost-effectiveness of needle-syringe 
programs (NSPs) with respect to HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections among 
Australian injecting drug users (IDUs).
DESIGN/METHODS: A health economic analysis was conducted incorporating a 
mathematical model of HIV and HCV transmission among IDUs. An empirical 
relationship between syringe availability and receptive syringe sharing (RSS) 
was assessed. We compared the epidemiological outcomes and costs of NSP coverage 
(status quo RSS of 15-17%) with scenarios that had no NSPs (RSS of 25-50%). 
Outcomes included numbers of HIV and HCV infections averted, lifetime health 
sector costs, and cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Discounting 
was applied at 3% (sensitivity: 0%, 5%) per annum.
RESULTS: We estimated that NSPs reduced incidence of HIV by 34-70% (192-873 
cases) and HCV by 15-43% (19 000-77 000 cases) during 2000-2010, leading to 
20 000-66 000 QALYs gained. Economic analysis showed that NSP coverage saved 
A$70-220 million in healthcare costs during 2000-2010 and will save an 
additional A$340-950 million in future healthcare costs. With NSPs costing A$245 
million, the programs are very cost-effective at A$416-8750 per QALY gained. 
Financial investment in NSPs over 2000-2010 is estimated to be entirely 
recovered in healthcare cost savings by 2032 with a total future return on 
investment of $1.3-5.5 for every $1 invested.
CONCLUSION: Australia's early introduction and high coverage of NSPs has 
significantly reduced the prevalence of HIV and HCV among IDUs. NSPs are a 
cost-effective public health strategy and will result in substantial net cost 
savings in the future.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283578b5d
PMID: 22914579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2012 Sep 5;104(17):1274-5. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djs388. Epub
 2012 Aug 22.

Putting a price on hope.

Goozner M.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djs388
PMID: 22914787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Swiss Med Wkly. 2012 Aug 22;142:w13655. doi: 10.4414/smw.2012.13655.
eCollection  2012.

Cost of acute coronary syndrome in Switzerland in 2008.

Wieser S(1), Rüthemann I, De Boni S, Eichler K, Pletscher M, Radovanovic D, Ulle 
T, Auerbach H.

Author information:
(1)Winterthur Institute of Health Economics, Zurich University of Applied 
Sciences, Winterthur, Switzerland. simon.wieser@zhaw.ch

QUESTIONS UNDER STUDY: To perform a cost-of-illness study of acute coronary 
syndrome (ACS) in Switzerland from a societal perspective, evaluating direct 
costs, production losses and intangible costs in terms of quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs) lost.
METHODS: A bottom-up incidence-based approach was used. Data concerning patients 
with one or more ACS events were extracted from a national hospital database and 
from mortality statistics. Inpatient costs included acute care and 
rehabilitation. Outpatient costs included costs for ambulance, visits to GP and 
cardiologist, outpatient diagnostics, medication and rehabilitation. Production 
losses included absenteeism, permanent disability and premature death. 
Intangible costs were calculated on previously published QALY weights. Cost data 
were derived from official price lists, literature and experts. Future costs and 
QALYs lost were discounted.
RESULTS: In 2008 14,955 patients experienced a total of 16,815 ACS events; 2,752 
died as a consequence of these. The resulting 19,064 hospital stays had an 
average across-hospital length of stay of 9.1 days per patient. Total direct 
costs of ACS amounted to 630 Mio Swiss Francs (CHF) for society and CHF 462 Mio 
for health insurers. Total direct costs were dominated by costs of myocardial 
infarction: ST-elevation 45.8%, non-ST-elevation 35.8%. Production losses were 
CHF 519 Mio and intangible costs resulted in 49,878 QALYs lost.
CONCLUSIONS: ACS causes considerable costs in terms of direct medical 
expenditures, lost production, suffering and premature death, even without 
taking into account costs for its chronic consequences such as congestive heart 
failure.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2012.13655
PMID: 22915246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Proc Biol Sci. 2012 Oct 22;279(1745):4296-302. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2012.1345.
Epub  2012 Aug 22.

Sexes suffer from suboptimal lifespan because of genetic conflict in a seed 
beetle.

Berg EC(1), Maklakov AA.

Author information:
(1)Ageing Research Group, Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology 
Centre, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

Males and females have different routes to successful reproduction, resulting in 
sex differences in lifespan and age-specific allocation of reproductive effort. 
The trade-off between current and future reproduction is often resolved 
differently by males and females, and both sexes can be constrained in their 
ability to reach their sex-specific optima owing to intralocus sexual conflict. 
Such genetic antagonism may have profound implications for evolution, but its 
role in ageing and lifespan remains unresolved. We provide direct experimental 
evidence that males live longer and females live shorter than necessary to 
maximize their relative fitness in Callosobruchus maculatus seed beetles. Using 
artificial selection in a genetically heterogeneous population, we created 
replicate long-life lines where males lived on average 27 per cent longer than 
in short-life lines. As predicted by theory, subsequent assays revealed that 
upward selection on male lifespan decreased relative male fitness but increased 
relative female fitness compared with downward selection. Thus, we demonstrate 
that lifespan-extending genes can help one sex while harming the other. Our 
results show that sexual antagonism constrains adaptive life-history evolution, 
support a novel way of maintaining genetic variation for lifespan and argue for 
better integration of sex effects into applied research programmes aimed at 
lifespan extension.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2012.1345
PMCID: PMC3441075
PMID: 22915670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Public Health (Oxf). 2013 Mar;35(1):40-8. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fds067. Epub 
2012 Aug 21.

The cost-effectiveness of mandatory 20 mph zones for the prevention of injuries.

Peters JL(1), Anderson R.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group, Peninsula Medical School, University 
of Exeter, Veysey Building, Salmon Pool Lane, Exeter EX2 4SG, UK. 
jaime.peters@pms.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Traffic calming and speed limits are major public health strategies 
for further reducing road injuries, especially for vulnerable pedestrians such 
as children and the elderly. We conducted a cost-benefit analysis (CBA-favoured 
by transport economists) alongside a cost-utility analysis (CUA-favoured by 
health economists) of mandatory 20 mph zones, providing a unique opportunity to 
compare assumptions and results.
METHODS: A CUA from the public sector perspective and a CBA from a broader 
societal perspective. One-way, threshold and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were undertaken.
RESULTS: In low casualty areas the intervention was not cost-effective 
regardless of approach (CUA: cost per QALY = £429 800; CBA: net present value = 
-£25 500). In high casualty areas, the intervention was cost-effective from the 
CBA (a saving of £90 600), but not from the CUA [cost per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) = £86 500; assuming National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence's benchmark for approving health technologies].
CONCLUSIONS: Mandatory 20 mph zones may be cost-effective in high casualty areas 
when a CBA from a societal perspective is considered. Although CBA may appear, 
in principle, more appropriate, the quality, age or absence of reliable data for 
many parameters means that there is a great deal of uncertainty and the results 
should be interpreted with caution.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fds067
PMID: 22915770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Geriatr Cardiol. 2012 Jun;9(2):83-90. doi: 10.3724/SP.J.1263.2011.12292.

Dyslipidemia: evidence of efficacy of the pharmacological and 
non-pharmacological treatment in the elderly.

Gravina CF(1), Bertolami M, Rodrigues GH.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Cardiology Section, Dante Pazzanese Institute of Cardiology,Avenida 
Dr Dante Pazzanese 500, Ibirapuera, São Paulo 04012-180, Brazil.

THE CLINICAL DECISION TO CONTROL RISK FACTORS FOR CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (CVD) 
IN THE ELDERLY TAKES THE FOLLOWINGS INTO CONSIDERATION: (1) the elderly life 
expectancy; (2) the elderly biological age and functional capacity; (3) the role 
of cardiovascular disease in the elderly group; (4) the prevalence of risk 
factors in the elderly; and (5) The effectiveness of treatment of risk factors 
in the elderly. A large number of studies showed the efficacy of secondary and 
primary prevention of dyslipidemia in the elderly. However, the only trial that 
included patients over 80 years was the Heart Protection Study (HPS). Statins 
are considered the first line therapy for lowering low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-C). Because lifestyle changes are very difficult to achieve, 
doctors in general tend to prescribe many drugs to control cardiovascular risk 
factors. However, healthy food consumption remains a cornerstone in primary and 
secondary cardiovascular prevention and should be implemented by everyone.

DOI: 10.3724/SP.J.1263.2011.12292
PMCID: PMC3418895
PMID: 22916052


36. Drugs Today (Barc). 2012 Aug;48(8):533-43. doi:
10.1358/dot.2012.48.8.1855926.

Tofacitinib for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis.

de Lartigue J(1).

Author information:
(1)Camberley, Surrey, UK. scientific.prousjournals@thomsonreuters.com.

The autoimmune disease rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes severe disability 
through chronic and destructive inflammation of the synovial joints. Currently 
available therapeutic options, including disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) and biologic agents, often fail to adequately prevent disease 
progression. Tofacitinib (CP-690550) is an inhibitor of the Janus kinase family; 
tyrosine kinase receptors expressed in lymphoid cells that are involved in the 
signaling of cytokines important for the production and function of various 
immune cells implicated in RA pathogenesis. Tofacitinib has been evaluated in 
phase II, phase III and long-term extension studies, as both monotherapy and in 
combination with methotrexate and other DMARDs, and demonstrates statistically 
significant and clinically meaningful improvements in the signs and symptoms of 
RA, patient health, physical functioning and quality of life, while having a 
manageable safety profile. It is currently under evaluation for approval for the 
treatment of adults with RA by several regulatory agencies around the world.

Copyright 2012 Prous Science, S.A.U. or its licensors. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1358/dot.2012.48.8.1855926
PMID: 22916341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Rev Invest Clin. 2011 Sep;63 Suppl 1:85-90.

[Heart transplant program at the UMAE, General Hospital Dr. Gaudencio González 
Garza, of the La Raza National Medical Center].

[Article in Spanish]

Careaga-Reyna G(1), Zetina-Tun H, Lezama-Urtecho CA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugia Cardiotorácica y Soporte Cardiopulmonar, UMAE 
Hospital General Dr. Gaudencio González Garza, CMN La Raza, IMSS, DF México. 
gcareaga3@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The heart transplantation has modified the life expectancy of 
patients with terminal heart failure.
OBJECTIVE: To present our experience in heart transplantation.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was realized for heart 
transplant recipients between July 21, 1988 and May 30, 2011. We evaluated the 
procedure for evaluation and selection of heart donors and heart transplant 
recipients. Also we reviewed etiology of cardiomiopathy, age and gender of 
patients, surgical procedure, and postoperative evolution, immediate and 
long-term survival.
RESULTS: Of all 233 heart transplants performed in Mexico, 64 were done in our 
hospital. Seven cases were excluded due to incomplete information. We present 57 
heart transplantation performed in 56 patients (one retransplantation): 27 cases 
with dilated cardiomiopathy (47.35%), 23 with ischemic cardiomiopathy (40.35%), 
four patients with terminal heart valve disease (7.0%), two with restrictive 
cardiomiopathy (3.5%) and one retransplantation (1.8%). Forty-six male patients 
(82.1%), and 10 female cases (17.9%). The mean age was 40.9 +/- 15.6 years-old 
(8-66 years-old). In 22 years the immediate mortality was 30.3% and the main 
cause was primary graft failure. The longest survival has been 10 years. All 
survival recipients are in functional class I.
CONCLUSION: It was concluded that heart transplantation is a feasible surgical 
option in our country for terminal heart disease.

PMID: 22916617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Dairy Sci. 2012 Sep;95(9):5085-5088. doi: 10.3168/jds.2011-5076.

Short communication: characterization of early postpartum estrous behavior and 
ovulation in lactating dairy cows using radiotelemetry.

Johnson CR(1), Ayers MW(1), Ahmadzadeh A(1), Shafii B(2), Etter S(3), Chebel 
RC(4), Dalton JC(5).

Author information:
(1)Animal and Veterinary Science Department, University of Idaho, Moscow 83844.
(2)Statistical Programs, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, University of 
Idaho, Moscow 83844.
(3)University of Idaho Extension, Caldwell 83605.
(4)Veterinary Population Medicine Department, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Minnesota, St. Paul 55108.
(5)Animal and Veterinary Science Department, University of Idaho, Moscow 83844. 
Electronic address: jdalton@uidaho.edu.

The objective of this study was to describe early postpartum estrous behavior 
and ovulation in lactating dairy cows using radiotelemetry. Cows (n=50) were 
continuously monitored for behavioral estrus with a radiotelemetric system, 
HeatWatch II (CowChips LLC, Manalapan, NJ), from d 14 to approximately d 49 
postpartum. Blood collection for analysis of progesterone and ovarian 
ultrasonography were performed once weekly starting on d 14. First ovulation was 
associated with behavioral estrus in 5 cows and occurred at 28.2±10.8 d 
(mean±SD; range 17 to 40 d). The average duration of estrus was 6.0±4.9 h (range 
3 to 12.2 h), and the mean number of standing events was 18.4±8.9 (range 4 to 
26). Based on progesterone concentrations of ≥1 ng/mL, estimated first 
postpartum ovulation occurred at 25.1±10.4 d (range 10 to 49 d) for 38 animals 
without evidence of behavioral estrus. The interval to estimated first ovulation 
without behavioral estrus was not different from the interval to first ovulation 
associated with behavioral estrus. Level of milk production and body condition 
score loss did not affect the interval to estimated first ovulation without 
estrus or first ovulation associated with estrus. Six animals did not show 
evidence of ovulation based on progesterone concentration, whereas 1 cow showed 
evidence of estrous behavior on the day before removal from the study. The 
majority of first postpartum ovulations (38/43; 88.4%) were not associated with 
behavioral estrus.

Copyright © 2012 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2011-5076
PMID: 22916912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Prev Chronic Dis. 2012;9:E140. doi: 10.5888/pcd9.120074.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a community health worker intervention for 
low-income Hispanic adults with diabetes.

Brown HS 3rd(1), Wilson KJ, Pagán JA, Arcari CM, Martinez M, Smith K, Reininger 
B.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center School of Public Health, Austin, TX 
78701, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of our study was to estimate the long-term 
cost-effectiveness of a lifestyle modification program led by community health 
workers (CHWs) for low-income Hispanic adults with type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: We forecasted disease outcomes, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained, and lifetime costs associated with attaining different hemoglobin A1c 
(A1c) levels. Outcomes were projected 20 years into the future and discounted at 
a 3.0% rate. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the extent to which 
our results were dependent on assumptions related to program effectiveness, 
projected years, discount rates, and costs.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the intervention ranged 
from $10,995 to $33,319 per QALY gained when compared with usual care. The 
intervention was particularly cost-effective for adults with high glycemic 
levels (A1c > 9%). The results are robust to changes in multiple parameters.
CONCLUSION: The CHW program was cost-effective. This study adds to the evidence 
that culturally sensitive lifestyle modification programs to control diabetes 
can be a cost-effective way to improve health among Hispanics with diabetes, 
particularly among those with high A1c levels.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd9.120074
PMCID: PMC3475531
PMID: 22916995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2012 Aug 21;10:99. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-10-99.

Change in health status (EQ-5D) over 5 years among individuals with and without 
type 2 diabetes mellitus in the SHIELD longitudinal study.

Grandy S(1), Fox KM; SHIELD Study Group.

Collaborators: Bays H, Bazata DD, Gavin JR 3rd, Green AJ, Lewis SJ, Reed ML, 
Rodbard HW.

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca LP, Wilmington, DE, USA.

BACKGROUND: Health-related quality of life studies among adults with type 2 
diabetes mellitus, using the EQ-5D, have been short term and have not assessed 
change over years. This study assessed the change in health status and 
health-related quality of life over 5 years among individuals with and without 
diabetes.
METHODS: Respondents to the US Study to Help Improve Early evaluation and 
management of risk factors Leading to Diabetes (SHIELD) completed the EuroQol-5D 
(EQ-5D) at baseline (2004) and 5 years later (2009). Visual analog scale (VAS) 
score and health index score were computed at baseline and year 5, and the 
change over 5 years was measured for individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) and those without diabetes, and T2DM adults with and without diabetic 
complications. Linear regression models were used to determine change in EQ-5D 
score, controlling for age, gender, race, education, household income, and body 
mass index (BMI).
RESULTS: There was significantly greater decline in the EQ-5D index score in the 
T2DM group (-0.031 [SD 0.158]), compared with those without diabetes (-0.016 
[0.141], p = 0.001). Compared with respondents without diabetes, those with T2DM 
had a larger reduction in EQ-5D index score, after controlling for demographics 
(p = 0.001). EQ-5D VAS score declined over 5 years for both groups: -1.42 (18.1) 
for the T2DM group, and -0.63 (15.8) for the group without diabetes, but the 
between-group difference was not significant either before (p = 0.09) or after 
(p = 0.12), controlling for demographics. T2DM respondents with diabetic 
complications had a greater decline in EQ-5D scores than T2DM respondents 
without complications (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Over a 5-year period, health status of respondents with T2DM 
declined significantly compared with those with no diabetes, indicating that the 
burden of the disease has a long-term detrimental impact. This decline in health 
status is likely to impact utility scores (fewer quality-adjusted life years) 
for economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-10-99
PMCID: PMC3490883
PMID: 22917219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. EuroIntervention. 2012 Aug;8 Suppl P:P71-6. doi: 10.4244/EIJV8SPA12.

Economic evidence of interventions for acute myocardial infarction: a review of 
the literature.

Callea G(1), Tarricone R, Lara AM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Health and Social Care Management (CERGAS), Department 
of Policy Analysis and Public Management, Bocconi University, Milan, Italy.

AIMS: The aims of this review are to identify and evaluate studies exploring the 
cost-effectiveness of primary angioplasty (PPCI) vs. thrombolysis (TL) for 
treating acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
METHODS AND RESULTS: A comprehensive free-text searching identified economic 
evaluation studies that were reviewed with respect to their effectiveness data, 
identification, measurement and valuation of resource data, measurement and 
valuation of health outcomes (clinical and QALYs) and uncertainty analysis. A 
total of 14 studies were included in the review: seven were economic evaluations 
alongside RCTs, two community-based studies or registries and five 
decision-analytical models. PPCI was found to be cost-effective when compared 
with TL in eight studies, cost-saving in three, cost-neutral in one, and not 
significantly different in terms of both cost and benefits in two studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effective evidence available is mainly derived from RCTs 
with stringent inclusion criteria using established catheter laboratories for 
providing PPCI treatment; these two components might restrict the 
generalisability of their "for managing patients with STEMI in hospital" 
settings. In order to aid policy makers on the real costs and benefits of the 
PPCI and TL, it is necessary to conduct more analyses with data from the real 
world in which there are more strategies evaluated for delivering PPCI than 
merely those in established catheter laboratories.

DOI: 10.4244/EIJV8SPA12
PMID: 22917795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jan;19(1):1-18. doi: 10.1007/s10985-012-9227-3. Epub
 2012 Aug 24.

Evidence synthesis through a degradation model applied to myocardial infarction.

Commenges D(1), Hejblum BP.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, ISPED, Centre INSERM U-897-Epidmilogie-Biostatistique, Bordeaux 
33000, France. daniel.commenges@isped.u-bordeaux2.fr

We propose an evidence synthesis approach through a degradation model to 
estimate causal influences of physiological factors on myocardial infarction 
(MI) and coronary heart disease (CHD). For instance several studies give 
incidences of MI and CHD for different age strata, other studies give relative 
or absolute risks for strata of main risk factors of MI or CHD. Evidence 
synthesis of several studies allows incorporating these disparate pieces of 
information into a single model. For doing this we need to develop a 
sufficiently general dynamical model; we also need to estimate the distribution 
of explanatory factors in the population. We develop a degradation model for 
both MI and CHD using a Brownian motion with drift, and the drift is modeled as 
a function of indicators of obesity, lipid profile, inflammation and blood 
pressure. Conditionally on these factors the times to MI or CHD have inverse 
Gaussian ([Formula: see text]) distributions. The results we want to fit are 
generally not conditional on all the factors and thus we need marginal 
distributions of the time of occurrence of MI and CHD; this leads us to 
manipulate the inverse Gaussian normal distribution ([Formula: see text]) (an 
[Formula: see text] whose drift parameter has a normal distribution). Another 
possible model arises if a factor modifies the threshold. This led us to define 
an extension of [Formula: see text] obtained when both drift and threshold 
parameters have normal distributions. We applied the model to results published 
in five important studies of MI and CHD and their risk factors. The fit of the 
model using the evidence synthesis approach was satisfactory and the effects of 
the four risk factors were highly significant.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-012-9227-3
PMCID: PMC3983527
PMID: 22918702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. HPB Surg. 2012;2012:148387. doi: 10.1155/2012/148387. Epub 2012 Aug 7.

Laparoscopy in Liver Transplantation: The Future has Arrived.

Lai Q(1), Pinheiro RS, Levi Sandri GB, Spoletini G, Melandro F, Guglielmo N, Di 
Laudo M, Frattaroli FM, Berloco PB, Rossi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery and Organ Transplantation, Sapienza University 
of Rome, Umberto I Policlinic of Rome, Viale del Policlinico 155, 00161 Rome, 
Italy.

In the last two decades, laparoscopy has revolutionized the field of surgery. 
Many procedures previously performed with an open access are now routinely 
carried out with the laparoscopic approach. Several advantages are associated 
with laparoscopic surgery compared to open procedures: reduced pain due to 
smaller incisions and hemorrhaging, shorter hospital length of stay, and a lower 
incidence of wound infections. Liver transplantation (LT) brought a radical 
change in life expectancy of patients with hepatic end-stage disease. Today, LT 
represents the standard of care for more than fifty hepatic pathologies, with 
excellent results in terms of survival. Surely, with laparoscopy and LT being 
one of the most continuously evolving challenges in medicine, their recent 
combination has represented an astonishing scientific progress. The intent of 
the present paper is to underline the current role of diagnostic and therapeutic 
laparoscopy in patients waiting for LT, in the living donor LT and in LT 
recipients.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/148387
PMCID: PMC3420147
PMID: 22919121


44. Contemp Clin Dent. 2012 Apr;3(2):173-5. doi: 10.4103/0976-237X.96821.

Drug induced xerostomia in elderly individuals: An institutional study.

Shetty SR(1), Bhowmick S, Castelino R, Babu S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, AB Shetty Memorial Institute of 
Dental Sciences, Nitte University, Mangalore, Karnataka, India.

INTRODUCTION: With better health care facilities and nutritional levels the 
average life expectancy of Indian population has been on the rise over the 
years. Most of the geriatric population is under long-term medication.
AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the synergistic effect of multiple 
xerostomia drugs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Unstimulated saliva was measured in 60 geriatric 
patients, and xerostomia questionnaire and quality-of-life scale were also 
administered.
RESULTS: There was a very highly significant reduction in the salivary flow 
rates of patients under multiple xerostomia-inducing drugs.
CONCLUSION: The synergistic effect of the xerostomia inducing medication could 
be the possible factor responsible for reduced salivary flow in elderly 
individuals using such drugs.

DOI: 10.4103/0976-237X.96821
PMCID: PMC3425100
PMID: 22919217

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


45. World J Orthop. 2012 Aug 18;3(8):114-21. doi: 10.5312/wjo.v3.i8.114.

Complications in the management of metastatic spinal disease.

Dunning EC(1), Butler JS, Morris S.

Author information:
(1)Eilis Catherine Dunning, Department of Emergency Medicine, The Adelaide and 
Meath Hospital, Dublin Incorporating The National Children's Hospital, Dublin 
24, Ireland.

Metastatic spine disease accounts for 10% to 30% of new cancer diagnoses 
annually. The most frequent presentation is axial spinal pain. No treatment has 
been proven to increase the life expectancy of patients with spinal metastasis. 
The goals of therapy are pain control and functional preservation. The most 
important prognostic indicator for spinal metastases is the initial functional 
score. Treatment is multidisciplinary, and virtually all treatment is 
palliative. Management is guided by three key issues; neurologic compromise, 
spinal instability, and individual patient factors. Site-directed radiation, 
with or without chemotherapy is the most commonly used treatment modality for 
those patients presenting with spinal pain, causative by tumours which are not 
impinging on neural elements. Operative intervention has, until recently been 
advocated for establishing a tissue diagnosis, mechanical stabilization and for 
reduction of tumor burden but not for a curative approach. It is treatment of 
choice patients with diseaseadvancement despite radiotherapy and in those with 
known radiotherapy-resistant tumors. Vertebral resection and anterior 
stabilization with methacrylate or hardware (e.g., cages) has been 
advocated.Surgical decompression and stabilization, however, along with 
radiotherapy, may provide the most promising treatment. It stabilizes the 
metastatic deposited areaand allows ambulation with pain relief. In general, 
patients who are nonambulatory at diagnosis do poorly, as do patients in whom 
more than one vertebra is involved. Surgical intervention is indicated in 
patients with radiation-resistant tumors, spinal instability, spinal compression 
with bone or disk fragments, progressive neurologic deterioration, previous 
radiation exposure, and uncertain diagnosis that requires tissue diagnosis. The 
main goal in the management of spinal metastatic deposits is always palliative 
rather than curative, with the primary aim being pain relief and improved 
mobility. This however, does not come without complications, regardless of the 
surgical intervention technique used. These complication range from the general 
surgical complications of bleeding, infection, damage to surrounding structures 
and post operative DT/PE to spinal specific complications of persistent 
neurologic deficit and paralysis.

DOI: 10.5312/wjo.v3.i8.114
PMCID: PMC3425630
PMID: 22919567


46. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2012 May;23(5):1359-64.

[Life table of Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say) natural population and related 
affecting factors].

[Article in Chinese]

Luo JC(1), Zhou ZX, Liu CZ.

Author information:
(1)Education of Ministry Key Laboratory of Grassland Ecosystem, College of 
Grassland Science, Gansu Agricultural University, Lanzhou 730070, China. 
jincang1964@sohu.com

In this study, the life table of the 2nd generation of Leptinotarsa decemlineata 
(Say) natural population on potato plants was constructed based on functional 
factor life table method, and the control effects of different factors on the 
population were analyzed by exclusion analysis method. It was shown that the 
survival rate of eggs and first instar (79.1% and 69.3%, respectively) was 
rather lower than that of the L. decemlineata at other growth stages, suggesting 
that the eggs and first instar larvae were the key stages to control L. 
decemlineata. Among the controlling factors, "natural death" was the most 
effective factor, its exclusive index of population control (EIPC) being 1.87, 
"predators and others" was in the second place, with the EIPC being 1.51, while 
"parasitism" had no control effect. The index of population trend of L. 
decemlineata would be increased 2.8 times if all natural factors were excluded. 
It was concluded that natural factors had a certain but weak action on the L. 
decemlineata population.

PMID: 22919849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2012 Oct 1;12(5):313-23. doi: 10.1007/BF03261840.

Anticoagulation therapy for patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: 
comparison of decision analytic model recommendations and real-world warfarin 
prescription use.

Casciano JP(1), Singer DE, Kwong WJ, Fox ES, Martin BC.

Author information:
(1)eMAX Health Systems, LLC, White Plains, NY 10601, USA. 
juliancasciano@emaxhealth.net

BACKGROUND: Anticoagulation in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) is 
challenging because stroke-risk reduction must be balanced against increased 
bleeding risk.
OBJECTIVE: We developed a decision model integrating both stroke and bleeding 
risk schemes to guide optimal use of anticoagulation in AF, and compared model 
recommendations with warfarin use in a real-world database.
METHODS: A Markov model based on demographics, CHADS(2) (Congestive Heart 
Failure, Hypertension, Age of 75 years and greater, Diabetes Mellitus and 
History of Stroke) stroke and ATRIA (Anticoagulation and Risk Factors in Atrial 
Fibrillation) bleed risk scores, and anticoagulation treatment effects from 
clinical trials simulated health state transitions for recently diagnosed AF 
patients. The model recommended the treatment with greater quality-adjusted life 
expectancy. Model recommendations were contrasted with actual warfarin use 
recorded in the Thomson Reuters MarketScan database (N = 64,946).
RESULTS: 74.8% (n = 48,548) of the Marketscan AF cohort had CHADS(2) ≥1, of whom 
14.3% had moderate/high (≥4) ATRIA bleeding risk. While the model recommended 
warfarin for almost all patients with CHADS(2) ≥1 who are at low bleeding risk, 
it recommended warfarin for fewer patients as bleeding risk increased. Of the 
44,611 patients recommended warfarin, 63.4% of patients were considered warfarin 
exposed (concordant with model recommendation), and of the 20,335 patients 
recommended aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), 59.7% received warfarin (discordant 
with model recommendations). Actual warfarin use decreased modestly with higher 
stroke risk (p < 0.0001) and with higher bleeding risk (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: High discordance between actual warfarin use and model 
