992. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2012 Aug;39(8):1174-7.

[Management of bone metastases from breast cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayashi N(1), Yamauchi H, Nakamura S.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Breast Surgical Oncology, St. Luke's International Hospital, Japan.

Bone is the most common of breast cancer metastasis. Bone metastasis causes 
skeletal-related events(SREs), including pain, bone fractures, spinal cord 
compression, and hypercalcemia. SREs significantly impair patients' quality of 
life. The main purpose of treatment for bone metastasis is to prevent or delay 
SREs and to improve patients' quality of life. Accurate diagnosis of bone 
metastases is important in order to choose an appropriate treatment. Treatment 
of bone metastasis requires a multidisciplinary approach. Analgesic medication 
with NSAIDs and opioids is the first choice for pain control. In addition to 
bisphosphonate, the receptor activator of the nuclear factor κB 
ligand(RANKL)inhibitor, denosumab is a novel bone-targeting agent effective in 
preventing SREs. Prophylactic stabilization of impending fractures provides 
several advantages compared with fixation of an acute fracture, in terms of 
short hospitalization and a quick return to baseline. In general, radiation 
therapy is indicated for patients for whom surgery is suitable. Radiation 
therapy to palliate pain from bone metastasis can reduce the intake of analgesic 
medications. Local radiation therapy is indicated for a limited number of bone 
metastases, and systemic radionuclide therapy is appropriate for multiple 
lesions. In summary, treatment using these modalities for bone metastasis from 
breast cancer should be stratified, considering the symptoms, site of bone 
metastasis, and patients' life expectancy and performance status.

PMID: 22902439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2012 Aug;39(8):1183-6.

[Management of bone metastasis originating from lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Miura S(1), Kagamu H, Saijyo Y.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medicine II, Niigata University Medical and Dental Hospital, Japan.

The preceding molecular target therapies have prolonged the life expectancy of 
many lung cancer patients, and some lung cancer patients have become long-term 
survivors. On the other hand, the proportion of patients who suffer from 
complications with bone metastasis and skeletal-related events(SRE)is 
increasing. Through management of bone metastasis, the preservation of quality 
of life and functional independence can be better maintained. Zoledronic acid 
and denosumab are usable in clinical practice; However, there are many problems 
in regard to treatments for bone metastasis. Lung cancer patients should be 
treated with bone metastasis with the coordinating cooperation between 
orthopedists, radiotherapists and dental surgeons.

PMID: 22902441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. J Bone Miner Res. 2013 Jan;28(1):92-107. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.1732.

Disease modification of breast cancer-induced bone remodeling by cannabinoid 2 
receptor agonists.

Lozano-Ondoua AN(#)(1), Hanlon KE(#)(1), Symons-Liguori AM(1), Largent-Milnes 
TM(1), Havelin JJ(2), Ferland HL 3rd(2), Chandramouli A(1)(3), Owusu-Ankomah 
M(1), Nikolich-Zugich T(1), Bloom AP(1), Jimenez-Andrade JM(1), King T(1)(2), 
Porreca F(1)(2), Nelson MA(3), Mantyh PW(1), Vanderah TW(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, University of Arizona, 
Tucson, AZ, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Osteopathic Medicine, 
University of New England, Biddeford, ME, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Arizona, Tucson, 
AZ, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Most commonly originating from breast malignancies, metastatic bone cancer 
causes bone destruction and severe pain. Although novel chemotherapeutic agents 
have increased life expectancy, patients are experiencing higher incidences of 
fracture, pain, and drug-induced side effects; furthermore, recent findings 
suggest that patients are severely undertreated for their cancer pain. Strong 
analgesics, namely opiates, are first-line therapy in alleviating cancer-related 
pain despite the severe side effects, including enhanced bone destruction with 
sustained administration. Bone resorption is primarily treated with 
bisphosphonates, which are associated with highly undesirable side effects, 
including nephrotoxicity and osteonecrosis of the jaw. In contrast, cannabinoid 
receptor 2 (CB(2) ) receptor-specific agonists have been shown to reduce bone 
loss and stimulate bone formation in a model of osteoporosis. CB(2) agonists 
produce analgesia in both inflammatory and neuropathic pain models. Notably, 
mixed CB(1) /CB(2) agonists also demonstrate a reduction in ErbB2-driven breast 
cancer progression. Here we demonstrate for the first time that CB(2) agonists 
reduce breast cancer-induced bone pain, bone loss, and breast cancer 
proliferation via cytokine/chemokine suppression. Studies used the 
spontaneously-occurring murine mammary cell line (66.1) implanted into the femur 
intramedullary space; measurements of spontaneous pain, bone loss, and cancer 
proliferation were made. The systemic administration of a CB(2) agonist, JWH015, 
for 7 days significantly attenuated bone remodeling, assuaged spontaneous pain, 
and decreased primary tumor burden. CB(2) -mediated effects in vivo were 
reversed by concurrent treatment with a CB(2) antagonist/inverse agonist but not 
with a CB(1) antagonist/inverse agonist. In vitro, JWH015 reduced cancer cell 
proliferation and inflammatory mediators that have been shown to promote pain, 
bone loss, and proliferation. Taken together, these results suggest CB(2) 
agonists as a novel treatment for breast cancer-induced bone pain, in which 
disease modifications include a reduction in bone loss, suppression of cancer 
growth, attenuation of severe bone pain, and increased survival without the 
major side effects of current therapeutic options.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.1732
PMCID: PMC4745976
PMID: 22903605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Pediatr Nephrol. 2013 Jan;28(1):51-9. doi: 10.1007/s00467-012-2242-5. Epub
2012  Aug 18.

Cystinosis: the evolution of a treatable disease.

Nesterova G(1), Gahl WA.

Author information:
(1)NHGRI, Medical Biochemical Genetic Section, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, USA. nesterovag@mail.nih.gov

Cystinosis is a rare autosomal recessive disorder involving lysosomal storage of 
the amino acid cystine due to a defect in the membrane transport protein, 
cystinosin. Since the introduction of kidney transplants and the availability of 
cystine-depleting medical therapy, this previously fatal disease was transformed 
into a treatable disorder. Renal allografts and medical therapy targeting the 
basic metabolic defect have altered the natural hisotry of cystinosis so 
drastically that patients have a life expectancy extending past 50 years. 
Consequently, early diagnosis and appropriate therapy are critically important. 
In this article, we offer a review of the manifestations of cystinosis, 
including the proximal tubular dysfunction of renal Fanconi syndrome, and 
discuss the prevention and treatment of the disorder's systemic complications. 
We focus on the nephropathic forms of cystinosis, aiming to assist nephrologists 
and other physicians to develop early recognition and appropriate management of 
cystinosis patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-012-2242-5
PMCID: PMC3505515
PMID: 22903658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Apr;68(4):349-58. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls170. Epub 2012 Aug 17.

Life-span extension by caloric restriction is determined by type and level of 
food reduction and by reproductive mode in Brachionus manjavacas (Rotifera).

Gribble KE(1), Welch DB.

Author information:
(1)Josephine Bay Paul Center for Comparative Molecular Biology and Evolution, 
Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA 02543, USA.

We measured life span and fecundity of three reproductive modes in a clone of 
the monogonont rotifer Brachionus manjavacas subjected to chronic caloric 
restriction (CCR) over a range of food concentrations or to intermittent fasting 
(IF). IF increased life span 50%-70% for all three modes, whereas CCR increased 
life span of asexual females derived from sexually or asexually produced eggs, 
but not that of sexual females. The main effect of CR on both asexual modes was 
to delay death at young ages, rather than to prevent death at middle ages or to 
greatly extend maximum life span; in contrast CR in sexual females greatly 
increased the life span of a few long-lived individuals. Lifetime fecundity did 
not decrease with CCR, suggesting a lack of resource allocation trade-off 
between somatic maintenance and reproduction. Multiple outcomes for a clonal 
lineage indicate that different responses are established through epigenetic 
programming, whereas differences in life-span allocations suggest that multiple 
genetic mechanisms mediate life-span extension.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls170
PMCID: PMC3693672
PMID: 22904096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Apr;68(4):359-67. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls159. Epub 2012 Aug 17.

Testing predictions of the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging using a novel 
invertebrate model of longevity: the giant clam (Tridacna derasa).

Ungvari Z(1), Csiszar A, Sosnowska D, Philipp EE, Campbell CM, McQuary PR, Chow 
TT, Coelho M, Didier ES, Gelino S, Holmbeck MA, Kim I, Levy E, Sonntag WE, 
Whitby PW, Austad SN, Ridgway I.

Author information:
(1)Reynolds Oklahoma Center on Aging, Department of Geriatric Medicine, 
University of Oklahoma HSC, 975 N. E. 10th Street – BRC 1303, Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma 73104, USA. zoltan-ungvari@ouhsc.edu

Bivalve species with exceptional longevity are newly introduced model systems in 
biogerontology to test evolutionarily conserved mechanisms of aging. Here, we 
tested predictions based on the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging using one 
of the tropical long-lived sessile giant clam species, the smooth giant clam 
(Tridacna derasa; predicted maximum life span: >100 years) and the short-lived 
Atlantic bay scallop (Argopecten irradians irradians; maximum life span: 2 
years). The warm water-dwelling giant clams warrant attention because they 
challenge the commonly held view that the exceptional longevity of bivalves is a 
consequence of the cold water they reside in. No significant interspecific 
differences in production of H2O2 and O2- in the gills, heart, or adductor 
muscle were observed. Protein carbonyl content in gill and muscle tissues were 
similar in T derasa and A i irradians. In tissues of T derasa, neither basal 
antioxidant capacities nor superoxide dismutase and catalase activities were 
consistently greater than in A i irradians. We observed a positive association 
between longevity and resistance to mortality induced by exposure to tert-butyl 
hydroperoxide (TBHP). This finding is consistent with the prediction based on 
the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging. The findings that in tissues of T 
derasa, proteasome activities are significantly increased as compared with those 
in tissues of A i irradians warrant further studies to test the role of enhanced 
protein recycling activities in longevity of bivalves.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls159
PMCID: PMC3732095
PMID: 22904097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Postgrad Med J. 2012 Dec;88(1046):679-83. doi:
10.1136/postgradmedj-2012-130877.  Epub 2012 Aug 17.

Falling mortality rates in Type 2 diabetes mellitus in the Wirral Peninsula: a 
longitudinal and retrospective cohort population-based study.

Nwaneri C(1), Bowen-Jones D, Cooper H, Chikkaveerappa K, Afolabi BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Child Health, University of Chester, Chester, CRV 
253, Riverside Campus, Cheshire CH11SL, UK. c.nwaneri@chester.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To determine the life expectancy and mortality rates in patients 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus when compared with the UK general population; to 
measure the years of life lost.
DESIGN: Longitudinal and retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: The Wirral Peninsula in the northwest of England.
PARTICIPANTS: Total of 13,620 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus on the 
Wirral Diabetes Register.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: All-cause mortality, from 1 January 2000 to 31 December 
2007.
RESULTS: Over the 8-year period of the study, there were a total of 16,692.5 
person-years lived and 3888 deaths; 2041 (52.5%) males and 1847 (47.5%) females 
with corresponding mean ages at death of 75.6±10.3 years and 80.2±10.2 years, 
respectively. Although prevalence rates increased linearly (from 1.06% in 2000 
to 4.39% in 2007) a decrease in mortality rates (from 117 to 46 per 1000 
population) in both sexes was observed. This coincided with a progressive fall 
in cardiovascular risk factors in this population. A survival time curve of life 
lived until death showed that males had 8.0 years reduction in life span and 
females' life span was reduced by 9.6 years when compared with UK general 
population. In both sexes, life expectancy was reduced by between 2 and 11 years 
dependent on the age of diagnosis, with males showing a greater degree of 
reduction.
CONCLUSION: Type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with a significant reduction 
in life expectancy, more markedly in men, and in those diagnosed before age 70 
years. However, annual mortality rates have fallen progressively in our 
population and may contribute to longer survival and life expectancy in future 
years.

DOI: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2012-130877
PMID: 22904202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Bacteriol. 2012 Oct;194(20):5675-87. doi: 10.1128/JB.00919-12. Epub 2012
Aug  17.

Direct and indirect regulation of the ycnKJI operon involved in copper uptake 
through two transcriptional repressors, YcnK and CsoR, in Bacillus subtilis.

Hirooka K(1), Edahiro T, Kimura K, Fujita Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Life Science and Biotechnology, 
Fukuyama University, Fukuyama, Hiroshima, Japan. 
hirooka@bt.fubt.fukuyama-u.ac.jp

Northern blot and primer extension analyses revealed that the ycnKJI operon and 
the ycnL gene of Bacillus subtilis are transcribed from adjacent promoters that 
are divergently oriented. The ycnK and ycnJ genes encode a DeoR-type 
transcriptional regulator and a membrane protein involved in copper uptake, 
respectively. DNA binding experiments showed that the YcnK protein specifically 
binds to the ycnK-ycnL intergenic region, including a 16-bp direct repeat that 
is essential for the high binding affinity of YcnK, and that a copper-specific 
chelator significantly inhibits YcnK's DNA binding. lacZ reporter analysis 
showed that the ycnK promoter is induced by copper limitation or ycnK 
disruption. These results are consistent with YcnK functioning as a 
copper-responsive repressor that derepresses ycnKJI expression under copper 
limitation. On the other hand, the ycnL promoter was hardly induced by copper 
limitation, but ycnK disruption resulted in a slight induction of the ycnL 
promoter, suggesting that YcnK also represses ycnL weakly. Moreover, while the 
CsoR protein did not bind to the ycnK-ycnL intergenic region, lacZ reporter 
analysis demonstrated that csoR disruption induces the ycnK promoter only in the 
presence of intact ycnK and copZA genes. Since the copZA operon is involved in 
copper export and repressed by CsoR, it appears that the constitutive copZA 
expression brought by csoR disruption causes intracellular copper depletion, 
which releases the repression of the ycnKJI operon by YcnK.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00919-12
PMCID: PMC3458678
PMID: 22904286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Aug 21;12:266. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-266.

Evaluating the effects of variation in clinical practice: a risk adjusted 
cost-effectiveness (RAC-E) analysis of acute stroke services.

Pham C(1), Caffrey O, Ben-Tovim D, Hakendorf P, Crotty M, Karnon J.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Public Health, The University of Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia. clarabelle.pham@adelaide.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Methods for the cost-effectiveness analysis of health technologies 
are now well established, but such methods may also have a useful role in the 
context of evaluating the effects of variation in applied clinical practice. 
This study illustrates a general methodology for the comparative analysis of 
applied clinical practice at alternative institutions--risk adjusted 
cost-effectiveness (RAC-E) analysis--with an application that compares acute 
hospital services for stroke patients admitted to the main public hospitals in 
South Australia.
METHODS: Using linked, routinely collected data on all South Australian hospital 
separations from July 2001 to June 2008, an analysis of the RAC-E of services 
provided at four metropolitan hospitals was undertaken using a decision analytic 
framework. Observed (plus extrapolated) and expected lifetime costs and survival 
were compared across patient populations, from which the relative 
cost-effectiveness of services provided at the different hospitals was 
estimated.
RESULTS: Unadjusted results showed that at one hospital patients incurred fewer 
costs and gained more life years than at the other hospitals (i.e. it was the 
dominant hospital). After risk adjustment, the cost minimizing hospital incurred 
the lowest costs, but with fewer life-years gained than one other hospital. The 
mean incremental cost per life-year gained of services provided at the most 
effective hospital was under $20,000, with an associated 65% probability of 
being cost-effective at a $50,000 per life year monetary threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: RAC-E analyses can be used to identify important variation in the 
costs and outcomes associated with clinical practice at alternative 
institutions. Such data provides an impetus for further investigation to 
identify specific areas of variation, which may then inform the dissemination of 
best practice service delivery and organisation.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-266
PMCID: PMC3526450
PMID: 22905669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Vet Comp Oncol. 2014 Jun;12(2):160-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1476-5829.2012.00350.x. 
Epub 2012 Aug 21.

Phase II study of oral docetaxel and cyclosporine in canine epithelial cancer.

Waite A(1), Balkman C, Bailey D, Kiselow M, Flory A, Beaulieu BB, Lewis LD, 
McEntee M.

Author information:
(1)Cornell University Hospital for Animals, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Ithaca, NY, USA.

The goal of the current study was to determine the efficacy of oral docetaxel in 
combination with cyclosporine in the treatment of canine epithelial cancer. 
Requirements for eligibility were histological confirmation of epithelial 
neoplasia, measurable disease, no chemotherapy treatment within 2 weeks, and a 
life expectancy of ≥ 3 months. Fifty-one dogs were enrolled. All dogs received 
1.625 mg kg(-1) of docetaxel with 5 mg kg(-1) of cyclosporine (DT/CSA) by 
gavage. Ten dogs had progressive disease at 2 weeks, one dog died, and one dog 
was withdrawn from the study. Thirty-nine dogs were given a second dose of 
DT/CSA, three each receiving a third or fourth dose. Eight dogs had a dose 
reduction (1.5 mg kg(-1)) and six dogs had treatment delays primarily for 
gastrointestinal toxicity. The overall response rate was 16.7% (8/48 had a 
partial response there were no complete responses). The highest response rate 
was seen in dogs with oral squamous cell carcinoma (50%; 6/12).

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5829.2012.00350.x
PMID: 22905693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Comp Hepatol. 2012 Aug 20;11(1):2. doi: 10.1186/1476-5926-11-2.

Comparative histological study of hepatic architecture in the three orders 
amphibian livers.

Akiyoshi H(1), Inoue AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Faculty of Life and Environmental Science, 
Shimane University, Matsue, Japan. akiyoshi@life.shimane-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: This report presents a detailed description of hepatic architecture 
in 46 amphibian livers by light microscopy, and extensively discusses the 
phylogenetic viewpoint.
RESULTS: The 46 amphibian livers showed a variety of histological features, but 
anurans were the same as in mammalian livers. The hepatocyte-sinusoidal 
structures of the amphibian livers were classified into three different types: 
(I) several-cell-thick plate type, (II) two-cell-thick plate type, and (III) 
one-cell-thick plate type, depending on the percentage extension of sinusoidal 
areas per unit area, measured by morphometry. Hematopoietic tissue structures 
were observed in the connective tissue of both the perihepatic subcapsular 
regions and portal triads in the order Caudata and Gymnophiona, but were not 
observed in the order Anura (except for the genus Bombina and Xenopus). As 
phylogenetic relationships are branched from urodeles to anurans, the parenchyma 
arrangement progressed from the combined several- and two-cell-thick plate type 
to one-cell-thick plate type as seen in the mammalian liver type. In contrast, 
hematopoietic tissue structures were exactly the opposite and did not involve 
anurans.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to investigate amphibian livers 
phylogenically, and their architectural differences are shown in the route of 
hepatic ontogenesis. In this process, parenchymal arrangement formation is 
acquired phylogenically. The occurrence of hematopoietic cells may be related 
with the development of the systemic immune system in the spleen and bone 
marrow.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-5926-11-2
PMCID: PMC3517316
PMID: 22905994


3. BMC Med Educ. 2012 Aug 21;12:80. doi: 10.1186/1472-6920-12-80.

Medical student education program in Alzheimer's disease: the PAIRS Program.

Jefferson AL(1), Cantwell NG, Byerly LK, Morhardt D.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Center, Department of Neurology, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA. angela.jefferson@vanderbilt.edu

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy increases, dementia incidence will also increase, 
creating a greater need for physicians well-trained to provide integrated 
geriatric care. However, research suggests medical students have limited 
knowledge or interest in pursuing geriatric or dementia care. The purpose of 
this study is to evaluate the PAIRS Program and its effectiveness in enhancing 
medical education as a service-learning activity and replication model for the 
Buddy ProgramTM.
METHODS: Between 2007 and 2011, four consecutive classes of first year Boston 
University School of Medicine students (n = 45; 24 ± 3 years, 58% female, 53% 
White) participated in a year-long program in which they were paired with a 
patient with early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). Assessments included pre- and 
post-program dementia knowledge tests and a post-program reflective essay.
RESULTS: Program completion was 100% (n = 45). A paired-sample t-test revealed a 
modest improvement in dementia knowledge post-program (p < 0.001). Using 
qualitative coding methods, 12 overarching themes emerged from the students' 
reflective essays, such as observing care partner burden, reporting a human side 
to AD, reporting experiences from the program that will impact future clinical 
practice, and obtaining a greater understanding of AD.
CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative and qualitative findings suggest that the PAIRS 
Program can enhance the acquisition of knowledge, skills, and positive attitudes 
regarding geriatric healthcare in future generations of physicians, a skill set 
that is becoming increasingly relevant in light of the rapidly aging population. 
Furthermore, results suggest that The Buddy ProgramTM model can be successfully 
replicated.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6920-12-80
PMCID: PMC3500260
PMID: 22906234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Clin Ther. 2012 Sep;34(9):1966-76. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.07.010. Epub 
2012 Aug 18.

Long-term cost-effectiveness model of interferon beta-1b in the early treatment 
of multiple sclerosis in the United States.

Pan F(1), Goh JW, Cutter G, Su W, Pleimes D, Wang C.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA. 
feng.pan@unitedbiosource.com

BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a potentially debilitating autoimmune 
disease that affects the brain and spinal cord. Disease-modifying therapies have 
been shown to slow disease progression but were not believed to prolong the 
survival of patients with MS. The recent 21-Year Long-Term Follow-Up (21Y-LTF) 
study found a significant survival advantage for patients receiving early 
treatment with interferon beta (IFNβ)-1b compared with placebo (no early 
treatment).
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to conduct cost-effectiveness analyses 
estimating the long-term benefit of early treatment with IFNβ-1b among MS 
patients from a US societal perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate the experience of patients 
with MS from the 21Y-LTF study over a lifetime. Patients were randomized to 
receive either IFNβ-1b or placebo for up to 5 years and then receive a variety 
of MS treatments (including no treatment) thereafter. Survival data reported 
from the 21Y-LTF study were incorporated into the model. The model assumes that 
patients' MS was managed in similar ways for both groups during the uncontrolled 
phase of the 21Y-LTF study (ie, survival difference between the 2 groups is the 
result of early use of IFNβ-1b). Health outcomes were life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Costs included treatments, direct disease 
management, informal care, and lost productivities and were reported in 2011 US 
dollars.
RESULTS: In the modeled placebo group, the median age at death was predicted to 
be 63.7 years, and the median survival time from disease onset was 36.7 years. 
Early treatment with IFNβ-1b reduced the lost health benefits by 2.8 life-years 
and 1.9 QALYs, respectively, after discounting. Total discounted cost for 
IFNβ-1b-treated patients was $86,223 higher than that of patients receiving 
placebo. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $46,357 per QALY gained 
and $30,967 per life-year gained. Sensitivity analyses indicate the robustness 
of the model's results.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with IFNβ-1b during the earlier disease phase of patients 
with MS significantly increased patient life-years and QALYs. IFNβ-1b is likely 
to be a cost-effective intervention for MS.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.07.010
PMID: 22906738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Respir Care. 2013 Mar;58(3):517-24. doi: 10.4187/respcare.01530.

Improved survival for an integrated system of reduced intensive respiratory care 
for patients requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation.

Lin MS(1), Yan YH, Wang JD, Lu HM, Chen L, Hung MC, Fan PS, Chen CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Chia-Yi Christian 
Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of reduced respiratory care may lead to worse 
long-term outcomes for patients undergoing prolonged mechanical ventilation 
(PMV) for more than 21 days. The objective of this study was to determine the 
survival for an integrated system of reduced intensive respiratory care (ISRIRC) 
by the Taiwan Bureau of National Health Insurance, in patients requiring PMV.
METHODS: A 10-year retrospective study was performed in a 1,000-bed teaching 
hospital in Taiwan. A total of 633 consecutive PMV patients transferred from the 
hospital between 1998 and 2007 were enrolled. Medical records were reviewed to 
collect the clinical data, which were linked to the National Death Certification 
Database to ascertain subject survival. Kaplan-Meier estimates were performed, 
and a Cox proportional hazards model was constructed. We further conducted a 
corroboration study and retrieved a systematically randomized nationwide sample 
of PMV subjects with combined septicemia and shock, and compared the survival 
functions of those who were treated before and after the integrated system, 
including 228 and 2,677 subjects, respectively.
RESULTS: The survival rates at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year were 60.0%, 44.0%, 
and 30.0%, respectively. The 1-year survival rates of the subjects before and 
after ISRIRC were 21.0% and 37.2%, respectively (P = .04). The factors 
associated with better survival were younger age, absence of cirrhosis, and 
establishment of the ISRIRC. A comparison of the 4-year survival in the larger 
random sample of PMV subjects with combined septicemia and shock before and 
after ISRIRC also showed a significant improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: With the improvement of PMV technology in the early 2000s, the 
establishment of ISRIRC seems to be associated with an improved survival rate 
for subjects under PMV.

DOI: 10.4187/respcare.01530
PMID: 22906762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Gerontology. 2013;59(1):85-92. doi: 10.1159/000341225. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Zeno's Paradox of Immortality.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

Comment in
    Gerontology. 2013;59(1):93-4.
    Gerontology. 2013;59(1):95-6.

Scientists who speculate on the future of human longevity have a broad range of 
views ranging from the promise of immortality, to radical life extension, to 
declines in life expectancy. Among those who contend that radical life extension 
is already here, or on the horizon, or immortality is forthcoming, elements of 
their reasoning appear surprisingly close, if not identical, to a famous 
mathematical paradox posed by the ancient Greek mathematician known as Zeno. 
Here we examine the underlying assumptions behind the views that much longer 
life expectancies are forthcoming or have already arrived, and place their line 
of reasoning within the context of a new Zeno paradox described here as The 
Paradox of Immortality.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000341225
PMID: 22906806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Gerontology. 2013;59(1):93-4. doi: 10.1159/000341226. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Zeno's paradox and the faith that technological game-changers are impossible.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)SENS Foundation, Mountain View, CA 94041, USA.

Comment on
    Gerontology. 2013;59(1):85-92.

In their article in this issue, Olshansky and Carnes [Gerontology 2013;59:85-92] 
spell out in perhaps the most explicit terms yet a view which they have long 
espoused: that increases in longevity will inevitably slow down in decades to 
come, since the rate of biomedical progress that everyone agrees would be 
necessary to avoid such a slowdown is far too dramatic to be plausible. By doing 
so, they also betray more explicitly than ever before the flaws in their own 
logic. It is ironic that these flaws, unlike the work they critique, are 
actually quite closely analogous to the flaws in Zeno's paradox. Since others 
are offering their own comments on other parts of the article, I shall restrict 
my remarks on the article to those passages which refer specifically to my own 
work, together with the conclusion.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000341226
PMID: 22906834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Gerontology. 2013;59(1):95-6. doi: 10.1159/000341227. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Research versus Rhetoric.

Vaupel JW(1), Rau R.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, and Department of Sociology 
and Demography, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany. jwv@demogr.mpg.de

Comment on
    Gerontology. 2013;59(1):85-92.

Limited to 1,000 words, we address some serious technical mistakes and factual 
errors, as well as the misleading quotations in the section of Olshansky's and 
Carnes' article that attacks some of our joint research.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000341227
PMID: 22906849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Health Care Manag Sci. 2013 Mar;16(1):62-74. doi: 10.1007/s10729-012-9208-9. 
Epub 2012 Aug 21.

Theory of constraints for publicly funded health systems.

Sadat S(1), Carter MW, Golden B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research in Healthcare Engineering, Department of Mechanical and 
Industrial Engineering, University of Toronto, 5 King's College Road, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada, M5S 3G8. Somayeh.Sadat@Alumni.Utoronto.Ca

Originally developed in the context of publicly traded for-profit companies, 
theory of constraints (TOC) improves system performance through leveraging the 
constraint(s). While the theory seems to be a natural fit for 
resource-constrained publicly funded health systems, there is a lack of 
literature addressing the modifications required to adopt TOC and define the 
goal and performance measures. This paper develops a system dynamics 
representation of the classical TOC's system-wide goal and performance measures 
for publicly traded for-profit companies, which forms the basis for developing a 
similar model for publicly funded health systems. The model is then expanded to 
include some of the factors that affect system performance, providing a 
framework to apply TOC's process of ongoing improvement in publicly funded 
health systems. Future research is required to more accurately define the 
factors affecting system performance and populate the model with evidence-based 
estimates for various parameters in order to use the model to guide TOC's 
process of ongoing improvement.

DOI: 10.1007/s10729-012-9208-9
PMID: 22907662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Aug 28;109(35):13915-21. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1211452109. Epub 2012 Aug 20.

Bayesian probabilistic population projections for all countries.

Raftery AE(1), Li N, Ševčíková H, Gerland P, Heilig GK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-4322, 
USA. raftery@u.washington.edu

Projections of countries' future populations, broken down by age and sex, are 
widely used for planning and research. They are mostly done deterministically, 
but there is a widespread need for probabilistic projections. We propose a 
bayesian method for probabilistic population projections for all countries. The 
total fertility rate and female and male life expectancies at birth are 
projected probabilistically using bayesian hierarchical models estimated via 
Markov chain Monte Carlo using United Nations population data for all countries. 
These are then converted to age-specific rates and combined with a cohort 
component projection model. This yields probabilistic projections of any 
population quantity of interest. The method is illustrated for five countries of 
different demographic stages, continents and sizes. The method is validated by 
an out of sample experiment in which data from 1950-1990 are used for 
estimation, and applied to predict 1990-2010. The method appears reasonably 
accurate and well calibrated for this period. The results suggest that the 
current United Nations high and low variants greatly underestimate uncertainty 
about the number of oldest old from about 2050 and that they underestimate 
uncertainty for high fertility countries and overstate uncertainty for countries 
that have completed the demographic transition and whose fertility has started 
to recover towards replacement level, mostly in Europe. The results also 
indicate that the potential support ratio (persons aged 20-64 per person aged 
65+) will almost certainly decline dramatically in most countries over the 
coming decades.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1211452109
PMCID: PMC3435191
PMID: 22908249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


11. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2012 Jul;10(7):823-5. doi: 10.1586/erc.12.66.

Cardiac computed tomography as a cost-effective approach for diagnosing coronary 
artery disease?

Becker HC.

DOI: 10.1586/erc.12.66
PMID: 22908913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Periodontol 2000. 2012 Oct;60(1):138-46. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0757.2011.00406.x.

How to measure the cost-effectiveness of periodontal treatments.

Vernazza C, Heasman P, Gaunt F, Pennington M.

There is a need to measure efficiency of periodontal treatments. Efficiency 
questions can be addressed through a variety of economic evaluation techniques: 
cost minimization, cost-effectiveness, cost utility and cost-benefit analysis. 
Each of these techniques is outlined in this article, including a detailed 
discussion of different preference-based outcome (utility) measures. Despite the 
need, few analyses have been undertaken in periodontology. There are several 
issues in undertaking cost-effectiveness analyses specific to periodontology and 
these are examined in detail: outcome measures including patient-based vs. 
clinical measures of outcome; discounting or taking into account time preference 
for outcomes and costs; problems of costing, including the perspective taken in 
an analysis; interpreting the evidence, in particular using incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios; and global variation in periodontal care delivery, 
including healthcare systems and the use of hygienists. The need for 
cost-effectiveness analysis in periodontology is explored further, and the need 
to involve a health economist in such an evaluation is underlined.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0757.2011.00406.x
PMID: 22909111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Clin Exp Allergy. 2012 Jun;42(6):929-35. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2222.2012.03984.x.

Efficacy and safety of recombinant human C1-inhibitor for the treatment of 
attacks of hereditary angioedema: European open-label extension study.

Moldovan D(1), Reshef A, Fabiani J, Kivity S, Toubi E, Shlesinger M, Triggiani 
M, Montinaro V, Cillari E, Realdi G, Cancian M, Visscher S, Zanichelli A, Relan 
A, Cicardi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Allergology-Immunology, Mures County Hospital, University of 
Medicine and Pharmacy, Tîrgu-Mureş, Romania. moldovan.dumitru@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Hereditary angioedema (HAE) owing to C1 inhibitor deficiency is an 
autosomal dominant disorder, characterized by recurrent, potentially 
life-threatening, localized attacks of tissue swelling. Current treatment 
involves the infusion of C1 inhibitor protein (C1-INH) isolated from human 
plasma.
OBJECTIVES: This open-label extension to a European, Israeli and Argentinean 
randomized study (NCT00262301) aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of 
recombinant human C1 inhibitor (rhC1-INH) as a first-line treatment following an 
HAE attack, together with its effect on subsequent attacks.
METHODS: An HAE-specific visual analogue scale (VAS) 0-100 mm was used by 
patients to assess the severity of attack at four anatomical locations. Patients 
were treated with one, single-vial, fixed-dose of rhC1-INH (2100 U), followed by 
up to two further vials at the investigators discretion. The primary end-point 
was the time from first rhC1-INH injection to first onset of relief of symptoms 
(≥ 20 mm decrease on VAS). Response to treatment was defined as the onset of 
relief within 4 h.
RESULTS: A total of 57 patients were treated for 194 HAE attacks. Overall, 
sustained relief of symptoms was achieved in 87% of rhC1-INH-treated patients 
within 4 h of treatment, with 57% of attacks requiring only one vial of 
rhC1-INH. When categorized by successive attacks experienced by individual 
patients, the response rate to rhC1-INH treatment was 96%, 83%, 87%, 80% and 80% 
for attacks 1-5 respectively. Treatment with rhC1-INH was well tolerated, with 
no discontinuations owing to treatment-emergent adverse events and no adverse 
events relating to immunogenicity.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Treatment with rhC1-INH provides fast-onset 
relief for an HAE attack, with a high rate of therapeutic response maintained 
throughout subsequent attacks.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2222.2012.03984.x
PMID: 22909164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Int J Dermatol. 2012 Sep;51(9):1019-36. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-4632.2011.05337.x.

Cutaneous T cell lymphoma: update on treatment.

Wollina U(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Dresden-Friedrichstadt Hospital, Dresden, Germany. 
wollina-uw@khdf.de

BACKGROUND: Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) is a myeloproliferative disease 
with pronounced epidermotropism. The major subtypes of CTCL are mycosis 
fungoides and Sézary syndrome. Survival is dependent on the histological subtype 
and clinical stage. Early CTCL has a normal life expectancy, therefore early 
disease recognition and stage adapted treatment might help to ensure a good 
prognosis.
METHODS: This is a review of recent advances in CTCL treatment based on 
literature review.
RESULTS: Skin targeted therapies are useful for patch and limited plaque disease 
with phototherapy as the cornerstone of such treatments. More advanced disease 
will benefit from systemic mono- or combined treatments including drug therapy, 
extracorporeal photopheresis, and radiotherapy. In practice combined treatments 
may reduce adverse events and improve response rates. For selected younger 
patients, stem cell transplantation seems a third-line option.
CONCLUSIONS: The therapeutic spectrum for CTCL has been advanced during the last 
years, providing the opportunity of tailored treatment for patients.

© 2012 The International Society of Dermatology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-4632.2011.05337.x
PMID: 22909354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Age Ageing. 2013 Jan;42(1):21-6. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afs110. Epub 2012 Aug
21.

Transcatheter aortic valve implantation: restoring the qualities of life in old 
age.

Georgiadou P(1), Sbarouni E, Karavolias GK, Voudris V.

Author information:
(1)2nd Division of Interventional Cardiology, Onassis Cardiac Surgery Center, 
356 Syngrou Avenue, 176 74, Athens, Greece. pg171@hlk.forthnet.gr

Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a tremendous therapeutic 
advance for patients with severe aortic stenosis and high-surgical risk. Since 
TAVI-treated patients are elderly with multiple co-existing conditions, limited 
life expectancy and disproportionate health-care expenditures, the aspect of the 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) benefits becomes of fundamental 
importance. Based on recent evidence, TAVI appears to improve significantly 
HRQoL measures compared with optimal standard care, which are restored to 
age-adjusted population norms over time.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs110
PMID: 22910300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Br J Cancer. 2012 Sep 25;107(7):1025-30. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2012.371. Epub 2012
 Aug 21.

Prediction of early death among patients enrolled in phase I trials: development 
and validation of a new model based on platelet count and albumin.

Ploquin A(1), Olmos D, Lacombe D, A'Hern R, Duhamel A, Twelves C, Marsoni S, 
Morales-Barrera R, Soria JC, Verweij J, Voest EE, Schöffski P, Schellens JH, 
Kramar A, Kristeleit RS, Arkenau HT, Kaye SB, Penel N.

Author information:
(1)Centre Oscar Lambret, Medical Oncology Department, 3 rue Combemale, Lille 
59020, France.

BACKGROUND: Selecting patients with 'sufficient life expectancy' for Phase I 
oncology trials remains challenging. The Royal Marsden Hospital Score (RMS) 
previously identified high-risk patients as those with ≥ 2 of the following: 
albumin <35 g l(-1); LDH > upper limit of normal; >2 metastatic sites. This 
study developed an alternative prognostic model, and compared its performance 
with that of the RMS.
METHODS: The primary end point was the 90-day mortality rate. The new model was 
developed from the same database as RMS, but it used Chi-squared Automatic 
Interaction Detection (CHAID). The ROC characteristics of both methods were then 
validated in an independent database of 324 patients enrolled in European 
Organization on Research and Treatment of Cancer Phase I trials of cytotoxic 
agents between 2000 and 2009.
RESULTS: The CHAID method identified high-risk patients as those with albumin 
<33 g l(-1) or ≥ 33 g l(-1), but platelet counts ≥ 400.000 mm(-3). In the 
validation data set, the rates of correctly classified patients were 0.79 vs 
0.67 for the CHAID model and RMS, respectively. The negative predictive values 
(NPV) were similar for the CHAID model and RMS.
CONCLUSION: The CHAID model and RMS provided a similarly high level of NPV, but 
the CHAID model gave a better accuracy in the validation set. Both CHAID model 
and RMS may improve the screening process in phase I trials.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2012.371
PMCID: PMC3461164
PMID: 22910320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2012;8:429-36. doi: 10.2147/VHRM.S32357. Epub 2012
Jul  4.

Treatment strategy for type 2 diabetes from the perspective of systemic vascular 
protection and insulin resistance.

Utsunomiya K(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes, Metabolism and Endocrinology, Jikei University School 
of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. kazu-utsunomiya@jikei.ac.jp

This paper provides an update on the mechanisms of vascular impairment 
associated with insulin resistance and the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy 
and peripheral artery disease (PAD). It also considers the optimal treatment 
strategies for systemic vascular protection in light of recent findings. This 
area is of major clinical importance given the ongoing global epidemic of type 2 
diabetes and the pivotal role played by insulin resistance in the mechanism of 
vascular impairment that manifests as macroangiopathy and microangiopathy. 
Timely diagnosis and intervention is critical in patients with systemic 
arteriosclerotic disease. Therefore, treatment strategies are aimed not only at 
targeting the presenting pathology, but also at reducing the risk of 
cardiovascular events. These efforts can help reduce the risk of both 
cardiovascular events and mortality. Treatment for PAD includes pharmacotherapy, 
endovascular treatment, and vascular reconstruction, along with exercise 
therapy. Because PAD can cause ischemia in the lower extremities, typical drug 
approaches include use of vasodilators and antiplatelet agents. Beraprost sodium 
and cilostazol are common choices in Japan, and their risks and benefits are 
discussed. Of note, beraprost has several therapeutic properties, including 
vascular endothelial protection, and antiplatelet and anti-inflammatory effects, 
in addition to vasodilatory activity. In patients with PAD, these activities 
improve the pathological process in the lower extremities and reduce the 
incidence of systemic vascular events. Recent preclinical findings indicate that 
beraprost improves not only ischemic extremities through its vasodilatory 
properties, but also reduces the insulin resistance which affects vascular 
endothelium. In this way, beraprost may contribute to an overall systemic 
vascular protective action. The use of agents, such as beraprost, which are 
capable of improving insulin resistance and resulting vascular endothelial 
function at an earlier disease stage, may ultimately contribute to increasing 
the life expectancy of patients with PAD.

DOI: 10.2147/VHRM.S32357
PMCID: PMC3402056
PMID: 22910731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Biol Chem. 2012 Oct 12;287(42):35516-35526. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.403253.
Epub  2012 Aug 21.

Basis of miscoding of the DNA adduct N2,3-ethenoguanine by human Y-family DNA 
polymerases.

Zhao L(1), Pence MG(1), Christov PP(2), Wawrzak Z(3), Choi JY(4), Rizzo CJ(2), 
Egli M(1), Guengerich FP(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, Tennessee 37232-0146; Department of Center in Molecular Toxicology, 
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232-0146.
(2)Department of Center in Molecular Toxicology, Vanderbilt University School of 
Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232-0146; Department of Chemistry, Vanderbilt 
University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232-0146.
(3)Northwestern University Synchrotron Research Center, Life Sciences 
Collaborative Access Team, Argonne, Illinois 60439.
(4)Division of Pharmacology, Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Samsung 
Biomedical Research Institute, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 
Gyeonggi-do 440-746, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, Tennessee 37232-0146; Department of Center in Molecular Toxicology, 
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232-0146. 
Electronic address: f.guengerich@vanderbilt.edu.

N(2),3-Ethenoguanine (N(2),3-εG) is one of the exocyclic DNA adducts produced by 
endogenous processes (e.g. lipid peroxidation) and exposure to bioactivated 
vinyl monomers such as vinyl chloride, which is a known human carcinogen. 
Existing studies exploring the miscoding potential of this lesion are quite 
indirect because of the lability of the glycosidic bond. We utilized a 2'-fluoro 
isostere approach to stabilize this lesion and synthesized oligonucleotides 
containing 2'-fluoro-N(2),3-ε-2'-deoxyarabinoguanosine to investigate the 
miscoding potential of N(2),3-εG by Y-family human DNA polymerases (pols). In 
primer extension assays, pol η and pol κ replicated through N(2),3-εG, whereas 
pol ι and REV1 yielded only 1-base incorporation. Steady-state kinetics revealed 
that dCTP incorporation is preferred opposite N(2),3-εG with relative 
efficiencies in the order of pol κ > REV1 > pol η ≈ pol ι, and dTTP 
misincorporation is the major miscoding event by all four Y-family human DNA 
pols. Pol ι had the highest dTTP misincorporation frequency (0.71) followed by 
pol η (0.63). REV1 misincorporated dTTP and dGTP with much lower frequencies. 
Crystal structures of pol ι with N(2),3-εG paired to dCTP and dTTP revealed 
Hoogsteen-like base pairing mechanisms. Two hydrogen bonds were observed in the 
N(2),3-εG:dCTP base pair, whereas only one appears to be present in the case of 
the N(2),3-εG:dTTP pair. Base pairing mechanisms derived from the crystal 
structures explain the slightly favored dCTP insertion for pol ι in steady-state 
kinetic analysis. Taken together, these results provide a basis for the 
mutagenic potential of N(2),3-εG.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M112.403253
PMCID: PMC3471744
PMID: 22910910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Target Oncol. 2012 Sep;7(3):169-72. doi: 10.1007/s11523-012-0228-7. Epub 2012
 Aug 22.

New treatment options with cytotoxic agents in neuroendocrine tumours.

Hammel P(1), Hentic O, Neuzillet C, Faivre S, Raymond E, Ruszniewski P.

