aged 65 years or older, $35,813 per quality-adjusted life-year; for patients 
with baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score 0 to 9, 
$16,322 per quality-adjusted life-year; for patients with NIHSS score 10 to 19, 
$37,462 per quality-adjusted life-year; and for patients with NIHSS score 
greater than or equal to 20, $2,432 per quality-adjusted life-year. The majority 
of other subgroups such as sex, history of stroke, and history of hypertension 
were either cost saving or cost-effective, with the exceptions of diabetes and 
atrial fibrillation.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that rtPA in the 3- to 4.5-hour therapeutic 
window provides improvement in long-term patient outcomes in most patient 
subgroups and is a good economic value versus no treatment.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Mosby, Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2012.04.020
PMCID: PMC3598015
PMID: 22633340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):177-88; discussion 195-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.002. Epub 2012 May 17.

The quadratic hazard model for analyzing longitudinal data on aging, health, and 
the life span.

Yashin AI(1), Arbeev KG, Akushevich I, Kulminski A, Ukraintseva SV, Stallard E, 
Land KC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population Health and Aging, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, 
United States. aiy@duke.edu

Comment in
    Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):191-2; discussion 195-7.
    Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):189-90; discussion 195-7.
    Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):193-4; discussion 195-7.

A better understanding of processes and mechanisms linking human aging with 
changes in health status and survival requires methods capable of analyzing new 
data that take into account knowledge about these processes accumulated in the 
field. In this paper, we describe an approach to analyses of longitudinal data 
based on the use of stochastic process models of human aging, health, and 
longevity which allows for incorporating state of the art advances in aging 
research into the model structure. In particular, the model incorporates the 
notions of resistance to stresses, adaptive capacity, and "optimal" (normal) 
physiological states. To capture the effects of exposure to persistent external 
disturbances, the notions of allostatic adaptation and allostatic load are 
introduced. These notions facilitate the description and explanation of 
deviations of individuals' physiological indices from their normal states, which 
increase the chances of disease development and death. The model provides a 
convenient conceptual framework for comprehensive systemic analyses of 
aging-related changes in humans using longitudinal data and linking these 
changes with genotyping profiles, morbidity, and mortality risks. The model is 
used for developing new statistical methods for analyzing longitudinal data on 
aging, health, and longevity.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.002
PMCID: PMC3392540
PMID: 22633776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Biochem Pharmacol. 2012 Sep 15;84(6):737-45. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2012.05.007.
 Epub 2012 May 16.

Insulin resistance in the brain: an old-age or new-age problem?

Williamson R(1), McNeilly A, Sutherland C.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Institute, University of Dundee, UK.

Life expectancy is rising however with more people living longer there is a 
concomitant rise in the incidence of dementia. In addition to age-related 
cognitive decline there is a higher risk of going on to develop vascular 
dementia and Alzheimer's disease associated with aspects of modern lifestyle. 
Most worryingly, recent data reports accelerated cognitive decline in 
adolescents associated with poor diet (high fat and calorie intake). Thus the 
increase in dementia in 'old-age' may have as much to do with 'new-age' 
lifestyle as it does with normal ageing. It would seem wise therefore to 
investigate the molecular connections between lifestyle and cognitive decline in 
more detail. Epidemiological evidence suggests an increased risk of developing 
dementia (including Alzheimer's disease) in individuals with obesity and type 2 
diabetes but also in those with poor insulin sensitivity without diabetes, 
implicating a mechanistic link between adiposity, insulin sensitivity and 
dementia. Insulin receptors are expressed in the brain and physiological roles 
for insulin in the CNS are starting to be delineated. Indeed disrupted neuronal 
insulin action may underlie the link between diabetes and neurodegenerative 
disorders. This review discusses the difficulties in quantifying insulin 
sensitivity of the brain and why it is vital that we develop technology for this 
purpose so that we can establish its role in this 'new-age' dementia. This has 
particular relevance to the design and interpretation of clinical trials in 
progress to assess potential benefits of insulin and insulin sensitisers on 
prevention of cognitive decline.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2012.05.007
PMID: 22634336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Cien Saude Colet. 2012 May;17(5):1259-65. doi:
10.1590/s1413-81232012000500019.

[Oral health conditions of the elderly at the Lar Samaritano long-term-care 
facility in São Gonçalo-RJ].

[Article in Portuguese]

Sá IP(1), Almeida Júnior LR, Corvino MP, Sá SP.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Odontologia, Universidade Federal Fluminense, Niteroi, RJ, 
Brazil. ingridpetra@hotmail.com

With the increase in life expectancy in Brazil, there are increasing numbers of 
elderly. There is a marked increase in demand for Long-Term-Care Facilities for 
the elderly in Brazil, but there is little epidemiological data on oral health 
in such institutions. The objective is to evaluate the oral health of elderly 
residents in a Long-Term-Care Facility in São Gonçalo city, Rio de Janeiro, 
examining dental conditions, the use of and need for prostheses and dental 
treatment. Quantitative research was conducted with functionally dependent 
and/or independent male and female subjects over 59 years of age, involving data 
gathering, consulting records, interviews and clinical examinations. DMFT 30.37, 
predominantly missing teeth and the female population with fewer decayed teeth. 
Only 2 had excellent hygiene, 25 were good, 17 satisfactory and 14 bad. Tooth 
mobility was found in 6 elderly though 52 had no mobility, while 32 wore 
dentures and 26 did not, with women using them more frequently. 49 lacked 
treatment, mainly women as they were greater in number. The conclusion reached 
is that Long-Term-Care Facilities need inspection by public and dental 
authorities, with priority given to dental professionals, in addition to 
fostering academic activities for undergraduate and postgraduate students.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-81232012000500019
PMID: 22634818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Eur J Anaesthesiol. 2012 Aug;29(8):380-5. doi: 10.1097/EJA.0b013e328354a51a.

Combining head-neck position and head-down tilt to prevent pulmonary aspiration 
of gastric contents during induction of anaesthesia: a volunteer and manikin 
study.

Takenaka I(1), Aoyama K, Iwagaki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Nippon Steel Yawata Memorial Hospital, 1-1-1 
Harunomachi, Yahatahigashi-ku, Kitakyushu 805-8508, Japan. 
takenaka.i@ns.yawatamhp.or.jp

CONTEXT: Although a life-threatening complication, pulmonary aspiration of 
gastric contents caused by vomiting or regurgitation during induction of 
anaesthesia cannot be prevented. It may be prevented if the mouth is placed more 
inferiorly than the larynx and tracheal bifurcation by the use of head-down tilt 
and head-neck positioning.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine the head-down tilt required to prevent 
aspiration in the neutral, simple extension, sniffing and full cervical spine 
extension (Sellick) positions and to investigate the relationship between 
pulmonary aspiration and the vertical height of the mouth, larynx and tracheal 
bifurcation.
DESIGN: Observational study.
SETTING: Operating theatre at Nippon Steel Yawata Memorial Hospital.
PATIENTS: Manikins with coloured fluid in the oesophagus and 30 adult 
volunteers.
INTERVENTIONS: Use of head-down tilt between 0° and 50° in 5° increments in four 
head-neck positions (neutral, simple extension, sniffing and Sellick).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Aspiration of oesophageal contents (coloured fluid) from 
the oesophagus into the trachea and bronchi. Measurement of the mouth-arytenoid 
angle (manikin and volunteers) and the mouth-carina angle (manikin).
RESULTS: The head-down tilts required to protect both the trachea and bronchi 
from aspiration were 45°, 35° and 10° in the neutral, simple extension and 
Sellick positions, respectively, which coincided with the mouth-arytenoid angle 
in those positions. The maximum tilt used in this study was not adequate to 
prevent aspiration in the sniffing position. The head-down tilt required to 
level the mouth with the tracheal bifurcation (mouth-carina angle) protected the 
bronchi from aspiration but not the trachea.
CONCLUSION: A head-down tilt equal to the mouth-arytenoid angle (levelling the 
mouth with the larynx) was necessary to completely prevent aspiration. This 
angle of tilt was within clinically relevant ranges only with the Sellick 
position.

DOI: 10.1097/EJA.0b013e328354a51a
PMID: 22634849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Scand J Public Health. 2012 May;40(3):271-7. doi: 10.1177/1403494812443604.

Perception of overweight and obesity from different angles: a qualitative study.

Sikorski C(1), Riedel C, Luppa M, Schulze B, Werner P, König HH, Riedel-Heller 
SG.

Author information:
(1)IFB Adiposity Diseases, Leipzig University Medical Center, 
Philipp-Rosenthal-Straße 55, Leipzig, Germany. 
Claudia.Sikorski@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

AIMS: Up to this date, the obesity pandemic has yet to be confined, with 
prevalence rates still rising in most countries. Aside from numerous negative 
consequences such as comorbid diseases and a reduction in life expectancy due to 
excessive bodyweight and the economic impact of obesity on healthcare systems, 
negative outcomes in overweight and obese individuals are also affected by 
perceived stigmatisation and discrimination. Knowledge of common views and 
perception overweight and obesity in the general public as well as in specific 
populations (e.g. healthcare professionals) is crucial in order to develop 
stigma-reduction interventions. The specific aim of the current study was to 
develop an appropriate questionnaire to be used in the survey to follow and 
further to enhance existing instruments.
METHODS: This qualitative study reports results from focus groups with 
normal-weight and overweight individuals as well as healthcare professionals.
RESULTS: Contents of the discussion of overweight and obesity did not differ 
substantially between the three groups. Results show that the definition of 
obesity in our focus groups is a subjective construct influenced mainly by 
aesthetics, sympathy, and activity. Within the groups, obesity was mainly seen 
as a controllable condition; however, external, such as societal, factors were 
named as well. In line with this and as expected from theoretical background, 
obese individuals are ascribed mainly negative attributions.
CONCLUSIONS: With these results, this study enlightens lived realities of 
different groups of people. The results can be applied to improve existing 
instruments for the measurement of attitudes towards obesity.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494812443604
PMID: 22637366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Osteoporos Int. 2013 Jan;24(1):151-62. doi: 10.1007/s00198-012-2009-7. Epub
2012  May 26.

Cost-effectiveness of nutritional intervention in elderly subjects after hip 
fracture. A randomized controlled trial.

Wyers CE(1), Reijven PL, Evers SM, Willems PC, Heyligers IC, Verburg AD, van 
Helden S, Dagnelie PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, CAPHRI School for Public Health and Primary Care, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. caroline.wyers@maastrichtuniversity.nl

Hip fracture patients can benefit from nutritional supplementation during their 
recovery. Up to now, cost-effectiveness evaluation of nutritional intervention 
in these patients has not been performed. Costs of nutritional intervention are 
relatively low as compared with medical costs. Cost-effectiveness evaluation 
shows that nutritional intervention is likely to be cost-effective.
INTRODUCTION: Previous research on the effect of nutritional intervention on 
clinical outcome in hip fracture patients yielded contradictory results. 
Cost-effectiveness of nutritional intervention in these patients remains 
unknown. The aim of this study was to evaluate cost-effectiveness of nutritional 
intervention in elderly subjects after hip fracture from a societal perspective.
METHODS: Open-label, multi-centre randomized controlled trial investigating 
cost-effectiveness of intensive nutritional intervention comprising regular 
dietetic counseling and oral nutritional supplementation for 3 months 
postoperatively. Patients allocated to the control group received care as usual. 
Costs, weight and quality of life were measured at baseline and at 3 and 
6 months postoperatively. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
calculated for weight at 3 months and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) at 
6 months postoperatively.
RESULTS: Of 152 patients enrolled, 73 were randomized to the intervention group 
and 79 to the control group. Mean costs of the nutritional intervention was 
613 Euro. Total costs and subcategories of costs were not significantly 
different between both groups. Based on bootstrapping of ICERs, the nutritional 
intervention was likely to be cost-effective for weight as outcome over the 
3-month intervention period, regardless of nutritional status at baseline. With 
QALYs as outcome, the probability for the nutritional intervention being 
cost-effective was relatively low, except in subjects aged below 75 years.
CONCLUSION: Intensive nutritional intervention in elderly hip fracture patients 
is likely to be cost-effective for weight but not for QALYs. Future 
cost-effectiveness studies should incorporate outcome measures appropriate for 
elderly patients, such as functional limitations and other relevant outcome 
parameters for elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-012-2009-7
PMCID: PMC3536976
PMID: 22638708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Osteoporos Int. 2013 Jan;24(1):245-52. doi: 10.1007/s00198-012-2024-8. Epub
2012  May 26.

Analysis of the association between bisphosphonate treatment survival in Danish 
hip fracture patients-a nationwide register-based open cohort study.

Bondo L(1), Eiken P, Abrahamsen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Endocrinology F, Gentofte Hospital, 2900, 
Hellerup, Denmark.

Bisphosphonate (BP) users have decreased mortality, but this could be due to 
channeling bias. National healthcare data on hip fracture showed lower mortality 
in patients who were treated prior to fracture or began treatment after 
fracture. Reduced mortality after only one prescription filled points to the 
importance of patient factors.
INTRODUCTION: Use of bisphosphonates has been found to be associated with 
decreased mortality even when adjusted for sex, frailty, bone mineral density 
and comorbidity, but BP may chiefly be initiated in patients with osteoporosis 
whose life expectancy is judged to be good. Our aim was to investigate the 
association between BP initiated before or after a hip fracture with mortality, 
and any modifying effects of comorbid conditions and recurrent fracture.
METHODS: This register-based cohort study used prescription and mortality 
information for Danish patients born ≤1945 experiencing a hip fracture between 
1/Jan/1999 and 31/Dec/ 2002 (N = 42,076). Patients who began BP after hip 
fracture were compared with hip fracture patients who remained alive at the time 
when their matched index case began treatment.
RESULTS: Patients who used BP prior to their hip fracture (4.6 %) had 
significantly lower 3-month mortality (adjusted odds ratio, OR, 0.68; 
0.59-0.77). Patients who began BP after the fracture (2.6 %) had significantly 
decreased mortality, both for patients who filled only one prescription 
(adjusted hazard ratio, HR 0.84; 0.73-0.95) and for patients who filled multiple 
prescriptions HR 0.73 (0.61-0.88). There was a significant interaction by gender 
with no significant risk reduction in men.
CONCLUSION: This national dataset shows significantly and substantially improved 
survival in women who receive BP before or after their hip fracture. However, 
the observation of a reduction in mortality in patients who filled only one 
prescription for a BP suggests that patient factors may account for a 
considerable part of the survival advantage observed with BPs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-012-2024-8
PMID: 22638712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 Oct;39(10):1421-30. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-012-1146-5. Epub 2012 May 26.

Engineering of Rhodococcus cell catalysts for tolerance improvement by sigma 
factor mutation and active plasmid partition.

Ma Y(1), Yu H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Institute of Biochemical Engineering, 
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, People's Republic of China. myc0307@126.com

Tolerance to various stresses is a key phenotype for cell catalysts, which are 
used widely in bioproduction of diverse valuable chemicals. Using the 
Rhodococcus ruber TH strain, which exhibits high nitrile hydratase activity, as 
the target cell catalyst for acrylamide production, we established a method to 
improve cell tolerance by stably introducing global transcription perturbation. 
The σ(70) gene (sigA) of R. ruber was cloned and randomly mutated. An R. ruber 
TH3/pNV-sigA(M) library containing additional sigA mutants was constructed and 
used for survival selection. The TH3/M4N1-59 mutant was selected by 
acrylonitrile/acrylamide double stress and exhibited a 160 % extension of the 
half-life of nitrile hydratase upon exposure to 40 % acrylamide. A redesigned 
parDE(M) gene was introduced to Rhodococcus to accomplish stable inheritance of 
plasmids. A two-batch acrylonitrile hydration reaction was performed using the 
engineered cells as a catalyst. Compared to TH3, the acrylamide productivity of 
TH3/M4N1-59DE(M) catalysis increased by 27.8 and 37.5 % in the first and second 
bioreaction batches, respectively. These data suggest a novel method for 
increasing the bioconversion productivity of target chemicals through sigA 
mutation of the cell catalyst.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-012-1146-5
PMID: 22638790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Eur J Pediatr. 2012 Oct;171(10):1489-95. doi: 10.1007/s00431-012-1755-z.
Epub  2012 May 26.

The diagnostic value of a single measurement of superior vena cava flow in the 
first 24 h of life in very preterm infants.

Holberton JR(1), Drew SM, Mori R, König K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Mercy Hospital for Women, 163 Studley Road, 
Melbourne, 3084 Victoria, Australia.

Low superior vena cava (SVC) flow has been associated with intraventricular 
haemorrhage (IVH) in very preterm infants. We studied the diagnostic value of a 
single measurement of SVC flow within the first 24 h of life in very preterm 
infants and its association with occurrence or extension of IVH in a setting of 
limited availability of neonatal echocardiography. Preterm infants who were born 
at less than 30 weeks gestation and who had an echocardiogram within 24 h after 
birth were eligible. Baseline, clinical and ultrasound data were collected. A 
total of 165 preterm infants were included. Low SVC flow (<41 ml/kg/min) 
occurred in six infants and was associated with severe IVH and extension of IVH, 
although this was not significant after adjusting for confounders. The only 
independently associated variable with low SVC flow was admission temperature 
(odds ratio 0.27, p = 0.001). A review of SVC flow values shows that these are 
higher now than initially reported. This study does not show an association of 
low SVC flow and severe IVH or extension of IVH after adjusting for confounders 
as a single measurement of SVC flow did not add any diagnostic value in this 
cohort. Thus, the exact role of SVC flow measurements in the circulatory 
assessment of preterm infants remains to be elucidated. However, admission 
temperature may have an effect on systemic blood flow in very preterm infants.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-012-1755-z
PMID: 22638864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2012 Oct;69(19):3317-27. doi: 10.1007/s00018-012-1005-6.
Epub  2012 May 27.

Direct evidence that the N-terminal extensions of the TAP complex act as 
autonomous interaction scaffolds for the assembly of the MHC I peptide-loading 
complex.

Hulpke S(1), Tomioka M, Kremmer E, Ueda K, Abele R, Tampé R.

Author information:
(1)Biocenter, Institute of Biochemistry and Cluster of Excellence Frankfurt - 
Macromolecular Complexes, Goethe-University Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany.

The loading of antigenic peptides onto major histocompatibility complex class I 
(MHC I) molecules is an essential step in the adaptive immune response against 
virally or malignantly transformed cells. The ER-resident peptide-loading 
complex (PLC) consists of the transporter associated with antigen processing 
(TAP1 and TAP2), assembled with the auxiliary factors tapasin and MHC I. Here, 
we demonstrated that the N-terminal extension of each TAP subunit represents an 
autonomous domain, named TMD(0), which is correctly targeted to and inserted 
into the ER membrane. In the absence of coreTAP, each TMD(0) recruits tapasin in 
a 1:1 stoichiometry. Although the TMD(0)s lack known ER retention/retrieval 
signals, they are localized to the ER membrane even in tapasin-deficient cells. 
We conclude that the TMD(0)s of TAP form autonomous interaction hubs linking 
antigen translocation into the ER with peptide loading onto MHC I, hence 
ensuring a major function in the integrity of the antigen-processing machinery.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-012-1005-6
PMCID: PMC3437018
PMID: 22638925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Geospat Health. 2012 May;6(2):233-45. doi: 10.4081/gh.2012.141.

Longevity pattern in the Italian region of Emilia Romagna: a dynamic 
perspective.

Roli G(1), Samoggia A, Miglio R, Rettaroli R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistical Sciences, University of Bologna, 40126 Bologna, 
Italy. g.roli@unibo.it

The pattern of longevity in the Italian north-eastern region of Emilia Romagna 
was investigated at the municipality level, considering a modified version of 
the centenarian rate (CR) in two different periods (1995-1999 and 2005-2009). 
Due to the rareness of such events in small areas, spatio-temporal modelling was 
used to tackle the random variations in the occurrence of long-lived 
individuals. This approach allowed us to exploit the spatial proximity to smooth 
the observed data, as well as controlling for the effects of a set of 
covariates. As a result, clusters of areas characterised by extreme indexes of 
longevity could be identified and the temporal evolution of the phenomenon 
depicted. A persistence of areas of lower and higher occurrences of long-lived 
subjects was observed across time. In particular, mean and median values higher 
than the regional ones, showed up in areas belonging to the provinces of Ravenna 
and Forli-Cesena, on one side spreading out along the Adriatic coast and, on the 
other stretching into the Apennine municipalities of Bologna and Modena. 
Further, a longitudinal perspective was added by carrying out a spatial analysis 
including the territorial patterns of past mortality. We evaluated the effects 
of the structure of mortality on the cohort of long-lived subjects in the second 
period. The major causes of death were considered in order to deepen the 
analysis of the observed geographical differences. The circulatory diseases seem 
to mostly affect the presence of long-lived individuals and a prominent effect 
of altitude and population density also emerges.

DOI: 10.4081/gh.2012.141
PMID: 22639125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2012;746:12-25. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4614-3146-6_2.

Recent surgical management of gliomas.

Sanai N(1), Berger MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
CA, USA. sanain@neurosurg.ucsf.edu

Refinement of neurosurgical technique has enabled safer operations with more 
aggressive outcomes. One cornerstone of modern-day practice is the utilization 
of intraoperative stimulation mapping. In addition to identifying critical motor 
pathways, this technique can be adapted to reliable identify language pathways, 
as well. Given the individual variability of cortical language localization, 
such awake language mapping is essential to minimize language deficits following 
tumor resection. Our experience suggests that cortical language mapping is a 
safe and efficient adjunct to optimize tumor resection while preserving 
essential language sites, even in the setting of negative mapping data. However, 
the value of maximizing glioma resections remains surprisingly unclear, as there 
is no general consensus in the literature regarding the efficacy of extent of 
glioma resection in improving patient outcome. While the importance of resection 
in obtaining tissue diagnosis and to alleviate symptoms is clear, a lack of 
Class I evidence prevents similar certainty in assessing the influence of extent 
of resection. Beyond an analysis of modern intraoperative mapping techniques, we 
examine every major clinical publication since 1990 on the role of extent of 
resection in glioma outcome. The mounting evidence suggests that, despite 
persistent limitations in the quality of available studies, a more extensive 
surgical resection is associated with longer life expectancy for both low-grade 
and high-grade gliomas.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4614-3146-6_2
PMID: 22639156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Front Plant Sci. 2012 Jan 5;2:106. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2011.00106. eCollection
 2011.

Effect of Pre-Harvest Foliar Application of Citric Acid and Malic Acid on 
Chlorophyll Content and Post-Harvest Vase Life of Lilium cv. Brunello.

Darandeh N(1), Hadavi E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture, Karaj Branch, Islamic Azad University Karaj, 
Iran.

Citric acid is a regular ingredient in many vase solution formulations but 
pre-harvest use of citric acid is a novel method in vase life extension of cut 
flowers, which is reported on tuberose earlier. In order to verify previous 
result, and check for possible substitution of citric acid by malic acid, the 
current research was designed. Citric acid (0, 0.075, 0.15% w/v) and malic acid 
(0, 0.075, 0.15% w/v) were used in a factorial design with three replications. 
Foliar sprays were applied two times during growth period of Lilium plants. The 
results point out that 0.15% citric acid alone had increased vase life from 11.8 
in control treatment to 14 days (α < 0.05). The interesting finding was the 
effect of citric acid on bulbil weight, which was decreased from 9 g in control 
to 1.5 g in treatment containing combination of 0.075% citric acid and 0.075% 
malic acid. Malic acid while having no direct effect on pre-mentioned traits 
surprisingly increased the chlorophyll content significantly. The interaction 
effect between citric acid and malic acid on vase life and chlorophyll content 
proved significant and was evident in results, both as antagonistic and 
synergistic in various traits.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2011.00106
PMCID: PMC3355684
PMID: 22639626


403. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Jul 1;30(7):575-93. doi: 
10.2165/11594990-000000000-00000.

Cost utility of tumour necrosis factor-α inhibitors for rheumatoid arthritis: an 
application of Bayesian methods for evidence synthesis in a Markov model.

Nguyen CM(1), Bounthavong M, Mendes MA, Christopher ML, Tran JN, Kazerooni R, 
Morreale AP.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA, USA.

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Nov 1;30(11):1096.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Oct 1;30(10):977; author reply 977-8.

BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease that 
affects approximately 1.5 million people in the US. Tumour necrosis factor 
(TNF)-α inhibitors have been shown to effectively treat and maintain remission 
in patients with moderately to severely active RA compared with conventional 
agents. The high acquisition cost of TNF-α inhibitors prohibits access, which 
mandates economic investigations into their affordability. The lack of 
head-to-head comparisons between these agents makes it difficult to determine 
which agent is the most cost effective.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine which TNF-α inhibitor was the most 
cost-effective agent for the treatment of moderately to severely active RA from 
the US healthcare payer's perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to analyse the cost utility of five 
TNF-α inhibitors (in combination with methotrexate [+MTX]) versus MTX 
monotherapy using Bayesian methods for evidence synthesis. The model had a cycle 
length of 3 months and an overall time horizon of 5 years. Transition 
probabilities and utility scores were based on published studies. Total direct 
costs were adjusted to year 2009 $US using the medical component of the Consumer 
Price Index. All costs and QALYs were discounted at a rate of 3% per year. 
Patient response to the different strategies was determined by the American 
College of Rheumatology (ACR)50 criteria. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses (PSAs) were performed to test the robustness of the base-case scenario. 
The base-case scenario was changed to ACR20 criteria (scenario 1) and ACR70 
criteria (scenario 2) to determine the model's robustness. Cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves and cost-effectiveness frontiers were used to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness probability of each treatment strategy. A willingness-to-pay 
(WTP) threshold was defined as three times the US GDP per capita ($US139,143 per 
additional QALY gained). Primary results were presented as incremental 
cost-effective ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Etanercept+MTX was the most cost-effective treatment strategy in the 
base-case scenario up to a WTP threshold of $US2 185,497 per QALY gained. At a 
WTP threshold of greater than $US2 185,497 per QALY gained, certolizumab+MTX was 
the most cost-effective treatment strategy. One-way analyses showed that the 
base-case scenario was sensitive to the probability of achieving ACR50 criteria 
for MTX and each TNF-α inhibitor, and changes in the utility score for patients 
who achieved the ACR50 criteria. With the exception of infliximab, all of the 
TNF-α inhibitors were sensitive to drug cost per cycle. In the scenario 
analyses, certolizumab+MTX was a dominant treatment strategy using ACR20 
criteria, but etanercept+MTX was a dominant treatment strategy using ACR70 
criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Etanercept+MTX was a cost-effective treatment strategy in the 
base-case scenario; however, the model was sensitive to parameter uncertainties 
and ACR response criteria. Although Bayesian methods were used to determine 
transition probabilities, future studies will need to focus on head-to-head 
comparisons of multiple TNF-α inhibitors to provide valid comparisons.

DOI: 10.2165/11594990-000000000-00000
PMID: 22640174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. J Vasc Surg. 2012 Oct;56(4):901-9.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.086. Epub
2012  May 27.

Cost-effectiveness of open versus endovascular repair of abdominal aortic 
aneurysm in the OVER trial.

Stroupe KT(1), Lederle FA, Matsumura JS, Kyriakides TC, Jonk YC, Ge L, 
Freischlag JA; Open Versus Endovascular Repair (OVER) Veterans Affairs 
Cooperative Study Group.

Collaborators: Ketteler ER, Kingsley DD, Marek JM, Massen RJ, Matteson BD, 
Pitcher J, Langsfeld M, Corson JD, Goff JM Jr, Kasirajan K, Paap C, Robertson 
DC, Salam A, Veeraswamy R, Milner R, Kasirajan K, Guidot J, Lal BK, Busuttil SJ, 
Lilly MP, Braganza M, Ellis K, Patterson MA, Jordan WD, Whitley D, Taylor S, 
Passman M, Kerns D, Inman C, Poirier J, Ebaugh J, Raffetto J, Chew D, Lathi S, 
Owens C, Hickson K, Dosluoglu HH, Eschberger K, Kibbe MR, Baraniewski HM, 
Matsumura J, Endo M, Busman A, Meadows W, Evans M, Giglia JS, El Sayed H, Reed 
AB, Ruf M, Ross S, Jean-Claude JM, Pinault G, Kang P, White N, Eiseman M, Jones 
R, Timaran CH, Modrall J, Welborn M 3rd, Lopez J, Nguyen T, Chacko JK, Granke K, 
Vouyouka AG, Olgren E, Chand P, Allende B, Ranella M, Yales C, Whitehill TA, 
Krupski WC, Nehler MR, Johnson SP, Jones DN, Strecker P, Bhola MA, Shortell CK, 
Gray JL, Lawson JH, McCann R, Sebastian MW, Tetterton JK, Blackwell C, Prinzo 
PA, Lee N, Padberg FT Jr, Cerveira JJ, Lal BK, Zickler RW, Hauck KA, Berceli SA, 
Lee W, Ozaki C, Nelson PR, Irwin AS, Baum R, Aulivola B, Rodriguez H, Littooy 
FN, Greisler H, O'Sullivan MT, Kougias P, Lin PH, Bush RL, Guinn G, Bechara C, 
Cagiannos C, Pillack S, Guillory B, Cikrit D, Lalka SG, Lemmon G, Nachreiner R, 
Rusomaroff M, O'Brien E, Cullen JJ, Hoballah J, Sharp W, McCandless JL, Beach V, 
Minion D, Schwarcz TH, Kimbrough J, Ashe L, Rockich A, Warner-Carpenter J, 
Moursi M, Eidt JF, Brock S, Bianchi C, Bishop V, Gordon IL, Fujitani R, Kubaska 
SM 3rd, Behdad M, Azadegan R, Agas CM, Zalecki K, Hoch JR, Carr SC, Acher C, 
Schwarze M, Tefera G, Mell M, Dunlap B, Rieder J, Stuart JM, Weiman DS, 
Abul-Khoudoud O, Garrett H, Walsh SM, Wilson KL, Seabrook GR, Cambria RA, Brown 
KR, Lewis BD, Framberg S, Kallio C, Barke RA, Santilli SM, d'Audiffret AC, 
Oberle N, Proebstle C, Johnson LL, Jacobowitz GR, Cayne N, Rockman C, Adelman M, 
Gagne P, Nalbandian M, Caropolo LJ, Pipinos II, Johanning J, Lynch T, 
DeSpiegelaere H, Purviance G, Zhou W, Dalman R, Lee JT, Safadi B, Coogan SM, 
Wren SM, Bahmani DD, Maples D, Thunen S, Golden M, Mitchell ME, Fairman R, 
Reinhardt S, Wilson MA, Tzeng E, Muluk S, Peterson NM, Foster M, Edwards J, 
Moneta GL, Landry G, Taylor L, Yeager R, Cannady E, Treiman G, Hatton-Ward S, 
Salabsky B, Kansal N, Owens E, Estes M, Forbes BA, Sobotta C, Rapp JH, Reilly 
LM, Perez SL, Yan K, Sarkar R, Dwyer SS, Kohler TR, Hatsukami TS, Glickerman DG, 
Sobel M, Burdick TS, Pedersen K, Cleary P, Kansal N, Owens E, Estes M, Forbes 
BA, Sobotta C, Back M, Bandyk D, Johnson B, Shames M, Reinhard RL, Thomas SC, 
Hunter GC, Leon LR Jr, Westerband A, Guerra RJ, Riveros M, Mills JL Sr, Hughes 
JD, Escalante AM, Psalms SB, Day NN, Macsata R, Sidawy A, Weiswasser J, Arora S, 
Jasper BJ, Dardik A, Gahtan V, Muhs BE, Sumpio BE, Gusberg RJ, Spector M, Pollak 
J, Aruny J, Kelly E, Wong J, Vasilas P, Joncas C, Gelabert HA, DeVirgillio C, 
Rigberg DA, Cole L, Lederle FA, Freischlag JA, Kohler TR, Latts E, Matsumura J, 
Padberg FT Jr, Kyriakides TC, O'Connor T, Snodgrass AJ, Swanson KM, Stroupe KT, 
Jonk Y, Guarino P, Peduzzi P, Antonelli M, Cushing C, Davis E, Durant L, Joyner 
S, Kossack A, Kyriakides TC, LeGwin M, McBride V, O'Connor T, Poulton J, 
Stratton S, Zellner S, Snodgrass AJ, Thornton J, Swanson KM, Haakenson CM, 
Stroupe KT, Jonk Y, Hallett JJ, Hertzer N, Towne J, Katz DA, Karrison T, Matts 
JP, Marottoli R, Kasl S, Mehta R, Feldman R, Farrell W, Allore H, Perry E, 
Niederman J, Randall F, Zeman M, Beckwith D, O'Leary TJ, Huang GD, Latts E, 
Bader M.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Hines, Minneapolis, MN 55417, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2012 Oct;56(4):910.

OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to determine the costs and comparative 
cost-effectiveness of two methods of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair in 
the Open Versus Endovascular Repair (OVER) Veterans Affairs (VA) Cooperative 
Study, a multicenter randomized trial of 881 patients.
METHODS: The primary outcomes of this analysis were mean total health care cost 
per life-year and per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) from randomization to 2 
years after. QALYs were calculated from EuroQol (EQ)-5D questionnaires collected 
at baseline and annually. Health care utilization data were obtained directly 
from patients and from national VA and Medicare data sources. VA costs were 
obtained from national VA sources using methods previously developed by the VA 
Health Economics Resource Center. Costs for non-VA care were determined from 
Medicare claims data or billing data from the patient's health care providers.
RESULTS: After 2 years of follow-up, mean life-years were 1.78 in the 
endovascular repair group and 1.74 in the open repair group (difference, 0.04; 
95% confidence interval [CI], -0.03 to 0.09; P = .29). Mean QALYs were 1.462 in 
the endovascular group and 1.461 in the open group (difference adjusting for 
baseline EQ-5D score, 0.006; 95% CI, -0.038 to 0.052; P = .78). Mean graft costs 
were higher in the endovascular group ($14,052 vs $1363; P < .001), but length 
of stay was shorter (5.0 vs 10.5 days; P < .001), resulting in a lower mean cost 
of the hospital admission for the AAA procedure in the endovascular repair group 
of $37,068 vs $42,970 (difference, -$5901; 95% CI, -$12,135 to -$821; P = .04). 
After 2 years, total health care costs remained lower in the endovascular group, 
but the difference was no longer significant (-$5019; 95% CI, -$16,720 to $4928; 
P = .35). The probability of endovascular repair being less costly and more 
effective was 70.9% for life-years and 51.4% for QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: In this multicenter randomized trial, endovascular AAA repair 
resulted in lower cost and better survival than open repair after the initial 
hospitalization for repair; but after 2 years, survival, quality of life, and 
costs were not significantly different between the two treatments.

Published by Mosby, Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2012.01.086
PMID: 22640466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. BMC Proc. 2012 May 21;6 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S13. doi:
10.1186/1753-6561-6-S2-S13.  Epub 2012 May 21.

Comparison of five methods for genomic breeding value estimation for the common 
dataset of the 15th QTL-MAS Workshop.

Wang CL(#)(1)(2), Ma PP(1), Zhang Z(1), Ding XD(1), Liu JF(1), Fu WX(1), Weng 
ZQ(1), Zhang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Genetics, Breeding and Reproduction, Ministry of 
Agriculture of China, College of Animal Science and Technology, China 
Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, China.
(2)Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Medicine, Anhui Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Hefei 230031, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Genomic breeding value estimation is the key step in genomic 
selection. Among many approaches, BLUP methods and Bayesian methods are most 
commonly used for estimating genomic breeding values. Here, we applied two BLUP 
methods, TABLUP and GBLUP, and three Bayesian methods, BayesA, BayesB and 
BayesCπ, to the common dataset provided by the 15th QTL-MAS Workshop to evaluate 
and compare their predictive performances.
RESULTS: For the 1000 progenies without phenotypic values, the correlations 
between GEBVs by different methods ranged from 0.812 (GBLUP and BayesCπ) to 
0.997 (TABLUP and BayesB). The accuracies of GEBVs (measured as correlations 
between true breeding values (TBVs) and GEBVs) were from 0.774 (GBLUP) to 0.938 
(BayesCπ) and the biases of GEBVs (measure as regressions of TBVs on GEBVs) were 
from 1.033 (TABLUP) to 1.648 (GBLUP). The three Bayesian methods and TABLUP had 
similar accuracy and bias.
CONCLUSIONS: BayesA, BayesB, BayesCπ and TABLUP performed similarly and 
satisfactorily and remarkably outperformed GBLUP for genomic breeding value 
estimation in this dataset. TABLUP is a promising method for genomic breeding 
value estimation because of its easy computation of reliabilities of GEBVs and 
its easy extension to real life conditions such as multiple traits and 
consideration of individuals without genotypes.

DOI: 10.1186/1753-6561-6-S2-S13
PMCID: PMC3363155
PMID: 22640547


406. Public Health. 2012 Jul;126(7):551-60. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.03.011. Epub
 2012 May 27.

Economic growth and decline in mortality in developing countries: an analysis of 
the World Bank development datasets.

Renton A(1), Wall M, Lintott J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Human Development, University of East London, The 
Green, Water Lane, London E15 4LZ, UK. a.renton@uel.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The 1999 World Bank report claimed that growth in gross domestic 
product (GDP) between 1960 and 1990 only accounted for 15% of concomitant growth 
in life expectancy in developing countries. These findings were used repeatedly 
by the World Health Organization (WHO) to support a policy shift away from 
promoting social and economic development, towards vertical technology-driven 
programmes. This paper updates the 1999 World Bank report using the World Bank's 
2005 dataset, providing a new assessment of the relative contribution of 
economic growth.
STUDY DESIGN: Time-series analysis.
METHODS: Cross-sectional time-series regression analysis using a random effect 
model of associations between GDP, education and technical progress and improved 
health outcomes. The proportion of improvement in health indicators between 1970 
and 2000 associated with changes in GDP, education and technical progress was 
estimated.
RESULTS: In 1970, a 1% difference in GDP between countries was associated with 
6% difference in female (LEBF) and 5% male (LEBM) life expectancy at birth. By 
2000, these values had increased to 14% and 12%, explaining most of the observed 
health gain. Excluding Europe and Central Asia, the proportion of the increase 
in LEBF and LEBM attributable to increased GDP was 31% and 33% in the present 
analysis, vs. 17% and 14%, respectively, estimated by the World Bank. In the 
poorest countries, higher GDPs were required in 2000 than in 1970 to achieve the 
same health outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: In the poorest countries, socio-economic change is likely to be a 
more important source of health improvement than technical progress. Technical 
progress, operating by increasing the size of the effect of a unit of GDP on 
health, is likely to benefit richer countries more than poorer countries, 
thereby increasing global health inequalities.

Copyright © 2012 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.03.011
PMID: 22640938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Cad Saude Publica. 2012 May;28(5):955-64. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2012000500014.

[The public healthcare system in the context of Brazil's demographic transition: 
current and future demands].

[Article in Portuguese]

Mendes Ada C(1), Sá DA, Miranda GM, Lyra TM, Tavares RA.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhães, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Recife, Brasil. 
labsis.cpqam@gmail.com

This paper assesses inpatient and outpatient care and their capacity to respond 
to changing demands in the context of the demographic transition in Brazil. The 
data were obtained from studies by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and 
Statistics (IBGE) and databases in the National Health System (CNES, SIH, and 
SIA). The reduction in birth, fertility, and infant mortality rates and the 
increase in life expectancy at birth are still driving population growth, while 
decreasing the dependency rate, thereby providing the opportunity to make 
necessary adjustments. The population increased by more than 27.5 million from 
1999 to 2009, with a 26.7% reduction in hospital beds and 947,000 
hospitalizations, with distortions in the distribution by specialty, but with 
increases in high-complexity outpatient and inpatient care. The results show 
that Brazil is undergoing a transition in the healthcare model, requiring 
greater capacity for future planning of a more complex system and revising the 
model to prepare for a larger elderly population in the coming decades.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2012000500014
PMID: 22641518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. J Health Commun. 2012 Aug;17(7):747-61. doi: 10.1080/10810730.2011.650829.
Epub  2012 May 29.

Interpersonal conflict and health perceptions in long-distance caregiving 
relationships.

Bevan JL(1), Vreeburg SK, Verdugo S, Sparks L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication Studies, Chapman University, One University 
Drive, Orange, CA 92866, USA. bevan@chapman.edu

With job markets expanding globally and life expectancy continually increasing, 
more demands are being placed on distant relatives to provide care for their 
aging family members, creating a health care situation known as long-distance 
caregiving. An online survey explored the relations between negative health 
perceptions by long-distance caregivers and conflict frequency and conflict 
strategy usage. The authors observed positive significant relations between 
distant caregiver negative health perceptions and conflict frequency and usage 
of the distributive and avoidance conflict strategies. However, they observed no 
significant associations between distant caregiver negative health perceptions 
and usage of the two integrative strategies. Implications for long-distance 
caregiving communication are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730.2011.650829
PMID: 22642716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Drugs Aging. 2012 Jun 1;29(6):463-75. doi: 10.2165/11631750-000000000-00000.

Underprescription of beneficial medicines in older people: causes, consequences 
and prevention.

Cherubini A(1), Corsonello A, Lattanzio F.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Hospital, Italian National Research Centres on Aging (INRCA), 
Ancona, Italy. a.cherubini@inrca.it

Underprescription of potentially useful drugs is widespread among older people 
and may herald several adverse outcomes. We aimed to review the evidence 
pertaining to the epidemiology, causes and consequences of underprescribing, as 
well as recent advances in the development of interventions able to reduce 
underprescribing and improve outcomes in older people. Underprescribing is 
highly prevalent across different settings, including in the community, 
hospitals and nursing homes. Multimorbidity, polypharmacy, ageism, lack of 
scientific evidence, fear of adverse events and economic problems may contribute 
to the underprescription of indicated drugs, although in some patients, a 
limited life expectancy, the lack of a favourable risk-to-benefit ratio or a 
patient's refusal might represent appropriate reasons not to prescribe a drug. 
Selected interventions may help to improve the quality of prescriptions and 
reduce the burden of underprescribing. Among these, comprehensive geriatric 
assessment (CGA) has been demonstrated to effectively improve prescribing 
practice. Interventions based on service delivery changes, such as those that 
include a clinical pharmacist or a case manager in the process of care, were 
also found to improve the quality of pharmacological prescriptions. Educational 
interventions may also be effective in reducing underprescribing. More recently, 
the clinical application of the Screening Tool to Alert Doctors to Right 
Treatment (START) criteria has been able to significantly reduce 
underprescribing. Since START criteria are easier to apply in clinical practice 
than other instruments, it is conceivable that their systematic use may 
contribute to reducing underprescribing and to improving health outcomes in 
older patients.

DOI: 10.2165/11631750-000000000-00000
PMID: 22642781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Drugs Aging. 2012 Jun 1;29(6):511-21. doi: 10.2165/11631740-000000000-00000.

Drug therapy optimization at the end of life.

Cruz-Jentoft AJ(1), Boland B, Rexach L.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Geriatra, Hospital Universitario Ramn y Cajal, Madrid, Spain. 
acruz.hrc@salud.madrid.org

Older people reaching end-of-life status are particularly at risk of adverse 
effects of drug therapy. Polypharmacy, declining organ function, co-morbidity, 
malnutrition, cachexia and changes in body composition all sum up to increase 
the risk of many drug-related problems in individuals who receive end-of-life 
care. End of life is defined by a limited lifespan or advanced disability. 
Optimal prescribing for end-of-life patients with multimorbidity, especially in 
those dying from non-cancer conditions, remains mostly unexplored, despite the 
increasing recognition that the management goals for patients with chronic 
diseases should be redefined in the setting of reduced life expectancy. Most 
drugs used for symptom palliation in end-of-life care of older patients are used 
without solid evidence of their benefits and risks in this particularly frail 
population. Appropriate dosing or optimal administration routes are in most 
cases unknown. Avoiding or discontinuing drugs that aim to prolong life or 
prevent disability is usually common sense in end-of-life care, particularly 
when the time needed to obtain the expected benefits from the drug is longer 
than the life expectancy of a particular individual. However, discontinuation of 
drugs is not standard practice, and prescriptions are usually not adapted to 
changes in the course of advanced diseases. Careful consideration of remaining 
life expectancy, time until benefit, goals of care and treatment targets for 
each drug seems to be a sensible framework for decision making. In this article, 
some key issues on drug therapy at the end of life are discussed, including 
principles of decision making about drug treatments, specific aspects of drug 
therapy in some common geriatric conditions (heart failure and dementia), 
treatment of acute concurrent problems such as infections, evidence to guide the 
choice and use of drugs to treat symptoms in palliative care, and avoidance of 
some long-term therapies in end-of-life care. Solid evidence is lacking to guide 
optimal pharmacotherapy in most end-of-life settings, especially in non-cancer 
diseases and very old patients. Some open questions for research are suggested.

DOI: 10.2165/11631740-000000000-00000
PMID: 22642784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Intellect Dev Disabil. 2012 Apr;50(2):129-39. doi:
10.1352/1934-9556-50.02.129.

Transformation through health teaching for adults with intellectual and 
developmental disabilities: a qualitative study.

Focht-New G(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Social Work Education, Widener University, Chester, PA 19013, USA. 
vjnew@mail.widener.edu

Adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities have medical conditions 
similar to those among the general population but with more complex 
presentation, a extended life expectancy, and increased risk of morbidity and 
mortality. These adults' health education has been inadequate. In this 
qualitative study, the author describes the experiences of 23 registered nurses 
who provide health teaching to adults with intellectual and developmental 
disabilities, selection of and health topics taught, and teaching activities put 
into practice. The author used a rigorous descriptive, naturalistic inquiry 
design with purposive (n = 22) and snowball (n = 1) sampling. Data were gathered 
through individual interviews, focus groups, and nonparticipant observations, 
and analyzed with a constant comparative method. Findings concerned the 
educators' developmental process, use of a social context to teach, and 
health-teaching activities. Registered nurses s described their transformation 
from insecure, novice health educators to confident and passionate educators of 
adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Findings apply to 
multiple disciplines.

DOI: 10.1352/1934-9556-50.02.129
PMID: 22642967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Contemp Clin Trials. 2012 Sep;33(5):1011-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.05.007.
Epub  2012 May 27.

Abdominal Colpopexy: Comparison of Endoscopic Surgical Strategies (ACCESS).

Mueller ER(1), Kenton K, Tarnay C, Brubaker L, Rosenman A, Smith B, Stroupe K, 
Bresee C, Pantuck A, Schulam P, Anger JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology, Loyola University Chicago Stritch School 
of Medicine, Maywood, IL 60153 USA. emuelle@lumc.edu

INTRODUCTION: Robotic assistance during laparoscopic surgery for pelvic organ 
prolapse rapidly disseminated across the United States without level I data to 
support its benefit over traditional open and laparoscopic approaches [1]. This 
manuscript describes design and methodology of the Abdominal Colpopexy: 
Comparison of Endoscopic Surgical Strategies (ACCESS) Trial.
METHODS: ACCESS is a randomized comparative effectiveness trial enrolling 
patients at two academic teaching facilities, UCLA (Los Angeles, CA) and Loyola 
University (Chicago, IL). The primary aim is to compare costs of robotic 
assisted versus pure laparoscopic abdominal sacrocolpopexy (RASC vs LASC). 
Following a clinical decision for minimally-invasive abdominal sacrocolpopexy 
(ASC) and research consent, participants with symptomatic stage≥II pelvic organ 
prolapse are randomized to LASC or RASC on the day of surgery. Costs of care are 
based on each patient's billing record and equipment costs at each hospital. All 
costs associated with surgical procedure including costs for robot and initial 
hospitalization and any re-hospitalization in the first 6weeks are compared 
between groups. Secondary outcomes include post-operative pain, anatomic 
outcomes, symptom severity and quality of life, and adverse events. Power 
calculation determined that 32 women in each arm would provide 95% power to 
detect a $2500 difference in total charges, using a two-sided two sample t-test 
with a significance level of 0.05.
RESULTS: Enrollment was completed in May 2011. The 12-month follow-up was 
completed in May 2012.
CONCLUSIONS: This is a multi-center study to assess cost as a primary outcome in 
a comparative effectiveness trial of LASC versus RASC.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
