
DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.05.007
PMCID: PMC4203307
PMID: 22643040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2012 Sep;6(3):316-21. doi: 
10.1097/SPC.0b013e328354a1d8.

Renal and urologic problems: management of ureteric obstruction.

Liberman D(1), McCormack M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Montreal Health Center (CHUM), Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this article is to review the recent 
literature concerning obstructive uropathy from advanced cancer. This factor is 
relevant as it is often a difficult task for physicians to estimate a patient's 
life expectancy and evaluate the possible benefit of urinary diversion. Recent 
research has addressed this issue. We now have objective criteria to stratify 
the possible benefit of urinary diversion in patients with malignant obstructive 
nephropathy.
RECENT FINDINGS: When dealing with ureteric obstruction treatment must be 
individualized and risk stratification is of paramount importance. There is no 
clear evidence that urinary diversion improves quality of life and treatment 
decisions must be individualized. The decision to treat obstructive nephropathy 
in the palliative setting should include the patient, his family and members of 
the support team.
SUMMARY: Ureteric stents and percutaneous nephrostomies are the preferred 
initial treatment options, although stent infection, encrustation and blockages 
are common problems. New compression-resistant metallic stents seem promising 
for patients with a malignant disease who require long-term urinary drainage. 
When more conservative measures have failed, supra-vesical reconstruction and 
diversion may be an option.

DOI: 10.1097/SPC.0b013e328354a1d8
PMID: 22643703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Perspect Biol Med. 2012 Winter;55(1):71-80. doi: 10.1353/pbm.2012.0009.

Ethics of the heart: ethical and policy challenges in the treatment of advanced 
heart failure.

Fields AV(1), Kirkpatrick JN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Heart failure is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States 
and worldwide, accounting for immense health-care costs. Advanced therapies such 
as transplantation, ventricular assist devices, and implantable cardioverter 
defibrillators have had great success in significantly improving life expectancy 
and morbidity, however these advances have contributed substantially to the 
economic burden associated with this epidemic. Concomitantly, the accessibility 
of these advanced therapies is limited, due to a finite number of available 
organs for heart transplantation and, in the future, the economic costs 
associated with both transplant and device therapy. This article discusses 
ethical and policy challenges in the treatment of advanced heart failure, 
including decisions regarding procurement of hearts for transplant and 
allocation to recipients; and the complex issues surrounding the use of 
implantable cardioverter defibrillators and ventricular assist devices, 
including quality of life, advanced directive planning in the context of these 
devices, and resource utilization. Based on these challenges, we recommend that 
a discussion of these complex matters be incorporated into cardiovascular 
training programs.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.2012.0009
PMID: 22643717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Emerg Radiol. 2012 Dec;19(6):527-33. doi: 10.1007/s10140-012-1054-z. Epub
2012  May 29.

Kidney-pancreas transplantation: assessment of key imaging findings in the acute 
setting.

Heller MT(1), Hattoum A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 200 Lothrop 
Street, Suite 3950 PUH S. Tower, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. hellmt@UPMC.EDU

For patients with diabetes, insulin therapy can be an effective treatment for 
years. However, many diabetics eventually develop complications from the 
disease, including neuropathy, amputations, atherosclerosis, and kidney failure. 
While kidney failure can be managed with dialysis, difficulties with monitoring 
fluid intake and diet, bone loss, anemia, and venous access can be problematic 
for the patient. Due to the decreased life expectancy and difficulties of 
medical management of patients with diabetes and renal failure, combined 
renal-pancreas transplantation is an increasingly used option available to type 
1 diabetics with concurrent renal failure due to refinements of surgical 
technique and immunosuppressive therapy. Due to the increasing number of 
kidney-pancreas transplant patients, longer post-transplant survival, and 
increasing number of hospitals performing the procedure, more transplant 
patients are having their care increasingly shifted away from the major 
transplant centers to general community hospitals. In many kidney-pancreas 
transplants patients who present to the emergency department for suspected 
transplant dysfunction, imaging plays a critical initial role in their diagnosis 
and management. Therefore, it has become increasingly important that community 
and emergency department radiologists be able to recognize the normal imaging 
appearance of renal-pancreas transplants and to identify acute findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s10140-012-1054-z
PMID: 22644061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Gastrointest Surg. 2012 Aug;16(8):1451-61. doi: 10.1007/s11605-012-1911-9.
 Epub 2012 May 30.

Modeling the cost-effectiveness of strategies for treating esophageal 
adenocarcinoma and high-grade dysplasia.

Gordon LG(1), Hirst NG, Mayne GC, Watson DI, Bright T, Cai W, Barbour AP, 
Smithers BM, Whiteman DC, Eckermann S; Australian Cancer Study Clinical 
Follow-Up Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Griffith Health Institute, Griffith 
University, Logan Campus, University Drive, Meadowbrook, Queensland 4131, 
Australia. Louisa.Gordon@griffith.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to synthesize cost and health outcomes for current 
treatment pathways for esophageal adenocarcinoma and high-grade dysplasia (HGD) 
and to model comparative net clinical and economic benefits of alternative 
management scenarios.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model of real-world practices for esophageal 
adenocarcinoma treatment by tumor stage was constructed and validated. The model 
synthesized treatment probabilities, survival, quality of life, and resource use 
extracted from epidemiological datasets, published literature, and expert 
opinion. Comparative analyses between current practice and five hypothetical 
scenarios for modified treatment were undertaken.
RESULTS: Over 5 years, outcomes across T stage ranged from 4.06 quality-adjusted 
life-years and costs of $3,179 for HGD to 1.62 quality-adjusted life-years and 
costs of $50,226 for stage T4. Greater use of endoscopic mucosal resection for 
stage T1 and measures to reduce esophagectomy mortality to 0-3 % produced modest 
gains, whereas a 20 % reduction in the proportion of patients presenting at 
stage T3 produced large incremental net benefits of $4,971 (95 % interval, 
$1,560-8,368).
CONCLUSION: These findings support measures that promote earlier diagnosis, such 
as developing risk assessment processes or endoscopic surveillance of Barrett's 
esophagus. Incremental net monetary benefits for other strategies are relatively 
small in comparison to predicted gains from early detection strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-012-1911-9
PMID: 22644445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Neurovirol. 2012 Aug;18(4):277-90. doi: 10.1007/s13365-012-0108-z. Epub
2012  May 30.

Neuropsychiatric complications of aging with HIV.

Watkins CC(1), Treisman GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, The Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. cwatkins@jhmi.edu

Persons over age 50 are not only aging with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection but also represent a high proportion of new HIV infections. 
Neuropsychiatric symptoms, including depression, cognitive impairment, and 
substance abuse, are very common in individuals infected with HIV. However, 
there is little understanding of the relationship between these HIV-related 
comorbid conditions in newly infected elderly patients compared to uninfected 
elderly and those who have survived after 20 years of HIV/AIDS. We summarize the 
current theories and research that link aging and HIV with psychiatric illnesses 
and identify emerging areas for improved research, treatment, and patient care.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-012-0108-z
PMCID: PMC4419334
PMID: 22644745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Heart Valve Dis. 2012 Mar;21(2):148-55.

Conventional aortic valve replacement remains a safe option in patients aged > 
or = 70 years: a 20-year experience.

Yamashita MH(1), Ye J, Jamieson WR, Cheung A, Lichtenstein SV.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Increased life expectancy has resulted in the 
elderly frequently presenting with severe aortic stenosis. It has therefore 
become important to define indications for conventional aortic valve replacement 
(AVR) and transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in this patient 
population. Thus, patients aged > or = 70 years undergoing conventional isolated 
AVR were evaluated for predictors of early and late mortality.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted of prospectively collected data 
available from 1,061 consecutive patients (age range: 70-94 years) who underwent 
isolated AVR between 1982 and 2002. The patient age groups were 70-74 years (n = 
466), 75-79 years (n = 367), and > or = 80 years (n = 228). The mean follow up 
was 6.0 +/- 4.4 years, and the total follow up 6,390 patient-years. Twenty-two 
variables were considered as potential risk factors for early and late 
mortality.
RESULTS: Early mortality was higher in patients aged > or = 80 years than in 
those aged 70-79 years. Early mortality in patients aged > or = 80 years was 
lower between 1998 and 2002 than between 1982 and 1997. Multivariate predictors 
of early mortality were age > or = 80 years, operative status, previous 
intervention, renal failure, and mitral regurgitation. The early nonfatal 
complication rate was similar for patients aged 70-79 years and > or = 80 years, 
but late mortality was lower between 1998 and 2002 than between 1982 and 1997 in 
patients aged 70-79 years, and in those aged > or = 80 years. The 10-year 
actuarial survivals after AVR in patients aged 70-74, 75-79, and > or = 80 years 
were 54 +/- 3.0%, 43 +/- 3.8% and 17 +/- 3.9%, respectively. Multivariate 
predictors of late mortality were age 75-79 years, age > or = 80 years, 
peripheral vascular disease (PVD) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD). Female gender was shown to be protective.
CONCLUSION: Early mortality was higher in patients aged > or = 80 years 
undergoing AVR, though this has declined recently and is currently at an 
acceptable level. Other important predictors of mortality in elderly patients 
undergoing AVR are operative status, previous interventions, renal failure, 
mitral regurgitation, male gender, PVD, and COPD. Thus, conventional AVR remains 
a safe treatment option for the elderly patient.

PMID: 22645847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Tsitologiia. 2012;54(3):230-5.

[Antineoplastic effect of hydrogel prospidin on Seidel ascites hepatoma used as 
a model].

[Article in Russian]

Bychkovskiĭ PM, Iurkshtovich TL, Kladiev AA, Revtovich MIu.

Antineoplastic effect of hydrogel dextran phosphate, hydrogel prospidin, and 
prospidin in an injectable preparation has been assessed using Seidel ascites 
hepatoma as a model. Injectable and hydrogel prospidin in doses from 250, 500 to 
1000 mg/kg and hydrogel phosphate dextran in doses of 500 and 1000 mg/kg were 
administered to rats intraperitoneally in a single dose in a volume of 1 or 2 ml 
per each 100 g of animal body weight. The study has shown that irrespective of 
rats with Seidel ascites hepatoma and significantly increase in the dosage of 
prospidin preparations and hydrogel dextran phosphate results in a longer 
average life expectancy of rats Compared with its injectable variant, hydrogel 
prospidin appears to produce more than twice as high antineoplastic effect, and 
is found to provide prolonged therapeutic effects, as well as cure of animals in 
more than 60 % of cases.

PMID: 22645987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Obes Rev. 2012 Sep;13(9):822-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2012.01008.x. Epub
 2012 May 31.

Obesity and pulmonary disease: unanswered questions.

Santamaria F(1), Montella S, Pietrobelli A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Federico II University, Naples, Italy.

Obesity is associated with risk of pulmonary disease, and adversely affects lung 
function. The parallel increase in obesity and asthma suggests the two 
conditions are linked; indeed, they can worsen each other. Obesity and 
inadequate asthma control are associated with poor quality of life, and place a 
high economic burden on public health. Although the obesity-lung interaction is 
a major issue for basic research and clinical studies, various questions remain 
unanswered. Do intrauterine and early life factors impact on the development of 
obesity and lung disease? If so, can this be prevented? Asthma is generally more 
severe in obese subjects, but is adiposity a driver of a new asthma phenotype 
that features greater morbidity and mortality, worse control and decreased 
response to medications? Obese individuals have small lung volumes, hence their 
airway calibre is reduced and airway resistance is increased. What puzzles 
physicians is whether peripheral airways undergo remodelling, which would 
increase bronchoconstriction. Obese asthmatics respond suboptimally to 
anti-inflammatory treatment, which raises the question: 'what drug for what 
patient?' Life expectancy is decreased in obesity and in chronic pulmonary 
disorders, but does obesity protect against or trigger chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease? The time has come to find answers to these questions.

© 2012 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2012 International Association for the 
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2012.01008.x
PMID: 22646804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2011 Jan;6(1):89-102. doi: 
10.1517/17460441.2011.533653. Epub 2010 Nov 29.

Strategies for the discovery of anti-aging compounds.

Rizvi SI(1), Jha R.

Author information:
(1)University of Allahabad, Department of Biochemistry, India. sirizvi@gmail.com

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Life expectancy has increased across the globe and the 
number of aged people is increasing rapidly. With the rise in the average age of 
people, the prevalence of age related pathologies has also increased and thus 
the strategies to find anti-aging molecules assume significance. Anti-aging 
basically concerns the prevention or delaying the alterations taking place as a 
function of age which are manifested as age-associated illnesses.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: This review covers anti-aging strategies involving 
supplementation of dietary antioxidants such as polyphenols, vitamins E and C, 
lipoic acid, acetyl carnitine, carnosine and cysteine along with the application 
of mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors and plasma membrane redox system 
activators. It also presents the use of different hormone supplementation, for 
example, melatonin, dehydroepiandrosterone, growth hormone and sex hormones as a 
tool against aging. The use of caloric restriction and calorie restriction 
mimetics as an anti-aging intervention is also reviewed.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: The concept, use and efficacy of different anti-aging 
approaches.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: Despite a lot of research and sustained ongoing efforts, 
finding a viable anti-aging therapy which can extend the maximum human lifespan 
remains elusive. However, several interventions aimed towards a longer healthy 
life seem promising.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2011.533653
PMID: 22646828


422. Dermatol Surg. 2012 Oct;38(10):1604-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4725.2012.02452.x.  Epub 2012 May 30.

Therapeutic options to decrease actinic keratosis and squamous cell carcinoma 
incidence and progression in solid organ transplant recipients: a practical 
approach.

Ritchie SA(1), Patel MJ, Miller SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, School of Medicine, University of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA. simonaritchie@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Solid organ transplant recipients (SOTRs) have a 50 to 250 times 
greater risk of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) than the general population and 
experience higher rates of invasive and metastatic disease. These greater risks 
are a product of the tumorigenic effects of their immunosuppressive medications. 
As the number of transplantations and the life expectancy of SOTRs increase, 
SCCs are becoming a major source of morbidity and mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To present a practical approach for busy practicing clinicians to the 
care of SOTRs who are developing SCCs. Topics include assessment and treatment 
of new and neglected SOTRs; the dermatologist's role with the transplantation 
team; and practical considerations in the choice of topical agents, systemic 
agents, and immunosuppressive therapy manipulation.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: An extensive literature search of the understanding of 
SCC pathophysiology and treatment in SOTRs was conducted.
RESULTS: Presented here is a logical, concise guide to the care of SOTRs who are 
developing actinic keratoses and SCCs.
CONCLUSION: Proper assessment of patients, understanding therapeutic 
alternatives and their application, and early institution of preventative and 
adjuvant therapies can help to decrease skin cancer-related morbidity and 
mortality in SOTRs.

© 2012 by the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery, Inc. Published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4725.2012.02452.x
PMID: 22646842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Trials. 2012 May 30;13:71. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-13-71.

Cognitive behavioural therapy versus multidisciplinary rehabilitation treatment 
for patients with chronic fatigue syndrome: study protocol for a randomised 
controlled trial (FatiGo).

Vos-Vromans DC(1), Smeets RJ, Rijnders LJ, Gorrissen RR, Pont M, Köke AJ, 
Hitters MW, Evers SM, Knottnerus AJ.

Author information:
(1)Revant Rehabilitation Centre Breda, Brabantlaan 1, Breda, The Netherlands. 
d.vos@revant.nl

BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic fatigue syndrome experience extreme fatigue, 
which often leads to substantial limitations of occupational, educational, 
social and personal activities. Currently, there is no consensus regarding the 
treatment. Patients try many different therapies to overcome their fatigue. 
Although there is no consensus, cognitive behavioural therapy is seen as one of 
the most effective treatments. Little is known about multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation treatment, a combination of cognitive behavioural therapy with 
principles of mindfulness, gradual increase of activities, body awareness 
therapy and pacing. The difference in effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
between multidisciplinary rehabilitation treatment and cognitive behavioural 
therapy is as yet unknown. The FatiGo (Fatigue-Go) trial aims to compare the 
effects of both treatment approaches in outpatient rehabilitation on fatigue 
severity and quality of life in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome.
METHODS: One hundred twenty patients who meet the criteria of chronic fatigue 
syndrome, fulfil the inclusion criteria and sign the informed consent form will 
be recruited. Both treatments take 6 months to complete. The outcome will be 
assessed at 6 and 12 months after the start of treatment. Two weeks after the 
start of treatment, expectancy and credibility will be measured, and patients 
will be asked to write down their personal goals and score their current 
performance on these goals on a visual analogue scale. At 6 and 14 weeks after 
the start of treatment, the primary outcome and three potential 
mediators-self-efficacy, causal attributions and present-centred 
attention-awareness-will be measured. Primary outcomes are fatigue severity and 
quality of life. Secondary outcomes are physical activity, psychological 
symptoms, self-efficacy, causal attributions, impact of disease on emotional and 
physical functioning, present-centred attention-awareness, life satisfaction, 
patient personal goals, self-rated improvement and economic costs. The primary 
analysis will be based on intention to treat, and longitudinal analysis of 
covariance will be used to compare treatments.
DISCUSSION: The results of the trial will provide information on the effects of 
cognitive behavioural therapy and multidisciplinary rehabilitation treatment at 
6 and 12 months follow-up, mediators of the outcome, cost-effectiveness, 
cost-utility, and the influence of treatment expectancy and credibility on the 
effectiveness of both treatments in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN77567702.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-13-71
PMCID: PMC3781576
PMID: 22647321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. No Shinkei Geka. 2012 Jun;40(6):503-9.

[Multidisciplinary treatment of leptomeningeal metastasis in patients with lung 
adenocarcinoma: the triple modality combination of EGFR-TKI, VP shunt and 
irradiation].

[Article in Japanese]

Mitsuya K(1), Nakasu Y, Mizokami Y, Takahashi T, Nakamura Y, Ono A, Toda Y, 
Yamamoto N, Harada H, Nishimura T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Shizuoka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Leptomeningeal metastasis (LM) is a devastating complication of 
systemic cancers. New therapies that have beneficial effects on primary cancers 
outside the central nervous system (CNS) have underscored the significance of 
LM. Intrathecal chemotherapy plus radiation therapy are less effective for LM 
from lung adenocarcinoma. We retrospectively studied outcomes of patients with 
LM from lung adenocarcinoma who underwent multidisciplinary treatments in our 
institute.
METHODS: Four patients with LM from lung adenocarcinoma treated with EGFR-TKI, 
VP shunt and irradiation. Of those four, two presented with increased 
intracranial pressure, one with epilepsy, and the other with truncal ataxia. 
Treatment was indicated when LM was confirmed by MR images or cytology, and 
Karnofsky Performance Status scale was more than 40%, and life expectancy was 
more than three months if LM was controlled. EGFR mutation was not examined, 
because of the unsettled approval of Japanese public health insurance at the 
time of this study. The patients selected for treatment by EGFR-TKI were all 
Asian women who had never smoked. Treatment sequence was based on clinical 
symptoms depending on the individual situation.
RESULT: The mean time from diagnosis of lung adenocarcinoma to LM onset was 28 
(24 to 36) months. Mean survival time from LM diagnosis was 9 months. All 
patients died of LM. No patients suffered from peritoneal carcinomatosis or 
infection after VP shunt.
CONCLUSION: The triple modality combination of EGFR-TKI, VP shunt and radiation 
therapy may improve outcomes and symptoms of patients with LM from lung 
adenocarcinoma.

PMID: 22647509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 May 15;38(11):965-6. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182609d38.

Prognostic scoring systems for spinal metastases in the era of anti-VEGF 
therapies.

Gregory TM(1), Coriat R, Mir O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, European Hospital Georges Pompidou, 
Université Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.

STUDY DESIGN: Spine Update on prognostic scoring systems for spinal metastases 
in the era of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapies.
OBJECTIVE: To review and discuss the strengths and weaknesses of available 
scoring systems since the introduction of molecular targeted anticancer agents.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Molecular targeted anticancer agents have 
dramatically improved survival of patients in various cancers, including renal 
cancer.
METHODS: Using prognostic scoring systems for spinal metastases and recent 
survival data of patients with cancers treated with anti-VEGF agents, a review 
was undertaken, evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of available prognostic 
scoring systems designed in the 1990s and early 2000s among patients treated 
with recent agents (available from 2005).
RESULTS: All available prognostic scoring systems for spinal metastases include 
the primary tumor as a key variable. The estimation of life expectancy with 
these systems is inaccurate in view of recent survival data, as illustrated in 
renal cancer. The underestimation of life expectancy and subsequent inadequate 
treatment of spinal metastases may lead to dramatic alteration of the quality of 
life.
CONCLUSION: The assessment of the available scores in recent cohorts of patients 
is mandatory to test their current validity and evidence the need for aggressive 
surgical management. New scoring systems taking into account the gain in 
survival induced by recent anticancer agents will likely be warranted in a close 
future.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182609d38
PMID: 22648032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Cancer. 2012 Dec 15;118(24):6079-88. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27638. Epub 2012 May
30.

Comparative effectiveness and cost of adding rituximab to first-line 
chemotherapy for elderly patients diagnosed with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Griffiths RI(1), Gleeson ML, Mikhael J, Dreyling MH, Danese MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Outcomes Insights, Inc, Westlake Village, 
California 91362, USA. bob@outins.com

BACKGROUND: Clinical trials indicate that rituximab improves the survival of 
patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Economic models using 
multiple data sources, including clinical trials for survival outcomes, have 
projected cost offsets/savings and favorable cost-effectiveness associated with 
rituximab. In this study, the authors evaluated survival and cost impacts of 
adding rituximab to first-line chemotherapy for DLBCL using a single database 
that reflects routine clinical practice among elderly patients in the United 
States.
METHODS: By using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data linked 
to Medicare, the authors identified 5484 elderly patients who were diagnosed 
with DLBCL between January 1999 and December 2005 who had claims through 
December 2007. Included patients began chemotherapy with or without rituximab 
within 180 days of diagnosis. Multivariate analyses were conducted to estimate 
the impact of rituximab on mortality and costs to Medicare. The cost per 
life-year gained of rituximab was calculated using cost and survival estimates 
from the multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: The mean patient age was 76 years, 43% of patients had stage III or IV 
disease, and 64% received rituximab. In a Cox regression model, rituximab 
resulted in lower 4-year all-cause mortality (hazard ratio [HR], 0.68; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.61-0.74) and cancer mortality, and the incremental 
cumulative survival was 0.37 years. In least-squares regression, rituximab 
resulted in higher 4-year total costs ($23,097; 95% CI, $19,129-$27,298), 
immunochemotherapy costs ($12,069; 95% CI, $10,687-$13,634), other cancer costs 
($7655; 95% CI, $5067-$10,489), and noncancer costs ($3461; 95% CI, 
$1319-$5650). The cost per life-year gained was $62,424.
CONCLUSIONS: In routine clinical practice, rituximab was associated with 
survival benefits comparable to those observed in clinical trials. However, 
these benefits did not translate into the previously reported cost savings.

Copyright © 2012 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27638
PMID: 22648454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2012 Jun;14 Suppl 1:S59-67. doi:
10.1089/dia.2012.0065.

Emerging economies and diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

Pradeepa R(1), Prabhakaran D, Mohan V.

Author information:
(1)Madras Diabetes Research Foundation and Dr Mohan's Diabetes Specialities 
Centre, WHO Collaborating Centre for Noncommunicable Diseases Prevention and 
Control, International Diabetes Federation Centre for Education, Gopalapuram, 
Chennai, India.

Diabetes and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are increasing in epidemic 
proportions globally, with the most marked increase in emerging economies. Among 
emerging economies, China and India have the highest numbers of people with 
diabetes and CVD. Over the last two decades, 80% of CVD and diabetes mortality 
occurred in low- and middle-income countries, suggesting that these disorders 
have become a leading threat to public health in most of the developing 
countries. The burden of CVD and diabetes in the developing countries affects 
the productive younger age group, and this has serious economic implications. 
Diabetes shares many characteristics and risk factors with CVD, and thus the 
risk for CVD also escalates with the increase in prevalence of diabetes. Both 
genetic and environmental factors play a major role in causation of diabetes and 
CVD. However, the major drivers of this dual epidemic are demographic changes 
with increased life expectancy, lifestyle changes due to rapid urbanization, and 
industrialization. To reduce the burden of diabetes and CVD in the coming 
decades, emerging economies need to set national goals for early diagnosis, 
effective management, and primary prevention of these disorders. In order to 
curb the epidemic of diabetes and CVD, population-based, multisectoral, 
multidisciplinary, and culturally relevant approaches including various 
departments of the government as well as non-governmental agencies are required.

DOI: 10.1089/dia.2012.0065
PMID: 22650226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Am J Cardiol. 2012 Sep 15;110(6):845-51. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.05.011.
 Epub 2012 May 30.

Cost-effectiveness of rivaroxaban compared to warfarin for stroke prevention in 
atrial fibrillation.

Lee S(1), Anglade MW, Pham D, Pisacane R, Kluger J, Coleman CI.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut School of Pharmacy, Storrs, CT, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 2012 Nov 1;110(9):1384-5.

Rivaroxaban has been found to be noninferior to warfarin for preventing stroke 
or systemic embolism in patients with high-risk atrial fibrillation (AF) and is 
associated with a lower rate of intracranial hemorrhage. To assess the 
cost-effectiveness of rivaroxaban compared to adjusted-dose warfarin for the 
prevention of stroke in patients with AF, we built a Markov model using a United 
States payer/Medicare perspective and a lifetime time horizon. The base-case 
analysis assumed a cohort of patients with AF 65 years of age with a congestive 
heart failure, hypertension, age, diabetes, stroke (2 points) score of 3 and no 
contraindications to anticoagulation. Data sources included the Rivaroxaban 
Once-daily Oral Direct Factor Xa Inhibition Compared with Vitamin K Antagonism 
for Prevention of Stroke and Embolism Trial in Atrial Fibrillation (ROCKET-AF) 
and other studies of anticoagulation. Outcome measurements included costs in 
2011 United States dollars, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Patients with AF treated with rivaroxaban 
lived an average of 10.03 QALYs at a lifetime treatment cost of $94,456. Those 
receiving warfarin lived an average of 9.81 QALYs and incurred costs of $88,544. 
The ICER for rivaroxaban was $27,498 per QALY. These results were most sensitive 
to changes in the hazard decrease of intracranial hemorrhage and stroke with 
rivaroxaban, cost of rivaroxaban, and time horizon. Monte Carlo simulation 
demonstrated rivaroxaban was cost-effective in 80% and 91% of 10,000 iterations 
at willingness-to-pay thresholds of $50,000 and $100,000 per QALY, respectively. 
In conclusion, this Markov model suggests that rivaroxaban therapy may be a 
cost-effective alternative to adjusted-dose warfarin for stroke prevention in 
AF.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2012.05.011
PMID: 22651881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):193-4; discussion 195-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.006. Epub 2012 May 17.

Advancing our understanding of aging using mathematical modeling of longitudinal 
data: Comment on "The quadratic hazard model for analyzing longitudinal data on 
aging, health, and the life span" by Anatoliy Yashin, Konstantin G Arbeev, Igor 
Akushevich, Alexander Kulminski, Svetlana V Ukraintseva, Eric Stallard, Kenneth 
C Land.

Mitnitski A(1), Rockwood K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax NS, B3H 2Y9, Canada. 
Arnold.Mitnitski@dal.ca

Comment on
    Phys Life Rev. 2012 Jun;9(2):177-88; discussion 195-7.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2012.05.006
PMID: 22652074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Prev Chronic Dis. 2012;9:E108. doi: 10.5888/pcd9.110138. Epub 2012 May 31.

Health-related quality of life among US veterans and civilians by race and 
ethnicity.

Luncheon C(1), Zack M.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30341, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Among veterans, having been selected into the military and having 
easy access to medical care during and after military service may reduce 
premature mortality but not morbidity from mental distress and may not improve 
health-related quality of life. The objective of this study was to determine 
whether veterans in different racial/ethnic groups differ in their 
health-related quality of life from each other and from their civilian 
counterparts.
METHODS: Among 800,000 respondents to the 2007-2009 Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System surveys, approximately 110,000 identified themselves as 
veterans and answered questions about their sociodemographic characteristics, 
self-rated health, and recent health-related quality of life. Nonoverlapping 95% 
confidence intervals of means distinguished veterans and civilians of different 
racial/ethnic groups.
RESULTS: Veteran and civilian American Indians/Alaska Natives reported more 
physically unhealthy days, mentally unhealthy days, and recent activity 
limitation days than their veteran and civilian counterparts in other 
racial/ethnic groups. Non-Hispanic white veterans and Hispanic veterans reported 
more physically unhealthy days, mentally unhealthy days, and recent activity 
limitation days than their civilian counterparts.
CONCLUSION: Unlike findings in other studies, our findings show that veterans' 
health-related quality of life differs from that of civilians both within the 
same racial/ethnic group and among different racial/ethnic groups. Because 
once-healthy soldiers may not be as healthy when they return to civilian life, 
assessing their health-related quality of life over time may identify those who 
need help to regain their health.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd9.110138
PMCID: PMC3457754
PMID: 22652126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Contrib Nephrol. 2012;178:30-34. doi: 10.1159/000337795. Epub 2012 May 25.

Comparing outcomes of hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients: consider 
the pitfalls.

Mehrotra R(1).

Author information:
(1)Los Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at Harbor-UCLA, Torrance, Calif., 
and David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, Calif., USA.

Patients with end-stage renal disease have a limited life expectancy. It is 
primarily for this reason that there is interest in determining whether one form 
of dialysis therapy provides any survival advantage over another in different 
subgroups of individuals. Randomized controlled clinical trials are the gold 
standard in answering such a question. However, in-center hemodialysis and home 
peritoneal dialysis require profoundly significant but different effects on 
patients' lifestyle and it is not surprising that most patients don't want to 
leave that choice to chance and refuse to participate in such clinical trials. 
Thus, we have to depend upon observational data to compare outcomes with the two 
different dialysis therapies. Yet such studies are not without pitfalls, 
particularly those arising from selection bias, confounding by indication, and 
residual confounding. These pitfalls and potential methods to overcome them are 
discussed in this paper. Despite such adjustments, it is impossible to determine 
if the differences in survival, if any, are a direct result of the dialysis 
modality or from differences in the characteristics of the patients who are 
treated with these therapies. Juxtaposing this limitation with the profound 
impact of dialysis therapies on patients' lives, it is prudent to leave the 
decision of selection of dialysis modality to the patients themselves and 
healthcare providers should offer decision support for individuals attempting to 
make such a selection.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000337795
PMID: 22652712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Jun 1;11(6):443-61. doi: 10.1038/nrd3738.

Are sirtuins viable targets for improving healthspan and lifespan?

Baur JA(1), Ungvari Z, Minor RK, Le Couteur DG, de Cabo R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19104, USA. baur@mail.med.upenn.edu

Although the increased lifespan of our populations illustrates the success of 
modern medicine, the risk of developing many diseases increases exponentially 
with old age. Caloric restriction is known to retard ageing and delay functional 
decline as well as the onset of disease in most organisms. Studies have 
implicated the sirtuins (SIRT1-SIRT7) as mediators of key effects of caloric 
restriction during ageing. Two unrelated molecules that have been shown to 
increase SIRT1 activity in some settings, resveratrol and SRT1720, are excellent 
protectors against metabolic stress in mammals, making SIRT1 a potentially 
appealing target for therapeutic interventions. This Review covers the current 
status and controversies surrounding the potential of sirtuins as novel 
pharmacological targets, with a focus on SIRT1.

DOI: 10.1038/nrd3738
PMCID: PMC4684642
PMID: 22653216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Jan;28(1):18-24. doi: 10.1007/s11606-012-2093-6. Epub
 2012 Jun 1.

Variation in primary care physicians' colorectal cancer screening 
recommendations by patient age and comorbidity.

Haggstrom DA(1), Klabunde CN, Smith JL, Yuan G.

Author information:
(1)VA Health Services Research & Development Center of Excellence on 
Implementing Evidence-Based Practice, Richard L. Roudebush VA Medical Center, 
1481 West 10th St. (11H), Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. dahaggst@iupui.edu

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Jan;28(1):6-8.

BACKGROUND: Screening patterns among primary care physicians (PCPs) may be 
influenced by patient age and comorbidity. Colorectal cancer (CRC) screening has 
little benefit among patients with limited life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize the extent to which PCPs modify their recommendations 
for CRC screening based upon patients' increasing age and/or worsening 
comorbidity
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, nationally representative survey.
PARTICIPANTS: The study comprised primary care physicians (n = 1,266) including 
general internal medicine, family practice, and obstetrics-gynecology 
physicians.
MAIN MEASURES: Physician CRC screening recommendations among patients of varying 
age and comorbidity were measured based upon clinical vignettes. Independent 
variables in adjusted models included physician and practice characteristics.
KEY RESULTS: For an 80-year-old patient with unresectable non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC), 25 % of PCPs recommended CRC screening. For an 80-year-old 
patient with ischemic cardiomyopathy (New York Heart Association, Class II), 71 
% of PCPs recommended CRC screening. PCPs were more likely to recommend fecal 
occult blood testing than colonoscopy as the preferred screening modality for a 
healthy 80-year-old, compared to healthy 50- or 65-year-old patients (19 % vs. 5 
% vs. 2 % p < 0.001). For an 80-year-old with unresectable NSCLC, PCPs who were 
an obstetrics-gynecology physician were more likely to recommend CRC screening, 
while those with a full electronic medical record were less likely to recommend 
screening.
CONCLUSIONS: PCPs consider comorbidity when screening older patients for CRC and 
may change the screening modality from colonoscopy to FOBT. However, a sizable 
proportion of PCPs would recommend screening for patients with advanced cancer 
who would not benefit. Understanding the mechanisms underlying these patterns 
will facilitate the design of future medical education and policy interventions 
to reduce unnecessary care.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-012-2093-6
PMCID: PMC3539036
PMID: 22653380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. J Neurovirol. 2012 Aug;18(4):291-302. doi: 10.1007/s13365-012-0114-1. Epub
2012  Jun 1.

Neuroimaging studies of the aging HIV-1-infected brain.

Holt JL(1), Kraft-Terry SD, Chang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of 
Hawai'i, Honolulu, HI 96813, USA.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has increased life expectancy among 
HIV-infected individuals, and by 2015, at least half of all HIV-infected 
individuals will be over 50 years of age. Neurodegenerative processes associated 
with aging may be facilitated by HIV-1 infection, resulting in premature brain 
aging. This review will highlight brain abnormalities in HIV patients in the 
setting of aging, focusing on recent neuroimaging studies of the structural, 
physiological, functional and neurochemical changes. Magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies performed during the pre-HAART 
era or on antiretroviral-naive subjects suggest an accelerated aging process, 
while those on HAART-treated subjects suggest premature brain atrophy. Diffusion 
tensor imaging studies yielded conflicting findings on the relationship between 
HIV and age in neuroasymptomatic individuals. Functional MRI studies found 
evidence of premature or accelerated aging processes in the brains of HIV 
subjects. Lastly, many age-related illnesses such as diabetes, stroke, and 
depression, as well as comorbid substance abuse, may further exacerbate the 
aging process in the HIV-infected brain, leading to premature or accelerated 
age-related brain changes. Given the different pathologic or physiologic changes 
in the brain assessed by the different neuroimaging techniques, using a 
multimodal approach in longitudinal follow-up studies is recommended for future 
studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-012-0114-1
PMCID: PMC3931913
PMID: 22653528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Br J Anaesth. 2012 Jul;109(1):92-8. doi: 10.1093/bja/aes180. Epub 2012 May
31.

Measuring and recording outcome.

Murphy PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, Bristol Royal Hospital for Children, Bristol 
BS2 8BJ, UK. peter.murphy@uhbristol.nhs.uk

Achieving good health outcomes for patients is the fundamental purpose of 
healthcare. What really matters to patients is the outcome of an intervention 
and the effect it will have on their wellbeing and life expectancy. After media 
coverage, and public enquiry into high mortality rates for paediatric cardiac 
surgery at the Bristol Royal Infirmary during the early 1990s, mortality rates 
for paediatric cardiac surgical procedures decreased dramatically both in 
Bristol and nationally. There can be little doubt that one of the prime 'drivers 
for change' was the placement of outcome data into the public domain. After 
events in Bristol, the Society for Cardiothoracic Surgery in Britain and Ireland 
(SCTS) has taken the lead in measuring and publishing clinical outcome data. It 
has also discussed how outcome data could be used to assess an individual's 
clinical performance and how, in the future, this might be linked to continuing 
professional development, appraisal, and revalidation. Measuring quality and 
outcome in healthcare is complex. Ideal outcome measures should be specific, 
sensitive, reliable, responsive, validated, timely, and easy to measure. 
Monitoring of outcomes can be 'process' orientated or 'clinically' orientated. 
The 2010 National Health Service (NHS) White Paper aimed for an NHS which 'moves 
away from centrally driven process targets and focuses on delivering outcomes 
which matter to people'. Measuring outcome in anaesthesia is problematic. There 
are issues around clinical coding, risk adjustment, the influence of clinical 
teamworking, and environmental factors. The National Institute of Academic 
Anaesthesia (NIAA) has identified that the description of clinical practice in 
anaesthesia and perioperative medicine is currently limited by a lack of valid, 
reliable quality measures. The NIAA suggests that there is a requirement for 
further research into identifying the anaesthetic outcome indicators which are 
most relevant to patients, and then benchmarking the performance of anaesthetic 
departments and anaesthetists.

DOI: 10.1093/bja/aes180
PMID: 22654098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Indian J Community Med. 2012 Apr;37(2):71-8. doi: 10.4103/0970-0218.96083.

Nexus of poverty, energy balance and health.

Mishra CP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras 
Hindu University, Varanasi, India.

Since the inception of planning process in India, health planning was an 
integral component of socio-economic planning. Recommendations of several 
committees, policy documents and Millennium development goals were instrumental 
in development of impressive health infrastructure. Several anti-poverty and 
employment generation programmes were instituted to remove poverty. Spectacular 
achievements took place in terms of maternal and child health indicators and 
expectancy of life at birth. However, communicable diseases and undernutrition 
remain cause of serious concern and non-communicable diseases are imposing 
unprecedented challenge to planners and policy makers. Estimates of poverty 
based on different criteria point that it has remained a sustained problem in 
the country and emphasizes on revisiting anti-poverty programmes, economic 
policies and social reforms. Poverty affects purchasing power and thereby, food 
consumption. Energy intake data has inherent limitations. It must be assessed in 
terms of energy expenditure. Energy balance has been least explored area of 
research. The studies conducted in three different representative population 
group of Eastern Uttar Pradesh revealed that 69.63% rural adolescent girls 
(10-19 years), 79.9% rural reproductive age group females and 62.3% rural 
geriatric subjects were in negative energy balance. Negative energy balance was 
significantly less in adolescent girls belonging to high SES (51.37%), having 
main occupation of family as business (55.3%), and highest per capita income 
group (57.1%) with respect to their corresponding sub-categories. In case of 
rural reproductive age groups, this was maximum (93.0%) in SC/ST category and 
least (65.7%) in upper caste group. In case of geriatric group, higher adjusted 
Odd's Ratio for negative energy balance for subjects not cared by family members 
(AOR 23.43, CI 3.93-139.56), not kept money (AOR 5.27, CI 1.58-17.56), belonging 
to lower and upper middle SES by Udai Pareekh Classification (AOR 3.73, CI 
1.22-11.41), with lowest per capita income (AOR 15.14, CI 2.44-94.14) and in age 
group >80 years (AOR 5.76, CI 1.03-32.39). Of those in negative energy balance, 
70.21% rural adolescent girls and 7 out of 10 geriatric subjects (activity 
based) were victims of CED. Extent of undernutrition and CED in rural 
reproductive age group females were more in those caste groups where energy 
deficit was also of higher magnitude. Energy balance must be visualized giving 
due consideration to the importance of exercise on human health. The evidence 
thus generated needs to be translated to the masses based on principles of 
translational research.

DOI: 10.4103/0970-0218.96083
PMCID: PMC3361804
PMID: 22654278

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


437. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e37444. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037444. Epub 2012 May
24.

Is it time for a change? A cost-effectiveness analysis comparing a 
multidisciplinary integrated care model for residential homes to usual care.

MacNeil Vroomen JL(1), Boorsma M, Bosmans JE, Frijters DH, Nijpels G, van Hout 
HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, VU University Medical Center, EMGO Institute 
for Health and Care Research, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.l.macneil-vroomen@amc.uva.nl

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
a Multidisciplinary Integrated Care (MIC) model compared to Usual Care (UC) in 
Dutch residential homes.
METHODS: The economic evaluation was conducted from a societal perspective 
alongside a 6 month, clustered, randomized controlled trial involving 10 Dutch 
residential homes. Outcome measures included a quality of care weighted sum 
score, functional health (COOP WONCA) and Quality Adjusted Life-Years (QALY). 
Missing cost and effect data were imputed using multiple imputation. 
Bootstrapping was used to analyze differences in costs and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The quality of care sum score in MIC was significantly higher than in 
UC. The other primary outcomes showed no significant differences between the MIC 
and UC. The costs of providing MIC were approximately €225 per patient. Total 
costs were €2,061 in the MIC group and €1,656 for the UC group (mean difference 
€405, 95% -13; 826). The probability that the MIC was cost-effective in 
comparison with UC was 0.95 or more for ceiling ratios larger than €129 
regarding patient related quality of care. Cost-effectiveness planes showed that 
the MIC model was not cost-effective compared to UC for the other outcomes.
INTERPRETATION: Clinical effect differences between the groups were small but 
quality of care was significantly improved in the MIC group. Short term costs 
for MIC were higher. Future studies should focus on longer term economic and 
clinical effects.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN11076857.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037444
PMCID: PMC3360056
PMID: 22655047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


438. J Obes. 2012;2012:107989. doi: 10.1155/2012/107989. Epub 2012 May 13.

Obesity and trends in life expectancy.

Walls HL(1), Backholer K, Proietto J, McNeil JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, The 
Alfred Centre, 99 Commercial Road, Melbourne, VIC 3004, Australia.

Background. Increasing levels of obesity over recent decades have been expected 
to lead to an epidemic of diabetes and a subsequent reduction in life 
expectancy, but instead all-cause and cardiovascular-specific mortality rates 
have decreased steadily in most developed countries and life expectancy has 
increased. Methods. This paper suggests several factors that may be masking the 
effects of obesity on life expectancy. Results. It is possible that health and 
life expectancy gains could be even greater if it was not for the increasing 
prevalence of extreme obesity. It is also possible that the principal impact of 
obesity is on disability-free life expectancy rather than on life expectancy 
itself. Conclusion. If the principal impact of obesity were through 
disability-free life expectancy rather than on life expectancy itself, this 
