as edge lengths and tensions, and because a traditional mechanical efficiency 
cannot be calculated, mechanisms are compared on the basis of the work they must 
do to the tissue to cause a specified rate of in-plane reshaping. Although the 
model contains a number of simplifications compared to real embryonic tissues, 
it is able to show that the work requirements for tissue reshaping by mitoses 
and by lamellipodia are of the same order. Lamellipodia are energetically most 
effective when their tensions are approximately twice as large as the 
interfacial tensions in the surrounding cells. The model also shows that stress 
fibers or other direct stretch or compression mechanisms are at least five times 
more efficient for tissue reshaping than are mitoses or lamellipodia and that 
the work needed to deform a typical cellular tissue is more than thirty times 
greater than if it did not contain cell boundaries. Collectively, these findings 
indicate that common tissue reshaping mechanisms have mechanical efficiencies of 
less than one percent and that mechanical efficiency is not the primary 
determinant of which mechanism(s) an embryo uses to reshape its tissues.

DOI: 10.1007/s10237-012-0411-x
PMID: 22736204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Jun 21;18(23):3032-4. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v18.i23.3032.

Effect of discounting on estimation of benefits determined by hepatitis C 
treatment.

Messori A, Fadda V, Maratea D, Trippoli S.

The combination of either boceprevir or telaprevir with ribavirin and interferon 
(triple therapy) has been shown to be more effective than ribavirin+interferon 
(dual therapy) for the treatment of genotype 1 hepatitis C. Since the benefit of 
these treatments takes place after years, simulation models are needed to 
predict long-term outcomes. In simulation models, the choice of different values 
of yearly discount rates (e.g., 6%, 3.5%, 2%, 1.5% or 0%) influences the 
results, but no studies have specifically addressed this issue. We examined this 
point by determining the long-term benefits under different conditions on the 
basis of standard modelling and using quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) to 
quantify the benefits. In our base case scenario, we compared the long-term 
benefit between patients given a treatment with a 40% sustained virologic 
response (SVR) (dual therapy) and patients given a treatment with a 70% SVR 
(triple therapy), and we then examined how these specific yearly discount rates 
influenced the incremental benefit. The gain between a 70% SVR and a 40% SVR 
decreased from 0.45 QALYs with a 0% discount rate to 0.22 QALYs with a 6% 
discount rate (ratio between the two values = 2.04). Testing the other 
discounting assumptions confirmed that the discount rate has a marked impact on 
the magnitude of the model-estimated incremental benefit. In conclusion, the 
results of our analysis can be helpful to better interpret cost-effectiveness 
studies evaluating new treatment for hepatitis C.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i23.3032
PMCID: PMC3380334
PMID: 22736930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Ger Med Sci. 2012;10:Doc12. doi: 10.3205/000163. Epub 2012 Jun 18.

Intracranial extension of Schneiderian inverted papilloma: a case report and 
literature review.

Pitak-Arnnop P(1), Bertolini J, Dhanuthai K, Hendricks J, Hemprich A, Pausch NC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral, Craniomaxillofacial and Facial Plastic Surgery, 
University Hospital of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. poramate.pitakarnnop@gmail.com

Inverted papilloma is an uncommon primary nasal tumor. Despite its benign 
nature, this tumor represents three typical characteristics: a high propensity 
of recurrence, local aggressiveness and association with malignancy. Inverted 
papilloma can reduce the patient's quality of life due to compromised nasal 
function, extension to the orbit and brain. The authors reported the unusual 
case of a 72-year-old male patient with inverted papilloma, which fatally 
extended to the intracranial temporal fossa after multiple recurrences. To the 
authors' knowledge, this is the twelfth case in the literature of inverted 
papilla extending into the temporal fossa. The current and pertinent literature 
in English, French and German was reviewed, and an algorithm for managing 
inverted papilloma was also proposed.

Innerhalb der Tumoren der Nasenhaupt- und Nasennebenhöhlen sind invertierte 
Papillome vergleichsweise seltene Neubildungen. Trotz ihrer benignen Natur weist 
diese Tumorentität drei wesentliche Besonderheiten auf: die ausgesprochene 
Rezidivfreudigkeit, das lokal aggressiv-infiltrative Wachstum und das 
beträchtliche Potential zur malignen Entartung. Invertierte Papillome können 
Symptome im Bereich der Nasen- und Nasennebenhöhlen verursachen, aber auch 
Orbita und Schädelbasis infiltrieren. Berichtet wird über den ungewöhnlichen 
Fall eines 72-jährigen männlichen Patienten mit invertiertem Papillom, bei 
welchem es nach multiplen Rezidiven durch Schädelbasisarrosion und -infiltration 
zu einem fatalen Ausgang kam. Nach Kenntnis der Autoren handelt es sich um den 
bisher zwölften publizierten Fall einer solchen Tumorausbreitung. Neben einer 
aktuellen Literaturübersicht, die englisch-, französisch- und deutschsprachige 
Publikationen einschließt, wird außerdem ein Therapiealgorithmus vorgeschlagen.

DOI: 10.3205/000163
PMCID: PMC3380239
PMID: 22737105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Health Expect. 2014 Oct;17(5):696-709. doi:
10.1111/j.1369-7625.2012.00797.x.  Epub 2012 Jun 28.

Subjective expectations regarding length and health-related quality of life in 
Hungary: results from an empirical investigation.

Péntek M(1), Brodszky V, Gulácsi ÁL, Hajdú O, van Exel J, Brouwer W, Gulácsi L.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Health Technology Assessment Research Centre, Corvinus 
University of Budapest, Budapest, Hungary; Flór Ferenc County Hospital, 
Kistarcsa, Hungary.

BACKGROUND: Subjective expectations regarding future health are rarely studied, 
yet may have implications for medical decision making, health behaviour and 
health economic analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To study people's subjective expectations regarding length and future 
quality of life in Hungary and compare these with previous findings from the 
Netherlands.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was performed, using a questionnaire that was 
put on a highly frequented web journal during 1 day. Main socio-demographic 
variables and health status of the voluntary participants were registered using 
the EQ-5D questionnaire. People were asked about the age they expected to live 
and the health status they expected to have at ages 60, 70, 80 and 90, using the 
EQ-5D descriptive system. Responses were matched and compared to age- and 
gender-specific life expectancy data from the Hungarian National Statistics and 
to age- and gender-specific EQ-5D scores from a prior nationally representative 
survey in Hungary.
RESULTS: In total, 9407 people were included in the analysis with mean age of 
36.1 (SD 10.6) years, mainly qualified (degree 74.0%), employed (86.0%) men 
(67.1%). People overestimated their life expectancy (women, 1.6; men, 8.2 years) 
and expected a sharp deterioration in health at the age 70. Age, current health 
status, perception of a healthy lifestyle and kins' age at death were important 
explanatory factors for subjective expectations. Subjective life expectancy 
correlates strongly with expected future health status.
CONCLUSIONS: The striking similarities between two surveys from distinct nations 
suggest that people's (mis)expectations regarding length and future quality of 
life are probably rather generalizable between jurisdictions within Europe.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1369-7625.2012.00797.x
PMCID: PMC5060917
PMID: 22738129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Mol Plant Pathol. 2012 Dec;13(9):986-97. doi:
10.1111/j.1364-3703.2012.00811.x.  Epub 2012 Jun 27.

Rhynchosporium commune: a persistent threat to barley cultivation.

Avrova A(1), Knogge W.

Author information:
(1)Cell and Molecular Sciences, The James Hutton Institute, Invergowrie, Dundee, 
DD2 5DA, UK. anna.avrova@hutton.ac.uk

Rhynchosporium commune is a haploid fungus causing scald or leaf blotch on 
barley, other Hordeum spp. and Bromus diandrus.
TAXONOMY: Rhynchosporium commune is an anamorphic Ascomycete closely related to 
the teleomorph Helotiales genera Oculimacula and Pyrenopeziza.
DISEASE SYMPTOMS: Rhynchosporium commune causes scald-like lesions on leaves, 
leaf sheaths and ears. Early symptoms are generally pale grey oval lesions. With 
time, the lesions acquire a dark brown margin with the centre of the lesion 
remaining pale green or pale brown. Lesions often merge to form large areas 
around which leaf yellowing is common. Infection frequently occurs in the leaf 
axil, which can lead to chlorosis and eventual death of the leaf.
LIFE CYCLE: Rhynchosporium commune is seed borne, but the importance of this 
phase of the disease is not fully understood. Debris from previous crops and 
volunteers, infected from the stubble from previous crops, are considered to be 
the most important sources of the disease. Autumn-sown crops can become infected 
very soon after sowing. Secondary spread of disease occurs mainly through splash 
dispersal of conidia from infected leaves. Rainfall at the stem extension growth 
stage is the major environmental factor in epidemic development. DETECTION AND 
QUANTIFICATION: Rhynchosporium commune produces unique beak-shaped, one-septate 
spores both on leaves and in culture. The development of a specific polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) and, more recently, quantitative PCR (qPCR) has allowed the 
identification of asymptomatic infection in seeds and during the growing season.
DISEASE CONTROL: The main measure for the control of R. commune is the use of 
fungicides with different modes of action, in combination with the use of 
resistant cultivars. However, this is constantly under review because of the 
ability of the pathogen to adapt to host plant resistance and to develop 
fungicide resistance.

© 2012 THE AUTHORS. MOLECULAR PLANT PATHOLOGY © 2012 BSPP AND BLACKWELL 
PUBLISHING LTD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1364-3703.2012.00811.x
PMCID: PMC6638709
PMID: 22738626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Global Health. 2012 Jun 27;8:18. doi: 10.1186/1744-8603-8-18.

A profile and approach to chronic disease in Abu Dhabi.

Hajat C(1), Harrison O, Shather Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health & Research, Health Authority Abu Dhabi, United 
Arab Emirates. chajat@hotmail.com

As a country, the United Arab Emirates has developed very rapidly from a 
developing country with a largely nomadic population, to a modern and wealthy 
country with a Western lifestyle. This economic progress has brought undoubted 
social benefits and opportunities for UAE citizens, including a high and 
increasing life expectancy. However, rapid modernization and urbanization have 
contributed to a significant problem with chronic diseases, particularly 
obesity-related cardiovascular risk. In response the Health Authority of Abu 
Dhabi has significantly strengthened its data systems to better assess the 
baseline and measure the impact of targeted interventions. The unique 
population-level Weqaya Programme for UAE Nationals living in Abu Dhabi has 
recruited more than 94% of adults into a screening programme for the rapid 
identification of those at risk and the deployment of targeted interventions to 
control that risk. This article describes the burden of non-communicable disease 
in Abu Dhabi, and the efforts made by the Health Authority of Abu Dhabi to 
tackle this burden including the development of a whole population 
cardiovascular screening programme changes to health policy, particularly in 
terms of lifestyle and behaviour change, and empowerment of the community to 
enable individuals to make healthier choices. In addition, recommendations have 
been made for global responsibility for tackling chronic disease.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-8603-8-18
PMCID: PMC3512533
PMID: 22738714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 2012 Aug-Oct;23(4-5):207-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.cytogfr.2012.05.007. Epub 2012 Jun 26.

The role of cytokines in the pathogenesis and treatment of HIV infection.

Catalfamo M(1), Le Saout C, Lane HC.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1360, United States. 
catalfam@mail.nih.gov

HIV immune activation plays an important role in the immunopathogenesis of the 
disease. The mechanisms driving this immune activation are partially defined and 
likely are the result of multiple factors. The introduction of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (cART) has improved the life expectancy of HIV infected 
individuals, however there is evidence that in the setting of "undetectable" 
HIV-RNA plasma levels, there is some level of persistent immune activation in 
these patients. A better understanding of the immune activation pathways should 
be of value in developing complementary therapies to restore the immune systems 
of patients with HIV infection. This review discusses the cytokine mediated 
pathways of immune activation of the CD4 and CD8 T cell pools during HIV 
infection.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cytogfr.2012.05.007
PMCID: PMC3726258
PMID: 22738931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Soc Sci Med. 2012 Oct;75(7):1280-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.04.026.
Epub  2012 May 23.

The changing gender differences in life expectancy in Korea 1970-2005.

Yang S(1), Khang YH, Chun H, Harper S, Lynch J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Canada. seungmi.yang@mail.mcgill.ca

Women live much longer than men in Korea, with remarkable gains in life 
expectancy at birth for the past decades. The gender differential has steadily 
increased over time, reaching a peak of more than 8 years in 1980s, and 
decreased thereafter to 6.7 years in 2005. Studies to investigate the pattern 
and contributing factors to changes in the life expectancy gender gap have been 
mostly from Western countries, and there has been no such study in Asian 
countries, except in Japan. We therefore aimed to examine age- and 
cause-specific contributions to the changing gender differentials in life 
expectancy in Korea, in particular the decline of the gap, using a decomposition 
method. Between 1970 and 1979 when the gender gap in life expectancy widened, 
faster mortality decline among women in ages 20-44 explained 66% of the total 
increase in the gender gap, which would be due to substantial improvements in 
reproductive health among women and excess male mortality in occupational 
injuries and transport accidents. Although greater survival advantage among 
elderly women over 70 contributed to further increase in the gender gap, the 
contributions from younger ages with the ages 15-64 contributing the most (-2 
years) resulted in the overall reduction of the gender gap which began in 1992 
and continued to 2005. Among causes of death, liver diseases (-0.5 years, 38% of 
the total decline), transport accidents (-0.4 years, 31%), hypertensive diseases 
(-0.3 years, 19%), stroke (-0.1 years, 11%), and tuberculosis (-0.1 years) 
contributed the most to the overall 1.4 years reduction in the gender gap. 
However, changes in mortality from lung cancer (+0.3 years), suicide (+0.3 
years), chronic lower respiratory diseases (+0.2 years), and ischemic heart 
diseases (+0.1 years) contributed to widening the gap during the same period. In 
sum, while smoking-related causes of death have contributed most to the 
narrowing gap in most other industrialized countries, these causes contributed 
toward increasing the gender gap in Korea. Instead, liver disease, 
hypertension-related diseases, and transport accidents were major contributing 
causes of death to the narrowing of gender differentials in life expectancy in 
Korea.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.04.026
PMID: 22739261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. J Strength Cond Res. 2013 Apr;27(4):1074-82. doi:
10.1519/JSC.0b013e31826520af.

Effects of combining whole-body vibration with exercise on the consequences of 
detraining on muscle performance in untrained adults.

Osawa Y(1), Oguma Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan. yosawa1028@gmail.com

This study investigated whether whole-body vibration (WBV) coupled with 
low-velocity exercise (EX) for 13 weeks retains muscle performance gains after 5 
weeks of subsequent detraining compared with the results of an identical EX 
program without WBV. Thirty-two untrained healthy adults (22-49 years of age) 
were randomly assigned to groups that performed EX with or without WBV (EX-WBV 
and EX, respectively; n = 16 per group). The following outcome variables were 
evaluated: countermovement jump height; maximal isometric, concentric, and 
eccentric knee extension strengths; local muscular endurance; and lumbar 
extension torque before, during, and after the 13-week training period, and 
after 5 weeks of detraining. Compared with the EX group, significantly higher 
increases in countermovement jump height and isometric and concentric knee 
extension strengths were detected in the EX-WBV group after the 13-week training 
period. However, detraining caused significant declines in these 3 muscle 
performance tests only in the EX-WBV group (-4.8, -10.2, and -17.2%, 
respectively), resulting in no significant differences between the test and 
control groups after the detraining period. After detraining, all examined 
variables showed significantly better performance compared with pretraining (p < 
0.05) and did not significantly differ from midtraining (7 weeks) in both groups 
(p > 0.05). These results suggest that muscle strength in the lower extremities, 
particularly isometric and concentric contractions, and muscle power might be 
more susceptible to short-term detraining effects when exercise is combined with 
WBV. Thus, it is necessary to perform regular exercise to maximize the benefits 
of WBV on muscle strength and power during the early stages of training in 
previously untrained individuals.

DOI: 10.1519/JSC.0b013e31826520af
PMID: 22739330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2012 Jul 1;5(4):472-9. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.112.965251. Epub 2012 Jun 26.

Cost-effectiveness of apixaban compared with aspirin for stroke prevention in 
atrial fibrillation among patients unsuitable for warfarin.

Lee S(1), Anglade MW, Meng J, Hagstrom K, Kluger J, Coleman CI.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut School of Pharmacy, Storrs, CT, USA.

BACKGROUND: Compared with aspirin, apixaban reduces stroke risk in atrial 
fibrillation (AF) patients unsuitable for warfarin by 63% but does not increase 
major bleeding. We sought to determine the cost-effectiveness of apixaban versus 
aspirin.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using the Apixaban versus Acetylsalicylic Acid to Prevent 
Stroke in Atrial Fibrillation Patients Who Have Failed or Are Unsuitable for 
Vitamin-K Antagonist Treatment (AVERROES) trial and other studies, we 
constructed a Markov model to evaluate the costs (2011US$), quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness of apixaban versus 
aspirin from the Medicare perspective. Our base-case assumed a 70-year-old AF 
patient cohort with a CHADS(2) score=2 and a lower-risk of bleeding. We used a 
1-month cycle-length and ran separate base-case analyses assuming a trial-length 
(1-year) and a longer-term (10-year) follow-up. Total costs/patient were $3454 
and $1805 for apixaban and aspirin in the trial-length and $44 232 and $50 066 
in the 10-year model. Corresponding QALYs were 0.96 and 0.96 in the trial-length 
and 6.87 and 6.51 in the 10-year model, making apixaban inferior in the first 
model but dominant in the latter. Conclusions were sensitive to baseline stroke 
rate in both models, and the monthly cost of major stroke, relative risk of 
stroke, and prior vitamin-K antagonist use in the life-time model. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis suggested apixaban would only be a cost-effective 
alternative (<$50 000/QALY) to aspirin 11% of the time in the trial-length 
model, but cost-effective or dominant 96.7% and 87.5% of iterations in the 
10-year model.
CONCLUSIONS: In our trial-length model, apixaban was more costly and no more 
effective than aspirin; however, as follow-up was extended, apixaban became 
cost-effective and eventually dominant.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.112.965251
PMID: 22740012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Tex Heart Inst J. 2012;39(2):255-7.

Isolated left ventricular noncompaction in a 90-year-old man.

Cevik C(1), Stainback RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Cardiology, Texas Heart Institute at St. Luke's Episcopal 
Hospital, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. ccevik@sleh.com

Isolated ventricular myocardial noncompaction is a cardiomyopathy that is being 
diagnosed more frequently in patients of all ages because of increased awareness 
and improvements in imaging methods. It is an extremely rare cause of heart 
failure in nonagenarians. We describe the case of a man who presented with heart 
failure for the first time at 90 years of age. The diagnosis was isolated left 
ventricular noncompaction. Transthoracic echocardiography showed a trabeculated, 
sponge-like appearance of the left ventricular apical and inferolateral 
segments. After medical management, the patient was asymptomatic at the 3-month 
follow-up examination. Knowledge of ventricular noncompaction is increasing 
within the cardiology community. Patients who have isolated noncompaction with a 
limited number of involved ventricular segments can live beyond normal life 
expectancy without developing heart failure. In addition to discussing our 
patient's case, we briefly review the relevant medical literature.

PMCID: PMC3384037
PMID: 22740746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Breast Care (Basel). 2012 Apr;7(2):108-112. doi: 10.1159/000338724. Epub
2012  Apr 25.

Radiotherapy of Bone Metastasis in Breast Cancer Patients - Current Approaches.

Feyer PC(1), Steingraeber M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Strahlentherapie und Radioonkologie, Vivantes Klinikum Neukölln, 
Berlin, Germany.

Bone metastases (BM) represent the most frequent indication for palliative 
radiotherapy in patients with breast cancer. BM increase the risk of 
skeletal-related events defined as pathological fractures, spinal cord 
compression, and, most frequently, bone pain. The therapeutic goals of 
palliative radiotherapy for BM are pain relief, recalcification, and 
stabilization, reducing spinal cord compression and minimizing the risk of 
paraplegia. In advanced tumor stages radiotherapy may also be used to alleviate 
symptoms of generalized bone metastasis. This requires an individual approach 
including factors, such as life expectancy and tumor progression at different 
sites. Side effects of radiation therapy of the middle and lower spine may 
include nausea and emesis requiring adequate antiemetic prophylaxis. Irradiation 
of large bone marrow areas may cause myelotoxicity making monitoring of blood 
cell counts mandatory. Radiotherapy is an effective tool in palliation treatment 
of BM and is part of an interdisciplinary approach. Preferred technique, 
targeting, and different dose schedules are described in the guidelines of the 
German Society for Radiooncology (DEGRO) which are also integrated in 2012 
recommendations of the Working Group Gynecologic Oncology (AGO).

Knochenmetastasen (KM) stellen die häufigste Indikation für eine palliative 
Therapie bei Patienten mit Mammakarzinom dar. Sie erhöhen das Risiko 
skelettbezogener Ereignisse, definiert als pathologische Frakturen, 
Rückenmarkkompression und die am häufigsten auftretenden Knochenschmerzen. Die 
therapeutischen Ziele einer Radiotherapie bei KM sind sowohl Schmerzreduktion, 
Rekalzifizierung und Stabilisierung des Knochens als auch eine Reduktion der 
Rückenmarkkompression und die Minimierung des Risikos für die Entwicklung 
neurologischer Symptome. Dies erfordert eine differenzierte Herangehensweise, 
die individuelle Faktoren wie Lebenserwartung und Tumorprogression an den 
verschiedenen Manifestationsorten einbezieht. Dosierungskonzept und 
Fraktionierung einer palliativen Radiotherapie sollten entsprechend adaptiert 
werden. Als Nebenwirkungen einer Strahlentherapie der mittleren und unteren 
Wirbelsäule können Nausea und Emesis auftreten, die eine adäquate antiemetische 
Prophylaxe erfordern. Die Bestrahlung von größeren Knochenmarkabschnitten kann 
myelotoxisch wirken, regelmäßige Blutbildkontrollen sind obligatorisch. Die 
Radiotherapie ist eine effektive palliative Therapie und ist Bestandteil des 
interdisziplinären Vorgehens. Bevorzugte Techniken, Zielstrukturen und 
Dosierungskonzepte werden in den Leitlinien der Deutschen Gesellschaft für 
Radioonkologie (DEGRO) beschrieben, die auch in den Arbeitsgemeinschaft 
Gynäkologische Onkologie (AGO)-Leitlinien 2012 integriert sind.

DOI: 10.1159/000338724
PMCID: PMC3376370
PMID: 22740796


640. Caring. 2012 May;31(5):46-7.

Transforming lives today and tomorrow: nurses at the forefront of change.

Christopher MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Visiting Nurse Service of New York, USA.

PMID: 22741236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Health Serv J. 2012 May 10;122(6305):24.

Service redesign. Is older people's care in crisis?

Philp I(1).

Author information:
(1)South Warwickshire Foundation Trust.

PMID: 22741380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Clin Ther. 2012 Jul;34(7):1531-43. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.06.006.
Epub  2012 Jun 27.

Cost-effectiveness of lanthanum carbonate in the treatment of hyperphosphatemia 
in dialysis patients: a Canadian payer perspective.

Vegter S(1), Tolley K, Keith MS, Lok CE, Soroka SD, Morton AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 
Groningen,The Netherlands. s.vegter@rug.nl

BACKGROUND: Hyperphosphatemia is a common and potentially harmful condition in 
patients with end-stage kidney disease. In Canada, first-line treatment of 
hyperphosphatemia consists primarily of calcium carbonate (CC). Lanthanum 
carbonate (LC) and sevelamer hydrochloride (SH) are non-calcium phosphate 
binders that have been used as second-line therapy in patients intolerant of or 
not responsive to CC.
OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of the present study was to assess the costs 
and clinical benefits of second-line use of LC after therapy failure with CC in 
patients receiving dialysis, from a Canadian payer perspective. The secondary 
objective was to perform an economic comparison between second-line LC therapy 
and second-line SH therapy, from a Canadian payer perspective. Short-term 
outcomes were treatment response and cost per additional responder, and 
long-term outcomes were survival, number of all-cause hospitalizations, and 
quality of life.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness Markov model was populated with simulated cohorts 
of 1000 patients receiving incident dialysis, followed life-long. Patients not 
responsive to CC with a serum phosphate concentration >1.78 mmol/L (>5.5 mg/dL) 
received a trial regimen with LC. Patients not responsive to LC returned to CC 
therapy. Patient data from a randomized controlled trial of 800 patients 
receiving dialysis were used. Extensive (probabilistic) sensitivity analyses 
were performed. When available, model parameters were based on Canadian data or 
from a Canadian perspective. All costs are in 2010 Canadian dollars (C$).
RESULTS: Results of the model estimated that in patients responsive to 
second-line LC therapy, survival increased, on average, 0.44 years (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.35-0.54) per patient when compared with continued CC 
therapy. The mean (range) costs per patient in the first year of treatment with 
LC was C$2600 (C$2400-C$2800). Over patients' lifetimes, the second-line LC 
strategy resulted in a gain of 48.8 (37.1-61.3) life-years and 29.3 (21.4-38.1) 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The cost-effectiveness of the second-line 
LC strategy was C$7900 (C$1800-C$14,600) per life-year and C$13,200 
(C$3000-C$25,100) per QALY gained. Most sensitivity analyses did not change the 
cost-effectiveness outcomes; however, including unrelated future costs raised 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio to C$159,500 (95% confidence interval, 
C$133,300-C$191,600) per QALY gained. Compared with second-line SH therapy, 
second-line LC therapy had similar effectiveness and was 23% less expensive.
CONCLUSIONS: Second-line treatment with LC is cost-effective in the treatment of 
end-stage kidney disease in patients with hyperphosphatemia, from a Canadian 
payer perspective. Second-line treatment with LC is less expensive, with similar 
effectiveness as second-line treatment with SH. The primary limitation of health 
economic evaluations of phosphate binders is the relative scarcity of clinical 
data on the association between phosphate concentration and long-term outcome.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.06.006
PMID: 22742885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Oper Orthop Traumatol. 2012 Jul;24(3):215-26. doi:
10.1007/s00064-011-0061-7.

[Proximal and total femur replacement].

[Article in German]

Pennekamp PH(1), Wirtz DC, Dürr HR.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, Rheinische 
Friedrich-Wilhems-Universität Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Str. 25, 53127, Bonn, 
Deutschland. peter.pennekamp@ukb.uni-bonn.de

OBJECTIVE: Reconstruction of segmental bone defects of the proximal femur 
following wide tumor resection or revision arthroplasty.
INDICATIONS: Aggressive benign or primary malignant bone tumors of the proximal 
femur; destructive metastases; massive segmental bone defects of the proximal 
femur; periprosthetic fractures.
CONTRAINDICATIONS: Local infection; very short life expectancy (< 3 months); 
massive deficiency of acetabular bone stock.
OPERATIVE TECHNIQUE: Anterolateral approach. Exposure and detachment of the 
iliopsoas and gluteus medius muscle from the proximal femur with a sufficient 
safety margin to the bone; distal transsection of the vastus 
lateralis/intermedius and rectus femoris muscle according to the extraosseous 
tumor extension; distal femur osteotomy al least 3 cm beyond the farthest point 
of tumor extension; in case of total femur replacement, additional lateral 
arthrotomy of the knee with resection of the ligaments and menisci; reaming of 
the medullary canal after securing the shaft with a Verbrugge clamp; trial 
assembly and reduction followed by the definitive implantation of the prosthesis 
with adjustment of the femoral neck anteversion in 5° increments; soft tissue 
reconstruction and fixation to an attachment tube covering the prosthesis; in 
case of total femur replacement, the preparation of the tibia is followed by the 
coupling of the tibial and femoral components.
POSTOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT: Infection prophylaxis, 20 kg partial weight bearing, 
continuous passive motion.
RESULTS: A total of 20  patients with proximal femur replacement and 2 patients 
with total femur replacement implanted between June 2007 and December 2011 were 
retrospectively reviewed. Three patients had primary malignant bone tumors, 
while 19 patients underwent resection for metastatic disease. The mean age at 
surgery was 62.0 ± 18.1 years (18-82 years). Fifteen patients with a mean 
follow-up of 20.3 ± 17.2 months (4-51 months) were studied. Among the 22 cases, 
periprosthetic infection occurred in 3 patients (13.6%), dislocation in 
2 patients (9.1%). Evaluation of the functional outcome in 15 patients using the 
MSTS score by Enneking revealed 3 very good (20%), 4 good (26.7%), 6 fair (40%), 
and 2 poor (13.3%) results.

DOI: 10.1007/s00064-011-0061-7
PMID: 22743630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Oper Orthop Traumatol. 2012 Jul;24(3):196-214. doi:
10.1007/s00064-012-0161-z.

[Partial pelvic resection (internal hemipelvectomy) and endoprosthetic 
replacement in periacetabular tumors].

[Article in German]

Rudert M(1), Holzapfel BM, Pilge H, Rechl H, Gradinger R.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik König-Ludwig-Haus, Julius-Maximilians-Universität 
Würzburg, Brettreichstr. 11, 97074, Würzburg, Deutschland. 
I-orthopaedie.klh@uni-wuerzburg.de

OBJECTIVE: Treatment of tumors of the pelvic girdle by resection of part or all 
of the innominate bone with preservation of the extremity. Implantation and 
stable fixation using a custom-made megaprosthesis to restore painless joint 
function and loading capacity. The surgical goal is to obtain a wide surgical 
margin and local tumor control.
INDICATIONS: Primary bone and soft tissue sarcomas, benign or semi-malignant 
aggressive lesions, metastatic disease (radiation resistance and/or good 
prognosis).
CONTRAINDICATIONS: Limited life expectancy and poor physical status, extensive 
metastatic disease, persistent deep infection or recalcitrant osteomyelitis, 
poor therapeutic compliance, local recurrence following a previous limb-sparing 
resection, extensive infiltration of the neurovascular structures and the intra- 
and extrapelvic soft tissues.
SURGICAL TECHNIQUE: Levels of osteotomy are defined preoperatively by a 
CT-controlled manufactured three-dimensional 1:1 model of the pelvis. Using 
these data, the custom-made prosthesis and osteotomy templates are then 
constructed by the manufacturer. The anterior (internal, retroperitoneal) and 
posterior (extrapelvic, retrogluteal) aspects of the pelvis are exposed using 
the utilitarian incision surgical approach. The external iliac and femoral 
vessels are mobilized as they cross the superior pubic ramus. The adductor 
muscles, the rectus femoris and sartorius muscle are released from their 
insertions on the pelvis and the obturator vessels and nerve are transected. If 
the tumor extends to the hip joint, the femur is transected at a level distal to 
the intertrochanteric line to ensure hip joint integrity and to prevent tumor 
contamination. A large myocutaneous flap with the gluteus maximus muscle is 
retracted posteriorly. The pelvitrochanteric and small gluteal muscles are 
divided near their insertion in the upper border of the femur. To release the 
hamstrings and the attachment of the sacrotuberous ligament, the ischial 
tuberosity is exposed. After osteotomy using the prefabricated templates, the 
pelvis is released and the specimen is removed en bloc. The custom made 
prosthesis can either be fixed to the remaining iliac bone or to the massa 
lateralis of the sacrum. The released muscles are refixated on the remaining 
bone or the implant.
POSTOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT: Time of mobilization and degree of weight-bearing 
depends on the extent of muscle resection. Usually partial loading of the 
operated limb with 10 kg for a period of 6-12 weeks, then increased loading with 
10 kg per week. Thrombosis prophylaxis until full weight bearing. Physiotherapy 
and gait training. At follow-up, patients are monitored for local recurrence and 
metastases using history, physical examination, and radiographic studies.
RESULTS: Between 1994 and 2008, 38 consecutive patients with periacetabular 
tumors were treated by resection and reconstruction with a custom-made pelvic 
megaprosthesis. The overall survival of the patients was 58% at 5 years and 30% 
at 10 years. One or more operative revisions were performed in 52.6% of the 
patients. The rate of local recurrence was 15.8%. Deep infection (21%) was the 
most common reason for revision. In two of these cases (5.3%), a secondary 
external hemipelvectomy had to be performed. There were four cases of aseptic 
loosening (10.5%) in which the prosthesis had to be revised. Six patients had 
recurrent hip dislocation (15.8%). In four of them a modification of the 
inserted inlay and an implantation of a trevira tube had to be performed 
respectively. Peroneal palsy occurred in 6 patients (15.8%) with recovery in 
only two. There were 4 operative interventions because of postoperative bleeding 
(10.5%). The mean MSTS score for 12 of the 18 living patients was 43.7%. In 
particular, gait was classified as poor and almost all patients were reliant on 
walking aids. However, most patients showed good emotional acceptance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00064-012-0161-z
PMID: 22743633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Oper Orthop Traumatol. 2012 Jul;24(3):247-62. doi:
10.1007/s00064-012-0187-2.

[Proximal tibial replacement and alloplastic reconstruction of the extensor 
mechanism after bone tumor resection].

[Article in German]

Holzapfel BM(1), Pilge H, Toepfer A, Jakubietz RG, Gollwitzer H, Rechl H, von 
Eisenhart-Rothe R, Rudert M.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik König-Ludwig-Haus, Julius-Maximilians-Universität 
Würzburg, Brettreichstr. 11, 97074, Würzburg, Deutschland. 
holzapfel@orthopaedic-oncology.net

OBJECTIVE: The goal of the operation is limb-sparing resection of tumors arising 
from the proximal tibia with adequate surgical margins and local tumor control. 
Implantation of a constrained tumor prosthesis with an alloplastic 
reconstruction of the extensor mechanism to restore painless joint function and 
loading capacity of the extremity.
INDICATIONS: Primary bone and soft tissue sarcomas. Benign or semimalignant 
aggressive lesions. Metastatic disease (radiation resistance and/or good 
prognosis).
CONTRAINDICATIONS: Poor physical status. Extensive metastatic disease with life 
expectancy <6 months. Tumor penetration through the skin. Local infection or 
recalcitrant osteomyelitis. Poor therapeutic compliance. Large popliteal 
extraosseous tumor masses with infiltration of neurovascular structures.
SURGICAL TECHNIQUE: A single incision is made from the anteromedial aspect of 
the distal femur to the distal one third of the medial lower leg. Preparation of 
large medial and lateral fasciocutaneous flaps. The popliteal vessels are 
explored through a medial approach by releasing the pes anserinus and 
semimembranosus tendon, mobilizing the medial gastrocnemius muscle and detaching 
the soleus muscle from the tibial margo medialis. The anterior tibial artery and 
vein are ligated. If the knee joint is free of tumor, circumferential dissection 
of the knee capsule is performed and the patellar ligament is dissected. An 
osteotomy of the tibia shaft is performed with safety margins according to 
preoperative planning. In order to obtain adequate surgical margins, in some 
cases an en bloc resection of the tibiofibular joint becomes necessary. 
Therefore, the peroneal nerve is exposed. Parts of the M. tibialis anterior, a 
portion of the M. soleus and the entire M. popliteus are left on the resected 
tibial bone. After implantation of the prosthesis and coupling of the femoral 
and tibial component, the extensor mechanism is reconstructed using an 
alloplastic cord. It is passed transversely through the distal end of the 
quadriceps tendon looping the proximal margin of the patella. Both ends are 
passed distally through a subsynovial tunnel and are fixed under adequate 
pretension in a metal block of the tibial component. The detached hamstrings and 
remaining ligaments can be fixed on preformed eyes of the prosthesis. A medial 
gastrocnemius muscle flap is used to provide soft tissue coverage of the tibial 
component.
POSTOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT: Immobilization and elevation of the extremity for 
5 days, then flap conditioning. Mobilization in a hinged knee brace locked in 
extension for 6 weeks without weight bearing. During this time active flexion 
with a stepwise progress, isometric quadriceps training. Then beginning of 
straight leg raising exercises, stepwise unlocking of the brace with 30° every 
2 weeks. Weight-bearing is increased by 10 kg/week. Thrombosis prophylaxis until 
full weight-bearing. At follow-up, patients are monitored for local recurrence 
and metastases using history, physical examination and radiographic studies.
RESULTS: Between 1988 and 2009, endoprosthetic replacement and alloplastic 
reconstruction of the extensor mechanism after resection of tibial bone tumors 
was performed in 17 consecutive patients (9 females and 8 males) with a mean age 
of 31.1 years (range 11-65 years). There were no local recurrences. Until now, 
5 patients have died of tumor disease. One or more operative revisions were 
necessary in 53.9% of the patients. According to Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, 
the implant survival at 5 years was 53.6% and 35.7% at 10 years, respectively. 
In 2 cases, a distal transfemoral amputation had to be performed due to deep 
infection. There were 3 cases of tibial stem revision due to implant failure and 
aseptic loosening, respectively. In 3 patients, the hinge of the prosthesis had 
to be revised. Impaired wound healing occurred in 2 cases. Peroneal nerve palsy 
was observed in 3 patients with recovery in only one. The mean Oxford knee score 
for 9 of the 12 living patients was 30.7 ± 7.5 (24-36). No patient had a 
clinically relevant extension lag. The mean range of motion at the last 
follow-up was 90.2° ± 26.7 (range 35-130°). All patients were well satisfied 
with their postoperative outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00064-012-0187-2
PMID: 22743634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Ann Transplant. 2012 Apr-Jun;17(2):122-6. doi: 10.12659/aot.883230.

A case of gastric cancer after living donor liver transplantation.

Shimizu T(1), Hayashi M, Inoue Y, Komeda K, Asakuma M, Hirokawa F, Miyamoto Y, 
Tanigawa N, Uchiyama K.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Gastroenterological Surgery, Osaka Medical College 
Hospital, Japan. 0315shimizu@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: As newer immunosuppressive regimens have steadily reduced in the 
incidence of acute rejection and have extended the life expectancy of allograft 
recipients, posttransplant de novo malignancies have become an important cause 
of death in cadaveric donor transplantation. Also, according with the recent 
accumulation of living donor liver transplantation (LDLT), the number of 
posttransplant recipients with de novo malignancy will be anticipated to 
increase.
CASE REPORT: A 60 year-old man underwent LDLT for hepatitis C virus-related 
cirrhosis with hepatocellular carcinoma. Thirty months after LDLT, he was found 
to have gastric cancer by upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. He underwent 
segmental gastrectomy with lymph node dissection. Histopathological examination 
of the explanted stomach revealed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with 
subserosal invasion in the gastric wall and perigastric lymph node metastasis. 
Three years and eight months after the gastric surgery, the patient is alive 
with no recurrence of gastric cancer or HCC under no adjuvant chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering that early detection is the only key in curing cancer 
in general, we should make effort to detect cancer in their early stage, 
especially in case of LDLT recipients.

DOI: 10.12659/aot.883230
PMID: 22743730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Qual Life Res. 2013 Jun;22(5):1045-54. doi: 10.1007/s11136-012-0220-9. Epub
2012  Jun 29.

An assessment of the external validity of mapping QLQ-C30 to EQ-5D preferences.

Crott R(1), Versteegh M, Uyl-de-Groot C.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
J-building—Campus Woudestein, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
rcrott@hotmail.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Although cancer-specific Health-related Quality-of-Life measures are 
commonly included in randomized clinical trials or other prospective 
non-randomized clinical studies, it is rare that preference-based instruments 
are used, which allow the calculation of a Utility weight suitable for 
estimating Quality-adjusted Life-Years gained.
OBJECTIVE: To test the external validity of a previously published mapping 
algorithm to transform the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire responses into 
EQ-5D-derived utilities by predicting EQ-5D utilities from QLQ-C30 scores.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Comparative retrospective data analysis of four 
multicentre, prospective clinical trials in Breast, Multiple Myeloma, 
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma and Non-Small-Cell Lung cancer patients with, respectively, 
219, 172, 132 and 172 patients. Regression analysis of individual pairs of EQ-5D 
and QLQ-C30 scores.
RESULTS: Although the internal predictive power of a previously published 
mapping equation was high, its external validity when tested on a set of 
unrelated external data sets in other cancers proved to underestimate both the 
mean and variance of the mapped EQ-5D utilities. Furthermore, it appears that 
the relationship between QLQ-C30 scores and EQ-5D values is not stable across 
the different data sets.
CONCLUSIONS: Validation of the proposed algorithm in other external clinical 
data sets should be encouraged as well as the application of other more complex 
mapping methods to enhance accuracy of mapping. In the meanwhile, direct mapping 
from QLQ-C30 profiles to EQ-5D utilities using published algorithms should be 
performed with reservations.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-012-0220-9
PMID: 22743734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2012 Sep;25(5):398-404. doi:
10.1097/YCO.0b013e3283558491.

Medical comorbidity of cluster B personality disorders.

Douzenis A(1), Tsopelas C, Tzeferakos G.

Author information:
(1)Athens University Medical School, 2nd Psychiatry Department, Athens, Greece. 
thandouz@med.uoa.gr

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Cluster B personality disorders are associated with behaviour 
and lifestyle that cause significant problems not only for the personality 
disordered individual but for society as well. Despite the fact that cluster B 
personality disorders have attracted a lot of research interest recently, their 
association with medical (physical health) problems is less studied, though it 
is anticipated that personality is clinically important and influences the 
outcome of somatic disease illnesses.
RECENT FINDINGS: Cluster B personality disorders are associated with Axis I 
psychiatric disorders such as addiction that have serious and life-threatening 
physical comorbidity. Lifestyle and health behaviours associated with cluster B 
personality disorders lead to medical problems and enhance preexisting physical 
problems. Furthermore, personality traits associated with cluster B personality 
disorders disrupt both medical treatment and follow-up, influencing negatively 
life expectancy and quality of life.
SUMMARY: It is imperative that clinicians of all medical specialties are aware 
of the influence personality disorders and certain personality traits such as 
impulsivity can have on the outcome of the illness. Further research on the 
interaction between personality disorders and medical illness is needed.

DOI: 10.1097/YCO.0b013e3283558491
PMID: 22744403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Curr Opin Psychiatry. 2012 Sep;25(5):359-64. doi:
10.1097/YCO.0b013e328355ab26.

Older adults with intellectual disability.

Sinai A(1), Bohnen I, Strydom A.

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Sciences Unit, University College London, London, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Improvements in health and social care for people with 
intellectual disability have led to a dramatic increase in the life expectancy 
of this population, resulting in a large and growing number of older adults with 
intellectual disability. They are at risk of age-related mental disorders such 
as dementia and continue to present with high rates of mental illness.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent research with older adults with intellectual disability 
has included physical health issues that may affect mental well being, and 
biological and clinical features of dementia in people with Down syndrome. Two 
key clinical trials of memantine and antioxidants for dementia in Down syndrome 
showed that these treatment options were ineffective in the short term. Other 
research focussed on environmental and psychosocial issues (including carer 
issues) and end-of-life care.
SUMMARY: Improved mental well being requires effective management of mental 
illness and co-morbid physical health problems as well as consideration of 
environmental and social issues. Biological research has identified potential 
treatments for age-related decline, which has led to the development of 
medication trials. Despite disappointing results, two recent medication trials 
showed that randomized controlled trials are feasible in older people with 
intellectual disabilities - a group who are often excluded from trials.

DOI: 10.1097/YCO.0b013e328355ab26
PMID: 22744404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2012 Nov;138(11):1901-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-012-1266-3. Epub 2012 Jun 29.

Conditional survival in patients treated with vascular endothelial growth 
factor-targeted therapy for advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Zhu Y(1), Hong YP, Zhang HL, Shi GH, Xiao WJ, Wang ZH, Yao XD, Zhang SL, Dai B, 
Ye DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, No 270 
Dong'an Road, Shanghai 200032, People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: Conditional survival (CS) offers more relevant prognostic information 
for patients once they have survived for some time. The objective of this study 
was to determine the CS for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients treated 
with vascular endothelial growth factor-targeted therapy.
METHODS: A total of 345 patients treated between 2006 and 2011 fulfilled the 
inclusion criteria and were reviewed for analyses. The 1-year conditional and 
actual survival rates were calculated for survivors from treatment to month 24. 
Subgroup-specific CS rates were generated after adjustment of the covariate 
influence. The Cox proportional hazard models were used to assess the prognostic 
factors at baseline and 1-year landmark.
RESULTS: The probabilities of surviving an additional year given survival to 6, 
12, 18, and 24 months were 72.2, 76.3, 78.2, and 78.6 %, respectively. 
Remarkable increase in CS was observed in patients initially classified as 
intermediate or poor risk according to Heng risk groups. For patients survived 
24 months after treatment, the adjusted CS for the following year was over 80 % 
regardless of initial risk attribution. Compared to baseline analysis, Heng risk 
groups were less predictive of survivorship after surviving 1 year. The addition 
of disease control status to multifactorial model significantly improved 
survival estimation for 1-year survivors (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: CS provides useful information regarding life expectancy for 
survivors of advanced RCC treated with targeted therapy. Furthermore, disease 
control status within a specific period of time is critical to the prediction of 
subsequent survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-012-1266-3
PMID: 22744643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2012 Oct 1;186(7):657-65. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201203-0487OC. Epub 2012 Jun 28.

Short- and long-term antibiotic treatment reduces airway and systemic 
inflammation in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.

Chalmers JD(1), Smith MP, McHugh BJ, Doherty C, Govan JR, Hill AT.

Author information:
(1)Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, Department of Respiratory Medicine, Edinburgh, 
United Kingdom. jamesdchalmers@googlemail.com

RATIONALE: The vicious cycle hypothesis of bronchiectasis argues that bacterial 
colonization leads to airway inflammation and progressive lung damage. The 
logical extension of this hypothesis is that acute or chronic antibiotic therapy 
should improve airway inflammation and clinical outcome. There are little data 
to support this hypothesis in patients with non-cystic fibrosis (CF) 
bronchiectasis.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether acute or chronic antibiotic therapy improves 
airway inflammation and clinical outcome in non-CF bronchiectasis.
METHODS: The relationship between bacterial load and airway and systemic 
inflammation was investigated in 385 stable patients, 15 stable patients treated 
with intravenous antibiotics, and 34 patients with an exacerbation of 
bronchiectasis treated with intravenous antibiotics. Long-term antibiotic 
therapy was investigated using samples from a 12-month controlled trial of 
nebulized gentamicin.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In stable patients, there was a direct 
relationship between airway bacterial load and markers of airway inflammation (P 
< 0.0001 for all analyses). High bacterial loads were associated with higher 
serum intercellular adhesion molecule-1, E-selectin, and vascular cell adhesion 
molecule-1 (P < 0.05 above bacterial load ≥1 × 10(7) cfu/ml). In stable 
patients, there was a direct relationship between bacterial load and the risk of 
subsequent exacerbations (odds ratio, 1.20; 95% confidence interval, 1.11-1.29; 
P < 0.0001) and severe exacerbations (odds ratio, 1.11; 95% confidence interval, 
1.01-1.21; P = 0.02). Short- and long-term antibiotic treatments were associated 
with reductions in bacterial load, airways, and systemic inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS: High airway bacterial loads in non-CF bronchiectasis are associated 
with airway and systemic inflammation and a greater risk of exacerbations. 
Short- and long-term antibiotic therapy reduce markers of airways and systemic 
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201203-0487OC
PMID: 22744718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Agric Food Chem. 2012 Jul 25;60(29):7297-305. doi: 10.1021/jf301621e. Epub
 2012 Jul 13.

Polyphenolic constituents of Cynomorium songaricum Rupr. and antibacterial 
effect of polymeric proanthocyanidin on methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus.

Jin S(1), Eerdunbayaer, Doi A, Kuroda T, Zhang G, Hatano T, Chen G.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Inner Mongolia University, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, 
China.

Oligomeric and polymeric flavan-3-ols were obtained by chromatographic 
fractionation of extracts from Cynomorium songaricum Rupr. The structure of the 
