de cada país por sexo partiendo de la mayor esperanza de vida alcanzada por sexo 
para cada periodo.
RESULTADOS: Las desigualdades internacionales en las desviaciones en la 
esperanza de vida entre hombres y mujeres descendieron entre 1950 y 1975 pero se 
estancaron a partir de entonces. La desigualdad internacional en la desviación 
en la esperanza de vida ha sido superior en las mujeres que en los hombres, 
oscilando entre 1,9 y 2,9 años. Las mujeres de países de ingresos bajos sufren 
la mayor desigualdad, actualmente en torno a 26,7 años.
CONCLUSIÓN: La desigualdad internacional en la desviación es mayor entre las 
mujeres que entre los hombres principalmente porque las mujeres de grupos de 
países de ingresos bajos y bajos-medios registran mayores diferencias en la 
esperanza de vida que los hombres. Es necesario investigar este tema más en 
profundidad para determinar los mecanismos causantes de estas desigualdades.

الغرض: تقييم تفاوت النقص الدولي في متوسط العمر المأمول عند الميلاد بين السيدات 
والرجال وتأثير الجغرافيا وفئة دخل البلدان.
الطريقة: استخدم المؤلفون تقديرات متوسط العمر المأمول عند الميلاد بحسب الجنس 
لاثنتي عشر فترة مدة كل منها خمس سنوات فيما بين عام 1950 إلى عام 1955، وفيما بين 
عام 2005 إلى عام 2010 وتقديرات السكان لنقاط الوسط لكل فترة من توقعات السكان في 
العالم، مراجعة عام 2008 . وتم تعريف تفاوت النقص على أنه المتوسط المرجح لانحرافات 
كل متوسط من متوسطات العمر المأمول لكل بلد بحسب الجنس من متوسط العمر المأمول 
الأعلى بلوغاً بحسب الجنس لكل فترة.
النتائج: انخفضت أوجه تفاوت النقص الدولي في متوسط العمر المأمول فيما بين الرجال 
والسيدات في الفترة من 1950 إلى 1975، غير أنها شهدت ركوداً بعدها. وكان تفاوت 
النقص الدولي في متوسط العمر المأمول أعلى لدى السيدات عنه لدى الرجال وتراوح ما 
بين 1.9 إلى 2.9 سنة. وتعاني السيدات في البلدان منخفضة الدخل من أكبر نقص، ويبلغ 
في الوقت الراهن حوالي 26.7 سنة.
الاستنتاج: تفاوت النقص الدولي أعلى بين السيدات عنه بين الرجال، وهو ما ينسب بشكل 
رئيسي إلى الاختلافات الكبيرة التي تظهرها السيدات في فئات البلدان منخفضة الدخل 
والشريحة الدنيا من البلدان متوسطة الدخل في متوسط العمر المأمول مقارنة بالرجال. 
ويتطلب الأمر إجراء المزيد من التحري لتحديد المسارات المسببة لأوجه التفاوت هذه.

目的: 评估女性和男性出生时期望寿命的国际不足值差异性以及地理和国家收入阶层的影响。
方法: 作者使用在1950-1955 和2005-2010 年的 12 个五年期间按性别评估出生时期望寿命，估计2008 
年修订的世界人口展望的每个期间中点的人口。将不足值差异性定义为每个国家按性别的平均期望寿命和每个期间按性别达到的最高期望寿命之间的偏差的加权平均数。
结果: 女性和男性的国际期望寿命不足值差异性在1950 年至1975 年之间有所下降，但此后停滞。较之男性，女性的期望寿命的国际不足值差异性更高，范围为1.9 
至2.9 年。低收入国家的妇女不足值最大，目前约为26.7 年。
结论: 女性的国际不足值差异性比男性高的主要原因是低收入和中等偏下收入国家阶层的妇女显示出比男性更大的期望寿命差异。要确定引起差异性的原因需要进一步调查。

ЦЕЛЬ: Оценить международную неравномерность отставания в ожидаемой 
продолжительности жизни женщин и мужчин при рождении, а также влияние 
географического расположения и группы страны по уровню доходов.
МЕТОДЫ: Авторы использовали данные об ожидаемой продолжительности жизни при 
рождении, в зависимости от пола, для 12 пятилетних периодов с 1950-1955 по 
2005-2010 гг. и оценки населения для середины каждого из периодов на основе 
доклада ООН о перспективах населения в мире (World Population Prospects) от 2008 
г. Неравномерность отставания для каждой страны определялась для каждого периода 
как средневзвешенное отклонение средней продолжительности жизни в данной стране, 
в зависимости от пола, от самой высокой достигнутой продолжительности жизни, в 
зависимости от пола.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Международная неравномерность отставания в ожидаемой 
продолжительности жизни женщин и мужчин снижалась между 1950 и 1975 гг., но в 
дальнейшем оставалась без изменений. Международная неравномерность отставания в 
ожидаемой продолжительности жизни среди женщин была выше, чем среди мужчин, и 
находилась в диапазоне от 1,9 до 2,9 лет. У женщин в странах с низким доходом 
наблюдается самое большое отставание, которое в настоящее время составляет около 
26,7 лет.
МЕЖДУНАРОДНАЯ: неравномерность отставания в ожидаемой продолжительности жизни 
выше среди женщин, чем среди мужчин, в первую очередь потому, что различия в 
продолжительности жизни среди женщин в странах с низким и низким-средним уровнем 
доходов больше, чем среди мужчин. Для определения причин этих различий 
необходимы дальнейшие исследования.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.11.097378
PMCID: PMC3417792
PMID: 22893742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. BMC Res Notes. 2012 Aug 16;5:442. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-5-442.

Scenario drafting to anticipate future developments in technology assessment.

Retèl VP(1), Joore MA, Linn SC, Rutgers EJ, van Harten WH.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital (NKI-AVL), 
Department of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, Plesmanlaan 121, Amsterdam 
1066 CX, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Health Technology Assessment (HTA) information, and in particular 
cost-effectiveness data is needed to guide decisions, preferably already in 
early stages of technological development. However, at that moment there is 
usually a high degree of uncertainty, because evidence is limited and different 
development paths are still possible. We developed a multi-parameter framework 
to assess dynamic aspects of a technology -still in development-, by means of 
scenario drafting to determine the effects, costs and cost-effectiveness of 
possible future diffusion patterns. Secondly, we explored the value of this 
method on the case of the clinical implementation of the 70-gene signature for 
breast cancer, a gene expression profile for selecting patients who will benefit 
most from chemotherapy.
METHODS: To incorporate process-uncertainty, ten possible scenarios regarding 
the introduction of the 70-gene signature were drafted with European experts. 
Out of 5 most likely scenarios, 3 drivers of diffusion (non-compliance, 
technical failure, and uptake) were quantitatively integrated in a 
decision-analytical model. For these scenarios, the cost-effectiveness of the 
70-gene signature expressed in Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratios (ICERs) was 
compared to clinical guidelines, calculated from the past (2005) until the 
future (2020).
RESULTS: In 2005 the ICER was €1,9 million/quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY), 
meaning that the 70-gene signature was not yet cost-effective compared to the 
current clinical guideline. The ICER for the 70-gene signature improved over 
time with a range of €1,9 million to €26,145 in 2010 and €1,9 million to 
€11,123/QALY in 2020 depending on the separate scenario used. From 2010, the 
70-gene signature should be cost-effective, based on the combined scenario. The 
uptake-scenario had strongest influence on the cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: When optimal diffusion of a technology is sought, incorporating 
process-uncertainty by means of scenario drafting into a decision model may 
reveal unanticipated developments and can demonstrate a range of possible 
cost-effectiveness outcomes. The effect of scenarios give additional information 
on the speed with cost effectiveness might be reached and thus provide a more 
realistic picture for policy makers, opinion leaders and manufacturers.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-5-442
PMCID: PMC3444406
PMID: 22894140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Acoust Soc Am. 2012 Aug;132(2):1009-16. doi: 10.1121/1.4730910.

Musical background not associated with self-perceived hearing performance or 
speech perception in postlingual cochlear-implant users.

Fuller C(1), Free R, Maat B, Başkent D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, University of 
Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
c.d.fuller@umcg.nl

In normal-hearing listeners, musical background has been observed to change the 
sound representation in the auditory system and produce enhanced performance in 
some speech perception tests. Based on these observations, it has been 
hypothesized that musical background can influence sound and speech perception, 
and as an extension also the quality of life, by cochlear-implant users. To test 
this hypothesis, this study explored musical background [using the Dutch Musical 
Background Questionnaire (DMBQ)], and self-perceived sound and speech perception 
and quality of life [using the Nijmegen Cochlear Implant Questionnaire (NCIQ) 
and the Speech Spatial and Qualities of Hearing Scale (SSQ)] in 98 postlingually 
deafened adult cochlear-implant recipients. In addition to self-perceived 
measures, speech perception scores (percentage of phonemes recognized in words 
presented in quiet) were obtained from patient records. The self-perceived 
hearing performance was associated with the objective speech perception. 
Forty-one respondents (44% of 94 respondents) indicated some form of formal 
musical training. Fifteen respondents (18% of 83 respondents) judged themselves 
as having musical training, experience, and knowledge. No association was 
observed between musical background (quantified by DMBQ), and self-perceived 
hearing-related performance or quality of life (quantified by NCIQ and SSQ), or 
speech perception in quiet.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4730910
PMID: 22894221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. N Engl J Med. 2012 Aug 16;367(7):595-605. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1201637.

Quality-of-life effects of prostate-specific antigen screening.

Heijnsdijk EA(1), Wever EM, Auvinen A, Hugosson J, Ciatto S, Nelen V, 
Kwiatkowski M, Villers A, Páez A, Moss SM, Zappa M, Tammela TL, Mäkinen T, 
Carlsson S, Korfage IJ, Essink-Bot ML, Otto SJ, Draisma G, Bangma CH, Roobol MJ, 
Schröder FH, de Koning HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. e.heijnsdijk@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2012 Aug 16;367(7):669-71.
    N Engl J Med. 2012 Nov 8;367(19):1861; author reply 1862.
    N Engl J Med. 2012 Nov 8;367(19):1861-2; author reply 1862.
    Eur Urol. 2013 Jan;63(1):180.
    J Urol. 2013 Mar;189(3):899-900.
    Eur Urol. 2013 Jun;63(6):1130.
    Asian J Androl. 2015 Jan-Feb;17(1):44-5.

BACKGROUND: After 11 years of follow-up, the European Randomized Study of 
Screening for Prostate Cancer (ERSPC) reported a 29% reduction in 
prostate-cancer mortality among men who underwent screening for 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. However, the extent to which harms to 
quality of life resulting from overdiagnosis and treatment counterbalance this 
benefit is uncertain.
METHODS: On the basis of ERSPC follow-up data, we used Microsimulation Screening 
Analysis (MISCAN) to predict the number of prostate cancers, treatments, deaths, 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained after the introduction of PSA 
screening. Various screening strategies, efficacies, and quality-of-life 
assumptions were modeled.
RESULTS: Per 1000 men of all ages who were followed for their entire life span, 
we predicted that annual screening of men between the ages of 55 and 69 years 
would result in nine fewer deaths from prostate cancer (28% reduction), 14 fewer 
men receiving palliative therapy (35% reduction), and a total of 73 life-years 
gained (average, 8.4 years per prostate-cancer death avoided). The number of 
QALYs that were gained was 56 (range, -21 to 97), a reduction of 23% from 
unadjusted life-years gained. To prevent one prostate-cancer death, 98 men would 
need to be screened and 5 cancers would need to be detected. Screening of all 
men between the ages of 55 and 74 would result in more life-years gained (82) 
but the same number of QALYs (56).
CONCLUSIONS: The benefit of PSA screening was diminished by loss of QALYs owing 
to postdiagnosis long-term effects. Longer follow-up data from both the ERSPC 
and quality-of-life analyses are essential before universal recommendations 
regarding screening can be made. (Funded by the Netherlands Organization for 
Health Research and Development and others.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1201637
PMCID: PMC4982868
PMID: 22894572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. N Engl J Med. 2012 Aug 16;367(7):669-71. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe1207165.

Quality of life and guidelines for PSA screening.

Sox HC.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2012 Aug 16;367(7):595-605.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe1207165
PMID: 22894580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Bull NYU Hosp Jt Dis. 2012;70(1):25-34.

Three-and four-part proximal humerus fractures: evolution to operative care.

Min W(1), Davidovitch RI, Tejwani NC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama 10003, USA.

The recent increase in life expectancy is expected to bring about a concurrent 
rise in the number of proximal humerus fractures. Those presenting with 
significant displacement, osteoporosis, and comminution present distinct 
clinical challenges, and the optimal treatment of these injuries remains 
controversial. As implant technologies and treatment strategies continue to 
evolve, the role and appropriateness of certain operative and nonoperative 
treatment modalities are being debated. Prior concerns regarding humeral head 
viability forced many physicians to abandon operative management in favor of 
nonoperative modalities. However, with greater appreciation and understanding of 
the factors governing humeral head viability, operative intervention is 
increasingly used and investigated. Nevertheless, sub-optimal results with 
earlier implants continue to cloud the debate between nonoperative and operative 
treatment modalities. This paper will review historical considerations, biologic 
considerations, and implant considerations in the management of three-and 
four-part proximal humerus fractures.

PMID: 22894692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Health Syst Transit. 2012;14(3):1-186.

Bulgaria health system review.

Dimova A(1), Rohova M, Moutafova E, Atanasova E, Koeva S, Panteli D, van 
Ginneken E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Economics and Management, Varna University of Medicine, 
Bulgaria.

In the last 20 years, demographic development in Bulgaria has been characterized 
by population decline, a low crude birth rate, a low fertility rate, a high 
mortality rate and an ageing population. A stabilizing political situation since 
the early 2000s and an economic upsurge since the mid-2000s were important 
factors in the slight increase of the birth and fertility rates and the slight 
decrease in standardized death rates. In general, Bulgaria lags behind European 
Union (EU) averages in most mortality and morbidity indicators. Life expectancy 
at birth reached 73.3 years in 2008 with the main three causes of death being 
diseases of the circulatory system, malignant neoplasms and diseases of the 
respiratory system. One of the most important risk factors overall is smoking, 
and the average standardized death rate for smoking-related causes in 2008 was 
twice as high as the EU15 average. The Bulgarian health system is characterized 
by limited statism. The Ministry of Health is responsible for national health 
policy and the overall organization and functioning of the health system and 
coordinates with all ministries with relevance to public health. The key players 
in the insurance system are the insured individuals, the health care providers 
and the third party payers, comprising the National Health Insurance Fund, the 
single payer in the social health insurance (SHI) system, and voluntary health 
insurance companies (VHICs). Health financing consists of a publicprivate mix. 
Health care is financed from compulsory health insurance contributions, taxes, 
outofpocket (OOP) payments, voluntary health insurance (VHI) premiums, corporate 
payments, donations, and external funding. Total health expenditure (THE) as a 
share of gross domestic product (GDP) increased from 5.3% in 1995 to 7.3% in 
2008. At the latter date it consisted of 36.5% OOP payments, 34.8% SHI, 13.6% 
Ministry of Health expenditure, 9.4% municipality expenditure and 0.3% VHI. 
Informal payments in the health sector represent a substantial part of total OOP 
payments (47.1% in 2006). The health system is economically unstable and health 
care establishments, most notably hospitals, are suffering from underfunding. 
Planning of outpatient health care is based on a territorial principle. 
Investment for state and municipal health establishments is financed from the 
state or municipal share in the establishments capital. In the first quarter of 
2009, health workers accounted for 4.9% of the total workforce. Compared to 
other countries, the relative number of physicians and dentists is particularly 
high but the relative number of nurses remains well below the EU15, EU12 and 
EU27 averages. Bulgaria is faced with increased professional mobility, which is 
becoming particularly challenging. There is an oversupply of acute care beds and 
an undersupply of longterm care and rehabilitation services. Health care reforms 
after 1989 focused predominantly on ambulatory care and the restructuring of the 
hospital sector is still pending on the government agenda. Citizens as well as 
medical professionals are dissatisfied with the health care system and equity is 
a challenge not only because of differences in health needs, but also because of 
socioeconomic disparities and territorial imbalances. The need for further 
reform is pronounced, particularly in view of the low health status of the 
population. Structural reforms and increased competitiveness in the system as 
well as an overall support of reform concepts and measures are prerequisites for 
successful progress.

World Health Organization 2012, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22894828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Health Syst Transit. 2012;14(5):1-159.

Sweden health system review.

Anell A(1), Glenngård AH, Merkur S.

Author information:
(1)Lund University School of Economics and Management.

Life expectancy in Sweden is high and the country performs well in comparisons 
related to disease-oriented indicators of health service outcomes and quality of 
care. The Swedish health system is committed to ensuring the health of all 
citizens and abides by the principles of human dignity, need and solidarity, and 
cost-effectiveness. The state is responsible for overall health policy, while 
the funding and provision of services lies largely with the county councils and 
regions. The municipalities are responsible for the care of older and disabled 
people. The majority of primary care centres and almost all hospitals are owned 
by the county councils. Health care expenditure is mainly tax funded (80%) and 
is equivalent to 9.9% of gross domestic product (GDP) (2009). Only about 4% of 
the population has voluntary health insurance (VHI). User charges fund about 17% 
of health expenditure and are levied on visits to professionals, hospitalization 
and medicines. The number of acute care hospital beds is below the European 
Union (EU) average and Sweden allocates more human resources to the health 
sector than most OECD countries. In the past, the Achilles heel of Swedish 
health care included long waiting times for diagnosis and treatment and, more 
recently, divergence in quality of care between regions and socioeconomic 
groups. Addressing long waiting times remains a key policy objective along with 
improving access to providers. Recent principal health reforms over the past 
decade relate to: concentrating hospital services; regionalizing health care 
services, including mergers; improving coordinated care; increasing choice, 
competition and privatization in primary care; privatization and competition in 
the pharmacy sector; changing co-payments; and increasing attention to public 
comparison of quality and efficiency indicators, the value of investments in 
health care and responsiveness to patients needs. Reforms are often introduced 
on the local level, thus the pattern of reform varies across local government, 
although mimicking behaviour usually occurs.

World Health Organization 2012, on behalf of the European Observatory on health 
systems and Policies.

PMID: 22894859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Sep;13(9):879-86. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70324-8.
Epub  2012 Aug 13.

Ipilimumab and fotemustine in patients with advanced melanoma (NIBIT-M1): an 
open-label, single-arm phase 2 trial.

Di Giacomo AM(1), Ascierto PA, Pilla L, Santinami M, Ferrucci PF, Giannarelli D, 
Marasco A, Rivoltini L, Simeone E, Nicoletti SV, Fonsatti E, Annesi D, Queirolo 
P, Testori A, Ridolfi R, Parmiani G, Maio M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology and Immunotherapy, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Senese, 
Istituto Toscano Tumori, Siena, Italy.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2012 Sep;13(9):851-2.

BACKGROUND: Ipilimumab improves survival of patients with metastatic melanoma, 
many of whom develop brain metastases. Chemotherapy-induced release of tumour 
antigens might amplify ipilimumab's antitumour activity. We aimed to investigate 
the efficacy and safety of ipilimumab plus fotemustine in patients with 
metastatic melanoma with or without asymptomatic brain metastases.
METHODS: In our open-label, single-arm phase 2 trial, we enrolled patients 18 
years or older with measurable, locally advanced, unresectable stage III or 
stage IV melanoma between July 6, 2010, and April 14, 2011. Eligible patients 
had a life expectancy of 16 weeks or more and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group performance status of 1 or less, and could have received a maximum of one 
previous line of chemotherapy. Participants received induction treatment of 10 
mg/kg intravenous ipilimumab every 3 weeks to a total of four doses, and 100 
mg/m(2) intravenous fotemustine weekly for 3 weeks and then every 3 weeks from 
week 9 to week 24. Patients with a confirmed clinical response were eligible for 
maintenance treatment from week 24, with ipilimumab every 12 weeks and 
fotemustine every 3 weeks. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients 
with immune-related disease control as established with immune-related response 
criteria. Analyses were done per protocol. This trial is registered with 
EudraCT, number 2010-019356-50, and with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01654692.
FINDINGS: 86 patients were eligible for treatment, of whom 20 had asymptomatic 
brain metastases at baseline. 40 patients in the study population achieved 
disease control (46·5%, 95% CI 35·7-57·6), as did ten with brain metastases 
(50·0%, 27·2-72·8). 47 patients (55%) had grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse 
events, of which the most common was myelotoxicity (thrombocytopenia in 21 [24%] 
patients and neutropenia in 16 [19%]). The most common grade 3 or 4 
immune-related adverse events were hepatic: 21 patients (24%) had grade 3 or 4 
increases in concentrations of alanine aminotransferase or aspartate 
aminotransferase.
INTERPRETATION: The combination of ipilimumab plus fotemustine has clinical 
activity in patients with metastatic melanoma, including those with brain 
metastases.
FUNDING: Bristol-Myers Squibb.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70324-8
PMID: 22894884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Melanoma Res. 2012 Oct;22(5):334-40. doi: 10.1097/CMR.0b013e328357bea8.

Uveal melanoma dormancy: an acceptable clinical endpoint?

Blanco PL(1), Lim LA, Miyamoto C, Burnier MN.

Author information:
(1)Henry C. Witelson Ophthalmic Pathology Laboratory and Registry, Department of 
Pathology, McGill University Health Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
paula.blanco@mail.mcgill.ca

Uveal melanoma is a rare but life-threatening malignancy. Over the past decades, 
the morbidity of uveal melanoma has been markedly reduced as a result of 
advances in the diagnostic ability to detect smaller tumors at an earlier stage. 
This has allowed for the use of more conservative treatments, avoiding 
enucleation. Mortality, however, has remained unchanged. This indicates that 
life expectancy is independent of local tumor control. Metastatic disease, the 
leading cause of death, is usually diagnosed many years later, despite 
successful treatment of the primary tumor, and at a late stage, when no 
effective therapy is available. These observations suggest that the disease was 
already disseminated at the time of tumor diagnosis. The detection of 
circulating malignant cells in the bloodstream of patients at different time 
points in the course of the disease supports this observation. Tumor dormancy 
has been considered as the leading theory for this intriguing delayed appearance 
of metastasis. Recent knowledge gained about the biological behavior of uveal 
melanoma as well as novel potential therapeutic targets are presented in this 
review.

DOI: 10.1097/CMR.0b013e328357bea8
PMID: 22895346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2012 Nov;35(11):1395-405. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.2012.03489.x. Epub 2012 Aug 16.

A review on advanced atrioventricular block in young or middle-aged adults.

Barra SN(1), Providência R, Paiva L, Nascimento J, Marques AL.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Coimbra Hospital and University Centre, Centro 
Hospitalar de Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. sergioncbarra@gmail.com

Complete atrioventricular block is a relatively uncommon arrhythmia that is 
nonetheless increasingly seen in elderly people of developed countries, due to 
the increase in life expectancy. Congenital and degenerative etiologies are the 
most commonly seen among young and old patients, respectively. However, 
scientific literature is surprisingly scarce regarding the etiology of complete 
atrioventricular block in the asymptomatic otherwise healthy young and 
middle-aged adult population. Coronary artery disease, autoimmune disorders such 
as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis, history of acute or 
chronic infectious or hypersensitivity myocarditis, infiltrative processes, 
hypothyroidism, congenital cardiopathies such as left ventricular noncompaction 
or Ebstein anomaly, lamin A/C mutations, and pathologic hypervagotony and 
idiopathic degenerative scleroatrophy of the atrioventricular junctional 
specialized tissue (Lenegre-Lev disease) are among the most frequent etiologies 
of complete atrioventricular block in young or middle-aged adults. To our 
knowledge, no comprehensive review on the specificities of the investigation 
warranted in this age group has ever been developed, nor have the implications 
of particular diagnoses on treatment modalities been appropriately addressed. We 
aim at reviewing the most frequent differential diagnoses of advanced 
atrioventricular block in otherwise healthy asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic 
young or middle-aged adults and their impact on therapeutic options. 
Additionally, we suggest a diagnostic algorithm that may be helpful in this 
group of patients.

©2012, The Authors. Journal compilation ©2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.2012.03489.x
PMID: 22897386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Leuk Lymphoma. 2013 Feb;54(2):229-41. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2012.706287.
Epub  2012 Sep 17.

Molecular mechanisms of effectiveness of novel therapies in multiple myeloma.

Bianchi G(1), Ghobrial IM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

The prognosis of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) has radically changed over 
the past two decades mostly due to the introduction of novel pharmacologic 
treatments such as thalidomide, bortezomib and lenalidomide. These drugs were 
the first new anti-myeloma agents since the 1950s, and represented a landmark 
step in the race for the cure of MM and the paradigm of effectiveness of 
bench-to-bedside research. Compared to a median overall survival of 2-3 years in 
the mid-1950s, patients with MM have nowadays an expected median survival of 7-8 
years. Novel agents have not only extended the life expectancy of patients with 
MM, but also shed light on the necessity of further understanding the biology of 
MM in order to design more effective, less toxic therapies. Basic research has 
provided a critical mass of information about the molecular and cellular biology 
of MM, particularly the pivotal pathogenetic role of the bone marrow niche. 
Several novel drugs, designed to specifically target MM in the context of its 
microenvironment, are currently in clinical trials and hold great promise for 
improving the MM treatment armamentarium and overcoming resistance. In this 
article we review the biological basis of effectiveness of anti-myeloma agents 
with an emphasis on experimental drugs.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2012.706287
PMID: 22897729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Aug 16;12:257. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-257.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of timely dialysis referral after renal transplant 
failure in Spain.

Villa G(1), Sánchez-Álvarez E, Cuervo J, Fernández-Ortiz L, Rebollo P, Ortega F.

Author information:
(1)BAP LA-SER Outcomes, LA-SER Group, Azcárraga, Oviedo, Asturias, Spain. 
guillermo@baphealth.com

BACKGROUND: A cost-effectiveness analysis of timely dialysis referral after 
renal transplant failure was undertaken from the perspective of the Public 
Administration. The current Spanish situation, where all the patients undergoing 
graft function loss are referred back to dialysis in a late manner, was compared 
to an ideal scenario where all the patients are timely referred.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed in which six health states were defined: 
hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, kidney transplantation, late referral 
hemodialysis, late referral peritoneal dialysis and death. The model carried out 
a simulation of the progression of renal disease for a hypothetical cohort of 
1,000 patients aged 40, who were observed in a lifetime temporal horizon of 
45 years. In depth sensitivity analyses were performed in order to ensure the 
robustness of the results obtained.
RESULTS: Considering a discount rate of 3 %, timely referral showed an 
incremental cost of 211 €, compared to late referral. This cost increase was 
however a consequence of the incremental survival observed. The incremental 
effectiveness was 0.0087 quality-adjusted life years (QALY). When comparing both 
scenarios, an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 24,390 €/QALY was 
obtained, meaning that timely dialysis referral might be an efficient 
alternative if a willingness-to-pay threshold of 45,000 €/QALY is considered. 
This result proved to be independent of the proportion of late referral patients 
observed. The acceptance probability of timely referral was 61.90 %, while late 
referral was acceptable in 38.10 % of the simulations. If we however restrict 
the analysis to those situations not involving any loss of effectiveness, the 
acceptance probability of timely referral was 70.10 %, increasing twofold that 
of late referral (29.90 %).
CONCLUSIONS: Timely dialysis referral after graft function loss might be an 
efficient alternative in Spain, improving both patients' survival rates and 
health-related quality of life at an affordable cost. Spanish Public Health 
authorities might therefore promote the inclusion of specific recommendations 
for this group of patients within the existing clinical guidelines.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-257
PMCID: PMC3465227
PMID: 22897891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Thromb Haemost. 2012 Oct;108(4):672-82. doi: 10.1160/TH12-06-0388. Epub 2012
Aug  17.

Dabigatran versus rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism 
in atrial fibrillation in Canada. Comparative efficacy and cost-effectiveness.

Kansal AR(1), Sharma M, Bradley-Kennedy C, Clemens A, Monz BU, Peng S, Roskell 
N, Sorensen SV.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. 
anuraag.kansal@unitedbiosource.com

Canadian patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) in whom anticoagulation is 
appropriate have two new choices for anticoagulation for prevention of stroke 
and systemic embolism--dabigatran etexilate (dabigatran) and rivaroxaban. Based 
on the RE-LY and ROCKET AF trial results, we investigated the cost-effectiveness 
of dabigatran (twice daily dosing of 150 mg or 110 mg based on patient age) 
versus rivaroxaban from a Canadian payer perspective. A formal indirect 
treatment comparison (ITC) of dabigatran versus rivaroxaban was performed, using 
dabigatran clinical event rates from RE-LY for the safety-on-treatment 
population, adjusted to the ROCKET AF population. A previously described Markov 
model was modified to simulate anticoagulation treatment using ITC results as 
inputs. Model outputs included total costs, event rates, and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). The ITC found when compared to rivaroxaban, dabigatran had a 
lower risk of intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) (relative risk [RR] = 0.38; 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 0.21 - 0.67) and stroke (RR = 0.62; 95%CI 0.45-0.87). 
Over a lifetime horizon, the model found dabigatran-treated patients experienced 
fewer ICHs (0.33 dabigatran vs. 0.71 rivaroxaban) and ischaemic strokes (3.40 
vs. 3.96) per 100 patient-years, and accrued more QALYs (6.17 vs. 6.01). 
Dabigatran-treated patients had lower acute care and long-term follow-up costs 
per patient ($52,314 vs. $53,638) which more than offset differences in drug 
costs ($7,299 vs. $6,128). In probabilistic analysis, dabigatran had high 
probability of being the most cost-effective therapy at common thresholds of 
willingness-to-pay (93% at a $20,000/QALY threshold). This study found 
dabigatran is economically dominant versus rivaroxaban for prevention of stroke 
and systemic embolism among Canadian AF patients.

DOI: 10.1160/TH12-06-0388
PMID: 22898892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Georgian Med News. 2012 Jul;(208-209):7-15.

Cancer screening program in Georgia (results of 2011).

Gvamichava R(1), Lomtadze N, Alibegashvili T, Charkviani T, Beruchashvili T, 
Jugeli L.

Author information:
(1)National Scrining Centre, Tbilisi, Georgia.

This paper reviews and summarizes the results and epidemiological data of 2011 
Cancer Screening Program in Georgia. The first paragraph of paper underlines 
main results of capacity building of the program and its implementation. The 
second paragraph is focused on activities conducted within the program on 
population behaviour change and communication campaign and the final paragraph 
analyses the data of epidemiological results collected during year 2011 of 
breast, cervical, prostate and colorectal cancer screening, reviews and 
summarizes. Implementation of cancer screening programs is of great medical and 
social importance. Cancer screening, using simple tests that can cover the 
general population, and also promotes the early diagnosis of cancer and its 
treatment in a timely manner, increasing life expectancy and reduce mortality.

PMID: 22899405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Environ Health Perspect. 2012 Dec;120(12):1645-9. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1205422.
Epub  2012 Aug 16.

Indigenous peoples of North America: environmental exposures and reproductive 
justice.

Hoover E(1), Cook K, Plain R, Sanchez K, Waghiyi V, Miller P, Dufault R, Sislin 
C, Carpenter DO.

Author information:
(1)American Studies Department, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912 
, USA. Elizabeth_M_Hoover@brown.edu

BACKGROUND: Indigenous American communities face disproportionate health burdens 
and environmental health risks compared with the average North American 
population. These health impacts are issues of both environmental and 
reproductive justice.
OBJECTIVES: In this commentary, we review five indigenous communities in various 
stages of environmental health research and discuss the intersection of 
environmental health and reproductive justice issues in these communities as 
well as the limitations of legal recourse.
DISCUSSION: The health disparities impacting life expectancy and reproductive 
capabilities in indigenous communities are due to a combination of social, 
economic, and environmental factors. The system of federal environmental and 
Indian law is insufficient to protect indigenous communities from environmental 
contamination. Many communities are interested in developing appropriate 
research partnerships in order to discern the full impact of environmental 
contamination and prevent further damage.
CONCLUSIONS: Continued research involving collaborative partnerships among 
scientific researchers, community members, and health care providers is needed 
to determine the impacts of this contamination and to develop approaches for 
remediation and policy interventions.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1205422
PMCID: PMC3548285
PMID: 22899635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: P.M. and V.W. are engaged through Alaska 
Community Action on Toxics in litigation against the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency and Teck Alaska Inc., Usibelli Coal Mine Inc., Aurora Energy 
Services LLC, the Alaska Railroad Corp., and Alaska Department of Environmental 
Conservation. R.P. is currently an applicant in a suit against the Ministry of 
the Environment, the Attorney General of Ontario, and Suncor Energy Products in 
Sarnia, Ontario, Canada. K.S. was a litigant in a settlement with Los Alamos 
National Laboratories. C.S. coordinates responsive legal support for 
Indigenous-led environmental justice campaigns. D.O.C. has served as an expert 
witness in cases regarding human health impact from exposure to various 
environmental agents, but has never accepted personal payment beyond travel 
costs. None of these suits will result in financial gain for the authors.


983. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2012 Aug 17;12:125. doi: 10.1186/1471-2288-12-125.

Estimating and validating disability-adjusted life years at the global level: a 
methodological framework for cancer.

Soerjomataram I(1), Lortet-Tieulent J, Ferlay J, Forman D, Mathers C, Parkin DM, 
Bray F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 
soerjomatarami@iarc.fr

BACKGROUND: Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) link data on disease 
occurrence to health outcomes, and they are a useful aid in establishing 
country-specific agendas regarding cancer control. The variables required to 
compute DALYs are however multiple and not readily available in many countries. 
We propose a methodology that derives global DALYs and validate variables and 
DALYs based on data from various cancer registries.
METHODS: We estimated DALYs for four countries (Norway, Bulgaria, India and 
Uganda) within each category of the human development index (HDI). The following 
sources (indicators) were used: Globocan2008 (incidence and mortality), various 
cancer registries (proportion cured, proportion treated and duration of 
disease), treatment guidelines (duration of treatment), specific burden of 
disease studies (sequelae and disability weights), alongside expert opinion. We 
obtained country-specific population estimates and identified resource levels 
using the HDI, DALYs are computed as the sum of years of life lost and years 
lived with disabilities.
RESULTS: Using mortality:incidence ratios to estimate country-specific survival, 
and by applying the human development index we derived country-specific 
estimates of the proportion cured and the proportion treated. The fit between 
the estimates and observed data from the cancer registries was relatively good. 
The final DALY estimates were similar to those computed using observed values in 
Norway, and in WHO's earlier global burden of disease study. Marked 
cross-country differences in the patterns of DALYs by cancer sites were 
observed. In Norway and Bulgaria, breast, colorectal, prostate and lung cancer 
were the main contributors to DALYs, representing 54% and 45%, respectively, of 
the totals. These cancers contributed only 27% and 18%, respectively, of total 
DALYs in India and Uganda.
CONCLUSIONS: Our approach resulted in a series of variables that can be used to 
estimate country-specific DALYs, enabling global estimates of DALYs and 
international comparisons that support priorities in cancer control.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2288-12-125
PMCID: PMC3490831
PMID: 22901001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Math Biosci Eng. 2012 Apr;9(2):313-46. doi: 10.3934/mbe.2012.9.313.

The Malthusian parameter and R0 for heterogeneous populations in periodic 
environments.

Inaba H(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Mathematical Sciences, University of Tokyo, Komaba 
Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan. inaba@ms.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Since the classical stable population theory in demography by Sharpe and Lotka, 
the sign relation sign(λ0)=sign(R0-1) between the basic reproduction number R0 
and the Malthusian parameter (the intrinsic rate of natural increase) λ0 has 
played a central role in population theory and its applications, because it 
connects individual's average reproductivity described by life cycle parameters 
to growth character of the whole population. Since R0 is originally defined for 
linear population evolution process in a constant environment, it is an 
important extension if we could formulate the same kind of threshold principle 
for population growth in time-heterogeneous environments. Since the mid-1990s, 
several authors proposed some ideas to extend the definition of R0 so that it 
can be applied to population dynamics in periodic environments. In particular, 
the definition of R0 in a periodic environment by Bacaer and Guernaoui (J. Math. 
Biol. 53, 2006) is most important, because their definition of R0 in a periodic 
environment can be interpreted as the asymptotic per generation growth rate, so 
from the generational point of view, it can be seen as a direct extension of the 
most successful definition of R0 in a constant environment by Diekmann, 
Heesterbeek and Metz ( J. Math. Biol. 28, 1990). In this paper, we propose a new 
approach to establish the sign relation between R0 and the Malthusian parameter 
λ0 for linear structured population dynamics in a periodic environment. Our 
arguments depend on the uniform primitivity of positive evolutionary system, 
which leads the weak ergodicity and the existence of exponential solution in 
periodic environments. For typical finite and infinite dimensional linear 
population models, we prove that a positive exponential solution exists and the 
sign relation holds between the Malthusian parameter, which is defined as the 
exponent of the exponential solution, and R0 given by the spectral radius of the 
next generation operator by Bacaer and Guernaoui's definition.

DOI: 10.3934/mbe.2012.9.313
PMID: 22901067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. BMC Ecol. 2012 Aug 18;12:17. doi: 10.1186/1472-6785-12-17.

Effects of brood size manipulation and common origin on phenotype and telomere 
length in nestling collared flycatchers.

Voillemot M(1), Hine K, Zahn S, Criscuolo F, Gustafsson L, Doligez B, Bize P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Biophore, University of Lausanne, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Evidence is accumulating that telomere length is a good predictor of 
life expectancy, especially early in life, thus calling for determining the 
factors that affect telomere length at this stage. Here, we investigated the 
relative influence of early growth conditions and origin (genetics and early 
maternal effects) on telomere length of collared flycatchers (Ficedula 
albicollis) at fledging. We experimentally transferred hatchlings among brood 
triplets to create reduced, control (i.e. unchanged final nestling number) and 
enlarged broods.
RESULTS: Although our treatment significantly affected body mass at fledging, we 
found no evidence that increased sibling competition affected nestling tarsus 
length and telomere length. However, mixed models showed that brood triplets 
explained a significant part of the variance in body mass (18%) and telomere 
length (19%), but not tarsus length (13%), emphasizing that unmanipulated early 
environmental factors influenced telomere length. These models also revealed 
low, but significant, heritability of telomere length (h(2) = 0.09). For 
comparison, the heritability of nestling body mass and tarsus length was 0.36 
and 0.39, respectively, which was in the range of previously published estimates 
for those two traits in this species.
CONCLUSION: Those findings in a wild bird population demonstrate that telomere 
length at the end of the growth period is weakly, but significantly, determined 
by genetic and/or maternal factors taking place before hatching. However, we 
found no evidence that the brood size manipulation experiment, and by extension 
the early growth conditions, influenced nestling telomere length. The weak 
heritability of telomere length suggests a close association with fitness in 
natural populations.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6785-12-17
PMCID: PMC3547695
PMID: 22901085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2012 Aug 20;71:19127. doi:
10.3402/ijch.v71i0.19127.

Socioeconomic characteristics and health outcomes in Sami speaking 
municipalities and a control group in northern Norway.

Norum J(1), Nieder C.

Author information:
(1)Northern Norway Regional Health Authority, Bodø, Norway. 
jan.norum@helse-nord.no

OBJECTIVES: The Sami people constitute an ethnic minority in northern Norway. 
The objectives of this study were to compare municipalities with a majority of 
Sami in the population and a control group with regard to socioeconomic factors 
and health outcome.
METHODS: Original data from Statistics Norway and Directorate of health on 
socioeconomic factors (education, unemployment, disability, poverty) and health 
outcomes [total mortality, cancer specific mortality, cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) specific mortality] were imported from the "Health Atlas" at the Northern 
Norway Regional Health Authority (NNRHA) trust. The 8 municipalities in the 
administration area of the Sami language law (Sami-majority group--18,868 
inhabitants) was compared with a control group consisting of 11 municipalities 
where the Sami constitute a small minority in the population (18,931 
inhabitants). Most data were from 2005 and 2008.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in socioeconomic factors. Overall, 
cancer- and CVD-specific mortality rates were similar in both groups. The life 
expectancy was significantly longer among women in the Sami-majority area (81.3 
vs. 79.5 years, p=0.035) and males (74.5 vs. 72.0 years, p=0.037).
CONCLUSION: Socioeconomic factors and cause-specific mortality rate were similar 
in the Sami-majority group and the control group. Residents of both sexes in 
Sami-majority areas enjoyed longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v71i0.19127
PMCID: PMC3424492
PMID: 22901291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2012 Sep;98(5):528-35. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2012.04.014. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Surgery of lumbar and thoracolumbar scolioses in adults over 50. Morbidity and 
survival in a multicenter retrospective cohort of 180 patients with a mean 
follow-up of 4.5 years.

Blamoutier A(1), Guigui P, Charosky S, Roussouly P, Chopin D; Groupe d’Étude de 
la Scoliose (GES).

Author information:
(1)Spine Surgery Unit, Saint-Grégoire Private Hospital Center, 6, boulevard de 
la Boutière, 35760 Saint-Grégoire, France. ablamoutier@vivalto-sante.com

INTRODUCTION: The increasing life expectancy of the population and the 
improvement in surgical and medical management of elderly patients mean that the 
indication for surgical treatment of adult lumbar and thoracolumbar scolioses 
has been extended. However the benefit/risk ratio of these procedures is still 
under debate.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We reviewed 180 patients, mean age 63years old with a 
minimum follow-up of 1year in a retrospective, continuous, multicenter study. 
The incidence rate of complications from surgery and the factors influencing 
their frequency were evaluated by uni- and multivariate analysis. The risk of a 
second operation was studied by actuarial survival analysis.
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 4.5years, 79 patients (44%) presented with at 
least one complication, including 32% with a serious complication. The most 
frequent complications were mechanical. The risk factors were medical 
co-morbidities, the extent of fusion and the extent of the preoperative sagittal 
imbalance. A second operation was necessary in 25% of patients at 1year and 50% 
of patients at 6years of follow-up.
DISCUSSION: Studies in the literature show that functional results are better 
with surgical treatment than with medical treatment in the management of 
thoracic spine and thoracolumbar deformities in patients over 50years old. An 
objective assessment of this deformity and associated co-morbidity should make 
it possible to reduce the rate of complications for this type of surgery.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2012.04.014
PMID: 22901524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Int J Cardiol. 2013 Sep 10;167(6):2792-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2012.07.010.
 Epub 2012 Aug 17.

Reduced life expectancy after an incident hospital diagnosis of acute myocardial 
infarction--effects of smoking in women and men.

Grundtvig M(1), Hagen TP, Amrud ES, Reikvam Å.

Author information:
(1)Division Lillehammer, Department of Medicine, Innlandet Hospital Trust, 
Lillehammer, Norway. mgrundtv@online.no

BACKGROUND: The aim was to investigate possible gender differences in the years 
of life lost after acute myocardial infarction (MI) and to explore how smoking 
affects life expectancy in the two genders.
METHODS: In the years 1998-2005, 2281 patients (36.8% women) who were discharged 
from or died in hospital following a diagnosis of MI were included. Survivors 
were followed for a mean of 8 years. The age of death for each patient was 
subtracted from the average projected age of death for individuals in the 
general population with a similar age to the patient at the time of their MI. 
The effects of gender, smoking, and other risk factors on the years of life lost 
were analysed.
RESULTS: During follow-up, 55% of the patients died. Non-smokers, ex-smokers and 
current smokers lost 5.4, 6.4 and 10.3 years of life, respectively. Structural 
equation modeling showed that currently smoking men lost 4.2 more years more 
than did non-smoking men (P<0.001), and this was mediated through more 
prematurely occurring MIs. Female current smokers lost 1.9 years more than male 
current smokers and female ex-smokers lost 1.8 years more than male ex-smokers 
(both P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: MI caused a substantial number of years of life lost, with a 
heavier loss in current smokers than in ex-smokers and non-smokers. The effect 
was predominantly related to the patient's age at the event. More years of life 
were lost among smoking women than among smoking men, indicating that smoking is 
most detrimental for the female gender.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2012.07.010
PMID: 22901693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2013 Jul;23(7):742-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2012.07.010. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

The burden and cost of disorders of the brain in Europe with the inclusion of 
harmful alcohol use and nicotine addiction.

Effertz T(1), Mann K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Commercial Law & Economics, University of Hamburg, Universität 
Hamburg, Germany. Effertz@mba.uni-hamburg.de

Recent publications calculated an annual prevalence of 38% of the population 
within the European Union having a "disorder of the brain" including substance 
use disorders (SUD) (Wittchen et al., 2011). The overall economic burden was 
estimated at 789 billion € (Gustavsson et al., 2011). While these calculations 
included alcohol dependence, harmful use of alcohol, a common ICD-10 diagnosis, 
was not considered appropriately. Tobacco related figures were completely left 
out. We hence estimated burden and costs of these diagnoses for the European 
Union by extrapolating basic figures from Germany, which have average 
proportions of alcohol and tobacco related consumption and prevalence rates. 
Several German Data sets were used to estimate prevalence, disability adjusted 
life years (DALYs) and Cost-of-Illness for alcohol and tobacco use disorders in 
Germany. Results were obtained by focussing on the burden of SUD including 
well-known comorbidities. Results were then extrapolated to the European level. 
Compared with the earlier estimations DALYs increased from 2.8 million to over 
6.6 million for SUDs. Costs augmented from 65.68 billion € PPP to about 350 
billion € PPP. We discuss the robustness and validity of our findings under 
different assumptions and with regard to methodology. We further took into 
account that in the new DSM 5 alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence - and similar 
tobacco - will be collapsed into one category of "alcohol related disorder". If 
added to the burden and cost calculations the substance use disorders rank on 
top of all disorders of the brain in Europe. Regardless of the calculation 
procedure our figures represent lower estimates and have to be regarded as 
conservative approaches.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2012.07.010
PMID: 22901735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Lancet. 2012 Aug 18;380(9842):623-4. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61306-3.

Uncovering and tackling Europe's hidden respiratory illness.

Rabe KF(1), Ward B.

Author information:
(1)Christian Albrechts University Kiel, 24118 Kiel, Germany. 
k.f.rabe@kh-grosshansdorf.de

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61306-3
PMID: 22901869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Lancet. 2012 Aug 18;380(9842):649. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61370-1.

Economic growth and better health: the UK's surprising progress.

Bishai D, O'Neil J.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61370-1
PMID: 22901885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


