at least two "Americas," if not multiple others, in terms of life expectancy, 
demarcated by level of education and racial-group membership. The message for 
policy makers is clear: implement educational enhancements at young, middle, and 
older ages for people of all races, to reduce the large gap in health and 
longevity that persists today.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0746
PMID: 22869659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Ther Adv Musculoskelet Dis. 2011 Aug;3(4):191-200. doi: 
10.1177/1759720X11411600.

Osteoporosis in men: insights for the clinician.

Adler RA.

Osteoporosis has finally been recognized as an important disorder in men. Men 
have osteoporotic fractures about 10 years later in life than women. Owing to 
increasing life expectancy, more fractures are predicted. Important risk factors 
for men include advancing age, smoking or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
glucocorticoid therapy, and androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer. 
Other groups at risk for osteoporosis include those with alcohol abuse, men on 
enzyme-inducing antiseizure drugs, and those with malabsorption or history of 
surgery for peptic ulcer disease. History and physical examination will likely 
reveal secondary causes of osteoporosis. Some, but not all organizations, 
recommend screening for osteoporosis in men older than age 70. In the USA, The 
Department of Veterans Affairs recommends case finding rather than screening. 
Evaluation starts with bone mineral density testing by dual energy X-ray 
absorptiometry of the spine, hip, and in some cases forearm. A few laboratory 
tests can be helpful, including measurement of 25-hydroxyvitamin D. Most studies 
of osteoporosis therapy in men are small; but alendronate, risedronate, 
zoledronic acid, and teriparatide are FDA-approved to increase bone density in 
men with osteoporosis. A new potent antiresorptive agent, denosumab, increased 
bone density dramatically in men on androgen deprivation therapy and is approved 
for this indication in Europe. Recognition, diagnosis, and treatment of 
osteoporosis in men should lead to fewer fractures and probably fewer deaths.

DOI: 10.1177/1759720X11411600
PMCID: PMC3382679
PMID: 22870478

Conflict of interest statement: Robert A. Adler has received research support 
from the following companies: Novartis, Eli Lilly, Merck, Amgen, and Genentech. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily 
those of the Department of Veterans Affairs.


917. Soins. 2012 Jun;(766):11.

[Life expectancy and good health in Europe].

[Article in French]

Barsky E.

PMID: 22870758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Georgian Med News. 2012 May;(206):52-7.

Tobacco smoking attributable mortality and years of potential life lost in 
Georgia.

Gvinianidze K(1), Tsereteli D.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Disease Control and Public Health, Tbilisi, Georgia.

Smoking-attributable deaths and years of potential life lost were estimated 
using the formula adopted to estimate UK and US deaths caused by smoking. These 
estimates are based on sex-specific proportions by age of current and ex-smokers 
and rates of relative risk. For prevalence data we used data of 2010 STEPS 
survey in Georgia and Georgia Reproductive Health Survey 2005. Relative risks 
for potentially fatal diseases due to smoking are those that were used to 
estimate UK 1995 deaths. They were derived from years 1984-1988 of the Cancer 
Prevention Study II (CPS II). Smoking attributable mortality was estimated for 
year 2008, period when registration of deaths was done by adopted methods and 
institutions. By the calculations according to mortality data of year 2008 
number of active smoking attributable deaths were 4331. Smoking is related with 
10,1% of all deaths. By causes of death smoking attributed is 30% of all deaths 
caused by cancers, 10% of cardiovascular diseases, 9% of respiratory and 7% of 
digestive diseases. About 72500 potential years of life is lost in Georgia 
during year 2008 due to active smoking. Great majority of this burden is related 
with cardio vascular diseases and cancers.

PMID: 22870839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. BMC Fam Pract. 2012 Aug 7;13:75. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-75.

The effectiveness of nurse practitioners working at a GP cooperative: a study 
protocol.

Wijers N(1), Schoonhoven L, Giesen P, Vrijhoef H, van der Burgt R, Mintjes J, 
Wensing M, Laurant M.

Author information:
(1)Scientific Institute for Quality of Healthcare, Radboud University Nijmegen 
Medical Centre, P,O, box 9101, Nijmegen 6500, HB, The Netherlands. 
n.wijers@iq.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: In many countries out-of-hours care faces serious challenges, 
including shortage of general practitioners, a high workload, reduced motivation 
to work out of hours, and increased demand for out-of-hours care. One response 
to these challenges is the introduction of nurse practitioner as doctor 
substitutes, in order to maintain the (high) accessibility and safety of out of 
hours care. Although nurse practitioners have proven to provide equally safe and 
efficient care during daytime primary care, it is unclear whether substitution 
is effective and efficient in the more complex out of hours primary care. This 
study aims to assess the effects of substitution of care from general 
practitioners to nurse practitioners in an out of hours primary care setting.
DESIGN: A quasi experimental study is undertaken at one "general practitioner 
cooperative" to offer out-of-hours care for 304.000 people in the South East of 
the Netherlands. In the experimental condition patient care is provided by a 
team of one nurse practitioner and four general practitioners; where the nurse 
practitioner replaces one general practitioner during one day of the weekend 
from 10 am to 5 pm. In the control condition patient care is provided by a team 
of five general practitioners during the other day of the weekend, also from 10 
am to 5 pm. The study period last 15 months, from April 2011 till July 2012.
METHODS: Data will be collected on number of different outcomes using a range of 
methods. Our primary outcome is substitution of care. This is calculated using 
the number and characteristics of patients that have a consultation at the GP 
cooperative. We compare the number of patients seen by both professionals, type 
of complaints, resource utilization (e.g. prescription, tests, investigations, 
referrals) and waiting times in the experimental condition and control 
condition. This data is derived from patient electronic medical records. 
Secondary outcomes are: patient satisfaction; general practitioners workload; 
quality and safety of care and barriers and facilitators.
DISCUSSION: The study will provide evidence whether substitution of care in 
out-of-hours setting is safe and efficient and give insight into barriers and 
facilitators related to the introduction of nurse practitioners in out-of-hours 
setting.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT01388374.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-75
PMCID: PMC3503817
PMID: 22870898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Med Econ. 2013;16(1):19-29. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.719054. Epub 2012
Sep  5.

Denosumab versus zoledronic acid for treatment of bone metastases in men with 
castration-resistant prostate cancer: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Snedecor SJ(1), Carter JA, Kaura S, Botteman MF.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit International, Bethesda, MD, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Denosumab has been approved in the US for skeletal-related event 
(SRE) prevention in bone-metastatic prostate cancer on the basis of a phase III 
clinical trial in which denosumab reduced SREs relative to zoledronic acid. 
Overall survival, disease progression, and serious adverse events did not differ 
significantly between groups. This analysis assessed the cost-effectiveness of 
denosumab vs zoledronic acid in bone-metastatic prostate cancer from a US payer 
perspective.
METHODS: A literature-based Markov model, wherein inputs were selected to 
reproduce clinical trial outcomes, was developed to estimate the survival, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), number and costs of SREs, and drug and 
administration costs for patients receiving denosumab or zoledronic acid over 27 
months. QALYs were estimated by assigning health-state utilities. SRE-related 
costs and utilities were literature-based. Outcomes were discounted 3% per 
annum, and model robustness was tested via scenario, univariate, and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Denosumab resulted in fewer estimated SREs (-0.241; 1.036 vs 1.277), 
more QALYs (0.0074; 0.9306 vs 0.9232), and lower SRE-related costs (-$2340; 
$8824 vs $11,164), but higher drug-related costs ($10,181; $23,144 vs $12,963) 
and total costs ($7841; $31,968 vs $24,127) vs zoledronic acid. The base case 
estimated cost per QALY-gained was $1,058,741.
CONCLUSION: This analysis was limited by the restricted availability of clinical 
data and the need to use projection methods beyond the trial time frame. 
However, a wide range of scenarios predicted denosumab to have an incremental 
cost/QALY gained above what may be considered acceptable value for money in the 
US. This raises important questions regarding the pharmacoeconomic value of 
denosumab in bone-metastatic prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.719054
PMID: 22870908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Epilepsy Res. 2013 Feb;103(2-3):262-9. doi:
10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2012.07.014.  Epub 2012 Aug 4.

Long-term safety and efficacy of eslicarbazepine acetate as adjunctive therapy 
in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in adults with epilepsy: results of a 
1-year open-label extension study.

Hufnagel A(1), Ben-Menachem E, Gabbai AA, Falc√£o A, Almeida L, Soares-da-Silva 
P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Essen, Essen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term safety, tolerability and efficacy of 
once-daily eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) as adjunctive therapy in adults with 
partial-onset seizures.
METHODS: One-year open-label extension (OLE) study with ESL in patients who 
completed a randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled trial (study 
BIA-2093-302; Epilepsy Res. 89 (2010) 278-285). Starting dose was 800 mg 
once-daily, for 4 weeks; thereafter, dose could be individualised within the 
400-1,200 mg range. Doses of concomitant antiepileptic drugs were to be kept 
stable.
RESULTS: Overall, 325 patients were enrolled (intent-to-treat population); 223 
(68.6%) patients completed 1-year of treatment. ESL median dose was 800 mg 
once-daily. Compared to the baseline period of the double-blind study completed 
prior to this OLE study, median seizure frequency decreased by 32% in weeks 1-4, 
and between 37% and 39% thereafter. The responder rate (seizure reduction ‚â• 50%) 
was 37% during weeks 1-4 and thereafter ranged between 38% and 42% per 12-week 
interval. Proportion of seizure-free patients per 12-week interval ranged 
between 5% and 11%. Improvements from baseline in several Quality of Life in 
Epilepsy Inventory-31 (QOLIE-31) and Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale 
(MADRS) scores were observed. Adverse events (AEs) were reported by 83% of 
patients. AEs occurring in ‚â• 10% of patients were dizziness, headache and 
somnolence. AEs were usually of mild to moderate intensity.
CONCLUSION: In this study, ESL demonstrated a sustained therapeutic effect and 
was well tolerated during 1-year add-on treatment of adults with partial-onset 
seizures. Additionally, significant improvements in quality of life domains and 
depressive symptoms were observed under long-term treatment with once-daily ESL.

Copyright ¬© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2012.07.014
PMID: 22871333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2012 Aug;44(2):301-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.05.002.

To drain or not to drain: an evidence-based approach to palliative procedures 
for the management of malignant pleural effusions.

Beyea A(1), Winzelberg G, Stafford RE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

Malignant pleural effusions are often symptomatic and diagnosed late in the 
course of cancer. The optimal management strategy is controversial and includes 
both invasive and non-invasive strategies. Practitioners have the option of 
invasive procedures such as intermittent drainage or more permanent catheter 
drainage to confirm malignancy and to palliate symptoms. Because these effusions 
are often detected late in the course of disease in patients who may have 
limited life expectancy, procedural management may be associated with harms that 
outweigh benefits. We performed a literature review to examine the available 
evidence for catheter drainage of malignant pleural effusions in advanced cancer 
and reviewed alternative management strategies for the management of dyspnea. We 
provide a clinical case within the context of the research evidence for invasive 
and non-invasive management strategies. Our intent is to help inform decision 
making of patients and families in collaboration with their health care 
practitioners and interventionists by weighing the risks and benefits of 
catheter drainage versus alternative medical management strategies for malignant 
pleural effusions.

Copyright ¬© 2012 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.05.002
PMID: 22871511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2013 Mar;45(3):524-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.02.007. Epub 2012 Aug 4.

Do patients with advanced cognitive impairment admitted to hospitals with higher 
rates of feeding tube insertion have¬†improved survival?

Cai S(1), Gozalo PL, Mitchell SL, Kuo S, Bynum JP, Mor V, Teno JM.

Author information:
(1)Program in Public Health, Department of Health Services, Policy & Practice, 
Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA. Shubing_Cai@brown.edu

CONTEXT: Research is conflicting on whether receiving medical care at a hospital 
with more aggressive treatment patterns improves survival.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine whether nursing home residents 
admitted to hospitals with more aggressive patterns of feeding tube insertion 
had improved survival.
METHODS: Using the 1999-2007 Minimum Data Set matched to Medicare claims, we 
identified hospitalized nursing home residents with advanced cognitive 
impairment who did not have a feeding tube inserted prior to their hospital 
admissions. The sample included 56,824 nursing home residents and 1773 
acute¬†care hospitals nationwide. Hospitals were categorized into nine groups 
based on feeding tube insertion rates and whether the rates were increasing, 
staying the same, or decreasing between the periods of 2000-2003 and 2004-2007. 
Multivariate logit models were used to examine the association between the 
hospital patterns of feeding tube insertion and survival among hospitalized 
nursing home residents with advanced cognitive impairment.
RESULTS: Nearly one in five hospitals (N=366) had persistently high rates of 
feeding tube insertion. Being admitted to these hospitals with persistently high 
rates of feeding tube insertion was not associated with improved survival when 
compared with being admitted to hospitals with persistently low rates of feeding 
tube insertion. The adjusted odds ratios were 0.93 (95% confidence interval 
[CI]: 0.87, 1.01) and 1.02 (95% CI: 0.95, 1.09) for one-month and six-month 
posthospitalization survival, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Hospitals with more aggressive patterns of feeding tube insertion 
did not have improved survival for hospitalized nursing home residents with 
advanced cognitive impairment.

Copyright ¬© 2013 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.02.007
PMCID: PMC3594461
PMID: 22871537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: The authors declare no conflicts of 
interest.


924. Eur J Epidemiol. 2012 Sep;27(9):669-72. doi: 10.1007/s10654-012-9720-8. Epub
 2012 Aug 8.

Generalizability of results from the National Lung Screening Trial.

Heuvers ME(1), Wisnivesky J, Stricker BH, Aerts JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Diseases and Tuberculosis, Erasmus Medical 
University Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, m.heuvers@erasmusmc.nl

Lung cancer is the major cause of cancer-related death worldwide, with a 5-year 
survival of only 16%. Most lung cancer cases are diagnosed at an advanced 
incurable stage. As earlier stages have a better prognosis, the key to reducing 
mortality could be early diagnosis of the disease. At present, low-dose computed 
tomographic (CT) screening has shown promising data. Lung cancer death rates 
were reduced by 20% when CT screening is compared to chest radiography in a 
high-risk group. There are many advantages of CT screening in lung cancer, 
however there are also some important issues that should be taken into account. 
Therefore, the applicability of the results to clinical practice is not clear 
yet. In this Commentary we discuss different aspects that play important roles 
in the balance between harms and benefits of screening, including overdiagnosis, 
availability of treatment options worldwide, ethical considerations, costs, and 
prolonged life expectancy. We conclude that clinicians should be cautious in 
generalizing findings to the total population of smokers and take into account 
that the use of lung cancer screening in clinical practice may have limitations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-012-9720-8
PMID: 22872503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Lancet. 2013 Jan 19;381(9862):242-55. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60397-3.
Epub  2012 Aug 6.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Maron BJ(1), Maron MS.

Author information:
(1)The Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Centers of Minneapolis Heart Institute 
Foundation, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 27;381(9876):1456-7.
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 27;381(9876):1456.
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 27;381(9876):1457-8.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a common inherited cardiovascular disease present 
in one in 500 of the general population. It is caused by more than 1400 
mutations in 11 or more genes encoding proteins of the cardiac sarcomere. 
Although hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is the most frequent cause of sudden death 
in young people (including trained athletes), and can lead to functional 
disability from heart failure and stroke, the majority of affected individuals 
probably remain undiagnosed and many do not experience greatly reduced life 
expectancy or substantial symptoms. Clinical diagnosis is based on otherwise 
unexplained left-ventricular hypertrophy identified by echocardiography or 
cardiovascular MRI. While presenting with a heterogeneous clinical profile and 
complex pathophysiology, effective treatment strategies are available, including 
implantable defibrillators to prevent sudden death, drugs and surgical myectomy 
(or, alternatively, alcohol septal ablation) for relief of outflow obstruction 
and symptoms of heart failure, and pharmacological strategies (and possibly 
radiofrequency ablation) to control atrial fibrillation and prevent embolic 
stroke. A subgroup of patients with genetic mutations but without 
left-ventricular hypertrophy has emerged, with unresolved natural history. Now, 
after more than 50 years, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has been transformed from 
a rare and largely untreatable disorder to a common genetic disease with 
management strategies that permit realistic aspirations for restored quality of 
life and advanced longevity.

Copyright ¬© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60397-3
PMID: 22874472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2012 Dec;14(6):509-20. doi: 
10.1007/s11940-012-0190-9.

Vascular diseases of the spinal cord: a review.

Heldner MR(1), Arnold M, Nedeltchev K, Gralla J, Beck J, Fischer U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital and University 
of Bern, Bern, Switzerland, mirjam.heldner@insel.ch.

‚Ä¢ In acute spinal cord ischemia syndrome (ASCIS), treatment recommendations are 
derived from data of cerebral ischemic stroke, atherosclerotic vascular disease 
and acute spinal cord injury. Besides acute management, secondary prevention is 
of major importance. Pathologies affecting the aorta as well as underlying 
cerebrovascular conditions should be treated whenever possible.‚Ä¢ ASCIS may occur 
after aortic surgery, less often after thoracic endovascular aortic repair 
(TEVAR). Protocols are proposed.‚Ä¢ Acute spinal cord hemorrhage can be treated 
surgically and/or pharmacologically.‚Ä¢ Symptomatic treatment in patients with a 
spinal cord lesion is of major importance. Depending on level and extension of 
the lesion, there is a risk for systemic and neurological complications, which 
may be life-threatening.‚Ä¢ Each spinal vascular malformation is a unique lesion 
that needs an individualized treatment algorithm. In case of a symptomatic 
vascular malformation, endovascular intervention is the primary treatment 
option.‚Ä¢ Spinal dural Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) may be treated endovascularly 
or surgically. If preoperative localization of the fistula is possible, surgery 
is feasible with a low complication rate. In comparison, endovascular approaches 
are less invasive.‚Ä¢ Spinal AVM are rather treated endovascularly than surgically 
or in a stepwise multidisciplinary approach.‚Ä¢ Symptomatic and exophytic spinal 
cavernous angiomas should be treated surgically. Deep spinal cavernous angiomas 
that are asymptomatic or only show mild symptoms can be observed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11940-012-0190-9
PMID: 22875306


927. Water Environ Res. 2012 Jul;84(7):605-16. doi:
10.2175/106143012x13373550426832.

Sorption media for stormwater treatment--a laboratory evaluation of five 
low-cost media for their ability to remove metals and phosphorus from artificial 
stormwater.

Wium-Andersen T(1), Nielsen AH, Hvitved-Jacobsen T, Kristensen NK, Brix H, Arias 
C, Vollertsen J.

Author information:
(1)Aalborg University, Department of Civil Engineering, Sohngaard-sholmsvej 57, 
9000 Aalborg, Denmark.

Comment in
    Water Environ Res. 2013 Sep;85(9):863-4.

Five sorption materials were studied with a focus on polishing pretreated 
stormwater: crushed limestone, shell-sand, zeolite, and two granulates of 
olivine. These materials are commercially available at comparatively low cost 
and have been subjected to a minimum of modification from their natural states. 
The sorbents were tested for phosphorus, arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, 
nickel, lead, and zinc at concentration and conditions relevant for typical 
stormwater. The materials were tested for sorption capacity and kinetics. 
Desorption was tested under neutral and alkaline conditions and in the presence 
of chloride. For most sorbent/sorbate combinations, significant sorption 
occurred within the first minutes of contact between sorbent and sorbate. 
Treatment to the low microgram per liter range could be achieved by contact 
times of less than 1 hour. The study indicated that sorption filters can be 
designed for long life expectancy at comparatively low cost by applying the 
materials tested.

DOI: 10.2175/106143012x13373550426832
PMID: 22876483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Chirurg. 2012 Aug;83(8):749-59; quiz 760-1. doi: 10.1007/s00104-011-2244-z.

[Treatment of periprosthetic and peri-implant fractures : modern plate 
osteosynthesis procedures].

[Article in German]

Raschke MJ(1), Stange R, K√∂sters C.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik f√ºr Unfall-, Hand- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, 
Universit√§tsklinikum M√ºnster, Deutschland. Michael.Raschke@ukmuenster.de

Periprosthetic fractures are increasing not only due to the demographic 
development with high life expectancy, the increase in osteoporosis and 
increased prosthesis implantation but also due to increased activity of the 
elderly population. The therapeutic algorithms are manifold but general valid 
rules for severe fractures are not available. The most commonly occurring 
periprosthetic fractures are proximal and distal femoral fractures but in the 
clinical routine fractures of the tibial head, ankle, shoulder, elbow and on the 
borders to other implants (peri-implant fractures) and complex interprosthetic 
fractures are being seen increasingly more. It is to be expected that in the 
mid-term further options, such as cement augmentation of cannulated polyaxial 
locking screws will extend the portfolio of implants for treatment of 
periprosthetic fractures. The aim of this review article is to present the new 
procedures for osteosynthesis of periprosthetic fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-011-2244-z
PMID: 22878582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Mod Rheumatol. 2013 Jul;23(4):742-51. doi: 10.1007/s10165-012-0729-3. Epub
2012  Aug 10.

Analysis of direct medical and nonmedical costs for care of rheumatoid arthritis 
patients using the large cohort database, IORRA.

Tanaka E(1), Hoshi D, Igarashi A, Inoue E, Shidara K, Sugimoto N, Sato E, Seto 
Y, Nakajima A, Momohara S, Taniguchi A, Tsutani K, Yamanaka H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Rheumatology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, 10-22 
Kawada-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-0054, Japan. e-tanaka@ior.twmu.ac.jp

OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to determine the annual direct medical and nonmedical 
costs for the care of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) using data from a 
large cohort database in Japan.
METHODS: Direct medical costs [out of pocket to hospitals and pharmacies and for 
complementary and alternative medicine (CAM)] and nonmedical costs (caregiving, 
transportation, self-help devices, house modifications) were determined for RA 
patients who were participants in the Institute of Rheumatology, Rheumatoid 
Arthritis (IORRA) studies conducted in October 2007 and April 2008. Correlations 
between these costs and RA disease activity, disability level, and quality of 
life (QOL) were assessed.
RESULTS: Data were analyzed from 5,204 and 5,265 RA patients in October 2007 and 
April 2008, respectively. The annual direct medical costs were JPY132,000 [out 
of pocket to hospital (US$1 = JPY90 in 2007)], JPY84,000 (out of pocket to 
pharmacy), and JPY146,000 (CAM). Annual direct nonmedical costs were JPY105,000 
(caregiving), JPY22,000 (transportation), JPY30,000 (self-help devices), and 
JPY188,000 (house modifications). Based on the utilization rate for each cost 
component, the annual medical and nonmedical costs for each RA patient were 
JPY262,136 and JPY61,441, respectively. Costs increased with increasing RA 
disease activity and disability level or worsening quality of life (QOL).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the IORRA database, patients with RA bear heavy economic 
burdens that increase as the disease is exacerbated. The results also suggest 
that the increase in medical and nonmedical costs may be ameliorated by the 
proactive control of disease activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10165-012-0729-3
PMID: 22878927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Musculoskelet Surg. 2012 Dec;96(3):155-9. doi: 10.1007/s12306-012-0214-3.
Epub  2012 Aug 10.

Salter-Harris type II proximal humerus injuries: state-of-the-art treatment.

Verdano MA(1), Pellegrini A, Lunini E, Porcellini G, Ceccarelli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Science, Section of Orthopaedics, Traumatology and 
Functional Rehabilitation, U.O. Patologia dell'Apparato Locomotore, University 
of Parma, Via Gramsci, 14, 43100 Parma, Italy. michele.verdano@hotmail.it

Proximal epiphyseal injuries of the humerus represent a very low percentage of 
traumatic growth pathologies, 5 % of all fractures during childhood. In the 
literature, there have been only a limited number of clinical studies 
investigating these injuries, basically from an epidemiological point of view, 
focusing on the incidence of the different types of fractures. We report our 
experience of 6 young patients with Salter-Harris type II proximal humerus 
epiphyseal injuries adopting a minimally invasive surgical technique consisting 
of closed reduction and percutaneous fixation with Kirschner wires. At 2 years 
of follow-up, the results consisting in constant; disabilities of the arm, 
shoulder, and hand; simple shoulder test; and Visual Analogue Scale scores 
obtained have been excellent and all the patients come back to a normal life 
with sports practice and normal daily activities. The range of motion was 
completely restored without any deficit in abduction-adduction, 
flection-extension, or intra-extra rotation. No differences in anthropometric 
parameters were found with no case of malangulation, vascular, or neurological 
complications. Our data support with evidence how the close reduction internal 
fixation with K-wires treatment can give to the surgeons and the patients a 
better security about the correct fracture healing. Furthermore, with this 
article, we will provide a detailed review of the literature in order to define 
the state-of-the-art treatment to better face such a challenging skeletal 
injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s12306-012-0214-3
PMID: 22879059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Feb;68(2):136-42. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls142. Epub 2012 Aug 9.

Can human biology allow most of us to become centenarians?

Carnes BA(1), Olshansky SJ, Hayflick L.

Author information:
(1)Reynolds Department of Geriatric Medicine, College of Medicine, The 
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 72104, 
USA. Bruce-Carnes@ouhsc.edu

Life span is a topic of great interest in science, medicine and among the 
general public. How long people live has a profound impact on medical costs, 
intergenerational interactions, and the solvency of age-based entitlement 
programs around the world. These challenges are already occurring and the 
magnitude of their impact is, in part, proportional to the fraction of a 
population that lives the longest. Some demographic forecasts suggest that most 
babies born since the year 2000 will survive to their 100th birthday. If these 
forecasts are correct, then there is reason to fear that the financial solvency 
of even the most prosperous countries are in jeopardy. We argue here that human 
biology will preclude survival to age 100 for most people.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls142
PMID: 22879449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e41521. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041521. Epub 2012 Aug
7.

Prioritizing child health interventions in Ethiopia: modeling impact on child 
mortality, life expectancy and inequality in age at death.

Onarheim KH(1), Tessema S, Johansson KA, Eide KT, Norheim OF, Miljeteig I.

Author information:
(1)Research Group for Global Health, Department of Public Health and Primary 
Health Care and Center for International Health, University of Bergen, Bergen, 
Norway. kristine.onarheim@isf.uib.no

BACKGROUND: The fourth Millennium Development Goal calls for a two-thirds 
reduction in under-5 mortality between 1990 and 2015. Under-5 mortality rate is 
declining, but many countries are still far from achieving the goal. Effective 
child health interventions that could reduce child mortality exist, but national 
decision-makers lack contextual information for priority setting in their 
respective resource-constrained settings. We estimate the potential health 
impact of increasing coverage of 14 selected health interventions on child 
mortality in Ethiopia (2011-2015). We also explore the impact on life expectancy 
and inequality in the age of death (Gini(health)).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used the Lives Saved Tool to estimate potential impact 
of scaling-up 14 health interventions in Ethiopia (2011-2015). Interventions are 
scaled-up to 1) government target levels, 2) 90% coverage and 3) 90% coverage of 
the five interventions with the highest impact. Under-5 mortality rate, neonatal 
mortality rate and deaths averted are primary outcome measures. We used modified 
life tables to estimate impact on life expectancy at birth and inequality in the 
age of death (Gini(health)). Under-5 mortality rate declines from 101.0 in 2011 
to 68.8, 42.1 and 56.7 per 1000 live births under these three scenarios. 
Prioritizing child health would also increase life expectancy at birth from 
expected 60.5 years in 2015 to 62.5, 64.2 and 63.4 years and reduce inequality 
in age of death (Gini(health)) substantially from 0.24 to 0.21, 0.18 and 0.19.
CONCLUSIONS: The Millennium Development Goal for child health is reachable in 
Ethiopia. Prioritizing child health would also increase total life expectancy at 
birth and reduce inequality in age of death substantially (Gini(health)).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041521
PMCID: PMC3413690
PMID: 22879890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


933. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2012 Jan-Feb;(1):19-23.

[The trends in changing of major causes of death of population of Novgorodskaya 
oblast].

[Article in Russian]

[No authors listed]

The analysis of the indicators of common causes' mortality in Novgorodskaya 
oblast during the first decade of XXI century is presented. The differences in 
the levels of mortality as compared with mortality rates in the Russian 
Federation and North-West Federal okrug are discussed. Since 2004, the 
consistent trend of mortality decrease and life span increase has been 
established. Despite this tendency, the level of mortality is still high. It is 
underlined that a significant decrease of both total mortality and common causes 
mortality can be achieved first of all in the result of alterations in human 
behavior

PMID: 22880244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Med Econ. 2012;15 Suppl 1:55-64. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.720319. Epub
2012  Sep 3.

Cost-effectiveness of everolimus vs sunitinib in treating patients with 
advanced, progressive pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in the United States.

Casciano R(1), Chulikavit M, Perrin A, Liu Z, Wang X, Garrison LP.

Author information:
(1)The LA-SER Group, New York, NY, USA. roman.casciano@la-ser.com

BACKGROUND: Everolimus (Afinitor) and sunitinib (Sutent) were recently approved 
to treat patients with advanced, progressive pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors 
(pNETs). (Afinitor is a registered trademark of Novartis Pharmaceuticals 
Corporation, East Hanover, NJ, USA; Sutent is a registered trademark of Pfizer 
Inc., New York, NY, USA.) This analysis examined the projected 
cost-effectiveness of everolimus vs sunitinib in this setting from a US payer 
perspective.
METHODS: A semi-Markov model was developed to simulate a cohort of patients with 
advanced, progressive pNET and to estimate the cost per life-year gained (LYG) 
and per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained when treating with everolimus 
vs sunitinib. Efficacy data were based on a weight-adjusted indirect comparison 
of the agents using phase 3 trial data. Model health states included: stable 
disease with no adverse events, stable disease with adverse events, disease 
progression, and death. Therapy costs were based on wholesale acquisition cost. 
Other costs such as physician visits, tests, hospitalizations, and adverse event 
costs were obtained from literature and/or primary research. Utility inputs were 
based on primary research. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to test the 
model's robustness.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, everolimus was associated with an 
incremental 0.448 LYG (0.304 QALYs) at an incremental cost of $12,673, resulting 
in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $28,281/LYG ($41,702/QALY 
gained). The ICER fell within the cost per QALY range for many widely used 
oncology drugs. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that, overall, there is a 
trend that everolimus is cost-effective compared to sunitinib in this setting.
LIMITATIONS: Results of the indirect analysis were not statistically significant 
(p > 0.05). Assumptions that treatment patterns are the same across therapies 
may not represent real-world practice.
CONCLUSIONS: While the analysis is limited by its reliance on an indirect 
comparison of two phase 3 studies, everolimus is expected to be cost-effective 
relative to sunitinib in advanced, progressive pNET.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.720319
PMID: 22881362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Aug;60(8):1564-70. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.04055.x.  Epub 2012 Aug 6.

Insulin use in elderly adults: risk of hypoglycemia and strategies for care.

Ligthelm RJ(1), Kaiser M, Vora J, Yale JF.

Author information:
(1)Executive Health Management Clinic, Hoofddorp, The Netherlands. 
rjligthe@xs4all.nl

Hypoglycemia is a significant problem in elderly adults with diabetes mellitus. 
Elderly individuals with diabetes mellitus are at greater risk than younger 
adults for hypoglycemic events. Several factors contribute to this risk, 
including the high prevalence of comorbidities, polypharmacy, cognitive 
impairment, and concomitant use of agents that interfere with glucose 
metabolism. To minimize the risk of hypoglycemia and maximize the benefits of 
glycemic control, guidelines typically recommend individualizing glycosylated 
hemoglobin (HbA1c) targets based on life expectancy, functional status, and 
individual goals. Although many individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus will 
ultimately require insulin therapy to achieve and maintain glycemic control, 
earlier insulin initiation in elderly individuals may be warranted, particularly 
in those with renal, cardiovascular, or hepatic concerns that could interfere 
with the use of oral agents. There are few data on the use of insulin-or other 
glucose-lowering agents-in elderly adults, but limited evidence suggests that 
the use of insulin, especially insulin analogs, may be appropriate in this 
population. Insulin analogs offer a better pharmacokinetic profile, greater 
convenience, and less variable glycemic control than human insulin. Because of 
the high prevalence of cognitive impairment and other geriatric syndromes in 
elderly adults, clinicians should perform a comprehensive assessment of 
patients' ability to administer and monitor insulin therapy and recognize and 
treat hypoglycemia.

¬© 2012, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation ¬© 2012, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.04055.x
PMID: 22881394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2012 Oct;18 Suppl 5:70-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-0691.2012.03977.x. Epub 2012 Aug 6.

Economic evaluation of vaccination: capturing the full benefits, with an 
application to human papillomavirus.

B√§rnighausen T(1), Bloom DE, Cafiero ET, O'Brien JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Vaccination has been among the greatest contributors to the past century's 
dramatic improvements in health and life expectancy. Recent advances in 
vaccinology have resulted in new vaccines that will likely lead to substantial 
future health gains. However, the high cost of these new vaccines, such as the 
human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, poses an obstacle to their widespread 
adoption in many countries. Economic evaluation can help to determine if 
investment in vaccine introduction is worthwhile. However, existing economic 
evaluations usually focus on a narrow set of vaccination-mediated benefits-most 
notably avoided medical-care costs-and fail to account for several categories of 
potentially important gains. We consider three sources of such benefit and 
discuss them with respect to HPV vaccination: (i) outcome-related productivity 
gains, (ii) behaviour-related productivity gains, and (iii) externalities. We 
also highlight that HPV vaccination protects against more than just cervical 
cancer and that these other health gains should be taken into account. Failing 
to account for these broader benefits of HPV vaccination could result in 
substantial underestimation of the value of HPV vaccination, thereby leading to 
ill-founded decisions regarding its introduction into national immunization 
programmes.

¬© 2012 The Authors. Clinical Microbiology and Infection ¬© 2012 European Society 
of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-0691.2012.03977.x
PMID: 22882176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2013 Feb;15(2):121-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1463-1326.2012.01692.x. Epub 2012 Sep 20.

Evaluating the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding 
versus standard medical management in obese patients with type 2 diabetes in the 
UK.

Pollock RF(1), Muduma G, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Basel, Switzerland. 
pollock@ossianconsulting.com

AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic adjustable gastric 
banding (LAGB) versus standard medical management (SMM) in obese patients with 
type 2 diabetes from a UK healthcare payer perspective.
METHODS: A validated computer model of diabetes was used to project outcomes 
reported from a randomized clinical trial of LAGB versus SMM in obese patients 
with type 2 diabetes. Two-year follow-up data from the trial were projected over 
a 40-year time horizon and cost-effectiveness was assessed from the perspective 
of the National Health Service. Future costs and clinical outcomes were 
discounted at 3.5% annually and all costs were reported in 2010 pounds sterling. 
A series of sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: LAGB was associated with benefits in HbA1c, systolic blood pressure, 
body mass index and serum lipid concentrations, which led to significant 
increases in discounted life expectancy (an increase of 0.64 years) and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (an increase of 0.92 quality-adjusted life 
years, QALYs) and reduced incidence of diabetes complications relative to SMM. 
Treatment costs in the LAGB arm increased by 4552 Great British Pounds (GBP), 
but this was partially offset by cost savings resulting from a reduction in the 
incidence of all modelled diabetes complications. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of GBP 3602 per QALY in the base case fell well below 
commonly quoted willingness-to-pay thresholds in the UK setting.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of data from a recent randomized controlled trial, 
LAGB is likely to be considered cost-effective from the healthcare payer 
perspective when compared with SMM of obesity in patients with type 2 diabetes 
in the UK setting.

¬© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1326.2012.01692.x
PMID: 22882321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. J Oral Rehabil. 2012 Oct;39(10):791-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2842.2012.02326.x.  Epub 2012 Aug 9.

Mandibular implant-supported removable partial denture with distal extension: a 
systematic review.

de Freitas RF(1), de Carvalho Dias K, da Fonte Porto Carreiro A, Barbosa GA, 
Ferreira MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry Natal, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Rio 
Grande do Norte, Brazil. rodrigo_fcpf@hotmail.com

The aim of this article is to investigate patient satisfaction, survival rate of 
implants, and prosthetic complications or maintenance for rehabilitation with 
removable partial dentures associated with implants in mandibular Kennedy class 
I and II cases. A systematic literature review was conducted by three 
independent reviewers including articles published from January 1981 through 
September 2011. Medline and Cochrane Library electronic databases were used in 
addition to hand searching to assess clinical outcomes for mandibular 
implant-supported removable partial denture with distal extension. This review 
yielded 1751 records that were narrowed down to 5. The studies revealed implant 
survival rates ranging from 95% to 100% with one failure reported of 98 
implants. The removable partial dentures associated with implant in mandibular 
free-end arches showed some complications and need of repair for relining, 
pitting of the healing abutment, replacement of resilient component of the 
attachment, damage in framework, screw loosening and damage in acrylic denture 
base. Patient satisfaction was evaluated through a five-point questionnaire, and 
results ranged between 4.12 and 5.0, considering 1 as the least favourable 
situation. The literature review showed increase in patient satisfaction and 
high survival rates of implants associated with mandibular removable partial 
dentures with distal extensions. However, some complications and need of 
prosthetic repair were reported. Although this treatment approach could 
represent a low-cost and beneficial rehabilitation for free-end mandibular 
ridges, the lack of controlled and randomised well-designed clinical trials 
suggests further studies with more representative samples to validate the 
outcomes of this treatment modality.

¬© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2842.2012.02326.x
PMID: 22882547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Risk Anal. 2012 Jul;32 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S25-38. doi: 
10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01662.x.

Chapter 3: Cohort life tables by smoking status, removing lung cancer as a cause 
of death.

Rosenberg MA(1), Feuer EJ, Yu B, Sun J, Henley SJ, Shanks TG, Anderson CM, 
McMahon PM, Thun MJ, Burns DM.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin‚ÄìMadison, 975 University Ave., Madison, WI 53706, USA. 
mrosenberg@bus.wisc.edu

The purpose of this study was to develop life tables by smoking status removing 
lung cancer as a cause of death. These life tables are inputs to studies that 
compare the effectiveness of lung cancer treatments or interventions, and 
provide a way to quantify time until death from causes other than lung cancer. 
The study combined actuarial and statistical smoothing methods, as well as data 
from multiple sources, to develop separate life tables by smoking status, birth 
cohort, by single year of age, and by sex. For current smokers, separate life 
tables by smoking quintiles were developed based on the average number of 
cigarettes smoked per¬†day by birth cohort. The end product is the creation of 
six non-lung-cancer life tables for males and six tables for females: five 
current smoker quintiles and one for never smokers. Tables for former smokers 
are linear combinations of the appropriate table based on the current smoker 
quintile before quitting smoking and the never smoker probabilities, plus added 
covariates for the smoking quit age and time since quitting.

¬© 2011 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2011.01662.x
PMCID: PMC3594098
PMID: 22882890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Craniomaxillofac Surg. 2013 Mar;41(2):167-71. doi:
10.1016/j.jcms.2012.07.005.  Epub 2012 Aug 9.

Free flaps in elderly patients: outcomes and complications in head and neck 
reconstruction after oncological resection.

Ferrari S(1), Copelli C, Bianchi B, Ferri A, Poli T, Ferri T, Sesenna E.

Author information:
(1)Maxillo-Facial Surgery Operative Unit, Head and Neck Department, 
University-Hospital of Parma, Via Gramsci 14, 43100 Parma (Pr), Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Free flaps represent the first reconstructive option for many head 
and neck defects. The increasing life expectancy of the population results in 
increasing numbers of ageing patients facing complex reconstructive surgery. In 
this study we evaluated our experience with free-flap transfers in older 
patients, analysing the post-operative reconstructive and systemic 
complications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 2000 and 2009, 360 patients underwent free flap 
reconstruction of defects resulting from the treatment of head and neck tumours 
at the Operative Unit of Maxillofacial Surgery, University - Hospital of Parma, 
Italy. Fifty-five patients (15.3%) were more than 75 years old at the time of 
treatment.
RESULTS: At the end of the follow-up successful free-flap transfer was achieved 
in 360 of the 373 flaps harvested (96.5%). The overall reconstructive 
complication rate was 31.4%, (31.8% in the younger group and 29.1% in the 
remaining patients). Medical complications were observed in 29.2% of cases (less 
than 75 years: 28.8%; more than 75 years: 30.9%). The ASA status was associated 
with a statistically significantly higher incidence of complications within 
patients less than 75 years old (p < 0.0001).
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study, in agreement with 
previous studies, provide evidence that free-tissue transfer may be performed in 
ageing patients with a high degree of technical success. The chronologic age 
cannot be considered an appropriate criterion in the reconstructive decision. On 
the contrary, a careful selection of the patients based on comorbidities and 
general conditions (ASA status) is of primary importance in reducing 
post-operative complications and to improving the results of surgery.

Copyright ¬© 2012 European Association for Cranio-Maxillo-Facial Surgery. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcms.2012.07.005
PMID: 22883078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Cyst Fibros. 2012 Dec;11(6):480-93. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2012.07.005. Epub
2012  Aug 9.

An overview of international literature from cystic fibrosis registries. Part 4: 
update 2011.

Salvatore D(1), Buzzetti R, Baldo E, Furnari ML, Lucidi V, Manunza D, Marinelli 
I, Messore B, Neri AS, Raia V, Mastella G.

Author information:
(1)Cystic Fibrosis Centre, AOR Ospedale San Carlo, Potenza, Italy.

A total of 53 national cystic fibrosis (CF) patient registry studies published 
between July 2008 and November 2011 have been reviewed, focusing on the 
following topics: CF epidemiology, nutrition, microbiology, clinical 
complications, factors influencing diagnosis and lung disease, effects of 
socioeconomic status, therapeutic strategy evaluation, clinical trial 
methodology. The studies describe the clinical characteristics of CF patients, 
the incidence and prevalence of disease and role of gender gap, as well as the 
influence of socioeconomic status and environmental factors on clinical 
outcomes, covering a variety of countries and ethnic groups. Original 
observations describe patients as they get older, with special reference to the 
adult presentation of CF and long-term survival. Methodological aspects are 
discussed, covering the design of clinical trials, survival analysis, auxometry, 
measures of quality of life, follow up of lung disease, predictability of 
disease progression and life expectancy. Microbiology studies have investigated 
the role of selected pathogens, such as Burkholderia species and MRSA. Pulmonary 
exacerbations are discussed both as a factor influencing morbidity and an 
endpoint in clinical trials. Finally, some studies give insights on 
complications, such as CF-related diabetes and hemoptysis, and emerging 
problems, such as chronic nephropathy.

Copyright ¬© 2012 European Cystic Fibrosis Society. Published by Elsevier B.V. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2012.07.005
PMID: 22884375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Autoimmun Rev. 2012 Nov;12(1):77-80. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2012.07.026. Epub
 2012 Aug 2.

Targeting interleukin-1Œ≤ in CAPS (cryopyrin-associated periodic) syndromes: what 
did we learn?

