至8 倍，传统方法使用的是残疾调整寿命年。
结论: 计算伤后YLD的新方法可以在不同的环境中使用，克服了用于计算全球疾病负担的方法的一些限制，提供的受伤人口负担估计更精确。

ЦЕЛЬ: Разработать стандартизированный метод подсчета количества лет, прожитых с 
неполноценными физическими возможностями после перенесенной травмы.
МЕТОДЫ: Разработанный метод заключается в том, чтобы с помощью системы EUROCOST 
получать данные о случаях получения травм, регистрируемых в отделениях 
реанимации, а также данные о приемах пациентов с травмами в больницах. Затем 
случаи получения травм связываются с данными о физической неполноценности, и в 
дальнейшим применяются эмпирические данные для описания фактического исхода 
случаев получения травм пациентами.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: В общей сложности, в данные о методе было включено 87 значений веса 
и пропорций тела для 27 диагнозов полученных травм, а также их возможные 
последствия, влияющие на состояние здоровья пациентов в течение жизни. Почти все 
исследуемые травмы (96–100%) можно найти в категориях травм системы EUROCOST. 
Среднее число случаев дальнейшей жизни с неполноценными физическими 
возможностями после перенесенной травмы варьируется в зависимости от страны. 
Новый метод позволяет дать оценку последствий получения травмы в 3-8 раз 
эффективнее (в плане подсчета лет жизни с неполноценными физическими 
возможностями после получения травмы), чем соответствующие стандартные методы 
оценки, используемые в мировой практике при проведении исследований заболеваний, 
при которых осуществляется подсчет лет жизни с поправкой на физическую 
неполноценность (инвалидность).
ВЫВОД: Новый метод подсчета лет жизни с неполноценными физическими возможностями 
после получения травмы можно применять для различных параметров. Он является 
более эффективным, так как превосходит некоторые ограничения используемого 
метода подсчета случаев инвалидности в мировом масштабе и позволяет дать более 
точную оценку таких случаев среди населения.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.11.095109
PMCID: PMC3397703
PMID: 22807597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Cardiopulm Phys Ther J. 2012 Mar;23(1):30-5.

Physical therapy management of a patient on portable extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation as a bridge to lung transplantation: a case report.

Lowman JD(1), Kirk TK, Clark DE.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Department of Physical Therapy, 
Birmingham, AL.

INTRODUCTION: Although the life expectancy for patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF) has increased dramatically in the preceding decades, often the final 
therapeutic option for patients with end-stage CF is lung transplantation. Prior 
to transplantation, patients with severe disease may require mechanical 
ventilation. Those refractory to mechanical ventilation may require 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The purpose of this case report is 
to describe the physical therapy management of a patient who received ECMO as a 
bridge to lung transplantation.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 16-year-old girl with severe acute respiratory failure due 
to a CF exacerbation eventually required ECMO to maintain adequate gas exchange. 
While on ECMO, she received physical therapy interventions ranging from 
therapeutic exercise, manual therapy, and integumentary protection techniques in 
addition to airway clearance techniques. Prior to her transplant, she was 
standing multiple times per day with moderate assistance, was sitting on the 
edge-of-bed, as well as taking steps to transfer to/from a chair. She 
successfully received a bilateral lung transplant after 8 days on ECMO.
CONCLUSION: Physical therapy interventions, including out-of-bed mobility, can 
be safely provided to patients on portable ECMO as a bridge to lung 
transplantation. These interventions were focused on preventing the negative 
sequelae of bed rest, increasing her strength and endurance, as well as 
improving her level of consciousness and psychological well being in preparation 
for lung transplantation.

PMCID: PMC3286498
PMID: 22807653


784. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2011 Dec 7;59(10):1-126.

Deaths: final data for 2008.

Miniño AM(1), Murphy SL, Xu J, Kochanek KD.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, 
Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2008 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and trends by selected characteristics such 
as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, state of residence, and cause of death.
METHODS: Information reported on death certificates, which is completed by 
funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners, is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics. Causes of death 
are processed in accordance with the International Classification of Diseases, 
Tenth Revision.
RESULTS: In 2008, a total of 2,471,984 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 758.3 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, a decrease of 0.2 percent from the 2007 rate and a record low 
figure. Life expectancy at birth rose 0.2 years, from 77.9 years in 2007 to a 
record high 78.1 years in 2008. The age-specific death rate increased for age 
group 85 years and over. Age-specific death rates decreased for age groups: less 
than 1 year, 5-14, 15-24, 25-34, 35-44, and 65-74 years. The age-specific death 
rates remained unchanged for age groups: 1-4, 45-54, 55-64, and 75-84 years. The 
15 leading causes of death in 2008 remained the same as in 2007, but Chronic 
lower respiratory diseases and suicide increased in the ranking while stroke and 
septicemia decreased in the ranking. Stroke is the fourth leading cause of death 
in 2008 after more than five decades at number three in the ranking. Chronic 
lower respiratory diseases is the third leading cause of death for 2008. The 
infant mortality rate decreased 2.1 percent to a historically low value of 6.61 
deaths per 1000 live births in 2008.
CONCLUSIONS: The decline of the age-adjusted death rate to a record low value 
for the United States and the increase in life expectancy to a record high value 
of 78.1 years are consistent with long-term trends in mortality.

PMID: 22808755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Acta Chir Belg. 2012 May-Jun;112(3):213-8.

Surgical treatment of cardiovascular complications in patients with Marfan 
syndrome: a report of two cases and literature review.

Bruls S(1), Radermecker MA, Creemers E, Bonnet P, Nellessen E, Van Damme H, De 
Leval L, Defraigne JO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital of Liège, Belgium.

Cardiovascular disease is the main cause of morbidity and mortality in patients 
with Marfan syndrome. The most life threatening complication is aortic root 
aneurysms leading to aortic dissection or rupture. It can be prevented by 
regular aortic follow-up and prophylactic aortic surgery. Modern aortic surgery 
has led to a substantial increase in the life expectancy of these patients. We 
report two cases of Marfan syndrome with cardiovascular complications. Their 
management is discussed according to the most recent literature.

PMID: 22808762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Heart Valve Dis. 2012 May;21(3):337-43.

The effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and statins on the 
progression of aortic sclerosis and mortality.

Ardehali R(1), Leeper NJ, Wilson AM, Heidenreich PA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1760, USA. rardehali@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Although aortic sclerosis has been associated 
with an increase in adverse cardiovascular outcomes, no proven therapy has been 
shown to slow its progression to overt aortic stenosis (AS). Thus, the 
hypothesis was assessed that treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors (ACE-Is), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) or statins may be 
associated with an improvement in the clinical outcome of these patients.
METHODS: A total of 4,105 patients with evidence of aortic sclerosis seen on 
transthoracic echocardiography (defined as thickening or calcification with a 
mean valve gradient < or = 15 mmHg) was identified. Patients with a sclerotic 
valve who were treated with ACE-Is/ARBs or statins were followed for a mean 
period of 1,078 +/- 615 days. After adjustment for the propensity to receive 
ACE-Is/ARBs or statins, mortality, hemodynamic progression to AS, 
hospitalization for ischemic heart disease (IHD), and congestive heart failure 
(CHF) were assessed and related to the medical treatment.
RESULTS: At baseline, patients with aortic sclerosis who were treated with an 
ACE-I/ARB or a statin suffered significantly more from comorbidities such as 
IHD, CHF, hypertension, diabetes, and peripheral arterial disease, when compared 
to subjects with sclerotic valves not treated with these drugs. After adjustment 
for confounding factors, treatment with statins was associated with a 
significant reduction in mortality (odds ratio [OR] 0.73, 95% CI 0.56-0.98, p = 
0.001), admission for IHD (OR 0.81, 95% CI 0.66-0.99, p = 0.03), admission for 
CHF (OR 0.68, 95% CI 0.55-0.85, p = 0.01) and progression to AS (OR 0.64, 95% CI 
0.42-0.97, p = 0.03). While ACE-I treatment resulted in a significant reduction 
in admission for IHD (OR 0.80, 95% CI 0.65-0.98, p = 0.03) and CHF (OR 0.76, 95% 
CI 0.62-0.94, p = 0.01), the beneficial trend towards reduced mortality and 
delayed progression to AS was not significant.
CONCLUSION: Treatment of this patient population with statins led to a 
significant reduction in mortality and also slowed the progression to AS--an 
effect that was not statistically significant with ACE-I treatment.

PMCID: PMC4182019
PMID: 22808835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2012 Jul 18;12:101. doi:
10.1186/1472-6882-12-101.

Pharmacological modulation of histone demethylase activity by a small molecule 
isolated from subcritical water extracts of Sasa senanensis leaves prolongs the 
lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster.

Nakagawa-Yagi Y(1), Sato Y, Matsumoto E, Nakatsuka S, Sakaki T, Muramatsu Y, 
Hara T, Aigaki T.

Author information:
(1)Hakuju Institute for Health Science Co, Ltd, 37-5, Tomigaya 1-chome, 
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 151-0063, Japan. yagi@hakuju.co.jp

BACKGROUND: Extracts of Sasa senanensis Rehder are used in traditional Japanese 
medicine; however, little is known about the underlying mechanisms of their 
potential health benefits.
METHODS: S. senanensis leaves were extracted with subcritical water. An active 
small-molecule was isolated using reversed-phase high-performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC), and identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde 
(protocatechuic aldehyde or PA). The effects of PA on the activity of histone 
demethylase, the Drosophila melanogaster lifespan and gene expression in 
Drosophila S2 cells were investigated.
RESULTS: PA inhibited the activity of Jumonji domain-containing protein 2A 
(JMJD2A) histone demethylase in a dose-dependent manner with a half-maximal 
inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 11.6 μM. However, there was no effect on 
lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) or HDAC8. PA 
significantly extended the lifespan of female, but not male, Drosophila. In 
Drosophila S2 cells, the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding 
protein (4E-BP) was up-regulated by PA exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide insight into the possible relationship between 
the pharmacological modulation of histone demethylation and lifespan extension 
by PA; they might also be important in the development of alternative therapies 
for age-related disorders.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-12-101
PMCID: PMC3551771
PMID: 22809229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. J Biol Chem. 2012 Sep 7;287(37):31414-26. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M112.377275. Epub
 2012 Jul 18.

Enhanced energy metabolism contributes to the extended life span of 
calorie-restricted Caenorhabditis elegans.

Yuan Y(1), Kadiyala CS, Ching TT, Hakimi P, Saha S, Xu H, Yuan C, Mullangi V, 
Wang L, Fivenson E, Hanson RW, Ewing R, Hsu AL, Miyagi M, Feng Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.

Caloric restriction (CR) markedly extends life span and improves the health of a 
broad number of species. Energy metabolism fundamentally contributes to the 
beneficial effects of CR, but the underlying mechanisms that are responsible for 
this effect remain enigmatic. A multidisciplinary approach that involves 
quantitative proteomics, immunochemistry, metabolic quantification, and life 
span analysis was used to determine how CR, which occurs in the Caenorhabditis 
elegans eat-2 mutants, modifies energy metabolism of the worm, and whether the 
observed modifications contribute to the CR-mediated physiological responses. A 
switch to fatty acid metabolism as an energy source and an enhanced rate of 
energy metabolism by eat-2 mutant nematodes were detected. Life span analyses 
validated the important role of these previously unknown alterations of energy 
metabolism in the CR-mediated longevity of nematodes. As observed in mice, the 
overexpression of the gene for the nematode analog of the cytosolic form of 
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase caused a marked extension of the life span in 
C. elegans, presumably by enhancing energy metabolism via an altered rate of 
cataplerosis of tricarboxylic acid cycle anions. We conclude that an increase, 
not a decrease in fuel consumption, via an accelerated oxidation of fuels in the 
TCA cycle is involved in life span regulation; this mechanism may be conserved 
across phylogeny.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M112.377275
PMCID: PMC3438970
PMID: 22810224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Radiol Prot. 2012 Sep;32(3):205-22. doi: 10.1088/0952-4746/32/3/205. Epub
2012  Jul 19.

RadRAT: a radiation risk assessment tool for lifetime cancer risk projection.

Berrington de Gonzalez A(1), Iulian Apostoaei A, Veiga LH, Rajaraman P, Thomas 
BA, Owen Hoffman F, Gilbert E, Land C.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, 
NCI, Bethesda, MD, USA. berringtona@mail.nih.gov

Risk projection methods allow for timely assessment of the potential magnitude 
of radiation-related cancer risks following low-dose radiation exposures. The 
estimation of such risks directly through observational studies would generally 
require infeasibly large studies and long-term follow-up to achieve reasonable 
statistical power. We developed an online radiation risk assessment tool 
(RadRAT) which can be used to estimate the lifetime risk of radiation-related 
cancer with uncertainty intervals following a user-specified exposure history 
(https://irep.nci.nih.gov/radrat). The uncertainty intervals constitute a key 
component of the program because of the various assumptions that are involved in 
such calculations. The risk models used in RadRAT are broadly based on those 
developed by the BEIR VII committee for estimating lifetime risk following 
low-dose radiation exposure of the US population for eleven site-specific 
cancers. We developed new risk models for seven additional cancer sites, oral, 
oesophagus, gallbladder, pancreas, rectum, kidney and brain/central nervous 
system (CNS) cancers, using data from Japanese atomic bomb survivors. The 
lifetime risk estimates are slightly higher for RadRAT than for BEIR VII across 
all exposure ages mostly because the weighting of the excess relative risk and 
excess absolute risk models was conducted on an arithmetic rather than a 
logarithmic scale. The calculator can be used to estimate lifetime cancer risk 
from both uniform and non-uniform doses that are acute or chronic. It is most 
appropriate for low-LET radiation doses < 1 Gy, and for individuals with 
life-expectancy and cancer rates similar to the general population in the US.

DOI: 10.1088/0952-4746/32/3/205
PMCID: PMC3816370
PMID: 22810503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Med Ethics. 2012 Nov;38(11):664-8. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100353.
Epub  2012 Jul 18.

Palliative sedation: not just normal medical practice. Ethical reflections on 
the Royal Dutch Medical Association's guideline on palliative sedation.

Janssens R(1), van Delden JJ, Widdershoven GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Humanities, EMGO Institute for Health and Care 
Research, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, Netherlands. 
mjpa.janssens@vumc.nl

The main premise of the Royal Dutch Medical Association's (RDMA) guideline on 
palliative sedation is that palliative sedation, contrary to euthanasia, is 
normal medical practice. Although we do not deny the ethical distinctions 
between euthanasia and palliative sedation, we will critically analyse the 
guideline's argumentation strategy with which euthanasia is demarcated from 
palliative sedation. First, we will analyse the guideline's main premise, which 
entails that palliative sedation is normal medical treatment. After this, we 
will critically discuss three crucial propositions of the guideline that are 
used to support this premise: (1) the patient's life expectancy should not 
exceed 2 weeks; (2) the aim of the physician should be to relieve suffering and 
(3) expert consultation is optional. We will conclude that, if inherent 
problematic aspects of palliative sedation are taken seriously, palliative 
sedation is less normal than it is now depicted in the guideline.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100353
PMID: 22811556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. J Aging Res. 2012;2012:243958. doi: 10.1155/2012/243958. Epub 2012 Jul 1.

Does physical activity increase life expectancy? A review of the literature.

Reimers CD(1), Knapp G, Reimers AK.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Neurologie, Zentralklinik Bad Berka, Robert-Koch-Allee 9, 99438 
Bad Berka, Germany.

Physical activity reduces many major mortality risk factors including arterial 
hypertension, diabetes mellitus type 2, dyslipidemia, coronary heart disease, 
stroke, and cancer. All-cause mortality is decreased by about 30% to 35% in 
physically active as compared to inactive subjects. The purpose of this paper 
was to synthesize the literature on life expectancy in relation to physical 
activity. A systematic PubMed search on life expectancy in physically active and 
inactive individuals was performed. In addition, articles comparing life 
expectancy of athletes compared to that of nonathletes were reviewed. Results of 
13 studies describing eight different cohorts suggest that regular physical 
activity is associated with an increase of life expectancy by 0.4 to 6.9 years. 
Eleven studies included confounding risk factors for mortality and revealed an 
increase in life expectancy by 0.4 to 4.2 years with regular physical activity. 
Eleven case control studies on life expectancy in former athletes revealed 
consistently greater life expectancy in aerobic endurance athletes but 
inconsistent results for other athletes. None of these studies considered 
confounding risk factors for mortality. In conclusion, while regular physical 
activity increases life expectancy, it remains unclear if high-intensity sports 
activities further increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/243958
PMCID: PMC3395188
PMID: 22811911


792. ISRN Pediatr. 2012;2012:436046. doi: 10.5402/2012/436046. Epub 2012 Jul 1.

Safety and Efficacy of the ACE-Inhibitor Ramipril in Alport Syndrome: The 
Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Multicenter Phase III EARLY 
PRO-TECT Alport Trial in Pediatric Patients.

Gross O(1), Friede T, Hilgers R, Görlitz A, Gavénis K, Ahmed R, Dürr U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Rheumatology, University Medical Center 
Göttingen, Robert-Koch Stra β e 40, 37075 Göttingen, Germany.

Introduction. Retrospective observational data show that ACE-inhibitor therapy 
delays renal failure and improves life expectancy in Alport patients with 
proteinuria. The EARLY PRO-TECT Alport trial assesses the safety and efficacy of 
early therapy onset with ramipril in pediatric Alport patients. Methods and 
analysis. This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter phase 
III trial (NCT01485978; EudraCT-number 2010-024300-10) includes 120 pediatric 
patients aged 24 months to 18 years with early stages of Alport syndrome 
(isolated hematuria or microalbuminuria). From March 2012, up to 80 patients 
will be randomized 1:1 to ramipril or placebo. In the event of disease 
progression during 3-year treatment, patients are unblinded and ramipril is 
initiated, if applicable. Approximately 40 patients receive open-label ramipril 
contributing to the safety database. Primary end-points are "time to progression 
to next disease level" and "incidence of adverse drug events before disease 
progression." Treatment effect estimates from the randomized comparison and 
Alport registry data will be combined in supportive analyses to maximize 
evidence. Conclusion. Without this trial, ACE inhibitors may become standard 
off-label treatment in Alport syndrome without satisfactory evidence base. The 
results are expected to be of relevance for therapy of all pediatric patients 
with kidney disease, and the trial protocol might serve as a model for other 
rare pediatric glomerulopathies.

DOI: 10.5402/2012/436046
PMCID: PMC3395192
PMID: 22811928


793. J Med Econ. 2012;15 Suppl 2:14-27. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.713879. Epub
2012  Aug 3.

Health economic evaluation of insulin glargine vs NPH insulin in intensified 
conventional therapy for type 1 diabetes in Germany.

Pfohl M(1), Schädlich PK, Dippel FW, Koltermann KC.

Author information:
(1)Evangelisches BETHESDA-Krankenhaus zu Duisburg GmbH, Duisburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Basal insulin analogs are well established in the treatment of type 1 
diabetes in Germany. However, little is known about their economic impact. The 
aim of this study for an adult population was to compare, from the perspective 
of the Statutory Health Insurance (SHI), the cost effectiveness of the 
long-acting insulin analog glargine (GLA) with intermediate-acting neutral 
protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin in basal bolus therapy, considering the 
interaction between glycemic control and the rate of hypoglycemia.
METHODS: A validated discrete event simulation model was adapted to the German 
setting to project clinical and cost outcomes over 40 years. Resources were 
valued with German official prices in 2009/2010 Euros. Health-related 
disutilities were taken from UK sources. Patient characteristics and risk 
factors were partially extracted from German sources in a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, GLA was dominant as it increased life 
expectancy by 0.196 years and improved quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) by 
0.396 units while at the same time leading to savings of €5246 each per patient 
after 40 years compared to NPH. These results were robust in the sensitivity 
analyses. Monte Carlo simulation confirmed dominance of GLA in 70% (life-years 
gained) and 80% (QALYs gained) of the iterations. The price of GLA had the 
highest impact on savings. In extreme scenarios, incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios increased up to €9576 per QALY gained. Limitations of the evaluation 
included no myocardial re-infarction(s) and no recurrent stroke(s), patient 
characteristics, risk factors, and disutilities from the UK due to scarce data 
in Germany, and that not all diabetes-related direct costs were included, namely 
insulin pens and blood glucose meters.
CONCLUSION: GLA appears to be cost effective or even cost saving among type 1 
diabetics with basal bolus therapy from the perspective of SHI compared to NPH 
depending on the scenario chosen.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.713879
PMID: 22812690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Anesthesiology. 2012 Sep;117(3):519-30. doi: 10.1097/ALN.0b013e3182655eb2.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of goal-directed hemodynamic treatment of elderly 
hip fracture patients: before clinical research starts.

Bartha E(1), Davidson T, Hommel A, Thorngren KG, Carlsson P, Kalman S.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute, CLINTEC, Division of Anesthesiology, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. erzsebet.bartha@karolinska.se

BACKGROUND: Health economic evaluations are increasingly used to make the 
decision to adopt new medical interventions. Before such decisions, various 
stakeholders have invested in clinical research. But health economic factors are 
seldom considered in research funding decisions. Cost-effectiveness analyses 
could be informative before the launch of clinical research projects, 
particularly when a targeted intervention is resource-intensive, total cost for 
the trial is very high, and expected gain of health benefits is uncertain. This 
study analyzed cost-effectiveness using a decision analytic model before 
initiating a large clinical research project on goal-directed hemodynamic 
treatment of elderly patients with hip fracture.
METHODS: A probabilistic decision analytic cost-effectiveness model was 
developed; the model contains a decision tree for the postoperative short-term 
outcome and a Markov structure for long-term outcome. Clinical effect estimates, 
costs, health-related quality-of-life measures, and long-term survival 
constituted model input that was extracted from clinical trials, national 
databases, and surveys. Model output consisted of estimated medical care costs 
related to quality-adjusted life-years.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, goal-directed hemodynamic treatment reduced 
average medical care costs by €1,882 and gained 0.344 quality-adjusted 
life-years. In 96.5% of the simulations, goal-directed hemodynamic treatment is 
less costly and provides more quality-adjusted life-years. The results are 
sensitive to clinical effect size variations, although goal-directed hemodynamic 
treatment seems to be cost-effective even with moderate clinical effect.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that cost-effectiveness analysis is 
feasible, meaningful, and recommendable before launch of costly clinical 
research projects.

DOI: 10.1097/ALN.0b013e3182655eb2
PMID: 22814385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2012 Sep;22(9):1202-7. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1112.12026.

Synthesis and high expression of chitin deacetylase from Colletotrichum 
lindemuthianum in Pichia pastoris GS115.

Kang L(1), Chen X, Zhai C, Ma L.

Author information:
(1)Hubei Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences, 
Hubei University, Wuhan, Hubei Province, P R China.

A gene, ClCDA, encoding chitin deacetylase from Colletotrichum lindemuthianum, 
was optimized according to the codon usage bias of Pichia pastoris and 
synthesized in vitro by overlap extension PCR. It was secretorily expressed in 
P. pastoris GS115 using the constitutive expression vector pHMB905A. The 
expression level reached the highest with 110 mg/l culture supernatant after 72 
h of methanol induction, which comprised 77.27 U/mg chitin deacetylase activity. 
SDS-PAGE, mass spectrometry, and deglycosylation assays demonstrated that 
partial recombinant protein was glycosylated with an apparent molecular mass of 
33 kDa. The amino acid sequences of recombinant proteins were confirmed by mass 
spectrometry.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1112.12026
PMID: 22814492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Oct;13(5):663-76. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0413-8.
Epub  2012 Jul 20.

The cost-effectiveness of treating chronic hepatitis B patients in a median 
endemic and middle income country.

Toy M(1), Onder FO, Idilman R, Kabacam G, Richardus JH, Bozdayi M, Akdogan M, 
Kuloglu Z, Kansu A, Schalm S, Yurdaydin C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Dr. Molewaterplein 50, 3000 CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, m.toy@erasmusmc.nl.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection is a serious public health 
problem due to its potential liver disease sequelae and highly expensive medical 
costs such as the need for liver transplantation. The aim of this study was to 
quantify the burden of active CHB in terms of mortality and morbidity, the 
eligibility of antiviral treatment and to assess various treatment scenarios and 
possible salvage combinations for cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A population cohort from a large data base of chronic hepatitis B 
patients was constructed and stratified according to 10-year age groups, the 
prevalence of HBsAg, HBV DNA level, ALT level, HBeAg status and the presence of 
cirrhosis. An age-specific Markov model for disease progression and 
cost-effectiveness analysis was constructed and calibrated for the specific 
population setting.
RESULTS: Of about 3.2 million estimated HBsAg carriers, 25% are eligible for 
treatment. If the active cohort remains untreated, 31% will die due to liver 
related complications. Within a 20-year period, 11% will have developed 
decompensated cirrhosis, 12% liver cancer and 6% will need liver 
transplantation. Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) for the no treatment 
scenario ranged from 9.3 to 14.0. For scenarios with antiviral treatment, QALYs 
ranged from 9.9 to 14.5 for lamivudine, 13.0-17.5 for salvage therapy, and 
16.6-19.0 for the third generation drugs entecavir and tenofovir.
CONCLUSION: In a country with considerable amount of active CHB patients, 
monotherapy with a highly potent third generation drug has the most health-gain, 
and is cost-effective in both HBeAg-positive and negative in all stages of liver 
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0413-8
PMCID: PMC3427846
PMID: 22815098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2012 Jul;24(4):543-55. doi:
10.1177/1010539512452756.  Epub 2012 Jul 18.

Public health strategies to address Asian men's health needs.

Tong SF(1), Low WY.

Author information:
(1)Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. sengfahtong@gmail.com

Men's health discourse has been around for more than 2 decades. The higher 
mortality rates and the shorter life expectancy in Asian men compared with their 
women counterparts show the disadvantaged status of men's health. Thus, 
discussions on men's health should address their health needs and not be 
confined to sex-specific male urology and reproductive health. In Asia, 
assessing men's health needs is challenging because of the vast differences in 
the socioeconomic status and the diverse culture among its member countries. 
Although, the epidemiology of men's health provides the focus for what to 
address in improving men's health, having an optimal strategy requires the 
understanding of men's health-seeking behaviors and the social determinants 
surrounding them. Thus, public health approaches addressing health behaviors and 
health promotion in the society should be one of the keys in improving men's 
health status. Locally relevant information is needed to inform effective public 
health approaches.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539512452756
PMID: 22815311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Eur Heart J. 2013 Apr;34(15):1095-8. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs158. Epub
2012  Jul 19.

Cardiovascular drugs and cancer: of competing risk, smallpox, Bernoulli, and 
d'Alembert.

Messerli FH(1), Bangalore S, Torp-Pedersen C, Staessen JA, Kostis JB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital, Columbia University 
College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY, USA. messerli.f@gmail.com

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs158
PMID: 22815329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e39150. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0039150. Epub 2012 Jul
16.

Effect of serotype on focus and mortality of invasive pneumococcal disease: 
coverage of different vaccines and insight into non-vaccine serotypes.

van Hoek AJ(1), Andrews N, Waight PA, George R, Miller E.

Author information:
(1)Immunisation, Hepatitis and Blood Safety Department, Health Protection 
Agency, London, United Kingdom. albertjan.vanhoek@hpa.org.uk

BACKGROUND: Differences in pathogenicity between pneumococcal serotypes are 
important when assessing the potential benefit of different valency vaccines. We 
investigated the effect of serotype on clinical presentation, outcome, and 
quality of life lost from invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) in the context of 
the 7, 10, and 13 valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccines (PCV7, PCV10, PCV13).
METHOD: Serotyped IPD cases in England were linked to the national dataset of 
hospital admissions for April 2002 to March 2011. Based on patients' diagnostic 
codes and vital status at the end of the admission, disease focus (meningitis, 
empyema, sepsis, or respiratory disease) and case fatality rates by serotype and 
age group (5, 5-64, and 65 years and over) were obtained. Using these data the 
quality adjusted life years (QALY) lost from the IPD remaining when use of PCV7 
stopped in 2010 was estimated for the serotypes covered by higher valency 
vaccines.
RESULTS: The linked dataset contained 23,688 cases with information on 
diagnosis, mortality, and serotype. There were significant differences between 
serotypes in the propensity to cause meningitis, death, and QALY loss in each of 
the investigated age groups. As a result, vaccines' coverage of disease burden 
differed by endpoint. For example, in children under 5 years in 2009/10, PCV10 
covered 39% of meningitis, 19% of deaths and 28% of the QALY loss of 
attributable to IPD, whereas the respective percentages for PCV13 were 65%, 67%, 
and 66%. The highest QALY loss per serotype in this age group was for 6A. 
Non-PCV serotypes causing the highest QALY loss were 22F and 33F in <5 year olds 
and 31 in older individuals.
CONCLUSION: Marked differences exist between serotypes in clinical presentation 
and outcome, and these should be considered when evaluating the potential impact 
of higher valency vaccines on overall disease burden and associated QALY loss.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0039150
PMCID: PMC3398022
PMID: 22815698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: RG has received assistance 
to attend scientific meetings from Wyeth (Pfizer) and GlaxoSmithKline, and his 
laboratory has received research funding from Wyeth (Pfizer) and 
GlaxoSmithKline. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


800. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e40801. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040801. Epub 2012 Jul
16.

C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) deficiency aggravates hippocampal cell apoptosis 
and impairs memory performance.

Chen CM(1), Wu CT, Chiang CK, Liao BW, Liu SH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University 
Hospital and National Taiwan University, College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. 
cmchen10@ms27.hinet.net

Neurodegenerative disorders are growing burdens in modern societies because of 
increased life expectancy. Most neurodegenerative disorders commonly possess a 
similar neuropathological feature--the accumulation of abnormal protein 
aggregates or inclusions (misfolded proteins) in the brain. One of the main 
functions of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is to initiate proper protein folding to 
facilitate protein secretion through the induction of unfolded protein response 
(UPR). C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) induction has been demonstrated to be a 
signaling event underlying ER stress-induced cell apoptosis. In this study, we 
explored the role of CHOP in the hippocampal cell apoptosis and memory 
performance injury under an induced ER stress condition. Adult male wild type 
(C57BL/6J) and CHOP knockout (CHOP-/-) mice were intracerebroventricularly 
injected with tunicamycin. Tunicamycin can induce ER stress and cell apoptosis 
in mouse hippocampus. Compared with wild type mice, CHOP-/- mice showed an 
enhanced hippocampal cell apoptosis, worse performance in memory-related 
behavioral tests, and attenuated IRE-1 expression under tunicamycin treatment. 
The aggravated cell apoptosis and worse memory performance in CHOP-/- mice might 
be due to the deficiency of CHOP protein resulted in the impaired 
adaptive/pathological transcriptional response, the decreased IRE-1 and XBP-1 
expressions, and the increased JNK phosphorylation to cope with ER stress. Taken 
together, these results suggest that CHOP may play a protective role in the 
hippocampal cell apoptosis and impairment of memory performance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040801
PMCID: PMC3397964
PMID: 22815824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


801. Coll Antropol. 2012 Mar;36(1):23-9.

The role of motor and nutritional individuality in childhood obesity.

Parízková J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Obesity Management, Institute of Endocrinology, Prague, Czech 
Republic. jparizkova@endo.cz

Nutritional and motor individuality vary significantly among human subjects, and 
their mutal relationship is decisive for a desirable energy balance and turnover 
with regard to body composition, physical fitness level and health. Early 
establishment of optimal individualities, with regard to genetic, epigenetic and 
other factors which influence the organism early in life is desirable for a 
positive life-long health prognosis and life expectancy. Approaches for the 
evaluation of both nutritional and motor individualities have been elaborated as 
an important starting point for their positive development and eventual 
modification. This should aim to achieve not only prevention of diseases, but 
also to improve health prevention and achieving the status of "positive health".

PMID: 22816194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Gerontol Geriatr Educ. 2012;33(3):287-301. doi:
10.1080/02701960.2012.664589.

Raising awareness of assistive technology in older adults through a 
community-based, cooperative extension program.

Sellers DM(1), Markham MS.

Author information:
(1)School of Family Studies and Human Services, Kansas State University, 
Manhattan, Kansas 66506, USA. dsellers@ksu.edu

The Fashion an Easier Lifestyle with Assistive Technology (FELAT) curriculum was 
developed as a needs-based, community educational program provided through a 
state Cooperative Extension Service. The overall goal for participants was to 
raise awareness of assistive technology. Program evaluation included a 
postassessment and subsequent interview to determine short-term knowledge gain 
and longer term behavior change. The sample consisted of mainly older, married 
females. The FELAT program was effective at raising awareness and increasing 
knowledge of assistive technology, and for many participants, the program acted 
as a catalyst for planning to or taking action related to assistive technology.

DOI: 10.1080/02701960.2012.664589
PMID: 22816976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Geriatr Nurs. 2013 Jan-Feb;34(1):25-29. doi:
10.1016/j.gerinurse.2012.06.011.  Epub 2012 Jul 17.

Lower extremity ulceration caused by medical scooter injury: a case series.

Paparone P(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockton Medical Complex, 72 West Jimmie Leeds Road #2400, Absecon, NJ 
08205-9407, USA. Electronic address: ppaparone@comcast.net.

The motorized mobility scooter (MMS) provides considerable benefits to patients 
with mobility limitations. Nevertheless, safety concerns related to MMS use are 
an issue. With increased use because of increased life expectancy and chronic 
illness, there are a growing number of reports of MMS-related injuries, ranging 
from lacerations and contusions to fatalities. Comorbidities may also exacerbate 
wound care. Prevention of these injuries is greatly needed. The author presents 
5 patients with lower-extremity ulceration caused by MMS injuries. To prevent 
these injuries, health care providers must carefully evaluate and monitor 
patients. Clinicians and MMS manufacturers also need to educate and train 
patients on the safe use of MMS devices, including the regular use of footwear.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2012.06.011
PMID: 22817776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Semin Vasc Surg. 2012 Jun;25(2):108-14. doi:
10.1053/j.semvascsurg.2012.04.004.

Diabetic revascularization: endovascular versus open bypass--do we have the 
answer?

Conte MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Heart and Vascular Center, 
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. 
Michael.conte@ucsfmedctr.org

Diabetes is an independent risk factor for peripheral arterial disease and, when 
advanced peripheral arterial disease develops in the setting of diabetes, it 
portends a greatly increased threat to both life and limb. The management of 
severe limb ischemia in diabetic patients, particularly those with tissue loss 
and infection, remains a major surgical challenge in the new millennium. 
However, advances in multidisciplinary care, including an aggressive 
revascularization approach, can avoid major amputation in a large percentage of 
patients. The unique pattern of lower extremity atherosclerosis in diabetes is a 
critical determinant of the revascularization strategy. Most diabetics with 
critical ischemia have popliteal/tibial occlusions requiring below-the-knee 
intervention or bypass grafting. Bypass surgery with vein to crural or pedal 
arteries remains the gold standard of revascularization, but may be limited by 
patient risk, conduit availability, and a suitable target. Infrapopliteal 
angioplasty can have acceptable results for suitable lesions, particularly when 
there is not extensive tissue loss in the foot. However, restenosis rates after 
endovascular intervention in these vessels are high, and recent advances in 
drug-eluting balloons and stents have promise but remain largely unproven. There 
is limited high-quality evidence to support treatment choices in this arena, 
with only one randomized clinical trial to date. The available data suggest that 
patients with life expectancy of at least 2 years and more extensive disease 
have superior outcomes with open reconstruction. A selective revascularization 
strategy is advocated, using autogenous vein bypass as the initial approach in a 
significant percentage of patients, based on its greater overall efficacy and 
proven durability. However, endovascular therapies have an important role in 
current practice, which will increase further if restenosis can be overcome. 
Vascular specialists should understand and be able to apply both types of 
interventions to optimize patient outcomes.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semvascsurg.2012.04.004
PMID: 22817861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2012 Jul 20;12:75. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-12-75.

Diagnosis and management of people with venous thromboembolism and advanced 
cancer: how do doctors decide? A qualitative study.

Johnson MJ(1), Sheard L, Maraveyas A, Noble S, Prout H, Watt I, Dowding D.

Author information:
(1)Hull York Medical School, Hertford Building, The University of Hull, 
Cottingham Road, Hull, HU6 7RX, UK. miriam.johnson@hyms.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The treatment of cancer associated thrombosis (CAT) is well 
established, with level 1A evidence to support the recommendation of a low 
molecular weight heparin (LMWH) by daily injection for 3-6 months. However, 
registry data suggest compliance to clinical guidelines is poor. Clinicians face 
particular challenges in treating CAT in advanced cancer patients due to shorter 
life expectancy, increased bleeding risk and concerns that self injection may be 
too burdensome. For these reasons decision making around the diagnosis and 
management of CAT in people with advanced cancer, can be complex, and should 
focus on its likely net benefit for the patient. We explored factors that 
influence doctors' decision making in this situation and sought to gain an 
understanding of the barriers and facilitators to the application of best 
practice.
METHODS: Think aloud exercises using standardised case scenarios, and individual 
in depth interviews were conducted. All were transcribed. The think aloud 
exercises were analysed using Protocol Analysis and the interviews using 
Framework Analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: 46 participants took part in the think aloud exercises and 45 
participants were interviewed in depth. Each group included oncologists, 
palliative physicians and general practitioners and included both senior doctors 
and those in training.
SETTING: Two Strategic Health Authority regions, one in the north of England and 
one in Wales.
RESULTS: The following key issues arose from the data synthesis: the importance 
of patient prognosis; the concept of "appropriateness"; "benefits and burdens" 
of diagnosis and treatment; LMWH or warfarin for treatment and sources of 
information which changed practice. Although interlinked, they do describe 
distinct aspects of the factors that influence doctors in their decisions in 
this area.
CONCLUSIONS: The above factors are issues doctors take into account when 
deciding whether to send a patient to hospital for investigation or to 
anticoagulate a patient with confirmed or suspected VTE. Many factors interweave 
and are themselves influenced by and dependent on each other. It is only after 
all are taken into account that the doctor arrives at the point of referring the 
patient for investigation. Some factors including logistic and organisational 
issues appeared to influence whether a patient would be investigated or treated 
with LMWH for a confirmed VTE. It is important that services are optimised to 
ensure that these do not hinder the appropriate investigation and management of 
individual patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-12-75
PMCID: PMC3445826
PMID: 22818215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Acad Nutr Diet. 2012 Sep;112(9):1363-1373. doi:
10.1016/j.jand.2012.05.002.  Epub 2012 Jul 19.

Comparing Costs of Telephone vs Face-to-Face Extended-Care Programs for the 
Management of Obesity in Rural Settings.

Radcliff TA, Bobroff LB, Lutes LD, Durning PE, Daniels MJ, Limacher MC, Janicke 
DM, Martin AD, Perri MG.

BACKGROUND: A major challenge after successful weight loss is continuing the 
behaviors required for long-term weight maintenance. This challenge can be 
exacerbated in rural areas with limited local support resources.
OBJECTIVE: This study describes and compares program costs and cost 
effectiveness for 12-month extended-care lifestyle maintenance programs after an 
initial 6-month weight-loss program.
DESIGN: We conducted a 1-year prospective randomized controlled clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS/SETTING: The study included 215 female participants age 50 years or 
older from rural areas who completed an initial 6-month lifestyle program for 
weight loss. The study was conducted from June 1, 2003 to May 31, 2007.
INTERVENTION: The intervention was delivered through local Cooperative Extension 
Service offices in rural Florida. Participants were randomly assigned to a 
12-month extended-care program using either individual telephone counseling 
(n=67), group face-to-face counseling (n=74), or a mail/control group (n=74).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Program delivery costs, weight loss, and self-reported 
health status were directly assessed through questionnaires and program activity 
logs. Costs were estimated across a range of enrollment sizes to allow 
inferences beyond the study sample.
STATISTICAL ANALYSES PERFORMED: Nonparametric and parametric tests of 
differences across groups for program outcomes were combined with direct program 
cost estimates and expected value calculations to determine which scales of 
operation favored alternative formats for lifestyle maintenance.
RESULTS: Median weight regain during the intervention year was 1.7 kg for 
participants in the face-to-face format, 2.1 kg for the telephone format, and 
3.1 kg for the mail/control format. For a typical group size of 13 participants, 
the face-to-face format had higher fixed costs, which translated into higher 
overall program costs ($420 per participant) when compared with individual 
telephone counseling ($268 per participant) and control ($226 per participant) 
programs. Although the net weight lost after the 12-month maintenance program 
was higher for the face-to-face and telephone programs compared with the control 
group, the average cost per expected kilogram of weight lost was higher for the 
face-to-face program ($47/kg) compared with the other two programs 
(approximately $33/kg for telephone and control).
CONCLUSIONS: Both the scale of operations and local demand for programs are 
important considerations in selecting a delivery format for lifestyle 
maintenance. In this study, the telephone format had a lower cost but similar 
outcomes compared with the face-to-face format.

Copyright © 2012 Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jand.2012.05.002
PMCID: PMC3432696
PMID: 22818246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Acad Nutr Diet. 2012 Aug;112(8):1255-77. doi: 10.1016/j.jand.2012.06.015.

Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: food and nutrition for older 
adults: promoting health and wellness.

Bernstein M(1), Munoz N; Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.

Author information:
(1)Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, USA.

It is the position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics that all Americans 
aged 60 years and older receive appropriate nutrition care; have access to 
coordinated, comprehensive food and nutrition services; and receive the benefits 
of ongoing research to identify the most effective food and nutrition programs, 
interventions, and therapies. Health, physiologic, and functional changes 
associated with the aging process can influence nutrition needs and nutrient 
intake. The practice of nutrition for older adults is no longer limited to those 
who are frail, malnourished, and ill. The population of adults older than age 60 
years includes many individuals who are living healthy, vital lives with a 
variety of nutrition-related circumstances and environments. Access and 
availability of wholesome, nutritious food is essential to ensure successful 
aging and well-being for the rapidly growing, heterogeneous, multiracial, and 
ethnic population of older adults. To ensure successful aging and minimize the 
effects of disease and disability, a wide range of flexible dietary 
recommendations, culturally sensitive food and nutrition services, physical 
activities, and supportive care tailored to older adults are necessary. 
National, state, and local strategies that promote access to coordinated food 
and nutrition services are essential to maintain independence, functional 
ability, disease management, and quality of life. Those working with older 
adults must be proactive in demonstrating the value of comprehensive food and 
nutrition services. To meet the needs of all older adults, registered dietitians 
and dietetic technicians, registered, must widen their scope of practice to 
include prevention, treatment, and maintenance of health and quality of life 
into old age.

Copyright © 2012 Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jand.2012.06.015
PMID: 22818734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Blood Cells Mol Dis. 2012 Oct 15-Dec 15;49(3-4):170-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.bcmd.2012.06.004. Epub 2012 Jul 19.

Long term follow up of 93 families with myeloproliferative neoplasms: life 
expectancy and implications of JAK2V617F in the occurrence of complications.

Malak S(1), Labopin M, Saint-Martin C, Bellanne-Chantelot C, Najman A; French 
Group of Familial Myeloproliferative Disorders.

Collaborators: Najman A, Gorin NC, Isnard F, Coppo P, Buffet M, Garderet L, 
Jaulmes D, Bauters F, Jouet JP, Caulier MT, Lerche B, Trillot N, Carli PM, Guy 
H, Flesch M, Rain JD, Braud AC, Belucci S, Malphettes P, Vainchenker W, Dorvaux 
V, Varet B, Buzyn A, Guilhot F, Delwail V, Roblot P, Castaigne S, Cony-Makloul 
P, Bouabdallah K, Boiron M, Marit G, Sebahoun G, Harlé F, Abgrall JF, Eghbali H, 
Casadevall N, Blanc CM, Cymbalista F, Delannoy J, Blanc M, Dumont J, 
Stoppa-Lyonnet D, Sotto JJ, Simon M, Dupriez B, Stalnikiewicz A, Blaise AM, 
Ramage D, Grosbois P, Jego P, Le Prisé PY, Pris J, Gardembas-Pain M, Bonnefoy M, 
Martin C, Zanaldi H, Brière J, Cahn JY, Deconnink E, de Se'de JM, Vuillier J, 
Tchernia G, Leporrier M, Salles B, Devidas A, Albin N, Jacomy D, Ceccaldi J, 
Demory JL, Bordessoule D, Panelatti G, Gombert B, Navarro M, Lavabre-Bertramd T, 
Guerci AP, Thyss A, Azgui Z, Choquet S, Leverger G, Landman-Parker J, Auvrignon 
A, Facquet-Danis J, Plantier I, Lenain P, Morice P, Gutnecht J, Dine G, Jardel 
H, Turhan A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Assistance Publique-Hopitaux de Paris (AP-HP) 
Saint-Antoine, Universite Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris, France.
