Koné-Paut I(1), Piram M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Rheumatology and Division of Pediatrics, CEREMAI, 
University of Paris SUD, Bicêtre Hospital, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de 
Paris, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, Paris, France. isabelle.kone-paut@bct.aphp.fr

CAPS is the prototype of an IL-1β driven auto inflammatory disorder. Features of 
recurrent systemic inflammation compromises patient's quality of life, and may 
reduce life expectancy by inducing definite organ damage. Recent treatment 
targeting IL-1 have shown dramatic effect on patient's clinical symptoms and 
quality of life. Anakinra was first used successfully in treating small series 
of patients with all CAPS phenotypes. Two pivotal randomized placebo-controlled 
studies allowed licensing of rilonacept and canakinumab as orphan drugs for CAPS 
patients. The use of anti-IL-1 drugs in CAPS is still relatively new, and their 
effect on a long term is not well known. As we can suppress the clinical 
symptoms of patients with CAPS, important questions remain regarding the full 
effect of anti-IL-1 treatment on organ involvement and their potential ability 
to prevent them. As important variations of treatment doses and schedules appear 
in reaching effectiveness, pharmacologic studies are still warranted to 
determine a potential diffusion of anti-IL-1 drugs in the fluids and tissues. 
More studies evaluating the efficacy and safety of anti-IL-1 drugs given in 
patients before 2 years of age are warranted, since it is believed that the 
earliest treatment could avoid secondary CAPS complications to develop.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2012.07.026
PMID: 22884551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Life Sci. 2012 Oct 15;91(13-14):517-21. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2012.07.033. Epub
 2012 Aug 3.

Endothelin receptor antagonists for the treatment of pulmonary artery 
hypertension.

Rubin LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla, CA, USA. 
ljr@lewisrubinmd.com

AIMS: The demonstration that endothelin production is upregulated in pulmonary 
artery hypertension (PAH) served as the rationale for developing 
endothelin-receptor antagonists (ERAs) as a treatment for PAH. This article 
reviews the primary studies demonstrating efficacy of ERAs in PAH.
MAIN METHODS: Multicenter, placebo-controlled trials and open-label extension 
studies.
KEY FINDINGS: Two orally active ERAs are currently approved for the treatment of 
PAH - the dual receptor antagonist bosentan, and the more selective ET(A) 
receptor antagonist ambrisentan-based on multicenter randomized clinical trials 
demonstrating efficacy and safety. Long-term experience with both agents 
supports maintenance of therapeutic effects in most patients. Adverse effects, 
including altered liver function and edema may occur and require careful 
monitoring.
SIGNIFICANCE: Despite failure to demonstrate efficacy of ERAs in other 
cardiopulmonary conditions, ERAs have a major role in the treatment algorithm 
for PAH.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2012.07.033
PMID: 22884806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Vaccine. 2012 Sep 28;30(44):6301-6. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.07.083. Epub
 2012 Aug 9.

Cost-effectiveness of tick-borne encephalitis vaccination in Slovenian adults.

Smit R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Social Pharmacy, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia. renata smit@t-2.net

Comment in
    Vaccine. 2013 May 28;31(23):2601.
    Vaccine. 2013 May 28;31(23):2602.
    Vaccine. 2014 Mar 5;32(11):1227-8.

BACKGROUND: Slovenia is an endemic country with a high incidence rate of 
tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) and low vaccination coverage. TBE causes high 
costs for the health care insurances as well as the society due to 
hospitalization and frequent long term or permanent neurological sequelae. 
Vaccination is effective and a safe prophylaxis against TBE.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) between vaccination and no vaccination in 
Slovenia. The results are shown as cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained from the view of the health care payer and the society.
METHODS: Based on the natural course of the disease, the Markov model was used 
for comparing the economic and health outcomes of vaccinated and unvaccinated 
groups from 18 to 80 years of age.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio from the current Slovenian 
vaccination programme for FSME-Immun(®) compared to no vaccination amounts to € 
15,128 per QALY gained and for Encepur(®) € 20,099 per QALY gained from the view 
of the health care payer. From the view of the society vaccination is cost 
saving, mainly due to avoiding the high indirect costs.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the cost-effectiveness threshold as proposed by the 
Slovenian Health Council, the current Slovenian vaccination programme against 
TBE is cost-effective from the health care payer's perspective and also 
economical from the society's perspective.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.07.083
PMID: 22885012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Wound Care. 2012 Aug;21(8):389-94, 396-8. doi:
10.12968/jowc.2012.21.8.389.

Relative cost-effectiveness of a skin protectant in managing venous leg ulcers 
in the UK.

Guest JF(1), Taylor RR, Vowden K, Vowden P.

Author information:
(1)Catalyst Health Economics Consultants, Northwood, UK. 
julian.guest@catalyst-health.co.uk

Comment in
    J Wound Care. 2012 Sep;21(9):439.
    J Wound Care. 2012 Nov;21(11):570-1.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of using a skin 
protectant (Cavilon No Sting Barrier Film [NSBF] or Cavilon Durable Barrier 
Cream [DBC]; 3M) compared with not using a skin protectant in the management of 
venous leg ulcers (VLUs), in the UK.
METHOD: A decision model was constructed depicting the patient pathways and 
associated management of a cohort of patients with and without a Cavilon 
formulation, plus dressings and compression. The model was based on the case 
records of a cohort of matched patients from The Health Improvement Network 
(THIN) database, who were first diagnosed with a VLU between 1 Jan 2008 and 31 
Dec 2009. The model estimated the costs and outcomes of patient management over 
6 months and the cost-effectiveness of using a Cavilon formulation relative to 
not using a skin protectant.
RESULTS: Patients' mean age was 80.2 years and 61% were female. Sixty-five per 
cent (n=166) of Cavilon patients received NSBF, and 35% received DBC. Between 6% 
and 9% of VLUs were healed at 6 months and 53-66% became infected. Healing was 
affected by a patient's age (OR: 0.944 for each additional year), but not by 
gender, level of exudate or wound size. There was a significantly greater 
reduction in wound size among patients in the NSBF group than in the other two 
groups (p<0.001). Additionally, there was no significant difference in the 
initial wound size of those VLUs that did and did not heal in the two Cavilon 
groups; however, initial size of the VLUs that healed in the control group was 
significantly smaller than those that did not (p<0.001). Resource use was 
similar between the three groups. Patients were predominantly managed by 
practice nurses, with a mean 37-38 nurse visits over the study period. Patients' 
dressings were changed, on average, every 4-5 days, with a mean of 3 dressings 
under a compression bandage. The total 6-monthly NHS cost of managing a VLU was 
~£2200. Practice nurse visits were the primary cost driver, accounting for up to 
58% of the 6-monthly NHS cost, whereas dressings accounted for <10% of the cost.
CONCLUSION: Use of NSBF leads to significantly greater wound size reduction than 
that observed in the other two groups and may facilitate the healing of larger 
wounds without increasing costs. Hence, use of NSBF for peri-wound skin 
protection in patients with exuding VLUs is the preferred treatment strategy.
DECLARATION OF INTEREST: This study was sponsored by 3M Health Care, 
manufacturers of Cavillon NSBF and Cavillon DBC. However, the authors have no 
other conflicts of interest that are directly relevant to the content of this 
manuscript, which remains their sole responsibility.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2012.21.8.389
PMID: 22885312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Indian J Med Sci. 2010 Jun;64(6):285-91.

Novel cardiovascular drugs in clinical trials.

Biswal S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology SCB Medical College & Hospital, Cuttack, Odisha, 
India.

Cardiovascular diseases remain a major cause of morbidity and mortality 
worldwide, regardless of the recent advances in medical and surgical treatment, 
for as life expectancy in the developed countries increases, cardiovascular 
conditions affecting the elderly also rises. Atherosclerosis and cardiovascular 
diseases take a huge toll on the society, making them the leading cause of death 
in developed countries. Phenomenal advances in the pathophysiology of 
cardiovascular disease and the molecular signaling pathways has revealed the 
role of endothelial dysfunction involved therein and thus has raised the 
possibility of novel therapeutic targets. Such potential cellular targets 
include the vascular smooth muscle cells, monocyte/macrophage cell lines, 
platelets, and endothelial cells. Certain studies affirm that antiplatelet 
agents, antioxidant therapies, amino acid supplementation, angiotensin 
converting enzyme inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers may prevent or 
slow the progression of the disease process. The race is on for new medicines 
that can treat and prevent heart attacks and strokes, arising out of 
atherosclerosis, which kills nearly 1 million people a year in the U.S.A alone.

PMID: 22885321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;911:457-73. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-968-6_28.

Methods for determining the PK parameters of AlbudAbs™ and of long serum 
half-life drugs made using the AlbudAb™ technology.

Rycroft D(1), Holt LJ.

Author information:
(1)Biopharm R&D, GlaxoSmithKline, Cambridge, UK. daniel.w.rycroft@gsk.com

Increasing serum residence time of drugs by means of fusing them to 
albumin-binding domain antibodies (AlbudAbs™) has previously been documented. 
AlbudAbs™ provide a valuable method for increasing the efficacy of drugs by 
extending the time for which therapeutic levels of drug are present in the body 
and also for increasing the convenience to the patient by reducing the need for 
frequent dosing. Here, we describe methods that could be used preclinically to 
determine the suitability of drug-AlbudAbs™ for development. Particular focus is 
given to suggested in vivo study design which could enable the fitting of 
accurate PK parameters, assay methods for concentration determination of 
AlbudAbs™ in blood samples, and to the protocols used to fit PK parameters to 
AlbudAb™ concentration data. Whilst the examples cited here are focussed on the 
AlbudAb™ technology, similar methods could be used for assessing the success of 
other half-life extension technologies (drug Fc fusions, PEGylated drugs).

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-968-6_28
PMID: 22886269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Trop Anim Health Prod. 2012 Sep;44 Suppl 1:S67-73. doi: 
10.1007/s11250-012-0209-y. Epub 2012 Aug 12.

The multiple burdens of zoonotic disease and an Ecohealth approach to their 
assessment.

Grace D(1), Gilbert J, Randolph T, Kang'ethe E.

Author information:
(1)International Livestock Research Institute, PO Box 30709, Nairobi, Kenya. 
d.grace@cgiar.org

Zoonoses occur at the interface of human and animal disease and partly because 
their impact and management fall across two sectors they are often neglected. 
The Global Burden of Disease captures the impact of zoonoses on human health in 
terms of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). Based on this, we estimate that 
in low income countries, zoonoses and diseases which recently emerged from 
animals make up 26 % of the DALYs lost to infectious disease and 10 % of the 
total DALYs lost. In contrast, in high income countries, zoonoses and diseases 
recently which emerged from animals represent less than 1 % of DALYs lost to 
infectious disease and only 0.02 % of the total disease burden. We present a 
framework that captures the costs of zoonoses and emerging disease to human, 
animal and ecosystem health in terms of cost of treatment, cost of prevention, 
health burden and intangible and opportunity costs. We also discuss how 
ecohealth concepts of transdisciplinarity, participation and equity can help in 
assessing the importance of zoonoses in developing countries and illustrate 
these with an example of assessing milk-borne disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11250-012-0209-y
PMID: 22886445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Cell Physiol. 2013 Mar;228(3):640-5. doi: 10.1002/jcp.24173.

Amprenavir inhibits the migration in human hepatocarcinoma cell and the growth 
of xenografts.

Esposito V(1), Verdina A, Manente L, Spugnini EP, Viglietti R, Parrella R, 
Pagliano P, Parrella G, Galati R, De Luca A, Baldi A, Montesarchio V, Chirianni 
A.

Author information:
(1)Third Division of Infection Diseases, AORN dei Colli, Naples, Italy. 
esposvin@libero.it

The introduction of HAART (highly-active-antiretroviral-therapy) has resulted in 
extended survival of HIV positive patients. Conversely, due to the prolonged 
expectancy of life and the ageing of the HIV positive population, tumors are now 
one of the major cause of death, and among them hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
has become a growing concern in these patients. Considering the potential 
anti-tumoral effects of HIV protease inhibitors, we decided to evaluate the 
anti-tumoral activity of Amprenavir on liver carcinoma and to evaluate its 
potential synergistic effects in combination with standard chemoterapic drugs, 
such as Doxorubicin. Our results indicate that Amprenavir had direct inhibitory 
effects on invasion of Huh-7 hepatocarcinoma cell lines, inhibiting MMP 
proteolytic activation. Amprenavir was able to delay the growth of 
hepatocarcinoma xenografts in nude mice and had a synergistic effect with 
Doxorubicin. Furthermore, Amprenavir was able to promote regression of 
hepatocarcinoma growth in vivo by anti-angiogenetic and overall anti-tumor 
activities, independently by PI3K/AKT related pathways that at today is one of 
the more suggestive hypothesis to explain the anti-tumor effects of the 
different protease inhibitors. In summary these findings suggest novel 
anti-neoplastic action of Amprenavir on liver cancer showing the possibility of 
novel combination therapies.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.24173
PMID: 22886568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Ann Rheum Dis. 2013 Jun;72(6):1011-7. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-201531.
Epub  2012 Aug 11.

A vasculitis centre based management strategy leads to improved outcome in 
eosinophilic granulomatosis and polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss, EGPA): monocentric 
experiences in 150 patients.

Moosig F(1), Bremer JP, Hellmich B, Holle JU, Holl-Ulrich K, Laudien M, Matthis 
C, Metzler C, Nölle B, Richardt G, Gross WL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein and 
Klinikum Bad Bramstedt, Bad Bramstedt, Germany. f.moosig@klinikumbb.de

Comment in
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Mar;73(3):e12.
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Mar;73(3):e13.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate a vasculitis centre based management strategy for 
eosinophilic granulomatosis and polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss, EGPA).
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study at a vasculitis referral centre was 
performed. All EGPA patients admitted from 1990 to 2009 were included. A 
structured interdisciplinary work-up for proof of diagnosis, Disease Extent 
Index and Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score was performed. Immunosuppressive 
therapy was initiated and regularly adapted. Treatment targets were induction 
and maintenance of remission according to definitions given by the European 
League Against Rheumatism and the European Vasculitis Study Group. Outcomes were 
mortality, rate of remission, relapses, adverse events and prednisolone-dose.
RESULTS: Out of 269 patients with suspected EGPA 150 fulfilled the inclusion 
criteria. Of those, 104 had more than one follow-up visit resulting in a mean 
follow up of 53±4.9 months. By using additional data sources the follow-up 
concerning survival was extended to 92±5 month. Severe organ manifestations 
occurred at heart (46%), kidney (18%) and lungs (10%). Cyclophosphamide was used 
in 107 patients (71%). The prednisolone-doses of all patients were within the 
targeted range (i.e. ≤7.5 mg) in 69% of the total follow-up time; the median 
dose at end of follow-up was 5mg/d. The 10-year survival rate was 89% resulting 
in mortality comparable to the general population (SMR 1.29). Only patients with 
cardiac failure associated with EGPA had an increased mortality (SMR 3.06).
CONCLUSIONS: Regular re-evaluation and target-orientated adaption of therapy may 
lead to normalization of life expectancy and attenuation of disease progression. 
Continued centre based interdisciplinary treatment should be standard of care.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-201531
PMID: 22887848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2014 Jun 1;83(7):E277-82. doi:
10.1002/ccd.24597.  Epub 2013 Nov 30.

Cause of death after transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Van Mieghem NM(1), van der Boon RM, Nuis RJ, Schultz C, van Geuns RJ, Serruys 
PW, Kappetein AP, van Domburg RT, de Jaegere PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Interventional Cardiology, Thoraxcenter, Erasmus Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate survival and cause of death in a consecutive patient 
cohort undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve implantation (TAVI).
BACKGROUND: TAVI is a valid treatment option in patients with severe Aortic 
Stenosis (AS) who are deemed at (very) high operative risk. Because of 
(non-)cardiac comorbidities life expectancy in this patient, population is 
reduced when compared with the general population.
METHODS: Consecutive patients with symptomatic aortic stenosis undergoing TAVI 
between November 2005 and December 2011 were included. (1) Survival status was 
obtained from the Dutch Civil Registry, (2) cause of death was derived by 
reviewing hospital charts, and (3) contacting referring physicians and patients' 
general practitioners.
RESULTS: Two hundred and thirty-seven consecutive patients were included with an 
overall all-cause mortality of 31% at a median follow up of 13 months (IQR 2-24 
months). Four patients (1.6%) died < 48 hr of the TAVI procedure, and another 16 
patients died up to the 30-day interval representing an all-cause 8.4% 30-day 
mortality. Between 30 days and 1-year another 30 patients died. Twenty-four 
patients died >1 year post TAVI. The predominant cause of death >48 hr post TAVI 
was noncardiac. One third of these deaths were due to sepsis/infection, 
one-fifth to cancer and stroke in 16%.
CONCLUSIONS: In our series of AS patients undergoing TAVI, the cause of death 
>48 hr post procedure was predominantly noncardiac at every time interval. 
Mortality was driven by sepsis/infection, cancer, and stroke. Rigorous patient 
selection may improve outcome after TAVI.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., a Wiley company.

DOI: 10.1002/ccd.24597
PMID: 22887941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Rhinology. 2012 Sep;50(3):255-61. doi: 10.4193/Rhino12.050.

Quality of life in extended endonasal approaches for skull base tumours.

Georgalas C(1), Badloe R, van Furth W, Reinartz S, Fokkens WJ.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the quality of life (QOL) impact of extended endonasal 
approaches and nasoseptal flap reconstruction for benign skull base tumours
METHODS: A random sample of 110 patients undergoing either limited endonasal 
transphenoidal hypophysectomy or extended endonasal approaches 
(trans-cribriform, trans-sellar, trans-tuberculum, trans-pterygoid) for the 
removal of benign skull base tumours were asked to complete Rhinosinusitis 
Outcome Measure (RSOM-31) questionnaire.
RESULTS: A total of 91 patients returned the completed questionnaire. All 
patients in the limited approach group had pituitary adenomas, while patients in 
the extended group had a variety of tumours including adenomas with suprasellar 
or cavernous extension, chordomas, meningiomas, craniopharyngiomas and dermoids. 
Median time to completion of questionnaire was 1104 days in the limited group 
and 142 days in the extended approaches group. Although smell and headache were 
significantly worse in the group undergoing reconstruction with Haddad flap, 
there was no significant difference in overall, nasal, general, emotional or 
sleep quality of life between the two groups. Both smell and headache showed 
significant improvement with time. In linear regression, the single most 
important factor independently associated with overall worse RSOM-31 total 
scores was the presence of secreting adenomas.
CONCLUSION: The use of nasoseptal flap appears to have a limited negative impact 
in nasal quality of life, mainly related to heada- che and reduced smell, both 
of which tend to improve with time. Hormone-secreting tumours have the most 
important adverse effect in quality of life extending in general, emotional, 
sleep and overall wellbeing, as reflected in RSOM 31 subscales.

DOI: 10.4193/Rhino12.050
PMID: 22888481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Proc Inst Mech Eng H. 2012 Jan;226(1):33-40. doi: 10.1177/0954411911427351.

Design and performance of spinal fixation pedicle screw system.

Demir T(1), Camuşcuz N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, TOBB University of Economics and 
Technology, Ankara, Turkey. tdemir@etu.edu.tr

Pedicle screw-rod bilateral constructions are extensively used in spinal 
fixation. In this study, the common cause for failure of bilateral constructions 
has been determined to be the high stress concentration at the rod-setscrew 
interface. In order to overcome this problem, a design modification has been 
made by using a supplementary part (shoe) between rod and setscrew. Performance 
comparison of the conventional design and modified design has been done by 
conducting static tests. Design modification has resulted in 11%, 27%, 42% and 
31% improvements in axial gripping capacity, torsional gripping capacity, 
flexion/extension resistance and subassembly compression strength, respectively. 
The most outstanding achievement has been obtained in the fatigue life, which 
was extended by almost three times.

DOI: 10.1177/0954411911427351
PMID: 22888582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Vopr Onkol. 2012;58(3):352-8.

[Pharmacoeconomic analysis of gefitinib therapy in patients with non-cell cell 
lung cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Protsenko SA, Rudakova AV, Moiseenko FV, Levchenko EV, Matsko DE, Ivantsov AO, 
Semënov II, Ievleva AG, Mitiushkina NV, Togo AV, Novik AV, Imianitov EN, 
Moiseenko VM.

We performed a treatment efficacy analysis for non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) patients' population with EGFR mutation aimed at optimization of 
pharmacoeconomic factors. The employment of gefitinib leads to an increase in 
patients' life expectancy for a median of 1.05 years. The average 
cost-effectiveness of this therapy is 934.8 thousand rubles per additional year 
(903.9-1100.5 thousand rubles for each year). If gefitinib therapy is given only 
to patients with proved EGFR mutation it can decrease the average expenses by 
211.6-251.8 thousand rubles per patient in comparison to undiagnosed patients's 
population receiving gefitinib without a decrease in clinical effect. Comparison 
of selective gefitinib administration with isolated chemotherapy (CT) yields an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 960.7 to 1010.0 thousand rubles per 
additional year. Therefore, the strategy of EGFR gene mutations testing in 
patients with inoperable NSCLC with consequent gefitinib therapy administration 
in patients positive for mutation lead to an increase in life expectancy and is 
characterized by acceptable cost-effectiveness.

PMID: 22888650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Vopr Onkol. 2012;58(3):380-6.

[Optimal doses and timing for tele-irradiation of bone metastases in patients 
with life expectancy more than 3 months].

[Article in Russian]

Khmelevskiĭ EV, Pan'shin GA, Dobrovol'skaia NIu, Bol'shakova SA.

The aim of the current study was to improve the bone metastases irradiation 
parameters in patients with life expectancy more than 3 months. The current 
randomized study included a total of 333 patients with bone metastases (breast 
cancer metastases in 71% of cases) receiving 488 courses of photon irradiation. 
Irradiation effect was observed in 95.8-100% of cases regardless of fraction 
number and irradiation regimen. The rate of complete effect was the same for all 
irradiation regimens, but raised gradually from 33.3% to 50.4% and 65.9% 
respectively when irradiation was given by 2, 3 and 4 fractions, 6,5 Gy each (p 
< 0.03); 78.4% (p < 0.01) cases of complete effect were observed in patients 
receiving irradiation by multiple small fraction compared to the groups 
receiving irradiation by 2 or 3 fractions of 6.5 Gy. The complete effect was 
more often observed in breast cancer (67%) and prostate cancer (63%) patients in 
comparison to lung cancer (47%) and renal cancer (30%) patients (p < 0,05) 
independent of metastases localization. The mean frequency of pain recurrence in 
irradiated area was 8.2% in all primary tumor and metastases localizations, 
irrespective of irradiation dose and regimen. Based on above results we 
recommend for breast cancer and prostate cancer patients with bone metastases 
and life expectancy more than 3 months the irradiation with 19.5 Gy given by 3 
fractions. The patients with metastasizing lung and renal cancer should receive 
26 Gy irradiation by 4 fractions 6.5 Gy each given once every 5.

PMID: 22888655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2012 Oct;87(4):616-22. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0146.
Epub  2012 Aug 13.

Total economic cost and burden of dengue in Nicaragua: 1996-2010.

Wettstein ZS(1), Fleming M, Chang AY, Copenhaver DJ, Wateska AR, Bartsch SM, Lee 
BY, Kulkarni RP.

Author information:
(1)Dengue Relief Foundation, Managua, Nicaragua. zwettstein@gmail.com

The burden of dengue in Nicaragua has been steadily rising during the last three 
decades; however, there have been few efforts to quantify the burden (measured 
in disability-adjusted life years [DALYs]) and cost to society. Using primary 
data from the Nicaraguan Ministry of Health (MINSA), the total cost and burden 
of dengue were calculated from 1996 to 2010. Total costs included both direct 
costs from medical expenditures and prevention activities and indirect costs 
from lost productivity. The annual disease burden ranged from 99 to 805 DALYs 
per million, with a majority associated with classic dengue fever. The total 
cost was estimated to be US$13.5 million/year (range: US$5.1-27.6 million). This 
analysis can help improve allocation of dengue control resources in Nicaragua 
and the region. As one of the most comprehensive analyses of its type to date in 
Nicaragua and Latin America, this study can serve as a model to determine the 
burden and cost of dengue.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.2012.12-0146
PMCID: PMC3516309
PMID: 22890033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2012 Oct;24(5):565-8. doi: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e328357a7ae.

Percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation: fixing the problems and pushing the 
envelope.

Balzer DT(1).

Author information:
(1)Washington University, St Louis School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63303, 
USA. balzer@kids.wustl.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: A recent development within pediatric cardiology is 
percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation (PPVI). This has extended the life of 
surgical conduits and decreased the number of surgical procedures required. 
Early reports focused on feasibility and safety of the technique; recent 
literature has focused on avoidance of complications such as stent fractures and 
on expanding the procedure to nonconduit implantation. The purpose of this 
review is to summarize the recent data regarding stent fractures and alternative 
uses of the valve.
RECENT FINDINGS: Stent fractures following PPVI are reported in 20-28% of 
patients. Prestenting has recently been shown to be protective and to extend the 
freedom from stent fractures. The use of PPVI has also been reported in 
nonconduit positions such as in bioprosthetic tricuspid valves, branch pulmonary 
arteries, aortic and mitral positions. In addition, the valve has been implanted 
in higher pressure environments. The short-term success in these applications 
appears to be quite good.
SUMMARY: PPVI has allowed extension of the life of surgical conduits and failure 
of the valve is mainly related to stent fractures. Recent developments have 
minimized this complication. In addition, use of the valve has been extended to 
nontraditional locations and short-term results are favorable.

DOI: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e328357a7ae
PMID: 22890067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Methodist Debakey Cardiovasc J. 2012 Apr-Jun;8(2):26-8. doi: 
10.14797/mdcj-8-2-26.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of TAVR.

Reardon MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Methodist DeBakey Heart & Vascular Center, The Methodist Hospital, Houston, 
Texas, USA.

Transcather aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has rapidly gained worldwide 
acceptance for treating very high-risk patients with symptomatic severe aortic 
stenosis. Two valve systems are currently in common use worldwide and under 
trial in the United States. The Edwards SAPIEN valve has completed its PARTNER 
trial and has been approved for use in nonoperative patients. The Medtronic 
CoreValve is currently completing its US pivotal trial. Both plan studies of 
intermediate-risk patients. The use of TAVR in Europe has grown rapidly and is 
now about 23% of the total aortic valve replacements done in which a tissue 
valve is chosen (generally patients over 60 to 65 years of age). This technology 
is used in a patient population that was either not receiving any surgical 
therapy due to extreme risk or was considered very high risk for conventional 
surgery. The procedure requires a highly trained TAVR team, advanced imaging, 
and the devices themselves, which are expensive. Medical device trials are 
generally designed to establish if the device works as planned. For TAVR in 
today's world of rising health care costs, the additional question of cost 
effectiveness is important to address. Fortunately, the PARTNER trial addressed 
this and the CoreValve trial has built this into the trial design as well. This 
article examines what is currently known about the cost-effectiveness of TAVR.

DOI: 10.14797/mdcj-8-2-26
PMCID: PMC3405797
PMID: 22891125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Rev Med Liege. 2012 May-Jun;67(5-6):258-62.

[A changing medical and economic world: complex diseases and interest in 
economic evaluation of health technologies].

[Article in French]

Hiligsmann M(1), Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Département de Santé Publique, d'Epidémiologie et d'Economie de la Santé, 
Faculté de Médecine, Université de Liège, Belgique. m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

Medical advances and increasing life expectancy have indirectly contributed to 
the development of chronic complex diseases. Chronic diseases, which last for a 
lifetime, are responsible, at least in part, for the increase in health care 
expenditures which poses new challenges to healthcare systems. Under increasing 
economic pressure, it has become increasingly important to efficiently allocate 
scarce healthcare resources. By comparing costs and effects of health 
interventions, health economic evaluation is a powerful tool to help decision 
makers to make rational decisions. This article introduces the methods for the 
economic evaluation of health care programs and discusses the challenges of 
using economic evaluation in medical decision making.

PMID: 22891476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc. 2013 Feb;88(1):81-116. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-185X.2012.00241.x. Epub 2012 Aug 14.

Abbreviation of larval development and extension of brood care as key features 
of the evolution of freshwater Decapoda.

Vogt G(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biosciences, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 230, 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany. gunter.vogt@web.de

The transition from marine to freshwater habitats is one of the major steps in 
the evolution of life. In the decapod crustaceans, four groups have colonized 
fresh water at different geological times since the Triassic, the freshwater 
shrimps, freshwater crayfish, freshwater crabs and freshwater anomurans. Some 
families have even colonized terrestrial habitats via the freshwater route or 
directly via the sea shore. Since none of these taxa has ever reinvaded its 
environment of origin the Decapoda appear particularly suitable to investigate 
life-history adaptations to fresh water. Evolutionary comparison of marine, 
freshwater and terrestrial decapods suggests that the reduction of egg number, 
abbreviation of larval development, extension of brood care and lecithotrophy of 
the first posthatching life stages are key adaptations to fresh water. Marine 
decapods usually have high numbers of small eggs and develop through a prolonged 
planktonic larval cycle, whereas the production of small numbers of large eggs, 
direct development and extended brood care until the juvenile stage is the rule 
in freshwater crayfish, primary freshwater crabs and aeglid anomurans. The 
amphidromous freshwater shrimp and freshwater crab species and all terrestrial 
decapods that invaded land via the sea shore have retained ocean-type planktonic 
development. Abbreviation of larval development and extension of brood care are 
interpreted as adaptations to the particularly strong variations of hydrodynamic 
parameters, physico-chemical factors and phytoplankton availability in 
freshwater habitats. These life-history changes increase fitness of the 
offspring and are obviously favoured by natural selection, explaining their 
multiple origins in fresh water. There is no evidence for their early evolution 
in the marine ancestors of the extant freshwater groups and a preadaptive role 
for the conquest of fresh water. The costs of the shift from relative r- to 
K-strategy in freshwater decapods are traded-off against fecundity, future 
reproduction and growth of females and perhaps against size of species but not 
against longevity of species. Direct development and extension of brood care is 
associated with the reduction of dispersal and gene flow among populations, 
which may explain the high degree of speciation and endemism in directly 
developing freshwater decapods. Direct development and extended brood care also 
favour the evolution of social systems, which in freshwater decapods range from 
simple subsocial organization to eusociality. Hermaphroditism and 
parthenogenesis, which have evolved in some terrestrial crayfish burrowers and 
invasive open water crayfish, respectively, may enable populations to adapt to 
restrictive or new environments by spatio-temporal alteration of their 
socio-ecological characteristics. Under conditions of rapid habitat loss, 
environmental pollution and global warming, the reduced dispersal ability of 
direct developers may turn into a severe disadvantage, posing a higher threat of 
extinction to freshwater crayfish, primary freshwater crabs, aeglids and 
landlocked freshwater shrimps as compared to amphidromous freshwater shrimps and 
secondary freshwater crabs.

© 2012 The Author. Biological Reviews © 2012 Cambridge Philosophical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-185X.2012.00241.x
PMID: 22891642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Popul Health Metr. 2012 Aug 14;10(1):14. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-10-14.

Mortality trends in Tonga: an assessment based on a synthesis of local data.

Hufanga S(1), Carter KL, Rao C, Lopez AD, Taylor R.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. 
k.carter1@uq.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Accurate measures of mortality level by age group, gender, and 
region are critical for health planning and evaluation. These are especially 
required for a country like Tonga, which has limited resources and works 
extensively with international donors. Mortality levels in Tonga were examined 
through an assessment of available published information and data available from 
the four routine death reporting systems currently in operation.
METHODS: Available published data on infant mortality rate (IMR) and life 
expectancy (LE) in Tonga were sought through direct contact with the Government 
of Tonga and relevant international and regional organizations. Data sources 
were assessed for reliability and plausibility of estimates on the basis of 
method of estimation, original source of data, and data consistency. Unreliable 
sources were censored from further analysis and remaining data analysed for 
trends.Mortality data for 2001 to 2009 were obtained from both the Health 
Information System (based on medical certificates of death) and the Civil 
Registry. Data from 2005 to 2009 were also obtained from the Reproductive Health 
System of the Ministry of Health (MoH) (based on community nursing reports), and 
for 2005-2008, data were also obtained from the Prime Minister's office. Records 
were reconciled to create a single list of unique deaths and IMR and life tables 
calculated. Completeness of the reconciled data was examined using the Brass 
growth-balance method and capture-recapture analysis using two and three 
sources.
RESULTS: Published IMR estimates varied significantly through to the late 1990s 
when most estimates converge to a narrower range between 10 and 20 deaths per 
1,000 live births. Findings from reconciled data were consistent with this 
range, and did not demonstrate any significant trend over 2001 to 2009.Published 
estimates of LE from 2000 onwards varied from 65 to 75 years for males and 68 to 
74 years for females, with most clustered around 70 to 71 for males and 72 to 73 
for females. Reconciled empirical data for 2005 to 2009 produce an estimate of 
LE of 65.2 years (95% confidence interval [CI]: 64.6 - 65.8) for males and 
69.6 years (95% CI: 69.0 - 70.2) for females, which are several years lower than 
published MoH and census estimates. Adult mortality (15 to 59 years) is 
estimated at 26.7% for males and 19.8% for females. Analysis of reporting 
completeness suggests that even reconciled data are under enumerated, and these 
estimates place the plausible range of LE between 60.4 to 64.2 years for males 
and 65.4 to 69.0 years for females, with adult mortality at 28.6% to 36.3% and 
20.9% to 27.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The level of LE at a relatively low IMR and high adult mortality 
suggests that non-communicable diseases are having a profound limiting effect on 
health status in Tonga. There has been a sustained history of incomplete and 
erroneous mortality estimates for Tonga. The findings highlight the critical 
need to reconcile existing data sources and integrate reporting systems more 
fully to ensure all deaths in Tonga are captured and the importance of local 
empirical data in monitoring trends in mortality.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-10-14
PMCID: PMC3583122
PMID: 22891707


962. BMC Med. 2012 Aug 15;10:92. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-10-92.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 analogs against antipsychotic-induced weight gain: 
potential physiological benefits.

Ebdrup BH(1), Knop FK, Ishøy PL, Rostrup E, Fagerlund B, Lublin H, Glenthøj B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuropsychiatric Schizophrenia Research, CNSR and Center for 
Clinical Intervention and Neuropsychiatric Schizophrenia Research, CINS, 
Psychiatric Center Glostrup, University of Copenhagen, DK-2600 Glostrup, 
Denmark. bebdrup@cnsr.dk

BACKGROUND: Antipsychotic-induced weight gain constitutes a major unresolved 
clinical problem which may ultimately be associated with reducing life 
expectancy by 25 years. Overweight is associated with brain deterioration, 
cognitive decline and poor quality of life, factors which are already 
compromised in normal weight patients with schizophrenia.Here we outline the 
current strategies against antipsychotic-induced weight gain, and we describe 
peripheral and cerebral effects of the gut hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 
(GLP-1). Moreover, we account for similarities in brain changes between 
schizophrenia and overweight patients.
DISCUSSION: Current interventions against antipsychotic-induced weight gain do 
not facilitate a substantial and lasting weight loss. GLP-1 analogs used in the 
treatment of type 2 diabetes are associated with significant and sustained 
weight loss in overweight patients. Potential effects of treating schizophrenia 
patients with antipsychotic-induced weight gain with GLP-1 analogs are 
discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose that adjunctive treatment with GLP-1 analogs may 
constitute a new avenue to treat and prevent metabolic and cerebral deficiencies 
in schizophrenia patients with antipsychotic-induced weight gain. Clinical 
research to support this idea is highly warranted.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-10-92
PMCID: PMC3573939
PMID: 22891821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Eur J Neurol. 2013 Feb;20(2):293-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2012.03845.x.
Epub  2012 Aug 14.

Traumatic spinal cord injury in two European countries: why the differences?

Sabre L(1), Hagen EM, Rekand T, Asser T, Kõrv J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, University of Tartu, Tartu, 
Estonia. liis.sabre@ut.ee

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to compare the incidence, 
causes, severity and mortality of traumatic spinal cord injury (TSCI) in Western 
Norway and Estonia from 1997 to 2001.
METHODS: The patients were identified from hospital records. All patients were 
followed until death or 14 October 2011. Analysed data included demographic 
data, causes of injury, neurological level, American Spinal Injury Association 
Impairment Scale and mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 71 patients in Western Norway and 244 in Estonia were 
included. The standardized incidence rate per million was 24.9 (CI 95%, 
19.4-31.7) for Western Norway and 37.4 (CI 95%, 32.8-42.5) for Estonia. Falls 
was the most frequent cause of TSCI in both countries. The incidence of TSCI was 
highest among men in their 20s in Estonia and men in their 70s in Western 
Norway. The median survival time among the deceased was 4.0 (95% CI, 1.50-6.50) 
years in Norway and 2.8 (95% CI, 1.54-4.04) in Estonia. The mean standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) was 5.00 (95% CI, 4.00-6.20) in Estonia and 1.89 (95% CI, 
1.23-2.77) in Western Norway.
CONCLUSION: Although the two cohorts had similar demographic, injury and 
clinical characteristics, the age profile of the victims was different. The 
incidence rate was 1.5 times higher and SMR was 2.7 times higher in Estonia. 
Probable explanations for the different outcomes of the two European countries 
are socioeconomic differences, lower physical activity level, lower life 
expectancy and insufficient injury prevention programmes in Estonia.

© 2012 The Author(s) European Journal of Neurology © 2012 EFNS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2012.03845.x
PMID: 22891855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Gynecol Oncol. 2012 Nov;127(2):267-72. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.08.002.
Epub  2012 Aug 11.

Cost effectiveness of concurrent gemcitabine and cisplatin with radiation 
followed by adjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with stages IIB to 
IVA carcinoma of the cervix.

Phippen NT(1), Leath CA 3rd, Chino JP, Jewell EL, Havrilesky LJ, Barnett JC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
San Antonio Military Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234, USA.

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 2012 Nov;127(2):265-6.

OBJECTIVE: A recent phase III trial reported gemcitabine with cisplatin 
chemoradiation followed by 2 cycles of gemcitabine and cisplatin (G) 
significantly improved progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) compared 
to standard cisplatin chemoradiation (C) for locally advanced cervix cancer. We 
evaluate the cost effectiveness (CE) of these treatment regimens.
METHODS: A modified Markov model was constructed comparing CE between treatment 
arms using the published trial's five-year OS and treatment-related toxicity 
rates. Quality of life (QOL) utility scores during treatment were obtained from 
published literature and modeled for sensitivity analysis. Cost data was 
obtained from Medicare reimbursement figures and the Healthcare Cost and 
Utilization Project. One-way sensitivity analyses assessed variations in cost 
and adverse events.
RESULTS: Mean cost was $41,330 (US$) for C versus $60,974 for G. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for G compared to C was $33,080 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). In sensitivity analyses (SA), the ICER 
increased to common willingness-to-pay thresholds of 50 K and 100 K when QOL 
utility scores during G active treatment declined to 0.64 and 0.53 (baseline 
0.76), respectively. The model was insensitive to changes in adverse event 
rates, costs of treatment, or adverse event hospitalization costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Gemcitabine with cisplatin chemoradiation followed by 2 cycles of 
adjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin is a cost effective treatment for locally 
advanced cervix cancer compared to standard cisplatin chemoradiation. Common 
willingness to pay thresholds are exceeded during sensitivity analyses with 
realistic declines in QOL. Our results support ongoing investigations of novel 
adjuvants to standard cisplatin chemoradiation with potentially less toxicity.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.08.002
PMID: 22892361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2012 Aug;137(34-35):1706-12. doi:
10.1055/s-0032-1305225.  Epub 2012 Aug 14.

[Lifestyle as medicine].

[Article in German]

Sagner M(1), Schulz KH.

Author information:
(1)Lebensstilmedizin und Präventionsmedizin, Athleticum - Kompetenzzentrum für 
Sport- und Bewegungsmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Eppendorf-Hamburg. 
m.sagner@uke.de

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1305225
PMID: 22893053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. J Med Ethics. 2014 Apr;40(4):230-4. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100571. Epub
 2012 Aug 14.

Factors that facilitate or constrain the use of continuous sedation at the end 
of life by physicians and nurses in Belgium: results from a focus group study.

Raus K(1), Anquinet L, Rietjens J, Deliens L, Mortier F, Sterckx S.

Author information:
(1)End-of-Life Care Research Group, Ghent University and Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel, Ghent, Belgium.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2014 Apr;40(4):241.

Continuous sedation at the end of life (CS) is the practice whereby a physician 
uses sedatives to reduce or take away a patient's consciousness until death. 
Although the incidence of CS is rising, as of yet little research has been 
conducted on how the administration of CS is experienced by medical 
practitioners. Existing research shows that many differences exist between 
medical practitioners regarding how and how often they perform CS. We conducted 
a focus group study to find out which factors may facilitate or constrain the 
use of continuous sedation by physicians and nurses. The participants often had 
clear ideas on what could affect the likelihood that sedation would be used. The 
physicians and nurses in the focus groups testified that the use of continuous 
sedation was facilitated in cases where a patient has a very limited life 
expectancy, suffers intensely, makes an explicit request and has family members 
who can cope with the stress that accompanies sedation. However, this 'paradigm 
case' was considered to occur only rarely. Furthermore, deviations from the 
paradigm case were said to be sometimes due to physicians initiating the 
discussion on CS too late or not initiating it at all for fear of inducing the 
patient. Deviations from the paradigm case may also occur when sedation proves 
to be too difficult for family members who are said to sometimes pressure the 
medical practitioners to increase dosages and speed up the sedation.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100571
PMID: 22893573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Bull World Health Organ. 2012 Aug 1;90(8):588-94. doi:
10.2471/BLT.11.097378.  Epub 2012 May 29.

International shortfall inequality in life expectancy in women and in men, 
1950-2010.

Hosseinpoor AR(1), Harper S, Lee JH, Lynch J, Mathers C, Abou-Zahr C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics and Information Systems, World Health 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. hosseinpoora@who.int

OBJECTIVE: To assess international shortfall inequality in life expectancy at 
birth among women and men and the influence of geography and country income 
group.
METHODS: The authors used estimates of life expectancy at birth, by sex, for 12 
five-year periods between 1950-1955 and 2005-2010 and estimates of population 
for the midpoints of each period from the World population prospects, 2008 
revision. Shortfall inequality was defined as the weighted average of the 
deviations of each country's average life expectancy by sex from the highest 
attained life expectancy by sex for each period.
FINDINGS: International shortfall inequalities in life expectancy among men and 
among women decreased between 1950 and 1975 but stagnated thereafter. 
International shortfall inequality in life expectancy has been higher in women 
than in men, ranging from 1.9 to 2.9 years. Women in low-income countries have 
the biggest shortfall, currently at around 26.7 years.
CONCLUSION: International shortfall inequality is higher among women than men 
primarily because women in low-income and lower-middle-income country groups 
show larger differences in life expectancy than men. Further investigation is 
needed to determine the pathways causing these inequalities.

OBJECTIF: Évaluer l'inégalité internationale de l'espérance de vie à la 
naissance des femmes et des hommes, en termes d'écart, et l'influence de la 
géographie et de l'appartenance à un groupe de pays avec un certain revenu.
MÉTHODES: Les auteurs ont utilisé les estimations de l'espérance de vie à la 
naissance, par sexe, pour les 12 périodes de 5 ans entre 1950-1955 et 2005-2010, 
ainsi que les estimations de la population au milieu de chaque période des 
Perspectives démographiques mondiales, révision de 2008. L'inégalité mesurée en 
termes d'écart a été définie comme la moyenne pondérée des écarts entre 
l'espérance de vie moyenne de chaque pays par sexe, par rapport à l'espérance de 
vie la plus élevée atteinte par sexe sur chaque période.
RÉSULTATS: Les inégalités internationales de l'espérance de vie entre les hommes 
et entre les femmes, mesurée en termes d'écart, a diminué entre 1950 et 1975, 
mais a ensuite stagné. L'inégalité internationale de l'espérance de vie, mesurée 
en termes d'écart, est plus élevée chez les femmes que chez les hommes, allant 
de 1,9 à 2,9 années. Le plus grand écart concerne les femmes des pays à revenu 
faible, actuellement d'environ 26,7 années.
CONCLUSION: L'inégalité internationale, mesurée en termes d'écart, est plus 
élevée entre les femmes qu'entre les hommes, principalement parce que les femmes 
des groupes de pays à revenu faible et revenu intermédiaire de tranche 
inférieure montrent des différences d'espérance de vie plus importantes que les 
hommes. Une étude plus approfondie est nécessaire pour déterminer les causes de 
ces inégalités.

OBJETIVO: Evaluar la desigualdad internacional en la desviación en la esperanza 
de vida en el nacimiento entre mujeres y hombres y la influencia de la geografía 
y del grupo de ingresos del país.
MÉTODOS: Los autores emplearon estimaciones de esperanza de vida en el 
nacimiento, por sexo, para 12 periodos de cinco años entre 1950–1955 y 2005–2010 
y las estimaciones de población para los puntos medios de cada periodo a través 
de World population prospects, 2008 revision. La desigualdad en la desviación se 
definió como el promedio ponderado de las desviaciones de la esperanza de vida 
