The health burden and costs of incident fractures attributable to osteoporosis 
from 2010 to 2050 in Germany--a demographic simulation model.

Bleibler F(1), Konnopka A, Benzinger P, Rapp K, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Department for Medical Sociology and Health Economics, Hamburg Center for 
Health Economics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistr 52, 
20246 Hamburg, Germany. f.bleibler@uke.de

To predict the burden of incident osteoporosis attributable fractures (OAF) in 
Germany, an economic simulation model was built. The burden of OAF will sharply 
increase until 2050. Future demand for hospital and long-term care can be 
expected to substantially rise and should be considered in future healthcare 
planning.
INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to develop an innovative simulation 
model to predict the burden of incident OAF occurring in the German population, 
aged >50, in the time period of 2010 to 2050.
METHODS: A Markov state transition model based on five fracture states was 
developed to estimate costs and loss of quality adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Demographic change was modelled using individual generation life tables. Direct 
(inpatient, outpatient, long-term care) and indirect fracture costs attributable 
to osteoporosis were estimated by comparing Markov cohorts with and without 
osteoporosis.
RESULTS: The number of OAF will rise from 115,248 in 2010 to 273,794 in 2050, 
cumulating to approximately 8.1 million fractures (78 % women, 22 % men) during 
the period between 2010 and 2050. Total undiscounted incident OAF costs will 
increase from around 1.0 billion Euros in 2010 to 6.1 billion Euros in 2050. 
Discounted (3 %) cumulated costs from 2010 to 2050 will amount to 88.5 billion 
Euros (168.5 undiscounted), with 76 % being direct and 24 % indirect costs. The 
discounted (undiscounted) cumulated loss of QALYs will amount to 2.5 (4.9) 
million.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that incident OAF costs will sharply increase until the 
year 2050. As a consequence, a growing demand for long-term care as well as 
hospital care can be expected and should be considered in future healthcare 
planning. To support decision makers in managing the future burden of OAF, our 
model allows to economically evaluate population- and risk group-based 
interventions for fracture prevention in Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-012-2020-z
PMID: 22797490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Chest. 2012 Oct;142(4):1005-1010. doi: 10.1378/chest.12-0298.

Dynamic patient counseling: a novel concept in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Brown AW(1), Shlobin OA(1), Weir N(1), Albano MC(2), Ahmad S(1), Smith M(1), 
Leslie K(3), Nathan SD(4).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Lung Disease and Transplant Program, Falls Church, VA; Department of 
Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital, Falls Church, VA.
(2)Fairfax Radiological Consultants, Fairfax, VA; Department of Medicine, Inova 
Fairfax Hospital, Falls Church, VA.
(3)Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ; Department of Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital, 
Falls Church, VA.
(4)Advanced Lung Disease and Transplant Program, Falls Church, VA; Department of 
Medicine, Inova Fairfax Hospital, Falls Church, VA. Electronic address: 
steven.nathan@inova.org.

BACKGROUND: The characteristics of long-term survivors with idiopathic pulmonary 
fibrosis (IPF) have never been fully elucidated. We sought to illustrate the 
attenuated mortality and describe the characteristics of patients with IPF who 
survived at least 5 years beyond their initial presentation.
METHODS: Patients with IPF evaluated between 1997 and 2006 were identified 
through the clinic database. Patients who survived beyond 5 years from the time 
of their evaluation were compared with those who died or underwent lung 
transplantation within 5 years. Survival analyses were performed from the time 
of initial evaluation and contingent on annualized survival thereafter.
RESULTS: Eighty-seven patients who survived at least 5 years formed the 
comparator group to whom other patients were contrasted. These patients had a 
higher BMI, FVC % predicted, FEV1 % predicted, total lung capacity % predicted, 
and diffusing capacity of lung for carbon monoxide % predicted, but a lower 
FEV1/FVC ratio and lower mean pulmonary artery pressures. More than one-half of 
these patients had moderate or severe disease at the time of presentation. Our 
annualized contingent survival analyses revealed a progressively increasing 
median survival dependent on the duration of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Although we were able to demonstrate differences in our 5-year 
survivors, rather than being a distinct group, these patients appear to exist 
within a continuum of improving survival dependent on prior disease duration. 
This progressively improving time-dependent prognosis mandates the serial 
reevaluation of an individual patient’s projected outcomes. The implementation 
of dynamic counseling is an important concept in more accurately predicting life 
expectancy for patients with IPF who are frequently haunted by the prospects of 
a dismal survival.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.12-0298
PMID: 22797563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Pharmacology. 2012;90(1-2):102-9. doi: 10.1159/000339862. Epub 2012 Jul 12.

Darunavir: a critical review of its properties, use and drug interactions.

Ruela Corrêa JC(1), D'Arcy DM, dos Reis Serra CH, Nunes Salgado HR.

Author information:
(1)Drugs and Medicines Quality Control Laboratory, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences University Estadual Paulista, Araraquara, Brazil.

Darunavir is a synthetic nonpeptidic protease inhibitor which has been shown to 
be extremely potent against wild-type HIV as well as a large panel of 
PI-resistant clinical isolates and shows a high genetic barrier to the 
development of antiretroviral resistance. The treatment of HIV/AIDS requires 
combinations of multiple antiretroviral drugs. In addition, patients frequently 
need to coadminister other medications for reasons including the prevention or 
treatment of opportunistic infections, treatment of concomitant illnesses and 
management of antiretroviral side effects. Drug interactions have been observed 
between darunavir and other drugs. New and more comprehensive drug interaction 
studies will be required since the increase in life expectancy of patients often 
brings new comorbidities and the concomitant use of different drugs. This paper 
discusses the impact of the use of darunavir in the treatment of HIV-infected 
patients, its pharmacological and physical-chemical properties, its drug 
interactions, and challenges that remain in order to ensure safety and 
compliance of treatment.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000339862
PMID: 22797653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Age (Dordr). 2013 Aug;35(4):1193-204. doi: 10.1007/s11357-012-9445-3. Epub
2012  Jul 15.

Interactive effects of sex, social environment, dietary restriction, and 
methionine on survival and reproduction in fruit flies.

Zajitschek F(1), Zajitschek SR, Friberg U, Maklakov AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Ecology, Ageing Research Group, Evolutionary Biology 
Centre, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D, Uppsala, 752 36, Sweden. 
felix.zajitschek@ebc.uu.se

For the evolution of life histories, the trade-off between survival and 
reproduction is fundamental. Because sexes optimize fitness in different ways, 
this trade-off is expected to be resolved differently by males and females. 
Consequently, the sexes are predicted to respond differently to changes in 
resource availability. In fruit flies, research on dietary restriction has 
focused largely on females maintained in the absence of males, thereby 
neglecting sexual interactions that affect reproductive behavior of both sexes 
under more natural conditions. Here, we tested for the interactive effects of 
diet (40, 60, 100, and 300 % of standard yeast concentrations) and social 
environment (separate-sex vs. mixed-sex groups) on male and female Drosophila 
melanogaster life histories. Additionally, we evaluated the essential amino acid 
methionine as an agent that can uncouple the survival-reproduction trade-off. We 
show sex differences in the effect of social environment on survival patterns, 
but not on reproductive fitness. In females, yeast had a positive effect on 
reproduction and a negative effect on survival. In males, yeast had a negative 
effect on reproduction and the effect on survival depended on the social 
environment. Methionine reduced survival, but had no effect on reproduction. Our 
findings highlight the need to include both sexes and to vary social 
environments in research programs aimed at lifespan extension and call for 
further evaluation of the fecundity-restoring effect of methionine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-012-9445-3
PMCID: PMC3705097
PMID: 22798158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Theor Med Bioeth. 2012 Aug;33(4):237-42. doi: 10.1007/s11017-012-9225-1.

Quality of care: a preface.

Nelson JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, College of Arts and Letters, Michigan State 
University, East Lansing, MI 48823, USA. jlnelson@msu.edu

DOI: 10.1007/s11017-012-9225-1
PMID: 22798190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Rheumatol. 2012 Aug;39(8):1546-54. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.111531. Epub 2012
Jul  15.

Longterm safety and efficacy of abatacept through 5 years of treatment in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis and an inadequate response to tumor necrosis 
factor inhibitor therapy.

Genovese MC(1), Schiff M, Luggen M, Le Bars M, Aranda R, Elegbe A, Dougados M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology and Rheumatology, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA 
94304, USA. genovese@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate abatacept safety and efficacy over 5 years in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who had inadequate response to anti-tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF) therapy in the ATTAIN trial.
METHODS: Patients completing the 6-month, double-blind (DB) placebo-controlled 
period were eligible to enter the longterm extension (LTE), where all patients 
received abatacept every 4 weeks (∼10 mg/kg, according to weight range). Safety, 
efficacy, physical function, and health-related quality of life were monitored 
throughout.
RESULTS: In total, 317 patients (218 DB abatacept, 99 DB placebo) entered the 
LTE; 150 (47.3%) completed it. Overall incidences of serious adverse events, 
infections, serious infections, malignant neoplasms, and autoimmune events did 
not increase during the LTE versus the DB period. American College of 
Rheumatology responses with abatacept at Month 6 were maintained over 5 years. 
At Year 5, among patients who received abatacept for 5 years and had available 
data, 38/103 (36.9%) achieved low disease activity as defined by the 28-joint 
Disease Activity Score (DAS28)/C-reactive protein (CRP); 23/103 (22.3%) achieved 
DAS28/CRP-defined remission. Health Assessment Questionnaire response was 
achieved by 62.5% of patients remaining on treatment at Year 5; mean 
improvements from baseline in physical component summary and mental component 
summary scores were 7.34 and 6.42, respectively. High proportions of patients 
maintained efficacy and physical function benefits or improved their disease 
state at each timepoint throughout the LTE, if remaining on abatacept treatment.
CONCLUSION: Safety remained consistent, and abatacept efficacy was maintained 
from 6 months to 5 years, demonstrating the benefits of switching to abatacept 
in this difficult-to-treat population of patients with RA previously failing 
anti-TNF therapy.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.111531
PMID: 22798265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2012 Nov 1;186(9):824-9. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201206-1063PP. Epub 2012 Jul 12.

Respiratory infection and the impact of pulmonary immunity on lung health and 
disease.

Mizgerd JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Medicine, The Pulmonary Center, 72 East Concord 
Street, Boston, MA 02118, USA. jmizgerd@bu.edu

Acute lower respiratory tract infection is responsible for an inordinate disease 
burden. Pulmonary immunity determines the outcomes of these infections. The 
innate and adaptive immune responses to microbes in the lung are critical to 
maintaining a healthy respiratory system and preventing pulmonary disease. In 
addition to balancing antimicrobial defense against the risk of lung injury 
during the immediate infection, the shaping of pulmonary immunity by respiratory 
infection contributes to the pathophysiology of many and even perhaps most 
chronic pulmonary diseases. This Pulmonary Perspective aims to communicate two 
interconnected points. First, tremendous morbidity and mortality result from 
inadequate, misguided, or excessive pulmonary immunity. Second, our 
understanding of pulmonary immunity is at an exciting stage of rapid 
developments and discoveries, but many questions remain. Further advances in 
pulmonary immunity and elucidation of the cellular and molecular responses to 
microbes in the lung are needed to develop novel approaches to predicting, 
preventing, and curing respiratory disease.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201206-1063PP
PMCID: PMC3530220
PMID: 22798317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2012;13(4):1525-31. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.4.1525.

Health and economic burden of major cancers due to smoking in Korea.

Oh IH(1), Yoon SJ, Yoon TY, Choi JM, Choe BK, Kim EJ, Kim YA, Seo HY, Park YH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, 
Seoul, Korea.

Cigarette smoking is one of the most important public health concerns in Korea 
and worldwide. A number of studies have been conducted to measure the health and 
economic burden of smoking, but these did not reflect recent changes such as the 
decrease in smoking rate and the increase in the incidence of cancer. The 
purpose of this study was to provide up-to-date estimates of the health and 
economic burden of cancer caused by smoking and to compare the results with 
those of previous studies. Cancer-related burden was assessed with nationally 
representative data such as claims data from the National Health Insurance 
Corporation, and cause of death records from the National Statistical Office and 
the Korea Health Panel. We determined the smoking-attributable burden by 
multiplying the smoking-attributable fraction by the total burden. As a result, 
the burden of major cancers due to smoking was found to be substantial despite a 
recent sharp decrease in smoking by the Korean population. The total economic 
cost reaches $2,234.0 million in males and $870.0 million in females. Also, the 
health burden of cancers due to smoking is 2,038.9 disability adjusted life 
years (DALYs) per 100,000 individuals in men and 732.2 DALYs per 100,000 
individuals in women. Among all cancers, cancers of the trachea, lungs and 
bronchus are the leading causes of health and economic burden. The huge burden 
caused by cancers linked to smoking makes it imperative that adequate policies 
to decrease the prevalence of smoking be developed, particularly considering the 
recent increase in smoking rate among women.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.4.1525
PMID: 22799360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Sep 1;30(9):825-40. doi: 
10.2165/11591340-000000000-00000.

A lifetime Markov model for the economic evaluation of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease.

Menn P(1), Leidl R, Holle R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Helmholtz Zentrum 
München, Member of the German Center for Lung Research, Neuherberg, Germany. 
petra.menn@helmholtz-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is currently the fourth 
leading cause of death worldwide. It has serious health effects and causes 
substantial costs for society.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present paper was to develop a state-of-the-art 
decision-analytic model of COPD whereby the cost effectiveness of interventions 
in Germany can be estimated. To demonstrate the applicability of the model, a 
smoking cessation programme was evaluated against usual care.
METHODS: A seven-stage Markov model (disease stages I to IV according to the 
GOLD [Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease] classification, 
states after lung-volume reduction surgery and lung transplantation, death) was 
developed to conduct a cost-utility analysis from the societal perspective over 
a time horizon of 10, 40 and 60 years. Patients entered the cohort model at the 
age of 45 with mild COPD. Exacerbations were classified into three levels: mild, 
moderate and severe. Estimation of stage-specific probabilities (for smokers and 
quitters), utilities and costs was based on German data where possible. Data on 
effectiveness of the intervention was retrieved from the literature. A discount 
rate of 3% was applied to costs and effects. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
was used to assess the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: The smoking cessation programme was the dominant strategy compared with 
usual care, and the intervention resulted in an increase in health effects of 
0.54 QALYs and a cost reduction of &U20AC;1115 per patient (year 2007 prices) 
after 60 years. In the probabilistic analysis, the intervention dominated in 
about 95% of the simulations. Sensitivity analyses showed that uncertainty 
primarily originated from data on disease progression and treatment cost in the 
early stages of disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The model developed allows the long-term cost effectiveness of 
interventions to be estimated, and has been adapted to Germany. The model 
suggests that the smoking cessation programme evaluated was more effective than 
usual care as well as being cost-saving. Most patients had mild or moderate 
COPD, stages for which parameter uncertainty was found to be high. This raises 
the need to improve data on the early stages of COPD.

DOI: 10.2165/11591340-000000000-00000
PMID: 22799876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. BMC Public Health. 2012 Jul 17;12:526. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-526.

A comparison of cancer burden and research spending reveals discrepancies in the 
distribution of research funding.

Carter AJ(1), Nguyen CN.

Author information:
(1)Biological Sciences Department, California State University Long Beach, 1250 
Bellflower Blvd, Long Beach, CA 90840, USA. ashley.carter@csulb.edu

BACKGROUND: Ideally, the distribution of research funding for different types of 
cancer should be equitable with respect to the societal burden each type of 
cancer imposes. These burdens can be estimated in a variety of ways; "Years of 
Life Lost" (YLL) measures the severity of death in regard to the age it occurs, 
"Disability-Adjusted Life-Years" (DALY) estimates the effects of non-lethal 
disabilities incurred by disease and economic metrics focus on the losses to tax 
revenue, productivity or direct medical expenses. We compared research funding 
from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to a variety of burden metrics for the 
most common types of cancer to identify mismatches between spending and societal 
burden.
METHODS: Research funding levels were obtained from the NCI website and 
information for societal health and economic burdens were collected from 
government databases and published reports. We calculated the funding levels per 
unit burden for a wide range of different cancers and burden metrics and 
compared these values to identify discrepancies.
RESULTS: Our analysis reveals a considerable mismatch between funding levels and 
burden. Some cancers are funded at levels far higher than their relative burden 
suggests (breast cancer, prostate cancer, and leukemia) while other cancers 
appear underfunded (bladder, esophageal, liver, oral, pancreatic, stomach, and 
uterine cancers).
CONCLUSIONS: These discrepancies indicate that an improved method of health care 
research funding allocation should be investigated to better match funding 
levels to societal burden.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-526
PMCID: PMC3411479
PMID: 22800364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2012 Mar;40(3):179-87.

[Status and trend of cardio-cerebral-vascular diseases mortality in China: data 
from national disease surveillance system between 2004 and 2008].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang XF(1), Hu DY, Ding RJ, Wang HC, Yan LX.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Prevention and 
Control, China CDC, Beijing 100050, China. zhxfus@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To report the status and trend of cardio-cerebral-vascular disease 
(CCVD) mortality in China between 2004 and 2008.
METHODS: The mortality data from population-based survey of National Disease 
Surveillance System in 2004 and 2008 were analyzed. This surveillance system is 
consisted of 161 disease surveillance points (DSPs) located in 31 provinces of 
China including 64 urban and 97 rural DSPs. The total population of surveillance 
is over 73 millions and accounted for around 6% of the whole population of 
China. CCVD included ischemic heart diseases (ICD-10: I05-I09, I11, I20-I27, 
I30-I52) and cerebral-vascular disease (ICD-10: I60-I69). The status and trend 
of cardiovascular disease (CVD), cerebral-vascular disease (CD), ischemic heart 
disease (IHD) and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) mortalities from 2004 to 
2008 were analyzed by age, gender, and urban/rural regions.
RESULTS: The mortality of CCVD was higher in 2008 (229/100 000) than in 2004 
(223.5/100 000), which was decreased in urban region (-11.7/100 000) while 
increased in rural region (+16.0/100 000). The mortality of CD decreased from 
134.8/100 000 (2004) to 128.3/100 000 (2008). Mortality of IHD and AMI increased 
from 66.1/100 000 and 40.4/100 000 (2004) to 71/100 000 and 45.7/100 000 (2008), 
which remained stable in urban region (+0.98/100 000 and -1.96/100 000) while 
significantly increased in rural region (+6.7/100 000 and +9.2/100 000). The 
mortality rates for CVD, CD and AMI were higher in rural population than that in 
urban population. The age-standardized mortality rates of CVD, CD and IHD were 
lower in 2008 than in 2004. The mortality rates of CD and IHD decreased in 40-, 
60-, and over 80 age groups (except for IHD) in 2008 than in 2004. However, IHD 
mortality was significantly higher in age of 80 and over group from 2004 to 
2008. There were a net 5.5/100 000 increase, 6.4/100 000 decrease and 4.9/100 
000 increase for CCVD, CD and IHD between 2004 and 2008. The mortality rate rise 
in CCVD was mainly due to the increased mortality of IHD and CD in rural 
population. The CCVD mortality increased with age and was significantly higher 
in male than in female population.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite decreased mortality in CD, CCVD mortality increased from 
2004 to 2008, mainly due to the increased mortality of IHD and AMI in rural 
population. Enhanced CCVD primary and secondary prevention, particular for 
stressing on primary prevention, is necessary in China, especially in rural 
areas. Meanwhile, they will give the greatest contributions for a raise of the 
healthy life expectancy in China.

PMID: 22801260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Int Angiol. 2012 Aug;31(4):361-7.

Long-term progression of contralateral carotid artery disease after 
endarterectomy: is there a need for Duplex surveillance?

Asciutto G(1), Wistrand J, Riva L, Björses K, Gonçalves I, Dias NV.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Center Malmö-Lund, Skåne University Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, 
Lund University, Malmö, Sweden. giuseppe.asciutto@med.lu.se

AIM: The aim of this paper was to define the incidence of disease progression of 
the contralateral internal carotid artery (CICA) in patients undergoing carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA) and to identify factors influencing disease progression.
METHODS: Patients from our primary catchment area that had undergone CEA between 
2002 and 2005 were included. The study cohort was divided in four groups based 
on the preoperative stenosis grade (normal ICA <40%, N.=56; mild 40-60%, N.=41; 
moderate 61-80%, N.=12; severe 81-99%, N.=7). Patients initially planned or 
already submitted to contralateral CEA or with contralateral occlusion were 
excluded.
RESULTS: One hundred and seventeen patients were analysed. Disease progression 
occurred in 13 (11%) patients after a mean of 47.6 months (SD 1.6 months). A 
moderate preoperative CICA stenosis was associated with disease progression 
(P=0.017). Late neurologic events referable to the CICA independently of 
progression occurred in 13 (11%) patients. There were 4 (30.7%) events in the 13 
carotids with progression and only 9 (7%) in the 117 without progression 
(P=0.060). .Moderate and severe preoperative CICA stenosis and renal 
insufficiency were associated with postoperative ipsilateral neurological 
symptoms (P=0.001 and 0.009, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Disease progression of the CICA after CEA is not uncommon. The 
preoperative degree of CICA stenosis is related to subsequent disease 
progression and to the occurrence of symptoms. More studies are needed to 
identify risk factors influencing the progression of ICA disease.

PMID: 22801402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2012 Sep;6(3):371-8. doi: 
10.1097/SPC.0b013e328356aaed.

Identifying needs and improving palliative care of chronically ill patients: a 
community-oriented, population-based, public-health approach.

Gómez-Batiste X(1), Martínez-Muñoz M, Blay C, Espinosa J, Contel JC, Ledesma A.

Author information:
(1)The Qualy Observatory, WHO Collaborating Centre for Palliative Care Public 
Health Programs, Catalan Institute of Oncology, Barcelona, Spain. 
xgomez.whocc@iconcologia.net

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: We describe conceptual innovations in palliative care 
epidemiology and the methods to identify patients in need of palliative care, in 
all settings.In middle-high-income countries, more than 75% of the population 
will die from chronic progressive diseases. Around 1.2-1.4% of such populations 
suffer from chronic advanced conditions, with limited life expectancy. Clinical 
status deteriorates progressively with frequent crises of needs, high social 
impact, and high use of costly healthcare resources.
RECENT FINDINGS: The innovative concept of patients with advanced chronic 
diseases and limited life prognosis has been addressed recently, and several 
methods to identify them have been developed.
SUMMARY: The challenges are to promote early and shared interventions, extended 
to all patients in need, in all settings of the social care and healthcare 
systems; to design and develop Palliative Care Programmes with a Public Health 
perspective. The first action is to identify, using the appropriate tools early 
in the clinical evolution of the disease, all patients in need of palliative 
care in all settings of care, especially in primary care services, nursing 
homes, and healthcare services responsible for care provision for these 
patients; to promote appropriate care in patients with advanced diseases with 
prognosis of poor survival.

DOI: 10.1097/SPC.0b013e328356aaed
PMID: 22801465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2012 Sep;8(9):505-14. doi: 10.1038/nrneph.2012.141. Epub
2012  Jul 17.

B-cell depletion in the treatment of lupus nephritis.

Gregersen JW(1), Jayne DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Aarhus University Hospital, Brendstrupgaardsvej 
100, 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark.

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease that is 
clinically heterogeneous and affects multiple organs. Lupus nephritis is the 
most frequent severe manifestation of SLE. Conventional immunosuppressive 
therapy has increased the life expectancy of patients diagnosed with lupus 
nephritis, but only 70-80% of patients respond to this treatment and its adverse 
effects are considerable. B cells are central to the pathogenesis of SLE and 
are, therefore, an attractive therapeutic target. B-cell depletion has been used 
successfully to treat other autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis 
and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis, and many case 
reports and small nonrandomized trials of B-cell-depleting agents in patients 
with lupus nephritis have reported positive results. By contrast, two large 
placebo-controlled trials designed to investigate the efficacy of the 
B-cell-depleting agents rituximab and ocrelizumab as a treatment for lupus 
nephritis, failed to meet their primary efficacy end points (LUNAR and BELONG, 
respectively). This Review discusses the current evidence on the use of B-cell 
depletion in the treatment of lupus nephritis, which is derived from case 
studies and clinical trials including a total of over 800 patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneph.2012.141
PMID: 22801948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2012 Sep;18(3):379-80. doi: 10.1177/1078155212453606.
Epub  2012 Jul 16.

Length of adjuvant imatinib therapy in GIST: weighing benefits, side effects and 
costs.

Dasanu CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center, 
Hartford, CT 06105, USA. c_dasanu@yahoo.com

A recent large randomized clinical trial showed a survival advantage with 36 vs 
12 months of adjuvant imatinib in patients with resected gastrointestinal 
stromal tumors (GISTs). However, there was a higher therapy discontinuation rate 
with the longer duration of treatment. Preferences of individual GIST patients 
and the imatinib risk/benefit ratio should always be sought before employing 
this agent in adjuvant setting for longer than 12 months. A shorter duration of 
therapy may be preferred in patients with a limited life expectancy, serious 
cardiovascular co-morbidities, diminished compliance or poor adherence to oral 
therapy. Further study of underlying economic, psychosocial, and physical 
barriers of longer vs shorter duration of adjuvant therapy in this patient 
population is probably warranted.

DOI: 10.1177/1078155212453606
PMID: 22801957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Clin Oncol. 2012 Aug 20;30(24):2995-3001. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2012.42.1925.
Epub  2012 Jul 16.

Patterns of survival among patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms diagnosed 
in Sweden from 1973 to 2008: a population-based study.

Hultcrantz M(1), Kristinsson SY, Andersson TM, Landgren O, Eloranta S, Derolf 
AR, Dickman PW, Björkholm M.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. 
malin.hultcrantz@karolinska.se

PURPOSE: Reported survival in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) 
shows great variation. Patients with primary myelofibrosis (PMF) have 
substantially reduced life expectancy, whereas patients with polycythemia vera 
(PV) and essential thrombocythemia (ET) have moderately reduced survival in 
most, but not all, studies. We conducted a large population-based study to 
establish patterns of survival in more than 9,000 patients with MPNs.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We identified 9,384 patients with MPNs (from the Swedish 
Cancer Register) diagnosed from 1973 to 2008 (divided into four calendar 
periods) with follow-up to 2009. Relative survival ratios (RSRs) and excess 
mortality rate ratios were computed as measures of survival.
RESULTS: Patient survival was considerably lower in all MPN subtypes compared 
with expected survival in the general population, reflected in 10-year RSRs of 
0.64 (95% CI, 0.62 to 0.67) in patients with PV, 0.68 (95% CI, 0.64 to 0.71) in 
those with ET, and 0.21 (95% CI, 0.18 to 0.25) in those with PMF. Excess 
mortality was observed in patients with any MPN subtype during all four calendar 
periods (P < .001). Survival improved significantly over time (P < .001); 
however, the improvement was less pronounced after the year 2000 and was 
confined to patients with PV and ET.
CONCLUSION: We found patients with any MPN subtype to have significantly reduced 
life expectancy compared with the general population. The improvement over time 
is most likely explained by better overall clinical management of patients with 
MPN. The decreased life expectancy even in the most recent calendar period 
emphasizes the need for new treatment options for these patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2012.42.1925
PMCID: PMC3417050
PMID: 22802311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. J Clin Oncol. 2012 Aug 20;30(24):3020-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2012.43.3441. Epub
 2012 Jul 16.

Screening for prostate cancer with prostate-specific antigen testing: American 
Society of Clinical Oncology Provisional Clinical Opinion.

Basch E(1), Oliver TK, Vickers A, Thompson I, Kantoff P, Parnes H, Loblaw DA, 
Roth B, Williams J, Nam RK.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Feb;189(2):527.

PURPOSE: An American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) provisional clinical 
opinion (PCO) offers timely clinical direction to the ASCO membership after 
publication or presentation of potentially practice-changing data from major 
studies. This PCO addresses the role of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing 
in the screening of men for prostate cancer.
CLINICAL CONTEXT: Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths 
among men in the United States. The rationale for screening men for prostate 
cancer is the potential to reduce the risk of death through early detection.
RECENT DATA: Evidence from a 2011 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality 
systematic review primarily informs this PCO on the benefits and harms of 
PSA-based screening. An update search was conducted to March 16, 2012, for 
additional evidence related to the topic.
RESULTS: In one randomized trial, PSA testing in men who would not otherwise 
have been screened resulted in reduced death rates from prostate cancer, but it 
is uncertain whether the size of the effect was worth the harms associated with 
screening and subsequent unnecessary treatment. Although there are limitations 
to the existing data, there is evidence to suggest that men with longer life 
expectancy may benefit from PSA testing. Adverse events associated with prostate 
biopsy are low for the majority of men; however, several population-based 
studies have shown increasing rates of infectious complications after prostate 
biopsy, which is a concern.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2012.43.3441
PMCID: PMC3776923
PMID: 22802323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


774. J Med Life. 2012 Jun 12;5(2):157-61. Epub 2012 Jun 18.

Parastomal hernia mesh repair, variant of surgical technique without stoma 
relocation.

Guriţă P(1), Popa R, Bălălău B, Scăunaşu R.

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Department, Sf. Pantelimon Emergency Hospital, Bucharest.

RATIONALE: Due to the improvement of prognosis through adjuvant therapy, the 
life expectancy of neoplasia patients is continuously increasing, which, in 
conjunction with the progressive occurrence of parastomal hernias during the 
disease evolution, explains the growing number of reported parastomal hernias 
affecting patients with permanent colostomy. Conventional techniques of local 
repair are inappropriate considering the high recurrence rate, and the decision 
of stoma relocation depends on the associated pathology, which may 
counter-indicate general anesthesia, and on previous surgical interventions that 
are usually followed by a dense peritoneal adhesion syndrome.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to make known a variant of alloplastic 
technique, without translocation, with a low degree of invasiveness, which can 
be performed successfully under spinal anesthesia, followed by a reduced period 
of hospitalization.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The study group consisted of 6 patients with permanent left 
iliac anus who underwent these interventions one to three years prior to the 
occurrence of parastomal hernia. Patients were followed at 1 year and 2 years 
postoperatively and the results were favorable, with no recurrence and improved 
quality of life through proper prosthesis of the stoma.
DISCUSSION: We suggest that this technique variation is applied to small and 
medium parastomal hernias, in case of patients with permanent left iliac anus, 
with the declared intent of minimal invasiveness.

PMCID: PMC3391882
PMID: 22802882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Popul Ther Clin Pharmacol. 2012;19(2):e234-8. Epub 2012 Jun 25.

Determing the threshold of acceptability of an ICER when natural health units 
are used.

Hyewon HL(1), Levine M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Evaluation of Medicines, St Joseph’s Healthcare Hamilton, Canada.

PMID: 22805014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Br J Cancer. 2012 Aug 21;107(5):778-84. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2012.317. Epub 2012
Jul  17.

To be screened or not to be screened? Modeling the consequences of PSA screening 
for the individual.

Wever EM(1), Hugosson J, Heijnsdijk EA, Bangma CH, Draisma G, de Koning HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, PO Box 2040, Rotterdam 
3000 CA, The Netherlands. e.m.wever@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Screening with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) can reduce prostate 
cancer mortality, but may advance diagnosis and treatment in time and lead to 
overdetection and overtreatment. We estimated benefits and adverse effects of 
PSA screening for individuals who are deciding whether or not to be screened.
METHODS: Using a microsimulation model, we estimated lifetime probabilities of 
prostate cancer diagnosis and death, overall life expectancy and expected time 
to diagnosis, both with and without screening. We calculated anticipated loss in 
quality of life due to prostate cancer diagnosis and treatment that would be 
acceptable to decide in favour of screening.
RESULTS: Men who were screened had a gain in life expectancy of 0.08 years but 
their expected time to diagnosis decreased by 1.53 life-years. Of the screened 
men, 0.99% gained on average 8.08 life-years and for 17.43% expected time to 
diagnosis decreased by 8.78 life-years. These figures imply that the anticipated 
loss in quality of life owing to diagnosis and treatment should not exceed 4.8%, 
for screening to have a positive effect on quality-adjusted life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The decision to be screened should depend on personal preferences. 
The negative impact of screening might be reduced by screening men who are more 
willing to accept the side effects from treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2012.317
PMCID: PMC3425982
PMID: 22805324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Cancer. 2013 Jan 15;119(2):395-403. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27755. Epub 2012 Jul
17.

Adjuvant chemotherapy for stage III colon cancer in the oldest old: results 
beyond clinical guidelines.

Abraham A(1), Habermann EB, Rothenberger DA, Kwaan M, Weinberg AD, Parsons HM, 
Gupta P, Al-Refaie WB.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Outcomes Research Center, University Of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
Minnesota 55455, USA.

BACKGROUND: Randomized trials demonstrating the benefits of chemotherapy in 
patients with American Joint Committee on Cancer stage III colon cancer 
underrepresent persons aged ≥ 75 years. The generalizability of these studies to 
a growing elderly population remains unknown.
METHODS: Using the California Cancer Registry for 1994 through 2008, the authors 
conducted a population-based study of postcolectomy patients aged 50 years to 94 
years with stage III (N1M0) colon adenocarcinoma. A 2-sided chi-square test and 
Cochran-Armitage test for trend were used to compare patient and tumor 
characteristics associated with receipt of chemotherapy across age groups. 
Multivariate regression was used to assess the association between older age and 
receipt of chemotherapy. Kaplan-Meier methods and Cox proportional hazards 
modeling were used to evaluate the association between chemotherapy and 
mortality, with propensity score adjustment.
RESULTS: Approximately 44% (12,382 patients) of the study cohort was aged ≥ 75 
years. Persons aged ≥ 75 years were found to be less likely to have received 
adjuvant chemotherapy than those aged < 75 years (30% vs 68% in patients aged 50 
years-74 years; P < .0001). On multivariate analysis, patients aged 75 years to 
84 years were 13 times less likely, and those aged 85 years to 94 years were 24 
times less likely, to have received chemotherapy as patients aged 50 years to 64 
years. Nevertheless, age-stratified multivariate survival analyses indicated 
that chemotherapy provided comparable mortality reduction across age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The percentage of persons aged ≥ 75 years receiving adjuvant 
chemotherapy remains low despite demonstrated survival benefits. These findings 
deserve attention within the context of a patient's life expectancy, underlying 
comorbidities, and performance status, as well as clinician bias. The results of 
the current study support the call for phase II/III studies assessing the 
toxicities and benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy for the treatment of stage III 
colon cancer in the elderly.

Copyright © 2012 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27755
PMID: 22806931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Stat Med. 2012 Dec 30;31(30):4219-30. doi: 10.1002/sim.5493. Epub 2012 Jul
17.

The impact of additional life-table variables on excess mortality estimates.

Grafféo N(1), Jooste V, Giorgi R.

Author information:
(1)Aix-Marseille Univ, UMR 912, SESSTIM, F-13284, Marseille, France.

Regression-based relative survival models are commonly used in population-based 
cancer studies to estimate the real impact on the excess mortality of covariates 
that influence overall mortality. Usually, the mortality observed in a study 
cohort is corrected by the expected mortality hazard in the general population, 
which is given by life tables provided by national statistics institutes. These 
life tables are stratified by age, sex, calendar year, and, sometimes, other 
demographic data (ethnicity, deprivation, and others). However, in most cases, 
the same demographic data are not available for the study cohort and the general 
population; this leads to differences between the expected mortality of the 
general population and that of the study cohort. More generally, the absence of 
some demographic variables in life tables may introduce a measurement bias into 
the estimation of the excess mortality. In the present article, we used a 
simulation approach with different plausible scenarios to evaluate the impact of 
an additional life-table variable on excess mortality estimates and study the 
extent and the direction of the biases in estimating the effect of each 
covariate on the excess mortality. We showed that the use of life table that 
lacks stratification by a variable present in the excess hazard model results in 
a measurement bias not only in the estimate of the effect of this variable but 
also, to a lesser extent, in the estimates of the effects of the other 
covariates included in the model. We also demonstrated this measurement bias by 
a population-based colorectal cancer analysis.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.5493
PMID: 22806957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Stat Med. 2013 Jan 15;32(1):142-52. doi: 10.1002/sim.5503. Epub 2012 Jul 16.

The trend-renewal process: a useful model for medical recurrence data.

Pietzner D(1), Wienke A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Informatics, 
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle (Saale), Germany. 
diana.pietzner@medizin.uni-halle.de

Time-to-event data analysis has a long tradition in applied statistics. Many 
models have been developed for data where each subject or observation unit 
experiences at most one event during its life. In contrast, in some 
applications, the subjects may experience more than one event. Recurrent events 
appear in science, medicine, economy, and technology. Often the events are 
followed by a repair action in reliability or a treatment in life science. A 
model to deal with recurrent event times for incomplete repair of technical 
systems is the trend-renewal process. It is composed of a trend and a renewal 
component. In the present paper, we use a Weibull process for both of these 
components. The model is extended to include a Cox type covariate term to 
account for observed heterogeneity. A further extension includes random effects 
to account for unobserved heterogeneity. We fit the suggested version of the 
trend-renewal process to a data set of hospital readmission times of colon 
cancer patients to illustrate the method for application to clinical data.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.5503
PMID: 22807089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2012 Jul;17(3):129-30. doi:
10.1258/JHSRP.2012.012058.

Health sector decision-making: more than just cost per QALY calculations.

Hansen P.

Comment on
    J Health Serv Res Policy. 2012 Jul;17(3):157-63.

DOI: 10.1258/JHSRP.2012.012058
PMID: 22807554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Med Ethics. 2012 Nov;38(11):657-61. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100672.
Epub  2012 Jul 17.

Ethical considerations for performing decompressive craniectomy as a life-saving 
intervention for severe traumatic brain injury.

Honeybul S(1), Gillett G, Ho K, Lind C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Hospital Avenue, 
Perth 6009, Australia. stephen.honeybul@health.wa.gov.au

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2012 Nov;38(11):662-3.

In all fields of clinical medicine, there is an increasing awareness that 
outcome must be assessed in terms of quality of life and cost effectiveness, 
rather than merely length of survival. This is especially the case when 
considering decompressive craniectomy for severe traumatic brain injury. The 
procedure itself is technically straightforward and involves temporarily 
removing a large section of the skull vault in order to provide extra space into 
which the injured brain can expand. A number of studies have demonstrated many 
patients going on to make a good long-term functional recovery, however, this is 
not always the case and a significant number survive but are left with severe 
neurocognitive impairment. Unfortunately, many of these patients are young 
adults who were previously fit and well and are, therefore, likely to spend many 
years in a condition that they may feel to be unacceptable, and this raises a 
number of ethical issues regarding consent and resource allocation. In an 
attempt to address these issues, we have used the analytical framework proposed 
by Jonsen, that requires systematic consideration of medical indications, 
patient preferences, quality of life and contextual features.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100672
PMID: 22807572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Bull World Health Organ. 2012 Jul 1;90(7):513-21. doi:
10.2471/BLT.11.095109.  Epub 2012 Mar 13.

Improved and standardized method for assessing years lived with disability after 
injury.

Haagsma JA(1), Polinder S, Lyons RA, Lund J, Ditsuwan V, Prinsloo M, Veerman JL, 
van Beeck EF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Centre, PO Box 2040, Rotterdam 
3000 CA, Netherlands. j.haagsma@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: To develop a standardized method for calculating years lived with 
disability (YLD) after injury.
METHODS: The method developed consists of obtaining data on injury cases seen in 
emergency departments as well as injury-related hospital admissions, using the 
EUROCOST system to link the injury cases to disability information and employing 
empirical data to describe functional outcomes in injured patients.
FINDINGS: Overall, 87 weights and proportions for 27 injury diagnoses involving 
lifelong consequences were included in the method. Almost all of the injuries 
investigated (96-100%) could be assigned to EUROCOST categories. The mean number 
of YLD per case of injury varied with the country studied. Use of the novel 
method resulted in estimated burdens of injury that were 3 to 8 times higher, in 
terms of YLD, than the corresponding estimates produced using the conventional 
methods employed in global burden of disease studies, which employ 
disability-adjusted life years.
CONCLUSION: The novel method for calculating YLD after injury can be applied in 
different settings, overcomes some limitations of the method used to calculate 
the global burden of disease, and allows more accurate estimates of the 
population burden of injury.

OBJECTIF: Mettre au point une méthode normalisée de calcul des années vécues 
avec une incapacité (AVI) après une blessure.
MÉTHODES: La méthode développée consiste à obtenir les données relatives aux 
blessures des services d'urgence, ainsi que celles relatives aux 
hospitalisations liées à des blessures, en utilisant le système EUROCOST pour 
relier les cas de blessures à l'information relative à l'invalidité, et en 
utilisant des données empiriques pour décrire les résultats fonctionnels chez 
les patients blessés.
RÉSULTATS: Au total, 87 poids et proportions pour 27 diagnostics de blessures 
impliquant des séquelles à vie ont été inclus dans la méthode. Presque toutes 
les blessures étudiées (96 à 100%) pouvaient être attribuées aux catégories 
EUROCOST. Le nombre moyen d'AVI par cas de blessure variait selon le pays 
étudié. L'utilisation de la nouvelle méthode a entraîné des charges estimées des 
blessures 3 à 8 fois supérieures en termes d'AVI que les estimations 
correspondantes résultant des méthodes classiques utilisées dans les études de 
charge globale de la morbidité, employant les années vécues ajustées à 
l'incapacité.
CONCLUSION: La nouvelle méthode de calcul d'AVI après une blessure peut être 
appliquée dans des contextes différents, surmonte certaines des limites de la 
méthode utilisée pour calculer la charge globale de la morbidité et permet 
d’effectuer des estimations plus précises de la charge des blessures de la 
population.

OBJETIVO: Desarrollar un método estandarizado para calcular los años vividos con 
una discapacidad (YLD, por sus siglas en inglés) después de un traumatismo.
MÉTODOS: El método desarrollado consiste en la obtención de datos acerca de los 
casos de traumatismos vistos en los servicios de urgencias y en 
hospitalizaciones relacionadas con traumatismos por medio del sistema EUROCOST 
para relacionar los casos de traumatismos con la información sobre la 
discapacidad y utilizar los datos empíricos para describir los resultados 
funcionales en pacientes con traumatismos.
RESULTADOS: En total, se incluyeron en el método 87 pesos y proporciones de 
27 diagnósticos por traumatismo con consecuencias para toda la vida. La mayoría 
de los traumatismos investigados (96–100%) pudo asignarse a una de las 
categorías de EUROCOST. El número medio de YLD por traumatismo varió en cada 
país estudiado. El uso del método novedoso dio como resultado cargas estimadas 
de traumatismo que fueron de 3 a 8 veces más altas, desde el punto de vista de 
los YLD, que los cálculos correspondientes obtenidos a través de los métodos 
convencionales empleados en los estudios mundiales sobre la carga de 
traumatismos, que utilizan los años de vida ajustados por discapacidad.
CONCLUSIÓN: El método novedoso para calcular los YLD después de un traumatismo 
puede aplicarse en entornos distintos, supera algunas de las limitaciones del 
método empleado para calcular la carga global de morbilidad y permite realizar 
estimaciones más exactas de la población con traumatismos.

الغرض: وضع أسلوب موحد لقياس سنوات العمر المقضية مع العجز (YLD) بعد الإصابة.
الطريقة: يتكون الأسلوب الذي تم وضعه من الحصول على البيانات المتعلقة بحالات 
الإصابة التي يتم مشاهدتها في أقسام الطوارئ بالإضافة إلى حالات دخول المستشفى 
المرتبطة بالإصابات، باستخدام نظام EUROCOST لربط حالات الإصابة بمعلومات العجز 
واستخدام البيانات التجريبية لوصف الحصائل الوظيفية لدى المرضى المصابين.
النتائج: تضمن الأسلوب 87 مقياسًا ونسبة لسبع وعشرين تشخيصاً بالإصابة تشتمل على 
عواقب طوال العمر. ويمكن ربط كل الإصابات التي تم فحصها تقريبًا (96 – 100 %) بفئات 
EUROCOST. وتباين متوسط عدد سنوات العمر المقضية مع العجز لكل حالة إصابة وفق البلد 
موضع الدراسة. وأدى استخدام الأسلوب الجديد إلى تقدير أعباء الإصابة التي كانت أعلى 
من 3 إلى 8 مرات، فيما يتعلق بعدد سنوات العمر المقضية مع العجز، من التقديرات 
المناظرة الناتجة باستخدام الأساليب التقليدية المستخدمة في العبء العالمي لدراسات 
المرض، الذي يستخدم سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز.
الاستنتاج: يمكن تطبيق الأسلوب الجديد لقياس سنوات العمر المقضية مع العجز بعد 
الإصابة في مواقع مختلفة، والتغلب على بعض قيود الأسلوب المستخدم لقياس عبء المرض 
العالمي، وإتاحة تقديرات أكثر دقة للعبء السكاني للإصابة.

目的: 制定计算伤后残疾寿命年（YLD）的标准化方法。
方法: 制定的方法包括获得紧急部门以及伤害相关入院的伤害案件相关数据，使用EUROCOST系统链接伤害案件和残疾信息，采用经验数据描述受伤病人的功能结果。
结果: 总体而言，方法中包含涉及终身后果的27 
例伤害诊断的权重和比例87。几乎所有调查的伤害（96-100%）可以归属于EUROCOST类目。每个伤害案例的YLD平均数因受研究的国家而异。就YLD而言，较之使用在全球疾病研究中采用的传统方法得出的相应估计，使用新方法得出的伤害负担估计要高出3 
