
Defining patient safety in hospice: principles to guide measurement and public 
reporting.

Casarett D(1), Spence C, Clark MA, Shield R, Teno JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. casarett@mail.med.upenn.edu

Despite progress towards safer care in most settings, there has been much less 
attention to improving safety in hospices, which care for more than 1,500,000 
patients every year. In this article, we describe three serious conflicts that 
arise when safety measures from other settings are applied to hospice. First, 
safety measures that are imposed in order to reduce morbidity and mortality may 
be irrelevant for a hospice patient whose goals focus on comfort. Second, safety 
measures that are defined in patients with a life expectancy of years can be 
inappropriate for hospice patients whose typical survival is measured in days. 
Third, it can be very difficult to assign responsibility for the safety of 
hospice patients, whose care is provided mostly by family and friends. 
Therefore, generally accepted safety measures are often inappropriate for 
hospice care, and can lead to unintended consequences if they are applied 
without critical evaluation or modification. Instead, we suggest three 
principles that can guide the development of hospice-appropriate safety measures 
by considering a patient's goals and life expectancy, and the degree to which 
responsibility for a patient's care is shared.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0530
PMID: 22690916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. J Palliat Med. 2012 Aug;15(8):863-9. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0417. Epub 2012
Jun  12.

A clinical decision support tool to predict survival in cancer patients beyond 
120 days after palliative chemotherapy.

Ng T(1), Chew L, Yap CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, National University of Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Palliative chemotherapy is often administered to terminally ill 
cancer patients to relieve symptoms. Yet, unnecessary use of chemotherapy can 
worsen patients' quality of life due to treatment-related toxicities. Thus, 
accurate prediction of survival in terminally ill patients can help clinicians 
decide on the most appropriate palliative care for these patients. However, 
studies have shown that clinicians often make imprecise predictions of survival 
in cancer patients. Hence, the purpose of this study was to create a clinical 
decision support tool to predict survival in cancer patients beyond 120 days 
after palliative chemotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data were obtained from a retrospective study of 400 
randomly selected terminally ill cancer patients in the National Cancer Centre 
Singapore (NCCS) from 2008 to 2009. After removing patients with missing data, 
there were 325 patients remaining for model development. Three classification 
algorithms, naive Bayes (NB), neural network (NN), and support vector machine 
(SVM) were used to create the models. A final model with the best prediction 
performance was then selected to develop the tool.
RESULTS: The NN model had the best prediction performance. The accuracy, 
specificity, sensitivity, and area under the curve (AUC) of this model were 78%, 
82%, 74%, and 0.857, respectively. Five patient attributes (albumin level, 
alanine transaminase level (ATL), absolute neutrophil count, Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) status, and number of metastatic sites) were included in 
the model.
CONCLUSIONS: A decision support tool to predict survival in cancer patients 
beyond 120 days after palliative chemotherapy was created. With further 
validation, this tool coupled with the professional judgment of clinicians can 
help improve patient care.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0417
PMCID: PMC3396145
PMID: 22690950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2012 Jun;60(6):1185. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.03988.x.

The effect of exceptional parental longevity on life expectancy.

Shavelle R, Paculdo D.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2012.03988.x
PMID: 22690998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Int J Stroke. 2012 Aug;7(6):517-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00799.x.
Epub  2012 Jun 13.

Burden of stroke in Nepal.

Shaik MM(1), Loo KW, Gan SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medical Sciences, Bharatpur, Nepal.

Based on disability-adjusted life years, stroke is one of the major causes of 
death and is among the top five diseases in Nepal. Despite this fact, 
information on the prevalence, morbidity, and mortality of stroke in Nepal is 
limited to urban areas, with no official reports published on the epidemiology 
of stroke throughout the country. The mean age of stroke patients in Nepal is 
between 59 and 62 years, with males affected more frequently. Hypertension, 
cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, and diabetes are the main predisposing 
factors for stroke, and ischemic stroke is more common (63%) than hemorrhagic 
stroke (37%). Because of a lack of facilities and specialists, most stroke 
patients, especially in the rural areas, seek traditional healers to treat their 
conditions. More governmental and non-governmental organizations should be 
involved in improving facilities and implementing prevention strategies.

© 2012 The Authors. International Journal of Stroke © 2012 World Stroke 
Organization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00799.x
PMID: 22691158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Med Decis Making. 2012 Nov-Dec;32(6):750-63. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12448929.
Epub  2012 Jun 12.

Methods for estimating subgroup effects in cost-effectiveness analyses that use 
observational data.

Kreif N(1), Grieve R(1), Radice R(1), Sadique Z(1), Ramsahai R(1), Sekhon JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK (NK, RG, RR, ZS, RR)
(2)Travers Department of Political Science, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, USA (JSS)

Decision makers require cost-effectiveness estimates for patient subgroups. In 
nonrandomized studies, propensity score (PS) matching and inverse probability of 
treatment weighting (IPTW) can address overt selection bias, but only if they 
balance observed covariates between treatment groups. Genetic matching (GM) 
matches on the PS and individual covariates using an automated search algorithm 
to directly balance baseline covariates. This article compares these methods for 
estimating subgroup effects in cost-effectiveness analyses (CEA). The motivating 
case study is a CEA of a pharmaceutical intervention, drotrecogin alfa (DrotAA), 
for patient subgroups with severe sepsis (n = 2726). Here, GM reported better 
covariate balance than PS matching and IPTW. For the subgroup at a high level of 
baseline risk, the probability that DrotAA was cost-effective ranged from 30% 
(IPTW) to 90% (PS matching and GM), at a threshold of £20 000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year. We then compared the methods in a simulation study, 
in which initially the PS was correctly specified and then misspecified, for 
example, by ignoring the subgroup-specific treatment assignment. Relative 
performance was assessed as bias and root mean squared error (RMSE) in the 
estimated incremental net benefits. When the PS was correctly specified and 
inverse probability weights were stable, each method performed well; IPTW 
reported the lowest RMSE. When the subgroup-specific treatment assignment was 
ignored, PS matching and IPTW reported covariate imbalance and bias; GM reported 
better balance, less bias, and more precise estimates. We conclude that if the 
PS is correctly specified and the weights for IPTW are stable, each method can 
provide unbiased cost-effectiveness estimates. However, unlike IPTW and PS 
matching, GM is relatively robust to PS misspecification.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12448929
PMID: 22691446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Lancet Infect Dis. 2012 Jul;12(7):571-5. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(12)70085-3.
 Epub 2012 Jun 11.

Integration of palliative care throughout HIV disease.

Simms V(1), Higginson IJ, Harding R.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
victoria.simms@lshtm.ac.uk

People with HIV have a high burden of pain and physical, psychological, and 
social difficulties that can be managed effectively with palliative care. 
However, most individuals do not have access to this type of care. Palliative 
care is holistic patient-centred management of life-limiting progressive 
disorders and is recognised by WHO as an essential element of HIV care, from 
diagnosis to end of life. Historically, palliative care and HIV care were linked 
closely, but misconceptions divide the two disciplines today. Palliative care 
can augment patients' outcomes and boost adherence to antiretroviral treatments 
and life expectancy. In much of the world, services providing palliative care 
are isolated, and most individuals in need have no access to this care. The 
commitment to provide palliative care for all people with HIV can be fulfilled 
if clinical workers are trained in this therapeutic approach and if care is 
delivered at community level, with support for family caregivers.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(12)70085-3
PMID: 22691838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Postgrad Med. 2012 May;124(3):50-8. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2012.05.2548.

The current status of active surveillance for prostate cancer.

Pan DL(1), Samavedi S, Eldefrawy A, Manoharan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine, Miami, 
FL 33136, USA. dpan111@hotmail.com

The occurrence of low-risk, localized prostate cancer (PCa) has increased in the 
prostate-specific antigen era. A significant amount of low-risk PCas progress 
slowly and may not impact patient survival. Thus, these patients may be 
subjected to unnecessary interventions that result in physical and psychological 
complications. The active surveillance (AS) protocol has been used over the few 
past decades. It was designed so that patients with low-risk PCa can be 
monitored for a period of time, during which they are free from complication of 
interventions, and can be treated with curative intention on evidence of disease 
progression. Institutions have developed different selection criteria and 
follow-up schedules for suitable patients with PCa. Recently, long-term data 
have emerged suggesting that AS is a reasonable option for appropriately 
selected patients with low-risk PCa who have a life expectancy of < 10 years. 
Subsequently, the AS protocol has been recognized by various guidelines as part 
of the treatment strategy for PCa. However, the challenges that remain for AS 
are the risk of under-staging of PCa and the low uptake and high attrition rate 
of AS, and questions remain regarding its long-term efficacy. Recent advances in 
AS for PCa, such as better imaging modality, combining AS with limited local 
therapy, as well as the role of AS in association with chemoprevention, are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2012.05.2548
PMID: 22691899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. JAMA. 2012 Jun 13;307(22):2357-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.2012.5792.

"Every child deserves a 5th birthday": campaigns target child survival, preterm 
birth.

Kuehn BM.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2012.5792
PMID: 22692151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2012 Jun 18;44(3):397-402.

[Empirical research of measuring elderly health utility in the outskirts of 
Beijing by using European quality of life 5-dimensions].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu YQ(1), Liu K, Tang X, Cao Y, Wang JW, Li N, Liu JJ, Yu LP, Xu HT, Liu WJ, Wen 
SS, Hu YH, Li K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Peking University School of 
Public Health, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate health utility values of the elderly in the outskirts of 
Beijing by European quality of life 5-dimensions (EQ-5D) from the EuroQol Group, 
and to compare the health utility values by using different translation models.
METHODS: In the cross-sectional study, EQ-5D was used to measure the quality of 
life for 65 to 79 year-old usual residents in the town of Qinglonghu and 
Zhoukoudian in Fangshan District of Beijing. The health index which represented 
the health utility was calculated by using the Japan, the United Kingdom (UK), 
the United States (US) population-based time trade-off (TTO) models. 
Kruskal-Wallis H test was adopted to compare the health indexes calculated by 
the different models, and intraclass correlations coefficients (ICCs) and 
Bland-Altman plot were used to evaluate the consistency of the utility 
calculated by the three models. Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare the 
impacts of Cardio-vascular diseasel (CVD) on the 3 kinds of health index. The 
Spearman rho correlation coefficients between the 3 kinds of health index, 
EQ-VAS (visual analogue scales) score and age, gender, health status were also 
calculated.
RESULTS: There were 2 406 participants in this analysis, with a mean age of 70.3 
years, of whom 34.3% were male. The median and quantile range of Japan weights, 
US weights and UK weights health indexes were 1 (0.28), 1 (0.24) and 1 (0.29), 
respectively. The minimum and maximum of the three indexes were -0.06/1, -0.43/1 
and -0.03/1, respectively. The US weights yielded the highest scores and the UK 
weights the lowest scores. The Japan, US and UK weight scores differed from each 
other (P<0.005). The Japan and US scores had the highest ICCs (0.987, 95%CI 
0.986-0.988), followed by the US and UK scores (0.941, 95%CI 0.937- 0.946) and 
then the Japan and UK scores (0.921, 95%CI 0.915-0.927). The difference scores 
of 96.9%, 95.1% and 95.0% were found between the limits of agreement in 
Bland-Altmand plot. Negative correlations existed between the US/UK score and 
the number of CVDs, but not existed between the Japan score and the number of 
CVDs.
CONCLUSION: The health indexes calculated by using the different EQ-5D TTO 
transform models were different for the elderly people in the Beijing suburban 
district, TTO model based on Chinese health preference should be developed.

PMID: 22692310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2012 Jun 18;44(3):454-63.

[Maturation of Cordyceps sinensis associates with alterations of fungal 
expressions of multiple Ophiocordyceps sinensis mutants in stroma of Cordyceps 
sinensis].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao L(1), Li XH, Zhao JQ, Lu JH, Zhao JG, Zhu JS.

Author information:
(1)Pharmanex Beijing Clinical Pharmacology Center, Beijing 100088, China.

OBJECTIVE: To examine maturational changes in expressions of Ophiocordyceps 
sinensis (O.sinensis) transition and transversion mutation genotypes in 
Cordyceps sinensis (C.sinensis) stroma.
METHODS: MassARRAY single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) matrix-assisted laser 
desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrum genotyping was 
used, and 8 SNP extension primers were designed based on the scattered, multiple 
point mutations of known sequences for the O.sinensis mutants within their 
internal transcribed spacer (ITS) segments. Of the extension primers, 5 (not 
capable of distinguishing between the 2 AT-biased genotypes) located in rDNA 
ITS1 and ITS2 regions: 067721-211, 067721-240, 067721-477, 067721-531 and 
067721-581. The other 3 extension primers located in 5.8S rDNA region: 
067740-324, 067740-328 and 067740-360, to distinguish between the 2 AT-biased 
genotypes.
RESULTS: MS chromatograms at the 8 SNP sites showed dynamic alterations of 
mutant alleles in C.sinensis stroma. The allele for the AT-biased genotypes at 
067721-211 site showed higher peak height than its GC-biased counterpart in the 
premature C.sinensis stroma, but disappeared with C.sinensis maturation. 
Chromatograms displayed not only the transition mutation alleles, but also 
transversion mutants. Some of the transversion mutation alleles displayed higher 
peak heights than those for GC- and AT-biased alleles, but their peak heights 
and detection rates tended to be decreased with C.sinensis maturation. When 
distinguishing between the 2 AT-biases, AB067744 and AB067740 genotype alleles 
co-existed in the premature C.sinensis stroma. The allele peak height for 
AB067744 genotype was greatly decreased with C.sinensis maturation, while that 
for AB067740 genotype increased.
CONCLUSION: Co-existence of at least 5 transition and transversion mutant 
genotypes of O.sinensis and the dynamic changes in their expressions in 
C.sinensis stroma along with C.sinensis maturation may be of extreme importance 
in C.sinensis stroma germination and maturation, enabling C.sinensis to complete 
its life cycle.

PMID: 22692321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Clin Exp Metastasis. 2012 Oct;29(7):807-19. doi: 10.1007/s10585-012-9496-y.
Epub  2012 Jun 13.

The role of targeted therapy and biomarkers in breast cancer treatment.

Stopeck AT(1), Brown-Glaberman U, Wong HY, Park BH, Barnato SE, Gradishar WJ, 
Hudis CA, Rugo HS.

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona Cancer Center, 1515N. Campbell Avenue, Tucson, AZ 
85724, USA. astopeck@azcc.arizona.edu

Breast cancer is the most prevalent life-threatening cancer in women and the 
second leading cause of cancer associated deaths. Consequently, optimizing 
breast cancer therapy to increase cure rates in early stage disease and improve 
life expectancy and palliation for patients with metastasis is a critical need 
and major area of research in medical oncology. This article focuses on the 
development of personalized therapy in breast cancer though the use of targeted 
therapies and their associated biomarkers. Topics reviewed include the historic 
advances in targeting the HER2 receptor and the current avenues being studied to 
circumvent resistance; new developments in the management of triple negative and 
metastatic breast cancer; and the challenges and pitfalls associated with 
targeting angiogenesis. Using these as examples, many of the innovations and 
challenges in the treatment of women with breast cancer are explored.

DOI: 10.1007/s10585-012-9496-y
PMID: 22692561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Med Ethics. 2012 Nov;38(11):647-51. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100333.
Epub  2012 Jun 12.

Evaluating a patient's request for life-prolonging treatment: an ethical 
framework.

Winkler EC(1), Hiddemann W, Marckmann G.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Tumour Diseases, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 
Germany. eva.winkler@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Contrary to the widespread concern about over-treatment at the end of life, 
today, patient preferences for palliative care at the end of life are frequently 
respected. However, ethically challenging situations in the current healthcare 
climate are, instead, situations in which a competent patient requests active 
treatment with the goal of life-prolongation while the physician suggests best 
supportive care only. The argument of futility has often been used to justify 
unilateral decisions made by physicians to withhold or withdraw life-sustaining 
treatment. However, we argue that neither the concept of futility nor that of 
patient autonomy alone is apt for resolving situations in which physicians are 
confronted with patients' requests for active treatment. Instead, we integrate 
the relevant arguments that have been put forward in the academic discussion 
about 'futile' treatment into an ethical algorithm with five guiding questions: 
(1) Is there a chance that medical intervention will be effective in achieving 
the patient's treatment goal? (2) How does the physician evaluate the expected 
benefit and the potential harm of the treatment? (3) Does the patient understand 
his or her medical situation? (4) Does the patient prefer receiving treatment 
after evaluating the benefit-harm ratio and the costs? (5) Does the treatment 
require many resources? This algorithm shall facilitate approaching patients' 
requests for treatments deemed futile by the physician in a systematic way, and 
responding to these requests in an ethically appropriate manner. It thereby adds 
substantive considerations to the current procedural approaches of conflict 
resolution in order to improve decision making among physicians, patients and 
families.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100333
PMCID: PMC3582068
PMID: 22692859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


530. PLoS Comput Biol. 2012 May;8(5):e1002534. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002534.
 Epub 2012 May 31.

Thermodynamic basis for the emergence of genomes during prebiotic evolution.

Woo HJ(1), Vijaya Satya R, Reifman J.

Author information:
(1)DoD Biotechnology High Performance Computing Software Applications Institute, 
Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center, United States Army Medical 
Research and Materiel Command, Fort Detrick, Maryland, United States of America.

The RNA world hypothesis views modern organisms as descendants of RNA molecules. 
The earliest RNA molecules must have been random sequences, from which the first 
genomes that coded for polymerase ribozymes emerged. The quasispecies theory by 
Eigen predicts the existence of an error threshold limiting genomic stability 
during such transitions, but does not address the spontaneity of changes. 
Following a recent theoretical approach, we applied the quasispecies theory 
combined with kinetic/thermodynamic descriptions of RNA replication to analyze 
the collective behavior of RNA replicators based on known experimental kinetics 
data. We find that, with increasing fidelity (relative rate of base-extension 
for Watson-Crick versus mismatched base pairs), replications without enzymes, 
with ribozymes, and with protein-based polymerases are above, near, and below a 
critical point, respectively. The prebiotic evolution therefore must have 
crossed this critical region. Over large regions of the phase diagram, fitness 
increases with increasing fidelity, biasing random drifts in sequence space 
toward 'crystallization.' This region encloses the experimental nonenzymatic 
fidelity value, favoring evolutions toward polymerase sequences with ever higher 
fidelity, despite error rates above the error catastrophe threshold. Our work 
shows that experimentally characterized kinetics and thermodynamics of RNA 
replication allow us to determine the physicochemical conditions required for 
the spontaneous crystallization of biological information. Our findings also 
suggest that among many potential oligomers capable of templated replication, 
RNAs may have evolved to form prebiotic genomes due to the value of their 
nonenzymatic fidelity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002534
PMCID: PMC3364946
PMID: 22693440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


531. PLoS One. 2012;7(6):e38560. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0038560. Epub 2012 Jun
5.

A modified sagittal spine postural classification and its relationship to 
deformities and spinal mobility in a chinese osteoporotic population.

Wang HJ(1), Giambini H, Zhang WJ, Ye GH, Zhao C, An KN, Li YK, Lan WR, Li JY, 
Jiang XS, Zou QL, Zhang XY, Chen C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: Abnormal posture and spinal mobility have been demonstrated to cause 
functional impairment in the quality of life, especially in the postmenopausal 
osteoporotic population. Most of the literature studies focus on either thoracic 
kyphosis or lumbar lordosis, but not on the change of the entire spinal 
alignment. Very few articles reported the spinal alignment of Chinese people. 
The purpose of this study was threefold: to classify the spinal curvature based 
on the classification system defined by Satoh consisting of the entire spine 
alignment; to identify the change of trunk mobility; and to relate spinal 
curvature to balance disorder in a Chinese population.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: 450 osteoporotic volunteers were recruited for 
this study. Spinal range of motion and global curvature were evaluated 
noninvasively using the Spinal-Mouse® system and sagittal postural deformities 
were characterized.
RESULTS: We found a new spine postural alignment consisting of an increased 
thoracic kyphosis and decreased lumbar lordosis which we classified as our 
modified round back. We did not find any of Satoh's type 5 classification in our 
population. Type 2 sagittal alignment was the most common spinal deformity 
(38.44%). In standing, thoracic kyphosis angles in types 2 (58.34°) and 3 
(58.03°) were the largest and lumbar lordosis angles in types 4 (13.95°) and 5 
(-8.61°) were the smallest. The range of flexion (ROF) and range of 
flexion-extension (ROFE) of types 2 and 3 were usually greater than types 4 and 
5, with type 1 being the largest.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The present study classified and compared for the 
first time the mobility, curvature and balance in a Chinese population based on 
the entire spine alignment and found types 4 and 5 to present the worst balance 
and mobility. This study included a new spine postural alignment classification 
that should be considered in future population studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0038560
PMCID: PMC3367929
PMID: 22693647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


532. Am J Manag Care. 2012 May 1;18(5):e179-85.

Influence of patient preferences on the cost-effectiveness of screening for 
Lynch syndrome.

Wang G(1), Kuppermann M, Kim B, Phillips KA, Ladabaum U.

Author information:
(1)American Institutes for Research, Washington, DC, USA. gwang@air.org

PURPOSE: Patients and relatives have varying preferences for genetic testing and 
interventions related to hereditary cancer syndromes. We examined how the impact 
of these services on quality of life (QoL) affects the cost-effectiveness of 
screening for Lynch syndrome among probands newly diagnosed with colorectal 
cancer and their relatives.
METHODS: We constructed a state-transition model comparing screening strategies 
(clinical criteria, prediction algorithms, tumor testing, and upfront germline 
testing) with no screening to identify Lynch syndrome. The model incorporated 
individuals' health state utilities after screening, germline testing, and 
risk-reducing surgeries, with utilities persisting for 12 months in the base 
case. Outcomes consisted of quality-adjusted lifeyears (QALYs), costs, and cost 
per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses assessed how the duration and magnitude of 
changes in QoL influenced results.
RESULTS: Multiple screening strategies yielded gains in QALYs at acceptable 
costs compared with no screening. The preferred strategy-immunohistochemistry of 
tumors followed by BRAF mutation testing (IHC/BRAF)-cost $59,700 per QALY gained 
in the base case. The duration and magnitude of decreases in QoL after decisions 
related to germline testing and surgeries were key determinants of the 
cost-effectiveness of screening. IHC/BRAF cost >$100,000 per QALY gained when 
decrements to QoL persisted for 21 months.
CONCLUSION: Screening for Lynch syndrome in the population is likely to yield 
long-term gains in life expectancy that outweigh any short-term decreases in 
QoL, at acceptable costs. Counseling for individuals should aim to mitigate 
potential negative impact of genetic testing and risk-reducing interventions on 
QoL.

PMID: 22694112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Pediatr Transplant. 2012 Sep;16(6):564-76. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-3046.2012.01730.x. Epub 2012 Jun 14.

Cardiovascular risk assessment in children following kidney transplantation.

Dégi A(1), Kerti A, Kis E, Cseprekál O, Tory K, Szabó AJ, Reusz GS.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Pediatrics, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.

CV diseases are the leading cause of death among patients with ESRD. RTX 
decreases the CV risk; however, it still remains definitely higher than that of 
the general population. Large multicenter and longitudinal studies are difficult 
to perform and hard end-points of CV events are usually missing among pediatric 
population. Thus, appropriate estimation of CV risk is of crucial importance to 
define the potential hazards and to evaluate the effect of treatments aimed to 
reduce the risk. A number of validated non-invasive methods are available to 
assess the extent of CV damage in adults, such as calcification scores, cIMT, 
aPWV, 24-h ABPM, AASI, and HRV; however, they need adaptation, standardization, 
and validation in pediatric studies. cIMT and PWV are the most promising 
methods, as pediatric normative values are already present. The up-to-date 
treatment of ESRD aims not only to save life, but to offer the patient a life 
expectancy approaching that of the healthy population and to ensure a reasonable 
quality of life.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3046.2012.01730.x
PMID: 22694162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Clin Neuropsychol. 2012;26(5):769-89. doi: 10.1080/13854046.2012.693541.
Epub  2012 Jun 14.

Neuropsychological assessment of distractibility in mild traumatic brain injury 
and depression.

Schnabel R(1), Kydd R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, University of Auckland, New Zealand. 
rsch087@aucklanduni.ac.nz

Traditional neuropsychological assessments are conducted exclusively in a quiet, 
distraction-free environment; clients' abilities to operate under busy and 
distracting conditions remain untested. Environmental distractions, however, are 
typical for a multitude of real-life situations and present a challenge to 
clients with frontal-temporal brain injury. In an effort to improve ecological 
validity, an extension of the traditional neuropsychological assessment was 
developed, comprising a standardized distraction condition. This allowed 
cognitive functions to be tested both in the traditional setting and with 
exposure to a specified audio-visual distraction. The present study (n = 240) 
investigated how clients with mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI) (n = 80), Major 
Depression (MDE) (n = 80), and a healthy control sample (n = 80) performed on 
sub-tests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV and the Wechsler Memory 
Scale-IV both in the standard and the distraction conditions. Test effort was 
controlled. Significant deterioration of performance in the distraction setting 
was observed among clients with mTBI. In contrast the performance of a healthy 
control sample remained unchanged. Significant improvement of performance in the 
distraction setting was documented for clients with MDE. Contrary to their 
improved performance, depressed clients experienced the distraction setting as 
more distressing than the control and mTBI group.

DOI: 10.1080/13854046.2012.693541
PMID: 22694212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2012 Aug 1;12(4):225-32. doi: 10.1007/BF03261831.

Changes to the statin prescribing policy in Belgium: potential impact in 
clinical and economic terms.

Liew D(1), Webb K, Marbaix S, Annemans L.

Author information:
(1)Melbourne EpiCentre, Department of Medicine (RMH), University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia. danny.liew@mh.org.au

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: New policies in Belgium encourage prescribing of 
generic HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), but may lead to non-equivalent 
switching of patients from more potent second generation statins, as has 
occurred elsewhere. We sought to assess the potential health economic impact of 
the new policies.
DESIGN: This was a cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to simulate the onset of cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) and death among a representative cohort of 80 Belgian patients 
initially free of CVD and taking atorvastatin. Cardiovascular risks were 
estimated from calibrated Framingham equations, and utilities and costs from 
published data. Decision analysis assessed the potential impact of switching all 
80 patients to simvastatin. Changes in lipid levels expected to arise from 
switching were based on a published meta-analysis.
RESULTS: If the 80 patients remained on atorvastatin, the model predicted that 
23 (29%) would develop CVD over 20 years. If they were switched to simvastatin, 
the predicted number was 25 (31%), equating to a 'number needed to harm' of 52. 
Switching would lead to a net cost saving of €131 (2012) per subject, but also a 
loss of 0.03 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) per subject. These equated to a 
decremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €4777 per QALY lost. Sensitivity 
analyses indicated this result to be robust.
CONCLUSION: Recently introduced statin prescribing policies in Belgium are 
likely, as intended, to reduce statin costs, but also increase the burden of CVD 
due to non-equivalent switching. It would be cost effective to maintain patients 
on atorvastatin for primary prevention rather than switch them to simvastatin.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03261831
PMID: 22694315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Semin Dial. 2012 Jul;25(4):419-22. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2012.01093.x.
Epub  2012 Jun 14.

The diagnosis of tuberculosis in dialysis patients.

Richardson RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, The Toronto General Hospital, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. robert.richardson@uhn.ca

Tuberculosis is an important issue for nephrologists caring for dialysis 
patients. Because dialysis patients are immunocompromised, they are at higher 
risk for reactivation of latent tuberculosis, and they frequently have atypical 
presentation. Furthermore, hemodialysis units may foster rapid spread of active 
pulmonary tuberculosis. The diagnosis of active pulmonary tuberculosis still 
depends on detection of organisms by smear and culture. Newer nucleic acid 
detection techniques are more sensitive and specific. Nephrologists should 
remember that nonspecific presentation of tuberculosis including fever, weight 
loss, and adenopathy are more common in dialysis patients than in the general 
population, and diagnosis may require biopsy of extrapulmonary tissue. Detection 
of latent tuberculosis in dialysis patients should only be undertaken if 
treatment is planned. Generally, this should apply only to potential transplant 
candidates and younger dialysis patients with longer life expectancy. Tuberculin 
skin test is very insensitive in dialysis patients, and false-positives occur in 
patients born in countries where Bacillus Calmette-Guérin vaccine has been used. 
Blood tests using stimulation of gamma interferon have been shown to be more 
sensitive tests of latent tuberculosis and may be used in conjunction with 
tuberculin skin tests.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-139X.2012.01093.x
PMID: 22694662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Gastrointest Endosc. 2012 Aug;76(2):267-74. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2012.04.442.
Epub  2012 Jun 12.

Combination of biodegradable stent placement and single-dose brachytherapy is 
associated with an unacceptably high complication rate in the treatment of 
dysphagia from esophageal cancer.

Hirdes MM(1), van Hooft JE, Wijrdeman HK, Hulshof MC, Fockens P, Reerink O, van 
Oijen MG, van der Tweel I, Vleggaar FP, Siersema PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands. M.M.C.Hirdes@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: For the palliative treatment of dysphagia, esophageal stent 
placement provides immediate improvement, whereas brachytherapy offers better 
long-term relief.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate safety and efficacy of concurrent brachytherapy and 
biodegradable stent placement.
DESIGN: Prospective, single-arm study.
SETTING: Two tertiary-care referral centers.
PATIENTS: Nineteen consecutive patients with significant dysphagia resulting 
from unresectable esophageal cancer, with a life expectancy of more than 3 
months.
INTERVENTION: Single-dose brachytherapy (12 Gy) on day 1 followed by 
biodegradable stent placement on day 2.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Intervention-related major complications (determined 
by an expert panel) and dysphagia.
RESULTS: Nineteen patients (13 men, median age 66 years [interquartile range 
(IQR) 59-71] years) were included; 7 patients (37%) also received palliative 
chemotherapy. After inclusion of 19 patients, the study was ended prematurely 
because the safety threshold was exceeded. In total, 28 major complications 
occurred in 17 patients (89%). In 9 patients (47%), major complications were 
determined intervention-related (severe retrosternal pain with or without 
vomiting [n = 6], hematemesis [n = 1], recurrent dysphagia [n = 2]. Dysphagia 
scores decreased significantly from a median of 3 (IQR 3-4) to a median of 1 
(IQR 0-3) after 1 month (P < .001). Despite adequate luminal patency in 17 
patients (89%), normal diet could not be tolerated in 7 patients (37%) because 
of retrosternal pain and vomiting.
LIMITATIONS: Lack of routine endoscopy or contrast esophagram to evaluate 
recurrent dysphagia during follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Despite restoration of luminal patency, a combined treatment of 
brachytherapy and biodegradable stent placement cannot be recommended for the 
palliative treatment of esophageal cancer because of an unacceptably high 
intervention-related major complication rate.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2012.04.442
PMID: 22695208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Clin Ther. 2012 Jul;34(7):1544-58. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.05.004.
Epub  2012 Jun 12.

Economic impact of using additional diagnostic tests to better select patients 
with stroke for intravenous thrombolysis in the United Kingdom.

Earnshaw SR(1), McDade C, Chapman AM, Jackson D, Schwamm L.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, 200 Park Offices Dr, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, 
USA. searnshaw@rti.org

BACKGROUND: Eligibility for thrombolysis as an acute stroke treatment is 
determined through the use of unenhanced noncontrast computed tomography (CT), 
time since stroke onset, and patient history. Assessing penumbral patterns, 
which can be examined only through the use of diagnostic technologies such as 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and perfusion CT (CTP), may be able to better 
select patients for thrombolysis. However, trade-offs in terms of administration 
time and cost may affect the value of using these diagnostic studies.
OBJECTIVE: We examined the trade-offs among patient selection via usual care 
with CT, usual care plus MRI using diffusion-weighted and perfusion imaging, and 
usual care plus CTP for their effect on costs and outcomes when diagnosing 
stroke and selecting candidates for thrombolysis in the United Kingdom.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed. Efficacy and utilities were 
obtained from published studies. Costs were obtained from standard UK costing 
sources and were supplemented with data from the published literature. Outcomes 
included a favorable outcome (modified Rankin Scale score <2), costs, 
life-years, quality-adjusted life-years, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios.
RESULTS: Compared with usual care selection, adding CTP or MRI to better select 
patients for thrombolysis reduced the number of patients receiving thrombolysis 
by 9 and 14.6 per 1000 patients treated, respectively, while improving favorable 
outcome (19.2 and 17.6 per 1000 patients treated, respectively). In both 
scenarios, costs were decreased slightly. Both CTP and MRI selection were cost 
saving (more efficacious and less costly) compared with unenhanced CT selection; 
CTP selection was found to dominate MRI selection.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding diagnostic tests such as CTP and MRI to select UK patients 
for thrombolysis may be a good value for the money and may improve patient 
outcomes. If a preferred diagnostic test had to be chosen based on economic 
value, CTP might be the best compromise between unenhanced CT selection and MRI 
selection.

Copyright © 2012. Published by EM Inc USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.05.004
PMID: 22695225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. AIDS. 2012 Aug 24;26(13):1663-72. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283560678.

Cost-effectiveness of laboratory monitoring for management of HIV treatment in 
sub-Saharan Africa: a model-based analysis.

Hamers RL(1), Sawyer AW, Tuohy M, Stevens WS, Rinke de Wit TF, Hill AM; ART-A 
Consortium.

Author information:
(1)PharmAccess Foundation, Department of Global Health, Academic Medical Center 
of the University of Amsterdam and Amsterdam Institute for Global Health and 
Development, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. r.hamers@aighd.org

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of three different strategies for 
long-term monitoring of antiretroviral therapy (ART) failure and regimen 
switching in sub-Saharan Africa: a symptom-based approach, or monitoring of 
either CD4 cell counts or plasma viral load (pVL).
DESIGN: Markov model.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical HIV-infected adult population who began 
first-line ART and subsequently had up to 6 years of follow-up.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total cost, life expectancy and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: A symptom-based approach yielded a life expectancy of 64.0 months at a 
total cost of US$ 4028 per person. All laboratory-based strategies, at testing 
intervals of 6 or 12 months, were cost-saving and improved life expectancy, 
compared with a symptom-based approach. The life-expectancy gain was larger for 
pVL than for CD4 strategies at 6-monthly (2.3 and 0.9 months, respectively) and 
12-monthly testing (2.0 and 0.8 months, respectively). Cost-savings of 6-monthly 
pVL or CD4 testing were similar (US$ 630 and 621, respectively), whereas 
12-monthly CD4 cell counts were more cost-saving than 12-monthly pVL (US$ 1132 
and 880, respectively). Testing every 12 months - rather than every 6 months - 
decreased the ICER by 102% for CD4 cell count and 67% for pVL. These findings 
were robust to a wide range of deterministic sensitivity analyses, but were 
sensitive to the specificity and costs of diagnostic tests.
CONCLUSION: Additional diagnostic costs are balanced by cost-savings from 
avoiding unnecessary switching due to misdiagnosis of ART failure. Routine pVL 
monitoring may be preferred as a replacement for CD4 cell counts because of its 
additional public-health advantages in preventing drug-resistance, supporting 
adherence and reducing HIV transmission.

© 2012 Wolters Kluwer Health | Lippincott Williams & Wilkins

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283560678
PMID: 22695297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. MMWR Suppl. 2012 Jun 15;61(2):32-7.

Characteristics associated with poor glycemic control among adults with 
self-reported diagnosed diabetes--National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey, United States, 2007-2010.

Ali MK(1), McKeever Bullard K, Imperatore G, Barker L, Gregg EW; Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC, 4770 Buford Hwy NE, Atlanta, GA 30341, 
USA. ise1@cdc.gov

Nationally representative estimates indicate that 18.8 million adults in the 
United States have received a diagnosis with diabetes mellitus. When glycemic 
control is not optimized, diabetes imposes additional burdensome care 
requirements, health-care costs, and high risk of disabling complications, and 
this has been especially evident in socioeconomically disadvantaged and minority 
populations. For example, higher levels of glycated hemoglobin (A1c) have been 
associated with increased risk of diabetic retinopathy, increased risk of 
chronic kidney disease, and increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Reducing 
A1c levels through combined clinical and effective self-management has 
demonstrated reduced risk for microvascular complications. Although the most 
appropriate target A1c levels to achieve optimal health impact might vary among 
persons, the majority of adults with diabetes will benefit from reduction of A1c 
levels to ≤7%; targets for patients with a history of severe hypoglycemia, or 
with limited life expectancy, or with advanced complications, or with certain 
comorbid conditions might be higher. Nevertheless, an A1c level of 9% 
constitutes a clearly modifiable, high level of risk that few, if any, persons 
with diabetes should be exposed to. Accordingly, the Healthy People 2020 
objectives include a 10% reduction in the proportion of the diabetes population 
that has poor glycemic control (A1c >9%) as a target.

PMID: 22695461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Palliat Med. 2013 Mar;27(3):273-80. doi: 10.1177/0269216312448507. Epub 2012
Jun  13.

Opinions of health care professionals and the public after eight years of 
euthanasia legislation in the Netherlands: a mixed methods approach.

Kouwenhoven PS(1), Raijmakers NJ, van Delden JJ, Rietjens JA, Schermer MH, van 
Thiel GJ, Trappenburg MJ, van de Vathorst S, van der Vegt BJ, Vezzoni C, Weyers 
H, van Tol DG, van der Heide A.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center, University Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
P.S.C.Kouwenhoven@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: The practice of euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide (PAS) in 
the Netherlands has been regulated since 2002 by the Euthanasia Act. In the 
ongoing debate about the interpretation of this Act, comparative information 
about the opinions of the different stakeholders is needed.
AIM: To evaluate the opinions of Dutch physicians, nurses and the general public 
on the legal requirements for euthanasia and PAS.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey among Dutch physicians and nurses in primary 
and secondary care and members of the Dutch general public, followed by 
qualitative interviews among selected respondents. The participants were: 793 
physicians, 1243 nurses and 1960 members of the general public who completed the 
questionnaire; 83 were interviewed.
RESULTS: Most respondents agreed with the requirement of a patient request 
(64-88%) and the absence of a requirement concerning life expectancy (48-71%). 
PAS was thought acceptable by 24-39% of respondents for patients requesting it 
because of mental suffering due to loss of control, chronic depression or early 
dementia. In the case of severe dementia, one third of physicians, 58% of nurses 
and 77% of the general public agreed with performing euthanasia based on an 
advance directive. Interviewees illustrated these findings and supported the 
Act.
CONCLUSIONS: Health care professionals and the general public mostly support the 
legal requirements for euthanasia and PAS. The law permits euthanasia or PAS for 
mental suffering but this possibility is not widely endorsed. The general public 
is more liberal towards euthanasia for advanced dementia than health care 
professionals. We conclude that there is ample support for the law after eight 
years of legal euthanasia.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216312448507
PMID: 22695742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Age Ageing. 2012 Sep;41(5):635-41. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afs071. Epub 2012 Jun
13.

Community falls prevention for people who call an emergency ambulance after a 
fall: an economic evaluation alongside a randomised controlled trial.

Sach TH(1), Logan PA, Coupland CA, Gladman JR, Sahota O, Stoner-Hobbs V, 
Robertson K, Tomlinson V, Ward M, Avery AJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, 
Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK. t.sach@uea.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: we estimated the cost-effectiveness of a community falls prevention 
service compared with usual care from a National Health Service and personal 
social services perspective over the 12 month trial period.
DESIGN: a cost-effectiveness and cost utility analysis alongside a randomised 
controlled trial
SETTING: community.
PARTICIPANTS: people over 60 years of age living at home or in residential care 
who had fallen and called an emergency ambulance but were not taken to hospital.
INTERVENTIONS: referral to community fall prevention services or usual health 
and social care.
MEASUREMENTS: incremental cost per fall prevented and incremental cost per 
Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs)
RESULTS: a total of 157 participants (82 interventions and 75 controls) were 
used to perform the economic evaluation. The mean difference in NHS and personal 
social service costs between the groups was £-1,551 per patient over 1 year (95% 
CI: £-5,932 to £2,829) comparing the intervention and control groups. The 
intervention patients experienced on average 5.34 fewer falls over 12 months 
(95% CI: -7.06 to -3.62). The mean difference in QALYs was 0.070 (95% CI: -0.010 
to 0.150) in favour of the intervention group.
CONCLUSION: the community falls prevention service was estimated to be 
cost-effective in this high-risk group. Current Controlled Trials 
ISRCTN67535605. (controlled-trials.com).

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs071
PMCID: PMC3424053
PMID: 22695789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2012 Apr;16(4):483-90.

Coronary and carotid artery occlusive disease: single center experience.

Kovacevic P(1), Redzek A, Kovacevic-Ivanovic S, Velicki L, Ivanovic V, Kieffer 
E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases Vojvodina, Sremska Kamenica, Serbia.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Due to increased life expectancy, the risk profile of 
the patients undergoing cardiac surgery changed dramatically. This is especially 
important in case of concomitant coronary artery disease and carotid artery 
stenosis (CAS). Careful decision making and appropriate surgical strategy in 
these patients is critical for the success of the operation. Controversy about 
relationship between staged and concomitant carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and 
coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) still exists. In the current study, we 
present our case lood in treating patients with concomitant carotid artery 
stenosis and coronary artery disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: CABG with additional CEA due to neurologic symptoms or 
high grade (>80%) CAS has been performed in 835 patients in the period of 
1982-2010. Results of evaluation of perioperative mortality and morbidity in 
regard to the surgical approach have been discussed.
RESULTS: The average patient age was 62.6 +/- 8.7 years. Echocardiography 
revealed that 28% of the patients had poor left ventricle ejection fraction 
(<30%). Coronarography demonstrated that 21.4% of the operated patients had 
significant left main coronary artery stenosis (>60%). In terms of neurological 
status, majority of the patients (88.3%) were neurologically asymptomatic. The 
overall mortality regardless the sequence of procedures was 2.3% (19 patients). 
In the group of concomitantly treated patients 44.6% (50 patients) required 
triple coronary bypass while the mean number of coronary bypasses was 2.6. 
Postoperative neurologic complications were present in 102 patients (12.2%). 
Eighty-four patients (10.0%) have had TIA, while 18 patients (2.2%) have had 
permanent neurologic deficit while 4 patients (0.5%) died as a result of it.
CONCLUSIONS: It is imperative that every patient being considered for CABG 
should undergo ultrasonic evaluation of the carotid arteries regardless the 
neurological symptomatology. Concomitant surgery on patients with severe CAS and 
coronary disease carries a slightly higher operative risk and, therefore, should 
be avoided. Concomitant surgical treatment should only be considered in patients 
with unstable angina and significant CAS in whom we may expect higher morbidity 
and mortality.

PMID: 22696875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2012 Jun 14;9(1):26. doi: 10.1186/1550-2783-9-26.

β-alanine supplementation improves isometric endurance of the knee extensor 
muscles.

Sale C(1), Hill CA, Ponte J, Harris RC.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical, Life and Health Sciences Research Centre, Nottingham Trent 
University, Clifton Lane, Nottingham, NG11 8NS, UK. craig.sale@ntu.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: We examined the effect of four weeks of β-alanine supplementation on 
