were living at home independently, 68% had returned to work, and only 11% 
reported marked or severe disability. The majority of patients had no problems 
with mobility (75%), personal care (75%), usual activities (66%) or 
pain/discomfort (71%). However, 61% of respondents reported either moderate 
(48%) or severe (13%) anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of survivors have good functional and quality of life 
outcomes. Telephone follow-up is feasible in the young adult survivors of 
cardiac arrest; loss to follow-up is common.

DOI: 10.1136/emermed-2012-201267
PMID: 22764173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Prev Chronic Dis. 2012;9:E122. doi: 10.5888/pcd9.110295. Epub 2012 Jul 5.

Estimating benefits of past, current, and future reductions in smoking rates 
using a comprehensive model with competing causes of death.

van Meijgaard J(1), Fielding JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, University of California, Los Angeles School 
of Public Health, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1772, USA. jeroenvm@ucla.edu

INTRODUCTION: Despite years of declining smoking prevalence, tobacco use is 
still the leading preventable contributor to illness and death in the United 
States, and the effect of past tobacco-use control efforts has not fully 
translated into improvements in health outcomes. The objective of this study was 
to use a life course model with multiple competing causes of death to elucidate 
the ongoing benefits of tobacco-use control efforts on US death rates.
METHODS: We used a continuous-time life course simulation model for the US 
population. We modeled smoking initiation and cessation and 20 leading causes of 
death as competing risks over the life span, with the risk of death for each 
cause dependent on past and current smoking status. Risk parameters were 
estimated using data from the National Health Interview Survey that were linked 
to follow-up mortality data.
RESULTS: Up to 14% (9% for men, 14% for women) of the total gain in life 
expectancy since 1960 was due to tobacco-use control efforts. Past efforts are 
expected to further increase life expectancy by 0.9 years for women and 1.3 
years for men. Additional reduction in smoking prevalence may eventually yield 
an average 3.4-year increase in life expectancy in the United States. Coronary 
heart disease is expected to increase as a share of total deaths.
CONCLUSION: A dynamic individual-level model with multiple causes of death 
supports assessment of the delayed benefits of improved tobacco-use control 
efforts. We show that past smoking reduction efforts will translate into further 
increases in life expectancy in the coming years. Smoking will remain a major 
contributor to preventable illness and death, worthy of continued interventions.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd9.110295
PMCID: PMC3468309
PMID: 22765931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Rev Med Interne. 2012 Oct;33(10):575-9. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.06.001.
Epub  2012 Jul 4.

[Type 2 diabetes in the elderly, which specific features?].

[Article in French]

Graillot D(1), Quipourt V, Bouillet B, Petit JM, Manckoundia P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne Gériatrie, Hôpital de Jour, Centre de 
Champmaillot, CHU de Dijon, 2, rue Jules-Violle, BP 87 909, 21079 Dijon cedex, 
France.

Type 2 diabetes, whose prevalence has increased among elderly aged over 
75 years, has a number of specific features which differ from that in young 
people: heterogeneous population, association with other cardiovascular risk 
factors and several comorbidities, different therapeutic constraints and risks, 
and lower life expectancy. By using a standardized geriatric assessment it is 
possible to determine therapeutic and glycemic goals for each patient. In the 
elderly, main complications of diabetes are hypoglycemia and foot lesions. In 
order to avoid malnutrition, lifestyle and dietary rules should not be too 
strict. Recommendations for the prescription of oral antidiabetic agents are the 
same for both elderly and young subjects, but with increased monitoring in the 
elderly because of the high risk of complications including iatrogenic 
hypoglycemia. Insulin therapy should be preferred.

Copyright © 2012 Société nationale française de médecine interne (SNFMI). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.06.001
PMID: 22766159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Eye (Lond). 2012 Oct;26(10):1295-301. doi: 10.1038/eye.2012.137. Epub 2012
Jul  6.

Estimating quality-adjusted life years from patient-reported visual functioning.

Browne C(1), Brazier J, Carlton J, Alavi Y, Jofre-Bonet M.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9LJ, UK. c.browne@leeds.ac.uk

PURPOSE: Glaucoma is an important disease, the impacts of which on vision have 
been shown to have implications for patients' health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL). The primary aim of this study is to estimate a mapping algorithm to 
predict EQ-5D and SF-6D utility values based on the vision-specific measure, the 
25-item Visual Functioning Questionnaire (VFQ-25), as well as the clinical 
measures of visual function, that is, integrated visual field, visual acuity, 
and contrast sensitivity.
METHODS: Ordinary least squares (OLS), Tobit, and censored least absolute 
deviations were compared using data taken from the Moorfields Eye Hospital in 
London, to assess mapping functions to predict the EQ-5D and SF-6D from the 
VFQ-25, and tests of visual function. These models were compared using root mean 
square error (RMSE), R(2), and mean absolute error (MAE).
RESULTS: OLS was the best-performing model of the three compared, as this 
produced the lowest RMSE and MAE, and the highest R(2).
CONCLUSIONS: The models provided initial algorithms to convert the VFQ-25 to the 
EQ-5D and SF-6D. Further analysis would be needed to validate the models or 
algorithms.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2012.137
PMCID: PMC3470057
PMID: 22766537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2012 Jul;13(4):482-3. doi:
10.1097/PCC.0b013e31824174b3.

Health-related outcomes in children after critical illness.

Coleman NE, Slonim AD.

Comment on
    Pediatr Crit Care Med. 2012 Jul;13(4):387-92.

DOI: 10.1097/PCC.0b013e31824174b3
PMID: 22766543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2012 Aug;66(8):665-6. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2012-201589. Epub 2012 Jul 5.

Physical activity and health: MMXII.

Hamer M.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2012-201589
PMID: 22766775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Workplace Health Saf. 2012 Jul;60(7):321-6. doi: 10.1177/216507991206000706.

Demographic challenges across the European Union Member States.

Megyesiová S(1), Hajduová Z.

Author information:
(1)University of Economics, Faculty of Business, Kosice, Slovakia. 
silvia.megyesiova@euke.sk

The Member States of the European Union are undergoing major demographic 
changes; these changes are slow but significant. The demographic picture in the 
EU-27 is clearer: population growth is mainly the result of immigration, 
fertility is far below the replacement ratio, and the population is growing 
older, which will be a key demographic challenge in many Member States. All the 
actual demographic trends will have consequences for health care systems.

Copyright 2012, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.1177/216507991206000706
PMID: 22767463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2012 Jul;17(3):157-63. doi:
10.1258/JHSRP.2012.011098.  Epub 2012 Jul 5.

Is the aim of the English health care system to maximize QALYs?

Shah K(1), Praet C, Devlin N, Sussex J, Appleby J, Parkin D.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK. kshah@ohe.org

Comment in
    J Health Serv Res Policy. 2012 Jul;17(3):129-30.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the types of benefit considered relevant by the English 
Department of Health with those included by the National Institute for Health 
and Clinical Excellence (NICE) when conducting economic evaluations of options 
for spending limited health care resources.
METHODS: We analysed all policy Impact Assessments (IAs) carried out by the 
Department of Health (DH) in 2008 and 2009. The stated benefits of each policy 
were extracted and thematic analysis was used to categorise these.
RESULTS: 51 Impact Assessments were analysed, eight of which mentioned 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains as a benefit. 18 benefits other than 
QALY gains were identified. Apart from improving health outcomes, commonly 
referred to benefits included: reducing costs, improving quality of care, and 
enhancing patient experience. Many of the policies reviewed were implemented on 
the basis of benefits unrelated to health outcome. The methods being used to 
apply a monetary valuation to QALY gains (in cost-benefit calculations) are not 
consistent across Impact Assessments or with NICE's stated threshold range.
CONCLUSIONS: The Department of Health and NICE approach resource allocation 
decisions in different ways, based upon overlapping but not congruent 
considerations and underlying principles. Given that all these decisions affect 
the allocation of the same fixed health care budget, there is a case for 
establishing a uniform framework for option appraisal and priority setting so as 
to avoid allocative inefficiency. The same applies to any other national health 
care system.

DOI: 10.1258/JHSRP.2012.011098
PMID: 22767891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. PLoS One. 2012;7(6):e38981. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0038981. Epub 2012 Jun
29.

Phenotypic and gene expression differences between DA, BN and WOKW rats.

Lange J(1), Barz T, Ekkernkamp A, Wilke B, Klöting I, Follak N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma and Reconstructive Surgery, Medical Faculty, University 
of Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Because inbred rat strains are widely used as laboratory models, 
knowledge of phenotypic and genetic variations between strains will be useful to 
obtain insight into the relationship between different strains.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied phenotypic traits: of each strain--BN/K, DA/K 
and WOKW--10 male rats were studied for body weight and serum constituents at an 
age of 10 and 30 weeks. In addition, a total of 95 rats were studied for life 
expectancy. At an age of 30 weeks, these male rats were killed by an overdose of 
anesthetic (Sevofluran, Abbott), and the subcutaneous and visceral adipose 
tissue as well as bone tissue were removed to study the expression of 20 genes. 
There were significant differences in body weight, serum lipids and leptin at an 
age of 30 weeks between strains. Regarding life expectancy, BN rats lived 
longest (1072±228d). The highest gene expression was found in bone of BN rats. 
In adipose tissues, Nfkb1 is only expressed in subcutaneous adipocytes, and 5 
genes, Col2a1, Mmp9, Tnfa, Ins1 and Cyp24a1, are not expressed in adipocytes. 
The ranking BN = DA>WOKW was observed in only one gene in subcutaneous (Fto) and 
visceral adipocytes (Col6a1). There were no significant differences in gene 
expression of one gene in subcutaneous adipocytes and of 3 genes in visceral 
adipocytes. Comparing the gene expression in visceral and subcutaneous 
adipocytes, only one gene showed a comparable behavior (Bmp1).
CONCLUSION: From these results, it can be concluded that obvious phenotypic 
differences are caused by genetic differences between three rat strains, BN, DA 
and WOKW, as supported by gene expression studies in bone and adipose tissues. 
Especially BN rats can be used to study the genetic basis of long life.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0038981
PMCID: PMC3387203
PMID: 22768054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


687. Przegl Lek. 2012;69(2):49-53.

Gender differences and the will-to-live in old age.

Carmel S(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Multidisciplinary Research in Aging, Department of Sociology of 
Health and Gerontology, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel. 
sara@bgu.ac.il

International statistical data show that compared to men, women are 
underprivileged in personal resources, such as education and income, physical 
health and function, and in psychological characteristics, all of which are 
expressed in lower levels of subjective wellbeing (SWB). Literature shows that 
SWB is evaluated by numerous scales, which refer to various aspects of SWB. The 
purpose of this paper is threefold: a) to demonstrate the worldwide phenomenon 
of gender difference; b) to present a relatively new and unique indicator of 
wellbeing that is especially appropriate for older adults--the Will-to-Live 
(WTL), and a scale to evaluate it; c) to examine whether in old age, women 
differ from men in the strength of their wish to continue living. Results of a 
series of studies on older persons using the WTL scale indicate that the WTL is 
a multifaceted generalized indicator of wellbeing that systematically depicts 
the existing gender differences, indicating that women rank lower on SWB, and 
have a lower commitment to life than men. The WTL also predicts mortality among 
women, and is explained by different factors among men and women. As a measure, 
the WTL is a simple, parsimonious, easy to use tool, and well accepted by older 
people. Due to its diagnostic and prognostic values, as well as its good 
psychometric features, the WTL is recommended for practical use in monitoring 
changes in wellbeing, and evaluating effectiveness of intervention programs 
directed towards improving the wellbeing of older adults.

PMID: 22768413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. J Pak Med Assoc. 2012 Mar;62(3 Suppl 2):S1-5.

Psychological evaluation in hemodialysis patients.

Bayat A(1), Kazemi R, Toghiani A, Mohebi B, Tabatabaee MN, Adibi N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Islamic Azad University, Najafabad Branch, 
Isfahan, Iran.

INTRODUCTION: End stage renal disease has a high burden of disease affecting 
patient's quality of life and this may dramatically shorten their life 
expectancy. These patients may be faced with serious stressors which are related 
to the disease and its treatment. Considering psychosocial problems in 
hemodialysis patients, we designed this study to evaluate depression, anxiety, 
social support and to determine temperament, character and correlation between 
these factors in hemodialysis patients.
METHODS: This was a multicenter cross-sectional study which was done on 218 
hemodialysis patients in Isfahan during April-July 2011. Depression, anxiety, 
social support, temperament and character were evaluated in patients using 
Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Persian version of 
Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS-P) and Temperament and 
Character Inventory (TCI) questionnaires.
RESULTS: 138 (63.3%) subjects were male. Mean age was 58.18 +/- 14.3 years. 95 
(43.6%) participants had depression and 94 (43.1%) had anxiety. Family support 
had the highest score between social support subscales. Family support was 
significantly correlated with self-directedness (p = 0.012), cooperativeness (p 
= 0.03), self-transcendence (p = 0.018), reward dependence and friends support 
(p = 0.036) and cooperativeness and others support (p = 0.049).
CONCLUSION: Physicians should be aware of depression and anxiety in hemodialysis 
patients. Our results showed that patients had a supportive relation with their 
family and it could be because of Iranian culture and religious believes. In 
terms of temperament and character, patients were tolerant, supportive, humble 
and sociable.

PMID: 22768447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Nihon Rinsho. 2012 May;70 Suppl 3:234-40.

[Causes of death in Japanese diabetics and its changes].

[Article in Japanese]

Hotta N(1).

Author information:
(1)Japan Labour Health and Welfare Organization, Chubu Rosai Hospital.

PMID: 22768525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Lijec Vjesn. 2012 Mar-Apr;134(3-4):94-104.

[Hormonal therapy of prostate cancer: are there any dilemmas left?].

[Article in Croatian]

Brucić LJ(1), Juretić A, Solarić M, Bisof V, Basić-Koretić M, Rakusić Z, Santek 
F.

Author information:
(1)Zavod za radioterapijsku onkologiju, Klinika za onkologiju Medicinskog 
fakulteta Sveucilista u Zagrebu, KBC" Zagreb".

The strategy for treating prostate cancer patients depends on the assessment of 
disease extent, assessment of the risk of disease relapse, assessment of life 
expectancy, comorbidities, affinities and life-style. Since the activity and 
survival of prostate cancer cells is at least initially dependent on androgen 
stimulation, hormonal therapy is one of the several standard treatment 
modalities. Hormonal therapy is aimed at decreasing this androgen stimulation 
either by lowering androgen production or by blocking receptor binding. Hormonal 
therapy is in fact androgen-suppressive therapy (AST) or androgen-deprivation 
therapy (ADT). If effective, it results in the lack of cancer cell stimulation, 
thus causing their apoptosis and consequently decline in tumor growth and size. 
Hormonal therapy is used as a first-line treatment modality for metastatic 
disease. In addition to this indication, hormonal therapy is also used as an 
adjunct to radiotherapy with curative intent for patients with non-metastic 
disease but having an intermediate and high risk of disease relapse. In 
combination with radiotherapy, hormonal therapy can be applied before, 
concomitantly and after radiotherapy for the duration of 6 months or 2 to 3 
years depending on the risk estimation. Regarding hormonal therapy, it can be 
applied in combination with other treatments, in several ways, and sometimes 
there might be several options available. This possible lack of a specific 
recommendation is a consequence of the fact that there is a limited number of 
adequate clinical studies which, moreover, may have yielded inconsistent results 
sometimes simply due to the patients' heterogeneity. Moreover, thanks to the 
newer and better diagnostic methods enabling the discovery of prostate cancer in 
earlier disease stages, as well as to the more effective treatments, there is 
also a prolongation of relapse-free survival and possibly of overall survival in 
patients having metastic disease. Consequently, the results of earlier clinical 
studies might no longer be applicable to the new "generations" of upcoming 
patients. As regards this improved survival, issues of patient's quality of life 
and possible side-effects of hormonal therapy are also becoming increasingly 
relevant because hormonal adverse events are time-dependant and tend to increase 
in severity with prolongation of hormonal manipulation. Therefore, this paper 
aims to give an overview of the more recent findings, indications and 
observations regarding hormonal therapy.

PMID: 22768684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Cell Metab. 2012 Jul 3;16(1):55-67. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.05.013.

Mitochondrial respiratory thresholds regulate yeast chronological life span and 
its extension by caloric restriction.

Ocampo A(1), Liu J, Schroeder EA, Shadel GS, Barrientos A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, USA.

We have explored the role of mitochondrial function in aging by genetically and 
pharmacologically modifying yeast cellular respiration production during the 
exponential and/or stationary growth phases and determining how this affects 
chronological life span (CLS). Our results demonstrate that respiration is 
essential during both growth phases for standard CLS, but that yeast have a 
large respiratory capacity, and only deficiencies below a threshold (~40% of 
wild-type) significantly curtail CLS. Extension of CLS by caloric restriction 
also required respiration above a similar threshold during exponential growth 
and completely alleviated the need for respiration in the stationary phase. 
Finally, we show that supplementation of media with 1% trehalose, a storage 
carbohydrate, restores wild-type CLS to respiratory-null cells. We conclude that 
mitochondrial respiratory thresholds regulate yeast CLS and its extension by 
caloric restriction by increasing stress resistance, an important component of 
which is the optimal accumulation and mobilization of nutrient stores.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.05.013
PMCID: PMC3397320
PMID: 22768839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Cell Metab. 2012 Jul 3;16(1):97-103. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.06.005.

Intramyocellular fatty-acid metabolism plays a critical role in mediating 
responses to dietary restriction in Drosophila melanogaster.

Katewa SD(1), Demontis F, Kolipinski M, Hubbard A, Gill MS, Perrimon N, Melov S, 
Kapahi P.

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 8001 Redwood Boulevard, Novato, CA 
94945, USA. skatewa@buckinstitute.org

Changes in fat content have been associated with dietary restriction (DR), but 
whether they play a causal role in mediating various responses to DR remains 
unknown. We demonstrate that upon DR, Drosophila melanogaster shift their 
metabolism toward increasing fatty-acid synthesis and breakdown, which is 
required for various responses to DR. Inhibition of fatty-acid synthesis or 
oxidation genes specifically in the muscle tissue inhibited life-span extension 
upon DR. Furthermore, DR enhances spontaneous activity of flies, which was found 
to be dependent on the enhanced fatty-acid metabolism. This increase in activity 
was found to be at least partially required for the life-span extension upon DR. 
Overexpression of adipokinetic hormone (dAKH), the functional ortholog of 
glucagon, enhances fat metabolism, spontaneous activity, and life span. 
Together, these results suggest that enhanced fat metabolism in the muscle and 
physical activity play a key role in the protective effects of DR.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.06.005
PMCID: PMC3400463
PMID: 22768842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Cell Biol Int. 2012;36(12):1137-43. doi: 10.1042/CBI20110539.

Study of chemoresistant CD133+ cancer stem cells from human glioblastoma cell 
line U138MG using multiple assays.

Warrier S(1), Pavanram P, Raina D, Arvind M.

Author information:
(1)Manipal Institute of Regenerative Medicine, Manipal University, Bangalore, 
India. sudha.warrier@gmail.com

Glioblastoma is one of the most common malignant tumours in adults, with an 
average life expectancy of less than 1 year. The high mortality of glioblastomas 
is attributed to its resistance to conventional chemotherapeutic agents. 
Numerous studies have established the presence of a cancer stem population 
within glioblastomas. These CSC (cancer stem cell) populations express the 
cell-surface marker, CD133, and are tumorigenic and chemoresistant. Hence, CSCs 
make a potential target for anticancer therapies. We have focused on techniques 
that can reliably identify and isolate a viable CSC population, and studied 
their chemoresistant attributes. We show the presence of a CSC population within 
a slowly proliferating glioblastoma cell line, U138MG. An improvised neurosphere 
enrichment culture technique was developed for the isolation of CSC population. 
Stem cell neurospheres obtained by this protocol maintained their viability for 
several weeks, and could be redispersed for deriving colony-forming units and 
secondary spheres from single-cell suspensions. RT-PCR (reverse 
transcription-PCR), cell surface localization by immunofluorescence and 
enumeration by FACS analysis showed that the sphere cultures of U138MG grown on 
agarose-coated plates had elevated CD133 levels. Drug sensitivity assays 
indicated that these enriched spheres were more resistant to drug treatment than 
their non-CSC controls. Drug-resistant CSC had an increased expression of ABC 
(ATP-binding-cassette) drug transporters, such as ABCC2, ABCC4, ABCG2 and 
p-glycoprotein, indicative of their role in the resistance mechanisms. These 
studies will facilitate the development of in vitro assays for the sparse CSC 
population and strategies for improved treatment regimens for glioblastomas.

DOI: 10.1042/CBI20110539
PMID: 22770475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Prog Urol. 2012 Jun;22 Suppl 1:S7-13. doi: 10.1016/S1166-7087(12)70029-5.

[Influence of aging on male sexual health].

[Article in French]

Seisen T(1), Rouprêt M, Costa P, Giuliano F.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie de l'Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, AP-HP, Université Paris 
VI, Faculté de médecine Pierre et Marie Curie, France, 83 boulevard de 
l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: With the increase in life expectancy, men's sexual health has 
become a major concern for elderly couples. Erectile dysfunction (ED) is 
responsible for a 50 % decrease of sexually active men between 60 and 85. The 
aim of this study was to identify objective elements to evaluate the influence 
of age on male sexual health.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: Data on the effects of aging on men's sexual health have 
been explored in Medline and Embase using the MeSH keywords: prostate; sexuality 
and erectile dysfunction; aging. The articles were selected based on their 
methodology, relevance, date and language of publication.
RESULTS: ED concerns 64 % of 70 years old patients and up to 77.5 % after 75 
years. The screening of this pathology is based on standardized diagnostic 
tools. The most used of them remains the "International Index of Erectile 
function" which, in its simplified version with 5 items (IIEF-5 or SHIM), 
presents at the cutoff score of 21, a sensitivity of 98 %, a specificity of 88 % 
and a kappa index of 0.82. The ED is often responsible for a decrease in the 
quality of life for 60 % of elderly couples wishing to pursue sexual activity. 
Some diagnostic tools, such as the "Self-Esteem And Relationship" (SEAR) 
questionnaire or the "Sexual Experience Questionnaire" (SEX-Q) assess individual 
and couple satisfaction. Physiological aging seems to favor erection disorders 
by the development of an Androgen Deficiency of the Aging Male (ADAM) but 
pathological aging appears to be primarily responsible. Cardiovascular or 
neurological diseases and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) are, with the 
polymedication, modifiable risk factors of ED to systematically screen in 
elderly subjects.
CONCLUSION: Many diagnostic tools allow to detect ED and assess the impact on 
the quality of life of elderly men. The fundamental element of the management of 
ED is the research of modifiable risk factors including cardiovascular.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1166-7087(12)70029-5
PMID: 22770499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Clin Ther. 2012 Aug;34(8):1788-802. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.06.007.
Epub  2012 Jul 6.

Cost-effectiveness of dronedarone in atrial fibrillation: results for Canada, 
Italy, Sweden, and Switzerland.

Åkerborg Ö(1), Nilsson J, Bascle S, Lindgren P, Reynolds M.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Stockholm, Sweden. orjan.akerborg@optum.com

BACKGROUND: Dronedarone is a therapy for the treatment of patients with 
paroxysmal and persistent atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. According to 
results in the ATHENA trial, dronedarone on top of standard of care (SOC) 
decreases the risk of cardiovascular hospitalizations or death by 24% compared 
with SOC alone.
OBJECTIVES: A patient-level health economic model was developed to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of dronedarone on top of SOC versus SOC alone.
METHODS: The risk of experiencing stroke, congestive heart failure, acute 
coronary syndromes, treatment discontinuation, and death was modeled by separate 
health states, whereas adverse events were included as 1-time cost and utility 
decrements. State transition probabilities were primarily deduced from the 
patient-level data from ATHENA using survival analysis. Four sets of analyses 
were performed to reflect costs and treatment effects in Canada, Italy, Sweden, 
and Switzerland. Cost-effectiveness analysis was also conducted in a newly 
defined patient population identified by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to 
avoid the use of dronedarone in permanent AF patients resembling those in the 
PALLAS study.
RESULTS: The predicted survival time was, for the Canadian cohort, extended from 
10.11 to 10.24 years when dronedarone was added to SOC. Similar results were 
found for the other countries, resulting in incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) of €5828, €5873, €14,970, and €8554 per QALYs for Canada, Italy, 
Sweden, and, Switzerland, respectively. These results are all well below current 
established cost-effectiveness thresholds. In the EMA-restricted population, all 
patients were predicted to live longer, and the ICER increased but remained 
within established thresholds, with an average cost per QALY gained of €15,900.
CONCLUSIONS: Dronedarone on top of SOC appears to be a cost-effective treatment 
for atrial fibrillation compared with SOC alone. Despite the differences in the 
local settings considered, the results were consistent among all the countries 
included in the study. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00174785.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.06.007
PMID: 22770643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Arch Bronconeumol. 2012 Oct;48(10):372-8. doi: 10.1016/j.arbres.2012.04.012.
 Epub 2012 Jul 7.

Contraception, pregnancy and rare respiratory diseases.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Lara B(1), Fornet I, Goya M, López F, De Miguel JR, Molina M, Morales P, 
Quintana E, Salicrú S, Suárez E, Usetti P, Zurbano F.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Universitario Arnau de Vilanova, Lleida, 
Spain. beat1135@gmail.com

Three percent of rare diseases are pneumopathies. Improvements in survival and 
quality of life have led to a new situation where patients with rare respiratory 
diseases want to plan their reproductive lives. The intention of this review is 
to present the experience accumulated in the field of the reproductive health of 
these women. In several rare respiratory diseases, a genetic base has been 
identified. The combination of preimplantation genetic diagnosis, assisted 
reproduction and molecular biology techniques enable embryos to be studied 
genetically before being transplanted into the uterus. Therefore, the risk for 
transmitting a certain disease or chromosome alteration may be avoided in 
high-risk couples, and prenatal diagnoses may be done by chorionic villus 
sampling or amniocentesis. As a general rule, contraceptive methods should be 
personalized by evaluating the general state of female patients as well as their 
possibilities for pregnancy, complications and the future possibility of lung 
transplantation. In lymphangioleiomyomatosis and primary pulmonary hypertension, 
pregnancy is considered a contraindication. In the former, there is a very high 
risk for pneumothorax and loss of lung function. In the latter, mortality 
reaches 33%. In cystic fibrosis, it is estimated that each year 4% of patients 
become pregnant and there is no observed loss in lung function. There are 
special circumstances in childbirth that should be considered as well as 
specific anesthesia risks. The present review suggests that the decision about 
contraceptive methods, pregnancy as a contraindication or conditions for 
managing a pregnancy should be both individualized and multidisciplinary.

Copyright © 2012 SEPAR. Published by Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2012.04.012
PMID: 22771004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2012 Dec;44(6):896-907. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.276. Epub 2012 Jul 7.

Organization position statements and the stance of "studied neutrality" on 
euthanasia in palliative care.

Johnstone MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Deakin University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia. megan.johnstone@deakin.edu.au

In recent years, palliative care and related organizations have increasingly 
adopted a stance of "studied neutrality" on the question of whether euthanasia 
should be legalized as a bona fide medical regimen in palliative care contexts. 
This stance, however, has attracted criticism from both opponents and proponents 
of euthanasia. Pro-euthanasia activists see the stance as an official position 
of indecision that is fundamentally disrespectful of a patient's right to 
"choose death" when life has become unbearable. Some palliative care 
constituents, in turn, are opposed to the stance, contending that it reflects an 
attitude of "going soft" on euthanasia and as weakening the political resistance 
that has hitherto been successful in preventing euthanasia from becoming more 
widely legalized. In this article, attention is given to examining critically 
the notion and possible unintended consequences of adopting a stance of studied 
neutrality on euthanasia in palliative care. It is argued that although 
palliative care and related organizations have an obvious stake in the outcome 
of the euthanasia debate, it is neither unreasonable nor inconsistent for such 
organizations to be unwilling to take a definitive stance on the issue. It is 
further contended that, given the long-standing tenets of palliative care, 
palliative care organizations have both a right and a responsibility to defend 
the integrity of the principles and practice of palliative care and to resist 
demands for euthanasia to be positioned either as an integral part or logical 
extension of palliative care.

Copyright © 2012 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.276
PMID: 22771130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Neurol. 2013 Jan;260(1):62-70. doi: 10.1007/s00415-012-6584-5. Epub 2012
Jul  7.

Estimation of Parkinson's disease survival in Israeli men and women, using 
health maintenance organization pharmacy data in a unique approach.

Chillag-Talmor O(1), Giladi N, Linn S, Gurevich T, El-Ad B, Silverman B, 
Friedman N, Peretz C.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel.

The aim of this work was to estimate in an incident cohort of pharmacy-based PD 
patients the survival of men and women accounting for age at treatment 
initiation and to compare their gender-specific survival with that of the 
general Israeli population. A population-based cohort of 4,848 incident 
pharmacy-based PD cases with definite/probable/possible certainty was previously 
identified using a drug-tracer approach for 1999-2008. Survival analysis was 
performed for two time scales: survival after treatment initiation (disease 
duration), and life-time survival (life expectancy). Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox 
regressions were used to compare survival across gender. Gender-specific SMRs 
were calculated from national rates and were compared using Poisson regression. 
During the follow-up from first purchase of any anti-parkinsonian drug (mean 4.0 
± 2.6 years, range 2 months-10 years), 1,266 (26 %) of the cases died. Younger 
age at first anti-parkinsonian drug purchase and female gender were associated 
with increased survival after treatment initiation (HR = 1.089, 95 % CI 
1.080-1.098 for 1-year age increase; HR = 0.716, 95 % CI 0.640-0.800, females 
vs. males). Life-time survival increased with older age at first 
anti-parkinsonian drug purchase and female gender (HR = 0.759, 95 % CI 
0.746-0.771 for 1-year age increase; HR = 0.694, 95 % CI 0.621-0.776, females 
vs. males). Sensitivity analysis on a sub-cohort of definite cases (n = 2501) 
yielded similar results. In comparison to the general Israeli population, 
mortality among pharmacy-based PD patients was significantly increased (SMR(men) 
= 1.69, 95 % CI 1.57-1.81, SMR(women) = 1.49, 95 % CI 1.37-1.62), differently 
between genders (p < 0.01). Female gender was associated with longer, perhaps 
more benign disease course, and longer life expectancy. Earlier age at 
anti-parkinsonian drug initiation increased disease duration, but was associated 
with shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-012-6584-5
PMID: 22772304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Dokl Biochem Biophys. 2012 May-Jun;444:167-70. doi:
10.1134/S160767291203012X.  Epub 2012 Jul 8.

Inhibition of mouse aging by using an essential oil composition.

Burlakova EB(1), Misharina TA, Vorobyeva AK, Alinkina ES, Fatkullina LD, 
Terenina MB, Krikunova NI.

Author information:
(1)Emanuel Institute of Biochemical Physics, Russian Academy of Sciences, ul. 
Kosygina 4, Moscow 119991, Russia.

DOI: 10.1134/S160767291203012X
PMID: 22773003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Ann Behav Med. 2012 Dec;44(3):353-64. doi: 10.1007/s12160-012-9390-5.

Social cognitive changes following weight loss and physical activity 
interventions in obese, older adults in poor cardiovascular health.

Brawley L(1), Rejeski WJ, Gaukstern JE, Ambrosius WT.

Author information:
(1)College of Kinesiology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The study objectives were to determine (a) the effects of 
group-mediated cognitive-behavioral interventions on change in performance 
self-efficacy, satisfaction with function, and with appearance among older, 
overweight/obese adults in poor cardiovascular health and (b) whether 
self-efficacy mediated change in 400-m walk time.
METHODS: This translational, randomized controlled trial of physical activity 
and weight loss was conducted within community Cooperative Extension Centers. 
Participants were randomized to three intervention arms: Physical Activity, 
Weight Loss + Physical Activity, or a Successful Aging education control.
RESULTS: Across 18 months, the Weight Loss + Physical Activity intervention 
demonstrated greater improvements in self-efficacy, satisfaction with function, 
and appearance versus other trial arms. Physical Activity intervention 
participants also experienced significant improvements in self-efficacy and 
satisfaction with function versus those in Successful Aging. Self-efficacy 
mediated 400-m walk time at 18 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Both group-mediated cognitive-behavioral interventions yielded 
desirable improvements in social cognitions and preserved mobility improvements 
post-intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s12160-012-9390-5
PMCID: PMC3593110
PMID: 22773225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose.


701. Surg Endosc. 2013 Jan;27(1):256-62. doi: 10.1007/s00464-012-2430-1. Epub
2012  Jul 7.

Cost utility of early versus delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute 
cholecystitis.

Johner A(1), Raymakers A, Wiseman SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Paul's Hospital and The University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis is safe 
and effective. However, the potential cost savings of this management strategy 
have not been well studied in a North American context. This study aimed to 
estimate the cost effectiveness of early laparoscopic cholecystectomy versus 
delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy in Canada.
METHODS: A decision analytic model estimating and comparing costs from a 
Canadian providing institution after either early or delayed laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy was used. The health care resources consumed were calculated 
using local hospital data, and outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained during 1 year. Uncertainty was investigated with one-way 
sensitivity analyses, varying the probabilities of the events and utilities.
RESULTS: Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy was estimated to cost approximately 
$2,000 (Canadian dollars) less than delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy per 
patient, with an incremental gain of approximately 0.03 QALYs. Sensitivity 
analysis showed that only extreme values of bile duct injury or bile leak 
altered the direction of incremental gain.
CONCLUSIONS: Adoption of a policy in favor of early laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
will result in better patient quality of life and substantial savings to the 
Canadian health care system.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-012-2430-1
PMID: 22773234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Sep;27(9):3532-9. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfs152.
Epub  2012 Jul 6.

Somatostatin analog therapy for severe polycystic liver disease: results after 2 
years.

Hogan MC(1), Masyuk TV, Page L, Holmes DR 3rd, Li X, Bergstralh EJ, Irazabal MV, 
Kim B, King BF, Glockner JF, Larusso NF, Torres VE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. hogan.marie@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: We showed in a randomized double-blinded placebo-controlled clinical 
trial that octreotide long-acting repeatable depot.® (OctLAR(®)) for 12 months 
reduces kidney and liver growth in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney patients 
with severe polycystic liver disease (PLD) and liver growth in patients with 
severe isolated PLD. We have now completed an open-label extension for one 
additional year to assess safety and clinical benefits of continued use of 
OctLAR for 2 years (O → O) and examined drug effect in the placebo group who 
crossed over to OctLAR in Year 2 (P → O).
METHODS: The primary end point was change in total liver volume (TLV) measured 
by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); secondary end points were changes in total 
kidney volume (TKV) measured by MRI, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), quality 
of life (QOL), safety, vital signs and laboratory parameters.
RESULTS: Forty-one of 42 patients received OctLAR (n = 28) or placebo (n = 14) 
in Year 1 and received OctLAR in Year 2 (maximum dose 40 mg). Patients 
originally randomized to placebo (P → O) showed substantial reduction in TLV 
after treatment with OctLAR in Year 2 (Δ% -7.66 ± 9.69%, P = 0.011). The initial 
reduction of TLV in the OctLAR group (O → O) was maintained for 2 years (Δ% 
-5.96 ± 8.90%), although did not change significantly during Year 2 (Δ% -0.77 ± 
6.82%). OctLAR inhibited renal enlargement during Year 1 (Δ% +0.42 ± 7.61%) in 
the (O → O) group and during Year 2 (Δ% -0.41 ± 9.45%) in the (P → O) group, but 
not throughout Year 2 (Δ% +6.49 ± 7.08%) in the (O → O) group. Using pooled 
analyses of all individuals who received OctLAR for 12 months, i.e. in Year 1 
for O → O patients and Year 2 for P → O patients, average reduction in TLV was 
-6.08 ± 7.58% (P = 0.001) compared to net growth of 0.9 ± 8.35% in the original 
placebo group. OctLAR-treated individuals continued to experience improvements 
in QOL in Year 2, although overall physical and mental improvements were not 
significant during Year 2 compared to Year 1. Changes in GFR were similar in 
both groups.
CONCLUSION: Over 2 years, OctLAR significantly reduced the rate of increase in 
TLV and possibly the rate of increase in TKV.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfs152
PMCID: PMC3433774
PMID: 22773240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. J Cancer. 2012;3:269-84. doi: 10.7150/jca.4592. Epub 2012 Jun 21.

Identification of Potential Glycoprotein Biomarkers in Estrogen Receptor 
Positive (ER+) and Negative (ER-) Human Breast Cancer Tissues by LC-LTQ/FT-ICR 
Mass Spectrometry.

Semaan SM(1), Wang X, Marshall AG, Sang QX.

Author information:
(1)1. Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and Institute of Molecular 
Biophysics;

Breast cancer is the second most fatal cancer in American women. To increase the 
life expectancy of patients with breast cancer new diagnostic and prognostic 
biomarkers and drug targets must be identified. A change in the glycosylation on 
a glycoprotein often causes a change in the function of that glycoprotein; such 
a phenomenon is correlated with cancerous transformation. Thus, glycoproteins in 
human breast cancer estrogen receptor positive (ER+) tissues and those in the 
more advanced stage of breast cancer, estrogen receptor negative (ER-) tissues, 
were compared. Glycoproteins showing differences in glycosylation were examined 
by 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis with double staining (glyco- and total 
protein staining) and identified by reversed-phase nano-liquid chromatography 
coupled with a hybrid linear quadrupole ion trap/ Fourier transform ion 
cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer. Among the identified glycosylated 
proteins are alpha 1 acid glycoprotein, alpha-1-antitrypsin, calmodulin, and 
superoxide dismutase mitochondrial precursor that were further verified by 
Western blotting for both ER+ and ER- human breast tissues. Results show the 
presence of a possible glycosylation difference in alpha-1-antitrypsin, a 
potential tumor-derived biomarker for breast cancer progression, which was 
expressed highest in the ER- samples.

DOI: 10.7150/jca.4592
PMCID: PMC3390597
PMID: 22773931

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


704. J Geriatr Oncol. 2012 Jul 1;3(3):196-204. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2012.02.003.

Remaining Life Expectancy Measurement and PSA Screening of Older Men.

Kotwal AA(1), Mohile SG, Dale W.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, Department of Medicine, Section of Geriatrics & 
Palliative Medicine.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend informed decision-making regarding prostate 
specific antigen (PSA) screening for men with at least 10 years of remaining 
life expectancy (RLE). Comorbidity measures have been used to judge RLE in 
previous studies, but assessments based on other common RLE measures are 
unknown. We assessed whether screening rates varied based on four clinically 
relevant RLE measures, including comorbidities, in a nationally-representative, 
community-based sample. METHODS: Using the National Social Life, Health and 
Aging Project (NSHAP), we selected men over 65 without prostate cancer (n=709). 
They were stratified into three RLE categories (0-7 years, 8-12 years, and 13+ 
years) based on validated measures of comorbidities, self-rated health status, 
functional status, and physical performance. The independent relationship of 
each RLE measure and a combined measure to screening was determined using 
multivariable logistic regressions. RESULTS: Self-rated health (OR = 6.82; p < 
0.01) most closely correlated with RLE-based screening, while the comorbidity 
index correlated the least (OR = 1.50; p = 0.09). The relationship of RLE to PSA 
screening significantly strengthened when controlling for the number of doctor 
visits, particularly for comorbidities (OR= 43.6; p < 0.001). Men who had 
consistent estimates of less than 7 years RLE by all four measures had an 
adjusted PSA screening rate of 43.3%. CONCLUSIONS: Regardless of the RLE measure 
used, men who were estimated to have limited RLE had significant PSA screening 
rates. However, different RLE measures have different correlations with PSA 
screening. Specific estimates of over-screening should therefore carefully 
consider the RLE measure used.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2012.02.003
PMCID: PMC3388723
PMID: 22773938

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors have any potential conflicts 
of interest with any aspect of the paper. Disclosures: All authors have no 
potential conflicts of interest related to this work.


705. Vopr Onkol. 2012;58(2):179-88.

[Geographical and economic determinants of life expectancy and cancer morbidity 
in the male population].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN, Borisenkov MF.

PMID: 22774521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Exp Gerontol. 2012 Oct;47(10):787-91. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.06.012. Epub
 2012 Jul 7.

Graphical and demographic synopsis of the captive cohort method for estimating 
population age structure in the wild.

Carey JR(1), Müller HG, Wang JL, Papadopoulos NT, Diamantidis A, Koulousis NA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

The purpose of this paper is to complement the literature concerned with the 
captive cohort method for estimating age structure including (1) graphic 
techniques to visualize and thus better understand the underlying life table 
identity in which the age structure of a stationary population equals the 
time-to-death distribution of the individuals within it; (2) re-derive the basic 
model for estimating age structure in non-stationary population in demographic 
rather than statistical notation; and (3) describe a simplified method for 
estimating changes in the mean age of a wild population.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.06.012
PMCID: PMC4177107
PMID: 22776134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. BMC Public Health. 2012 Jul 9;12:512. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-512.

Socioeconomic conditions of elderly people in Kosovo: a cross-sectional study.

Jerliu N(1), Toçi E, Burazeri G, Ramadani N, Brand H.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, School for Public Health and Primary 
Care, Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Maastricht University, The 
Netherlands. naim.jerliu@maastrichtuniversity.nl

BACKGROUND: Kosovo is the newest state in Europe facing a particularly difficult 
socioeconomic and political transition. The available evidence on socioeconomic 
conditions and quality of life of elderly people in Kosovo is scarce 
notwithstanding the ageing trend due to lowering of fertility rates and a higher 
life-expectancy. In this context, the aim of our study was to assess the 
socioeconomic conditions of elderly people in post-war Kosovo.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted in Kosovo in January-March 2011 
including an age- sex-and residence (urban vs. rural)-stratified sample of 1,890 
individuals (83.5% response) aged 65 years and over. A structured questionnaire 
included assessment of socio-demographic and socioeconomic characteristics 
including educational level and self-perceived poverty. Binary logistic 
regression was used to assess the association of self-perceived poverty with 
socio-demographic and socioeconomic factors.
RESULTS: The educational level in this representative sample of elderly people 
