resources, we conclude that the expansion of the French newborn screening 
programme to MCADD would appear to be cost-effective. The results of this 
analysis have been used to produce recommendations for the introduction of 
universal newborn screening for MCADD in France.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-12-60
PMCID: PMC3464722
PMID: 22681855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. BMC Geriatr. 2012 Jun 9;12:28. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-12-28.

Activity in GEriatric acute CARe (AGECAR): rationale, design and methods.

Fleck SJ(1), Bustamante-Ara N, Ortiz J, Vidán MT, Lucia A, Serra-Rexach JA.

Author information:
(1)Sport Science Department, Colorado College, Colorado Springs, CO, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Activity in GEriatric acute CARe (AGECAR) is a randomised 
control trial to assess the effectiveness of an intrahospital strength and walk 
program during short hospital stays for improving functional capacity of 
patients aged 75 years or older.
METHODS/DESIGN: Patients aged 75 years or older admitted for a short hospital 
stay (≤ 14 days) will be randomly assigned to either a usual care (control) 
group or an intervention (training) group. Participants allocated in the usual 
care group will receive normal hospital care and participants allocated in the 
intervention group will perform multiple sessions per day of lower limb strength 
training (standing from a seated position) and walking (10 min bouts) while 
hospitalized. The primary outcome to be assessed pre and post of the hospital 
stay will be functional capacity, using the Short Physical Performance Battery 
(SPPB), and time to walk 10 meters. Besides length of hospitalization, the 
secondary outcomes that will also be assessed at hospital admission and 
discharge will be pulmonary ventilation (forced expiratory volume in one second, 
FEV1) and peripheral oxygen saturation. The secondary outcomes that will be 
assessed by telephone interview three months after discharge will be mortality, 
number of falls since discharge, and ability to cope with activities of daily 
living (ADLs, using the Katz ADL score and Barthel ADL index).
DISCUSSION: Results will help to better understand the potential of regular 
physical activity during a short hospital stay for improving functional capacity 
in old patients. The increase in life expectancy has resulted in a large segment 
of the population being over 75 years of age and an increase in hospitalization 
of this same age group. This calls attention to health care systems and public 
health policymakers to focus on promoting methods to improve the functional 
capacity of this population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01374893.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-12-28
PMCID: PMC3420239
PMID: 22682063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Arch Pediatr. 2012 May;19 Suppl 1:S33-5. doi: 10.1016/S0929-693X(12)71107-7.

[Transition of adolescents and young adults from pediatric to adult care].

[Article in French]

Grenet D(1), Bonnel AS, Dautricourt C, De Miranda S, Foucaud P, Stern M.

Author information:
(1)CRCM adulte, Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Foch, 40 rue Worth BP 36 92151 
Suresnes, France. d.grenet@hopital- foch.org

Nowdays adults with cystic fibrosis are no more attended in pediatric centers. 
Transition from pediatric to adult care centers must be anticipated. It requires 
the preparation of patients and families and a cooperation between both teams. 
Now, there are more patients and they are healthier. Adults centers caregivers 
have to pay particular attention to new young patients, to manage cystic 
fibrosis adult issues and to deal with more frequent comorbidities and severe 
complications. Adults centers will need better resources to maintain good 
quality of cares and improved life expectancy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0929-693X(12)71107-7
PMID: 22682489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Clin Lung Cancer. 2013 Mar;14(2):103-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cllc.2012.04.006.
Epub  2012 Jun 7.

Cost analysis of erlotinib versus chemotherapy for first-line treatment of 
non-small-cell lung cancer in frail elderly patients participating in a 
prospective phase 2 study (GFPC 0505).

Chouaid C(1), Le Caer H, Corre R, Crequit J, Locher C, Falchero L, Dujon C, 
Berard H, Monnet I, Vergnenegre A.

Author information:
(1)AP-HP Hôpital, St-Antoine, AP-HP, UMPC, Paris, France. 
christos.chouaid@sat.aphp.fr

BACKGROUND: A large proportion of elderly patients (>70 years) with newly 
diagnosed NSCLC are shown to be frail by a comprehensive geriatric assessment. 
This population is more vulnerable to adverse effects of chemotherapy and might 
thus benefit more from targeted therapy. The objective of this study was to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of erlotinib followed by chemotherapy after 
progression, compared with the reverse strategy, in frail elderly patients with 
advanced NSCLC participating in a prospective randomized phase II trial (GFPC 
0505).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Outcomes (progression-free survival and overall survival) 
and costs (limited to direct medical costs, from the third-party payer 
perspective) were collected prospectively until second progression. Costs after 
progression and health utilities (based on disease states and grade 3-4 
toxicities) were derived from the literature.
RESULTS: Median overall survival, QALYs, and total costs for the erlotinib-first 
strategy were 3.9 months, 0.33, and €15,233, respectively, compared with 4.4 
months, 0.35, and €15,363 for the chemotherapy-first strategy. There was no 
significant difference between the 2 strategies in term of cost-effectiveness 
(respectively €47,381 and €44,350 per QALY).
CONCLUSION: No difference in cost-effectiveness was found between an 
erlotinib-first strategy and a chemotherapy-first strategy in frail elderly 
patients with NSCLC.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cllc.2012.04.006
PMID: 22682669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Atherosclerosis. 2012 Sep;224(1):25-36. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2012.04.007. Epub 2012 May 8.

"In vivo" imaging of atherosclerosis.

Gallino A(1), Stuber M, Crea F, Falk E, Corti R, Lekakis J, Schwitter J, Camici 
P, Gaemperli O, Di Valentino M, Prior J, Garcia-Garcia HM, Vlachopoulos C, 
Cosentino F, Windecker S, Pedrazzini G, Conti R, Mach F, De Caterina R, Libby P.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Dep., Ospedale San Giovanni, 6500 Bellinzona, Switzerland. 
agallino@bluewin.ch

Atherosclerosis is a systemic and multifocal disease, which starts early in 
life, and that usually takes decades before overt disease eventually appears as 
a consequence of progressive obstruction or abrupt thrombotic occlusion. This 
silent course makes necessary to develop predictors of disease long before 
symptomatic lesions develop. Besides several classical risk factors and new 
emerging humoral risk predictors, imaging may constitute a formidable diagnostic 
and prognostic tool in order to identify presence, extension, progression (or 
regression) of disease as well as vulnerability of atherosclerotic lesions. This 
review summarizes the rapidly growing clinical and research field in imaging 
atherosclerosis from different perspectives opening important opportunities for 
timely detection and treatment of atherosclerosis.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2012.04.007
PMID: 22682779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2012 Jul-Aug;47(4):162-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2012.01.003. Epub 2012 Jun 8.

[Polypharmacy in frail elderly patients: is deprescribing the answer?].

[Article in Spanish]

Gavilán-Moral E(1), Villafaina-Barroso A, Jiménez-de Gracia L, Gómez Santana 
Mdel C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina de Familia, Laboratorio de Prácticas Innovadoras en 
Polimedicación y Salud, polimedicado.com, Plasencia, España. 
enrique.gavilan.moral@gmail.com

Deprescribing is the process of reconstructing multiple medication use by review 
and analysis and which concludes with dose modification, replacement or 
elimination of some drugs or adding others. Its development is intended to 
resolve tensions and contradictions between two sets of questions: 1/is life 
expectancy shorter than the time the drug takes to obtain a benefit?, and 2/are 
the goals of prescribing-deprescribing consistent with those of care? The 
validity of the rationale on deprescribing is based on scientific and ethical 
reasons. The usefulness and safety of many drugs that frail elderly or 
terminally ill takes is unknown, and other drugs may cause troublesome or severe 
side effects. Thus, in some cases their removal could be justified, being 
substantially safe doing so.

Copyright © 2012 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2012.01.003
PMID: 22683145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Insect Physiol. 2012 Aug;58(8):1128-35. doi:
10.1016/j.jinsphys.2012.05.012.  Epub 2012 Jun 7.

Prolonged pupal dormancy is associated with significant fitness cost for adults 
of Rhagoletis cerasi (Diptera: Tephritidae).

Moraiti CA(1), Nakas CT, Papadopoulos NT.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Entomology and Agricultural Zoology, Department of Agriculture, 
Crop Production and Rural Environment, University of Thessaly, Fytokou St., N. 
Ionia Volou, Magnesia, Greece.

In temperate areas, dormancy (diapause and/or quiescence) enables herbivorous 
insect species to persist and thrive by synchronizing growth and reproduction 
with the seasonal phenology of their host plants. Within-population variability 
in dormancy increases survival chances under unpredictable environmental 
changes. However, prolonged dormancy may be costly, incurring trade-offs in 
important adult fitness traits such as life span and reproduction. We used the 
European cherry fruit fly, Rhagoletis cerasi, a stenophagous, univoltine species 
that overwinters in the pupal stage for usually one or more years to test the 
hypotheses that prolonged dormancy of pupae has trade-offs with body size, 
survival and reproduction of the resulting adults. We used two geographically 
isolated populations of R. cerasi to compare the demographic traits of adults 
obtained from pupae subjected to one or two cycles of warm-cold periods (annual 
and prolonged dormancy respectively). Regardless of population, adults from 
pupae that experienced prolonged dormancy were larger than counterparts emerging 
within 1year. Prolonged dormancy did not affect adult longevity but both 
lifetime fecundity and oviposition were significantly decreased. Extension of 
the life cycle of some individuals in R. cerasi populations in association with 
prolonged dormancy is likely a bet-hedging strategy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinsphys.2012.05.012
PMID: 22684113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2012 Jul;134(2):815-22. doi:
10.1007/s10549-012-2097-2.  Epub 2012 Jun 9.

The economic burden of metastatic breast cancer: a U.S. managed care 
perspective.

Montero AJ(1), Eapen S, Gorin B, Adler P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of Miami, 1475 N.W. 12th Avenue, Miami, FL 33136, USA. 
AMontero2@med.miami.edu

This study was performed to quantify the economic burden and identify drivers of 
direct costs of mBC. In a retrospective study of a de-identified administrative 
claims database of privately insured patients, women between 18 and 64 years of 
age were included if they had at least one claim with a diagnosis of breast 
cancer and subsequently one or more claims with a diagnosis of secondary 
malignancy between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2009. The study sample was 
further classified into the following subgroups: (1) Endocrine therapy, (2) 
HER-2 targeted therapy, (3) Concomitant HER-2 targeted and endocrine therapy, 
(4) Cytotoxic chemotherapy, and (5) No-systemic therapy. Costs for medical 
resource utilization were calculated on a per patient per month (PPPM) basis. A 
total of 7,698 mBC patients were identified from 2003 to 2009 with an average 
age at index of ~52 years, and average follow up of 2.2 years. The average total 
direct medical costs for 7,698 mBC patients were $9,788 PPPM. Outpatient costs 
accounted for the majority of overall PPPM costs. Examining the five different 
mBC therapeutic subgroups revealed that patients who received no-systemic 
therapy had the highest costs at $13,926 PPPM, while patients who received 
systemic endocrine therapy had the lowest costs at $5,303 PPPM. This study 
demonstrated that mBC is associated with substantial healthcare costs in a 
non-Medicare patient population. Assuming average PPPM costs of $9,788 and an 
average life expectancy of 2.2 years, the total average expenditure to treat mBC 
would be ~$250,000 per patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-012-2097-2
PMID: 22684273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Eur J Nutr. 2012 Oct;51(7):769-81. doi: 10.1007/s00394-012-0389-2. Epub 2012
Jun  9.

Antioxidant vitamins and mineral supplementation, life span expansion and cancer 
incidence: a critical commentary.

Dolara P(1), Bigagli E, Collins A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preclinical and Clinical Pharmacology, Viale Pieraccini 6, 
50139, Florence, Italy. piero.dolara@unifi.it

PURPOSE: Experimental evidence indicates a strong connection between oxidative 
damage, cancer, and aging. Epidemiological observations suggest that a diet rich 
in fruits and vegetables is associated with lower incidence of some cancers and 
longer life expectancy; since fruits and vegetables contain natural 
antioxidants, a considerable effort has been dedicated to understanding their 
effects in experimental studies and in human trials.
RESULTS: A: Effects of antioxidant-containing food and supplements on oxidation 
damage in humans. Intervention trials employing a variety of biomarkers have 
shown either a slight decrease in oxidation damage or no effect. B: Effects of 
selected antioxidants on mortality and cancer incidence. β-carotene and 
α-tocopherol, alone or in combination, increase cardiovascular and all-cause 
mortality or have no effect. In some studies, β-carotene and retinyl palmitate 
significantly increase the progression of lung cancer and aggressive prostate 
cancer. Protection against cardiovascular mortality or no effect of vitamin E 
has been reported, with an increase of all-cause mortality at dosages greater 
than 150 IU/day. Selenium showed beneficial effects on gastrointestinal cancer 
and reduced the risk of lung cancer in populations with lower selenium status. 
For multivitamin and mineral supplementation, no significant reduction of 
mortality or cancer incidence was observed, but some reports indicate a possible 
preventive effect in cervical cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of supplementation studies indicate no variation of 
general mortality and of cancer incidence or a detrimental effect on both. 
Antioxidant supplements so far tested seem to offer no improvement over a 
well-balanced diet, possibly because of the choice of the substances tested or 
of an excessive dosage. However, new natural or synthetic compounds effective in 
vitro and in experimental studies might still be worth investigating in human 
trials.

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-012-0389-2
PMID: 22684632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2012 Jul;26(7):423-9. doi: 10.1089/apc.2012.0041.
Epub  2012 Jun 11.

"It's like losing a part of my family": transition expectations of adolescents 
living with perinatally acquired HIV and their guardians.

Fair CD(1), Sullivan K, Dizney R, Stackpole A.

Author information:
(1)Human Service Studies, Elon University, North Carolina 27244, USA. 
cfair@elon.edu

The increased life expectancy of perinatally HIV-infected adolescents 
necessitates the transition from pediatric to adult infectious disease care. 
Significant differences exist between pediatric and adult HIV clinic models, and 
adequate preparation is critical for successful transition. The expectations of 
youth on the cusp of this transition and their guardians have not previously 
been explored. Semistructured interviews were conducted with 40 perinatally 
infected adolescents (mean age, 17.3 years; 90% African American; 57.5% female; 
57.5% in high school) currently receiving care in a pediatric infectious disease 
clinic in the southeast United States and 17 guardians about their expectations 
related to the pending transition to adult care. Interviews were transcribed and 
coded for emergent themes. Many adolescents had difficulty articulating 
expectations of their transition to an adult clinic, reporting they did not know 
what to expect. Others looked forward to increased responsibility and control, 
while some expressed concerns over leaving their current providers and having to 
establish new relationships. Most guardians viewed the transition to adult care 
as a tool to facilitate maturity. Several indicated they had not discussed 
transition with their child and were waiting for their child to initiate a 
conversation about it. Given the importance providers place on preparing youth 
for transition, it is surprising that many adolescents had no expectations about 
this impending change. This indicates a need for improved communication between 
providers and adolescents to enhance preparation and ultimately transition 
success. Additionally, guardians play an important role in the transition 
process and may need support to discuss this process with their child.

DOI: 10.1089/apc.2012.0041
PMID: 22686235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Health Technol Assess. 2012 Jun;16(29):1-271, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta16290.

Surveillance for ocular hypertension: an evidence synthesis and economic 
evaluation.

Burr JM(1), Botello-Pinzon P, Takwoingi Y, Hernández R, Vazquez-Montes M, Elders 
A, Asaoka R, Banister K, van der Schoot J, Fraser C, King A, Lemij H, Sanders R, 
Vernon S, Tuulonen A, Kotecha A, Glasziou P, Garway-Heath D, Crabb D, Vale L, 
Azuara-Blanco A, Perera R, Ryan M, Deeks J, Cook J.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine effective and efficient monitoring criteria for ocular 
hypertension [raised intraocular pressure (IOP)] through (i) identification and 
validation of glaucoma risk prediction models; and (ii) development of models to 
determine optimal surveillance pathways.
DESIGN: A discrete event simulation economic modelling evaluation. Data from 
systematic reviews of risk prediction models and agreement between tonometers, 
secondary analyses of existing datasets (to validate identified risk models and 
determine optimal monitoring criteria) and public preferences were used to 
structure and populate the economic model.
SETTING: Primary and secondary care.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults with ocular hypertension (IOP > 21 mmHg) and the public 
(surveillance preferences).
INTERVENTIONS: We compared five pathways: two based on National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines with monitoring interval and 
treatment depending on initial risk stratification, 'NICE intensive' (4-monthly 
to annual monitoring) and 'NICE conservative' (6-monthly to biennial 
monitoring); two pathways, differing in location (hospital and community), with 
monitoring biennially and treatment initiated for a ≥ 6% 5-year glaucoma risk; 
and a 'treat all' pathway involving treatment with a prostaglandin analogue if 
IOP > 21 mmHg and IOP measured annually in the community.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Glaucoma cases detected; tonometer agreement; public 
preferences; costs; willingness to pay and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The best available glaucoma risk prediction model estimated the 5-year 
risk based on age and ocular predictors (IOP, central corneal thickness, optic 
nerve damage and index of visual field status). Taking the average of two IOP 
readings, by tonometry, true change was detected at two years. Sizeable 
measurement variability was noted between tonometers. There was a general public 
preference for monitoring; good communication and understanding of the process 
predicted service value. 'Treat all' was the least costly and 'NICE intensive' 
the most costly pathway. Biennial monitoring reduced the number of cases of 
glaucoma conversion compared with a 'treat all' pathway and provided more QALYs, 
but the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was considerably more than 
£30,000. The 'NICE intensive' pathway also avoided glaucoma conversion, but 
NICE-based pathways were either dominated (more costly and less effective) by 
biennial hospital monitoring or had a ICERs > £30,000. Results were not 
sensitive to the risk threshold for initiating surveillance but were sensitive 
to the risk threshold for initiating treatment, NHS costs and treatment 
adherence.
LIMITATIONS: Optimal monitoring intervals were based on IOP data. There were 
insufficient data to determine the optimal frequency of measurement of the 
visual field or optic nerve head for identification of glaucoma. The economic 
modelling took a 20-year time horizon which may be insufficient to capture 
long-term benefits. Sensitivity analyses may not fully capture the uncertainty 
surrounding parameter estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: For confirmed ocular hypertension, findings suggest that there is 
no clear benefit from intensive monitoring. Consideration of the patient 
experience is important. A cohort study is recommended to provide data to refine 
the glaucoma risk prediction model, determine the optimum type and frequency of 
serial glaucoma tests and estimate costs and patient preferences for monitoring 
and treatment.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
Programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16290
PMCID: PMC4781499
PMID: 22687263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2012 Sep;147(3):404-6. doi: 
10.1177/0194599812450856. Epub 2012 Jun 11.

Toward comprehensive multidisciplinary care for head and neck cancer patients: 
quality of life versus survival.

Morton RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Counties-Manukau District Health Board, 
Auckland, New Zealand. RPMorton@middlemore.co.nz

This article discusses how quality-of-life assessment in patients with head and 
neck cancer might be weighed against survival and how such assessment might be 
applied in clinical practice. While survival is understandably considered to be 
the outcome of primary interest, there are several clinical scenarios in which 
quality of life can be considered as a primary outcome. Quality-adjusted 
survival is also an important consideration and needs to be incorporated into 
the results of treatment. However, quality-of-life assessment has hitherto been 
virtually only a research tool and not been incorporated into clinical practice. 
Nowadays, speech pathologists and dietitians are integral to the 
multidisciplinary team that treats patients with head and neck cancer. The main 
point of this article is to provide a rationale for the proposition that the 
health psychologist--who is best able to understand and manage the psychosocial 
issues--should also be included as one of the team.

DOI: 10.1177/0194599812450856
PMID: 22687328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 2013 Jan-Feb;24(1):38-49. doi: 
10.1016/j.jana.2012.02.006. Epub 2012 Jun 9.

Support, stigma, health, coping, and quality of life in older gay men with HIV.

Slater LZ(1), Moneyham L, Vance DE, Raper JL, Mugavero MJ, Childs G.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama School of Nursing, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

As life expectancy for persons living with HIV has increased due to 
antiretroviral therapy, quality of life (QOL) has become an emerging issue for 
older gay men with HIV, who comprise more than 50% of older adults living with 
HIV in the United States. The purpose of this study was to determine predictors 
of QOL in older gay men with HIV. Sixty gay men ages 50-65 participated. Age, 
social support, and problem-focused coping were significantly and positively 
correlated with QOL, while medical comorbidities, social stigma, and 
emotion-focused coping were all significantly and negatively associated with QOL 
(p < .01). In stepwise linear regression analysis, emotional/informational 
support remained as a significant positive predictor, and medical comorbidities, 
HIV stigma, and emotion-focused coping remained as significant negative 
predictors, accounting for 64% of the variance in QOL. Study findings may help 
researchers develop interventions aimed at increasing QOL in this population.

Copyright © 2013 Association of Nurses in AIDS Care. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jana.2012.02.006
PMID: 22687445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Ageing Res Rev. 2012 Sep;11(4):432-41. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.05.004. Epub
2012  Jun 9.

The impact of mRNA turnover and translation on age-related muscle loss.

Ma JF(1), Hall DT, Gallouzi IE.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Department of Biochemistry, Rosalind and Morris Goodman 
Cancer Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

The deterioration of skeletal muscle that develops slowly with age, termed 
sarcopenia, often leads to disability and mortality in the elderly population. 
As the proportion of elderly citizens continues to increase due to the dramatic 
rise in life expectancy, there are rising concerns about the healthcare cost and 
social burden of caring for geriatric patients. Thus, there is a growing need to 
understand the underlying mechanisms of sarcopenic muscle loss so that more 
efficacious therapies may be developed. Building evidence suggests that the 
onset of age-related muscle loss is linked to the age-related changes in gene 
expression that occur during sarcopenia. In recent work, the posttranscriptional 
regulation of gene expression by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and microRNA 
(miRNA) involved in the turnover and translation of mRNA were shown as key 
players believed to be involved in the induction of muscle wasting. Furthermore, 
posttranscriptional regulation may also be linked to the reduced ability of 
muscle satellite cells to contribute to muscle mass during ageing, a key 
contributing factor to sarcopenic progression. Here we highlight how the 
activation of pathways such as the p38 MAPK and the phosphoinositide 3-kinase 
(PI3K) pathways alter the ability of RBPs to regulate the expression of their 
target mRNAs encoding proteins involved in cell cycle (p21 and p16), as well as 
myogenesis (Pax7, myogenin and MyoD). Further investigation into the role of 
RBPs and miRNA during sarcopenia may provide new insights into the development 
and progression of this disorder, which may lead to the development of new 
treatment options for elderly patients suffering from sarcopenia.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2012.05.004
PMID: 22687959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2012 Jul 1;60 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S1-18. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e31825a3668.

HIV and aging: state of knowledge and areas of critical need for research. A 
report to the NIH Office of AIDS Research by the HIV and Aging Working Group.

High KP(1), Brennan-Ing M, Clifford DB, Cohen MH, Currier J, Deeks SG, Deren S, 
Effros RB, Gebo K, Goronzy JJ, Justice AC, Landay A, Levin J, Miotti PG, Munk 
RJ, Nass H, Rinaldo CR Jr, Shlipak MG, Tracy R, Valcour V, Vance DE, Walston JD, 
Volberding P; OAR Working Group on HIV and Aging.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Infectious Diseases, Wake Forest 
University Baptist Medical Center, Winston Salem, NC 27157-1042, USA. 
khigh@wakehealth.edu

HIV risk behaviors, susceptibility to HIV acquisition, progression of disease 
after infection, and response to antiretroviral therapy all vary by age. In 
those living with HIV, current effective treatment has increased the median life 
expectancy to >70 years of age. Biologic, medical, individual, social, and 
societal issues change as one ages with HIV infection, but there has been only a 
small amount of research in this field. Therefore, the Office of AIDS Research 
of the National Institutes of Health commissioned a working group to develop an 
outline of the current state of knowledge and areas of critical need for 
research in HIV and Aging; the working groups' findings and recommendations are 
summarized in this report. Key overarching themes identified by the group 
included the following: multimorbidity, polypharmacy, and the need to emphasize 
maintenance of function; the complexity of assessing HIV versus treatment 
effects versus aging versus concurrent disease; the inter-related mechanisms of 
immune senescence, inflammation, and hypercoagulability; the utility of 
multivariable indices for predicting outcomes; a need to emphasize human studies 
to account for complexity; and a required focus on issues of community support, 
caregivers, and systems infrastructure. Critical resources are needed to enact 
this research agenda and include expanded review panel expertise in aging, 
functional measures, and multimorbidity, and facilitated use and continued 
funding to allow long-term follow-up of cohorts aging with HIV.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e31825a3668
PMCID: PMC3413877
PMID: 22688010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Med Klin Intensivmed Notfmed. 2012 Jun;107(5):386-90. doi: 
10.1007/s00063-012-0121-2. Epub 2012 Jun 13.

[Intensive medical care problems of hemato-oncological patients].

[Article in German]

Schellongowski P(1), Staudinger T.

Author information:
(1)Intensivstation 13i2, Universitätsklinik für Innere Medizin I, Medizinische 
Universität Wien, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, 1090, Wien, Österreich. 
peter.schellongowski@meduniwien.ac.at

The life expectancy and prevalence of malignant diseases is continuously on the 
rise, which inevitably leads to an increase of critically ill cancer patients. 
This article explains why the prognosis of cancer patients in the intensive care 
unit has markedly improved over the last decades, what the reasons for admission 
are and which risk factors affect mortality. Furthermore, the importance of 
correct patient selection and other specific topics will be discussed. 
Accordingly, acute respiratory failure for example is the most common organ 
dysfunction in these patients and has specific prognostic, diagnostic and 
therapeutic characteristics. The successful management of cancer patients in the 
intensive care unit requires specific knowledge of the intensive care physician 
and an excellent cooperation with the treating hematologist and oncologist.

Die Lebenserwartung und Prävalenz von Krebserkrankungen steigt stetig an, was 
unweigerlich zu einer Zunahme an kritisch erkrankten Krebspatienten führt. 
Dieser Beitrag erläutert, warum es in den letzten Jahrzehnten zu einer 
deutlichen Verbesserung der Prognose von intensivmedizinisch behandelten 
Krebspatienten kam, welche Gründe am häufigsten zur Aufnahme führen und welche 
Risikofaktoren sich auf die Mortalität auswirken. Ferner wird die Wichtigkeit 
einer adäquaten Patientenselektion besprochen sowie auf weitere Spezifika 
eingegangen. So bringt z. B. das akute respiratorische Versagen als weitaus 
häufigste Organdysfunktion in dieser Patientengruppe sowohl prognostisch, 
diagnostisch als auch therapeutisch etliche wichtige Besonderheiten mit sich. 
Die erfolgreiche Versorgung von Krebspatienten auf einer Intensivstation (ICU) 
setzt ein spezifisches Wissen der Intensivmediziner und eine gute Zusammenarbeit 
mit den behandelnden Hämatologen und Onkologen voraus.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-012-0121-2
PMCID: PMC7095938
PMID: 22689258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Eur J Heart Fail. 2012 Jul;14(7):782-90. doi: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfs083. Epub
2012  Jun 11.

Health economic assessment of ferric carboxymaltose in patients with iron 
deficiency and chronic heart failure based on the FAIR-HF trial: an analysis for 
the UK.

Gutzwiller FS(1), Schwenkglenks M, Blank PR, Braunhofer PG, Mori C, Szucs TD, 
Ponikowski P, Anker SD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine/ECPM, Universität Basel, CH-4056 Basel, 
Switzerland. florian.gutzwiller@unibas.ch

AIMS: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of iron 
repletion using intravenous (i.v.) ferric carboxymaltose (FCM) in chronic heart 
failure (CHF) patients with iron deficiency with or without anaemia. 
Cost-effectiveness was studied from the perspective of the National Health 
Service in the UK.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A model-based cost-effectiveness analysis was used to 
compare iron repletion with FCM with no iron treatment. Using data from the 
FAIR-HF trial and publicly available sources and publications, per patient costs 
and clinical effectiveness of FCM were estimated compared with placebo. Cost 
assessment was based on study drug and administration costs, cost of CHF 
treatment, and hospital length of stay. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of FCM use was expressed as cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained, and sensitivity analyses were performed on the base case. The time 
horizon of the analysis was 24 weeks. Mean QALYs were higher in the FCM arm 
(difference 0.037 QALYs; bootstrap-based 95% confidence interval 0.017-0.060). 
The ICER of FCM compared with placebo was €4414 per QALY gained for the FAIR-HF 
dosing regimen. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the base case result to be 
robust.
CONCLUSION: From the UK payers' perspective, managing iron deficiency in CHF 
patients using i.v. FCM was cost-effective in this analysis. The base case ICER 
was clearly below the threshold of €22 200-€33 300/QALY gained (£20 000-£30 000) 
typically used by the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
and proved to be robust in sensitivity analysis. Improved symptoms and better 
quality of life contributed to this result.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfs083
PMCID: PMC3380546
PMID: 22689292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. QJM. 2012 Sep;105(9):847-53. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcs099. Epub 2012 Jun 11.

Prediction of mortality 1 year after hospital admission.

Kellett J(1), Rasool S, McLoughlin B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Nenagh Hospital, Nenagh, County Tipperary, Ireland. 
jgkellett@eircom.net

OBJECTIVE: Hospital admission, especially for the elderly, can be a seminal 
event as many patients die within a year. This study reports the prediction of 
death within a year of admission to hospital of the Simple Clinical Score (SCS) 
and ECG dispersion mapping (ECG-DM). ECG-DM is a novel technique that analyzes 
low-amplitude ECG oscillations and reports them as the myocardial 
micro-alternation index (MMI).
METHODS: a convenient sample of 430 acutely ill medical patients (mean age 
67.9 ± 16.6 years) was followed up for 1 year after their last admission to 
hospital.
RESULTS: Seventy-four (16.3%) patients died within a year-all but seven had a 
SCS ≥5 and 40% of those with an MMI ≥50% died. Only six of variables were found 
by logistic regression to be independent predictors of mortality (i.e. age, MMI, 
SCS, a discharge diagnosis of cancer, hemoglobin <11 gm% and prior illness that 
required the patient to spend >50% of daytime in bed). The SCS and MMI plus age 
were comparable predictors of 1-year mortality: SCS ≥12 predicted 1-year 
mortality with the highest odds (16.1, chi square 79.09, p < 0.0001) and a score 
of age plus MMI >104 had an odds ratio of 9.4 (chi square 73.50, p < 0.0001), 
identified 69% of deaths, and 43% of the 119 patients who exceeded this score 
were dead within a year.
CONCLUSION: SCS and ECG-DM plus age are clinically useful for long-term 
prognostication. ECG-DM is inexpensive, only takes a few seconds to perform and 
requires no skill to interpret.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcs099
PMID: 22690010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Bull World Health Organ. 2012 Jun 1;90(6):461-7. doi: 10.2471/BLT.11.093849.
 Epub 2012 Apr 23.

Rising mortality from injury in urban China: demographic burden, underlying 
causes and policy implications.

Zhao J(1), Tu EJ, McMurray C, Sleigh A.

Author information:
(1)The Australian Demographic & Social Research Institute, Coombs Building #9, 
Fellows Road, the Australian National University, Canberra 0200, Australia. 
jiaying.zhao@anu.edu.au

In urban China, mortality from injuries has increased over the past five 
decades. By contrast, life expectancy has continued to increase and has come to 
nearly equal life expectancy in developed countries. Currently, most of the life 
expectancy lost due to injury (65%) in urban China would be recovered if injury 
rates were the same as in countries with low injury-related mortality. 
Fundamentally, the rising trend in urban injury mortality in China reflects a 
continued focus on injury treatment rather than prevention in the face of fast 
socioeconomic development and increasing exposure to risk factors for injury. 
Despite improved injury prevention legislation and a "Safe Community" campaign, 
urban China needs to modify its approach to urban injury management and focus on 
prevention. The gap between urban China and countries with low injury mortality 
can be closed by means of legislation, strengthened law enforcement and the 
establishment of safer communities. Risks affecting children and migrants 
deserve greater attention, and the government needs to allocate more resources 
to injury prevention, especially to urban areas in the central-west region of 
China. Based on the population size of urban China, measures for the prevention 
of injury mortality would save an annual 436.4 million years of life.

En Chine urbaine, la mortalité due à des accidents a augmenté au cours des cinq 
dernières décennies. En revanche, l'espérance de vie a continué d'augmenter pour 
quasiment atteindre l'espérance de vie observée dans les pays développés. 
Actuellement, la majeure partie de la perte d'espérance de vie par trauma (65%) 
en Chine urbaine serait récupérée si les taux d’accidents étaient les mêmes que 
dans les pays à faible mortalité liée aux traumatismes. Fondamentalement, la 
tendance à la hausse de la mortalité par accident en milieu urbain en Chine 
reflète une attention soutenue au traitement des lésions plutôt qu’à la 
prévention dans le contexte d'un développement socio-économique rapide et d'une 
exposition croissante aux facteurs de risque d’accident. Malgré une amélioration 
des mesures de prévention des accidents et une campagne de «sûreté 
communautaire», la Chine urbaine doit modifier son approche de la gestion des 
risques en milieu urbain et se concentrer sur la prévention. L'écart entre les 
zones urbaines chinoises et les pays à faible mortalité par traumatisme peut 
être réduit par la loi, un renforcement de l'application de la loi et 
l'établissement de communautés plus sûres. Les risques touchant les enfants et 
les migrants méritent une plus grande attention et le gouvernement doit allouer 
davantage de ressources à la prévention des accidents, en particulier dans les 
zones urbaines du centre-ouest de la Chine. Sur la base de la population urbaine 
chinoise, des mesures de prévention de la mortalité par traumatisme 
permettraient de sauver chaque année 436,4 millions d'années de vie.

Durante las últimas cinco décadas se ha producido un aumento de la mortalidad 
por lesiones en las zonas urbanas de China. En contraste, la esperanza de vida 
ha seguido aumentando y ha llegado casi a equipararse a la esperanza de vida en 
los países desarrollados. Actualmente, la mayor reducción de la esperanza de 
vida asociada a las lesiones (65%) en las zonas urbanas de China podría 
subsanarse si las tasas de lesiones se equipararan a las de los países con baja 
mortalidad asociada a las lesiones. Fundamentalmente, esta tendencia creciente 
en la mortalidad urbana por lesiones en China es fiel reflejo de la prioridad 
que se otorga al tratamiento de las lesiones en lugar de a su prevención en un 
país con un fulgurante desarrollo socioeconómico y un aumento de la exposición a 
factores de riesgo de lesiones. Al margen de los intentos de mejorar la 
legislación en relación a las lesiones y de una campaña de «Comunidad segura», 
las zonas urbanas de China han de modificar su enfoque con respecto a la gestión 
de lesiones urbanas y centrarse en su prevención. La brecha existente entre la 
China urbana y los países con baja mortalidad por lesiones podría estrecharse a 
través de la legislación, de un endurecimiento de la aplicación de la ley y del 
establecimiento de comunidades más seguras. Los riesgos que mayor atención 
merecen son aquellos que afectan a niños e inmigrantes y el gobierno necesita 
asignar más recursos a la prevención de lesiones, especialmente en áreas urbanas 
en la región centro-oriental de China. En base al tamaño de la población de la 
China urbana, se calcula que las medidas para la prevención de la mortalidad por 
lesiones podrían salvar cada año unos 436,4 millones de vidas.

في المناطق الحضرية في الصين، زاد معدل الوفيات الناجمة عن الإصابات على مدار 
الخمسة عقود الماضية. وعلى النقيض من ذلك، استمر متوسط العمر المأمول في الزيادة 
ووصل تقريبًا إلى نفس متوسط العمر المأمول في البلدان المتقدمة. وحاليًا، يتم 
استعادة معظم العمر المأمول المفقود بسبب الإصابات ( 65 %) في المناطق الحضرية في 
الصين إذا كانت معدلات الإصابة مماثلة لتلك الموجودة في البلدان التي ينخفض بها 
معدل الوفيات المرتبط بالإصابات. وبشكل أساسي، يعكس الاتجاه المتزايد في معدل وفيات 
الإصابات في المناطق الحضرية في الصين تركيزًا متواصلاً على علاج الإصابات بدلاً من 
الوقاية في مواجهة التطور الاجتماعي والاقتصادي وزيادة التعرض لعوامل خطر الإصابات. 
وبرغم تحسين تشريعات الوقاية من الإصابات وحملة "المجتمع الآمن"، تحتاج المناطق 
الحضرية في الصين إلى تعديل نهجها الخاص بإدارة الإصابات في المناطق الحضرية 
والتركيز على الوقاية. ويمكن سد الفجوة بين المناطق الحضرية في الصين والبلدان التي 
ينخفض بها معدل الوفيات المرتبط بالإصابات بسن التشريعات وتشديد إنفاذ القوانين 
وإنشاء مجتمعات أكثر أمنًا. وتستحق المخاطر التي تؤثر على الأطفال والمهاجرين قدرًا 
أكبر من الاهتمام وتحتاج الحكومة إلى تخصيص المزيد من الموارد للوقاية من الإصابات، 
وخاصة للمناطق الحضرية في منطقة وسط غرب الصين. وبناءً على حجم سكان المناطق 
الحضرية في الصين، من الممكن أن تنقذ تدابير الوقاية من معدل وفيات الإصابات 436.4 
مليون سنة من العمر سنويًا.

中国城市伤害死亡率在过去五十年中有所增加。相比之下,中国城市人口的预期寿命不断延长,几乎达到发达国家的水平。如果中国城市的伤害死亡率达到伤害死亡率较低国家的水平,则目前中国城市大部分因伤害而损失的预期寿命(65%)都可以重新挽回。从根本上说,中国城市伤害死亡率上升的趋势,反映了在面对社会经济快速发展和越来越多伤害风险因素出现的时候,关注的重点仍然还是伤害治疗而不是伤害预防。尽管关于伤害预防的立法有所改进和“安全社区”活动正在开展,中国城市仍需要改善其城市伤害管理方法,并把重点放在预防之上。中国城市和伤害死亡率低的国家之间的差距可以通过立法、加强执法和建立更安全的社区等方法来弥合。影响儿童和外来人口的风险应该得到更大的重视,政府需要为预防伤害配置更多的资源,尤其是在中国中西部地区的城市。基于中国城市的人口规模,采取措施预防伤害死亡率,每年将可挽救4.364亿年的寿命。

За последние 50 лет в урбанистической части Китая возросла смертность по причине 
травмоопасности. Тем не менее, вероятная продолжительность жизни продолжает 
увеличиваться и практически сравнялась с аналогичным показателем в развитых 
странах. На сегодняшний день в урбанистической части Китая этот показатель 
снизился (65%) и мог бы быть восстановлен, если бы степень травматизма была 
такой же, как и в странах с низкой смертностью по причине низкого травматизма. 
Принципиально, повышающаяся тенденция смертности в урбанистической части Китая 
ввиду высокой травмоопасности отражает постоянную ориентированность на лечение 
травм, нежели на внедрение политики их предупреждения, вопреки стремительным 
темпам социально-экономического развития и повышению рисков травматизма. 
Несмотря на улучшение законодательной базы в сфере предупреждения травматизма и 
кампании «Безопасное общество» («Safe Community»), урбанистическая часть Китая 
нуждается в изменении подхода к контролю за рисками травматизма и его 
предупреждения. Разрыв между урбанистической частью Китая и странами с низким 
уровнем смертности от травматизма можно сократить путем принятия соответствующих 
законов, ужесточения мер правоохранения и создания более безопасного общества. 
Риски, которым подвергаются дети и рабочие-мигранты, заслуживают усиленного 
внимания, а правительству необходимо принимать более действенные меры по 
предупреждению травматизма, особенно в урбанистических областях, расположенных в 
центральной и западной частях Китая. Учитывая численность населения в 
урбанистической части Китая, принятие эффективных мер по предупреждению 
смертности из-за травматизма могло бы сохранить 436,4 млн. лет жизни в год.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.11.093849
PMCID: PMC3370363
PMID: 22690036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Rev Invest Clin. 2012 Jan-Feb;64(1):81-8.

[Role of surgery in metastatic breast cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Medina-Franco H(1), Suárez-Bobadilla YL.

Author information:
(1)Dirección de Cirugía, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición 
Salvador Zubirán, México, DF. herimd@hotmail.com

Breast cancer is the most common malignant tumor in Mexican women and very often 
patients present with advanced stages. Patients with metastatic breast cancer 
have limited therapeutic options and the mainstay of treatment in this disease 
stage is systemic chemotherapy Traditionally, the role of surgery in this 
context is limited to symptom palliation. The increase in efficiency of 
chemotherapy drugs and the new endocrine and molecular targeted therapy has 
prolonged the life expectancy of this group of patients and has expanded 
surgical indications beyond palliation. Some recent institutional reports 
suggest increasing survival of patients who undergo resection of limited 
metastatic disease. On another hand, there are reports of survival benefit when 
the primary tumor is removed even in presence of metastatic disease. We 
conducted a systematic review of the literature with the objective to analyze 
the role of surgery in the multidisciplinary management of metastatic breast 
cancer in order to improve the prognosis of this increasing group of patients.

PMID: 22690533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 2012 Mar-Apr;52(2):175-80.

[The experimental evaluation of antiradiation effectiveness of beta-estradiol on 
survival rates and bone marrow hemopoiesis of X-ray irradiated mice].

[Article in Russian]

Grebeniuk AN, Bykov VN, Miasnikov VA, Zatsepin VV, Aksenova NV.

The study was aimed at evaluating the radioprotective effectiveness of 
beta-estradiol following its prophylactic administration in conditions of acute 
irradiation. Evaluation of the radioprotective efficiency was performed by 
studying the 30-day survival rate, life expectancy, the structure of irradiated 
mice death, the bone marrow hematopoiesis using the method of exogenous colony 
formation. The prophylactic use of beta-estradiol at doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg 5 
days before irradiation has been established to protect the exposed mice against 
radiation death induced by X-rays at doses LD50-90/30, thus increasing their 
survival rate by 17-58%, and to favor the reduced expression of post radiation 
disorders of bone marrow hematopoiesis.

PMID: 22690580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Epigenomics. 2012 Jun;4(3):279-94. doi: 10.2217/epi.12.22.

Epigenetic mechanisms in gastric cancer.

Gigek CO(1), Chen ES, Calcagno DQ, Wisnieski F, Burbano RR, Smith MA.

Author information:
(1)Disciplina de Genética, Departamento de Morfologia e Genética, Escola 
Paulista de Medicina/Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Botucatu 740, São 
Paulo, SP, Brazil. carolina.gigek@unifesp.br

Cancer is considered one of the major health issues worldwide, and gastric 
cancer accounted for 8% of total cases and 10% of total deaths in 2008. Gastric 
cancer is considered an age-related disease, and the total number of newly 
diagnosed cases has been increasing as a result of the higher life expectancy. 
Therefore, the basic mechanisms underlying gastric tumorigenesis is worth 
investigation. This review provides an overview of the epigenetic mechanisms, 
such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, chromatin remodeling complex and 
miRNA, involved in gastric cancer. As the studies in gastric cancer continue, 
the mapping of an epigenome code is not far for this disease. In conclusion, an 
epigenetic therapy might appear in the not too distant future.

DOI: 10.2217/epi.12.22
PMID: 22690664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Sep 1;30(9):763-77. doi: 
10.2165/11588870-000000000-00000.

Cost of illness of cystic fibrosis in Germany: results from a large cystic 
fibrosis centre.

Heimeshoff M(1), Hollmeyer H, Schreyögg J, Tiemann O, Staab D.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Care Management and Health Economics, Faculty of 
Economics and Business Administration, University of Hamburg, Germany. 
mareike.heimeshoff@wiso.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common life-shortening genetic 
disorder among Whites worldwide. Because many of these patients experience 
chronic endobronchial colonization and have to take antibiotics and be treated 
as inpatients, societal costs of CF may be high. As the disease severity varies 
considerably among patients, costs may differ between patients.
OBJECTIVES: Our objectives were to calculate the average total costs of CF per 
patient and per year from a societal perspective; to include all direct medical 
and non-medical costs as well as indirect costs; to identify the main cost 
drivers; to investigate whether patients with CF can be grouped into homogenous 
cost groups; and to determine the influence of specific factors on different 
cost categories.
METHODS: Resource utilization data were collected for 87 patients admitted to an 
inpatient unit at a CF treatment centre during the first 6 months of 2004 and 
125 patients who visited the centre's CF outpatient unit during the entire year. 
Fifty-four patients were admitted to the hospital and also visited the 
outpatient unit. Since all patients were exclusively treated at the centre, data 
could be aggregated. Costs that varied greatly between patients were measured 
per patient. The remaining costs were summarized as overhead costs and allocated 
on the basis of days of treatment or contacts per patient. Costs of the 
outpatient and inpatient units and costs for drugs patients received at the 
outpatient pharmacy were summarized as direct medical costs. Direct non-medical 
costs (i.e. travel expenses), as well as indirect costs (i. e. absence from 
work, productivity losses), were also included in the analysis. Main cost 
drivers were detected by the analysis of different cost categories. Patients 
were classified according to a diagnosis-related severity model, and median 
comparison tests (Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney tests) were performed to investigate 
differences between the severity groups. Generalized least squares (GLS) 
regressions were used to identify variables influencing different cost 
categories. A sensitivity analysis using Monte Carlo simulation was performed.
RESULTS: The mean total cost per patient per year was &U20AC;41 468 (year 2004 
values). Direct medical costs accounted for more than 90% of total costs and 
averaged &U20AC;38 869 (&U20AC;3876 to &U20AC;88 096), whereas direct 
non-medical costs were minimal. Indirect costs amounted to &U20AC;2491 (6% of 
total costs). Costs for drugs patients received at the outpatient pharmacy were 
the main cost driver. Costs rose with the degree of severity. Patients with 
moderate and severe disease had significantly higher direct costs than the 
relatively milder group. Regression analysis revealed that direct costs were 
mainly affected by the diagnosis-related severity level and the expiratory 
volume; the coefficient indicating the relationship between costs for mild CF 
patients and other patients rose with the degree of severity. A similar result 
was obtained for drug costs per patient as the dependent variable. Monte Carlo 
simulation suggests that there is a 90% probability that annual costs will be 
lower than &U20AC;37 300.
CONCLUSIONS: The share of indirect costs as a percentage of total costs for CF 
was rather low in this study. However, the relevance of indirect costs is likely 
to increase in the future as the life expectancy of CF patients increases, which 
is likely to lead to a rising work disability rate and thus increase indirect 
costs. Moreover we found that infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa increases 
costs substantially. Thus, a decrease of the prevalence of P. aeruginosa would 
lead to substantial savings for society.

DOI: 10.2165/11588870-000000000-00000
PMID: 22690685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2013 Feb;78(2):248-54. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.2012.04467.x.

Thymic neuroendocrine tumour in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1: female 
patients are not rare exceptions.

Sakurai A(1), Imai T, Kikumori T, Horiuchi K, Okamoto T, Uchino S, Kosugi S, 
Suzuki S, Suyama K, Yamazaki M, Sato A; MEN Consortium of Japan.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Shinshu University School of Medicine, 
Matsumoto, Japan. aksakura@shinshu-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: Thymic neuroendocrine tumour (Th-NET) occurs in 2-5% of patients with 
MEN1 and has high malignant potency accompanying recurrence and distant 
metastasis. While Th-NET is recognized to develop predominantly in men and heavy 
smokers, a number of female patients have been reported in the literature. The 
objective of this study is to clarify the clinical features of MEN1 patients 
with Th-NET using database analysis.
DESIGN/PATIENTS: Clinical data of patients with Th-NET were extracted and 
analysed from a recently constructed database of Japanese MEN1 patients.
RESULTS: Among 560 registered cases, Th-NET was seen in 28 (5·0%) patients. Of 
note, 36% of patients (10/28) were women; only one patient among those was a 
smoker and another six patients were non-smokers. Age at diagnosis of Th-NET and 
MEN1, tumour size, prevalence of other MEN1-related tumours did not differ 
between male and female patients, and 10-year survival probability was 
0·271 ± 0·106.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the prevalence of Th-NET in women (3·2%) is significantly 
lower than that in men (7·6%), a considerable proportion of female patients 
develop Th-NET. Given that Th-NET is a major determinant of life expectancy of 
patients, our results alert clinicians who treat patients with MEN1 that 
surveillance of Th-NET is essential even for female patients without a smoking 
habit.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2012.04467.x
PMID: 22690831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. J Palliat Med. 2012 Oct;15(10):1120-3. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2011.0530. Epub 2012
Jun  12.
