
The veil of ignorance and health resource allocation.

Soto C(1).

Author information:
(1)NYU Langone Medical Center, Department of Anesthesiology, 550 1st Ave, New 
York, NY 10016, USA. csoto300@gmail.com

Some authors view the veil of ignorance as a preferred method for allocating 
resources because it imposes impartiality by stripping deliberators of knowledge 
of their personal identity. Using some prominent examples of such reasoning in 
the health care sector, I will argue for the following claims. First, choice 
behind a veil of ignorance often fails to provide clear guidance regarding 
resource allocation. Second, regardless of whether definite results could be 
derived from the veil, these results do not in themselves have important moral 
standing. This is partly because the veil does not determine which features are 
morally relevant for a given distributive problem. Third, even when we have 
settled the question of what features to count, choice behind a veil of 
ignorance arguably fails to take persons seriously. Ultimately, we do not need 
the veil to solve distributive problems, and we have good reason to appeal to 
some other distributive model.

DOI: 10.1093/jmp/jhs023
PMID: 22832181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Aging Phys Act. 2013 Jan;21(1):71-84. doi: 10.1123/japa.21.1.71. Epub 2012
Jul  24.

Increased muscle size and strength from slow-movement, low-intensity resistance 
exercise and tonic force generation.

Watanabe Y(1), Tanimoto M, Ohgane A, Sanada K, Miyachi M, Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

The authors investigated the effects of low-intensity resistance training on 
muscle size and strength in older men and women. Thirty-five participants (age 
59-76 yr) were randomly assigned to 2 groups and performed low-intensity (50% of 
1-repetition maximum) knee-extension and -flexion exercises with either slow 
movement and tonic force generation (LST; 3-s eccentric, 3-s concentric, and 1-s 
isometric actions with no rest between repetitions) or normal speed (LN; 1-s 
concentric and 1-s eccentric actions with 1-s rests between repetitions) twice a 
week for 12 wk (2-wk preparation and 10-wk intervention). The LST significantly 
increased thigh-muscle thickness, as well as isometric knee-extension and 
-flexion strength. The LN significantly improved strength, but its hypertrophic 
effect was limited. These results indicate that even for older individuals, the 
LST can be an effective method for gaining muscle mass and strength.

DOI: 10.1123/japa.21.1.71
PMID: 22832536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Jun;11(6):433.

Sirtuin modulators.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 22833880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. J Med Econ. 2012;15 Suppl 2:28-37. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.716111. Epub
2012  Aug 13.

Long-term clinical and economic outcomes associated with liraglutide versus 
sitagliptin therapy when added to metformin in the treatment of type 2 diabetes: 
a CORE Diabetes Model analysis.

Lee WC(1), Samyshkin Y, Langer J, Palmer JL.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics & Outcomes Research, IMS Consulting Group, Alexandria, VA 
22314, USA. wclee@imscg.com

BACKGROUND: A recent open-label, parallel group trial showed that liraglutide is 
superior to sitagliptin for reduction of HbA1c, and is well tolerated with 
minimum risk of hypoglycemia. Although these findings support the use of 
liraglutide as an effective GLP-1 agent to add to metformin, the value of 
liraglutide needs to be quantified in the framework of a cost-effectiveness (CE) 
analysis in a US setting.
OBJECTIVE: This current study sets out to assess the long-term 
cost-effectiveness outcomes of liraglutide vs sitagliptin based on treatment 
effects data from the 1860-LIRA-DPP-4 52-week trial.
METHODS: The IMS CORE Diabetes Model (CDM), a non-product-specific, validated 
computer simulation model that projects the long-term outcomes related to 
interventions for type 2 diabetes, is used for simulation of these 
interventions. In the model, patients were treated initially on one of the three 
treatment options: liraglutide 1.2 mg daily, 1.8 mg daily, or sitagliptin 100 mg 
daily, each used as add-on therapy to metformin for 5 years. After 5 years all 
patients switched to basal insulin treatment for the remainder of the simulation 
(35-year time horizon overall). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) 
were generated for liraglutide 1.2 mg compared with sitagliptin and liraglutide 
1.8 mg compared with sitagliptin. Transition probabilities, health state utility 
values, and complication costs were obtained from published sources. All 
outcomes were discounted at 3% per annum, and the analysis was conducted from 
the perspective of a third-party payer in the US. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed to test robustness of the base case scenario.
RESULTS: For liraglutide 1.8 mg vs sitagliptin, the ICER was $37,234 per QALY 
gained, while for liraglutide 1.2 mg vs sitagliptin, the ICER was $25,742 per 
QALY gained. In all sensitivity analyses, including setting the change in HbA1c 
to the lower limits of the 95% confidence intervals, the ICERs remained below 
US$ 50,000/QALY, a commonly accepted threshold in the US, except for the 
shortest time horizon of 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The availability of liraglutide 1.2 mg and 1.8 mg with improved 
efficacy profiles over sitagliptin could improve patient care, with the 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio below $50,000 per QALY gained as add-on to 
metformin.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.716111
PMID: 22834986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Pediatr Transplant. 2012 Dec;16(8):835-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1399-3046.2012.01772.x.  Epub 2012 Jul 27.

Ω3 fatty acids may reduce hyperlipidemia in pediatric renal transplant 
recipients.

Filler G(1), Weiglein G, Gharib MT, Casier S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital at London Health Sciences 
Center, University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada. 
guido.filler@lhsc.on.ca

Life expectancy after pediatric renal transplantation remains lower than that of 
the normal population largely due to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. 
Hyperlipidemia is a potentially modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular 
morbidity. Retrospective chart review of all available pediatric renal 
transplant patients (26) in a single center with assessment of anthropometry, 
renal function, steroid, calcineurin or mTOR inhibitor exposure and Ω3 FA 
supplementation. Eighteen transplant recipients without Ω3 FA supplementation 
served as control. Nutrition and supplement surveys were conducted with 
standardized questionnaires. Fasting cholesterol values were compared using the 
latest value prior to start of Ω3 FA and at last follow-up. Eight patients (five 
receiving mTOR inhibitor) started Ω3 FA supplementation at a mean dose of 29.2 ± 
12 mg of EPA/kg and 16.1 ± 7.4 mg DHA/kg body weight. Median duration of 
treatment was 2.5 yr (range 0.8-5.9 yr) and their total fasting cholesterol at 
last follow-up dropped significantly from 5.08 ± 0.97 (control group 3.77 ± 
0.81, p = 0.0084) to 4.17 ± 0.54 mm (p = 0.0158). High-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol increased not significantly from 1.74 ± 0.49 to 2.02 ± 0.93 mm. No 
patient had increased bleeding. Supplementation of omega-3 FAs may reduce 
hyperlipidaemia after pediatric renal transplantation.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3046.2012.01772.x
PMID: 22835217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Hand Surg Am. 2012 Aug;37(8):1617-1629.e3. doi:
10.1016/j.jhsa.2012.05.012.

Treatment of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow: cost-utility analysis.

Song JW(1), Chung KC, Prosser LA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Michigan 
Health System; Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

PURPOSE: The choice of surgical treatment for ulnar neuropathy at the elbow 
(UNE) remains controversial. A cost-utility analysis was performed for 4 
surgical UNE treatment options. We hypothesized that simple decompression would 
emerge as the most cost-effective strategy.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed from the societal perspective. A 
decision analytic model was designed comparing 4 strategies: (1) simple 
decompression followed by a salvage surgery (anterior submuscular transposition) 
for a poor outcome, (2) anterior subcutaneous transposition followed by a 
salvage surgery for a poor outcome, (3) medial epicondylectomy followed by a 
salvage surgery for a poor outcome, and (4) anterior submuscular transposition. 
A poor outcome when anterior submuscular transposition was the initial surgery 
was considered an end point in the model. Preference values for temporary health 
states for UNE, the surgical procedures, and the complications were obtained 
through a time trade-off survey administered to family members and friends who 
accompanied patients to physician visits. Probabilities of clinical outcomes 
were derived from a Cochrane Collaboration meta-analysis and a systematic 
MEDLINE and EMBASE search of the literature. Medical care costs (in 2009 U.S. 
dollars) were derived from Medicare reimbursement rates. The model estimated 
quality-adjusted life-years and costs for a 3-year time horizon. A 3% annual 
discount rate was applied to costs and quality-adjusted life-years. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated, and sensitivity analyses performed.
RESULTS: Simple decompression as an initial procedure was the most 
cost-effective treatment strategy. A multi-way sensitivity analysis varying the 
preference values for the surgeries and a model structure sensitivity analysis 
varying the model assumptions did not change the conclusion. Under all evaluated 
scenarios, simple decompression yielded incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
less than US$2,027 per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: Simple decompression as an initial treatment option is 
cost-effective for UNE according to commonly used cost-effectiveness thresholds.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and Decision Analysis III.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2012.05.012
PMCID: PMC7904237
PMID: 22835586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Clin Ther. 2012 Aug;34(8):1774-87. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.06.029.
Epub  2012 Jul 25.

Development of a population-based cost-effectiveness model of chronic 
graft-versus-host disease in Spain.

Crespo C(1), Pérez-Simón JA, Rodríguez JM, Sierra J, Brosa M.

Author information:
(1)Statistics Department, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. 
carlos.crespo@oblikue.com

BACKGROUND: Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGvHD) is the leading cause of 
late nonrelapse mortality (transplant-related mortality) after hematopoietic 
stem cell transplant. Given that there are a wide range of treatment options for 
cGvHD, assessment of the associated costs and efficacy can help clinicians and 
health care providers allocate health care resources more efficiently.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) compared with rituximab (Rmb) and with 
imatinib (Imt) in patients with cGvHD at 5 years from the perspective of the 
Spanish National Health System.
METHODS: The model assessed the incremental cost-effectiveness/utility ratio of 
ECP versus Rmb or Imt for 1000 hypothetical patients by using microsimulation 
cost-effectiveness techniques. Model probabilities were obtained from the 
literature. Treatment pathways and adverse events were evaluated taking clinical 
opinion and published reports into consideration. Local data on costs (2010 
Euros) and health care resources utilization were validated by the clinical 
authors. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were used to assess the robustness 
of the model.
RESULTS: The greater efficacy of ECP resulted in a gain of 0.011 to 0.024 
quality-adjusted life-year in the first year and 0.062 to 0.094 at year 5 
compared with Rmb or Imt. The results showed that the higher acquisition cost of 
ECP versus Imt was compensated for at 9 months by greater efficacy; this higher 
cost was partially compensated for (€517) by year 5 versus Rmb. After 9 months, 
ECP was dominant (cheaper and more effective) compared with Imt. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of ECP versus Rmb was €29,646 per life-year gained and 
€24,442 per quality-adjusted life-year gained at year 2.5. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis confirmed the results. The main study limitation was that 
to assess relative treatment effects, only small studies were available for 
indirect comparison.
CONCLUSION: ECP as a third-line therapy for cGvHD is a more cost-effective 
strategy than Rmb or Imt.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.06.029
PMID: 22835778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Am J Forensic Med Pathol. 2012 Sep;33(3):280-3. doi: 
10.1097/PAF.0b013e3182557dcf.

Pituitary abscess presenting a very rapid progression: report of a fatal case.

Kotani H(1), Abiru H, Miyao M, Kakimoto Y, Kawai C, Ozeki M, Tsuruyama T, Tamaki 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine and Molecular Pathology, Kyoto University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan. kotani@fp.med.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Pituitary abscess is a rare disease presenting with nonspecific clinical 
symptoms, and diagnosis is often difficult. This disease is potentially 
life-threatening, but most cases have a chronic and indolent course. We report a 
case of a 60-year-old man with a pituitary abscess associated with pituitary 
adenoma who died 5 days after the onset of clinical symptoms without a 
definitive diagnosis. Postmortem computed tomography and autopsy findings 
revealed a sellar mass with cystic change and extension toward the optic chiasm. 
Histopathology of the lesion demonstrated an abscess with suppurative meningitis 
and encephalitis. The disturbance of the cardiac autonomic nervous system 
because of hypothalamus involvement was suggested as the cause of rapid 
progression and death. This case provides useful information for clinicians to 
avoid a lethal outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/PAF.0b013e3182557dcf
PMID: 22835970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. QJM. 2013 Jul;106(7):679-80. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcs135. Epub 2012 Jul 26.

Right atrium tumor thrombus.

Alraies MC(1), Khan UA, Alraiyes AH, Auron M.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH, USA. alraiec@ccf.org

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcs135
PMID: 22836191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2013;756:223-8. doi: 10.1007/978-94-007-4549-0_28.

Development and aging are oxygen-dependent and correlate with VEGF and NOS along 
life span.

Zara S(1), Pokorski M, Cataldi A, Porzionato A, De Caro R, Antosiewicz J, Di 
Giulio C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Sciences, University of Chieti, Chieti, Italy.

During development and aging, vascular remodeling represents a critical adaptive 
response to modifications in oxygen supply to tissues. Hypoxia inducible factor 
(HIF) has a crucial role and is modulated by oxygen levels, with an 
age-dependent response in neonates, adult, and aged people. ROS are generated 
under hypoxic conditions and the accumulation of free radicals during life 
reduces the ability of tissues to their removal. In this immunohistochemical 
study we investigated the presence and localization of VEGF and iNOS in human 
carotid bodies (CB) sampled at autopsy from three children (mean age - 2 years), 
four adult young subjects (mean age - 44.3 years), and four old subjects (mean 
age - 67.3 years). VEGF immunoreactivity was significantly enhanced in CB 
tissues from the children (7.2 ± 1.2%) and aged subjects (4.7 ± 1.7%) compared 
with the young adults (1.4 ± 0.7%). On the other hand, iNOS immunoreactivity was 
enhanced in CB tissues from the children (0.4 ± 0.04%) and young adult subjects 
(0.3 ± 0.02%) compared with the old subjects (0.2 ± 0.02%). Prevention of oxygen 
desaturation, reducing all causes of hypoxemia from neonatal life to aging would 
decrease the incidence of diseases in the elderly population with lifespan 
extension.

DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-4549-0_28
PMID: 22836639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2012 Jun;156(2):108-14.
 doi: 10.5507/bp.2012.055.

Epidemiological of and risk factors for Alzheimer's disease: a review.

Povova J(1), Ambroz P, Bar M, Pavukova V, Sery O, Tomaskova H, Janout V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Ostrava, Czech Republic. Jana.povova@osu.cz

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. It is 
a degenerative, incurable and terminal disease. The increasing prevalence of AD 
is, among other reasons, due to population aging, which is, to a certain extent, 
seen worldwide. Continuous advances in health care keep increasing life 
expectancy. Official statistics are likely to significantly underestimate the 
actual prevalence of AD. Alzheimer's disease represents an important public 
health problem. Its aetiology is still unknown and for this reason, it is 
necessary to study all potential risk factors which may contribute to the 
development of this disease.
METHODS: We searched original and review articles addressing Alzheimer's disease 
using key words Alzheimer's disease, epidemiology, risk factors and prevention. 
We found and used one hundred and four references.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on epidemiological studies, genetic studies, neuroimaging 
methods and neuropathology research, three basic etiological hypotheses of the 
development of AD have been formulated: genetic, vascular and psychosocial. At 
present, the level of evidence is insufficient for the etiological role of other 
factors, such as nutrition, occupational exposure to various substances and 
inflammation. From the point of view of early diagnosis and application of 
primary or secondary prevention principles, genetic factors are the most 
important.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2012.055
PMID: 22837131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Exp Biol. 2012 Aug 15;215(Pt 16):2827-32. doi: 10.1242/jeb.069146.

Taste preference for amino acids is dependent on internal nutritional state in 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Toshima N(1), Tanimura T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Systems Life Sciences, 
Kyushu University, Hakozaki, Fukuoka 812-8581, Japan.

Like mammals, insects need to ingest proteins from foods because they cannot 
synthesise several amino acids. Amino acids are also essential nutrients for 
Drosophila melanogaster, especially for female egg production, but how flies 
detect amino acids and how the feeding response to amino acids is regulated are 
unknown. In this study, the two-choice preference test, the proboscis extension 
reflex test and a CAFE assay were performed to explore the ability of D. 
melanogaster to detect and discriminate amino acids. To determine whether D. 
melanogaster change their feeding preference to amino acids after being deprived 
of them, as previously reported in the locust, two groups of flies raised on the 
usual medium or on glucose medium were compared. Amino-acid-deprived flies 
demonstrated enhanced preference to an amino acid mixture and to several amino 
acids. These flies ingested amino acids even when they were replete with 
glucose. The proboscis extension reflex to particular amino acids was induced 
only in amino-acid-deprived flies. Our findings indicate that the sensitivity of 
labellar taste cells to amino acids may change when flies are deficient in amino 
acid supply, and also reveal that the detection pathways for individual amino 
acids may differ. We suggest the existence of an amino acid receptor and a 
monitoring system regulating the feeding responses to amino acids.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.069146
PMID: 22837455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Indian J Palliat Care. 2012 Jan;18(1):40-4. doi: 10.4103/0973-1075.97348.

Should Blood Cultures be Performed in Terminally Ill Cancer Patients?

Asai N(1), Aoshima M, Ohkuni Y, Otsuka Y, Kaneko N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonology, Kameda Medical Center, Chiba, Japan.

BACKGROUND: No evidence-based guidelines or protocols to treat the 
infection-related symptoms in cancer patients with terminal stages have been 
established.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed all the patients with 
terminal stage cancer who died between April 2009 and March 2010. The patients' 
background, the prevalence of infection and clinical outcomes, pathogens 
isolated, antibiotics used, and whether blood cultures and some of examinations 
were performed or not were evaluated.
RESULTS: A total of 62 (44 males and 18 females) patients were included in this 
study. The median age was 73 years (35-98 years). The most common cancer was 
that of the lung (n =59, 95.2%). A total of 32 patients were diagnosed with the 
following infections: Infection of respiratory tract in 27 (84.4%), of urinary 
tract in 4 (12.5%), and cholangitis in 1 (3.1%). Two cases (6.3%) had pneumonia 
complicated with urinary tract infection. Blood cultures and antibiotic 
therapies were performed in 28 and 30 cases, respectively. Four (14.3%) positive 
cultures were isolated from the blood obtained from 28 individual patients. As 
for clinical course, 3 (10%) of them experienced improved symptoms after 
antibiotic therapy. Twenty-seven (90%) patients were not confirmed as having any 
symptom improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Blood cultures and antibiotic therapy were limited, and might not 
be effective in terminally ill cancer patients with lung cancer. We suggest that 
administering an antibiotic therapy without performing a blood culture would be 
one of choices in those with respiratory tract infections if patients' life 
expectancy is short.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1075.97348
PMCID: PMC3401733
PMID: 22837610

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


848. ACS Med Chem Lett. 2012 May 22;3(7):584-587. doi: 10.1021/ml3000963.

Chiral cyclohexane 1,3-diones as inhibitors of mutant SOD1-dependent protein 
aggregation for the treatment of ALS.

Zhang Y(1), Benmohamed R, Zhang W, Kim J, Edgerly CK, Zhu Y, Morimoto RI, 
Ferrante RJ, Kirsch DR, Silverman RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Department of Molecular Biosciences, Chemistry of 
Life Processes Institute, Center for Molecular Innovation and Drug Discovery, 
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3113, USA.

Erratum in
    ACS Med Chem Lett. 2017 Feb 24;8(3):377.

Cyclohexane 1,3-diones were identified as a class of molecules exhibiting a 
protective effect against mutant SOD1 induced toxicity in PC-12 cells, but an 
optimized analogue had little or no effect on life extension in the G93A SOD1 
mouse model for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Additional testing showed 
that these compounds were inactive in neurons and further analogue synthesis was 
carried out to identify compounds with neuronal activity. Starting from two 
racemic derivatives that were active in cortical neurons, two potent analogues 
(1b and 2b) were resolved, which were protective against mutant SOD1 induced 
toxicity in PC-12 cells. Both compounds were found to be active in cortical 
neurons and presented good ADME profiles in vitro. On the basis of these 
results, an ALS mouse trial with 1b was carried out, which showed slightly 
greater life extension than the FDA-approved ALS drug riluzole, thereby 
validating cyclohexane 1,3-diones as a novel therapeutic class for the treatment 
of ALS.

DOI: 10.1021/ml3000963
PMCID: PMC3402085
PMID: 22837812


849. BMC Res Notes. 2012 Jul 27;5:382. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-5-382.

Improved survival of patients with coronary artery disease and low ejection 
fraction with ICD implantation versus conventional therapy in a real world 
survey.

Aschenbrenner T(1), Brockmeier J, Bramlage P, Fimmers R, Cuneo A, Hochreuther S, 
Zemmrich C, Tebbe U.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pharmakologie und präventive Medizin, Mahlow, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is associated with an increased risk 
for sudden cardiac death. Randomized controlled trials have shown that 
implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) improve life expectancy unless 
they are implanted within the first days after an acute myocardial infarction 
and guidelines recommend their use. We aimed to validate that these results also 
apply to patients of a typical community hospital in Germany.
METHODS: This was a retrospective analysis of patients undergoing coronary 
angiography in the Lippe-Detmold Hospital between 2003 and 2006. They had to 
have significant CAD and an ejection fraction (EF) ≤ 35% and no acute myocardial 
infarction within 28 days of implantation and no history of ventricular 
fibrillation.
RESULTS: 213 patients were included; 70 of which received an ICD. Patients with 
an ICD implantation were younger (64.8 ± 9.9 vs. 67.9 ± 9.8 years; p = 0.034), 
had single vessel CAD more frequently (22.9 vs. 11.2%; p = 0.025) and a lower EF 
(26.7 ± 6.3 vs. 29.1 ± 4.6%; p = 0.006). Hospital readmissions were comparable 
between the ICD and the control group (68.6 vs. 72.0%; p = 0.602). ICD therapy 
was associated with a considerable survival benefit compared to conventional 
therapy (HR 0.52; 95%CI 0.29-0.93; p = 0.027) in a Cox-Proportional Hazards 
Regression analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Appreciating the potential limitations of retrospective studies, we 
found that ICD use was associated with improved survival in patients with 
significant CAD and an EF <= 35% typical for a large tertiary hospital.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-5-382
PMCID: PMC3457837
PMID: 22840219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Med Hypotheses. 2012 Oct;79(4):478-80. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.06.028. Epub
 2012 Jul 26.

Adoptive transfer of naïve dendritic cells in resolving post-sepsis long-term 
immunosuppression.

Laudanski K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. klaudanski@gmail.com

Following initial episode of sepsis, survivors suffer an increased risk of 
mortality that persists long-term and remains a significant health care problem. 
Opportunistic infections and neoplasms are more frequent partially accounting 
for shorter life expectancy. This suggests that during sepsis the immune system 
becomes aberrant and is unable to restore its optimal function after the initial 
insult. Dendritic cells (DC) or their precursors are frequently affected during 
the initial episode of sepsis as well as after the resolution of symptom. 
Considering these cells' pivotal role in regulating innate and acquired immune, 
they are promising candidates for therapeutic manipulation. Sepsis induces 
several changes in the populations of DCs via epigenetic, and/or other, 
mechanisms. Here, we propose that transplantation of 'naïve dendritic cells' 
(DCs which are never exposed to sepsis) can reverse several aspects of the 
long-term post-sepsis immunosuppression. Furthermore, we present advantages of 
the presented therapeutic approach.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.06.028
PMID: 22840328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2012;79(3):203-12.

Current concepts review - fractures in the region of the elbow.

Gradl G(1), Jupiter JB.

Author information:
(1)Department for Trauma Surgery, University of Aachen, Germany.

Elbow injuries continue to rise with increased athletic activity and life 
expectancy. Knowledge of anatomy and biomechanics of this sophisticated joint, 
various injury patterns, and the implication of injury to the static and dynamic 
stabilizers will result in improvement in specific diagnosis, and therapy. The 
surgical treatment of trauma to the adult elbow has evolved rapidly in recent 
years and many useful concepts and techniques have been established. This paper 
reviews the published scientific data and current opinion available to guide 
patient care.

PMID: 22840951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2012 Oct;207(4):326.e1-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2012.06.048.  Epub 2012 Jun 29.

Gestational diabetes screening with the new IADPSG guidelines: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Mission JF(1), Ohno MS, Cheng YW, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health and Science 
University, Portland, OR, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the cost effectiveness of gestational 
diabetes mellitus screening using the new International Association of Diabetes 
in Pregnancy Study Group (IADPSG) guidelines.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision analytic model was built comparing routine screening 
with the 2-hour (2h) oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) vs the 1-hour glucose 
challenge test. All probabilities, costs, and benefits were derived from the 
literature. Base case, sensitivity analyses, and a Monte Carlo simulation were 
performed.
RESULTS: Screening with the 2h OGTT was more expensive, more effective, and cost 
effective at $61,503/quality-adjusted life year. In a 1-way sensitivity 
analysis, the more inclusive IADPSG diagnostic approach remained cost effective 
as long as an additional 2.0% or more of patients were diagnosed and treated for 
gestational diabetes mellitus.
CONCLUSION: Screening at 24-28 weeks' gestational age under the new IADPSG 
guidelines with the 2h OGTT is expensive but cost effective in improving 
maternal and neonatal outcomes. How the health care system will provide expanded 
care to this group of women will need to be examined.

Copyright © 2012 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2012.06.048
PMCID: PMC4621259
PMID: 22840972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURE: None of the authors have a conflict 
of interest


853. Med Clin (Barc). 2012 Nov 17;139(12):542-6. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2012.05.028.  Epub 2012 Jul 28.

[Metabolic syndrome in patients with schizophrenia and antipsychotic treatment].

[Article in Spanish]

Aguilar E(1), Coronas R, Caixàs A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Psiquiatría, Corporació Sanitària Parc Taulí, Institut 
Universitari Parc Taulí, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Sabadell, Barcelona, 
España.

Patients with schizophrenia have a shorter life expectancy and their risk of 
dying from a cardiovascular disease is higher than the general population. Both 
facts have been attributed to the raised presence of metabolic syndrome. There 
is a big amount of scientific publications that deals with the relationship 
between schizophrenia, antipsychotic treatment, and the development of metabolic 
syndrome. There is also information about recommendations and clinical guides to 
achieve an adequate prevention, screening, and treatment of the disease. The aim 
of this review is to update the current information about this issue and to 
understand related etiologic factors, differences between antipsychotic drugs, 
and the current recommendations for patient's care.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.05.028
PMID: 22841467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Neurosci Lett. 2012 Aug 30;524(2):95-100. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2012.07.031.
 Epub 2012 Jul 25.

Balancing a simulated inverted pendulum through motor imagery: an EEG-based 
real-time control paradigm.

Yue J(1), Zhou Z, Jiang J, Liu Y, Hu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Automatic Control, College of Mechatronics and Automation, 
National University of Defense Technology, 410073, Changsha, Hunan, PR China.

Most brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are non-time-restraint systems. However, 
the method used to design a real-time BCI paradigm for controlling unstable 
devices is still a challenging problem. This paper presents a real-time feedback 
BCI paradigm for controlling an inverted pendulum on a cart (IPC). In this 
paradigm, sensorimotor rhythms (SMRs) were recorded using 15 active electrodes 
placed on the surface of the subject's scalp. Subsequently, common spatial 
pattern (CSP) was used as the basic filter to extract spatial patterns. Finally, 
linear discriminant analysis (LDA) was used to translate the patterns into 
control commands that could stabilize the simulated inverted pendulum. Offline 
trainings were employed to teach the subjects to execute corresponding mental 
tasks, such as left/right hand motor imagery. Five subjects could successfully 
balance the online inverted pendulum for more than 35s. The results demonstrated 
that BCIs are able to control nonlinear unstable devices. Furthermore, the 
demonstration and extension of real-time continuous control might be useful for 
the real-life application and generalization of BCI.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2012.07.031
PMID: 22841698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Eur Heart J. 2012 Nov;33(22):2865-72. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs210. Epub
2012  Jul 26.

Cost-effectiveness of optimizing prevention in patients with coronary heart 
disease: the EUROASPIRE III health economics project.

De Smedt D(1), Kotseva K, De Bacquer D, Wood D, De Backer G, Dallongeville J, 
Seppo L, Pajak A, Reiner Z, Vanuzzo D, Georgiev B, Gotcheva N, Annemans L.

Author information:
(1)Ghent University, Gent, Belgium. delphine.desmedt@ugent.be

AIMS: The EUROASPIRE III survey indicated that the guidelines on cardiovascular 
disease prevention are poorly implemented in patients with established coronary 
heart disease (CHD). The purpose of this health economic project was to assess 
the potential clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of optimizing 
cardiovascular prevention in eight EUROASPIRE III countries (Belgium, Bulgaria, 
Croatia, Finland, France, Italy, Poland, and the U.K.). METHODS AND RESULTS The 
individual risk for subsequent cardiovascular events was estimated, based on 
published Framingham equations. Based on the EUROASPIRE III data, the type of 
suboptimal prevention, if any, was identified for each individual, and the 
effects of optimized tailored prevention (smoking cessation, diet and exercise, 
better management of elevated blood pressure and/or LDL-cholesterol) were 
estimated. Costs of prevention and savings of avoided events were based on 
country-specific data. A willingness to pay threshold of 
€30,000/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) was used. The robustness of the 
results was validated by sensitivity analyses. Overall, the cost-effectiveness 
analyses for the eight countries showed mainly favourable results with an 
average incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of €12,484 per QALY. Only in 
the minority of patients at the lowest risk for recurrent events, intensifying 
preventive therapy seems not cost-effective. Also, the single impact of 
intensified cholesterol control seems less cost-effective, possibly because 
their initial 2-year risk was already fairly low, hence the room for improvement 
is rather limited.
CONCLUSION: These results underscore the societal value of optimizing prevention 
in most patients with established CHD, but also highlight the need for setting 
priorities towards patients more at risk and the need for more studies comparing 
intensified prevention with usual care in these patients.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs210
PMID: 22843446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Mar;68(3):226-34. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls156. Epub 2012 Jul 25.

D-chiro-inositol and pinitol extend the life span of Drosophila melanogaster.

Hada B(1), Yoo MR, Seong KM, Jin YW, Myeong HK, Min KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, 100 Inha St. Inha University Incheon 
402-751, Korea.

D-chiro-inositol, a member of the inositol family, and pinitol, a 3-methoxy 
analogue of D-chiro-inositol, have been proposed to have antidiabetic, 
antiinflammatory, anticancer and stamina enhancing effects. We found that 
supplementing the diet of Drosophila with D-chiro-inositol and pinitol extended 
adult longevity in both male and female flies. Life span extension was 
accompanied by protection against oxidative and starvation stresses, improvement 
in health span, and no reduction in fecundity. Pinitol increased the fly life 
span, both in dietary restriction and in ad libitum conditions, suggesting that 
pinitol increased life span in a manner that was independent of the dietary 
restriction pathway. Nuclear localization of dFOXO increased in D-chiro-inositol 
and pinitol-fed flies when compared with controls. Pinitol treatment 
significantly activated JNK and S6K, but not AKT, indicating that the activation 
of dFOXO by pinitol is acquired by the activation of S6K and JNK signaling. 
Hence, our study indicated that D-chiro-inositol and pinitol could be novel 
food-derived antiaging compounds.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls156
PMID: 22843669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e41651. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041651. Epub 2012 Jul
26.

Nuttalliella namaqua (Ixodoidea: Nuttalliellidae): first description of the 
male, immature stages and re-description of the female.

Latif AA(1), Putterill JF, de Klerk DG, Pienaar R, Mans BJ.

Author information:
(1)Parasites, Vectors and Vector-borne Diseases Programme, Agricultural Research 
Council-Onderstepoort Veterinary Institute, Onderstepoort, South Africa. 
latifa@arc.agric.za

Nuttalliella namaqua is the only species of the enigmatic third tick family. 
Females possess features of hard and soft ticks and have been designated as the 
"missing link" between the main tick families. Its position at the base of the 
tick tree suggests that some of the features unique to hard and soft ticks were 
present in the ancestral tick lineage. Larvae, nymphae and males have not been 
described to date and questions regarding their biological affinities to the 
main tick families remain unclear. The current study addressed these questions 
via the description of larvae, nymphae and males and resolved issues pertaining 
to female morphology. Field collected as well as laboratory-engorged females 
laid eggs and viable larvae subsequently hatched. The larvae possess 
morphological structures not present in subsequent stages: namely, a sclerotized 
scutum, pores on the dorsal surface of legs and a dentate anal plate. The last 
two characters are not present in ixodids and argasids. N. namaqua larvae and 
nymphae show a similar morphology to females: a unique hypostomal structure 
i.e., bluntly rounded apically in nymphae and females and ball-like in the 
larvae. A re-description of some structures in female N. namaqua has resolved 
differences in the original descriptions, namely that N. namaqua have 4 palpal 
segments as found in ixodids and argasids and posthypostomal setae. The male was 
discovered for the first time and described. Characteristic male features 
include: a pseudoscutum over most of the dorsum, an outgrowth on the chelicerae 
forming a unique rod-like structure similar to a spematodactyl in mites and 
medial extension of palpal segment 2 forming a large ventral crib for segment 4. 
All life stages possess some features found in hard and soft ticks and its 
status as the "missing link" between the tick families remains.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041651
PMCID: PMC3406016
PMID: 22844508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


858. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2012 Feb;8(1):26-36. doi: 10.2174/157340312801215809.

Myocardial revascularization for the elderly: current options, role of off-pump 
coronary artery bypass grafting and outcomes.

Raja SG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Harefield Hospital, United Kingdom. 
drrajashahzad@hotmail.com

The increase in life expectancy has confronted cardiac surgery with a rapidly 
growing population of elderly patients requiring surgical myocardial 
revascularization. Recent advances in surgical and anesthetic techniques and 
improvements in postoperative care have made coronary artery bypass grafting an 
established therapeutic option for the treatment of coronary artery disease in 
this group of patients. However, conventional coronary artery bypass grafting on 
cardiopulmonary bypass is associated with significant risk and related morbidity 
and mortality in the elderly. In recent years off-pump coronary artery bypass 
grafting has emerged as a safe and less invasive strategy for surgical 
myocardial revascularization. Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting by 
avoiding the deleterious effects of cardiopulmonary bypass can offer potential 
benefits to elderly patients requiring surgical myocardial revascularization. 
This review article provides an overview of the age-related cardiovascular 
changes, epidemiology of coronary artery disease in the elderly and focuses on 
outcomes of surgical myocardial revascularization with special emphasis on the 
impact of off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery in the elderly.

DOI: 10.2174/157340312801215809
PMCID: PMC3394105
PMID: 22845813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Aug;13(8):e344-52. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70234-6.

Treatment decisions for elderly patients with haematological malignancies: a 
dilemma.

Peyrade F(1), Gastaud L, Ré D, Pacquelet-Cheli S, Thyss A.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Anticancer Centre, Medical Oncology, Nice, France. 
frederic.peyrade@nice.unicancer.fr

Over the past decade, haematological malignant diseases have been diagnosed with 
increasing frequency in patients older than 65 years. The management of these 
diseases is particularly difficult in elderly patients, as non-tumour-related 
life expectancy is highly variable and the benefit-to-risk ratio for oncological 
treatments depends on comorbidities and pharmacological factors. Very few data 
are available in very old or frail patients, and management decisions are 
usually based on data obtained in younger patients. Patients might, therefore, 
be overtreated or undertreated without clear clinical or biological 
justification. In this Review we discuss the management of haematological 
malignant diseases in the elderly, with respect to biology or pharmacokinetic 
and pharmacodynamic features. We focus on acute myeloid leukaemia and aggressive 
lymphoma. Additionally, we discuss how the implementation of geriatric tools, 
such as comprehensive geriatric assessment scores, in the clinical management of 
elderly patients might help to adapt treatment to meet individual patients' 
needs.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70234-6
PMID: 22846839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. BMJ Case Rep. 2012 Jul 27;2012:bcr2012006283. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2012-006283.

Stage IV malignant melanoma of unknown primary site in a young man.

Christopoulos P(1), Doulias T, Koutelidakis I, Papaziogas B.

Author information:
(1)2nd Surgical Unit, G. Gennimatas Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.

Metastatic melanoma of unknown primary is a rare entity with low life 
expectancy. Inoperable metastatic malignant melanoma in lungs has a survival 
rate of <6%. Regression of the primary lesion is a well-documented theory in the 
literature, since melanoma is one of the tumours that can undergo regression. We 
present a case of a young man with metastatic malignant melanoma in lungs, whose 
survival duration is longer than expected even without metastasectomy.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2012-006283
PMCID: PMC4543345
PMID: 22847563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


861. J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn. 2012 Oct;39(5):453-62. doi: 
10.1007/s10928-012-9261-5. Epub 2012 Jul 31.

Modeling of red blood cell life-spans in hematologically normal populations.

Lledó-García R(1), Kalicki RM, Uehlinger DE, Karlsson MO.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacometrics Research Group, Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, 
Uppsala University, Box 591, SE 751 24, Uppsala, Sweden. rocio.lledo@gmail.com

Despite the impact of red blood cell (RBC) Life-spans in some disease areas such 
as diabetes or anemia of chronic kidney disease, there is no consensus on how to 
quantitatively best describe the process. Several models have been proposed to 
explain the elimination process of RBCs: random destruction process, homogeneous 
life-span model, or a series of 4-transit compartment model. The aim of this 
work was to explore the different models that have been proposed in literature, 
and modifications to those. The impact of choosing the right model on future 
outcomes prediction--in the above mentioned areas--was also investigated. Both 
data from indirect (clinical data) and direct life-span measurement 
(biotin-labeled data) methods were analyzed using non-linear mixed effects 
models. Analysis showed that: (1) predictions from non-steady state data will 
depend on the RBC model chosen; (2) the transit compartment model, which 
considers variation in life-span in the RBC population, better describes RBC 
survival data than the random destruction or homogenous life-span models; and 
(3) the additional incorporation of random destruction patterns, although 
improving the description of the RBC survival data, does not appear to provide a 
marked improvement when describing clinical data.

DOI: 10.1007/s10928-012-9261-5
PMID: 22847734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e41755. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041755. Epub 2012 Jul
27.

PDHK-2 deficiency is associated with attenuation of lipase-mediated fat 
consumption for the increased survival of Caenorhabditis elegans dauers.

Kim S(1), Shin EJ, Hahm JH, Park PJ, Hwang JE, Paik YK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Integrated Omics for Biomedical Science, World 
Class University Program, College of Life Science and Biotechnology, Yonsei 
Proteome Research Center, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.

In Caenorhabditis elegans, slow fat consumption has been suggested to contribute 
to the extension of the survival rate during nutritionally adverse conditions. 
Here, we investigated the potential role of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 
(PDHK)-2, the C. elegans homolog of mammalian PDK, effects on fat metabolism 
under nutritional conditions. PDHK-2 was expressed at low levels under well-fed 
conditions but was highly induced during long-term starvation and in the dauer 
state. This increase in pdhk-2 expression was regulated by both DAF-16 and 
NHR-49. Dauer-specific induction of PDHK-2 was abolished upon entry into the 
post-dauer stage. Interestingly, in the long-term dauer state, stored fat levels 
were higher in daf-2(e1370);pdhk-2 double mutants than in daf-2(e1370), 
suggesting a positive relationship between PDHK-2 activity and fat consumption. 
PDHK-2 deficiency has been shown to lead to greater preservation of residual 
fats, which would be predicted to contribute to survival during the dauer state. 
A test of this prediction showed that the survival rates of 
daf-2(e1370);pdhk-2(tm3075) and daf-2(e1370);pdhk-2(tm3086) double mutants were 
higher than that of daf-2(e1370), suggesting that loss of either the ATP-binding 
domain (tm3075) or branched chain keto-acid dehydrogenase kinase domain (tm3086) 
of PDHK-2 leads to reduced fat consumption and thus favors increased dauer 
survival. This attenuated fat consumption in the long-term dauer state of C. 
elegans daf-2 (e1370);pdhk-2 mutants was associated with concomitant 
down-regulation of the lipases ATGL (adipose triglyceride lipase), HSL 
(hormone-sensitive lipase), and C07E3.9 (phospholipase). In contrast, PDHK-2 
overexpression in wild-type starved worms induced lipase expression and promoted 
abnormal dauer formation. Thus, we propose that PDHK-2 serves as a molecular 
bridge, connecting fat metabolism and survival under nutritionally adverse 
conditions in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041755
PMCID: PMC3407204
PMID: 22848591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


863. Nurs Stand. 2012 Jun 6-12;26(40):61. doi: 10.7748/ns2012.06.26.40.61.p8508.

Working the magic.

Wallis L.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2012.06.26.40.61.p8508
PMID: 22848973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Kwart Hist Nauki Tech. 2012;57(1):71-88.

[The development of radiation technologies since Maria Skłodowska-Curie].

[Article in Polish]

Głuszewski W(1), Zagórski ZP.

Author information:
(1)Instytut Chemii i Techniki Jadrowej, Warszawa.

The article was written on the occasion of the 100. anniversary of the Nobel 
Prize in Chemistry awarded to Maria Skłodowska-Curie. The United Nations General 
Assembly honoured this event by announcing the year 2011 the International Year 
of Chemistry. Maria Skłodowska-Curie was i.a. the initiator of radiation 
chemistry, a branch of science analyzing the chemical effects that matter shows 
when exposed to ionizing radiation. The development of this branch resulted in 
radiation technologies' applications in many fields of industry, medicine, 
agriculture, protection of the environment, space research and science. Our 
point of departure was the article Sur l'etude des courbes de probabilité 
relatives a l'action des rayons X sur les bacilles that Maria Skłodowska-Curie 
published in 1929 in the Bulletin of the Académie des sciences. In this study, 
she presented--for the first time ever--the curves of the so called radiation 
inactivation, i.e. the relationship between the bacteria life expectancy and the 
dose of radiation absorbed by it. From the today's point of view, it can be 
stated that the researcher laid the foundations of the methods of radiation 
sterilization and material processing by means of radiation. In this context, we 
recall the history of the first accelerator installation devised and built in 
1968 at the Institute of Nuclear Chemistry and Technology in Warsaw. Basing on 
