
The long-term evolution of familial myeloproliferative neoplasms was studied in 
93 families with 227 subjects including 97 with polycythemia vera (PV), 105 
essential thrombocythemia (ET), 14 primary myelofibrosis (PMF) and 11 chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML). In PV patients, with 12years of median follow-up, 
overall survival was 83% at 10years and 37% at 20years. A high JAK2(V617F) 
allele burden was correlated with the transformation to myelofibrosis 
(p<0.0001), but not with the transformation to acute leukemia. Among the 105 ET, 
with 8years of median follow-up, overall survival was 83% at 10years and 57% at 
20years. Progression to acute leukemia and progression to myelofibrosis were 10% 
and 13%. There was a trend toward a more frequent evolution to myelofibrosis 
when the JAK2(V617F) mutated allele burden was >50% (p=0.09), but not to AML. 
Hematologic transformation of the MPN was responsible for 69% of the deaths, 
cerebral stroke for 7% and 4% died of myocardial infarction. Eleven JAK2(V617F) 
mutated patients developed 13 deep splanchnic thromboses in PV and ET. Finally 
whereas patients with familial PV and ET have a comparable prognosis to 
non-familial MPN, the JAK2(V617F) mutation was associated with a more frequent 
occurrence of thrombosis in the entire population.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcmd.2012.06.004
PMID: 22818858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Clin Ther. 2012 Aug;34(8):1803-14. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.07.002.
Epub  2012 Jul 20.

Cost-effectiveness of varenicline versus bupropion, nicotine-replacement 
therapy, and unaided cessation in Greece.

Athanasakis K(1), Igoumenidis M, Karampli E, Vitsou E, Sykara G, Kyriopoulos J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, National School of Public Health, Athens, 
Greece.

BACKGROUND: Varenicline was designed to relieve symptoms of nicotine withdrawal, 
including cigarette craving, and to block the reinforcing effects of continued 
nicotine use. The cost-effectiveness of varenicline in some countries has not 
been studied.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
varenicline to that of bupropion, nicotine-replacement therapy (NRT), and 
unaided cessation in the Greek health care setting. The analysis takes into 
account a societal security (third-party payer) perspective.
METHODS: To perform the analyses of the benefits of smoking cessation in terms 
of smoking-related morbidity, mortality, and associated medical costs, a Markov 
model was used that simulated the progress of a hypothetical cohort of current 
smokers making a single attempt to quit smoking at the beginning of the 
timeframe of the analysis. The robustness of the results was assessed using a 
series of 1-way sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Varenicline was associated with the potential prevention of 14.1, 14.2, 
and 35.1 additional cases of the 4 smoking-related diseases incorporated into 
the model, per 1000 smokers willing to quit, versus bupropion, NRT, and unaided 
cessation, respectively. Potentially avoided smoking-related deaths with 
varenicline were estimated at 3.24, 3.26, and 7.5 per 1000 quitters versus the 3 
comparators. Varenicline led to a potential gain of 33.78, 33.91, and 83.97 
QALYs per 1000 persons willing to make a quit attempt versus the 3 comparators. 
Varenicline was associated with cost-savings against both active comparators for 
the lifetime horizon. Overall, the cost per additional quitter with varenicline, 
considering only the costs of the smoking-cessation strategy, was €2659 (€1015) 
for a lifetime horizon compared with bupropion (NRT); however, when all direct 
costs were incorporated into the analysis, varenicline was cost-saving.
CONCLUSION: The findings from the present study suggest that, compared with the 
widely used treatment options bupropion and NRT, as well as unaided cessation, 
varenicline may enhance smoking-cessation treatment outcomes while substantially 
reducing the overall costs of smoking to the health care system.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.07.002
PMID: 22818870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Lancet. 2012 Jul 21;380(9838):219-29. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61031-9.

Effect of physical inactivity on major non-communicable diseases worldwide: an 
analysis of burden of disease and life expectancy.

Lee IM(1), Shiroma EJ, Lobelo F, Puska P, Blair SN, Katzmarzyk PT; Lancet 
Physical Activity Series Working Group.

Collaborators: Alkandari JR, Andersen LB, Bauman AE, Blair SN, Brownson RC, Bull 
FC, Craig CL, Ekelund U, Goenka S, Guthold R, Hallal PC, Haskell WL, Heath GW, 
Inoue S, Kahlmeier S, Katzmarzyk PT, Kohl HW 3rd, Lambert EV, Lee IM, Leetongin 
G, Lobelo F, Loos RJ, Marcus B, Martin BW, Owen N, Parra DC, Pratt M, Puska P, 
Ogilvie D, Reis RS, Sallis JF, Sarmiento OL, Wells JC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. ilee@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2012 Jul 21;380(9838):189-90.
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2012 Sep;9(9):492.
    Lancet. 2012 Nov 3;380(9853):1553; author reply 1553-4.
    Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):992-3.
    Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):993.

BACKGROUND: Strong evidence shows that physical inactivity increases the risk of 
many adverse health conditions, including major non-communicable diseases such 
as coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and breast and colon cancers, and 
shortens life expectancy. Because much of the world's population is inactive, 
this link presents a major public health issue. We aimed to quantify the eff ect 
of physical inactivity on these major non-communicable diseases by estimating 
how much disease could be averted if inactive people were to become active and 
to estimate gain in life expectancy at the population level.
METHODS: For our analysis of burden of disease, we calculated population 
attributable fractions (PAFs) associated with physical inactivity using 
conservative assumptions for each of the major non-communicable diseases, by 
country, to estimate how much disease could be averted if physical inactivity 
were eliminated. We used life-table analysis to estimate gains in life 
expectancy of the population.
FINDINGS: Worldwide, we estimate that physical inactivity causes 6% (ranging 
from 3·2% in southeast Asia to 7·8% in the eastern Mediterranean region) of the 
burden of disease from coronary heart disease, 7% (3·9-9·6) of type 2 diabetes, 
10% (5·6-14·1) of breast cancer, and 10% (5·7-13·8) of colon cancer. Inactivity 
causes 9% (range 5·1-12·5) of premature mortality, or more than 5·3 million of 
the 57 million deaths that occurred worldwide in 2008. If inactivity were not 
eliminated, but decreased instead by 10% or 25%, more than 533 000 and more than 
1·3 million deaths, respectively, could be averted every year. We estimated that 
elimination of physical inactivity would increase the life expectancy of the 
world's population by 0·68 (range 0·41-0·95) years.
INTERPRETATION: Physical inactivity has a major health eff ect worldwide. 
Decrease in or removal of this unhealthy behaviour could improve health 
substantially.
FUNDING: None.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61031-9
PMCID: PMC3645500
PMID: 22818936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest We declare that we have no 
conflicts of interest. The findings and conclusions in this report are those of 
the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.


811. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2012 Sep;44(3):252-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2012.06.006.  Epub 2012 Jul 21.

No benefit from carotid intervention in fatal stroke prevention for >80-year-old 
patients.

De Rango P(1), Lenti M, Simonte G, Cieri E, Giordano G, Caso V, Isernia G, Cao 
P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Hospital S.M. Misericordia, 
Loc. S. Andrea delle Fratte, 06134 Perugia, Italy. plderango@gmail.com

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2012 Sep;44(3):260.

BACKGROUND: Invasive management of patients ≥80 years of age with carotid 
stenosis may be questionable. The higher likelihood of stroke needs to be 
balanced with the increased perioperative risk and the reduced life expectancy 
of this ageing population. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 
clinical relevance of carotid stenosis revascularisation in octogenarians.
METHODS: All patients ≥80 years of age who received carotid revascularisation in 
2001-2010 were reviewed for perioperative and 5-year outcomes. The experience 
was comprehensive of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid stenting (CAS) 
performed during the training frame when age was not a contraindication for this 
procedure. Mortality rates were compared to those of octogenarians of the same 
geographical territory according to all-cause and stroke-related mortality 
national statistics datasets.
RESULTS: A total of 348 procedures performed in ≥80-year-old patients (272 
males) were reviewed: 162 (46.6%) were by CAS and 169 (48.6%) were for 
symptomatic disease. Perioperative stroke/death rate was 5.5% and was 
non-significantly higher for symptomatic disease (7.1% vs. 3.9% asymptomatic; p 
= 0.24), after CAS (6.2% vs. 4.8% CEA; p = 0.64) and in females (6.6% vs. 5.1% 
males; p = 0.57). At median follow-up of 36.18 months, 95 deaths and 21 new 
ischaemic strokes (12 fatal) occurred with 5-year Kaplan-Meier freedom from 
stroke of 84.8% (78.7%, symptomatic vs. 90.3% asymptomatic; p = 0.003). 
According to national datasets, in 80-85-year-old resident population 5-year 
mortality was 29.9% (23.4% females, 40.6% males) and ischaemic stroke-related 
mortality was 14.9% (16.8% females, 13.0% males). Corresponding figures from 
treated population showed a 5-year mortality of 49.4%, higher in males (39.5% 
females, 52.5% males) and ischaemic stroke-related mortality of 20.2%, higher in 
females (40.0% females, 15.6% males). Comparing data from the study population 
with residents' figures, ischaemic stroke-related mortality hazard was 
significantly higher in the study females: odds ratio (OR) 3.2, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) 1.16-9.17; p = 0.029 (for males: OR 0.97, 95%CI 0.89-1.10; p = 
0.99).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite perioperative stroke/death risks being lower compared with 
CAS, the benefit of surgical carotid revascularisation in old patients remains 
controversial due to limited life expectancy and high fatality of stroke in this 
ageing population. Invasive treatment of carotid stenosis may not be warranted 
in most patients ≥80 years of age with carotid stenosis, especially when female 
and asymptomatic.

Copyright © 2012 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2012.06.006
PMID: 22819739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. J Spinal Disord Tech. 2012 Oct;25(7):E204-10. doi:
10.1097/BSD.0b013e3182692990.

Cost effectiveness analysis of graft options in spinal fusion surgery using a 
Markov model.

Virk S(1), Sandhu HS, Khan SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, 
USA.

STUDY DESIGN: Statistical decision model.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the most cost-effective graft option in spinal fusion.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Spinal fusion has been shown to be an effective 
technique to treat lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis. There have been 
significant advances in bone graft options to improve outcomes related to spinal 
fusion. RhBMP-2 (RhBMP), iliac crest bone graft (ICBG), local bone alone (LBG), 
demineralized bone matrix with local bone (DBM), local bone with 
corticocancellous allograft chips (CCA) have all been used as graft options. 
There has not been significant research in which graft option is most cost 
effective.
METHODS: A Markov decision model has been created to identify the most 
cost-effective graft option for use in spinal fusion to treat 1-level (L4-L5) 
degenerative spondylolisthesis in a cohort of 60-year-old patients. Costs and 
effectiveness of successful spinal fusion surgery and revision surgery 
associated with each graft option was estimated through published data. The 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) from these surgeries were compared with the 
amount of QALYs associated with living with chronic back pain.
RESULTS: : In the base case, the incremental cost-effective ratio for each graft 
option when compared with living with chronic back pain was $21,308/QALY for 
ICBG, $16,595/QALY for RhBMP, $21,204/QALY for LBG, $21,287/QALY for DBM, and 
$28,153/QALY for CCA. Therefore, the most cost-effective graft option in the 
base case was RhBMP. Sensitivity analysis shows that RhBMP is not the most 
cost-effective option if the revision rate is significantly raised. If the cost 
of treatment with RhBMP rises >$42,250 then LBG becomes the likely 
cost-effective treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: RhBMP is the most cost-effective graft option for L4-L5 fusion for 
degenerative spondylolisthesis largely due to the reduced rate of revision spine 
surgery. The increased upfront cost and list of complications associated with 
RhBMP is offset by the reduced rate of revision surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/BSD.0b013e3182692990
PMID: 22820278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Age Ageing. 2012 Sep;41(5):677-81. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afs087. Epub 2012 Jul
20.

Body composition and mortality risk in later life.

Toss F(1), Wiklund P, Nordström P, Nordström A.

Author information:
(1)Sports Medicine - Department of Surgical and Perioperative Sciences, Umeå, 
Sweden. fredrik.toss@idrott.umu.se

BACKGROUND: body mass index is used widely to define overweight and obesity. 
Both high and low body mass indices are associated with increased mortality risk 
during middle age, but the relationship is less clear in later life. Thus, 
studies on the relationships between other aspects of body composition and 
mortality among older subjects are needed.
OBJECTIVE: to investigate associations between different aspects of body 
composition and mortality in older people.
METHODS: the study population comprised 921 participants aged ≥65 years who 
underwent dual-energy X-ray (DXA) absorptiometric examination at the Sports 
Medicine Unit, Umeå University. The main reason for admission was clinical 
suspicion of osteoporosis. Total, abdominal and gynoid fat masses and lean body 
mass were measured by DXA absorptiometry at baseline, and the cohort was 
followed (mean duration, 9.2 years) for mortality events.
RESULTS: during follow-up, 397 participants died. Lean mass was associated 
negatively with mortality in men and women (P < 0.001). Total fat mass showed a 
U-shaped association with mortality in men (P < 0.01) and a negative association 
in women (P < 0.01). A higher ratio of abdominal to gynoid fat mass increased 
mortality risk in women (P = 0.04), but not in men (P = 0.91).
CONCLUSIONS: lean mass is associated strongly with survival in older subjects. 
Greater fat mass is protective in older women, whereas very low or very high fat 
mass increases the risk of death in men. Further research is needed to better 
understand the mechanisms underlying these associations.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs087
PMID: 22820447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Mol Neurobiol. 2012 Aug;46(1):194-204. doi: 10.1007/s12035-012-8300-y. Epub
2012  Jul 22.

Peripheral mitochondrial dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease: focus on 
lymphocytes.

Leuner K(1), Schulz K, Schütt T, Pantel J, Prvulovic D, Rhein V, Savaskan E, 
Czech C, Eckert A, Müller WE.

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Molecular Pharmacy, Erlangen University, Erlangen, Germany.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive neurodegenerative 
disease. Today, AD affects millions of people worldwide and the number of AD 
cases will increase with increased life expectancy. The AD brain is marked by 
severe neurodegeneration like the loss of synapses and neurons, atrophy and 
depletion of neurotransmitter systems in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. 
Recent findings suggest that these pathological changes are causally induced by 
mitochondrial dysfunction and increased oxidative stress. These changes are not 
only observed in the brain of AD patients but also in the periphery. In this 
review, we discuss the potential role of elevated apoptosis, increased oxidative 
stress and especially mitochondrial dysfunction as peripheral markers for the 
detection of AD in blood cells especially in lymphocytes. We discuss recent not 
otherwise published findings on the level of complex activities of the 
respiratory chain comprising mitochondrial respiration and the mitochondrial 
membrane potential (MMP). We obtained decreased basal MMP levels in lymphocytes 
from AD patients as well as enhanced sensitivity to different complex inhibitors 
of the respiratory chain. These changes are in line with mitochondrial defects 
obtained in AD cell and animal models, and in post-mortem AD tissue. 
Importantly, these mitochondrial alterations where not only found in AD patients 
but also in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). These new findings 
point to a relevance of mitochondrial function as an early peripheral marker for 
the detection of AD and MCI.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-012-8300-y
PMID: 22821186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Stroke. 2012 Sep;43(9):2408-16. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.112.661355. Epub 2012
Jul  19.

Costs and cost-effectiveness of carotid stenting versus endarterectomy for 
patients at standard surgical risk: results from the Carotid Revascularization 
Endarterectomy Versus Stenting Trial (CREST).

Vilain KR(1), Magnuson EA, Li H, Clark WM, Begg RJ, Sam AD 2nd, Sternbergh WC 
3rd, Weaver FA, Gray WA, Voeks JH, Brott TG, Cohen DJ; CREST Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, 4401 Wornall Road, Kansas City, MO 
64111, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The Carotid Revascularization Endarterectomy versus 
Stenting Trial (CREST) demonstrated similar rates of the primary composite end 
point between carotid artery stenting (CAS) and carotid endarterectomy (CEA), 
although the risk of stroke was higher with CAS, and the risk of myocardial 
infarction was higher with CEA. Given the large number of patients who are 
candidates for these procedures, an understanding of their relative cost and 
cost-effectiveness may have important implications for health care policy and 
treatment guidelines.
METHODS: We performed a formal economic evaluation alongside the CREST trial. 
Costs were estimated from all trial participants over the first year of 
follow-up using a combination of resource use data and hospital billing data. 
Patient-level health use scores were obtained using data from the SF-36. We then 
used a Markov disease-simulation model calibrated to the CREST results to 
project 10-year costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy for the 2 treatment 
groups.
RESULTS: Although initial procedural costs were $1025/patient higher with CAS, 
postprocedure costs and physician costs were lower such that total costs for the 
index hospitalization were similar for the CAS and CEA groups ($15 055 versus 
$14 816; mean difference, $239/patient; 95% CI for difference, -$297 to $775). 
Neither follow-up costs after discharge nor total 1-year costs differed 
significantly. For the CREST population, model-based projections over a 10-year 
time horizon demonstrated that CAS would result in a mean incremental cost of 
$524/patient and a reduction in quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.008 years 
compared with CEA. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis demonstrated that CEA was 
economically attractive at an incremental cost-effectiveness threshold of $50 
000/quality-adjusted life-year gained in 54% of samples, whereas CAS was 
economically attractive in 46%.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite slightly lower in-trial costs and lower rates of stroke 
with CEA compared with CAS, projected 10-year outcomes from this controlled 
clinical trial demonstrate only trivial differences in overall healthcare costs 
and quality-adjusted life expectancy between the 2 strategies. If the CREST 
results can be replicated in clinical practice, these findings suggest that 
factors other than cost-effectiveness should be considered when deciding between 
treatment options for carotid artery stenosis in patients at standard risk for 
surgical complications. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: 
http://clinicaltrials.gov. Unique Identifier: NCT00004732.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.112.661355
PMCID: PMC3555501
PMID: 22821614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. EMBO Mol Med. 2012 Sep;4(9):964-79. doi: 10.1002/emmm.201201255. Epub 2012
Jul  23.

Homotypic cell cannibalism, a cell-death process regulated by the nuclear 
protein 1, opposes to metastasis in pancreatic cancer.

Cano CE(1), Sandí MJ, Hamidi T, Calvo EL, Turrini O, Bartholin L, Loncle C, Secq 
V, Garcia S, Lomberk G, Kroemer G, Urrutia R, Iovanna JL.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U, CRCM, Cell Stress, Marseille, France.

Erratum in
    EMBO Mol Med. 2021 May 7;13(5):e14243.

Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an extremely deadly disease for which all 
treatments available have failed to improve life expectancy significantly. This 
may be explained by the high metastatic potential of PDAC cells, which results 
from their dedifferentiation towards a mesenchymal phenotype. Some PDAC present 
cell-in-cell structures whose origin and significance are currently unknown. We 
show here that cell-in-cells form after homotypic cell cannibalism (HoCC). We 
found PDAC patients whose tumours display HoCC develop less metastasis than 
those without. In vitro, HoCC was promoted by inactivation of the nuclear 
protein 1 (Nupr1), and was enhanced by treatment with transforming growth factor 
β. HoCC ends with death of PDAC cells, consistent with a metastasis suppressor 
role for this phenomenon. Hence, our data indicates a protective role for HoCC 
in PDAC and identifies Nupr1 as a molecular regulator of this process.

Copyright © 2012 EMBO Molecular Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/emmm.201201255
PMCID: PMC3491828
PMID: 22821859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2012 Aug;1263:1-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06670.x.
 Epub 2012 Jul 23.

Development of the IL-12/23 antagonist ustekinumab in psoriasis: past, present, 
and future perspectives--an update.

Yeilding N(1), Szapary P, Brodmerkel C, Benson J, Plotnick M, Zhou H, Goyal K, 
Schenkel B, Giles-Komar J, Mascelli MA, Guzzo C.

Author information:
(1)Janssen Research & Development, LLC, Spring House, Pennsylvania 19477, USA. 
nyeildin@its.jnj.com

Since the original publication of the article "Development of the IL-12/23 
antagonist ustekinumab in psoriasis: Past, present and future perspectives" in 
March 2011 (see Appendix),(1) there have been several new publications and 
developments of note. A number of new reports from the ustekinumab psoriasis 
clinical development program have been published. The analysis of efficacy and 
safety in the PHOENIX 1 long-term extension demonstrated that continuous stable 
maintenance dosing of ustekinumab was generally well tolerated and sustained 
durable efficacy through up to three years of treatment.(2) Pooled safety data 
from the phase 2 and phase 3 global trials showed that the safety profile of 
long-term continuous ustekinumab treatment through up to three years(3,4) and 
four years(5) of follow-up was favorable and comparable to what has been 
reported previously in the shorter-term ustekinumab psoriasis studies.(6-8) This 
represents the greatest exposure and longest follow-up of psoriasis patients 
treated with a biologic published to date. Additional phase 3 trials in Asian 
populations demonstrated similar high levels of efficacy and favorable safety 
profiles in Japanese,(9,10) Korean,(11,12) and Taiwanese(11,12) patients as 
those observed in trials conducted in mostly White populations in North America 
and Europe.(6-8) These data support the positive benefit:risk profile and 
consistency of response to ustekinumab over years of usage, and in multiple 
ethnic groups. Results from up to five years of treatment with ustekinumab in 
the long-term extensions of the phase 3 trials, and the efficacy, safety, and 
effect on quality of life in Chinese patients will be available in 2012. In 
addition to clinical trials of ustekinumab for the treatment of psoriasis, 
24-week data from one phase 3 study of ustekinumab for the treatment of 
psoriatic arthritis has recently been presented(13) and another study is 
ongoing. A Phase 2b trial in Crohn's disease has also been presented,(14) and 
three phase 3 studies in Crohn's disease are currently in progress.

© 2012 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2012.06670.x
PMID: 22823582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Trials. 2012 Jul 23;13:114. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-13-114.

Assessing the effect of high-repetitive single limb exercises (HRSLE) on 
exercise capacity and quality of life in patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD): study protocol for randomized controlled trial.

Nyberg A(1), Lindström B, Wadell K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy, Umeå 
University, Umeå 90187, Sweden. andre.nyberg@physiother.umu.se

BACKGROUND: Single-limb knee extension exercises have been found to be effective 
at improving lower extremity exercise capacity in patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Since the positive local physiological 
effects of exercise training only occur in the engaged muscle(s), should upper 
extremity muscles also be included to determine the effect of single limb 
exercises in COPD patients.
TRIAL DESIGN: a prospective, assessor-blind, block randomized controlled, 
parallel-group multicenter trial.
PARTICIPANTS: stage II-IV COPD patients, > 40 years of age, ex-smokers, with 
stable medical treatment will be included starting May 2011. Recruitment at 
three locations in Sweden.
INTERVENTIONS: 1) high-repetitive single limb exercise (HRSLE) training with 
elastic bands, 60 minutes, three times/week for 8 weeks combined with four 
sessions of 60 minutes patient education, or 2) the same patient education 
alone.
OUTCOMES: Primary: determine the effects of HRSLE on local muscle endurance 
capacity (measured as meters walked during 6-minute walk test and rings moved on 
6-minute ring and pegboard test) and quality of life (measured as change on the 
Swedish version of the Chronic Respiratory Disease Questionnaire). Secondary: 
effects on maximal strength, muscular endurance, dyspnea, self-efficacy, anxiety 
and depression. The relationship between changes in health-related variables and 
changes in exercise capacity, sex-related differences in training effects, 
feasibility of the program, strategies to determine adequate starting resistance 
and provide accurate resistance for each involved movement and the relationship 
between muscle fatigue and dyspnea in the different exercise tests will also be 
analyzed. Randomization: performed by a person independent of the recruitment 
process and using a computer random number generator. Stratification by center 
and gender with a 1:1 allocation to the intervention or control using random 
block sizes. Blinding: all outcome assessors will be blinded to group 
assignment.
DISCUSSION: The results of this project will contribute to increase the body of 
knowledge regarding COPD and HRSLE.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-13-114
PMCID: PMC3443039
PMID: 22823966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Arch Intern Med. 2012 Jul 23;172(14):1110-1. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2012.2038.

A different perspective regarding prostate-specific antigen testing.

Casner PR.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2012 Jul 23;172(14):1111.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2012 Feb 27;172(4):311.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2012.2038
PMID: 22825064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Arch Intern Med. 2012 Jul 23;172(14):1111. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2012.2637.

A different perspective regarding prostate-specific antigen testing: in reply.

Grady D, Redberg RF.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2012 Jul 23;172(14):1110-1.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2012.2637
PMID: 22825065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2012 Oct;25(5):537-45. doi:
10.1097/QCO.0b013e328356aeba.

The public health impact of food-related illness.

O'Brien SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)National Consortium for Zoonosis Research, University of Liverpool Institute 
of Infection and Global Health, Neston, South Wirral, UK. 
s.j.obrien@liverpool.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to provide an update on the 
public health impact of food-related illness in light of recent high-profile 
outbreaks and advances in the methodology to estimate illness burden. It 
includes mainly literature from high-income countries, as burden of illness 
estimations have been focussed in these countries.
RECENT FINDINGS: The public health burden of food-related illness is very high, 
no matter what method is used to measure it. Outbreaks provide only a partial 
insight because they represent a small proportion of all cases of food-related 
illness. Recent outbreaks have demonstrated a very wide variety of contaminated 
food vehicles and illustrated the challenges in investigations when the 
contaminated foodstuff is an ingredient of many other food items.
SUMMARY: Outbreaks will continue to challenge public health responses so that 
maintaining capacity to respond rapidly is crucial. Technological advances, such 
as whole genome sequencing, pave the way for identifying food-related illness 
much more rapidly than at present. There is a need to improve diagnostic yield 
in clinical laboratories and culturing organisms will remain important. Perhaps 
one of the greatest challenges, though, is to maintain the interest and support 
of the public when investigating food-related illness.

DOI: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e328356aeba
PMID: 22825290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Stat Med. 2012 Dec 10;31(28):3444-66. doi: 10.1002/sim.5359. Epub 2012 Jul
24.

A transition model for quality-of-life data with non-ignorable non-monotone 
missing data.

Liao K(1), Freres DR, Troxel AB.

Author information:
(1)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104, USA. kliao@mail.med.upenn.edu

In this paper, we consider a full likelihood method to analyze continuous 
longitudinal responses with non-ignorable non-monotone missing data. We consider 
a transition probability model for the missingness mechanism. A first-order 
Markov dependence structure is assumed for both the missingness mechanism and 
observed data. This process fits the natural data structure in the longitudinal 
framework. Our main interest is in estimating the parameters of the marginal 
model and evaluating the missing-at-random assumption in the Effects of Public 
Information Study, a cancer-related study recently conducted at the University 
of Pennsylvania. We also present a simulation study to assess the performance of 
the model.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.5359
PMID: 22826030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Blood. 2012 Sep 13;120(11):2195-202. doi: 10.1182/blood-2012-02-409821. Epub
 2012 Jul 23.

Pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma: trade-offs between short- and long-term mortality 
risks.

Yeh JM(1), Diller L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA. jyeh@hsph.harvard.edu

As pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) survival rates approach > 95%, treatment 
decisions are increasingly based on minimizing late effects. Using a model-based 
approach, we explored whether the addition of radiotherapy contributes to 
improved overall long-term survival. We developed a state-transition model to 
simulate the lifetime HL clinical course, and we compared 2 treatment 
strategies: chemotherapy alone (CT) and chemoradiotherapy (CRT). Data on HL 
relapse, late recurrence, and excess second cancer and cardiac late-effects 
mortality were estimated from the published literature and databases. Outcomes 
included conditional life expectancy, cause-specific mortality, and proportion 
alive at age 50. For a hypothetical cohort of HL patients (diagnosis age 15), 
conditional life expectancy was 57.2 years with CT compared with 56.4 years with 
CRT. Estimated lifetime HL mortality risk was 3.6% with CT versus 2.2% with CRT. 
In contrast, combined risk of excess late-effects mortality was lower for CT 
(1.8% vs 7.4% with CRT). Among those alive at age 50, only 9.2% of those 
initially treated with CT were at risk for radiation-related late effects (100% 
for CRT). Initial treatment with CT may be associated with longer average 
per-person life expectancy. These results support the need for careful 
consideration of the risk-benefit profile of radiation as frontline therapy in 
pediatric patients.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2012-02-409821
PMCID: PMC3447778
PMID: 22826564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Pan Afr Med J. 2012;12:13. Epub 2012 May 23.

Cancer in Angola, resources and strategy for its control.

Lopes LV(1), Conceição AV, Oliveira JB, Tavares A, Domingos C, Santos LL.

Author information:
(1)Sagrada Esperança Clinic, Angola.

BACKGROUND: Cancer is an increasingly important health problem in Africa. The 
number of cancer cases in this region could double, ranging between 700 000 and 
1 600 000 new cases in 2030. The mortality rate is higher than 80% and is 
explained, mainly, by a lack of early detection, diagnostics and treatment 
resources. In Angola, about 7,000 patients die of cancer every year.
METHODS: Data were derived from open-ended interviews conducted in 2010-11 with 
health authorities, clinicians, nurses and Administration of Hospitals. 
According Angola epidemiological data, results of interviews and international 
published advocacy for cancer control we develop a potential strategy for its 
control. The objectives are to identify existing resources for cancer control 
and describe the needs thereto, in order to establish an oncological program to 
guide the development of Angola cancer control strategies.
RESULTS: Malaria remains the leading cause of illness and death in Angola, and 
other communicable diseases remain a public health problem. However, 9 000 new 
cases of cancer are diagnosed each year.The most common types of cancer are: 
cancer of the cervix, breast, prostate, esophagus, stomach and head and neck, as 
well as cancers with infectious origin, such as Kaposi's sarcoma and liver and 
bladder cancer. The foundation for developing national cancer control strategies 
includes: oncological data; investment and training; identifying and removing 
barriers; guidance and protection of the patient. Angolan National Cancer 
Centre, Sagrada Esperança Clinic and Girassol Clinic are now developing a cancer 
program.
CONCLUSION: Improving the economic situation of Angola creates conditions for an 
increase in life expectancy which in itself is associated with an increased risk 
of oncological diseases. On the other hand, infectious diseases, associated with 
the risk of malignant tumors, are endemic. Thus, an increase in patients with 
malignant disease is expected. A plan is therefore necessary to organize the 
response to this old but less visible nosologic situation.

PMCID: PMC3396859
PMID: 22826737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Ther Deliv. 2011 Apr;2(4):461-9. doi: 10.4155/tde.11.17.

Recent advances in fetal gene therapy.

Buckley SM(1), Rahim AA, Chan JK, David AL, Peebles DM, Coutelle C, Waddingtont 
SN.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Women's Health, University College London, 86-96 Chenies Mews, 
London, UK.

Over the first decade of this new millennium gene therapy has demonstrated clear 
clinical benefits in several diseases for which conventional medicine offers no 
treatment. Clinical trials of gene therapy for single gene disorders have 
recruited predominantly young patients since older subjects may have suffered 
irrevocablepathological changes or may not be available because the disease is 
lethal relatively early in life. The concept of fetal gene therapy is an 
extension of this principle in that diseases in which irreversible changes occur 
at or beforebirth can be prevented by gene supplementation or repair in the 
fetus or associated maternal tissues. This article ccnsiders the enthusiasm and 
skepticism held for fetal gene therapy and its potential for clinical 
application. It coversa spectrum of candidate diseases for fetal gene therapy 
including Pompe disease, Gaucher disease, thalassemia, congenital protein C 
deficiency and cystic fibrosis. It outlines successful and not-so-successful 
examples of fetal gene therapy in animal models. Finally the application and 
potential of fetal gene transfer as a fundamental research tool for 
developmental biology and generation of somatic transgenic animals is surveyed.

DOI: 10.4155/tde.11.17
PMID: 22826854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Health Econ Rev. 2011 Jul 20;1(1):2. doi: 10.1186/2191-1991-1-2.

Flat-of-the-curve medicine: a new perspective on the production of health.

Schoder J(1), Zweifel P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Zurich, Hottingerstrasse 10, CH-8032 
Zurich, Switzerland. johannes.schoder@econ.uzh.ch.

Health economists have studied the determinants of the expected value of health 
status as a function of medical and non-medical inputs, often finding small 
marginal effects of the former. However, medical inputs may have an additional 
benefit in the form of a reduced variability of health status. Using the 
standard deviation of life expectancy in 24 OECD countries between 1960 and 
2005, a 10 percent increase of health care expenditure is associated with a 
decrease of an estimated 0.42 percent. Willingness to pay for such a reduction 
of uncertainty may well exceed the extra health care expenditure in the United 
States and Switzerland. This implies that even in these two countries with very 
high health care expenditure per capita, flat-of-the-curve medicine need not be 
wasteful.JEL-Classification: I12, J10.

DOI: 10.1186/2191-1991-1-2
PMCID: PMC3395042
PMID: 22828160


827. Health Econ Rev. 2012 Apr 5;2(1):6. doi: 10.1186/2191-1991-2-6.

Who gets a mammogram amongst European women aged 50-69 years?

Wuebker A(1).

Author information:
(1). ansgar.wuebker@uni-wh.de.

On the basis of the Survey of Health, Ageing, and Retirement (SHARE), we analyse 
the determinants of who engages in mammography screening focusing on European 
women aged 50-69 years. A special emphasis is put on the measurement error of 
subjective life expectancy and on the measurement and impact of physician 
quality. Our main findings are that physician quality, better education, having 
a partner, younger age and better health are associated with higher rates of 
receipt. The impact of subjective life expectancy on screening decision 
substantially increases after taking measurement error into account.
JEL CLASSIFICATION: C 36, I 11, I 18.

DOI: 10.1186/2191-1991-2-6
PMCID: PMC3402934
PMID: 22828268


828. Pain Physician. 2012 Jul-Aug;15(4):297-302.

Removal of a vertebral metastatic tumor compressing the spinal nerve roots via a 
single-port, transforaminal, endoscopic approach under monitored anesthesia 
care.

Joo YC(1), Ok WK, Baik SH, Kim HJ, Kwon OS, Kim KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia and Pain Medicine, School of Medicine, Pusan 
National University Korea.

Spinal cord or nerve root compression from an epidural metastasis occurs in 
5-10% of patients with cancer and in up to 40% of patients with preexisting 
nonspinal bone metastases. Most metastatic spine diseases arise from the 
vertebral column, with the posterior half of the vertebral body being the most 
common initial focus, and/or the paravertebral region, tracking along the spinal 
nerves to enter the spinal column via the intervertebral foramina. An 
82-year-old man diagnosed with sigmoid colon cancer and liver metastases 
experienced intractable pain described as being like an electric shock on the 
right T11 dermatome. Imaging studies revealed a huge metastatic mass destroying 
the right posterior T11 body and pedicle and compressing the right posterior 
spinal cord and nerve roots. Even after using neuropathic medication and a 
neural blockade, the extreme paroxysmal pain continued. Considering his elderly, 
debilitated state and life expectancy, removal of the vertebral metastatic tumor 
compressing the spinal nerve roots via a single-port, transforaminal, endoscopic 
approach and percutaneous vertebroplasty (PVP) under monitored anesthetic care 
(MAC), rather than 3-port endoscopic surgery and corpectomy with or without 
fusion under general anesthesia with lung deflation, was decided upon and 
scheduled prior to radiotherapy. A needle was placed into the intervertebral 
foramen under fluoroscopy in the same manner as a transforaminal epidural block 
at T11. A guidewire was inserted into the needle after the needle stylet had 
been removed. An obturator dilator was inserted over the guidewire, and a 
working sleeve was inserted over the dilator. After the dilator was removed, a 
spinal endoscope with a 2.7 mm working channel was placed over the guidewire. 
Careful removal of the tumor emboli during verbal interaction with the patient 
was performed under MAC using dexmedetomidine, fentanyl, and ketorolac. PVP at 
T11 was performed through the right osteolytic pedicle. The paroxysmal pain 
disappeared immediately after the operation without any complications. Removal 
of a vertebral metastatic tumor compressing the spinal nerve roots via a 
single-port, transforaminal, endoscopic approach under monitored anesthesia care 
without lung deflation may be an effective and safe modality for minimally 
invasive pain management of a single-level spinal tumor metastasis causing 
intractable radicular pain in patients with cancer who have generalized 
debilitation.

PMID: 22828683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Ann Surg Oncol. 2012 Nov;19(12):3639-40. doi: 10.1245/s10434-012-2517-x.

Cost effectiveness of treatment strategies for primary operable pancreatic head 
adenocarcinoma: do we have more scientific evidence to call for further 
centralization of care?

Gajdos C, Schulick R.

Comment on
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2012 Nov;19(12):3659-67.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-012-2517-x
PMID: 22829004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Ear Nose Throat J. 2012 Jul;91(7):E26-30.

Staphylococcus aureus cavernous sinus thrombosis mimicking complicated fungal 
sinusitis.

Songu M(1), Can N, Onal K, Arslanoglu S, Erdogan N, Kopar A, Ciger E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Dr. Behçet Uz Children's Hospital, Izmir, 
Turkey. songumurat@yahoo.com

Septic cavernous sinus thrombosis is a rare and potentially life-threatening 
complication of infections involving the paranasal sinuses or the middle 
one-third of the face. We report a challenging case of cavernous sinus 
thrombosis to familiarize otolaryngologists with its clinical features, 
diagnosis, and management. The patient was a 45-year-old diabetic woman whose 
signs and symptoms mimicked those of complicated fungal sinusitis. She presented 
with fever, nausea without vomiting, frontal headache, bilateral ptosis and 
swelling, double vision, a partial loss of visual acuity in the left eye, and 
restricted lateral ocular movements. Her Snellen visual acuity had been reduced 
to 8/10 on the right and 6/10 on the left. Radiologic investigation revealed 
cavernous sinus extension of sphenoid sinusitis and a fungus-ball appearance in 
the sphenoid sinus. On the second day of her admission, the patient's vision was 
further reduced to 6/10 on the right and 2/10 on the left. She then underwent 
urgent bilateral anterior and posterior ethmoidectomy and sphenoidectomy. At 
postoperative follow-up, her vision had stabilized at 10/10 bilaterally. At 2 
months after discharge, she exhibited no evidence of abducens nerve palsy, and 
her ocular function had returned to normal. The diagnosis of cavernous sinus 
thrombosis requires a high index of suspicion and confirmation by imaging. The 
favorable outcome in our case was attributable to early diagnosis, prompt 
initiation of appropriate intravenous antibiotic therapy, and surgical drainage 
by the skillful surgical team.

PMID: 22829043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2013 Jan;52(1):5-14. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kes189.  Epub 2012 Jul 23.

Malignancy as a comorbidity in rheumatic diseases.

Turesson C(1), Matteson EL.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, 200 1st Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Patients with systemic autoimmune rheumatic diseases, particularly RA, SLE, SS 
and idiopathic inflammatory myopathies, are at increased risk of developing 
malignancies. Cancer occurrence adds to the disease burden in these patients, 
adversely affecting quality of life and life expectancy. This risk is related to 
the pathobiology of the underlying rheumatic disease including the inflammatory 
burden, immunological defects, and personal and environmental exposure such as 
smoking and some viral infections. Immunomodulatory therapies, especially 
chemotherapeutic agents, are also associated with an increased risk of cancer in 
these conditions. The decision to use immunomodulating therapies in patients 
with rheumatic disease must take into account the disease severity, expectations 
for disease control, comorbidities and host and environmental risk factors for 
cancer. Effective screening and monitoring strategies are important in reducing 
the risk of cancer in these patients.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kes189
PMID: 22829694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. N Engl J Med. 2012 Jul 26;367(4):295-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1206268.

The cost-effectiveness of environmental approaches to disease prevention.

Chokshi DA(1), Farley TA.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp1206268
PMID: 22830461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2012 Oct;12(8):1016-31. doi: 
10.2174/156800912803251207.

Chemotherapy and target therapy in the management of adult high- grade gliomas.

Spinelli GP(1), Miele E, Lo Russo G, Miscusi M, Codacci-Pisanelli G, Petrozza V, 
Papa A, Frati L, Della Rocca C, Gulino A, Tomao S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical-Surgical Science and Biotechnology, University of Rome 
Sapienza, Polo Pontino, Latina, Italy.

Adult high grade gliomas (HGG) are the most frequent and fatal primary central 
nervous system (CNS) tumors. Despite recent advances in the knowledge of the 
pathology and the molecular features of this neoplasm, its prognosis remains 
poor. In the last years temozolomide (TMZ) has dramatically changed the life 
expectancy of these patients: the association of this drug with radiotherapy 
(RT), followed by TMZ alone, is the current standard of care. However, malignant 
gliomas often remain resistant to chemotherapy (CHT). Therefore, preclinical and 
clinical research efforts have been directed on identifying and understanding 
the different mechanisms of chemo-resistance operating in this subset of 
tumors,in order to develop effective strategies to overcome resistance. 
Moreover, the evidence of alterations in signal transduction pathways underlying 
tumor progression, has increased the number of trials investigating molecular 
target agents, such as anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and anti- 
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling. The purpose of this review 
is to point out the current standard of treatment and to explore new available 
target therapies in HGG.

DOI: 10.2174/156800912803251207
PMID: 22831277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Health Technol Assess. 2012 Jul;16(32):1-114. doi: 10.3310/hta16320.

Developing and testing methods for deriving preference-based measures of health 
from condition-specific measures (and other patient-based measures of outcome).

Brazier JE(1), Rowen D, Mavranezouli I, Tsuchiya A, Young T, Yang Y, Barkham M, 
Ibbotson R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Generic preference-based measures such as EQ-5D are widely used to 
estimate quality-adjusted life-years but may not be available or, more 
importantly, appropriate in some medical conditions. Condition-specific 
preference-based measures (CSPBMs) provide an alternative to generic measures 
that may be more relevant in some conditions. This project conducted five 
studies to examine issues in the development and use of CSPBMS: (1) literature 
review of measures; (2) deriving health states values for classifications with 
highly correlated dimensions; (3) impact of condition labelling; (4) impact of 
add-on dimensions; and (5) comparative performance of measures.
DESIGN: (1) Systematic search and literature review; (2) and (5) psychometric 
analyses on existing data; (2), (3) and (4) valuation surveys and survey 
analyses.
SETTING: Valuation surveys conducted using face-to-face interviews in the 
respondents' homes.
PARTICIPANTS: Valuation surveys conducted using representative samples of the UK 
general population.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The project developed a CSPBM CORE-6D and analyses 
AQL-5D, CORE-6D, EORTC-8D, EQ-5D, OAB-5D and SF-6D data.
RESULTS: (1) There was substantial variability in methods used to develop 
CSPBMs. (2) A new method for generating states using Rasch analysis was 
undertaken, which successfully dealt with the problem of highly correlated 
domains. (3) Condition labels affected utility values but this was dependent on 
the condition and severity of the health state. (4) Adding on an extra dimension 
affected health-state values and preference weights for other dimensions. (5) 
The performance of CSPBMs was comparable with that of their parent instrument 
and of generic preference-based measures with better performance for 
discrimination between severity groups.
CONCLUSIONS: CSPBMs have an important role for economic evaluation, for which 
generic measures are inappropriate. However, their use in economic evaluation 
may be compromised by naming the condition; the exclusion of side effects and 
comorbidities; and focusing effects. Whether a reduction in comparability should 
be accepted depends on the extent of any gain in validity and responsiveness. 
This will depend on the condition and measure in question. Research agenda: (1) 
The appropriateness of generic preference-based measures should be examined in 
more conditions (and compared with CSPBMs). (2) Further quantitative and 
qualitative work is requested into the impact of, and reasons for labelling 
effects. (3) Use of add-ons for condition-specific measures (for side effects 
and comorbidities) and as a solution to the limitation of generic measures 
should be explored.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16320
PMID: 22832015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Med Philos. 2012 Aug;37(4):387-404. doi: 10.1093/jmp/jhs023. Epub 2012 Jul
25.
