polymeric constituent, cynomoriitannin, was characterized using spectral and 
chemical data. Results from acid-catalyzed degradation indicated that 
cynomoriitannin is a polymeric proanthocyanidin predominantly composed of 
epicatechin, together with low proportions of epicatechin-3-O-gallate and 
catechin as extension units. The terminal unit was chiefly composed of catechin, 
with an admixture of epicatechin. Size exclusion chromatographic analysis 
demonstrated a mean polymerization degree of 14. Two new phloroglucinol adducts 
(cynomoriitannin-phloroglucinol adducts A and B) obtained by acid-catalyzed 
degradation of cynomoriitannin in the presence of phloroglucinol were 
characterized using spectral analyses. Six oligomeric flavan-3-ols were also 
identified as follows: procyanidin B3, catechin-(6'-8)-catechin, 
catechin-(6'-6)-catechin, epicatechin-(4β-8)- epicatechin-(4β-8)-catechin, 
epicatechin-(4β-6)-epicatechin-(4β-8)-catechin, and arecatannin A1, 
respectively. These flavan-3-ols were isolated from C. songaricum. This is the 
first time that this procedure has been described. The antibacterial activity of 
the fractions and constituents was tested against methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The crude acetone-water (7:3) extract had moderate 
activity against MRSA. Cynomoriitannin was the most effective of the plant 
constituents against MRSA.

DOI: 10.1021/jf301621e
PMID: 22747497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. World J Surg Oncol. 2012 Jun 30;10:130. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-10-130.

Long-term survival from adenocarcinoma of the esophagus after transthoracic and 
transhiatal esophagectomy.

Ovrebo KK(1), Lie SA, Laerum OD, Svanes K, Viste A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen 5021, Norway. 
kkovrebo@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The effects of transthoracic or transhiatal esophagectomy on the 
long-term survival of patients who had adenocarcinoma of the esophagus were 
compared, as were factors applicable in preoperative stratification of patient 
treatment.
METHODS: A cohort of 147 consecutive patients with adenocarcinoma of the 
esophagus was evaluated for esophagectomy between 1984 and 2000. The patients 
were followed prospectively and observed survival rates of patients with a 
transthoracic or transhiatal approach to esophagectomy were compared by 
standardized mortality ratio (SMR) and relative mortality ratio (RMR) using the 
expected survival of a matched Norwegian population.
RESULTS: A R0 resection was performed by transthoracic (n = 33) or a transhiatal 
(n = 55) esophagectomy in 88 (60%) patients with a median age of 61 (range: 
35-77) and 70 (42-88) years, respectively (P <0.001). Tumor stages and other 
possible risk factors were similar in the two groups. Transthoracic or 
transhiatal esophagectomy resulted in a median survival time of 20.5 (95% 
confidence interval (CI): 10.4-57.6) and 16.4 (10.6-28.7) months, respectively. 
The respective survival rates were 31.2% and 27.8% by 5 years, and 21.3% and 
16.6% by 10 years with an overall RMR of 1.14 (P = 0.63). Median survival time 
in the absence or presence of lymph node metastases was 74.0 (95% CI: 
17.5-166.4) and 10.7 (7.9-14.9) months. The corresponding survival rates by 10 
years with non-involved or involved nodes were 48.9% and 3.8% respectively (RMR 
2.22, P = 0.007). Patients with a pT1-tumor were few and the survival rate was 
not very different from that of the general population (SMR = 1.7, 95% CI: 
0.7-4.1). The median survival time of patients with a pT2-tumor was 30.4 (95% 
CI: 9.0-142) months and with a pT3-tumor 14 (9.2-16.4) months. The survival 
rates by 10 years among patients with a pT1 tumor were 57.0% (95% CI: 
14.9-78.9), pT2 33.3% (11.8-52.2), and pT3 7.1% (1.9-15.5). The relative 
mortality for T3 stages compared to T1 stages was statistically significant (RMR 
= 3.22, P = 0.024).
CONCLUSION: Transthoracic and transhiatal esophagectomy are both effective 
approaches for treatment of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and survival of more 
than 10 years can be expected without adjuvant chemotherapy. However, increasing 
depth of tumor invasion and lymph node metastases reduce life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-10-130
PMCID: PMC3476969
PMID: 22747995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Lancet Neurol. 2012 Aug;11(8):669-78. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70142-4.
Epub  2012 Jun 28.

Cerebral PET with florbetapir compared with neuropathology at autopsy for 
detection of neuritic amyloid-β plaques: a prospective cohort study.

Clark CM(1), Pontecorvo MJ, Beach TG, Bedell BJ, Coleman RE, Doraiswamy PM, 
Fleisher AS, Reiman EM, Sabbagh MN, Sadowsky CH, Schneider JA, Arora A, 
Carpenter AP, Flitter ML, Joshi AD, Krautkramer MJ, Lu M, Mintun MA, Skovronsky 
DM; AV-45-A16 Study Group.

Collaborators: Agronin M, Gamez JE, Sicuro F, Foley CJ, Ganey JB Jr, Patel M, 
Roudachevski E, Schaerf FW, Waseem MF, Moore NC, Pahl JJ, Schwartz RL, Magsino 
ME, Duara R, Sabbagh M, Holub RF, Farmer M, Spicer K, Fleisher A, Kawas C, 
Coleman RE, Sadowsky CH.

Author information:
(1)Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Erratum in
    Lancet Neurol. 2012 Aug;11(8):658.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2012 Aug;11(8):652-3.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Sep;8(9):471.

BACKGROUND: Results of previous studies have shown associations between PET 
imaging of amyloid plaques and amyloid-β pathology measured at autopsy. However, 
these studies were small and not designed to prospectively measure sensitivity 
or specificity of amyloid PET imaging against a reference standard. We therefore 
prospectively compared the sensitivity and specificity of amyloid PET imaging 
with neuropathology at autopsy.
METHODS: This study was an extension of our previous imaging-to-autopsy study of 
participants recruited at 22 centres in the USA who had a life expectancy of 
less than 6 months at enrolment. Participants had autopsy within 2 years of PET 
imaging with florbetapir ((18)F). For one of the primary analyses, the 
interpretation of the florbetapir scans (majority interpretation of five nuclear 
medicine physicians, who classified each scan as amyloid positive or amyloid 
negative) was compared with amyloid pathology (assessed according to the 
Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease standards, and 
classed as amyloid positive for moderate or frequent plaques or amyloid negative 
for no or sparse plaques); correlation of the image analysis results with 
amyloid burden was tested as a coprimary endpoint. Correlation, sensitivity, and 
specificity analyses were also done in the subset of participants who had 
autopsy within 1 year of imaging as secondary endpoints. The study is registered 
with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT 01447719 (original study NCT 00857415).
FINDINGS: We included 59 participants (aged 47-103 years; cognitive status 
ranging from normal to advanced dementia). The sensitivity and specificity of 
florbetapir PET imaging for detection of moderate to frequent plaques were 92% 
(36 of 39; 95% CI 78-98) and 100% (20 of 20; 80-100%), respectively, in people 
who had autopsy within 2 years of PET imaging, and 96% (27 of 28; 80-100%) and 
100% (18 of 18; 78-100%), respectively, for those who had autopsy within 1 year. 
Amyloid assessed semiquantitatively with florbetapir PET was correlated with the 
post-mortem amyloid burden in the participants who had an autopsy within 2 years 
(Spearman ρ=0·76; p<0·0001) and within 12 months between imaging and autopsy 
(0·79; p<0·0001).
INTERPRETATION: The results of this study validate the binary visual reading 
method approved in the USA for clinical use with florbetapir and suggest that 
florbetapir could be used to distinguish individuals with no or sparse amyloid 
plaques from those with moderate to frequent plaques. Additional research is 
needed to understand the prognostic implications of moderate to frequent plaque 
density.
FUNDING: Avid Radiopharmaceuticals.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70142-4
PMID: 22749065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. FEBS Lett. 2012 Sep 21;586(19):3166-71. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2012.06.028.
Epub  2012 Jun 27.

PinX1 is involved in telomerase recruitment and regulates telomerase function by 
mediating its localization.

Cheung DH(1), Kung HF, Huang JJ, Shaw PC.

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry Programme, School of Life Sciences and Centre for Protein 
Science and Crystallography, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, 
Hong Kong, China.

Telomerase recruitment to telomere is the prerequisite for telomere extension, 
but the proteins involved in this process are still largely unknown. PinX1 is a 
telomerase inhibitor and has been implicated in telomere maintenance. Silencing 
of PinX1 significantly reduced the localization of telomerase to telomere during 
mid-late S phase, suggesting the involvement of PinX1 in the cell 
cycle-dependent trafficking of hTERT to telomere. We also revealed that PinX1 
mediated the chromosomal localization of hTERT during anaphase. This study 
revealed the role of PinX1 in telomerase function regulation by mediating its 
localization inside cells.

Copyright © 2012 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2012.06.028
PMID: 22749911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Clin Calcium. 2012 Jul;22(7):1000-7.

[Kidney and bone update : the 5-year history and future of CKD-MBD. Disorders of 
musculoskeletal system in CKD ; bone fracture and periarticular calcification].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamada S(1), Taniguchi M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Internal Medicine, Fukuoka Dental College, Japan.

Chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD) affects life 
expectancy through vascular calcification, and impairs patient's activity of 
daily living (ADL) and quality of life (QOL) through bone fracture and 
periarticular calcification. In CKD patients, vitamin D deficiency and secondary 
hyperparathyroidism impairs bone strength, and muscle dysfunction related to 
vitamin D deficiency also causes easy fall, leading to the high risk of bone 
fracture. Bone fracture not only aggravates ADL and QOL but increases the risk 
of mortality. Periarticular calcification such as tumoral calcinosis in relation 
to CKD-MBD causes restricted range of articular motion, leading to the 
deterioration of patient's ADL and QOL. Because bone fragility and tumoral 
calcinosis occurs in relation to CKD-MBD, the appropriate management of CKD-MBD 
is madatory.

PMID: 22750932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. J Rheumatol Suppl. 2012 Jul;89:103-5. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.120258.

Pharmacoeconomic issues in psoriatic arthritis.

Olivieri I(1), D'Angelo S, Palazzi C, Padula A, Lubrano E, Mantovani LG.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department of Lucania, San Carlo Hospital, Potenza, Italy. 
ignazioolivieri@tiscalinet.it

Therapies for psoriatic arthritis were inadequate until a short time ago. 
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs are helpful in relieving symptoms but do not 
prevent joint damage. Traditional disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs are used 
to control symptoms, but there is no evidence that they prevent or significantly 
slow the progression of structural damage in peripheral joints. The introduction 
of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) blocking agents has opened new horizons. 
These drugs lessen signs and symptoms of inflammation, enhance functional 
capacity and quality of life, and inhibit structural joint damage. On the other 
hand, TNF-α blockers are very costly and not easily available to all patients, 
whether they rely on a national health system or on private insurance. 
Pharmacoeconomic studies on these drugs so far have shown that they are 
cost-effective on both the musculoskeletal and skin manifestations of psoriatic 
disease, offering good value for money.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.120258
PMID: 22751607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Cleve Clin J Med. 2012 Jul;79(7):457-64. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.79a.11098.

POLST: An improvement over traditional advance directives.

Bomba PA(1), Kemp M, Black JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Excellus BlueCross BlueShield, Rochester, NY, USA. 
Patricia.Bomba@lifethc.com

Physician Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment (POLST) is a process that 
translates a patient's goals for care at the end of life into medical orders 
that follow the patient across care settings. POLST overcomes the limitations of 
traditional advance directives. It enables physicians and other health care 
professionals, through a conversation with a patient or surrogate, to assess and 
convey the wishes of patients with serious life-limiting illness who may have a 
life expectancy of less than 1 year, or of anyone of advanced age interested in 
defining his or her wishes for end-of-life care.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.79a.11098
PMID: 22751627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Diabetes Care. 2012 Aug;35(8):1692-4. doi: 10.2337/dc11-2433. Epub 2012 Jun
29.

Racial disparities in quality-adjusted life-years associated with diabetes and 
visual impairment.

McCollister KE(1), Zheng DD, Fernandez CA, Lee DJ, Lam BL, Arheart KL, Galor A, 
Ocasio M, Muennig P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA. kmccolli@med.miami.edu

OBJECTIVE: Compare differences in health-related quality of life among blacks 
and whites to examine if race, diabetes, and visual impairment (VI) present a 
triple disadvantage in terms of quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Data were analyzed from the 2000-2003 Medical 
Expenditure Panel Survey, a nationally representative survey that contains the 
EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D). The EQ-5D generates health utility values that provide a 
measure of the morbidity associated with various health states, such as having 
moderate or severe problems with mobility. The EQ-5D score can be linked with 
life expectancy data to calculate quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), the 
number of years of optimal health an individual is expected to live. 
Multivariate analyses were conducted to estimate and compare differences in 
QALYs by diabetes status, VI status, and race.
RESULTS: Whites had a higher quality-adjusted life expectancy across all 
diabetes/VI comparisons. Overall, blacks with diabetes and VI had the fewest 
number of QALYs remaining (19.6 years), and whites with no impairment had the 
greatest number of QALYs remaining (31.6 years). Blacks with diabetes only had 
1.7 fewer years of optimal health (fewer QALYs) than whites with diabetes. 
Within individuals with both diabetes and VI, however, this gap more than 
doubled, with blacks experiencing 3.5 fewer QALYs than whites.
CONCLUSIONS: Although efforts to target and reduce racial health disparities 
associated with diabetes appear to be effective, black communities may be 
contributing to a greater overall burden of illness given poorer infrastructure 
and less accommodation for disabilities such as VI.

DOI: 10.2337/dc11-2433
PMCID: PMC3402250
PMID: 22751960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Int Urogynecol J. 2013 Jan;24(1):119-25. doi: 10.1007/s00192-012-1847-3.
Epub  2012 Jun 30.

Managing mesh exposure following vaginal prolapse repair: a decision analysis 
comparing conservative versus surgical treatment.

Skoczylas LC(1), Shepherd JP, Smith KJ, Lowder JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urogynecology, Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and 
Reproductive Sciences, Magee-Womens Hospital, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. lauraskoczylas@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: A decision analysis model was developed comparing 
conservative and surgical treatments in the management of synthetic mesh 
exposure following vaginal prolapse repair. We hypothesized that surgical 
excision would be favored.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model compared initial management with 
conservative versus surgical treatment allowing for the complexities of multiple 
attempts at conservative management and/or surgical mesh excision. Model 
assumptions were obtained from published literature or through surrogate values 
and expert consensus when not available in published resources. Transitions were 
made between Markov states at 6-week intervals and overall utility was compared 
over 2 years. Multiple one-way sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Initial surgical excision was favored, with an average yearly quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) value of 0.947 compared to 0.939 for conservative 
treatment. This difference is less than the published minimally important 
difference (MID) for utility values. One-way sensitivity analyses revealed that 
surgical excision is favored when the probability of being healed with 
conservative therapy is less than 80 % (base case 57.1 %) and when the 
probability of being healed from surgery is greater than 78 % (base case 93.2 
%). Few thresholds confirmed model robustness.
CONCLUSIONS: While our model favored surgical excision over conservative 
treatment in the initial management of mesh exposure following vaginal prolapse 
repair with synthetic mesh, the difference in QALYs between strategies was less 
than the MID. Therefore the strategies are likely similar overall. Individual 
patient characteristics may ultimately drive clinical decision-making for this 
surgical complication.

DOI: 10.1007/s00192-012-1847-3
PMID: 22751991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Z Orthop Unfall. 2012 Sep;150(4):381-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0031-1298531. Epub
2012  Jun 29.

[Long-term efficacy and safety of balloon kyphoplasty for treatment of 
osteoporotic vertebral fractures].

[Article in German]

Bornemann R(1), Deml M, Wilhelm KE, Jansen TR, Wirtz DC, Pflugmacher R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, 
Universitätsklinikum Bonn. rahel.bornemann@googlemail.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the evaluation of treatment protocols was an extension of 
the documentation regarding efficacy, duration of action and safety of balloon 
kyphoplasty. In addition, the data analysis should be used to clarify whether 
differences arise concerning the treatment success, depending on the number 
and/or position of the augmented vertebral bodies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The data of all patients who were admitted and operated 
on for vertebral body fractures between 2004 and 2009 were collected and 
evaluated for this study. The patients were examined pre-operatively and during 
the control visits clinically and radiologically. The intensity of pain was 
recorded on a visual analogue scale (VAS: 0-100 mm). To determine the functional 
limitations the Oswestry questionnaire was used. In addition, the middle and 
anterior heights of the vertebral body and the kyphosis angle were measured. To 
perform the balloon kyphoplasty the Kyphon® system was applied. The findings of 
all patients were documented in order to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
balloon kyphoplasty for up to 3 years and to compare them with regard to the 
differences depending on the number and/or location of vertebral fractures (T = 
1, T > 1, L = 1, L > 1, T + L).
RESULTS: The overall evaluation of all patients (n = 464) in whom a balloon 
kyphoplasty was carried out showed an average improvement in VAS scores by 53 mm 
and the Oswestry scores by 47 percentage points. It was possible to demonstrate 
a significant improvement of the vertebral body height (mean 1.6 mm) and the 
kyphosis angle (1.3 degrees) in long-term controls up to 3 years. When comparing 
the findings in the groups that had been operated on a different number of 
vertebrae and/or at different positions in the spinal region (n = 466) it could 
be proven that the average decrease in pain intensity did not differ in all 5 
groups (> 50 mm). Also for the Oswestry scores the reduction was almost 
comparable in all 5 groups. The radiological findings did not show striking 
differences between the 5 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Balloon kyphoplasty was proven to be a safe and effective 
procedure. Thus, the balloon kyphoplasty in carefully selected patients can 
yield better results than a non-invasive conservative treatment. It contributes 
decisively a better quality of life for the operated patients and diminishes the 
risks of long-lasting treatment with drugs.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1298531
PMID: 22753125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. BMJ Case Rep. 2010 May 13;2010:bcr12.2009.2576. doi:
10.1136/bcr.12.2009.2576.

An unusual case of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).

Javed Q(1), Alam F, Krishna S, Jaganathan G.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Aintree, Psychiatry, Ferndale Unit, Lower Lane, Liverpool 
L9 7AL, UK. drqaser@yahoo.co.uk

A 49-year-old healthy white British female, not previously known to psychiatric 
services, presented with an acute onset of florid psychotic symptoms. Her 
symptoms included visual, auditory and tactile hallucinations as well as 
persecutory delusions. She was started on antipsychotic medication; however, her 
psychotic symptoms did not improve significantly in the first 3 months. Her 
blood tests were normal. Lumbar puncture was performed which was positive for 
protein 14-3-3. A computed tomography scan of the brain showed generalised 
atrophic changes. The history of early visual hallucinations, rapid cognitive 
decline and positive 14-3-3 result was in keeping with the Heidenhain variant of 
sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD). Despite a short life expectancy as 
reported in literature, our patient, who was diagnosed with sCJD more than 
two-and-a-half years ago, is still alive. We therefore believe this is an 
important finding to report.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr.12.2009.2576
PMCID: PMC3047567
PMID: 22753302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. J Public Health (Oxf). 2013 Mar;35(1):32-9. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fds050. Epub
 2012 Jul 2.

Applying economic evaluation to public health interventions: the case of 
interventions to promote physical activity.

Trueman P(1), Anokye NK.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group (HERG), Brunel University, Uxbridge, 
Middlesex UB8 3PH, UK.

BACKGROUND: This paper explores the application of alternative approaches to 
economic evaluation of public health interventions, using a worked example of 
exercise referral schemes (ERSs).
METHODS: Cost-utility (CUA) and cost-consequence analyses (CCA) were used to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of ERSs. For the CUA, evidence was synthesized 
using a decision analytic model that adopts a lifetime horizon and NHS/Personal 
Social Services perspective. Outcomes were expressed as incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). CCA was conducted from a partial-societal 
perspective, including health and non-healthcare costs and benefits. Outcomes 
were reported in natural units, such as cases of strokes or CHD avoided.
RESULTS: Compared with usual care, the incremental cost per QALY of ERS is £20 
876. Based on a cohort of 100 000 individuals, CCA estimates cost of ERS at £22 
million to the healthcare provider and £12 million to participants. The benefits 
of ERS include additional 3900 people becoming physically active, 51 cases of 
CHD avoided, 16 cases of stroke avoided, 86 cases of diabetes avoided and a gain 
of ∼800 QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: CCA might provide greater transparency than CUA in reporting the 
outcomes of public health interventions and have greater resonance with 
stakeholders involved in commissioning these interventions.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fds050
PMCID: PMC3580051
PMID: 22753453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Pediatrics. 2012 Aug;130(2):e380-9. doi: 10.1542/peds.2011-3241. Epub 2012
Jul  2.

Economic evaluation of strategies to reduce sudden cardiac death in young 
athletes.

Schoenbaum M(1), Denchev P, Vitiello B, Kaltman JR.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Mental Health, 6001 Executive Blvd, Room 8225 MSC 9669, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. schoenbaumm@mail.nih.gov

OBJECTIVE: There is controversy about appropriate methods to reduce sudden 
cardiac death (SCD) in young athletes, but there is limited evidence on costs or 
consequences of alternative strategies. The objective of this study was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of adding electrocardiogram (ECG) screening to 
the currently standard practice of preparticipation history and physical 
examination (H&P) to reduce SCD.
METHODS: Decision analysis modeling by using a societal perspective, with annual 
Markov cycles from age 14 until death. Three screening strategies were 
evaluated: (1) H&P, with cardiology referral if abnormal (current standard 
practice); (2) H&P, plus ECG after negative H&P, and cardiology referral if 
either is abnormal; and (3) ECG only, with cardiology referral if abnormal. 
Children identified with SCD-associated cardiac abnormalities were restricted 
from sports and received cardiac treatment. Main outcome measures were costs of 
screening and treatment, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and premature 
deaths averted.
RESULTS: Relative to strategy 1, incremental cost-effectiveness is $68800/QALY 
for strategy 2 and $37700/QALY for strategy 3. Monte Carlo simulation revealed 
the chance of incremental cost-effectiveness compared with strategy 1 was 30% 
for strategy 2 and 66% for strategy 3 (assumed willingness to pay ≤$50000/QALY). 
Compared with strategy 1, strategy 2 averted 131 additional SCDs at $900000 per 
case, and strategy 3 averted 127 SCDs at $600000 per case.
CONCLUSIONS: Under a societal willingness to pay threshold of $50000/QALY, 
adding ECGs to current preparticipation evaluations for athletes is not 
cost-effective, with costs driven largely by false-positive findings.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2011-3241
PMCID: PMC4074613
PMID: 22753553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Psychosom Med. 2012 Jul-Aug;74(6):665-6. doi: 10.1097/PSY.0b013e31825fe211.
Epub  2012 Jun 28.

Beyond interventions: caloric restriction as a scientific model.

Tomiyama AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles, California, 
USA. tomiyama@psych.ucla.edu

Caloric restriction is a major component of most life-style interventions. 
Beyond its use as an intervention tool, caloric restriction can also serve as a 
scientific model to study important research questions. Caloric restriction in 
nonhuman animals can dramatically extend the life span, and this can also be 
tested in humans. In addition to conducting randomized controlled trials of 
caloric restriction, there is much knowledge to be gained by studying already 
existing conditions of very long-term caloric restriction. The Cronies, members 
from the Calorie Restriction Society, are one such model. In addition to 
studying biological markers relevant to aging in the Cronies, we can also study 
them to understand what makes them so successful at long-term eating behavior 
change. This information is invaluable given the difficulties people from the 
general population face in adhering to calorie reduction interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/PSY.0b013e31825fe211
PMID: 22753628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. BMJ. 2012 Jun 29;344:e4474. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e4474.

England spends the least on healthcare but has highest life expectancy, audit of 
UK's four nations shows.

O'Dowd A.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e4474
PMID: 22753884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Bioarchitecture. 2011 Sep 1;1(5):240-244. doi: 10.4161/bioa.18471.

Live-cell imaging of G-actin dynamics using sequential FDAP.

Kiuchi T(1), Nagai T, Ohashi K, Watanabe N, Mizuno K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences; Graduate School of Life Sciences; Tohoku 
University; Sendai, Japan.

Comment in
    Kiuchi T, Nagai T, Ohashi K, Mizuno K. Measurements of spatiotemporal 
changes in G-actin concentration reveal its effect on stimulus-induced actin 
assembly and lamellipodium extension. J Cell Biol. 2011;193:365–80.

Various microscopic techniques have been developed to understand the mechanisms 
that spatiotemporally control actin filament dynamics in live cells. Kinetic 
data on the processes of actin assembly and disassembly on F-actin have been 
accumulated. However, the kinetics of cytoplasmic G-actin, a key determinant for 
actin polymerization, has remained unclear because of a lack of appropriate 
methods to measure the G-actin concentration quantitatively. We have developed 
two new microscopic techniques based on the fluorescence decay after 
photoactivation (FDAP) time-lapse imaging of photoswitchable Dronpa-labeled 
actin. These techniques, sequential FDAP (s-FDAP) and multipoint FDAP, were used 
to measure the time-dependent changes in and spatial distribution of the G-actin 
concentration in live cells. Use of s-FDAP provided data on changes in the 
G-actin concentration with high temporal resolution; these data were useful for 
the model analysis of actin assembly processes in live cells. The s-FDAP 
analysis also provided evidence that the cytoplasmic G-actin concentration 
substantially decreases after cell stimulation and that the extent of 
stimulus-induced actin assembly and cell size extension are linearly correlated 
with the G-actin concentration before cell stimulation. The advantages of using 
s-FDAP and multipoint FDAP to measure spatiotemporal G-actin dynamics and the 
roles of G-actin concentration and ADF/cofilin in stimulus-induced actin 
assembly and lamellipodium extension in live cells are discussed.

DOI: 10.4161/bioa.18471
PMCID: PMC3384577
PMID: 22754616


668. BMC Fam Pract. 2012 Jul 3;13:68. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-68.

Pressure during decision making of continuous sedation in end-of-life situations 
in Dutch general practice.

Blanker MH(1), Koerhuis-Roessink M, Swart SJ, Zuurmond WW, van der Heide A, 
Perez RS, Rietjens JA.

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of 
General Practice, the Netherlands. blanker@belvederelaan.nl

BACKGROUND: Little is known about pressure from patients or relatives on 
physician's decision making of continuous palliative sedation. We aim to 
describe experienced pressure by general practitioners (GPs) in cases of 
continuous sedation after the introduction of the Dutch practice guideline, 
using a questionnaire survey.
METHODS: A sample of 918 Dutch GPs were invited to fill out a questionnaire 
about their last patient under continuous sedation. Cases in which GPs 
experienced pressure from the patient, relatives or other persons were compared 
to those without pressure.
RESULTS: 399 of 918 invite GPs (43%) returned the questionnaire and 250 provided 
detailed information about their most recent case of continuous sedation. 
Forty-one GPs (16%) indicated to have experienced pressure from the patient, 
relatives or colleagues. In GPs younger than 50, guideline knowledge was not 
related to experienced pressure, whereas in older GPs, 15% with and 36% without 
guideline knowledge reported pressure. GPs experienced pressure more often when 
patients had psychological symptoms (compared to physical symptoms only) and 
when patients had a longer estimated life expectancy. A euthanasia request of 
the patient coincided with a higher prevalence of pressure for GPs without, but 
not for GPs with previous experience with euthanasia. GPs who experienced 
pressure had consulted a palliative consultation team more often than GPs who 
did not experience pressure.
CONCLUSION: One in six GPs felt pressure from patients or relatives to start 
sedation. This pressure was related to guideline knowledge, especially in older 
GPs, longer life expectancy and the presence of a euthanasia request, especially 
for GPs without previous experience of euthanasia.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-68
PMCID: PMC3515404
PMID: 22759834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Acupunct Med. 2012 Sep;30(3):182-6. doi: 10.1136/acupmed-2012-010152. Epub
2012  Jul 3.

Inconsistencies in NICE guidance for acupuncture: reanalysis and discussion.

Latimer NR(1), Bhanu AC, Whitehurst DG.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Health Economics and Decision Science, School of 
Health and Related Research, UK n.latimer@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Acupuncture received a positive recommendation in the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) clinical guideline for low 
back pain (LBP). However, no such recommendation was forthcoming in the NICE 
clinical guideline for osteoarthritis (OA). Importantly, the two guidelines 
adopted different treatment comparators in their economic analyses of 
acupuncture; in the LBP guideline 'usual care' was used (with no consideration 
of placebo/sham interventions), whereas 'sham acupuncture' was the comparator in 
the OA guideline.
OBJECTIVE: To analyse the implications of using different control group 
comparators when estimating the cost-effectiveness of acupuncture therapy.
METHODS: The NICE OA economic analysis for acupuncture was replicated using 
'usual care' (ie, no placebo/sham component) as the treatment comparator. A 
'transfer-to-utility' technique was used to transform Western Ontario and 
McMaster Osteoarthritis scores into EQ-5D utility scores to allow 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains to be estimated. QALY estimates were 
combined with direct incremental cost estimates of acupuncture treatment to 
determine incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: When 'usual care' was used as the treatment comparator, ICER point 
estimates were below £20 000 per QALY gained for each acupuncture trial analysed 
in the OA clinical guideline. In the original analysis, using placebo/sham 
acupuncture as the treatment comparator, ICERs were generally above £20 000 per 
QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: The treatment comparator chosen in economic evaluations of 
acupuncture therapy is likely to be a strong determinant of the 
cost-effectiveness results. Different comparators used in the OA and LBP NICE 
guidelines may have led to the divergent recommendations in the guidelines.

DOI: 10.1136/acupmed-2012-010152
PMID: 22759903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Palliat Med. 2013 Apr;27(4):367-74. doi: 10.1177/0269216312451613. Epub 2012
Jul  3.

Revisiting the Palliative Performance Scale: change in scores during disease 
trajectory predicts survival.

Chan EY(1), Wu HY, Chan YH.

Author information:
(1)Nursing Service, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore. eeyuee@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The Palliative Performance Scale (PPS) on admission is a predictor 
of survival. However, it is not highly discriminating for mid-range scores. 'PPS 
Change' between two time points considers the disease trajectory, and may 
improve the scale's utility.
AIM: The aim of this study is to determine if a change in PPS scores between two 
significant time points predicts survival.
DESIGN: This prospective cohort study examined 'Change on Admission', 'Change at 
Week 1', and 'Change at Week 2'. We followed patients until death or 6 months, 
whichever was earlier. Cox regressions were used to determine if the Change 
scores were predictors of survival, adjusting for age, sex, diagnosis category, 
Charlson Index, and Do-Not-Resuscitate order.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: The sample consisted of patients referred to the 
palliative care service.
RESULTS: All three Change scores were independent predictors of survival. The 
greater the change, the poorer the prognosis. At week 1, when compared to 'PPS 
Change ≤ 10%', 'Change 11% -30%' and 'Change > 30%' increased the hazard ratios 
by 1.70 (95% CI 1.10-2.63) and 3.14 (95% CI 1.77-5.59), respectively. At week 2, 
when compared to 'PPS Change ≤ 10%', 'Change 11% -30%' and 'Change > 30%' 
increased the hazard ratios by almost 3- and 8-fold, respectively. The same 
magnitude of Change scores also has higher hazard ratios as patients' 
hospitalization progressed.
CONCLUSIONS: The magnitude of change in PPS score during the disease trajectory 
is associated with one's survival and is a potentially useful prognostication 
tool. Further research is needed to extend on our work.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216312451613
PMID: 22760474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Mol Ther. 2012 Oct;20(10):1844-51. doi: 10.1038/mt.2012.129. Epub 2012 Jul
3.

Long-term survival of the juvenile lethal arginase-deficient mouse with AAV gene 
therapy.

Lee EK(1), Hu C, Bhargava R, Rozengurt N, Stout D, Grody WW, Cederbaum SD, 
Lipshutz GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
California 90095-7054, USA.

Arginase deficiency is characterized by hyperargininemia and infrequent episodes 
of hyperammonemia. Human patients suffer from neurological impairment with 
spasticity, loss of ambulation, seizures, and severe mental and growth 
retardation. In a murine model, onset of the phenotypic abnormality is heralded 
by weight loss beginning around day 15 with death occurring typically by 
postnatal day 17 with hyperargininemia and markedly elevated ammonia. The goal 
of this study was to address the development of a gene therapy approach for 
arginase deficiency beginning in the neonatal period. Lifespan extension, body 
weight, circulating amino acids and ammonia levels were examined as outcome 
parameters after gene therapy with an adeno-associated viral vector expressing 
arginase was administered to mice on the second day of life (DOL). One-hundred 
percent of untreated arginase-deficient mice died by DOL 24, whereas 89% of the 
adeno-associated virus (AAV)-treated arginase deficient mice have survived for 
>8 months. While animals at 8 months demonstrate elevated glutamine levels, 
ammonia is less than three times that of controls and arginine levels are 
normal. These studies are the first to demonstrate that AAV-based therapy for 
arginase deficiency is effective and supports the development of gene therapy 
for this and the other urea cycle disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2012.129
PMCID: PMC3464644
PMID: 22760543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2012;67(6):581-6. doi: 10.6061/clinics/2012(06)06.

Prognostic value of the six-minute walk test in end-stage renal disease life 
expectancy: a prospective cohort study.

Kohl Lde M(1), Signori LU, Ribeiro RA, Silva AM, Moreira PR, Dipp T, Sbruzzi G, 
Lukrafka JL, Plentz RD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology of Rio Grande do Sul, University Foundation of 
Cardiology, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: The six-minute walk test has been widely used to evaluate functional 
capacity and predict mortality in several populations. Thus, the aim of this 
study was to evaluate the prognostic value of the six-minute walk test for the 
life expectancy of end-stage renal disease patients.
METHODS: Patients over 18 years old who underwent hemodialysis for at least six 
months were included. Patients with hemodynamic instability, smoking, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, physical incapacity and acute myocardial stroke 
in the preceding three months were excluded.
RESULTS: Fifty-two patients (54% males; 36+11 years old) were followed for 144 
months. The distance walked in the six-minute walk test was a survival predictor 
for end-stage renal disease patients. In the multivariate analysis, for each 100 
meters walked with a 100-meter increment, the hazard ratio was 0.53, with a 95% 
confidence interval of 0.37-0.74. There was a positive correlation between the 
distance walked in the six-minute walk test and peak oxygen consumption (r = 
0.508). In the multivariate analysis, each year of dialysis treatment 
represented a 10% increase in death probability; in the severity index analysis, 
each point on the scale represented an 11% increase in the death risk.
CONCLUSIONS: We observed that survival increased approximately 5% for every 100 
meters walked in the six-minute walk test, demonstrating that the test is a 
viable option for evaluating the functional capacity in patients with end-stage 
renal disease.

DOI: 10.6061/clinics/2012(06)06
PMCID: PMC3370308
PMID: 22760895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported.


673. BMC Neurosci. 2012 Jul 4;13:78. doi: 10.1186/1471-2202-13-78.

A role for the membrane protein M6 in the Drosophila visual system.

Zappia MP(1), Bernabo G, Billi SC, Frasch AC, Ceriani MF, Brocco MA.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Biotecnológicas Dr, Rodolfo Ugalde, Consejo 
Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Universidad Nacional de 
General San Martín, IIB, INTECH, CONICET-UNSAM, San Martín, Provincia de Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. mpzappia@iib.unsam.edu.ar

BACKGROUND: Members of the proteolipid protein family, including the 
four-transmembrane glycoprotein M6a, are involved in neuronal plasticity in 
mammals. Results from our group previously demonstrated that M6, the only 
proteolipid protein expressed in Drosophila, localizes to the cell membrane in 
follicle cells. M6 loss triggers female sterility, which suggests a role for M6 
in follicular cell remodeling. These results were the basis of the present 
study, which focused on the function and requirements of M6 in the fly nervous 
system.
RESULTS: The present study identified two novel, tissue-regulated M6 isoforms 
with variable N- and C- termini, and showed that M6 is the functional fly 
ortholog of Gpm6a. In the adult brain, the protein was localized to several 
neuropils, such as the optic lobe, the central complex, and the mushroom bodies. 
Interestingly, although reduced M6 levels triggered a mild rough-eye phenotype, 
hypomorphic M6 mutants exhibited a defective response to light.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on its ability to induce filopodium formation we propose that 
M6 is key in cell remodeling processes underlying visual system function. These 
results bring further insight into the role of M6/M6a in biological processes 
involving neuronal plasticity and behavior in flies and mammals.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2202-13-78
PMCID: PMC3438117
PMID: 22762289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. J Med Econ. 2013;16(1):150-9. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.709204. Epub 2012
Jul  19.

Cost-effectiveness of 3-years of adjuvant imatinib in gastrointestinal stromal 
tumors (GIST) in the United States.

Sanon M(1), Taylor DC, Parthan A, Coombs J, Paolantonio M, Sasane M.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Medford, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Recent clinical trial data have demonstrated that 3 years vs 1 year 
of adjuvant imatinib therapy for patients with surgically resected Kit+ 
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST) leads to a significant improvement in 
recurrence-free survival and overall survival. This study assesses the 
cost-effectiveness of treating patients with 3 years vs 1 year of imatinib from 
a US payer's perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to predict GIST recurrence and treatment 
costs. Patients enter the model after surgery and transition among three health 
states: free of recurrence, recurrence, and death. Recurrence, mortality, costs, 
and utilities were derived from clinical trial and published literature. 
Expected costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were estimated and 
discounted at 3%/year. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
conducted.
RESULTS: Patients receiving 3 years of imatinib had higher QALYs (8.53 vs 7.18) 
than those receiving 1 year of imatinib. Total lifetime per-patient cost was 
$302,100 for 3 years vs $217,800 for 1 year of imatinib. Incremental cost 
effectiveness ratio of 3 years vs 1 year of imatinib was $62,600/QALY. Model 
results were sensitive to long-term rate of GIST recurrence (beyond 5 years) and 
cost of imatinib. At a threshold of $100,000/QALY, 3 years vs 1 year of imatinib 
was cost-effective in 100% of simulations.
LIMITATIONS: The model is a simplified representation of disease natural history 
and may not account for all possible health states and complications associated 
with disease. Resource utilization on treatment was estimated using the resource 
use data from previous trials, therefore calculated medical costs might be 
over-estimated compared to the real-world setting.
CONCLUSIONS: Model results suggest that treatment with 3 years vs 1 year of 
imatinib is cost-effective at a $100,000/QALY threshold. Clinical and economic 
results suggest treating surgically resected Kit+ GIST patients with 3 years of 
imatinib would result in improved quality-adjusted survival.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.709204
PMID: 22762291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Breast. 2012 Oct;21(5):629-34. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2012.06.008. Epub 2012
Jul  2.

Radiotherapy as sole adjuvant treatment for older patients with low-risk breast 
cancer.

Walker GA(1), Kaidar-Person O, Kuten A, Morgan DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Nottingham City Hospital, Hucknall Road, 
Nottingham NG5 1PB, United Kingdom. georgiewalker@doctors.org.uk

Partly as a result of screening, increasing numbers of older patients are 
presenting with 'low risk' breast cancer: tumours from which the likelihood of 
breast cancer death is minute; even so, these patients have a measurable risk of 
local recurrence if conservative surgery is not followed by some form of 
adjuvant treatment. However, it must be acknowledged that any such treatment has 
no detectable impact upon survival, and the value of all such interventions must 
be considered in the context of the individual patient's non-cancer life 
expectancy and the complex psychosocial factors that affect older patients. If 
no impact on survival can be expected and the risk of local recurrence is high 
enough to warrant some post-operative treatment, the most powerful agent in this 
respect is radiotherapy. Whilst adjuvant endocrine treatment is becoming 
increasingly accepted as monotherapy in low risk patients, we propose that 
radiotherapy should not be forgotten as an alternative which, with its attendant 
benefits of shorter duration and high compliance, may be more suitable for a 
number of patients.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2012.06.008
PMID: 22763240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Hypertens Res. 2012 Sep;35(9):954-8. doi: 10.1038/hr.2012.86. Epub 2012 Jul
5.

Hypertension and life expectancy among Japanese: NIPPON DATA80.

Turin TC(1), Murakami Y, Miura K, Rumana N, Kita Y, Hayakawa T, Okamura T, 
Okayama A, Ueshima H; NIPPON DATA80/90 Research Group.

Collaborators: Ueshima H, Okayama A, Okamura T, Saitoh S, Sakata K, Hozawa A, 
Hayakawa T, Nakamura Y, Matsumura Y, Nishi N, Okuda N, Izumi T, Ojima T, 
Tamakoshi K, Nakagawa H, Miura K, Ohkubo T, Kita Y, Kadota A, Nakamura Y, 
Yoshita K, Kodama K, Kiyohara Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
turin.chowdhury@ucalgary.ca

Life expectancy (LE) is a measure that describes the health status of a 
population. The few published studies that have examined the impact of 
hypertension on LE were predominantly performed in Western populations. The 
effect of hypertension on LE has not been reported in an Asian population. Thus, 
we examined the impact of hypertension on LE in the Japanese population, which 
has the highest LE worldwide. The abridged life table method was applied to 
calculate the LEs of both normotensive and hypertensive men and women aged 40-85 
years. Hypertensive participants were categorized as having either stage 1 or 
stage 2 hypertension. Age-specific mortality rates across different groups were 
estimated using the person-year method based on the follow-up data from a 
representative Japanese population in a national survey (NIPPON DATA80). The 
proportion of hypertensive patients in the baseline survey was 50.5% for men and 
41.4% for women. The LE of 40-year-old men and women was 41.7 years and 48.7 
years, respectively, in normotensive participants and 39.5 and 45.8 years, 
respectively, in hypertensive participants. The LE difference between 
normotensive and hypertensive participants was 2.2 years for men and 2.9 years 
for women. LE decreased with increasing stages of hypertension. Similar patterns 
of LE, with respect to blood pressure (BP) status, were observed in all index 
ages and for both genders. At the population level, hypertension leads to 
decreased LE and affects both genders similarly. Our findings highlight the 
importance of preventing high BP and the consequences of hypertension in 
Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1038/hr.2012.86
PMID: 22763482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2012 Jul 4;101(14):901-5. doi:
10.1024/1661-8157/a000987.

[Duplication of hospitalizations of nursing home residents from 2007 to 2009--a 
retrospective analysis].

[Article in German]

Croce E(1), Wettstein A.

Author information:
(1)Stadtärztlicher Dienst Zürich.

AIM: To demonstrate why the number of hospitalizations of nursing home residents 
has doubled although several studies have established that hospitalizations do 
not diminish their mortality rate.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of medical databasis from 815 patients of the 
eight nursing homes of Zürich, thereof 180 were hospitalized in 2007, 234 in 
2008 and 401 in 2009. The reasons for a hospitalization have been classified in 
nine categories.
RESULTS: The category "fall with fractures" with a proportion of 29% contributes 
most to the augmentation of hospitalizations, followed by the categories 
"ambiguous condition" with 24% and "improving quality of life" with 17%. 
Hospitalizations for the sustained optimization of quality of life explain 62% 
of the increased hospitalization rate.
CONCLUSION: Nursing home residents are not hospitalized to keep them longer 
alive, but to optimize their quality of life.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a000987
PMID: 22763932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Emerg Med J. 2013 Jul;30(7):532-7. doi: 10.1136/emermed-2012-201267. Epub
2012  Jul 4.

Functional outcomes and quality of life of young adults who survive 
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

Deasy C(1), Bray J, Smith K, Harriss L, Bernard S, Cameron P; VACAR Steering 
Committee.

Author information:
(1)Research and Strategy, Ambulance Victoria, Melbourne, Australia. 
conordeasy@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Evaluating the quality of life of young adult survivors of 
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is important as they are likely to have a 
longer life expectancy than older patients. The aim of this study was to assess 
their functional and quality of life outcomes.
METHODOLOGY: The Victorian Ambulance Cardiac Arrest Registry records were used 
to identify survivors of OHCA that occurred between 2003 and 2008 in the 18-39 
year-old age group. Survivors were administered a telephone questionnaire using 
Short Form (SF-12), EQ-5D and Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended. Cerebral 
Performance Category (CPC) ascertained at hospital discharge from the medical 
record was recorded for the uncontactable survivors.
RESULTS: Of the 106 young adult survivors, five died in the intervening years 
and 45 were not contactable or refused. CPC scores were obtained for 37 (74%) of 
those who did not take part in telephone follow-up, and 7 (19%) of these had a 
CPC ≥ 3 indicating severe cerebral disability. The median follow-up time was 5 
years (range 2.7- 8.6 years) for the 56 (53%) patients included. Of these, 84% 
