(1)Department of Head & Neck Surgical Oncology, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, 
400 012 India.

In the past two decades nasal endoscopy has advanced technologically to offer us 
magnified vision and better illumination along with better instrumentation. 
Surgery has traditionally been via the transfacial approaches such as lateral 
rhinotomy or the Weber Fergueson incision. For disease extension into the skull 
base traditional approach is a transfrontal craniotomy via either the bicoronal 
incision or the subcranial Raveh's approach. A combined access via the cranium 
from above and the transfacial access from below aids in encompassing the tumour 
all around. Transnasal access is a natural trajectory which leads us directly 
onto the tumour. The endoscope alone or with the microscope has been utilised to 
improve the magnification and illumination to aid in tumour removal. Minimal 
access to the Sinonasal and anterior skull base tumours is proven to be possible 
and feasible. We now have an additional armamentarium to our existing approaches 
in management of these tumours. We have to be judicious and see which approach 
can remove the disease completely maintaining the quality of life of the 
patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s13193-010-0032-8
PMCID: PMC3421011
PMID: 22930634


74. BMJ. 2012 Aug 28;345:e5760. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e5760.

Rising litigation does not mean falling standards.

Nisselle P(1).

Author information:
(1)Educational Services, Medical Protection Society, 33 Cavendish Square, London 
W1G 0PS, UK. paul.nisselle@mps.org.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e5760
PMID: 22930704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Int J Prosthodont. 2012 Sep-Oct;25(5):480-3.

A 5-year retrospective study of cobalt-chromium-based single crowns inserted in 
a private practice.

Ortorp A(1), Ascher A, Svanborg P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of 
Gothenburg, Goteborg, Sweden. anders.ortorp@odontologi.gu.se

The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the clinical performance of 
cobalt-chromium (Co-Cr) single crowns. Ninety restorations were placed in 55 
patients, and follow-up examinations were performed annually for 5 years. Six 
patients (8 crowns) were regarded as dropouts. During the follow-up period, 15 
(17%) crowns/abutment teeth experienced some type of complication; 8 (9%) of 
these were regarded as failures. The cumulative survival rate was estimated at 
90.3% over 5 years, though only 3 (3%) crowns had complications that could be 
related to the crown material. The results suggest that Co-Cr single crowns are 
a promising alternative to other alloys used in fixed prosthodontics.

PMID: 22930770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Ment Health Today. 2012 Jul-Aug:22.

Good news: coffee and chocolate are good for your physical and mental health.

Stafford N(1).

Author information:
(1)Bipolar UK. nstafford@doctors.org.uk

PMID: 22930926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Healthc Manage Forum. 2012 Summer;25(2):48-61. doi:
10.1016/j.hcmf.2012.03.003.

Finding Canada's healthcare equilibrium.

[Article in English, French]

Taylor DW(1).

Author information:
(1)The Cameron Institute, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. wtaylor@mcmaster.ca

Economic equilibrium, in which demand for health services is in balance with 
supply, is an elusive phenomenon in advanced healthcare systems worldwide, yet 
some countries have come closer to economic stasis than Canada. In 2008, the 
Euro-Canada Health Consumer Index ranked Canada 30th out of 30 countries studied 
for value for money. Wait times were Canada's weakest spot, and, in terms of 
system design, context, and economics, there was clear evidence that Canada's 
healthcare system was out of equilibrium. Canadians can learn from Austria. If 
Canada expects better value for its healthcare dollar, then cost drivers need to 
be addressed in a design overhaul. Only then will Canada approach equilibrium.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hcmf.2012.03.003
PMID: 22931009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Diabetes Care. 2013 Jan;36(1):63-9. doi: 10.2337/dc12-0759. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

Cost-effectiveness of hepatitis B vaccination in adults with diagnosed diabetes.

Hoerger TJ(1), Schillie S, Wittenborn JS, Bradley CL, Zhou F, Byrd K, Murphy TV.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. tjh@rti.org

OBJECTIVE To examine the cost-effectiveness of a hepatitis B vaccination program 
for unvaccinated adults with diagnosed diabetes in the U.S. RESEARCH DESIGN AND 
METHODS We used a cost-effectiveness simulation model to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of vaccinating adults 20-59 years of age with diagnosed 
diabetes not previously vaccinated for or infected by hepatitis B virus (HBV). 
The model estimated acute and chronic HBV infections, complications, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. 
Data sources included surveillance data, epidemiological studies, and vaccine 
prices. RESULTS With a 10% uptake rate, the intervention will vaccinate 528,047 
people and prevent 4,271 acute and 256 chronic hepatitis B infections. Net 
health care costs will increase by $91.4 million, and 1,218 QALYs will be 
gained, producing a cost-effectiveness ratio of $75,094 per QALY gained. Results 
are most sensitive to age, the discount rate, the hepatitis B incidence ratio 
for people with diabetes, and hepatitis B infection rates. Cost-effectiveness 
ratios rise with age at vaccination; an alternative intervention that vaccinates 
adults with diabetes 60 years of age or older had a cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$2.7 million per QALY. CONCLUSIONS Hepatitis B vaccination for adults with 
diabetes 20-59 years of age is modestly cost-effective. Vaccinating older adults 
with diabetes is not cost-effective. The study did not consider hepatitis 
outbreak investigation costs, and limited information exists on hepatitis 
progression among older adults with diabetes. Partly based on these results, the 
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recently recommended hepatitis B 
vaccination for people 20-59 years of age with diagnosed diabetes.

DOI: 10.2337/dc12-0759
PMCID: PMC3526214
PMID: 22933435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2012 Sep 1;5(5):705-10. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.112.966465. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

Cost-effectiveness of computed tomographic angiography before reoperative 
coronary artery bypass grafting: a decision-analytic model.

Gada H(1), Desai MY, Marwick TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Heart and Vascular Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

BACKGROUND: The risks of repeat thoracotomy can be reduced if thoracic 
multidetector computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is used to guide preventive 
surgical strategies (PSS: peripheral cardiopulmonary bypass, circulatory arrest, 
and non-median sternotomy). We sought to define the cost-effectiveness of CTA 
using a Markov model.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied outcomes and costs of CTA and non-CTA strategies 
in a modeled cohort of 10 000 patients undergoing redo coronary artery bypass 
grafting. Rates of PSS implementation were anticipated to follow identification 
of risk by CTA. Transitions, costs, and utilities were informed by our 
experience and the literature. Sensitivity analyses included testing a range of 
costs of CTA and PSS on model outcome. In the reference case, cost and 
quality-adjusted life years accrued with the use of CTA ($74 869, 4.63 
quality-adjusted life-years) were slightly higher than nonuse ($73 471, 4.59 
quality-adjusted life-years), yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $34 950/quality-adjusted life-years. Cost of PSS (equipment and operating 
time) was the most significant determinant of incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio. In the reference case (cost of CTA â‰ˆ$300), identification and avoidance 
of potential procedural difficulties with CTA rendered it cost-effective if the 
cost of PSS was <$12 000. Across a range of CTA costs, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was not materially influenced by outcomes across a 
broad range of imputed values.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost of CTA appears justified in the setting of isolated 
reoperative coronary artery bypass grafting, because it aids in appropriate 
selection of PSS. The cost-effectiveness of this imaging seems more influenced 
by the costs of subsequent PSS than by the cost of CTA.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.112.966465
PMID: 22933521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Front Oncol. 2012 Aug 20;2:81. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2012.00081. eCollection
2012.

Comparative cost-effectiveness of stereotactic body radiation therapy versus 
intensity-modulated and proton radiation therapy for localized prostate cancer.

Parthan A(1), Pruttivarasin N, Davies D, Taylor DC, Pawar V, Bijlani A, Lich KH, 
Chen RC.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research OptumInsight.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of several external beam 
radiation treatment modalities for the treatment of patients with localized 
prostate cancer.
METHODS: A lifetime Markov model incorporated the probabilities of experiencing 
treatment-related long-term toxicity or death. Toxicity probabilities were 
derived from published sources using meta-analytical techniques. Utilities and 
costs in the model were obtained from publicly available secondary sources. The 
model calculated quality-adjusted life expectancy and expected lifetime cost per 
patient, and derived ratios of incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained between treatments. Analyses were conducted from both payer and 
societal perspectives. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: Compared to intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and proton 
beam therapy (PT), stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) was less costly 
and resulted in more QALYs. Sensitivity analyses showed that the conclusions in 
the base-case scenario were robust with respect to variations in toxicity and 
cost parameters consistent with available evidence. At a threshold of 
$50,000/QALY, SBRT was cost-effective in 75% and 94% of probabilistic 
simulations compared to IMRT and PT, respectively, from a payer perspective. 
From a societal perspective, SBRT was cost-effective in 75% and 96% of 
simulations compared to IMRT and PT, respectively, at a threshold of 
$50,000/QALY. In threshold analyses, SBRT was less expensive with better 
outcomes compared to IMRT at toxicity rates 23% greater than the SBRT base-case 
rates.
CONCLUSION: Based on the assumption that each treatment modality results in 
equivalent long-term efficacy, SBRT is a cost-effective strategy resulting in 
improved quality-adjusted survival compared to IMRT and PT for the treatment of 
localized prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2012.00081
PMCID: PMC3422724
PMID: 22934286


81. Am J Epidemiol. 2012 Sep 15;176(6):534-43. doi: 10.1093/aje/kws125. Epub 2012
 Aug 30.

Patterns of 12-year change in physical activity levels in community-dwelling 
older women: can modest levels of physical activity help older women live 
longer?

Xue QL(1), Bandeen-Roche K, Mielenz TJ, Seplaki CL, Szanton SL, Thorpe RJ, 
Kalyani RR, Chaves PH, Dam TT, Ornstein K, RoyChoudhury A, Varadhan R, Yao W, 
Fried LP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. 
qxue@jhsph.edu

Few studies have addressed changes in physical activity participation over time 
among the elderly. The authors hypothesized that there were distinct 
trajectories of physical activity level over time and identifiable predictors of 
such trajectories, as well as that the maintenance of regular physical activity, 
even below recommended levels, was associated with lower mortality risk. Using 
longitudinal data (1994-2009) from 433 initially high-functioning older women 
aged 70-79 years at baseline, a joint latent class and survival mixture model 
identified 4 activity trajectory classes: always active (16.6%), fast declining 
(19.2%), stable moderate (32.3%), and always sedentary (31.9%). Obesity, 
coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, depressive 
symptoms, low self-efficacy, mobility disability, and low energy were associated 
with sedentary behavior and/or a fast decline in activity. Women in the fast 
declining and always sedentary classes had hazard ratios for death of 2.34 (95% 
confidence interval: 1.20, 4.59) and 3.34 (95% confidence interval: 1.72, 6.47), 
respectively, compared with the always active class; no mortality difference was 
found between the stable moderate and always active groups (hazard ratio = 1.24, 
95% confidence interval: 0.63, 2.47). Our findings suggest that physical 
activity does not have to be vigorous to be beneficial and that the gain may be 
the greatest among women who reported the lowest levels of activity.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws125
PMCID: PMC3530350
PMID: 22935515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Med Decis Making. 2012 Nov-Dec;32(6):E1-15. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12451338.
Epub  2012 Aug 30.

Quantitative benefit-risk assessment using only qualitative information on 
utilities.

Caster O(1)(2), NorÃ©n GN(1)(3), Ekenberg L(2), Edwards IR(1).

Author information:
(1)Uppsala Monitoring Centre, World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for 
International Drug Monitoring, Uppsala, Sweden (OC, GNN, IRE)
(2)Department of Computer and Systems Sciences, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 
Sweden (OC, LE)
(3)Department of Mathematics, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden (GNN)

BACKGROUND: Utilities of pertinent clinical outcomes are crucial variables for 
assessing the benefits and risks of drugs, but numerical data on utilities may 
be unreliable or altogether missing. We propose a method to incorporate 
qualitative information into a probabilistic decision analysis framework for 
quantitative benefit-risk assessment.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether conclusive results can be obtained when the 
only source of discriminating information on utilities is widely agreed upon 
qualitative relations, for example, ''sepsis is worse than transient headache'' 
or ''alleviation of disease is better without than with complications.''
METHOD: We used the structure and probabilities of 3 published models that were 
originally evaluated based on the standard metric of quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs): terfenadine versus chlorpheniramine for the treatment of allergic 
rhinitis, MCV4 vaccination against meningococcal disease, and alosetron for 
irritable bowel syndrome. For each model, we identified clinically 
straightforward qualitative relations among the outcomes. Using Monte Carlo 
simulations, the resulting utility distributions were then combined with the 
previously specified probabilities, and the rate of preference in terms of 
expected utility was determined for each alternative.
RESULTS: Our approach conclusively favored MCV4 vaccination, and it was 
concordant with the QALY assessments for the MCV4 and terfenadine versus 
chlorpheniramine case studies. For alosetron, we found a possible unfavorable 
benefit-risk balance for highly risk-averse patients not identified in the 
original analysis.
CONCLUSION: Incorporation of widely agreed upon qualitative information into 
quantitative benefit-risk assessment can provide for conclusive results. The 
methods presented should prove useful in both population and individual-level 
assessments, especially when numerical utility data are missing or unreliable, 
and constraints on time or money preclude its collection.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12451338
PMID: 22936214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Gerontologist. 2012 Oct;52(5):589-96. doi: 10.1093/geront/gns105. Epub 2012
Aug  30.

China: awakening giant developing solutions to population aging.

Zhang NJ(1), Guo M, Zheng X.

Author information:
(1)College of Health and Public Affairs, University of Central Florida, HPA I 
Room 217, 4000 Central Florida Blvd., Orlando, FL 32816, USA. ning.zhang@ucf.edu

As the world's most populous country with the largest aging population and a 
rapidly growing economy, China is receiving increased attention from both the 
Chinese government and the governments of other countries that face low 
fertility and aging problems. This unprecedented shift of demographic structure 
has repercussions for many aspects of development including economic growth, 
social welfare, elder care, and other public welfare issues in China. Balancing 
population aging and economic growth requires innovative strategies and 
represents both challenges and opportunities for China.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gns105
PMID: 22936537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Biol Chem. 2012 Oct 12;287(42):35021-35035. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M111.328781.
Epub  2012 Aug 30.

Membrane-induced lever arm expansion allows myosin VI to walk with large and 
variable step sizes.

Yu C(1), Lou J(2), Wu J(1), Pan L(1), Feng W(3), Zhang M(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong, China.
(2)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 15 
Datun Road, Beijing 100101, China; Laboratory of Noncoding RNA, Institute of 
Biophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 15 Datun Road, Beijing 100101, China.
(3)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 15 
Datun Road, Beijing 100101, China. Electronic address: wfeng@ibp.ac.cn.
(4)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong, China; Center of Systems Biology and Human Health, School of Science and 
Institute for Advanced Study, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address: mzhang@ust.hk.

Myosin VI, the only known minus-ended actin filament-dependent motor, plays 
diverse cellular roles both as a processive motor and as a mechanical anchor. 
Although myosin VI has a short lever arm containing only one "IQ-motif" and a 
unique insertion for CaM binding, the motor walks with large and variable step 
sizes of âˆ¼30-36 nm. Here, we show that the previously predicted coiled-coil 
domain immediately following the IQ-motifs (referred to as the lever arm 
extension (LAE)) adopts a stable monomeric, three-helix bundle fold in solution. 
Importantly, the LAE can undergo reversible, lipid membrane-dependent 
conformational changes. Upon exposure to lipid membranes, the LAE adopts a 
partially extended rod shape, and the removal of lipids from the LAE converts it 
back into the compact helix bundle structure. Molecular dynamics simulations 
indicate that lipid membrane binding may initiate unfolding and thereby trigger 
the LAE expansion. This reversible, lipid membrane-dependent expansion of the 
LAE provides a mechanistic base for myosin VI to walk with large and variable 
step sizes.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M111.328781
PMCID: PMC3471712
PMID: 22936804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2012;13(6):2721-8. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.6.2721.

Comparing endoscopy and upper gastrointestinal X-ray for gastric cancer 
screening in South Korea: a cost-utility analysis.

Chang HS(1), Park EC, Chung W, Nam CM, Choi KS, Cho E, Cho WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: There are limited data evaluating the cost-effectiveness of gastric 
cancer screening using endoscopy or upper gastrointestinal x-ray in the general 
population.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost- effectiveness of population-based screening for 
gastric cancer in South Korea by decision analysis.
METHODS: A time-dependent Markov model for gastric cancer was constructed for 
healthy adults 30 years of age and older, and a deterministic sensitivity 
analysis was performed. Cost-utility analysis with multiple strategies was 
conducted to compare the costs and effects of 13 different screening 
alternatives with respect to the following eligibility criteria: age at the 
beginning of screening, screening interval, and screening method. The main 
outcome measurement was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: The results revealed that annual endoscopic screening from ages 50-80 
was the most cost-effective for the male population. In the females, biennial 
endoscopy screening from ages 50-80 was calculated as the most cost-effective 
strategy among the 12 screening alternatives. The most cost-effective screening 
strategy may be adjustable according to the screening costs and the distribution 
of cancer stage at screening. The limitation was that effectiveness data were 
obtained from published sources.
CONCLUSIONS: Using the threshold of $19,162 per quality-adjusted life year on 
the basis of the Korean gross domestic product (2008), as suggested by the World 
Health Organization, endoscopic gastric cancer screening starting at the age of 
50 years was highly cost-effective in the Korean population. The national 
recommendation for gastric cancer screening should consider the starting age of 
screening, the screening interval, and the screening modality.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.6.2721
PMID: 22938448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2012;13(6):2861-6. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.6.2861.

Validation of a palliative prognostic index to predict life expectancy for 
terminally ill cancer patients in a hospice consultation setting in Taiwan.

Cheng WH(1), Kao CY, Hung YS, Su PJ, Hsieh CH, Chen JS, Wang HM, Chou WC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, and School of 
Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The aim of our study was to assess the practical utility of the 
palliative prognostic index (PPI) as a prognostic tool used by nurse specialists 
in a hospice consultation setting in Taiwan.
METHODS: In total, 623 terminal cancer patients under hospice consultation care 
from one medical center in northern Taiwan were enrolled between January 1 and 
June 30, 2011. PPI was assessed by a nurse specialist at first hospice 
consultation and patients categorized into groups by prognosis (good, 
intermediate, poor). Patient survival was analyzed retrospectively to determine 
significance of between-group differences.
RESULTS: By PPI sum score, 37.2% of patients were in the good prognosis group, 
18% in the intermediate prognosis group and 44.8% in the poor prognosis group. 
The death rates were 56%, 81.2% and 89.6% and median survivals were 76, 18 and 7 
days, respectively. The hazard ratio was 0.19 (95% confidence interval [CI] 
0.10-0.24, p<0.001) for the poor versus good prognosis group and 0.54 (95% CI 
0.43-0.69, p<0.001) for the poor versus intermediate prognosis group. The 
sensitivity and specificity for the poor prognosis group was 66% and 71%; the 
positive predictive value and negative predictive value were 81% and 52%, 
respectively, to predict patient death within 21 days (area under the curve of 
the receiver operating characteristic was 0.68).
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment by PPI can accurately predict survival of terminal 
cancer patients receiving hospice consultation care. PPI is a simple tool and 
can be administered by nurse members of hospice consultation teams.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.6.2861
PMID: 22938474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Surgery. 2012 Sep;152(3):423-30. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2012.05.038.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of repeat fine-needle aspiration for thyroid 
biopsies read as atypia of undetermined significance.

Heller M(1), Zanocco K, Zydowicz S, Elaraj D, Nayar R, Sturgeon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Endocrine Surgery, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

BACKGROUND: The 2007 National Cancer Institute (NCI) conference on Thyroid 
Fine-Needle Aspiration (FNA) introduced the category atypia of undetermined 
significance (AUS) or follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS). 
Repeat FNA in 3 to 6 months was recommended for low-risk patients. Compliance 
with these recommendations has been suboptimal. We hypothesized that repeat FNA 
would be more effective than diagnostic lobectomy, with decreased costs and 
improved rates of cancer detection.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed in which we compared 
diagnostic lobectomy with repeat FNA. A Markov model was developed. Outcomes and 
probabilities were identified from literature review. Third-party payer costs 
were estimated in 2010 US dollars. Outcomes were weighted by use of the 
quality-of-life utility factors, yielding quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Monte Carlo simulation and sensitivity analysis were used to examine the 
uncertainty of probability, cost, and utility estimates.
RESULTS: The diagnostic lobectomy strategy cost $8,057 and produced 23.99 QALYs. 
Repeat FNA cost $2,462 and produced 24.05 QALYs. Repeat FNA was dominant until 
the cost of FNA increased to $6,091. Dominance of the repeat FNA strategy was 
not sensitive to the cost of operation or the complication rate.
CONCLUSION: The NCI recommendations for repeat FNA regarding follow-up of 
AUS/FLUS results are cost-effective. Improving compliance with these guidelines 
should lead to less overall costs, greater quality of life, and fewer 
unnecessary operations.

Copyright Â© 2012 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2012.05.038
PMID: 22938902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Accid Anal Prev. 2012 Nov;49:223-8. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2012.08.013. Epub 2012
 Aug 30.

The motorcyclist impact against a light vehicle: epidemiological, 
accidentological and biomechanic analysis.

Serre T(1), Masson C, Perrin C, Martin JL, Moskal A, Llari M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de BiomÃ©canique AppliquÃ©e UMRT24 IFSTTAR, UniversitÃ© de la 
MÃ©diterranÃ©e FacultÃ© de MÃ©decine Nord, Bd Pierre Dramard 13916, Marseille Cedex 
20, France. thierry.serre@ifsttar.fr

This paper summarizes the results obtained within the framework of the French 
PROMOTO Project (PROtection of the MOTOrcyclist). The aim of this project was to 
analyze the impact between a motorcycle and a light vehicle from an 
epidemiological, accidentological and biomechanical point of view. The results 
have made it possible to outline the most frequent accident configurations such 
as the "turn on the left" and the most common injuries sustained by motorized 
two-wheelers (head and trunk). The biomechanic analysis has enabled a better 
understanding of the kinematics involved in an impact between a motorized 
two-wheeler and a light vehicle in various accident configurations (chronology 
and speed impact). While it is well known that motorcyclists frequently receive 
life threatening injuries to the head, spine and torso, this paper has been able 
to observe specific injury mechanisms such as pelvis impacts against the vehicle 
fuel tank and hyper-extension of the neck due to head impact on passenger cars.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2012.08.013
PMID: 22939395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Aging Stud. 2012 Dec;26(4):504-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jaging.2012.07.003. Epub 
2012 Aug 17.

Narratives of aging in intimate partner violence: the double lens of violence 
and old age.

Band-Winterstein T(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Haifa, Mt. Carmel, Haifa, Israel. twinters@research.haifa.ac.il

PURPOSE: With the increase in life expectancy, couples living in intimate 
partner violence are aging together. The aim of this article is to explore the 
constructions of aging in intimate partner violence as narratives of couplehood 
or narratives of old age.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Thirty individual in-depth interviews with 15 older Israeli 
couples were tape-recorded, transcribed verbatim and analyzed using a narrative 
approach.
RESULTS: Three main domains emerged from the data: health issue narratives, 
loneliness narratives and relationships with adult offspring narratives. Each of 
the narratives that emerged from the data analysis consists of a narrative of 
old age constructing IPV and a narrative of IPV constructing old age.
IMPLICATIONS: Conflictual couplehood dynamics, such as intimate partner violence 
in old age, is not one-dimensional, but is diverse and complex and this should 
be taken into consideration.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaging.2012.07.003
PMID: 22939547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Soc Sci Med. 2012 Nov;75(10):1836-43. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.07.001.
Epub  2012 Jul 20.

A universal preference for equality in health? Reasons to reconsider properties 
of applied social welfare functions.

MÃ¦stad O(1), Norheim OF.

Author information:
(1)Chr. Michelsen Institute, Bergen, Norway. ottar.mestad@cmi.no

The literature on how to combine efficiency and equity considerations in the 
social valuation of health allocations has borrowed extensively from applied 
welfare economics, including the literature on inequality measurement. By so 
doing, it has adopted normative assumptions that have been applied for 
evaluating the allocation of welfare (or income) rather than the allocation of 
health, including the assumption of a monotonically declining social marginal 
value of welfare/income/health. At the same time, empirical studies that have 
elicited social preferences for allocation of health have reported results that 
are seemingly incompatible with this assumption. There are two ways of 
addressing this inconsistency; we may censor the stated preferences by arguing 
that they cannot be supported by normative arguments, or we may reject or modify 
the analytical framework in order to accommodate the stated preferences. We 
argue that the stated preferences can be supported by normative reasoning and 
therefore conclude that one should be cautious in applying the standard welfare 
economic framework to the allocation of health.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.07.001
PMID: 22939571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Lancet. 2012 Sep 1;380(9844):779. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61431-7.

What is it to grow old?

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Jan 12;381(9861):116.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61431-7
PMID: 22939667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Clin Nutr. 2013 Jun;32(3):479-80. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2012.07.012. Epub 2012
Aug  7.

Does phase angle correlate with hyperhomocysteinemia? A study of patients with 
classical homocystinuria.

Poloni S(1), Schweigert Perry ID, D'Almeida V, Schwartz IV.

Author information:
(1)Medical Genetics Service, Hospital de ClÃ­nicas de Porto Alegre, Brazil.

The role of the phase angle in hyperhomocysteinemia has yet to be assessed. 
Classical homocystinuria is a rare genetic disease characterized by severe 
hyperhomocysteinemia, as well as increased levels of methionine and reduced 
levels of cysteine. The objective of this study was to investigate the potential 
relationship between phase angle and homocysteine, cysteine, and methionine 
levels in patients with classical homocystinuria. Eight patients were included 
in the study. Phase angle was measured with a tetrapolar bioimpedance analyzer. 
Serum homocysteine, cysteine, and methionine levels were measured by HPLC. Only 
three patients had adequate metabolic control of their disease. Median phase 
angle was 5.9Â° (rangeÂ =Â 5.4Â°-8.5Â°). There was a significant correlation between 
phase angle and levels of homocysteine (rÂ =Â -0.807, pÂ =Â 0.015), methionine 
(rÂ =Â -0.711, pÂ =Â 0.048), and cysteine (rÂ =Â 0.836, pÂ =Â 0.010). Was also 
positively correlated with BMI and arm muscle circumference (pÂ <Â 0.05). Two 
patients had phase angles below the 5th percentile, and only one above the 50th 
percentile. Our findings suggest that cellular integrity is affected in patients 
with high homocysteine levels, thus indicating that phase angle could be a 
valuable indicator of prognosis and classical homocystinuria. It also suggests a 
role for this indicator in other forms of hyperhomocysteinemia and other inborn 
errors of metabolism.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and 
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2012.07.012
PMID: 22939707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2013 Jul;55:77-86. doi: 10.1016/j.mcn.2012.08.007. Epub
2012  Aug 24.

D. melanogaster, mitochondria and neurodegeneration: small model organism, big 
discoveries.

Debattisti V(1), Scorrano L.

Author information:
(1)Dulbecco-Telethon Institute, Venetian Institute of Molecular Medicine, Via 
Orus 2 35129 Padova, Italy.

In developed countries, increased life expectancy is accompanied by an increased 
prevalence of age-related disorders like cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. 
Albeit the molecular mechanisms behind the clinically, pathologically and 
etiologically heterogeneous forms of neurodegeneration are often unclear, 
impairment of mitochondrial fusion-fission and dynamics emerged in recent years 
as a feature of neuronal dysfunction and death, pinpointing the need for animal 
models to investigate the relationship between mitochondrial shape and 
neurodegeneration. While research on mammalian models is slowed down by the 
complexity of the organisms and their genomes, the long latency of the symptoms 
and by the difficulty to generate and analyze large cohorts, the lower metazoan 
Drosophila melanogaster overcomes these problems, proving to be a suitable model 
to study neurodegenerative diseases and mitochondria-shaping proteins. Here we 
will summarize our current knowledge on the link between mitochondrial shape and 
models of neurodegeneration in the fruitfly. This article is part of a Special 
Issue entitled 'Mitochondrial function and dysfunction in neurodegeneration'.

Copyright Â© 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcn.2012.08.007
PMID: 22940086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Gynecol Oncol. 2012 Dec;127(3):631-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.08.032. Epub 
2012 Aug 29.

Prolonged postoperative venous thrombo-embolism prophylaxis is cost-effective in 
advanced ovarian cancer patients.

Uppal S(1), Hernandez E, Dutta M, Dandolu V, Rose S, Hartenbach E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA. emailuppal@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the cost-effectiveness 
of prolonged prophylaxis with enoxaparin in high-risk surgical patients with 
ovarian cancer. In addition, we sought to quantify the impact of prolonged 
prophylaxis (PP) on the incidence of venous thromboembolism (VTE), its related 
complications, and overall patient survival.
METHODS: A Markov decision analytic model was used to estimate the costs, 
resource allocation and outcomes associated with the prolonged use of 
enoxaparin, for a total of four weeks after surgery, in patients undergoing 
primary debulking surgery for stage IIIC ovarian cancer. We estimated 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) at one and five year 
intervals; the estimated reduction in VTE episodes, bleeding episodes, and 
survival at the five year interval for a simulated cohort of 10,000 women.
RESULTS: The incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) for prolonged 
prophylaxis (PP) was $5236/QALY and $-1462/QALY at one and five years 
respectively. For patients receiving PP, the model estimated a 12% reduction in 
the clinically evident VTE episodes and a higher five-year survival (31.61% vs. 
29.96%; p<0.0001). Resource allocation analysis reveals that 95% of initial 
investment cost of prolonged enoxaparin is recovered within one year.
CONCLUSIONS: In ovarian cancer patients undergoing open abdominal surgery, 
prolonged VTE prophylaxis not only improves patient outcomes, but is also a cost 
saving strategy when modeled over five years. A significant reduction in the 
episodes of VTE and a higher overall survival warrants consideration for the 
routine use of PP in this patient population.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.08.032
PMID: 22940486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2012;177:59-64.

Improve Quality of Life - additional criteria for health and social care 
information technology acceptance in an ageing world.

Monteiro J(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Technica de Lisboa, Portugal. jorgemonteiro@comfortkeepers.pt

Reversing the rising cost of health and social systems is needed in ageing 
developed and developing countries. A new model of ageing is advocated by the 
World Health Organization. This new model asks for more personal health 
accountability and a more integrated approach on care and preventive cure. 
Information systems and technologies can play an important role in supporting 
the changes needed in order to have better and more sustainable health and 
social care systems. Using value and results for patients as criteria by which 
systems are accepted by users and by organizations can contribute to a value 
based competition in health and social care systems. The unified theory of 
acceptance and use of technology is presented, and the pertinence of adding an 
extension to the theory in order capture Quality of Life improvements 
expectations is explored.

PMID: 22942031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012 Sep;27(9):3399-406. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfs362.

Dietary phosphate modifies lifespan in Drosophila.

Bergwitz C.

Phosphate is required for many important cellular processes and having too 
little phosphate (hypophosphatemia) or too much (hyperphosphatemia) can cause 
disease and reduce lifespan in humans. Drosophila melanogaster has been a 
powerful tool to discover evolutionarily well-conserved nutrient-sensing 
pathways that are important for the lifespan extension. We have established 
Drosophila as a model system for studying the effects of dietary phosphate 
during development and adult life. When absorption of phosphate is blocked by 
sevelamer or cellular uptake is inhibited by phosphonoformic acid (PFA), larval 
development is delayed in a phosphate-dependent fashion. Conversely, restriction 
of phosphate absorption with sevelamer or reduced cellular uptake after 
treatment with PFA is able to extend the adult lifespan of otherwise normal 
flies. Gaining an understanding of the specific pathways and mediators that 
regulate cellular and organismic phosphate levels might ultimately lead to the 
development of improved dietary and therapeutic approaches to the treatment of 
human disorders of hypo- and hyperphosphatemia.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfs362
PMID: 22942172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Clin Infect Dis. 2012 Nov 15;55(10):1392-9. doi: 10.1093/cid/cis731. Epub
2012  Aug 31.

Balancing immunological benefits and cardiovascular risks of antiretroviral 
therapy: when is immediate treatment optimal?

Negoescu DM(1), Owens DK, Brandeau ML, Bendavid E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, CA 
94305, USA. negoescu@stanford.edu

We developed a mathematical model to identify the timing of antiretroviral 
therapy (ART) initiation that optimizes patient outcomes as a function of 
patient CD4 count, age, cardiac mortality risk, sex, and personal preferences. 
Our goal was to find the conditions that maximize patient quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) in the context of our model. Under the assumption that ART 
confers disease progression and mortality benefits at any CD4 count, immediate 
treatment initiation yields the greatest remaining QALE for young patients under 
most circumstances. The timing of ART initiation depends on the magnitude of 
benefit from ART at high CD4 counts, the magnitude of increases in cardiac risk, 
and patients' preferences. If ART reduces HIV progression at high CD4 counts, 
immediate ART is preferable for most newly infected individuals <35 years even 
if ART doubles age- and sex-specific cardiac risk.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cis731
PMCID: PMC3478144
PMID: 22942203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Oncol Pract. 2012 May;8(3 Suppl):e24s-30s. doi: 10.1200/JOP.2011.000535.

Influence of patient preferences on the cost-effectiveness of screening for 
lynch syndrome.

Wang G(1), Kuppermann M, Kim B, Phillips KA, Ladabaum U.

Author information:
(1)American Institutes for Research, Washington, DC; University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco; and Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, CA.

PURPOSE: Patients and relatives have varying preferences for genetic testing and 
interventions related to hereditary cancer syndromes. We examined how the impact 
of these services on quality of life (QoL) affects the cost-effectiveness of 
screening for Lynch syndrome among probands newly diagnosed with colorectal 
cancer and their relatives.
METHODS: We constructed a state-transition model comparing screening strategies 
(clinical criteria, prediction algorithms, tumor testing, and upfront germline 
testing) with no screening to identify Lynch syndrome. The model incorporated 
individuals' health state utilities after screening, germline testing, and 
risk-reducing surgeries, with utilities persisting for 12 months in the base 
case. Outcomes consisted of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, and cost 
per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses assessed how the duration and magnitude of 
changes in QoL influenced results.
RESULTS: Multiple screening strategies yielded gains in QALYs at acceptable 
costs compared with no screening. The preferred strategy-immunohistochemistry of 
tumors followed by BRAF mutation testing (IHC/BRAF)-cost $59,700 per QALY gained 
in the base case. The duration and magnitude of decreases in QoL after decisions 
related to germline testing and surgeries were key determinants of the 
cost-effectiveness of screening. IHC/BRAF cost > $100,000 per QALY gained when 
decrements to QoL persisted for 21 months.
CONCLUSION: Screening for Lynch syndrome in the population is likely to yield 
long-term gains in life expectancy that outweigh any short-term decreases in 
QoL, at acceptable costs. Counseling for individuals should aim to mitigate 
potential negative impact of genetic testing and risk-reducing interventions on 
QoL.

DOI: 10.1200/JOP.2011.000535
PMCID: PMC3348599
PMID: 22942831


99. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2012 Sep;4(5):247-54. doi: 10.1177/1758834012455838.

Therapeutic options in older patients with metastatic non-small cell lung 
cancer.

Quoix E(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Strasbourg, Chest Disease Department, University Hospital, 1 
place de l'hÃ´pital, 67091 Strasbourg cedex, France.

The increase in life expectancy, with its concomitant increase in the risk of 
cancer, has led to an increased incidence of lung cancer in older people. The 
median age at diagnosis of lung cancer is between 63 and 70 years. For a long 
time, there has been a pessimistic attitude by doctors, patients and their 
relatives and thus an undertreatment of older patients. Older patients have some 
specific differences compared with younger patients: more comorbidities with 
concomitant medications that may interfere with chemotherapy, geriatric 
syndromes, frailty and so on. The first trial devoted to older patients with 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was a comparison between vinorelbine 
and best supportive care. There was a significant benefit of survival in the 
chemotherapy arm. Doublet therapy with gemcitabine plus vinorelbine did not give 
better results than either of these drugs alone. Thus, the recommendations for 
the treatment of older patients with advanced NSCLC were to give monotherapy. In 
some clinical trials not dedicated to older patients it appeared that patients 
might benefit from platinum-based doublet therapy like their younger 
counterparts. A randomized trial conducted by the French intergroup, IFCT, in 
patients aged at least 70 years comparing vinorelbine or gemcitabine alone with 
monthly carboplatin combined with weekly paclitaxel demonstrated that there was 
a highly significant benefit of survival in the doublet arm. This study resulted 
in a modification of the recommendations on the treatment of older patients with 
advanced NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1177/1758834012455838
PMCID: PMC3424499
PMID: 22942907

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The author has 
been on advisory boards and received travel expenses for meetings (Lilly, BMS).


100. BMC Public Health. 2012 Sep 4;12:736. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-736.

Cost-effectiveness of early initiation of first-line combination antiretroviral 
therapy in Uganda.

Sempa J(1), Ssennono M, Kuznik A, Lamorde M, Sowinski S, Semeere A, Hermans S, 
Castelnuovo B, Manabe YC.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Institute, College of Health Sciences, Makerere 
University, Kampala, Uganda. jsempa@idi.co.ug

BACKGROUND: Ugandan national guidelines recommend initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (cART) at CD4+ T cell (CD4) count below 350 cell/Î¼l, but 
the implementation of this is limited due to availability of medication. 
However, cART initiation at higher CD4 count increases survival, albeit at 
higher lifetime treatment cost. This analysis evaluates the cost-effectiveness 
of initiating cART at a CD4 count between 250-350 cell/Î¼l (early) versus <250 
cell/Î¼l (delayed).
METHODS: Life expectancy of cART-treated patients, conditional on baseline CD4 
count, was modeled based on published literature. First-line cART costs $192 
annually, with an additional $113 for patient monitoring. Delaying initiation of 
cART until the CD4 count falls below 250 cells/Î¼l would incur the cost of the 
bi-annual CD4 count tests and routine maintenance care at $85 annually. We 
compared lifetime treatment costs and disability adjusted life-expectancy 
between early vs. delayed cART for ten baseline CD4 count ranges from 250-350 
cell/Î¼l. All costs and benefits were discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: Treatment delay varied from 6-18 months. Early cART initiation 
increased life expectancy from 1.5-3.5 years and averted 1.33-3.10 disability 
adjusted life years (DALY's) per patient. Lifetime treatment costs were 
$4,300-$5,248 for early initiation and $3,940-$4,435 for delayed initiation. The 
cost/DALY averted of the early versus delayed start ranged from $260-$270.
CONCLUSIONS: In HIV-positive patients presenting with CD4 count between 250-350 
cells/Î¼l, immediate initiation of cART is a highly cost-effective strategy using 
the recommended one-time per capita GDP threshold of $490 reported for Uganda. 
This would constitute an efficient use of scarce health care funds.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-736
PMCID: PMC3491016
PMID: 22943068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Trop Med Int Health. 2012 Aug;17(8):e3-14. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-3156.2011.02943.x.

Using age-specific mortality of HIV infected persons to predict anti-retroviral 
treatment need: a comparative analysis of data from five African 
population-based cohort studies.

Zaba B(1), Kasamba I, Floyd S, Isingo R, Herbst K, BÃ¤rnighausen T, Gregson S, 
Nyamukapa C, Kayuni N, Todd J, Marston M, Wringe A.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
basia.zaba@lshtm.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To present a simple method for estimating population-level 
anti-retroviral therapy (ART) need that does not rely on knowledge of past HIV 
incidence.
METHODS: A new approach to estimating ART need is developed based on calculating 
age-specific proportions of HIV-infected adults expected to die within a fixed 
number of years in the absence of treatment. Mortality data for HIV-infected 
adults in the pre-treatment era from five African HIV cohort studies were 
combined to construct a life table, starting at age 15, smoothed with a Weibull 
model. Assuming that ART should be made available to anyone expected to die 
within 3 years, conditional 3-year survival probabilities were computed to 
represent proportions needing ART. The build-up of ART need in a successful 
programme continuously recruiting infected adults into treatment as they age to 
within 3 years of expected death was represented by annually extending the 
conditional survival range.
RESULTS: The Weibull model: survival probability in the infected state from age 
15 = exp(-0.0073 Ã— (age - 15)(1.69)) fitted the pooled age-specific mortality 
data very closely. Initial treatment need for infected persons increased rapidly 
with age, from 15% at age 20-24 to 32% at age 40-44 and 42% at age 60-64. 
Overall need in the treatment of naÃ¯ve population was 24%, doubling within 5 
years in a programme continually recruiting patients entering the high-risk 
period for dying.
CONCLUSION: A reasonable projection of treatment need in an ART naive population 
can be made based on the age and gender profile of HIV-infected people.

Â© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3156.2011.02943.x
PMCID: PMC3443363
PMID: 22943377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. BMC Genomics. 2012 Sep 3;13:446. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-446.

Evolution of selenoproteins in the metazoan.

Jiang L(1), Ni J, Liu Q.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, Guangdong 
Province, PR, China.

BACKGROUND: The selenocysteine (Sec) containing proteins, selenoproteins, are an 
important group of proteins present throughout all 3 kingdoms of life. With the 
rapid progression of selenoprotein research in the post-genomic era, application 
of bioinformatics methods to the identification of selenoproteins in newly 
sequenced species has become increasingly important. Although selenoproteins in 
human and other vertebrates have been investigated, studies of primitive 
invertebrate selenoproteomes are rarely reported outside of insects and 
nematodes.
RESULT: A more integrated view of selenoprotein evolution was constructed using 
