replacements. Along with the proximal prosthesis in the femur, more and more 
people have a second implant on the distal ipsilateral side. This might be a 
retrograde nail or a locking plate to treat distal femur fractures or a 
constrained knee prosthesis in the case of severe arthrosis. All these 
constructs can lead to fractures between the implants. The goal of this study 
was to evaluate the risk of stress risers for interprosthetic fractures of the 
femur.
METHODS: Thirty human cadaveric femurs were divided into five groups: (1) femurs 
with a prosthesis on the proximal side only, (2) hip prosthesis on the proximal 
end and a distal femur nail, (3) femurs with both a hip prosthesis and a 
constrained knee prosthesis, (4) femurs with a hip prosthesis on the proximal 
side and a 4.5-mm distal femur locking plate; the locking plate was 230 mm in 
length, with ten holes in the shaft, and (5) femurs with a proximal hip 
prosthesis and a 4.5-mm distal femur locking plate; the locking plate was 342 mm 
in length, with 16 holes in the shaft.
RESULTS: Femurs with a hip prosthesis and knee prosthesis showed significantly 
higher required fracture force compared to femurs with a hip prosthesis and a 
distal retrograde nail. Femurs with a distal locking plate of either length 
showed a higher required fracture force than those with the retrograde nail.
CONCLUSIONS: The highest risk for a fracture in the femur with an existing hip 
prosthesis comes with a retrograde nail. A distal locking plate for the 
treatment of supracondylar fractures leads to a higher required fracture force. 
The implantation of a constrained knee prosthesis that is not loosened on the 
ipsilateral side does not increase the risk for a fracture.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-012-1697-0
PMCID: PMC3508046
PMID: 23132503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Photochem Photobiol Sci. 2013 Jan;12(1):78-84. doi: 10.1039/c2pp25267h.

Spotlight on 'xeroderma pigmentosum'.

Fassihi H(1).

Author information:
(1)National Xeroderma Pigmentosum Service, Department of Photodermatology, St 
John's Institute of Dermatology, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Trust, London, UK. 
hiva.fassihi@gstt.nhs.uk

Erratum in
    Photochem Photobiol Sci. 2014 Sep;13(9):1359.

Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of DNA repair 
characterised by photosensitivity, progressive pigmentary change, and an 
increased incidence of ultraviolet (UV)-induced skin and mucous membrane 
cancers. Approximately 25% of XP patients also have progressive neurological 
degeneration. There are eight XP complementation groups (XP-A through to XP-G, 
and XP variant (XP-V)), corresponding to the affected DNA repair gene. Seven of 
these genes, XPA to XPG, are involved in nucleotide excision repair, removing 
UV-induced damage from DNA. The eighth gene, XPV (or POLH), encodes for DNA 
polymerase η, which is required for the replication of DNA containing unrepaired 
UV-induced damage. There is wide variability in clinical features both between 
and within XP complementation groups. The diagnosis is made clinically and 
confirmed by cellular tests for defective DNA repair. This is followed by 
identification of the defective gene (complementation analysis) and causative 
mutation(s). Although there is no cure, sun avoidance and regular follow-up to 
assess and treat any skin cancers increase life expectancy. The neurological 
abnormalities are progressive and result in a shortened lifespan. The study of 
patients with XP has highlighted the importance of nucleotide excision repair in 
the aetiology of skin cancers and neurological degeneration, and has solidified 
the link between UV exposure, DNA damage, somatic mutations and skin cancer.

DOI: 10.1039/c2pp25267h
PMID: 23132518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Eur J Public Health. 2012 Dec;22(6):869-73. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr151. Epub
 2012 Feb 24.

Should we invest in environmental interventions to encourage physical activity 
in England? An economic appraisal.

Beale SJ(1), Bending MW, Trueman P, Naidoo B.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, UK.

BACKGROUND: The Department of Health in England asked the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) to develop guidance on environmental 
interventions that promote physical activity. The economic appraisals summarized 
in this study informed the development of that guidance. In view of the 
difficulties inherent in applying conventional health economic evaluation 
techniques to public health interventions, the economic appraisal employed a 
multi-faceted approach.
METHODS: The analyses comprised of three components. Two cost-utility analyses; 
the first used a life-time disease progression model which sought to take into 
account the long-term benefits of physical activity on health outcomes, whereas 
the second used data from a regression analysis which captured some of the 
short-term, process benefits of physical activity which might manifest 
themselves in terms of improved mental health and wellbeing. The third approach 
was a cost-benefit analysis that took into account benefits beyond healthcare.
RESULTS: The cost-utility approaches generated cost-effectiveness estimates 
ranging between £100 and £10 000 per QALY depending on the level of 
effectiveness of the intervention and the proportion of the intervention cost 
that was deemed to be attributable to health. The standardized cost-benefit 
ratio was 11:1.
CONCLUSION: The findings present a consistent case to support environmental 
interventions that promote increased physical activity in the sedentary adult 
population. However, some degree of caution should be taken in interpreting the 
findings due to the limitations of the evidence upon which they are based. 
Further consideration should also be given to the relative merits of alternative 
approaches to assessing the value of changes to the built environment that might 
also benefit health as a positive externality.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckr151
PMID: 23132876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Clin Dev Immunol. 2012;2012:831090. doi: 10.1155/2012/831090. Epub 2012 Oct
24.

Impact of temozolomide on immune response during malignant glioma chemotherapy.

Sengupta S(1), Marrinan J, Frishman C, Sampath P.

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Laboratory, Roger Williams Medical Center, 825 Chalkstone Avenue, 
Providence, RI 02908, USA.

Malignant glioma, or glioblastoma, is the most common and lethal form of brain 
tumor with a median survival time of 15 months. The established therapeutic 
regimen includes a tripartite therapy of surgical resection followed by 
radiation and temozolomide (TMZ) chemotherapy, concurrently with radiation and 
then as an adjuvant. TMZ, a DNA alkylating agent, is the most successful 
antiglioma drug and has added several months to the life expectancy of malignant 
glioma patients. However, TMZ is also responsible for inducing lymphopenia and 
myelosuppression in malignant glioma patients undergoing chemotherapy. Although 
TMZ-induced lymphopenia has been attributed to facilitate antitumor vaccination 
studies by inducing passive immune response, in general lymphopenic conditions 
have been associated with poor immune surveillance leading to opportunistic 
infections in glioma patients, as well as disrupting active antiglioma immune 
response by depleting both T and NK cells. Deletion of 
O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) activity, a DNA repair enzyme, by 
temozolomide has been determined to be the cause of lymphopenia. Drug-resistant 
mutation of the MGMT protein has been shown to render chemoprotection against 
TMZ. The immune modulating role of TMZ during glioma chemotherapy and possible 
mechanisms to establish a strong TMZ-resistant immune response have been 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/831090
PMCID: PMC3486128
PMID: 23133490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Obes. 2012;2012:473941. doi: 10.1155/2012/473941. Epub 2012 Oct 23.

Prader-willi syndrome: clinical aspects.

Elena G(1), Bruna C, Benedetta M, Stefania DC, Giuseppe C.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Unit, Department of Pediatrics, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific 
Institute, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, 20132 Milan, Italy.

Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a complex multisystem genetic disorder that shows 
great variability, with changing clinical features during a patient's life. The 
syndrome is due to the loss of expression of several genes encoded on the 
proximal long arm of chromosome 15 (15q11.2-q13). The complex phenotype is most 
probably caused by a hypothalamic dysfunction that is responsible for hormonal 
dysfunctions and for absence of the sense of satiety. For this reason a 
Prader-Willi (PW) child develops hyperphagia during the initial stage of infancy 
that can lead to obesity and its complications. During infancy many PW child 
display a range of behavioural problems that become more noticeable in 
adolescence and adulthood and interfere mostly with quality of life. Early 
diagnosis of PWS is important for effective long-term management, and a 
precocious multidisciplinary approach is fundamental to improve quality of life, 
prevent complications, and prolong life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/473941
PMCID: PMC3486015
PMID: 23133744


586. Expert Rev Respir Med. 2012 Nov;6(5):523-31; quiz 531. doi:
10.1586/ers.12.47.

Pulmonary rehabilitation and acute exacerbations of COPD.

Kon SS(1), Canavan JL, Man WD.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Biomedical Research Unit, Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS 
Foundation Trust and Imperial College, Hill End Road, Harefield, London, UK. 
s.kon@rbht.nhs.uk

Acute exacerbations are major events in the natural history of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and are associated with increased morbidity 
and mortality. Although pulmonary rehabilitation increases exercise capacity, 
reduces dyspnea and improves health-related quality of life, the effects on risk 
of future exacerbations (and by extension, healthcare utilization) are less well 
documented. Furthermore, there has been a growing evidence base to support 
provision of pulmonary rehabilitation in the acute phase of COPD, for example, 
shortly after hospitalization for an acute exacerbation. This article reviews 
the role of pulmonary rehabilitation in the prevention and treatment of acute 
exacerbations of COPD.

DOI: 10.1586/ers.12.47
PMID: 23134247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. N Engl J Med. 2012 Nov 8;367(19):1861; author reply 1862. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc1211071.

Quality-of-life effects of prostate-specific antigen screening.

Haines IE.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2012 Aug 16;367(7):595-605.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc1211071
PMID: 23134391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. N Engl J Med. 2012 Nov 8;367(19):1861-2; author reply 1862. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc1211071.

Quality-of-life effects of prostate-specific antigen screening.

Nagata M, Tanimoto T, Kami M.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2012 Aug 16;367(7):595-605.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc1211071
PMID: 23134392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(42):iii-iv, 1-277. doi: 10.3310/hta16420.

Dasatinib, nilotinib and standard-dose imatinib for the first-line treatment of 
chronic myeloid leukaemia: systematic reviews and economic analyses.

Pavey T(1), Hoyle M, Ciani O, Crathorne L, Jones-Hughes T, Cooper C, Osipenko L, 
Venkatachalam M, Rudin C, Ukoumunne O, Garside R, Anderson R.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), University of Exeter, Exeter, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: Nilotinib and dasatinib are now being considered as alternative 
treatments to imatinib as a first-line treatment of chronic myeloid leukaemia 
(CML).
OBJECTIVE: This technology assessment reviews the available evidence for the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of dasatinib, nilotinib and 
standard-dose imatinib for the first-line treatment of Philadelphia 
chromosome-positive CML.
DATA SOURCES: Databases [including MEDLINE (Ovid), EMBASE, Current Controlled 
Trials, ClinicalTrials.gov, the US Food and Drug Administration website and the 
European Medicines Agency website] were searched from search end date of the 
last technology appraisal report on this topic in October 2002 to September 
2011.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness studies; a review of surrogate relationships with survival; a 
review and critique of manufacturer submissions; and a model-based economic 
analysis.
RESULTS: Two clinical trials (dasatinib vs imatinib and nilotinib vs imatinib) 
were included in the effectiveness review. Survival was not significantly 
different for dasatinib or nilotinib compared with imatinib with the 24-month 
follow-up data available. The rates of complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) and 
major molecular response (MMR) were higher for patients receiving dasatinib than 
for those with imatinib for 12 months' follow-up (CCyR 83% vs 72%, p < 0.001; 
MMR 46% vs 28%, p < 0.0001). The rates of CCyR and MMR were higher for patients 
receiving nilotinib than for those receiving imatinib for 12 months' follow-up 
(CCyR 80% vs 65%, p < 0.001; MMR 44% vs 22%, p < 0.0001). An indirect comparison 
analysis showed no difference between dasatinib and nilotinib for CCyR or MMR 
rates for 12 months' follow-up (CCyR, odds ratio 1.09, 95% CI 0.61 to 1.92; MMR, 
odds ratio 1.28, 95% CI 0.77 to 2.16). There is observational association 
evidence from imatinib studies supporting the use of CCyR and MMR at 12 months 
as surrogates for overall all-cause survival and progression-free survival in 
patients with CML in chronic phase. In the cost-effectiveness modelling 
scenario, analyses were provided to reflect the extensive structural uncertainty 
and different approaches to estimating OS. First-line dasatinib is predicted to 
provide very poor value for money compared with first-line imatinib, with 
deterministic incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of between £256,000 
and £450,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Conversely, first-line 
nilotinib provided favourable ICERs at the willingness-to-pay threshold of 
£20,000-30,000 per QALY.
LIMITATIONS: Immaturity of empirical trial data relative to life expectancy, 
forcing either reliance on surrogate relationships or cumulative 
survival/treatment duration assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: From the two trials available, dasatinib and nilotinib have a 
statistically significant advantage compared with imatinib as measured by MMR or 
CCyR. Taking into account the treatment pathways for patients with CML, i.e. 
assuming the use of second-line nilotinib, first-line nilotinib appears to be 
more cost-effective than first-line imatinib. Dasatinib was not cost-effective 
if decision thresholds of £20,000 per QALY or £30,000 per QALY were used, 
compared with imatinib and nilotinib. Uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness 
analysis would be substantially reduced with better and more UK-specific data on 
the incidence and cost of stem cell transplantation in patients with chronic 
CML.
FUNDING: The Health Technology Assessment Programme of the National Institute 
for Health Research.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16420
PMID: 23134589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. J Med Ethics. 2014 Apr;40(4):241. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-101024. Epub
2012  Nov 7.

Moral concerns with sedation at the end of life.

Douglas C(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia; 
charles.douglas@newcastle.edu.au.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2014 Apr;40(4):230-4.
    J Med Ethics. 2014 Apr;40(4):235-40.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-101024
PMID: 23135768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Drugs Aging. 2012 Nov;29(11):871-83. doi: 10.1007/s40266-012-0021-4.

Optimal management of recurrent prostate cancer in older patients.

Kessler ER(1), Flaig TW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Colorado 
Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, 80045-0511, USA.

With a large, aging population in the USA and continued prolongation of life 
expectancy, treatment of cancer in the elderly will continue to be of 
importance. The most common cancer in men is prostate cancer, which is most 
often diagnosed in those over the age of 65 years. Initial therapies for 
prostate cancer are local treatments in those with localized disease and for 
whom definitive therapy is appropriate. Optimal treatment of an older patient 
with recurrent prostate cancer now involves more of a decision process than 
treatment has in the past, with the recent approval of several new medical 
agents for advanced prostate cancer. Through this article we will focus on 
treatment options for recurrent prostate cancer, keeping in mind the unique 
characteristics of the elderly population. A majority of the discussion will 
focus on many of the newly approved agents used to treat castration-resistant 
prostate cancer, and exciting agents currently under investigation. Improved 
androgen blockade has improved overall survival in patients with metastatic 
disease but carries many of the same adverse effects as previous agents. Newer 
approaches with immunotherapy, radiopharmaceuticals, or second-generation 
androgen receptor blockers introduce a different adverse-effect profile for 
older patients. As data matures, these too may improve survival for patients 
with metastatic disease. Throughout all stages of disease, one must keep in mind 
the unique needs of an older patient population.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-012-0021-4
PMID: 23135826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Am J Epidemiol. 2012 Nov 15;176(10):929-37. doi: 10.1093/aje/kws152. Epub
2012  Oct 16.

Comparison of Bayesian random-effects and traditional life expectancy 
estimations in small-area applications.

Jonker MF(1), van Lenthe FJ, Congdon PD, Donkers B, Burdorf A, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, the Netherlands. m.jonker@erasmusmc.nl

There are several measures that summarize the mortality experience of a 
population. Of these measures, life expectancies are generally preferred based 
on their simpler interpretation and direct age standardization, which makes them 
directly comparable between different populations. However, traditional life 
expectancy estimations are highly inaccurate for smaller populations and 
consequently are seldom used in small-area applications. In this paper, the 
authors compare the relative performance of traditional life expectancy 
estimation with a Bayesian random-effects approach that uses correlations (i.e., 
borrows strength) between different age groups, geographic areas, and sexes to 
improve the small-area life expectancy estimations. In the presented Monte Carlo 
simulations, the Bayesian random-effects approach outperforms the traditional 
approach in terms of bias, root mean square error, and coverage of the 95% 
confidence intervals. Moreover, the Bayesian random-effects approach is found to 
be usable for populations as small as 2,000 person-years at risk, which is 
considerably smaller than the minimum of 5,000 person-years at risk recommended 
for the traditional approach. As such, the proposed Bayesian random-effects 
approach is well-suited for estimation of life expectancies in small areas.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws152
PMID: 23136165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. J Am Board Fam Med. 2012 Nov-Dec;25(6):878-93. doi: 
10.3122/jabfm.2012.06.120033.

Night sweats: a systematic review of the literature.

Mold JW(1), Holtzclaw BJ, McCarthy L.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma 
City, OK 73104, USA. James-mold@ouhsc.edu

BACKGROUND: Much of primary care involves helping patients manage symptoms. 
Nighttime sweating is a symptom linked to menopause, malignancies, autoimmune 
diseases, and infections. However, in primary care settings, night sweats are 
commonly reported by persons without these conditions.
METHODS: We conducted a literature review, focusing on questions about 
definition, mechanisms, incidence/prevalence, measurement, clinical causes, 
evaluation, treatment, and prognosis. We limited our search to English language 
studies of adult humans published since 1966. Because studies of estrogen and 
androgen deficiency states had been reviewed by others, we excluded them. Search 
criteria were developed for each question. Publications meeting criteria were 
reviewed by the first 2 authors and consensus was reached through discussion.
RESULTS: Prevalence estimates ranged from 10% among older primary care patients 
to 60% among women on an obstetrics inpatient unit. Life expectancy of primary 
care patients reporting night sweats did not appear to be reduced. Although many 
clinical causes have been suggested, most are not well supported. Algorithmic 
approaches to evaluation are not evidence-based. Alpha adrenergic blockers may 
reduce night sweats in patients taking serotonin reuptake inhibitors. 
Thalidomide and thioridazine may benefit some terminal cancer patients with 
night sweats.
CONCLUSIONS: The symptom, night sweats, appears to be nonspecific. Many 
questions about causation, evaluation, and management remain unanswered.

DOI: 10.3122/jabfm.2012.06.120033
PMID: 23136329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. J Neurophysiol. 2013 Jan;109(2):405-14. doi: 10.1152/jn.00332.2011. Epub
2012  Nov 7.

Perspective-taking in blindness: electrophysiological evidence of altered action 
representations.

Imbiriba LA(1), Russo MM, de Oliveira LA, Fontana AP, Rodrigues Ede C, Garcia 
MA, Vargas CD.

Author information:
(1)Núcleo de Estudos do Movimento Humano, Escola de Educação Física e Desportos, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

It is well established that the mental simulation of actions involves visual 
and/or somatomotor representations of those imagined actions. To investigate 
whether the total absence of vision affects the brain activity associated with 
the retrieval of motor representations, we recorded the readiness potential 
(RP), a marker of motor preparation preceding the execution, as well as the 
motor imagery of the right middle-finger extension in the first-person (1P; 
imagining oneself performing the movement) and in the third-person (3P; 
imagining the experimenter performing the movement) modes in 19 sighted and 10 
congenitally blind subjects. Our main result was found for the single RP slope 
values at the Cz channel (likely corresponding to the supplementary motor area). 
No difference in RP slope was found between 1P and 3P in the sighted group, 
suggesting that similar motor preparation networks are recruited to simulate our 
own and other people's actions in spite of explicit instructions to perform the 
task in 1P or 3P. Conversely, reduced RP slopes in 3P compared with 1P found in 
the blind group indicated that they might have used an alternative, nonmotor 
strategy to perform the task in 3P. Moreover, movement imagery ability, assessed 
both by means of mental chronometry and a modified version of the Movement 
Imagery Questionnaire-Revised, indicated that blind and sighted individuals had 
similar motor imagery performance. Taken together, these results suggest that 
complete visual loss early in life modifies the brain networks that associate 
with others' action representations.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00332.2011
PMID: 23136345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Evid Based Med. 2013 Aug;18(4):121-4. doi: 10.1136/eb-2012-100930. Epub 2012
Nov  7.

Deciding when to stop: towards evidence-based deprescribing of drugs in older 
populations.

Scott IA(1), Gray LC, Martin JH, Pillans PI, Mitchell CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Queensland, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. 
ian_scott@health.qld.gov.au

Minimising the harm from inappropriate prescribing in older populations is a 
major urgent concern for modern healthcare systems. In everyday encounters 
between prescribers and patients, opportunities should be taken to identify 
patients at high risk of harm from polypharmacy and reappraise their need for 
specific drugs. Attempts to reconcile life expectancy, comorbidity burden, care 
goals and patient preferences with the benefits and harms of medications should 
be made in every patient at significant risk. Drugs identified by this process 
of reconciliation as conferring little or no benefit and/or excessive risk of 
harm should be candidates for discontinuation. Evidence supporting a structured 
approach to drug discontinuation (or deprescribing) is emerging, and while many 
barriers to deprescribing exist in routine practice, various enabling strategies 
can help overcome them.

DOI: 10.1136/eb-2012-100930
PMID: 23136399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. European J Org Chem. 2012 Jan;2012(1):119-131. doi: 10.1002/ejoc.201101171.
Epub  2011 Nov 16.

Synthesis of Neoglycoconjugates Containing 4-Amino-4-deoxy-l-arabinose Epitopes 
Corresponding to the Inner Core of Burkholderia and Proteus Lipopolysaccharides.

Blaukopf M(1), Müller B, Hofinger A, Kosma P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences 
Muthgasse 18, 1190 Vienna, Austria.

Disaccharides that contain 3-deoxy-d-manno-oct-2-ulosonic acid (Kdo) and 
d-glycero-d-talo-oct-2-ulosonic acid (Ko) substituted at the 8-position by 
4-amino-4-deoxy-β-l-arabinopyranosyl (Ara4N) residues have been prepared. 
Coupling an N-phenyltrifluoroacetimidate-4-azido-4-deoxy-l-arabinosylglycosyl 
donor to acetyl-protected allyl glycosides of Kdo and Ko afforded anomeric 
mixtures of disaccharide products in 74 and 90 % yield, respectively, which were 
separated by chromatography. Further extension of an intermediate 
Ara4N-(1→8)-Kdo disaccharide acceptor, which capitalized on a regioselective 
glycosylation with a Kdo bromide donor under Helferich conditions, afforded the 
branched trisaccharide α-Kdo-(2→4)[β-l-Ara4N-(1→8)]-α-Kdo derivative. 
Deprotection of the protected di- and trisaccharide allyl glycosides was 
accomplished by TiCl(4)-promoted benzyl ether cleavage followed by the removal 
of ester groups and reduction of the azido group with thiol or Staudinger 
reagents, respectively. The reaction of the anomeric allyl group with 
1,3-propanedithiol under radical conditions afforded the thioether-bridged 
spacer glycosides, which were efficiently coupled to maleimide-activated bovine 
serum albumin. The neoglycoconjugates serve as immunoreagents with specificity 
for inner core epitopes of Burkholderia and Proteus lipopolysaccharides.

DOI: 10.1002/ejoc.201101171
PMCID: PMC3482937
PMID: 23136534


597. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Nov 8;12:385. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-385.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of different rescue therapies in patients with 
lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B in China.

Wu B(1), Shen J, Cheng H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Clinical Outcomes and Economics Group, Renji Hospital, 
affiliated with the School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Dongfang 
Road 1630, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Several rescue therapies have been used in patients with lamivudine 
(LAM)-resistant chronic hepatitis B (CHB); however, the economic outcome of 
these therapies is unclear. The object of the current analysis was to evaluate 
the lifetime cost-effectiveness of rescue therapies among patients with 
LAM-resistant CHB.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate the clinical course of 
patients with LAM-resistant CHB. From the perspective of Chinese health care, a 
lifetime cost-utility analysis was performedfor 4 rescue strategies: adefovir 
(ADV), entecavir (ETV) or tenofovir (TDF) monotherapy and combination therapy 
using LAM and ADV. A hypothetical cohort of 45-year-old patients with genotypic 
or clinical LAM-resistant CHB entered the model, and the beginning health state 
was LAM-resistant CHB without other complications. The transition probabilities, 
efficacy and resistance data for each rescue therapy as well as the costs and 
utility data were estimated from the literature. The discount rate (3%) utilized 
for costs and benefits. Sensitivity analyses were used to explore the impact of 
uncertainty on the results.
RESULTS: In LAM-resistant HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative CHB cohorts, TDF 
monotherapy and combination therapy were on the efficiency frontier for both 
positive and negative populations. Compared with no treatment, the use of 
combination therapy cost an additional $6,531.7 to gain 1 additional 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for HBeAg-positive patients and $4,571.7 to 
gain 1 additional QALY for HBeAg-negative patients. TDF monotherapy for 
HBeAg-positive patients, shows greater increase in QALYs but higher incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in comparison with combination therapy. In 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses, combination therapy was the preferred option 
for health care systems with limited health resources, such as Chinese health 
care system.
CONCLUSION: In Chinese patients with LAM-resistant CHB, combination therapy is a 
more cost-effective option than the competing rescue therapies.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-385
PMCID: PMC3511237
PMID: 23137013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Thromb Haemost. 2013 Jan;11(1):81-91. doi: 10.1111/jth.12059.

Genetic testing in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing percutaneous 
coronary intervention: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Lala A(1), Berger JS, Sharma G, Hochman JS, Scott Braithwaite R, Ladapo JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, New York 
University School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016, USA.

BACKGROUND: The CYP2C19 genotype is a predictor of adverse cardiovascular events 
in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients undergoing percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI) treated with clopidogrel.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a CYP2C19*2 
genotype-guided strategy of antiplatelet therapy in ACS patients undergoing PCI, 
compared with two 'no testing' strategies (empiric clopidogrel or prasugrel).
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to compare three strategies. The model 
captured adverse cardiovascular events and antiplatelet-related complications. 
Costs were expressed in 2010 US dollars and estimated using diagnosis-related 
group codes and Medicare reimbursement rates. The net wholesale price for 
prasugrel was estimated as $5.45 per day. A generic estimate for clopidogrel of 
$1.00 per day was used and genetic testing was assumed to cost $500.
RESULTS: Base case analyses demonstrated little difference between treatment 
strategies. The genetic testing-guided strategy yielded the most QALYs and was 
the least costly. Over 15 months, total costs were $18 lower with a gain of 
0.004 QALY in the genotype-guided strategy compared with empiric clopidogrel, 
and $899 lower with a gain of 0.0005 QALY compared with empiric prasugrel. The 
strongest predictor of the preferred strategy was the relative risk of 
thrombotic events in carriers compared with wild-type individuals treated with 
clopidogrel. Above a 47% increased risk, a genotype-guided strategy was the 
dominant strategy. Above a clopidogrel cost of $3.96 per day, genetic testing 
was no longer dominant but remained cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Among ACS patients undergoing PCI, a genotype-guided strategy 
yields similar outcomes to empiric approaches to treatment, but is marginally 
less costly and more effective.

© 2012 International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis.

DOI: 10.1111/jth.12059
PMID: 23137413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012 Nov 13;60(20):2123-4. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2012.02.095.

Cost-effectiveness of cardiovascular disease spending.

Miller G, Cohen JT, Roehrig C.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2012.02.095
PMCID: PMC3495132
PMID: 23137531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Genet Med. 2013 May;15(5):374-81. doi: 10.1038/gim.2012.139. Epub 2012 Nov
8.

A risk-benefit analysis of factor V Leiden testing to improve pregnancy 
outcomes: a case study of the capabilities of decision modeling in genomics.

Bajaj PS(1), Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, Department of Pharmacy, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

Comment in
    Genet Med. 2013 May;15(5):335-7.

PURPOSE: We sought to assess the benefits, risks, and personal utility of factor 
V Leiden mutation testing to improve pregnancy outcomes and to assess the 
utility of decision-analytic modeling for complex outcomes in genomics.
METHODS: We developed a model to evaluate factor V Leiden testing among women 
with a history of recurrent pregnancy loss, including heparin therapy during 
pregnancy in mutation-positive women. Outcomes included venous thromboembolism, 
major bleeds, pregnancy loss, maternal mortality, and quality-adjusted 
life-years.
RESULTS: Factor V Leiden testing in a hypothetical cohort of 10,000 women led to 
7 fewer venous thromboembolic events, 90 fewer pregnancy losses, and an increase 
of 17 major bleeding events. Small improvements in quality-adjusted life-years 
were largely attributable to reduced mortality but also to improvements in 
health-related quality of life. However, sensitivity analyses indicate large 
variance in results due to data uncertainty. Furthermore, the complexity of 
outcomes limited our ability to fully capture the repercussions of testing in 
the quality-adjusted life-year measure.
CONCLUSION: Factor V Leiden testing involves tradeoffs between clinical and 
personal utility, and additional effectiveness data are needed for heparin use 
to prevent pregnancy loss. Decision-analytic methods offer somewhat limited 
value in assessing these tradeoffs, suggesting that evaluation of complex 
outcomes will require novel approaches to appropriately capture patient-centered 
outcomes.Genet Med 2013:15(5):374-381.

DOI: 10.1038/gim.2012.139
PMID: 23138100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2012 Nov;99(5):1060-7. doi:
10.1590/s0066-782x2012005000098.  Epub 2012 Nov 9.

Acute myocardial infarction after noncardiac surgery.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Gualandro DM(1), Calderaro D, Yu PC, Caramelli B.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute, University of São Paulo medical School, Brazil. 
danigualandro@cardiol.br

Over 230 million surgeries are performed annually worldwide, cardiac 
complications being the most common causes of postoperative morbidity and 
mortality. As life expectancy has extended worldwide, a growing number of 
patients with multiple comorbidities have undergone noncardiac surgeries. 
Consequently, cardiovascular complications associated with those procedures are 
expected to increase, and perioperative acute myocardial infarction (AMI) might 
become a frequent problem. In Brazil, the number of noncardiac surgical 
procedures has also increased, and approximately three million surgeries are 
performed annually. Despite advances in surgical and anesthetic techniques, 
mortality and costs related to those procedures have also increased, thus, 
requiring the development of strategies to reduce mortality(4). The occurrence 
of perioperative AMI prolongs the need for intensive care and the hospital 
length of stay, increases the cost of hospitalization, and reduces long-term 
survival. This literature review approaches the pathophysiology, incidence, 
diagnosis and treatment of perioperative AMI based on current evidence.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2012005000098
PMID: 23138671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. AIDS Behav. 2013 Oct;17 Suppl 2(0 2):S220-6. doi: 10.1007/s10461-012-0353-4.

Cost analysis of enhancing linkages to HIV care following jail: a cost-effective 
intervention.

Spaulding AC(1), Pinkerton SD, Superak H, Cunningham MJ, Resch S, Jordan AO, 
Yang Z.

Author information:
(1)Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, 1518 Clifton Road, 
Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA, aspauld@emory.edu.

We are not aware of published cost-effectiveness studies addressing community 
transitional programs for HIV-infected jail detainees. To address this gap, data 
from 9 sites of EnhanceLink, a project that enrolled HIV-infected releasees from 
jails across the US, were examined. Figures on the number of clients served, 
cost of linkage services, number of linkages and 6-month sustained linkages to 
community HIV care, and number of clients achieving viral suppression were 
assessed for subjects released in the first quarter of 2010 (n = 543). The cost 
analysis included all costs that participating service agencies incurred. A 
cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted to estimate the new HIV cases averted 
by EnhanceLink and the cost per quality-adjusted life year saved by the program. 
The mean cost per linked client was $4,219; the mean cost per 6-month sustained 
linkage was $4,670; and the mean cost per client achieving viral suppression was 
$8,432. Compared to standard care, the cost per additional quality-adjusted life 
year saved was $72,285, suggesting that the EnhanceLink interventions were 
cost-effective from the societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-012-0353-4
PMCID: PMC3806887
PMID: 23138877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Hum Mol Genet. 2013 Feb 15;22(4):704-16. doi: 10.1093/hmg/dds478. Epub 2012
Nov  8.

Expanded CTG repeats trigger miRNA alterations in Drosophila that are conserved 
in myotonic dystrophy type 1 patients.

Fernandez-Costa JM(1), Garcia-Lopez A, Zuñiga S, Fernandez-Pedrosa V, 
Felipo-Benavent A, Mata M, Jaka O, Aiastui A, Hernandez-Torres F, Aguado B, 
Perez-Alonso M, Vilchez JJ, Lopez de Munain A, Artero RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Valencia, Burjasot 46100, Spain.

Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is caused by the expansion of CTG repeats in the 
3' untranslated region of the DMPK gene. Several missplicing events and 
transcriptional alterations have been described in DM1 patients. A large number 
of these defects have been reproduced in animal models expressing CTG repeats 
alone. Recent studies have also reported miRNA dysregulation in DM1 patients. In 
this work, a Drosophila model was used to investigate miRNA transcriptome 
alterations in the muscle, specifically triggered by CTG expansions. Twenty 
miRNAs were differentially expressed in CTG-expressing flies. Of these, 19 were 
down-regulated, whereas 1 was up-regulated. This trend was confirmed for those 
miRNAs conserved between Drosophila and humans (miR-1, miR-7 and miR-10) in 
muscle biopsies from DM1 patients. Consistently, at least seven target 
transcripts of these miRNAs were up-regulated in DM1 skeletal muscles. The 
mechanisms involved in dysregulation of miR-7 included a reduction of its 
primary precursor both in CTG-expressing flies and in DM1 patients. 
Additionally, a regulatory role for Muscleblind (Mbl) was also suggested for 
miR-1 and miR-7, as these miRNAs were down-regulated in flies where Mbl had been 
silenced. Finally, the physiological relevance of miRNA dysregulation was 
demonstrated for miR-10, since over-expression of this miRNA in Drosophila 
extended the lifespan of CTG-expressing flies. Taken together, our results 
contribute to our understanding of the origin and the role of miRNA alterations 
in DM1.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/dds478
PMID: 23139243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Med Ethics. 2013 Aug;39(8):533-6. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-101065. Epub
 2012 Nov 8.

Embryo deaths in reproduction and embryo research: a reply to Murphy's double 
effect argument.

Devolder K(1).

Author information:
(1)Bioethics Institute Ghent, Department of Philosophy and Moral Sciences, Ghent 
University, Blandijnberg 2, Ghent 9000, Belgium. katrien.devolder@ugent.be

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Aug;39(8):537-40.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Aug;39(8):529-32.

The majority of embryos created in natural reproduction die spontaneously within 
a few weeks of conception. Some have argued that, therefore, if one believes the 
embryo is a person (in the normative sense) one should find 'natural' 
reproduction morally problematic. An extension of this argument holds that, if 
one accepts embryo deaths in natural reproduction, consistency requires that one 
also accepts embryo deaths that occur in (i) assisted reproduction via in vitro 
fertilisation (IVF) and (ii) embryo research. In a recent paper in this journal, 
Timothy Murphy criticises both the initial argument and its extension. Murphy 
argues that double-effect reasoning can justify embryo deaths both in natural 
reproduction and IVF, but not in embryo research. Thus, according to Murphy, one 
can, without being inconsistent, (1) believe the embryo is a person and accept 
natural reproduction and IVF, and (2) accept natural reproduction and IVF, while 
rejecting embryo research on the ground that it involves embryo deaths. I show 
that Murphy's argument is problematic because double effect cannot justify 
embryo deaths in standard IVF practices. The problem is that the proportionality 
criterion of double effect is not met by such practices. Thus, Murphy's argument 
fails to support (1) and (2). An implication of his argument failing to support 
(2) is that it does not defeat the position I have defended in the past-that if 
one accepts standard IVF practices one should also accept embryo research, 
including research with embryos created solely for that purpose.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-101065
PMID: 23139393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. PLoS Med. 2012;9(11):e1001335. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001335. Epub 2012
Nov  6.

Leisure time physical activity of moderate to vigorous intensity and mortality: 
a large pooled cohort analysis.

Moore SC(1), Patel AV, Matthews CE, Berrington de Gonzalez A, Park Y, Katki HA, 
Linet MS, Weiderpass E, Visvanathan K, Helzlsouer KJ, Thun M, Gapstur SM, Hartge 
P, Lee IM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, MD, USA. moorest@mail.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: Leisure time physical activity reduces the risk of premature 
mortality, but the years of life expectancy gained at different levels remains 
unclear. Our objective was to determine the years of life gained after age 40 
associated with various levels of physical activity, both overall and according 
to body mass index (BMI) groups, in a large pooled analysis.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We examined the association of leisure time physical 
activity with mortality during follow-up in pooled data from six prospective 
cohort studies in the National Cancer Institute Cohort Consortium, comprising 
654,827 individuals, 21-90 y of age. Physical activity was categorized by 
metabolic equivalent hours per week (MET-h/wk). Life expectancies and years of 
life gained/lost were calculated using direct adjusted survival curves (for 
participants 40+ years of age), with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) derived by 
bootstrap. The study includes a median 10 y of follow-up and 82,465 deaths. A 
physical activity level of 0.1-3.74 MET-h/wk, equivalent to brisk walking for up 
to 75 min/wk, was associated with a gain of 1.8 (95% CI: 1.6-2.0) y in life 
expectancy relative to no leisure time activity (0 MET-h/wk). Higher levels of 
physical activity were associated with greater gains in life expectancy, with a 
gain of 4.5 (95% CI: 4.3-4.7) y at the highest level (22.5+ MET-h/wk, equivalent 
to brisk walking for 450+ min/wk). Substantial gains were also observed in each 
BMI group. In joint analyses, being active (7.5+ MET-h/wk) and normal weight 
(BMI 18.5-24.9) was associated with a gain of 7.2 (95% CI: 6.5-7.9) y of life 
compared to being inactive (0 MET-h/wk) and obese (BMI 35.0+). A limitation was 
that physical activity and BMI were ascertained by self report.
CONCLUSIONS: More leisure time physical activity was associated with longer life 
expectancy across a range of activity levels and BMI groups. Please see later in 
the article for the Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001335
PMCID: PMC3491006
PMID: 23139642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I-Min Lee served as a consultant to Virgin 
HealthMiles and served on their Scientific Advisory Board (2007–2010). The 
authors have declared that no other competing interests exist.


606. Fed Regist. 2012 Nov 1;77(212):66069-71.

Veterans' Group Life Insurance (VGLI) no-health period extension. Final rule.

Department of Veterans Affairs.

The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is issuing this final rule that amends 
the regulations governing eligibility for Veterans' Group Life Insurance (VGLI) 
to extend to 240 days the current 120-day "no-health" period during which 
veterans can apply for VGLI without proving that they are in good health for 
insurance purposes. The purpose of this rule is to increase the opportunities 
for disabled veterans to enroll in VGLI, some of whom would not qualify for VGLI 
coverage under existing provisions. This document adopts as a final rule, 
without change, the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on June 25, 
2012.

PMID: 23139945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Health Estate. 2012 Oct;66(9):79-84.

Move signals the 'start of new era'.

Baillie J.

Thirty-one years after its establishment in a small office in Wigan, independent 
life safety equipment manufacturer, C-TEC, has moved into a new 75,000 ft2 
factory, 'the size of three football pitches', marking the start of what founder 
and MD, Andrew Foster, dubs 'the next phase in our exciting development'. The 
past year has also seen the firm busy on the new product front, with the launch 
of a 'revolutionary' new range of touchscreen-controlled analogue addressable 
fire alarms panels which the company claims will put it 'way ahead of the 
competition', and, in response to demand from nursing and care home operator 
customers, the introduction of a range of components designed to facilitate 
dementia care as an extension to its well-established Quantec addressable call 
system. HEJ editor, Jonathan Baillie, reports.

PMID: 23140011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2012 Oct;12(5):569-77. doi: 
10.1586/erp.12.57. Epub 2012 Nov 11.

Cost-effectiveness of rituximab in follicular lymphoma.

Johnston KM(1), Bolbocean C, Connors J, Peacock S.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.

In advanced follicular lymphoma, rituximab is currently used with chemotherapy 
as induction therapy, and as maintenance monotherapy following induction in 
previously untreated patients and treatment-experienced relapsed/refractory 
patients. Herein, the authors characterize the clinical effectiveness, safety 
and cost-effectiveness of rituximab in follicular lymphoma, based on the 
literature review. Rituximab has a favorable safety profile and has been shown 
to improve progression-free survival, with some evidence of improvements to 
overall survival, particularly for relapsed/refractory patients. Rituximab has 
consistently been found to have a favorable economic profile, with cost per 
quality-adjusted life year falling within standard thresholds for 
cost-effectiveness. Challenges in cost-effectiveness analysis include the fact 
that life expectancy for patients with follicular lymphoma exceeds the period of 
available follow-up data and that treatment pathways are more complex than the 
model structures frequently used in oncology models. As data accrue and more 
complex models are developed, the cost-effectiveness of rituximab can be more 
accurately assessed.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.12.57
PMID: 23140274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. BMC Public Health. 2012 Nov 9;12:962. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-962.

Dynamic modelling of costs and health consequences of school closure during an 
influenza pandemic.

Xue Y(1), Kristiansen IS, de Blasio BF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University 
of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. yiting.xue@medisin.uio.no

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this article is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
school closure during a potential influenza pandemic and to examine the 
trade-off between costs and health benefits for school closure involving 
different target groups and different closure durations.
METHODS: We developed two models: a dynamic disease model capturing the spread 
of influenza and an economic model capturing the costs and benefits of school 
closure. Decisions were based on quality-adjusted life years gained using 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. The disease model is an age-structured 
SEIR compartmental model based on the population of Oslo. We studied the costs 
and benefits of school closure by varying the age targets (kindergarten, primary 
school, secondary school) and closure durations (1-10 weeks), given pandemics 
with basic reproductive number of 1.5, 2.0 or 2.5.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of school closure varies depending on the target 
group, duration and whether indirect costs are considered. Using a case fatality 
rate (CFR) of 0.1-0.2% and with current cost-effectiveness threshold for Norway, 
closing secondary school is the only cost-effective strategy, when indirect 
costs are included. The most cost-effective strategies would be closing 
secondary schools for 8 weeks if R0=1.5, 6 weeks if R0=2.0, and 4 weeks if R0= 
2.5. For severe pandemics with case fatality rates of 1-2%, similar to the 
Spanish flu, or when indirect costs are disregarded, the optimal strategy is 
closing kindergarten, primary and secondary school for extended periods of time. 
For a pandemic with 2009 H1N1 characteristics (mild severity and low 
transmissibility), closing schools would not be cost-effective, regardless of 
the age target of school children.
CONCLUSIONS: School closure has moderate impact on the epidemic's scope, but the 
resulting disruption to society imposes a potentially great cost in terms of 
lost productivity from parents' work absenteeism.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-962
PMCID: PMC3533523
PMID: 23140513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(43):1-129. doi: 10.3310/hta16430.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of primary stroke prevention 
in children with sickle cell disease: a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Cherry MG(1), Greenhalgh J, Osipenko L, Venkatachalam M, Boland A, Dundar Y, 
Marsh K, Dickson R, Rees DC.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a recessive genetic blood disorder, 
caused by a mutation in the β-globin gene. For children with SCD, the risk of 
