trial showed significant improvements in dystonia severity at 3 years and 5 
years compared with baseline, which corresponded to -20·8 points (SD 17·1; 
-47·9%; n=40) at 6 months; -26·5 points (19·7; -61·1%; n=31) at 3 years; and 
-25·1 points (21·3; -57·8%; n=32). The improvement from 6 months to 3 years 
(-5·7 points [SD 8·4]; -34%) was significant and sustained at the 5-year 
follow-up (-4·3 [10·4]). 49 new adverse events occurred between 6 months and 5 
years. Dysarthria and transient worsening of dystonia were the most common 
non-serious adverse events. 21 adverse events were rated serious and were almost 
exclusively device related. One patient attempted suicide shortly after the 
6-month visit during a depressive episode. All serious adverse events resolved 
without permanent sequelae.
INTERPRETATION: 3 years and 5 years after surgery, pallidal neurostimulation 
continues to be an effective and relatively safe treatment option for patients 
with severe idiopathic dystonia. This long-term observation provides further 
evidence in favour of pallidal neurostimulation as a first-line treatment for 
patients with medically intractable, segmental, or generalised dystonia.
FUNDING: Medtronic.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70257-0
PMID: 23123071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Circ J. 2013;77(1):28-34. doi: 10.1253/circj.cj-12-0972. Epub 2012 Oct 31.

Triggers for surgical referral in degenerative mitral valve regurgitation.

Itagaki S(1), Adams DH, Anyanwu AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New 
York, NY 10029, USA.

Degenerative mitral valve disease is the most common etiology of mitral 
regurgitation in developed countries. Degenerative mitral valve disease should 
be distinguished from other valvular disease because most of the lesions caused 
by degenerative changes are amenable to valve repair as opposed to replacement, 
and successful durable repair with optimal timing can maintain the patient's 
normal life expectancy. Despite dramatic surgical progress in degenerative 
mitral valve repair over the past few decades and detailing of surgical 
indications in established practice guidelines, prevailing data suggest a 
significant number of patients are still not referred for surgery in a timely 
fashion or are even denied for surgery for inappropriate reasons. This article 
reviews the current surgical triggers which all practicing cardiovascular 
specialists should be familiar with and which should prompt immediate surgical 
referral.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.cj-12-0972
PMID: 23123553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Contemp Clin Trials. 2013 Mar;34(2):205-11. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.10.011.
Epub  2012 Nov 1.

Pragmatic exercise intervention for people with multiple sclerosis (ExIMS 
trial): study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.

Saxton JM(1), Carter A, Daley AJ, Snowdon N, Woodroofe MN, Petty J, Roalfe A, 
Tosh J, Sharrack B.

Author information:
(1)School of Allied Health Professions, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. 
john.saxton@uea.ac.uk

Exercise is an effective intervention for improving function, mobility and 
health-related quality of life in people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS). 
Questions remain however, regarding the effectiveness of pragmatic exercise 
interventions for evoking tangible and sustained increases in physical activity 
and long-term impact on important health outcomes in PwMS. Furthermore, 
dose-response relationships between exercise and health outcomes have not 
previously been reported in PwMS. These issues, and improved knowledge of cost 
effectiveness, are likely to influence key decisions of health policy makers 
regarding the implementation of exercise therapy as part of the patient care 
pathway for PwMS. Hence, the primary aim of this study is to investigate whether 
a 12-week tapered programme of supervised exercise, incorporating 
cognitive-behavioural techniques to facilitate sustained behaviour change, is 
effective for evoking improvements in physical activity and key health outcomes 
in PwMS over 9 months of follow-up. A total of 120 PwMS will be randomised (1:1) 
to either a 12-week pragmatic exercise therapy intervention or usual care 
control group. Participants will be included on the basis of a clinical 
diagnosis of MS, with an expanded disability status score (EDSS) between 1 and 
6.5. Outcome measures, to be assessed before and after the intervention and 6 
months later, will include physical activity, clinical and functional measures 
and health-related quality of life. In addition, the cost effectiveness of the 
intervention will be evaluated and dose-response relationships between physical 
activity and the primary/secondary outcomes in those with mild and more severe 
disease will be explored.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.10.011
PMID: 23123791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Jan;34(1):650-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.10.006. Epub
 2012 Nov 1.

Predictors, including blood, urine, anthropometry, and nutritional indices, of 
all-cause mortality among institutionalized individuals with intellectual 
disability.

Ohwada H(1), Nakayama T, Tomono Y, Yamanaka K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Sciences, Ibaraki Christian University, 6-11-1 Ohmika, 
Hitachi, Ibaraki 319-1295, Japan. h.ohwada@icc.ac.jp

As the life expectancy of people with intellectual disability (ID) increases, it 
is becoming necessary to understand factors affecting survival. However, 
predictors that are typically assessed among healthy people have not been 
examined. Predictors of all-cause mortality, including blood, urine, 
anthropometry, and nutritional indices, were examined among institutionalized 
people with ID. This retrospective cohort study involved 316 participants (191 
males, 125 females; mean age, 36.5 ± 10.5 years) at a public facility for people 
with ID in Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan. During the follow-up from the examination 
day in 1984-1992 through December 31, 2007 (mean follow-up, 18.6 years), 44 
deaths occurred. Mean age at death was 47.1 ± 10.0 years (range, 22.3-65.3 
years). Early deaths within three years (n = 4) were treated as censored cases. 
Cox proportional hazard regression models were used to calculate hazard ratios 
(HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of all-cause mortality. Sex- and 
age-adjusted analysis (p<0.15) revealed positive associations with mortality for 
high serum cholesterol, high thymol turbidity test (TTT), and glucosuria and 
negative associations with mortality for high serum albumin, high uric acid, 
high potassium, high calcium, and high systolic blood pressure. Multivariate 
analysis revealed that male sex (HR, 4.11; 95% CI, 1.59-10.59), high serum 
cholesterol (1.01; 1.00-1.02), high serum TTT (1.21; 1.03-1.41), and epilepsy 
significantly increased the mortality risk. The results indicate that the 
predictors of life expectancy for people with ID included both factors that are 
shared with healthy people (male sex, high serum cholesterol) and factors 
specific to people with disabilities (high serum TTT and epilepsy).

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.10.006
PMID: 23123878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2013 Feb;133(2):283-6. doi:
10.1007/s00402-012-1642-0.  Epub 2012 Nov 4.

Functional results and quality of life after bilateral scaphoid reconstruction: 
a case series.

Corsten M(1), Heffinger C, Kolios L, Lehnhardt M, Bickert B, Hirche C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hand, Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Burn Centre, BG 
Trauma Centre, Ludwig-Guttmann-Str. 13, 67071, Ludwigshafen/Rhine, Germany.

Unilateral scaphoid non-union remains a major problem, which can lead to major 
functional limitations. Until now there is no evidence of outcome of the rare 
case of bilateral scaphoid non-unions and in how far two-stage bilateral 
reconstruction affects functional results and the quality of life. Between 1997 
and 2010, altogether four bilateral scaphoid non-unions were treated in the 
centre and retrospectively analyzed. The mean follow-up was performed 36.8 
months after reconstruction. The measures included analysis of patient data, 
analysis of functional measures and quality of life after follow-up. The 
reconstructions were performed with implantation of a free, non-vascularized 
iliac crest bone graft (4), osteosynthesis with implantation of a pedicled 
vascularized bone graft (3) and osteosynthesis with cancellous bone graft (1). 
The mean range of motion of the wrist was extension/flexion 111.3°. The average 
grip strength by JAMAR dynamometer showed right versus left sight 32.7 kg (±3.5) 
versus 33.7 (±2.9). The evaluation of the DASH score resulted in 11.6 (±12.5), 
the SF36 scale in 87.1 (±9.2) points. The present case series for the first time 
demonstrated functional mid-term results of the rare event of bilateral scaphoid 
reconstruction after non-union. With respect to the impact on one affected hand, 
functional results, DASH score and quality of life are excellent and thus 
justify good prognosis in patient education after injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-012-1642-0
PMID: 23124528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Dec;14(6):901-9. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0434-3.
Epub  2012 Nov 3.

Internal validation of models with several interventions.

Gandjour A(1), Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, Sonnemannstr. 9-11, 60314, 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany, a.gandjour@fs.de.

In cost-effectiveness analyses, models are used typically to synthesize the best 
available data and/or extrapolate beyond clinical trial data. Ideally, models 
should be validated both internally and externally. The purpose of this paper is 
to suggest a test for internal validation of models where several interventions 
for the same clinical indication are compared. To the best of our knowledge, 
such a specific test does not yet exist. There are four versions of the test, 
which consider the relationship between incremental downstream costs and effects 
in the case of a single or several endpoints. We apply two versions of the 
validation test to published cost-effectiveness analyses of physical activity 
programs and demonstrate internal validity of the model in one study and lack of 
internal validity of the model in the other study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0434-3
PMID: 23124683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Age (Dordr). 2013 Oct;35(5):1917-26. doi: 10.1007/s11357-012-9486-7. Epub
2012  Nov 6.

Physically active vs. inactive lifestyle, muscle properties, and glucose 
homeostasis in middle-aged and older twins.

Leskinen T(1), Sipilä S, Kaprio J, Kainulainen H, Alen M, Kujala UM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Jyväskylä, PO Box 35 (VIV), 
FIN-40014, Jyväskylä, Finland, tuija.h.leskinen@jyu.fi.

Exercise-induced positive changes in skeletal muscle properties and metabolism 
decrease the risk for disability, cardiometabolic diseases and mortality. Here, 
we studied muscle properties and glucose homeostasis in a non-exercise stage in 
twin pairs with co-twins discordant for physical activity habits for at least 32 
years of their adult lives. Isometric knee extension force, MR imaging of 
midthigh tissue composition and muscle volume, and fasting blood samples were 
acquired from 16 same-sex (seven monozygotic, nine dizygotic) middle-aged and 
older twin pairs. The consistently active twins had 20 % higher knee extension 
forces than their inactive co-twins (p = 0.006) although the active twins had 
only 4 % higher midthigh muscle cross-sectional areas (p = 0.072). These results 
were similar in intrapair analysis in which only the seven identical twin pairs 
were included. The ratio between the area of midthigh fat and muscle tissues was 
significantly lower among the active twins (0.65 vs. 0.48, p = 0.006). The 
active twins had also lower fasting plasma glucose levels (5.1 vs 5.6 mmol/l, p 
= 0.041). The area of midthigh intramuscular (extramyocellular) fat was 
associated with the markers of glucose homeostasis, especially with glycated 
hemoglobin, and these associations were emphasized by the diabetic and inactive 
twins. Regular exercise throughout the adult life retains muscle strength and 
quality but not necessarily mass. The regular use of muscles also prevents from 
the accumulation of intramuscular fat which might be related to maintained 
glucose metabolism and, thus, prevention of metabolic disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-012-9486-7
PMCID: PMC3776123
PMID: 23124702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Heart Fail Rev. 2013 Jul;18(4):529-51. doi: 10.1007/s10741-012-9363-6.

Treatment for chronic heart failure in the elderly: current practice and 
problems.

Abete P(1), Testa G, Della-Morte D, Gargiulo G, Galizia G, de Santis D, 
Magliocca A, Basile C, Cacciatore F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica, Scienze Cardiovascolari ed Immunologiche, 
Cattedra di Geriatria, Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico II, 80131 
Naples, Italy. p.abete@unina.it

Treatment for chronic heart failure (CHF) is strongly focused on evidence-based 
medicine. However, large trials are often far away from the "real world" of 
geriatric patients and their messages are poorly transferable to the clinical 
management of CHF elderly patients. Precipitating factors and especially 
non-cardiac comorbidity may decompensate CHF in the elderly. More importantly, 
drugs of first choice, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and 
β-blockers, are still underused and effective drugs on diastolic dysfunction are 
not available. Poor adherence to therapy, especially for cognitive and 
depression disorders, worsens the management. Electrical therapy is indicated, 
but attention to the older age groups with reduced life expectancy has to be 
paid. Physical exercise, stem cells, gene delivery, and new devices are 
encouraging, but definitive results are still not available. Palliative care 
plays a key role to the end-stage of the disease. Follow-up of CHF elderly 
patient is very important but tele-medicine is the future. Finally, self-care 
management, caregiver training, and multidimensional team represent the critical 
point of the treatment for CHF elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10741-012-9363-6
PMID: 23124913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 May;68(5):539-45. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls223. Epub 2012 Nov 2.

TP53*P72 allele influences negatively female life expectancy in a population of 
central Italy: cross-sectional study and genetic-demographic approach analysis.

Di Pietro F(1), Dato S, Carpi FM, Corneveaux JJ, Serfaustini S, Maoloni S, 
Mignini F, Huentelman MJ, Passarino G, Napolioni V.

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences and Biotechnologies, University of Camerino, Camerino, 
Italy.

The association of TP53 P72R (rs1042522) with longevity remains uncertain and 
varies with ethnicity. Here, we tested its association with longevity in a 
cross-sectional population of Central Italy (18-106 years, N = 1,072), by 
integrating demographic information and frequency data to account for the 
different survival rates between sexes through the application of a 
genetic-demographic approach. rs1042522 affects females longevity, showing 
significant associations in Comparison 2 (Age Class 3 [>91 years] vs Age Class 2 
[73-91 years]) under both additive (odds ratio [OR] 0.574; p = .006) and 
dominant (OR 0.513; p = .006) models. The TP53*P72 allele is significantly 
underrepresented in Age Class 3 only in women (OR 0.575; p = .008). The 
genetic-demographic approach demonstrated that the frequency of female TP53*P72 
carriers underwent a significant reduction after 82 years (OR 0.586; p = .002). 
The same analyses gave nonsignificant results in men. The discrepancies among 
the results obtained on rs1042522 for longevity could result from the 
pleiotropic effects of p53 and the potential ethnic variation of its functional 
variants.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls223
PMID: 23125046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Cleve Clin J Med. 2012 Nov;79(11):797-806. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.79a.12010.

Androgen deficiency in older men: indications, advantages, and pitfalls of 
testosterone replacement therapy.

McGill JJ(1), Shoskes DA, Sabanegh ES.

Author information:
(1)Urology Institute, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, 11100 Euclid 
Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. mcgill@uhhospitals.org

Erratum in
    Cleve Clin J Med. 2013 Jan;80(1):40.

The decline in testosterone with age has been associated with specific physical 
changes that affect quality of life and life expectancy, although a 
cause-and-effect relationship is yet to be established. While female menopause 
is rapid and well described, "male menopause" or androgen decline in older men 
is gradual and marked by nonspecific symptoms. This makes diagnosis of true 
testosterone deficiency and prediction of response to testosterone replacement 
therapy (TRT) challenging. This article reviews androgen decline in men, 
focusing on those over age 40, and covers symptoms, indications, 
contraindications,diagnosis, treatments, and the risks and benefits of treatment 
[corrected].

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.79a.12010
PMID: 23125330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Plant Biol (Stuttg). 2013 Sep;15(5):899-909. doi: 
10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00684.x. Epub 2012 Nov 5.

The role of the tolerance-fecundity trade-off in maintaining intraspecific seed 
trait variation in a widespread dimorphic herb.

Villellas J(1), García MB.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Pirenaico de Ecología (IPE-CSIC), Zaragoza, Spain. 
jesusvi@ipe.csic.es

Coexistence of species with different seed sizes is a long-standing issue in 
community ecology, and a trade-off between fecundity and stress tolerance has 
been proposed to explain co-occurrence in heterogeneous environments. Here we 
tested an intraspecific extension of this model: whether such trade-off also 
explains seed trait variation among populations of widespread plants under 
stress gradients. We collected seeds from 14 populations of Plantago coronopus 
along the Atlantic coast in North Africa and Europe. This herb presents seed 
dimorphism, producing large basal seeds with a mucilaginous coat that 
facilitates water absorption (more stress tolerant), and small apical seeds 
without coats (less stress tolerant). We analysed variation among populations in 
number, size and mucilage production of basal and apical seeds, and searched for 
relationships between local environment and plant size. Populations under higher 
stress (higher temperature, lower precipitation, lower soil organic matter) had 
fewer seeds per fruit, higher predominance of basal relative to apical seeds, 
and larger basal seeds with thicker mucilaginous coats. These results strongly 
suggest a trade-off between tolerance and fecundity at the fruit level underpins 
variation in seed traits among P. coronopus populations. However, seed 
production per plant showed the opposite pattern to seed production per fruit, 
and seemed related to plant size and other life-cycle components, as an 
additional strategy to cope with environmental variation across the range. The 
tolerance-fecundity model may constitute, under stress gradients, a broader 
ecological framework to explain trait variation than the classical seed 
size-number compromise, although several fecundity levels and traits should be 
considered to understand the diverse strategies of widespread plants to maximise 
fitness in each set of local conditions.

© 2012 German Botanical Society and The Royal Botanical Society of the 
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1438-8677.2012.00684.x
PMID: 23126286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Int J Urol. 2013 Apr;20(4):356-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.2012.03227.x.
Epub  2012 Nov 6.

Active surveillance for small renal tumors: have clinical concerns been 
addressed so far?

Gontero P(1), Joniau S, Oderda M, Ruutu M, Van Poppel H, Laguna MP, de la 
Rosette J, Kirkali Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, A.O.U. San Giovanni Battista, University of Turin, 
Turin, Italy. paolo.gontero@unito.it

The incidence of small renal masses is increasing, as a result of the wide 
adoption of imaging exams. Their management, however, is complicated, especially 
in patients with decreased life expectancy or comorbidities. Approximately 20% 
of small renal masses are benign and, even if malignant, just 10% show 
aggressive pathological features. Furthermore, competing cause mortality seems 
to exceed the cancer-specific mortality in patients aged over 70 years. The role 
of percutaneous tumor biopsy is still not well defined. All these observations 
raise the concern as to whether surgery might represent an overtreatment for 
some cases of small renal masses, calling into question the role of active 
surveillance. The aim of this review was to evaluate the current evidence 
pertaining to several hot questions that need to be addressed when contemplating 
active surveillance for small renal masses. The most relevant publications on 
this subject available in the literature were selected. Five representative 
series of active surveillance along with the main related variables were 
identified. Some relevant items surrounding the field of active surveillance 
were identified and submitted to an evidence-based discussion. According to the 
recent evidence, small renal masses under active surveillance tend to show an 
indolent course with a low probability of disease progression, the latter being 
triggered most of the time by a tendency to grow faster. Unfortunately, we are 
currently unable to predict those few cases with aggressive behavior. According 
to the current evidence, active surveillance is feasible and safe in elderly and 
comorbid patients.

© 2012 The Japanese Urological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.2012.03227.x
PMID: 23126646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Mol Microbiol. 2012 Dec;86(6):1291-4. doi: 10.1111/mmi.12074. Epub 2012 Nov
6.

Multiple modes for gatekeeping at fungal cell-to-cell channels.

Jedd G(1), Pieuchot L.

Author information:
(1)Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory and Department of Biological Sciences, 
National University of Singapore, Singapore. gregory@tll.org.sg

Comment on
    Mol Microbiol. 2012 Dec;86(6):1334-44.

Cell-to-cell channels appear to be indispensable for successful multicellular 
organization and arose independently in animals, plants and fungi. Most of the 
fungi obtain nutrients from the environment by growing in an exploratory and 
invasive manner, and this ability depends on multicellular filaments known as 
hyphae. These cells grow by tip extension and can be divided into compartments 
by cell walls that typically retain a central pore that allows intercellular 
transport and cooperation. In the major clade of filamentous Ascomycota, 
integrity of this coenocytic organization is maintained by Woronin body 
organelles, which function as emergency patches of septal pores. In this issue 
of Molecular Microbiology, Bleichrodt and co-workers show that Woronin bodies 
can also form tight reversible associations with the pore and further link this 
to variation in levels of compartmental gene expression. These data define an 
additional modality of Woronin body-dependent gatekeeping. This commentary 
focuses on the implications of this work and the potential role of different 
modes of pore gating in controlling the growth and development of fungal 
tissues.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.12074
PMID: 23127137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Vasc Nurs. 2012 Dec;30(4):112-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvn.2012.04.004.

Risk attitude and preferences in person's hypothetically facing open repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Letterstål A(1), Olofsson P, Forsberg C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Solna, Sweden. anna.letterstal@karolinska.se

The aim of this study was to describe risk attitude and preference for treatment 
using a proxy measurement of a general population sample hypothetically facing 
treatment for open repair (OR) of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). In a 
telephone interview, a standard gamble (SG) and a time trade-off (TTO) question 
were asked to elicit risk attitude and preference for treatment in a general 
population sample of 200 persons, stratified in four age groups. When facing the 
two questions of (1) either live a shorter life without an AAA compared to a 
longer life with an AAA (TTO) or (2) taking a risk of living with AAA compared 
to taking the risk with surgical treatment (SG), the oldest age group was 
neither willing to live a shorter life without AAA, nor willing to take a risk 
with surgical treatment to the same extent as the younger age groups: age 50-59 
(TTO P = 0.03, SG P = < 0.001), age 60-69 (TTO P = 0.01, SG P = < 0.001), age 
70-79 (TTO P = 0.02, SG P = 0.002). These results suggest that persons in the 
age groups over 80 years old in the general population sample are more inclined 
to go on living with an AAA without taking the immediate risk associated with OR 
as well as the postoperatively impaired health-related quality of life (HRQL). 
Preference for treatment in different age groups is important to consider during 
the decision-making process, especially for patients over 80 years old. Patient 
education about treatment options, specific risks as well as postoperative 
impairment of HRQL is necessary in this process.

Copyright © 2012 Society for Vascular Nursing, Inc. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvn.2012.04.004
PMID: 23127427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Rural Remote Health. 2012;12:2154. Epub 2012 Nov 1.

Mental health and aging initiative: intervention component effects.

Zanjani F(1), Davis T, Kruger T, Murray D.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA. 
f.zanjani@uky.edu

INTRODUCTION: The objective of this investigation is to evaluate the Mental 
Healthiness and Aging Initiative (MHAI) intervention. The MHAI was created to 
promote awareness and knowledge about mental health/substance (MH/SA) use and 
aging issues in rural Kentucky, USA, due to limitations in formal and informal 
mental health care and treatment resources as a result of multilevel barriers in 
rural regions and effects on health, wellbeing and quality of life.
METHODS: This investigation took place between 2010 and 2011 in two rural 
counties in Kentucky. Participants from two counties were recruited through an 
email solicitation sent to Kentucky cooperative extension agents 
(university-affiliated community liaisons). Individuals participated in a 
two-hour intervention session covering facts and information, application 
exercises, and community tools for addressing late-life mental health and 
substance abuse. Effectiveness was evaluated by examining changes in attitudes 
and knowledge about MH/SA and aging from pre-test to post-test and again 3 
months and 6 months later. The evaluation survey examined mental health and 
substance abuse awareness (six questions) and knowledge (13 questions) and was 
previously piloted and designed for the current study ensuring face validity. 
Seven individual linear mixed models were analyzed using each of the six 
awareness questions and an additional model using an aggregate score across the 
knowledge questions representing the total percent correct for knowledge 
questions.
RESULTS: The participating sample (n=55) was 65.35 years of age on average, with 
the majority being female (85%), white (100%), married (69%), living with a 
spouse/partner only (68%), high school educated (57%) and having a total 
household income averaging US$44,199. The findings indicated sustained 
improvement in awareness and knowledge about MH/SA and aging. Results also 
indicated that there is a need to improve maintenance of knowledge regarding 
older adult alcohol consumption risk, clinical provider communication about 
mental health, identifying/recognizing mental health problems, and older adult 
retention of their mental abilities based on long-term retention rates. These 
indicators had below 90% correctness at 6 months, despite having 90%+ accuracy 
at post-assessment, immediately after the intervention administration.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that community interventions for MH/SA 
awareness and knowledge are effective within majority rural regions. As 
currently designed, implementing the MHAI intervention program is feasible. 
Evidence from the current study indicates that community residents (including 
rural individuals) can be recruited to participate in a program about MH/SA and 
aging, and as an outcome have increased awareness and knowledge about MH/SA and 
aging. Future research will need to explore how to utilize MHAI-type 
intervention programs to a point where the mental health of rural adults can be 
improved. Specifically, further investigation is needed to examine whether 
community mental health awareness interventions, such as the MHAI intervention 
program, can lead to earlier detection of MH/SA issues among older adults and 
increase treatment rates. If so, community mental health workers and facilities 
can expect such interventions to increase local residents' awareness of their 
services and likelihood of utilizing mental health services. Future research 
needs to enhance generalizability and ensure that improved knowledge and 
awareness translates into improved mental health in rural regions.

PMID: 23127552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Environ Qual. 2012 Nov-Dec;41(6):1960-9. doi: 10.2134/jeq2011.0318.

Assessment of existing roadside swales with engineered filter soil: I. 
Characterization and lifetime expectancy.

Ingvertsen ST(1), Cederkvist K, Régent Y, Sommer H, Magid J, Jensen MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture and Ecology, University of Copenhagen, 
Frederiksberg C, Denmark. sti@life.ku.dk

Roadside infiltration swales with well-defined soil mixtures (filter soil) for 
the enhancement of both infiltration and treatment of stormwater runoff from 
roads and parking areas have been common practice in Germany for approximately 
two decades. Although the systems have proven hydraulically effective, their 
treatment efficiency and thus lifetime expectancies are not sufficiently 
documented. The lack of documentation restricts the implementation of new such 
systems in Germany as well as other countries. This study provides an assessment 
of eight roadside infiltration swales with filter soil from different locations 
in Germany that have been operational for 6 to16 yr. The swales were assessed 
with respect to visual appearance, infiltration rate, soil pH, and soil texture, 
as well as soil concentration of organic matter, heavy metals (Cd, Cr, Cu, Pb, 
Zn), and phosphorus. Visually, the swales appeared highly variable with respect 
to soil color and textural layering as well as composition of plants and 
soil-dwelling organisms. Three swales still comply with the German design 
criteria for infiltration rate (10 m/s), while the remaining swales have lower, 
yet acceptable, infiltration rates around 10 m/s. Six of the eight studied soils 
have heavy metal concentrations exceeding the limit value for unpolluted soil. 
Provided that the systems are able to continuously retain existing and incoming 
pollutants, our analysis indicates that the soils can remain operational for 
another 13 to 136 yr if the German limit values for unrestricted usage in open 
construction works are applied. However, no official guidelines exist for 
acceptable soil quality in existing infiltration facilities.

Copyright © by the American Society of Agronomy, Crop Science Society of 
America, and Soil Science Society of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.2134/jeq2011.0318
PMID: 23128753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. South Med J. 2012 Nov;105(11):600-6. doi: 10.1097/SMJ.0b013e31826f5d17.

Elderly adults and skin disorders: common problems for nondermatologists.

Na CR(1), Wang S, Kirsner RS, Federman DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Diagnostic Radiology, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.

Diseases of elderly adults are becoming increasingly important as life 
expectancy gradually rises worldwide. To promote healthy aging, it is important 
to understand the skin changes associated with aging. This review focuses on the 
special considerations for some of the more common dermatological disorders in 
elderly adults and examines presentation, contributing factors, and association 
with systemic diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/SMJ.0b013e31826f5d17
PMID: 23128804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Ann Intern Med. 2012 Nov 6;157(9):611-20. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-157-9-201211060-00005.

Rescreening of persons with a negative colonoscopy result: results from a 
microsimulation model.

Knudsen AB(1), Hur C, Gazelle GS, Schrag D, McFarland EG, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, 101 
Merrimac Street, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. aknudsen@mgh-ita.org

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2013 Oct;18(5):199-200.

BACKGROUND: Persons with a negative result on screening colonoscopy are 
recommended to repeat the procedure in 10 years.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness and costs of colonoscopy versus other 
rescreening strategies after an initial negative colonoscopy result.
DESIGN: Microsimulation model.
DATA SOURCES: Literature and data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results program.
TARGET POPULATION: Persons aged 50 years who had no adenomas or cancer detected 
on screening colonoscopy.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: No further screening or rescreening starting at age 60 years with 
colonoscopy every 10 years, annual highly sensitive guaiac fecal occult blood 
testing (HSFOBT), annual fecal immunochemical testing (FIT), or computed 
tomographic colonography (CTC) every 5 years.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime cases of colorectal cancer, life expectancy, and 
lifetime costs per 1000 persons, assuming either perfect or imperfect adherence.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Rescreening with any method substantially reduced 
the risk for colorectal cancer compared with no further screening (range, 7.7 to 
12.6 lifetime cases per 1000 persons [perfect adherence] and 17.7 to 20.9 
lifetime cases per 1000 persons [imperfect adherence] vs. 31.3 lifetime cases 
per 1000 persons with no further screening). In both adherence scenarios, the 
differences in life-years across rescreening strategies were small (range, 30 
893 to 30 902 life-years per 1000 persons [perfect adherence] vs. 30 865 to 30 
869 life-years per 1000 persons [imperfect adherence]). Rescreening with HSFOBT, 
FIT, or CTC had fewer complications and was less costly than continuing 
colonoscopy.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results were sensitive to test-specific 
adherence rates.
LIMITATION: Data on adherence to rescreening were limited.
CONCLUSION: Compared with the currently recommended strategy of continuing 
colonoscopy every 10 years after an initial negative examination, rescreening at 
age 60 years with annual HSFOBT, annual FIT, or CTC every 5 years provides 
approximately the same benefit in life-years with fewer complications at a lower 
cost. Therefore, it is reasonable to use other methods to rescreen persons with 
negative colonoscopy results.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Cancer Institute.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-157-9-201211060-00005
PMCID: PMC3515652
PMID: 23128861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Age (Dordr). 2013 Oct;35(5):1851-65. doi: 10.1007/s11357-012-9489-4. Epub
2012  Nov 7.

Dietary resveratrol prevents Alzheimer's markers and increases life span in 
SAMP8.

Porquet D(1), Casadesús G, Bayod S, Vicente A, Canudas AM, Vilaplana J, Pelegrí 
C, Sanfeliu C, Camins A, Pallàs M, del Valle J.

Author information:
(1)Unitat de Farmacologia i Farmacognòsia, Facultat de Farmàcia, Institut de 
Biomedicina (IBUB), Centros de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades 
Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Av. Joan XXIII s/n., 08028, Barcelona, Spain.

Resveratrol is a polyphenol that is mainly found in grapes and red wine and has 
been reported to be a caloric restriction (CR) mimetic driven by Sirtuin 1 
(SIRT1) activation. Resveratrol increases metabolic rate, insulin sensitivity, 
mitochondrial biogenesis and physical endurance, and reduces fat accumulation in 
mice. In addition, resveratrol may be a powerful agent to prevent age-associated 
neurodegeneration and to improve cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Moreover, different findings support the view that longevity in mice could be 
promoted by CR. In this study, we examined the role of dietary resveratrol in 
SAMP8 mice, a model of age-related AD. We found that resveratrol supplements 
increased mean life expectancy and maximal life span in SAMP8 and in their 
control, the related strain SAMR1. In addition, we examined the 
resveratrol-mediated neuroprotective effects on several specific hallmarks of 
AD. We found that long-term dietary resveratrol activates AMPK pathways and 
pro-survival routes such as SIRT1 in vivo. It also reduces cognitive impairment 
and has a neuroprotective role, decreasing the amyloid burden and reducing tau 
hyperphosphorylation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-012-9489-4
PMCID: PMC3776096
PMID: 23129026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Am J Ind Med. 2013 Jul;56(7):791-805. doi: 10.1002/ajim.22129. Epub 2012 Nov
5.

Possible health benefits from reducing occupational magnetic fields.

Bowman JD(1), Ray TK, Park RM.

Author information:
(1)Engineering and Physical Hazards Branch, National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health NIOSH, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. jbowman@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Magnetic fields (MF) from AC electricity are a Possible Human 
Carcinogen, based on limited epidemiologic evidence from exposures far below 
occupational health limits.
METHODS: To help formulate government guidance on occupational MF, the cancer 
cases prevented and the monetary benefits accruing to society by reducing 
workplace exposures were determined. Life-table methods produced Disability 
Adjusted Life Years, which were converted to monetary values.
RESULTS: Adjusted for probabilities of causality, the expected increase in a 
worker's disability-free life are 0.04 year (2 weeks) from a 1 microtesla (µT) 
MF reduction in average worklife exposure, which is equivalent to 
$5,100/worker/µT in year 2010 U.S. dollars (95% confidence interval 
$1,000-$9,000/worker/µT). Where nine electrosteel workers had 13.8 µT exposures, 
for example, moving them to ambient MFs would provide $600,000 in benefits to 
society (uncertainty interval $0-$1,000,000).
CONCLUSIONS: When combined with the costs of controls, this analysis provides 
guidance for precautionary recommendations for managing occupational MF 
exposures.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.22129
PMCID: PMC4687895
PMID: 23129537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Adv Gerontol. 2012;25(2):197-204.

[Some problems of modern gerontology and geriatrics in the Russian Federation: 
the sight of the clinical physician].

[Article in Russian]

Miakotnykh VS.

This article presents some problems of modern Russian gerontology and geriatrics 
by eyes of the scientist--the clinical physician having long-term experience in 
the field. Educational, scientific, practical aspects of gerontology and those 
stereotypes of understanding of problems of elderly which developed for years 
are subjected the certain criticism, decades, but in the modern world any more 
absolutely correspond to a today's reality. It is offered to transform the 
ideology of the major directions of gerontology, having put at the head of a 
corner not ideas of prolongation of life as that and carrying out basically 
actions in relation to seriously ill, but improvements of quality of life, 
preventive maintenance and treatment of set of the age-related diseases, 
overcoming of the developed practice of the relation to elderly and senile 
patients as to persons dependent and demanding the constant help. The author 
urges the public health governing bodies to reconsider the norms of the 
geriatric help existing for many years but not meeting modern requirements in 
the conditions of polyclinic and a hospital and to make more clear and claimed 
by a society the possibilities and achievements of gerontology.

PMID: 23130507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Adv Gerontol. 2012;25(2):228-31.

[Influence of polyorgan pathology on the biological age of male and female 
patients of different calendar age].

[Article in Russian]

Gavrilov IV, Meshchaninov VN.

The research was executed on 1433 patients, male (1055) and a female (378), of 
calendar age from 17 to 93 years with a various polyorgan somatic and 
psychoneurological pathology in remission. The polyorgan pathology worsens 
age-dependent indicators and increases the bioage of male and female patients. 
Thus sexual differences exist and practically disappear with the years. In men 
the polyorgan pathology makes negative influence on the age-dependent indicators 
in a greater degree and increases the bioage. This may be a cause of lower life 
expectancy for men compared with women.

PMID: 23130511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Integr Plant Biol. 2012 Dec;54(12):936-52. doi: 10.1111/jipb.12005.

Regulation of leaf senescence and crop genetic improvement.

Wu XY(1), Kuai BK, Jia JZ, Jing HC.

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Plant Resources, Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Beijing 100093, China.

Leaf senescence can impact crop production by either changing photosynthesis 
duration, or by modifying the nutrient remobilization efficiency and harvest 
index. The doubling of the grain yield in major cereals in the last 50 years was 
primarily achieved through the extension of photosynthesis duration and the 
increase in crop biomass partitioning, two things that are intrinsically coupled 
with leaf senescence. In this review, we consider the functionality of a leaf as 
a function of leaf age, and divide a leaf's life into three phases: the 
functionality increasing phase at the early growth stage, the full functionality 
phase, and the senescence and functionality decreasing phase. A genetic 
framework is proposed to describe gene actions at various checkpoints to 
regulate leaf development and senescence. Four categories of genes contribute to 
crop production: those which regulate (I) the speed and transition of early leaf 
growth, (II) photosynthesis rate, (III) the onset and (IV) the progression of 
leaf senescence. Current advances in isolating and characterizing senescence 
regulatory genes are discussed in the leaf aging and crop production context. We 
argue that the breeding of crops with leaf senescence ideotypes should be an 
essential part of further crop genetic improvement.

© 2012 Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/jipb.12005
PMID: 23131150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Head Trauma Rehabil. 2012 Nov-Dec;27(6):E45-56. doi: 
10.1097/HTR.0b013e31827340ba.

Mortality after surviving traumatic brain injury: risks based on age groups.

Harrison-Felix C(1), Kolakowsky-Hayner SA, Hammond FM, Wang R, Englander J, 
Dams-OʼConnor K, Kreider SE, Novack TA, Diaz-Arrastia R.

Author information:
(1)Craig Hospital, Englewood, CO, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess mortality, life expectancy, risk factors, and causes of 
death by age groups among persons who received inpatient traumatic brain injury 
(TBI) rehabilitation.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: The TBI Model Systems.
PARTICIPANTS: 8573 individuals injured between 1988 and 2009, with survival 
status per December 31, 2009, determined.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Standardized mortality ratio, life expectancy, and cause 
of death.
RESULTS: Moderate-severe TBI increases risk of mortality compared with the 
general population in all age groups, with the exception of those 85 years or 
older at the time of injury. Teenagers to middle-aged adults are at particular 
risk. Risk factors for death varied by age group and included gender, marital 
and employment status, year and cause of injury, and level of disability. 
External causes of death predominate in younger groups. For the youngest male 
participants in the sample, longevity was reduced up to 16 years.
CONCLUSION: Risk factors and causes of death varied considerably by age group 
for individuals with moderate-severe TBI who were receiving acute care 
rehabilitation. Moderate-severe TBI is a chronic health condition.

DOI: 10.1097/HTR.0b013e31827340ba
PMID: 23131970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Head Trauma Rehabil. 2012 Nov-Dec;27(6):E69-80. doi: 
10.1097/HTR.0b013e3182738010.

Life expectancy following rehabilitation: a NIDRR Traumatic Brain Injury Model 
Systems study.

Harrison-Felix C(1), Kreider SE, Arango-Lasprilla JC, Brown AW, Dijkers MP, 
Hammond FM, Kolakowsky-Hayner SA, Hirshson C, Whiteneck G, Zasler ND.

Author information:
(1)Craig Hospital, Englewood, CO, USA. charrison-felix@craighospital.org

OBJECTIVE: To characterize overall and cause-specific mortality and life 
expectancy among persons who have completed inpatient traumatic brain injury 
rehabilitation and to assess risk factors for mortality.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: The Traumatic Brain Injury Model Systems.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 8573 individuals injured between 1988 and 2009, with 
survival status per December 31, 2009, determined.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Standardized mortality ratio (SMR), life expectancy, 
cause of death.
RESULTS: SMR was 2.25 overall and was significantly elevated for all age groups, 
both sexes, all race/ethnic groups (except Native Americans), and all injury 
severity groups. SMR decreased as survival time increased but remained elevated 
even after 10 years postinjury. SMR was elevated for all cause-of-death 
categories but especially so for seizures, aspiration pneumonia, sepsis, 
accidental poisonings, and falls. Life expectancy was shortened an average of 
6.7 years. Multivariate Cox regression showed age at injury, sex, race/ethnic 
group, marital status and employment status at the time of injury year of 
injury, preinjury drug use, days unconscious, functional independence and 
disability on rehabilitation discharge, and comorbid spinal cord injury to be 
independent risk factors for death.
CONCLUSION: There is an increased risk of death after moderate or severe 
traumatic brain injury. Risk factors and causes of death have been identified 
that may be amenable to intervention.

DOI: 10.1097/HTR.0b013e3182738010
PMID: 23131972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 2013 Jan;90(1):39-45. doi: 
10.1007/s00128-012-0883-5. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Fertility and life expectancy of a predatory stinkbug to sublethal doses of a 
pyrethroid.

Zanuncio JC(1), Jusselino-Filho P, Ribeiro RC, Castro AA, Zanuncio TV, Serrão 
JE.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa, 
Minas Gerais, 35670-000, Brazil. zanuncio@ufv.br

Podisus distinctus (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) is an important predator used in 
biological control of eucalypt defoliating caterpillars, exposed the 
insecticides. Lower doses of permethrin not affect the values of generation time 
(T), time necessary to double the population in number of individuals (DT) and 
intrinsic rate of population increase (r ( m )). Moreover, females of P. 
distinctus derived from nymphs treated with lower doses of permethrin were more 
fertile, triggering the effect hormetic in net reproductive rates (Ro). Results 
showed that low permethrin doses can be used alongside the predatory stinkbug in 
Integrated Pest Management programs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00128-012-0883-5
PMID: 23132367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2013 Jan;155(1):41-50. doi:
10.1007/s00701-012-1541-8.  Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Cost-utility of maximal safe resection of WHO grade II gliomas within eloquent 
areas.

Martino J(1), Gomez E, Bilbao JL, Dueñas JC, Vázquez-Barquero A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Hospital Universitario Marqués de 
Valdecilla and Instituto de Formación e Investigación Marqués de Valdecilla, Av 
de Valdecilla s/n, Santander, Cantabria, Spain. juan.martino@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Despite the growing use of intraoperative electrical stimulation 
(IES) mapping for resection of WHO grade II gliomas (GIIG) located within 
eloquent areas, some authors claim that this is a complex, time-consuming and 
expensive approach, and not well tolerated by patients, so they rely on other 
mapping techniques. Here we analyze the health related quality of life, direct 
and indirect costs of surgeries with and without intraoperative electrical 
stimulation (IES) mapping for resection of GIIG within eloquent areas.
METHODS: A cohort of 11 subjects with GIIG within eloquent areas who had IES 
while awake (group A) was matched by tumor side and location to a cohort of 11 
subjects who had general anesthesia without IES (group B). Direct and indirect 
costs (measured as loss of labor productivity) and utility (measured in quality 
adjusted life years, QALYs), were compared between groups.
RESULTS: Total mean direct costs per patient were $38,662.70 (range $19,950.70 
to $61,626.40) in group A, and $32,116.10 (range $22,764.50 to $46,222.50) in 
group B (p = 0.279). Total mean indirect costs per patient were $10,640.10 
(range $3,010.10 to $86,940.70) in group A, and $48,804.70 (range $3,340.10 to 
$98,400.60) in group B (p = 0.035). Mean costs per QALY were $12,222.30 (range 
$3,801.10 to $47,422.90) in group A, and $31,927.10 (range $6,642.90 to 
$64,196.50) in group B (p = 0.023).
CONCLUSIONS: Asleep-awake-asleep craniotomies with IES are associated with an 
increase in direct costs. However, these initial expenses are ultimately offset 
by medium and long-term costs averted from a decrease in morbidity and 
preservation of the patient's professional life. The present study emphasizes 
the importance to switch to an aggressive and safer surgical strategy in GIIG 
within eloquent areas.

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-012-1541-8
PMID: 23132374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Int Orthop. 2012 Dec;36(12):2441-6. doi: 10.1007/s00264-012-1697-0. Epub
2012  Nov 7.

What is the risk of stress risers for interprosthetic fractures of the femur? A 
biomechanical analysis.

Lehmann W(1), Rupprecht M, Nuechtern J, Melzner D, Sellenschloh K, Kolb J, 
Fensky F, Hoffmann M, Püschel K, Morlock M, Rueger JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma, Hand and Reconstructive Surgery, University Medical 
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistrasse 52, 20246, Hamburg, Germany. 
wlehmann@uke.de

PURPOSE: Due to increasing life expectancy we see a rising number of joint 
