denosumab PMO trial (FREEDOM; age 72 years, femoral neck BMD T-score -2.16 SD, 
vertebral fracture prevalence 23.6%). Three additional scenario sub-groups were 
examined including women: (1) at high fracture risk, defined in FREEDOM as 
having at least two of three risk factors (age 70+; T-score ≤ -3.0 SD at lumbar 
spine, total hip, or femoral neck; prevalent vertebral fracture); (2) age 75+; 
and (3) intolerant or contraindicated to oral bisphosphonates (BPs). Analyses 
were conducted over a lifetime horizon comparing denosumab to usual care ('no 
therapy', alendronate, risedronate, or raloxifene [sub-group 3 only]). The 
analysis considered treatment-specific persistence and post-discontinuation 
residual efficacy, as well as treatment-specific adverse events. Both 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The multi-therapy comparisons resulted in incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for denosumab vs alendronate of $60,266 (2010 CDN$) 
(primary analysis) and $27,287 per quality-adjusted life year gained for 
scenario sub-group 1. Denosumab dominated all therapies in the remaining 
scenarios.
LIMITATIONS: Key limitations include a lack of long-term, real-world, Canadian 
data on persistence with denosumab as well as an absence of head-to-head 
clinical data, leaving one to rely on meta-analyses based on trials comparing 
treatment to placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: Denosumab may be cost-effective compared to oral PMO treatments for 
women at high risk of fractures and those who are intolerant and/or 
contraindicated to oral BPs.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.737393
PMID: 23035625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2012 Oct;9(10):922-7. doi: 10.1089/fpd.2012.1191.

Effect of x-ray treatments on pathogenic bacteria, inherent microbiota, color, 
and texture on parsley leaves.

Mahmoud BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Coastal Research & Extension Center, Mississippi State University, 
Pascagoula, Mississippi 39567, USA. bm547@msstate.edu

This work is a part of systematic studies of the effect of X-ray treatments on 
fresh produce. The main objective of this investigation was to study the effects 
of X-ray treatments in reducing the concentration of artificially inoculated 
Escherichia coli O157:H7, Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella enterica, and 
Shigella flexneri, and inherent microbiota on parsley leaves. The secondary 
objective was to study the effects of X-ray treatments on color and texture 
parameters on treated parsley leaves. The Dip-inoculated method was used to 
inoculate parsley leaves with a mixture of two or three strains of each tested 
organism at 10(8) to 10(9) colony-forming unit (CFU)/mL; the inoculated parsley 
leaves were then air-dried and followed by treatment with different doses of 
X-ray (0, 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 kGy) at 22°C and 55-60% relative humidity. 
Surviving bacterial populations on parsley leaves were evaluated using a 
nonselective medium (tryptic soy agar) with a selective medium overlay for each 
bacterium: E. coli O157:H7 (CT-SMAC agar), L. monocytogenes (MOA), and S. 
enterica and S. flexneri (XLD). Approximately 5.8, 3.1, 5.7, and 5.2 log CFU 
reductions of E. coli O157:H7, L. monocytogenes, S. enterica, and Shigella 
flexneri were achieved by treatment with 1.0 kGy X-ray, respectively. 
Furthermore, the populations of E. coli O157:H7, L. monocytogenes, S. enterica, 
and Shigella flexneri were reduced to less than the detectable limit (1.0 log 
CFU/g) by treatment with 1.5 kGy X-ray. Treatment with 1.5 kGy X-ray 
significantly reduced the initial inherent microbiota on parsley leaves, and 
inherent levels were significantly (p < 0.05) lower than the control sample 
throughout refrigerated storage for 30 days. No significant differences (p > 
0.05) in color or texture of control and treated samples with 0.1-1.5 X-ray were 
observed. The results of investigation indicated that X-ray is an effective 
technology to eliminate E. coli O157:H7, L. monocytogenes, S. enterica, and 
Shigella flexneri, and to extend the shelf life of parsley leaves.

DOI: 10.1089/fpd.2012.1191
PMID: 23035726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2013 May 1;10(4):347-56. doi:
10.2174/1567205011310040001.

Asymmetric dimethylarginine: a possible link between vascular disease and 
dementia.

Asif M(1), Soiza RL, McEvoy M, Mangoni AA.

Author information:
(1)Royal Cornhill Hospital, NHS Grampian, Aberdeen, UK.

There is good epidemiological evidence that vascular disease predisposes to 
cognitive decline and dementia. The impact of vascular disease on dementia is 
likely to increase further because of the poor diagnosis and management of 
vascular risk factors, the increase in life expectancy, and the improved 
survival following major cardiovascular events, e.g. acute stroke. It is 
estimated that the adequate management of vascular risk factors, with 
pharmacological and/or nonpharmacological interventions, might result in a 50% 
reduction in the forecasted dementia prevalence. The exact mechanisms by which 
vascular risk factors and vascular disease adversely affect brain function 
remain unclear, but it is hypothesized that endothelial dysfunction plays an 
important role. Reduced synthesis and availability of endothelial nitric oxide 
(NO) may contribute to the development of dementia by at least two mechanisms: 
(1) favoring the onset and progression of atherosclerosis, vasoconstriction, and 
impaired cerebral blood flow regulation; and (2) reduced neuroprotection.Several 
studies have shown that asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous 
methylated form of the amino acid L-arginine, inhibits NO synthesis and favors 
oxidative stress and vascular damage. Unlike NO, ADMA concentrations are 
relatively stable and can be accurately measured in plasma. There is good 
evidence that higher plasma ADMA concentrations favor atherosclerosis and 
independently predict adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular outcomes in 
several patient groups. ADMA might represent a unifying pathophysiological 
pathway linking the presence of vascular risk factors with the onset and 
progression of cognitive decline and dementia. This review discusses the 
biological role of ADMA, its potential contribution to the onset and progression 
of dementia through vascular disease and atherosclerosis, the available evidence 
linking ADMA with cognitive impairment and dementia, and the strategies to 
characterize the predictive role of ADMA in cognitive impairment in 
epidemiological studies. Therapeutic implications and suggestions for future 
research directions are also discussed.

DOI: 10.2174/1567205011310040001
PMID: 23036019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Am Coll Surg. 2012 Dec;215(6):858-67. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2012.08.021.  Epub 2012 Oct 1.

The road to curative surgery in gastric cancer treatment: a different path in 
the elderly?

Biondi A(1), Cananzi FC, Persiani R, Papa V, Degiuli M, Doglietto GB, D'Ugo D.

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Unit, Department of Surgery, A. Gemelli University Hospital, 
Catholic University of Rome, Largo A. Gemelli 8, Rome, Italy. 
biondi.alberto@tiscali.it

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the possibility of a different 
path to achieve curative surgery in patients older than age 70 years and 
affected by resectable gastric cancer.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a multicentric retrospective study based on an analysis of 
1,465 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma who underwent surgery with curative 
intent. Patients were divided into 2 age groups (younger than 70 years vs older 
than 70 years) and were evaluated with respect to postoperative morbidity and 
mortality and survival.
RESULTS: Postoperative morbidity and mortality in elderly and nonelderly groups 
were 24.8% vs 20.6% and 2.6% vs 3.7%, respectively (p = NS). In the elderly 
group, multivisceral resection was independently associated with surgical 
complications (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.988; 95% CI, 1.124-3.516; p = 0.018), total 
gastrectomy with medical complications (HR = 2.007; 95% CI, 1.165-3.459; p = 
0.012), and higher postoperative mortality (HR = 4.319; 95% CI, 1.571-11.873; 
p = 0.005); D1 lymph node dissection was predictive of a lower postoperative 
mortality rate (HR = 0.219; 95% CI, 0.080-0.603; p = 0.003). Five-year overall 
survival rates differed significantly in young and elderly patients (58.9% vs 
38.9%; p < 0.001), and 5-year cancer-specific survival did not show any 
significant difference.
CONCLUSIONS: Age should not be considered as a factor in the selection of 
treatment for gastric cancer patients. Curative surgery can be performed as 
safely in elderly patients as in younger patients, with comparable postoperative 
results and long-term survival rates, although the life expectancy of elderly 
patients is shorter.

Copyright © 2012 American College of Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2012.08.021
PMID: 23036827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Gerontology. 2013;59(2):190-2. doi: 10.1159/000342959. Epub 2012 Oct 1.

Science fact versus SENS foreseeable.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

Comment on
    Gerontology. 2013;59(2):183-9.

Scientists in the various fields of aging share a common goal--the extension of 
healthy life. However, claiming that the only way to accomplish this is to treat 
the complications of aging rather than its causes requires more than 
declarations made by proponents of SENS--it requires empirical research based on 
the scientific method. As this paper illustrates, it will be difficult to prove 
that SENS interventions work because the primary result of interest, negligible 
senescence, is not an outcome variable in empirical tests of SENS.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000342959
PMID: 23037994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Br J Soc Psychol. 2013 Dec;52(4):726-46. doi: 10.1111/bjso.12005. Epub 2012
Oct  5.

Nations' income inequality predicts ambivalence in stereotype content: how 
societies mind the gap.

Durante F(1), Fiske ST, Kervyn N, Cuddy AJ, Akande AD, Adetoun BE, Adewuyi MF, 
Tserere MM, Ramiah AA, Mastor KA, Barlow FK, Bonn G, Tafarodi RW, Bosak J, 
Cairns E, Doherty C, Capozza D, Chandran A, Chryssochoou X, Iatridis T, 
Contreras JM, Costa-Lopes R, González R, Lewis JI, Tushabe G, Leyens JP, Mayorga 
R, Rouhana NN, Castro VS, Perez R, Rodríguez-Bailón R, Moya M, Morales Marente 
E, Palacios Gálvez M, Sibley CG, Asbrock F, Storari CC.

Author information:
(1)University of Milan - Bicocca, Italy.

Income inequality undermines societies: The more inequality, the more health 
problems, social tensions, and the lower social mobility, trust, life 
expectancy. Given people's tendency to legitimate existing social arrangements, 
the stereotype content model (SCM) argues that ambivalence-perceiving many 
groups as either warm or competent, but not both-may help maintain 
socio-economic disparities. The association between stereotype ambivalence and 
income inequality in 37 cross-national samples from Europe, the Americas, 
Oceania, Asia, and Africa investigates how groups' overall warmth-competence, 
status-competence, and competition-warmth correlations vary across societies, 
and whether these variations associate with income inequality (Gini index). More 
unequal societies report more ambivalent stereotypes, whereas more equal ones 
dislike competitive groups and do not necessarily respect them as competent. 
Unequal societies may need ambivalence for system stability: Income inequality 
compensates groups with partially positive social images.

© 2012 The British Psychological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bjso.12005
PMCID: PMC3855559
PMID: 23039178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Palliat Med. 2012 Nov;15(11):1248-53. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0264. Epub
2012  Oct 5.

Specialists' experiences and perspectives on the timing of referral to 
palliative care: a qualitative study.

Broom A(1), Kirby E, Good P, Wootton J, Adams J.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Science, University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Specialist referral practices regarding palliative care are variable 
and their decision-making practices regarding timing and communication remains 
an under-researched issue. More effective referral practices have been shown to 
enhance patient and carer experiences at the end of life, reduce the burden on 
pre-palliative care services, and even extend life expectancy in some cases.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine the logics underpinning the 
timing of referral to palliative care according to a range of medical 
specialists in a regional center on the east coast of Australia, in order to 
facilitate improvements in referral practices.
METHODS: We conducted semi-structured, qualitative interviews with 20 medical 
specialists and carried out a thematic analysis of the interview data, utilising 
the framework analysis approach and NVivo 9 software. Key themes were tested for 
rigour through inter-rater reliability.
RESULTS: The major themes identified within this analysis of the interviews 
were: a) strategies for preparing for palliative care and the importance of 
planning timely referrals; b) perception of inter-professional variation and 
reasons for delayed or difficult referrals; and c) the importance of 
inter-specialty communication and cross-disciplinary dialogue.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant barriers exist to the timely referral to palliative 
care, and, in order to improve patient and care quality of life and lessen 
clinical difficulties, further work is needed to develop streamlined practices 
that are sensitive to specialty needs and patient desires.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0264
PMID: 23039218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2008 Dec;1(1):26-37. doi: 
10.1016/S1888-9891(08)72513-8. Epub 2008 Dec 21.

Spanish consensus on physical health of patients with bipolar disorder.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Bobes J(1), Sáiz Ruiz J, Manuel Montes J, Mostaza J, Rico-Villademoros F, Vieta 
E; en representación del Grupo de Expertos para el Consenso de la Salud Física 
del Paciente con Trastorno Bipolar.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina, Universidad de Oviedo, CIBERSAM, Oviedo. España.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Patients with bipolar disorder have much higher 
physical morbidity and mortality rates than the general population. In addition 
to a higher mortality rate from suicide, these patients also have a higher 
prevalence of physical disorders. The aim of this consensus, promoted by the 
Spanish Societies of Psychiatry and Biological Psychiatry in collaboration with 
the General Practitioners' Societies, was to establish practical recommendations 
on procedures for detection, prevention and intervention in the somatic diseases 
that coexist with bipolar disorder in order to improve the quality of life and 
life expectancy of these patients.
METHOD: The Spanish Societies of Psychiatry and Biological Psychiatry designated 
a scientific committee that selected 32 expert psychiatrists and 10 experts from 
other medical specialties. Working groups were formed for each specialty for the 
purpose of adapting the guidelines applied in the general population to patients 
with bipolar disorder. A systematic review of medical comorbidity and mortality 
in these patients was carried out and two multidisciplinary consensus meetings 
were held.
RESULTS: The literature review revealed an increased risk of hypertension, 
obesity, smoking, pulmonary diseases, migraine and HIV infection among patients 
with bipolar disorder. There was also evidence of higher mortality rates from 
cardiovascular and respiratory diseases and infections, as well as from suicide. 
The expert group reached a consensus on a series of basic measures to detect 
medical comorbidity applicable to the monitoring of these patients. The 
resulting recommendations will be accepted and disseminated by the promoting 
societies.
CONCLUSIONS: The recommendations generated by the Spanish Consensus on the 
Physical Health of Patients with Bipolar disorder include the most important 
aspects for the improvement of the psychosocial functioning, quality of life and 
life expectancy of these patients.

Copyright © 2008 Sociedad Española de Psiquiatría and Sociedad Española de 
Psiquiatría Biológica. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1888-9891(08)72513-8
PMID: 23040430


347. Respir Med. 2012 Dec;106(12):1722-33. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2012.09.006. Epub
2012  Oct 3.

Cost-utility analysis of tiotropium versus usual care in patients with COPD in 
the UK and Belgium.

Hettle R(1), Wouters H, Ayres J, Gani R, Kelly S, Lion M, Decramer M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economic Modelling Unit, HERON Evidence Development Ltd., Building 
210a, Butterfield Technology and Business Park, Stopsley, Luton LU2 8DL, UK. 
robert.hettle@heronhealth.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-utility of adding tiotropium to usual care 
versus usual care alone for patients with moderate to very severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the UK and Belgium.
METHODS: A four-state Markov model was developed with three disease severity 
states (moderate, severe, very severe) and death. Severity was based on 
post-bronchodilator FEV₁ and transitions were based on outcomes of the 
Understanding Potential Long Term Impacts on Function with Tiotropium (UPLIFT®) 
trial. Utilities were derived from EQ-5D scores for a subset of UPLIFT® 
patients. UK costs were evaluated separately for England (E), and for Scotland, 
Wales and Northern Ireland (SWNI). Belgian (B) costs were obtained from local 
sources. Uncertainty was assessed by deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis (PSA).
RESULTS: Adding tiotropium to usual care resulted in an incremental cost per 
patient of €969 (B), £796 (E), and £812 (SWNI), and incremental QALYs of 0.052 
(B), and 0.051 (E, SWNI). The four-year incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICER) were €18,617 (B), £15,567 (E) and £15,890 (SWNI) per QALY. Probability of 
tiotropium being cost-effective at £30,000 (€50,000) per QALY gained was greater 
than 60%.
CONCLUSIONS: At willingness to pay thresholds of £(€) 30,000 per QALY gained, 
adding tiotropium to usual care is cost-effective.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2012.09.006
PMID: 23040833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Arthroscopy. 2012 Dec;28(12):1755-65. doi: 10.1016/j.arthro.2012.05.885.
Epub  2012 Oct 5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of primary arthroscopic stabilization versus 
nonoperative treatment for first-time anterior glenohumeral dislocations.

Crall TS(1), Bishop JA, Guttman D, Kocher M, Bozic K, Lubowitz JH.

Author information:
(1)Sierra Park Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine, Mammoth Hospital, Mammoth 
Lakes, California 93546, USA. tcrall@gmail.com

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
initial observation versus surgery for first-time anterior shoulder dislocation.
METHODS: The clinical scenario of first-time anterior glenohumeral dislocation 
was simulated using a Markov model (where variables change over time depending 
on previous states). Nonoperative outcomes include success (no recurrence) and 
recurrence; surgical outcomes include success, recurrence, and complications of 
infection or stiffness. Probabilities for outcomes were determined from 
published literature. Costs were tabulated from Medicare Current Procedural 
Terminology data, as well as hospital and office billing records. We performed 
microsimulation and probabilistic sensitivity analysis running 6 models for 
1,000 patients over a period of 15 years. The 6 models tested were male versus 
female patients aged 15 years versus 25 years versus 35 years.
RESULTS: Primary surgery was less costly and more effective for 15-year-old 
boys, 15-year-old girls, and 25-year-old men. For the remaining scenarios 
(25-year-old women and 35-year-old men and women), primary surgery was also more 
effective but was more costly. However, for these scenarios, primary surgery was 
still very cost-effective (cost per quality-adjusted life-year, <$25,000). After 
1 recurrence, surgery was less costly and more effective for all scenarios.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary arthroscopic stabilization is a clinically effective and 
cost-effective treatment for first-time anterior shoulder dislocations in the 
cohorts studied. By use of a willingness-to-pay threshold of $25,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year, surgery was more cost-effective than nonoperative 
treatment for the majority of patients studied in the model.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level II, economic and decision analysis.

Copyright © 2012 Arthroscopy Association of North America. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arthro.2012.05.885
PMID: 23040837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Gastroenterology. 2013 Jan;144(1):62-73.e6. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2012.09.060.  Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Health benefits and cost effectiveness of endoscopic and nonendoscopic 
cytosponge screening for Barrett's esophagus.

Benaglia T(1), Sharples LD, Fitzgerald RC, Lyratzopoulos G.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council, Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: We developed a model to compare the health benefits and cost 
effectiveness of screening for Barrett's esophagus by either Cytosponge™ or by 
conventional endoscopy vs no screening, and to estimate their abilities to 
reduce mortality from esophageal adenocarcinoma.
METHODS: We used microsimulation modeling of a hypothetical cohort of 
50-year-old men in the United Kingdom with histories of gastroesophageal reflux 
disease symptoms, assuming the prevalence of Barrett's esophagus to be 8%. 
Participants were invited to undergo screening by endoscopy or Cytosponge 
(invitation acceptance rates of 23% and 45%, respectively), and outcomes were 
compared with those from men who underwent no screening. We estimated the number 
of incident esophageal adenocarcinoma cases prevented and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of the different 
strategies. Patients found to have high-grade dysplasia or intramucosal cancer 
received endotherapy. Model inputs included data on disease progression, test 
accuracy, post-treatment status, and surveillance protocols. Costs and benefits 
were discounted at 3.5% per year. Supplementary and sensitivity analyses 
comprised esophagectomy management of high-grade dysplasia or intramucosal 
cancer, screening by ultrathin nasal endoscopy, and different assumptions of 
uptake of screening invitations for either strategy.
RESULTS: We estimated that compared with no screening, Cytosponge screening 
followed by treatment of patients with dysplasia or intramucosal cancer costs an 
additional $240 (95% credible interval, $196-$320) per screening participant and 
results in a mean gain of 0.015 (95% credible interval, -0.001 to 0.029) QALYs 
and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $15.7 thousand (K) per QALY. The 
respective values for endoscopy were $299 ($261-$367), 0.013 (0.003-0.023) 
QALYs, and $22.2K. Screening by the Cytosponge followed by treatment of patients 
with dysplasia or intramucosal cancer would reduce the number of cases of 
incident symptomatic esophageal adenocarcinoma by 19%, compared with 17% for 
screening by endoscopy, although this greater benefit for Cytosponge depends on 
more patients accepting screening by Cytosponge compared with screening by 
endoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS: In a microsimulation model, screening 50-year-old men with symptoms 
of gastroesophageal reflux disease by Cytosponge is cost effective and would 
reduce mortality from esophageal adenocarcinoma compared with no screening.

Copyright © 2013 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2012.09.060
PMID: 23041329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Bull Cancer. 2012 Oct;99(10):907-14. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2012.1652.

[Cost-effectiveness of a chemotherapy predictive test].

[Article in French]

Vataire AL(1), Laas E, Aballéa S, Gligorov J, Rouzier R, Chéreau E.

Author information:
(1)Creativ-Ceutical SARL, département économie de la santé, Paris, France. 
ava@creativ-ceutical.com

BACKGROUND: In breast cancer, adjuvant chemotherapy is often prescribed as a 
precautionary measure and sometimes unnecessarily. A diagnostic test based on 
estimating the risk of recurrence at 10 years for women with breast cancer in 
early stage has been developed (Oncotype DX(®)).
METHOD: A Markov's model was adapted to evaluate the long-term effect of this 
test in terms of costs and life-years gained in French clinical practice for 
patients with ER+, HER2-, node-negative early-stage breast cancer. Input data 
were obtained from an international meta-analysis evaluating the proportions of 
patients in which the genetic test led to changes in the oncologist's decision. 
Costs and epidemiological data were specific to France. The analysis was 
conducted in accordance with methodological recommendations from the Haute 
Autorité de santé.
RESULTS: The test is associated with net cost savings of €570 per patient 
(€1,600 with productivity loss) from societal perspective and gains of 0.15 
life-years and 0.14 quality-adjusted life-years per patient.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the test represents efficient use of health care 
resources in French practice. This test provides an opportunity to optimize 
treatment prescription by avoiding unnecessary chemotherapies and by prescribing 
chemotherapy to women who would not have received it based on standard decision 
criteria.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2012.1652
PMID: 23041366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Health Educ Behav. 2013 Aug;40(4):493-503. doi: 10.1177/1090198112459049.
Epub  2012 Oct 4.

At the intersection of HIV/AIDS and cancer: a qualitative needs assessment of 
community-based HIV/AIDS service organizations.

Burkhalter JE(1), Cahill S, Shuk E, Guidry J, Corner G, Berk A, Candelario N, 
Kornegay M, Lubetkin EI.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10022, USA. 
burkhalj@mskcc.org

Due to advances in treatment, persons living with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are living longer, but with 
aging, immune deficits, and lifestyle factors, they are at increased risk for 
cancer. This challenges community-based AIDS service organizations (ASOs) to 
address the growing cancer needs of persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). 
Community-based participatory research was applied to engage ASOs in exploring 
their capacities and needs for integrating cancer-focused programming into their 
services. Focus groups were conducted with a community advisory board (CAB) 
representing 10 community-based organizations serving PLWHA. Three 90-minute, 
serial focus groups were conducted with a mean number of seven participants. 
Topics explored CAB members' organizational capacities and needs in cancer 
prevention, detection, treatment, and survivorship. Transcript analyses 
identified six themes: (a) agencies have limited experience with cancer-focused 
programs, which were not framed as cancer specific; (b) agencies need resources 
and collaborative partnerships to effectively incorporate cancer services; (c) 
staff and clients must be educated about the relevance of cancer to HIV/AIDS; 
(d) agencies want to know about linkages between HIV/AIDS and cancer; (e) cancer 
care providers should be culturally competent; and (f) agencies see 
opportunities to improve their services through research participation but are 
wary. Agency capacities were strong in relationships with clients and cultural 
competency, a holistic view of PLWHA health, expertise in prevention activities, 
and eagerness to be on the cutting edge of knowledge. Cancer education and 
prevention were of greatest interest and considered most feasible, suggesting 
that future projects develop accordingly. These findings suggest a high level of 
receptivity to expanding or initiating cancer-focused activities but with a 
clear need for education and awareness building. Qualitative findings will 
inform a large quantitative survey to validate identified themes, which will be 
applied in developing interventions to assist ASOs in adopting or expanding 
cancer-focused activities.

DOI: 10.1177/1090198112459049
PMCID: PMC4078906
PMID: 23041705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


352. Eur J Public Health. 2013 Aug;23(4):575-81. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cks136. Epub
 2012 Oct 4.

Aging and health in France: an unexpected expansion of disability in 
mid-adulthood over recent years.

Cambois E(1), Blachier A, Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)Institut National d'Études Démographiques, Mortality, health and 
epidemiology, Paris, France. cambois@ined.fr

OBJECTIVES: The study presents new disability-free life expectancies (DFLE) 
estimates for France and discusses recent trends in the framework of the three 
'health and aging' theories of compression, dynamic equilibrium and expansion of 
disability. The objectives are to update information for France and to compare 
two methods to analyse recent trends.
METHODS: DFLE at ages 50, 65 and in the 50-65 age group are computed for several 
disability dimensions, using data from five French surveys over the 2000s. Owing 
to scarce time series, we used two methods to assess trends and consolidate our 
conclusions: (i) decomposition of the DFLE changes using the available time 
series; (ii) linear regression using all the available estimates, classified by 
disability dimensions.
RESULTS: Trends in DFLE65 prolonged the dynamic equilibrium of the previous 
decades: increasing life expectancy with functional limitations but not with 
activity restrictions. Meanwhile, partial DFLE50-65 has decreased for various 
disability dimensions, including some activity restrictions, especially for 
women.
CONCLUSION: France has recently experienced an unexpected expansion of 
disability in mid-adulthood while it is still on a trend of dynamic equilibrium 
at older ages. The study highlights the importance of monitoring trends in DFLE 
for various disability dimensions and broadens the scope of interest to the 
mid-adulthood.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cks136
PMID: 23042230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Clin J Pain. 2013 Apr;29(4):366-75. doi: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e318250f539.

Cost-effectiveness of self-management methods for the treatment of chronic pain 
in an aging adult population: a systematic review of the literature.

Boyers D(1), McNamee P, Clarke A, Jones D, Martin D, Schofield P, Smith BH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Fosterhill Aberdeen 
AB25 2ZD, UK. d.boyers@abdn.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of self-management techniques for 
older populations (65 and over) with chronic pain and in the absence of such 
evidence to investigate this question in an aging adult population (average age 
60 and over).
METHODS: Systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with 
cost-effectiveness data and at least 6 months' follow-up, up to December 2010.
RESULTS: No RCT studies reported cost-effectiveness of self-management 
exclusively in the over 65 age group. Ten RCTs reported participants with an 
average age of 60 years or over and met all other inclusion criteria. All of 
these studies measured cost-effectiveness as cost per improvement in primary 
outcome, 7 of them using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities 
Osteoarthritis Index score, of which 6 reported the pain dimension. Six studies 
reported cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY)-gained information, with a 
further 1 reporting EQ-5D. In 7 studies, relative to usual care, self-management 
was effective, and in the remaining 3 studies, there was no significant 
difference. Among those reporting cost per QALY-gained results, self-management 
did not lead to statistically significant QALY gains relative to usual care 
(with only one exception). Eight studies suggested that the cost of developing 
and delivering self-management interventions may be partly offset by savings 
from reduced subsequent health care resource use.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-management is effective among an aging adult population (mean 
age over 60) with chronic pain and may be cost-effective when outcomes are 
measured using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis 
Index pain score. Cost-effectiveness is less certain when measured using the 
QALY metric. Uncertainty over conclusions regarding cost-effectiveness exists 
partly due to lack of information regarding societal willingness to pay for pain 
improvement. There is a need for large multicentred high-quality RCTs to confirm 
the findings of this review exclusively among older aged populations, such as 
those who have already reached the statutory retirement age.

DOI: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e318250f539
PMID: 23042472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2013 Jan-Feb;31(1 Suppl 75):S9-14. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Health-related quality of life in severe cryoglobulinaemic vasculitis and 
improvement after B-cell depleting therapy.

Quartuccio L(1), Isola M, Masolini P, Scaini P, Zani R, Tavoni A, Pietrogrande 
M, Bombardieri S, De Vita S.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Rheumatology, Department of Medical and Biological Sciences (DSMB), 
University of Udine, Udine, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To study the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in severe 
cryoglobulinaemic vasculitis (CV) associated with hepatitis C virus infection 
(HCV) and to describe the effect of rituximab on HRQOL.
METHODS: HRQOL was evaluated with the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 
(SF-36). Health Survey questionnaire was submitted to 15 patients with severe 
CV. SF-36 questionnaire was evaluated at baseline and after rituximab. Physical 
Health Composite Summary (PCS) and Mental Health Composite Summary (MCS) scores 
were calculated according to standard protocols, and normalised to healthy 
controls. SF-36 summary scores were compared with those of HCV positive patients 
without CV, and other vasculitis published in the literature. European Quality 
of Life-5 dimensions (EQ5D) scores were also derived.
RESULTS: Physical and mental domain scores were all reduced if compared with 
those of the healthy population, with physical domains being greatly affected. 
HRQOL of CV was comparable with HRQOL reported for the other small vessel 
vasculitis. The development of CV in HCV positive patients worsened PCS rather 
than MCS score. Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score (BVAS) did not correlate 
with HRQOL, while the presence of peripheral neuropathy was associated with a 
worse HRQOL. Early rituximab treatment improved both PCS and MCS scores, with 
long-term effects.
CONCLUSIONS: PCS rather than MCS was affected in HCV positive patients when CV 
is present. Rituximab improved both physical and mental domains, thus supporting 
its use before antiviral therapy in severe HCV-related CV. The cost/benefits 
ratio of a sequential therapy may be supported.

PMID: 23044040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Pharmacol Res. 2012 Dec;66(6):448-56. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2012.09.009. Epub
2012  Oct 5.

Pharmacological therapies, lifestyle choices and nitric oxide deficiency: a 
perfect storm.

Bryan NS(1).

Author information:
(1)Texas Therapeutics Institute, Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular 
Medicine at The University of Texas Health Sciences Center, The University of 
Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences at Houston, 1825 Pressler St. SRB 
530C, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Nathan.Bryan@uth.tmc.edu

Over the past 10 years, despite a slight increase in life expectancy and a 
decrease in all causes of deaths, the percentage of the US population with heart 
disease, cancer, diabetes, hypertension and obesity has increased. So even 
though Americans are living longer, they are plagued by increasing incidences of 
morbidities. This trend is also reflective of the global population, where 17.3 
million people died from cardiovascular disease in 2008, and an estimated 23.6 
million are expected to die from this disease in 2030. Whereas access to medical 
care and management of certain diseases has improved, it is clear that the 
incidence and treatment of chronic disease has not kept pace. The discovery of 
nitric oxide (NO) production in the human body is a relatively new advancement 
of modern medicine. Unfortunately, NO is still not at the forefront of therapy. 
In the clinical setting, there are no standard laboratory diagnostics for NO 
status and no prescription therapies to safely and effectively restore NO 
homeostasis, despite being recognized as the earliest indicator for a number of 
different chronic diseases. This review will reveal how many modern therapies 
and western lifestyles actually lead to a decrease in NO homeostasis in 
patients, from pediatrics to geriatrics. The findings outlined here highlight 
why nitric oxide homeostasis should be accounted for and considered in the 
treatment of patients and in the development of new therapies. Understanding NO 
homeostasis in each patient and how treatments and procedures affect NO 
homeostasis should allow for better medical care and improved outcomes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2012.09.009
PMID: 23044353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 Apr 15;38(8):703-8. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182767c8c.

Blood salvage produces higher total blood product costs in single-level lumbar 
spine surgery.

Canan CE(1), Myers JA, Owens RK, Crawford CH 3rd, Djurasovic M, Burke LO, 
Bratcher KR, McCarthy KJ, Carreon LY.

Author information:
(1)Norton Leatherman Spine Center, Louisville, KY 40202, USA.

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective review.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of cell saver for 
single-level posterior lumbar decompression and fusion (PLDF).
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Intraoperative cell salvage is used during surgery 
to reduce the need for perioperative allogeneic blood transfusion. Although the 
use of cell saver may be beneficial in certain circumstances, its utility has 
not been clearly established for the common procedure of an adult single-level 
PLDF.
METHODS: Randomly selected adult patients treated with a single-level PLDF 
between July 2010 and June 2011 at a single institution were identified. 
Patients who had a combined anterior and posterior approach were excluded. The 
final study sample for analysis consisted of 180 patients. Hospital records were 
reviewed to determine whether: (1) cell saver was available during surgery, (2) 
recovered autologous blood was infused, and (3) the patient received intra- or 
postoperative allogeneic transfusions. Estimated blood loss, levels fused, 
volume(s) transfused, and all related complications were recorded. Costs 
included the cost of allogeneic blood transfusion, setting up the cell saver 
recovery system, and infusing autologous blood from cell saver, whereas 
effectiveness measures were allogeneic blood transfusions averted and quality 
adjusted life years.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $55,538 per allogeneic 
transfusion averted, with a decrease in the transfusion rate from 40.0% to 38.7% 
associated with the cell saver approach. This translated into an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $5,555,380 per quality adjusted life years gained, 
which is well above the threshold for an intervention to be considered 
cost-effective ($100,000 per quality adjusted life years gained).
CONCLUSION: The use of cell saver during a single-level PLDF does not 
significantly reduce the need for allogeneic blood transfusion and is not 
cost-effective. The high cost of cell saver in combination with the low 
complication rate of allogeneic blood transfusion, suggest that cell saver 
should not be used for single-level PLDF. Further studies are needed to evaluate 
the necessity for cell saver among other types of spinal surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182767c8c
PMID: 23044618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Dec;9(12):716-25. doi: 
10.1038/nrgastro.2012.196. Epub 2012 Oct 9.

Treatment of colorectal cancer in older patients.

Audisio RA(1), Papamichael D.

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool, St Helens Teaching Hospital, Department of Surgery, 
Marshalls Cross Road, St Helens, Liverpool WA9 3DA, UK. raudisio@doctors.org.uk

Colorectal cancer (CRC) largely affects older individuals; almost half of cases 
occur in patients >75 years old. The incidence increases with advancing age, 
doubling every 7 years in patients aged ≥50 years. The medical and societal 
burdens of CRC will probably worsen over the coming decades as the number of 
older individuals (>70) continues to grow. No evidence-based guidelines are 
available for this age group, as older patients with CRC are generally excluded 
from randomized clinical trials and the fit ones who are recruited are not 
representative of the general elderly population. When feasible, surgery is the 
most successful treatment option for eradicating the primary lesion, as well as 
any metastases. The operative risk under elective conditions is not markedly 
different in older than in younger patients; however, the acute setting is to be 
avoided as it is associated with high operative death rates. Well-selected older 
patients can tolerate chemotherapy, but benefits need to be balanced against 
potentially limited life expectancy and reduced quality of life. The use of 
combination chemotherapy is an area of much controversy, but this treatment 
should not necessarily be withheld because of the age of the patient. Careful 
monitoring of toxicities and early intervention is essential in older patients 
undergoing chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2012.196
PMID: 23045000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. BMJ. 2012 Sep 27;345:e6447. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e6447.

People who self harm have a high mortality from natural causes.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e6447
PMID: 23045259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Chronic Dis Inj Can. 2012 Sep;32(4):208-15.

Income disparities in life expectancy in the City of Toronto and Region of Peel, 
Ontario.

Stratton J(1), Mowat DL, Wilkins R, Tjepkema M.

Author information:
(1)Peel Public Health, Brampton, Ontario, Canada.

INTRODUCTION: To understand the lack of a gradient in mortality by neighbourhood 
income in a previous study, we used individual-level data from the 1991-2001 
Canadian census mortality follow-up study to examine income-related disparities 
in life expectancy and probability of survival to age 75 years in the City of 
Toronto and Region of Peel.
METHODS: We calculated period life tables for each sex and income adequacy 
quintile, overall and separately for immigrants and non-immigrants.
RESULTS: For all cohort members of both sexes, including both immigrants and 
non-immigrants, there was a clear gradient across the income quintiles, with 
higher life expectancy in each successively richer quintile. However, the 
disparities by income were much greater when the analysis was restricted to 
non-immigrants. The lesser gradient for immigrants appeared to reflect the 
higher proportion of recent immigrants in the lower income quintiles.
CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the importance of using individual-level 
ascertainment of income whenever possible, and of including immigrant status and 
period of immigration in assessments of health outcomes, especially for areas 
with a high proportion of immigrants.

PMID: 23046803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Autophagy. 2013 Jan;9(1):95-7. doi: 10.4161/auto.22258. Epub 2012 Oct 9.

NUPR1 works against the metabolic stress-induced autophagy-associated cell death 
in pancreatic cancer cells.

Hamidi T(1), Cano CE, Grasso D, Garcia MN, Sandi MJ, Calvo EL, Dagorn JC, 
Lomberk G, Goruppi S, Urrutia R, Carracedo A, Velasco G, Iovanna JL.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Center of Marseille, INSERM U1068, Marseille, France.

Comment on
    Hamidi T, Cano CE, Grasso D, Garcia MN, Sandi MJ, Calvo EL, et al. A novel 
Nupr1-Aurora kinase A pathway provides protection against metabolic 
stress-mediated autophagic-associated cell death. Clin Cancer Res. 
2012;18:5234–46. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-12-0026.

The incidence of pancreatic adenocarcinoma is increasing with more than 43,000 
predicted new cases in the US and 65,000 in Europe this year. Pancreatic cancer 
patients have a short life expectancy with less than 3-4% 5-y survival, which 
results in an equivalent incidence and mortality rate. One of the major 
challenges in pancreatic cancer is the identification of pharmacological 
approaches that overcome the resistance of this cancer to therapy. Intensive 
research in the past decades has led to the classification of pancreatic cancers 
and the identification of the driver key genetic events. Despite the advances in 
understanding the molecular mechanisms responsible for pancreatic cancer 
pathogenesis, this knowledge had little impact on significantly improving the 
treatment for this dismal disease. In particular, we know today that the lack of 
therapeutic response in pancreatic cancer is due to the intrinsic high 
resistance of these tumors to chemotherapy and radiation, rather than to the 
inappropriate design of these therapeutic approaches. Thus, in order to ensure a 
better outcome for pancreatic cancer patients, there is a strong need for 
research focused on the mechanism that determines this resistant phenotype and 
the means that might drive enhanced response to therapy.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.22258
PMCID: PMC3542222
PMID: 23047430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Oct 16;109 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):17208-12. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1121246109. Epub 2012 Oct 9.

Associations between early life adversity and executive function in children 
adopted internationally from orphanages.

Hostinar CE(1), Stellern SA, Schaefer C, Carlson SM, Gunnar MR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Child Development, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 
55455, USA. hosti002@umn.edu

Executive function (EF) abilities are increasingly recognized as an important 
protective factor for children experiencing adversity, promoting better stress 
and emotion regulation as well as social and academic adjustment. We provide 
evidence that early life adversity is associated with significant reductions in 
EF performance on a developmentally sensitive battery of laboratory EF tasks 
that measured cognitive flexibility, working memory, and inhibitory control. 
Animal models also suggest that early adversity has a negative impact on the 
development of prefrontal cortex-based cognitive functions. In this study, we 
report EF performance 1 y after adoption in 2.5- to 4-y-old children who had 
experienced institutional care in orphanages overseas compared with a group of 
age-matched nonadopted children. To our knowledge, this is the youngest age and 
the soonest after adoption that reduced EF performance has been shown using 
laboratory measures in this population. EF reductions in performance were 
significant above and beyond differences in intelligence quotient. Within the 
adopted sample, current EF was associated with measures of early deprivation 
after controlling for intelligence quotient, with less time spent in the birth 
family before placement in an institution and lower quality of physical/social 
care in institutions predicting poorer performance on the EF battery.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1121246109
PMCID: PMC3477377
PMID: 23047689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


362. BMJ Open. 2012 Oct 8;2(5):e001810. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001810. Print
2012.

Mortality in schizophrenia and related psychoses: data from two cohorts, 
1875-1924 and 1994-2010.

Healy D(1), Le Noury J, Harris M, Butt M, Linden S, Whitaker C, Zou L, Roberts 
AP.

Author information:
(1)North Wales Department of Psychological Medicine, Hergest Unit, Bangor, 
Wales, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate death rates in schizophrenia and related psychoses.
DESIGN: Data from two epidemiologically complete cohorts of patients presenting 
for the first time to mental health services in North Wales for whom there are 
at least 1, and up to 10-year follow-up data have been used to calculate 
survival rates and standardised death rates for schizophrenia and related 
psychoses.
SETTING: The North Wales Asylum Denbigh (archived patient case notes) and the 
North West Wales District General Hospital psychiatric unit.
POPULATION: Cohort 1: The North Wales Asylum Denbigh (archived patient case 
notes). Of 3168 patients admitted to the North Wales Asylum Denbigh 1875-1924, 
1074 had a schizophrenic or related psychosis. Cohort 2: Patients admitted 
between 1994 and 2010 to the North West Wales District General Hospital 
psychiatric unit, of whom 355 had first admissions for schizophrenia or related 
psychoses.
RESULTS: We found a 10-year survival probability of 75% in the historical cohort 
and a 90% survival probability in the contemporary cohort with a fourfold 
increase in standardised death rates in schizophrenia and related psychoses in 
both historical and contemporary periods. Suicide is the commonest cause of 
death in schizophrenia in the contemporary period (SMR 35), while tuberculosis 
was the commonest cause historically (SMR 9). In the contemporary data, deaths 
from cardiovascular causes arise in the elderly and deaths from suicide in the 
young.
CONCLUSIONS: Contemporary death rates in schizophrenia and related psychoses are 
high but there are particular hazards and windows of risk that enable 
interventions. The data point to possible interventions in the incident year of 
treatment that could give patients with schizophrenia a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001810
PMCID: PMC3488735
PMID: 23048063


363. Clin Interv Aging. 2012;7:339-47. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S31780. Epub 2012 Sep 6.

Trends in intensive care in patients over 90 years of age.

Yayan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Vinzentius Hospital, Landau, Germany. 
josef.yayan@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Average life expectancy has increased over the past century, leading 
to a larger proportion of elderly in the population. Comorbidity and dependence 
increases with age, and recent data have shown that the number of elderly 
patients admitted to intensive care is increasing. This has implications for the 
availability of health care for these patients, as health care is a finite 
resource.
OBJECTIVE: This study examines the demographics of patients aged over 90 years 
who were admitted into the medical intensive care unit, in order to verify the 
results of previous research.
METHODS: From 2007 to 2011, a retrospective study was conducted in very elderly 
patients (over 90 years of age) and elderly patients (between 80 and 89 years of 
age) admitted into intensive care in Vinzentius Hospital, a medium-size, 
acute-care, general hospital in Landau, Germany.
RESULTS: A total of 8554 intensive care treatments were carried out in the study 
period. The number of intensive care treatments performed on patients aged over 
90 years and those aged 80 to 89 years was 212 (2.48%) and 1715 (20.05%), 
respectively. No increase in the number of medical intensive care treatments was 
observed in very elderly patients over this period.
CONCLUSION: Compared to the results of previous studies, an increase in the 
number of medical treatments in the intensive care units of patients aged over 
90 years over the study period could not be found.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S31780
PMCID: PMC3459576
PMID: 23049245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e43045. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043045. Epub 2012 Sep
25.

Structure and flexibility of the C-ring in the electromotor of rotary 
F(0)F(1)-ATPase of pea chloroplasts.

Saroussi S(1), Schushan M, Ben-Tal N, Junge W, Nelson N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, George S. Wise Faculty of 
Life Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Israel.

A ring of 8-15 identical c-subunits is essential for ion-translocation by the 
rotary electromotor of the ubiquitous F(O)F(1)-ATPase. Here we present the 
crystal structure at 3.4Å resolution of the c-ring from chloroplasts of a higher 
plant (Pisum sativum), determined using a native preparation. The crystal 
