DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2011.11.008
PMID: 22980478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Otolaryngol Clin North Am. 2012 Oct;45(5):959-81. doi: 
10.1016/j.otc.2012.06.003. Epub 2012 Jul 31.

Cochlear implants: clinical and societal outcomes.

Semenov YR(1), Martinez-Monedero R, Niparko JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins Hospital, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 601 N. Caroline Street, Baltimore, 
MD 21287-0910, USA.

Over the past 30 years, hearing care clinicians have increasingly relied on 
cochlear implants to restore auditory sensitivity in selected patients with 
advanced sensorineural hearing loss. This article examines the impact of 
intervention with cochlear implantation in children and adults. The authors 
report a range of clinic-based results and patient-based outcomes reflected in 
the reported literature on cochlear implants. The authors describe the basic 
assessment of the physiologic response to auditory nerve stimulation; measures 
of receptive and productive benefit; and surveys of life effects as reflected 
measures of quality of life, educational attainment, and economic impact.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otc.2012.06.003
PMID: 22980678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2012 Jul;28(3):241-8. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462312000244.

Cost-effectiveness of alemtuzumab for T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia.

Lu L(1), Peters J, Roome C, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Unviersity of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom. lulanting@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
alemtuzumab (CAMPATH-1H) compared with conventional chemotherapy in people with 
T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL).
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to assess the costs and benefits 
of alemtuzumab or conventional therapy based on their effects on quality of life 
of patients. The main outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
incorporating costs per additional quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained over 
lifetime. Due to the limited data available, a large number of assumptions had 
to be made to construct the cost-utility model. One-way, multi-way, and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA) were conducted to explore the impact of 
these uncertainties. Expected values of perfect information were also calculated 
for four specific scenarios.
RESULTS: Depending on different key assumptions made, the PSA suggested distinct 
conclusions using a willingness-to-pay threshold of 30,000 GBP per QALY gained. 
Using this threshold, the probability that alemtuzumab would be cost-effective 
varies from 0 percent to 53 percent for the four modeled scenarios. Population 
expected value of perfect information analysis suggests that resolving the 
parameter uncertainty in the analysis for people with T-PLL in the United 
Kingdom would have considerable value--up to 5.3 million euro.
CONCLUSIONS: Alemtuzumab appears more likely to be cost-effective if used 
earlier in the course of T-PLL and where it replaces the use of multiple 
alternative therapies. However, cost-effectiveness is highly uncertain and 
future research is clearly justified. Nevertheless, our analysis demonstrates 
the feasibility of considering the cost-effectiveness of an agent despite the 
presence of significant uncertainty to provide appropriate assessment 
information to policy makers.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462312000244
PMID: 22980700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012 Oct 2;60(14):1271-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2012.07.029.  Epub 2012 Sep 12.

Cost-effectiveness and clinical effectiveness of catheter-based renal 
denervation for resistant hypertension.

Geisler BP(1), Egan BM, Cohen JT, Garner AM, Akehurst RL, Esler MD, Pietzsch JB.

Author information:
(1)Wing Tech Inc., Menlo Park, California, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to assess cost-effectiveness and 
long-term clinical benefits of renal denervation in resistant hypertensive 
patients.
BACKGROUND: Resistant hypertension affects 12% of hypertensive persons. In the 
Symplicity HTN-2 randomized controlled trial, catheter-based renal denervation 
(RDN) lowered systolic blood pressure by 32 ± 23 mm Hg from 178 ± 18 mm Hg at 
baseline.
METHODS: A state-transition model was used to predict the effect of RDN and 
standard of care on 10-year and lifetime probabilities of stroke, myocardial 
infarction, all coronary heart disease, heart failure, end-stage renal disease, 
and median survival. We adopted a societal perspective and estimated an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in U.S. dollars per quality-adjusted 
life-year, both discounted at 3% per year. Robustness and uncertainty were 
evaluated using deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Renal denervation substantially reduced event probabilities 
(10-year/lifetime relative risks: stroke 0.70/0.83; myocardial infarction 
0.68/0.85; all coronary heart disease 0.78/0.90; heart failure 0.79/0.92; 
end-stage renal disease 0.72/0.81). Median survival was 18.4 years for RDN 
versus 17.1 years for standard of care. The discounted lifetime incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $3,071 per quality-adjusted life-year. Findings 
were relatively insensitive to variations in input parameters except for 
systolic blood pressure reduction, baseline systolic blood pressure, and effect 
duration. The 95% credible interval for incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 
cost-saving to $31,460 per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: The model suggests that catheter-based renal denervation, over a 
wide range of assumptions, is a cost-effective strategy for resistant 
hypertension that might result in lower cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Copyright © 2012 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2012.07.029
PMID: 22981547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Health Policy. 2013 Jan;109(1):97-103. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2012.08.017.
 Epub 2012 Sep 14.

Ethics for end-of-life treatments: metastatic colorectal cancer is one example.

Garattini L(1), van de Vooren K, Zaniboni A.

Author information:
(1)CESAV, Center for Health Economics, 'Mario Negri' Institute for 
Pharmacological Research, Ranica, Italy. lgarattini@marionegri.it

The number of biological agents (BAs) registered with an indication related to 
cancer treatment is flourishing and the cost of these treatments is rising 
dramatically, making the situation potentially unsustainable for healthcare 
systems. Here we focus on the examples of bevacizumab (BV) and cetuximab (CX), 
two BAs approved for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). The first clinical 
trials show an increase in median overall survival of a few months, though these 
results could not always be repeated in subsequent studies. We reviewed full 
economic evaluations (FEEs) on BV or CX and despite frequently arguable 
estimates based on indirect efficacy, only one estimated the addition of CX was 
cost-effective in a virtual subgroup of patients, albeit with flawed methods. 
Most Western European countries reimburse BV and CX for mCRC, though clinical 
evidence seems weak and economic evidence even absent. The underlying question 
is whether national health authorities are prepared to spend an increasing share 
of healthcare budgets on very expensive end-of-life treatments, their impact on 
life expectancy (a few additional months at best) and QoL (enhanced mainly by 
patients' hopes) being doubtful and their cost-effectiveness hardly ever proved. 
Further research is needed to explore how ethics could be included and thus 
assessed under these circumstances.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2012.08.017
PMID: 22981776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Contemp Clin Trials. 2012 Nov;33(6):1117-23. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.08.006.
 Epub 2012 Aug 18.

The value of comparative effectiveness research: projected return on investment 
of the RxPONDER trial (SWOG S1007).

Wong WB(1), Ramsey SD, Barlow WE, Garrison LP Jr, Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the value of research of 
the RxPONDER study, an ongoing comparative effectiveness RCT designed to 
evaluate a 21-gene profile in early stage, node-positive breast cancer.
METHODS: We developed a disease-based decision-analytic model to compare use of 
the 21-gene profile versus standard care. Key clinical data were derived from 
SWOG-8814, an RCT of chemotherapy in lymph node-positive breast cancer. Other 
model parameters were obtained from published sources. Probabilistic simulations 
and value of information calculations were used to assess the expected value of 
sample information (EVSI) and the expected value of sample parameter information 
(EVSPI).
RESULTS: The cost of the RxPONDER trial is expected to be at least $27 million. 
The expected value of research of the RxPONDER trial ranged from $450 million to 
$1 billion, representing a return of 17 to 39 times the projected cost of the 
trial. The primary objective of RxPONDER, to assess survival, had the largest 
estimated value relative to other model inputs. The value of RxPONDER increased 
by $50 million to $100 million after stakeholder input on additional data 
collection.
CONCLUSION: The RxPONDER study appears to represent a good investment of public 
research funds. Stakeholder engagement and assessment of the return on 
investment should be considered to optimize and quantify the value of 
comparative effectiveness studies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2012.08.006
PMCID: PMC3486702
PMID: 22981891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Med Clin (Barc). 2012 Oct 20;139(10):458-60. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2012.06.011.  Epub 2012 Sep 13.

[Prioritization of health interventions according to their effectiveness: an 
intermediate step in the road towards a more efficient medicine].

[Article in Spanish]

Sacristán JA(1), Dilla T, Antoñanzas F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Investigación Clínica, Lilly España, Madrid, España. 
joseasacristan@gmail.com

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.06.011
PMID: 22982128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Med Ethics. 2014 Apr;40(4):235-40. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100561.
Epub  2012 Sep 14.

Approaches to suffering at the end of life: the use of sedation in the USA and 
Netherlands.

Rietjens JA(1), Voorhees JR, van der Heide A, Drickamer MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2014 Apr;40(4):241.

BACKGROUND: Studies describing physicians' experiences with sedation at the end 
of life are indispensible for informed palliative care practice, but they are 
scarce. We describe the accounts of physicians from the USA and the Netherlands, 
two countries with different regulations on end-of-life decisions regarding 
their use of sedation.
METHODS: Qualitative face-to-face interviews were held in 2007-2008 with 36 
physicians (18 from the Netherlands, 18 from the USA), including primary care 
physicians and specialists. We applied purposive sampling and conducted constant 
comparative analyses.
RESULTS: In both countries, the use of sedation was described in diverse terms, 
especially in the USA, and was often experienced as emotionally challenging. 
Respondents stated different and sometimes multiple intentions for their use of 
sedation. Besides alleviating severe suffering, most Dutch respondents justified 
its use by stating that it does not hasten death, while most American 
respondents indicated that it might hasten death but that this was justifiable 
as long as that was not their primary intention. While many Dutch respondents 
indicated that they initiated open discussions about sedation proactively to 
inform patients about their options and to allow planning, the accounts of 
American respondents showed fewer and less-open discussions, mostly late in the 
dying process and with the patient's relatives.
CONCLUSIONS: The justification for sedation and the openness with which it is 
discussed were found to differ in the accounts of respondents from the USA and 
the Netherlands. Further clarification of practices and research into the effect 
and effectiveness of the use of sedation is recommended to enhance informed 
reflection and policy making.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100561
PMID: 22982490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Oncologist. 2012;17(12):1581-93. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-0151. Epub
2012  Sep 14.

Effectiveness of multidimensional cancer survivor rehabilitation and 
cost-effectiveness of cancer rehabilitation in general: a systematic review.

Mewes JC(1), Steuten LM, Ijzerman MJ, van Harten WH.

Author information:
(1)University of Twente, Department of Health Technology and Services Research, 
P.O. Box 217, 7500 AE Enschede, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Many cancer survivors suffer from a combination of disease- and 
treatment-related morbidities and complaints after primary treatment. There is a 
growing evidence base for the effectiveness of monodimensional rehabilitation 
interventions; in practice, however, patients often participate in 
multidimensional programs. This study systematically reviews evidence regarding 
effectiveness of multidimensional rehabilitation programs for cancer survivors 
and cost-effectiveness of cancer rehabilitation in general.
METHODS: The published literature was systematically reviewed. Data were 
extracted using standardized forms and were summarized narratively.
RESULTS: Sixteen effectiveness and six cost-effectiveness studies were included. 
Multidimensional rehabilitation programs were found to be effective, but not 
more effective than monodimensional interventions, and not on all outcome 
measures. Effect sizes for quality of life were in the range of -0.12 (95% 
confidence interval [CI], -0.45-0.20) to 0.98 (95% CI, 0.69-1.29). Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from -€16,976, indicating cost savings, to 
€11,057 per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence for multidimensional interventions and the economic 
impact of rehabilitation studies is scarce and dominated by breast cancer 
studies. Studies published so far report statistically significant benefits for 
multidimensional interventions over usual care, most notably for the outcomes 
fatigue and physical functioning. An additional benefit of multidimensional over 
monodimensional rehabilitation was not found, but this was also sparsely 
reported on. Available economic evaluations assessed very different 
rehabilitation interventions. Yet, despite low comparability, all showed 
favorable cost-effectiveness ratios. Future studies should focus their designs 
on the comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of multidimensional 
programs.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-0151
PMCID: PMC3528391
PMID: 22982580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Lotte M.G. Steuten: PANAXEA b.v.: 
Biomedical product innovation (C/A); Maarten J. IJzerman: PANAXEA b.v.: 
Biomedical product innovation (C/A); Wim H. van Harten: Netherlands Cancer 
Institute (E). The other authors indicated no financial relationships.


213. Aging (Albany NY). 2012 Aug;4(8):525-34. doi: 10.18632/aging.100481.

Caloric restriction: is mammalian life extension linked to p53?

Tucci P(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council, Toxicology Unit, Leicester University, Leicester 
LE1 9HN, UK. paola.tucci@unical.it

Caloric restriction, that is limiting food intake, is recognized in mammals as 
the best characterized and most reproducible strategy for extending lifespan, 
retarding physiological aging and delaying the onset of age-associated diseases. 
The aim of this mini review is to argue that p53 is the connection in the 
abilities of both the Sirt-1 pathway and the TOR pathway to impact on longevity 
of cells and organisms. This novel, lifespan regulating function of p53 may be 
evolutionarily more ancient than its relatively recent role in apoptosis and 
tumour suppression, and is likely to provide many new insights into lifespan 
modulation.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100481
PMCID: PMC3461340
PMID: 22983298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author of this manuscript has no conflict of 
interests to declare.


214. BJU Int. 2012 Dec;110(11):1648-52. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11513.x.
Epub  2012 Sep 18.

Critical role of prostate biopsy mortality in the number of years of life gained 
and lost within a prostate cancer screening programme.

Boniol M(1), Boyle P, Autier P, Ruffion A, Perrin P.

Author information:
(1)International Prevention Research Institute, Lyon Hospices Civils de Lyon, 
Pierre-Bénite, France. mathieu.boniol@i-pri.org

Comment in
    BJU Int. 2012 Dec;110(11):1653.
    BJU Int. 2013 Mar;111(3):E16-7.
    BJU Int. 2013 Mar;111(3):E17-8.
    BJU Int. 2013 Apr;111(4):E140-1.
    BJU Int. 2013 Apr;111(4):E141-2.

Study Type--Therapy (data synthesis) Level of Evidence 2b. What's known on the 
subject? and What does the study add? The efficacy of prostate cancer screening 
using PSA testing is still being debated, with conflicting results in randomized 
trials. The study shows that, even using the hypothesis most favourable to 
prostate cancer screening with PSA, the net number of years of life does not 
favour screening.
OBJECTIVE: • To evaluate the impact of the implementation a prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) screening programme using the European Randomized Study of 
Screening for Prostate Cancer (ERSPC) results and taking into account the impact 
of prostate biopsy and over-treatment on mortality.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: • We used a model based on the number of years of life 
gained and lost owing to screening, using data reported in the ERSPC. • We 
conducted a critical evaluation of the ERSPC results and of the Swedish arm of 
the study.
RESULTS: •  Accounting for biopsy-specific mortality and for over-treatment, the 
balance of number of years of life was negative in the ERSPC study, with an 
estimated loss of 3.6 years of life per avoided death. • The number of years of 
life becomes positive (real gain) only when fewer than 666 screened individuals 
are required to avoid one death. • We found that in the Swedish arm of the ERSPC 
there was a biopsy rate of 40% compared with 27% in the ERSPC overall. The 
over-treatment rate was also greater with 4.1% compared with 3.4% overall. • For 
the last 20 years, there has been a marked difference in prostate 
cancer-specific mortality between Sweden and the rest of Europe: in 2005, for 
the age group 65-74 the rate was 140 per 100,000 person years in Sweden and ~80 
per 100,000 for the rest of Europe.
CONCLUSION: • Overall, PSA testing in Europe is associated with a loss in years 
of life and should thus not be recommended.

© 2012 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2012 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11513.x
PMID: 22984785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Sep;17(1 Suppl):89-93. doi: 
10.3171/2012.6.AOSPINE111069.

Is surgery for cervical spondylotic myelopathy cost-effective? A cost-utility 
analysis based on data from the AOSpine North America prospective CSM study.

Fehlings MG(1), Jha NK, Hewson SM, Massicotte EM, Kopjar B, Kalsi-Ryan S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Michael.Fehlings@uhn.on.ca

Comment in
    J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Sep;17(1 Suppl):87; discussion 88.

OBJECT: Surgical intervention for appropriately selected patients with cervical 
spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) has demonstrated favorable outcomes. This study 
evaluates the cost-effectiveness of this type of surgery in terms of cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
METHODS: As part of a larger prospective multicenter study, the direct costs of 
medical treatment for 70 patients undergoing surgery for CSM at a single 
institution in Canada were retrospectively obtained from the hospital expenses 
database and physician reimbursement data. Utilities were estimated on the 
entire sample of 278 subjects enrolled in the multicenter study using 
SF-6D-derived utilities from 12- and 24-month SF-36v2 follow-up information. 
Costs were analyzed from the payer perspective. A 10-year horizon with 3% 
discounting was applied to health-utilities estimates. Sensitivity analysis was 
performed by varying utility gain by 20%.
RESULTS: The SF-6D utility gain was 0.0734 (95% CI 0.0557-0.0912, p < 0.01) at 
12 months and remained unchanged at 24 months. The 10-year discounted QALY gain 
was 0.64. Direct costs of medical treatment were estimated at an average of CaD 
$21,066. The estimated cost-utility ratio was CaD $32,916 per QALY gained. The 
sensitivity analysis showed a range of CaD $27,326-$40,988 per QALY gained. 
These estimates are within the limits for medical procedures that have an 
acceptable cost-utility ratio.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment for CSM is associated with significant 
improvement in health utilities as measured by the SF-6D. The direct cost of 
medical treatment per QALY gained places this form of treatment within the 
category deemed by payers to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.3171/2012.6.AOSPINE111069
PMID: 22985375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2012 Nov;61(5):365-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ancard.2012.08.034. Epub 2012 Aug 28.

[Physical activity and aging: opposing physiologic effects].

[Article in French]

Charansonney O(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, centre médical de Bligny, 91640 Briis sous Forges, 
France. olivier.charansonney@orange.fr

The benefits of physical activity in preventing premature mortality have been 
established by a large set of epidemiological studies. These benefits have been 
shown both in middle-aged and elderly individuals. Furthermore, the reduction of 
acute events such as myocardial infarction observed with higher levels of 
physical activity together with the increase in disease-free life expectancy 
among the most active individuals supports physical activity's antiaging effect. 
This review highlights two models supporting this effect. The first model 
describes the path to frailty and the second explains that immobilization is a 
stressor which triggers stress-responses responsible for many chronic diseases. 
Aging reduces the physiological reserve and can lead to frailty when this 
reserve cannot allow an appropriate adaptation of the aging body to 
environmental challenges. The components of this physiological reserve can 
easily be measured by cardiorespiratory testing. Among them are heart rate 
reserve and VO(2)max, the maximal body oxygen consumption. The opposite effects 
of exercise training and aging on the physiological reserve are detailed. 
Sedentary lifestyle accelerates the effects of aging in susceptible individuals. 
Sedentary lifestyle induces mechanisms which lead to risk factors of chronic 
diseases and, eventually, to premature death. These inappropriate mechanisms and 
their consequences constitute the sedentary lifestyle syndrome.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ancard.2012.08.034
PMID: 22985596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2012 Oct;22(4):284-94. doi:
10.1016/j.semradonc.2012.05.005.

Management of older men with clinically localized prostate cancer: the 
significance of advanced age and comorbidity.

Hoffman KE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA. khoffman1@mdanderson.org

The majority of men diagnosed with prostate cancer are diagnosed later in life. 
Although localized prostate cancer is often an indolent disease, older men are 
more frequently diagnosed with high-risk disease and are more likely to die from 
prostate cancer than younger men. Comorbid medical conditions are also more 
prevalent in the later decades of life and can impact prostate cancer treatment 
tolerance and the likelihood of benefiting from aggressive cancer treatment. 
Older men diagnosed with prostate cancer are at risk for both overtreatment of 
low-risk disease and undertreatment of high-risk disease. Prostate cancer 
management decisions for older patients should be tailored based on an 
individual patient's health status, coexisting medical conditions, life 
expectancy, and tumor characteristics.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2012.05.005
PMID: 22985811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Acta Med Port. 2012 Mar-Apr;25(2):61-3. Epub 2012 Jun 25.

[Causes of deaths in Portugal and challenges in prevention].

[Article in Portuguese]

George F(1).

Author information:
(1)Diretor Geral da Saúde, Lisboa, Portugal.

In Portugal, the hope of living, in terms of probability, either at birth or at 
65 years old, has reached levels that represent huge gains and certainly reflect 
the successful initiatives developed in many sectors in the last 30 years. In 
2008-2010, the average life expectancy at birth was 79.20 years for men and 
women. By contrast, in 1980, the average life expectancy at birth was 71.78 
years. Furthermore, premature mortality, defined as occurring before 70 years of 
age, expressed as rate, represents the likelihood of dying before this age, 
which is presently of 24.3%, meaning that one in four dies Portuguese citizen 
before reaching the age of 70. Main cause of deaths and the number of years in 
the Portuguese population that theoretically stops living when you die before 
the age of 70 (potential years lost), for both sexes, includes the following: 
traffic accidents with motor vehicles - 22,550 years; malignant tumor of 
trachea, bronchus and lung - 19,768 years, vascular brain diseases - 16,070 
years, self-injury caused intentionally - 14,753 years. It's important to 
analyze these figures and its evolution in order to allow an understanding of 
their impact and implement effective corrective measures. The contribution of 
actions and programs to prevent some of the above causes of deaths and potential 
years lost is still to be objectively interpreted but it is well known the 
importance of reducing risks factors as tobacco and alcohol consumption, 
encouraging balanced nutrition in calories and composition, promoting regular 
physical exercise and improving information and health education on the 
reduction of many chronic non-communicable diseases, what in turn, reflects in 
the decline of premature mortality. It is essential to analyze the causes that 
anticipate the death of the Portuguese population and the cause of these causes, 
that is, their risk factors and design programs that reduce the exposure of 
citizens to avoidable risks, which is the essence of all public health 
programmes.

PMID: 22985914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Food Microbiol. 2012 Dec;32(2):317-20. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2012.07.007. Epub
2012  Jul 25.

Control of Listeria monocytogenes and spoilage bacteria on smoked salmon during 
storage at 5 °C after X-ray irradiation.

Mahmoud BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Coastal Research & Extension Center, Mississippi State University, 3411 
Frederic St., Pascagoula, MS 39567, USA. bm547@msstate.edu

In this study, smoked salmon fillets were artificially inoculated with Listeria 
monocytogenes (3.7 ± 0.2 log CFU g(-1)) and treated with X-ray irradiation 
generated by a RS 2400 X-ray machine (Rad Source Technologies Inc.) using doses 
of 0.0, 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 kGy. Unirradiated and irradiated samples were 
then stored at 5 °C for 35 days and tested for L. monocytogenes count after 0, 
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, and 35 days. Also, uninoculated-untreated and 
uninoculated-treated samples with the lowest and highest X-ray doses (0.1 and 
2.0 kGy) were stored at 5 °C and examined for psychrotrophs and mesophiles 
counts after 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, and 35 days. The initial L. monocytogenes 
population (3.7 log CFU g(-1) ) was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced to an 
undetectable level (<1.0 log CFU g(-1)) by treatment with 1.0 kGy X-ray. 
Treatment with 0.1 kGy X-ray significantly reduced the initial psychrotrophs and 
mesophiles counts from 5.3 and 3.0 to 3.3 and 2.3, respectively. However, L. 
monocytogenes, psychrotrophs and mesophiles counts were gradually increased 
during storage. Treatment with 2.0 kGy X-ray kept the L. monocytogenes 
population under detectable level until 35 days. Treatment with 2.0 kGy X-ray 
kept the mesophiles and psychrotrophs counts within the acceptable level until 
35 days. These results revealed that treatment with X-ray irradiation can 
significantly reduce the risk of listeriosis and extend the shelf life of smoked 
salmon during storage at 5 °C.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2012.07.007
PMID: 22986195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Age (Dordr). 2013 Oct;35(5):1975-82. doi: 10.1007/s11357-012-9472-0. Epub
2012  Sep 18.

Association of healthy aging with parental longevity.

Kim S(1), Welsh DA, Cherry KE, Myers L, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Tulane Center for Aging and Department of Medicine, Tulane University Health 
Sciences Center, 1430 Tulane Ave., SL-12, New Orleans, LA, 70112, USA, 
skim5@tulane.edu.

Various measures incorporated in geriatric assessment have found their way into 
frailty indices (FIs), which have been used as indicators of survival/mortality 
and longevity. Our goal is to understand the genetic basis of healthy aging to 
enhance its evidence base and utility. We constructed a FI as a quantitative 
measure of healthy aging and examined its characteristics and potential for 
genetic analyses. Two groups were selected from two separate studies. One group 
(OLLP for offspring of long-lived parents) consisted of unrelated participants 
at least one of whose parents was age 90 or older, and the other group of 
unrelated participants (OSLP for offspring of short-lived parents), both of 
whose parents died before age 76. FI34 scores were computed from 34 common 
health variables and compared between the two groups. The FI34 was better 
correlated than chronological age with mortality. The mean FI34 value of the 
OSLP was 31 % higher than that of the OLLP (P = 0.0034). The FI34 increased 
exponentially, at an instantaneous rate that accelerated 2.0 % annually in the 
OLLP (P = 0.024) and 2.7 % in the OSLP (P < < 0.0001) consequently yielding a 63 
% larger accumulation in the latter group (P = 0.0002). The results suggest that 
accumulation of health deficiencies over the life course is not the same in the 
two groups, likely due to inheritance related to parental longevity. Consistent 
with this, sib pairs were significantly correlated regarding FI34 scores, and 
heritability of the FI34 was estimated to be 0.39. Finally, hierarchical 
clustering suggests that the OLLP and OSLP differ in their aging patterns. 
Variation in the FI34 is, in part, due to genetic variation; thus, the FI34 can 
be a phenotypic measure suitable for genetic analyses of healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-012-9472-0
PMCID: PMC3776103
PMID: 22986583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Neurosurgery. 2012 Dec;71(6):1149-55. doi: 10.1227/NEU.0b013e318271ebde.

Determination of the minimum improvement in pain, disability, and health state 
associated with cost-effectiveness: introduction of the concept of minimum 
cost-effective difference.

Parker SL(1), McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA.

BACKGROUND: Minimum clinical important difference (MCID) has been adopted as the 
smallest improvement in patient-reported outcome needed to achieve a level of 
improvement thought to be meaningful to patients.
OBJECTIVE: To use a common MCID calculation method with a cost-utility threshold 
anchor to introduce the concept of minimum cost-effective difference (MCED).
METHODS: Forty-five patients undergoing transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion 
for degenerative spondylolisthesis were included. Outcome questionnaires were 
administered before and 2 years after surgery. Total cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained was calculated for each patient. MCED was determined 
from receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis with a cost-effective 
anchor of < $50,000/QALY and < $75,000/QALY. MCID was determined with the health 
transition item as the anchor.
RESULTS: Significant improvement was observed 2 years after transforaminal 
lumbar interbody fusion for all outcome measures. Mean total cost per QALY 
gained at 2 years was $42,854. MCED was greater than MCID for each outcome 
measure, meaning that a greater improvement was required to represent 
cost-effectiveness than a clinically meaningful improvement to patients. The 
area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve was consistently ≥ 0.70 
with both cost-effective anchors, suggesting that outcome change scores were 
accurate predictors of cost-effectiveness. Mean cost per QALY gained was 
significantly lower for patients achieving compared with those not achieving an 
MCED in visual analog scale for leg pain ($43,560 vs. $112,087), visual analog 
scale for back pain ($41,280 vs. $129,440), Oswestry disability index ($30,954 
vs. $121,750), and EuroQol 5D ($35,800 vs. $189,412).
CONCLUSION: MCED serves as the smallest improvement in an outcome instrument 
that is associated with a cost-effective response to surgery. With the use of 
cost-effective anchor of <  $50,000/QALY, MCED after transforaminal lumbar 
interbody fusion was 4 points for visual analog scale for low back pain, 3 
points for visual analog scale for leg pain, 22 points for Oswestry disability 
index, and 0.31 QALYs for EuroQol 5D.

DOI: 10.1227/NEU.0b013e318271ebde
PMID: 22986596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 Mar 15;38(6):471-5. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318273aee2.

Cost-effectiveness of single-level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion five 
years after surgery.

Carreon LY(1), Anderson PA, Traynelis VC, Mummaneni PV, Glassman SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Norton Leatherman Spine Center, 
Louisville, KY 40202, USA. leah.carreon@nortonhealthcare.org

STUDY DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort. OBJECTIVE.: The purpose of this study is to 
determine the cost per quality-adjusted life year (cost/QALY) gained for 
single-level instrumented anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) over 5 
years.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Economic value is an increasingly important 
component of health care policy decision making.
METHODS: Control patients who had undergone ACDF with complete 5-year follow-up 
data who were part of the Investigational Device Exemption trials for cervical 
disc arthroplasty were identified. Direct costs for each intervention reported 
as part of the trial were determined using the 2012 Medicare Fee schedule. 
Health utility was determined using the Short Form-6D, calculated by 
transformation from the Short Form-36.
RESULTS: There were 352 patients (182 women, 170 men), mean age was 44.6 years 
(22-73 yr). Cost per patient for the index ACDF was $15,714. Over 5 years, 41 
repeat ACDFs, 15 posterior fusions, 6 foraminotomies, 2 implant removals, 2 
hematoma evacuations, and 1 esophageal fistula repair were performed. Mean QALY 
gained in each year of follow-up was 0.16, 0.18, 0.17, 0.18, and 0.18 for a 
cumulative 0.88 QALY gain over 5 years. The resultant cost/QALY gain at 1 year 
was $104,831; $53,074 at year 2; $37,717 at year 3; $28,383 at year 4; and 
$23,460 at year 5. In this cohort, 11 nerve releases and 26 rotator cuff repairs 
were done within 5 years after the index ACDF. Subanalysis to include upper 
extremity procedures was performed. The cost/QALY gained at 1 year including 
upper extremity procedures was $106,256; $54,622 at year 2; $38,836 at year 3; 
$29,454 at year 4; and $24,479 at year 5.
CONCLUSION: Increasing health care costs call for demonstration of 
cost-effectiveness in order to justify payment for interventions, including 
ACDFs. This study indicates that at 5-year follow-up, single-level instrumented 
ACDF is both effective and durable resulting in a favorable cost/QALY gained as 
compared to other widely accepted health care interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318273aee2
PMID: 22986842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. J Clin Oncol. 2012 Nov 1;30(31):3899-900; author reply 3900. doi: 
10.1200/JCO.2012.44.6260. Epub 2012 Sep 17.

Radiotherapy in older women with low-risk breast cancer: why has practice not 
changed?

Kaidar-Person O, Walker G, Morgan DA, Kuten A.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2012 May 10;30(14):1577-8.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2012.44.6260
PMID: 22987081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Hepatology. 2013 Mar;57(3):908-16. doi: 10.1002/hep.26079. Epub 2013 Feb 7.

Dating the origin and dispersal of hepatitis B virus infection in humans and 
primates.

Paraskevis D(1), Magiorkinis G, Magiorkinis E, Ho SY, Belshaw R, Allain JP, 
Hatzakis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, Medical School, 
University of Athens, Athens, Greece. dparask@med.uoa.gr

The origin of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in humans and other primates 
remains largely unresolved. Understanding the origin of HBV is crucial because 
it provides a framework for studying the burden, and subsequently the evolution, 
of HBV pathogenicity with respect to changes in human population size and life 
expectancy. To investigate this controversy we examined the relationship between 
HBV phylogeny and genetic diversity of modern humans, investigated the timescale 
of global HBV dispersal, and tested the hypothesis of HBV-human co-divergence. 
We find that the global distribution of HBV genotypes and subgenotypes are 
consistent with the major prehistoric modern human migrations. We calibrate the 
HBV molecular clock using the divergence times of different indigenous human 
populations based on archaeological and genetic evidence and show that HBV 
jumped into humans around 33,600 years ago; 95% higher posterior density (HPD): 
22,000-47,100 years ago (estimated substitution rate: 2.2 × 10(-6) ; 95% HPD: 
1.5-3.0 × 10(-6) substitutions/site/year). This coincides with the origin of 
modern non-African humans. Crucially, the most pronounced increase in the HBV 
pandemic correlates with the global population increase over the last 5,000 
years. We also show that the non-human HBV clades in orangutans and gibbons 
resulted from cross-species transmission events from humans that occurred no 
earlier than 6,100 years ago.
CONCLUSION: Our study provides, for the first time, an estimated timescale for 
the HBV epidemic that closely coincides with dates of human dispersals, 
supporting the hypothesis that HBV has been co-expanding and co-migrating with 
human populations for the last 40,000 years. (HEPATOLOGY 2013).

Copyright © 2012 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26079
PMID: 22987324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Neuropsychopharmacol Hung. 2012 Sep;14(3):155-64.

The message of the survival curves: I. Composite analysis of long-term treatment 
studies in bipolar disorder.

Frecska E(1), Kovacs AI, Balla P, Falussy L, Ferencz A, Varga Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Debrecen, Medical and Health Science 
Center, Debrecen, Hungary. efrecska@hotmail.com

RATIONALE: There is a shortage of studies analyzing the time course of recurrent 
episodes and comparing effectiveness of long-term treatments in bipolar 
disorder. 'Number needed to treat' (NNT) analyses have been proven to be useful 
for clinically meaningful comparisons, but results vary considerably among 
studies. The survival curves of different trials also show a great variability 
preventing reliable conclusions on the time course of maintenance therapies. The 
variance of survival analyses on long-term medication management can be reduced 
with increasing the statistical power by combining the life-tables of individual 
studies.
METHODS: In this study the survival tables of 28 studies on maintenance 
treatment of bipolar disorder were reconstructed from the published diagrams, 
and the numbers of relapsed patients in the original studies were estimated for 
plotting composite survival curves of an inactive, mono- and combination therapy 
arm. The review was finally based on 5231 subjects.
RESULTS: The resulting composite diagrams indicate that within the first year 
48% of patients on monotherapy, and 35% on combination therapy experienced 
recurrence of any affective episode ('early relapsers'). The rest of the patient 
population was affected by recurrences in a smaller rate over a more extended 
period of time ('late relapsers'). For a favorable outcome at 40 months of 
episode prevention in bipolar disorder the NNT was 6 for mono- and 3 for 
combination therapy. Log-rank analyses of the composite data supported the 
effectiveness of both medication protocols over placebo, and the superiority of 
drug combination over monotherapy; though there were some indications of 
decreased efficacy in the two treatment arms after extended maintenance.
CONCLUSIONS: Composite analysis offers increased statistical power for studying 
the time course of survival data. Mood episodes in bipolar disorder are likely 
to recur early on and relapses in "real-life" can be more frequent than the 
rates published here. Our results favor combination therapy for the long-term 
management of bipolar disorder. Concerns are expressed that NNT analyses have 
significant limitations when applied to recurring events with cumulative 
deterioration instead of cases where cumulative improvement is expected over 
time.

PMID: 22987729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Ann Oncol. 2012 Sep;23 Suppl 10:x264-7. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mds353.

Novel and bone-targeted agents for CRPC.

Fizazi K(1), Albiges L, Massard C, Escudier B, Loriot Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Medicine, Institut Gustave Roussy, University of Paris 
Sud, Villejuif 94800, France. karim.fizazi@igr.fr

Clearly, no neoplasm other than prostate cancer has benefited from so many 
breakthroughs since the beginning of this decade: the past two years can be 
considered exceptional due to the number of emerging agents against 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), which have demonstrated positive 
outcomes in phase III trials. Until 2010, docetaxel (Taxotere) was the only 
agent capable of improving survival in patients with metastatic CRPC. Since 
then, positive results from phase III trials have been reported for 
sipuleucel-T, cabazitaxel, denosumab, abiraterone, radium-223, and enzalutamide, 
while other promising agents including notably orteronel, ipilimumab and 
cabozantinib are currently under study. Taken together, the incorporation of 
these agents in the routine management of patients with CRPC is likely to expand 
their median life expectancy, which was only ∼1 year until the early 2000, to 
>30 months in the near future. The availability of these agents will lead to new 
challenges and questions, such as: Can our societies afford the costs? Should we 
use these agents sequentially or in combination with an incremental benefit? Can 
we personalise treatment based on the biology of the individual's disease? How 
will we develop new active compounds in the context where a half dozen approved 
agents may confound their potential overall survival effect?

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mds353
PMID: 22987974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Ann Oncol. 2012 Sep;23 Suppl 10:x339-41. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mds327.

Issues in the adjuvant treatment of common tumors (with a focus on breast 
cancer) in older adults (age >70).

Wildiers H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medical Oncology, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium. hans.wildiers@uzleuven.be

Establishing an indication for adjuvant chemotherapy in older cancer patients 
represents a major challenge. after surgery, older cancer patients can also have 
a significant risk of relapse and cancer death (even reported to be higher than 
in younger patients), but this is counterbalanced by the fact that the chance of 
dying from a noncancer cause is also much higher. a careful geriatric evaluation 
including assessment of comorbidity can provide some insight into the life 
expectancy and expected benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy for individual 
patients. age-related physiological changes can decrease tolerance of classical 
chemotherapy regimens, indicating the need for close monitoring and preventive 
measures.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mds327
PMID: 22987988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Schizophr Res Treatment. 2011;2011:459284. doi: 10.1155/2011/459284. Epub
2010  Dec 6.

Weight gain, schizophrenia and antipsychotics: new findings from animal model 
and pharmacogenomic studies.

Panariello F(1), De Luca V, de Bartolomeis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, University 
of Toronto, 250 College Street, Room 30, Toronto, ON, Canada M5T 1R8.

Excess body weight is one of the most common physical health problems among 
patients with schizophrenia that increases the risk for many medical problems, 
including type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, osteoarthritis, and 
hypertension, and accounts in part for 20% shorter life expectancy than in 
general population. Among patients with severe mental illness, obesity can be 
attributed to an unhealthy lifestyle, personal genetic profile, as well as the 
effects of psychotropic medications, above all antipsychotic drugs. Novel 
"atypical" antipsychotic drugs represent a substantial improvement on older 
"typical" drugs. However, clinical experience has shown that some, but not all, 
of these drugs can induce substantial weight gain. Animal models of 
antipsychotic-related weight gain and animal transgenic models of knockout or 
overexpressed genes of antipsychotic receptors have been largely evaluated by 
scientific community for changes in obesity-related gene expression or 
phenotypes. Moreover, pharmacogenomic approaches have allowed to detect more 
than 300 possible candidate genes for antipsychotics-induced body weight gain. 
In this paper, we summarize current thinking on: (1) the role of polymorphisms 
in several candidate genes, (2) the possible roles of various neurotransmitters 
and neuropeptides in this adverse drug reaction, and (3) the state of 
development of animal models in this matter. We also outline major areas for 
future research.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/459284
PMCID: PMC3440684
PMID: 22988505


229. J Parasitol. 2013 Apr;99(2):218-28. doi: 10.1645/GE-3238.1. Epub 2012 Sep
18.

Maritrema orensense and Maritrema bonaerense (Digenea: Microphallidae): 
descriptions, life cycles, and comparative morphometric analyses.

Alda P(1), Bonel N, Hechinger RF, Martorelli SR.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Estudios Parasitológicos y de Vectores, Consejo Nacional del 
Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Universidad Nacional de La Plata (CCT La 
Plata-CONICET-UNLP), Calle 2 No. 584, 1900, La Plata, Argentina. 
pilaralda@fcnym.unlp.edu.ar

We elucidate the life cycle of Maritrema orensense for the first time and 
experimentally confirm that of the sympatric Maritrema bonaerense. In 
Argentinean estuaries, both species parasitize the cochliopid snail Heleobia 
australis as first intermediate host, the grapsid crabs Neohelice granulata and 
Cyrtograpsus angulatus as second intermediate hosts, and gulls as definitive 
hosts. Here, we describe the daughter sporocysts and cercariae of M. orensense 
and redescribe these stages for M. bonaerense. Sporocysts of M. orensense are 
shorter, with fewer developed cercariae than M. bonaerense. The cercariae of M. 
orensense have longer, larger, and more undulating cephalic glands than M. 
bonaerense. We redescribe metacercariae and adults of both species and compare 
them with the previous descriptions. Intestinal ceca length, vitellaria shape 
and extension, and egg size are the most relevant characteristics in 
metacercariae and adults for differentiating the species. Hence, the detailed 
morphological description and comparative analyses of morphometrics obtained 
from natural and experimental infections permit clear differentiation of M. 
orensense and M. bonaerense at each life stage.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-3238.1
PMID: 22988841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Haemophilia. 2013 Mar;19(2):174-80. doi: 10.1111/hae.12009. Epub 2012 Sep
19.

Economic evaluations of prophylaxis with clotting factor for people with severe 
haemophilia: why do the results vary so much?

Miners AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Faculty of Public Health and Policy, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. alec.miners@lshtm.ac.uk

A number of studies examining the cost effectiveness of haemophilia prophylaxis 
have been published, but they report a wide range of results. The aim of this 
study was to explain why the results from existing economic evaluations of 
prophylaxis with clotting factor vary so much and to suggest areas of further 
research that will help to generate stronger economic evidence. Results from a 
previous systematic review were updated using a textword search of a number of 
electronic databases. Eleven economic evaluations were identified. They reported 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for prophylaxis ranging from 'cost saving 
and clinically beneficial' (i.e. 'dominant') to over €1 million per additional 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) if prophylaxis replaces treatment following a 
bleed. A number of reasons are likely to explain this breadth of results, most 
notably differences in choice of time horizon, estimates of treatment effect, 
clotting factor unit cost, discount rates and definitions of prophylaxis. 
Although the existing cost-effectiveness literature for haemophilia prophylaxis 
appears to report a wide range of results, closer inspection suggests that 
differences are largely explained by a number of design features. Some are 
likely to reflect local economic conditions and should be expected. However, 
others, such as differences in the choice of appropriate time horizon, are more 
concerning as they reflect differences in opinion over appropriate methodology. 
A number of studies to help address these evidence gaps are suggested: however, 
it is also recommended that analysts continue to adhere to established 
conventions when conducting and reporting economic evaluations.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12009
PMID: 22989090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Chem Inf Model. 2012 Oct 22;52(10):2657-69. doi: 10.1021/ci3000453. Epub
2012  Oct 4.

LAMBADA and InflateGRO2: efficient membrane alignment and insertion of membrane 
proteins for molecular dynamics simulations.
