disorders.

Wyatt K(1), Henley W, Anderson L, Anderson R, Nikolaou V, Stein K, Klinger L, 
Hughes D, Waldek S, Lachmann R, Mehta A, Vellodi A, Logan S.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine natural history and estimate effectiveness and cost of 
enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) and substrate replacement therapy (SRT) for 
patients with Gaucher disease, Fabry disease, mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS 
I), mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II), Pompe disease and Niemann-Pick type 
C (NPC) disease.
DESIGN: Cohort study including prospective and retrospective clinical- and 
patient-reported data. Age- and gender-adjusted treatment effects were estimated 
using generalised linear mixed models. Treated patients contributed data before 
and during treatment. Untreated patients contributed natural history data.
SETTING: National Specialised Commissioning Group-designated lysosomal storage 
disorder (LSD) treatment centres in England.
PARTICIPANTS: Consenting adults and children with a diagnosis of Gaucher disease 
(n = 272), Fabry disease (n = 499), MPS I (n = 126), MPS II (n = 58), NPC (n = 
58) or Pompe disease (n = 93) who had attended a treatment centre in England.
INTERVENTIONS: ERT and SRT.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical outcomes chosen by clinicians to reflect disease 
progression for each disorder; patient-reported quality-of-life (QoL) data; cost 
of treatment and patient-reported service-use data; numbers of hospitalisations, 
outpatient and general practitioner appointments; medication use; data 
pertaining to associated family/carer costs and QoL impacts.
RESULTS: Seven hundred and eleven adults and children were recruited. In those 
with Gaucher disease (n = 175) ERT was associated with improved platelet count, 
haemoglobin, liver function and reduced risk of enlarged liver or spleen. No 
association was found between ERT and QoL. In patients with Fabry disease (n = 
311) increased time on ERT was associated with small decreases in left 
ventricular mass and improved glomerular filtration rate, but not with changes 
in risk of stroke/transient ischaemic attacks or the need for a hearing aid. 
There was a statistically significant association between duration of ERT use 
and worsening QoL and fatigue scores. We found no statistical difference in 
estimates of treatment effectiveness between the two preparations, agalsidase 
beta (Fabrazyme(®), Genzyme) (n = 127) and agalsidase alpha (Replagal(®), Shire 
HGT) (n = 91), licensed for this condition. In Pompe disease (n = 77) our data 
provide some evidence of a beneficial effect on muscle strength and mobility as 
measured by a 6-minute walk test in adult-onset patients; there were 
insufficient data from infantile-onset Pompe patients to estimate associations 
between ERT and outcome. Among subjects with MPS I (n = 68), 42 of the 43 
patients with MPS I subtype Hurler's disease had undergone a bone marrow 
transplant. No significant associations were found between ERT and any outcome 
measure for the MPS I subtype Scheie disease and heparan sulphate patients. An 
association between duration of ERT and growth in children was the only 
statistically significant finding among patients with MPS II (n = 39). There 
were insufficient data for patients with NPC disease to draw any conclusions 
regarding the effectiveness of SRT. The current annual cost to the NHS of the 
different ERTs means that between 3.6 and 17.9 discounted quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) for adult patients and between 2.6 and 10.5 discounted QALYs 
for child patients would need to be generated for each year of being on 
treatment for ERTs to be considered cost-effective by conventional criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: These data provide further evidence on the effectiveness of ERT in 
people with LSDs. However, the results need to be interpreted in light of the 
fact that the data are observational and the relative lack of power due to the 
small numbers of patients with MPS I, MPS II, Pompe disease and NPC disease. 
Future work should aim to effectively address the unanswered questions and this 
will require agreement on a common set of outcome measures and their consistent 
collection across all treatment centres.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
16, No. 39. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16390
PMID: 23089251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Virology. 2012 Dec 20;434(2):143-50. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2012.10.008. Epub
2012  Oct 22.

Phages of lactic acid bacteria: the role of genetics in understanding phage-host 
interactions and their co-evolutionary processes.

Mahony J(1), Ainsworth S, Stockdale S, van Sinderen D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University College Cork, Western Road, Cork, 
Ireland. j.mahony@ucc.ie

Dairy fermentations are among the oldest food processing applications, aimed at 
preservation and shelf-life extension through the use of lactic acid bacteria 
(LAB) starter cultures, in particular strains of Lactococcus lactis, 
Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus spp. and Leuconostoc spp. 
Traditionally this was performed by continuous passaging of undefined cultures 
from a finished fermentation to initiate the next fermentation. More recently, 
consumer demands on consistent and desired flavours and textures of dairy 
products have led to a more defined approach to such processes. Dairy (starter) 
companies have responded to the need to define the nature and complexity of the 
starter culture mixes, and dairy fermentations are now frequently based on 
defined starter cultures of low complexity, where each starter component imparts 
specific technological properties that are desirable to the product. Both mixed 
and defined starter culture approaches create the perfect environment for the 
proliferation of (bacterio)phages capable of infecting these LAB. The repeated 
use of the same starter cultures in a single plant, coupled to the drive towards 
higher and consistent production levels, increases the risk and negative impact 
of phage infection. In this review we will discuss recent advances in tracking 
the adaptation of phages to the dairy industry, the advances in understanding 
LAB phage-host interactions, including evolutionary and genomic aspects.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2012.10.008
PMID: 23089252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012 Dec;67(12):1297-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls201. Epub 2012 Oct 22.

Diabetes mellitus in an aging population: the challenge ahead.

Halter JB.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls201
PMID: 23089334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012 Dec;67(12):1332-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls199. Epub 2012 Oct 22.

Probing the relationship between insulin sensitivity and longevity using 
genetically modified mice.

Nelson JF(1), Strong R, Bokov A, Diaz V, Ward W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, 15355 Lambda Drive, 
San Antonio, Texas 78245, USA. nelsonj@uthscsa.edu

Interference in insulin and/or insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling 
can extend invertebrate life span, and interference in IGF-1 signaling can 
extend murine life span. Whether interference with murine insulin signaling, 
which can be diabetogenic and pathological, is also life-extending is 
controversial. We therefore measured life span in 3 murine strains genetically 
modified to reduce or increase insulin sensitivity. Mice with reduced insulin 
sensitivity were hemizygous for a null mutation in the insulin receptor (insulin 
receptor knockout mice; IRKO(+/-)). Mice with increased insulin sensitivity 
either had a null mutation of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP-1B(-/-)) or 
overexpressed Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α coactivator (PGC)-1α 
(PGC-1α(TG)). Life span of insulin insensitive IRKO(+/) mice was increased 
(males) or unaffected (females). Life spans of mice with increased insulin 
sensitivity were shortened overall (PTP-1B(-/-) mice) or partially (PGC-1α(TG): 
survival at the 25th percentile was reduced). These results show that insulin 
sensitivity in some murine genotypes is inversely related to longevity and 
provide further evidence for evolutionary conservation of this pathway as a 
modulator of longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls199
PMCID: PMC3670160
PMID: 23089336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Cad Saude Publica. 2012 Oct;28(10):1834-40. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2012001000003.

[Disease prevention in the elderly: misconceptions in current models].

[Article in Portuguese]

Veras RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Social, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rua 
São Francisco Xavier 524, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. unativeras@gmail.com

The Brazilian population is aging significantly within a context of gradual 
improvement in the country's social and economic indicators. Increased longevity 
leads to increased use of health services, pressuring the public and social 
welfare health services, generating higher costs, and jeopardizing the system's 
sustainability. The alternative to avoid overburdening the system is to invest 
in policies for disease prevention, stabilization of chronic diseases, and 
maintenance of functional capacity. The current article aims to analyze the 
difficulties in implementing preventive programs and the reasons for the failure 
of various programs in health promotion, prevention, and management of chronic 
diseases in the elderly. There can be no solution to the crisis in financing and 
restructuring the health sector without implementing a preventive logic. 
Scientific research has already correctly identified the risk factors for the 
elderly population, but this is not enough. We must use such knowledge to 
promote the necessary transition from a healthcare-centered model to a 
preventive one.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2012001000003
PMID: 23090164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Radiol Med. 2013 Jun;118(4):608-15. doi: 10.1007/s11547-012-0894-6. Epub
2012  Oct 22.

Placement of port-a-cath through the right internal jugular vein under 
ultrasound guidance.

Capalbo E(1), Peli M, Lovisatti M, Cosentino M, Ticha V, Cariati M, Cornalba G.

Author information:
(1)Scuola di Specializzazione di Radiologia Diagnostica ed Interventistica, 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Via A Di Rudinì 8, 20142 Milano, Italy. 
emanuelacapalbo@tiscalinet.it

PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to demonstrate the effectiveness of 
ultrasound (US)-guided placement of porta-cath (PC) through the right internal 
jugular vein (RIJV) by evaluating the onset of early and late complications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 30 June 2008 to 30 June 2011, we placed 695 
port-a-caths in 694 patients with a mean age of 58 years. Exclusion criteria 
were active infection, bleeding disorders and life expectancy <6 months. The 
procedures were performed in the angiography suite under local anaesthesia. 
After US-guided puncture of the RIJV, the subcutaneous pocket was prepared, 
followed by tunnelling of the vein and closure of the surgical wound. In order 
to evaluate pneumothorax (PNX), all patients underwent chest X-ray a few hours 
after the end of the procedure unless there were clinical indications. We 
evaluated the technical success of the procedure and the rate of complications.
RESULTS: Technical success was achieved in all cases. The device was kept in 
place for an average of 168 days. There was one case of PNX (0.14%) as shown on 
chest X-ray and five cases of late complications (0.70%): one case of 
intracatheter thrombosis (0.14%), two cases of disconnection between the 
reservoir and catheter (0.28%) and two cases of PC infection (0.28%).
CONCLUSIONS: This procedure incurs very small number of complications compared 
with other positioning techniques using accesses such as the subclavian vein. 
Complications recorded in our study are comparable, in type and incidence, to 
those found by other authors, with the most frequent being device infection.

DOI: 10.1007/s11547-012-0894-6
PMID: 23090255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Health Care Manag Sci. 2013 Jun;16(2):87-100. doi:
10.1007/s10729-012-9215-x.  Epub 2012 Oct 23.

Tradeoffs in cardiovascular disease prevention, treatment, and research.

Miller G(1), Daly M, Roehrig C.

Author information:
(1)Altarum Institute, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, USA. george.miller@altarum.org

It is widely believed that the US health care system needs to transition from a 
culture of reactive treatment of disease to one of proactive prevention. As a 
tool for understanding the appropriate allocation of spending to prevention 
versus treatment (including research into improved prevention and treatment), a 
simple Markov model is used to represent the flow of individuals among states of 
health, where the transition rates are governed by the magnitude of 
appropriately-lagged expenditures in each of these categories. The model 
estimates the discounted cost and discounted effectiveness (measured in quality 
adjusted life years or QALYs) associated with a given spending mix, and it 
allows computing the marginal cost-effectiveness associated with additional 
spending in a category. We apply the model to explore interactions of 
alternative investments in cardiovascular disease (CVD) and to identify an 
optimal spending mix. Under the assumptions of our model structure, we find that 
the marginal cost-effectiveness of prevention of CVD varies with changes in 
spending on treatment (and vice versa), and that the optimal mix of CVD spending 
(i.e., the spending mix that maximizes the overall QALYs achieved) would, 
indeed, shift spending from treatment to prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s10729-012-9215-x
PMCID: PMC3574630
PMID: 23090664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


486. CMAJ. 2012 Dec 11;184(18):1985-92. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.121080. Epub 2012 Oct
22.

Influence of individual and combined healthy behaviours on successful aging.

Sabia S(1), Singh-Manoux A, Hagger-Johnson G, Cambois E, Brunner EJ, Kivimaki M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London, UK. s.sabia@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2012 Dec 11;184(18):1973-4.

BACKGROUND: Increases in life expectancy make it important to remain healthy for 
as long as possible. Our objective was to examine the extent to which healthy 
behaviours in midlife, separately and in combination, predict successful aging.
METHODS: We used a prospective cohort design involving 5100 men and women aged 
42-63 years. Participants were free of cancer, coronary artery disease and 
stroke when their health behaviours were assessed in 1991-1994 as part of the 
Whitehall II study. We defined healthy behaviours as never smoking, moderate 
alcohol consumption, physical activity (≥ 2.5 h/wk moderate physical activity or 
≥ 1 h/wk vigorous physical activity), and eating fruits and vegetables daily. We 
defined successful aging, measured over a median 16.3-year follow-up, as good 
cognitive, physical, respiratory and cardiovascular functioning, in addition to 
the absence of disability, mental health problems and chronic disease (coronary 
artery disease, stroke, cancer and diabetes).
RESULTS: At the end of follow-up, 549 participants had died and 953 qualified as 
aging successfully. Compared with participants who engaged in no healthy 
behaviours, participants engaging in all 4 healthy behaviours had 3.3 times 
greater odds of successful aging (95% confidence interval [CI] 2.1-5.1). The 
association with successful aging was linear, with the odds ratio (OR) per 
increment of healthy behaviour being 1.3 (95% CI 1.2-1.4; 
population-attributable risk for 1-4 v. 0 healthy behaviours 47%). When missing 
data were considered in the analysis, the results were similar to those of our 
main analysis.
INTERPRETATION: Although individual healthy behaviours are moderately associated 
with successful aging, their combined impact is substantial. We did not 
investigate the mechanisms underlying these associations, but we saw clear 
evidence of the importance of healthy behaviours for successful aging.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.121080
PMCID: PMC3519184
PMID: 23091184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Eur Heart J. 2013 Feb;34(6):451-61. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs355. Epub 2012
Oct  22.

Potential lifetime cost-effectiveness of catheter-based renal sympathetic 
denervation in patients with resistant hypertension.

Dorenkamp M(1), Bonaventura K, Leber AW, Boldt J, Sohns C, Boldt LH, Haverkamp 
W, Frei U, Roser M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus 
Virchow-Klinikum, Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353 Berlin, Germany. 
marc.dorenkamp@charite.de

AIMS: Recent studies have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of catheter-based 
renal sympathetic denervation (RDN) for the treatment of resistant hypertension. 
We aimed to determine the cost-effectiveness of this approach separately for men 
and women of different ages.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov state-transition model accounting for costs, 
life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness was developed to compare RDN with best medical therapy (BMT) 
in patients with resistant hypertension. The model ran from age 30 to 100 years 
or death, with a cycle length of 1 year. The efficacy of RDN was modelled as a 
reduction in the risk of hypertension-related disease events and death. Analyses 
were conducted from a payer's perspective. Costs and QALYs were discounted at 3% 
annually. Both deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed. When compared with BMT, RDN gained 0.98 QALYs in men and 0.88 QALYs 
in women 60 years of age at an additional cost of €2589 and €2044, respectively. 
As the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios increased with patient age, RDN 
consistently yielded more QALYs at lower costs in lower age groups. Considering 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of €35 000/QALY, there was a 95% probability that 
RDN would remain cost-effective up to an age of 78 and 76 years in men and 
women, respectively. Cost-effectiveness was influenced mostly by the magnitude 
of effect of RDN on systolic blood pressure, the rate of RDN non-responders, and 
the procedure costs of RDN.
CONCLUSION: Renal sympathetic denervation is a cost-effective intervention for 
patients with resistant hypertension. Earlier treatment produces better 
cost-effectiveness ratios.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehs355
PMID: 23091202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Prev Med Public Health. 2012 Sep;45(5):323-8. doi: 
10.3961/jpmph.2012.45.5.323. Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Trends in ischemic heart disease mortality in Korea, 1985-2009: an 
age-period-cohort analysis.

Lee HA(1), Park H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Ewha Womans University School of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Economic growth and development of medical technology help to 
improve the average life expectancy, but the western diet and rapid conversions 
to poor lifestyles lead an increasing risk of major chronic diseases. Coronary 
heart disease mortality in Korea has been on the increase, while showing a 
steady decline in the other industrialized countries. An age-period-cohort 
analysis can help understand the trends in mortality and predict the near 
future.
METHODS: We analyzed the time trends of ischemic heart disease mortality, which 
is on the increase, from 1985 to 2009 using an age-period-cohort model to 
characterize the effects of ischemic heart disease on changes in the mortality 
rate over time.
RESULTS: All three effects on total ischemic heart disease mortality were 
statistically significant. Regarding the period effect, the mortality rate was 
decreased slightly in 2000 to 2004, after it had continuously increased since 
the late 1980s that trend was similar in both sexes. The expected age effect was 
noticeable, starting from the mid-60's. In addition, the age effect in women was 
more remarkable than that in men. Women born from the early 1900s to 1925 
observed an increase in ischemic heart mortality. That cohort effect showed 
significance only in women.
CONCLUSIONS: The future cohort effect might have a lasting impact on the risk of 
ischemic heart disease in women with the increasing elderly population, and a 
national prevention policy is need to establish management of high risk by 
considering the age-period-cohort effect.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.2012.45.5.323
PMCID: PMC3469815
PMID: 23091658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest with 
the material presented in this paper.


489. Can Urol Assoc J. 2012 Oct;6(5):367-73. doi: 10.5489/cuaj.11161.

Challenging the 10-year rule: The accuracy of patient life expectancy 
predictions by physicians in relation to prostate cancer management.

Leung KM(1), Hopman WM, Kawakami J.

Author information:
(1)Queen's University, Kingston, ON;

Comment in
    Can Urol Assoc J. 6(5):374.

INTRODUCTION: : We assess physicians' ability to accurately predict life 
expectancies. In prostate cancer this prediction is especially important as it 
affects screening decisions. No previous studies have examined accuracy in the 
context of real cases and concrete end points.
METHODS: : Seven clinical scenarios were summarized from charts of deceased 
patients. We recruited 100 medical professionals to review these scenarios and 
estimate each patient's life expectancy. Responses were analyzed with respect to 
the patients' actual survival end points, then stratified based on the 
demographic information provided.
RESULTS: : Respondent factors, such as sex, level of training, location of work 
or specialty, made no significant difference on prediction accuracy. 
Furthermore, respondents were typically pessimistic in their estimations with a 
negative linear trend between estimated life expectancy and actual survival. 
Overall, respondents were within 1 year of actual life expectancy only 15.9% of 
the time; on average, respondents were 67.4% inaccurate in relation to actual 
survival. If framed in terms of correctly identifying which patients would live 
more than or less than 10 years (dichotomous accuracy), physicians were correct 
68.3% of the time.
CONCLUSIONS: : Physicians do poorly at predicting life expectancy and tend to 
underestimate how long patients have left to live. This overall inaccuracy 
raises the question of whether physicians should refine screening and treatment 
criteria, find a better proxy or dispose of the criteria altogether.

DOI: 10.5489/cuaj.11161
PMCID: PMC3478337
PMID: 23093629


490. Can Urol Assoc J. 2012 Oct;6(5):374-5. doi: 10.5489/cuaj.12275.

Life expectancy estimation in prostate cancer patients.

Jeldres C(1).

Author information:
(1)Fellow, Uro-Oncology, Fred Hutchison Cancer Center, Virginia Mason Medical 
Center, Seattle, WA.

Comment on
    See related article on page 367.

DOI: 10.5489/cuaj.12275
PMCID: PMC3478338
PMID: 23093630


491. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2013 May;52(5):832-8. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kes270.  Epub 2012 Oct 22.

Who are the patients with early arthritis with worse than death scores on the 
EQ-5D? Results from the ESPOIR cohort.

Gaujoux-Viala C(1), Fautrel B, Guillemin F, Flipo RM, Bourgeois P, Rat AC.

Author information:
(1)Lorraine University, Paris Descartes University, Nancy, France. 
cecilegaujouxviala@yahoo.fr

Comment in
    Rheumatology (Oxford). 2013 May;52(5):767-8.

OBJECTIVES: The EQ-5D is a five-dimension multi-attribute questionnaire widely 
used to calculate quality-adjusted life-year scores. We aimed to describe 
patients with early arthritis (EA) and EQ-5D < 0, a state worse than death, at 
baseline and over 2 years and determine aspects of EA associated with a negative 
score.
METHODS: EQ-5D scores for 813 patients were longitudinally assessed over 24 
months. Characteristics and health status of patients with EQ-5D < 0 were 
analysed. Multivariate logistic regression was used to determine aspects of EA 
associated with a negative score.
RESULTS: At baseline, 90 (11%) patients had a negative EQ-5D score (median EQ-5D 
-0.052; range -0.530 to -0.011). Almost all patients had extreme pain/discomfort 
and at least moderate problems in anxiety/depression domain. These patients had 
lower educational level, greater disease activity, higher HAQ score (greater 
functional disability), greater pain and fatigue, lower Short Form 36 (SF-36) 
mental component scores and higher CRP levels than patients with EQ-5D ≥ 0 (all 
P < 0.001). In the logistic regression model, worse HAQ and SF-36 mental 
component scores were associated with EQ-5D < 0. Results were similar at 6, 12 
and 24 months, with 25, 23 and 24 patients, respectively, in a state worse than 
death.
CONCLUSION: Pain or discomfort, often severe, is a key domain of the EQ-5D for 
patients with EA in a health state worse than death, and poor HAQ and SF-36 
mental component scores were always independently associated with a state worse 
than death. EA patients may have specific needs necessitating better management 
of pain and psychological state.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kes270
PMID: 23093721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2012;114(6):708-18.

[Clinical usage of Yi-gan san-schizophrenia, borderline personality disorder, 
dyskinesia etc-].

[Article in Japanese]

Horiguchi J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Shimane University of Medicine, 89-1 Enyacho, Izumo 
6938501, Japan.

Yi-gan san (YGS, yokukan-san in Japanese) was developed in 1555 by Xue Kai as a 
remedy for restlessness and agitation in children. Prompted by the increasing 
life expectancy of the Japanese population, geriatricians have begun to use this 
traditional regimen for behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia in the 
elderly. Moreover, we reported that YGS therapy is a well-tolerated and 
effective remedy that improves the symptoms of schizophrenia., borderline 
personality disorder, Charles Bonnet Syndrome, pervasive developmental disorder. 
Asperger's disorder, neuroleptics induced tardive dyskinesia, and restless legs 
syndrome. In a pilot investigation, we administered YGS as an open-label adjunct 
to antipsychotic medication to patients with treatment-resistant shizophrenia, 
borderline personality disorder, Charles Bonnet Syndrome, pervasive 
developmental disorder, Asperger's disorder, neuroleptics induced tardive 
dyskinesia. The present lecture summarizes the available data based on the above 
our data. In addition, we extend our discussion to the potential applications of 
YGS for combining this treatment with cellular and molecular therapy.

PMID: 23094294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Am J Dermatopathol. 2013 May;35(3):377-80. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0b013e3182726e79.

Cutaneous nodules as a diagnostic clue in multiple myeloma.

Ballester-Martínez MA(1), González-García C, Fleta-Asín B, Burdaspal-Moratilla 
A, Santón-Roldán A, Jiménez-Gómez N, Martín-González MM, Olasolo PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, 
Spain. asun.ballester@gmail.com

Cutaneous plasmacytomas are monoclonal proliferations of plasma cells which can 
be classified into primary (with no other concomitant bony or extramedullary 
disease) or secondary (generally associated with multiple myeloma (MM), 
extramedullary plasmacytoma, or plasma cell leukemia). Cutaneous plasmacytomas 
can appear in some patients with MM and, rarely, the skin lesions suppose the 
first clinical manifestation of the disease. Their development is considered as 
a poor prognostic sign, associated with a life expectancy of less than 12 months 
after diagnosis. An unusual case of MM is described, in which the 
histopathological study of a skin nodule provided invaluable information for 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0b013e3182726e79
PMID: 23095339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. BMC Gastroenterol. 2012 Oct 24;12:149. doi: 10.1186/1471-230X-12-149.

Cost-effectiveness of acupuncture for irritable bowel syndrome: findings from an 
economic evaluation conducted alongside a pragmatic randomised controlled trial 
in primary care.

Stamuli E(1), Bloor K, MacPherson H, Tilbrook H, Stuardi T, Brabyn S, Torgerson 
D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York YO10 5DD, UK. 
eugena.stamuli@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There is insufficient evidence to determine whether acupuncture is a 
cost-effective treatment for irritable bowel syndrome. The objective of this 
study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of acupuncture as an adjunct to usual 
care versus usual care alone for the treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome 
(IBS).
METHODS: Cost-utility analysis conducted alongside a pragmatic, multicentre, 
randomised controlled trial. 233 patients with irritable bowel syndrome were 
randomly allocated to either acupuncture plus usual care, or usual care alone. 
Cost-effectiveness outcomes are expressed in terms of incremental cost per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) at one year after randomisation. Costs were 
estimated from the UK National Health Service perspective for a time horizon of 
one year. Cost-utility ratios were estimated based on complete case analysis for 
the base case analysis, where only patients with available EQ-5D and cost data 
were included. Sensitivity analyses comprised a multiple imputation approach for 
missing data and a subgroup analysis for the more severe cases of IBS.
RESULTS: The base case analysis showed acupuncture to be marginally more 
effective than usual care (gain of 0.0035 QALYs, 95% CI: -0.00395 to 0.0465) and 
more expensive (incremental cost of £218 per patient (95% CI: 55.87 to 492.87) 
resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of approximately £62,500. 
Sensitivity analysis using multiple imputation for missing data resulted in 
acupuncture appearing less effective and more costly than usual care, so usual 
care is dominant. Subgroup analysis selecting the most severe cases of IBS 
(Symptom Severity Score of over 300) suggested that acupuncture may be a 
cost-effective treatment option for this group, with a cost-per-QALY of £6,500.
CONCLUSIONS: Acupuncture as an adjunct to usual care is not a cost-effective 
option for the whole IBS population; however it may be cost-effective for those 
with more severe irritable bowel syndrome.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN08827905.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-230X-12-149
PMCID: PMC3579701
PMID: 23095351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. BMC Genomics. 2012;13 Suppl 5(Suppl 5):S3. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-S5-S3.
Epub  2012 Oct 19.

A UML profile for the OBO relation ontology.

Guardia GD(1), Vêncio RZ, de Farias CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Mathematics, DCM/FFCLRP, University of Sao 
Paulo Av Bandeirantes, 3900 Monte Alegre Ribeirao Preto, SP 14040-901, Brazil. 
farias@ffclrp.usp.br

Ontologies have increasingly been used in the biomedical domain, which has 
prompted the emergence of different initiatives to facilitate their development 
and integration. The Open Biological and Biomedical Ontologies (OBO) Foundry 
consortium provides a repository of life-science ontologies, which are developed 
according to a set of shared principles. This consortium has developed an 
ontology called OBO Relation Ontology aiming at standardizing the different 
types of biological entity classes and associated relationships. Since 
ontologies are primarily intended to be used by humans, the use of graphical 
notations for ontology development facilitates the capture, comprehension and 
communication of knowledge between its users. However, OBO Foundry ontologies 
are captured and represented basically using text-based notations. The Unified 
Modeling Language (UML) provides a standard and widely-used graphical notation 
for modeling computer systems. UML provides a well-defined set of modeling 
elements, which can be extended using a built-in extension mechanism named 
Profile. Thus, this work aims at developing a UML profile for the OBO Relation 
Ontology to provide a domain-specific set of modeling elements that can be used 
to create standard UML-based ontologies in the biomedical domain.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-S5-S3
PMCID: PMC3477006
PMID: 23095840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2012 Oct;8(10):1382-94. doi: 10.4161/hv.21571. Epub
2012  Oct 1.

Cost-effectiveness of polysaccharide pneumococcal vaccination in people aged 65 
and above in Poland.

Grzesiowski P(1), Aguiar-Ibáñez R, Kobryń A, Durand L, Puig PE.

Author information:
(1)Infection Prevention Institute; Warsaw, Poland. beatajs@cls.edu.pl

INTRODUCTION: Invasive pneumococcal disease is associated with substantial 
morbidity, mortality and cost implications, which could be reduced by 
vaccination.
AIM: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine in the 
elderly (65 and older) in Poland.
METHODS: A Markov model with a 1-year cycle length was developed, allowing up to 
10 cohorts to enter the model over the lifetime horizon (35 years). In the base 
case, costs and benefits were assessed using the public health care payer (NFZ) 
perspective. The analysis included routine vaccination of all elderly and 
high-risk (HR) elderly versus no vaccination. The analysis assumed that the 
government would reimburse 50% of the vaccine price. Costs and benefits were 
discounted 5%, with costs expressed in 2009 Polish Zloty (PLN). Extensive 
sensitivity analyses were carried out.
RESULTS: PPV23 vaccination targeting all elderly and HR elderly in Poland would 
avoid 8,935 pneumococcal infections, 2,542 hospitalisations, 671 deaths and 
5,886 infections, 1,673 hospitalisations and 441 deaths respectively. The 
incremental cost per QALY gained would be PLN 3,382 in all elderly and PLN2,148 
in HR elderly.
CONCLUSION: Vaccinating adults 65 and older regardless of risk status with a 
23-valent pneumococcal vaccine, is cost-effective, resulting in clinical and 
economic benefits including a non-negligible reduction of ambulatory doctor 
visits, hospitalizations and, deaths in Poland.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.21571
PMCID: PMC3660757
PMID: 23095867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2012 Nov;199(5):1060-9. doi: 10.2214/AJR.12.8657.

Assessment of kidney volumes from MRI: acquisition and segmentation techniques.

Zöllner FG(1), Svarstad E, Munthe-Kaas AZ, Schad LR, Lundervold A, Rørvik J.

Author information:
(1)Computer Assisted Clinical Medicine, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg 
University, Theodor-Kutzer-Ufer 1-3, Mannheim 68167, Germany. 
frank.zoellner@medma.uni-heidelberg.de

OBJECTIVE: The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is increasing 
worldwide. In Europe alone, at least 8% of the population currently has some 
degree of CKD. CKD is associated with serious comorbidity, reduced life 
expectancy, and high economic costs; hence, early detection and adequate 
treatment of kidney disease are important.
CONCLUSION: We review state-of-the-art MRI acquisition techniques for CKD, with 
a special focus on image segmentation methods used for the estimation of kidney 
volume.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.12.8657
PMID: 23096180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2012 Oct;13(10 Suppl 2):50S-54S. doi:
10.1714/1167.12921.

[New pharmacological approaches to ischemic heart disease].

[Article in Italian]

Raddino R(1), Della Pina P, Gorga E, Brambilla G, Regazzoni V, Gavazzoni M, Dei 
Cas L.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale ed Applicata, Universita degli Studi e 
Spedali Civili, Brescia. riccardo.raddino@libero.it

Major steps have been made in the treatment of ischemic heart disease from the 
discovery of nitrates as antianginal medication to the techniques of 
percutaneous angioplasty. This incredible therapeutic progress has resulted in a 
reduced incidence of ischemic heart disease and related mortality and morbidity. 
However, statistical and epidemiological data indicate that in ischemic heart 
disease, despite the achievement of great success, there is a necessity for a 
further step toward treatment, considering the fact that the characteristics of 
this population are changing (increased prevalence of subendocardial infarction 
compared with classic transmural infarction, especially in the elderly 
population). Furthermore, the need for alternative therapeutic approaches to 
traditional ones is recognized. Ranolazine is a selective inhibitor of Na 
channels that prevents pathological extension of late Na current developing in 
the ischemic myocardial cell. This current is responsible for calcium overload, 
with consequent impairment of diastolic relaxation. Ranolazine reduces Na 
overload induced by calcium and improves diastolic relaxation and coronary 
subendocardial flow, without affecting hemodynamic parameters such as blood 
pressure, heart rate, or inotropic state of the heart, avoiding undesirable side 
effects. Efficacy of ranolazine has been evaluated in several trials, using 
clinical and instrumental endpoints (MARISA and CARISA) or, more recently, using 
endpoints such as mortality and reinfarction (ERICA and MERLIN-TIMI 36). 
Ivabradine acts through the inhibition of late Na current (also known as If), 
which controls the spontaneous diastolic depolarization of sinus node cells. The 
partial inhibition of these channels reduces the frequency of sinus node action 
potential initiation, resulting in decreased heart rate without effects on 
contractility, atrio-ventricular conduction, or repolarization. The BEAUTIFUL 
trial has tested whether the effect of ivabradine in lowering heart rate is able 
to reduce mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with coronary 
artery disease and left ventricular systolic dysfunction. The most significant 
results were obtained in the subgroup of patients with life-limiting exertional 
angina. In this group, ivabradine significantly reduced the primary endpoint, a 
composite of cardiovascular death, hospitalization for fatal and nonfatal acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI) or heart failure, by 24%, and hospitalizations for 
AMI by 42%. In the subgroup of patients with baseline heart rate >70 bpm, 
hospitalizations for AMI and revascularization were reduced by 73% and 59%, 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1714/1167.12921
PMID: 23096376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Rev Med Chil. 2012 May;140(5):649-58. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872012000500015.

[Breast cancer in older women].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez R C(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Hematología-Oncología, Centro de Cáncer, Facultad de 
Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Chile. csanchez@med.puc.cl

Due to the increase in life expectancy in Chile, more than 10% of the population 
is 60 years or older. Since the incidence of most cancers increases with age, 
one of every two men and one in three women will develop a malignancy during 
their lifetime. In Chile breast cancer is the first leading cause of death from 
cancer among women. Its detection in postmenopausal women has steadily increased 
since the eighties, due to the expanded use of mammography. Less than 10% of 
patients participating in randomized controlled trials for the treatment of 
breast cancer, are older than 60 years, despite the fact that biological 
characteristics of breast cancer in older women are different and that most 
patients with breast cancer are of that age. Due to the high incidence of 
estrogen receptor positive tumors in this age group, most patients are 
candidates for hormone therapy. However, in those who need chemotherapy, 
therapeutic decisions are based on the existence of concomitant diseases and the 
tolerance to cytotoxic therapy. We review the relationship between age and 
cancer, the particular characteristics of breast cancer in older women and the 
alternatives of treatment with chemotherapy in advanced disease.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872012000500015
PMID: 23096673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2012 Dec;149(4):560-71. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22166. Epub
2012  Oct 25.

Permanent tooth mineralization in bonobos (Pan paniscus) and chimpanzees (P. 
troglodytes).

Boughner JC(1), Dean MC, Wilgenbusch CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Saskatchewan, 
Saskatoon, SK, Canada. Julia.Boughner@gmail.com

The timing of tooth mineralization in bonobos (Pan paniscus) is virtually 
uncharacterized. Analysis of these developmental features in bonobos and the 
possible differences with its sister species, the chimpanzee (P. troglodytes), 
is important to properly quantify the normal ranges of dental growth variation 
in closely related primate species. Understanding this variation among bonobo, 
chimpanzee and modern human dental development is necessary to better 
contextualize the life histories of extinct hominins. This study tests whether 
bonobos and chimpanzees are distinguished from each other by covariance among 
the relative timing and sequences of tooth crown initiation, mineralization, 
root extension, and completion. Using multivariate statistical analyses, we 
compared the relative timing of permanent tooth crypt formation, crown 
mineralization, and root extension between 34 P. paniscus and 80 P. troglodytes 
mandibles radiographed in lateral and occlusal views. Covariance among our 12 
assigned dental scores failed to statistically distinguish between bonobos and 
chimpanzees. Rather than clustering by species, individuals clustered by age 
group (infant, younger or older juvenile, and adult). Dental scores covaried 
similarly between the incisors, as well as between both premolars. Conversely, 
covariance among dental scores distinguished the canine and each of the three 
molars not only from each other, but also from the rest of the anterior teeth. 
Our study showed no significant differences in the relative timing of permanent 
tooth crown and root formation between bonobos and chimpanzees.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22166
PMID: 23097136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Int J Hepatol. 2012;2012:879163. doi: 10.1155/2012/879163. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Etiology and management of hemorrhagic complications of portal hypertension in 
children.

Costaguta A(1), Alvarez F.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Hígado y Trasplante Hepático, Sanatorio de Niños, Alvear 863, Santa 
Fe, Rosario 2000, Argentina.

PORTAL HYPERTENSION IN CHILDREN REPRESENTS A PARTICULAR DIAGNOSTIC AND 
MANAGEMENT CHALLENGE FOR SEVERAL REASONS: (1) treatment outcomes should be 
evaluated in relationship with a long-life expectancy, (2) pediatric patients 
with portal hypertension constitute an heterogeneous population, both in terms 
of individual characteristics and diversity of liver diseases; making comparison 
between treatment outcomes very difficult, (3) application of techniques and 
procedures developed in adult patients (v.gr. TIPS) face size limitations in 
small children, and (4) absence of data from well-controlled trials in children 
forces pediatric specialists to adapt results obtained from adult cohorts 
suffering from diseases such as HCV and alcoholic cirrhosis. Despite those 
limitations, substantial progress in the treatment of children with portal 
hypertension has been achieved in recent years, with better outcomes and 
survival. Two main factors influence our therapeutic decision: age of the 
patient and etiology of the liver disease. Therefore, diagnosis and treatment of 
complications of portal hypertension in children need to be described taking 
such factors into consideration. This paper summarizes current knowledge and 
expert opinion.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/879163
PMCID: PMC3477574
PMID: 23097711


502. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Dec 1;30(12):1145-56. doi: 
10.2165/11596490-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of therapeutic interventions in ankylosing spondylitis: a 
critical and systematic review.

Gaujoux-Viala C(1), Fautrel B.

Author information:
(1)Universit Pierre et Marie Curie Paris VI, GRC-UMPC 08 (EEMOIS), Paris, 
France.

OBJECTIVES: This report reviews the cost effectiveness of different therapeutic 
interventions used in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis (AS).
METHODS: We performed a systematic search of the databases MEDLINE via PubMed, 
EMBASE and the Cochrane Library and used hand-searching to identify articles on 
cost effectiveness of therapies for adult patients with AS published up to 
November 2010.
RESULTS: Of 135 articles, 13 studies were analysed. Two articles were on 
physical therapies, one article was on NSAIDs and ten articles were on tumour 
necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors (infliximab = 6, etanercept = 2, infliximab and 
etanercept = 1 and adalimumab = 1). Of the latter, no article directly compared 
TNF inhibitors. Articles showed substantial heterogeneity in methodological 
approaches and thus results, which prevented us from any extensive comparison, 
data pooling or meta-analysis. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
for spa-exercise treatment was &U20AC;7465 (95% CI 3294, 14 686) per QALY. The 
ICERs for infliximab, etanercept and adalimumab were &U20AC;5307-237 010, 
&U20AC;29 815-123 761 and &U20AC;7344-33 303 per QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Modelling treatment strategies in chronic relapsing diseases such 
as AS presents specific challenges, as reflected in the variation in the 
cost-effectiveness results reported. Although quite variable, the 
cost-effectiveness ratios for AS therapies remain within an acceptable range.

DOI: 10.2165/11596490-000000000-00000
PMID: 23098324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Handb Clin Neurol. 2012;109:275-82. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-52137-8.00017-6.

Functional electrical stimulation: restoration of respiratory function.

Onders RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA. 
Raymond.onders@uhhospitals.org

Tetraplegia can lead to chronic respiratory failure. The need for tracheostomy 
mechanical ventilation significantly increases the cost of care, decreases the 
quality of life of the patient, and decreases life expectancy in spinal cord 
injury (SCI) because of pneumonias. Phrenic nerve stimulation was initially 
developed in the 1960s and diaphragm pacing was developed in the 1990s; both 
have the ability to remove a patient from positive pressure ventilation and 
allow them to breathe with their own diaphragm, decreasing posterior lung lobe 
atelectasis and pneumonia risk. This chapter summarizes the current surgical 
techniques, ventilator weaning options, and long-term results of functional 
electrical stimulation in restoring respiratory function.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-52137-8.00017-6
PMID: 23098719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. BMJ. 2012 Oct 25;345:e7093. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e7093.

Impact of smoking on mortality and life expectancy in Japanese smokers: a 
prospective cohort study.

Sakata R(1), McGale P, Grant EJ, Ozasa K, Peto R, Darby SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima, 
Japan.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2012;345:e7311.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the impact of smoking on overall mortality and life 
expectancy in a large Japanese population, including some who smoked throughout 
adult life.
DESIGN: The Life Span Study, a population-based prospective study, initiated in 
1950.
SETTING: Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan.
PARTICIPANTS: Smoking status for 27,311 men and 40,662 women was obtained during 
1963-92. Mortality from one year after first ascertainment of smoking status 
until 1 January 2008 has been analysed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality from all causes in current, former, and never 
smokers.
RESULTS: Smokers born in later decades tended to smoke more cigarettes per day 
than those born earlier, and to have started smoking at a younger age. Among 
those born during 1920-45 (median 1933) and who started smoking before age 20 
years, men smoked on average 23 cigarettes/day, while women smoked 17 
cigarettes/day, and, for those who continued smoking, overall mortality was more 
than doubled in both sexes (rate ratios versus never smokers: men 2.21 (95% 
confidence interval 1.97 to 2.48), women 2.61 (1.98 to 3.44)) and life 
expectancy was reduced by almost a decade (8 years for men, 10 years for women). 
Those who stopped smoking before age 35 avoided almost all of the excess risk 
among continuing smokers, while those who stopped smoking before age 45 avoided 
most of it.
CONCLUSIONS: The lower smoking related hazards reported previously in Japan may 
have been due to earlier birth cohorts starting to smoke when older and smoking 
fewer cigarettes per day. In Japan, as elsewhere, those who start smoking in 
early adult life and continue smoking lose on average about a decade of life. 
Much of the risk can, however, be avoided by giving up smoking before age 35, 
and preferably well before age 35.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e7093
PMCID: PMC3481021
PMID: 23100333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no financial 
relationships with any organisations that might have an interest in the 
submitted work in the previous three years, and no other relationships or 
activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


505. Tissue Eng Part C Methods. 2013 Jun;19(6):427-37. doi: 
10.1089/ten.TEC.2012.0021. Epub 2012 Dec 21.

A novel internal fixator device for peripheral nerve regeneration.

Chuang TH(1), Wilson RE, Love JM, Fisher JP, Shah SB.

Author information:
(1)Fischell Department of Bioengineering, University of Maryland, College Park, 
Maryland, USA.

Recovery from peripheral nerve damage, especially for a transected nerve, is 
rarely complete, resulting in impaired motor function, sensory loss, and chronic 
pain with inappropriate autonomic responses that seriously impair quality of 
life. In consequence, strategies for enhancing peripheral nerve repair are of 
high clinical importance. Tension is a key determinant of neuronal growth and 
function. In vitro and in vivo experiments have shown that moderate levels of 
imposed tension (strain) can encourage axonal outgrowth; however, few strategies 
of peripheral nerve repair emphasize the mechanical environment of the injured 
nerve. Toward the development of more effective nerve regeneration strategies, 
