has been defined as "premature deaths that should not occur in the presence of 
timely and effective health care" and as "conditions for which effective 
clinical interventions exist." We analyzed the regional variability in 
health-care services using amenable mortality as a performance indicator. 
Convergent validity was examined against other indicators, such as health 
expenditure, GDP per capita, life expectancy at birth, disability-free life 
expectancy at age 15, number of diagnostic and laboratory tests per 1,000 
inhabitants, and the prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular diseases.
METHODS: Amenable mortality rate was calculated as the average annual number of 
deaths in the population aged 0-74 years per 100,000 inhabitants, and it was 
then stratified by gender and region. Data were drawn from national mortality 
statistics for the period 2006-08.
RESULTS: During the study period (2006-08), the age-standardized death rate 
(SDR) amenable to health-care services in Italy was 62.6 per 100,000 
inhabitants: 66.0 per 100,000 for males and 59.1 per 100,000 for females. 
Significant regional variations ranged from 54.1 per 100,000 inhabitants in Alto 
Adige to 76.3 per 100,000 in Campania. Regional variability in SDR was examined 
separately for male and females. The variability proved to be statistically 
significant for both males and females (males: Q-test = 638.5, p < 0.001; 
females: Q-test = 700.1, p < 0.001). However, among men, we found a clear-cut 
divide in SDR values between Central and Southern Italy; among women, this 
divide was less pronounced. Amenable mortality was negatively correlated with 
life expectancy at birth for both genders (male: r = -0.64, p = 0.002; female: r 
= -0.88, p <0.001) and with disability-free life expectancy at age 15 (male: r = 
-0.70, p <0.001; female: r = -0.67, p <0.001). Amenable mortality displayed a 
statistically significant negative relationship with GDP per capita, the 
quantity of diagnostic and laboratory tests per 1,000 inhabitants, and the 
prevalence of cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Amenable mortality shows a wide variation across Italian regions 
and an inverse relationship with life expectancy and GDP per capita, as 
expected.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-310
PMCID: PMC3506466
PMID: 22963259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Rejuvenation Res. 2012 Oct;15(5):523-9. doi: 10.1089/rej.2012.1371.

Dietary restriction: critical co-factors to separate health span from life span 
benefits.

Mendelsohn AR(1), Larrick JW.

Author information:
(1)Panorama Research Institute and Regenerative Sciences Institute, Sunnyvale, 
CA, USA. amend@regensci.org

Dietary restriction (DR), typically a 20%-40% reduction in ad libitum or 
"normal" nutritional energy intake, has been reported to extend life span in 
diverse organisms, including yeast, nematodes, spiders, fruit flies, mice, rats, 
and rhesus monkeys. The magnitude of the life span enhancement appears to 
diminish with increasing organismal complexity. However, the extent of life span 
extension has been notoriously inconsistent, especially in mammals. Recently, 
Mattison et al. reported that DR does not extend life span in rhesus monkeys in 
contrast to earlier work of Colman et al. Examination of these papers identifies 
multiple potential confounding factors. Among these are the varied genetic 
backgrounds and composition of the "normal" and DR diets. In monkeys, the 
correlation of DR with increased health span is stronger than that seen with 
life span and indeed may be separable. Recent mechanistic studies in Drosophila 
implicate non-genetic co-factors such as level of physical activity and muscular 
fatty acid metabolism in the benefits of DR. These results should be followed up 
in mammals. Perhaps levels of physical activity among the cohorts of rhesus 
monkeys contribute to inconsistent DR effects. To understand the maximum 
potential benefits from DR requires differentiating fundamental effects on aging 
at the cellular and molecular levels from suppression of age-associated 
diseases, such as cancer. To that end, it is important that investigators 
carefully evaluate the effects of DR on biomarkers of molecular aging, such as 
mutation rate and epigenomic alterations. Several short-term studies show that 
humans may benefit from DR in as little as 6 months, by achieving lowered 
fasting insulin levels and improved cardiovascular health. Optimized health span 
engineering will require a much deeper understanding of DR.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2012.1371
PMID: 22963324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2012 Sep 10;9:107. doi: 10.1186/1479-5868-9-107.

Effects of a 6-month multimodal training intervention on retention of functional 
fitness in older adults: a randomized-controlled cross-over design.

Gudlaugsson J(1), Gudnason V, Aspelund T, Siggeirsdottir K, Olafsdottir AS, 
Jonsson PV, Arngrimsson SA, Harris TB, Johannsson E.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Sport and Health Sciences, University of Iceland, 
Laugarvatn, Iceland.

BACKGROUND: Older adults have the highest rates of disability, functional 
dependence and use of healthcare resources. Training interventions for older 
individuals are of special interest where regular physical activity (PA) has 
many health benefits. The main purpose of this study was to assess the immediate 
and long-term effects of a 6-month multimodal training intervention (MTI) on 
functional fitness in old adults.
METHODS: For this study, 117 participants, 71 to 90 years old, were randomized 
in immediate intervention group and a control group (delayed intervention 
group). The intervention consisted of daily endurance and twice-a-week strength 
training. The method was based on a randomized-controlled cross-over design. 
Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), 8 foot up-and-go test, strength 
performance, six min walking test (6 MW), physical activity, BMI and quality of 
life were obtained at baseline, after a 6-month intervention- and control phase, 
again after 6-month crossover- and delayed intervention phase, and after 
anadditional 6-month follow-up.
RESULTS: After 6 months of MTI, the intervention group improved in physical 
performance compared with the control group via Short Physical Performance 
Battery (SPPB) score (mean diff = 0.6, 95 % CI: 0.1, 1.0) and 8-foot up-and-go 
test (mean diff = -1.0 s, 95 % CI: -1.5, -0.6), and in endurance performance via 
6-minute walking test (6 MW) (mean diff = 44.2 meters, 95 % CI: 17.1, 71.2). In 
strength performance via knee extension the intervention group improved while 
control group declined (mean diff = 55.0 Newton, 95 % CI: 28.4, 81.7), and also 
in PA (mean diff = 125.9 cpm, 95 % CI: 96.0, 155.8). Long-term effects of MTI on 
the particpants was assesed by estimating the mean difference in the variables 
measured between time-point 1 and 4: SPPB (1.1 points, 95 % CI: 0.8, 1.4); 
8-foot up-and-go (-0.9 s, 95 % CI: -1.2, -0.6); 6 MW (18.7 m, 95 % CI: 6.5, 
31.0); knee extension (4.2 Newton, 95 % CI: -10.0, 18.3); hand grip (6.7 Newton, 
95 % CI: -4.4, 17.8); PA (-4.0 cpm, 95 % CI: -33.9, 26.0); BMI (-0.6 kg/m2, 95 % 
CI: -0.9, -0.3) and Icelandic quality of life (0.3 points, 95 % CI: -0.7, 1.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that regular MTI can improve and prevent 
decline in functional fitness in older individuals, influence their lifestyle 
and positively affect their ability to stay independent, thus reducing the need 
for institutional care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study was approved by the National Bioethics Committee 
in Iceland, VSNb20080300114/03-1.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-5868-9-107
PMCID: PMC3522556
PMID: 22963328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Biotechniques. 2012 Sep;53(3):182-8. doi: 10.2144/000113913.

Improving the limit of detection for Sanger sequencing: a comparison of 
methodologies for KRAS variant detection.

Davidson CJ(1), Zeringer E, Champion KJ, Gauthier MP, Wang F, 
Boonyaratanakornkit J, Jones JR, Schreiber E.

Author information:
(1)Life Technologies, Foster City, CA, USA. colin.davidson@lifetech.com

Fluorescent dye terminator Sanger sequencing (FTSS), with detection by automated 
capillary electrophoresis (CE), has long been regarded as the gold standard for 
variant detection. However, software analysis and base-calling algorithms used 
to detect mutations were largely optimized for resequencing applications in 
which different alleles were expected as heterozygous mixtures of 50%. 
Increasingly, the requirements for variant detection are an analytic sensitivity 
for minor alleles of <20%, in particular, when assessing the mutational status 
of heterogeneous tumor samples. Here, we describe a simple modification to the 
FTSS workflow that improves the limit of detection of cell-line gDNA mixtures 
from 50%-20% to 5% for G>A transitions and from 50%-5% to 5% for G>C and G>T 
transversions. In addition, we use two different sample types to compare the 
limit of detection of sequence variants in codons 12 and 13 of the KRAS gene 
between Sanger sequencing and other methodologies including shifted termination 
assay (STA) detection, single-base extension (SBE), pyrosequencing (PS), high- 
resolution melt (HRM), and real-time PCR (qPCR).

DOI: 10.2144/000113913
PMID: 22963480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Mol Genet Metab. 2012 Nov;107(3):267-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2012.08.003.
Epub  2012 Aug 11.

Enzyme replacement therapy in patients with Fabry disease: state of the art and 
review of the literature.

Pisani A(1), Visciano B, Roux GD, Sabbatini M, Porto C, Parenti G, Imbriaco M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Federico II, Napoli, Italy.

Anderson-Fabry disease is an X-linked lysosomal storage disorder resulting from 
the deficiency of the hydrolytic enzyme alpha galactosidase A, with consequent 
accumulation of globotrioasoyl ceramide in cells and tissues of the body, 
resulting in a multi-system pathology including end organ failure. In the 
classical phenotype, cardiac failure, renal failure and stroke result in a 
reduced median life expectancy. The current causal treatment for Fabry disease 
is the enzyme replacement therapy (ERT): two different products, Replagal 
(agalsidase alfa) and Fabrazyme (agalsidase beta), have been commercially 
available in Europe for almost 10 years and they are both indicated for 
long-term treatment. In fact, clinical trials, observational studies and 
registry data have provided many evidences for safety and efficacy of ERT in 
improving symptoms of pain, gastrointestinal disturbances, hypohidrosis, left 
ventricular mass index, glomerular filtration rate and quality of life. Few data 
are available on comparison of the two treatments and on the clinical course of 
the disease. This article reviews the published evidence for clinical efficacy 
of the two available enzyme preparations.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2012.08.003
PMID: 22963910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Lancet. 2012 Sep 15;380(9846):1011-29. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61228-8.
Epub  2012 Sep 8.

WHO European review of social determinants of health and the health divide.

Marmot M(1), Allen J, Bell R, Bloomer E, Goldblatt P; Consortium for the 
European Review of Social Determinants of Health and the Health Divide.

Collaborators: Marmot M, Casanovas GL, Ferge Z, Kickbusch I, Mackenbach J, 
Meimanaliev T, Sen A, Starodubov V, Turmen T, Vagero D, Whitehead M, Tsouros A, 
Huebel M, Dyson A, Eisenstadt N, Siegrist J, Popay J, Lundeberg O, Coote A, Kopp 
M, Grundy E, Galea G, Zatonski W, Suhrcke M, Cookson R, Burns H, Ziglio E, 
Labonte R, Stronks K, Bobak M, Stein C, Allen M, Tsouros A, Hanefeld J, Ostlin 
P, Nihlen A, Brown C, Yordi I, Simpson S, Alderslade R.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Health Equity, UCL Department of Epidemiology and Public 
Health, UCL, London, UK. m.marmot@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2012 Sep 15;380(9846):951-3.

The European region has seen remarkable heath gains in those populations that 
have experienced progressive improvements in the conditions in which people are 
born, grow, live, and work. However, inequities, both between and within 
countries, persist. The review reported here, of inequities in health between 
and within countries across the 53 Member States of the WHO European region, was 
commissioned to support the development of the new health policy framework for 
Europe: Health 2020. Much more is understood now about the extent, and social 
causes, of these inequities, particularly since the publication in 2008 of the 
report of the Commission on Social Determinants of Health. The European review 
builds on the global evidence and recommends policies to ensure that progress 
can be made in reducing health inequities and the health divide across all 
countries, including those with low incomes. Action is needed--on the social 
determinants of health, across the life course, and in wider social and economic 
spheres--to achieve greater health equity and protect future generations.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61228-8
PMID: 22964159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Ann Clin Lab Sci. 2012 Summer;42(3):320-37.

Physical inactivity: associated diseases and disorders.

Knight JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake 
City, 84132, USA. joe.knight@path.utah.edu

A sedentary lifestyle is a very serious worldwide problem, especially in North 
America and Europe. Unfortunately, physical inactivity, which has progressively 
increased over the past several decades, significantly increases the risk of 
numerous diseases/disorders, including several forms of cancer, diabetes, 
hypertension, coronary and cerebrovascular diseases, overweight/obesity, and 
all-cause mortality, among others. Unless there is a reversal of this sedentary 
lifestyle, the incidence of these diseases/disorders will increase, life 
expectancy will decrease, and medical costs will continue to rise.

PMID: 22964623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Ann Plast Surg. 2012 Oct;69(4):435-8. doi: 10.1097/SAP.0b013e318246e698.

Utility outcome scores for unilateral facial paralysis.

Sinno H(1), Thibaudeau S, Izadpanah A, Tahiri Y, Christodoulou G, Zuker R, Lin 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Montreal General Hospital, 
McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Facial paralysis is a debilitating condition. Dynamic and static 
facial reanimation remains a challenge for plastic surgeons and requires 
important resources. Our objective was to quantify the health state utility 
assessment (ie, utility score outcomes) of living with unilateral facial 
paralysis.
METHODS: Utility assessments using visual analog scale, time trade-off, and 
standard gamble were used to obtain utility outcome scores for unilateral facial 
paralysis from a prospective sample of the general population and medical 
students.
RESULTS: A total number of 123 individuals prospectively participated in the 
study. All measures (visual analog scale, time trade-off, and standard gamble) 
for unilateral facial paralysis [0.56±0.18, 0.78±0.21, and 0.79±0.21 
respectively] were significantly different (P<0.0001) from the corresponding 
outcome scores for monocular blindness [0.61±0.21, 0.83±0.21, and 0.85±0.18, 
respectively] and binocular blindness [0.33±0.18, 0.65±0.28, and 0.65±0.29, 
respectively]. Linear regression analysis using age, race, income, and education 
as predictors of each of the utility scores for facial paralysis showed no 
statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: In samples of the general population and medical students, all 
utility score outcome measures for facial paralysis were lower than those for 
monocular blindness. Our sample population, if faced with unilateral facial 
paralysis, would theoretically undergo facial reanimation procedures with a 
willingness to sacrifice 8 years of life and be willing to undergo a procedure 
with a 21% chance of mortality to attain perfect health, respectively.

DOI: 10.1097/SAP.0b013e318246e698
PMID: 22964665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Ann Plast Surg. 2012 Oct;69(4):431-4. doi: 10.1097/SAP.0b013e3182480384.

The impact of living with a functional and aesthetic nasal deformity after 
primary rhinoplasty: a utility outcomes score assessment.

Sinno H(1), Izadpanah A, Thibaudeau S, Christodoulou G, Tahiri Y, Slavin SA, Lin 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Montreal General Hospital, 
McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Revision rhinoplasty for functional deformities can be both an 
aesthetic and reconstructive surgical challenge. We set out to quantify the 
health state utility assessment of living with the physical appearance of nasal 
asymmetry along with having nasal obstruction. The use of utility scores has 
helped to establish the health burden of living with various medical conditions. 
We sought to quantify living with a health state of nasal asymmetry with nasal 
obstruction after primary rhinoplasty using utility outcome scores.
METHODS: We used previously validated utility outcome measures to quantify the 
health burden of this clinical scenario in 128 prospective subjects. These 
subjects were from a sample of the population and medical students recruited to 
complete a survey to determine the utility outcome score of revision rhinoplasty 
using visual analog scale (VAS), time trade-off (TTO), and standard gamble (SG) 
tests to obtain utility scores for revision rhinoplasty. Linear regression and 
Student t test were used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: All measures (VAS, TTO, and SG) for functional nasal deformity 
(0.80±0.13, 0.90±0.12, and 0.91±0.13, respectively) of the 128 prospective 
subjects participating in this online study were significantly different 
(P<0.005) from the corresponding scores for monocular blindness (0.63±0.15, 
0.85±0.16, and 0.85±0.19, respectively) and binocular blindness (0.38±0.18, 
0.66±0.25, and 0.69±0.24, respectively). Being white was inversely related to 
the VAS utility scores for rhinoplasty (P<0.05). Additionally, female sex was 
positively correlated to the TTO score. Age, income, and education were not 
predictors of utility scores.
CONCLUSIONS: In a sample of the population and medical students, VAS, TTO, and 
SG utility scores for revision rhinoplasty were determined and can be compared 
objectively with other health states and diseases with known utility scores. In 
a preoperative setting, women were objectively willing to potentially "trade" 
more years of life to treat a functional nasal deformity. If faced with a 
deformed nose after primary rhinoplasty, our sample population would consent to 
undergo a revision rhinoplasty procedure with a theoretical 9% chance of 
mortality and were willing to trade 3.6 years of their remaining life.

DOI: 10.1097/SAP.0b013e3182480384
PMID: 22964667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Int J Obes (Lond). 2012 Sep;36(9):1151-2. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2012.120.

Obesity in the elderly: an emerging health issue.

Zamboni M, Mazzali G.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2012.120
PMID: 22964828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Dis Colon Rectum. 2012 Oct;55(10):1017-23. doi:
10.1097/DCR.0b013e3182656898.

Cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic vs open resection for colon and rectal 
cancer.

Jensen CC(1), Prasad LM, Abcarian H.

Author information:
(1)Colon and Rectal Surgery Associates, Department of Surgery, University of 
Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota, USA. cjensen@crsal.org

BACKGROUND: Whether laparoscopic surgery for colon and rectal cancer is 
cost-effective in comparison with open surgery remains unclear, because 
laparoscopic surgery results in shorter hospital stays but is associated with 
increased equipment costs.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the cost-effectiveness of 
laparoscopic versus open surgery for colon and rectal cancer, incorporating 
factors not included in previous cost-effectiveness studies.
DESIGN: A decision analysis model was constructed, and extensive sensitivity 
analyses were performed to test the assumptions of the model.
SETTING: Data were taken from previously published studies; data from large 
randomized trials were used whenever possible as inputs into the model.
PATIENTS: Patients enrolled in the trials from which data were gathered for the 
model.
INTERVENTIONS: There were no interventions.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measured was the cost-effectiveness 
of laparoscopic versus open surgery for colon and rectal cancer, expressed as 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: Laparoscopic resection results in savings of $4283 and essentially no 
difference in quality-adjusted life-years (0.001 more quality-adjusted 
life-years than open resection). Sensitivity analyses indicate that laparoscopic 
surgery is cost-effective at <$50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year under 
almost all conditions. The only circumstance that affects the cost-effectiveness 
of laparoscopic surgery is postoperative hernia rates. Because of the additional 
time off work for hernia repair, laparoscopic resection is cost-effective only 
if it results in a hernia rate less than or equal to open surgery. For all other 
variables, the laparoscopic approach remains less costly than the open approach 
with no difference in quality of life.
LIMITATIONS: The model relies on data from other studies, rather than being an 
independent trial designed to specifically collect these data.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic resection for colon and rectal cancer results in 
decreased costs and equivalent quality of life, making it the preferred approach 
in suitable patients.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e3182656898
PMID: 22965399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. World J Surg. 2012 Dec;36(12):2937-43. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1758-y.

Treatment for critical lower limb ischemia in elderly patients.

de Leur K(1), van Zeeland ML, Ho GH, de Groot HG, Veen EJ, van der Laan L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Amphia Hospital, Molengracht 21, 4818 CK, Breda, The 
Netherlands. kevin_de_leur@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Critical limb ischemia (CLI) has a poor outcome when left untreated. 
The benefits of revascularization in the very elderly might be limited because 
of co-morbidities and short life expectancy. Therefore, optimal management of 
CLI in the elderly is not straightforward. We analyzed treatment results for 
elderly patients with CLI (Rutherford 4 or 5/6) in our clinic.
METHODS: Hospital charts of all patients>70 years of age diagnosed with 
Rutherford stage 4-6 peripheral arterial disease between January 2006 and 
December 2009 were reviewed. We divided patients into two age groups (70-79 and 
≥80 years) to compare treatment results. Primary interventions were defined as 
conservative, endovascular, reconstructive surgery, and amputation. Outcome 
measures were mortality, reintervention, and major amputation rates.
RESULTS: There were 191 patients [99 (52%) were women], median age 78.4 years, 
range 70-98 years. Altogether, 119 (62%) patients were aged 70-79 years, and 72 
(38%) were ≥80 years. The primary intervention was equally divided over the two 
age groups (p=0.21). Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus Document on 
Management of Peripheral Arterial Disease (TASC II) classifications of 
aortoiliac lesions were not significantly different regarding intervention 
(p=0.62) or age (p=0.39). TASC II classification of femoropopliteal lesions was 
significantly different relative to intervention (p<0.01) but not different 
between age groups (p=0.68). Mortality rate after reconstructive surgery was 
significant higher in the oldest age group (p<0.01). After conservative 
treatment, endovascular treatment, or amputation, the mortality rates were not 
significantly different between the two age groups (respectively, p=0.06, 
p=0.33, p=0.76). Reintervention rate was 51% in the 70- to 79-year group 
compared to 32% in the ≥80-year group. After initial treatment, major 
amputations were performed in 10% in the 70- to 79-year group compared to 13% in 
the ≥80-year group.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients aged≥80 years, surgical revascularization resulted in a 
significant higher mortality rate in our clinic, whereas primary conservative, 
endovascular treatment and amputation resulted in similar mortality in both age 
groups. When considering surgical revascularization in the very elderly, 
surgeons should focus on careful patient selection.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1758-y
PMID: 22965534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Ann Surg Oncol. 2012 Nov;19(12):3659-67. doi: 10.1245/s10434-012-2610-1.
Epub  2012 Sep 11.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment strategies for pancreatic head adenocarcinoma 
and potential opportunities for improvement.

Abbott DE(1), Merkow RP, Cantor SB, Fleming JB, Varadhachary GR, Crane C, 
Bentrem DJ, Bilimoria KY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2012 Nov;19(12):3639-40.
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2013 Jan;20(1):5-6.

BACKGROUND: Generally dismal outcomes have led to a nihilistic attitude toward 
treating pancreatic cancer, while fiscal constraints have increased scrutiny of 
treatments costs. Our objective was to compare the cost-effectiveness of various 
treatment strategies for resectable pancreatic head adenocarcinoma, and to 
identify opportunities for improved cost effectiveness.
METHODS: A decision model compared 6 strategies: no treatment, radiotherapy 
only, chemotherapy only, chemotherapy plus radiotherapy, surgery alone, and 
surgery plus adjuvant therapy. Outcomes and probabilities were identified using 
the National Cancer Data Base, the American Cancer Society National Surgical 
Quality Improvement Program, and the literature. Costs were estimated using 
Medicare payment. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated, 
and sensitivity analyses were performed by varying potentially modifiable 
parameters of the model. Survival was reported in quality-adjusted life-months 
(QALMs).
RESULTS: Surgery plus adjuvant therapy, chemotherapy alone, and no treatment 
were the only viable strategies in terms of cost effectiveness. Surgery plus 
adjuvant therapy versus no treatment demonstrated an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $7,663/QALM. Theoretically increasing 
survival in node-negative, margin-negative patients from 14 to 22 QALMs produced 
the largest reduction in the ICER for surgery plus adjuvant therapy compared to 
no treatment ($6,386/QALM), whereas reducing the perioperative mortality from 3 
to 1 % had only a marginal effect. The ICER was significantly lower for 
high-performing centers ($5,991/QALM) than for low-performing centers 
($9,144/QALM).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery plus adjuvant therapy for resectable pancreatic head 
adenocarcinoma extends survival, but at considerable expense. Significant cost 
reductions could be realized by improving treatment outcomes to levels of 
high-performing centers and development of increasingly effective adjuvant 
therapies.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-012-2610-1
PMID: 22965567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jan;19(1):117-37. doi: 10.1007/s10985-012-9228-2.
Epub  2012 Sep 11.

An additive-multiplicative rates model for recurrent event data with informative 
terminal event.

Sun L(1), Kang F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Mathematics, Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, People's Republic of China. 
slq@amt.ac.cn

In this article, we propose an additive-multiplicative rates model for recurrent 
event data in the presence of a terminal event such as death. The association 
between recurrent and terminal events is nonparametric. For inference on the 
model parameters, estimating equation approaches are developed, and the 
asymptotic properties of the resulting estimators are established. The finite 
sample behavior of the proposed estimators is evaluated through simulation 
studies, and an application to a bladder cancer study is provided.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-012-9228-2
PMID: 22965680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Circulation. 2012 Sep 11;126(11 Suppl 1):S145-50. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.084442.

Cost-effectiveness analysis for surgical, angioplasty, or medical therapeutics 
for coronary artery disease: 5-year follow-up of medicine, angioplasty, or 
surgery study (MASS) II trial.

Vieira RD(1), Hueb W, Hlatky M, Favarato D, Rezende PC, Garzillo CL, Lima EG, 
Soares PR, Hueb AC, Pereira AC, Ramires JA, Kalil Filho R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Atherosclerosis, Heart Institute of the University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The Second Medicine, Angioplasty, or Surgery Study (MASS II) 
included patients with multivessel coronary artery disease and normal systolic 
ventricular function. Patients underwent coronary artery bypass graft surgery 
(CABG, n=203), percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI, n=205), or medical 
treatment alone (MT, n=203). This investigation compares the economic outcome at 
5-year follow-up of the 3 therapeutic strategies.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We analyzed cumulative costs during a 5-year follow-up 
period. To analyze the cost-effectiveness, adjustment was made on the cumulative 
costs for average event-free time and angina-free proportion. Respectively, for 
event-free survival and event plus angina-free survival, MT presented 3.79 
quality-adjusted life-years and 2.07 quality-adjusted life-years; PCI presented 
3.59 and 2.77 quality-adjusted life-years; and CABG demonstrated 4.4 and 2.81 
quality-adjusted life-years. The event-free costs were $9071.00 for MT; 
$19,967.00 for PCI; and $18,263.00 for CABG. The paired comparison of the 
event-free costs showed that there was a significant difference favoring MT 
versus PCI (P<0.01) and versus CABG (P<0.01) and CABG versus PCI (P=0.01). The 
event-free plus angina-free costs were $16,553.00, $25,831.00, and $24,614.00, 
respectively. The paired comparison of the event-free plus angina-free costs 
showed that there was a significant difference favoring MT versus PCI (P=0.04), 
and versus CABG (P<0.001); there was no difference between CABG and PCI 
(P>0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In the long-term economic analysis, for the prevention of a 
composite primary end point, MT was more cost effective than CABG, and CABG was 
more cost-effective than PCI.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION INFORMATION: www.controlled-trials.com.
REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN66068876.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.111.084442
PMID: 22965975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2012 Jun;20(2):101-3. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a3658.

Dramatic decline of ischaemic heart disease mortality in post communist central 
Europe: recovery from totality.

Ginter E(1), Simko V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Emeritus, Bratislava, 
Slovakia. ginter.emil@mail.t-com.sk

After 1970 the preexisting gap in population health between democratic Europe 
and communist countries became even more prominent. While in the democratic 
Europe there was a progressive rise in life expectancy associated with the 
decline in ischaemic heart disease (IHD), the trend on the other side of the 
iron curtain was exactly reverse. After the fall of communism in 1989 population 
health in the post-communist central Europe (CE) rapidly signalled a favourable 
recovery. This biphasic trend in post-communist countries is very remarkable. 
Most remarkably the decline in IHD mortality started soon after the demise of 
totality, even before the modernization of health care (new more effective 
medications and diagnostic technology), public campaign against smoking and 
improved supply of protective nutrients got chance to attain an important role. 
The decades-long psychosocial depression of communism was rapidly replaced with 
a promise of a better future. It is generally accepted that psychosocial factors 
are powerfool tools in the pathogenesis of IHD.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a3658
PMID: 22966731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Med Econ. 2013;16(1):30-40. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.722572. Epub 2012
Sep  11.

Using the 21-gene assay to guide adjuvant chemotherapy decision-making in 
early-stage breast cancer: a cost-effectiveness evaluation in the German 
setting.

Blohmer JU(1), Rezai M, Kümmel S, Kühn T, Warm M, Friedrichs K, Benkow A, 
Valentine WJ, Eiermann W.

Author information:
(1)St. Gertrauden-Krankenhaus, Berlin, Germany. jens.blohmer@sankt-gertrauden.de

OBJECTIVE: The 21-gene assay (Oncotype DX Breast Cancer Test (Genomic Health 
Inc., Redwood City, CA)) is a well validated test that predicts the likelihood 
of adjuvant chemotherapy benefit and the 10-year risk of distant recurrence in 
patients with ER+, HER2- early-stage breast cancer. The aim of this analysis was 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of using the assay to inform adjuvant 
chemotherapy decisions in Germany.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to make long-term projections of distant 
recurrence, survival, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and direct costs for 
patients with ER+, HER2-, node-negative, or up to 3 node-positive early-stage 
breast cancer. Scenarios using conventional diagnostic procedures or the 21-gene 
assay to inform treatment recommendations for adjuvant chemotherapy were modeled 
based on a prospective, multi-center trial in 366 patients. Transition 
probabilities and risk adjustment were based on published landmark trials. Costs 
(2011 Euros (€)) were estimated from a sick fund perspective based on resource 
use in patients receiving chemotherapy. Future costs and clinical benefits were 
discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: The 21-gene assay was projected to increase mean life expectancy by 
0.06 years and quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.06 quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) compared with current clinical practice over a 30-year time 
horizon. Clinical benefits were driven by optimized allocation of adjuvant 
chemotherapy. Costs from a healthcare payer perspective were lower with the 
21-gene assay by ∼€561 vs standard of care. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
indicated that there was an 87% probability that the 21-gene assay would be 
dominant (cost and life saving) to standard of care.
LIMITATIONS: Country-specific data on the risk of distant recurrence and 
quality-of-life were not available.
CONCLUSIONS: Guiding decision-making on adjuvant chemotherapy using the 21-gene 
assay was projected to improve survival, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and 
be cost saving vs the current standard of care women with ER+, HER2- early-stage 
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.722572
PMID: 22966753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2013 Jan;22(1):12-9. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12006. Epub
2012  Sep 12.

Quality-adjusted life years in cancer: pros, cons, and alternatives.

Woodward RM(1), Menzin J, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Boston Health Economics, Inc., Waltham, MA 02451, USA.

High and rising cancer treatment costs have forced a discussion about the use of 
cost-effectiveness analyses and other approaches to assess the value of cancer 
care. Oncologists have traditionally resisted using economic considerations in 
day-to-day medical considerations, though unavoidably their decisions have 
important resource implications, and increasingly economic realities are 
impacting their actions. In this paper, we summarise the use of the 
quality-adjusted life years to assess the value of cancer care and suggest 
potential ways to improve upon value measurement in cancer coverage and 
reimbursement decisions.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12006
PMID: 22966947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2012 Sep 11;9:112. doi: 10.1186/1479-5868-9-112.

Economic evaluation of a weight control program with e-mail and telephone 
counseling among overweight employees: a randomized controlled trial.

van Wier MF(1), Dekkers JC, Bosmans JE, Heymans MW, Hendriksen IJ, Pronk NP, van 
Mechelen W, van Tulder MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public and Occupational Health, VU University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Distance lifestyle counseling for weight control is a promising 
public health intervention in the work setting. Information about the 
cost-effectiveness of such interventions is lacking, but necessary to make 
informed implementation decisions. The purpose of this study was to perform an 
economic evaluation of a six-month program with lifestyle counseling aimed at 
weight reduction in an overweight working population with a two-year time 
horizon from a societal perspective.
METHODS: A randomized controlled trial comparing a program with two modes of 
intervention delivery against self-help. 1386 Employees from seven companies 
participated (67% male, mean age 43 (SD 8.6) years, mean BMI 29.6 (SD 3.5) 
kg/m2). All groups received self-directed lifestyle brochures. The two 
intervention groups additionally received a workbook-based program with phone 
counseling (phone; n=462) or a web-based program with e-mail counseling 
(internet; n=464). Body weight was measured at baseline and 24 months after 
baseline. Quality of life (EuroQol-5D) was assessed at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 
24 months after baseline. Resource use was measured with six-monthly diaries and 
valued with Dutch standard costs. Missing data were multiply imputed. 
Uncertainty around differences in costs and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios was estimated by applying non-parametric bootstrapping techniques and 
graphically plotting the results in cost-effectiveness planes and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: At two years the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was €1009/kg 
weight loss in the phone group and €16/kg weight loss in the internet group. The 
cost-utility analysis resulted in €245,243/quality adjusted life year (QALY) and 
€1337/QALY, respectively. The results from a complete-case analysis were 
slightly more favorable. However, there was considerable uncertainty around all 
outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither intervention mode was proven to be cost-effective compared 
to self-help.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-5868-9-112
PMCID: PMC3499374
PMID: 22967224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Aug;33(8):862-6.

[Cost-utility analysis on universal childhood hepatitis A vaccination in regions 
with different anti-HAV prevalence rates of China].

[Article in Chinese]

Pan XJ(1), Feng YM, Zhuang GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Medical College, Henan University of 
Science and Technology, Luoyang 471003, China. pxjwzjh@mail.haust.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To explore the inputs and outputs of areas with different anti-HAV 
prevalence rates on universal childhood vaccination, and to provide a scientific 
basis for the formulation of the immunization strategy.
METHODS: Since hepatitis A vaccination was scheduled at 12 and 18 months of age 
for all the healthy children, a single cohort including 1 000 000 individuals 
was formed in 2009, using the Chinese inactivated vaccine. Decision analysis was 
used to build Markov-decision tree model. The universal childhood hepatitis A 
vaccination was compared with non-vaccination group to evaluate the number of 
symptomatic infection, hospitalization, death, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) lost, and the incremental cost-utility from the health system and the 
societal perspectives. Outcomes of the vaccination for the next 70 years were 
also predicted. The process of analysis was run separately in five regions 
defined by the anti-HAV prevalence rates (around 50%, 50% - 69%, 70% - 79%, 80% 
- 89% and > 90%). Sensitivity analysis was performed to test the stability or 
reliability of the results, and to identify sensitive variables.
RESULTS: The study projected that, in the lowest, lower, and intermediate 
infection regions, the cost and output indicators of universal childhood 
hepatitis A vaccination were all lower than non-vaccinated group. Universal 
vaccination could gain QALYs and save both costs from the health system or the 
society. In the regions with higher infection rate, the output indicators of 
universal childhood hepatitis A vaccination were lower than in those 
non-vaccinated groups, except for the number of death due to hepatitis A, which 
had a 20 cases of increase. The model also predicted that in the highest 
infected region, universal vaccination would increase 4 560 814 and 5 840 430 
RMB Yuan in the total costs from both the health system and the societies, 
respectively, when compared to the non-vaccination groups. Universal vaccination 
would also decrease the numbers of symptomatic infection, hospitalization, and 
QALYs lost, but would increase 51 deaths due to hepatitis A, and 1507, 1929 more 
RMB Yuan for each QALY gained from the health system and societal respectively, 
in the regions with highest infection rate. Sensitivity analyses discovered that 
the infection rate among those susceptible population and the proportion of 
those who initially under protection but subsequently lost their immunity every 
year, were the two main sensitive variables in the model.
CONCLUSION: Our research discovered that the universal vaccination strategy 
should be based on the protective period of the vaccine and the anti-HAV 
prevalence in different endemic areas.

PMID: 22967346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2012 Jul;34(7):549-53. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2012.07.015.

[Cost-effectiveness evaluation of seven screening strategies for nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Rao DP(1), Liu Q, Cao SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou 
510060, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of different screening strategies 
for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) and recommend a preferable NPC screening 
strategy.
METHODS: A Markov simulation model was constructed based on the natural history 
of NPC. Seven strategies (A. Annual screening; B. Annual screening for 
(Epstein-Barr virus, EBV) EBV-seropositive subjects, triennial screening for 
seronegative subjects; C. Biennial screening; D. Triennial screening; E. 4-year 
screening; F. 5-year screening; G. 6-year screening) were evaluated. The 
NPC-pickup rate, cost, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) were calculated.
RESULTS: The ICERs of the 7 strategies were 83 111.6, 47 768.9, 50 164.7, 40 
016.2, 34 272.8, 32 215.6, and 32 248.0 Yuan/QALY, respectively. The discounted 
QALYs of the strategies were 23 079.9, 22 955.6, 22 810.4, 22 636.5, 22 522.7, 
22 445.0, and 22 361.9 years, respectively. The ICERs of the strategies were 
less than three times of the average per capita gross domestic product (89 976 
Yuan) in China in 2010. The strategy A achieved a highest NPC pick-up rate 
(81.7%), a highest discounted QALY and a smallest number of NPC death (681), but 
a highest discounted cost and a greatest ICER. Compared with the strategy A, the 
strategy B achieved a little smaller NPC pick-up rate (73.1%), a little smaller 
number of NPC death (707), however, the ICER of the strategy B decreased by 
38.2%.
CONCLUSION: The strategy B (annual screening for EB virus seropositive subjects 
and triennial screening for seronegative subjects) is a preferable option for 
NPC screening.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2012.07.015
PMID: 22967476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Am J Ophthalmol. 2013 Jan;155(1):45-53.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.06.014.
Epub  2012 Sep 8.

Comparative cost-effectiveness analysis of descemet stripping automated 
endothelial keratoplasty versus penetrating keratoplasty in the United States.

Prabhu SS(1), Kaakeh R, Sugar A, Smith DG, Shtein RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48105, USA.

PURPOSE: To perform a comparative cost-effectiveness analysis of Descemet 
stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK) and penetrating 
keratoplasty (PK) for corneal endothelial disease.
DESIGN: Retrospective cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: This cost-effectiveness analysis was performed from a third-party payer 
perspective with a 5-year time horizon. Probabilities of outcomes and 
complications of each of the procedures were calculated based on review of the 
published literature. A model was constructed to compare the costs and utilities 
associated with DSAEK and PK. Costs of donor tissue preparation, surgery, 
follow-up, postoperative complications, and procedures were considered. Utility 
values were based on quality-adjusted life years associated with visual acuity 
outcomes. Both costs and utilities were discounted at 3% per year. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed on key model inputs.
RESULTS: Base case analysis found DSAEK to be less costly compared with PK 
($9362 vs $10 239), with greater utility (3.15 vs 2.47 quality-adjusted life 
years). Sensitivity analyses revealed that even at graft failure rates for DSAEK 
approaching the rates for PK, DSAEK would still reduce costs. Varying the 
dislocation rate in our model showed that even at dislocation rates approaching 
50%, DSAEK remained less costly. Further, with DSAEK rejection rates as high as 
28%, DSAEK would remain a dominant procedure over PK.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparative cost-effectiveness analysis of DSAEK versus PK 
indicates favorable cost and utility outcomes associated with DSAEK for 
treatment of corneal endothelial disease. Longer follow-up of DSAEK outcomes 
will provide more accurate information regarding long-term cost-effectiveness of 
the procedure.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2012.06.014
PMCID: PMC3522781
PMID: 22967866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2012 Dec;14(6):732-40. doi: 10.1007/s11886-012-0304-8.

The dementia of cardiac disease.

Muqtadar H(1), Testai FD, Gorelick PB.

Author information:
(1)Section of Stroke and Neurocritical Care, Department of Neurology and 
Rehabilitation, University of Illinois College of Medicine at Chicago, 60612, 
USA. dr_hurmina@hotmail.com

Cardiovascular disease and dementia are common in the elderly and are major 
causes of disability in the general population. The public health burden of 
dementia is projected to increase as life expectancy increases in the United 
States and elsewhere. Epidemiological studies suggest that these once believed 
unrelated conditions, heart disease and dementia, may be linked by shared common 
risks and pathogenic elements. These observations have sparked the notion that 
prevention or modification of certain vascular risk factors and proper 
management of cardiovascular disease may prevent the development or progression 
of dementia including Alzheimer's disease. In this article, the authors discuss 
the association between cognitive impairment and atrial fibrillation, coronary 
artery disease, congestive heart failure, and cardiovascular procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/s11886-012-0304-8
PMID: 22968344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Schmerz. 2012 Sep;26(5):523-36. doi: 10.1007/s00482-012-1221-x.

[Antidepressants for treatment of depression in palliative patients : a 
systematic literature review].

[Article in German]

Ujeyl M(1), Müller-Oerlinghausen B.

Author information:
(1)Arzneimittelkommission der deutschen Ärzteschaft, Geschäftsstelle, 
Herbert-Lewin-Platz 1, 10623, Berlin, Deutschland. miriam.ujeyl@akdae.de

Comment in
    Schmerz. 2013 Apr;27(2):199-201.
    Schmerz. 2013 Apr;27(2):202-4.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of depression in palliative care must take into account 
expected benefits and risks of antidepressants in patients with potentially 
limited life expectancy, poor medical condition, advanced age and higher risk to 
suffer from side effects and drug interactions. This systematic review assesses 
evidence of the efficacy and safety of different classes of antidepressants 
depending on the type and severity of the physical illness.
METHODS: A systematic database search (Medline, EMBASE) for clinical studies was 
carried out and references of identified literature were checked. To be included 
in the review studies had to be performed in illnesses that were part of in the 
search strategy, such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's 
disease, HIV/AIDS, cancer, COPD and heart failure. Considered were controlled 
studies comparing the efficacy of antidepressants to placebo, other classes of 
antidepressants, benzodiazepines, psychostimulants or psychotherapy. In a first 
step only studies with patients meeting established diagnostic criteria of 
depression and where depression was a primary endpoint were included. In a 
second step, additional studies were included that did not meet both of the 
latter criteria but were performed in patients at the end of life.
RESULTS: A total of 40 trials (mostly using SSRI or NSMRI) were included, 16 
studies were performed in neurological, 24 in general medical conditions and 9 
studies were performed in patients at the end of life or in advanced disease 
stages. Due to heterogeneous study designs no conclusions can be drawn if 
efficacy or tolerability is dependent on disease severity. In most cases, 
studies might have been too small to detect limited treatment effects. As a lack 
of efficacy was predominantly shown in larger trials, publication bias might 
have been present. In most of the reviewed general medical conditions study 
results were heterogeneous. In contrast to the popularity of the treatment 
approach, results suggest that SSRIs are not effective in Alzheimer's disease. 
In Parkinson's disease, negative studies are too small to prove lack of efficacy 
of SSRIs as present in the majority of trials.
CONCLUSIONS: This review of the evidence allows only limited conclusions 
concerning the use of antidepressants in physical illness disorders at the end 
of life. The reviewed evidence does not allow direct conclusions to be drawn 
concerning the use of antidepressants in different disease severities and its 
benefits compared to other treatment options (psychotherapy, benzodiazepines 
etc.). The English full text version of this article will be available in 
SpringerLink as of November 2012 (under "Supplemental").

DOI: 10.1007/s00482-012-1221-x
PMID: 22968366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jan;19(1):19-32. doi: 10.1007/s10985-012-9229-1.
Epub  2012 Sep 12.

Competing risks with missing covariates: effect of haplotypematch on 
hematopoietic cell transplant patients.

Scheike TH(1), Maiers MJ, Rocha V, Zhang MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
ts@biostat.ku.dk

In this paper we consider a problem from hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) 
studies where there is interest on assessing the effect of haplotype match for 
donor and patient on the cumulative incidence function for a right censored 
competing risks data. For the HCT study, donor's and patient's genotype are 
fully observed and matched but their haplotypes are missing. In this paper we 
describe how to deal with missing covariates of each individual for competing 
risks data. We suggest a procedure for estimating the cumulative incidence 
functions for a flexible class of regression models when there are missing data, 
and establish the large sample properties. Small sample properties are 
investigated using simulations in a setting that mimics the motivating haplotype 
matching problem. The proposed approach is then applied to the HCT study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-012-9229-1
PMCID: PMC3817559
PMID: 22968448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Europace. 2013 Feb;15(2):236-42. doi: 10.1093/europace/eus253. Epub 2012 Sep
11.

Lack of current implantable cardioverter defibrillator guidelines application 
for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death in Latin American patients with 
heart failure: a cross-sectional study.

Gonzalez-Zuelgaray J(1), Pellizon O, Muratore CA, Oropeza ES, Rabinovich R, 
Ramos JL, Tentori MC, Reyes N, Aguayo R, Marin J, Peterson BJ.

Author information:
(1)Sanatorio de la Trinidad San Isidro, Fondo de la Legua 851, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.

AIMS: This cross-sectional study evaluated the application of accepted 
international implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) guidelines for 
primary prevention of sudden cardiac death in patients with heart failure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The PLASMA (Probabilidad de Sufrir Muerte Arritmica) study 
was designed to characterize management of cardiac patients in Latin America. 
Twelve centres included 1958 consecutively admitted patients in cardiology units 
